(upbeat music)。
- All right, Porch, how we doing?。
We doing okay tonight?。
(congregation cheering)。
It's great to see you, man.。
It's been an amazing start to the evening already.。
Worship was incredible.。
I'm so excited that we're not done singing.。
We're gonna sing some more,。
but we always love that in the middle of our time,。
God gives us even more reason to sing。
as we listen to his word.。
We're really grateful that you would be here。
as we move towards that time,。
not just those of you in the room,。
but there's so many of you tuning in online right now,。
and so we wanna give a special shout out。
to everyone that's streaming right now。
or maybe streaming in the future at some point,。
but particularly our Porch Live locations.。
We love what God is doing around the nation.。
Special shout out to Porch Live Boise, Midland, and Wheaton.。
Love it.。
Hey, we're really particular about who we invite。
to guest speak here at the Porch。
because we hold the word of God in really high regard.。
We believe that it really is from the mouth of God himself。
and it is speaking to us today,。
and so we're really intentional about trying to,。
trying to protect this platform。
and put before you people that you may know,。
you may not know, but you should be listening to。
because it's not they who speak,。
it's Christ that speaks through them,。
and tonight I'm grateful because we have a dear friend,。
the one and only Trip Lee here。
that has come to speak at the Porch.。
If you don't know who Trip is,。
Trip is, he's a rapper, former pastor, he's an artist,。
but he is just a man that has very clearly walked with Jesus.。
You can tell it when you spend time with him.。
He looks like Jesus, he thinks like Jesus,。
he speaks like Jesus, and I think he preaches like Jesus.。
So would y'all do a great job of welcoming my friend,。
Trip, to the stage right now?。
(audience cheering)。
Thank you, man.。
Thank you, man.。
- How's everybody doing?。
(audience cheering)。
You know, sometimes before I come up,。
people will ask me how I want to be introduced,。
and I'm super low-key, you know,。
it's like whatever feels good,。
but I think from now on I will say。
please don't say I preach like Jesus because。
[audience laughing]。
not only is that a high bar, it's the highest bar possible,。
and so all I can do is disappoint you from this point.。
[audience laughing]。
I'm really grateful to be here.。
I love the Porch.。
I love when I get to be with y'all and worship with y'all,。
and I'm gonna pray before we get into God's Word and pray.。
That he will give us grace.。
Father, we come before you in Jesus' name.。
And we come before you in the name of Jesus, Father,。
because what you've told us in your Word。
is that there's no other name under heaven。
by which men can be saved.。
Father, you've told us it's through Jesus。
that we have access to you.。
Father, you've told us that it's through Jesus。
that we have access to forgiveness of sins。
and eternal life and joy at your right hand forevermore.。
We're so grateful for Jesus.。
And it's in the name of Jesus we come before you now, Father,。
and we ask for your grace, Lord.。
We want this to be time well spent in your Word.。
We pray you would speak to us.。
As our brother just said, we want this to be a time。
where you grab ahold of your Word。
and put it in our hearts by your Spirit,。
and we pray you would do that.。
Father, we pray you give me grace。
to only say what you've already said.。
Father, and that people would leave impressed。
with your Son, Jesus.。
We ask in Jesus' name, amen.。
Amen.。
This first sentence that I'm gonna say。
is going to be the oldest sounding sentence。
that you'll probably ever hear me say.。
In fact, after I say this sentence,。
some of y'all might wanna just start calling me unk,。
even though I'm not an unk age yet.。
But I think we're giving computers。
too much power in our life.。
I think we have given computers。
way too much power in our lives.。
There were times where as new technology would come around,。
we would use different tools for different things.。
Now, for some reason, we've decided。
that the worst possible thing that could happen。
is a human doing anything.。
Sometimes I will see people。
with some new robot or AI they design,。
I'm like, bro, do you want a job?。
Why would you design your replacement?。
But everything, you know, even so as a musician,。
even within music, I mean, there's amazing things。
that have happened with music technology。
that allows people to do things they could never do before,。
but sometimes it gets to a point。
where if we make everything on a computer。
where no one actually plays any instruments。
by themselves at all,。
or somebody who loves electronic instruments,。
there is something that's missed with a human touch.。
Or when I talk to my friends who are dating,。
praise God, I'm at the game,。
but when I talk to my friends who are dating,。
and they talk about how difficult it is to meet people,。
and I ask them the ways they're meeting people,。
none of them have to do with looking。
at human beings in the eyeballs.。
All of it has to do with what we're doing。
on these little computers in our pockets.。
Don't call me ump just yet.。
There's some limitations that technology has,。
especially, you know, stuff like chat GPT,。
that sure, there's stuff that can help you.。
If your mom is texting you to ask how your week is going,。
maybe chat GPT don't need to write that text back.。
There are limits.。
Your mom knows what your sound's like.。
There's some kinds of human nuance that cannot be captured,。
so that even as technology is amazing,。
we understand, at least right now,。
there's some things that it's nice to have a human touch.。
It has limitations.。
It has some things it can't do as well.。
Everything that is helpful,。
that we are aware of, has its limitations.。
It has areas it's helpful,。
and areas where it's not as helpful.。
And it's a good thing for us to understand。
that everything has its limitations.。
Here's a problem.。
When we begin to take that perspective,。
that everything has its limitations,。
and we begin to apply it to the Lord Jesus,。
when we begin to think of Jesus。
as somebody who can be powerful and can be helpful,。
but he has his limitations,。
or when we think Jesus can be helpful in these areas,。
with these kinds of problems,。
or with this size of problems,。
but not with these things,。
then we have deeply misunderstood who Jesus is.。
We may think, well, I know God is able.。
I just don't know that I see a way。
that he can fix this situation at the moment.。
And so we're overcome with burden and anxiety.。
I can't count the number of times。
where I was very stressed out about something.。
I thought it was the end of the world,。
and then God fixed it, and I was like,。
whew, I should've knew Lord, and then I move on.。
Only for that thing to pop up again,。
something very similar, it's like I have no idea。
my life is about to end,。
and sure enough, the Lord spooks in once again,。
over and over again.。
Today, I want us to lean into that truth。
that Jesus is not limited.。
And with that in mind, here's the main thing。
I want you to walk away with,。
that the size of your problem。
does not change the source of your help.。
The size of your problem does not change。
the source of your help.。
And here's why that matters.。
Here's why I want us to grab ahold of that.。
Because I do not want us to think。
that Jesus is really helpful,。
but there are some things where we need。
to call on somebody else,。
or there's some areas where we just need。
to give in to despair.。
Brothers and sisters, there are some areas in your life。
that you have given over to despair,。
when in reality, the size of your problem。
does not change the source of your help.。
So I want to look at a part of the Gospels.。
If you have your Bible with you,。
you probably don't, you're probably letting。
the computer have your Bible, your phone.。
Either way, don't post this part of my sermon on the internet。
I don't need to seem un-kissed to anybody.。
Now open your Bibles, John chapter six.。
John chapter six.。
And we are going to look at a part of the Gospel of John。
that I think illustrates this for us.。
And we're gonna see three reasons why the size。
of your problem doesn't change the source of your help.。
Just go ahead and turn to John chapter six。
and we'll read it in a moment.。
All right, here's the first reason.。
Number one, is that he already has a plan.。
All right?。
No matter what size your problem is,。
number one, Jesus already has a plan.。
It is great when you have a big problem。
that you bring to somebody and you trust them。
to try to figure out how to fix it.。
Recently there was an issue with my wife's car.。
Now let me tell you, there are a lot of things。
that I'm great at.。
Fixing cars is not one of them.。
All right, there's some things I know how to fix.。
Usually relationships, not cars.。
So I can take it in and I can say,。
I don't know a lot about cars,。
but I know that ain't a sound that this is supposed to make.。
And so you know what they did?。
They sent me back a link after they looked at it。
that identified the problems。
and their recommendations for fixing it.。
Now of course, no matter what's wrong with your car,。
they're like, it's gonna cost you $49,000.。
I'm like, I didn't think windshield wiper fluid。
was that expensive.。
But it's nice when you bring a problem,。
it takes some of the stress away.。
You're no longer in it alone, right?。
When someone's willing to figure out what to do.。
But there's something even greater than that.。
The greatest response to bringing someone a complaint。
and a request is when they already know what to do。
before you even bring it.。
They don't have to figure it out.。
Y'all don't have to brainstorm together,。
but they already know what to do.。
You know, recently I got something from Uber Eats。
and Uber Eats is great when you're lazy, which is often.。
And also, I've never gotten an order that's right,。
not one time.。
And I keep going back like a sad little child.。
But they get it wrong every time。
and then they don't know how to help you.。
There's really nothing that they can do.。
Here's the opposite.。
There's this company that I buy music gear from.。
It's called Sweetwater, it's a free ad.。
Sweetwater.。
[audience laughing]。
Sweetwater.。
I bought, you know, when I buy something,。
I don't like to buy stuff I don't know I'm gonna keep。
'cause I am not good at sending stuff back.。
If it made it to my house, it's just here now.。
It's just part of my life.。
You know what they did?。
I said, hey, this actually wasn't the right one.。
They said, you know what?。
We've already emailed you return labels.。
Just bring it back, we'll take it back for free.。
I said, you have a customer for life.。
Because before I even brought the problem to them,。
they already had a solution.。
All I'm trying to say is this.。
When you bring a problem to somebody。
and they've already done something about it,。
that's even better than somebody。
who's willing to figure it out.。
And that is exactly what happens here with Jesus.。
We're gonna be familiar with this story。
in the Gospel of John, when Jesus feeds the 5,000.。
So John chapter six, starting at verse one,。
this is what God's word says.。
It says, after this, Jesus crossed the Sea of Galilee,。
or Tiberias, a huge crowd was following him。
because they saw the signs that he was performing。
by healing the sick.。
Jesus went up a mountain and sat down there。
with his disciples.。
Now the Passover, a Jewish festival, was near.。
So when Jesus looked up and noticed a huge crowd。
coming toward him, he asked Philip,。
where will we buy bread so that these people can eat?。
He asked this to test him, for he himself knew。
what he was going to do.。
We'll stop right there.。
For a little bit of context,。
you know, it says, after this,。
Jesus had just been teaching after healing the sick.。
Jesus had been doing stuff that nobody had ever seen.。
They thought Jesus was just a regular dude from Galilee,。
and then he was at a wedding, and they was like,。
Jesus, where's the wine?。
He was like, hey, fill 'em up with water,。
and then all of a sudden, it was wine.。
They're like, I thought that was Jesus.。
How did he do that?。
Not only that, after that, there was somebody。
who was sick who he healed.。
He just told 'em, take up your mat and walk,。
and they were healed.。
And then right before this, you know what Jesus did?。
Somebody came and talked about their son who was sick.。
Jesus healed him remotely.。
Jesus was just like, he good.。
[audience laughs]。
And the dude was like, all right, I believe you.。
And he went back, and they were like, your son is good.。
He was like, when did he get good?。
It was like the exact time that Jesus remotely。
was like, he's good now.。
Jesus is doing things that nobody can imagine.。
So understandably, when Jesus crosses over the sea。
with his disciples, people are following him.。
When we see something incredible, something big,。
a spectacle, even if it's not good,。
we cannot take our eyes off it.。
Some of y'all be the people that I'm mad at in traffic。
that just wanna look at a wreck for no reason.。
Some of y'all hate follow people on social media.。
You hate everything they say, but you can't stop looking.。
We like a spectacle, whether good or bad.。
And with Jesus, he had been doing things。
nobody had ever seen before, and so there's a gigantic,。
mass of people that are following him around.。
To be clear, Jesus did not invite all of this crowd。
to follow him around.。
He did not announce a parade.。
They just wanted to be close to whatever。
this miraculous greatness was.。
And what we'll see in the Gospels is there's more。
than one way to follow Jesus.。
There are good and bad ways to follow Jesus.。
And we'll talk about that more, but I do wanna say。
that right now, even though Jesus is not a walking on Earth,。
there are still good and bad ways to follow Jesus。
that do not acknowledge who he is.。
There are ways of following Jesus only in name.。
There are ways of treating Jesus like a vending machine.。
There are ways of treating Jesus like a gumball dispenser,。
where you show up to church, you twist the knob,。
and you expect good blessings to fall out,。
and that is not the kind of follower that Jesus is after.。
And we'll even see in his text that some of these people。
who are following after Jesus are not the kind of follower。
that Jesus is after, so Jesus responds by going up。
to a mountain with his disciples,。
getting away from the crowd,。
to sit down and teach his disciples.。
One of the things this shows us is that Jesus。
is not like these influences we see,。
where his end goal is gathering people around himself。
for personal gain.。
Jesus' end goal is not crowds in and of themselves.。
Jesus wants to lead those crowds to a particular place.。
John also mentions that this is happening。
during the time of the Passover.。
I mention that because it's very interesting。
that during this time of the Passover,。
it's a time where they celebrate God sparing his people。
because of blood on the doorpost,。
and that the Passover is really pointing forward。
to this Jesus who would save his people。
by covering them in his blood.。
That this very special time in the calendar。
is even there to point to Jesus,。
and what it means is that the Jewish people。
are also filled with a kind of patriotic pride right now,。
and so when they see someone doing something amazing,。
they're thinking about it in a patriotic way.。
You'll see how that shows up.。
Look at verse five, it says,。
"So when Jesus looked up and noticed the huge crowd。
"coming toward him, he asked Philip,。
"where will we buy bread so that these people can eat?。
"He asked this to test him,。
"for he himself knew what he was going to do."。
Imagine just being with your friends。
and you look up and a gigantic mass of people are following.。
That is a scary sight.。
What we see from other accounts of this is,。
these people had been following Jesus。
not just for a few minutes but for hours.。
They had walked miles after Jesus,。
and Jesus sees them, and he cares about them.。
He doesn't just say, "Isn't that crazy,。
"these people are following me."。
No, no, no, he cares about them.。
He's not just worried about getting his likes up,。
he cares about the well-being of the people.。
Jesus loves people.。
And because Jesus loves people,。
that shapes how he interacts with them.。
You know, sometimes when we think。
about what Jesus asks of us,。
we think it's because Jesus wants us。
to just give, give, give to him.。
It's because we're not thinking about the way。
that Jesus is always acting towards us in love.。
This is just a random mob of people,。
Jesus is thinking of them in a loving way.。
We sometimes think that our main relationship to Jesus。
is he throws us instructions and we better follow him。
'cause he is Jesus after all.。
But in reality, everything that Jesus ever asks of us。
is in response to something that Jesus。
has already done for us.。
There is no circumstance where any human being。
would make the first move with God.。
Everything is a response to him.。
Me and my wife was talking to one of our single friends。
recently, and she was complaining how she wishes。
that she had a dude to be talking to,。
but the dudes just wanna be pursued.。
Then none of these dudes wanna make the first move,。
and that's another conversation for another sermon.。
If it's you, I see you.。
[audience laughing]。
But there are times in relationships where everybody's。
waiting for somebody else to make the first move。
and nobody wants to.。
This can even happen in marriage,。
when something happens and it's like,。
she better apologize first 'cause she was worse.。
I ain't gonna apologize first.。
Or you're in a conflict with somebody。
and you're waiting on them to text you back first.。
And that can happen in every relationship.。
I want you to know, God has never and will never。
wait for you to make the first move.。
God has always made the first move.。
And God knows your needs deeply,。
and he already has a plan to meet 'em.。
So not only is Jesus aware of the needs of the crowd。
that they need to eat, but he already knows。
what he's gonna do.。
So when he asks Philip, "Where will we buy bread?"。
I want you to imagine this, 'cause Jesus already knows。
he's about to do a miracle, and it's like he leans over。
to Philip like, "Hey, do you think Uber Eats。
"delivers this far out?"。
He already knows what he's doing.。
This is a teachable moment.。
This is a test.。
And what is the purpose of tests?。
The purpose of any test is to show you how far along。
the student is, right?。
To prove worth or skill level.。
To show what stage of development you're in.。
Right, and so Jesus is trying to see if Philip。
really understands his power.。
To see if Philip responds like he's talking。
to a regular human who's asking him to just do。
a bit of problem solving.。
And so Jesus is asking Philip, "Hey, what do you think。
"we can buy these people bread?"。
Not because Jesus wants to know where Philip is at,。
but because Jesus wants to show Philip where Philip is at.。
Usually when Jesus asks a question to his disciples,。
he's trying to show them where they are.。
Like when he says, "So who do men say that I am?"。
He wants to show them that they don't fully understand。
who he is yet.。
That's what tests are for.。
I remember one time when my first son was really young,。
I was like, when I was a little kid,。
my dad used to cut my hair.。
I'm gonna cut his hair.。
And do you know what that exercise showed me?。
That I should not be cutting his hair.。
He looked horrific.。
He looked so bad that I thought about just keeping it。
at home for several months so that nobody would ever。
know what I did.。
'Cause I was gonna have to take him to a barber。
and be like, take the hat off like, my bad.。
It showed me where I was at though.。
God still tests his people from time to time.。
There may be things that happen around us。
that show us where we are, right?。
And the goal is for us to grow.。
There may be something happening in your life right now。
where the problem in front of you seems insurmountable.。
You cannot imagine how you're gonna come out。
the other side of it.。
And God is using that to show you where you are.。
And when we fail a test, it's not so God can shame us。
or guilt us, it's not so you feel bad.。
It's God giving us an opportunity to grow.。
It is a blessing that God is so gracious。
that instead of just letting us stay at a place。
where we need to grow, God does things to show us。
where we are so that we see we need to grow.。
This is not God shaming us, this is God loving us。
so much that he's calling us forward.。
Some of us, when we look at the things happening。
in our lives, we consider them a bunch。
of random circumstances.。
Sometimes Jesus is doing something on purpose。
to show you exactly where you are.。
And it's gracious of him to do it.。
It's out of his kindness.。
Verse six, it says, "He asked us to test him,。
"for he himself knew what he was going to do."。
Before the disciples even knew what the problem was,。
Jesus already knew what he was gonna do about the problem.。
There are so many times when we are caught off guard。
by situations, I want you to know,。
like Jesus in this text, God is never caught off guard.。
God has never been sucker punched by a circumstance.。
Right, 'cause this is how it works with people.。
By the time you get, by the time you get your problem。
to somebody else's attention, they have to begin。
to brainstorm what to do.。
God already knows.。
When we bring things to God, he already knows.。
He already knows what to do about it.。
Isn't it a joy to know that you will never bring God。
a problem that he didn't already know about?。
I remember somebody saying, "Well, why do we pray?"。
It's not so that we can bring God up to speed.。
You will never be the first one to break news to God.。
He already knows.。
You know, sometimes when you're in a bad place。
and people wanna ask how they can help,。
but you don't even wanna go into it.。
You're not sure they'll understand.。
You never have to feel that way for God.。
He already knows.。
And he knows before you do.。
And it's because he loves you.。
You know that closeness you feel with a friend。
when you don't even have to always explain it all the way。
and they already understand you?。
I want you to do that times a million。
and that's how God understands you.。
He already knows your problem.。
And the disciples were beginning to learn。
the power that the son of God had.。
They were starting to follow.。
All right, so he already has a plan.。
That's number one.。
Right, the size of your problem doesn't change。
the source of your help.。
Here's the second reason.。
It's because he already has enough.。
He already has enough.。
Sometimes, some of us may dream about what we would do。
if suddenly we were just incredibly rich.。
Right, people be like, if I was a billionaire,。
you know what I would do?。
Well, first, I would buy this and this and this.。
And then, you know that one teacher who said。
she believed in me, buy a Maserati.。
[audience laughing]。
Right, we go through all this stuff.。
These things we'd like to do, these things we'd like to buy,。
these people we'd like to help.。
And we like to do this imaginary game。
because for most of us, we live in a reality。
where all of our desires can't be fulfilled.。
There are projects, there are dreams, there are desires。
that we do not have the resources to go after。
at the moment, right?。
I want you to know, this is an experience。
that is completely foreign to God.。
In order for God to wish he could do something,。
if he had the resources, he would have to stop being God.。
Scripture says that the earth is the Lord's。
and all that's in it, everything belongs to God.。
He always has enough, always.。
And I bring this up because of how Philip replies。
when Jesus asks him about the bread.。
This is what Philip says when he says,。
where can we get bread, verse seven.。
Philip answered him, 200 denarii worth of bread。
wouldn't be enough for each of them to have a little.。
One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother。
said to him, there's a boy here who has five barley loaves。
and two fish, but what are they for so many?。
And this might be a good time to make clear。
how big this crowd was.。
When we think of Jesus feeding the 5,000,。
we usually imagine that there were 5,000 people there total.。
When what the text says in verse 10 is that。
the men numbered about 5,000, right?。
At the time, crowds were counted by the heads。
of the household, but the crowd certainly。
would have included women and children.。
I mean, we know children were there 'cause he just says,。
there's a boy here, there are women and children.。
So that means this crowd was probably 20,000 or more.。
State Farm Arena, where the Atlanta Hawks play in Atlanta,。
holds 16,000 people, right?。
This means this is like a large arena concert-sized。
group of people walking after Jesus,。
which gives a little context for the way that Philip。
responds when he's like, hey, how can we buy them bread?。
Philip is looking at an arena of people like,。
I don't know if I can do that.。
He says 200 denarii wouldn't be enough.。
That's about half a year's wage, right?。
Philip is taking it at face value,。
the vastness of the crowd compared to how much。
it would cost, that's like half a year's wage.。
So he's saying, even if I took every dollar。
that I made for six and a half months,。
I still couldn't buy enough bread for everybody。
to get a few nibbles.。
Have you ever been to something where there wasn't。
enough food for everybody, like a party or something?。
And you're like, I know they said just get two wings。
a piece, but what are we doing?。
Super Bowl party, where you're like,。
I knew I shouldn't have trusted him to provide food.。
When has he ever shown himself to be responsible?。
Sometimes there's not enough for everybody.。
Philip responds as if the only way that everybody。
could be fed is if there's enough in front of us.。
And I'm sure after this happens,。
Philip's understanding of Jesus is changed.。
But you may say, but true, Philip responded。
very reasonably.。
What was he supposed to say when Jesus said,。
where are we gonna get bread?。
Was he supposed to just ignore what he sees。
in this sea of people?。
And here's what I'll say.。
God does not call his disciples to ignore。
the evidence of our eyes.。
He doesn't call us to pretend that there's not。
a big problem that needs to be solved.。
God calls us to see with more than just eyes.。
He doesn't call us not to see with our eyes,。
but with more to consider other factors。
such as who he is.。
So with whatever big thing is going on in your life,。
there is more to the story.。
Maybe your career plans are falling apart.。
I want you to know if Jesus is in the picture,。
there is more to the story.。
Maybe your mental health is falling apart.。
If Jesus is in the picture, there is more to the story.。
The problem is not that Philip could see with his eyes.。
The problem is Philip only saw with his eyes.。
We assume that God is bound by the natural world,。
by all the things we're bound by.。
God works in the supernatural.。
He is unlimited.。
Right, and then Andrew responds as well.。
Verse nine, there's a boy here who has five barley loaves。
and two fish, but what are they for so many?。
I mean, he's really like, I mean, I seen a kid。
with a sleeve of Ritz crackers,。
but what we gonna do with that?。
[audience laughs]。
That's basically what he said.。
'Cause that bread and the fish wouldn't have been。
enough to feed a family.。
Not an arena, and that's the problem.。
I was at a wedding recently, and there was only。
130 people there, but at the reception,。
it was taking too long for the food to be served,。
and I felt a mutiny boiling around me,。
where people were hungry.。
This is an impossible number of people to feed,。
but here's the thing, Jesus is not a millionaire。
who might run out of money.。
He's God with an indispensable amount of resources.。
If Jesus made everything, how could we think。
he couldn't gather enough food for people?。
Jesus has been feeding every living creature。
for all of human history.。
Of course he can feed a big crowd.。
When we limit what God can do with a big problem,。
we begin to seek power in other places.。
There's some believers who are caught up。
in political power at times, because they think。
that God's power, that God's ways are not enough。
to do things, and so they begin to seek power。
in other places, political power, maybe,。
authority in other ways.。
They think, well, let me do what I think God can.。
This is what it says in verse 10.。
Jesus said, "Have the people sit down."。
There's plenty of grass in that place,。
so they sat down, the men numbered about 5,000.。
Then Jesus took the loaves, after giving thanks,。
he distributed them to those who were seated,。
so also with the fish, as much as they wanted.。
When they were full, he told his disciples,。
"Collect the leftovers so that nothing is wasted."。
So they collected them and filled 12 baskets。
with the pieces from the five barley loaves。
that were left over by those who had eaten.。
He tells them to sit down in the grass,。
a bunch of 5,000 grown men trying to sit Indian style。
for the first time in 10 years.。
With kids running around, you know kids don't sit down。
when you tell them to, it takes several times.。
Jesus takes the loaves, thanks God for the food,。
he begins passing them out.。
I don't really know how the logistics works.。
I don't know if it's like when magicians keep。
just pulling more ribbon out of their mouth, I don't know.。
But somehow, as these very few fish and loaves。
is passed out, everybody gets them.。
They never run out, people go back for seconds,。
as much as they wanted, and the people were full.。
When you gotta feed a lot of people,。
everybody's usually not full, and there were leftovers.。
So it's not only that Jesus was able to provide enough,。
Jesus was able to provide more than enough。
to where they had even more than they started with.。
This is the power of Jesus, he already has enough.。
So with whatever big problem you have and you wonder,。
like no, no, Jesus has done ABC before,。
I'm not sure he can do this.。
Everything is in his hands.。
Everything belongs to God.。
Everything belongs to God.。
You think, I know, but this person,。
I can't change their mind, that person belongs to God.。
No, no, no, but I don't have no money in my bank,。
that money belongs to God.。
No, but you don't understand my discouragement,。
your heart, your soul, your mind belongs to God.。
Jesus already has enough.。
Ephesians 3:20, now to him who was able to do。
above and beyond all that we ask or think。
according to the power that works in us,。
to him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus。
to all generations forever and ever.。
Nothing limits Jesus, not even the needs we present to him,。
he can do far more.。
So when you pray to God, I want you to keep this in mind.。
When you think about your needs,。
I want you to keep this in mind.。
Because maybe this being about Jesus feeding people,。
maybe you're in a season where, you know,。
you're not struggling with having too little food。
or clothing or necessities.。
That's not what you don't have a lot of,。
but maybe, what about joy?。
What about strength?。
What about health?。
What about wisdom?。
What about opportunities?。
What about faith?。
I want you to know that Jesus。
has more than enough to pass out.。
You ever seen people who are the kids of like,。
super duper billionaires?。
Sometimes what'll happen is they'll go after their dreams。
and that would just be people in their comments。
all the time, it's like, why you doing that, you rich?。
Not allowing them to try anything,。
'cause they just know, no, no, no,。
you have a family member that has billions of dollars,。
you don't actually need to do all of this.。
They have unlimited money.。
Billionaires sometimes just be giving lots of money。
to different causes 'cause it doesn't hurt them.。
I want you to know, if there's a God who everything。
in all of the universe, everything that exists,。
belong to him, he can give as much as he wants。
and it doesn't hurt him.。
He's rich in grace, he's rich in mercy,。
he's rich in all resources.。
So the question is not, does he have enough?。
The question is, what's best for us?。
He already has a plan, he already has enough.。
Y'all still with me?。
The size of your problem doesn't change。
the source of your help.。
Last reason is this, he already has a kingdom.。
He already has a kingdom.。
Sometimes when crowds are quiet,。
I just look and see if I see pins moving.。
I see some pins moving.。
He already has a kingdom.。
Verse 14.。
Y'all was even quiet after I said that, verse 14.。
[audience laughing]。
When the people saw the sign he had done,。
they said, this truly is the prophet。
who was to come into the world.。
Therefore, when Jesus realized that they were about to come。
and take him by force to make him king,。
he withdrew again to the mountain by himself.。
Remember earlier I said there are good and bad ways。
to follow Jesus and to respond to Jesus.。
I think the people responded interestingly.。
They were impressed by the sign that they had seen.。
And it was clear to them, this is not just a regular guy.。
Right?。
This is not just a spectacle, this is something incredible。
that must have come from God.。
When they say truly this is the prophet,。
they were probably thinking of Deuteronomy 18.。
Where it says the Lord your God will raise up for you。
a prophet like me from among your own brothers.。
You must listen to him.。
This is what you requested from the Lord your God。
at Horeb on the day of the assembly。
when you said let us not continue to hear the voice。
of the Lord our God or see this great fire any longer。
so that we will not die.。
Then the Lord said to me, they've spoken well,。
I will raise up for them a prophet like you。
from among their brothers.。
I'll put my words in his mouth and he will tell them。
everything I command.。
That's probably what they had in mind when they said。
this is the prophet from God.。
But what's interesting is it seemed like they started。
to merge the category of prophet with king.。
I told you it's Passover, they're feeling patriotic.。
They're feeling excited about their nation.。
And so they're expecting Jesus to be an earthly king。
and that's interesting 'cause that doesn't at all。
match up with what we see in Deuteronomy.。
They weren't demanding to hear more about the words of God,。
they were demanding the kind of things that you might want。
from an excellent politician.。
This shows where Israel like, you could be waiting。
for something, longing for something and still not even。
understand what you're waiting for when it's right。
in front of your face.。
They wanted to make Jesus king by force,。
which would only be possible.。
Now you think, how could they make Jesus king by force?。
Remember, this is a mob of 20,000 people.。
They're saying we're about to just snatch Jesus up。
and make him king and Jesus of course responds。
by withdrawing to the mountain because Jesus was not。
interested in earthly political power as his reign.。
He did not come for temporary national leadership,。
he came to redeem and to renew at a deeper level.。
Right, we are, you know, a little bit after there was。
a politician, election season isn't that far back,。
when politicians thirstily beg for us to love them。
and care for them so that they can get elected.。
But I want you to know what Jesus is doing。
is the opposite of political rallies.。
Jesus gathers us to serve us.。
Not that there are no politicians who have good motives。
but there is not an ounce of self-serving in the way。
that Jesus leads, there's no pandering,。
there's no compromising the truth for the sake of popularity。
there's no worrying about, if I should say true things。
because of how it will affect.。
There's no ruthless self-serving, this is Jesus.。
Not saying just what people want to hear。
but gathering us in order to serve us.。
What's really clear is they misunderstood the kind of reign。
that Jesus came to bring.。
They said let us give you this earthly kingdom.。
John 6, 26, Jesus said, truly I tell you,。
you're looking for me, not because you saw the signs。
but because you ate the loaves and were filled.。
Don't work for the food that perishes。
but for the food that lasts for eternal life。
which the Son of Man will give you。
because God the Father has set his seal of approval on.。
John 6, 35, Jesus says, I'm the bread of life.。
No one who comes to me will ever be hungry,。
no one who believes in me will ever be thirsty again.。
But as I told you, you've seen me。
and yet you do not believe.。
Y'all, they wanted Jesus to be king。
instead of king of kings.。
They didn't want Jesus to rule as the eternal king。
of the universe, they wanted him to be。
a lowercase king of Israel.。
This is like Jesus saying I've come to save your souls,。
to bring new heaven and the new earth,。
to do away with all sin and pain.。
And we're like, no, no, no, Jesus,。
we want you to be president.。
We want you to try to work out a deal with Congress.。
They're disappointed that Jesus wouldn't be。
a lowercase king because they do not understand。
the glory of being under the reign of the king of kings.。
When we are disappointed with Jesus,。
it's because our sights are set too low.。
When we are disappointed that Jesus hasn't given us。
all these little earthly things we want,。
it's because we're missing the fact that Jesus。
is after more than just those earthly things,。
not less, more.。
When Jesus says no to something we ask him for,。
it's not because he doesn't want to give us great things,。
it's because he's given us something better instead.。
And that he knows what's best for us.。
So Jesus is saying, look,。
I'm not here just to fill your stomachs.。
They wanted Jesus to be a bakery, right?。
Jesus says, I'm the bread of life.。
This isn't the bread that comes down from heaven。
so that anyone may eat it and not die.。
He says, I'm the living bread that came down from heaven.。
If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever.。
The bread that I will give for the life of the world.。
Jesus is saying, your ancestors had manna from heaven。
and they died.。
He says, I have something even better for you.。
The bread of life that you will have eternal life.。
Jesus did not come to make us sandwiches.。
Jesus came to make us whole.。
Imagine being disappointed that instead of just feeding us。
for a moment, Jesus says, I will feed your soul。
for an eternity.。
Here's one of my favorite things about Jesus。
and the gospels is that Jesus doesn't just point us。
to good things.。
Jesus says, I am the good thing.。
Jesus doesn't just say, I can point you。
to the bread of life.。
Jesus says, I am the bread of life.。
Eat of me, you'll never hunger again.。
Jesus doesn't say, I can point you to living water.。
Jesus says, I am the living water.。
Drink of me, you'll never thirst again.。
Jesus doesn't say, I can point you to the way.。
Jesus says, I am the way.。
Jesus doesn't say, I can tell you the truth.。
He says, I am the truth.。
Jesus doesn't just say, I can point you to life.。
He says, I am the life.。
And the entire point of everything that Jesus does。
is not just to feed our bellies, but to feed our souls.。
If the way you follow and look to Jesus。
is one where you're disappointed when you don't get。
every little thing you want,。
it's because you're overlooking the way that Jesus。
has already met your greatest need.。
There's some times we're disappointed。
because of the temporary ways that Jesus。
hasn't done exactly what we've asked of him.。
And Jesus is saying, I'm actually interested。
in more than that.。
And it's out of love and kindness.。
So that someone may say, okay, I know that there was。
this man who was a great teacher who walked the earth。
and we have great things to learn from him。
and he can solve my problems with having bad perspectives.。
I want you to know, you're thinking。
too small of Jesus.。
And there's a much bigger problem that we have.。
Sin, death.。
Right, well people will say nothing is certain。
except death and taxes.。
You will die.。
Your life will end.。
There's no amount of medicine or food。
that can keep your life from ending。
except there's a savior who says, I've conquered death.。
And you know, sometimes when people make such big claims。
like they can hold death back,。
it's like, well what are you talking about?。
How can you show me?。
Look, one of the most beautiful things about Jesus。
is he never said anything that he didn't back up。
in a way even greater than we would have imagined.。
Jesus could have just said, well no,。
look at the way I raised Lazarus.。
Look at the way I raised Talitha.。
I'm just talking to people, they're getting out of the grave.。
Jesus said, I'm gonna go in the grave myself。
to pay for your sins.。
Scripture says that the wages of sin is death.。
Jesus said, I already paid those wages.。
[audience applauding]。
And the beautiful thing about these unimaginable miracles。
is if you're tempted for a moment to doubt,。
this man Jesus who says that he can save my soul,。
what proof do I have?。
Because that sounds impossible.。
That sounds too big.。
That he can wipe away my sins,。
give me a perfect record that I can live forever。
with a glorified body, eternal joy forever.。
Jesus does these incredible miracles throughout the Gospels。
to remind us there's much more than meets the eye.。
As soon as you think there's a problem too big,。
I've solved it over and over and over again.。
So for those problems in your soul,。
there is a Savior who says, I want you to come to me,。
not just to feed you for a moment, but for eternity.。
And he calls you, he welcomes you, he loves you,。
he forgives you by faith.。
Jesus says, trust me and I will feed your soul forever.。
The size of your problem doesn't change。
the source of your help because there is a Savior。
who's not limited in his name, it's Jesus.。
Amen, amen, let me pray.。
Father, we come before you in the name of Jesus.。
Aware of the fact that there's not enough time。
or enough words or enough illustrations or enough stories。
that could ever get close to pointing。
to your majesty and power.。
God, the sheer scale of your power that you showed。
means that everything we do is a weak attempt.。
But Father, what we know is that your word is true。
and that your spirit uses your word.。
Father, we pray you would impress on our hearts and souls。
the glory of Jesus, not just as a great teacher。
and a miracle worker, but as a Savior.。
Thank you for Jesus.。
Father, I pray our souls will feast on Jesus.。
God, there was celebration at the passover.。
There was a feast to celebrate what you had done.。
God, thank you for a Savior who says,。
feast on me for an eternity.。
God, give us grace to be satisfied in him.。
God, I pray for my brothers and sisters in this room。
who see things in their life that seem bigger than Jesus.。
I pray you would show them that giants are tiny。
when they stand before the Savior, Jesus.。
Father, and for my friends in this room。
who do not know Jesus, God, I pray you would help them。
to see how powerful, how gracious, how loving,。
how kind the Savior is.。
They would trust in his death and resurrection.。
Father, and that they would have friends。
to walk alongside them in it.。
We ask this in the name of your son, Jesus.。
Amen.。
(water bubbling)。
