(upbeat music)。
Love it, keep going.。
Hello, friends in the room.。
Hello, Fort Worth and friends in Houston.。
I am gonna start with a story。
about some of my college experience, how I landed.。
It'll tell us where we're going.。
I was 18 years old.。
It was my second semester of my senior year in high school。
and I was enrolled in the University of Texas.。
If you, yeah, I love this.。
And I was planning on going there.。
I had a roommate lined up.。
I had a major that had been picked.。
I was all set and I got a call from a coach。
at the University of Texas A&M.。
Love it, didn't see that coming.。
And he basically said, hey, I have an opportunity。
that I want you to be a part of。
and it involves our track team.。
And I'm thinking, wait a second, track?。
I didn't play, I never did track in my whole life.。
Are you sure you have the right number right now?。
And the thing involved, and I think Chad is gonna hand me。
exactly what it involved, and it was an opportunity。
where he basically said, I want to give you a chance。
to be on our track team and it involved this.。
Now, what is this?。
A giant toothpick, of course.。
That's not at all what it is.。
It involved something called the javelin.。
And I'm going, again, buddy, are you sure。
you have the right number?。
And he says, yeah, if you will come to A&M,。
I will teach you to throw the javelin.。
Apparently, because no one throws the javelin。
in this country, or very few people do,。
the way that they get people on their team。
is they recruit young 18-year-olds。
who have no idea what they're doing with their life.。
And they say, hey, if you come here,。
I will teach you to throw this,。
especially those who, I played baseball and football.。
So he was like, yeah, it'll be great.。
So anyways, the crazier thing, I end up going,。
I changed everything for this sport。
that I'd never been a part of.。
I didn't even know existed, this thing that was out there。
called javelin, and being on this track team.。
In other words, I had never once in my life dreamed。
about going to be a part of a track team。
and specifically throwing the javelin.。
When you're a little kid sitting around in class,。
you're like, oh, this is what I'm gonna do。
for college someday.。
Never did it across my mind, I'm gonna throw the javelin。
at Texas A&M.。
That never happened, and yet, all of a sudden,。
this thing that I had no idea about。
really defined my college experience.。
It changed everything.。
It changed where I was going to school.。
It changed what I studied, because the program。
that I was going to study at Texas,。
the A&M school was not as strong.。
It wasn't a good thing to study there.。
So it changed what I studied.。
It changed my schedule.。
It changed what I did with my time,。
because all of a sudden, now I'm a part of this team,。
and I'm a part of 80 other people。
who are on this track team, and each person。
does these different roles and different functions.。
It put me underneath this new authority。
of this new coaching staff that I was a part of.。
This thing that I didn't even know existed,。
javelin, all of a sudden really defined。
my experience in college, and it changed everything.。
The reason I start there is because tonight,。
we're gonna talk about something,。
and it is something that I think many of us in the room。
don't even know it fully exists,。
and don't even know why it's so important.。
It's this thing out there, and it's this decision。
that if you will make tonight, will define everything。
for the rest of your life.。
Or let me say it this way.。
If there was something tonight,。
or there's something we're gonna discuss tonight,。
that if you will decide to embrace this truth。
that we're gonna look at, it will shape。
the rest of your future.。
It will provide for you a place where you will be protected。
from sin for the rest of your life.。
It will provide a place where you will have。
deeper relationships than you've ever known before.。
It will provide a place where your relationship with God。
will be stronger and increasingly stronger.。
It will provide a place for you to experience。
and find your purpose.。
Maybe for the first time ever, you'll experience that.。
And all of this can take place by simply making a decision.。
You will set yourself to experience all of those things.。
What is the thing that you may not even know exists。
that may define, and if you will allow,。
is supposed to define everything?。
The local church.。
Being a part of the local church.。
In other words, it is in making the decision。
that I am going to not just, if I'm a Christian,。
and I'm speaking primarily to Christians。
in the room tonight, I'm not just going to attend church。
'cause I'm an adult and this is an adulting thing。
and I'm growing up and I gotta start going to church.。
I am going to be the church, and one of the components。
of being the church is being a part of a local church。
and a local expression, and if you will make the decision。
to connect with a local gathering, that will be the thing。
that shapes the world your children grow up in.。
It will shape the person that you marry。
because you won't end up marrying crazy Sally。
because there'll be people in your life,。
if your name's Sally, I apologize,。
or people in your life who will be like,。
hey, she's crazy Sally, don't marry her.。
You'll have people in your life who will speak it,。
it will shape so much of the rest of your life。
if you will just get this one thing,。
and here's why this is so important.。
Most of you are not connected to a local church.。
The vast majority of this room, we know.。
You may attend a place, you may attend the porch。
on Tuesdays, you may go to Watermark on Sundays,。
or the Village, or IBC, or Prestiwood,。
or any number of different places,。
but you are not connected and a member of a local church,。
and you are forfeiting the primary thing God says。
is the vehicle.。
If you connect with it, that's the thing that I use。
to change you and to change the world.。
And so tonight, we're gonna look at the scripture。
and discuss really this topic of being connected。
to the local church.。
My goal, let me get this really clear。
in case I can't keep your attention。
and you start counting things up in the air。
and you're like, is there coffee out in the lobby?。
I want every single person here to become,。
if you're a follower of Jesus, a Christian.。
If that's who you are, I'm talking to you,。
a member of a local church,。
or obedient to what the scriptures teach。
would be another way of saying that.。
And so if you're right now going,。
oh, I just got out of college, I'm not yet a member,。
I'm talking to you.。
Or if you're going, I've been out of college。
for like 15 years, I'm still not a member,。
I'm talking to you.。
If you are not a member of a local church,。
whether that's here or another one,。
that you would connect to a local church.。
So we're gonna look at three reasons。
why the scripture teaches that you and I,。
it is imperative, it is a command for Christians.。
Again, this is for Christians.。
So if you're not a follower of Christ,。
you'll just have kind of a window。
into what the Christian life。
and living out the Christian life looks like。
and what specifically being a part of the church。
in a local church looks like.。
The three reasons we're gonna cover tonight。
as it relates to why it's so crucial。
for you to be a part of a local church are these.。
It is at the local church where you surround yourself。
with God's people, you submit to godly leadership,。
and you serve on God's mission.。
It is there that you surround yourself with godly people,。
you submit to godly leadership,。
and you serve on his mission.。
In other words, without a local church,。
you cannot do any of those,。
all of which are commands in the New Testament。
from the God who loves you and wants to lead you。
for the rest of your life to the abundant life。
he created you to experience.。
So we're gonna look at the first one。
and walk through all of these.。
So the first one of surrounding,。
why is the local church so important?。
Because it is there that you surround yourself。
with God's people.。
You're gonna surround yourself。
with lots of people in this world,。
whether that's your family, whether that's at work,。
all the different time you're around different groups.。
Maybe you're in a bowling club,。
I don't know what you're involved in,。
but the local church is to be the place。
where you're surrounded by God's people,。
by men and women who speak into your life。
and push you on in your faith.。
The author of Hebrews addresses this in chapter 10.。
This is gonna be kinda topical.。
We'll do three points and look at scriptures。
that inform each of those ideas in the scripture.。
The author of Hebrews is gonna talk to us。
about this first idea.。
The local church is where we surround ourselves。
with God's people.。
And he says this in chapter 10.。
If you have a Bible, you can flip over there.。
If not, it'll be on the screens.。
But he says this in chapter 10,。
and the book of Hebrews is such a great book for us。
because it's written to a group of new believers.。
They just put their faith in Jesus,。
they're trying to figure this thing out,。
and they're trying to decide,。
or discover what it looks like to live out this new faith。
that I have.。
Persecution is going on, and so a lot of them are like,。
do I really believe this?。
Should I keep going on?。
Should I keep pressing on?。
And the author of Hebrews writes,。
and he gives them a message saying,。
don't lose hope, don't let go,。
continue forward in your faith,。
and here's one of the ways that you make sure。
that your faith and your future is protected.。
It's by surrounding yourself.。
Listen to what he says.。
Verse 23 of chapter 10.。
Surrounding yourself by God's people.。
Let us hold unswervingly to the hope we profess.。
For he who promised is faithful,。
and let us consider how we may spur one another。
on towards love and good deeds,。
not giving up meeting together,。
as some are in the habit of doing,。
but encouraging one another,。
and all the more as you see the day approaching,。
or Christ returning.。
I'm gonna read it again,。
and look to see if you can see anything jumping out.。
Let us hold unswervingly to the hope we profess.。
For he who promised is faithful,。
and let us consider how we may spur one another。
on towards love and good deeds,。
not giving up meeting together,。
as some are in the habit of doing,。
but encouraging one another,。
and all the more as you see the day approaching.。
What's the author of Hebrews pointing at?。
How many times does he use these plural expressions?。
What is he saying?。
The Christian life is a team sport.。
The Christian faith is meant to be lived together.。
It's about we, not about me.。
The Christian life has always been this thing。
where we come together.。
Even what he's telling them as it relates。
to hey, holding on to hope.。
He's saying that the way that we hold on to hope。
in a world that feels hopelessly broken is together.。
Christianity is a team sport.。
It's always been meant to be lived together.。
The mentality that can hit any of us at any point in life。
where we just feel discouraged,。
where we just feel down,。
where we feel filled with doubt,。
where we just feel like giving up.。
That's why the author of Hebrews is writing and saying,。
look, this is a we thing.。
This is where we lock arms.。
The body of Christ comes together,。
and it's always been a place where it's not just you alone,。
you and Jesus all by yourself,。
but you come together, and you lock arms,。
and you say, I'm not letting you go,。
and I need you to not let me go,。
because sometimes I wanna go after crazy Sally.。
Sometimes I wanna go after crazy decisions。
that I know are gonna hurt me,。
but they still look good to me.。
I need your help.。
I need to come together.。
Sometimes I'm just gonna feel overwhelmed with doubt,。
and the author of Hebrews says the way。
that you maintain hope in a hopelessly broken world。
is we, not me.。
It's always been meant to be done together,。
that you are to connect to a local church,。
and one of the main reasons the Bible says。
is because you are meant to have these deep relationships。
with others in your life who spur you on。
towards love and good deeds.。
You can't do it alone,。
and you never intended to.。
And from the very beginning,。
the Christian church has always been where we lock arms。
because we're a bunch of broken, sinful people.。
That's the requirement to get in,。
and if you get a bunch of sinners together,。
of course you're gonna have crazies in there,。
and of course bad decisions are made,。
and so we spur, and we help,。
and hold one another accountable.。
It's always been meant to be lived together.。
It's at the heart of Christianity,。
and that's why having a local church,。
because where else is that gonna take place?。
It's always been a together thing.。
This is why the mentality of like, hey, I'm good, man.。
Look, I'm not a part of a church,。
but I got me and Jesus, me and Jesus are good right now.。
You know the Bible says that's not good?。
The very first thing that God says is not good.。
Anyone know what it is?。
In Genesis 2, 18, the world was just created.。
Everything's perfect.。
There's no sin, no apple, none of that's taken place yet.。
In the world, Adam is hanging out with God.。
You would think like, oh man, that's amazing.。
If anyone could ever say, hey, I'm good,。
I got me and God, we're in perfect relationship,。
there's no sin, I'm just hanging out naked with the animals,。
everything's going great, and the Bible says this.。
Before sin, God looks down and he says,。
it's been like 15 minutes, and he's like, this is not good.。
Here's what it says, Genesis 2, 18.。
The Lord God said, before any sin had entered,。
it is not good for man to be alone.。
I will make a helper suitable for him.。
In other words, it's not good just God and Adam.。
There has to be a human relationship involved.。
If anyone could ever say, I mean, think about that.。
Adam is in perfect relationship.。
Adam, arguably, you would think would be the only guy。
who'd be like, yeah, it's me and Jesus, everything's great,。
and Jesus, who's in the beginning, we're told,。
is like, hey, time out, not good, we're all alone here.。
He needs someone else involved.。
A man alone with God in the garden,。
and God says he needs human relationship.。
He's designed and created to experience that community.。
Where does that take place?。
At the church.。
The other phrase that flies in the face。
of the New Testament idea of like,。
you're meant to be a part of the church,。
is this idea of like, yeah, I love Jesus,。
but I don't like the church.。
Please don't ever say that again, if nothing else,。
because how insane that statement is.。
The Bible says the church is the bride。
or the wife of Christ.。
You following me on this?。
In other words, when you say, hey, I love Jesus,。
but I don't like Jesus' wife, think how that is gonna go.。
Like, what husband, if you came up to me,。
and you're like, yeah, David, I love you, man.。
Hey, I'm just not a big fan of your wife.。
I mean, what am I, be like, I'm about to swing at you.。
What husband would not, what husband would be like,。
hey, man, it's cool, yeah, dude, ah, I agree.。
What husband would say that?。
(congregation laughing)。
Do you think Christ, the perfect husband,。
is just gonna be like, yeah, that's fine, great,。
you don't have to.。
Then no, we're always meant to be a part of it.。
We're always meant to be together.。
That's the essence of church.。
It's not dissimilar from, really, the Christian life,。
and being together is not dissimilar。
from like, when I was throwing javelin.。
If you came up after this message,。
and for the person who says, I'm a Christian,。
but I'm not connected to a local church,。
you are like a person who comes up after this message。
and is like, you threw javelin in college.。
Hey, I did too, and I respond with, oh, man, awesome,。
where did you throw javelin?。
You're like, just in my backyard, you know, it was great.。
I was throwing it up in the air, and it was awesome,。
and it's like, you are not a javelin thrower.。
You are a man with a weird hobby, is what you are.。
That's not a javelin, that's what a Christian is。
who doesn't have a local church.。
You following me?。
You're like the person who's just throwing the javelin。
in his backyard up in the air。
as though that's how you throw it.。
You are that person.。
It was always designed, and you were always intended。
to live together because, and the author of Hebrews here。
says because we live in a broken world that's just hard.。
We live in a world where we just need one another,。
like we need encouragement.。
Who are you gonna turn to in life when cancer strikes,。
when, honestly, when you just walk through a breakup,。
how horrible are breakups, even if you do them all right?。
You're gonna turn to Margarita night?。
You're gonna turn to Bluebell?。
Who are you gonna turn to?。
You're gonna turn to friends that just push you。
in a terrible direction?。
How are you gonna make sure the breakup doesn't break you?。
And it's the body of Christ coming around you saying,。
hey, I'm gonna walk with you.。
I know what you're going through.。
I'm here for your pain, whether that's a breakup,。
maybe it's a layoff from a job, whatever it is,。
I'm not letting you go, I'm here for you.。
And the author of Hebrews says that's the local church。
that's always been intended to be this way.。
And where are you gonna find this?。
Like, you're not gonna find this at work.。
You're not gonna find this at the gym.。
At work, you're gonna find,。
you're lucky if you get a 401k and a dental plan.。
You're not gonna have people who are gonna speak。
the words of life to you, who are gonna say,。
look, I'm gonna remind you of truth。
when you are running from it.。
I'm not gonna let you go.。
I'm gonna come pray for you when you don't even wanna pray.。
I'm just gonna, you just sit there。
and I'm gonna pray for you.。
We're gonna pray together and I'm not leaving.。
Where are you gonna find, at the gym。
with your spin instructor?。
These relationships are, they exist inside of the church.。
And it's there that you and I discover them。
and we're created to experience them.。
The second reason it's so crucial that you connect。
to a local body is probably going to be the one。
that everyone resists the most, and it's the second one.。
It's there that we submit to godly leadership.。
Everyone's favorite S word, submit.。
Submit to godly leadership.。
The Bible says this in Hebrews 13.。
Obey your leaders and submit to them,。
for they are keeping watch over your souls。
as those who will have to give an account.。
This is terrifying.。
Let them do this with joy and not with groaning,。
for that would be of no advantage to you.。
Obey your leaders and submit to them.。
I want you to think about something.。
If you're a Christian, how do you obey this verse。
without being a part of a local church?。
Just obey any Christian leaders?。
Like, if you're a Christian and you got leadership gifts,。
I guess I'm supposed to obey you.。
What should I do today?。
What are you to do if you don't have a local church?。
How can you obey that verse?。
Of course it's not all leaders.。
It's clear he's speaking about the leadership。
of a local church that you are to be a part of,。
to be led and cared for and shepherded,。
and they're gonna give an account to God。
for how they do so.。
But you can't obey this passage。
if you're not connected to a local church.。
The elders that are here, if you are here,。
I wrote just in my notes,。
man, you have got some godly elders who are not perfect,。
but they are purposeful,。
and they are men who are leading this flock,。
and they will give an account before God。
for every person who is a member here.。
But if you attend here,。
that does not include you necessarily.。
If you are a member and you've committed here,。
and if you're a Christian。
and you're not a part of a local church,。
or you're not a member,。
who's gonna give an account for you。
when you stand before God?。
Like, you'll give an account for yourself,。
but when God's like, all right,。
and David, where are your elders?。
And it's like, well,。
I don't know that I really had any.。
What church were you a part of?。
Well, I kind of rotated.。
I went here a couple times,。
I went here a few times,。
and it's like, yeah,。
but which one did you become a part of?。
Well, I'm not sure that I ever became a part of one,。
but I did listen to Matt Chandler,。
and Francis Chan, and John Piper a lot.。
It's gonna be like, Piper, you know this guy, huh?。
Back of the line, that's not gonna happen at all.。
But who's gonna give an account。
when you stand before God?。
Even the answer that I won't have any elders。
could be an indictment against the fact。
that you weren't, in this area, obedient,。
and you didn't experience, because of that,。
the shepherding and protection that comes.。
The reason God wants you to submit and yield to elders。
is because he has placed leadership there。
to care for, to love, to protect.。
So you're not just someone who comes in,。
and attends, and disappears,。
but you're someone who's known and connected.。
And I know a lot of you in this room,。
even that word submit and obey。
can bring up bad memories or bad feelings。
because the experience you've had of church。
wasn't a good one.。
And a couple things on that.。
One, there is no perfect church.。
It was filled, and the experience, if you had a bad one,。
it's not surprising because the church。
is full of imperfect people.。
It's a requirement to get in.。
And the second one is that's why it's so important。
to be a part of a place with godly leadership.。
And so if you've given up on being a part of a church,。
that is insane logic.。
Like, that's like giving up on the doctor。
if you had a bad doctor experience.。
You think about that?。
It's like, look, I am done with the whole medical community.。
I am out of here.。
This guy was horrible.。
If you had a bad experience in the church,。
it's the same thing.。
You don't give up on the church.。
You connect to a place with godly leadership,。
and you yield and submit underneath that.。
Underneath, and by submission,。
like just to bring real clarity to that,。
'cause like, what, I'm supposed to submit?。
Submitting like here at Watermark is going,。
oh, I'm gonna be a part of a community group.。
I'm gonna serve somewhere.。
Those are the ways that we submit or we yield to.。
We follow along the shepherding that God has put in place.。
The reason elders are crucial。
is because they provide the protection for your life.。
As you walk through this life, protection from what?。
Two things.。
The first is yourself, because you crazy too.。
It's true.。
Like, the first is all of us, as broken sinners,。
we're prone to wander, we're prone to go off,。
and it's having elders in place.。
There's a process for someone to say,。
hey, I'm coming, I'm going to meet with you,。
I'm gonna pursue you, I'm gonna care for you.。
Anytime you've already said and you declared,。
I wanna be a part of this church body,。
I wanna follow Jesus, and so if you're unwilling to do that,。
I'm going to be with you, talk with you,。
meet with you, pray with you,。
show you in God's word how that's done,。
so that you don't just wander off.。
Like, all of us are just prone to do that,。
to wander off, to move from our faith.。
Us on the stage are prone to wander off,。
that's why we need community and elders in our life.。
We're all like one second away from a bad decision.。
My son, I have a nine week old baby,。
so we're not sleeping a lot right now,。
and he is like just a little milk monster,。
and he's doing one of three things at all times,。
sleeping, pooping, and eating,。
and I tell my wife, like, he is always。
about six seconds away from a bad attitude.。
If he wakes up and he does not get milk,。
and I want it now, ah, everything goes haywire,。
and everything goes crazy, because he's going,。
I want it now, I want it now.。
It was like the Lord was, I don't know if this was。
the Lord speaking, or just a thought in my head,。
but as I was thinking about that, you never do,。
or you do, maybe you do, I don't know,。
let's get back to that.。
(congregation laughing)。
As I was thinking about that, it was like the Lord。
was like, David, you are six seconds away。
from a bad attitude, have you noticed that?。
At any point in time, I can move and make it。
six seconds away from a bad decision.。
I can be leaving Bible study and be like,。
man, Lord, you're awesome, amazing,。
get in traffic and be like, oh my gosh,。
what is going on here, people?。
Drive the car the speed limit, and all of a sudden,。
everything's falling apart, and if you're,。
I'm getting a lot of judgment, wait 'til you're。
in that parking lot tonight, and you are about。
to leave Bible study and experience it yourself,。
but it's the same way.。
I know that all of us in the room can experience that,。
or many of us, maybe you're a little more stable.。
(congregation laughing)。
Where you're like, God is so good right now,。
why would he break up with me, where are you, Lord?。
In a second, any of us can be six seconds,。
and less than that from a bad decision,。
a bad mindset that can lead us down a path,。
and those are humorous ones, but the reality is,。
the ones that we can walk towards because of the sin。
inside of us are not humorous at all,。
and so having shepherds there to protect us from ourself,。
it's not only protection from ourself。
that we find in the local church,。
we find protection from an enemy.。
The Bible teaches that you and I are at war,。
there's this spiritual war going on,。
and we have an enemy whose name is Satan,。
and he has come to destroy your life.。
He's come to get you to engage in whatever he can。
that will distract you from pursuing Christ,。
from pursuing eternal things,。
from not being a part of the church.。
He's come to kill and destroy,。
and this is what 1 Peter tells us about that enemy。
and why we need elders to protect us in our life.。
Written by Peter in chapter five, verse eight,。
he says this, "Your enemy, the devil,。
"prows around like a roaring lion。
"looking for someone to devour."。
That Peter, who wrote at a time,。
and he's writing spiritually,。
hey, we have this enemy, Satan, the devil,。
who is trying to destroy your life,。
looking for someone who we can pick off,。
who's isolated, who we can pick off from the flock。
and devour.。
Peter, who had seen Christians,。
not spiritually get devoured,。
physically get devoured,。
likely, during the persecution that's going on。
that we know was going on,。
Peter looks at that and he goes,。
oh my gosh, in the same way,。
that's what Satan is out to do to you and to me,。
and if you don't believe it,。
you're likely headed towards the path of that happening,。
that he's out to devour.。
I don't even fully know what that means,。
but I feel like I've seen it.。
Devour faith in people's lives,。
devour marriages,。
devour their financial world,。
devour their future,。
devour their relationship with their children,。
and one of the reasons we need elders in a local church。
is because it offers and provides the protection。
from ourselves and from an enemy。
where we help one another,。
shepherd one another,。
and care for one another。
so that we are underneath that protection,。
and we are most vulnerable。
when we're isolated or alone or not connected.。
If you are in the room and you're not connected,。
you're most vulnerable,。
and you will continue to be vulnerable。
if you don't have,。
and you're a Christian。
and you don't have others in your life。
who can care,。
come alongside,。
encourage.。
The final reason why the local church is so crucial。
is because it's there that we serve on God's mission.。
It's there that you serve with the gifts he's given you。
as a part of God's mission.。
This is what Paul writes in Romans chapter 12,。
starting in verse four.。
For just as each of us has one body with many members,。
so each of us has a body and members are like,。
oh my, I got hands, I got feet, I got legs,。
and these members don't all have the same function,。
so I don't just have like five legs.。
And so in Christ, though many form one body,。
so though we in Christ,。
though many we form one body,。
and each member belongs to all the others.。
What are you talking about, Paul?。
We're all different and it's like we're this body,。
that's what the body of Christ is,。
where each person is a hand or a foot。
or an eye or something different.。
Yes, and what I mean by that。
is I'm talking about their gifts,。
who God has made them,。
says this in verse six.。
We each have different gifts。
according to the grace given to each of us.。
God made you different than he made me.。
And he wired and brings together this beautiful gathering。
of different men and different women,。
each with different gifts, different spiritual gifts,。
different natural giftings, different personalities,。
and he brings them together to form the body of Christ.。
And it's more perfect when they're united.。
It would be less perfect if they were all feet,。
if it was just one big foot.。
It's more perfect by the complementary different parts。
that make it up.。
And he lists out some of those gifts.。
We each have different gifts.。
If your gift is prophesying, then prophesy.。
And prophesying in the New Testament, quickly,。
is different than the prophets in the Old Testament.。
Prophets in the Old Testament。
would speak foretelling the future.。
Prophetic gift in the New Testament。
is primarily truth-telling, like boldness,。
speaking directly, speaking intentionally.。
JP has the gift of prophetic things,。
where he's just like, look,。
break up with your boyfriend now, okay?。
He's not a believer, and don't call me again.。
I don't know if anyone's calling him.。
But something where you speak boldly, that's prophetic.。
That would be a prophetic example.。
And I know there's gonna be people upset about that.。
I'll read the verse that informs that.。
First Corinthians 14.。
Paul, again, what is prophecy?。
It's a person that speaks.。
First Corinthians 14, three.。
The one who prophesies, what do they do?。
They speak for the people for their strengthening,。
for their encouraging, and for their comfort.。
It's this bold, that's what prophetic is.。
Moving on.。
Okay, if it's that, then do that.。
If it's serving, then serve.。
If it's teaching, then teach.。
If it is to encourage, then encourage.。
If it is giving, then give generously.。
If it's lead, do so diligently.。
If it's show mercy, then do it cheerfully.。
Whatever it is, it's not an exhaustive lift.。
He basically says, look,。
everybody has been given these different gifts.。
God made you different from me.。
And your gift is just as valuable as mine,。
and the church is a place where we come together。
and we serve God's mission by using whatever way。
God made you to build up the body of Christ,。
serving with your gift here,。
and to be a part of the mission。
of reaching the world for Christ.。
The church is a place where you bring your gifts.。
If you're artistic and you're good at art,。
maybe you're good at video,。
maybe you're good at any list of different things,。
maybe you're good at just leading,。
maybe you're an entrepreneur.。
The church, and this is so huge,。
because for so long, this is,。
I don't know why this has always been absent。
for so many churches in our country.。
It's a place where you, just like God made you,。
you come in and you go, this is what I can do,。
this is what I'm gonna offer,。
this is what I'm gonna dream.。
I feel like we could take the next level。
as it relates to artistic gifts.。
The church, as much as anybody in this world,。
any organization in this world,。
they need to be the best social media people of all time.。
They need to be the best at encouraging。
and reaching the lost, producing content。
that's gonna be excellent, because you know what?。
Coca-Cola's selling stuff and they're doing it for money.。
We're doing it for the souls of people.。
The church comes together, your gifts, my gifts,。
we all come together and we go,。
no gift is better than the other,。
we're just gonna put 'em all on the table and go,。
God, use us, do whatever you want to with us.。
It's not about me, it's not about what I like,。
we're gonna come together and we're gonna reach the world。
for Christ, and you can golf clap all day long,。
but that's the purpose for which you were created.。
And if you're sitting on the sideline with gifts,。
you are wasting your talent.。
You are wasting what God has given you.。
Some of you guys are leaders out there,。
and man, we need godly men, we need godly leaders。
who are gonna go, hey, we're gonna take Uptown by storm.。
We're gonna help people reject the lie。
that the next hangover is really worth it.。
Are you serious?。
How much better is the message of hope。
and life that we offer to the world?。
And are we gonna hold onto our gifts and be like,。
yeah, I'm pretty detail-oriented,。
but I'll just work on these expel spreadsheets by myself.。
Are we gonna provide them to the body of Christ?。
Man, God has made you for something。
so much bigger than yourself, and that something。
is being a part of the greatest movement。
the world's ever seen, the body of Christ.。
The thing that I don't care where you're working right now,。
way outlasts what you're doing.。
In 1,000 years, Coca-Cola will be no more,。
and if you're like, eh, they could hang around, likely.。
I mean, let's be honest, for real, 1,000 years ago,。
what was going on 1,000 years?。
But you know what will be around?。
The church, the body of Christ.。
We're actually promised by Jesus。
the gates of death will not be able to stop it.。
The gates of death have stopped a lot of things,。
empires, people, but they cannot stop。
and will not stop the church.。
Will you come and be a part of it?。
It's a place where you serve God's mission.。
You're a part of building up。
and being involved with God's people.。
There's so many in this group.。
I love the porch because our volunteers are unbelievable.。
If we told you how much our volunteers did,。
you'd be like, what do you guys do all day?。
Because they just get it.。
They're going, hey, we're gonna make this place better.。
We're gonna make this city more covered。
and reached for Christ.。
Volunteers like Lance Thrillkill,。
who's been a part of this ministry for a long time,。
and honestly, there's so many,。
it's almost hard to mention 'em.。
Lance was throwing parties in Dallas for a living.。
That's what he was doing.。
Lance came on, became a volunteer,。
became a part of just throwing parties。
for prodigals to come home.。
He's going, the church should be the most alive,。
fun, engaging place in the world.。
So many places, people don't like to go to church.。
You should be dying inside until you get to church.。
You're like, I can't wait to get there.。
That's what it should be.。
So he's like, we're gonna throw parties here.。
Of course we are.。
Ryan Wall, who's an entrepreneur。
who has done so many different things。
and initiatives to be a part of。
reaching young adults for Christ.。
Started Unashamed, started a bunch of different things.。
Unashamed is that three-day in-town mission trip,。
and it's just led by a guy who wasn't on staff,。
who just said, we can go to Africa for mission trips,。
or we can live on mission in the city。
where we actually speak the same language.。
I feel like that's what we should do,。
and he just started this initiative.。
Jocelyn Jesus, who heads up our arts team。
with some other incredible artists,。
and they donate and give their time,。
not to just create like, oh, I like this drawing,。
this is fun, but to create artistic stuff。
that reaches young adults for Christ.。
And so many others who give their life。
and give their gifts for something。
way bigger than themselves.。
Will you jump in and be a part of getting on the team?。
In conclusion, the reason why a local church is so crucial。
is because it is there that you surround yourself。
with godly people, you submit to,。
and are shepherded by godly leadership。
who protect you and protect me.。
And it's there where we serve the body of Christ.。
Where do you do those things。
if you don't have a local church?。
You don't.。
You're the javelin thrower who's like,。
I threw, but I threw it in my backyard.。
The final picture, I'll land with this.。
While I was at A&M, the track team was there,。
and it was like such a perfect picture,。
honestly, of the body of Christ in so many ways,。
because you'd come together, and there was like 80 of us,。
and you'd go to the track meet,。
and everyone did their different role and different part.。
Like everyone looked different,。
and everyone had these different events。
that they were a part of and different things that they did.。
They had like the six foot seven, 350 pound shot put guy。
who would throw the shot put,。
and then you had next to him。
this like 100 pound, five mile runner girl,。
and then next to him you had this six foot long jumper,。
and then you had all these different people。
who played all these different parts,。
and they worked best together。
when they each played their roles.。
In other words, if the shot put guy was like,。
I think I'm gonna take on the five mile today,。
fee, fi, fo, fum, it would be terrible, right?。
Where did that come from?。
It would be terrible.。
(congregation laughing)。
Fee, fi, fo, fum.。
Okay, it would be terrible, right?。
Like the team would suffer.。
No, he was designed and created,。
he does best when he's doing what he was designed。
and created to do, playing his role on the team.。
Same with the five mile runner.。
In the body of Christ, like we're stronger together。
when we all come and we say, I'm gonna play my role,。
I'm gonna do my part, this is what I can bring to the table,。
this is the role that I'm going to play.。
And just like in that track team,。
when the runner was going。
and the shot put guy was over there, they championed.。
You do what you do, you run.。
I can't run, but I wanna see you run, you're doing awesome.。
I'm not angry at not having the ability to run,。
I'm not jealous of it, I'm gonna champion you.。
We're stronger together because when you win, I win.。
We're the body of Christ, we're all gonna come together。
and do whatever, we don't have to be the best。
in the world at anything, but we can say,。
God, this is the best that I can have。
and I want you to have it, I'm gonna give it to you.。
This is how it was made and I wanna surrender, submit that。
and serve you with it.。
The invitation tonight, if you're not a part。
of a local church, this Sunday, for those of us in Dallas,。
for Fort Worth, Garrett's gonna talk to you。
about what you have coming up.。
This Sunday at 11.15 a.m., come and be a part。
of a local church, it's membership class this Sunday.。
If you're like, do you guys just wanna grow Watermark?。
Let me just say, there is no part of us that wants to grow,。
I guess there is a part of us that wants to grow Watermark.。
If there's lots of lost people out there,。
we're great with growing 'em and growing 'em。
and you can go to another church。
if that rubs you the wrong way.。
We're great with reaching lost people.。
But primarily, the reason why we want you to be connected。
is because it grows you.。
You will get a lot more than you ever give.。
And so if you're not a part of a local church,。
this is your weekend.。
This is your step to adulting.。
You know, there's high schoolers in this body。
who are members, that's just embarrassing, lots of 'em,。
who are members of this church, like they're in high school,。
16, which is unbelievable to be like, I'm 16,。
I'm gonna go through membership.。
And we have 28-year-olds who are gonna,。
I've never taken that step.。
I think a lot of you never even knew that it was important.。
But now you know.。
And the God who loves you is not trying to rip you off,。
not trying to get something from you,。
but give something to you, is inviting you,。
you connect to the body of Christ where you will change.。
Connect to the body of Christ where through it,。
the world is changed, has been changed, and will change.。
If you're not a part of that,。
I'm gonna pray that you would be.。
Let me pray.。
Father, I pray for my friends in the room,。
thank you for just the gift of your church,。
your bride, who you love,。
who you say that you bought your own blood with,。
who you hold in such high regard that you say。
the elders are the leadership of a church,。
a local flock, they're gonna give an account to me.。
And so Father, I pray for our elders,。
would you protect them, would you lead them,。
would they hear your voice,。
would they yield to your word and to your spirit?。
I pray for my friends in the world, in the room,。
who are not a part of a local church,。
would you convict, would you move them?。
Maybe it's not here, maybe it's another church.。
Lord, would you move them to join another church,。
to give their gifts to another church,。
but to give it to the bride of Christ at some local church?。
Thank you for Jesus, who loves us as his bride,。
despite all of our flaws, all of our imperfections,。
and who allows us to serve with our gifts,。
allows us to be protected through godly leadership,。
allows us to be loved, cared for,。
and surrounded by godly people, would that mark our lives?。
Thank you, in Jesus' name, amen.。
