(upbeat music)。
- Porch, how we doing?。
We doing okay?。
Hey, it's great to see you.。
Thanks for making the time to be with us this evening.。
So glad that you would be here.。
I'm really excited for tonight.。
I don't know about you.。
I don't know how you're feeling tonight.。
I am personally very excited.。
Number one, we got some fall weather rolling in,。
which is praiseworthy, right?。
Can I get an amen?。
That's a good thing.。
Yeah, I love that.。
Really excited that you're here tonight.。
I don't just say that, I actually mean that truly.。
I do not take it for granted that you would be。
in this room with us every single Tuesday.。
Part of me always wonders,。
God, are they gonna come back?。
And yet you keep due.。
And so we're gonna keep showing up.。
And I think God's got good things in store.。
We also really excited because we've got young adults。
from all over the nation tuning in tonight.。
Everybody give it up for Porch Live.。
Yes, give it up for them.。
Love what God's doing around the globe.。
It's so cool that we get to be a part。
of what he's doing in your life.。
We truly mean it, that we believe God can be。
with any person anywhere and at any time.。
And that includes those of you that are tuning in.。
Special shout out to Porch Live Fresno, Boise, and Dayton.。
So glad you're here.。
And then also we've got some very special friends。
that are tuning in with us from Alaska.。
So we're really glad y'all are on too.。
And then last thing that I'm really excited about。
is the person you're gonna get to hear from tonight.。
We're taking a brief pause in our series Disciple。
because we wanted to introduce to you someone。
that we're really excited to tell you about.。
As you've heard me say from this stage before,。
something that I feel a personal passion for。
as a young adult ministering to young adults。
is finding the next generation of communicators,。
people that I think we should be learning。
and listening from.。
And so I'm excited because tonight I get to introduce。
to you someone that I think fits that bill。
really, really well.。
Someone that I think is a trusted voice。
on any platform she stands on and is also a trusted voice。
in my own personal life as I've just gotten。
to observe her from afar and then do ministry。
alongside her in different capacities。
and learn from her myself.。
So I'm really excited to introduce to you。
a good friend of mine.。
And so Porch, I need you to do an exceptional job,。
like the best job.。
She's from Portland.。
You gotta give her a big Texas welcome。
when she comes to the stage.。
Would y'all give it up for my good friend Brenna Blain.。
[audience applauding]。
[audience cheering]。
This is my third time in Texas.。
And something about me, yeah, that's a good thing.。
Something about me is that when I get really excited。
about something, I tend to assimilate to the culture。
a little bit much.。
And so the last time I was in Dallas,。
I went to Tyler Kingston Mercantile。
and bought out almost the entire store.。
I got this shirt that said Texas on it.。
I got a bandana.。
And for the next six months, I would wear cutoff jeans.。
I'd wear my Texas shirt and my bandana。
when I would go preach places.。
And it started to happen that people would be like,。
oh, Texas shirt, are you from Texas?。
And I'd go, well, not technically.。
'Cause I was just so in love.。
And I think I come by this enthusiastic love。
and adoption of adoration for places。
because something about my mom,。
I think that my siblings would also agree with。
is that if there's something that she loves,。
not only does she go all in on it,。
but she wants us to love it too.。
And I think that's maybe how me and all my siblings。
ended up in musical theater.。
But, oh, okay, musical theater, yeah.。
But my mom would sometimes try to convince us。
that we loved the same things she did。
in ways that I think she thought were incredibly subtle,。
but that really were not.。
I remember my mom had this fictional author。
that she just loved.。
And I would walk into my mom's room at night。
and she'd be laying in bed with just tears。
streaming down her face.。
And I'd be like, mom, what's wrong?。
And she'd be like, it's this book.。
And I'm like, what the heck?。
And one of the books that my mom read,。
I think she read it several times.。
When I got a little bit older, she started to say,。
hey, Brenna, I think you'd really love this book.。
And I'd say, no.。
And then go to bed.。
And I'd be sleeping and I'd wake up。
and I'd have this pain in my back.。
And I'd be like, what the heck is that?。
And I found the book in my bed one night.。
My mom snuck it into my bed.。
And I didn't think much about this book.。
It was some Christian romance type book.。
And I remember my mom would say,。
it's based off the book of Hosea.。
And I thought, yeah, never read it.。
And somehow I escaped not only four years。
of not reading that book,。
but also four years of high school,。
not really even reading the Bible.。
And certainly not the prophets,。
because I had this perception that one,。
they were incredibly boring.。
And two, they had nothing to offer me.。
And then the book of Hosea completely changed my life.。
So let's read today.。
When the Lord began to speak through Hosea,。
the Lord said to him, go, marry a promiscuous woman。
and have children with her.。
For like an adulterous wife,。
this land is guilty of unfaithfulness to the Lord.。
So he married Gomer, daughter of Dibliam,。
and she conceived and bore him a son.。
Then skipping to Hosea three, it says,。
and the Lord said to me, go again,。
love a woman who is loved by another man。
and is an adulteress.。
Even as the Lord loves the children of Israel,。
though they turn to other gods and love cakes of raisins.。
So I bought her for 15 shekels of silver。
and a homer and a lecheth of barley.。
And I said to her, you must dwell as mine for many days.。
You shall not play the whore or belong to another man.。
So will I also be to you.。
For the children of Israel shall dwell many days。
without king or prince, without sacrifice or pillar,。
without ephod or household gods.。
After the children of Israel shall return。
and seek the Lord their God and David their king,。
and they shall come in fear to the Lord。
and his goodness in the later days.。
So for context, the book of Hosea is an interesting one。
because there is so much meaning。
packed into just six and a half pages。
that make up the book in our modern Bibles.。
But with all things in the word,。
it is important that we look at it。
with the understanding that all of it matters.。
All of it matters.。
Every single paragraph down to the words。
that were God breathed and not just written。
to the people living in that specific time period,。
but were also given for us.。
Another thing that makes Hosea interesting。
is that there is not just an abundance of poetic forms。
like many of the prophets we see in the Bible,。
but it holds a narrative about Hosea himself。
that is intertwined within the pages。
of his prophecy to Israel.。
You see, God did not just say to Hosea,。
here's your calling, I'm going to use your words,。
but he said, here's your calling,。
and I'm going to use your life.。
You guys have been focusing on a topic of discipleship,。
the submission of your lives。
to the creator God of the universe。
because you see and know that he is trustworthy.。
But the reality is that some of you are here。
and you don't buy that.。
Maybe a friend has been dragging you along。
or maybe you're here because some feeling。
has been nagging you because you grew up in the Bible belt。
and this is just what good people do.。
And so either out of shame or guilt。
or strange obligation, you are here.。
But if you had it your way, you would be someplace else.。
Or maybe you're here as someone who shouldn't be.。
You got the courage to walk through the doors。
and you think to yourself,。
if anyone knew what my actual life was like,。
I would be unwelcomed.。
If anyone knew that I'm actually a sex worker,。
if anyone knew, sure, I'm involved with serving,。
but I blow all my money on OnlyFans.。
If anyone knew that I'm actually transgender,。
if anyone actually knew the hatred I feel。
for certain groups of people.。
And so you hear the scripture being read。
and you zone out。
because it's not interesting or relevant to you.。
Or you read Hosea and there is an ache in your heart。
because you don't identify with Hosea.。
You don't identify with God.。
You don't look at these faithful leaders。
and see yourself.。
Instead, you see the unfaithfulness and the brokenness。
and the humanity of your life.。
And you say, that's me.。
I'm too far gone.。
I'm too disobedient.。
I'm too uninterested in Jesus。
to even have a space at the table.。
And even just being here in this room today。
is starting to feel uncomfortable to you.。
And you're just trying to honor whoever invited you。
or the curiosity that brought you through those doors.。
But I believe, and I've been tuning in the last few weeks。
and just watching and listening and praying.。
I believe God is doing something in this space.。
And we have to press into what that is.。
Because the reality is, if you don't care,。
if your heart is running,。
if you are uninterested in this entire night,。
it's not going to mean anything to you.。
But before we let that happen,。
I believe God is wanting to say,。
awake, oh sleeper,。
I have something for you.。
I don't know what that is.。
It's not a secret, but I am not wildly prophetic.。
So you will have to lean into what the Holy Spirit。
is doing in your heart tonight.。
But as you hear these words, as you hear scripture,。
I'll just want to say to you now,。
pay attention to what you feel。
the Holy Spirit is doing in your heart.。
Because what are the odds?。
What are the odds that you're feeling something。
just now, subtly stirring,。
and maybe I said something out loud。
that identified you in a church building。
for the first time in your entire life.。
And you're trying to figure out how to leave.。
Or you're trying to figure out。
if I'm going to close my computer and walk away.。
Don't.。
First, before you leave,。
can I just tell you about a time。
that I desperately wanted to leave?。
I had grown up in the Christian church,。
but after being abused at a young age,。
I really started to wrestle with things。
that felt unsafe for Christians to wrestle with.。
I was depressed and suicidal。
by the time I was a freshman in high school,。
while also wrestling with my sexuality.。
And I lived life often looking over my shoulder。
as if to say, "God, are you even there?。
"Do you even see me, or is all of this。
"that I've experienced just made up?"。
And I was nervous to tell my parents。
that I had deep doubt.。
So I never wanted to say, "I don't want to go to church,"。
but I think my parents knew I was wrestling with a lot.。
And so at the end of eighth grade, they said,。
"Hey, we would like for you to be in church,。
"but it doesn't have to be our church.。
"So if you just find a place,。
"we'd love for you to go there."。
And somehow I found a youth group。
that was like the dream for me.。
No one there talked about sports.。
Sorry, Texas.。
Almost everyone there listened to alternative music,。
and someone knew that I could play a few instruments.。
And so not even after one week of going,。
I got asked to join the worship team.。
And even though singing songs to a God。
I wasn't sure was even there felt odd,。
it was so much better to me。
that I had something to do during worship。
that I got to focus on playing an instrument。
than have to sit through and actually think。
and contemplate what worship even was.。
Because worship had this overwhelming effect on me.。
When I would have to sit there,。
I would see these people around me。
singing words of adoration and affection。
and praise to a God who had let me be abused,。
who had let me get to the place。
where I no longer wanted to live.。
And it was like everyone around me was in on something,。
was experiencing a God I never knew without me.。
And I would just want to scream.。
And that continued for all four years。
of my time in high school.。
And I had moments where I'd say to God,。
"Okay, maybe you are real.。
"Maybe you do care.。
"So I'm going to give you this.。
"This square inch of my life, you're welcome.。
"But you can't have any of this."。
And I would gather it all up in my arms,。
my depression, my anger, my self-image, my doubt,。
and I would run to every other thing this world。
and would say, "Do you think you could heal me?。
"Do you think you could make me better?"。
So by the time I was 18,。
I had a lot of practice avoiding God.。
And I was at the age where I needed to decide。
what I was going to do next after graduation.。
So I did what any other person running from God would do.。
And I decided I would become a missionary.。
And I thought I was being clever.。
Like, "God, I'm going to hide from you。
"right under your nose and you will never find me."。
But you see, the truth was I hated school。
and I did not want to go to college, but I loved Hawaii.。
I wanted to smoke weed, date hot women, and surf.。
So I signed up to do six months with a missions group。
with the expectation that everyone else there。
would be just like me,。
not really bought into this idea of God。
wanting to do some traveling and just get away.。
And a lot of people there were just like me.。
I don't know if we all collectively thought。
we were tricking our parents or our youth pastors or what,。
but at least a handful of us thought we ran so far。
and so fast from God that he would never catch up.。
So the third morning, I am there,。
and we're still in this like preliminary free time zone。
where you could kind of do whatever you wanted to do。
the first few days.。
And I just wanted to be at the beach,。
but I had no car and hitchhiking out of town was difficult.。
And so when they announced that they were going to take。
some vans into town for the morning for worship,。
I thought, that's it.。
I got a ride.。
I'll just BS my way through this worship time.。
So at least I seem respectful and then I'll hit the beach.。
So we get to this place where we're going to have worship。
and I book it to the back of the room.。
And I'm like, this is going to be so weird.。
I'll just close my eyes and be back here。
and I'll get through it and I'll leave.。
And I had grown up not really knowing the Holy Spirit.。
And I thought this missions group was like Baptist,。
but it wasn't.。
So my eyes are closed and we're singing some song。
that everyone knows because it was written in 2007.。
And I know music well because I'd been on worship team。
at that point for seven years.。
And I know there's an instrumental break coming up.。
So I'm sitting there and all of a sudden。
the instrumental goes, but then people are still singing.。
And I'm like, what the heck, who's taking a solo?。
And then more voices started to sing.。
And then some people started talking。
and I'm thinking, what the heck is happening?。
And my eyes are still closed,。
but now I'm bothered by what's happening。
because it just seems disrespectful.。
And you know how I shared about sitting in worship。
and just hating it in high school,。
but I opened my eyes and I see something。
I had never seen before in my life.。
I see this girl standing there like this,。
just singing her own song, her own words, just worshiping.。
And then I start to look around the room。
and I see people praying for people out loud.。
And I'm thinking, this is weird.。
And then the girl who's standing over here like this,。
she goes, yes Lord.。
And I don't know how or what it was,。
but I remember how every time I had to sit through worship,。
I just wanted to scream.。
And now here's this girl embodying all these negative things。
that had been pent up inside of me,。
but in a positive way in her worship and I lost it.。
I had never seen someone worship。
with their entire being before.。
And in that moment, I prayed a prayer。
I wasn't sure God would even hear.。
I said, God, if you are real,。
if you care for me, if you see me,。
I want you to let me know whatever it takes,。
because this is the most real thing。
I have ever seen in my life.。
And if there's a chance that my angst。
and my anxiety and my anguish could be set aside。
and I could know you like that,。
I want you to do whatever it takes to get me to that place.。
And I think the unsaved person in me says,。
no, you shouldn't have prayed that prayer.。
For the next entire month of being in this environment,。
it's like I'm watching a movie unfold.。
There were 32 students in my school.。
So 31, not including myself.。
And it was like every single day,。
someone else who was living a life much like mine,。
suspicious of God at best, just completely melted.。
I don't know what it was or why it was happening,。
but these people who looked like different versions of me。
were starting to confess, I am in love with God.。
And I was living with these people.。
So it wasn't just their words that were changing,。
it was their lives, their personalities, their character,。
the way that they interacted with people.。
They were really truly being changed by God.。
And during that entire month,。
I went through almost every prayer。
and worship session like this.。
And the more this happened for other people,。
and the more I saw people change,。
the more conversations I had with myself that said, no,。
this isn't gonna happen for me.。
I don't know what they're on, but I don't buy it.。
But I had a problem。
because we were supposed to do Christian things,。
because we were missionaries.。
And one of the things we had to do。
was prepare and preach a 10 minute chapel talk.。
And I signed up for the very last date possible。
on the calendar because I didn't want to do it.。
And by the end of the month,。
I had just a few days left until I was supposed to teach。
and I couldn't think of anything.。
I tried doing that thing where you sit there。
with your Bible and you open to a random page.。
And I was like, okay, God,。
whatever you want me to speak on, show me now.。
And every time, every time I opened it, it was Leviticus.。
And I was like, I can't do that.。
And then one day, something reminded me of that book.。
That my mom was always trying to get me to read.。
And I thought, if some lady can get an entire book。
out of it, maybe I can get 10 minutes.。
So I flipped to Hosea and I start reading.。
When the Lord began to speak through Hosea,。
the Lord said to him, go, marry a promiscuous woman。
and have children with her for like an adulterous wife,。
this land is guilty of unfaithfulness to the Lord.。
So he married Gomer, daughter of Diblium,。
and she conceived and bore him a son.。
And I closed my Bible and I walked away.。
And for the next 24 hours, all I heard was,。
that's you, that's you, that's you.。
Here are all these people who have been faithful,。
who have never struggled with doubt。
and never wanted to die and never questioned God's plan.。
And then there's you, like an adulterous woman。
towards God.。
And I can't stop thinking about that.。
And I don't know if people could tell if I was just down。
or if something was wrong,。
but I like to think it was the Holy Spirit.。
But I was sitting on the bathroom floor。
just having a little bit of a meltdown.。
Because not only were people around me experiencing God,。
I felt like I had, God, I felt like I'd never even known,。
but now I was aware of how deeply unfaithful。
I had been towards God in the first place.。
Like why would God ever even want to change me。
if I never acted like I ever even really wanted Him?。
And as I'm sitting on the floor, I hear footsteps。
and they're angry and they're coming in fast。
in my direction.。
And I panicked 'cause I wasn't supposed。
to be in this bathroom.。
But the door flies open.。
And before I'm able to say anything or do anything,。
I see this student, a girl I had met on the plane。
on my way to this missions group。
who had the complete opposite personality of me.。
She was joyful and she was loud and she loved everyone。
and she wanted to hug everyone and she woke up happy.。
And she's standing at the door and I'm thinking, why you?。
And she looks at me dead in the eye。
with some frustration in her face.。
And she yells, you are worth it.。
You are worth it.。
Now go finish reading whatever God has asked you to read.。
And then she leaves.。
And I deeply confused because again, I'm not charismatic,。
wonder back to my room and I open up my Bible back to Hosea。
and I start reading again where I left off.。
And I finally get to chapter three.。
It says, the Lord said to me, go again.。
Love a woman who is loved by another man。
and is an adulteress even as the Lord loves。
the children of Israel, though they turn to other gods。
and love cakes of raisins.。
So I bought her for 15 shekels of silver。
and a Homer and a lake chest of barley.。
And I said to her, you must dwell as mine.。
For many days you shall not play the whore。
or belong to another man still, so will I also be to you.。
For the children of Israel shall dwell many days。
without king or prince, without sacrifice。
or pillar without ephod or household gods.。
Afterward, the children of Israel shall return。
and seek the Lord their God and David their king.。
And they shall come in fear to the Lord。
and to his goodness in the latter days.。
And as I read these words, I began to weep.。
And I feel as if the Holy Spirit says,。
if that's you, who am I?。
In this story, if you are the woman,。
if you are like Israel, then who am I?。
And as I said earlier, there is so much depth。
packed into this book that not just every sentence。
but every word means something.。
And the literal meaning of the name Hosea,。
the root of that name means to save, to deliver.。
Here is a woman who has said to Hosea, I'm yours.。
I'm here.。
And Hosea, knowing her promise would be faulty。
still enters into a covenant relationship with her.。
Much like God has willingly entered。
a covenant relationship with us, an unfaithful people.。
And much like us, so much like me.。
After time not feeling like I was getting。
what I thought I ought to get from God,。
this woman leaves her husband and goes into town。
with the mission of unfaithfulness,。
probably hoping something else would meet her needs,。
would make her happy, would give her what she felt。
like she desperately needed.。
All the while she must also wonder。
does he even see me?。
Does he care that I've gone?。
Such a mix of unhealthy but real feelings。
so many of us have felt about the God of the universe.。
I don't care, but does he?。
I don't want to be faithful, will he?。
And the reality is this is far after Deuteronomy takes place。
so Hosea could have rightfully said, I want a divorce.。
And that probably was something on both of their minds。
but God speaks to Hosea and says, go again,。
love a woman who is loved by another man。
and is an adulteress even as the Lord loves。
the children of Israel though they turn to other gods.。
Though they turn to other gods, go and love her again.。
You see, some of you in here know the pain,。
the real pain that unfaithfulness causes。
in the midst of a covenant relationship.。
And so hearing this part of the story feels unfathomable.。
And even more so is that a God who has never sinned。
against us has the soul right to walk away。
and yet watch what he does.。
Hosea tells us, so I bought her.。
This gives us insight into the view of woman。
at this time.。
By many cultures, women were seen as property。
but not by God.。
The interesting thing was because Hosea already married her,。
she would have been seen as his.。
He literally could have gone into town and said,。
this is mine and taken her back home.。
But he wants to make something abundantly clear to her。
in the language and the action of this time.。
He wants her to know you are worth it.。
So he sacrifices.。
As we read this, are you able to see the story。
within the story?。
The narrative of Hosea is not just a beautiful story。
of faithfulness, it is a foreshadowing。
of Christ on the cross.。
We being God's creation, we are his to begin with.。
And yet God has given us agency to make the choices we make.。
If we want to be unfaithful,。
he doesn't keep us locked up as his property。
but allows us to leave.。
And yet, even after we have left,。
he pursues us.。
Not in anger, not as a tyrant,。
not even as the owner of our souls,。
even though he could with the snap of his fingers。
demand that we come home.。
He chose to come after us in an act of sacrifice。
to buy what was already his.。
God sends his son to die in our place。
and through that, through that very action,。
we become worth it.。
If we are Gomer and if we are Israel,。
God is our faithful savior.。
And it was in that moment when I looked back。
over every single thing that had happened in my life,。
every time I ran from God,。
every time I felt like he left me alone,。
every time I wondered if he saw me。
and I realized I have been relentlessly pursued.。
You have been relentlessly pursued.。
It doesn't matter what you've done.。
It doesn't matter how far you have gone.。
It doesn't matter the things you have said。
because the one, the only one who is faithful。
is the one who has bought you for a price。
and named you and called you and brought you here.。
I know the reality is that some of you are hearing this。
and you're thinking, yeah, that's great for other people,。
but not me.。
And I have to say, if you're feeling that。
or you're thinking that。
and you're hearing this,。
might this be a grand gesture。
of God's relentless pursuit towards you?。
I think God wants to meet with you。
and I hope and I think。
that he's using this right now。
as the girl who burst through the door saying,。
you are worth it.。
Because think about what are the chances actually。
that you're in this room hearing this right now?。
And that God said to me,。
this is the message that I want you to share。
for that person.。
Maybe you're thinking that I'm unfaithful.。
Yes.。
I have been hurt by others and I have hurt others.。
Yes.。
I am constantly running away.。
Yes.。
But what is the picture that God has painted for us?。
It's this.。
Whether it is the idolatry of the Israelites。
or the adultery of Gomorrah,。
our hearts sinful condition is to wander far from God.。
But God's promise to us we find in Hosea 2, 19 through 20.。
It says,。
and I will betroth you to me forever.。
I will betroth you to me in righteousness and in justice,。
in steadfast love and in mercy.。
I will betroth you to me in faithfulness。
and you shall know the Lord.。
His promise to us is his love, his compassion。
and most significantly his faithfulness.。
And with that by no feat of our own strength,。
but only through his sacrifice,。
he declares us worthy of being brought home.。
So how should we respond?。
If you have not made the choice。
to willingly go back home with God,。
why not now?。
Why not tonight?。
And if you have made that choice,。
would you let today be a deeply joyful reminder。
to look back and to celebrate God's faithfulness to you?。
Some of you, I was praying for our time.。
I'm gonna go off script a little bit.。
I was praying for our time coming up。
and I couldn't picture the room。
because I've never been in a room this big before.。
And so I felt like the Lord just started showing me faces。
and asking me to pray.。
And as I was praying, I just felt like the Lord said,。
"Some of the people here,。
"your inclination has been not to sing during worship。
"because God doesn't feel good.。
"He doesn't feel close.。
"He doesn't feel loving.。
"He doesn't feel caring."。
I've been there.。
But this last year I read through the Psalms。
and I always thought the Psalmists were bad songwriters。
'cause they repeat themselves over and over and over again.。
But what I come to realize as I read through this last year。
that they don't repeat themselves。
because they're bad songwriters.。
They repeat themselves because their hearts are fickle。
and they need the reminder of God's character。
in their life that it is unchanging.。
Some of you need that reminding so desperately.。
If you made the choice tonight, I'm gonna do something.。
I want everyone to stand up really quick.。
If you made the choice to willingly go with God,。
and I need to say this,。
I know we are in the Bible belt。
and I know I'm asking you to do something deeply vulnerable,。
but I wanna say you are in community.。
You are in the context of a place where you are not alone.。
You are in the context of a place。
with people who care deeply for you.。
They want healing and rescue for you.。
They want you to do life in community.。
They don't want you to do it alone.。
So if you have been wrestling and tonight you either decided。
I'm going to go back home, it feels scary.。
It feels overwhelming, but I'm ready.。
I'm ready to go back home.。
Or if you're sitting here going,。
if I wanna go back home,。
I'm just gonna ask you to sit where you're at.。
And if you're comfortable with the people around you。
placing their hands on you or just extending a hand。
so we can pray for you.。
But I wanna read our inheritance over us tonight。
because I want you to be so aware。
of what the Lord has done.。
Would you just close your eyes?。
Psalm 23 says, "The Lord is my shepherd.。
I shall not want.。
He makes me lie down in green pastures.。
He leads me besides still waters.。
He restores my soul.。
He leads me in the paths of righteousness for his namesake.。
Even though I walk through the valley。
of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil.。
For you are with me, your rod and your staff,。
they comfort me.。
You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies。
and you anoint my head with oil.。
My cup overflows.。
Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me。
all the days of my life.。
And I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever."。
God, I just ask that you would be in this room。
and fill in the gaps that I missed.。
Lord, the ways that I stumbled, you are sufficient.。
You know what is going on in this room tonight.。
You know what is happening.。
You know what's stirring in the hearts of those。
in this place, God.。
For those who have wandered far off from you,。
for those who feel like it's too late。
or for those who feel apathetic,。
would you remind them of your deep love for them?。
God, I thank you for what you are doing in this room.。
Would you just continue to move。
as we sing in faithfulness, amen.。
(music fades)。
