[Music]。
PORCH, how we doing?。
Come on!。
Dallas is lively.。
Fort Worth, I hope you got it going on too.。
Houston, anywhere you're listening,。
tuning in, we're back in 1 Peter 2 this evening.。
And as I think about what Peter is going to instruct us on this evening,。
I thought about how growing up,。
I was a kid who asked "why" a lot.。
Anybody else?。
Like, "Why?"。
Like, "You gotta do this."。
"Why?"。
Like, "Why do I have to do that?"。
"I don't understand."。
"Why?"。
"Can you explain?"。
"Why?"。
And the response that I would get that I hated the most,。
"Hey, you nailed it."。
"Because I said so."。
Like nails on a chalkboard, I hated that response.。
"Why do I have to do it?"。
"Because I said so."。
I hated that response so much that now that I have three children of my own,。
I have vowed to personally never tell them that.。
And it's hard.。
Because they ask "why" a lot.。
I got three kids that ask "why" all the time.。
And they kind of come to me and they're like, "Oh, but that's not fair."。
"I don't understand. Why do I have to do it?"。
"I'm always tempted."。
And so I'm just going to give you three examples from this past weekend.。
I mean, from the last three days,。
here are some what it looks like to be in the Pucluta household.。
And so let's see, it's bedtime, and they've got to take showers.。
And so I tell the girls, "Hey, y'all go take showers.。
Weston, I'm going to give you a bath."。
Finley, my daughter, said, "But Daddy, I want to take a bath."。
"No, it's past your bedtime. You need to take a quick shower."。
"I'm going to give Weston a bath."。
"But Daddy, I don't understand. Why can't I take a bath?"。
And I can go into this long explanation.。
"Well, because, you know, here's the deal.。
You're going to be slow, and he's four,。
and I've got to bathe him because he's four,。
and you can go take a shower."。
Or I can say, "That's right, because I said so."。
And so then here's another one.。
We wake up the other morning.。
We wake up two mornings ago, and Presley takes a vitamin, okay?。
And my four-year-old says, "But Daddy, can I have one of those?"。
"Well, no, you can't."。
"But Daddy, why? Why can't I have one?"。
"Well, because the Surgeon General warning right here, son."。
I mean, how do you explain Surgeon General to a four-year-old?。
And why do they make these vitamins look like Fred Flintstones?。
My kids don't even know who the Flintstones are.。
And so they're sitting there.。
He's like, "But Daddy, I want one."。
It looks like candy.。
He's like, "But I want one. Why can't I have one?"。
"Son, just relax. Come on. No. That's why. No."。
You know?。
And then this one just happened.。
Taking my little girl home from soccer.。
Good dad.。
Let's go get ice cream.。
Go big.。
What do you want?。
Hit the Dairy Queen up on Coit.。
Yeah, that's right.。
Only the best.。
Get her ice cream.。
"Hey, let me have a bite of that."。
"No, but Daddy, that's not fair."。
"But why? You can get your own."。
"But why? You take such big bites."。
Which is true.。
"But Daddy, that's not fair."。
I'm just over the edge.。
You're right, that's not fair.。
It's not fair that you got ice cream。
and there's 20,000 children today starving.。
They didn't eat anything.。
That's not fair.。
And you're right, when you wanted ice cream,。
guess who had to pay for that ice cream?。
I had to buy that ice cream with my money.。
And that's not fair.。
When are you going to buy your own ice cream?。
That's what I want to know.。
And you know what's really not fair?。
Is when I want to take a bite of the ice cream that I paid for,。
you're sitting here telling me that I can't have it。
because I said so!。
No, I didn't say that.。
It was a whole lot worse.。
Don't judge me.。
So here's what you need to know.。
Life's not fair.。
You've either learned that lesson,。
or you're learning that lesson,。
or you're going to learn that lesson.。
And I'm here to tell you,。
I believe Peter is going to tell you。
that it's one of the most important lessons。
that you can possibly learn.。
Because if you grasp this lesson,。
it's going to set you well up for the rest of your life.。
If you do not believe that life is not fair,。
and you leave here and you expect life to be fair,。
it is going to set you up for tremendous disappointment,。
even despair, potentially depression.。
Deep, dark depression as you wait。
for fairness to come your way。
in a broken world that is not fair.。
But if you leave here,。
and you say, "You know what? I know that life's not fair.。
"There are going to be things that happen to me。
"that just don't add up.。
"Sometimes A plus B equals getting your butt kicked.。
"And that might happen, and I'm going to leave here,。
"and I'm going to believe that, and I'm going to embrace that."。
Then your future's bright.。
You're set up for potentially some tremendous success.。
But life's not fair.。
And an aspect of the unfairness of life。
is that you're subject to authority.。
Here's what that means.。
You're not in charge.。
And I don't mean like, "I know I'm not in charge.。
"God's in charge."。
I mean there are people who are in charge of you.。
And you're expected to do whatever they ask you to.。
And that's not fair.。
And if you leave here resisting that reality。
that you are under authority on earth,。
earthly authority,。
like police officers and teachers and bosses。
and parents if you're still at home,。
or if they pay your cell phone bill,。
that you are expected to obey and do what that asks.。
So let me just talk about how life's not fair for a minute.。
Sometimes you do all the work,。
and your boss takes credit for it.。
And sometimes you work harder than everyone else,。
and someone else gets promoted.。
Sometimes the person who gets promoted cheated to get there,。
and you know it.。
And sometimes everyone is passing you on the highway,。
and somehow you get stopped for a ticket.。
Sometimes you abstain from sex,。
you dress modestly,。
you meet a guy who seems to be a good Christian man,。
and not only does he not pay attention to you,。
he starts to like the girl that's constantly showing off her body。
and doesn't even read the Bible.。
Life's not fair.。
Sometimes you have teachers that don't like you,。
sometimes you have bosses that just don't like you.。
Maybe you remind them of someone they don't like.。
Life's not fair.。
Sometimes you do everything right,。
but things go so painfully wrong in life.。
And even as I say that, doesn't it hurt just thinking about it?。
Is that not just painful thinking about it?。
And some of us,。
there's something deep inside of us that desperately desires。
to believe that life is fair.。
But if we believe that,。
it's going to set us up for this disappointment.。
And so, I'm gonna say this up front。
when I'm talking about being subject to authority.。
I've heard someone say this, and I think it's really helpful.。
When someone tells you what to do,。
it's not the what, but the who.。
When someone tells you what to do,。
it's not what they're asking you to do。
that you need to grade how fair it is,。
it's who's asking you to do it.。
Are they in a position of authority over you,。
and are you expected to obey them,。
even if it doesn't make sense in your logical brain?。
You just do what they ask.。
And so, we're going to look here in 1 Peter 2。
about three unfair facts.。
And this message will be exposed in increasingly unfairness.。
And it will end with the most unfair reality.。
And so the first one is that we should submit under authority,。
that we will suffer under authority,。
and that our authority will treat us unfairly.。
And so Peter wrote this book about 30 years after。
being with Jesus for three years.。
He spent three years of his life.。
He wrote it about 64 AD.。
Nero is the emperor. Nero is a crazy man.。
This is important because he's going to talk about the government.。
Nero is crazy. He killed his mom.。
His wife exits the picture.。
He marries his manservant, has him dressed like a woman.。
He burns down Rome and blames Christians.。
He's persecuting Christians.。
This guy's crazy.。
And so, he says this, verse 13.。
"Submit yourselves for the Lord's sake to every human authority,。
"whether to the emperor as the supreme authority,。
"or to governors who are sent by him。
"to punish those who do wrong and to commend those who do right."。
See, even in a corrupt government,。
there are people who enforce laws.。
"For it is God's will that by doing good,。
"you should silence the ignorant talk of foolish people.。
"But do not use your freedom as a cover-up for evil.。
"Live as God's slaves," he says.。
"Show proper respect to everyone,。
"love the family of believers, fear God,。
"and honor the emperor."。
Let me summarize that little passage right there.。
He's saying, "I want you to submit to every human authority。
"as an example to others of the ultimate authority。
"that you are under, which is God."。
And so, my first unfair fact, unfair fact number one,。
is that we should submit under authority.。
Our job under authority is to submit.。
And the idea of submission is unfair, right?。
It says that not only are you not in charge,。
but it says that someone is in charge of you.。
What a reality check.。
Not only am I not in charge,。
but there are people in positions of authority over me.。
It says this idea of submission,。
whether we're talking about wrestling or bosses。
or marriage or anything, right?。
It says that someone is stronger, more skilled,。
more powerful, or just plays a different role than you.。
And verse 13 says that,。
"Submit yourself to every human authority."。
Who does that include?。
Every human authority is the right answer.。
So if we're talking about the IRS, right,。
you're not thinking about how do you scheme the IRS.。
You're thinking about how do you give to Caesar?。
What is Caesar?。
Even if no one knows about it,。
even if no one knows about the capital gains,。
you don't go and get the goodwill receipt。
and even though you gave a pair of shoes,。
write $500 on it.。
Like, that's not what you do.。
You're not trying to look for the max deductions.。
You're trying to do what is right and true.。
And you think about police officers, right?。
Ever pled not guilty to a ticket?。
You knew you were guilty of?。
Ever tried to talk yourself out of a ticket。
you knew you were guilty of?。
Ever had the police officer walk to your car。
as you slipped on the seatbelt。
trying to trick him that you had it on?。
Some of you, okay, right?。
You know, ever been like,。
"Ah, but I wasn't speeding,"。
when you knew you were?。
Somebody asked me,。
"Is it wrong to speed if you're willing to pay the ticket?"。
Is it wrong to disobey your parents。
if you're willing to get a spanking?。
Is it wrong to reject God if you're willing to go to hell?。
It's wrong to do what's wrong.。
It's right to do what authority asks you to do.。
That's what this text is saying.。
Whether it's a landlord or your boss。
or your parents if you're on their payroll,。
government, right, this is really what it's talking about.。
We as believers, we don't bash Donald Trump.。
We don't bash President Obama.。
It's not okay.。
That's not submission.。
You cannot read this text,。
say, "God, I believe in you.。
"I believe this word is true.。
"I want to apply it to my life, leave here,。
"then get on Facebook and blast the president."。
You can't do that.。
It leaves no room for you to do that.。
There's no submission there.。
That's not what this text is saying.。
You say, "Yeah, but he's crazy."。
Some of you, half of you will be like,。
"Yeah, but President Trump's crazy."。
The other half, "But President Obama's crazy."。
Nero is crazy.。
That's what's crazy about this text.。
Nero's way crazier, right?。
And so this verse, it really nods its head。
to what Paul writes in Romans 13.。
And so I'll read verse one to you.。
"Let everyone be subject to governing authorities,。
"for there is no authority。
"except that which God has established."。
The authorities that exist have been established by God.。
He says the same idea over and over and over.。
All authority is established by God.。
And here's what you need to know.。
No authority is perfect.。
And let me say it a different way.。
No authority is perfectly fair.。
So what the reality is,。
the reality is you're subject right now to unfair authority.。
That's the truth.。
And it begs the question, like,。
what about Hitler or Saddam Hussein。
or Joseph Stalin or Mussolini or Mao Zedong?。
Even them, yes, even Nero.。
Even Nero.。
It's crazy to present the sovereignty of God like that.。
It could not be more explicit.。
All authority is established by God.。
Why would he ask this of us?。
It seems so, I feel the tension that you feel right now.。
It seems, JPR, you sure, it seems so crazy.。
Here's why, verse 15.。
"For it is God's will that by doing good。
"you should silence the ignorant talk of foolish people.。
"Live as free people, but do not use your freedom。
"as a cover-up for evil.。
"Live as God's slaves.。
"Show proper respect to everyone.。
"Love the family of believers.。
"Fear God and honor the emperor."。
And so as an example to the watching world,。
that we don't belong here,。
that's what we talked about last week.。
We silence the talk of foolish people.。
And so Christians, we're the most free of all people.。
The very best citizens on earth are citizens of heaven.。
Citizens of heaven are the best citizens on earth.。
But as we live as free people,。
we do not use that liberty to sin, to do what is wrong.。
The fact that we're going to heaven。
doesn't mean we can do whatever we want here.。
I think this is displayed most beautifully。
when we feel that the rule。
or the person who made the rule is not for us。
and that they're unjust.。
I think about, back to kind of my BC days,。
before I was a follower of Christ,。
there was this specific experience。
where I left my trash at the door of my apartment。
and you couldn't do that.。
There was an explicit rule against that。
and they said, "Hey, if you do that, you gotta pay a fine."。
And so of course I get a fine.。
And I remember how unjust I felt this was.。
Like I went and argued this.。
I even lied.。
Like they did exactly what they said they were going to do.。
But I'm like, "Man, I don't know where that trash came from.。
"Like you can't do this to me.。
"Like how unfair is it that I come out。
"and not only is there trash in front of my door,。
"I got a fine on top of it.。
"This is so unjust."。
I'm using my freedom to cover up evil.。
How wicked is that?。
How wicked as followers of Jesus Christ。
do we feel like it's okay to say,。
"I wasn't speeding.。
"I didn't roll through that stop sign.。
"I was wearing my seatbelt."。
How wicked is that?。
I compare that to Joseph in Genesis 39。
who worked very hard to please his authority.。
And as a consequence of working hard to please his authority,。
he was thrown into prison for a crime he didn't commit.。
True story, woke up every day in prison。
for a crime he didn't commit.。
Sounds like a Netflix special or something, right?。
He's there.。
And you gotta be, I mean, he's gotta be like,。
"God, have you turned your back on me?"。
But it says the Lord was with Joseph。
and he was patient and he waited。
and he was subject to the authority that was over him.。
And so it says, "Show proper respect to everyone,。
"love the family of believers,。
"fear God, and honor the emperor."。
And this is easy when we trust authority,。
but what about when the authority over us is crazy?。
What about when they're bad authority?。
Verse 18.。
"Slaves, in reverent fear of God,。
"submit yourself to your masters,。
"not only to those who are good and considerate,。
"but also to those who are harsh,。
"for it is commendable," underline that word,。
"for it is commendable if someone bears up。
"under the pain of unjust suffering。
"because they are conscience of God.。
"But how is it to your credit if you receive a beating。
"for doing wrong and endure it?。
"But if you suffer for doing good and endure it,。
"this is commendable before God."。
What's the summary here?。
Let me summarize.。
It is commendable before God to suffer for doing good。
under unfair authority.。
We don't like that.。
And we don't do what is right because we're afraid。
of what will happen, that they might be harsh to us,。
they might treat us harshly.。
We do it because we believe God is our ultimate authority,。
that he's in control of all authority,。
and he's the authority that we submit to,。
really the only authority that we submit to,。
and as him, as our ultimate authority,。
has asked us to be subject to every authority on earth.。
So my second unfair fact, unfair fact number two,。
we will suffer under unfair authority.。
Let me give you a couple things right up front。
to understand this text.。
One has the word slays.。
Don't think Django Unchained or Roots.。
Think more like Doughton Abbey or the Nanny Diaries.。
Think household employee.。
This was not a racial slavery.。
Don't think civil rights.。
It was more of a class system.。
True story.。
I've heard that before.。
I've heard preachers say that.。
I'm like, really?。
Let me go study that for myself.。
Go study it for yourself.。
And so we live, here's another thing。
that I have to say up front.。
How do I apply this to my life?。
We live in a higher fire at will state.。
What that means is you can leave your job,。
this is applicable to your job,。
employer-employee relationship,。
you can leave your job at any time.。
Like if they ask you to do something sinful,。
you can say, I'm not going to do that.。
You will have to fire me, but I'm not going to sin.。
If they ask you to do something。
that compromises your conscience,。
you can say, I'm not going to compromise my conscience.。
You're going to have to fire me.。
I'm not going to sin.。
You can leave.。
You can get fired for doing what is right.。
But I will tell you, having done ministry now for 10 years,。
most of the times I'm talking to somebody。
that they're like, yeah man, I'm not going to do that.。
He's trying to make me go to the strip club.。
I've gone a couple times,。
and really what's happening。
is you're looking for an excuse to leave,。
to villainize your boss,。
and even though you sinned every step of the way,。
this is kind of your righteous reason to leave.。
And that's not okay.。
Because just consider this for a moment.。
That's the job you took.。
In a higher at-will state,。
you looked at all the jobs,。
you said, I'll take that job,。
and I would just ask you to be a little more prudent,。
like maybe in the interview.。
Hey, am I going to have to go to strip clubs?。
Because I'm not in on that, you know?。
But we don't do that.。
We just get kind of, oh man, anything,。
you'll pay me to what?。
Okay, I'm in.。
And then we get there, and we're like,。
oh, I hate my boss, I hate this place,。
I hate my coworkers, I hate everything about it.。
Give me some excuse to leave。
that I can pretend is righteous.。
So you don't have to sin.。
You can get fired.。
You can share your faith.。
You can get fired doing the right things.。
Absolutely you can.。
And you shouldn't sin.。
You should always obey your ultimate authority,。
which is God.。
It is commendable, verse 19 says,。
if someone bears up under the pain of unjust suffering。
because they are conscious of God.。
You read this, and you're like, man, is that?。
Okay, so maybe Peter just。
kind of goes crazy as you're writing this.。
This is really repeated throughout the New Testament.。
Ephesians 6, Colossians 3, 1 Peter 3, Titus 2,。
and 1 Timothy 4 all repeat this exact same idea,。
that it is commendable to bear up。
under the pain of unjust leadership, unjust authority.。
Here's what you need to know, guys.。
Every person in authority over you。
for the rest of your life。
till you go home to be with God is a sinner.。
And so they might be kind of 30,000 foot view,。
big picture corrupt,。
or they may have moments of corruption。
that rub you the wrong way。
or ask you to do something crazy.。
But every person that you will ever work for。
is absolutely a sinner.。
I work with some of the most amazing people,。
and still every person I work with is a sinner.。
I work for one of the most amazing leaders I've ever met,。
probably one of the most amazing leaders。
on the planet Earth.。
And he loves God and walks with Him every day.。
He's the greatest example I have to date。
of a Christ follower, and still he's a sinner.。
Still there's times where I say,。
"Hey, can we talk about that?"。
And I work in an environment with believers。
where we can do that.。
We can go through a Biblical conflict resolution model.。
You may not.。
You may work for a pagan.。
You may work for someone who doesn't know your God,。
doesn't claim to know your God,。
and you can't hold them accountable。
to Biblical conflict resolution methods, right?。
You can't call them to be reasonable.。
They are controlled by an unreasonable spirit.。
That's the reality that you live in.。
You should not expect them to be reasonable。
if they do not have God's spirit in them.。
And every person that works for me。
works for a sinner.。
This week was a busy week,。
and I can procrastinate, true confession.。
And I saw the week, and I have teaching here,。
teaching at Summit next week,。
and I have this Bible study video thing。
that's happening, which is like six mini messages。
in between, and I'm like,。
"Man, I've got to work on that."。
And so I do one, and I realize how much time。
it takes me to do one.。
It took me about an hour and a half to do one of them.。
I'm like, "I've got to do six of them.。
"How am I going to do this?"。
And so on Sunday night, I divvied up to people。
who I'm in authority over.。
I said, "Hey, can you guys do this?。
"Can you each take one of these?"。
Now, their week is full.。
They could come back and say,。
"JP, man, you don't understand.。
"I don't have a spare hour and a half.。
"I have my whole week planned out.。
"You're coming in fourth quarter."。
I'm like, "Hey, can you have it Wednesday by one?"。
And mind you, between Monday and Wednesday is Tuesday,。
and our whole team's pretty deployed。
on making this happen.。
And I'm like, "Hey, can you do this?"。
That's an unreasonable ask.。
Some might say that's an unfair ask.。
I love what Garrett, shout out to Fort Worth, responded.。
"I will have it to you Wednesday before one.。
"I love serving you."。
I read that, and I'm like,。
"How applicable to what I'm studying right now。
"in God's Word."。
That's God's servant.。
He knows who his ultimate authority is,。
and it ain't me.。
"I'll have it to you Wednesday by one.。
"I love serving you."。
To which I responded,。
"You just became a sermon illustration."。
(congregation laughing)。
And so, when someone tells you what to do,。
it's not the what, but the who.。
When they ask you to change the rows to columns,。
and it seems completely pointless,。
and it's gonna take you hours, you do it.。
When they ask you to change a font,。
or the color of a font,。
or spin around and jump, you do it.。
When they ask you to come in on Saturday, get early,。
start over,。
and when they take credit for your work,。
you pray for them, you work hard,。
and you trust God, or you can leave.。
But you cannot, you absolutely cannot slander them.。
You cannot go to lunch with everybody else on the team。
who's talking about how crazy and big and ugly and mean。
and worthless and ungrateful and ungrateful。
and worthless and evil and wicked,。
and you wouldn't believe, and they made me come in,。
and Saturday, what's he thinking?。
You can't jump in on that, you keep your mouth shut.。
You do not say anything slanderous against them.。
'Cause Jesus is your example, Christ is your example.。
Let me show you in just a second.。
It's not what they're asking to do, it's who they are.。
Are they in authority over you?。
I worked in corporate America,。
and I had my eye for years on this promotion,。
and it was a global account manager position,。
and it was all I wanted.。
It was a position I could have retired from.。
My peers would be in their 40s and 50s,。
and I had worked really hard for this position,。
and it had been offered me, you know,。
and I'm really excited, like my dreams just came true.。
And then we went on a hiring freeze,。
and I don't know exactly what that is,。
but something Satan invented,。
but so it's this hiring freeze,。
and so I'm just sitting there waiting。
for HR to lift this freeze,。
and they do, ultimately, a couple months go by,。
six months go by, and they lift the freeze,。
but they say I have to interview for the position again.。
Great, re-interview for the position.。
So I drive up to this interview, and I'm excited.。
I'm almost thinking like this is just a formality,。
'cause the job had already been offered me,。
and I show up to the interview,。
and this hiring manager is interviewing me,。
and he's angry, and he's having a bad day,。
and as he's interviewing me,。
he tells me that I wrote an email。
that he would call, at best, less than unprofessional,。
and that's how the interview started,。
and I'm like oh, this is gonna be great,。
and so I'm sitting there, power suit on,。
red tie, white shirt, let's go, let's do it,。
and he just starts yelling at me。
and kind of taking his bad day out on me,。
and there were a couple curse words thrown my way,。
and I'm sitting there, and I'm just like。
this whole thing is a sham.。
Like this guy, he's not actually interviewing me.。
He just brought me up because he's angry。
about some email I wrote,。
and so kind of at the end of it, I'm like hey,。
I've gotta figure out why he's so mad,。
and as the interview is wrapping up,。
my entire dreams are sitting in this guy's hands.。
I'm thinking I'm gonna leave that parking lot,。
and I'm gonna have the job that I had always dreamed of,。
the job that I'll have for the rest of my life,。
the job that I'll retire from,。
and I'm seeing it vanish right before my eyes,。
and at the end of the interview,。
I realize that he thinks I'm somebody else,。
that he has completely taken out his anger。
and frustration at somebody else on me.。
My name's JP, this guy's name was AJ,。
and this guy was really mad at AJ,。
and it wasn't fair.。
There's nothing about that that's fair,。
and as you can see, I'm no longer in telecom.。
God had a plan.。
He had a plan for Joseph in jail.。
He had a plan for JP as I'm getting cussed at。
in an interview for something I didn't do,。
and he had a plan for Jesus as he hung on a cross,。
punished for crimes he didn't commit,。
that his name would be exalted above every name,。
that at his name, every knee would bow,。
that he would be at the right hand。
of the creator of the universe.。
So be patient.。
When it's not fair, be patient.。
Verse 21, "To this you were called。
"because Christ suffered for you,。
"leaving you an example that you should follow。
"in his steps."。
What is this example?。
What did it look like?。
Ready? Verse 22.。
"He, Jesus Christ, committed no sin,。
"and no deceit was found in his mouth.。
"When they hurled their insults at him,。
"he did not retaliate.。
"When he suffered, he made no threats.。
"Instead, he entrusted himself to him who judges justly.。
"He himself bore our sins in his body on the cross。
"so that we might die to sins and live for righteousness.。
"By his wounds you have been healed,。
"for you were like sheep going astray,。
"but now you have returned to the shepherd。
"and overseer of your souls."。
What does this mean?。
Jesus was treated remarkably unfair.。
He suffered for us,。
and now, having risen from the dead,。
he draws near us and leads us and guides us.。
So my third unfair fact,。
the most biggest unfair fact of the evening,。
is our ultimate authority has treated us eternally unfair.。
Our ultimate authority has treated us eternally unfair.。
In this passage that I just read,。
there are two very unfair realities.。
Let me point them out to you.。
The first one is that Jesus, who did nothing wrong,。
was tortured and killed undeservedly.。
Let me help that hit home.。
I want everyone listening right now。
to think of the best person you know.。
Maybe it's your mom or your grandmother.。
Maybe it's that friend that always writes those notes,。
that person that always shows up to help。
even before you ask,。
the person always baking you cookies。
or the one that's the most there for you,。
the kindest person you've ever met.。
You're convinced that they wake up。
thinking about the good they can do.。
Everybody have somebody, you have a name in your mind?。
Give me a head nod if you're thinking of somebody.。
If you don't, I'll wait, but hurry up.。
You got somebody?。
You got somebody?。
You guys got somebody?。
Fort Worth, you got somebody?。
All right.。
Now when you think that if up here。
I had this wicked person,。
serial killer, murderer, pedophile,。
person who wakes up thinking about。
how they're gonna rip someone off,。
the person who has no regard for the wrong they do,。
and then I say, take your person,。
your kind person that you thought of,。
and now they will suffer for the sins of this person.。
They will endure the punishment for that person's sins.。
They will serve the life sentence.。
They'll go to the electric chair for them.。
That's not fair.。
What Jesus did was so much bigger。
than that little analogy.。
So much crazier.。
See, the second unfair statement in this text。
is that you who are sinful,。
who deserve eternity in hell,。
because you have to grasp that that is what you deserve.。
Your sins are against an almighty, perfect God.。
No one deserves heaven.。
We started this series how he chooses some.。
Nobody deserves to be with God forever and ever and ever and ever and ever.。
Your sins, your self-righteousness,。
your desires to be God。
have earned you eternity in hell,。
but you get a reward that you could never deserve.。
You get to be with God forever in his kingdom。
because of what Jesus did.。
And then it says that Christ is not only your provision of forgiveness,。
but he's also your example.。
So that when you think about that boss who's so unfair,。
it says, verse 23,。
when they hurled their insults at him,。
he did not retaliate.。
When he suffered, he made no threats.。
He didn't sit there,。
"This isn't fair. This isn't fair.。
"Do you see what's happening to me right now?。
"It's not fair."。
He entrusted himself to him who judges justly.。
What does that mean?。
It means that God demands justice different than fairness.。
Justice is that every sin will be paid for.。
Every single sin.。
Every time you slept with them,。
looked at that, did that by yourself,。
got too drunk, smoked that, snorted that, went there.。
Your self-righteousness,。
you posting that so everyone would see how righteous you are.。
All of those things have to be paid for.。
But what's so scandalously unfair。
is that God's son paid for them。
so that you don't have to.。
Just in a payment, unfair in application.。
And so when you feel treated unfairly,。
you can remember that God is your avenger,。
that God is in control,。
that God can handle your harsh boss, your landlord,。
and even a corrupt government.。
Your job is to be faithful.。
Try to illustrate this with a story.。
When I was in college, not a believer,。
we went to a party late into the evening,。
my closest friend and I.。
And when we got there,。
it was clear that the party was shutting down.。
My buddy walks in and says a few words。
to the person who had the house,。
and they get in this skirmish that kind of goes outside.。
And before I know it, some blows were thrown,。
and the other guy ends up on the ground and hurt.。
And it wasn't looking good.。
Someone in the midst of that had called the police,。
and my friend was in the back of a cop car, handcuffed.。
And as I'm sitting there trying to defend him,。
I learn that the person that he's hurt。
is the grandchild of the district judge of Waco.。
This happened in Waco.。
So my friend is gonna stand before their grandfather。
to learn his fate.。
Crazy, right?。
Because here's why I'm thinking,。
this is not good for him,。
because the person who gets to determine his fate。
has tremendous authority and deep, deep love。
for the person that he hurt.。
Now, think about that if that guy hit the ground,。
hit his head, and died,。
just hypothetically, that's not what happened,。
but if they didn't just get hurt, they died.。
And now my friend has to stand before that judge,。
and that judge says, "You took a life。
"of someone that I love dearly, someone close to me.。
"You're going to pay a life for a life.。
"You're going to spend a life in prison。
"because of what you did."。
That would be the headlines of the paper,。
and everyone would read, "Justice.。
"He got what he deserved."。
Now, if that judge looked at my friend and said,。
"You know what?。
"I'm deeply, deeply grieved by what happened,。
"but I see you have no record.。
"I'm going to assume it was an accident.。
"I'm going to let you off.。
"Leave. I don't want to see you back here.。
"Mercy. That's what we want.。
"God, don't hold me accountable to my sins.。
"Mercy. He got off. Mercy. That's what mercy is."。
But friends, if that judge。
looked at my friend who took the life。
of someone dear to them,。
steps down from that platform,。
places his robe around my buddy,。
and says, "I will serve life in prison for you。
"for what you've done, and not only that,。
"but I'm going to adopt you as my own,。
"and you can go live on my estate.。
"Everything I have is yours."。
That's grace.。
It ain't fair.。
It's grace.。
It's scandalously not fair,。
beautifully not fair,。
incredibly, amazingly, fantastic not fair.。
Grace.。
You and I, we deserve hell,。
eternity in hell,。
but if you've trusted that Jesus unfairly。
suffered in your place,。
you get heaven.。
We think that we want God to deal with us fairly,。
but we don't.。
We think we want justice.。
We settle for mercy,。
but a God who loves you deeply。
gives you grace.。
So tonight, in summary, Peter,。
as he's written this letter to the church,。
he's reminded us that。
three unfair facts。
that we should submit under authority,。
that here in this broken world that we'll live in。
for just a moment of time,。
it's not very long compared to eternity,。
that we will suffer under unfair authority,。
and that our ultimate authority, who is God,。
he's treated us eternally unfair。
in the most beautiful, incredible way.。
Grace.。
That's what Peter's reminding us of.。
I started telling you about my kids.。
They're good kids, by God's grace.。
He's given us good kids.。
But one day, my daughter Presley, the oldest,。
was arguing with her sister Finley,。
and I sat there as her father,。
and they're kind of working it out,。
and I'm sitting back, I'm letting them work it out,。
and I don't know what got into her.。
She's never done anything like this.。
She clenched her fist, went back,。
and just cold-cocked her sister.。
I mean, just laid her out.。
And she hits the ground, and she starts screaming and crying,。
and I'm sitting there, and they didn't teach me this,。
and the parents, and I'm like, I don't know what to do.。
Like, I don't know what, okay.。
I'm just thinking, like, what do I do?。
And I go, and I pick Presley up,。
and I carry her outside,。
and I take her to my truck,。
and I put her inside,。
and I start driving down the road,。
and she's thinking he's gonna give me away.。
[congregation laughing]。
What I do is I turn right on the street,。
and I go to this place that we sometimes go to。
on special dates, this donut place,。
it's her favorite, and we go inside,。
and I sit her down at this table for two,。
and I go, and I get her favorite.。
It's the chocolate eclair filled with cream,。
and I sit it in front of her,。
and we hadn't said a word,。
and I break the silence with this.。
What'd you do?。
She said, I hit my sister.。
What do you deserve?。
Spanking?。
Oh, girl, do you ever?。
Like, spanking of all spankings.。
That's what you deserve.。
I mean, what's that?。
A donut?。
She's thinking, last supper?。
No, no, no, no, no, no.。
No, that's grace.。
That's grace.。
What God has given you,。
he's not dealt with you as you deserve.。
The truth is, in this world,。
you're going to experience a harshness。
that you don't deserve。
for a little bit of time.。
Really, just a little bit of time.。
And if you've trusted that Christ has gotten。
what you deserve on the cross,。
and that he's defeated death in the grave,。
then for the rest of the rest of the rest of the rest,。
600 billion years from now,。
you're with God in paradise,。
where there's no weeping, no sadness,。
no darkness, no hurt, no pain,。
no cancer, no breakups, no heartbreak.。
Only pleasure and goodness forevermore,。
forevermore, forevermore.。
You couldn't ever deserve anything that good.。
Like when she takes the bite of that donut,。
realizing that she didn't have to pay for her sins.。
But the truth in the gospel is that。
someone did pay for your sins.。
Someone paid for your sins in your place.。
It's the great exchange.。
He got what you deserve,。
and you get what he deserves.。
How are you going to live this life?。
Are you going to look for every opportunity。
to bow up and call out some injustice。
because you think that you're right?。
Are you going to serve as Christ served,。
displaying the God that you love and that you trust,。
showing the world who he is,。
working faithfully, living for him。
to the point when you're with him。
in his perfect kingdom forever and ever and ever and ever.。
Never, never, never.。
Let me pray.。
Lord, we love you.。
God, we don't deserve grace, the essence of grace.。
We can't deserve it.。
And Father, would you just show us,。
would you stir our hearts, please, God,。
around how good you have been to us.。
Would you show us as we sing。
just how good you've truly been to us,。
that you've given us a kingdom。
that we could never deserve at the cost,。
a great, a tremendous cost,。
at the life of your son, Jesus Christ.。
That it literally happened.。
It's not just a story, God.。
Would you renew our minds around the reality。
that it's history.。
And you could give us justice,。
and we'd settle for mercy.。
But you've given us grace.。
Father, thank you for grace.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
