[Music]。
>> All right, all right, all right, Parch! How we doing? So good to be back this Tuesday night.。
You already heard from me once. I'll be quick. But first and foremost, man, thanks for being here.。
We're so glad you would choose to be in this room with us. And special shout out to our Porch Live locations,。
tuning in from all over the nation. Give it up for Porch Live, everybody, please, one more time.。
Porch Live, Tulsa, Scottsdale, Midlands, special shout out to you guys.。
Okay, I'm going to get out of the way very quickly because I'm very excited about what we have in store for tonight.。
We have a really, we have really the privilege of listening to what I would consider to be one of the best Bible teachers I know.。
But more than that, somebody that I would consider to be the genuine article, goals when it comes to walking with God.。
And I'm not just trying to hype him up so you'll listen. I think he can more than take care of himself.。
We have a good friend in the room named Drew Worsham here tonight. Would you all just help me say hi to Drew?。
It's great. Porch, here's what I want you to know about Drew real fast.。
He's an illusionist. He's an executive coach. He's a pastor, speaker, Bible teacher.。
He's got a long list of things on his resume. But the thing that I love most about Drew is,。
every time I spend with him, he just sets the pace for me very personally of what it looks like to walk with Jesus.。
The way he talks about God is the way that I want to talk about God.。
The way that he cares for people is the way that I want to care for people.。
And so we really do have such a gift in him being here with us tonight.。
And I'm excited for where he's leading us over the course of the next few minutes together.。
But without further ado, would you all do a great job of helping me welcome Drew Worsham to the stage?。
How are you guys doing? Good? Okay. Still waking up. I love it.。
Well, like Kylan said, my name's Drew. I live in San Antonio, Texas, which is, you've heard of it.。
Yeah. Small city south of here. And I feel so honored to get to be just a small part of what God's doing tonight.。
I love Kylan deeply, believe in just his leadership and his heart.。
There's very few men that I meet that are as passionate about the name of Jesus and who have such a heart for me.。
And not even just the porch, but for Dallas, the metroplex area, like for people to fall in love with Jesus.。
And so I'm so, and Kylan, love you, grateful as like, gosh, seven, eight years ago that we met.。
And it's been cool to watch you from College Station to Houston and now here in Dallas.。
And so my wife and I love you and Brooke so much and so grateful to be a part of this.。
I love Watermark Church. I mean, one of my favorite people is one of your pastors and TA.。
And so, and I say this sincerely, last week we were here and my wife and I had these really deep conversations of like,。
if we were to ever move to Dallas, not saying we would, but if we were,。
I think the number one reason right now would be to be a part of a church like Watermark and what God is doing in this space and with the porch.。
And so when I say it, I mean it. We love you dearly.。
So Kyla mentioned that along with being a pastor for the last 20 years,。
I've traveled and toured as a professional magician or illusionist for the Christians that are here tonight.。
It's usually a joke. We'll see. So here I thought, listen, there's really,。
the moment you tell people that everybody's like, prove it. And so I was like, OK, we'll do something real quick if you're down with that.。
And so, sir, what's your name? What is it? John. Would you take this package?。
I want you to hold on to this. Guard it with your life. OK.。
If anyone around you tries to mess with it, you just karate chop them.。
And then if for any reason, John, you need to go and use the restroom in the next five minutes, just don't.。
OK, here's what we've got. If you have a cell phone, I'd love for you to pull it out tonight,。
because what we're going to try to do is we're going to try to manipulate someone's mind using satellites that you're going to control.。
So here's what I want you to do. I want you in just a second.。
You're going to go to your contact list, address book, whatever it's called on your device.。
And I want you to scroll through there and you're going to pick someone, your choice.。
You can pick anyone that you want to, someone that's specific to you.。
But I would encourage you pick someone that if you were to place maybe a phone call to them tonight,。
you think that they may answer the phone. Got it. So you can start kind of making your way.。
And here's how this is going to work. This game, all of you get a chance to play.。
In a moment, when I tell you to, not before, but the moment that I tell you to, what you're going to do is this.。
You're going to place a call to that person. OK, not yet, not yet.。
The moment that you place the call and you can hear the phone ringing,。
what I want you to do is I want you to stand up where you are. OK, and then this is crazy.。
Here's what gets intense. The moment that you have someone on the other line, like a real person, like a robot.。
OK, like there's a real person on the other line. You're going to do two things simultaneously.。
Here's what you're going to do. First off, you're going to do whatever you can to keep them on the phone,。
while at the same time trying to get my attention. Got it.。
Here's the reason that's important is because tonight we're actually going to use one of you.。
We'll use the very first person to get the person on the phone. Go and place that call right now.。
The moment it's ringing, you're going to stand up. The moment you have someone on the other line,。
make some noise, do a dance, whatever. You guys help me out. Oh, oh, oh.。
I saw you jump up. You got somebody on the other line. You got this blue thing.。
Yeah, that's you. Yes. OK, OK, OK. Are they still on there?。
You still got to come on up. Come on up, ma'am. Right here with the glasses.。
Yes. The rest of you. The rest of you. Go ahead and hang up. Hang up. Hang up. Hang up. Hang up.。
Come on up. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You can just hang up. Yes. Come on up, ma'am.。
Pause right here. OK, do me a huge favor. Do me a huge favor.。
If you haven't already, hang up. And then secondarily, if you would, make sure that you put your phone on silent,。
because every person that you just called is about to call you back. OK, so tell me your name.。
Your name. Mia. Mia. OK, Mia. Tell me, who do you have on the other line?。
My cousin. Your cousin. OK, where is your cousin right now?。
Do I ask her? Yeah, sure. Where are you at?。
Does she live in DFW? No, in the colony. The colony. Is that in the metro?。
Yeah. OK, OK. So she's like close. She's not like in another state.。
No. OK. And what's your cousin's name? Emily. Emily. What's her last name?。
Flores. OK, here's what we're going to do. Miss Flores or Emily, what I want you to do is first tell Emily to stay on the phone.。
You can take it off speaker. I want this to be as fair as possible. OK, you may want to so you can hear.。
Yeah. Tell her that this conversation is about to get very, very strange.。
Yes. And if you haven't already, tell her you're safe. OK, perfect.。
Here's what we're going to do. I want you to tell your cousin just to go with us.。
This is going to be strange, but I want in her mind to imagine a deck of playing cards.。
It's so weird. OK. And I want you to tell her with all those cards spread out in front of her to imagine reaching in there and grabbing one card.。
OK, imagine them spread out and then imagine just grabbing one card.。
OK, now here's the deal. People have a tendency to pick easy ones like an ace or king.。
OK, if she picked one of those or the queen of hearts, tell her to put it back.。
OK, put it back if you pick that. Which one? Like an ace or a king.。
She did. No. Did you pick that one? No.。
She picked the queen of hearts. The queen of hearts, of course. Yeah, it's hard to put it back. I know. I know.。
It happens every time. Now pick a different one. Pick a hard one. There's no way that I'd be able to guess.。
She got it? So in her mind, she should be able to see the value of the card and the suit.。
Like the number in the suit. Does she have both of those?。
Yes. I'm going to take a step back. I can't hear. But if you would, for the first time, I want you to have her tell you the name of the card.。
So now you know it. Perfect.。
I want you to tell Emily that you love her so much. You're so grateful that she answered the phone.。
And that in just a little bit, what you're going to do is when we're all this is done, OK, we're done tonight at the porch.。
You're going to call her back and you're going to explain everything that happened up here on stage.。
And when you do that, it's going to blow her mind. Tell her all those things.。
It's going to blow her mind. Perfect. You can hang up. I love it.。
Perfect. I love it. It's great. OK, here's what we're going to do. This is crazy.。
Everyone tonight had opportunity to call whoever they wanted to.。
There's no way possible that I could have predicted out of everyone in here that you would be the first person to call.。
They get somebody on the phone and that of all the people in your contact list that you would call your cousin, Emily.。
OK, now this is crazy. And that she just thought of a playing card, put it back and then changed her mind for the first time out loud.。
Would you please tell us what was the card that your cousin Emily selected?。
What was it? Five diamonds. The five of diamonds. That's exactly right.。
If you guys would give a round of applause. Well done. I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding.。
That would be horrible. No, I'm here impressed that easily. Just wait. Five of diamonds.。
OK, all of you had this choice. You called Emily. She selected a card, put it back and then landed on the five of diamonds.。
John, you've been holding on to that package the entire time. I want you to look at me.。
Look at me. Be very honest. If tonight we opened up that package and inside of it was a large deck of playing cards.。
If we were to pull out all those cards, go through there, there was one, one single card that was flipped over in the deck.。
And it happened to be Emily's card, the five of diamonds. Be honest. Look right here at me. Would that impress you?。
Yes. It would impress me, too. But we got to check it out. So I tell you what, if you would, ma'am, would you please walk to the edge of the stage?。
John, would you please walk up here? Would you give them both? Oh, right here. Give them a huge round of applause.。
Well done. Give it to her. Oh, I love it. Come here.。
OK, would you please open up this package? Oh, my gosh, I'm so nervous.。
Open it up. Open it up. Take your time. We have all night.。
OK. Oh, my gosh. Oh, my gosh. OK. OK.。
What was the card? Five of diamonds. She just thought of a card. She's in Las Colinas. Where is it?。
The colonies. Who knows? She's not here. That's all that matters. Oh, my gosh. We're going to do this so, so slow.。
Oh, would you please hold this deck? Oh, my goodness. We're going to go through these cards very slow.。
They're large. There's no sleight of hand that can happen. In just a second, you're going to see one car that looks a little different than all the other cards.。
Would you please tell me when you see it? It should be really, really obvious.。
Tell me when you see it. You see it. It's a big red one. Good eye.。
OK. Here. Oh, my goodness. Once again, every single person tonight had free opportunity to call whoever they wanted to.。
You just happened to be the first person to get someone on the other line.。
Out of all the people you called, you called your cousin Emily. She picked the queen of hearts and changed her mind to once again.。
What card? The five of diamonds. The only card in this entire deck flipped over is the five of diamonds.。
If you guys would, would you give her a huge round of applause? Well done, ma'am. You can have a seat.。
Oh, yes. OK. I don't even know how that one works.。
Here's here's what's really strange tonight. Tonight, there's really this was there's no stooges.。
It's there's no sleight of hand. It's just literally this happens in the moment.。
But as I flew in this afternoon, I tell you what, if you still have your phones out, would you go to Instagram?。
Once again, ma'am, what's what's Emily's last name? What was it? Flores? Flores. Emily Flores.。
If you would go to Instagram and if you wouldn't mind, I'd love for you to just type in my name.。
It's just Drew D-R-E-W-W-O-R-S-H-A-M. Drew like worship, but with an A-M.。
If you click on my profile, what I want you to go is go to the bio and then can you pull that out here?。
Would you you got it? Would you, Kylan, can you turn your mic on? Would you read what my bio says?。
I wrote this literally on the flight here. Can you can you read that out loud?。
Here it is. Here it is. For those of you who can't see it. Read it out loud, Kylan.。
Tonight, I have a feeling that a young woman with initials E-F will answer a phone call and think of the playing card, the five of diamonds.。
If you guys would, once again, would you give this young lady a huge round of applause? John as well.。
Thanks, Kylan. Yes.。
Tada. Oh, well, cool.。
Hey, let me let me do one more one more thing, if you don't mind.。
Because everywhere I go, this is the question that I get asked and many of you will ask immediately when we're done.。
Drew, how?。
And I'll be honest with you, the moment that the secret is revealed for a trick like that or any other trick, it's like the balloon pops.。
The magic literally leaves the room.。
But occasionally there's these moments where the way the trick works is so cool that it's actually to me more impressive than the trick itself.。
Like the psychology, the method. And so if it's cool with you, can I show you how to do a trick?。
So are you down with this? I know I'm breaking all the rules.。
OK, this is a real simple. It's real quick. You'll be able to do this from here on out.。
I'm going to show you what it looks like and then we'll go from there.。
Cool. So here's here's here's the trick.。
I've got this domino here and I'll try to move slow, but this is important.。
The domino has a single dot on this side, which is cool.。
But on the backside of this domino, it's got four dots.。
OK, on the other side of the domino, there's three dots and on the other side, there's six dots.。
You got it. I'll try to do a little bit faster. There's one dot on this side. There's four dots on this side.。
There's three dots on this side. There's six dots on this side. Got it.。
Now I'll show you how it works. This is so cool. So random.。
That works. Kind of neat, right?。
This is if you're curious. Yeah. OK. There's some of your piece in this together.。
The way the trick works is this. So if I take my hand and I place it over this dot,。
what happens is your brain fills in the gaps and goes, oh, it's a domino with one single dot.。
Why? Because you've seen a domino that looks like this. You have never seen a domino that looks like this.。
So if I do this, there's one dot. Or if I do this, your brain actually fills in the gaps and puts the third dot there.。
It's fascinating. The same is here. You've got six dots or here it becomes four dots.。
Now, here's what's really, really interesting. Here's the reason I kind of I do this for us tonight is because.。
You're more likely to be fooled by something like that, the more educated that you are.。
Let me explain. Your brain creates shortcuts when it sees things like this.。
So all of a sudden it sees this. It's got to like just conserve energy.。
It's got to kind of just kind of implant that. OK, that's a single dot moving on.。
There's a lot more information that we're receiving. And so it just kind of fills in the gap.。
And so the more educated, the more experienced, the more likely that you are able to be fooled by that.。
Who's not fooled by that is little kids. They're like, I bet there's two dots.。
They're just putting his hand over one. And here's the reason that I even bring this up tonight.。
It's just a moment. We're going to dive into the scripture.。
And I believe that God has something in store for each and every one of us in this space.。
Like on a personal note that Jesus wants to lean in, to pull the chair up close to you,。
go knee to knee and speak to your heart in a language that's special to you.。
And my fear is that we dive into this scripture and what I believe God wants to show us tonight.。
Is that the longer that you've been in the church. Or the longer you've been a Christian.。
The more acclimated you are with how we do all of this.。
Or maybe the more accustomed that you are to the story of Jesus.。
I think it makes it harder for us to actually see what Jesus is going to invite us into tonight.。
And my fear is that it would be right in front of us.。
How the trick works. The presence of God.。
And he would invite us into deeper waters than we've ever experienced.。
And we miss it. Because we've been here before.。
We're inoculated to it.。
It's like we've got just a flu shot.。
Just enough of Jesus where it doesn't affect us anymore.。
So tonight I want to pray for us.。
And then we're going to dive into the text.。
Jesus, I desperately need you in this moment.。
There are no words. There's no preparation.。
There's no magic trick or jokes or illustrations.。
That can actually change a heart.。
But Jesus, your words and your spirit can do just that.。
And so Father, tonight would you open up the ears of our heart or the eyes of our heart to really see you.。
Father, we feel the invitation into deeper waters than maybe we've ever felt before.。
And maybe, just maybe, we would walk out of this room completely changed and different because we met with you.。
Remind us of our identity.。
Remind us tonight just how much you love us.。
Let's hear you pray.。
Amen.。
Well, on August 5th of 2010, a copper mine in San Jose, Chile, caved in,。
leaving 33 Chilean miners trapped 2,300 feet below the earth's surface.。
And search and rescue teams began to drill down to see if anyone had survived and maybe found their way to a rescue shelter.。
In 17 days, two and a half weeks into the search and rescue,。
one of the drill bits that went down, it came out and written in bright red color were these words,。
"We are well in the shelter," signed the 33.。
And immediately countries across the world began to leverage all their resources and technology to try to figure out how to save these 33 men,。
including the USA and our very own NASA.。
And then 69 days after being trapped, all 33 miners made their way to the surface one at a time.。
And over the course of the next few months, these men found themselves on news channels, late night shows,。
like Jimmy Fallon, telling their story of how they survived.。
But slowly, we begin to lose interest and we went back to our lives。
and they tried to do the same.。
And one year after their rescue, Time Magazine went to check on the miners and to see how they were doing.。
And a few were doing, we'd maybe say, okay.。
But most of them had major issues.。
One of them, the day before, like Time Magazine arrived, had just been arrested for domestic violence.。
Almost all of them were wrestling with sleep issues, panic and anxiety disorders, PTSD.。
Some were dealing with drug and alcohol abuse.。
Some started hoarding food and choosing to sleep on the hard floor instead of their mattress.。
One miner that they went to interview, they found him literally building a wall around his house.。
And when they asked him, "Why are you doing this?"。
His response was, "I have no idea."。
Which led Time Magazine to write an article entitled, "Do the Miners Need a Second Rescue?"。
"Do the Miners Need a Second Rescue?"。
Why?。
Because here's the deal.。
They were free.。
But they weren't really free.。
They were free.。
They weren't in the mine shaft anymore.。
But they weren't free.。
And the reason that I even open up with that illustration is because this.。
I believe for so many people, especially in the West, in the Western church, many of us as followers of Jesus know what it's like to live forgiven.。
But very few of us know what it looks like to live free.。
Sure.。
Our hands and our ankles, wrists and ankles don't have chains.。
But our hearts are far, far from free.。
And I believe that there is a spirit of orphan, a spirit of slavery that has invaded our country, our nation, our churches, and even the hearts of our leaders.。
And whether it's a scarcity mindset, people pleasing, approval seeking, applause chasing, performance anxiety, worry, fear, stress, all of it comes from this spirit of slavery or orphan.。
And can I be honest with you, church?。
It's not freedom.。
It's not freedom.。
And listen, I just want to be really honest with you today.。
If wherever you find yourself in the spiritual journey, there's these moments where we pick up maybe God's word and we look at Jesus's words and we look at these really crazy promises that he makes.。
Like John 10 10, where Jesus goes, hey, hey, you know what?。
I came to give you life and to give it to the fullest.。
Or Jesus in Matthew 11, what makes these days ago, hey, are you tired?。
Hey, come to me.。
I'll give you rest.。
I'll show you how to live in the unhurried rhythms of grace.。
And we hear those verses and there's this part of our heart, if we're honest, where it's like maybe, maybe those are cute metaphors.。
Maybe, maybe Jesus, maybe he's talking about after we die.。
But if we're honest, like life and life to the fullest rest for our souls.。
Freedom.。
It is for freedom's sake that you have been set free and where the spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom.。
And we kind of just want to call BS.。
Or maybe it doesn't work for me.。
And tonight I want to invite you into what God has been showing me about what the secret of actually living in freedom looks like.。
If you guys are cool with that.。
And if you have a copy of your scripture, I'd love for you to turn with me to Luke chapter 15.。
Luke chapter 15 and before we dive into what it looks like to start to walk in freedom.。
What I want to do is I want to give you three lies from the scripture.。
And I'll just go ahead and I love this.。
If, if man, if you're into reading God's word, these three lies and the story that we're about to kind of show you in the motif of scripture, you're about to see it everywhere from this moment forward.。
And we're looking tonight at these three lies and we're going to look at it at a story that Jesus told that he tells in a trilogy.。
He tells these three back to back stories.。
And the first story, Jesus tells this story about this lost sheep and how this shepherd leaves 99 sheep and he goes and he grabs the one and he brings it home.。
And then Jesus rolls into the next story where he goes, hey, there's this woman who has these coins and she loses one and then she tears the house apart.。
And then she finally finds this coin and immediately she invites all of her friends over and they throw this like fat daddy party to celebrate the fact that she lost this one coin and she found it.。
And then Jesus shifts and he tells this very popular story that maybe you've heard of about this lost son, the prodigal son story.。
And so I just kind of recap and I want to kind of show you some key pieces of the story.。
But Jesus tells this story about a younger son who looks at his dad and essentially says this, hey, dad, I wish you were dead.。
I want, I want my inheritance.。
I want what's coming to me and I can't wait any longer.。
So would you just give me what's mine?。
And the father gives him his inheritance and the scripture says that he goes into the big city and he immediately begins to live it up.。
Partying, we'll find out later that he's like wasting his money on parties and prostitutes.。
And he gets to a point where he loses everything.。
And he's just like man, scrape and bite where he's got to get a job like feeding pigs.。
And Jesus tells the story that there's a point where he's so hungry that he's like, man, even the foods the pigs are eating look good to me.。
And so he, scripture says he comes to his senses and he's like, what am I doing?。
Like even the servants, even the slaves in my dad's house, they're way better off than me.。
Now, listen, I'll never be a son again.。
I've lost that privilege.。
So what I'll do is I'll just head home and I'll just tell my father that I'm sorry.。
And maybe just maybe he'll give me a job.。
So the scripture says that he's on his way home and he's practicing the speech.。
He's like, man, God, I mean, father, I totally blew it against God and you and I just I don't deserve to be a son.。
Just make me a slave.。
And he's practicing this speech.。
And the scripture says that the father, while he's a long ways off, sees him and begins to run to him, which was so undignified.。
Men did not run in this day and age.。
And he begins to run, wraps his arms around his son, and his son starts to go over that rehearsed apology.。
And the dad doesn't even hear it.。
He just kind of cuts him off and he goes, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.。
My son, who was once dead, is now alive.。
He was lost and now he's found.。
Kill the fattened calf and buy coldplay.。
Let's throw a huge party.。
And then we meet the older brother.。
Who the whole time is just out in the field and gets frustrated and refuses to go to the party because of the special attention that his brother's getting.。
And then the story just ends.。
And tonight, what I want you to see is that this story is about two sons.。
They both carried a spirit of slavery or maybe orphan on them.。
And both look biological by position.。
They're sons, but both acted like orphans.。
Both acted like slaves.。
One through rebellion, one through religion.。
And both almost missed out on the very inheritance that God was trying to give his kids.。
So I want you to see tonight three lies that you and I are prone to hear and to receive that would allow us to walk in a spirit of orphan.。
I want to encourage you tonight.。
I have a feeling there will be one of these that speaks just a little bit louder to you.。
As you hear it, I'd ask you to maybe sit with it for a moment.。
I'd like to go, "Hey, why does that one seem to kind of have my email address?"。
And it just may be that the spirit of God may speak to your heart and start to invite you into more freedom.。
But it's going to start when we first have to realize what lie we're believing.。
So I'm going to kind of give you all three of them, and then you just kind of see which one maybe sits with you.。
Got it?。
So here we go.。
We'll dive into the story.。
Lie number one, if you're taking notes, is this.。
Lie number one is that you'll never have enough.。
If you're a spirit of orphan or spirit of slave, this lie circles around your mind.。
You'll never have enough.。
I'll tell you how it plays out.。
Verse 17, the younger brother looks and says, "When he came to his senses, he said, 'How many of my father's hired servants have food to spare?'"。
And then here I am.。
I'm starving to death.。
I don't have enough.。
I'm acting like an orphan.。
Or the older brother, later on in verse 29, he looks at his father.。
When his father comes out to plead with him, beg him to come celebrate the fact that his brother who was lost is now found, is dead, and now he's alive, come celebrate.。
And the way he says it to his dad is, "Look, this whole time I've been working for you, and you never gave me even a young goat that I could celebrate with my friends.。
You never gave me a goat.。
Father, you've been holding out on me.。
You don't take care of me.。
I've got to take care of myself."。
And it's the spirit of orphan that lands on both sons.。
You'll never have enough is the first lie.。
Now, this is how it may play out for you and I.。
That in the back of your mind, you feel like you'll never have maybe enough money.。
You'll never have enough friends.。
Enough resources.。
Enough time.。
Energy.。
And even, oof, there's this part of you that goes, "God, have you forgotten me?。
How much longer will I be single?。
God, are you going to actually put someone in my path, or am I going to have to do this myself?"。
I know it's a little close to home, but like these are indicators that there's a spirit of orphan slave that begins to creep into our heart.。
It's a scarcity mindset that leads us to worry.。
It leads us to anxiety, to fear.。
And it's not freedom.。
It's a spirit of slavery, of orphan.。
Let me give you a quick example.。
If your family, or you know someone who's maybe adopted a young child,。
or maybe that was a part of your upbringing,。
you can watch that there's this young child that goes from not having, you know, maybe parents,。
or parents that are fit.。
And then legally, there's a moment, they stand before the judge that this child moves from what the state considers an orphan,。
now into being a child of these two parents.。
Like that's now mom, and that's now dad.。
The court sees it, the state sees it, the mom and dad see it.。
And that child now has access to everything that is that family's.。
So they get to sit at a table,。
where full access to everything that's placed, every meal that's placed on that table.。
What's interesting is in almost every case a child is adopted, legally,。
they'll still have full access to everything on the table,。
and they still find themselves hoarding food.。
They'll find themselves with a little drawer in their room where they stash snacks.。
Why?。
Because even though they're legally adopted,。
there's still an orphan spirit that rests on them.。
My daughter Tilly, who's five years old,。
I think we have a picture of her, yeah there she is.。
Tilly is gosh so fun.。
And if you were to ever like, if you come to San Antonio,。
and you want to like visit, and you come to the house,。
and you want to play with Tilly, and whether it's bubbles, or fruit snacks,。
like she's just so hospitable, and she like finds out there's something that you like,。
she's like quick to be like, "Oh my gosh, you want some fruit snacks?。
I can give you more fruit snacks."。
Like whatever you want, just take them.。
And you're like, "It could be her, like maybe like her Easter candy."。
And she's like, "Yeah, you can have some, you can have some."。
And we noticed like a couple of weeks ago,。
is that she'll find herself, like if you come over and you're playing with Barbies,。
and she feels like you're having a really good time,。
then it's almost every time she will give you the Barbie,。
and say, "You can take this one home, it's yours."。
And so, we had kind of a little, had to have a conversation.。
Where we're like, "Hey Tilly, listen, fruit snacks, give them away.。
You just throw them.。
Barbies, they're expensive.。
So we're going to hold on to those, cool?"。
The true story, my daughter looked at me,。
and she said, "But daddy, you can always get me more Barbies."。
But this is where it hit me.。
My daughter knows that she has a dad who loves her deeply.。
A dad who's always going to take care of her.。
And she's not wrong, she can give away all of her Barbies,。
and go, "Dad, I want some new Barbies."。
And we'll go, "Yes, get in the car, we're going right now."。
Because she's got a dad that loves her, and will always take care of her.。
Like never, not one time will I let her go without.。
And so the question is, is that how you and I walk through life?。
Do you realize that when you claim to know and to love Jesus,。
yes, you've been adopted into the family.。
But more than just that title shift,。
you have a father who loves you deeply and dearly.。
And he knows every single one of your needs and your desires,。
and your wants, and he looks at you and he goes,。
"I'm going to take care of you."。
You don't have to kind of hoard,。
you don't have to play with this scarcity mindset.。
You can take your life with an open hand and go,。
"Yeah, I can give it all away."。
Why?。
Because I have a really good father.。
And he will always, always take care of me.。
It may not be in my timing.。
It may not be when I want it.。
I thought I'd be further in that job by now.。
I thought I'd be married by now.。
I thought I'd have kids by now.。
That you have a good father who sees you。
and goes, "I'm not holding out."。
But so many of us, we don't live like that.。
We still live as orphans.。
Maybe that's not your lie.。
Maybe it's not the first one, maybe it's the second one.。
First one is you'll never have enough.。
The second lie that orphans believe。
is that you'll never be enough.。
You'll never be enough.。
Verse 19, younger brother, that's how it plays out.。
He looks and he says, "Hey, I'm..."。
He looks at his father, he goes, "I'm no longer worthy.。
"I'm not worthy to be called your son.。
"Just make me a hired servant."。
Like that's an identity statement.。
The older brother looks at his dad and says,。
"Hey, but when this son of yours came home."。
Once again, he's just like his younger brother,。
just a different factor.。
He's distancing himself from the relationship of the father.。
He's distancing himself from being a son.。
It's a being question, I'll never be enough.。
And the way this plays out for you and I in real time,。
it's fear of abandonment.。
It's people pleasing.。
It's addiction to approval, attention, affirmation.。
It's walking through life with a deep seated shame。
or toxic shame.。
If you struggle with a lack of boundaries,。
it's not sonship.。
It's not freedom.。
It's a spirit of slavery or orphan.。
And the root of this lie, I mean, a lot of them are,。
but this one specifically is a shame.。
And I want you to see this, this is really deep.。
I'm about to give you just my counseling notes,。
my own journey.。
This is free, you didn't pay for it.。
So the root of this lie is shame.。
And when we, shame always pushes us into hiding.。
That goes all the way to page three of the book.。
We hide and when we hide with shame,。
there's only two outcomes.。
We either become a victim or we become a hero.。
It's the only two options when we're walking in shame.。
Okay.。
So this is going to step on some toes,。
but maybe this is where we get invited into freedom.。
Okay.。
If we find ourselves walking as a victim and you can,。
listen, you, you know it, you feel it.。
You've got the friends around you where immediately when people。
go, Hey, how's your day?。
And you just immediately rattle off all the hard things that。
happen.。
Well, I got struck in traffic and now it's 10 minutes late.。
And then this happened and this happened and they didn't have my。
favorite coffee drink.。
And you're like, Ooh.。
And it's not just because you had one hard day.。
It's like, that's your like default dialect.。
Oh, then that orphan spirit is heavy on you.。
That victim that's never going, or just like always complaining.。
That's one side.。
Ooh, here's the side that sadly gets celebrated.。
It's the hero.。
The shame all of a sudden creeps into our story and we have to be。
the hero of the story.。
So guys, we find ourselves constantly dating the damsel in distress.。
Why?。
Because we have deep seated shame issues and we believe that will。
never be enough.。
And so we think that maybe if we save you,。
that will somehow validate our existence.。
Once again, anyway, it's not the topic.。
But I'll just give you a quick example.。
We have to be the hero.。
We have to step in.。
That's why that people pleasing kind of creeps in and all of a。
sudden like it plays itself out in so many ways.。
I'll just give you, I'll listen.。
Let me fly it up to 30,000 feet.。
So it's not so sensitive.。
In 2012, a brilliant film, dark night rises.。
Okay.。
Christopher Nolan's adaptation of Batman, Christian Bale.。
So good.。
So, so good.。
There's this particular scene in the movie where Bruce Wayne goes。
to this masked gala and everyone has like a mask on and except。
Bruce Wayne.。
And he finds himself dancing with Anne Hathaway,。
Catwoman.。
And she poses this question.。
This is the scene here.。
She poses this question.。
She says, you're the only one without a mask.。
Who are you supposed to be?。
And his response is I'm Bruce Wayne, a centric billionaire.。
Now this scene gets lost on many of us,。
but it was incredibly important to the director,。
Christopher Nolan.。
And here's why he was trying to communicate in a small moment that。
because of Bruce's childhood trauma and deep seated shame,。
that Bruce actually considers Batman his true identity and that Bruce。
Wayne is just the mask that he wears to the public.。
Oh, it's so good.。
Let me take it a little step further.。
Christopher Nolan says that meaning for Bruce Wayne,。
the true self, the true being,。
the only person that was actually worthy of the love that he never got。
from his parents because they were murdered.。
He's an orphan, so he's an orphan spirit.。
Okay.。
Is the person hiding behind a mask all alone,。
trying to prove that he's more than human.。
And it's performative and it's not love.。
And the root of this lie is shame and it creates a distance between us。
and the father.。
And it doesn't lead us to freedom.。
The lie that we'll never be enough.。
So maybe it's you never have enough.。
Maybe it's never be enough.。
Or maybe it's the third lie that you'll never do enough.。
You'll never do enough.。
This is a younger brother who looks at his father and he goes,。
I'm no longer worthy to be called your son.。
So just make me a hired servant.。
Here's the younger brother's rationale.。
Hey, listen, I have totally blown it.。
Like there's no way possible that I could ever earn my way back into the family.。
But just maybe, maybe I could get a job.。
And maybe I could do enough.。
Then maybe you would love me again.。
So if I could do more, maybe then you would approve of me, God.。
The younger brother at the end of the story looks at his father and this is what he says.。
He says, look, this whole time,。
this whole time I've been slaving for you.。
Not one time did I disobey an order.。
Like how interesting is it, his language here?。
Like he's not even like, like trying to hide the fact that he's got this like spirit of slave and orphan that's on him.。
The whole time I've been working so hard for you.。
I've been slaving back here.。
Not one time did I get it wrong.。
And you've been holding on to me.。
It's like no matter what I do, it's never enough to you, is it God?。
Like what do I got to do?。
And both of these sons believe the lie that they'll never do enough.。
And for us, this plays out in validation junkies, addicted to comparison.。
It's performance anxiety.。
It's the imposter syndrome.。
It's this trap that we get in and constantly trying to prove our worth by what we do.。
We quickly find ourselves introducing ourselves and immediately telling people what we do for a living.。
As though somehow maybe that would validate our existence.。
Oof, can I bring it close?。
Some of us believe this lie so much that we'll spend way more money than we actually have。
to buy clothes that we do not need or really fancy cars that are way beyond what are actually practical.。
Why?。
Because when we get inside of the car, we put that jacket on, there's a moment where we feel validated。
and the spirit of orphan and slave just doesn't speak as loud as it normally does.。
So we medicate for a second.。
This is deep.。
But once again, it's like the magic trick.。
The longer you've been walking in this, the harder it is for many of us to see it.。
I'll maybe give you one more quick example.。
If your day or your mood is affected, okay, you feel the shift by criticism.。
The amount of likes that you got on that social media post.。
Someone not recognizing or validating your hard work.。
Or, none of you in this room would struggle with this, but people back in San Antonio sometimes do.。
Or, if you feel like your standings with God are dependent on your Bible reading consistency,。
your attendance at church or the porch, or your management of sins.。
If you feel like God's view of you is somehow shifted or gets better based upon how well you play the Christian game,。
how moral you are, how well you read the scripture, how often you show up,。
how you are able to somehow manage your morality.。
It is the spirit of slave.。
And you're believing the lie that you'll never do enough.。
Oh, gosh.。
Because the truth is, hopefully you know this, Christianity is not about what you and I can do.。
It's about what Jesus has already done.。
Like so many of us, we have this mindset that Christianity is like this giant list of do's and don'ts.。
And that's why we feel like maybe we're doing well.。
I'm following the list. I'm doing things well.。
I'm staying away from the don'ts and I'm doing the do's.。
And God, I guess, is going to be somehow pleased with me. He's happy, right?。
And we find ourselves jumping through all of these religious hoops.。
And can I just free some of you tonight?。
That that's not what the journey towards Jesus is about.。
It's about the moment that we actually come face to face with Jesus.。
When we actually bask underneath the waterfall of his grace and his mercy and his love.。
And yeah, yeah, well, look at those things.。
Yeah, I don't want to do those things. I don't want to be a part of those things.。
But those things don't matter. Why?。
Because I'm your son.。
And I'll walk away from whatever it takes to get more of you, Jesus.。
Not in order to earn your favor, but because I'm already loved and cherished by you.。
You and I, listen, weren't just set free from a spirit of slavery or orphan.。
We were set free to something.。
We were set free into a spirit of sonship.。
This is huge. Don't miss it, please.。
From this moment forward, my prayer tonight has been that you can't not see this everywhere.。
But I'll give you a few.。
Romans 8.。
Scripture says this in verse 15, "For you did not receive a spirit of slavery to fall back into fear."。
It's one of the lies.。
"Instead, you receive the spirit of adoption by whom we cry out, 'Abba, Father.'"。
"The Spirit himself testifies together with our spirit that we are God's children."。
I love it. You go back.。
I don't have time for this, but just look at the Father's response.。
Actually, we do have time. I'll just share this really quick.。
I love that this Father's response in those last few verses of the chapter is he speaks against the lies.。
So this whole idea, like, I'll never do enough.。
He looks, he says this, he's like, "Wait, what do you mean?。
Like, what do you mean?。
Like, I'll never have enough. I'll never be enough."。
The Father looks at him and says, "My son."。
Immediately speaks into his identity, the being.。
Then he looks at you, "You'll never have enough? Like, what do you mean?。
I'll never do enough? You were always with me."。
"But I'll never have enough. What are you talking about?。
Everything I have is yours."。
Or, listen, Paul picks up again in Galatians 4.。
So good.。
"But when the time was just right,。
God sent his Son, born of a woman, born under the law,。
to redeem those under the law that we might receive adoption to sonship.。
And because you are his sons, God sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts,。
the Spirit who calls out, 'Abba, Father.'"。
Verse 7, "You are no longer a slave.。
You are God's child.。
And since you are his child, God has made you also an heir."。
The story of Scripture is that you and I, listen, on page 3 of the book,。
watch this. You ready for me?。
Blow your mind.。
Page 3 of the book, the enemy shows up and he really, he poses three lies.。
And he guesses what those three lies are.。
He looks at Eve and he says, "Hey, you're never going to have enough.。
God's holding out on you."。
He said, "Oh, eat of all the fruit," but there's one that he didn't.。
He's holding out on you.。
"Oh, you feel like your being's broken, right?。
But if you had this knowledge, oh, then, then you'd be fixed.。
And not only that, then you'd be able to do what God can do."。
And they believe that lie and the spirit of orphan came crashing into our planet,。
broke everything that we know.。
And the whole Old Testament, although it's filled with a bunch of wild stories,。
watch this, please don't miss this, okay?。
It's really just one giant promise.。
And the promise is this, that God sees you and I and all of our brokenness。
in our orphan spirit, and one day, he's sending a hero to fix every bit of it.。
So when he turned the pages from Malachi to Matthew,。
the Old Testament and the New Testament, the hero shows up.。
But it's not what any one of us expected, because the hero is actually God himself.。
Jesus steps out of heaven, wraps himself in human flesh,。
teaching you and I, as we walked on earth for 33 perfect years,。
what it means to be fully human and to be fully alive.。
You know what's really interesting?。
What's the title that the God man, the God who put on flesh, chose to wear?。
What's his part in the Trinity?。
What's it called?。
Son.。
Have you ever stepped back and be like, "Why son?。
It's not biology.。
Jesus isn't Hercules.。
He's not a demigod.。
He was the God who put on flesh and moved into our trailer park.。
Why bear the title of son?。
To show us what our inheritance looks like.。
To show us what our new identity looks like as sons.。
And what's crazy is there's so much.。
I'll just give you a couple more.。
Jesus, I think this is important for you.。
Jesus, he gets baptized right before he starts his earthly ministry.。
Scripture says that he goes into the water, he comes out,。
and all of a sudden the sky opens up, the father's voice speaks,。
as there's a dove that descends and kind of the symbol of the spirit.。
And the father's voice says something really interesting.。
He says this.。
That one?。
That, that's my boy.。
And I am madly in love with him.。
And I'm super proud of him.。
What?。
What are you proud of?。
Jesus hasn't done any of the things that we celebrate.。
He hasn't walked on water, hasn't healed anybody, hasn't turned water to wine,。
hasn't cast out demons, hasn't healed the sick, or called the dead out of the grave.。
He hasn't gone to the cross.。
What's the father proud of?。
He's proud of him no matter what he does, because he's his.。
These are the words that are spoken over you and I as we get adopted into the family.。
They combat all three of those lies.。
Oh, you think you'll never like have enough?。
You think you'll never be enough?。
You think you'll never do enough?。
Well, guess what?。
You're mine.。
And I deeply love you.。
You're mine.。
I'm a good dad.。
And you don't have to do another thing.。
I'm already wildly proud of you.。
Jesus from that moment gets led into the desert where he faces those three lies yet again.。
Hey, Jesus, you'll never have enough.。
Stones right here, all you got to do is turn them into bread.。
Jesus, you're never going to be enough.。
So why don't you throw yourself off of this temple called the angels?。
They'll grab you and then guess what?。
You'll get to be the savior that everyone wants you to be,。
instead of the misunderstood Messiah that you've been called to be.。
Jesus, you're never going to do enough.。
So why don't you just bow right now and I'll just give you the kingdom.。
You really think the cross will be enough?。
It won't.。
So just bow, I'll give it to you.。
And Jesus is able to combat all three lies in the spirit of orphan because he's the son.。
And he's able to walk in this deep levels of freedom.。
So tonight, let me just kind of maybe share one more thing.。
The million dollar question is how?。
Cool, true, you expose the lies.。
Now what the heck do we do?。
How do we actually start to walk in the spirit of sonship?。
I want to tell you this real quick.。
This is important.。
The spirit of slave or orphan, whatever this is, cannot,。
it's the only spirit that I'm learning.。
And I didn't grow up in a charismatic home,。
but it's the only spirit that cannot be revoked or abused.。
It's a spirit that has to be replaced.。
And it can only be replaced by the spirit of sonship.。
I want you to hear me.。
So how do we get that?。
The only way that we start to walk with the spirit of sonship is by proximity to the father.。
That's it.。
I'd love to be able to give you an app, a pill, Whole30 diet plan.。
I don't know, like 75 hard.。
Like I wish there was some type of thing that I could give you that would somehow fix.。
But here's what I'm learning.。
Is that the only thing that works is actually proximity to the father is what makes us actually become sons.。
That's it.。
And sadly, in the Western church, the reason this spirit is so rampant,。
that's because very few of us know how to just be with the father.。
Can I give you a quick example?。
Many of you, when I said that,。
immediately created a to-do list of what you're going to do tomorrow a little bit different.。
And immediately believing line number three,。
maybe I could do more.。
So maybe the question for you is what would it actually look like to just learn to sit,。
to be, to turn your phone off, to close your mouth.。
It is so difficult in our day and age.。
And it's why the spirit I believe is so thick in our churches.。
I started with this cheesy little domino trick.。
What's interesting about the domino is like I told you that it's just psychology.。
It's just a trick.。
But what's really cool is at first, once again, this is for a lot of us, this is Christianity.。
Oh, that's kind of neat. That's cool how that works.。
And it just kind of wears off from like, yeah, we're all used to two dot a domino. No big deal.。
But as we get closer,。
my prayer for you is that you would start to realize。
that the presence of Jesus is more real than the chair you are seated in tonight.。
And many of you start to experience and sit in his presence.。
You're going to start to see things that you never saw before.。
Many of you walk out here and you're like, wait, question was it two? Was it three? Was it four? Was it five?。
I don't know how many dots, but some of you will swear up and down that you really did see six dots.。
Like you're like, no, no, no. I don't know what you saw.。
Maybe it was all in your head, but I really did see six dots.。
And then some of you are going to walk out and be like, well, what about the other side?。
Would you see two? Do you see three? I felt like he started off with that.。
And you'd be like, no, no, I promise I saw three dots.。
It was the weirdest thing. I don't know if that's you.。
And here's what's really wild.。
As some of you tonight, as you get step in and a little bit closer to Jesus,。
as you begin to walk in the freedom that he offers,。
and my prayer and my hope is that you'll go, there's so much more than I ever thought possible.。
Because Jesus just keeps, keeps getting better and deeper.。
And so tonight, here's how I want to end. Here's how I want to end our time.。
If you're cool with it, my invitation application for you is this week.。
What does it look like for you to actually learn to just sit with the father and to receive your identity as a son,。
so you can learn to walk in real freedom.。
So tonight, listen, if you're okay with it, here's how I would like to end my time.。
I want to speak a blessing over you, a father's blessing.。
So if you would, I invite you to stand wherever you are.。
You can take whatever posture tonight that's comfortable for you.。
You can stand, you close your eyes, you can open your hand, whatever, whatever is, is fitting for you.。
And tonight, just give me 60 more seconds. Don't miss this.。
Many of you like myself, never received a blessing from your father.。
Maybe most of your life, it's been just a lot of course, like curses.。
And it's why you walk in this orphan spirit.。
And so tonight, not from me, but on behalf of our heavenly father, I just want to speak a blessing over you.。
And my prayer is that wherever you find yourself in a spiritual journey, that you would receive it.。
So tonight, to the college student, to the young professional, to the single, to the solo parent, to the religious, to the skeptic.。
You are my child. You're mine.。
Like, and I love you and I'm proud of you and I'm pleased with you.。
And tonight I release you from all performance and trying to like somehow earn my love or try to earn a sense of belonging with me.。
Or to maybe earn my pride over you.。
Even if you were to never do any of those things ever again, those three truths will always be true.。
I love you. You're mine. And I'm proud of you.。
I see you and I know you.。
I desire to be with you. I want you to abide with me.。
I love time with you. I care about what you're feeling.。
I care about what you're thinking. I value your dreams and your wants and your desires.。
I want, I want to talk to you about them.。
I see your heart to really know and to really love me.。
I see your heart and aptitude to really love your friends and family, to engage them and to make them feel valuable.。
And seeing, I see many of you fighting to let me be the father that you never had or the friend that you never had.。
And I want to teach you and I want to be with you in all of these areas.。
I am the dad that you long for.。
I love you, son.。
I love you, daughter.。
[Music]。
