- Testing, one, two, three, can you hear me?。
Well, hey everyone, and welcome to The Porch.。
We're going to be diving into the question。
that's been on everyone's mind.。
Why in the world are women so hard to understand?。
- I think what you meant to say was,。
why in the world are men so confusing?。
- Okay, so it seems like both genders。
may have some difficulty understanding each other.。
- Which is why each week,。
we're spotlighting a different side of the room。
to dig into issues we face within our own gender。
while growing an understanding for the opposite sex.。
- One night, we're putting the guys under the microscope.。
- The next night is for the girls.。
But don't worry, everybody's invited every night.。
- Because here's the thing we've figured out.。
- We're not actually sure on opinions about men and women.。
- He's saying this.。
- She's saying that.。
- But what does God have to say about all of it?。
- Welcome to the debate that culture can't settle.。
- Welcome to what's actually true.。
- About him.。
- And about her.。
- Welcome to your favorite Tuesday night series.。
- She said.。
- She said.。
- All right, well Porch, how we doing?。
We doing good?。
Oof.。
We doing good?。
All right, amazing.。
Hey, it's great to be back with you.。
He said, she said, this is it, man.。
Like we are bringing this thing to a final close.。
I am so eager to get into this because yes,。
while one end of the spectrum has a perspective。
on the opposite end of the spectrum。
when it comes to guys and girls,。
tonight, everyone is up for interrogation。
because we are talking about both sexes at the same time.。
I'm eager to get into it.。
I have loved preparing for this。
and I think it's actually gonna be helpful to you,。
which I think is gonna be great.。
Hey, just wanna say shout out。
to all of our Porch Live locations,。
to Porch Live Midland and Dayton and Fort Worth.。
We love you guys, grateful, love it.。
We're grateful for the fact that God is doing there。
what he's doing here,。
which is an amazing move of his every single week.。
Well, hey, every year, like some of you, I'm sure,。
my college roommates and I,。
we get together for a reunion trip.。
This happens every single year。
and it is the highlight, one of the highlights of my year。
because I love these guys.。
These are guys that stood next to me in my wedding.。
They're the ones that we keep the group chat active。
and moving.。
They are the ones that I can't wait to see。
whenever we can get all of us into a room together.。
And so we try and make a specific effort every single year。
for a single weekend where we can gather together.。
In early days, whenever we would have this trip,。
there was really a pretty,。
it was a pretty easygoing experience.。
Like we had no agenda at all.。
We would watch hours of college football.。
We would say the same five jokes on repeat。
from the last 15 years.。
We'd maybe hit a round of golf or two,。
definitely get a gym sesh in when we were all together.。
And the grocery list always consisted of like 90% protein。
and 10% regret.。
You know, like that was just the experience for the boys。
whenever we would get together.。
And yet in 2019, everything about the guys trip changed。
because in 2019, we invited the wives,。
which altered everything about our experience.。
You see, we moved from having a casual,。
easygoing sort of experience。
to actually having an itinerary,。
making dinner reservations,。
like color coordinating our outfits,。
showing up for unscheduled beach photo shoots,。
and most controversial of all,。
finding reasons to be conscious before 9 a.m.。
It made no sense to us whatsoever。
why these women were coming along.。
And yet if you were to ask any of my friends since that time。
if they would change it,。
they would all say maybe sometimes, yeah.。
But by and large, they would agree, no.。
No, the experience of having the girls with us。
makes the trip so much better.。
And the reason why is because they have championed。
the friendships that we've had for the last 15 years.。
You see, when these ladies come, we laugh more.。
Like I remember we were on one trip。
and one of the girls,。
she had bought a dissolving swimsuit for her guy.。
I didn't even know that there was。
a product category for that.。
Some of you ladies, it is the ultimate prank。
and it has lived in our minds ever since.。
It was hysterical.。
We laugh more when they're in the room.。
We end up sharing more.。
Like we don't just go into the finer details。
of the depth chart for the Texas A&M offensive line,。
even though that is a very low-bearing discussion。
and it deserves to be talked about.。
We end up sharing things that have happened in our lives,。
in our families over the course of our year。
that prompt deeper and tighter bonds alongside one another.。
We don't just share more, we end up bonding more.。
Like we find that because these women have joined our lives。
and not just the friendships as they were,。
but the friendships as they are,。
those friendships only ever get better.。
In our world, we live in a society。
that treats guy-girl relationships。
under the concept of one of two approaches.。
Either you're trying to figure out if you should be dating。
or you're trying to figure out how not to date.。
And yet what we know is that that is not God's design.。
In my experience, we know there's a better way.。
There's a way in which men and women can come together。
and they can actually be better together,。
which is what we wanna talk with you about tonight.。
We believe that men and women are better together。
regardless of their romantic potential。
because we need each other,。
even if that does complicate life a little bit,。
which as I say that is alarming to the rest of society。
because according to culture,。
men and women are interchangeable.。
Like anything you can do, I can do better, right?。
Only that's wrong.。
You see, being equal does not mean。
that you have to be identical.。
And yet as culture has perpetuated that idea,。
what it has done is it has created mass confusion。
for both sexes.。
For men, it has caused them to feel confusion。
around a traditional form of masculinity。
because at best it's problematic and at worst it's toxic.。
For ladies, you're losing。
what has made you distinctively feminine in the first place。
because you have to adopt greater masculine qualities。
in order to succeed and build a career。
and garner reputation in the eyes of the world.。
But what we know is that God clarifies,。
yes, you are equal, but you need not be identical.。
In fact, you are different.。
You're distinct from each other.。
There are differences between us, which we know is true.。
Like there's a reason why ladies。
predominantly don't wear Rolexes。
and drive exotic sports cars.。
And there's a reason why men are normally,。
nor should they be spending hours。
working on their makeup in front of the mirror.。
There are differences between us.。
Over the course of the series,。
we have talked about all of these differences.。
And so I'll spare you all of them here tonight.。
What I wanna do instead is I wanna talk to you。
about how those differences end up partnering together。
for the glory of God and the good of other people.。
That's what I want you to see.。
I want you to see how God has looked upon men and women。
and to men said, hey, your masculinity。
does not need to be suppressed.。
It needs to be sanctified.。
And to you ladies, your femininity does not need to be erased.。
It needs to be embraced.。
And as we do these things together,。
we're able to produce greater good in the world.。
We need each other, not just as we are,。
but as God always intended.。
And so in order to talk about this,。
what it looks like to be God's man and be God's woman。
in partnership together,。
we're gonna look at the book of Esther.。
So if you have a Bible, turn there with me.。
Book of Esther, it's in the Old Testament.。
It goes Ezra, Nehemiah, and then Esther.。
If you get to Job, you've gone too far.。
We're gonna look at the entire book, all 10 chapters,。
which is going to be an incredible challenge for yours,。
truly, and yet the reason we're doing it。
is because what we find in the book of Esther。
is we find two people, a guy by the name of Mordecai。
and a woman by the name of Esther,。
who they're morally flawed。
at the very beginning of the story for sure.。
And yet they embrace God's design.。
They mature in their masculinity and femininity.。
And as they do, they produce the kind of good。
that I believe God wants to do in you.。
Now, here's what you need to know about the book of Esther.。
It is one of the more dramatic books in the entire Bible.。
And the reason why is it reads sort of like。
an angsty teenage summer drama.。
I don't know if you've ever watched one of those,。
but it's loaded with like drinking and partying。
and sex and murder.。
It's just this crazy conglomeration。
of all of these massive story movements.。
And yet as you go, there are constant curves and turns。
at every single space.。
The story takes place approximately 100 years。
after the Babylonian exile in the capital city of Persia.。
That city was known as Susa.。
And it's there that we're introduced。
to really four characters.。
There's a few others that get sprinkled in,。
but really four predominant characters.。
I've told you two already.。
There's a beautiful young woman by the name of Esther.。
She has a cousin who's the wise old sage named Mordecai.。
You've got like the bumbling, drunken, buffoon king,。
whose name is King Xerxes.。
And then you have the villainous saboteur,。
whose name is Haman.。
And so as we read,。
we see these four characters interact with each other.。
Now we don't have time to read。
all 167 verses of this thing.。
But my hope is that we can zoom into several of the scenes。
and in so doing, we can learn how,。
as Esther and Mordecai embrace how God has made them,。
the world can actually be better。
when the stakes couldn't be higher.。
So let me do this.。
We're gonna dive in in chapter two.。
I'm just gonna give you a flyover of chapter one.。
Because the story starts with King Xerxes。
throwing a six month long party.。
This massive soiree, everyone's invited,。
and he is living up to his reputation。
as the drunken pushover king.。
And what we find is by the very end of that six month party,。
he throws the after party.。
And at the after party, they pull out all the stops.。
Like there's fancy linens and gold and silver couches。
and a dance floor made of precious stones。
and golden vessels of different kinds.。
And there's just one rule from the king。
over the course of the entire experience.。
Drink as much as you want.。
Like this guy is trying to sauce everybody up。
and let people live to the fullest extent。
because that's what he wants for his life.。
And on the seventh day of the after party,。
he looks at his wife, Queen Vashti, and he tells her,。
hey, I want you to come out, put on your crown。
and parade yourself before my friends。
so that they might gaze upon your beauty.。
It's subtle in the text, but commentators believe。
that when he commands her to put on her crown,。
the implication is that she's wearing nothing else.。
And that she's supposed to walk in front of his friends。
and she's supposed to parade herself。
that they might gaze upon her appearance.。
And so she does what any sensible woman。
would do in this moment,。
which some of you might need to do with some of your men。
if they're making ridiculous requests of you.。
She refuses him.。
She tells him no.。
And so King Xerxes, 'cause his feelings hurt,。
the relationship ends and he does。
what you would expect someone like this。
narcissistic king to do.。
He throws, I can't think of a better comparison。
than the ancient near equivalent of the bachelor.。
Like one man gathers together the most beautiful women。
from all Persia to see who could vie for his hand。
according to his selection.。
That's what happens in chapter one.。
And so then we get to chapter two and we read this,。
starting in verse two.。
Then the king's young men who attended him said,。
let beautiful young virgins be sought out for the king。
and let the king appoint officers。
in all the providences of his kingdom。
to gather all the beautiful young virgins。
to the harem in the citadel.。
Jump down to verse five.。
Now there was in the citadel of Susa,。
a Jew of the tribe of Benjamin named Mordecai,。
the son of Jair, the son of Shammai, the son of Kish,。
who had been carried into the exile from Jerusalem。
by Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon.。
Babylon brought the Jews into exile.。
Persia conquered Babylon.。
And so now they are living in Persia.。
And among those taken captive。
was Jehoiachin, king of Judah.。
Mordecai had a cousin named Hadassah,。
whom he had brought up。
because she had neither father nor mother.。
This young woman, who was also known as Esther,。
had a lovely figure and she was beautiful.。
Mordecai had taken her as his own daughter。
because she was an orphan。
when her father and her mother had died.。
So to be clear, the reason this is a really good story。
for us to look at is Esther and Mordecai。
do not have a romantic relationship at all,。
meaning God's design for their manhood and their womanhood。
do not depend on them being husband and wife.。
Instead, we can look at who they are。
by way of God's design in their essence and how they relate.。
It serves us well because that's how many of you。
are relating to each other right now.。
You're not married and so it's good for you to know。
how am I supposed to relate。
to my brothers and sisters in Christ?。
But they're not only useful for that purpose,。
we also know that they are morally flawed.。
Like they are not who God wants them to be。
at the beginning of the story。
and yet they journey through the story。
and they become more of who he always intended,。
similar to you, similar to me.。
It is an upward progression into becoming more like Christ.。
And as we read it,。
we're gonna see how they relate to each other.。
There's four things specifically you're gonna find.。
The first is this,。
that men and women should relate to each other。
with an acknowledgement that we have different roles。
but the same value, different roles but the same value.。
Different roles meaning that Mordecai can't do。
what Esther can and Esther can't do what Mordecai can.。
And the beautiful thing about it。
is they don't resent each other for it,。
they actually appreciate that about each other.。
So much so that Esther is taken to the King Xerxes harem.。
We read this as Mordecai's reaction in chapter two,。
verse 11.。
It says that every day,。
Mordecai walked in front of the court of the harem。
to learn how Esther was and what was happening to her.。
Why?。
Why is he doing that?。
Is it because he's keeping tabs on everything that she does,。
because he's micromanaging her,。
because he doesn't want her to get out of line。
and do what she isn't supposed to do?。
No, it's because Mordecai cares about her.。
That's his response and that's our response.。
Godly men respond to women in a similar way。
that we have a protective care.。
That's what we mean when we say。
that he has a different role.。
The role of man in this type of situation。
is to be protective in your care.。
He has a legitimate responsibility。
for how she's treated.。
So much so that he checks on her every single day.。
Fellas, what do you check on every single day?。
Your fantasy league hasn't even kicked off yet.。
Some of you were like, I'm on my ESPN app all the time.。
Sleeper, I got to figure out my draft.。
You're already tuning in like clockwork every single day.。
Maybe it's not that, maybe it's your golf clubs.。
Because you know, you take one day away。
and the whole swing is gone.。
Maybe it's not that, maybe it's your gym routine。
because it's not about the intensity of the lift,。
it's the consistency of the lift, bro.。
Whatever it is, I don't know,。
maybe it's your investment portfolio.。
You're tracking that thing,。
watching the graph go up and down。
and you're freaking out whenever it's low。
and you're praising whenever it's high.。
I don't know what the experience is for you,。
but what I do know is that you show me。
how a man spends his time。
and I will show you what that man cares about.。
This is true.。
You can see in Mordecai, he cares about Esther。
because every day he's giving time to checking in on her.。
You see, here's the thing that you gotta know, fellas.。
Boys don't do what they don't wanna do.。
But men, men do what they need to do.。
You need look no further than my two-year-old。
to realize this is the case.。
My son, he despises three things.。
Taking baths, brushing his teeth, and wearing clothes.。
(congregation laughing)。
Which part of me is proud of.。
You know, like you get it, man, that's great.。
And yet, if he had his way,。
he would spend his entire childhood。
with a mouthful of cavities and completely naked,。
which isn't okay.。
Society's not about that.。
I've gotta intervene.。
Why?。
Because I know what he needs.。
He does not wanna do what he does not wanna do,。
but I know what he needs to do.。
And it is my responsibility to teach him that.。
Because if he cannot take responsibility for himself,。
then he will not be able to take responsibility。
for someone else.。
See how that works?。
Gentlemen, if you cannot take responsibility for yourself,。
you will not be able to take responsibility。
for anyone else.。
And I'm not just talking about your wife.。
I'm talking about people in general.。
You will not be able to exercise a protective care。
towards others if you cannot first。
think about what is responsible,。
what God is calling you to be responsible for in your life.。
Godly men, they do not, first and foremost,。
they don't take for themselves, they give of themselves.。
Philippians 2.4 says,。
"Let each of you look not only to his own interests,。
"but also to the interests of others."。
So, fellas, can we just level set。
with one another for a moment?。
Don't worry, ladies are coming up next.。
If we're going to be godly men,。
we must stop judging women so heavily upon their appearance。
because what is perpetuating in the lives of young ladies。
is an unrealistic physical standard。
that they, nor anyone, can actually live up to.。
We must stop consuming sexualized social media only fans。
and other forms of pornography。
because it doesn't dignify women, it objectifies them.。
And listen to me, I said this the very first week,。
and it only makes sense to bookend it here at the end,。
if you're serious about marriage,。
it's time to act like you're serious about marriage.。
I'm not saying that that means。
you just need to grab the first girl you can。
and get to the altar, that would be a terrible idea.。
Do not hear me say that, but what I am saying。
is that you can't desire to be married。
and live like a single.。
Like, you must make a decision。
that that's the direction you wanna move,。
and you must make haste in that way.。
Here's why I debated on whether or not to say this,。
because the longer you perpetuate your adolescence,。
the more years you give to your singleness,。
the more women suffer.。
And the reason for it is this,。
you can make your way into your 30s and into your 40s,。
and it is socially acceptable for you。
to look down the chain towards years that are younger。
and pick a wife that is a decade or two below you,。
but the same sort of social allowance。
is not available for women.。
That is not traditionally acceptable。
in the eyes of our society.。
You are asking her to do something。
that is completely uncomfortable.。
And so here's the thing, find a woman now.。
Don't wait until later, because what you're doing。
is you are actually subjecting incredibly godly women。
to a sort of singleness that they do not want for themselves。
and yet they cannot be married if you do not make the move.。
Check, good, let's keep moving.。
Because the ladies are up next.。
This isn't a one-way street.。
If godly men are called to care for women,。
that godly women must respond to that care as it is offered.。
That's what happens for Esther.。
Esther says this in verse 19 and 20.。
She says, "Now when the virgins were gathered together。
"the second time, Mordecai was sitting at the king's gate.。
"Esther had not made known her kindred or her people。
"as Mordecai had commanded her,。
"for Esther obeyed Mordecai。
"just as when she was brought up by him."。
Does this mean that, ladies, you should take orders。
from every man in your life?。
I love it.。
They've been listening through the last few weeks.。
No, that's not what this means, you should not do that.。
Esther is the queen in this moment.。
Like she has already been picked, hand-chosen,。
by King Xerxes himself and she does not have。
to take orders from anybody.。
And yet she chooses to listen to Mordecai, why?。
Because she trusts him.。
She has a receptive trust to godliness.。
Men have a protective care, women have a receptive trust.。
That's what we see as true for her。
and should be true for you as well.。
I remember I was doing college ministry。
whenever I worked with a guy who,。
every girl in the ministry, like all of the volunteers。
and all of the girls on staff, they looked at me。
and they were like, "Yeah, like he's kind of got this idea.。
"He's my big brother.。
"Like he had this incredible reputation.。
"Like he had this sterling sort of character。
"that every girl trusts."。
And I would ask them, I'd be like,。
"Hey, what are you thinking about doing?"。
And they're like, "Well, Brent said I should do this."。
And I was like, "Well, I think Brent's right.。
"That actually seems like exactly what you should do."。
And the reason they trusted him so much。
was because he had a godly reputation。
and he gave really godly counsel.。
Ladies, in your life, you extend trust to those。
that meet those two standards, that have a godly reputation。
and that extend godly counsel.。
And the reason why, the reason why you should listen。
to someone like that, both a girl, but also a man,。
is because a person like that is not someone。
that you're choosing to follow them.。
You're choosing to follow the Jesus that they are following.。
That's what Paul gets at.。
He's like, "Hey, follow me as I follow Christ.。
"What's the implication there?。
"You're not really following me.。
"We're all following the same God.。
"We're following Jesus.。
"And so you are not choosing to follow him。
"as much as you're recognizing。
"that he has chosen to follow Christ."。
That's what you're doing in that moment.。
Esther trusts Mordecai.。
We should do so similar.。
Here's the thing.。
When you don't do this, when you get offended。
because it was a man's idea and it wasn't a woman's idea,。
or you read into his words。
and you negatively interpret everything that he said,。
even things that he didn't say,。
but now he's wondering if he did actually say,。
or you assume the worst rather than assuming the best,。
it perpetuates this false idea that all men。
are not to be trusted.。
Let me be very clear.。
Some men are not to be trusted.。
But some men are.。
And it's because they know God and they know his word。
and they conform their life to that of Christ's.。
And what you're trusting is not them, but Christ in them.。
That make sense?。
It's important.。
We should have this sort of approach to each other.。
Paul says, follow me as I follow Christ.。
Ladies, he was a godly man and a similar dignity。
can be offered to your brothers。
if they are demonstrating an equal kind of godliness.。
Godly men care about godly women.。
Godly women trust godly men.。
We have different roles and we have the same value.。
And we recognize that value。
because Christ recognized that value.。
Christ, he moved into our story doing whatever it took。
in order to dignify our value。
in a way that both of us have.。
He demonstrated care in a paternal way。
and he demonstrated trust in a maternal way.。
He trusted the father and he cared for his people。
and we should do so similarly.。
But it's not just that.。
As we keep reading in the story of Esther and Mordecai,。
we learn that we have different strengths,。
but we have the same courage.。
We have different strengths, but we have the same courage.。
As you turn the page into chapter three,。
we're introduced to the villain of the story.。
We're introduced to Haman.。
The text tells us that he is an Agagite,。
which just means that he is descendant。
of a guy named Agon who is of the Amalekites.。
If you've read the Old Testament,。
if you're familiar with Christian history,。
then what you know is the Amalekites。
were this vicious, bloodthirsty sort of people.。
They were opponents to the people of God.。
And so what we know is that Haman,。
who is actually by this point,。
he's second in command to King Xerxes.。
He's CFO of all Persia.。
We know that this is a very entitled,。
a similarly narcissistic,。
and a win-at-all-costs type of person.。
And then we read that Mordecai responds to him like this.。
It says this in chapter three, verse one.。
After these things, King Ahasuerus, which is King Xerxes,。
he promoted Haman the Agagite, the son of Hamadatha,。
and advanced him and set his throne。
of all the officials who were with him.。
And all the king's servants who were at the king's gate,。
they bowed down and they paid homage to Haman,。
but the king had so commanded concerning him.。
But Mordecai did not bow down or pay homage.。
Why?。
Why doesn't Mordecai bow to Haman?。
The reason why is because in Persian culture,。
kings were esteemed as having a divine sort of essence.。
And so you would bow not to respect them as king,。
but to worship them as king.。
And anyone that they commissioned to be bowed down to。
as well was being offered the same sort。
of divine acknowledgement.。
And so Haman is saying, I'm not bowing to you。
because I can't give to man what is only due to God.。
I do not worship man, I worship the living God.。
Which tells us something really important。
about masculine courage.。
It tells us that courage comes from conviction, gentlemen.。
Your courage, it comes from conviction.。
To be clear, ladies, you have courage。
that comes from conviction also.。
But in this moment, and particularly within the male subset,。
there's maybe a natural orientation。
in the direction of conviction that evokes courage.。
So as an example, in AD 155, brief history less than,。
Polycarp, who is an elderly Christian bishop,。
was arrested by Roman soldiers due to his allegiance。
to Jesus.。
Upon their arrival, these Roman soldiers,。
Polycarp did not flee,。
but instead he invited them into his home.。
And he asked, commanded his companions to get food。
and water for them, that they might be refreshed。
as he prayed before they left.。
Left to where?。
Left to Rome for his execution.。
And as he was being transported,。
Polycarp was commanded to renounce Christ.。
To which he responded, I can't.。
86 years I have served him and he has done me no wrong.。
How can I blaspheme my king who saved me?。
The governor of Rome warned him,。
Polycarp, I have wild beasts.。
I will throw you to them.。
Polycarp simply said, call for them.。
When he was threatened to be burned alive,。
Polycarp answered that judgment by fire is temporary,。
while judgment by God is eternal.。
After realizing that Polycarp was not going to surrender,。
the governor of Rome ordered that Polycarp be burned alive.。
As they were going to tie him,。
Polycarp said there was no need,。
for he would stand in the will of God for his life,。
even if it meant he had to stand within the fire.。
And yet history records something amazing in this moment,。
that as they lit the pyre and the flames arose,。
they bent around Polycarp like the wind。
feeling a ship's sails.。
The flames did not touch him.。
There was divine protection on his life.。
So far to the point that the soldiers knew。
we'll have to kill them ourselves.。
And so they stabbed him in the side,。
in the same position where Christ, his Christ was crucified.。
This is what courage looks like, guys.。
This is what it looks like when great men do great things,。
compelled by conviction.。
And gentlemen, we got to find some,。
because courage is not the absence of fear.。
It is the conquering of it.。
And so the question cannot be,。
are you willing to die for your convictions?。
Instead, the question must be instead,。
are you willing to live for them?。
Because here's the truth, in our world,。
you may not be killed for your convictions,。
but they will certainly cost you.。
And so you need to make a decision today。
what you actually will stand for.。
You need to make a decision.。
Like you must decide, are you going,。
what kind of man are you going to be。
when nobody is around to see it?。
You need to make a decision.。
What kind of husband will you be whenever you do?。
Place your vows, say your I do's,。
and are wedded to your bride.。
You need to make a decision.。
What kind of father will you be。
when you have a little girl, a little boy,。
looking up to you and catching influence。
as you walk with Jesus?。
You need to make a decision.。
What kind of boss will you be。
when people, subordinates beneath you,。
are actually looking to you and depending on you for guidance?。
You need to make a decision.。
What kind of a neighbor are you going to be。
whenever those neighbors are extremely inconvenient。
and you need to make a decision.。
What kind of believer will I be。
whenever my God calls me because he most certainly will?。
Will I rise up in faith, stand on my convictions,。
or will I bow down whenever Haman,。
the Hamans of this world, ask me to do so?。
No, you be like Mordecai.。
You know where your convictions are。
so that way when the call to bow comes,。
you are already standing and you have great confidence。
that you're right where you're supposed to be.。
You need conviction, gentlemen.。
When your convictions are settled,。
courage becomes possible.。
And so settle your convictions here tonight.。
Now, for you ladies, I've already said it.。
Conviction absolutely leads to courage.。
Again, nothing we're talking about。
is exclusive to one gender or the other here.。
And yet, what we see by way of Esther。
is an orientation that's a little bit different.。
We read this in chapter four, verses 13 through 17,。
as she's responding to the fact。
that Haman and the king have cooked up this decree。
that all Jews should be killed.。
And Mordecai is pleading with her,。
"Hey, you gotta do something."。
This is what it says.。
"Then Mordecai told them to reply to Esther,。
"Do not think to yourself that in the king's palace。
"you'll escape any more than all the other Jews.。
"For if you keep silent at this time,。
"relief and deliverance will rise for the Jews。
"from another place,。
"but you and your father's house, you'll perish.。
"And who knows whether you have not come to the kingdom。
"for such a time as this.。
"And then Esther told them to reply to Mordecai,。
"Go, gather all the Jews to be found in Susa。
"and hold a fast on my behalf。
"and do not eat or drink for three days, night or day.。
"I and my young women will also fast as you do,。
"then I will go to the king.。
"Though it is against the law and if I perish, I perish."。
Mordecai then went away。
and he did everything that Esther had ordered him.。
You see, Esther shows us that for godly women,。
courage comes from compassion.。
Courage comes from compassion.。
Esther's courage is not a generic kind of courage.。
It's a very specific kind of courage。
that is in response to the needs of her people,。
which makes sense when you consider that women,。
by design, have an orientation towards nurturing.。
It's amazing.。
Now, I've had some direct exposure to this,。
but to see what mothers will do for their children.。
It's an incredible kind of strength.。
They will carry a child for nine months in their womb。
and it takes an especial kind of strength。
to forego sushi over the course of those nine months.。
Like, that's an incredible cost.。
My wife is living with right now.。
You see that they go through labor and delivery。
and I've never been in that position.。
I don't wanna be in that position。
because it looks very difficult。
and yet mothers, they choose to go back。
again and again and again because of the joy。
of having children by way of God's own hand.。
They wake up all hours of the night.。
If ever the baby cries, they will change diaper。
after diaper, after diaper, after diaper。
with no sort of acknowledgement。
or appreciation by the baby whatsoever.。
I would love for the guy to just like give me a wink,。
you know, like, "Hey man, you're doing good.。
"Thanks for doing this."。
I don't know, one day I'll probably do it for you.。
They all know that at the end of the day,。
their strength is needed for those that are compelled.。
Their strength is needed for those。
that have compelled their love within。
and it's the reason compassion is such a strong motivator。
and yet it's not exclusive to women.。
Look at Jesus.。
This was his motivation in Luke 13, verse 34.。
Jerusalem, Jerusalem, you who kill the prophets。
and stone those who sin to you,。
how often have I longed to gather your children together。
as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings.。
There's a maternal quality to this。
and yet you were not willing.。
What I love about Esther's example in this moment。
as she responds to the news that like every Jew。
will be destroyed and Mordecai's like,。
"We gotta do something."。
She does not just spring into action.。
She doesn't act impulsively.。
It's probably why God chose a woman。
for this specific task instead of a man.。
Like a guy would hop in and just be like,。
"Ready, fire, aim."。
And that's a really bad decision。
because this is a very complicated situation.。
He wants to work through a woman。
that can think very clearly, which is what she does.。
She thinks clearly under pressure.。
She sends for answers.。
She considers the cost.。
And then she makes the hardest statement。
any woman has ever made in the Bible.。
If I perish, I perish.。
That's a different kind of woman.。
When everybody else would have talked themselves out of it,。
Esther talked herself into it。
because that's what godly women do.。
That's courage, ladies.。
Is there something that you have talked yourself out of。
that God is trying to talk you into here tonight?。
That he's compelling you to consider?。
Like maybe you've talked yourself out of forgiving someone。
because that's just gonna be way too difficult。
and it's gonna open up old wounds.。
Maybe you've talked yourself out of a difficult conversation。
where you're actually the guilty party。
and you're gonna have to swallow your pride。
and take responsibility.。
Maybe you've talked yourself out of serving。
because you're not sure that what you have to offer。
is enough for everything that people are going to need.。
Maybe you have talked yourself out of ending。
that relationship even though you know。
it's just not honoring God.。
Maybe you've talked yourself out of taking a step of faith.。
When's the last time you took a step of faith?。
Men and women in the room, both.。
The last time you took a step of faith?。
To join a church?。
To get baptized?。
Come to awaken?。
I don't know.。
Share your faith?。
When was the last time you took a step of faith?。
Maybe God is saying, ladies, I want you to do that。
even if it costs you.。
Because here's the thing about courage.。
Courage does not mean you stop counting the cost.。
What it does mean is that you realize。
someone else is worth the price.。
So who needs you to be brave?。
Like in your life, ladies, here tonight,。
as you know, courage is compelled by compassion.。
Who needs you in your world to be brave?。
Is it a friend?。
Is it a sibling?。
Is it a coworker that needs you。
to take an invested interest in who they are?。
Is it a family member that needs you。
to actually share the gospel with them?。
What is it that someone is needing of you。
that will require your bravery?。
Jesus knew that we needed Him to be brave.。
And the beauty of this is, as is true to every point,。
He is brave in both regards.。
He is brave with conviction, doing all that God asks Him,。
and He is brave with compassion,。
moving towards those whom He loves.。
He is the perfect embodiment of this。
because Jesus has the same courage we're called to have.。
You cannot do this on your own.。
You must do it by Him, but praise God,。
He has already done it for you.。
The third way that we see how men and women relate。
is through different perspectives, but the same wisdom.。
Different perspectives, but the same wisdom.。
I won't spend a lot of time on this one。
'cause we've already been talking about this a little bit,。
but I do think it's helpful for us to understand。
that Mordecai and Esther,。
they process their situation very differently.。
And that tells us something about the way。
that men and women are supposed to partner together。
in solving great problems。
or navigating difficult situations.。
You see, Mordecai, he springs into action.。
He's ready to go.。
He is an action orientation,。
which is traditionally pretty true of men.。
And yet what you see in Esther。
is she takes stock of the situation.。
She considers what's going on.。
She acquires more information.。
And that's good news。
because those two things complement each other very well。
and will serve one another in the end.。
So for men, you gotta know that you're,。
according to Mordecai, someone who will quickly initiate.。
That's part of who you are.。
You will quickly initiate.。
That was Mordecai's response.。
He heard the decree.。
He mourned publicly.。
He calls up Esther and he presses her to act.。
Why?。
Because he knows something needs to be done,。
and yet he realizes, "I can't do it."。
He knows that he is out of his depth.。
He does not have the kind of access that she does.。
And so he calls her up and says,。
"Hey, you've gotta do something about this."。
You see, this is important for men.。
You can't solve every problem on your own.。
It's not possible.。
And yet godly men, they acknowledge their limitations。
and they acknowledge them quickly.。
I love it.。
Like he doesn't plan things out for her.。
He doesn't micromanage her progress.。
He doesn't assume that she can't do it.。
He literally comes to her and he's like,。
"Hey, this is really bad.。
"And I think that God's put you in a position。
"to do something about it.。
"What do you think?"。
I remember having a similar conversation in my own life.。
I was living in Houston and we were riding back。
from a retreat.。
And as I was visiting with a girl in the car,。
this girl who, she was upper management。
at a big time construction company,。
making way more money than I was.。
I just knew by way of my observation of her that weekend。
that God had just like uniquely put something in her。
that could speak to women that were struggling。
in their singleness, that had been single longer。
than they wanted.。
And so I just looked at her and I was like,。
"Hey, Megan, I just think that God has given you。
"a unique voice to people that have struggled。
"with something that they didn't have planned。
"for their lives, that you yourself。
"have dealt with personally.。
"And yet you have navigated so very beautifully.。
"I think he has called you to do something about that."。
And the amazing thing is, is she ended up leaving that job。
and accepting a position on my team。
and moving towards this very specific stewardship。
that God had given her,。
which she was meant to take action on.。
Guys, we gotta do stuff like this.。
We need to recognize how God has uniquely gifted our sisters。
and we need to honor them by calling them to action。
where they can make a difference.。
We don't need to be threatened by them.。
And what I've seen as I've observed men。
is that in an effort to be a really good leader,。
we often diminish the agency of our sisters.。
So ask their opinions, seek their involvement,。
listen to what they have to say,。
and even follow their lead if the situation says so.。
That's what Mordecai does.。
In Esther 4, verse 17, Mordecai then went away。
and he did everything as Esther had ordered him.。
He didn't walk away mumbling,。
"Who does she think she is?。
"Like, she's not the boss of me.。
"How dare she tell me what I'm supposed to do?"。
He doesn't do that.。
Instead, he acknowledges the fact。
that she is in a position to make a greater impact。
in this moment than I am.。
And so he respects that fact, acknowledges his limitations,。
and then moves in response.。
That's wisdom.。
Now, where godly men quickly initiate,。
what we see from Esther is that godly women。
shrewdly consider, shrewdly consider.。
Like Esther hears that there's bad news.。
All the Jews are gonna be destroyed.。
And yet what she doesn't do。
is she doesn't like march into the throne room,。
all boss girl energy and look at the king。
and tell him how dare he do this to his people.。
She doesn't operate like that.。
Instead, she calls for a fast.。
She prepares her approach.。
She comes to the king in chapter five。
with wisdom and with timing.。
And by the end of chapter six, she has hosted。
not one, but two banquets with the king。
before ever mentioning a word to him of her request.。
That is shrewdness.。
She is perceptive of the situation.。
She is calculated in her decisions.。
She is humble in her words,。
and she surrendered to God's will.。
Put in one word, Esther is wise in this moment.。
She understands the situational dynamics of the moment。
and she maneuvers them so very carefully.。
I love this.。
Her success in the moment requires her femininity.。
She need not discard that。
which God has uniquely imbued her with.。
She embraces it.。
And as she does so, she can think through the situation。
in a way a man might more than likely never could.。
This situation required a woman's touch.。
And that's what she had.。
That's what she could give.。
Ladies, this is very simple.。
We need you to be you.。
We need you to think like a woman。
and talk like a woman and act like a woman。
and process like a woman and strategize like a woman。
and problem solve like a woman。
because not a man in here can do that.。
We need you to be you.。
Mordecai's instinct to act was needed.。
Esther's instinct to consider was needed.。
And God is saying the same to all of us.。
So men, listen to me.。
The wisest thing you can do is ask her what she thinks.。
Ladies, sometimes the wisest thing you can do。
is trust him when he says, "We gotta move."。
Because as we give each other the benefit of the doubt。
and we don't play the blame game,。
we end up moving and solving。
and ultimately accomplishing all that God has meant。
for us to do by way of our partnership.。
That's what happens in this story.。
Esther exposes Haman's treachery to the king.。
The king has Haman killed.。
In a stunning turn of events,。
Haman is replaced by Mordecai, his arch enemy,。
as Persia's new CFO.。
And together, Mordecai and Esther, they save the Jews.。
Hallelujah.。
How do they do all of it?。
Because, and this is your last point,。
they have different contributions,。
but they have the same goal.。
Different contributions, but the same goal.。
Godly men, you wanna know what your contribution is?。
Your contribution is this, you share your strength.。
You share your strength.。
After Haman is axed, Mordecai does the lion's share。
of the operational lifting in this moment.。
That does not mean that men, you must balance the budget.。
Does not mean that you must plan the calendar.。
Does not mean that you must be。
over all logistical coordination.。
That's not true for us at the porch.。
My second in command, director of operations,。
is Emily Carter.。
She is the one that thinks through all of those things。
because she is better at it, way better at it, than I am.。
That's not what this is implying.。
What this is implying is that he gets to work.。
He takes action and he stays applied to the task at hand。
until it's accomplished.。
We see in chapter eight, verse 10,。
that he writes an edict to save every Jew。
within 127 provinces to defend themselves。
against any attack.。
We see in chapter nine, verse 20,。
that he recorded and he announced news。
of the Jewish victory over their enemies.。
And then we see later on in that chapter。
that he inaugurated the Feast of Purim,。
which was to be held in honor of God's deliverance。
for the Jews.。
Now, what does this all mean?。
What does it mean to share your strength?。
Can I just give you a sound bite?。
It means this.。
It means, gentlemen, you should go to bed tired.。
Should go to bed tired.。
We've talked about this early days in the series,。
but a lazy man is a dangerous man.。
God has not made you to be lazy.。
He has not made you to be someone。
that comes home at the end of the day。
and lounges upon the couch and wastes his evening。
as the television washes over him.。
He has made you instead to be someone。
that sees the needs of the world。
and works to accomplish them.。
You see, your strength is meant to be spent.。
The question is, what are you spending your strength on?。
Is it saving fantasy worlds。
while the real world is burning around us?。
Like, are you spending your strength on your own kingdom。
when Christ has come to give you his kingdom instead?。
Is it knowing every perceivable stat。
about your favorite team。
when you don't even know the names of your coworkers?。
Is it something different?。
Like, are you spending your strength。
protecting your virtual reputation,。
what people think of you online,。
at the neglect of your actual character?。
Are you escaping from reality?。
Like, just disconnecting from the real world。
and in the process,。
neglecting the people that you left in it?。
Man, your strength is going somewhere.。
I don't know where you're spending it,。
but this is what I know.。
At the end of your life,。
you will be asked for how well you spent it.。
Spend it wisely.。
Now, ladies, Esther shows us something equally important,。
and it's this, that godly women,。
they share their influence.。
They share their influence.。
That's what Esther had that Mordecai didn't.。
Like, she had the king's attention.。
She had access to the throne room.。
Like, she could kind of peruse。
and walk the halls of the palace。
without anybody second-guessing。
if she was supposed to be there or not.。
She had a total relational capital。
with the people in charge.。
And yet, when it would have been easy。
to cash in on the cushy comforts of her queenly life,。
she does not do it.。
When other people would have bowed out, she doesn't do it.。
When other people would have let it be。
someone else's problem, she doesn't do it.。
Instead, she leverages her influence。
because she believes all of that influence。
was for such a time as this.。
Ladies, listen to me.。
Maybe your influence is for such a time as yours.。
Maybe God has you exactly where you are。
because he wants you to influence。
within whatever it is that he has you.。
You see, here's the thing that's interesting about influence.。
Influence doesn't mean。
you have 100,000 followers out there.。
It doesn't mean that you're the object。
of every girl's envy in the room。
or that you're the most popular person。
whenever your friends get together.。
That's not what influence means.。
Influence has nothing to do about following.。
Influence exists when one person is watching.。
So every person here has influence.。
Who has God given you influence of。
for such a time as yours?。
Is it a sibling, family member?。
Is it a coworker?。
Is it a roommate, a friend in crisis?。
I don't know what it is, but here's what I do know.。
You're not there by accident。
because here's the thing that's crazy about Esther's story.。
She arrives at the palace against her own will,。
and yet she stays in the palace by her own choosing.。
She realized this was not by accident.。
God put me here for a purpose,。
which means your workplace is not an accident.。
That friendship is not an accident.。
Your career is not an accident.。
Your living situation, how crazy that is,。
is not an accident.。
Whatever's happening in your life is not an accident.。
Maybe God has placed you in those places。
because those people are for such a time as yours.。
Godly men and women, they know the contributions they offer,。
and yet they realize it is all for the same goal.。
It is for the glory of God, it is for the good of people.。
Let me end with this.。
Something that I have been convictional about。
as I have moved in ministry spaces。
and I have led on platforms like this。
is every single place I want teams composed。
where the leadership at the top is both men and women.。
And the reason why is because we together,。
females, males, men, women,。
we can see each other's blind spots。
and we can actually improve everything for the team,。
but also one another's lives as we go.。
Does that create complications?。
Totally.。
Does that make things sometimes difficult?。
Sure, and yet what we know by way of God's design。
is it's not good for man, human, to be alone.。
There should be two to image God completely,。
and yet they must be different from one another.。
God wants to, He wants to strike His image across the world.。
And He has done so by way of you, man and woman.。
And as you do it, as we do it together,。
the beauty of it is we represent Christ completely,。
because in Christ, we see that everyone,。
men and women both have the same value,。
meaning that every person in God's estimation。
is worthy of the life, death, and resurrection of His Son.。
We see in Christ for men and women both。
that He had the same courage,。
meaning that He would storm the gates of hell。
in order to have us back to Himself.。
In Christ, we see that He had the same wisdom。
in that He would move through this world,。
navigating the complexities therein。
in such a way that would merit our righteousness。
as we placed our faith in Him.。
And we see in Christ the same goal,。
which is to reconcile a rebellious。
and broken and corrupt people back to God the Father,。
to do what Esther and Mordecai did,。
to save not just some, but all of His people。
that would believe in Him.。
This is what God has done.。
And the most fascinating thing about this book is。
it is the only book in the Bible。
where God's name is not mentioned once,。
not a single time.。
And yet we just spent 48 minutes。
talking about Him on every single page of the book.。
You wanna know why?。
Because one man and one woman were on every page of the book.。
God, whether the world sees Him or not,。
is on every page of your life。
should you embrace His call。
to be His man and His woman and partner together.。
Let me pray that you would.。
God, I'm so grateful for tonight.。
And I'm grateful for the series, God,。
like just the stories that have poured through。
as people have recounted, God,。
not what I've said, not what we've sung,。
not what's happened here, but God, what you have done, God,。
the ways in which you have moved have been stunning.。
And yet God, here's what I believe。
with every fiber of my being, you're not done yet.。
You're not done yet.。
I know, I've just been so tempted all week, God,。
to get my eyes out ahead of what's still coming,。
that we got "Awaken" this weekend.。
And I mean, we got a guest speaker the Tuesday after。
and a whole new series coming following that.。
And yet God, you have slowed me down to say,。
Kylan, I'm not finished yet.。
I still have something that I wanna do with these people.。
There's still work that I need to accomplish.。
And so God, I'm praying, do it now.。
Do it now, oh God.。
Like stir in the hearts of these people.。
Not God, because we need to catch something on the 'Gram。
or get a good photo op for something later,。
but because God is a testament to the fact。
that you're real, you're moving,。
and these, God, are your people by your choosing.。
Some of you, you're gonna need to come pray.。
Some of you, you're gonna need to come kneel.。
But what we see over the course of this book。
is that godly men and godly women, they take steps of faith.。
Let me just ask you, when's the last time you took one?。
When's the last time you took a step of faith?。
A legitimate step, not just assuming you did,。
but thinking specifically of when it happened.。
When was it?。
Maybe tonight, maybe tonight is the night。
that you take that step again.。
Maybe for some, it's placing their faith in you, oh Jesus,。
as their Lord and Savior, the forgiver of their sins.。
Maybe for others, it's stepping into the call。
upon their life in the conviction, God, they now feel.。
But Lord, what need happen this moment, only you can do.。
So come make the difference, stir among us.。
And oh Christ, won't you be our king?。
As we stand and we worship you now, it's in Christ's name.。
Amen.。
Hey friends, let's go and stand to our feet.。
What's he asking you to do?。
I bet, I bet it's gonna feel hard.。
I bet it's gonna feel risky.。
I bet it's gonna feel scary.。
The path of least resistance。
is never the path of greatest faith.。
Christ showed us that, so let's show Him ours.。
