[MUSIC]。
[BEEPING]。
[MUSIC]。
[MESSAGE ALERT]。
[MESSAGE ALERT]。
[MUSIC]。
[MESSAGE ALERT]。
[MUSIC]。
[MESSAGE ALERT]。
[MUSIC]。
[MUSIC]。
[MUSIC]。
[MUSIC]。
[MUSIC]。
[MUSIC]。
[MUSIC]。
[MUSIC]。
[MUSIC]。
[MUSIC]。
[MUSIC]。
[MUSIC]。
[MUSIC]。
[MUSIC]。
[MUSIC]。
All right, well tonight we are starting a new series,。
Quarter Life Crisis.。
What is a quarter life crisis?。
When we're happy, free, confused, and lonely at the same time.。
It's miserable and magical, this thing.。
Going through this quarter life crisis.。
I just thought I'd start, maybe kind of our team put together a list.。
Hey, how do you know if you're having a quarter life crisis?。
And so I would say, you know, if you recently bought a juicer,。
and you're eating lots of kale, and you don't know what it is,。
you might be having a quarter life crisis, right?。
If you have bought a pet for companionship, and to show your parents you're responsible,。
you might be having a quarter life crisis.。
If you have a self-diagnosed gluten allergy,。
you might be having a quarter life crisis, right?。
If you've started blogging, like you look at your life and it's like,。
"My life is so boring, but the entire world should know what I'm doing."。
You might be having a quarter life crisis.。
If you are OCD, but it's the new OCD, okay, wait for it.。
It's obsessive comparison disorder.。
This is where you stay up all night looking at your frenemies,。
Facebook and Instagram, right?。
And you're going to that album, "My Life is So Much Better Than Yours,"。
and you stay up all night looking at their pictures, and you're like,。
"Why are they always in Tahiti? How come I'm never in Tahiti?"。
In fact, if you're always planning a vacation, you might be having a quarter life crisis.。
If you're constantly on Travelzoo or Expedia thinking, "Man, I've got to get out of here,"。
you might be having a quarter life crisis.。
If you start thinking all the time, "You know what?。
Maybe I just need to go back to school.。
Like this career--you know, that's what the solution is to all my problems.。
Now, I don't know what I want to go to school for, but I think I just need to go.。
Maybe I'll go to grad school, or I'll go get a different degree.。
I'll try a different track."。
You might be having a quarter life crisis.。
And if you think the solution to all of your problems is a new job,。
you know what? "Man, I just need a new job.。
I need a new job. You know what I need?。
Here's the deal is I really thought I was at school, I was at college,。
I got that diploma, I worked hard, and now I'm going to make a big splash。
into corporate America, and I've landed here."。
And it's like, "This is it? This can't be it.。
There's got to be something else."。
And then they started hitting a little closer to home, right?。
If you think, "Man, I just need a new job."。
That's what we're going to talk about this evening as we kick off this series,。
is when life takes us a different direction than we expected.。
In fact, that is what I believe a quarter life crisis is.。
What is it? It's when you thought that you were going one way,。
and life takes you a separate way.。
Let me tell you one of my favorite stories about my kids.。
I have two little girls and a baby boy, Weston.。
One of my favorite stories of Presley and Finley when they were a toddler。
was when we would go to the store.。
When they would go to the store with Daddy, I would usually take one of them.。
Finley, in this case, I'll take Finley to the store,。
and we'll get in that shopping cart, the one with the car on the front.。
Do you guys know that one? Yeah. There it is if you don't know.。
There we are, hanging out at the grocery store, having fun.。
That's how we roll.。
We're there. I'll put Finley in that front car.。
When they were toddlers, so when they were a little younger than that,。
what we would do was this fun game.。
They would get in there, and I would push that cart, and I would watch them.。
Wherever they would turn, I would go.。
That's funny because they're bad drivers.。
They're sitting there. When you're a toddler, you don't know how to drive,。
so you just kind of jerk the wheel back and forth.。
I would just do this with the cart, and then they would throw the wheel to the right,。
and I would just take the cart to the right.。
We'd hit the apple stands. Apples are falling.。
I'd throw the cart to the left, and I'd go to the left, and we'd hit the Cheerios,。
and the Cheerios would fall over.。
We would just steer that thing through the grocery store.。
Finley thought she was driving. She thought she was in charge.。
Then every single time we did that, we would have this moment.。
This is the moment. Let me explain it to you.。
She would go right. She'd turn right, and I'd go left.。
The game was over.。
I would watch a frustrated Finley grab that wheel and tightly turn it to the right.。
Right with all her might. No, right. I said right.。
I'd just effortlessly go left.。
She learned in that moment that she wasn't in control.。
At that very point in your life, I think, is when this idea of a quarter-life crisis happens.。
When our expectations aren't met,。
maybe we had a sense of entitlement and were dealing with disappointments,。
we turned right, and for whatever reason, life took us left.。
We sit there and we say, "Wait a minute. Why can't I go right?"。
But the curtain of life just seems to keep going left.。
Why?。
Now you can think of a lot of scenarios.。
Maybe you're singleness. Maybe you're married. Maybe you're divorced.。
Maybe it's relationships.。
But tonight we're talking about work.。
When you go right at work, when you steer right at work,。
but it just seems that God, who is in control, keeps taking you left.。
In this moment when you realize that you don't have nearly as much control of your life as you thought you did,。
it is in this moment that your quarter-life crisis begins.。
And so maybe you think you do have a lot of control,。
and you just live in fear of losing that control.。
And that is the cause of your quarter-life crisis.。
And so you're realizing that someone else is in control,。
and you're not happy with their pace or their direction.。
And ensues this idea of a quarter-life crisis.。
And so I can look at some stats on our generation in regards to jobs.。
Just six in ten millennials have jobs.。
Half of them are part-time jobs.。
That comes from Harvard University.。
Average tenure for Generation Y, that's most of us in the room, is two years.。
And so for the generation before us, that was five years.。
And the generation before them, that was seven years.。
So what's happening is tenure at work gets less and less.。
Most of you will be at your job two years or less.。
And what's interesting is we keep looking for happiness in our workplace.。
We keep trying to find purpose in our career,。
but our depression stats, our depression rate is 19%.。
It's the highest it's ever been of any other generation.。
We are the most depressed generation ever to live.。
Why is this?。
Because we keep looking for purpose in the wrong places.。
And so tonight we're talking about purpose in your career.。
I'm going to be in James 4.。
If you don't have your Bibles, turn with me to James 4.。
James is in the back of your Bibles.。
It's one of those small books towards the very end of your Bible.。
Get near Revelation, and you will find James after Hebrews,。
before 1 Peter, the book of James.。
We're going to look specifically tonight.。
I'm going to ask you three questions.。
We're going to try to answer three questions from this text in James 4, starting in verse 13.。
Those questions are what is the purpose of your plans?。
Who is determining your direction?。
What does God have for you to do right where you are?。
And so James is the brother of Jesus.。
We love Jesus. Most of us in the room love Jesus.。
And how great would it be to interview someone who actually knew Jesus,。
not just knew Jesus, but lived with Jesus,。
ate with Jesus at the dinner table,。
maybe argued with Jesus, okay,。
maybe threw the football with Jesus.。
No, they didn't throw the football. It wasn't there yet.。
But they hung out with Jesus a whole lot.。
And so we know that James probably was not a believer。
that Jesus was the Christ until the resurrection.。
So the whole time in his life, he just thinks his brother is kind of weird,。
going around claiming to be the Messiah and walking on water and stuff.。
And then all of a sudden he comes back to life.。
And did you know that then James, this is history now,。
James gave his life for the cause of the resurrection.。
In fact, the Jews at that time came to James and said,。
"James, you've got to stop talking about the resurrection."。
He said, "I will not. I saw my brother came back to life."。
And so they threw him off the top of the temple.。
He wasn't dead yet though, so they went down there。
and they beat him with clubs until he wasn't breathing anymore.。
James died a martyr. That's the one who wrote this book.。
It's known as the New Testament Proverbs,。
a book of wisdom from Jesus' bro James.。
It's written to the scattered church, the persecuted church,。
otherwise known as the Diaspora.。
This is who James wrote this letter to,。
but we can take it and apply it to our lives today.。
So as we dive in, I want you to go back to a moment with me.。
Do you remember that moment when you graduated?。
If you graduated, and maybe it was high school, I don't know,。
but you graduated and you're like,。
"You know what, I know what I'm going to do."。
Everybody has this moment, "I know what I'm going to do.。
"I'm going to go to that city and I'm going to make a bunch of money.。
"I know what I'm going to do is I'm going to go over there。
"and I'm going to make a name for myself.。
"I'm going to make it big. I'm going to go and do something good.。
"It's going to be awesome. I'm going to move there and do that.。
"I'm going to go to Dallas and do that."。
And I'm just wondering, if it doesn't work out that way,。
why wouldn't God tell us?。
If it's going to be different than that,。
and we're all going to have that moment where we're sitting there like,。
"Hey, I'm going to move to that city and I'm going to make some money."。
Why wouldn't God tell us it's not going to be exactly like that?。
Let's dive in.。
Now listen, literally Greek is translated, "Go now."。
He's trying to get your attention.。
"Go now, you who say today or tomorrow we will go to this city or that city.。
"Spend a year there. Carry on business and make money."。
The Greek there for "carry on business" is "empadromai."。
It's literally where we get the word "emporium."。
We're talking about a career here.。
We're talking about a place where you go to work to support yourself and others.。
Your emporium, your place of business.。
He says, "Hey, you need to listen to me if you think,。
'Hey, I'm going to move to Dallas and make some plans and make some money.'"。
First question tonight is, "What is the purpose of your plans?"。
What is the purpose of your plans?。
Is it self-promotion?。
Is it self-advancement?。
Is it self-prospering?。
What do those three ideas have in common?。
Self. Are you at the center of your plans?。
Because if you are, I think you might have missed something.。
I want to talk to you really driven folks for a minute, you really gifted folks.。
You guys that get Dallas, Dallas wants to offer you something really special.。
I get you, man. I get you. I understand you.。
Let me talk to you for a moment.。
Maybe in life you turn left and life takes you left.。
Maybe in life you turn right and life takes you right.。
I want you to know something. I want you to hear me.。
Sooner or later you're going to turn right and life's going to go left。
and your world's going to come crumbling down。
because you put the wrong thing at the center of your life.。
You are living for the wrong purpose.。
I tell you that because I love you. I tell you that because I've experienced it.。
I tell you that because God's Word says that that's true.。
And so you turn left and life takes you right and you fall apart。
because you thought you were in control.。
For so long life let you think you were in control.。
And then all of a sudden you realize you weren't.。
Proverbs 16, 9 says it like this,。
"In their hearts humans plan their course, but the Lord establishes their steps."。
So let me talk to you for a second.。
If you have a career goal, as you think, "Man, what do I want to achieve with my plans?。
What are the purpose of my plans?"。
If the purpose of your plans is your happiness, you've missed it.。
You do not have what's called a biblical worldview.。
You have a worldly worldview.。
This is the message of the world that your happiness is ultimate.。
I hear it so often, "Man, well, all I want for my children is for them to be happy."。
No, you don't. You want them to be holy.。
In fact, if they're miserable and holy,。
I would argue that's a whole lot better than them being happy.。
Okay?。
And so in the number one song in America,。
it's been the number one song for a few weeks, Pharrell Williams, "Happy."。
It has a subtle lie in it. Let me show you.。
It says, "Because I'm happy, clap along if you feel like a room without a roof."。
Because I'm happy, clap along if you feel like happiness is the truth.。
Because I'm happy, clap along if you know what happiness is to you.。
Because I'm happy, clap along if you feel like that's what you want to do.。
What he said is, "What's the truth is how you feel."。
And I want you to know that's an absolute lie.。
So often, your feelings do not define reality at all.。
So often, what you feel is very different than what is.。
And you can maybe experience some happiness for a moment, but maybe you shouldn't.。
And you can experience some despair in seasons, but maybe you shouldn't.。
Your feelings do not define reality.。
There's another truth.。
What Pharrell is saying, that the end goal is that you would do everything that you can to be happy.。
And I'm saying that God is saying you should do everything that you can to be holy.。
When we become holy, he makes us holy.。
Christ's righteousness is given to us not by what we do, but what he did.。
And so if your happiness is your end goal, I'm afraid you're setting yourself up for failure.。
You can't pursue happiness and get it.。
In fact, the pursuit of happiness is a contradiction in terms.。
To pursue happiness is not to have happiness.。
It is synonymous with discontentment.。
What leaves you wanting--I've seen guys spend their entire life to the grave looking for happiness, but never finding it.。
But the joy of the Lord, it comes from the Spirit.。
Living in right relationship with him, it is a joy that you will never have without him.。
Never even understand without him.。
And so have you ever felt like your job was going to make you happy?。
Let me ask you like this.。
This happens all the time.。
You ever had a dream job?。
You're like, "Man, I found a great job."。
People tell me, "Dude, I got a great job.。
"Man, I landed this job. It's the best job. It's my dream job."。
The cynical part of me is like, "Give it some time, man.。
"Pretty soon it's just going to be a job."。
I learned this early in life.。
I graduated from college. I was living with my best friend's parents.。
I was waiting tables at the time, and I woke up one morning, and I was like, "Man, I'm going to get a real job today."。
I'm not saying waiting tables is not a real job, but that's where I was at.。
I was like, "I'm going to get a real job today."。
So I put on some khakis and a polo at 8 in the morning.。
I left the house. Usually I wasn't up before 8.。
So I leave the house, and I'm driving around Waco, Texas.。
I'm like, "I'm going to get a real job, but I don't know where to go to get a real job in Waco."。
So I go to one of the only places I know. I go to the mall.。
The problem is the mall is not open.。
So I sat in the parking lot. I don't even think I was a Christian.。
I wasn't following Jesus. I don't think I was saved.。
But I prayed, "God, would you help me find a job?"。
And I sat in my truck for an hour.。
And they came, and they unlocked that mall door, and I walked inside.。
And I'm walking through the mall, and this girl comes up to me and says, "Hey, what's your story?"。
And I said, "Well, I'm looking for a job."。
And she goes, "Oh, yeah?"。
And she goes, "You want to work at Abercrombie?"。
And I said, "Is this how this prayer thing works?"。
And I go, "Sure."。
She goes, "You want to manage at Abercrombie?" I said, "Sure."。
She goes, "Where?" I said, "How about Dallas?" She goes, "Okay, I'll get you an interview there."。
So I drive to Dallas. I interview at North Park Abercrombie.。
I go back to Waco. They call me. They offer the job.。
I'm going to give you some details. It might make you feel uncomfortable.。
But they call me. They offer me the job.。
They said, "Hey, we'd like to offer you $23,000 a year."。
And I began to weep. Tears of joy.。
Okay? Truly, my best friend came in.。
I remember, given just this long, awkward, manly embrace.。
And he said these three words, "You made it."。
It was actually four words. It was, "Dude, you made it."。
And I was just like, "Yes, I did, man. I did. I'll do this the rest of my life."。
And so I moved to Dallas, and I did it for three months, and I quit.。
And then I got a job selling gym memberships.。
100% commission, eat what you kill. I was like, "Dude, I have found it.。
I'm good at this, too. I will do it forever."。
I did it for three months, and I quit.。
Sold this guy this gym membership. He was in telecom.。
Okay? I went and worked in telecom.。
I was making more money than I ever thought that I would make.。
I will do this forever. I did it for three months, and then I quit.。
My boss took me to another telecom company. I worked there for three months.。
This is true. I worked there for three months. It went bankrupt.。
I was 21 years old and laid off.。
And I was like, "What just happened?" My whole world was spinning.。
I will never work in telecom again.。
So I did what anyone would do, and I went back to work at telecom.。
I did that for five years, and I climbed up the corporate ladder.。
And I don't mean to boast. This is just kind of what happened.。
And I started pursuing this path, this career in sales.。
And when I was making $23,000, it was more money than I ever knew what to do with.。
Now I was making 10 times that, and I was very much aware that it would never be enough.。
Something happened in a very short period of time.。
I began to pursue fulfillment in my work.。
And I got caught up in it, realizing that fulfillment now--。
I realized fulfillment cannot be found in your work.。
Your work will never fulfill you. It was not meant to.。
In fact, God said it will be hard, and it will war against you.。
As a result, in the fall, your job cannot fulfill you.。
It will be difficult, he says.。
You cannot avoid that difficulty.。
And so I think some of our hope is constantly what we will have in the future.。
We're constantly trying to see around the corner.。
And I'm telling you, you have set yourself up for some despair, maybe even depression, some hurts.。
Why? Why would I say that? Let me show you from the Word, verse 14.。
Why? You do not even know what will happen tomorrow.。
You don't know what will happen tomorrow.。
What is your life?。
You are a mist that appears for a little while and then vanishes.。
Why? You do not even know what will happen tomorrow.。
What is your life? You are a mist that appears for a little while and then vanishes.。
Can I show you what James just said your life was?。
Look, I'm going to show you a picture of your life. Infancy to the grave. Ready?。
Did you see it?。
Let me show you your life again. Ready? Here today.。
One more time. Your life.。
Here today and gone. It's banished.。
You're like, "No, it's not."。
We've asked you before, "What's your great-great-grandfather's name?" You don't know.。
Dude, that's family.。
That's family. Some of you are living on his money, man.。
You don't even know his name. He was alive 50 years ago.。
Your life is a vapor.。
Oh, let me get this straight. Your strategy is to work hard.。
Make as much money as you can so that you can experience as much comfort as you possibly can.。
And then die.。
And then go to a place that you will be forever and ever and ever and ever.。
And there it says you can store up treasures, but you had them here.。
Hey, friends, that's bad investing at best.。
That's just bad investing at best. Ask any financial advisor.。
If you are investing in a temporary asset and going somewhere permanent, it's just not a good strategy.。
It's a bad strategy at best.。
And so there must be a bigger purpose in our career and our plans than us.。
There must be something else. He who dies with the most still dies.。
Verse 15, "Instead," okay, instead, he's going to resolve this.。
"Instead you ought to say, 'If it is the Lord's will, we will live and do this or that.'。
As it is you boast in your arrogant schemes, all such boasting is evil."。
He says, "Instead, you need to acknowledge the one who is actually in control."。
And so that's my second question this evening is who is determining your direction?。
Who is determining your direction?。
Asked in another way, it is who is driving?。
Are you in the driver's seat?。
I meet with young adults all the time, 20s and 30-somethings all the time,。
who are very upset with God because of where they ended up.。
And it looks like this, it looks like, "God, how come you let me be in this relationship?。
God, how come I got in this career? You knew I was going to get laid off.。
You knew that guy would be my boss. God, I'm so mad at you."。
And my sense is that God's like, "Bro, you didn't even ask me.。
Sister, you did not even ask me. You didn't consult me.。
I've been jumping up and down, waving my arms, saying, 'Hey, don't date him.'。
But you weren't listening.。
I was telling you, 'Hey, that job, that's not the best use of your gifts and your talents.。
I've got other plans for you. I want you to glorify me. I want you to honor me somewhere else.'。
But you didn't consult with me."。
And some of you might have, but how are you listening?。
How are you listening to him?。
Like if you're not regularly in this book, if you're not living life in community,。
if you're not diligently meeting with other followers of Jesus and seeking their counsel,。
as the Scripture says over and over, "Wisdom comes from the counsel of others yielded to the Spirit,"。
then you have hushed the voice of God.。
You've told the Holy Spirit to be quiet. You're not interested in his counsel.。
That you're going to go the way that seems right to you.。
Proverbs 14, 12 says it ends in death.。
And you're mad at God, and God's like, "Oh, I would have loved to help you. You didn't ask.。
I would have loved to chat with you, but you didn't talk to me."。
This hit home for me.。
Years ago, before vocational ministry, Monica and I were processing a move back to Waco now.。
And so a friend of mine had started a company there, and the company had kind of taken off.。
And he sat down with me and said, "Hey, I would love for you to kind of influence our sales organization.。
You would work side by side with me. We'd be partners in the business."。
And the entrepreneurial side of me was very attracted to this.。
And so I would tell you that it was something we wanted to do.。
We went to Waco, and we began to look at real estate there.。
And this opportunity was going to afford us to buy a house on property.。
And we were very excited about that.。
We began to interview churches there.。
We were believers now and followers of Jesus now.。
And so we're looking at churches there in Waco.。
And I began to wrestle with this idea, "What is God's will? What is God's will?"。
And so I couldn't figure it out.。
So I finally gathered some wise men.。
Also this idea of community.。
And I sat them down, and I said, "Hey, guys, I don't know what God's will is."。
And one of them began to point out a flaw in my thinking.。
See, I really wanted to move to Waco.。
And he just said this.。
He asked me these questions, which changed my life, rocked my paradigm even.。
He said, "If you go to Waco, and this business really takes off, and you make a ton of money, it goes public even,。
and it just goes so well, was it God's will that you went there?"。
And I said, "Yes."。
And he said, "If you move to Waco, and this business fails miserably,。
two weeks in, the doors are shut, and you have to move in with your in-laws,。
and you can't feed your children, you can't buy them food,。
was it God's will that you would go to Waco?"。
And I said, "Absolutely not."。
And he said, "I think you've got it all wrong.。
You're processing God's will based on your own desires and your own desires alone."。
And he said, "Jonathan, is it possible that God would keep you here and refine you。
and sanctify you through difficult times, and that would be His will?。
Is it possible that He would send you to Waco, and He would sanctify you there through some challenging times?"。
As James also says, "Rejoice in those trials."。
Is that possible, that that would be the Lord's will?。
And then he said this, and it changed everything.。
He said, "You need to be asking, 'Where can I honor God the most?。
Where can I bring God the most glory?'"。
That is, to honor Him, to serve, and to love Him.。
He told us, "Hey, I want you to love me and love my people."。
He said, "Where can you do that the most?"。
And it changed everything.。
We ended up staying in Dallas because we were plugged into a church here,。
and thriving in a community here, and growing in our faith here by others who were teaching us the Word.。
And it made all the difference.。
When we answered that question, "God, where?"。
So this is crazy.。
You could have a job that's a good job, that pays more money than your current job,。
and God could say, "No, stay there, because that's where I have you doing ministry."。
And you could be like, "God, I hate it."。
And He might say, "I need to change your perspective.。
I need to work on your heart, and I need you to stay there."。
And you're asking Him the question, "God, where can I bring you the most glory?。
Where can I honor you the most?"。
It's such a selfless question.。
It feels almost Christian.。
So I'm telling you that your job was not meant to fulfill you.。
It just wasn't.。
So what is it for if it's not meant to fulfill you?。
Titus 2:10, in a great verse, just says this.。
It says that you work, you have a career, so that in every way you will make the teaching about God, our Savior, attractive.。
You work so that in every way you will make the teaching about God, our Savior, attractive.。
What does James say?。
James says it like this in verse 17.。
Listen.。
"If anyone then knows the good they ought to do and doesn't do it, it is sin for them."。
Okay, man, this feels like a new idea.。
Like James just went ADD on us.。
It feels like a little bit.。
Okay, it feels like that doesn't fit with the others, and I want to make an argument that it does.。
This last verse here, "If anyone," listen, "then knows the good they ought to do and they don't do it, they sin."。
Man, what is he saying?。
Okay, this is this profound idea that I believe is extremely biblical and repeated throughout the Scriptures, and it is simply this.。
Stop wondering what you're supposed to do and look at the good for you to do right in front of you.。
Start considering where does God have me and why does he have me there?。
What is the good that I can accomplish right in front of me?。
Maybe I'm so distracted by my schemes and my desires and my plans, which don't include God.。
If I'm honest, they're all about me, and I have missed the purpose why a sovereign creator has me right where he has me.。
See, so often we get so caught up in the unrevealed will of God.。
"God, what is your will for me? God, what do you want me to do? Who do you want me to marry? Where do you want me to work?"。
And we've forsaken the revealed will of God.。
And some of us, you know, and God's like, "Why would I tell you my unrevealed will when you've forsaken my revealed will? My revealed will."。
I've told you what to do right there in the Scriptures.。
I want you to love me with your whole heart, mind, and strength, and I want you to love your neighbor as yourself.。
I want you to do the good I have you to do right in front of you.。
Will you open your eyes? Will you listen to me? Will you consult with me?。
I want to play. I want to use you. I made you for this very purpose.。
Can we hang out, man? Can we do this thing? Can I talk with you?。
A third question, final question is this.。
What good does God have for you to do right where you are?。
What good does God have for you to do right where you are?。
I will tell you that miserable jobs make excellent mission fields.。
Miserable jobs make excellent mission fields.。
Guys, here's the question. Do you believe that God is sovereign?。
That means do you believe that he's put you where you are for a purpose?。
Do you believe that? Like, do you believe that?。
Like, has his hand slipped off the wheel, or is he still driving this cart?。
Did he put you strategically exactly where you are?。
I want to show you from the scriptures and make a case that he has.。
Acts 17, verse 24 says this.。
"The God who made the world and everything in it is the Lord of heaven and earth。
and does not live in temples built by human hands.。
And he is not served by human hands as if he needed anything.。
Rather, he himself gives everyone life and breath and everything else.。
And one man," listen closely, "he made all the nations,。
that they should inhabit the whole earth," this part,。
"and he marked out their appointed times in history and the boundaries of their lands.。
He chose where they live and when they live.。
He is sovereign over that.。
He has made you for this very purpose."。
This is crazy that God puts you in that company, in that school,。
that God puts you in that community, in that place that he's driving。
and he has his servant right where he wants his servant,。
and he is very much in control.。
And he's doing something, and I don't want you to miss it。
by not seeing the good that you are to do right in front of you.。
Paul says it like this, Ephesians 2:10, "For we are God's handiwork.。
We are his masterpiece. We are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus to do good works."。
Literally, the Greek is to walk through the good works。
which God has prepared in advance for us to walk in.。
God made you for a purpose, and he has you right where he wants you,。
and he's accomplishing his will through you if you will look his way。
and pay attention to what he's doing and seek out his agenda.。
See, Presley thought, "I was there for what she wanted."。
Do you know why I didn't go right when she turned right?。
Because I wasn't there for what she wanted. I was there for what she needed.。
I was there to get groceries. I had an agenda, man.。
And I was accomplishing something that was bigger than her,。
but it certainly helped her because she needs to eat.。
And so I was there for something that she needed,。
and she thought I was there for whatever she wanted.。
Guys, God loves you, man. He's crazy about you.。
This is so awesome. This is great news I'm giving you.。
God loves you, and he's in control.。
He controls everything, and he loves you.。
Man, how awesome is that? God's so awesome.。
That's so awesome that he controls everything, and he looks at you, and he's crazy about you.。
And then he has a plan for you, a purpose for you,。
and he's created you with some gifts purposefully for him.。
Can I show you how James' brother says it?。
This is beautiful. Listen. It comes from the Sermon on the Mount.。
It's Jesus.。
He says, "You," read you, "are the light of the world.。
A town built on a hill cannot be hidden,。
neither do people light a lamp and put it under a bowl.。
Instead, they put it on its stand.。
They put it purposefully where it goes,。
and it gives light to everyone in the house.。
In the same way, let your light shine before others,。
that they may see your good deeds and glorify your Father in heaven."。
This is what Jesus is saying, is that in the first century homes,。
lights were very expensive. They didn't have a lot of lights.。
They had one light, and they would have to put that light in a very strategic place.。
They couldn't put it in a place where its light would be wasted.。
They would put it in a place purposefully so that others can see.。
Jesus is saying that God has put you in a place purposefully so that others can see.。
See who? See Him and glorify your Father in heaven.。
That God has put a light at AT&T and a light at that Richardson ISD。
and a light at that place of business and a light at that company。
and a light in that place and a light in that community so that others can see.。
And He put it in a very purposeful place, a very strategic location,。
so that by it others would see Him.。
"They would see your good deeds and glorify your Father in heaven."。
How, JP? How can they do that?。
By you doing the good in front of you that He has for you to do.。
In your quarter-life crisis, stop saying, "Where, God? Where?"。
and start saying, "How, God? How?"。
Start saying, "What, God? I'll do it."。
Stop saying, "Where, God? Where do you want me to work?"。
and start saying, "God, how do you want me to work right here?。
God, what do you want me to do right here。
so that I can honor you and be on mission for you?"。
And so stop trying to find your purpose in your career。
and start being purposeful in your career.。
I'm telling you that someone has to take out the trash.。
Someone has to do those things, and it might be you.。
Someone has to do the things no one else wants to do,。
and God might have created you to do those things so that you can be--。
Some of you are like, "But, JP, you don't understand.。
Where I work, it's really dark."。
Good. God has a light there. Turn it on.。
Okay? He puts you there on purpose.。
Would you shine? Would you shine?。
Your purpose is not fulfilled in what you do, but how you do it.。
So what you need is not a new job.。
What you need in this quarter-life crisis is a new perspective in your job.。
What you need most is not a new job.。
What you need is a new perspective in your career.。
So in summary, what is the purpose in your plans?。
I'd love for you to ask these questions in your community group this week.。
And you can even pray this. This is just a great prayer there.。
"God, you have me here for a purpose. Help me see it."。
You ask them, "Who is determining my direction?"。
And you can pray this.。
"God, I don't want to go unless you're sending me. Help me hear you."。
You can ask them, "What does God have for you to do right where you are?"。
And you can pray, "God, you have me here for a purpose. Give me the courage to do it.。
Give me the wherewithal to stay here, the stamina, the energy, the joy that I need.。
God, I hate it. Help me. Sanctify me. Make me yours. Take my life. I'm almost dead. Use me."。
I was speaking at a conference not very long ago in this past year.。
I needed an illustration. The title of the talk they assigned to me was "Work is Worship,"。
which is a topic I'm very passionate about.。
And I was looking for this illustration, and I'll tell you the illustration I was looking for.。
It was somebody that was doing a task in a company, but they were actually undercover, like undercover agents.。
And so they're actually working for this larger organization, a government organization,。
but they have to do the day-to-day mundane tasks in this company.。
That was the illustration that I was looking for.。
And so a friend of mine asked me if I had seen the movie "The Informant."。
And I had not, and you don't need to either. It's not very good.。
But it's a movie that came out in 2009 starring Matt Damon.。
I think we might have a picture. There we go.。
And it was called "The Informant," and it was actually a true story.。
Now, it's a confusing story, so listen closely.。
Okay? It is the true story of a man named Mark Whitaker.。
Mark Whitaker worked at a company called ADM.。
At that company, there was the largest price-fixing scandal in U.S. history.。
Here's all you need to know.。
There's some people doing some illegal stuff at this company, so illegal that the FBI got involved.。
The FBI finds Mark, who works there, and says, "Hey, we need your help.。
We want you to be undercover for us."。
So for three years at this company, Mark Whitaker wore a wire every single day to work.。
And the instructions they gave him, "We want you to work hard," okay, so you're not to get caught.。
"We want you to talk to a lot of people, to gather information.。
And we want you not to lose your job. Just stay there so that you can help us out.。
Report back to us."。
Now, I wanted some more information, so I told my friend who told me this,。
"Man, I wish I could gather some more information on this deal."。
And he goes, "Why don't you email him?"。
And I said, "Email him? How am I going to do that?"。
He goes, "Well, it turns out I found his email on the Web.。
You can find anything with Google. And so here, here's his email address."。
So I emailed Mark Whitaker, and I asked specifically,。
"Mark, when you were doing those day-to-day tasks, I imagine they became boring.。
Were they more exciting when the FBI said, 'Hey, now you're really working for us,。
but we want you to do the same thing'?。
Did it become more exciting?"。
I had just finished up a porch Tuesday night. It was 930. I was here.。
My phone rang. I said, "Hello."。
I said, "Jonathan, this is Mark Whitaker."。
I said, "Yeah, right."。
He said, "No, it really is."。
He said, "Hey, I got your email. I want you to know, absolutely, man,。
when the FBI came to me and they said, 'Hey, we want you to do the same things,。
but this time we need you to report to us.。
We need you to work hard so you don't get caught.。
We need you to talk to a bunch of people to gather information,。
and then we want you to report back to us all that you have found。
so that we can stay involved in what you're doing.'"。
Man, my job became so exciting.。
Every day I went to work so excited because my perspective had changed.。
Guys, don't you see that's what happened?。
You have been sent by your commanding officer, not the president of the United States,。
not the Federal Bureau of Investigation, but the creator of the heavens and the earth,。
and he put you where you are, and he has a mission for you to accomplish there.。
Do you know what Mark told me next?。
He said, "But, JP," he said, "it's nothing like the mission I have today."。
And I said, "Oh, yeah? Why? Why do you say that?"。
Well, it turns out that Mark actually himself got involved in that price-fixing scandal,。
and he went to prison.。
He served years in prison, and in prison he met a mutual friend of ours, Chuck Colson,。
the late Chuck Colson.。
Chuck Colson shared the gospel with him, and in prison Mark trusted Christ.。
And now out of prison, Mark travels the world and tells people about Jesus.。
He said, "Hey, I see you work at a church. I'm a follower of Jesus too."。
He said, "I've never felt more on mission than I am right now."。
Do you know what he told me?。
He said, "At ADM, I made $3 million a year."。
He was an executive. $3 million a year.。
He said, "In the United States penitentiary, I made $29 a month, less than a dollar a day."。
He said, "I had never felt more on a strategic undercover mission than I did in the U.S. penitentiary."。
For the first time, I understood why I was actually created.。
I understood that God was sovereign over my plan, even in prison.。
See, also Joseph.。
And that God could use me there to save people, and he has been.。
Friend, you're quarter-life crisis.。
You don't have a job problem. You don't have a career problem.。
You have a perspective problem.。
You don't understand that God created you for a purpose.。
You've been living for you, man.。
And I'm here to tell you, you can live for him right where he has you.。
You can shine and be a light and let him call others to know him in greater ways.。
If you would just move past yourself, work hard so you don't get caught.。
Talk to others because you love them, and report back to him, your commanding officer,。
so that he can stay involved in what you're doing.。
Let me pray that you would.。
Father, we do ask that you would help us do exactly that.。
We understand that our life is but a vapor, God,。
and that you have plans for us that are bigger than us.。
So, God, would you use us?。
Father, that person that sits in the cube next to us, would you save them?。
That teacher in the other classroom, God, would you save them?。
That coworker, would you allow them to see my good deeds and glorify you in heaven?。
Father, would you use me for your honor and for your glory?。
Would you glorify yourself through me?。
And as I'm asking questions, where should I go and what should I do,。
what I consider most important, what my friends here tonight at the porch consider what is most important,。
is where can we honor you the most?。
Father, use our lives.。
I pray that Jesus would be ultimate,。
that you would remove all of the other distractions,。
and that he would be of most importance to us.。
It's in his name.。
Amen.。
I just don't want you to miss what you're saying.。
Jesus commands my destiny.。
It's true.。
He sure does.。
In Christ alone, man.。
And so some of you, you have forsaken your purpose because you don't know God.。
And my hope is that you're surrounded by people right now who do.。
And so when I'm talking about things like relationship with God or talking to God or consulting with God,。
that's like this foreign idea because you're in your car and you're praying to him,。
and he feels really far or like he's not there at all.。
It feels like your prayers are being kept in that cab.。
Or when you lay in bed and you talk to him, it feels like they're bouncing off the ceiling.。
I've been there.。
I've been there.。
And here's what you need to know, that 2014 years ago in the greatest event in the history of the world,。
God became a human, fully God and fully man.。
He lived a perfect life for about 33 years.。
He's the most polarizing character in the history of the world.。
The book is bestseller year after year and also in the history of the world by a large significant margin.。
His followers are a majority in regards to religion.。
But what he asked of you is love and to know him.。
And what he did was the greatest example of love is he took your sins on him on a cross.。
Every image you've looked at that you shouldn't have,。
every person you've slept with, everything that you've done, word that you said,。
place that you've been, drink that you consumed, line that you snorted went on him.。
He goes in the grave and he came out without it.。
He stayed in the grave, man.。
And if you've trusted in that, it's no longer you who lives but Christ who lives in you.。
Yeah, it's good news, man.。
You can't even do good on your own.。
It's a dependence thing.。
God, help me see it.。
Give me the courage to do it with your spirit through me accomplish it.。
I can't even do it on my own.。
And so if you've trusted in that, he got what you deserved and you get what he deserves.。
You get to be with God forever in his kingdom and he'll work to you even now in this place。
as we patiently await for his return.。
He's coming back too.。
And so I pray that you would live that mission out.。
Don't get caught up in your quarter life crisis.。
Let's build a movement of people in this season changing the world.。
[silence]。
