[Music]。
>> Hey, good evening, Porch. How we doing tonight? Good? Yeah?。
Hey, welcome. It's so good to have you here with us this Tuesday.。
Whether you've been here many times, like Josiah said, or this is your first time,。
I mean it when I say this, thanks for trusting us with your Tuesday.。
Genuinely, we're really glad you're here. Any Spring Breakers in the room tonight?。
Anybody in town because you're on Spring Break? Welcome.。
We're glad to have you here. So grateful that you would come and you would hang out with us on Tuesday.。
We not only have some friends joining us here, but we've got some friends joining us from around the nation.。
Special shout out to our Porch Live locations and specifically Porch Live Indy, Porch Live Des Moines, and Atlanta.。
Thanks for jumping in. We're so glad you're here and we're grateful as well that you would give us your Tuesdays.。
Hey, if you had known me in grade school, I'm ashamed to admit it,。
but you would have known that I was pretty average when it came to most athletic sports.。
I'm not too proud. I can stand up here and say that.。
Like I wasn't the tallest kid, the strongest kid, the fastest kid, but I got by.。
Like I made do with what I had. Like I had a can-do attitude and I was full of determination and grit.。
Like I was willing to put in the work that other people wouldn't. I would show up early and stay late.。
Like I was that kid. I was full of hustle. I had a motor, which helped me a lot.。
Like I got by on that for the longest time. And then I made it to high school.。
And what I found whenever I turned 14 years old and I walked through the doors of the high school football locker room is。
that I was no longer in the company of my well-meaning 14-year-old peers.。
No, now I was in the company of grown men. You know, where I had peach fuzz, they had full beards.。
Where I was just kind of cresting out of puberty, you know, like they were with deep bass voices.。
Where I was getting dropped off, they were driving themselves.。
Like there was a vast difference when I made my way into high school.。
And as a result of all of those differences, the athletic chasm between where I was and where they were was very noticeable.。
Like it was hard to realize that all of my can-do attitude and determination, it wasn't sufficient.。
Like I showed up and what I realized is that I couldn't just get by on the merits of my effort any longer.。
Instead, I realized why they say we're separating the men from the boys.。
Because I was the boy in the locker room. They were all so much more athletic, so much better than I was.。
And if the performance on the field wasn't enough to demonstrate just how wide the difference was between us,。
we went into PR testing, which really silenced any doubt that they were far more athletic than I was.。
If you don't know what PR testing is, PR testing is personal record testing within a variety of skills.。
And so we would do things like we would run the 400, we would run the 40, we would do the bench press,。
we would squat and see who could push the most weight. And I'm not lying to you.。
If there was any doubt that I was far behind the rest of the competition, all doubts were silenced.。
Because when we came out of the PR testing period of our group, what I learned was that within my skill position,。
I tested last in every single skill except for one, which was height.。
Which I really don't have much control over, you know, like I just kind of got whatever my mom and dad gave me.。
So I can't take credit for that one, even though I still do take great ownership of it today.。
But I had absolutely nothing to brag about. I was weaker than everybody else.。
I was absolutely exposed because of these PR days. I was weaker, slower, smaller than everyone.。
I just wasn't as good at them as them. And yet those PR days, they were the very best thing for me.。
Why would I say that? Because it showed me just how far behind everyone else I was.。
Even though it brought me face to face with the reality of how weak I was,。
it brought me to the point where I was finally honest with myself.。
I wasn't as good. Not only that, I was far worse than I thought.。
And yet that could change. I could grow. Like I had been united to something so much bigger than me.。
I had joined this new team. And because I was a part of something bigger than me,。
I could be better than I was previously.。
I could actually make progress on all the areas that I felt so incredibly weak within.。
Why do I tell you that? Because in the same way, when you meet God,。
you do become a part of something so much bigger than you.。
And as a result, you do grow and you do get better than you were previously.。
This is what happens when we enter into, not the high school locker room, but the family of God.。
When we place our faith in Jesus and we step into his kingdom and we unite alongside his people,。
what happens is he takes us where we are and he moves us along the way and makes us more like his son.。
And that's what I want to talk to you about tonight.。
But what we need to know is that while that seems like such a great course of progress,。
that progress comes by way of exposure. Where I PR tested and found out just how bad I was.。
The Apostle John is going to take us through a spiritual PR test tonight.。
He's going to expose before us. Not only that we're bad, but man,。
we're much worse than we think and yet we have great hope because we can grow。
and we can get better as a result of our union to Christ.。
So if you have a Bible with you, you can pull it out and you can turn with me to 1 John.。
That's where we're going to be. 1 John chapter 1. And as you're doing so,。
here's what you need to know. John is going to just simply tell us,。
"Hey, as we walk with God and we experience his greatness,。
you are going to come face to face with your weakness. Today and tomorrow。
and the day after that you're going to go through one spiritual PR test after the other.。
And yet the point of it all is to, yes, expose your deficiencies,。
but also help you come to grips with the fact that you can become more like Christ.。
There is hope on the other side. And so as we come to this,。
as we come to 1 John, as we come to his letter,。
what he's going to say is that before he pushes us to consider ourselves,。
how we need to grow, how we need to get better, what it looks like to become more like Christ,。
what we need to do is we need to consider God. That's where this whole thing starts.。
That's where he begins. So 1 John chapter 1 starting in verse 5,。
it says this, it says, "This is the message we have heard from him." Him talking about Jesus.。
"This is the message we've heard from Jesus.。
And we proclaim to you that God is light and in him is no darkness at all."。
You see, what John wants us to know is that when we see God clearly,。
we will see ourselves clearly in comparison.。
And John would know how to actually tell us about God because John, he was an apostle of Jesus.。
He was also arguably Jesus's best friend,。
which means if you have a best friend in the room, they're closer to you than anyone.。
John is the guy that's closer to Jesus, closer to the son of God than anybody else.。
And tonight he's going to look at us and say, "Hey, there's a way to get close to him."。
But it doesn't start first and foremost with you. Before we understand the nature of man,。
we need to understand the nature of God. Because Christianity,。
spoiler alert, is not fundamentally about you. It's about him.。
And so that's what he says. He says, in essence, what A.W. Tozer says,。
which is what comes into our minds when we think about God is the most important thing about us.。
So what comes to mind for John? John tells us, he says, "When I think about God,。
what I think about is that he is light."。
Which is interesting because John is the only New Testament author to make any kind of assertion about the divine nature of God.。
Like other authors, they describe his attributes and his activity.。
And yet John, he actually defines the very essence of God's being, which is really audacious.。
Like most people, when they're talking about their friends, describe them.。
John defines him. So for instance, I say Bob is kind. Not Bob is kindness.。
That would be odd. I say Bob is wise, not Bob is wisdom.。
And yet John is sitting here tonight and he's looking at us and he's saying,。
it's not just that God is kind or God is patient or God is peaceful.。
What you need to know is that God is light. He's defining him for us.。
Great. Thanks, John. Like God is light. What does that even mean?。
Like what is that sort of assertion?。
What are you trying to help me understand when you're saying God is light?。
And what we need to know is that by saying this,。
he's employing an idea that over the course of the entire scripture,。
this idea of light is symbolic of a couple of important things.。
We see it pop up over 200 times in the entirety of the Bible from beginning to end.。
And more often than not, it's representative of two things.。
The first thing that light is representative of is that light is representative of truth or reality.。
Light is representative of truth or reality. It reveals what's actually there.。
Whereas darkness in contrast to truth is representative of error.。
So Psalm 119 verse 105, it says, your word is a lamp to my feet.。
It's a light to my path. And if you jump down to verse 130,。
it says the unfolding of your words, it gives light.。
It imparts understanding to the simple. You see, when John says that God is light,。
he wants to know that God brings understanding to us.。
He offers clarity. He makes sense of what's confusing.。
And what's fascinating is we talk about light in the same way.。
Like if I came up to you and I was like, hey, can you shed some light on that situation for me?。
What would I be asking? I'd be asking, can you help me understand what's going on there?。
Can you reveal to me what the circumstances of that situation are in specific?。
That's what we say whenever we say, hey, can you shed some light?。
So to just help us understand, he is saying God is trying to shed light on your situation.。
He's trying to help you come into the understanding of what's true about you.。
That when we see him, we will see ourselves.。
That's the first thing. Light is representative of reality, but it's also representative of purity.。
That's the second thing. Or moral uprightness, virtue.。
Like that's what it represents. Sin in contrast to light,。
it's representative of evil. God is pure. Sin is evil.。
Ephesians chapter 5, verses 8 through 9, it says, "For at one time you were darkness, you were evil.。
You were enemies of God. You were darkness. But now you're light in the Lord.。
Therefore walk as children of light." Not children of darkness, not enemies of God any longer,。
but walk as children of light. "For the fruit of light is found in all that is good and right and true."。
Those things which are pure. Like by describing God as light,。
John is saying it is God's essential nature to radiate truth and purity.。
You see, God, he's similar to the sun.。
In that the sun, it makes clear to us, it reveals what is actually seen,。
but it not only brings revelation, it not only shows us what's there,。
it also warms us, comforts us, makes us feel good.。
This is how God operates as light. He helps us to find revelation,。
but then also a sense of deep satisfaction.。
And so what we know is that this means that God is perfect, but there's no flaw in him.。
There's no flaw in him intellectually because he's truth,。
and there's no flaw in him morally because he's pure.。
And that's what John goes on to say. He says, "In him, in God, is no darkness at all.。
If we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in darkness,。
we lie and we don't practice the truth." What's he getting at?。
First point for the night, that God and sin do not mix.。
They don't mix. Like by definition, darkness is the absence of light.。
Yes. Yeah, they don't mix. They're opposite in nature.。
So if I illustrated it for you like this, maybe it would be helpful.。
If we turned off all the lights in this room, behave yourselves.。
We would find that most everything is concealed.。
That in this moment, we struggle to make sense of anything around us.。
Most everything. It's hard to understand. It's confusing to grasp.。
Sure, we might be able to make the faint silhouette of certain people around us,。
but there's no definition. There's no clarity in the room whatsoever.。
And yet if we turn the lights back on, clarity returns.。
Error abates. Definition is given.。
We can see everything all at once.。
But here's what we illustrate by doing that.。
When darkness is in the room, light is absent.。
But when light shows up, what happens to darkness?。
It disappears. It leaves. It's gone.。
They cannot be in the same place at the same time.。
So it is with God and sin. Like God is light, sin is darkness.。
They are by essence opposed to each other.。
Now you may hear that and think to yourself,。
"Kylin, thanks so much for telling me that God is the source of all moral beauty。
and truth in the world,。
and he cannot coincide with that that is the source of all error and evil in the world.。
Thank you." As if I didn't know that already.。
That seems so obvious.。
But here's what I would say. I talk to young adults all the time.。
And they come and they visit and they ask me the question,。
"Man, I feel distant from God. He feels hard to find.。
It's as if my spirituality is dried up.。
The things around me, they're arid. It's a desert out here, bro.。
Why? Why is this the case? What do I need to do?"。
And the first thing I often do is I'll just ask them the question,。
"Hey, where's sin in your life?" Which feels really invasive.。
But it also feels unnecessarily obvious. Are you serious, bro?。
Like that's all it is? Like where's sin in my life?。
That's the thing you're going to ask me? You just want to know like,。
"Oh, where am I entertaining sin? Where's the devil's playground in my life?"。
Like that's all it is. And yet here's what we know.。
If God and sin do not mix, then where sin is present, God will be absent.。
You see, the quickest way to sever your nearness to God is to anchor yourself in sin.。
Like John's literally saying, "Hey, if you claim to have fellowship with God,。
relationship to God, and yet you walk in the dark,。
you're lying to yourself because they can't coexist.。
They're opposite in nature." And so as we think through this,。
like I've said this to this room before,。
but all of life is either a drawing near or a drifting away from God.。
All of it, like everything you do, everything you think, all the words you speak,。
whatever video you watch, everything you do, the food you eat,。
the way you sit right now, it's also very consequential.。
All of life, everything you do, it will either lead you close to God。
or will distance you from Him. The Scriptures tell us that we are to do all things,。
whether you eat, drink, do all things to the glory of God. All.。
Like there's no exception to that. It's everything we do, everything we are,。
it is for the purposes of His glory. He's worthy.。
And so we live our lives to that end. And the beauty of it is,。
is we give God glory. We get rolled up and we get brought into the deep joy that He offers.。
But when we don't do that, when we indulge our sin, we scratch whatever our itch is,。
we satisfy our carnal cravings, what we find is we go distant.。
We lose our nearness. We divorce our proximity. We get away from Him.。
This can feel really alarming. Yeah?。
Well, okay, so you're telling me that if I'm walking in darkness,。
I can't have fellowship with Him? Because we all know if we're honest,。
if we're sitting here tonight, we could be honest with each other.。
We could say, yeah, I'm not morally perfect.。
Like you don't even have to look over the course of however many years of life I have.。
You can look at today. Like you can just take a look at whatever I've seen,。
whatever I've said, whatever I've done. Like you can just take a look,。
roll the recording and you can realize, man, I'm not perfect at all.。
I've done some stuff today that's actually in fact bad.。
I'm the guy on stage that can admit to that. Like we would be traumatized。
if we actually rolled on this screen behind me the things that we have done。
or said or thought today. So roll the tape guys. Let's show them.。
How does that make you feel? Nervous, right?。
Because you know it. You know it's true. You're like, don't put it up there.。
Don't show that message. Don't show the history.。
Don't play the video. Like we know we've done stuff.。
Because in our heart of hearts, we know. We're dark.。
The stain does go so very deep. And it leaves us anxious, worried, confused.。
Ashamed. What do we do with that?。
Like does that mean because those things are there because of what John is saying?。
We can't have fellowship with God? Like are you here tonight?。
And because of your saying, your imperfection, that bad in your life?。
Does it mean fellowship with him is impossible?。
No, because that's what he goes on to say in verse 7.。
He says, but if we walk in the light as he is in the light,。
if we walk with God in his essence, the essence of his being, truth and purity,。
if we walk in his light as he is in the light,。
we have fellowship with one another and the blood of Jesus, his son,。
cleanses us from all sin. So question, is perfection the expectation of verse 7?。
Like is John expecting you to be perfect? No, absolutely not.。
He says that the blood of Jesus cleanses you.。
Why do you need the blood of Jesus? To cleanse you,。
forgive you of your sins, to take that which is bad and get rid of it.。
To take that which makes you dead and get rid of it.。
Like that's what he's pointing to. He's saying,。
hey, Jesus has come to do two things.。
He's come to forgive you and cleanse you,。
what he will say later on and right now what he says.。
And so therefore walk with him and be cleansed by him.。
He gives you two verbs.。
And what's interesting about those verbs in the Greek is they're both in the present tense,。
which means it's a continuous state of being.。
That it's not a one and done sort of situation,。
that we walk with Jesus continually. And as we walk with him,。
we're cleansed. We're made whole. So straight out of college,。
I worked for a nutritional life sciences company,。
a company that focused on like health and wellness. And it was awesome.。
It was great. I'll get into an elaborate story about it another time because it deserves to be told.。
And yet in the company's corporate gym, which was amazing,。
there was a dry sauna. I got really into dry sauna.。
Okay, like I turned into a dry sauna bathing buffoon.。
Like I loved it, man. I just,。
I had read up on the details of how this thing would be beneficial for my health.。
And so I bought into it. I got all the way in thinking like, man,。
this is going to be beneficial for my health.。
And so every single day while I worked at that company,。
I would dry sauna after I worked out.。
And the reason for it is because I knew one of the benefits it offered is that as I sit in this sauna。
and I gently heat myself, I'm detoxified. And all of the impurities,。
they just sweat away. Why do I tell you that?。
Because I'm not trying to convert you to dry sauna bathing.。
Like you can go cold plunge if you want to. Not sure what the effects of that are.。
But what I do know is this is how Jesus works with us.。
As we prolong our time with him, what happens is you walk with him.。
He detoxifies you. He rids you of any impurities.。
Because it's a continual process. It's in a present sort of tense,。
the way that John is describing it right here in verse 7,。
which is good news to us because it means as we come to God,。
we're not meant to be perfect. We're meant to be perfected. Perfected.。
Like some of you have walked in tonight and you're like, man, I'm not perfect.。
I know that. And so what you're doing is you're trying so hard to measure up.。
You're trying to earn heaven's smile.。
You're trying to do whatever is possible so that way God will actually tolerate you.。
Like God, you don't even have to accept me, but will you just tolerate me?。
Will you let me in through the pearly gates?。
Like you're doing everything in your power to earn your way in.。
You're trying to be perfect for him. And yet this scripture is saying,。
no, you don't come to him and be perfect.。
You come to him and he makes you perfect in time.。
Like you walk with him and he cleanses you along the way.。
You don't have to clean yourself up. That's his job.。
This is what it says in verse 7. As we go to verse 8, John keeps going.。
He says, if we say we have no sin, if we claim to be perfect,。
we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us.。
If God is light and we walk with him, then the result should be honesty about ourselves.。
Like you don't walk with him and say, there's no sin in me.。
We all just admitted there is. And so we sit in and we say, there's no sin in me,。
God, I'm perfect. I'm doing the best I can. I am in fact good.。
We are actually walking in denial. We're deceiving ourselves.。
John's saying don't do that. No, be honest about yourself.。
Like just like PR testing in high school gave me a baseline upon which I can evaluate myself against my peers.。
It is the presence of God that gives you a baseline upon which you can evaluate your good deeds.。
Just so you know, they don't measure up. Your goodness will never measure up.。
And yet because we have him as a sound comparison point。
and we can register the fact that he is light, we know we're not.。
And here's what's fascinating. Two-thirds of the United States agrees with this statement.。
Across religious lines, like across socioeconomic background,。
two-thirds, over 66% of Americans, they're saying, I know I'm sinful.。
Even at least a little bit. Like we're willing to say, I know something's not right in me,。
but here's the problem with that. The problem isn't that we're unwilling to admit that we're sinful.。
We're unwilling to admit just how sinful we are.。
Like that's the issue. Like we know, hey, generally, yeah, man,。
I'm not the best person, but who is, you know?。
Like everybody's got some kind of some kind of skeleton in the closet,。
something that they've done wrong, and yet we must come to grips not with our general admittance of sin,。
but our specific admittance of sin. Because the issue here that John is saying is there is no relationship。
where there is no honesty. There's no relationship where there is no honesty.。
When I was in college, I had a pickup truck, and I loved this thing.。
It was my truck from high school. It was my truck given to me at 16 years old.。
I took it to college with me. It was amazing. Everything a kid from East Texas would want,。
six-inch lift, GMC Sierra Z71, you know, like when I took my prom date out in high school,。
like I had a stepstool to help her get up into the truck, you know, I was a true gentleman.。
And so I take this thing to college, and I love it. I'm driving down the road,。
and yet it started to behave oddly. Like I would drive it down the road,。
and I would hit a bump, and the whole thing would just like start shaking around, you know?。
It was like, I don't really know why it's doing that,。
but I would just slowly decompress the brake, and things would come back to a calm,。
and I would just drive along my way until I hit another bump, start shaking along,。
and then I would slowly decompress the brake, bring things back to a pause, and carry on my way.。
I did this for a really long time until one day I'm driving to class.。
Had an 8 a.m., up early, making my way to school, and as I'm blitzing through a red light,。
I need to turn left. And as I turn the steering wheel left, the truck keeps barreling on forward.。
Which was a problem, because it revealed to me that there was an issue.。
One that had gone unchecked for a very long time.。
And you want to know what the issue was? To my mechanic's horror,。
the steering column of the vehicle had been detached from the front axle,。
meaning that it didn't control the tires anymore. I was disconnected from the truck.。
Any movement I made did not have any impact on where I was now going.。
Why do I tell you that? Because I did not consider the seriousness of my problem.。
And it put me into a dire situation. I wonder how many of us do this ourselves.。
Like we see problems pop up in our life. Little alarms, little oddities, things that are strange and out there.。
And yet we don't address them. We just kind of ignore them, decompress the break until they subside and go away.。
We carry on about until eventually we find ourselves in dire straits.。
The reason for this is because we've deceived ourselves.。
We have admitted our sin generally, but we've not admitted our sin specifically.。
We know we're not perfect, but rather than calling our sin out for what it is。
and addressing the seriousness of the problem, we just kind of veil it in cagey language.。
We say things like, "I struggle with lust. I'm wrestling with pride. I'm frustrated with that person.。
I gossip sometimes, but who doesn't?" And as we do this, we belittle the magnitude of our issue.。
And in so doing, we amplify the seriousness with which the consequence will come to bear.。
But what we see in John's letter is that if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins。
and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Like he tells us, "Hey, rather than concealing the truth about yourself,。
confess it. Get it out. Like don't hide it any longer.。
Like it's only when we drag ourselves into the truth of God's light that our darkness can finally be fixed."。
Listen to me on this, especially those of you that have been walking with Jesus for a long time.。
Spiritual maturity, according to the apostle John, is not seeing less of your sin.。
It's seeing more of it. True spiritual maturity is not seeing less of your sin.。
It's seeing more of it. Why? Why can we extract that conclusion from his letter?。
Because as we walk in the light, greater exposure comes to bear upon our sin.。
And if we are, in fact, as close to Jesus as we say we are, spiritually mature, we're boys, we hang out,。
I'm so close to him, then that light should become all the more exposing.。
It should only come to increase in our life.。
And thus, any pride and any egotism should decrease in the face of that radiance.。
This is what we know. That we confess our sins, and Jesus, in his kindness,。
he rightly leads us to a place of forgiveness and cleansing.。
So why do we confess? What does that word even mean?。
Well, in the Greek, the word confession means to say the same thing as another person.。
It means to agree with someone else.。
So when we confess our sins to God, we're agreeing with God about ourselves.。
Like God knows how dark you are. There's nothing you've done that's hidden from him.。
No matter how hard you try, no matter how committed you are to taking that thing to the grave.。
And friends, I've been there in that place. He knows anyways.。
He sees all of it exactly as it is. And he just wants us to come to him and be honest.。
God, you're light and I'm not. You're good and I'm not. You're right and I'm not, God.。
I am not right on my own. I cannot save myself. And yet, you can.。
That's why the first step of every believer, anybody that walks with Jesus,。
the first step is what? It's confession. It's what theologians call judicial forgiveness.。
That in a moment, the minute I confess my sins,。
I receive the gift of God from Jesus and I declare him as Lord.。
The minute that's done, all of my sin, past and present and future, it's forgiven forever.。
And finally, it's never coming back. It will never separate you from the love of God.。
But we don't just confess for that. We confess continually.。
Why? Because there's also an element to confession that is relational.。
There's judicial forgiveness and relational forgiveness.。
Relational forgiveness says, hey, your position as a son or daughter of God will never change.。
That's never going anywhere. But your proximity, it can change.。
Your nearness to him, your fellowship with him. It can be hurt if you do hurt him.。
No different than if a son sins against his parent.。
There's going to be strain in the relationship.。
So too is that the case for us with God when we sin against him.。
And so why do we confess? Because it keeps us close.。
That's what it does. John says God is faithful.。
He's just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all our righteousness.。
When we confess, there are two results. I'm going to go through these quick.。
The first result is forgiveness. Like when we confess to God, forgiveness, it floods over all of our wrongs.。
Guilt is removed. That's the first thing you need to know.。
When I come to God and I confess, my guilt is taken away.。
That nagging pain you have in the pit of your stomach because you know you did something wrong.。
When you come to God and you confess it, that's taken away.。
Forgiveness floods over that thing, but you have to address it specifically.。
So it's similar to like spam in your inbox. One day, I just got sick of it, man.。
You know, it's like every time I went to my inbox, it was just spam everywhere.。
I don't even know how I didn't subscribe to this stuff.。
But you know what I did have to do? I had to unsubscribe to that stuff.。
And I could not unsubscribe by just checking it all at once and throwing it in the trash because it would come back.。
The way that I unsubscribed was by addressing them one by one by one by one by confessing them individually.。
And as I did, what happened to my inbox? It was emptied.。
Of any impurity, all the guilt of those spam emails, they were gone.。
We get forgiveness. The second thing we get is we get cleansing.。
Like when we confess our sins, guilt is removed. Yes. And joy is restored.。
Like that's what we know in Psalm 51, 7 through 8.。
It says, "Purge me with hyssop and I'll be clean. Wash me and I'll be whiter than snow.。
Let me hear joy and gladness with the bones, God, that you've broken. Rejoice."。
And you see, when you confess, you remove the bad, all of your guilt, and you receive the good.。
All of God's joy. Is not that good reason to do this?。
Is not that good reason to come to God, the one who knows it all anyways, and just own it, admit it, and seek his forgiveness?。
That way you might experience a ridding of that guilt and a restoring of that joy.。
That's the offer on the table for you.。
So how do you know that God will do it? Because it says that he's faithful and just to do it.。
Like he's faithful. This is the gospel. The gospel is that Jesus Christ has come to do this for you.。
That if you believed in him, he has taken your sin away. No longer is there any condemnation for you.。
He's faithful. He'll take it. But he's also just. Like he's just to do it.。
Like what we know is that he's already borne the consequence of our sin and death.。
So now, for those that have placed their faith in him, it is characteristically impossible for God to revisit his wrath.。
That's amazing news! Like it's characteristically impossible.。
Not just circumstantially impossible, not just subjectively impossible.。
No, it is characteristically impossible. God would have to go against his character to revisit his wrath on you.。
But he cannot do it. Why? Because he's faithful. Because God's own character won't let him do it.。
Jesus Christ has stepped into your place. The wages of sin is death.。
So he absorbed it. He took the hit. He died your death. He served your sentence.。
That way you can go free and have no worry of this ever at all.。
1 John 2, 1 and 2 says, "My little children, I'm writing these things to you so that you may not sin.。
But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, the righteous."。
The righteous. He's right on your behalf.。
He is the propitiation for sins and not for ours only, but for the sins of the whole world.。
John is telling us, hey, there is no sin too dark for the light of the world.。
No sin at all that's too dark.。
And the way we know that is through these two words that he uses to describe Jesus.。
Jesus is both an advocate for sinners and he's an atonement for sins.。
That's what the word propitiation means. It means atonement.。
He's an advocate. That is you one day come before God and all your life is written in record before him.。
Every wrong, Jesus will stand on this. He will stand beside you and he will advocate for and say,。
"I paid for it all." Any condemnation, any consequence upon them.。
I took that. They get to go free.。
And the good news of that is God the Father says, "I know that's why I sent you.。
Because I love them and I want them for myself. My wrath, my judgment, my justice.。
It needed to be satisfied. And so you did. You satisfied it.。
What's with the wrath of God? Does that freak anybody out in here?。
Like the judgment of God? Oh my God, like no, please.。
Like what is with that? Well, think about it.。
Anything wrong or evil or errant in the world, anything criminal,。
anything that harms or hurts those you love, what do you want?。
You want justice. You want judgment. Wrongs deserved to be righted.。
They deserve to be disciplined. God looks upon his world, his people,。
and he sees how they've been hurt, how we have hurt each other.。
And in his holiness, he knows I must, I must be just in the face of this evil.。
But I love them too much to judge them myself. I will send my son to stand in on their behalf.。
He will take the hit that they might go free.。
Jesus is your advocate. Do you know him?。
Because apart from him, you have no advocate and you will stand in consequence.。
He's your atonement. But apart from him,。
there is no amount of good work or atoning nature you can bring to God.。
Nothing will satisfy. But he's made a way. He's provided an out.。
That's why Romans 8 34 says, "Therefore who is to condemn?"。
Who's to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died.。
And more than that, who was raised? He was vindicated.。
Like who goes into a prison cell and then the door swings open that is not declared innocent?。
Who has not paid the sentence in full? Jesus has done that.。
That's why the resurrection is so significant.。
It's not just that it promises you eternal life in the future.。
It promises you eternal life, forgiveness of sins right now, today, here this evening, if you know him.。
That's such good news that he not only died, he was raised, who is at the right hand of God.。
He's ascended back to the throne of majesty, who indeed is now interceding for us.。
He's standing on our behalf and he's saying, "God, I've taken care of it.。
I love them like you love them. There's no reason that they should be separated from us any longer.。
They get to come home. They don't have to just spend eternity in heaven.。
They get to spend eternity with me, with you, with us.。
The fount of all joy, the goodness of God, it's available to us.。
And yes, it is in the future, but is available tonight.。
So when all of the evidence is compiled, Jesus the righteous, when we couldn't be, he died where we should have.。
He knows the penalty against us. It was so very great, but he paid it.。
George, why then would you walk in a darkness that you no longer have to?。
Why then would you not remove any obstacle from being close to him?。
If all it means is confession, confession.。
If you're here and you don't know Jesus, the first step of confession is just to confess to God.。
It's to look to the Lord and say, search me, oh God, know my heart.。
Try me and know my thoughts. See if there's any grievous way in me and lead me in the way everlasting, God.。
Like in the face of your beauty, let me see my depravity.。
And then let me find Jesus and follow him where he goes.。
If you do know him tonight, then maybe it's confessing to someone else.。
James 5 16 says, therefore, confess your sins to one another and pray for one another that you may be healed.。
The prayer of a righteous person has great power as it's working.。
Again, you confess to God and you get forgiveness and you get joy.。
But healing comes to the prayers of your brothers and sisters.。
Why wouldn't you pray for those that are in need?。
Why wouldn't you confess to those that have need?。
Why would you not come and say, hey, I've sinned against God.。
I've done these things. I've looked at this.。
I've thought these thoughts. I've said these words.。
I'm telling you, would you pray for me? Would you help me find healing?。
And it's through their prayer that God's power comes to bear.。
Your joy is restored. And you feel life within your bones again.。
Maybe it's confessing to someone you've wronged.。
Looking to someone and saying, I envy you. I've been embittered towards you.。
I've abused you. I've manipulated you. I've taken advantage of you.。
I've spoken these words behind your back.。
I don't know what it is, but confessing to those that we've wronged,。
knowing that in so doing, we've marred the image of God in people,。
we've indignified them.。
Jesus Christ has come to give us all the dignity and humanity that our sin has stripped from us.。
Where do you feel guilt?。
God will prick that conscience and it's there that you should take action.。
Friends, if we want to walk closely with God,。
the reason why we've taken a week off from our series,。
and we've decided to just visit about, hey, there is one thing,。
the series we've been working through, one thing to seek that brings everything else into focus.。
What is it? It's proximity to God.。
We've taken a week off to look at you and say,。
there are reasons we feel a lack of closeness and proximity to him.。
And the reason for that so often is sin.。
And so friend, if you want to be close to him tonight, remove any obstacle in your way.。
Expose yourself. There's no darkness too great to keep us from God.。
And the reason we can take heart and hope in knowing that is there was no darkness too great。
to keep him from you. You see Jesus, the light of the world.。
He stepped into our darkness becoming like us in it.。
That we the dark of this world might step into his light and become like him forever.。
Do you want to come close? Then confess. The light shines in the darkness.。
The darkness cannot overcome it. Step into the light. Be cleaned. And be alone no longer.。
Let me pray for us. Father, I know that this message can sit heavy.。
It can preach heavy. But Lord, I pray before we walk out these doors。
and we move back into whatever it is is awaiting us in life, God,。
we would know freedom is available tonight.。
For those that don't know you, freedom is the offer.。
Freedom is the gift of God in the person of Jesus that any that would cry out to him and say,。
you're my Lord, you're my light. I want to follow you forever.。
I want to I want to receive your gift, your grace in my life.。
I want to lay down my sins knowing that you've paid for them and receive God your forgiveness.。
That freedom is available for you, that person, whoever it is that prays that prayer right now,。
that you can be freer tonight than you've ever felt.。
But freedom is not only available for those that do not know Jesus.。
Freedom is available for those that do know Jesus.。
The freest person in the room is the person that has absolutely nothing to hide.。
And so God, would we come to you and would we conceal these things no longer?。
But would we expose ourselves? And God, would we receive the gift of walking free forever?。
We love you. We respond to you now. It's in Jesus name we pray. Amen.。
Hey, you can stand to your feet if you would and join us here in worship.。
Here's what I just want to put on the table before you sneak out.。
These evenings build to this moment right here.。
Not because we're trying to get an emotional stir.。
We're trying to fabricate a moment, but because God has led us this last hour to this moment now.。
What do you sense the Spirit of God in this room, in your life, prompting you to right now?。
Listen, we've got a team down front. They would love to pray with you.。
They would love to process with you.。
What you need to know about them as we talk about this idea of confession is there's nothing you could ever come say to us。
that would surprise us, that would ever catch us off guard.。
I've heard some crazy things and yet the good news of it is that Jesus Christ has paid in full for it all.。
So why would you not come receive his grace for whatever it is?。
They're here to pray, to process. You can stay where you are.。
You can seek the Lord, confess to him, but this moment is now yours.。
He's in the room. How will you respond, Porch?。
you。
