(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
- Well hey Dallas, hello Fort Worth,。
how y'all doing tonight?。
(audience cheering)。
Yeah, it is good to be with the porch on a Tuesday.。
I always love it, even when I'm not here in body,。
I am here in spirit.。
I love to be with my friends,。
and we're gonna dive in and we're gonna learn something.。
I think you're gonna look at a part of the Bible tonight。
that is probably as crucial and essential for you。
as people that I believe are the hope。
of our future generations, our country.。
We need you to understand what I'm gonna teach tonight.。
If you are just making your way here tonight。
for the first time in a while,。
we're making our way through Matthew's chapter five,。
six, and seven.。
We're calling it Summer on the Mount,。
and we are studying what this guy named Jesus said。
the very first time he broke onto the scene.。
And he is breaking what had been 400 years of silence,。
of not hearing any word from God.。
The people were without God and without hope in the world,。
and they had done what men always do,。
they created for themselves some system。
that they would basically base their righteousness on,。
and that they would make themselves feel good。
about themselves and at peace with themselves.。
And then here comes God saying,。
"You can try and convince yourself。
"that you have found the way to peace,。
"but there is no peace apart from me,。
"the Prince of Peace, the King of Peace.。
"And there's been no peace in this world for a long time。
"since you tried to find life apart from me."。
And so here comes God in his kindness,。
not looking to chew us out,。
not looking to read us a riot act,。
but he starts with these amazing words.。
He says, "Man, you want it to go well with you?。
"You wanna be blessed?。
"I'm your creator, I'm your Father, I'm your loving God.。
"I want you to be blessed, so tune in."。
He starts by telling them they're gonna be blessed。
if they understand that left to themselves。
and their own strength and their own way,。
it's never gonna go well with them.。
They're not gods, they're not perfect,。
they're not infinite, they're not omniscient.。
And so acknowledge what you lack,。
and I will give you what you need.。
What a great way for it to start.。
When we started this little series。
called Summer of the Mount,。
I had the chance to walk you through。
those first few passages,。
and I talk about how many have said this view of God。
that he's gonna show up, he's gonna wear us out,。
he's gonna tell us all the things we've done wrong。
and how we better get it right or we're in trouble.。
Now he does get to that in this text,。
but what he's really doing is he's trying to say,。
"I'm not mad at you,。
"I just wanna know if you're sick and tired。
"of being sick and tired,。
"and I'm here to offer you a better way,。
"and by the way, this same Jesus said,。
"I am the way, I am the truth, and I am the life."。
Now it's crazy when you go to the Bible。
to try and figure out how you should live。
or how you should respond,。
if you aren't careful with this book,。
it's gonna screw you up.。
It's gonna mess you up.。
Because you might come to it with a sense of,。
"Hey man, if anybody ever quotes to me。
"something from the Bible,。
"I better respond to it quickly and fully."。
Now that is not in and of itself a bad idea。
as long as you understand that this is a difficult book,。
and sometimes untaught and unstable people。
take it and distort it to their own destruction.。
That's the Bible's words, not mine.。
You find that warning in 2 Peter,。
one of the guys that was closest to Jesus,。
one of the guys that Jesus said,。
"You're gonna be the foundation of the beginning。
"of the grace that I'm bringing,。
"Peter, you and others like you who know who I really am,。
"that acknowledge that I'm a God,。
"that I am the God, and that I'm good, and I am the way.。
"You better make sure when you teach people what I said,。
"you teach them all of what I said.。
"You teach them everything I commanded you."。
'Cause if they just take little pieces of it,。
it will not go well with them.。
Let me just show you a few things.。
You know what the Bible tells you and says,。
in it there is no God?。
It says that.。
You know what the Bible says in it,。
and some people in this room believe。
that if you really know God and you love him。
and you let yourself be strengthened by him,。
you can do anything that you want.。
You know what the Bible says?。
That if you give, it is guaranteed that what you give。
will be multiplied and made beyond anything。
you ever imagined.。
You know what the Bible says?。
That you are not to judge other people,。
or you'll be judged.。
You know what the Bible says?。
That God guarantees for you a future and a hope.。
He's got plans for you for welfare and not calamity.。
Now here's what's crazy about what I just said.。
Some of you guys go,。
"Man, he's quoting some of my favorite Bible verses."。
(congregation laughing)。
And to you, I say, "Whoa."。
About 10 years ago, I did a series。
with a bunch of my friends.。
We call it The Most, where we just took a bunch。
of different verses in the Bible.。
I talked about what I thought was the most important verse,。
the most misquoted verse.。
I talked about what I thought was the most misunderstood。
verse in the Bible.。
I did about 10 of these.。
And tonight, we are at the place in the Sermon on the Mount。
when more people take a verse and jerk it out of context。
and use it to the destruction of themselves and society。
than any place else in the Bible.。
In fact, just a good thing to remember。
as we get charged in tonight,。
is that you should never read a Bible verse.。
You hear what I said?。
I'm a pastor, and I'm telling you,。
you should never read a Bible verse.。
What you should read is a Bible passage.。
What you should read is books in the Bible.。
What you should read is the story.。
Now watch this, turn with me to Matthew chapter seven.。
That's where we are.。
Now you can do that thanks to a guy named Stephen Lankton.。
You might go, "Well, Todd, who is Stephen Lankton?"。
He was the Archbishop of Canterbury in 1227.。
1227, that is about 1200 years after the Bible,。
actually about 900 years after the Bible was assimilated。
for the very first time.。
A guy named Stephen Lankton made it easy for me。
to communicate to you who might be on anybody's wildest。
imagination one day, have your own copy。
of the sacred text of God.。
And so that you would get there quickly,。
he put chapters on letters and books.。
You see, when they were written,。
they weren't originally written with chapters.。
And in fact, it wasn't until a couple hundred years later。
that a guy named Nathan, who was a Jewish rabbi,。
went and took Stephen's chapters。
and put inside of them verses.。
And because of Nathan, some of you might believe。
that you could be silent and never speak up。
because God will fight for you.。
Because you read Stephen Lankton's chapter 14。
and Nathan's verse 14 in Exodus.。
And you read a Bible verse.。
And that Bible verse says,。
"Hey, your God will fight for you.。
"You just stay silent."。
And because some of you guys have obediently lived out。
that verse, and because churchmen have obediently lived out。
that verse, we live where we live today in 2015.。
It was about another 300 years after Stephen Lankton。
that a guy named Estienne, also known as Stephanus,。
took Stephen Lankton's chapters。
and inserted verses into the New Testament.。
What I'm telling you is that there was never a Bible verse。
that was written.。
Books were written, thoughts were written,。
and you have to be careful。
to not pull certain verses out of context.。
Let me do this for you very quickly, all right?。
I said at the very beginning that the Bible says。
that there is no God.。
This is the easiest one to disprove.。
It comes from Psalm 14, verse one.。
It also comes from Psalm 53, verse one.。
What it actually says is,。
"The fool has said in his heart, there is no God."。
Obviously, with just a little bit more reading。
in the passage, you would find out that, of course,。
the Bible doesn't think there is no God.。
How about this one?。
I talked about the fact that God has plans for you。
for welfare and not for calamity,。
but to give you a future and a hope.。
That is some of our favorite Bible verses.。
Some of you guys got that tattooed on your bad self.。
I know you do, right?。
(congregation laughing)。
You're like, "I don't really know much about God,。
"but, you know, welfare and future hope, man,。
"not calamity.。
"I'm down with that God," right?。
So look, find verse.。
What you don't know about that verse。
is it comes after a couple of other ideas.。
And this is what it starts with in verse 10.。
He's talking to Israel specifically。
that God uniquely chose to show Himself with.。
And He says, "Look, I'm gonna send you。
"for 70 years in a timeout.。
"I'm gonna whoop you and basically not protect you。
"and not bless you for 70 years.。
"And so you better go and set up shop in Babylon,。
"learn the language, improve their public school system,。
"work on their sewer system,。
"do what you can to make Babylon a decent place。
"'cause you're gonna live there for a while,。
"but I'm not gonna forget you.。
"And I know the plans I've got for you.。
"It's what I told you a long time ago."。
And to that nation, He tells them,。
"Look, I have plans for welfare for you。
"and not for calamity.。
"I'm gonna come to you.。
"I'm gonna give you a future and a hope."。
Now listen, does that verse in some way,。
can you extrapolate that truth to you and I at some level?。
Yes, but it doesn't mean。
that it's gonna happen in your lifetime.。
I mean, the Bible in fact says this.。
It says that if you desire to live godly in Christ Jesus,。
you will be persecuted.。
The Bible says, "Why are you surprised。
"at the fiery ordeal among you?"。
The Bible says, "You wanna follow me?。
"Then you're gonna be hated like I was hated.。
"Don't be surprised."。
And you kinda go, "Looking for a future and a hope, man.。
"That's why I got in on Him with Jesus.。
"This is not what I thought would happen, man,。
"when folks would call me a bigot and intolerant."。
And we said, "Well, you're not reading your Bible right."。
Philippians 4:13, "If you don't have Jeremiah 29 11 tattooed。
"on you, Johnny Manziel, you've got Philippians 4 13。
"tattooed on you."。
And it tells you that I can do all things。
through Him who strengthens me.。
Man, that's a great verse.。
What that verse is talking about is because in your lifetime。
you're not gonna have all welfare and future hope。
that there's gonna be some calamity.。
You better learn that there's a God。
who's sovereign over all things and that He's good。
and that you can trust Him.。
And so this is what it says in Philippians.。
Paul's writing says, "I rejoiced greatly in the Lord。
"that alas, now you revived your concern for me.。
"Indeed, you were concerned with me before,。
"but you lacked the opportunity。
"because everything was cool and good with me.。
"But then when it really got hard,。
"when things got tough, you guys showed up."。
And then he says this, he says, "Not that I speak from want。
"'cause I've learned to be content。
"in every circumstance I'm in.。
"I know how to get along with humble means。
"and I also know how to live in prosperity。
"in any and every circumstance.。
"I have learned," he goes on to say,。
"the secret of being filled and going hungry,。
"both of being in abundance and suffering need.。
"In fact, I know my God is so sufficient。
"to take care of all of my needs."。
That's verse 19.。
According to his riches and glory in Christ Jesus,。
"that I can go through anything as He strengthens me."。
That doesn't mean if you're five foot six,。
if you trust Jesus, you're gonna be able to dunk。
from the free throw line.。
So quit quoting that verse every time you're trying。
to get that last set up.。
"I can do all things through Christ."。
You're gonna get guillotine and it's gonna come on your neck。
and snap it off if you think that's what that means.。
(congregation laughing)。
All right?。
A verse is telling you if you know Him and walk with Him,。
that you'll be a person that the world will marvel。
at your strength and go, "Who are you?"。
That life isn't unfolding the way you want it。
to unfold, my God, you're 27 and still a virgin?。
How are you not neurotic?。
And you should say, "Well, look, man, I'm not against sex.。
"God, in fact, invented it, He's for it.。
"But I can go through even a series,。
"a season of chastity and faithfulness。
"and controlling my flesh for the glory of God.。
"And by the way, I'm not dying.。
"I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me."。
People look at you and go, "Man, who are you?"。
You know, how about this?。
This idea that comes up where if you give,。
it'll be given to you.。
Now, this is really amazing.。
I wanna spend a little bit of time on this one。
'cause it's gonna get us to where we wanna go。
in just a second.。
When the Bible says, "Give, it will be given to you.。
"They will pour into your lap a good measure.。
"Press down, shake, and together, running over.。
"For by your standard of measure,。
"I will measure back to you in return."。
That's a verse that certain guys love to motivate you。
to give, "Hey, give to the porch, man, give to Watermark,。
"give to this ministry."。
And so in the manner in which you give,。
it'll be given to you.。
So if you want this thing to blow up, man, let's go.。
You know what's amazing?。
You know what verse comes before that?。
It's a verse that helps you understand。
what Jesus is saying in Matthew 7.。
It's this amazing verse where he says this.。
He says in verse 37, "Do not judge, bro.。
"And you won't be judged.。
"Don't condemn, and you won't be condemned.。
"Pardon, you will be pardoned.。
"For in the manner in which you give,。
"it will be given to you."。
Do you see the context there?。
If you go around telling people。
about who they are before me。
and what righteousness looks like,。
then I'm gonna judge you based on how you act before me.。
And it's gonna be pressed down, man,。
and it's gonna blow up on you,。
and it's gonna spill out.。
You don't want that kind of judgment, man.。
But if you're merciful and you give mercy to people,。
guess what, you'll be a person。
that probably received mercy from people。
you received mercy from.。
He blessed the merciful.。
In fact, he said a couple chapters earlier,。
"For they will receive mercy."。
That ain't a verse on giving.。
It's a verse on living.。
Hey, let me just tell you something.。
Never read a Bible verse.。
You read the Bible.。
Father, I pray for my friends tonight.。
As we teach the Bible,。
that you would protect them from human error.。
I pray that you would allow them to have perceptive hearts,。
that they would be spiritually appraised,。
that they would test every single word I say。
by what your word says.。
The Scripture says, "If we know you,"。
we don't need anybody to be our teacher,。
"but you will illumine it and teach us correctly."。
I pray that I'd be faithful.。
If the words of my mouth,。
the meditations of my heart right now。
would be acceptable in your sight,。
my Lord, my rock, and my redeemer.。
But help us, Father,。
to see the truth of what you meant。
and respond fully to it.。
Amen.。
How about this, man?。
Here we go, Matthew chapter seven.。
Let's read this.。
The reason I say this is the most misunderstood。
in all of the world。
is 'cause if people don't know Philippians 4, 13。
or Jeremiah 29, 11, let me just tell you something.。
They know Matthew seven.。
And they're gonna drop it on you, man.。
It's gonna show up on Saturday Night Live.。
It's gonna show up when anybody at all。
enters into a conversation.。
You're gonna hear things like this, man.。
Hey, you ain't the judge of me.。
Lay off, man.。
Hey, who are you to judge me?。
In fact, what I wanna do is just take a moment.。
And what we did is we went back,。
when I began on purpose, I do this at times,。
I jump on social media and I try,。
well, I don't try, I just make statements。
that I know people are gonna probably respond to.。
I hope they do.。
I hope they respond to the truth that's there.。
But often they respond to it in a way。
that they start saying things to me。
and trying to escalate the conversation。
and move it away from an honest, civil conversation。
to name calling.。
And I just try and model on there。
a little bit of how you deal with people.。
And I hope I teach you a little bit of that tonight.。
Right now, on my blog, wordsfromwags.com。
is where you can find that.。
I wanna just show you, I wanna walk you through.。
I did this not long ago when Bruce Jenner,。
now goes by the name Caitlin.。
And I agree with a good friend of mine,。
John Piper, and people go,。
"If Bruce was around you, what would you call him?"。
And I go, "Well, look, names are just kind of random.。
"You assign a name to people, it's kind of a cultural thing."。
And so I guess I wouldn't wanna keep throwing his face。
that his name is Bruce, because if he wants to,。
he can change his name to, I don't know, whatever he wants.。
If he wants to legally change his name to Caitlin,。
that's fine.。
Listen, I married Alex.。
Okay, that's what we call her, that's her name.。
Alexandria is what her parents called her.。
But if you heard, "Man, Todd's hanging out with Alex a lot."。
You know, you might wanna go and check that out。
and see what that really means.。
But names are just arbitrary, okay?。
They're just assigned by culture.。
Now, pronouns are not arbitrary.。
Pronouns are assigned by God.。
And so I might call Bruce Caitlin,。
but I won't call him her,。
'cause it's not loving.。
But let me ask you guys a question.。
What do you think the world's gonna say。
when I say it's not loving to call him her?。
Let me show you.。
It's a little bit of my interchange。
with different people out there on social media.。
And I went out, and just on the night。
that he was on the Espes, I put this out there.。
"It's a tragedy and a disservice to celebrate。
"in his mental illness and foolish。
"to think highly of yourself for celebrating him,"。
which is what the world was certainly doing that night.。
I was just saying, "Listen, Bruce is mentally ill."。
Now, listen, I separate brain illness from mental illness,。
and I do that very specifically。
because the Bible says the problem with all of us。
is that we are wrong-thinking.。
And so the way that we change our lives。
is we begin to think correctly.。
That's why Jesus, just a few verses before where we are。
in Matthew chapter seven and chapter six, said,。
"Hey, bro, here's your problem.。
"The way you think, the way you perceive reality,。
"the way you take in information, your eyes are darkened."。
In other words, you think wrongly,。
you process and don't see clearly.。
And because you don't see and understand。
and perceive reality clearly,。
your perception is the problem.。
That's why you're living the way that you are.。
David Marvin did a great job with that last week,。
talking about seeking the wrong things。
and trying to find life in the wrong things.。
And so mental illness is a spiritual problem.。
Brain illness is something different.。
It's a physical problem.。
And I'm just gonna warn you,。
if you are wrong-thinking for a long time,。
it can lead to physical issues in your life.。
This last weekend, man, if you weren't here at Watermark,。
I'm gonna tell you, I think it was one of the best Sundays。
we've ever had at Watermark.。
And the message was amazing.。
And I can say that 'cause I wasn't here.。
In fact, if a pastor should be insecure。
when the most powerful sermons and messages。
and events happen at a church when he's not there,。
I should be the most insecure person。
on the face of the earth.。
'Cause this Sunday, I didn't speak,。
but my buddy JP did, my buddy John Elmore,。
my buddy Rick Smith, they all talked.。
And they did an amazing job.。
JP talked specifically about pornography.。
And one of the things he said there is,。
listen, man, if you perceive that you're gonna find life。
in pornography, it's eventually.。
That mental problem that you think life is found in porn。
is gonna lead to real physical maladies.。
That's not just the Bible's opinion.。
That is scientific fact today.。
And so I'm gonna tell you,。
mental illness can lead to brain illness.。
It can lead to physical maladies.。
But Bruce has gotten, you know,。
Bruce is gonna bring some physical issues on his own life。
because of his mental issues.。
Now some of you guys are going,。
"Is this right for Todd to say that?。
"Isn't this judgmental?"。
We're gonna learn tonight.。
Now watch this, watch what happens.。
Okay, so I said that.。
I followed it up with another statement,。
which is when political correctness hurts people,。
it's not correct.。
It's not loving.。
It's not being magnanimous.。
In fact, it's really professing to be wise.。
You're becoming a fool.。
Okay, and so here's my first friend。
that pops up to deal with me.。
It's a person named Ryan Lee.。
Later you're gonna see, I saw the female picture there。
and I responded, "Ma'am," and I corrected that later.。
I wasn't trying to be smart.。
I just saw the girl.。
And Ryan is a name that can go both ways.。
And so I thought it was a girl.。
I corrected it, but watch this.。
Ryan said, "Hey, man, I don't understand her illness。
"and what she's going through, so I don't judge, man.。
"I just love."。
Now watch, who's gonna say this to me?。
"Hey, Todd, leave the judging to God.。
"Oh, this is a God believer.。
"This is a theist that's now gonna tell me."。
And so I said, "Hey, Ryan, this might help you.。
"What does the Bible mean when it says,。
"judge not, lest you be judged?"。
Now here's the great news.。
There's six minutes on this。
that you can go to realtruthrealquick.com and check it out.。
Where I just said, "Hey, check this out."。
So he goes and he checks it out.。
And then he responds by saying,。
"Oh, hey, thank you for the spiritual lesson.。
"Here's yours."。
(congregation laughing)。
Now what I like about this。
is that the brother sent me a passage, not a verse.。
Watch this.。
"Hey, love your enemies, do good,。
"and lend, hoping for nothing again,。
"and your reward will be great.。
"He should be highest of the children of the highest,。
"for he is kind unto the thankful and to the evil.。
"Be therefore merciful, as your Father is merciful."。
I'm down with that.。
Judge not, and you won't be judged, man.。
Condemn not, you won't be condemned.。
Forgiven, you shall be forgiven.。
And we know this verse, right?。
Have you ever read that verse before?。
Say yes, unless you just walked in here.。
I don't think you did.。
You read that.。
Now listen, I love this,。
'cause what he's saying is, he wants me to read what?。
He wants me to read, "Judge not, lest you be judged."。
What do we need to read?。
Well, he's telling me to be kind and merciful.。
And so, so here's my response, man.。
I go, "Hey, man, bro."。
(congregation laughing)。
But let me just remind you,。
that part of kindness is open rebuke.。
And I'm not supposed to conceal love,。
I'm supposed to come forward with it.。
In fact, "Faithful are the wounds of a friend,。
"but deceitful are the kisses of an enemy."。
Oh, so you're saying my script is false.。
No, I didn't say that.。
(congregation laughing)。
I'm just telling you, if you tattoo Philippians 4.13,。
you try and do 100 reps of 245, bro,。
you're going to hurt yourself.。
That's what I'm trying to tell you.。
Even worse, if you are God's agent of truth。
and hope and light, and you misunderstand what he says,。
the world is gonna get dark and deceived.。
He said, "I can go back and forth with you all day long,。
"man, I can see you're not open to other point of view."。
And that's why I said, "No, ma'am, I let her correct this。
"when he let me know he wasn't a man,。
"he's the guy in the picture."。
I said, "Luke 6 is completely true,。
"but thinking love means supporting someone's error。
"is not loving or true."。
Now watch this, follow with me.。
"Oh my God," says Aida.。
"Because of stupid people like this fool,。
"everyone thinks we are Christians。
"and some crazy ass fanatics."。
All right, so I said, "Hey, Aida,。
"can you share with me as a fellow follower of Christ。
"by using God's word where anything I said was crazy ass?。
"'Cause I'd love to know."。
(audience laughing)。
All right, and so she responds.。
Actually, another person I've interacted with before。
on Twitter, Jones Pants is what they call themselves.。
Says, "Her name is Caitlin,。
"and it's really dangerous for trans people。
"when people like you say that supporting us。
"is what hurts us."。
I go, "Hey, Joan, hello again.。
"I wanna love people, not support them."。
Did you catch that?。
I wanna love people.。
Hey, you guys ever heard this?。
Friends don't let friends...。
Ah!。
(audience laughing)。
It's a dangerous town if only a few of you guys know that.。
Right?。
(audience laughing)。
I don't know, friends just party all night。
and get on 75 and 90, man, I don't know.。
Let me ask you again for my sake.。
I got kids that are driving.。
Friends don't let friends chop their penis off。
because they think they're a girl.。
They don't.。
All right?。
Now listen, they do what they can,。
and they go, "I wanna support you."。
But that's not supporting you, man.。
That's not like, "Bro, all right, I'm down with that.。
"Let's go."。
(audience laughing)。
Now look, you wanna be...。
You gotta understand that a lot of tenor。
just has gotta come because there's something。
really wrong with the mind that thinks。
that's what it's gotta do to find life.。
But are you tracking with me?。
Now watch, you know, I just go,。
"Look, man, when political correctness hurts people,。
"it is not correct, it is not loving,。
"it's not magnanimous."。
I repeat that.。
And so, hey, transphobia is the mental illness,。
which is really what exactly has happened in our society.。
People that used to study the human mind。
said that homosexuality and transgender dysphoria。
was the mental illness, and guess what?。
It's completely switched now.。
And now it's people who think that telling boys。
they're boys and girls they're girls。
without letting them think it through。
are the people who are mentally ill.。
That's what's happening in our world today,。
and the reason it's happening is because you all。
misunderstand Matthew 7, and you don't wanna be a hater.。
And we're gonna clear that up tonight,。
and we're gonna send out of this room。
3,000 people to get it right,。
and another 1,000 in Fort Worth,。
and I hope you share this message with other people, man.。
And I just say to 'em, I understand it's your position.。
As we discuss the wisdom of our different takes,。
let's do it well and without calling it hate.。
Another person shows up, Tokyo David,。
and just says, "Hey, man, to me,。
"transphobia and ignorance is a mental illness。
"and a tragedy.。
"You get help."。
And I say, "Hey, Tokyo David,。
"let's try and help each other, bro.。
"If something is true,。
"no amount of scrutiny will affect it,。
"so let's talk about our different ideas。
"and what's the merit of them."。
Ina comes back in and say, "Calling someone mentally ill。
"just because they're different is wrong."。
Agreed, I say.。
But we are talking about more than being different.。
We're talking about contradicting what is real。
and what is true.。
You know what's amazing?。
Some of you guys are tracking, and you're kinda,。
wow, can you really say that?。
That someone's a boy because of their DNA。
and because of their God-assigned gender?。
Can you say that?。
It's amazing where we've gotten.。
Because people are no longer making judgments。
that God says, "Hey, if you judge this wrongly,。
"if you get on the broad road,。
"it's gonna lead to destruction.。
"Truth is narrow.。
"I'm gonna teach you that tonight."。
It's always been narrow,。
and God wants people who love people to speak up.。
So watch this, man.。
Somebody says something to me.。
Actually, it was Jellybean897.。
They later removed, Jellybean got rid of their post.。
But what they basically said is I was bullying,。
and I said, "Hey, bro, I'm not gonna support。
"anti-gay bullying, but I'm gonna tell you,。
"not loving children with grace and truth,。
"that's today's problem.。
"That's child abuse."。
When you let a six-year-old say,。
"Hey, I think I'm presenting as a girl。
"even though I'm a boy.。
"I think I'm a boy even though I'm a girl."。
That's child abuse to support that.。
Do you all understand that?。
That's parental sickness when a six-year-old can tell you。
that there's something other than。
thousands of years of human history have confirmed,。
and that, by the way, science has confirmed over time。
changing their gender because they think。
they might be a different gender。
is not going to take care of their mental illness.。
And probably at six, they're not mentally ill.。
They're just learning.。
Man, I can remember when I was five-year-olds,。
Karen Hollenbeck was my best friend.。
I used to play dolls over at Karen Hollenbeck's house。
all the time.。
I loved it.。
She was cute, she was fun, she was also fast.。
And I can remember sometimes being up in a room。
playing with dolls.。
I don't know if I grabbed Ken or Barbie.。
All I knew was hanging out with my buddy.。
Can you imagine if I went home and go,。
"Hey, I think I like Barbie."。
And somebody, because I was five and had a friend,。
would have said, "Well, chase that."。
Hey, what Joan's Pants comes back and says。
is to me basically this,。
and you can see the other interactions I have with Blair.。
Tolerance doesn't mean every opinion is equally true.。
That's a wrong opinion of tolerance.。
I'm gonna give this to you in a minute.。
Saying that it hurts trans people to be supported,。
Joan lets me know, that's what's hateful.。
And I just respond, I support their right to choose.。
I will defend their right to choose.。
And against any hate that comes against them。
for choosing that, but I can't support their choice is wise.。
All right, man, hey, I'm gonna tell you all day long,。
you're free to choose.。
That's not my idea, that's God's.。
I'm not gonna sit there and tell you。
that your choice is gonna lead to life.。
And if you wanna call me a hater because I say that,。
I'm gonna be the one that after you call me a hater。
for a lot of years, you're probably gonna come back。
and say, "Hey, man, you were the one person that loved me.。
"Everybody else just wanted to get on the bandwagon。
"and follow me down this road to destruction.。
"But you loved me and I hated you for it."。
I think every single one of you guys。
is gonna say that one day to God.。
I think your knees gonna bow before him.。
Whether you ever do it on this earth or not,。
you're gonna bow before him and say, "God, you loved me.。
"You gave me your word, you protected it,。
"you sovereignly made it the most popular。
"and read and distributed book in the history of the world.。
"You had one man that came。
"that all of human history pivoted on.。
"That man died on the cross for my sins.。
"I've heard the story.。
"Even if I didn't hear the story,。
"I saw your beauty in order and design and creation.。
"And you gave me a conscience.。
"And so I knew that what I did was wrong。
"and I never honored my conscience。
"or honored you in creation.。
"And I suppressed the truth and unrighteousness,。
"but thank you for the conscience that you gave me。
"that I spit on and destroyed my life.。
"Thank you.。
"You are God and you are king and I despised you.。
"But I acknowledge you now as Lord."。
That is gonna happen one day.。
And what God says is if you know he's that now,。
he expects you to love other people.。
You guys can go and look at that blog post.。
I'm not gonna spend any more time reading the rest of that。
'cause there's better words that I'm gonna show you.。
I'm gonna teach them to you correctly.。
So what's going on here in Matthew 7?。
Let's read the verses I'm assigned to teach you tonight.。
Here they come.。
"Do not judge that you won't be judged.。
"For the way that you judge, you will be judged.。
"And by your standard of measure will be measured to you.。
"Why do you look at the speck that's in your brother's eye。
"but do not notice the log that's in your own eye?。
"How can you say to your brother,。
"let me take the speck out of your eye?。
"Behold, the log is in your own eye.。
"You hypocrite, first take the log out of your eye。
"and then you will see clearly to take the speck。
"out of your brother's eye.。
"Don't give what's holy to dogs.。
"Don't throw your pearls before swine。
"or they will trample them under their feet。
"and turn and tear you to pieces."。
Now listen, here's what you need to know.。
When you read the Bible, it's context, context, context.。
Let the Bible interpret itself.。
What you need to know is that God。
is not the author of confusion.。
And so you wanna listen to what he says.。
Don't ever change your life。
or don't ever read a Bible verse.。
Now look, there's some Bible verses if you read it.。
All right, you're gonna find out。
that what that verse means in its most literal sense。
presented by itself is supported by the larger statement.。
And so you might get away with it。
if the only Bible verse you ever read is John 14, six,。
that Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life。
and no one comes to the Father except by him.。
You might get away with Acts 4, 12,。
which says there's no other name under heaven。
by which men must be saved except the name Lord Jesus.。
You might get away with John 3, 16.。
For God so loved the world。
that he gave his only begotten son。
that whosoever believes in him should not perish。
but have eternal life.。
There's a few verses that you're gonna find out。
that is said again and again and again and again。
and again in the story,。
but it's still a good thing to tell you,。
context, context, context.。
Don't ever read a Bible verse, read a Bible passage.。
Because most of the time it's gonna really jack you up.。
And this is one.。
What was the very first thing that I got hit with。
when I stepped out there。
and tried to say some things to our world?。
Hey, by the way, I think Bruce Jenner or Caitlyn。
is very courageous.。
One of the things that he did,。
I do think he's courageous,。
but not for the reason he got an SB.。
He's courageous because he said,。
this is where I'm struggling.。
His problem was that his church。
convinced him it wasn't a struggle.。
His church said, bro, man, let's go.。
It was Hozier's church.。
Take me to church, let's go.。
I will worship like a dog.。
Hey, that's what happened。
is that Bruce Jenner was courageous.。
He said, hey, I'm starting to think,。
I know I won the gold medal in '76 in Montreal。
as the men's decathlete.。
I was the greatest athlete on the world,。
but because of a lot of other issues,。
I'm having some real gender dysphoria.。
Now listen, in '76, Bruce Jenner was surrounded by a culture。
that said, Bruce, that's not healthy.。
Now, unfortunately, he didn't run into the loving people。
that really began to help him work through some of that.。
What he did is he started running with the Kardashians。
and others who were like, hey,。
whatever's gonna work out there, let's make it work.。
But I wanna tell you something, man.。
If you're here struggling, we're not gonna laugh at you。
because you've got gender dysphoria.。
I hope you don't laugh at me that I am polyamorous.。
And that in my heart, I'm never satisfied。
with just one beautiful woman who's given me six children.。
I hope you don't mock me that when I heard。
about Exotica coming to Dallas, I had two thoughts.。
One, God bless those 15,000 estimated people。
that wanna go down there and find life,。
and maybe I can go and minister to them。
and get to voyeuristically see some stuff。
that I haven't seen in a long time。
that I still really crave.。
And I hope you don't make fun of me for that.。
'Cause I'm broken, man, my sexuality is all jacked up.。
But I don't need you to tell me, it's all right, Todd.。
You go get you some Jenna Jameson, man, it's all right, Todd.。
You go get you some of that, man.。
That one especially, I mean, maybe you don't wanna go。
and be with her really, but you can fantasize that you are.。
Pornography's a sin, doesn't hurt anybody, really.。
You need to read up.。
(audience laughing)。
And so, man, I hope you don't judge me,。
'cause I'm screwed up, in the sense that you're gonna say,。
I don't want anything to do with a guy like you,。
and God could never love a guy like you,。
'cause I'm jacked up.。
This morning I shared that with the staff.。
I just told them, I said, hey, we were singing the song,。
Lord, I Need You, and there's a line in there。
that just hit me today like never before,。
and that line is, holiness is Christ in me.。
And you know what's so funny?。
I mean, I know that's true, but what's so funny。
is that I sometimes think holiness is Todd Wagner。
getting it after, man, being a pastor now for 30 years,。
preaching the word, knowing it, memorizing a lot of passages,。
not just verses.。
Holiness is the way I live.。
I've loved my wife, been faithful for now a quarter century.。
I've raised my kids to love God.。
Holiness is me getting it done for Jesus.。
That is crazy, unbiblical, and error.。
There is nothing good in me.。
My Bible says, you know what, Todd?。
Your flesh is never going to be anything other than cursed,。
and so I'm not trying to have you curb your flesh.。
You need to continually crucify your flesh,。
and the life which you now live in the flesh,。
you live by faith in the Son of God who loved you。
and gave himself up for you.。
You must decrease, and he must increase.。
Do you know where I get screwed up?。
The same way Bruce Jenner gets screwed up。
is when I start to follow what my flesh thinks and feels.。
Feelings are real, they're just not reliable.。
Truth is reliable.。
Follow truth.。
Jesus is truth.。
Follow him.。
Hey man, you might be hearing, you're really whacked out.。
I don't know what your whacked out is.。
I can tell you what mine is,。
and I hope it doesn't make you。
not want to worship God with me.。
But I don't care if you're a guy and you want to be a girl.。
If you're a girl and want to be with a girl,。
or a guy, want to be with a guy.。
I don't care if you're a girl。
and want to find your meaning through guys.。
I don't care if you're a girl。
and you cut babies out of you when they're there。
'cause they're inconvenient.。
You're embarrassed by what you've done.。
I mean, I do care 'cause I love you.。
And I've chased some of those nasty roads。
of rebellion myself, and every time I know where they lead,。
and I'm just here to tell you there's a better way.。
And I'm not judging you like God can never judge you.。
That's what the wrong guys did that Jesus is rebuking here.。
See, here's what's going on in Matthew.。
Jesus is saying you want to be blessed,。
here's how you're blessed, you're poor in spirit.。
The Pharisees made a fundamental flaw。
and had a fundamental problem.。
They judged themselves wrongly,。
they judged others wrongly, and they judged God wrongly.。
And what Jesus is saying here in the context is this.。
Go back chapter and a half to Matthew 5, verse 20.。
Hey, unless your righteousness is greater than the Pharisees,。
the guys that their full-time job is to be righteous。
and do righteous things, you're not gonna get into heaven.。
And you're like, what the, are you kidding me?。
Unless I'm more righteous than Mother Teresa。
and Billy Graham's offspring?。
If that wasn't enough, then we go to verse 48 of Matthew 5。
where he's continuing the idea.。
He says, hey, here's the deal.。
Be perfect like your heavenly Father is perfect.。
Some of you guys have read that verse。
and you're trying to be perfect.。
Don't read a Bible verse.。
Jesus isn't telling you to be perfect。
and get yourself in religious order.。
He's saying this, hey, bro, the standard is perfection.。
You wanna know how to get to heaven?。
Be perfect.。
And it should make you go, I screwed that one up。
at like, you know, two hours.。
And if you wanna wait 'til I was old enough。
to be accountable, I screwed that up in two seconds。
after I was accountable.。
I'm not perfect.。
What do I do?。
And Jesus says, what you should do is follow me.。
Trust in me.。
Your lack of perfection brings about an imperfect world.。
Your lack of perfection destroys relationships.。
Your lack of perfection makes you sad, depressed,。
discouraged, at war with each other.。
And I'm here to make that right, man.。
Let me bring peace.。
Let's start with you individually。
and then we'll get a collective group of you。
and then we'll just expand this thing。
and eventually I'll work this whole thing out.。
But a little bit later, he comes to these guys。
who are running this show and he says,。
hey man, by the way, you guys,。
you quit judging other people.。
You quit telling them what they've gotta do。
to be okay with me because here's the problem.。
You judge yourself wrong.。
You think you're righteous.。
You're not perfect.。
You're not righteous.。
And here's your problem.。
You think you're so good that other people,。
you judge wrongly, that there's no way。
they'll be good enough.。
And so you heap burdens on them, more burdens,。
and all they become is twice the sons of hell that you are.。
And you know why you do that?。
Because you judge me wrongly.。
You think that I'm satisfied with the deeds of man。
and you don't know that to me,。
your righteous deeds are like filthy rags.。
So I don't care how long you've been a virgin.。
I don't care how much money you've given.。
You're not perfect.。
I'm perfect.。
I don't merge with imperfect.。
I have no fellowship with darkness.。
You need to be born again.。
And bro, you can't even born yourself.。
And so you better appeal to something that isn't like you.。
Start with me, God, creator of heavens and earth.。
That's your Bible, people.。
And so what he's saying is, here's your deal, man.。
Quit telling people what will get them into heaven.。
What gets them into heaven is that they are poor in spirit.。
You don't judge yourself correctly.。
What Jesus is talking about right here。
is that don't you assign a human standard。
to a perfect God's righteousness.。
You wanna help people get reconciled with me?。
Then why don't you get the log out of your eye?。
I'd love for you to help people,。
but you can't see to get the speck out of their eye.。
And so Jesus told all kinds of stories throughout the Bible.。
One of them he told in Luke 18,。
where there's these two guys and they come。
and one of them is a tax gatherer, a non-Jew.。
And he didn't even go near the temple.。
He just falls in his face and he beats his chest。
and he rips his clothes.。
He says, "Oh God, have mercy on me, a sinner."。
And then next to him is a Pharisee, a Jew,。
adorned in righteousness, follower of the law,。
keeper of the Sabbath.。
And he looks at the despicable guy that's over there。
and he says, "I'm glad I'm not like that guy."。
And Jesus is going, "Oh my God,。
"bro, you better start to judge yourself rightly.。
"That guy, that's the guy I accept.。
"I don't want your dead works.。
"You think human performance is enough for my perfection?"。
See, every single person in this room。
that is not running to God and embracing him。
has one of two problems.。
They either have too high a view of themself。
or too low a view of God.。
And usually when you have too high a view of yourself, man,。
when you're looking down on other people,。
you can never look up to see the judgment。
that's coming at you.。
And Jesus is setting this record straight right here.。
And he's just telling them flat out, man, here's the deal.。
Listen to what Jesus said, "Blessed are the poor.。
"Blessed are those who mourn because they're poor.。
"Blessed are the meek and are gentle。
"because they know that apart from God's grace。
"they're not gonna get anything.。
"Blessed are those that hunger and thirst for righteousness。
"because they know they don't have it on them themselves."。
If you think you're righteous。
because you go to Watermark, you're a pastor at Watermark,。
you give to Watermark, you haven't had sex。
with anybody but your wife, oh man.。
If you think you're better than people。
that are gonna go to Exotica this weekend。
because you think you're not going, pleases me, Todd,。
every time you look at a woman with lust in your heart,。
you've committed adultery, man.。
Now, temptation is not sin, but going back over it is sin.。
I committed adultery, I am sure, sometime this week.。
And I should add right here,。
please take my entire sermon in context。
and don't listen to two seconds, right?。
(congregation laughing)。
I know JP goes, "Mark that, we're gonna use that."。
I'll be pastor here in no time,。
that's what he's thinking right now.。
(congregation laughing)。
You probably ought to be.。
You probably ought to be, bro.。
Let me just tell you guys,。
there's a difference between being judgmental,。
which is I'm better than you,。
there's no way that God could ever love you,。
and making judgments.。
Can I just say that to you one more time?。
There's a difference between being judgmental,。
which is this is what it takes for you。
to make yourself right with God,。
you better be as good as me, and that is detestable.。
Can I just tell you something, man?。
You know, we do, oh, I think it was also in 2006,。
I gave a message called。
Homosexuality and Same-Sex Marriage,。
an apology, an answer, and an assignment.。
And I just apologized to the homosexual community,。
and just, can I tell you something, man?。
We got divorces rampant in our churches,。
we have not honored marriage here for a long time.。
And hopefully not at Watermark,。
but the church, you know, the church has endorsed。
this no-fault divorce idea,。
and we're talking about the sanctity of marriage,。
we don't protect marriage,。
we're just telling you you can't have it.。
And by the way, it's not right,。
because we're screwing up marriage,。
that we should let you screw up marriage,。
but we can't tell you that you're the only ones。
that screw up marriage, but we screw it up constantly.。
Right, if I not right now asked you guys。
to raise your hand, how many of you guys。
are the product of a broken home,。
a bunch of your hands would go up,。
and if I said, how many of you guys,。
you're broken home, it's because you had two mommies,。
or two daddies?。
Probably, at this day and age, maybe one or two,。
because not many were when you were kids.。
But we've been stomping all over marriage for a long time,。
and we've been telling people,。
God won't love you if you think gay marriage is good.。
Now by the way, God loves you,。
he demonstrates his love for you,。
and that while you still think gay marriage,。
or homosexuality, or transgender issues,。
or pornography, or lustful thoughts,。
or whatever it is that's not perfect,。
he's loved you for a long time, man.。
He demonstrates his love for you,。
and that while you're yet sinners, he died for you.。
But it's not loving for him just to go,。
all right, well go ahead, 'cause he knows。
if you sow to the flesh, you're gonna reap destruction.。
And friends, don't let friends drive to destruction.。
And so what Jesus is saying right here,。
man, you guys better watch yourself.。
Man, you're in a position of power,。
you're telling people a lot about me.。
If you start telling people they're gonna be measured。
by the way that they perform,。
I'm gonna measure you by the way you perform,。
and it's not gonna go well with you.。
And so he's telling them, repent.。
Let me tell you something,。
Jesus never said to not make judgments.。
If you keep reading in Matthew 7,。
he's gonna say, you're gonna know a kind of tree。
by guess what?。
A judgment.。
How do you know it's a banana tree?。
It has, go ahead, it's okay.。
It has a banana.。
How do you know it's a boy?。
(audience laughing)。
Smart crowd.。
(audience laughing)。
And when you stop making those kind of judgments, man,。
you just kind of go, are you serious?。
We are some seriously jacked up people.。
Professing to be wise, we become really, really foolish.。
And we call ourselves magnanimous,。
and we tell somebody they're courageous。
because they go to a peach and say it's a banana.。
I go, that's just not healthy.。
(audience laughing)。
Let me ask you guys a question.。
If you say that a dog's tail is a leg,。
how many legs does a dog have?。
(audience laughing)。
Abraham Lincoln, Abraham Lincoln asked that question.。
It's the Abraham Lincoln quote.。
He says, hey man, if you call a dog's tail a leg,。
how many legs does a dog have?。
He says that it's four.。
You're calling a tail a leg doesn't make it a leg.。
Do you know what's happening today, people?。
Can I just tell you something?。
What's happening is that people are starting。
to call a tail a leg.。
And we're going, we've been screwed up for a long time.。
Fido's got five legs.。
(audience laughing)。
We're not screwed up.。
We're screwed up when we start to call a tail a leg.。
It's not, and what Jesus is saying is crazy.。
Can I just show you guys something?。
Watch this.。
I'm gonna read to you from Ephesians chapter four.。
Just listen to this, okay?。
I mean, this is all through your Bible.。
Ephesians chapter four, verse 11.。
Hey, God gave some as apostles, people that are sent forth,。
some as prophets, those are fourth tellers,。
or maybe even foretellers.。
Some as evangelists, some as pastors, some as teachers.。
Thank God he gave us pastors and teachers.。
You know what's amazing?。
Guess who they're putting on news today?。
They're putting guys on TV with robes.。
They look like pastors, they look like teachers,。
and they're going, that's marriage.。
That's loving to accept them。
and telling them what they're doing。
is not gonna screw them up, and it's screwing them up.。
And it's screwing you up.。
And if you're a pastor, is this mind,。
yeah, I mean, does somebody agree,。
or is it scary to go, I think he's right, but I.。
(audience laughing)。
I think he's right, but man,。
I'm starting to think dogs have five legs.。
Dogs don't have five legs.。
I mean, there might be one at the state fair next year。
that has five legs.。
Lay down your four tickets and go see it.。
But they don't generally have five legs.。
They've got four.。
And so God sends people forth.。
Who does he send forth?。
He sends forth people that know him,。
and so they know truth, and they love people.。
And friends don't let friends live dissipated,。
disillusioned, drunken lives.。
Do you know what my friend who said,。
Todd, here's some scripture for you.。
Do you know what it keeps saying。
if you keep reading where they had me?。
It says when the blind lead the blind,。
they both fall into a pit.。
Can I tell you what's happening in America?。
We've got blind leaders.。
And here's what else is happening in America.。
The same thing that happened in Nazi Germany.。
I want you guys to listen to me very carefully.。
There's a thing called the spiral of silence,。
and it's happening because you misunderstand。
because you've been beaten down with Matthew 7.。
I want you to see how I responded to Matthew 7.。
We put together a resource for you,。
and we can go, hey, here's what it means。
in Matthew chapter 7.。
Now, you can either send me this message,。
or you can send it to six or seven minutes there。
in Real Truth, Real Quick,。
and you go, this is what it really means.。
I just unpack it for him really quickly right there。
so that you stop being pushed into silence.。
There's a thing that Elizabeth Noelle Newman,。
who was a Nazi journalist,。
she wrote for a Nazi paper back in the 1940s in Germany,。
and she noticed that there was a pattern in humankind,。
and Hitler tapped into it,。
and it's when a tiny majority of the population。
control the conversation,。
and what happens is because people by nature。
are reluctant to go against what they perceive。
to be the tide of public opinion,。
and they're frightened,。
the majority that knows that dogs have four legs go,。
well, no one else is saying that there's just four legs.。
Everybody's saying it's five.。
I don't wanna be the guy who gets it wrong.。
I don't wanna be the guy who goes, no, there's four,。
and so they stop, and they go, well, maybe I'm wrong.。
When everybody in the room goes, that's a tale,。
but because influential, funny people。
like John Stewart, Barack Obama,。
pastors who are no pastors start to say some things,。
you're like, what?。
I don't know what to do.。
You know what's so funny is in 2006,。
I was watching Bill Maher.。
You guys know Bill Maher, right?。
Politically incorrect.。
It was right after Jeffrey Dahmer died.。
You guys know, raise your hand。
if you know who Jeffrey Dahmer is。
so I don't have to waste any time.。
Okay, Jeffrey Dahmer was a famous serial killer.。
I ask that 'cause I know a lot of you guys don't know.。
He was a famous serial killer in the early 2000s.。
He started when he was a kid by just killing cats。
and torturing animals, and it progressed。
to where he needed to torture children,。
and then he didn't just torture them.。
He killed 'em, and he preserved 'em, and he ate 'em.。
Okay, and this is what Bill Maher did.。
He actually said this.。
He goes, he did a eulogy for Jeffrey Dahmer.。
He goes, we're here today to honor Jeffrey.。
You know, Jeffrey was known to rape and eat his friends,。
but who am I to judge?。
And then his little bit continued.。
Bill Maher laughed at himself.。
Everybody else laughed.。
Guess what?。
I don't know, man.。
I don't know how long this is gonna be funny.。
Right, I mean, after all, who are you to judge?。
Now, you guys, Michael, that is so absurd.。
Okay, well, just roll back about 15 years。
and check out what we thought was absurd then.。
It had something to do with bananas.。
And I'm just telling you, it's because people。
who know the truth as teachers aren't speaking up.。
And it says here in Ephesians, you know,。
in verse 12, right after that, it says that the reason。
that these people are there is to equip the saints.。
That's what we're doing tonight.。
That's why I'm so glad you guys are here.。
About 3,000 of you, about 1,000 of you in Fort Worth, I hope.。
You're gonna get it right,。
and you're gonna change the world.。
Until we all attain the unity of the faith。
and the knowledge of the Son of God to mature men,。
men to the measure of the stature which belongs。
to the fullness of the kindness that is God.。
His name is Jesus, and as a result,。
we're no longer going to be children tossed here and there。
by waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine,。
by the trickery of men, by the craftiness。
and deceitful scheming.。
You all are being lied to, and it's killing your generation.。
And I'm telling you that children have no judgment.。
And if you teach them that that's normal,。
they'll grow up thinking it's normal.。
Children don't know it's a light socket.。
They think it's just a hole to play with.。
They don't know it's not a Tootsie Roll。
laying in the front yard.。
I've had 'em.。
And they go, "Look, Hershey's just littered stuff。
"all over our front yard."。
You know?。
No!。
Was that being judgmental when I dove over landmines。
to keep them from eating one?。
No, it was courageous is what it was.。
You're not a courageous parent when your kid goes,。
"I don't know, world."。
Well, let's call it a Tootsie Roll.。
So here's what I wanna do.。
I'll just give you some application, okay?。
There's so much more I could do,。
but you see what the passage is saying?。
It's telling you, man, listen.。
In Matthew 7, it's saying, "Don't be somebody。
"who thinks that they are right with God。
"because they do a few things that other people aren't doing.。
"Christianity is not what you do.。
"It is trusting in what Christ has done."。
Christianity is not what you do。
to make yourself righteous in God's eyes.。
That's dead religion.。
Christianity is understanding that there's nothing。
that you can do to ever make yourself perfect again,。
and it's being poor in spirit.。
It's mourning.。
It's being meek.。
It's hungering after righteousness。
'cause you see the ruin that comes。
from your unrighteousness.。
Christianity is what God has done,。
embracing it by grace through faith.。
And so here's what we should do as people。
who have taken a log out of our own eye.。
We're not betting the people。
are gonna be at Exotica this weekend.。
We're just like 'em, frankly,。
maybe just 'cause we wanna, for whatever reason right now,。
have some standing in the Christian community.。
Some of us kinda are thinking that we're not gonna go down。
there 'cause they don't wanna be caught.。
You know, we're not gonna go down there。
'cause they don't wanna be caught,。
but you're gonna look at plenty of it.。
You don't need to go down there.。
You got all the Exotica you want right here。
in your little smartphone, your computer,。
and you're gonna judge those people that are so brazen。
they'll pay for it and go walk around.。
No, man, those are my brothers and sisters down there.。
I'm just like 'em.。
God's been kind to me, an ungrateful and wicked man.。
So I wanna tell them about the hope that I've got,。
that God has allowed me to be sovereign over this flesh。
which seeks destruction.。
So here's what I'd exhort you to do。
as you try and figure out what to do。
with this text as a right application.。
Number one, I would just tell you, man,。
number one, let...。
Well, I'll start by just saying this, man.。
It's a better way to say it.。
Number one, get to know yourself.。
I mean, really get to know yourself.。
I mean, be honest about who you are.。
Quit trying to help people think。
that you're some really righteous person.。
Get to know yourself.。
You know who I am?。
I'm somebody who's a sinner.。
I'm saved by grace, by the grace of God,。
sustained by Christ.。
I am desperately sick.。
My heart is deceitful above all else.。
I've been justified as a saint.。
I am being sanctified by God's grace,。
God's word, God's spirit, and God's people,。
but I'm not yet glorified.。
I sometimes act pridefully.。
I sometimes act in anger.。
I sometimes double-click on a lustful thought。
and don't flee immorality.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
I sometimes act in a way that's not right.。
My friends, they know.。
They know exactly where the enemy's gonna attack me.。
They pray for me.。
They make sure I'm removing from myself。
opportunities to bring destruction into my life.。
They exhort me towards。
things that make for peace and righteousness。
in life, and that is the only reason。
you won't see me at Exotica this weekend.。
That is the only reason.。
Because of the grace of God。
manifest through His people, His Word,。
and His Spirit.。
So let others know you.。
And you let others love you.。
And you tell them, "If you ever see me moving in another direction,。
man, I want you to judge that what I'm doing is wrong.。
I want you to speak the truth to me in love.。
I want you to admonish me,。
encourage me, and help me."。
Psalm 141。
says, "Let the righteous。
smite me in kindness.。
It is as oil upon the head.。
Do not let me。
refuse it."。
You let。
others love you. And can I just give you one more。
assignment?。
Because。
America pivots on whether。
or not you do this last thing.。
You gotta love。
other people.。
You gotta speak up.。
If you think you would have spoken up in the middle。
of a Holocaust in the 1940s。
if you lived in Germany, prove it.。
'Cause there's a bigger Holocaust going on。
right now, right around you.。
If you haven't been paying attention to a few videos that are。
pushing it in your face right now, tune in.。
Speak up.。
And don't mind。
that you're hated because you speak up.。
Courageous men were hung and executed。
because they spoke up。
in the 1940s. And you stop。
telling me that you would have stood against。
racism. Because I'm gonna tell you something.。
Slavery was institutionalized。
racism.。
And abortion is institutionalized。
murder.。
And I'm not mad。
at racists.。
I'm not mad。
at people who are having abortions. I know。
what it does. We have a ministry here called Someone Cares.。
If you've been a part of an abortion story, would you let us love。
you and let you find the forgiveness that。
God has for women like。
you that have made that decision? We've got a ministry called。
Forgotten Fathers. Would you let us help you?。
We want you。
to find the grace and forgiveness that we need.。
Just like you.。
But you better speak up,。
people. Love others.。
Silence in the midst of sin。
is sin.。
Father, I pray for my friends that we would just unleash。
a thousand lovers of this world。
who are willing to do what you。
did. Which is。
suffer for the sake of righteousness. To be。
hated because truth sounds。
like hate to those who hate the truth. And we were。
haters of truth. We were hateful.。
Hating one another.。
Filled with envy. Malice.。
And in your kindness, you saved us.。
And so I pray, Father, we too would save others.。
We'd save them。
by speaking the truth in love. We'd save them by。
looking to ourself.。
Assu, we too be tempted.。
First getting the log out of our own eye and then in。
gentleness, with kindness, speaking the。
truth, no matter what they say to us.。
Make us men.。
Make us godly women.。
Make us teachers and。
prophets and evangelists for you.。
Send us forth。
to this city, to our roommates,。
families and world. For the glory。
of Christ and the good of your people in Jesus name I pray.。
Amen.。
