(soft music)。
♪ No matter what the storm ♪。
♪ Our anchor holds ♪。
♪ No matter what may come ♪。
♪ Your people press on ♪。
♪ No matter what the storm ♪。
- Love it, how fun was that?。
Hey, I'm gonna start with reading the passage。
in First Peter that we're checking out tonight.。
So you guys open if you have a Bible to First Peter with me。
and I will read it and then pray and we'll dive in.。
First Peter chapter one, starting in verse six is this,。
Peter writing, "In this,"。
talking about the eternal inheritance。
JP talked about last week, "you rejoice,。
"though now for a little while, if necessary,。
"you have been grieved by various trials,。
"so that the tested genuineness of your faith,。
"more precious than gold that perishes,。
"though it, like your faith, is tested by fire,"。
not by trials,。
"may be found to result in praise and glory。
"and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ,"。
or when Jesus comes back.。
"Though you have not seen him, Jesus, you love him.。
"Though you do not see him now, you believe in him。
"and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible。
"and filled with glory,。
"obtaining the outcome of your faith,。
"the salvation of your souls.。
"Concerning this salvation, the prophets,"。
that's the Old Testament,。
"who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours,。
"searched and inquired carefully,。
"inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them。
"was indicating when he predicted the sufferings of Christ,"。
in the Old Testament, "and the subsequent glories.。
"It was revealed to them," the prophets,。
"that they were serving not themselves。
"in the things that have now been announced to you。
"through those who preached the good news to you。
"by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven."。
Things, this whole storyline,。
things into which angels long to look.。
Let me pray, we'll dive in.。
Father, we thank you for your word.。
We thank you just for the words of Peter.。
And we thank you that you take fishermen。
who are broken, sinful men like Peter。
and sinful men like me,。
and you offer us grace and you offer us new life.。
We pray that the words that Peter, who you called the rock,。
would sharpen our hearts, would instruct us,。
would encourage us in the midst of trials that we face,。
in the midst of just this world around us,。
that he would allow your word to just pierce。
into whatever we're facing right now.。
For friends that are listening either online。
or friends in Houston and Fort Worth。
and all over the country that are tuning in with us,。
Lord, that you would do the same there.。
Lord, we leave here more in love with Jesus.。
What a tragedy it would be to come to church。
and go through the motions and not love you more。
and not know you more.。
Would that happen now, Lord?。
For anyone who doesn't know you, would you open eyes,。
allow the hearts of those inside of this room。
who don't know you to be softened,。
and would you stretch out your hand。
and do what only you can do, which is save people.。
We love you.。
Thank you for Jesus, amen.。
I was gonna start with a little story。
that happened not too long ago.。
I guess it was a few years now,。
but it was when I was engaged to my wife, Callie.。
So when you get engaged, you buy the engagement ring,。
you get down on one knee, and then you propose,。
and hopefully they say yes,。
and then you're officially engaged.。
There's another piece of jewelry。
that is involved when you get engaged.。
Anyone know what it is called?。
A wedding, okay, guys, you're gonna need to know this, man.。
There's something called a wedding band。
that once you get engaged, the game is not over.。
You also not only have an engagement ring。
you're proposing with, but on the day of the wedding,。
you place not the engagement ring,。
but a wedding band on side of this person。
or on side of your fiance.。
And so my wedding was coming up,。
I needed to get a wedding band.。
I had recently got engaged, and my fiance, Callie,。
said my grandmother has some diamonds。
that she wanted to give to whoever got engaged to me。
for this wedding band.。
I'm like, dude, holla at you.。
Boy, this girl comes with diamonds, awesome.。
And so I'm like, this is great, man, I love it.。
Grandma knows, working on a budget.。
I'll take those, I take the diamonds, this is awesome.。
Take a new jewelry, they put 'em on this band,。
and I'm all set, ready to go.。
I'm making sure this very expensive, valuable,。
thousands of dollars, more expensive than anything I owned,。
I make sure that I keep this in a very, very safe place。
and make sure that it's ready for the wedding day.。
Wedding day comes, ceremony takes place,。
everything goes great, put it on her hand,。
everything's great, go to the honeymoon, married.。
It's awesome.。
Come back from the honeymoon a few weeks later。
and realize that, oh my gosh,。
we need to go get that wedding band appraised。
because if we lose grandma's diamonds,。
we are not replacing grandma's diamonds.。
If something happens or they break off,。
if it's not insured, then we won't be able to replace it.。
So in order to get it insured,。
you gotta go get it appraised,。
jeweler says, oh, it's worth this much,。
turn this into the insurance company.。
So we go to the jewelry store, get there,。
hand 'em the diamond, hand 'em the wedding band,。
they take it back, they look at it,。
all of a sudden the guy's like,。
oh man, I'm gonna have to take this back to the back.。
Goes back to the back, does, I'm not exactly sure what,。
but he looks at it and he just said,。
man, we're inspecting it, put it underneath this microscope.。
And he comes back and he says, these are fake diamonds.。
(laughing)。
Yeah, I know, and he's like, grandma, are you serious?。
You gave us fake diamonds?。
And I'm like, no, that can't be right,。
you must be mistaken.。
He's like, I looked at 'em, these are not real diamonds.。
These are fake, they're worthless.。
And I'm like, okay, worthless, ouch,。
even fake ones are worth nothing.。
And the reason I start with that。
is because just like in that scenario。
where we had been carrying around,。
I mean, my wife had this band on。
that she'd been carrying around on herself,。
something that she thought was incredibly value,。
she was taking everywhere that she went,。
she thought it was of incredible value,。
and it ended up being totally fake and worthless.。
And the apostle Peter tonight is gonna say。
that for many of us or for many people,。
based on what he lays out in terms of faith,。
when it comes to the thing that they're carrying around。
they think is faith, he would say it's fake, it's worthless.。
And as tragic as it is to get a wedding band。
that you end up discovering,。
oh my gosh, these are fake diamonds,。
how much more tragic would it be to go。
and at the end of your life realize。
that the thing that you said was faith,。
some belief in God or some prayer。
that you had prayed when you were younger。
and you thought you possessed this faith that was true,。
never was.。
And so tonight, he's gonna lay out what true faith,。
what the qualities of true faith look like.。
If you take notes, you can write down。
the qualities of true faith as he just instructs us。
on some of the attributes that if a person is to have faith,。
what they're gonna experience and what makes up。
what true faith looks like when it's displayed.。
Specifically, what he's gonna tell us。
is how true faith is refined,。
how true faith is defined,。
and then what true faith focuses on.。
So we'll start in verse six and pick up right。
where we left off and continue going there。
and read it again.。
Here's what he says.。
In this, again, talking about the eternal inheritance。
that we covered last week, if you missed it,。
check out the Porch app, go listen to J.P.'s message.。
It was incredible.。
Make sure that you catch it and stay tuned with us。
as we go through 1 Peter.。
But he says, "In this, eternal inheritance, you rejoice,。
"though now for a little while,。
"you have been grieved by various trials."。
So he's writing to an audience of Christian.。
He's saying, look, there's gonna be an eternal inheritance,。
but right now in this life,。
you're gonna walk through all kinds of trials.。
What do they do in your life?。
So that the tested genuineness of your faith,。
that they begin to test your faith,。
which is more a faith more precious than gold,。
that perishes, though it is also like faith,。
tested by fire, may be found a result, your faith,。
in praise and glory and honor。
at the revelation of Jesus Christ.。
What did Peter just say?。
Peter just said that for believers inside of Christianity,。
when you become a Christian,。
God does not promise that he's gonna protect you from pain,。
but he promises a purpose in the pain in your life,。
in the pain in my life,。
that he doesn't promise like,。
hey, you become a Christian, you sign up,。
everything's gonna be great from here on out.。
He doesn't promise protection from pain.。
He promises a purpose for your pain.。
And that is that trials are the thing。
that will refine and purify,。
will test and prove your faith to be true.。
The first idea from the text is that true faith。
is refined by trials.。
True faith, if you have true faith,。
it is something that will be refined。
by the trials inside of your life,。
no matter how big, no matter how small.。
I mean, Christianity, this is why people,。
the idea even Peter introduces that,。
man, you're going to face trials.。
There's gonna be things in your life that fall apart.。
Singleness, a parent who divorced,。
the loss of a loved one, cancer,。
the loss of a loved one, cancer,。
whatever it is, Peter's gonna say you're gonna face.。
This is why the idea that if you follow Jesus,。
and man, I wish this was true,。
it'd make life so much easier, wouldn't it?。
Hey, if you follow Jesus,。
everything's gonna be great in your life.。
You're gonna be healthy, wealthy, wise,。
it's all gonna be great.。
It's just a lie.。
It's something called the prosperity gospel.。
It just flies in the face of the New Testament teaching。
or of Peter, who got crucified upside down,。
who would say, man, if you follow Jesus,。
he doesn't promise protection from the pain in this world,。
but he does promise a purpose towards it.。
And one of the primary purposes。
is that he will use it to refine the faith。
that you and I have.。
And he uses this illustration that, man, I just love.。
It's brilliant, of Peter.。
He says, just like gold is tested and refined in the fire,。
faith is tested and refined in trials of life.。
Whatever hard thing you're going through right now。
is something that God will use。
if we allow him to refine and grow our faith,。
grow our trust in him.。
And he uses the fire thing.。
Here's why the fire thing's brilliant.。
Here's the word that he uses for tested,。
both on your faith and with gold in the fire.。
It's a metalsmith word or a goldsmith word。
that was used at this time.。
And it was a word that basically mean,。
it was the process by which gold would be refined.。
Here's how gold gets refined.。
Take a piece of gold, heat up this oven,。
get it real, real hot, put the piece of gold in there,。
let it boil a little bit, pull it out,。
and all of a sudden the impurities rise to the top.。
They wipe off the impurities.。
You may have heard it called dross.。
That's what that is.。
They stick it back in, make it even hotter.。
The impurities continue to rise to the top,。
scrape them away.。
You know when they know that the gold has been tested。
or has been purified?。
When you can see, or the goldsmith can see his reflection。
in the gold.。
When he can see it clearly,。
he knows that the gold has been tested.。
Why is that significant?。
It's the same thing that Christ does through trials,。
through all of life,。
or is working towards in everyone who says they're a。
Christian or everyone who is a Christian.。
Where he is working about and bringing all things。
for the good of those who love him to be conformed.。
He's trying to make his reflection in your life。
more evident, more clear.。
What God is doing through trials in your life。
and all of your life if you're a Christian,。
is he's trying to make his reflection,。
when he looks into and sees your life,。
that it would more clearly reflect his reflection.。
Peter says that's what trials inside of our life are doing.。
That he's using it to make us to more clearly see。
the presence of God in our life.。
I think when I read this, I'm like,。
man, I both want to become more refined,。
at the same time I'm like,。
can we do it without the whole fire thing or the trial thing?。
And it's crazy that the things, the faith,。
I wanna have big faith,。
but I don't wanna have the circumstances that require it.。
I have a friend who I was talking to today,。
and we were talking about this first,。
and I was like, man, I wanna know that this is true,。
'cause you're walking through the fire of trial.。
He's a 26-year-old guy on our staff.。
He has a four-week-old daughter that four weeks ago,。
they went to the hospital, they're so pumped,。
first baby, everything's excited,。
fast driving to the hospital,。
we're getting there, it's all gonna be great.。
And the delivery takes place,。
and she was 100% healthy, the baby, beforehand.。
And in the delivery of the baby, his little baby girl,。
she breathed in fluid。
that she should not have breathed in.。
And she ends up having to be life-flighted。
to Children's Hospital.。
And for the next four weeks, she's been fighting for her life。
and I was asking John, his name's John,。
and I was like, dude, tell me how this is true.。
How have you seen God grow you?。
How have you seen more?。
How has he refined your faith in the midst of this?。
Just tell me what this is like,。
'cause honestly, the trials in my life,。
they pale in comparison to what you're going through.。
And he said, man, I remember I was sitting there,。
we were on the 12th floor of this children's building,。
and I was praying to God.。
And it was when we thought she was gonna die.。
And she's doing better now,。
and she's still been on the oxygen machine。
and on the life machine.。
And he said, I was sitting there, but this was then.。
And we were thinking that she wasn't gonna make it,。
and I'm just praying, God,。
this is either gonna push me away from you,。
or it's gonna push me towards you.。
And I don't want it to push me away from you, God.。
Will you please, Lord,。
will you help my unbelief in the midst of this?。
Will you help me?。
And he said it was like through prayer。
on side of that floor that God began to reveal,。
and he began to be confronted with the idea that, man,。
Jesus, he's either enough or he's not.。
And Lord, I believe that you're enough.。
I believe you're a good father,。
that I can ask you, Lord, save my daughter.。
But I believe that you're enough.。
Jesus, you're enough.。
And he said, in a new way that I could have told you。
and answered on test, Jesus is enough.。
But in a new way that wasn't just words,。
I came to realize that he is.。
And in the midst of trials, we more clearly see that.。
In the midst of trials,。
JP and I were talking a few minutes ago backstage。
of what's crazy about trials is like faith shines brightest。
in the darkness of trials, doesn't it?。
Like nobody in here, if you're like going through a season。
of like singleness or job challenges。
or like divorce of your parents,。
that's when faith is like most needed。
and most shines brightly.。
When you walk by faith in those circumstances,。
it's like a wonder to the rest of us.。
Nobody's like, oh my gosh, it takes so much faith。
to be the pretty girl who gets married。
and has like a full, you know, horde of children。
and you got the suburban,。
you got everything you want in life.。
And yeah, you're so beautiful.。
And yeah, I wish I looked like that too.。
It doesn't take as much faith to be X person。
or whatever the story.。
But those of us who walk through trials,。
it's staggering to a watching world.。
The person who says, look, my God is in the heavens。
and I trust the story he's writing my life.。
What else am I gonna do?。
That person, faith is most needed in the midst of trials.。
Faith most shines brightly.。
Trust is seen most clearly in the midst。
of trials around us.。
Whatever you're facing, God is at work to refine your faith.。
True faith is always refined in the midst of trials,。
whether it is singleness or it's job loss。
or whatever's in front of you.。
Maybe it's a relationship that just broke up.。
God says, are you gonna trust me with this?。
And if you will, I will use it to continue to refine,。
grow, strengthen your faith.。
True faith is refined in the fire.。
That's not only the thing that he says,。
he goes into what true faith is defined as。
and he gives us Peter's definition, if you will,。
of what it is.。
Here's what he says.。
Though you have not seen him, that's Christ,。
he begins to lay out one of the first parts of faith,。
which is uncertainty.。
You love Christ.。
Though you do not see him now,。
you believe or you trust in Christ.。
He gives us three qualities.。
And you rejoice, that's our third.。
So though you don't see him, you love him.。
Though you don't see him, you believe or you trust in him.。
And though you don't see him, you're filled with joy。
that's inexpressible, filled with glory,。
obtaining the outcome of your faith,。
the salvation of your souls.。
Our second point that Peter lays out tonight。
is that true faith is defined by love, trust, and joy,。
according to Peter.。
True faith is defined by love, trust, and joy.。
Here's what's interesting about the two words。
of love and trust that he uses.。
The first one on love, he doesn't use,。
he says somebody who has real faith,。
you wanna know who has real faith?。
It's someone who has this actual, genuine love for Christ,。
who has this actual, like, man, I really,。
at the end of the day, I love Jesus.。
Even if everyone else falls away, Lord,。
I really love you.。
He says that's one of the marks of it.。
But it's not just, it's not like the love。
that we think of when we think of love。
'cause our culture's kinda ruined it.。
Like, we think, like, oh man, the bachelor,。
and Nick, and this is so beautiful.。
And that's not what Peter's talking about,。
of this feeling of love.。
He uses a word that's a verb, this agape.。
It's a sacrificing love.。
He says you wanna know someone who genuinely has faith,。
true faith, is marked by three qualities.。
One of them is a love or a serving of Christ.。
One of the things that marks their life。
is that they have this love that moves them to serve,。
sacrifice, I'm servant of Christ.。
He says that's the first thing.。
Second thing is trust, which is also an action.。
Someone who has a true faith is someone who says,。
look, I trust you.。
I don't do it perfectly, but at the end of the day,。
my heart's desire is that I would trust you.。
I wanna trust you with tomorrow.。
I wanna trust you with my future.。
I wanna trust you with whatever you have。
in terms of my romance story, or will I ever get marriage?。
I'm gonna trust you with my job.。
I'm gonna trust you with whatever it is, my finances,。
how you say I should steward money,。
how you say I should handle sexuality.。
I trust you, Lord.。
I'm gonna do what you say.。
Peter says that someone who has true faith。
is marked by a genuine love or service of Christ,。
and a genuine trust, like I can trust him.。
Now, I'm not gonna do it perfectly, but I trust you, God.。
Help me to trust you more.。
And the third is this joy,。
that not just this happiness of today and tomorrow,。
but they're marked in life by this joy。
that's not based on circumstances from the world around us.。
It's a joy that comes from the eternal inheritance。
that awaits them, the eternity they're gonna spend with God.。
Someone said today that in the face of trials,。
Christians don't always immediately have joy,。
but they inevitably do.。
That in the face of trials,。
Christians don't always immediately, but inevitably,。
with time and with Christ working in their life,。
they look back and they see that God was at work。
in the midst of those trials.。
Now, I wanna pause here and talk about just quickly。
the idea of faith, 'cause here's what Peter just said.。
Hey, if you wanna be a Christian,。
you wanna have true faith,。
you need to love somebody you don't see,。
you need to trust somebody you don't see,。
you need to have joy that comes from somebody you don't see.。
And inside of this room, I know there's a lot of people,。
or there's at least some of us who are like,。
dude, this is why I don't think。
I'll ever become a Christian,。
'cause I'm kinda one of these like,。
I need to see it to believe it kind of people.。
Like, I want God to show up in my room,。
and if he comes like in a dream,。
I'll be like, oh, okay, I guess I'll go with you.。
And that's the kind of person that I need.。
I need some like hard proof, I need some facts,。
some evidence in order to believe in something.。
And I would say, man, you're not crazy.。
I just think you're a little bit disingenuous.。
I mean, you believe in things all the time。
without having cold, hard evidence.。
I was talking to a friend a couple of weeks ago,。
we were talking about just this idea,。
and I had the same, he was reluctant,。
he was like, man, I just like need hard proof,。
and we'll talk about that in a second,。
but I was like, dude, you believe things all the time。
that you don't have any proof for,。
that you've never seen firsthand.。
And he was like, what are you talking about?。
I was like, do you believe in George Washington?。
And he was like, yeah, duh, I believe,。
I'm like, you ever met George Washington?。
(congregation laughing)。
He's like, no.。
Hmm, you ever met anyone who met George Washington?。
No, dude, they're all dead, he lived like 200 years ago.。
Dude, you believe in George Washington by faith.。
I'm not even sure the guy lived.。
He's like, he's on the coin, he has a house.。
That doesn't mean anything.。
Somebody like in the 1800s could have。
made this whole thing up.。
You believe by faith in George Washington, it's true.。
And when it comes to the message of Christianity,。
we don't just blindly, if you ever become a Christian,。
it won't be when you're just like, dude,。
I'll just blindly, I guess, go along with what seems crazy.。
Here's in my heart of hearts, where the things that,。
when I look at the evidence compelling around Christianity,。
because here's a secret, even pastors doubt.。
Even pastors go like, man, am I crazy?。
Is this like, is this just some good guy who showed up。
a long time ago and this whole thing is made up?。
And you know what makes me doubt my doubts?。
Like there's just certain undeniable things。
that I just can't escape.。
When I look at the world, there's no explanation。
other than that he wasn't just some good guy who showed up,。
who by the way, said crazy people things,。
if he's just some good guy, like, hey, I'm God.。
Nobody calls the guy who's like, hey, I'm God.。
That's a good guy right there, I love that guy.。
Come on, good guy.。
Nobody says that about the guy who claims to be God.。
Jesus showed up on the scene.。
You know what makes sense of the fact that you and I。
even know who this person was?。
The fact that 2,000 years ago, if he was just some guy,。
it wouldn't be his teachings.。
In other words, the reason that you and I,。
when I move towards doubt, the reason,。
when I look at the evidence, what explanation works。
other than he was a man who became,。
God who became a man who rose from the dead?。
Could it really be that, man, he was just some good teacher。
and like his good sayings really were promoted really well?。
That's lunacy.。
Jesus, a Jewish peasant from the armpit of Rome,。
a place on the map you can't even point to.。
And if you can, it's only for one reason.。
Either because the Middle East conflict。
or because Jesus was there.。
Jesus, who showed up on the scene,。
who was a man that taught things。
that other people had taught at the time.。
Like, hey, you should really be nice to people.。
Turn on the other cheek.。
Things that would have never made it out of the first century。
aside from one other teaching that he had,。
which was this, I will die and I will rise again.。
And hundreds, and listen to me right here.。
Hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of people,。
his followers, went to their deaths,。
not for what they said that they believed in.。
They went to their deaths.。
They were killed for what they said they saw.。
They said, I saw him die and I saw him buried。
and he came back alive.。
And the reason that we believe is not, hold on.。
The reason that they went to their deaths。
is not just 'cause they're like,。
man, I just believe in the movement, dude.。
This is, yeah, this is go love wins.。
It wasn't because of that.。
The reason they went to the death。
is because of what they said they saw.。
I saw him dead and he came back alive。
and you can kill me all you want.。
He came back alive and he said, if I trust in him,。
I'm gonna live forever.。
So I'm going with the guy who died and came back alive.。
Sorry, you can kill me.。
And that's how the movement began.。
(congregation applauding)。
People all the time go to deaths for what they believe in.。
That's what Jihad is.。
That's what terrorism is.。
They went to their deaths for what they said they saw.。
Today, here's what else is undeniable evidence.。
You and every person you interact with,。
every coworker you live next to,。
or every, we work next to,。
every person that you live in an apartment complex next to,。
they all dated their calendars 2017 years。
from a man who many say was just a good dude.。
This is a good dude, a little crazy, but good dude.。
That's insane.。
There's no explanation that would satisfy。
why you should even know about a Jewish peasant。
unless he was the man who said he was.。
And he came back alive.。
Like hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of followers。
said that he did.。
What else is undeniable is that all over this planet,。
2 billion people claim to have had an experience with God。
in a real way through Jesus Christ.。
And here's what's crazy to me.。
This minister's maybe just to me,。
but when you get around,。
if you've ever traveled to other countries。
or other continents and you get around them。
and there's like brothers and sisters in Korea and Peru,。
and you come together sometimes through a translator。
and you begin to hear their stories。
and they're eerily similar to stories you hear all the time.。
They're, I mean like unsolved mystery stories.。
Like yeah, this happened a month ago.。
We had this church in from Korea。
and they were sharing their stories of young adults。
who said they grew up and they were kind of marginal。
in their faith, they went to college, something happened.。
Somebody told them about Jesus and their life changed.。
And you're like, dude, you don't even speak English.。
This is unbelievable.。
Christianity is not some American religion.。
It's changing on every continent.。
And what's undeniable, regardless of what you believe,。
is that on every continent in this world,。
every language that's being spoken with very few exceptions,。
every color of someone's skin,。
every status of what they make in terms of money,。
there are people who claim to be followers of Jesus Christ.。
What's undeniable is that inside of your heart。
and my heart is this human whole。
or this God-shaped whole, it's been said.。
That no amount of sex, no amount of alcohol,。
nothing can satisfy.。
What's undeniable is that this man, Jesus,。
changed everything.。
And you're either gonna say he was some, man,。
a really good guy who said crazy things or he was Lord,。
like 2 billion other people have.。
Like throughout the centuries,。
billions and billions of us have declared。
because it's the most reasonable explanation。
for what has happened.。
It's not just by some blind faith.。
We do walk by faith, but it is not a blind faith.。
And Peter says, if you're gonna walk by a true faith,。
you're gonna walk not by what you see, but what is unseen.。
You're gonna trust in the Lord.。
You're gonna love the Lord.。
You're gonna trust him and you're gonna have joy,。
not anchored in this world, but in the life to come.。
In him.。
And he continues with a third idea from this text。
where he says this, talking about the salvation。
that you and I have received.。
Concerning this salvation, verse 10, that the prophets,。
so now he talks about the Old Testament.。
So he takes a little bit of a left turn here。
and he begins to go like, hey, you know that salvation,。
it's unbelievable, let me tell you a little bit。
about this salvation that you and I have.。
And he says this, concerning this salvation,。
the prophets, or the Old Testament,。
that's where the prophets,。
that's where the prophets are found,。
who prophesied about the grace, they spoke beforehand.。
They were writing these things like, hey,。
the Messiah's gonna come, the Savior's gonna do these things。
and Peter brings it up.。
And they were prophesying about the grace。
that was to be yours.。
They searched and inquired carefully,。
inquiring or wondering as they wrote,。
what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them。
was indicating when he predicted the sufferings of Christ。
and subsequent glories.。
It was revealed to them that they were serving。
not themselves, but you,。
and the things that have now been announced to you。
through those who preach the good news to you。
by the Holy Spirit.。
Peter, what are you saying?。
Here's what he just said.。
Hey, this salvation has been something。
that God has been writing about the entire time.。
The message of Christ coming and dying on a cross,。
and he says, and he brings up the prophets,。
basically he's saying like, hey, when Isaiah sat down,。
Isaiah's an Old Testament prophet.。
When he sat down to write, the Spirit of Christ。
essentially said, I want you to write this down.。
He will be bruised for our transgressions,。
wounded by his wounds, we will be healed.。
Speaking of Jesus, and Isaiah's going,。
okay, the Savior's gonna be wounded for our transgression.。
Yeah, and then write, he'll be born of a virgin.。
I want you to write that one down, okay?。
And then he'll be called Emmanuel,。
all these different things.。
And Isaiah, the scripture just said,。
all the prophets were wondering,。
I don't totally understand how this is all gonna work.。
I'm writing these prophecies about the Messiah,。
the Savior God's gonna send,。
who will both be God and killed, I don't understand.。
And he'll be the Savior of everyone who trusts in him,。
I don't understand, Peter just said.。
And then he says, it's not only something。
that they long to understand and long to know more of,。
even the angelic realm looks at the story。
of what we call the gospel of God becoming a man。
and dying for us, and they wonder at it.。
And the prophets looked and they searched。
and they just wanted to know how.。
They knew that God would send a Savior,。
they knew that God was gonna win,。
they just looked and they wanted to know how,。
Peter essentially says.。
It's not dissimilar to this.。
If you watch the Super Bowl,。
you may have experienced what I did,。
which is I watched the first half。
and then I turned off the Super Bowl,。
'cause I was like, dude, Brady, over the hill, man.。
This is unbelievable, buddy, you just gotta hang 'em up,。
hang those cleats up.。
And so we ended up watching another TV show,。
DVR'd the rest of the Super Bowl.。
Super Bowl ends, I have no idea what's going on,。
I all of a sudden look on social media,。
it's like Patriots win, I'm like, this is insane.。
They won, and I go back to look at my DVR。
and it cuts off the last five minutes of the game,。
also the best part of the game,。
where it's like, he's like diving for a catch。
and it literally cuts off.。
And so now I begin to like search,。
I'm like looking on YouTube, trying to find like,。
how did they, I wanna know, I know that they won already,。
but how did they win?。
Peter just said that the prophets in the angelic realm。
looked at the story that God was writing,。
even the prophets writing about how Christ。
would be crucified or how we would die,。
and they just wanted to know how this could all make sense,。
how could the Savior do these things and he win?。
I know he wins, I just want to know how.。
And the answer was through the cross of Christ,。
through the cross of Christ.。
Our third idea from the text is that true faith。
is faith in the work of Christ on the cross.。
That just like all of the Old Testament。
is centered on the cross of Christ,。
so all of true faith, if you're gonna have true faith,。
man, this is so huge, I hope you get this.。
It's gonna be at the epicenter of it,。
it's not gonna be faith in the idea。
of you being a good person,。
it'll be faith in the work of Christ on the cross。
on your behalf.。
The entire story of the Old Testament。
is all about the work of Christ on the cross.。
It's all been pointed to that.。
From beginning to end, all of it is meant to climax,。
meant to culminate in the story of God becoming a man,。
dying in your place on the cross.。
Every story points to it,。
there's prophecies all throughout it,。
every page points to Jesus。
and the work of Christ on the cross.。
If you don't believe me,。
there's examples of specific prophecies that point to it.。
Psalm 22 says that Jesus would be 1,000 years。
before he even was born.。
It said he would be crucified。
through his hands and through his feet.。
Crucifixion didn't even exist for another 600 years.。
Think about that.。
It's pointing to this day that it's coming.。
Isaiah 53 says that Christ, like we referred to earlier,。
would be crushed for our transgressions,。
that God would send a savior。
and he would die in our place。
all throughout the Old Testament.。
Jesus even says this on the road to Emmaus。
to some of his disciples who were like,。
"Yeah, I just don't understand how the Messiah could die."。
And he says this in Luke 24.。
"Foolish ones and slow of heart。
"to believe all the prophets have spoken.。
"Was it not necessary that the Christ。
"should suffer these things and enter into his glory。
"and beginning," Jesus begins with these two guys。
walking on the road,。
"beginning with Moses and all of the prophets。
"he interpreted them in all the scriptures,。
"the things that are concerning himself."。
That Jesus sits these guys down and he's like,。
"Look, on every page it points to me."。
Wait a second, Leviticus points to you?。
The sacrificial system,。
that blood would need to be spilled。
in order for man to be forgiven.。
It was always pointing to Jesus, the ultimate lamb of God.。
Even the stories point to him.。
Think about it, Noah.。
Think about the story of Noah.。
Okay, Noah, God shows up to Noah, says,。
"Hey, look, I'm gonna flood the earth.。
"I need you to build a piece of wood.。
"And I need you to tell everyone you can。
"about that piece of wood.。
"Tell them to get onto the wood, trust the wood."。
And when the floods came,。
everyone who trusted in this piece of wood。
that was lifted up was saved.。
What does that sound like?。
Everyone who trusted in this piece of wood,。
AKA a cross, was saved.。
The story of Moses.。
Moses, you've heard Charleston Heston,。
he goes into Egypt, Pharaoh's in there.。
Hey, let my people go.。
You've heard that story.。
What's the circumstance?。
It all points to Christ.。
God's people are in bondage, unable to save themselves.。
All of a sudden, a deliverer is sent in,。
and he alone, Moses, later to be named Jesus,。
goes in and delivers the people,。
just like Jesus shows up,。
and God's people who were in bondage to sin。
and Satan and death,。
and he becomes the deliverer who sets them free.。
The story of David.。
Think about this, David and Goliath, all right?。
So David and Goliath, you know, 16-year-old kid,。
five stones, kills a giant named Goliath.。
You know what the number five stands for in Hebrew?。
Hebrew has this numerical system。
where the numbers can point to words.。
The number five is grace.。
So David shows up, and he slays a giant with grace.。
What does that sound like?。
The same Jesus who showed up。
and didn't just slay Goliath, this nine-foot-tall person,。
but he slayed the giants of sin, Satan, and death,。
with what?。
With grace.。
All of it points to him, Jonah, the prophet,。
who goes three days, dies three days,。
in the belly of a well, is resurrected three days later,。
and goes and proclaims news.。
Every page of your Bible,。
it's always been pointing to Jesus.。
It all points to Jesus at every level.。
The Bible, if you were not raised in church,。
maybe it's your first time back in a while,。
the Bible is not this story of a bunch of good stories。
and good people.。
It's a story of a bunch of bad people,。
and one good guy named Jesus,。
and all the bad guys kill him.。
That's how bad we are.。
And whoever trusts in this one good person。
will have eternal life.。
It's not good people in heaven and bad people in hell.。
It's forgiven people in heaven.。
And there is one way to get forgiveness.。
That is by trusting in Christ alone,。
in his work on the cross, on your behalf,。
and on my behalf,。
in all of the pages of the Old Testament.。
They've always been pointing to it.。
If you were in this room,。
and you were putting your faith。
in what you do,。
and how you behave, in other words,。
like, hey, if I'm gonna go before God,。
the reason I'm gonna get to heaven,。
man, and you're gonna come down afterwards,。
we're gonna have this same combo.。
So just, I'll make it happen right here.。
We can all have together.。
If the reason you think you'll spend eternity with God。
is because you're a good person, you're not a Christian.。
That's not what Christianity teaches.。
That's not what Christians believe.。
Let me say it again.。
If you think you'll spend eternity with God。
because you're a good person, you are not a Christian.。
On the other side, it's true.。
If you think you cannot spend eternity with God,。
listen to me so closely, man,。
if you think you can't spend eternity with God。
because you're a bad person,。
you don't know what Christianity's about.。
The message of Christianity is that all of us are broken,。
and God sent his son on the cross to die for your sins。
as a payment for your sin, and he rose back alive.。
And what that showed us is that the payment cleared,。
the check cleared, was more than enough.。
That's the message of the gospel.。
That's why we worship in here every single week.。
It's not because we think that we're good people,。
that we figured it out,。
and we really have caught on putting ourselves together.。
We come in here every single week,。
and we worship the only one who ever had it together,。
the one who loves us in spite of everything wrong with us,。
who died in our place, who died in your place,。
not because you deserved it,。
but because you didn't, and you never could,。
but because he loved you.。
And you're either gonna trust in the cross of Christ。
and the work of cross and have true faith,。
or you're gonna buy into the biggest lie。
this world has ever been told,。
which is, man, just keep being good.。
God will love you.。
We took those diamonds,。
and I'll finish the story and land the plane.。
We took them back to that, we took them to another jeweler。
just to make sure like,。
hey, we shouldn't throw these things out。
just yet, let's confirm.。
And we had a test done, so we like paid,。
and hey, send it back and test.。
And here's how they test diamonds.。
They see how strong it is.。
They see how much pressure it can endure.。
In other words, they put it underneath,。
there's a hardness scale,。
and if it cracks or it scratches, then it's not a diamond.。
But if it withstands the pressure, then it is.。
And we paid, and they took it away,。
and they did this test, called us a week later,。
and they said, "These are real diamonds."。
Like they stood underneath the pressure, they didn't crack.。
These are real, we were wrong.。
These are genuine, the real thing.。
How can I know that I have like genuine, true faith?。
How can I know that I have the faith。
that will be able to stand underneath the pressure。
of this life, of eternity?。
How can I know that I have true faith?。
Peter would say, "If you have a faith。
"that in midst of trials, you press into God,。
"you don't run from Him."。
If you have a faith that's marked by like,。
"God, I love you, I'm not perfect,。
"I'm still broken, Lord,。
"and you're taking ground on my life,。
"but at the end of the day, I love you,。
"and I wanna do what you want.。
"Will you help me, Lord?。
"And I trust you, God.。
"My joy is found in you,。
"and perfectly, will you help me?"。
He says, "That's true faith."。
And if you're someone who has put your faith。
most importantly, not in what you do,。
but in the work of Christ on the cross,。
and His resurrection from the dead,。
you have true faith that will stand。
in the midst of the eternal fire,。
and in the midst of the showers or fires。
of this world and life.。
And pray that we would.。
Father, thank you that you don't demand something from us.。
Lord, you did something for us.。
You died in our place, you died in my place.。
Father, would the just truth of the reality of the gospel。
continue to take ground in my heart,。
in my friend's heart, for anyone inside of this room。
who still has bought into the lie。
that God wants them to earn their way to Him?。
Lord, would the hounds of heaven itself。
go after the hearts of those people?。
And would the Spirit of God come and press on them?。
Would they begin to trust not in what they do。
or what they haven't done?。
Maybe despite what they've done,。
that they would put their faith in Christ alone.。
You died in our place as payment for our sins,。
and you offer us new life just like you rose again.。
So shall we, God, we worship you now in song.。
We are truly yours, forever yours.。
We worship you because of that.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
