[Music]。
Hey again. Porch, it's good to see you. How are we doing tonight? Yeah? Awesome. So good to have you here.。
So grateful you would trust us with your evening. Not only those of you here in the room, which it's great to see you.。
Also all of you that are tuning in online, it's great to have you with us.。
Special shout out to our Porch Live locations. Can we give them a round of applause please? Yes.。
We love that God's doing work here, but he's doing work out there too.。
Special shout out to Des Moines, Dayton, and Fresno. We love that you guys are a part of the evening.。
Porch, I am so excited. Let me tell you why. Because tonight you get to hear from, and I'm not just saying this,。
this is an empty lip service, one of my favorite communicators of the Bible.。
And before I introduce him to you, what I wanted to tell you tonight is something that we're committed to here at the Porch。
is introducing to you new voices. Voices that maybe you haven't heard before, but you need to hear.。
And you will be glad you have heard from. People that don't just stand on a platform of trend, but stand on a platform of truth.。
And that's the guy that's coming tonight. The individual that's going to be teaching you tonight, he is a good friend of mine.。
We knew each other in Houston, Texas. And he is genuinely someone that I look at the example of and say,。
"Man, I want to love Jesus like that. I want to walk with Jesus and believe in Jesus and have the kind of intensity and fervor that that guy has."。
And you're going to see exactly what I mean in just a minute.。
Porch, will you all do a great job of helping me welcome my friend, Tyler Moffitt.。
[Applause]。
Love you. Thank you, God.。
Porch, how we doing tonight? Come on.。
Man, it's surreal for me to be up here because I did the math.。
It was 10 years ago almost to the day that, so I grew up in Houston, but I spent a number of years in Dallas.。
And I was living with a host family up in Allen, Texas.。
Anybody from Allen? Come on. Go Eagles, right?。
And anyway, I come down 75 all alone about 10 years ago.。
And I'm like, I'm going to go to the porch by myself.。
And I show up and I sit right up there.。
So I understand what you guys are feeling.。
And I walk in. I had no idea what to expect.。
And I was just blown away by what you just experienced worshipping of thousands of young adults across Dallas that are just giving praise and honor to Jesus.。
And we're like, man, there's so many of us. This is amazing.。
And then Shane and Shane was leading worship.。
I'm like, Shane and Shane. I just, I was, you know, a fan.。
So they finish and they pray. Everyone bows their head.。
The lights get dark and I'm like, my roommates got to know I saw Shane and Shane.。
So I take out my camera from my iPhone 5 and I'm like, I got to get a picture.。
So I take a picture and it goes flash, flash, flash, flash, flash, flash, flash, flash.。
And everyone mid-prayer turns around like, what the heck, moron.。
And I'm standing there alone like, oh, Lord, I just, the rapture could come right now.。
That'd be awesome.。
And, but you know what?。
I came back and came back and just got poured into through this place.。
And I love Kylan. Kylan and I got to know each other in Houston.。
And man, he is the real deal.。
He's on his knees just praying, begging for revival in this city and in your heart.。
And so to be here is just amazing.。
Hey, real quick about me, and then we're going to jump, we're going to dive into the text.。
I think we have a picture of my family.。
This is my wife, Jen, and our three little kiddos, ages four, three, and one, just turned one.。
And they wanted to come, but my wife was like, I need them in bed.。
You know, I'm like, I get it.。
And so they're not here, but we live down in Houston.。
But my wife and I actually met here in Dallas.。
In fact, I was working at a different church, but my wife was going to Watermark.。
True story.。
Some of you are going, that's all I need.。
I can find marriage at this place.。
Let's go, right?。
And, but seriously, she was here and I would slip over Saturday nights or Tuesday night to the porch or to Watermark to come and hear from the word.。
And as I look back in Dallas, my time in Dallas, there's some really sweet years.。
But also, and I even felt it as I was driving up 45 today, my time in Dallas was some of my most insecure years of my life.。
I mean, I failed at my job in relationships with my family more during my time in Dallas than any other season.。
And, and some of that began to wash back over me, even as I was driving in.。
And I thought, maybe some of you here tonight, some of you are killing it.。
You're just, you drove in on your Tesla, just loving life, right?。
But others of you, man, you're in that insecure place.。
And I just go, I get it.。
I feel that.。
And I think God wants to speak to us tonight, wherever you are on that spectrum, but he wants to speak to you.。
And so we're going to dig into his word.。
So if you have your Bible or they're on your phone, go to the book of Isaiah.。
And we're going to be in Isaiah chapter 49.。
Isaiah 49, the book of Isaiah is kind of wild because a lot of coffee cup verses, right?。
A lot of cute, your grandma's got it in her house, but you read the book of Isaiah and it's judgment, wrath, fire, exile.。
And you go, this is not that nice.。
And yet in chapter 49, there's a bit of a shift.。
And that's what we're going to see today.。
Hey, wherever you're at in this place, I believe God wants to speak to you tonight.。
And so let's pray and ask him to come and commune with us in a mighty way.。
And then let's dig in.。
Let's pray.。
Father, we believe that you reign above it all.。
Everything we just sang is not just some cute word.。
It is true.。
And so come Holy Spirit, invade this place.。
May there not be one inch of our lives that you leave untouched after an encounter with the living God.。
Oh, we expect big things, big things tonight.。
So come speak through your word.。
Your servants are listening in Jesus name.。
Amen.。
All right.。
I remember when my wife and I first got married, we decided we were going to do Whole30.。
Any of you know what Whole30 is?。
Okay.。
Wow, some Whole30 enthusiasts.。
Whole30 is where for 30 days you don't eat any gluten, any sugar, or any dairy.。
Some of you are like, you just described my diet, right?。
And that was me.。
For 30 days, no gluten, sugar, dairy.。
And my wife and I were excited.。
We had been eating a lot, you know, in our wedding and after.。
And we're like, let's just go for it.。
So we did it.。
And we made it three-fourths of one day through Whole30.。
Breakfast, we killed it.。
Lunch, killed it.。
Dinner, we get invited to BJ's for a friend's birthday party.。
And we had the talk on the way there.。
We're like, salad, no croutons, no cheese, oil and vinegar on the side.。
We got this, you know.。
And so we sit down at our table.。
And sure enough, the waitress starts with us.。
What do you guys want?。
Salad, oil and vinegar on the side, no croutons, no cheese, fist pump, right?。
You know, and she's like, okay.。
And then before she goes to the next person, she goes, oh, by the way, pizza's half off tonight.。
We're like, ooh.。
And then we hear every one of our friends, pizza, pizza, pizza, meat lovers, pepperoni, pizza.。
And then we get to the end.。
She's like, anything else?。
And right before she leaves, we're like, yeah, change ours to pizza.。
We want pizza.。
Because here's the thing.。
The ideal of Whole30, the idea of getting in shape and eating healthy sounded so good until we were confronted with sugar and dairy and gluten in a BJ's pizza.。
Now, here's why I say that.。
So often, everything we sing about, the gospel we declare is an ideal that many of us, if it was on a test, we would go, that's what I want.。
That's what I want in my life.。
I intellectually believe it.。
I've done the whole thing.。
I've gotten baptized.。
But deep down, when you start living the reality of life, it's a little more messy; right?。
And so sometimes we would go, yes, I believe it's true.。
You reign.。
And yet deep down we're just staring at these ceiling tiles going, God, I want to believe it's true.。
But reality of my life right now feels a lot different.。
See, Isaiah, the reason why we're in Isaiah is because in the book of Isaiah, it's written by a prophet named Isaiah, written to people in exile, Babylonian exile, going back over Israel's history.。
And what he's telling them is, look, there's a reason why you're in the place that you're in.。
And so much of the book is judgment, judgment, judgment, but then it changes and it shifts to a moment of salvation.。
Look at Isaiah 49 and look at verse 13.。
Isaiah 49 is all, here's God saying, this is the salvation I'm bringing.。
It's soon.。
It's eventual.。
It's ultimate.。
And then verse 13 is the climax.。
God says, "Sing for joy, O heavens, and exult, O earth.。
Break forth, O mountains, into singing."。
Why?。
"For the Lord has comforted His people, and He will have compassion on His afflicted."。
He says, despite all that you're experiencing right now and all the judgment and all the things that came because of your sin, salvation's coming, so you better start singing.。
Comfort is coming.。
Compassion is coming.。
And we're going to watch in the next three verses how Israel, how the people of God respond to this amazing word of salvation.。
And the first thing we see from the people is an honest feeling, an honest complaint to this salvation that's coming.。
Look at Isaiah 49, verse 14.。
It says, "But Zion said, but the people of God said, 'The Lord has forsaken me.。
My Lord has forgotten me.'"。
Okay, so pause there.。
They just heard salvation is coming and sing for joy, comfort, and compassion, and their response, they interrupt God and they say, "That's great, but you know what we feel?。
We feel forsaken by you.。
We feel forgotten by you.。
That's what we feel."。
It doesn't say they don't believe in God or believe in His promises.。
What it says is despite what they intellectually believe, they feel forsaken.。
They would maybe even say, "God, I believe in your promises, but it's not what I feel right now.。
I don't feel loved by you."。
And this happens in relationships all the time.。
Some of you know.。
You're trying to have an intellectual conversation about truth.。
Do you love me?。
Right?。
Or something like that.。
I'm not saying it can happen either way, but sometimes the guy says, "I love you."。
And what does the girl say?。
"Yeah, but I don't feel loved by you."。
Some of you, this is close to home.。
"I don't feel it.。
I'm hearing the words that you're saying, but I don't feel it."。
And here's the thing.。
When you don't feel loved by God, you have to get that love from somewhere.。
Some of you have that void.。
Again, you would say, "I believe in God," but you don't feel loved by God.。
And when you don't feel loved by God, you have to get it from someone.。
Some of you are in relationships right now where everyone in your life is saying,。
"This is a toxic relationship.。
Get away from this guy.。
Get away from this girl.。
What are you doing?"。
And yet you keep going back like a gravitational pull.。
And people are going, "What are you doing?"。
And you go, "I don't feel loved by God, so I have to."。
Maybe you wouldn't say this, but "I have to get this love from them."。
Some of you, your career, you have to get acceptance from your boss。
or from your coworkers.。
People are going, "Why are you burning yourself out?。
You're going to run off a cliff."。
And you go, "I have to be accepted by them.。
I won't be able to go to sleep at night if my boss doesn't feel like。
I've done a good job."。
Some of you, it's your parents or relationships or friends.。
You're actually up at night having panic attacks, anxious,。
because you're managing everyone's opinion of you.。
That's just how you spend your life.。
"Oh, she's maybe mad.。
Oh, he said that one thing.。
Oh, they used a period at the end of their text, so they're ticked at me."。
And you're just constantly juggling people's opinions of you.。
And you're going, "What is wrong with me?"。
And I just want to say maybe it's that you don't feel secure。
in the fact that God loves you.。
Because if you did, if you felt secure,。
you walked around with the confidence that God loved you,。
it's like a superpower.。
No one on this earth can say something that will lead to anxiety at night。
because you're secure in God's love.。
And the first thing that we see with the people of God is they own it.。
We feel forsaken. We feel forgotten.。
So what does God do? How does God respond?。
We see what God does is he responds with comforting words.。
Look at verse 15.。
So they say, "The Lord's forsaken me. He's forgotten me."。
Look at what God says.。
God says, verse 15, "Can a woman forget her nursing child。
that she should have no compassion on the son of her womb?"。
And God says, "Even these may forget, yet I will not forget you."。
So notice what God doesn't do at the beginning.。
They say, "We feel forsaken by you."。
God doesn't say, "Well, suck it up! A big whoop!。
I'm creator, you're creation, figure it out!"。
But he also doesn't pander to them.。
"Oh, I'm so sorry. What can I do to make it feel better?"。
What God does is he actually uses an analogy, a simile,。
and he says, "I want you to think."。
He says, "I want you to think of a nursing mother with her baby."。
Which is a little weird, but this is what God says.。
God says, "Think of a nursing mom with her little baby."。
This sits very close to home for me.。
We've got a one-year-old. He nurses with my wife.。
And God says, "My love for you, think about it,。
is like a mom with her little baby, nursing her baby."。
And really, when you actually look into the science。
behind a nursing mom, the love, the connection that goes on,。
there's actually three layers to this love。
of a nursing mom to her baby.。
A nursing mother is giving physical love,。
physical comfort to her baby.。
So literally providing for the baby's physical needs.。
That's the first thing.。
Then the nursing mom is providing emotionally.。
There's actually something in the brain called oxytocin。
that is released when a mom is feeding her baby。
that bonds her to her baby.。
And then the third thing about this kind of love,。
it's unconditional.。
It's all give and no take.。
It's all give from the mom and all take from the baby, right?。
She doesn't get to the end and go,。
"That's going to be $27.32 for that, no tax."。
You know, that's not how that works.。
It's all give.。
And God says, "My love for you is physical.。
My love for you is emotional.。
My love for you is unconditional."。
But it's even more.。
God says, "Even these may forget you,。
but I will not forget you."。
The truth is, as great as moms are,。
some of our moms are not good moms.。
Some of you, a lot of you probably have great moms.。
Some of you would go, "Man, my mom didn't love me."。
And God goes, "I know."。
And even for those of us who had good moms,。
eventually our moms will pass away and die.。
But God says, "My love for you will never die.。
My love will never be destroyed."。
This is the truth, the amazing truth of what we sing,。
the amazing truth of what we declare.。
And it's amazing.。
It's great, but it's all talk.。
It's still all talk.。
And here's the problem with talk.。
When all you have in a relationship is talk,。
I love you, I love you, I love you,。
and no action, you can conclude there's no love.。
Some of you, that's what you needed tonight.。
That's what you needed.。
If all you hear is talk, I love you, baby,。
I love you, I love you, but you don't see any action,。
it's all talk.。
And there's a sense in here where we hear these words。
from God, right?。
God loves you, God loves you, God loves you,。
and we go, "That's great."。
But that doesn't feel like,。
it doesn't feel like that in my life right now.。
It just doesn't.。
Talk, talk, talk, but I don't feel it.。
And so that's why God takes it one another level。
in verse 16, where he has a powerful display of his love.。
Look at verse 16.。
He says, "Behold," which is the Greek word for look at me,。
"I have engraved you on the palms of my hands,。
"and your walls are continually before me."。
So he says in verse 15 that,。
just like a nursing mother,。
that's my love for you even more so,。
but then he says, "Behold, look at me,。
"I've engraved you on the palms of my hands."。
This is a weird, interesting text to read。
in the original language in Hebrew,。
because even in their context,。
it would be somewhat normal for a master,。
for a master's name to be tattooed。
onto a servant's arm or on their hand.。
That would be somewhat normal,。
but it would never be the other way around.。
It would never be the name of the servant。
tattooed on the master's hand.。
But the thing is, it doesn't say tattoo.。
The word is engraved.。
And engraved in the Hebrew is actually the word for pierced,。
with a chisel or a spike.。
Now why in the world would someone, out of love,。
trying to display their love for someone else,。
allow their palms to be pierced with a chisel or a spike?。
What a horrible image.。
And yet, years later, there would be a man named Thomas.。
You know Thomas, Doubting Thomas?。
And Thomas is going to hear all kinds of great talk。
about what's just happened with Jesus.。
He's alive, he's risen, he's the Messiah.。
And what does Thomas say?。
Do you remember?。
Thomas goes, "Nah, I'm not going to believe it。
"until I see it with my own eyes."。
And what does Jesus say to him?。
Jesus comes and appears before Thomas,。
and he goes, "Thomas, come here.。
"Look at the palms of my hands.。
"See my love that I have for you."。
This is not just talk.。
This is action on a bloody cross for you.。
See, 2,000 years ago, the man Jesus。
that we love to sing about and talk about。
and raise our hands to in this place。
that every knee will bow to,。
he not only was in heaven, but he took on human flesh。
and he came to this earth.。
And he lived a perfect life。
and he said a lot of words.。
In fact, people called him a good teacher,。
but he was so much more than that.。
What Jesus came to do is not just show us。
the way to God or the way to life.。
He came to be the Isaiah 49, 16。
fulfillment display of the love of God in your life.。
When he stretched out his hands on that cross。
and allowed those Roman soldiers to pierce his hands。
on that cross and he suffocated to death,。
he sang in that moment,。
"I see you in the midst of your pain,。
"your broken relationship, your failure at work,。
"the insecurity that you have driving down 635 every day,。
"hating traffic, hating life."。
He goes, "I see you.。
"And I don't just tell you that I love you.。
"I'm displaying it right now."。
No other religion on the planet has that.。
No other religion.。
Our King didn't just say,。
"I wanna come and have you dwell with me.。
"I'm gonna display.。
"I'm gonna come down and display my love for you."。
And for us, when we come to Jesus,。
he says, "I will accept you."。
It's interesting.。
Romans chapter five, verse eight says that,。
"But God demonstrates or shows,。
"he demonstrates his love for us。
"in that while we were sinners, Christ died for us."。
And then if we come to him,。
Jesus says in Matthew chapter 11,。
he says, "Come to me all who labor and are heavy laden。
"and I will give you rest."。
This is what I've been praying for you.。
Some of you are here tonight。
because it's time to release that burden。
that you've been holding onto.。
Release it, surrender it fully to Jesus.。
And that's scary and that's unknown。
and it's not gonna fix all your problems overnight,。
but that kind of surrender。
is what Jesus is calling us into.。
I mentioned my family。
and how I have three kids,。
older daughter and then two sons.。
And my son, Ty, I think we have a picture of him.。
This is Ty, he's three years old and he is my buddy, man.。
He's my junior, you know, we named him after me,。
not just 'cause I'm vain, maybe,。
but because man, we just, we wanted, we just believed,。
man, we wanna name him Ty.。
And everything about his birth was great.。
Everything about the delivery was great.。
This was three years ago back in 2021。
and he was born happy, healthy, everything was awesome.。
And the night after he was born, my wife's holding him。
and she's looking at him and she goes,。
"Man, he looks a little blue,。
"like his lips are a little blue.。
"You think that's weird?"。
And typical husband, I'm like,。
"Ah, babies turn weird colors, I'm sure he's fine."。
Okay, and then he got better and so the nurse came in。
and we said, "Hey, his lips were a little blue,。
"but other than that, he's fine."。
And she kinda real serious was like,。
"Hey, if that happens again, you let me know."。
We're like, "Okay, okay."。
So sure enough, a couple hours later, I'm holding him,。
his lips turn blue again, his whole body starts to turn blue.。
So we call the nurse, she comes running in,。
picks him up from me, shakes him, shakes him again,。
and then runs out of the room without saying a word.。
We're like, "What?"。
You know, about five minutes later,。
she comes back in with the doctor and they sit us down.。
They're like, "Hey, you need to know,。
"what just happened with your son is called,。
"he had an apnea spell, which means he stopped breathing。
"for at least 20 seconds and began to turn blue.。
"We had to use some measures to bring him back."。
They said, "This shouldn't be happening with a term baby,。
"and so we need to monitor him in the neonatal ICU unit,。
"the NICU, for the next five days."。
And we're like, "Ah, we're supposed to go home that next day,。
"we were so excited, we had like a little party ready,。
"and we're just like, 'What is going on?'"。
And they said, "Oh, by the way, because it's COVID,。
"you have to go home at night and he has to stay here."。
And my wife's just like, "What? Are you kidding me?"。
And so we're like, "Oh, Lord,"。
and I'm kind of trying to fight it, you know, like,。
"Are you sure? I didn't sign anything."。
And we just do this whole thing, they're like,。
"No, we have to monitor him, this could be really serious."。
We're like, "Whatever."。
So we begin the process of being in the NICU.。
Some of you know this world from siblings or friends, whatever.。
And we're going back and forth, day one, day two, day three.。
The end of day three, on a Tuesday afternoon,。
my wife would just be going up there back and forth all day.。
I remember telling her, I'm like,。
"Hey, let's go home for like an hour, you need to shower, okay?。
"And I'm going to cut the grass, and then we'll come right back."。
We'll come right back. She's like, "All right."。
So we go home.。
We're not home for 15 minutes before we get a call。
from the nurse practitioner.。
And she says, "You need to get up here right now."。
We're like, "What?"。
So we get in the car, we head to the hospital,。
and he's hooked up to even more machines.。
I think we have a picture.。
And they said, "Here's what happened."。
They said, "Your son had another apnea spell,。
"and this time we had to use artificial breath。
"to bring him back.。
"He was dying, and we had to bring him back."。
They said, "We don't know what's going on.。
"We need to give him a head ultrasound.。
"We need to give him a spinal tap,。
"and we may need to transfer you to another hospital."。
And I'm ticked.。
I'm like, "What? What is going on?。
"Like, no, we're getting out of here."。
And they look, I remember the nurse practitioner。
looking me in the eyes and going, "Mr. Moffitt, listen to me."。
She said, "Your son could be very sick,。
"and you need to hear this, your son could die."。
And then they sent us out of the room to give the spinal tap.。
I remember my wife and I just in shock。
going down to the hospital lobby,。
and sitting down, and then just began to weep.。
Some of you have had this moment.。
And in our tears of just frustration and confusion。
and anger and sadness,。
just some words that I had memorized years earlier,。
Psalm 73 came over me.。
It said, "Home of I in heaven, but you, God,。
"there's nothing we desire besides you.。
"Ty's heart and his flesh may fail,。
"but God be the strength of his heart and portion forever."。
And then the end says, "As for me, it's good to be near God."。
And I don't even know if I believed those words,。
I just said them.。
And that night we went home,。
and we were just incredibly sad and frustrated, went to sleep.。
Next morning, my wife goes straight to the hospital,。
and I was like, "I just need a minute."。
And I remember getting in my room, shutting the door,。
and getting down on my face before God.。
And having that moment that some of you have had。
where I just cried out to God,。
"God, what is going on?。
"I'm supposed to be Ty's dad.。
"I'm supposed to be his protector, his provider.。
"I'd rather take trade places.。
"What is going on?。
"Are you in control or not?。
"Are you God or not?"。
And just weeping like, "God, what's going on?"。
And just in God's timing, I'm listening to a soundtrack。
in the back in my room, and the song comes on.。
And the name of the song was called。
"Sovereign Over Us" by Jeff Johnson.。
And the words just went like this.。
It says, "There is strength within the sorrow.。
"There is beauty in our tears.。
"And you meet us in our mourning。
"with a love that casts out fear.。
"You are working in our waiting, sanctifying us,。
"when beyond our understanding,。
"you are teaching us to trust."。
The chorus says this, "Your plans are still to prosper.。
"You have not forgotten us.。
"You are with us in the fire and in the flood.。
"You are faithful forever, perfect in love.。
"You are sovereign over us."。
And the bridge just says this,。
"Even what the enemy meant for evil,。
"you turn it for our good and for your glory.。
"Even in the valley, you are faithful,。
"and you're working for our good and for your glory."。
And it's hard to describe it, Porch,。
but in that moment, that song going on,。
all my face before God, I met God.。
I had been in ministry, I'd done baptism,。
I'd said the prayer, but that was the moment for me。
where all that I was holding onto,。
all the control that I had in my life,。
that so much of my insecurity leading up。
was built around that, just melted away,。
and I just said, "God."。
All right, you're either God or you're not God,。
and I trust right now in the midst of the valley, you're God.。
And so, Father, if Ty never gets better, I will trust you.。
And then I remember saying this,。
"And God, if you take away my son's life,。
"you're still good and you're still God,。
"and I will worship you."。
I remember getting up, getting in my car,。
and driving to the hospital,。
and I hated that drive to the hospital, I hated it.。
And all of a sudden, that very drive。
became a moment of worship.。
And I realized for maybe the first time in my life,。
my worship cost me something.。
Sometimes we just sing the songs, "Yeah, yeah, yeah."。
It was the first time I'm going, "You are good.。
"You are good. Right now, you're good.。
"You're on the throne. You reign.。
"You are king. You're sovereign and in control."。
I believe that right now. I believe it.。
I remember parking my car, getting in the elevator.。
I used to hate that elevator ride up to the fourth floor.。
And all of a sudden, I just began to go,。
"Okay, God, this is a moment of ministry.。
"It's a moment of communion with God.。
"So I love you. I love you. I trust you."。
I would walk into that NICU room, hated that NICU room,。
became a moment of seeing other people that were in that room。
with worse issues than us.。
And all of a sudden, we began to ask them, "What's going on?"。
And God infused His presence into the midst of my brokenness。
and our valley in a way that's hard to describe.。
And the end of the story is five days passed,。
and he never had another apnea spell.。
So they said, "Hey, look, we can't promise。
"that this thing isn't going to happen again,。
"but you're free to go home."。
And we're like, "Okay," you know?。
And we drove home, kind of fear and trembling,。
but trusting God, and three years later,。
he hasn't had another one. Praise God.。
Yes.。
[cheers and applause]。
But there's a deeper healing that went on.。
You know, I praise God.。
Every time we look at Ty, I would just,。
"Thank you, God. Thank you."。
And yet, the deeper thing that went on。
was communion with God in the midst of the valley,。
trusting that He was good, even when I didn't feel it,。
knowing that beyond words, a display, a Savior's--。
Jesus had it, my name and yours,。
engraved on His hands at the cross.。
So I know some of you have walked through similar things,。
and some of you have gone through harder.。
Some of you, the outcome didn't turn out like this.。
God never promised us.。
He never promised us peaches and roses.。
I got lots of stories where the ending。
didn't turn out like this,。
and yet it's the moment of surrender。
that God goes, "That's what I'm after in your life."。
Some of you, that's where you're at tonight.。
I mean, come on. You're in the routine.。
You're coming to the porch. You're singing the songs.。
But you don't believe it. You don't.。
You intellectually can get there,。
but your mind, your heart is broken.。
Your mind is wandering.。
You look at that same screen night after night,。
pleasing yourself, going, "Why won't it stop?"。
And I'm telling you, you need to meet with God.。
You gotta have a moment of surrender going, "I'm done."。
God, even if nothing changes, I see it.。
You, your name, my name is engraved on your hands.。
Your love has been displayed on that bloody cross,。
and I trust, no matter outcome, I trust you.。
I wanna end with this quote. Ray Ortlund says this,。
"Satan doesn't fear our brilliance.。
He's more brilliant."。
He doesn't even fear our good behavior。
because he can twist morality into hypocrisy.。
But what Satan fears is someone shattered,。
stripped of their dreams,。
so devastated that all they have left is Jesus,。
and to Jesus they turn.。
[applause]。
And I would just say, "Orch, is that you?"。
Some of you have had your dreams shattered,。
and yet in the midst of the broken pieces, you go,。
"It's him! It's all about him!。
It's all about him! It's all about him right now."。
You know, this side of heaven is the only time。
in the midst of brokenness we can say,。
"God, right now, I wanna worship you.。
I wanna worship you."。
So we're gonna sing another song,。
and come on, come on, some of us,。
that declaration of surrender needs to happen right now.。
God, I declare it. I declare it. You are good.。
Some of you need to come.。
We're gonna have a team up here。
that some of you need to get up out of your seat。
and go, "I gotta talk to somebody.。
I gotta tell somebody."。
And it's bold.。
You got all of a thousand people watching you.。
Who cares? We're talking about Jesus.。
Come up here and talk to somebody,。
and then worship.。
Give him your worship。
because he is worthy of it.。
So Father, we love you.。
We love you. We love you.。
Despite what we feel,。
we know this to be true.。
You are good.。
So have your way in our lives.。
You are God.。
You reign above it all.。
You are king.。
You are sovereign over us,。
and we love you.。
Come, Holy Spirit.。
We long to encounter a living God。
who displayed his love on the cross.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
Come on. Come and pray. Let's go.。
