[MUSIC - "I'M A SLAVE TO THE NIGHT"]。
I'm a slave to the night.。
Another weekend, I'm just living my life.。
I tell myself that it's fine.。
Why do I wake up with this feeling inside?。
Is it OK?。
Or is it time to change?。
Am I OK?。
It's raining my virtue for vice.。
Like I've been walking around closing my eyes,。
it's not going to hurt you.。
He lies.。
And it feels so good.。
It feels no good.。
And it feels so good.。
It feels no good.。
It's raining my virtue for vice.。
[MUSIC - "I'M A SLAVE TO THE NIGHT"]。
Is it shame that I feel?。
I think I'm happy, but don't know if it's real.。
And I pretend that it's all chill.。
But inside, I think I'm too far gone.。
I think I'm too far.。
Is it OK?。
Why do I feel this way?。
Am I OK?。
It's raining my virtue for vice.。
Like I've been walking around closing my eyes,。
it's not going to hurt you.。
He lies.。
And it feels so good.。
It feels no good.。
And it feels so good.。
It feels no good.。
And it's taking my life.。
And it feels so good.。
It feels no good.。
And it feels so good.。
It feels no good.。
It's raining my virtue for vice.。
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh.。
It's raining my virtue for vice.。
Like I've been walking around closing my eyes,。
it's not going to hurt you.。
He lies.。
And it feels so good.。
Oh, but it feels no good.。
When I wake up, it feels so good.。
It feels so good.。
And it feels so good.。
It feels no good.。
And it's taking my life.。
And it feels so good.。
It feels no good.。
Wasting my life.。
And it feels so good.。
It feels no good.。
It's raining my virtue for vice.。
[APPLAUSE]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
What's up, guys?。
[APPLAUSE]。
Man, how about that?。
That was amazing.。
Thank you, Laura Webb.。
It's like being on American Idol or something in here.。
Welcome, friends in the room, friends in Fort Worth,。
friends in Houston, in El Paso, in Tulsa, in Cedar Rapids,。
Iowa, in South Africa.。
That's new.。
Wherever you're listening, we are glad that you're here.。
I'm going to start us off with a story。
as we continue this series, Vice and Virtue.。
A few months ago, my wife and I had our five-year anniversary.。
And-- let me move this.。
Thank you.。
And we went to-- we decided we were。
going to go to New York in the wintertime.。
We were going to go see the tree and see the lighting.。
Yeah, thank you, man.。
This is such an encouraging crowd.。
I'll keep going.。
And we planned it all out.。
And we were only going to be there for four days.。
So we had never really spent time together in New York.。
And as you know, if you've been there,。
there's more than enough to do for four days' worth.。
And so if you're going to really max out your experience,。
you've got to plan things out.。
You've got to look into things, make reservations.。
You need to-- especially if you're。
trying to work on a budget, because everything in New York。
is like a billion dollars.。
If you're listening from New York, can we work on that?。
So anyway, so we are looking into coupons.。
And this is where you've got to buy tickets for this show。
if you're going to be here.。
And if you want to see Hamilton on Broadway,。
you've got to go to like 18 different websites。
and type things in.。
Still didn't work.。
And we just went through all the different planning。
for that event so that when it came,。
we would max out those four days that we。
were going to have there.。
And so we asked friends for kind of their lists of, hey,。
this is for sure where you need to eat.。
This is for sure where you need to go.。
And we just had an amazing time.。
And we got to see the 9/11 Museum,。
got to go to Rockefeller Center, got to go to Central Park,。
do the bikes, got to go experience。
the joys that is the subway, which we tried。
to minimize our time on that.。
We got to just go all throughout the town and have the best。
or try to make the most of every single moment。
that we had on that trip.。
And the reason I start there is because the Bible presents。
this idea that your life and my life。
is like we're on this trip.。
And it tells us that inside of your life,。
you only have so many moments where。
you're going to get to use, you're going to get to live,。
you're going to get to experience.。
And so make sure that you are diligent to maximize。
your purposeful to put to use the moments。
that you're going to have.。
Just like we only had four days or a certain number of hours。
that you're going to be there, the Bible。
presents this idea that you and I only。
have a certain number of moments in this life.。
And so we are to be very purposeful as it。
relates to how we use them.。
And the reason why that's relevant to this series of vice。
and virtue, OK, living with purpose and living on meaning。
and making the most of opportunities,。
what's it have to do with advice or virtue,。
is because tonight we're going to look。
at a passage of scripture where the apostle Paul。
in Ephesians chapter 5, if you have a Bible,。
you can flip open there.。
He says that this is a vice that will keep you。
from living a life of meaning.。
It's really the only one that we've looked at so far where。
Paul says, look, hey, as it relates to your life,。
here's how you should live.。
And as it relates to this particular vice,。
the vice of drunkenness, you need。
to be very, very careful that you do not。
allow this vice to take you off course。
and to lead you to live a life that is not just reckless.。
It is a life that's void of meaning.。
And so we're going to be in Ephesians chapter 5.。
Ephesians chapter 5, starting in verse 18.。
If you have a Bible, you can flip there.。
If not, it will be up on the screen.。
And we'll dive in.。
Let me just say this about alcohol in biblical times。
because there's a lot of misinformation out there。
and a lot of--。
it's just it was a different time and a different day.。
Alcohol in Paul's day was probably。
as prevalent, if not more prevalent,。
than it is even in our day.。
And why I say that is because at that time, really,。
we didn't totally understand or they。
didn't totally understand bacteria and the way。
that you boil water and you get rid of different things。
in order to get sick.。
So what they knew is, hey, if you drink water,。
you could get sick.。
It'd be essentially like if you're drinking water。
in a third world country.。
Same thing.。
They'd be like, man, if you drink water, you can get sick.。
Or if you drink wine, you get drunk.。
And I think I'm going to go with the second.。
And so they would just-- it was just a very common thing。
where, hey, if I'm going to have to risk it。
and roll the dice here, I'd rather risk it。
with the second than with the first.。
And so Paul writes to a culture that much like ours,。
celebrated, embraced, and had wine or had alcohol。
in a very prevalent way.。
And he says, as Christians in this life,。
here's how you and I are to relate to alcohol.。
So we're going to dive right in as we just。
explore what it looks like to interact。
with this vice of drunkenness.。
In this series, we've been covering biblical virtues。
and the corresponding cultural vices。
that exist in our world.。
So we'll pick it up in verse 15 of chapter 5.。
"Be very careful, then, how you live, not as unwise,。
but as wise, making the most of every opportunity,。
because the days are evil.。
Therefore, do not be foolish."。
Or the same Greek word is the word stupid.。
So don't be stupid, but understand。
what the Lord's will is.。
So Paul says, look, hey, as it relates。
to how you're going to live your life--。
everybody listen up really here.。
The Greek word in be careful is emphatic.。
It's saying, hey, I want everyone's attention right。
here as it relates to how you're going to live your life,。
how you're going to spend your time, he would say to you。
and say to me, you need to be very, very careful that you。
don't allow just the current of culture--。
that's the days of evil--。
to sweep you away.。
And you don't allow other people in your life。
or the culture around you or the family you were raised in,。
you don't allow those things to dictate how you're。
going to use your life.。
Don't be stupid, he says, but know what God's will is,。
or know what God wants you to do inside of your life,。
and then do that.。
Know what God wants you to do in that job,。
know what he wants you to do in that relationship,。
know what he wants you to do at any given moment.。
Be someone who's attentive and listening and careful that,。
hey, in this moment right now, I want to be careful to do。
what God would have me do, what would he have me do,。
and then I want to do it.。
That's what Paul says, do that.。
Making the most of every opportunity, living for eternity.。
And then he takes a left turn that almost feels like,。
what, and he says this.。
Do not get drunk on wine, which leads to debauchery,。
which on the face, or on the surface, you're like,。
take it easy, Paul, feels like a little personal, buddy.。
I mean, it's just a couple, a couple,。
I mean, just a little tipsy, it was a couple drinks,。
that's my business, why don't you keep your own business,。
Paul, and yet there's a reason why he connects these ideas.。
It's very intentional that he brings up what he does next.。
So I just want to camp out on the first topic that we're。
going to talk about in these three ideas tonight,。
is living underneath the influence.。
Living underneath the influence, because I think what。
Paul does here is pretty brilliant,。
and it's very, very purposeful.。
There's a couple things that he tells us inside of this,。
where he says, man, live for eternity, live purposefully,。
cut back on the alcohol, and don't consume so much,。
because it's going to lead you somewhere very specific.。
And he tells us, it will lead you。
in the direction of debauchery.。
I think where we're immediately going to have a challenge。
is when Paul says, hey, don't get drunk on wine,。
I think that all of us would be like, dude, look, Paul,。
I'm not drunk, okay, it was a little buzzed,。
and it was my birthday, okay, so I deserved it.。
And all of us would just be like, it's not,。
I never get drunk, like drunk is the guy who's like,。
passed out and his friends had to carry him home,。
or he just ended up sleeping at the bar, wasn't drunk,。
and so what do you even mean by drunk?。
What does Paul mean by drunk?。
What does it mean to get drunk?。
Is it two drinks, three drinks, four?。
What is, is it what the T-A-B-C says is drunk?。
Is that what Paul had in mind when he wrote this?。
And I think Paul would say you're asking the wrong question.。
It's not about how much alcohol you have,。
it's about how much of you the alcohol has.。
It is not about how much you drink。
or how much alcohol you consume,。
it is about how much of you,。
how much of your control of your life。
the alcohol has over you.。
But just to give a little bit of clarity before we go on,。
'cause Paul's going, hey, don't get drunk on wine,。
which he would say in case you're like,。
I never drink wine, I'm a beer guy.。
He would say don't get drunk on beer,。
don't get drunk on shots of Patron,。
don't get drunk on anything.。
And if you're going, I don't know that I'm really drunk,。
here's just a couple context clues,。
maybe this will be helpful for you as it relates to drunk.。
If you wake up the next day with a hangover,。
you probably were drunk.。
I don't know if that would be controversial or not,。
I would think not, but save the email。
'cause I probably won't respond.。
If you find yourself forgetting things。
about the night before, you probably were drunk.。
If you're like, man, I can't believe that I texted him this,。
the text is in Spanish, I don't even speak Spanish.。
(audience laughing)。
You probably had too much to drink.。
If you are unable to concentrate,。
or you're having to really, really concentrate。
when you talk, you're like, yes, put this sentence together.。
You probably have had too much to drink or are drunk.。
If you are swaying when you walk。
and you accidentally find yourself,。
or you find yourself accidentally tripping。
on a flat surface, you probably have had too much to drink.。
If you are taking shots, okay,。
I know this is not gonna be a popular one, shots fired,。
pardon the pun. (audience laughing)。
(laughing)。
That's not my notes, it's so bad.。
(audience laughing)。
It's kind of genius though.。
If you are taking shots, you probably。
are not drinking biblically,。
because there's really only one reason why you take shots.。
It's not like you're like, oh my goodness, this is,。
(audience laughing)。
this is delicious, what is this again?。
You're like, ah.。
You're probably not drinking.。
If you're playing drinking games,。
I know, I get another one where it's like,。
easy man, you're up in our business.。
If you're playing beer pong,。
you probably are not drinking biblically,。
unless you are a master with the ping pong balls.。
(audience laughing)。
And Paul would say, if you're drinking。
for the purpose of getting drunk,。
which I think a lot of us, I mean, let's be honest,。
if we were honest with Paul, and he says,。
hey, do not get drunk, or don't drink to get drunk,。
you're like, Paul, then why would I drink?。
And I think he would say, yeah,。
you should think about that then.。
(audience laughing)。
He says, do not get drunk on one,。
and I love it because he tells us why,。
and there's two reasons inside of the text。
that he tells us, and it's not,。
is it because God is against fun?。
Is that what this is about?。
No, it's because of where drunkenness leads,。
and he uses a word we really don't use anymore,。
the word debauchery, so today, probably at your job,。
you weren't like, oh my gosh, he debauched me.。
He's a debaucher, I tell him, no good, he's a debaucher.。
Debauchery is a word that we don't use a ton,。
but it just means reckless living.。
It means out of control living.。
And Paul says the reason why alcohol is a bad thing。
is not because God's against fun or your birthday party.。
The reason why he says don't get drunk。
is because he leads to a particular place,。
and one of the places that it leads。
is to out of control living,。
where you're no longer in control,。
but the alcohol has begun to take over。
your ability to speak, your ability to walk,。
your ability, oftentimes, to even think.。
And he says where it leads is no more good.。
It leads to out of control living.。
It leads to sending text messages that you regret.。
It leads to calling ex-boyfriends or girlfriends。
and letting them know you think。
you really should get back together.。
It leads to decisions that we wake up the next morning。
filled with regret.。
It leads to bar taps that we never would've racked up sober,。
paying for people we don't even know.。
He's like, it leads to out of control spending.。
It leads to out of control living.。
It leads to going home with someone。
that we don't even know their last name.。
I mean, sadly, it leads to an out of control living。
that for some of us, it's led to like,。
I gotta get an STD test because I slept with him。
and we didn't use protection or we,。
I went further than I wanted to.。
It leads to shame, hangover.。
And Paul would say, man, it leads you to a place。
that God does not want you to go.。
And this loss of control, it doesn't just make you,。
you shouldn't just not drink and drive.。
It makes you a worse dater.。
You shouldn't drink and date.。
You shouldn't drink and be a friend,。
drink and do anything that's gonna impair it.。
And Paul says, if you allow alcohol to take control,。
it will lead you to a place of reckless living,。
of regret, and of pain.。
And the worst thing, I think, he says,。
the place that it leads you to。
is really found inside of the context。
of everything that he said.。
And this is what I think Paul's biggest point。
in this whole thing is,。
it's gonna lead you to waste your life.。
Like, it's gonna lead you to waste those moments.。
I mean, that's the point in the entire context.。
He's like, dude, hey, look, okay,。
God created everything on this earth, your life.。
You're here for a reason, you're here for a purpose.。
You only got so many minutes.。
Don't waste them being wasted.。
Don't waste them being spent at the bar,。
having too many drinks,。
having those superficial conversations。
just 'cause you're both buzzed.。
And yeah, I like God too.。
Don't waste them in those conversations.。
Don't waste those moments of your life.。
You only have so many.。
That's his point.。
It's not like, hey, God's against beer.。
It's he's against you wasting your life.。
It's you not experiencing the purpose。
for which you were born, created.。
And if you're a believer for which God has saved you,。
it's you not experiencing a life full of meaning.。
By living in line with God's will in every situation,。
by seeing the world around you and living on purpose。
or living on mission for God,。
is it wrong to have a drink?。
It may be for you.。
I don't know.。
We'll talk about that a little bit more in a second,。
but that's not his point.。
His point is don't allow alcohol。
to lead you to a place where it takes you。
off of the reason for which you exist,。
the reason that you're here on this planet.。
I mean, you think about it.。
You never hear, as it relates,。
if we were to answer Paul's question of like,。
hey, don't get drunk because it leads to X,。
I think we may have different answers in the room。
based on our experiences, our own story,。
the stories that we know of our friends,。
but all of us would answer pretty much。
in the same genre of things.。
It leads to less than awesome things。
and God would be like, yes, do more of that.。
In other words, you never hear someone be like,。
hey, and then I got drunk。
and I had the most amazing quiet time I've ever had.。
Best time, God's word.。
I mean, it was rich.。
It was rich.。
You never hear that.。
You never hear someone be like,。
dude, I just, I got hammered drunk。
and then I had the best prayer time I've ever had.。
I never have heard someone say,。
man, I got hammered drunk and I just,。
I led this guy, I led my neighbor to Christ.。
I mean, I'm tearing up thinking about it right now.。
It just doesn't happen.。
But you do hear all the time,。
man, I got really drunk and I did X.。
And sometimes it's laughable and sometimes it's not.。
And Paul says, man, don't allow alcohol。
to rob you of a moment,。
of a life full of moments that don't have meaning,。
of a life that's void or doesn't have purpose inside of it.。
Like imagine if on that New York trip,。
if I had come back and I talked to some friends。
and imagine like the trip went totally different.。
Instead of going all this different places,。
I came back and you asked me how it went。
and I was like, yeah, it was good.。
And you're like, hey, did you go to Rockefeller?。
Did you go to Central Park and do the bikes?。
Did you go eat the frozen hot chocolate。
just like in serendipity?。
Did you go on the ice skating rink?。
Did you go to all the different things,。
you know, the Empire State Building?。
And I was like, no.。
What'd you do?。
It's a little fuzzy, honestly.。
We found this bar the first night。
and we got there and we had margaritas.。
My wife, she loves margaritas, me too.。
And we had like three, maybe four.。
Then we did shots.。
And it's kind of, I don't,。
I kept struggling to really remember.。
And then the next day we woke up,。
we slept in and we're dealing with the headache thing.。
So it was like, oh, we gotta get Starbucks.。
Oh man, so much pain.。
And then we just kind of waited out the day we ate.。
We ate in Chinatown, I do remember that.。
And then we did it, we went back to that bar。
that second night, that same time.。
Or that second night again.。
And that one I don't remember really at all.。
And then the next, and on and on.。
You'd be like, you wasted your trip to New York.。
And maybe you're going, oh man, that sounds so fun.。
I mean, think about it.。
You could do that in Dallas at least.。
We can all agree there.。
Regardless of what you believe,。
your Christian faith or any of that,。
you'd at least be like, yeah,。
you know that there's bars in Dallas.。
You don't have to do that inside of New York.。
Even if you are not a Christian,。
we would all agree there, you wasted,。
in other words, you missed out on the reason。
you went to New York.。
Which is to experience, to make the most。
of every moment that you had there,。
and you wasted it just hitting one bar after the next.。
In so many ways, that's what Paul is saying。
about your life and my life.。
Like if you spend it being drunk,。
you are spending it missing out on the reason。
why you're here.。
The reason that God has put breath inside of your lungs.。
The reason he's given you another day, another weekend.。
He says don't waste your life being wasted.。
And if you're not careful to do so as it relates to alcohol,。
you will allow it to rob you of meaning.。
Not only that, I mean, let's be honest.。
I think we could at least, most of us agree。
that alcohol, it like robs you of creativity.。
It robs you with some level of adventure.。
I know a lot of you are like, dude,。
have you ever seen The Hangover?。
That's my life.。
It's adventurous.。
Okay, for most people, what it looks like is like,。
dude, drinking in your life is just monotonous.。
Your weekends are monotonous.。
If you're a weekend warrior,。
you do the same thing every weekend.。
You're like, Friday's here, what are we doing?。
We're getting lit, get blacked out.。
And then Saturday's here and I'm gonna do it again.。
And then next weekend, I'm gonna do it again.。
And then after that, I think I'm gonna do it again.。
And then after that, I mean,。
that is the most pathetic life I can imagine.。
And if you're going, oh, dude, you just don't know.。
You don't know.。
And there's nothing, honestly,。
that I'm gonna be able to tell you。
that can make you believe that.。
But the God who's there has so much more for you。
than you numbing yourself to the pain。
of whatever's going on in your world,。
the stress of your job.。
Like he has invited you on this incredible adventure。
where he's leading you to a place。
where you experience meaning, not shame, in your life.。
And he says, if you live under the influence,。
you are headed towards destruction.。
And if you are, I think, tragically, honestly,。
there was an article that came out,。
or it wasn't even an article,。
it was a TED Talk by some psychologist。
and it was like how 30 is not the new 20.。
And it just talked about a common belief in our day。
where it says, man, young adults think that like,。
hey, my 20s is really, or 30 is the new 20.。
So I used to have to have everything together。
and by 20, I would begin to take steps in my life.。
And now I've got to 30, my 20s,。
I can just kind of do whatever I want.。
And the point of the whole conversation。
from the psychologist is what really God's Word confirms.。
Is that if you go through your 20 being like,。
dude, I'm just gonna, I'll deal with this stuff later,。
I'll grow, I'll develop as a person later.。
Right now, I'm kind of just living for the weekend.。
You are living without purpose.。
You are putting pause on even your growth as a person.。
I don't even know if it's pause,。
you may be going backwards.。
I mean, we've all met the dude at the wedding。
who's like 50 and you're like,。
you never left your fraternity.。
He's like, where's the keg stands, let's do this.。
And you're like, man, you are so tan right now。
and you never left your fraternity.。
And what happened with him is what,。
tragically, I think many people are doing right now.。
God doesn't say, man, life begins when you're 30.。
Right now, let me just tell you something,。
you are becoming something.。
You are becoming someone.。
You are working on, today you worked on your marriage。
and you may be thinking, I'm not even dating someone.。
Yes, you worked on your marriage.。
The type of spouse you're gonna be,。
the type of person you're gonna be,。
the career path that you're gonna be on,。
all of them will work today.。
You are becoming someone.。
You're not coasting in your 20s.。
You are becoming someone.。
And your relationship with alcohol。
is gonna be a key determining factor。
in the someone that you are becoming.。
And Paul says, don't let it have control.。
There is someone to have control of your life。
and here's where he goes next in verse 18.。
Instead, be filled with the Spirit.。
So we contrast drinking alcohol。
and being drunk or being controlled by that。
and he says, no, don't be controlled by that。
but be controlled or be filled with the Spirit.。
Speaking to one another in psalms, hymns,。
and songs from the Spirit.。
Sing and make music from your heart to the Lord.。
Always giving thanks to God the Father for everything。
in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ.。
So our second idea that we're gonna talk about。
after living under the influence。
is living in the Spirit.。
Well, Paul says, don't give yourself。
to being controlled by alcohol。
but do allow the Spirit of God to control your life.。
What does it mean to be filled with the Spirit?。
And this is so huge and there's lots of resources。
on watermark.org you can go listen to.。
So I'm not gonna cover it really in depth here。
but there's a lot of misconceptions。
about filled with the Spirit.。
In fact, one of them is the glow down on filling up.。
Our senior pastor here did.。
It's excellent and there's several messages。
that are involved there.。
But what does it mean to be filled with the Spirit?。
'Cause a lot of people would say,。
like, hey, to be filled with the Spirit,。
you gotta speak in tongues,。
you gotta have like some emotional experience.。
It was like, they'll express it like,。
oh man, that felt like the Spirit。
was so filled in this place.。
It was so rich inside of there.。
And I think people do that。
from well-meaning places.。
Biblically, what it means to have someone。
who is filled with the Spirit。
is the same idea of surrendered to the Spirit.。
The same idea of being controlled by the Spirit.。
What do I mean?。
What's an example of that?。
When someone says, hey, they're filled with rage,。
they don't mean there was like an injection of rage。
that went into their body.。
It means they were controlled by rage.。
Biblically, this is what it means to be filled。
is to be surrendered to or given over to。
the Spirit of God.。
That you and I are to do that.。
And Paul lays out really what that looks like。
by going into, hey, addressing one another。
with scriptural Psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs,。
have spiritual or scriptural Bible things.。
Fill your mouth is what he says.。
Fill your mind or renew the way that you think.。
Fill your heart, he says.。
He uses all of these different things.。
He says this is what it looks like to be controlled。
or to be surrendered to the Spirit。
is you begin to allow God's Word to fill your mind,。
fill your heart, fill your mouth,。
and do it together with other people,。
addressing one another, he says.。
Does that make sense?。
It's not dissimilar to this.。
When I was, so in college, sorry.。
You guys talk amongst yourselves while I remember this.。
When I was in college, I worked at the summer camp。
during the summer, and there were these different stations。
where I was a counselor, and I would,。
every day you would wake up and they would basically。
put you at these different stations。
where you're the counselor that's overseeing the blob,。
or you're the counselor overseeing the trampolines,。
or overseeing the canoe and sail clinic,。
or overseeing the boats, or overseeing these different。
things, for whatever reason, often I would get put。
on the canoe and sail, and they would have these sailboats。
where you would have a bunch of campers that would come down。
and you're essentially like the head, like here we go,。
I'm the sail guy, come on in, I'll teach you how to do it,。
and you would load everybody up, and each camper would be。
on their own boat, you'd teach them how to do it,。
and you'd go through what it looks like to,。
if there's an emergency, and pulling out the sail,。
and all this different stuff.。
The biggest thing that you had to make sure。
that these kids would know how to do is they would have。
to pull the ropes on their sailboat,。
this little small sailboat, in a certain way。
that would expand open the sail,。
that if you're gonna allow the wind to take your boat,。
you gotta pull the ropes and it opens up the sail.。
It's pretty easy, other than that, you can't mess it up.。
So we'd go out there, we'd all get out,。
as the counselor, you're like, I gotta make sure。
none of these kids gets eaten by an alligator or something,。
here we go, Timmy, all right, here we go,。
and we'd go out, and inevitably, every single time,。
(laughs)。
there's no Timmy, every single time,。
there would be like, there would be a Timmy,。
we're just gonna call him Timmy,。
there'd be one kid that would be way in the back,。
and every time you're up front,。
and you're with all the other kids, and you're like,。
how do, you can't really turn the sailboat around,。
the wind is pushing this, Timmy, Timmy!。
Open up the sail, Timmy, pull the ropes,。
pull the, Timmy, look at me, Timmy!。
Pull the ropes, open up the sail to allow the wind to push,。
in other words, Timmy, you're not gonna move。
if you don't open up the sail, allow the sail to expand,。
and you will be moved in our direction,。
you'll move in the right direction,。
you are dependent, Timmy, on the wind,。
so open up the sail.。
And stay with me, 'cause this is the left turn.。
(laughing)。
In the same way, this is really what the Bible presents。
as it relates to walking by the Spirit,。
that you and I, what is our role?。
Our role is not to be the wind,。
our role is not to move the boat forward,。
our role is to literally just say,。
look, I'm gonna open up my life,。
I'm gonna open up my mind to God's Word。
and allow it to come in,。
I'm dependent on the Spirit of God。
if I'm gonna move my life in the right direction.。
I don't have what it takes on my own,。
I've got what's called a sin nature,。
everything inside of me that is just because of me。
wants to lead me in a wrong direction,。
wants to lead me towards an affair,。
wants to lead me towards getting drunk,。
wants to lead me towards getting high,。
wants to lead me towards materialism,。
everything about me is headed in the wrong direction.。
But when I allow the Spirit of God。
to fill the sails, if you will, of my life,。
that's the only way I can move in the right direction,。
so how do I get the Spirit of God。
to fill the sails of my life,。
to move me in the right direction?。
By opening up the sail,。
or opening up my mind, my heart, my life,。
to God's Word, to renewing the way that I think,。
allowing the Spirit of God to lead me,。
and when I do that, it moves me in the right direction.。
I'm dependent on the Spirit of God,。
and the way that I can access。
just being filled with the Spirit。
is by opening up my mind, opening up my heart,。
opening up my life to allow God's Word。
to renew the way that I think, the way that I live,。
the way that I see the world,。
and I do it with one another.。
That's what Paul just said.。
That's what he says inside of that text.。
This is how the spiritual life is lived,。
and where does it lead to?。
I mean, if the life under the influence。
leads to shame, regret, pain,。
leads to at least headaches and hangovers,。
where does the life with the Spirit lead to?。
Because he doesn't tell us here,。
but there is a place he tells us,。
and I'm gonna tell you briefly.。
You can write down Galatians chapter five.。
If you wanna read it later, it tells us where Paul says,。
look, hey, if you ever allow your life。
to be filled with the fruit of the Spirit,。
or you allow the Spirit of God to take over,。
and the more that you allow the Spirit of God。
to take over your life,。
here's what he's gonna produce inside of your life.。
He says this in chapter five, verse 22 of Galatians.。
But the fruit of the Spirit,。
what's produced by the Spirit in someone's life is love,。
joy, not depression, peace, not anxiety,。
forbearance or patience, kindness,。
goodness, faithfulness, gentleness,。
self-control, like unlike alcohol,。
where you lose more and more control。
the more you have of it,。
the more you have of the Spirit,。
or the more the Spirit has of you,。
the more you gain control over your life.。
And I love what comes next.。
It always ministers to me.。
Against such things there is no law.。
Paul, what do you mean?。
Yeah, against such things there's no law.。
There's no need for a law against these types of things.。
When that is the governor of someone's life,。
when the Spirit of God is directing someone's life,。
it produces things inside of them。
that if everyone was governed by that,。
we wouldn't need laws.。
We could take all the locks off the doors,。
you can leave your car unlocked,。
you don't have to worry about school shootings,。
you don't have to worry about any of that stuff.。
Because he says against such things,。
in other words, there's never been a law。
that's like, all right, hey, too much peace.。
Break it up, too much peace over here, too much joy.。
This guy's a little too kind for me, if you ask me.。
There's never been anything like that.。
He says against such things there is no law.。
It's really, it's such a beautiful truth.。
Because I grew up in a home that my parents divorced very,。
really, there was a lot of alcoholic abuse that took place.。
And it finally ended around age 12.。
And had the Spirit of God had control,。
over one of my parents,。
my story would have looked different.。
Not only would his life have been different,。
his children's life would have been different.。
And unlike the way that alcohol,。
it's not bad every single time,。
it's a gift from God, the Scripture says,。
but the places it can lead, the Bible says, be cautious.。
Because unlike alcohol, that's never a solution。
to people's problems.。
The Spirit of God is an incredible solution。
to what you're facing in life.。
In other words, you never hear the story.。
I mean, it's almost comical, but it's true.。
I never heard the story of somebody who came down front。
and be like, look, we were having tons of dating problems.。
And then we introduced alcohol.。
And everything's been incredible ever since.。
And then never heard the person,。
like, I was so far from God.。
And then I found shots of Patron.。
Turned it all around.。
It just doesn't happen.。
But when the Spirit of God begins to come in,。
wherever it comes in, the Bible tells us。
where the Spirit is, there's freedom.。
There's liberty brought in.。
There's life there.。
And that's what God wants to lead you and lead me to,。
if we'll just open up the sails of our life.。
So Paul says, don't be controlled by alcohol.。
Do be controlled by the Spirit of God.。
And so if you're anything like me,。
when I sit and listen to a sermon like this,。
I'm like, okay, don't be drunk on wine.。
Check, got that?。
Or anything else.。
Do be surrendered to God and his control.。
Can I have a Mambo taxi on Friday night or not?。
Can we just make it that clear and that simple?。
And so what I wanna do next is just talk really quickly。
about living in the tension.。
Because the answer is maybe.。
There's not a one size fits all.。
And so the third idea, if we're talking about living。
under the influence and where that leads you,。
living in the Spirit and where that leads you,。
the third idea is living in the tension。
the Bible presents as it relates to alcohol.。
'Cause you're right, Jesus, I mean, Jesus,。
his first miracle, turning water into wine, absolutely.。
People who like to drink,。
it's like their favorite Bible verse.。
Like, dude, Jesus was also called a drunkard in Matthew 15.。
Feels like we have something in common.。
And so there is this tension of like,。
man, there's incredible caution,。
and yet the Bible tells us in Psalm 104。
that God gave wine to make glad the hearts of men.。
And so am I free?。
Can you drink?。
And so I just wanna open the conversation,。
and if nothing else, honestly,。
if you leave here tonight and you begin to ask the question,。
why do I drink?。
Then I feel like I've done my job.。
Like, in other words, what you need to leave here。
and feel responsible for is the answer.。
In other words, it's Scripture to give this away.。
It's not a clear, like, yes, you can,。
as long as you're not getting drunk,。
you're always free to drink.。
The question is all about why.。
What's at the heart?。
Why are you drinking?。
And you gotta wrestle that down.。
There's clear parameters.。
I'm about to lay out a few of which,。
of why, when it's clearly not okay, but why?。
Like, literally, I want you to think about it.。
You can write that down if you can't,。
if you're not, if you think, oh, he's saying, like,。
one of those things he really didn't want me。
to actually do.。
I really want you to think, why are you drinking?。
Every time.。
Here's why I wanna drink right now.。
Here's why I want a drink.。
Here's why I want this drink.。
Here's why I'm drinking right now.。
Begin to be thoughtful every single time.。
I mean, if nothing else, that's what the Bible。
would command all of us to.。
And there's certain outliers that it would clearly say,。
no, you definitely should not drink.。
Or this is an occasion where you, for sure,。
should not drink.。
I'm gonna go over a few of those.。
But if you leave here and you just wrestle,。
you begin to be thoughtful about, hey, is it okay?。
Am I, is the reason I wanna drink right now。
okay in God's eyes?。
Then I feel like I've done my job.。
But here's some of the reasons why it would not be。
a good idea to drink.。
If you need to drink or do not drink。
to achieve a state of mind, if you're like,。
I just need to escape, I just need to get outta here,。
I don't wanna remember anything,。
I'm so overwhelmed with life,。
that's not a good reason to drink.。
Truly, the Bible says that you and I, over and over again,。
it says that we're to be sober-minded, sober-minded,。
on the alert.。
First Peter five, Romans 12, verse three,。
First Thessalonians five, verse six,。
and over and over again.。
That you and I are to be sober.。
So if you're like, man, I just wanna check out,。
that's not a good reason.。
So if that would be how you would answer the question,。
that's not a good reason to drink.。
Do not drink to get over a need.。
Or because of a need, if you're like, I need a drink,。
my boss was crazy today,。
that's probably not a good reason to drink.。
And I know sometimes people say that in joking,。
but if you're not able to be like, I was kidding,。
I really don't need it, I'm fine, I'll be okay without it,。
then you probably are drinking to fill some sort of need.。
What do I mean by need?。
Like if you're like, hey, I need,。
I need a drink in order to have fun tonight, am I right?。
If you need a drink, because what you're doing,。
in order to have fun at what you're doing,。
what you're doing is not fun, or neither are you.。
There's something going on there,。
(congregation laughing)。
and if that's the case, and that's why you're drinking,。
that's not a good reason to drink,。
and you're like, well, it just makes me a better dancer.。
It doesn't make you a better dancer, number one.。
(laughing)。
I'm sorry, I could go here longer, but I'm not going to.。
(congregation laughing)。
It's not a good reason to drink.。
If you're drinking to get over a breakup,。
it's not a good reason to drink.。
If you're drinking, could confuse, discourage,。
or tempt someone around you, it's not a good reason to drink.。
Romans chapter 14, if you want to go read it later,。
you can write that down.。
Romans chapter 14, First Corinthians 10,。
Paul lays out essentially this argument。
that happened inside of a couple of the early churches。
where it's a kind of a longer,。
it's hard to condense really quickly,。
but essentially, the churches were debating over。
whether or not you could eat meat, sacrifice to idols.。
So Paul was like, dude, this meat, it's filet mignon,。
it was sacrificed to an idol, those idols don't exist.。
I can eat this all day long, it's not gonna be a big deal.。
All they did was like, hey, we give this to you, Zeus.。
Zeus isn't real, so people eat up steaks on the thing,。
and they defended people, and they were like,。
I can't believe you did that, and Paul went,。
okay, time out, hey, if it's gonna offend anyone,。
we can't do this.。
If it's gonna cause anyone to stumble,。
and he says they're the weaker brother。
'cause their faith doesn't allow them to do it,。
but even so, he says, I'm not going to use my freedom。
that I have if it's gonna offend, confuse,。
or discourage, or tempt anyone that I'm around.。
So if your drinking is gonna do that,。
am I saying that you should sacrifice。
or not take advantage of the freedom that you have to drink。
if it's gonna discourage, tempt, or confuse someone?。
Yes.。
Even there, you gotta be thoughtful,。
that when you go out to drink, I mean, that the context,。
hey, the people that I'm gonna be around,。
are they gonna be tempted to get drunk?。
Are they gonna be discouraged or confused by like,。
hey, I thought you were a Christian?。
Is it gonna bring clarity to the fact that,。
oh man, Christians can have that?。
Will it allow you to have an incredible conversation?。
Is the way I'm drinking and when I'm drinking。
going to confuse, tempt, or discourage different people?。
I mean, context is everything.。
I mean, think about it.。
If I pull out this Dos Equis,。
everyone just got a little quieter in here.。
(congregation laughs)。
And if I take it, and is this not okay?。
Oh man, I would drink to that.。
Need a lime.。
It's water, people, good grief.。
(congregation laughs)。
Man, this is, everyone's like, oh my gosh,。
pastor?。
(congregation laughs)。
What sort of church is this?。
(congregation laughs)。
Why would that not be okay?。
I mean, some of you know the reason.。
Some of you are just like, oh man, I don't know.。
If I like seeing the pastor have a Dos Equis.。
(congregation laughs)。
But the reason it's not okay is because it could discourage,。
it could offend, it could confuse people。
who may not have either the familiarity。
with what the Bible teaches on it,。
or may not be in a place in their own life。
where they're like, dude, that's a part of my past.。
That's a part of my alcohol.。
Claire, I'm gonna give this to you so don't tip it over.。
Hey, no sips, okay?。
Keep an eye.。
But there's times where it's okay。
and times where there's not.。
And the Bible says there's a place,。
and if the people that you're around。
are gonna be discouraged or confused or tempted by it,。
then don't.。
The fifth reason is if you cannot, stop.。
Do not drink if you cannot stop.。
Like Blake Shelton said, the more I drink,。
the more I drink.。
And it's very deep, Blake.。
(congregation laughs)。
And this truly, I think, is a legitimately decent size。
of the audience right now.。
Who are you like, man, I don't know if I can stop.。
When I have one, it means I had eight.。
And you need to be honest with yourself,。
be honest about why, and you need to seriously evaluate,。
should you even drink?。
Maybe you need to take a time where you don't,。
and you're like, dude, it's not that big of a deal, okay?。
Look, drinking, I don't need it.。
It's not that big of a deal, great, then don't do it。
if it's not that big of a deal.。
I could stop if I want to.。
Prove it.。
If nothing else, do it yourself.。
Some of you may be just like,。
hey, I'm not having alcohol for a month.。
I don't wanna be a slave to this.。
I don't wanna be in chains to this.。
Fifth reason is to not drink if you can't stop.。
And this is a more serious problem in the room。
than most of us would be honest enough to admit.。
(congregation laughing)。
If you leave here,。
and you don't feel at least the inclination,。
you've gotta be honest.。
Hey, is it okay for me to drink in this situation,。
right now, right here?。
I mean, that's what the Bible says,。
that it's not always okay.。
It's not just, hey, it's clear, it's fine,。
it's good for me, whatever you say, pastor.。
There is a tension, and so all that I'm asking you to do。
is step up to the line of being thoughtful.。
Is this gonna discourage people around me?。
Is this gonna confuse my example of my Christian faith?。
Is this something where, man, I can't stop.。
Am I doing this to get over something。
that is a part of my life,。
or some pain that I'm experiencing here?。
To be thoughtful in every situation.。
I'm gonna invite Ryan to come back up,。
and we'll play a video in a second,。
but it's just a video that was captured。
from some of our video team。
of a guy who really stepped into experiencing his purpose。
over the last year, or a little over a year ago.。
He's a guy who spent many years,。
and you'll see in the video, not experiencing his purpose,。
and he met Jesus, and everything changed.。
He met Jesus, and he began to find freedom,。
and he began to find what I hope you hear,。
and nothing else, not that God's anti-beer.。
He's pro-you, and pro-you experiencing the purpose。
for which you exist.。
You guys, listen and watch my friend John.。
- My name is John Satriano,。
and I'm a recovering drug addict alcoholic。
saved by the grace of God.。
Ever since I can remember,。
I cared a lot about what people thought of me.。
I let it define me.。
I was so empty that the opinions of others。
made up my character.。
So the keys to my peace were in other people's pockets,。
which is a dangerous place.。
And it was around the age of 15。
when I started to fill this God-sized hole in my heart。
with worldly things.。
It was the first time I got high.。
It was the first time I got drunk,。
and it sparked this 11-year spiral out of control.。
Very soon, I found myself neck deep in an addiction,。
a daily-use addiction to cocaine and alcohol.。
I remember coming home and seeing my mom。
hysterically crying on the couch,。
and my dog barking at me,。
because it was like I was hurting my mom so much。
to see her son like that.。
And at that time, I could've told you。
that I didn't care at all.。
And it was around this time last year。
where I had nothing left.。
It was then I decided I needed to get help,。
and so I entered into a faith-based rehab.。
It was there that I found that my drinking and drugging。
wasn't my problem.。
It was the solution to my problem, which was my heart.。
And so during the 90-day stay at rehab,。
I made the longest journey that I could ever make,。
and that was from my head to my heart.。
I remember specifically being in my counselor's office,。
coming to the realization that my entire life。
was built on this false self。
that was choking the life out of me, pride, ego.。
And I remember in that moment。
feeling two hands on my shoulders。
and hearing a voice that said, "I'm here with you."。
And it was God.。
And from that moment, I leaned on the only power。
that was ever gonna save me,。
and that was the power of Jesus Christ.。
It is because of Christ that I'm not a slave。
to that lifestyle anymore, that substance.。
And through that, through just handing over my will to God,。
he's reconciled so many relationships.。
And he's given me a life today。
that I could not have imagined.。
The makeup of my days now is filled with just a peace。
that exceeds understanding.。
My name's John, and that's my story.。
(congregation applauding)。
- That's awesome.。
Let me be really clear.。
John encountered Jesus, and it changed everything.。
He met a man who would forgive him of his sins,。
who would begin to heal the heart that he had,。
the brokenness of his heart,。
the sin that had infected him.。
And he found healing, and he found purpose.。
Now, let me be also really clear.。
John, just like the sinner on this stage,。
just like the sinner in that seat,。
could in a moment, if he has not surrendered to God,。
saying, "Here is the soul of my life.。
"I'm opening up the sail to you, God.。
"I'm gonna renew my mind.。
"I'm gonna walk by your spirit.。
"I'm gonna lean in dependence on you,。
"not in dependence on alcohol,。
"in dependence on cocaine, on anything else, God.。
"In a moment, I can turn my back on you."。
And it all hinges on whether John, day after day,。
takes up his cross, dies to himself,。
says, "I'm gonna surrender to you again today, Lord.。
"I'm gonna walk with your people around me.。
"I'm not gonna chase the dreams of this world。
"and the pleasures of the world around me.。
"I'm not gonna chase materialism,。
"get in a bigger car, more money in my bank account,。
"whatever other lies the world around me is trying to sell.。
"I'm gonna walk in dependence on you, God.。
"That's the only way I have any shot."。
And in a moment, John, everything could fall apart,。
and he knows that.。
Do you know that?。
Do you know that the shambles around your life right now,。
and somebody in this room needs to hear me in this,。
you're not gonna be able to pick 'em up。
and put 'em back together.。
You can't do it, you're not strong enough.。
You don't have what it takes.。
There's a God who's there.。
If you'll open the sail of your life,。
surrender to him,。
will come in and lead you to a life and a place。
unlike anything you could even imagine.。
And you'll find purpose.。
You'll find life.。
And you'll find Jesus.。
So more than enough, he is enough.。
That's what life is about.。
If you've never trusted in Christ before,。
if you've never had a moment。
where you put your faith in him,。
tonight is your night.。
The last thing I'd wanna leave you with is don't drink.。
If you're numbing with alcohol to numb your pain,。
and you're like, "Dude, I don't believe in God,"。
you should drink more.。
You should drink, you shouldn't stop.。
That's what I would do if I didn't have the hope。
that is found only in Christ.。
You look at a world around us。
and all the brokenness that is there.。
If you can be sober and atheist,。
I'm confused.。
Because you don't have any hope.。
And you may tell yourself you do.。
You're not standing on anything that has hope.。
And Christ alone offers that.。
And maybe you are a Christian,。
and you look around and you're in shambles.。
Jesus, if you would surrender and walk with him,。
day by day offers to lead you。
to a life like you could only dream of.。
Let me pray.。
Father, thank you。
for the ways that you're at work in our life.。
Thank you that the vision you have for the Christian faith。
is so much bigger than don't drink beer.。
How pathetic of a dream vision goal would that be?。
But the vision you have for us。
is that we would experience abundant life.。
Thank you for the ways that you worked。
in my friend John's life.。
Would you continue to do so?。
Would you continue to do so in my life?。
Take ground in my heart in the places。
where I need more of your spirit to take more of my heart,。
and I need the things of Jesus to grow。
and the things of David to die.。
Father, for anyone in this room。
who's never accepted the free gift that you offer us。
by dying on the cross in our place。
to pay for our sin, past, present, and future,。
and rising again, the free gift,。
if they'll just accept and trust in that,。
would tonight be their night?。
Would you do what only you can do?。
Just move in their heart, move on their heart.。
Father, I pray for those of us who are evaluating,。
would you lead us to evaluate why am I drinking right now?。
And help us to be surrendered to the spirit of God,。
and would he fill our sails in this life。
through our dependence on him?。
We worship you now in song, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
