(gentle music)。
How are we?。
Oh man, okay.。
Hey, let's thank these guys for leading us.。
Fort Worth, I know you have Jared Rutzel.。
Houston, I don't know who you're worshiping to,。
but man, worship leaders just stir our affections for Jesus.。
It's fun to come into this place。
and sing love songs to God wherever you're at.。
If you're tuning in somewhere, streaming,。
we hope that you're worshiping with us,。
if not through song, as we open God's word.。
And so I want you to turn to Judges 11.。
If you have your Bible, if you don't have a Bible。
or own a Bible, we'll give you a Bible free this evening.。
You can pull out your phones and turn there。
on your phones or device or whatever that looks like.。
Judges 11, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers,。
Deuteronomy, Joshua, Judges, chapter 11.。
I'm gonna open tonight with a crazy story.。
We're gonna talk about Jephthah.。
And so who can tell me some things about Jephthah?。
Okay, not a lot of hands, okay?。
I didn't see one actually.。
And so this story that I'm about to tell you,。
you may have never heard it preached in your entire life.。
You probably have never heard this story.。
And I read it this week and I was just like,。
that's a crazy story, why is that in our Bibles?。
And so I just wanna turn there with you.。
And so let me set this up, Jephthah, he's a gang leader.。
Okay, true story.。
He was, his dad was married and he had some brothers,。
but his dad slept with a prostitute.。
The prostitute got pregnant and had Jephthah.。
And so he's this illegitimate child of this man。
and he goes into the home, the brothers kick him out,。
throw him on the streets, he goes on the streets,。
he starts gang banging.。
And so he's like a blood or a crip or something.。
And the Israelites, just to set the scene,。
God's people are under attack from other nations.。
Specifically, there's this really powerful nation。
called the Ammonites.。
And they're after God's people, they're after God's land.。
And they're just getting their tails handed to them。
and they're like, what are we gonna do?。
You know what, we're gonna go after that bad,。
bad gang leader, Jephthah, who we threw out.。
And let's see if he can lead us into victory.。
And so this has been going on.。
And so Jephthah kind of enters the scene.。
He's like, hey, but you guys rejected me.。
They're like, we know, but if you'll come。
and you'll lead us to fight this army, the Ammonites,。
you know, we'll take you back and you can be a part of us.。
And he's like, okay, maybe so.。
And so Jephthah kind of enters the picture。
and Jephthah reaches out to the Ammonite king。
and just says, hey, why do you wanna fight with us?。
And he says, well, because you took our land.。
And he goes, no, we didn't.。
God gave us this land.。
And by the way, that was 300 years ago.。
And why have you been silent for 300 years?。
And the guy basically says, shut up, it's my land,。
let's make war.。
That's the message version.。
And so here's where we're at.。
And I'm gonna start here in verse 29.。
Let me go, okay.。
So verse 29, chapter 11, verse 29.。
"Then the Spirit of the Lord came on Jephthah.。
"He crossed Gilead and Manasseh,。
"passed through Mizpah of Gilead,。
"and from there he advanced against the Ammonites.。
"And Jephthah," listen, "made a vow to the Lord.。
"If you give the Ammonites into my hands,。
"whatever comes out of the door of my house。
"to meet me when I return in triumph from the Ammonites。
"will be the Lord's, and I will sacrifice it。
"as a burnt offering."。
Anybody have a pet here, a puppy?。
Specifically a puppy.。
Cats are hardly pets.。
But if you have, anybody?。
Raise your hand high if you have a puppy.。
Okay, and so if you don't know what I'm talking about,。
find somebody with their hand up afterwards。
and you can ask them.。
When you guys go out of town, right,。
and then you come back, you've been gone for a week,。
maybe you sent the puppy to the kennel or to a friend,。
you come back, like, hey, you know,。
it's like, let's play, where have you been?。
Come on, I missed you, you know, right?。
Am I alone on this, right?。
That happens, if you raise your hand, just lie for me.。
Okay, and so he's saying, hey, when I come back to battle,。
I don't know if he had a bunch of chickens or goats。
or what was hanging out in his house,。
but he says, hey, whatever comes out,。
I'll sacrifice as a burnt offering。
if you'll give me victory.。
He makes that commitment to the Lord.。
Then Jephthah, verse 32, went over to fight the Ammonites。
and the Lord gave them into his hands.。
He wins, and it goes on to verse 33.。
It says he doesn't just win, he dominates them.。
He conquers the land around them.。
Verse 34, when Jephthah returned to his home in Mizpah,。
who should come out to meet him but his daughter,。
dancing to the sound of timbrels?。
She was an only child.。
Except for her, he had neither son nor daughter.。
And when he saw her, he tore his clothes and he cried,。
oh no, my daughter, you have brought me down。
and I am devastated.。
I have made a vow to the Lord that I cannot break.。
This is crazy.。
He says, hey God, whatever comes out to greet me。
when I get home, I will offer as a burnt sacrifice to you.。
He comes home and it's his only child,。
his only daughter comes out to him.。
And if you think that's crazy, it just gets crazier.。
How she responds, 'cause I'd be like, oh no, psych.。
My father, she replied,。
you have given your word to the Lord.。
Do to me as you promised.。
Now that the Lord has avenged you of your enemies,。
the Ammonites, but grant me this one request, she said,。
give me two months to roam the hills and weep。
with my friends because I will never marry.。
Now some of you girls are like, that just makes sense.。
You know, she'd be sad.。
(congregation laughing)。
He may go, you may go, he said.。
And he let her go for two months.。
She and her friends went into the hills and wept。
because she would never marry.。
After the two months, she returned to her father。
and he did to her as he had vowed, and she was a virgin,。
which is a weird thing to add.。
(congregation laughing)。
Some commentaries believe that she was just then。
given to celibacy.。
Others would say, no, he offered her as a burnt offering.。
The sad thing tonight is you guys are probably wrestling。
with what's worse, you know, with celibacy。
or the burnt offering, I don't know.。
And so I wanna tell you where I stand.。
I think he did as he promised.。
And when you read that, and I'm not saying it was right,。
and I'm not condoning the decision,。
I'm just saying it happened, okay?。
So listen, I'm not, you know, the application not is like,。
hey, offer a burnt offering to the Lord, no.。
But why, when I read that, I'm like,。
why did he go through with it?。
I think when you read it, if you were honest,。
like the first thing you think is like, no, no, no, no, no.。
Tell God, like God will like change your mind.。
Why did he go through with this?。
But I want you to understand something.。
And the reason I tell you this crazy story this evening。
is because in the ancient world,。
they would not have asked why did he go through with it?。
They would have asked, why did he make the vow?。
We know why he went through with it,。
because you keep your word.。
The culture, listen closely,。
the culture of which the Bible was written into。
was a culture where your word mattered more than anything.。
You did what you said you were going to do.。
And so while we read it and we're like,。
why did he go through with it?。
They read it and they're like,。
man, he shouldn't have made that promise.。
That was dumb.。
But we know why he went through with it, assuming he did.。
Because in this culture, you keep your word.。
That's the culture that the Bible is written into.。
And Jephthah knew the scriptures.。
He knew the Torah.。
He knew the law and he understood that God really cares。
about people keeping their commitments.。
Now he had a messed up view of it。
and he needed some accountability。
and some community to come in and say,。
hey, God's got a grace and here's the deal.。
He probably doesn't want you to kill your daughter.。
And by the way, that's against the law in and of itself.。
But that's a sermon for another time.。
And so the reason I say that is so that you have。
a great understanding of the culture。
of which the Bible is written into,。
because we don't err to that side.。
We're not like keeping crazy promises.。
Like we don't even keep really basic ones.。
In fact, not only do we not keep them,。
we don't even wanna make them.。
Like we struggle just to make commitments.。
Like some of you guys, I'll just pick on you for a moment,。
probably all evening.。
Some of you guys, it's like, you know, as I said before,。
you've been dating a girl for a long, long time, like years.。
You're like, I don't know, man, I can't take that step.。
And then others of you are like, yeah,。
like engagements off the table,。
you can't even ask a girl out.。
Like that's too much of a commitment for you,。
amen, ladies?。
Okay.。
Okay, and now guys, before you walk out, okay,。
I see you already like planning your exit.。
Before you do, let me just say, man, I was the same way.。
I was absolutely the same way.。
I was dating this girl that was graduating from Baylor,。
and I needed to get her a graduation gift,。
and I was like, oh man, I'll get an engagement ring.。
Like that'll go well, like she'll love that, you know?。
And then, and then to make matters worse,。
I got her a set of golf clubs。
just in case I changed my mind.。
So I travel, true story, I travel to Baylor,。
I travel to Waco with an engagement ring。
and a set of women's golf clubs in the back.。
And I get there and she walks across the stage,。
and you know what's crazy, you know what happened?。
I changed my mind.。
It's like, here's some golf clubs, I hope you like 'em.。
And we'll go golfing together, it's gonna be great.。
And so I changed my mind.。
So you know what I did, I sold the wedding ring.。
I came back to Dallas, I worked with this guy,。
he was looking for an engagement ring,。
he's like, oh man, God's providence, I have one here.。
And I sell it to him, okay?。
He calls off the engagement, 'cause he's flaky too,。
and then I buy the wedding ring back.。
And then I just carry it in my pocket,。
just looking for the right time.。
Just like a flippant decision, like I don't know,。
like maybe today's the day, on a date at Dairy Queen.。
No, probably not.。
But one day, one day we're on a date,。
we're on a date at dinner, and it had gone well,。
it was a good conversation.。
I was like, hmm, okay.。
I go, I grab the ring, I come back, I give it to the waiter,。
I'm like, bring it out for dessert.。
He does, I get on a knee, I'm like, will you marry me?。
She's like, yes.。
It looked to her like it was this grand, you know,。
planned proposal.。
It was a decision I had made about 37 seconds earlier.。
(congregation laughing)。
And when I tell people that,。
they usually respond the same way.。
Poor Monica.。
(congregation laughing)。
Because I wasn't a man of commitment.。
Like I was flaky and flippant,。
and kind of following the Spirit,。
and God, where's the open door, and speak to me,。
and let me walk through that.。
And it just kind of marked my life, this flippancy,。
and honestly, I had carried that into the marriage,。
because as I stood there, like honestly, I thought,。
hey, we'll be engaged for like four years.。
Her dad had other plans,。
and so we get married four months later,。
and, yeah, wow.。
And I just thought, like here's honestly。
what's going through my mind.。
I just thought, yeah, man, we'll do that.。
We'll give that a shot.。
If it doesn't, you know, divorce, be a statistic.。
I mean, most people are, and it's okay.。
It's okay, this just marked kind of the,。
in the back of my mind, I thought,。
hey, we'll give this a shot,。
and if it doesn't work, we'll undo this.。
I didn't have the conviction of Jethro.。
I wasn't like, no, no, whatever I say,。
like I'm gonna do that.。
And we are so submersed in this culture.。
Like some of you, if you were honest,。
that's the way that you view commitments,。
which is a covenant like marriage,。
and not just marriage, but other commitments that you make.。
Think it's not a big deal.。
Like if something comes up, my friends will understand.。
And that is inconsistent with being a follower of Christ.。
Like spontaneity is cute,。
but so are pigtails and babies and things like that,。
and they're not consistent with mature adulting, if you will.。
And so we're in this series, Adulting.。
We're talking about what it looks like to grow up.。
Welcome to the real world.。
And tonight, we're talking about keeping commitments.。
Keeping commitments.。
And so we're gonna dive right in from there.。
This is usually where I give you some stats。
and just kinda tell you about how awful we are at this.。
I was looking at the stats, I got too depressed,。
and so I'll just summarize them for you.。
We don't commit to marriage.。
That is, we don't propose, and then when we do, we end it.。
We don't commit to work.。
We don't commit to church,。
and we don't commit to following Christ.。
More than any other generation。
that has ever walked the planet, we are the least committal.。
Higher divorce rates, lower engagements rates.。
We change jobs like underwear.。
This is the things that mark us, okay?。
And I'm not trying to beat you up,。
but tonight, before you leave,。
I want you to have a biblical understanding。
of what God desires for you as it relates to commitment。
because he really, really, really cares.。
It's really important.。
And so let's just start this evening。
by talking about why don't we keep commitments as adults.。
We'll just ask that question.。
Why don't we keep commitments?。
What are the reasons that we don't keep commitments?。
And the first one that I'll cover。
is I think because we're overcommitted.。
We've filled our lives with things that don't matter.。
Let me say it in a different way.。
We've filled our lives。
with things of no eternal significance。
so that when something of eternal significance,。
something that exists within our purpose of existence。
comes along, we're too busy for it.。
We are overprogrammed.。
We are too committed to the same routines of sin,。
the same routines and patterns of going out。
and coming in and conversing。
that we're stuck in this cycle。
that is robbing us of creativity。
and robbing us of real joy。
and robbing our lives of real meaning。
so that when something that God calls us to comes along,。
we just don't have time for it.。
It doesn't sound interesting。
compared to all of the other things.。
Ephesians chapter five, verses 15 and 17 says,。
"Be careful then how you live,。
"not as unwise but as wise,。
"making the most of every opportunity,。
"seizing the right opportunities。
"because the days are evil.。
"Therefore, do not be foolish。
"but understand what the Lord's will is.。
"Commit to the things that are within the Lord's will.。
"Do not, do not weigh your life down。
"with things and patterns and cycles。
"that are not within the Lord's will,。
"robbing yourself of creativity,。
"doing the same thing over and over and over。
"and thinking that it's life."。
The second reason I think that we don't keep commitments。
is because better options come along,。
because better options come along.。
You've probably heard of #FOMO,。
which is just the fear of missing out.。
It actually started as FOBO,。
or the fear of a better option,。
and slowly became FOMO.。
And so here's the deal is we kinda go through life。
wondering and being afraid of what we're gonna miss out on,。
and I just wanna free you from that.。
Like, hear me on this.。
Like, if you're here and you're a follower of Jesus Christ,。
you get heaven, you miss out on nothing.。
Your life is short but of vapor, the word says.。
And 200 years from now, no one's like,。
oh, but I never saw the Grand Canyon.。
You know, it's like, God's like,。
oh, you wanna see the Grand, here, the Grand, you know.。
That just doesn't happen.。
No one's like, oh, but I never got married.。
I never experienced sex.。
Nobody's saying that in heaven, okay?。
Nobody's like, yeah, but that one time,。
you know, I didn't get to go see the better movie。
'cause I'd committed to the lesser better movie。
with the other friend, and the friend that I really,。
and nobody's saying that.。
It's silly, and it's robbing you of life.。
And so do what is the most loving to others.。
Make commitments and keep them regardless.。
Period.。
Something comes along, check your calendar.。
If you can do it, and if it will be loving,。
say, I will do it.。
Not yes, maybe, probably, might, possibly.。
I'm in.。
I give you my word.。
I'll keep my commitment even if it hurts.。
I'm gonna give you two scriptures.。
Philippians 2, verse three says,。
do nothing out of selfish ambition or vacancy,。
rather, in humility, value others above yourselves.。
There is no FOMO in that.。
Value others better than yourselves.。
If we just did that, imagine how much。
of a better place our world would be.。
If you went to work tomorrow, and you just began to think,。
hey, I'm gonna stop thinking about myself,。
and I'm gonna start thinking about others,。
and I'm gonna do whatever, in any given situation,。
whatever's the most loving.。
Not what is selfish.。
And then let me give you one that I love。
in talking about this.。
It's Psalm 15.。
It's Psalm 15, and it just starts out,。
Lord, who may dwell in your sacred tent?。
Who may live on your holy mountain?。
That's how the Psalm starts,。
and it answers the question in verse four.。
It says, the one who keeps an oath,。
even when it hurts, and does not change their mind.。
Who can be with you, God, forever and ever,。
in your kingdom?。
The one who keeps an oath.。
The one who keeps a commitment, even when it hurts,。
and does not change their mind.。
There's no FOMO in that.。
There's no, but yeah, but my friend Kathy came along。
with a better movie, and it was a better option.。
It was a better dance, better date.。
There's none of that in that verse.。
The third reason I think that we don't keep commitments。
is we don't value our word.。
There's no value in what we say.。
We say silly things when we don't mean it.。
You know, it was, I heard a guy on the radio the other day。
say, he was talking about Denzel Washington,。
and he said, he literally set the screen on fire.。
I'm like, no he didn't.。
You can't say literally, and then say whatever you want.。
Like, that word means something.。
And we do that.。
We're like, I promise, it was the best meal I had ever had.。
Really, I mean, really?。
Like, you promise?。
Like, to be honest with you, oh, here comes a lie.。
Right, I mean, we say these things,。
they're just kinda tag-ons.。
I love the way the Lord just provides illustrations.。
I came home for dinner last night,。
and I had walked in, and my daughter Finley, she's six,。
she's so upset about something, I don't know what.。
And she just goes, Daddy, Kyle lied to me.。
Daddy, Kyle lied to me.。
Kyle lied to me.。
And I was like, getting a meal.。
I wasn't ignoring her on purpose,。
but I could tell something was building up,。
and so I kinda made my plate, and I sat down,。
and she goes, Daddy, Kyle lied to me.。
This time, tears welling up in her eyes,。
and I said, Finley bear, what, what, what happened?。
And she just said, Daddy, Kyle said。
that he would play with me on Friday.。
He said on Monday that he would play with me,。
and he didn't.。
I said, oh, baby girl, I'm sorry, what did he do?。
He played gaga ball.。
I'm like, well, have you ever played gaga ball?。
I mean, it's pretty fun, no, I didn't say that.。
I go, I said, oh, baby girl, I'm sorry,。
and then I go, how did that make you feel?。
Because when you don't know what to say,。
and you're talking to a girl who's emotional,。
just say that, it will help you.。
Guys, that's free.。
Gentlemen, that's free, okay?。
That's gonna serve you well in the future.。
Just look 'em in the eyes and go, oh, I'm so sorry.。
How did that make you feel?。
And she said, and she goes, not good.。
And I was like, I needed a longer answer.。
I'm still thinking, you know?。
And she says, not good, and I said, sweetie, I'm so sorry.。
I said, sometimes guys do that.。
Sometimes people do that.。
Sometimes they say things that they don't mean,。
and I said, you know what, and this is what I want you。
to learn from my six-year-old.。
I just said, you're right in saying that he's a liar.。
That's what he did, he lied to you.。
When you say you're gonna do something and you don't do it,。
that is a lie indeed.。
And she said, well, Kelly did say that he had a crush on me.。
And I said, I will crush him, Finley.。
(congregation laughing)。
I said, what is a crush?。
What does that even mean?。
She goes, I don't know, I think it means that he likes me.。
And I said, Finley, here's the deal.。
We're not even gonna have that conversation。
for about 20 years, okay?。
But here's the deal.。
When we do have it, I want you to learn something。
from this experience, all right?。
If a guy does not keep his commitment,。
then he's not someone that you're interested in.。
If breaking commitments marks his life,。
then that's something that you don't wanna。
go through life with.。
And so don't look at how he treats you。
because if he's trying to impress you,。
he may treat you well.。
In this situation, he didn't.。
But if he's trying to, right,。
he's trying to impress you, he may treat you well.。
Look at how he treats the commitments of others。
because one day, that emotional rush is gonna leave。
and that's how he's gonna treat you。
and that's how he's gonna treat marriage.。
And the same thing goes for ladies.。
I'm not just picking on the guys.。
Ladies, same thing for you.。
If she's flighty and flaky and noncommittal。
and she's in and out and she's whimsical,。
constantly trying to discern what the Lord's will is。
and chasing it like a tail,。
not that she has a tail, but that's weird,。
be careful.。
Be cautious.。
It really matters to God.。
I'm gonna share some verses with you。
just to make this point.。
In Numbers 30, and so here's what's going on。
is the Israelites have been wandering。
through the desert for 40 years.。
This would have been a verse that Jephthah knew。
and probably drove his actions.。
And so in Numbers 30, the Israelites have been。
roaming the desert for 40 years。
and Moses thinks he's about to take them。
into the promised land, but he's not.。
And so God says, what happens in 40 years。
is the generation turns.。
And so those who knew the law of the Lord。
were no longer there and there's been this uprising,。
this Gen Y, or these millennials, if you will,。
and they didn't know what was important to God.。
And so God just says, hey, before they go。
in the promised land, you've gotta tell them。
what is most important to me.。
And so he walks Moses through the laws。
of the Old Testament.。
He walks Moses through the ceremonies that matter to God.。
And then he says, hey, this is what is most important to me.。
You must tell them this thing right here。
in his Numbers 30, verses one and two.。
Moses said to the heads of the tribes of Israel,。
this is what the Lord commands.。
When a man makes a vow to the Lord。
or takes an oath to obligate himself by pledge,。
he must not break his word, but must do everything。
that he said he was going to do.。
This is what matters to God.。
Before you go into the promised land,。
you need to know what matters most to God。
is that a man does what he says he's going to do.。
That's my second point this evening。
is why we must keep commitments if we're Christians.。
If you're not a Christian here in your flaky,。
we understand, but if you're a follower of Christ,。
why we must keep commitments.。
Because God who set the world into motion。
knows that nearly anything great that happens。
comes out of a commitment.。
No one has a beautiful faith without a commitment.。
No one knows the word of God well without a commitment.。
This is what I'm saying.。
There is no Super Bowl ring without an intense commitment.。
There is no NBA championship without an intense commitment.。
Everything that you think of great in the world,。
every CEO, every incredible artist,。
everybody who is incredibly skilled。
is something that comes through an intense commitment。
and likewise a relationship with God.。
God made the world that way.。
And he says commitment really matters.。
Keeping your commitments really, really matter,。
not just following your emotions.。
And so Christians, friends, listen,。
Christians should be the forerunners of great things.。
Like we should be the most innovative, most creative,。
most manufacturer of beautiful things in the world.。
The best artists, the best engineers, the best scientists,。
the best teachers should be followers of Christ.。
But we haven't preserved this idea。
in fact we're just as flaky as pagans.。
And we say we're Christ followers,。
but we're not.。
We're not committed to much except for the things。
that we really, really, really, really want.。
And so I tell you this guys,。
because in this series what I wanna do。
is I wanna give you what's called a biblical worldview.。
And that's a buzzword you're gonna hear。
if you hang out in church much,。
a biblical worldview, this is what's important.。
And a biblical worldview just means。
it's the way that you see the world,。
it's the lens of which you see the world through,。
that you would see it through God's word。
as he intended the world to be.。
Not through your experience and not through the culture。
that has educated you,。
but that you would see it through a biblical worldview.。
Let me just give you some examples to hit this home.。
People will say, well I don't wanna be married.。
I say, hey that's interesting.。
That's good that you have identified your desires.。
Do you know what God wants for you?。
Are you following your emotions and your feelings?。
Or have you searched the word of God and said,。
hey God, what do you want for me?。
People come and say, hey I don't wanna have children.。
Just not really into it.。
Okay, great, we've identified your preference.。
Now do you know what God desires for you?。
Do you know how God views children?。
Do you view children like God does?。
Or has your preference and your desires。
and your feelings trumped everything else?。
Because that's what culture teaches.。
I'll give you some others.。
They'll say, well I believe divorce is an option.。
Interesting.。
Do you know what God believes?。
Do you know what God says about it?。
Do you get to determine what is real?。
Or does God determine what is real?。
And in what situation and what does his word teach?。
They'll say things like,。
well I think I should take a job if it means more money.。
Okay, that is definitely the logic of our culture.。
What does God think?。
Go back and listen to last week.。
What does God desire for you?。
I want you to have a biblical worldview.。
Our opinions are shaped most by culture and experience.。
But listen to what God's word says.。
And let me tell you what it says specifically。
in regards to this topic, Ecclesiastes chapter five,。
verses five and six.。
It is better to not vow than to make a vow。
and not fulfill it.。
It is better to not or not to vow。
than to make a vow and not fulfill it.。
Do not let your mouth lead you into sin.。
To make a commitment and not to fulfill。
that commitment is sin, he says.。
This is a biblical worldview.。
This redefines some things for you.。
This is what the scripture says.。
And I want you to tell you why,。
I wanna tell you why that verse is so familiar to me.。
Anybody know why it's so familiar to me?。
If you do, you don't have a microphone.。
So let me just tell you.。
I say it at every single wedding I do.。
I say it very often.。
I look at the couple and in front of all。
of their friends and family.。
I just say, hey, do you know that the scripture says。
to not be hasty in regards to these sorts of things?。
He says it's better not to make a vow.。
In a minute, you're gonna say these things we call vows.。
He just says it's better not to make one。
than to make one and not fulfill it.。
So this would be a great out.。
And when Monica and I are meeting with a couple,。
I just say, hey, is there any reason that you would end this。
and to which they always say,。
I mean, we've done this dozens of times.。
They always say, no, never, I love him, he's great.。
And then I'm usually the jerk that just says, okay, cool.。
Hey, if he cheated on you with your best friend,。
we still good?。
You still in?。
Well, he would never do that.。
I know he wouldn't, but if he did.。
[congregation laughing]。
And to him, I just look at him,。
if she cheated on you with your brother,。
I know that's an awful thought,。
but I want you to go there for a minute.。
You might get sick to your stomach,。
but I want you to go there because I wanna know。
what you would choose.。
If she cheated on you with your brother, are you still in?。
Because if not, let's just write that in the vows,。
richer or poorer, till death do us part,。
in sickness and in health,。
unless he cheats on me with my brother.。
You know, we'll just make that a part of it。
'cause we're about to say some crazy things。
as God is your witness.。
And so let's just say what we mean.。
Let's just say what we believe to be true。
in front of everyone, because as we steward the gospel,。
let me ask you something.。
Who is going to believe you when you say。
a man lived and he died and he came back to life,。
when you can't even keep a movie date, you know?。
It's like, no, I'm not, what are you talking about?。
You lie all the time.。
Why would I believe you about Jesus?。
You see why it matters?。
You hinder the gospel when you're flaky。
and flighty and flippant and noncommittal.。
And so it really matters to God.。
I'll say this real quickly.。
We keep commitments when we want to.。
And I just have a front row seat of this.。
And I see it all the time in specifically。
what I shared with you up front,。
like in regards to engagement rings.。
Like, you know, I meet dudes that are like broke,。
like no money, and they've never had a plan。
for proposals or anything like that.。
But they meet her, and they're like,。
all right, I gotta get an engagement ring.。
And so they do what I did.。
They go online and they begin to learn DEF,。
color, cut, clarity, caret, you know,。
and VS1, SI1, they become experts on diamonds.。
And then at some point, they begin to look。
and see how much they are.。
And they begin to hyperventilate.。
And they're like, oh my goodness, oh my goodness, okay,。
how am I gonna do this?。
'Cause I've never saved a dime in my life.。
But all of a sudden, like in two weeks,。
they have thousands of dollars.。
Like they sold all of their things,。
they pawned their stuff, they sold plasma.。
And they're like, I'm ready.。
Like, I'm ready to make this commitment, okay?。
Like somehow, like magically.。
Because when we really, really want something,。
we become motivated and we do it,。
but we're led by selfishness.。
And I just wanna tell you, that doesn't go well.。
Those are really emotional decisions。
that lack plans and commitments.。
And it doesn't go well, because that same passion。
that led you into that decision。
is gonna be the same passion that leads 52% of people。
out of that decision.。
And there's this other big percentage of people。
that remain in that decision miserably,。
but they just don't respect it.。
They don't respect the covenant they made.。
And I don't want that for you.。
And so if you wonder why I say crazy things。
and maybe hurt your feelings, it's because I love you.。
I care about you, and I don't want that for you.。
I want something better for you.。
I want something more amazing for you.。
And so you're like, okay, well, so far, JP,。
you've given us some obscure Old Testament passages.。
You've told us about Jephthah.。
You've told us about Moses.。
Is this really something important to Jesus?。
And in Matthew chapter five,。
Jesus has one shot at the greatest sermon ever given.。
It's the Sermon on the Mount.。
And so he's gonna cover what's most important。
to the kingdom of God.。
And he says this in verse 33.。
"Again, you have heard that it was said。
"to the people long ago, do not break your oath,。
"but keep the oaths you have made to the Lord."。
By the way, that's Moses who said that.。
He's referencing Numbers chapter 30 right here.。
And he goes on to say that when you make an oath,。
if you're a follower of mine, just say yes and just say no.。
You don't need to say, I promise, I really, literally,。
I absolutely, I guarantee you, I will.。
Just say yes, I will do it.。
And if you're a follower of mine,。
people know that yes is as good, as gold, as solid, as oak.。
It's unbreakable, unshakable, permanent,。
because you're mine.。
So just look them in the eyes and say yes, I'll be there.。
Or no, I can't.。
But when you say yes, you keep that oath,。
even when it hurts.。
If you make a decision, honor it.。
My third and final point.。
What commitment should mark us?。
I'm gonna give you four things quickly.。
What commitments should mark us?。
The first one and most important one。
is a commitment to follow Christ.。
Like you only know this diluted, Americanized Christianity。
that I don't think is biblical Christianity,。
speaking of biblical worldview.。
But it's all you know.。
And so don't compare yourself to that.。
Like 'cause all the time I talk to people,。
they're like, oh yeah, I believe in God.。
I just don't take my faith too serious.。
I'm like, well Jesus took it serious.。
And God takes your faith serious.。
And so let me just propose a question to you.。
What if, like I think so many of us。
are like lukewarm Christians.。
And so let me just ask this question.。
What if there's no such thing as a lukewarm Christian?。
Like what if that's not a Christian at all?。
You might be like, whoa, JP, you're questioning my salvation.。
No, I'm trying to get you to question your salvation.。
Not because I want to drive you towards some anxious place.。
But as you examine your life,。
I'm not talking about your words and something you said.。
I'm saying do you believe in Jesus?。
Do you believe that he died for your sins?。
Do you believe that he raised from the dead?。
Does that what you believe?。
And are people that you work with,。
they're like, I don't know if she's a Christian.。
I mean, I have no idea.。
Or are they like, absolutely, she's a Christ follower.。
She's following Jesus.。
In the way that she dates, she's following Jesus.。
In the things that she says, she's following Jesus.。
In the places she goes, she's following Jesus.。
In the way she spends her money, she's following Jesus.。
She is a Jesus follower.。
That is a committed follower of Christ right there.。
Like I don't know, maybe he's Muslim, maybe he's Buddhist.。
I don't know, maybe he's spiritual, but not religious.。
I don't know what he is.。
Are you all in?。
Committed to following Christ.。
Second thing, committed to God's people.。
Committed to God's people.。
The second thing we're committed to,。
this is a commitment that should mark us.。
Specifically, church, by the way of membership,。
that there's a church.。
I don't mean a church that you attend,。
but there's a church that you belong to,。
that the elders are in authority over you,。
that you go there, you're a contributor,。
that you're a part of this church.。
Can I tell you something, friends,。
and I want you to lean in, I want you to write it down,。
I want you to listen closely.。
Church was never meant to be a place you go to.。
Church is your identity.。
You're the body of Christ.。
It's who you are.。
There is nowhere in the Bible that it talks of church。
as a place that you go to.。
Church is the body, the hands and feet,。
the literal hands and feet of Jesus Christ.。
And so that you would be there, be accounted for,。
be a member there, that you would belong there.。
And so what's great about this。
is if you're a member of a church,。
I know half of you go to another church,。
I love that you're here, we exist to serve the city.。
But if you don't have a church home,。
this Sunday you can show up here,。
and we would love to talk to you。
about our membership class,。
which just happens to be this Sunday.。
I didn't even realize that when I wrote this message.。
It's this Sunday.。
You can go there and you can hear。
what it is like to belong to a church.。
And friends, can I just tell you,。
there's two kinds of people in the room.。
If you're a follower of Christ, if you're a Christian,。
I'm talking to Christians, if you're a Christian,。
you either belong to a church or you don't.。
If you don't, I'm asking you to change that this Sunday.。
It'll be the best Valentine's gift。
you could give yourself this Sunday.。
And the second thing is community.。
And so if you belong to a church of 1,000 plus people,。
that's not really your community, okay?。
That's where you worship corporately,。
it's where you sing, it's where you're fed。
from the scriptures.。
But beyond your preferences,。
there should be these group of people。
who come alongside you and celebrate the hurts of life,。
and I'm sorry, not celebrate the hurts of life,。
carry the burdens of life with you。
and celebrate the victories of life with you.。
They're folks that help you make rent when you can't.。
They're folks that visit you in the hospital,。
they're your pastors, and said otherwise,。
they're the people you visit in the hospital,。
they're the people whose rent you help pay.。
It's a group that you belong to,。
we call that community here.。
That should be a part of your life。
if you're a Christ follower.。
You should be committed to that.。
You should show up when you don't feel like it.。
Because it's important, Hebrews 10, 25 says,。
"Let us not forsake the gathering together。
"as some are in the habit of doing.。
"But all the more, let's continue to spur one another on,。
"encourage one another towards love and good deeds."。
Commitment to serve.。
Let's serve in the church.。
That's you using your gifts in the way。
and for the reason they were given to you.。
That's serving others, that's giving your life away.。
And lastly, any commitments we've made.。
These are commitments we should keep,。
commitments that mark us, commitments we've made.。
And so let me just wrap up with this。
and just say maybe, right, maybe you're like,。
but JP, certainly, like what if grandma comes to town。
and I just didn't know she was coming to town。
because I didn't get her email and she doesn't send emails。
and then I had made a commitment to go see a movie。
but now grandma's in town and I need to see my grandma.。
Let me, I'm gonna give you something。
that's gonna be a gift to you.。
Write it down, I want you to remember this.。
If all 4,000 folks that are tuned in right now。
would just do this one thing,。
it would make the world a better place.。
And so it's super practical,。
it's no more practical than this, you ready?。
Okay, when you give someone a commitment,。
you've given them a gift.。
You've given them a gift of your time,。
you've gone on your calendar and you said,。
hey, this chunk of time in the future, that belongs to you。
or at least I'm going to share that with you.。
I'm gonna help you move Friday at seven.。
I'm giving you the gift of my time in this commitment.。
And then lo and behold, grandma says, guess what,。
surprise, I'm coming in on Friday, can't wait to see you.。
I've got big plans, please clear your calendar.。
Oh no, I'm committed, what do I do?。
Here's what you don't do, you don't say,。
hey, I said that, I'm sorry, my grandma's coming into town.。
You don't do that.。
You go to them and as you would with any gift。
that you give somebody, you say, hey,。
I made a commitment to you。
that I would be there Friday at seven.。
I want to ask if I can have that commitment back.。
I gave you the gift of my time,。
would you please consider giving that gift back。
and you be very specific, not vague, not ambiguous.。
You say, my grandmother's coming to town.。
You say, hey, there's something that has come up。
that I view as more important than that time that I gave you。
and this is what that something is, that's loving,。
that's so caring.。
You're not what they're saying about you。
is flaky and vague and ambiguous and managing information,。
that's not loving, that's sinful.。
I gave you the gift of my time, may I have that gift back?。
I promise you, probably shouldn't,。
most of the time, most of the time,。
they're gonna say, absolutely.。
Thank you for the way that you just did that.。
You just modeled something for me.。
You just made your God more attractive.。
I mean, you're a Jesus follower。
and you just made following Jesus more attractive to me。
in the way that you did that, in the way that you asked me,。
the way that you were so clear and mature。
and adulting about it.。
(congregation laughing)。
And so I just encourage you, I admonish you even,。
don't be afraid of difficult commitments.。
Adulting means making and keeping them.。
Adulting means making difficult commitments。
and keeping them and so, in summary,。
we don't keep commitments because of those reasons,。
because we're over committed,。
because we're afraid that better options。
are going to come along and pick this up.。
And we must keep our commitments。
because it's so clear in God's word that it matters to him。
and the commitments that mark us。
are a commitment to follow Christ,。
a commitment to God's people,。
a commitment to serve and commitments that we've made.。
And so I told Finley, I said, hey,。
the good news is about this whole situation。
when she's so upset that Kyle didn't keep his word。
and he played gaga ball, I just said,。
the good news is that's just inconsistent。
with who Christ followers are.。
And she said, how do you know?。
And I said, because Finley, Christ followers follow Jesus。
and don't you understand that Jesus, Finley,。
Jesus kept his commitment even when it hurt.。
Even when it hurt, he's there in the garden of Gethsemane,。
he's like, God, let this cup pass from me,。
but not my will, thy will.。
God, I'm committed to these people, Jesus, friends,。
Jesus is committed to you。
more than you've ever been committed to anything.。
He's committed to you so much so。
that he took all of your sins on himself.。
Out of an act of love for you,。
you tortured, suffered publicly, humiliated,。
asphyxiated, nailed to two pieces of wood publicly。
for you, specifically you.。
He kept his commitment, even when it hurt.。
I read the story of Jephthah, I'm like, what?。
He sacrificed his daughter?。
Like that man's crazy.。
Why would he do that?。
Who would do that?。
Who would sacrifice their only child?。
That's crazy, why would he do that?。
God did it.。
God did it.。
God sacrificed his only child, his only son.。
He's committed to you to show you how committed to you.。
He loves you more than a child.。
He's pursuing you, radically chasing you into the world.。
He knows what you're going through.。
You think we don't understand what you're going through?。
It's crazy out there, man.。
Everybody fighting for your attention.。
Feel like you gotta be a bigger, better you.。
You're stuck in these ruts trying to build your empire。
and God says, man, 100 years from now,。
it's not gonna matter.。
You wanna know who climbs up the hill。
to be in my holy place and dwell。
in the tent of the Lord forever?。
Jesus did.。
Jesus did, he did it for you, in spite of you,。
on behalf of you, so that you might be with him。
forever and ever and ever.。
That's the gospel, that's the good news, man.。
That is the good news of Jesus Christ.。
That's what I want you to give your lives to.。
And so as you follow that man, you're committed.。
You keep your commitments, you represent him well.。
Let me pray.。
Father, we thank you for Jephthah。
and we don't understand how he made it to the hall of faith。
in Hebrews chapter 11, but we trust that he did some things。
that you found worthy.。
Father, we just confess to you, we've done nothing。
that would make us worthy of you.。
But Lord, we trust that you have in your commitment to us。
and your love for us through the death and the resurrection。
of your son, Jesus Christ.。
God, we plead the cross and the cross alone,。
the blood of Jesus alone.。
We trust in Jesus and Jesus alone.。
And we're so grateful for that unbelievable, undeniable,。
radical, crazy commitment to us that you would sacrifice。
your only child on our behalf to purchase us to yourself,。
to be with you forever and ever and ever and ever and ever。
and help the worries of our world fade against that reality,。
help the troubles of tomorrow fade against that reality,。
help the problems in our life fade against that reality。
and the sins of our flesh fade against that reality.。
Please, God.。
Thank you for your commitment to us.。
We trust in you and you alone.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
