[MUSIC]。
>> Wow. >> [APPLAUSE]。
>> Man, I'm just so。
thankful that we're all still here.。
>> [LAUGH] >> If you don't know,。
today the rapture was supposed to happen.。
>> [LAUGH] >> And now that I'm thinking about it,。
maybe it did happen, and this is just a room full of heathens.。
And we're the ones who got left behind, so。
maybe you're in the right place to be at church tonight.。
Hey, if we've never met before, my name is Timothy Atik.。
I'm the lead pastor here at Watermark Community Church.。
And Kylan Perry texted me last night and said he had the stomach bug and。
was wondering if I could jump in.。
And any time I have the opportunity and privilege to be here at the porch,。
it is a very easy yes.。
I'm so glad to get to be here with you guys tonight.。
>> [APPLAUSE] >> And。
let me just say hello to some people that are watching us in locations in。
different parts of the nation.。
So hello, Porch Life Greater Lafayette and Fresno and。
Boise, we're so glad that you are jumping in with us tonight.。
And just pray God's blessing over you as you gather together.。
We're gonna jump in to studying God's word in a minute.。
But before we do, I always love to just take a second and pray.。
And instead of me praying for you, I wanna give you a chance to pray for you.。
So I don't know when the last time was that you talked to God.。
It might have just been when we were singing.。
Talking to God might be a foreign thing for you.。
But it doesn't matter who you are.。
I wanna encourage you right now to pray these words.。
Just say, God, would you speak to me tonight?。
And then I wanna invite you to pray for the people around you.。
Just say, God, would you speak to the other people in this room as well?。
And then I wanna ask you to pray for me.。
People call me TA.。
Would you just pray that God would speak through me to you?。
The Holy Spirit, you're welcome here.。
You don't need us to tell you that.。
But I'm asking and praying, God, that you would move in our hearts in such a way。
that we would see you, Lord Jesus, as the King of kings and the Lord of lords.。
The one who is worthy of our full allegiance, Lord.。
So I just pray for this time.。
I ask that the living God would speak straight to our hearts.。
I wanna ask you, God, that there would not be one young adult in this room。
that would leave here tonight without being moved by you.。
God, I pray, may the words of my mouth and the meditations of my heart be。
acceptable in your sight right now.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
Well, in light of today potentially being the rapture,。
the title of this message is The End Is Near.。
The end is near.。
That's the title of the message.。
I don't say that because I think that the rapture is going to happen today.。
I say that because when you look in the Bible,。
the Bible's actually pretty clear.。
You don't know when it's gonna happen.。
We're actually not supposed to know.。
But we are supposed to live like Jesus isn't just coming back someday,。
but that Jesus is coming back any day.。
And those are two different ways to live.。
One is to live as if Jesus is coming back someday.。
It's probably a long time off.。
It's probably not gonna happen anytime during our life.。
And so we can just kind of settle in and kind of just play around in life.。
Another is to live like he could come back any day.。
That's how the Bible tells us to live.。
I'll kind of paint the picture this way.。
When I was in high school, I lost all hand-eye coordination, but。
I figured out that I could put one foot in front of the other pretty quickly.。
So I ran cross country and track.。
And in cross country, it was a 3.1 mile race.。
It was a 5K.。
The first mile was all adrenaline.。
The gun would go off and you'd just take off.。
And for the first mile, you're like, I feel pretty good.。
This is going well.。
And then you'd get to the second mile.。
And the second mile was a portion of the race where it had kind of spread out and。
you could find yourself running alone.。
And you were just left alone running with your thoughts.。
And all you could do was think like, why am I doing this?。
Like I chose to do this.。
I'm actually paying money to wake up in the four to five region。
to put on way too short of shorts to run around a field in a big circle.。
This was a horrible mistake.。
And then you get to the third mile.。
And as you get into the third mile, you begin to sense that the finish is coming.。
Like you can really sense the end is near.。
And then there's this moment in the race, usually where you round a corner and。
there's a long straightaway where you can see the finish line.。
And in that moment, something clicks in people.。
If you ever watch a race, just watch what happens when people can actually。
visibly see the finish line.。
Everything changes.。
People who think they're dead, they've got no gas left in the tank.。
It's like they find the reserve.。
They shift into a new gear.。
You begin to pump your arms,。
you begin to lift your knees which lengthens your stride.。
If there's people in front of you, you wanna catch them.。
If there's people behind you, you wanna outrun them.。
You want to finish well.。
When you look in the Bible, as I'm gonna show you in 1 Peter chapter 4,。
what the Bible says is you've rounded the corner and you can see the finish line.。
It might not feel that way because you're in your early to mid to late 20s,。
early 30s.。
And so you feel like in the 80 plus years of life that you。
are guaranteed you're only done with the first fourth of it.。
But what Peter is going to tell people just like you is, hey, the end is near.。
Live like you've rounded the corner, the finish line is in sight.。
Pump your arms, lift your knees, race.。
This isn't a fun run, people.。
This isn't a fun walk run where you see your friend and。
you're like, let's just walk together.。
It's a race.。
Live like Jesus isn't coming back someday, but he could come back any day.。
So if you have a Bible, I wanna invite you to turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 4.。
1 Peter chapter 4, it feels like a fitting passage on a day when the world thinks。
that the rapture's gonna happen because the whole point of this passage is。
the end is near.。
And again, that doesn't mean the rapture's happening today, but。
it does mean we should live like it might.。
And what I wanna do from 1 Peter chapter 4 is I just wanna hopefully give you。
five ways that you can live like the end is near.。
First, I wanna encourage you, and if you're a note taker,。
I wanna encourage you to write these notes down.。
If you're not a note taker, tonight's a good night to become one.。
I'm always amazed at the people that just sit and listen like,。
yeah, I'll remember this.。
No, you won't.。
No, you won't.。
Like if God speaks, don't you wanna write it down?。
Anyway, all right.。
>> [LAUGH]。
>> First,。
First, I really wanna encourage you to go all in with Jesus like the end is near.。
It's the first point.。
I wanna encourage you to go all in with Jesus like the end is near.。
Look with me at 1 Peter chapter 4, verses 1 through 2.。
Peter writes these words.。
He says, since therefore, since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh,。
arm yourselves with the same way of thinking.。
For whoever has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin so。
as to live for the rest of the time, however long that is, for。
the rest of the time in the flesh, no longer for human passions,。
but for the will of God.。
Isn't that interesting?。
So let me just tell you what's happening here.。
Peter is writing to a primarily non-Jewish audience that is。
living under intense persecution.。
And one of the reasons that they are being persecuted is that they're no longer。
living the way that everyone in the world that didn't know Jesus was actually living.。
And they were living in a culture that was saturated with debauchery,。
which is just basically getting wasted, and all types of sexual perversion.。
Does any of that sound familiar?。
But they're living in a day and time where Christians are no longer。
giving themselves over to a mixture of all sorts。
of intoxication as well as deviant sexual behavior.。
And because of that, people are cutting them out and persecuting them.。
And so Peter's point to them is, hey, guys, you might be tempted,。
you might be tempted to live with one foot in the boat with Jesus and。
one foot in the world.。
Because you don't want people to really know that you're a Christian.。
Sure, you wanna go to heaven when you die, but you don't wanna be so。
all about Jesus that people actually know and。
see that you're no longer doing the things that everyone else is doing.。
You just don't wanna take that type of heat right now.。
Peter's saying that might be a temptation for you, but Jesus is the example.。
Did you see what he says?。
He says, since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves.。
That's a military term.。
Why is he using a military term?。
Because there's a war for your soul.。
There is a war for your soul.。
You have an enemy who hates you, who wants to steal from you, kill you,。
destroy you, and so he's just saying, arm yourself.。
Like make a decision.。
Jesus is the example.。
Live for the rest of the time in the flesh no longer for。
human passions, but for the will of God.。
How is Jesus the example?。
Because Jesus Christ left heaven, came to earth to do what?。
To do the will of the Father.。
What do you find Jesus praying in the garden right before he's about to be。
betrayed and then go to the cross the next day?。
We find him praying, Father, not my will, but your will be done.。
And Peter's saying, look at that example.。
He ends verse two and he says, what are you living for?。
You are no longer living for human passions, but for the will of God.。
That's what controls you.。
That's what you're living for.。
Your life is pointed at pleasing God.。
Go all in with Jesus.。
That's the point.。
A long time ago, I was a student pastor at a church in Austin.。
And I invited my friend Jordan to come to one of the high school group。
gatherings where I was teaching.。
The reason I invited Jordan is because Jordan had this amazing golden retriever。
named Boone, and Boone was like a robot.。
Like this, I've never seen a dog more well-trained than Boone.。
So I brought Jordan and Boone up on stage in front of maybe 150 high school kids.。
And here's what I said.。
I said, Jordan, do you think that you could take Boone to the back of the room,。
tell him to sit, and you come up on stage?。
Do you think I could ask all 150 students on the count of three to start saying。
Boone's name, tempting him, enticing him?。
Boone's favorite thing was a ball.。
You can say ball.。
You can say whatever you wanna say.。
You just can't touch Boone.。
Do you think that Boone would ignore all these people and just come straight to you?。
He's like, absolutely.。
I was like, okay, well, let's see this.。
So Jordan casually walks Boone to the back of the room.。
He goes, Boone, sit.。
Jordan walks up on stage.。
It's a long runway.。
And I say, okay, friends, one, two, three.。
So you get all these high school students, they're like, come here, Boone.。
Everyone puts on their dog voice.。
Why do our voices change when we're talking to animals?。
What's up with that?。
But they're like, come here, Boone.。
Ooshie pooshie, come here.。
Ball, you want a ball?。
Come here.。
And so everyone's just like, come here, come here, Boone.。
And Boone's just sitting there looking at Jordan.。
Jordan's got his hand up and then Jordan goes, Boone, come.。
And while 150 high school students are like, come here, Boone, come here, come here,。
come here, Boone.。
Boone crawls, he just begins crawling down the aisle.。
It's just like, you guys need to go away.。
And he crawls straight up to his master.。
And I remember seeing that and I'm like, that is so different than my dog.。
Because if I had brought my dog, Maddie, I would have been like, Maddie, sit.。
And she would have been like, nice try.。
And she would have been like, hey, how you doing?。
Did you call my name?。
Did you say you had a bone or a ball for me?。
Sure, I'll take that.。
Yeah, let me say hi to you too.。
I'll be right with you.。
And she would have just been all over the place.。
What Peter's call to Christians is, hey, you put your head down.。
You put your eyes on Jesus.。
He is the example.。
He's not just your example.。
He's your savior.。
And he's not just your savior.。
He's your king.。
You've said yes to him.。
You've given your life to him.。
You've died to this world and you're alive to Christ.。
And so you fix your eyes on him and you live solely for him.。
No matter what it costs.。
Why?。
Because you no longer live for human passions,。
but for the will of God.。
He goes on in verse three.。
Again, remember the point that we're in right now.。
Go all in for Jesus as if the end is near.。
Look at what he says in verse three.。
I just wonder if anyone needs to hear this tonight.。
He says, "For the time that is past。
suffices for doing what the Gentiles do."。
You hear what he's saying?。
It's like enough.。
It's been long enough.。
It's been long enough like you've been living。
like you don't know Jesus.。
It's been long enough that you've claimed Jesus。
to be your savior, but you don't live like he's your savior.。
He's just saying it's been long enough.。
It's been long enough that you've been having。
one foot in the world and one foot with Jesus.。
Enough time has passed.。
The time that has passed suffices。
for doing what the Gentiles want to do,。
living in sensuality, passions, drunkenness, orgies.。
You didn't know that word was in the Bible.。
Drinking parties and lawless idolatry.。
This is why I love the Bible.。
It doesn't sugarcoat anything.。
It's not some magic fairy tale mythological book.。
This is reality.。
And Peter's just saying, "Look, it's been long enough.。
Enough.。
Like draw a line in the sand.。
Are you with Jesus or are you against Jesus?。
You're either with him or against him.。
There's no middle ground with Jesus.。
So look, I am the old guy in the room, 44 years old.。
Thank you.。
Nothing makes you feel great in life like that.。
(congregation laughing)。
You'll be there tomorrow.。
Just watch.。
Mark my word.。
But here's what I want you to know.。
Here's what I want you to hear.。
Don't miss it.。
I'm just telling you from personal experience,。
you are making decisions right now。
that will determine whether you feel regret or gratitude。
when you get to be my age.。
Right now, you're making decisions.。
It's crazy.。
Like I'm just telling you,。
if I could go back and talk to my college self,。
and I understand this is a young adult gathering,。
but if I could go back。
and like smack my college self around a little,。
I'd just be like, "Hey dude, enough.。
Enough with the hypocrisy.。
It's been enough time.。
It's been enough time of looking at pornography.。
It's been enough time of leading girls on.。
It's enough.。
Enough time has passed.。
I wish I could go and talk to the TA。
that was one year out of college。
and then two years out of college。
'cause I'd just smack him around and be like,。
"Hey dude, enough.。
Enough time has passed.。
It's been long enough that you've been saying one thing。
in living a different way.。
Enough."。
Go all in with Jesus。
as if the end is near.。
I remember talking to my friend who。
just partying was a big part of the first fourth of his life。
and it was just, it was a daily routine。
with his friend to either get wasted, smoke weed,。
whatever they were doing that day.。
And there was a moment in his life。
where Jesus kind of just like met him.。
And it was like, Jesus was like, "Enough, man.。
It's just time to walk fully with me."。
And he was riding in the car with his friend。
that he had just been smoking weed with.。
And as he got out of the car, he looked at his friend。
and he said, "If you wanna party, don't call me.。
Don't call me."。
That's his way of saying, "Line in the sand.。
Enough of this straddling offense.。
Enough.。
I'm going all in with Jesus as if the end is near."。
So let me just encourage you young adults,。
like enough time has passed.。
Go all in with Jesus as if the end is near.。
Number two, write this down.。
Endure opposition like the end is near.。
Endure opposition like the end is near.。
Here's the reality.。
When you go all in with Jesus, people will not understand.。
Christians won't understand.。
Watch this, verse four.。
With respect to this, with respect to what?。
Not doing what the rest of the world is doing.。
Living wholeheartedly for Jesus.。
With respect to this, they're surprised。
when you don't join them in the same flood of debauchery。
and they malign you.。
So that word in the Greek, when it says,。
"With respect to this, they're surprised,"。
it means they think it's strange.。
That's what it means in the Greek.。
They think it's strange.。
To malign means to heap abuse.。
Isn't that interesting?。
The people that Peter is writing to,。
they were wildly misunderstood as Christians。
because they refused to engage in idol worship.。
Like the way that Christians were characterized,。
they were characterized as people who hated humanity.。
That's how they were thought of.。
Christians were thought of as people。
who hated the human race。
because they refused to worship the gods of the day.。
They were wildly misunderstood.。
And Peter's point is like, hey, don't you be surprised。
that they're surprised.。
Don't be surprised that they're surprised.。
Don't be surprised that people look at you。
when you go all in with Jesus。
and they think that you're strange because of that.。
That's actually a sign。
that you might be doing something right.。
And don't be surprised when they heap abuse upon you.。
Here's the reality.。
People won't understand why you don't sleep around。
or move in with your partner before marriage.。
People won't understand why you won't get blackout drunk。
at the bachelor or bachelorette party.。
People won't understand why you don't DM that person back。
when the conversation is headed somewhere it shouldn't.。
People won't understand why you spend your vacation。
on a mission trip instead of on a trip to Cabo.。
People won't understand why you choose forgiveness。
instead of just cutting people off.。
People won't understand why you aren't chasing every guy。
or girl that might have romantic potential.。
People won't understand why you prioritize。
serving at church over Sunday brunch.。
People won't understand why you say no to watching。
the summer I turn pretty or something else。
everyone is excited about.。
People just won't understand.。
They will think you are strange.。
But look at what Peter says in verse five.。
This is powerful.。
Just put it together with verse four.。
Let me read verse four again.。
He says, "With respect to this,。
"they're surprised when you do not join them。
"in the same flood of debauchery and they malign you,。
"but they will give an account to him who is ready."。
They'll give an account to him who is ready.。
Remember, what's the title of the message?。
The end is near, he is ready.。
Jesus Christ is ready to do what?。
To judge the living and the dead.。
So this is what I want you to realize.。
Like if you're tuned out, welcome back.。
Listen to what Peter is saying right now.。
He's like, "Look, right now,。
"you're not doing what everyone else is doing。
"and they think you're strange because of it.。
"But a day is coming where every single person。
"will stand before Jesus.。
"And when those people who thought you were strange。
"stand before Jesus, you know what's gonna happen?。
"They're gonna realize that you were the sanest person。
"on the planet.。
"That's what's gonna happen.。
"When they see clearly, when they see Jesus。
"and they realize too late。
"that all of life was all about Jesus,。
"in that moment, you will be the sanest person。
"on the planet."。
Why?。
'Cause you're all in with him.。
He goes on in verse six, and this is really interesting.。
Look at what he says.。
And I'll explain it 'cause it's not gonna make sense。
at first.。
He says, "For this is why the gospel was preached。
"even to those who are dead,。
"that though judged in the flesh the way people are,。
"they might live in the spirit the way God does."。
So let me, track with me on this.。
Let me just explain what he's saying right now.。
He's actually talking about Christians。
who had physically died.。
And here's his point.。
People who don't know Jesus。
would look at Christians who died。
and they'd make a judgment call on them.。
They'd be like, "Look, they died.。
"So clearly there's actually no benefit。
"to being a Christian because death has come for them.。
"That means being a Christian is no better.。
"We might as well eat, drink, and be merry.。
"We better, we should just go all in.。
"With life in this world,。
"we should drink what we wanna drink.。
"We should sleep with whoever we wanna sleep with.。
"We should do whatever we want."。
Why?。
Because death is coming.。
If Christians don't escape death, what's the point?。
And his point is this.。
From God's perspective,。
death isn't really the end.。
Death is more the beginning.。
Death is actually the beginning of a monumental trade up.。
Have you ever played that game Bigger and Better?。
You know where that kind of really caught fire from?。
It's because a guy took one red paperclip years ago。
and started trading on Craigslist。
and he traded from one red paperclip。
all the way up to a house.。
And Peter's like, "Look, you're living。
"with a red paperclip right now,。
"but death is gonna come and you get the house。
"if you know Jesus."。
Like this is, right now, this world, it's a taste of hell.。
And a day is coming where you're gonna feast on heaven.。
If you don't know Jesus,。
this life is really a taste of heaven.。
And that's as much as you get.。
What's his point?。
His point is endure opposition.。
People might think you're strange now,。
but a day is coming where they're gonna finally see。
that you were sane all along.。
And just remember, heaven is coming, the end is near.。
Jesus, we don't know if he's coming back someday,。
but we should live like he's coming back any day.。
Last month, a friend of mine was like,。
"Hey, I wanna take you to the Ranger game."。
And I was like, "Sounds great."。
I've only been to Globe Life.。
This would be my second time.。
So I was like, "I'm all about it."。
And he told me, he said, "Don't eat before you come."。
I was like, "What is it?。
"Dollar hot dog night?。
"Like that's not below me.。
"Like I can gear up for dollar hot dog night.。
"Just let me know."。
But he was like, "Don't eat before you come."。
And part of me during the day was like, "Really?"。
Like I don't wanna be disappointed.。
Like I kind of ate some snacks at the office,。
went home, pulled out the snack drawer.。
I'm like, "Yeah, he said don't eat before you come,。
"but like I don't wanna show up.。
"If it is just dollar hot dog night, that's great.。
"But like at 44, just crushing a bunch of hot dogs。
"isn't the best move in life."。
So like I snacked on some stuff.。
We get in the car, we make our way to Globe Life.。
We park pretty close to the stadium.。
We walk through an entrance that says VIP over it.。
I was like, "Okay, this is the type of game。
"I can get on board with."。
And we just kept going down.。
Normally at sporting events, I'm going up.。
But like we just kept descending.。
And we got these wristbands and then we enter a place.。
And he's like, "Okay, you can eat whatever you want,。
"as much as you want for the entire game."。
And I started looking around.。
There's like a meat carving station with prime rib.。
There's salmon.。
You're like, "Salmon at a baseball game?"。
Yeah, salmon at a baseball game.。
It's amazing.。
There's salmon, there's grilled chicken.。
There's all sorts of sides.。
And you go around the corner。
and there's different types of salads.。
There's different types of cheeses and meats.。
And then you've got a fruit spread.。
And then there's the dessert spread。
where they've got different cupcakes and cakes.。
They've got ice cream machines next to the ice cream machine.。
They have got all different type of toppings。
that you can pile on, as much as you want,。
whatever you want.。
And I was like, "This is what you meant。
"when you said, 'Don't eat before you come.'"。
Like I had no category for it.。
Like if you had told me you're gonna eat salmon。
at a baseball game, I would have said, "Hard pass."。
And my point in telling you that is like,。
people who don't know Jesus, man, they're just snacking.。
They're just snacking on like spiritual fast food,。
just things that they're just trying to fill。
the abyss of their soul with anything they can.。
Maybe sex will satisfy.。
Maybe partying will satisfy.。
Maybe becoming a workaholic will satisfy.。
Maybe finally having money and driving the nice car,。
maybe that'll satisfy.。
Maybe having the job title, which tells people,。
I'm it.。
Maybe that'll satisfy.。
And then you just wonder, why do I still want more?。
And Peter is just saying, "Don't eat before you come."。
You're gonna get to heaven and there is a banquet。
waiting for you where you will feast on Jesus Christ。
for all of eternity and in his presence,。
there's fullness of joy and at his right hand。
are pleasures forevermore.。
And here's the good news, you actually don't have to wait。
till heaven for the feast to start.。
You can taste and see that he is good today.。
So I'm just telling you, look,。
you have been made for Jesus.。
Your soul is longing to feast on Jesus.。
If you don't know him, trust him.。
If you know him, but you're snacking on all the things。
of the world, hey, it's been enough time.。
It's been enough time.。
Endure opposition like the end is near.。
Number three, pray like the end is near.。
Pray like the end is near.。
Here's something interesting.。
Your prayer life will tell you everything you need to know。
about when you think Jesus is coming back.。
Like if you wanna know when you think Jesus is coming back,。
just look at your prayer life.。
It will tell you everything that you need to know.。
Look at what Peter says.。
He says, "The end of all things is at hand."。
That's why the title of the message is "The End is Near."。
'Cause even 2000 years ago, Peter was like,。
"Hey man, the end, the end is near."。
He's just saying, this is how we should live.。
The end of all things, it's at hand.。
Therefore, watch this, therefore be self-controlled。
and sober minded, why?。
For the sake of your prayers.。
What's his point?。
His point is like, look, if you're engaging。
in all of the things he's, all the things he listed,。
the debauchery, the sensuality, the orgies, all of that.。
If you're engaging in that, you know what happens?。
Is your mind becomes so clouded。
and you're just living for today.。
You're just living for instant gratification today.。
And it affects your ability to see.。
Think about being intoxicated.。
You can't see clearly.。
You can't think clearly.。
And his point is like, you want to live sober minded.。
You wanna live like you're seeing life clearly, why?。
For the sake of your prayers.。
Because if you live like Jesus could come back any day,。
you know what you do?。
You pray.。
I want you to, just think about that.。
Like the prediction for the rapture。
was that it could happen either today or tomorrow.。
Okay, so let's just pretend.。
Pretend that the rapture is gonna happen tomorrow.。
Jesus is gonna come back tomorrow.。
Would that change the way that you pray today?。
If you found out Jesus was coming back a week from now,。
or a month from now, or a year from now,。
would it change the way that you pray?。
I know it would for me.。
What would I pray?。
I think if I knew Jesus was coming back in a month,。
I think I would beg God all throughout the day,。
every day to save specific friends and family members.。
Like that God would disrupt their lives。
in such intense ways that they would。
put their trust in Jesus.。
I think I would just beg God for it.。
I think I would beg God to reveal himself。
to the unreached people groups in the world,。
the people who have literally never heard。
the name of Jesus before.。
And I would beg him to show up to them。
in dreams and visions and send missionaries。
at just the right time.。
I think I would beg God for that.。
I think I would beg God every day。
for like this massive revival in our city。
to just move through every church。
that proclaims the gospel.。
And in workplaces and on college campuses。
all over our city, people would just be turning to Jesus.。
That's what I'd pray for.。
And I also think I would just beg God to hold me close,。
to keep me from sin, to keep my heart。
like locked in on him.。
If that's what I would pray,。
if I knew he was definitely coming back,。
why don't I just pray like that?。
'Cause here's the reality, to not pray like that。
is to assume he's definitely not coming back anytime soon.。
It's a massive assumption.。
That's why I say that your prayer life。
is a great indicator of when you think Jesus is coming back.。
Because I think my tendency is to pray。
like Jesus will come back someday,。
but he's definitely not coming back any day soon.。
But we should pray like the end is near.。
Just pray, just beg God.。
Like God, like set reminders on your phone.。
I've got a reminder that goes off at 7.01 every day.。
And that's to pray for a friend's daughter has cancer。
and now it's evolved into praying for certain people,。
certain lost family members。
that have yet to put their trust in Jesus.。
And right now, like it will take a miracle。
for them to get there.。
But like, I just, even as I'm preaching this,。
I'm like, but I should pray more fervently.。
Like God is, Psalm 65 says,。
oh you who hear prayer.。
Like God hears our prayers.。
So we should pray like the end is near.。
Number four,。
love like the end is near.。
Love like the end is near.。
Watch this, verse eight, above all.。
Okay.。
What does that tell you?。
That means like, Peter's like, okay,。
all that was really good.。
Now don't miss this.。
That's what he's saying, like above all.。
Like if there's anything you get above all,。
keep loving one another earnestly。
since love covers a multitude of sins.。
I don't think Peter is like, hey, suffering for Jesus.。
That's kind of good.。
But like, just love people.。
That's what's really important.。
No, I think all of it is like 10 out of 10 importance,。
but he's looking at Christians。
who are living in the midst of persecution.。
They're being isolated and ostracized.。
And he's just like, you need each other.。
Y'all need each other.。
So love one another, keep loving one another earnestly.。
Why?。
Love covers a multitude of sins.。
What kind of love should Christians love one another with?。
It's a love that endures wrongs.。
It's a committed love.。
It's a forgiving love.。
And so I just want to encourage you。
to love like the end is near.。
So let me encourage you to do two things。
'cause there's a lot that we could talk about right now。
in terms of what it looks like to love one another well,。
but I want to encourage your generation with two things.。
Number one, be very careful with keyboard courage.。
Like it's amazing how courageous you are。
sitting behind a keyboard.。
It's amazing what you feel entitled to say。
typing on the little keyboard of your phone.。
And I'm just telling you, like keyboard courage。
is a massive area where Christians fall into sin。
'cause people will say whatever they want to say。
on social media and they will feel like。
they're being bold and courageous。
when they're actually being hateful.。
And Peter's like, love one another earnestly.。
Like before you hit send on anything,。
you know what you should think?。
You should think, imagine an unbeliever,。
someone who doesn't know Jesus,。
taking what you've written,。
posting it to the world and saying,。
this person calling your name out claims to follow Jesus.。
Like you don't want anything.。
You don't want to send anything.。
You don't want to text anything.。
That would in any way bring dishonor。
to the Lord Jesus Christ.。
Like if you wouldn't send that text to Jesus,。
you probably shouldn't send it.。
If you wouldn't post that as a comment on someone's post,。
if it was Jesus posting it, you probably shouldn't write it.。
You'd be like, well, Jesus would never post that.。
I don't care.。
My point is like, you need a stronger filter.。
You don't match energy of unbelievers.。
We don't expect unbelievers to show Christ,。
but Christians should show Christ.。
You don't match people's energy.。
You don't stoop.。
You only have one opportunity to take the high road.。
Take it in the name of Jesus.。
Love.。
And then also, I just want to,。
I want to ask you to close your eyes real quick,。
just for a moment.。
And if you don't close your eyes,。
I'll just stare at you, okay?。
Here's what I want you to do.。
I want you to imagine standing in heaven。
before the throne of God, worshiping Jesus.。
Just imagine this.。
Imagine you're worshiping Jesus.。
There's fullness of joy.。
And imagine looking to your right and your left,。
and you see your good friends who also loved Jesus.。
You see your family who loved Jesus,。
and they're worshiping Jesus as well.。
Now,。
is there any brother or sister in the faith。
that you could see in heaven?。
And you'd feel this awkwardness,。
like there's something unresolved between the two of you.。
Like imagine how out of place that awkwardness。
between the two of you would be standing before Jesus,。
experiencing the fullest extent of His grace and forgiveness.。
Is there anyone that comes to mind?。
Let me encourage you to open your eyes.。
Hey, don't wait.。
Don't wait for heaven to resolve something.。
Love one another.。
Romans 12, 18 says, "If possible,。
"so far as it depends on you, live peacefully with all."。
Just wanna invite everyone real quick to just say,。
say these words, "Will you forgive me?"。
And then say, "I forgive you."。
Look, if those words never come out of your mouth,。
you're a very difficult Christian friend.。
Look, we're sinful people.。
We're gonna hurt one another.。
We should forgive each other.。
Why?。
Because we know what it's like to be forgiven.。
If we refuse to forgive, it's as if we're saying,。
"Jesus, I can see why you would forgive me,。
"but don't expect me to forgive them.。
"I deserve to be forgiven by you.。
"They don't deserve to be forgiven by me."。
That makes no sense.。
And finally, look, I'm out of time,。
but let me just encourage you to serve like the end is near.。
Serve like the end is near.。
Peter finishes up and says,。
"Show hospitality to one another without grumbling.。
"As each has received a gift,。
"use it to serve one another。
"as good stewards of God's varied grace.。
"Whoever speaks is one who speaks oracles of God.。
"Whoever serves is one who serves。
"by the strength that God supplies,。
"in order that in everything,。
"God may be glorified through Jesus Christ.。
"To him belong glory and dominion forever and ever, amen."。
What's the point?。
Peter's just saying, "Look, if you know Jesus Christ,。
"God has actually given you a supernatural gift.。
"You have been wired by God in some supernatural way。
"to actually serve his church."。
So let me just encourage you.。
Look, you don't have to come to Watermark for church,。
but you should belong to some church.。
And I'm not just talking about。
showing up sometimes on Sundays.。
I'm talking about being an integral part of the church.。
God has wired you with a gift to serve the church.。
It's been given to you by his spirit。
and it's given to serve the body.。
I went to Texas A&M University。
and there was a saying around there,。
like, "Don't be a two-percenter."。
What's the point?。
Like, be all in.。
Don't just do the bare minimum.。
God has wired you with gifts to belong to his family.。
That's what the church is,。
is it's a family where we come together。
and we serve together.。
Look, here's what's happening at Watermark.。
At Watermark, it's young adults。
that are leading the way in worship。
in this room on Sundays.。
It's incredible.。
It's been young men in their 20s。
that have invested in my son's lives.。
And I'm so grateful for it.。
Look, you can play an instrumental role。
in the next generation,。
some high school students' lives,。
middle school students,。
little kids, like God can use you。
to bring people to faith by the power of the Spirit.。
Leverage your life in the church。
for the sake of the gospel.。
Serve like the end is near.。
Go all in with Jesus,。
endure opposition, pray, love,。
and serve like the end is near.。
Just go back to where I started。
with that race analogy.。
Some of you guys might feel like。
you're in your first mile with Jesus,。
where it's just exciting.。
You just became a Christian recently,。
and that's awesome.。
Some of y'all might feel like。
you're in your second mile,。
where you're like,。
"Sometimes I wonder why I chose to follow Jesus,。
"because it's hard.。
"It's just not going like I thought it would,。
"and I'm thinking about quitting."。
But I'm just telling you,。
if you know Jesus,。
you're actually in the third mile.。
Keep going.。
Keep going.。
The finish line is ahead.。
Run your race, pump your arms,。
lift your knees, widen your stride.。
Christ is coming back.。
It might not be today.。
It might not be tomorrow.。
It could be.。
But don't live like Jesus is coming back one day.。
Live like he can come back any day.。
And maybe you're here。
and you've never started the race with Jesus.。
You've never put your trust in him.。
Look, Jesus Christ left heaven,。
came to earth, lived perfectly.。
Why?。
Because you and I couldn't live perfectly.。
He died sacrificially.。
Why?。
So that you and I wouldn't have to be punished。
for all of the ways that we wronged God.。
And then Jesus Christ rose from the dead victoriously.。
Why?。
So that you and I could be raised to a new life with God。
that begins the day you believe in Jesus。
and lasts for all of eternity.。
If you wanna begin the race with Jesus,。
all you have to do is call out to him in prayer。
and invite him into your life.。
Let's pray together now.。
(gentle music)。
And if that's you,。
if you wanna begin a relationship with Jesus,。
I'd even encourage you right now to just say,。
Lord Jesus, would you come into my life tonight?。
Thank you that you died on the cross for me.。
Thank you that you rose from the dead for me.。
Would you come into my life?。
Would you forgive me of my sins?。
And would you lead me in a new life?。
And then whether you just put your trust in Jesus。
or maybe you've known Jesus for a long time.。
I don't know who it was in this room,。
but right at the end of worship,。
David was just talking about saying yes to Jesus.。
And someone just called out yes, Jesus.。
And I was so moved by that.。
And I just wonder,。
like maybe that's your simple offering to God tonight.。
As we sing, even to just say, yes, Jesus,。
like my yes is on the table to you.。
I wanna be all in with you.。
I wanna endure opposition for you.。
I wanna pray fervently to you.。
I wanna love well for you.。
I wanna serve the church for you.。
Yes, yes, Jesus.。
Lord, we love you.。
You're worthy of our yes.。
You're worthy of our lives.。
You can have everything.。
Use us for your glory in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
