- Testing, one, two, three, can you hear me?。
Well, hey everyone, and welcome to The Porch.。
We're going to be diving into the question。
that's been on everyone's mind.。
Why in the world are women so hard to understand?。
- I think what you meant to say was,。
why in the world are men so confusing?。
- Okay, so it seems like both genders。
may have some difficulty understanding each other.。
- Which is why each week,。
we're spotlighting a different side of the room。
to dig into issues we face within our own gender。
while growing an understanding for the opposite sex.。
- One night, we're putting the guys under the microscope.。
- The next night is for the girls.。
But don't worry, everybody's invited every night.。
- Because here's the thing we figured out.。
- We're not actually short on opinions about men and women.。
- He's saying this.。
- She's saying that.。
- But what does God have to say about all of it?。
- Welcome to the debate that culture can't settle.。
- Welcome to what's actually true.。
About him.。
- And about her.。
- Welcome to your favorite Tuesday night series.。
- He said, she said.。
- Come on, Porch, put your hands together.。
How we doing, we doing good?。
Good to see you.。
Welcome back for another great Tuesday.。
Love that you would choose to be in the room with us.。
Man, Dallas, you look good.。
So glad that you're here.。
Everybody that's tuning in online,。
we love you guys as well.。
Porch Live locations all over the place.。
We got Porch Live Fort Worth,。
Porch Live Boise, and Porch Live Wheaton.。
Fellas, you're at bat tonight, you ready?。
I was genuinely thinking about this message。
and there was something in me that was actually sad.。
I was telling my wife this right before I came out.。
I was like, man, I have loved teaching to the men。
very specifically, ladies, you as well.。
But there's something about being able to look upon guys。
and seeing you respond to what God has commissioned。
be true of you.。
And so I'm sad that this is our last go around。
with just the fellas.。
There's more of this series ahead.。
Ladies, you're up next week and then we'll wrap it all up。
in two weeks time from now.。
But fellas, I'm eager for tonight.。
Let's get into it, shall we?。
I did not grow up going to camp.。
I don't know if you did, but I didn't typically。
feel my summers that way.。
But the summer before I was a senior in high school,。
I had a bunch of buddies goad me into finally giving。
summer camp a shot.。
They wanted me to see what I'd been missing。
all those years.。
And so I signed up and I made my way out.。
And when I got there, I learned that there was a tradition。
at this camp where the senior guy counselors。
would take the graduating class of dudes out into the woods。
for something that they called tents and testosterone.。
And so the thought of it was that they would just gather。
a bunch of 17 year old boys and they would take them。
into the woods and they would teach them。
what it meant to be men.。
Which I thought was a good idea.。
I was in on that.。
Like I was a senior going to Texas A&M University,。
college on the horizon, saying goodbye to mom and dad,。
and knowing that I probably needed to man up a little bit.。
And so the thought of spending a weekend in the woods。
sounded good to me.。
That is until I got there and I started to realize。
that it was like less tents and testosterone.。
And it was more like bros and mosquitoes。
because it didn't live up to what they had hyped。
or build the experience to be.。
Like, yes, they told us we're gonna cook。
in the great outdoors over an open fire.。
And yet while we did cook over an open fire,。
my dinner consisted of a can of biscuits。
wrapped around a tree branch。
that I rotated rotisserie style over that fire.。
I was in the great outdoors, sleeping beneath the stars.。
And yet I didn't realize that I would be sleeping。
on a bed of pine straw at the same time.。
They had no tents, which is why it wasn't built correctly.。
And there were no sleeping bags.。
We were just out there figuring it out。
because that's, I guess, what men do.。
And then, yes, they did say that we would learn。
what it meant to be a man, if by man,。
you mean someone that just does things without thinking.。
That was my experience at Tents and Testosterone.。
And it was such a failure.。
Like, so massive of a miss was it。
that not only me and some of the other guys,。
everybody, the counselors included,。
we bailed on the experience just 24 hours into it。
because we realized this was not at all。
teaching us how to be men.。
We counselors, or we campers, we had no clue。
how to become a man, much less did the counselors.。
They looked as lost on the subject as we were.。
And yet, here's the thing about that story.。
It has stuck with me to this day。
because something about that experience, I think,。
highlights what many of us expect to be true of manhood.。
We just expect it to happen.。
We're just gonna lead you out into the woods, bro,。
and throw you a can of biscuits.。
You're not gonna have a sleeping bag,。
but over the course of this time,。
you're gonna figure out what it means to be a man.。
And yet, the truth of that is,。
it was not so much about a bad campout,。
but a bad premise of what it meant to become a man.。
Manhood is not just something that happened.。
It's not like puberty.。
You don't just get a deeper voice。
and grow a little bit taller。
and start getting hair on your chest,。
and that doesn't make you magically a man.。
No, manhood is something that you enter into,。
and becoming a man requires effort.。
So how do you do it?。
Well, I did the sensible thing.。
I asked Google.。
And the first result it gave me。
was a step-by-step guide to becoming him,。
which included some guys screaming。
about building a better physique,。
upping your grooming game,。
and developing dangerous kinds of confidence。
so people know whenever you walk into the room,。
all for the small price of $100 a year,。
which didn't feel like that was。
necessarily a legitimate source, and so I moved on.。
The next result was a video about alpha body language.。
It promised that even if you're average looking,。
you can go from a total six to at least an 11 1/2。
with cues like just touch a little bit more,。
nod like you're listening,。
take up space, and walk like a boss.。
That too felt like I might've hit a dead end.。
So I decided then to look up。
what it meant to be a perfect man according to women.。
One woman said, "Not a slob."。
Another said, "Fit, but not too fit.。
"Like soft enough to snuggle with, but not fat either.。
"Like toned, really toned."。
The next one said, "Funny, but like effortlessly funny.。
"I don't want him to look like he's trying too hard.。
"I just want him to make me laugh."。
Another one said, "Kind, funny, and has eyes that twinkle."。
[audience laughing]。
Huh?。
All of them said Ryan Gosling, which is right, of course.。
And so I kept going in my research,。
and here's what I found over the course of the time.。
You need to buy a truck, you gotta grow a beard,。
you gotta learn jujitsu, you need to cold plunge,。
you need to start a business.。
No, don't start a business because that's a trap.。
Cry, it's healthy.。
No, don't cry because that means you're soft.。
Drink your coffee black.。
Don't do that, drink mud water instead.。
Until 45 minutes in, I had 11 different definitions。
of what a man actually was.。
Had a minor headache up here in the dome,。
and I was being targeted for tactical flashlights.。
Like, it was something that I did not expect at all.。
Here's what I learned。
over the course of that experience, though.。
Everyone is selling a different version of manhood.。
And the reason why is the world has a lot of opinions。
about what a man is,。
but the world does not have a definition。
that it agrees upon.。
Thankfully, God does have a definition.。
And I wanna read to you tonight what he defines a man as,。
specifically how a man operates,。
what it looks like to become one yourself, gentlemen,。
if you are at all interested.。
And the place that he does it。
is in 1 Corinthians chapter 16.。
So if you got a Bible, you can turn there with me.。
While you're doing that,。
let me just level set the room for a minute.。
Ladies, I've said this before,。
these evenings are useful for you。
because you can do three things。
over the course of this time.。
You can learn what it means。
to empathize with your brothers,。
see the things that are expected of them.。
You can likewise learn to encourage them。
because they will need your support。
in their belief that they can become。
what God wants them to be.。
And you should learn some expectations for them。
because it is loving to hold each other accountable。
to the vision that God has for our gender.。
Gentlemen, the level set for you。
is that more than likely,。
nobody has taught you how to be a man.。
Like for many of us,。
we just start piecing it together over the course of time.。
Like you watched your dad,。
you watched your brother,。
you watched the guys in the locker room,。
you watched the fellows at the frat house,。
you listened to what women said that they wanted,。
which isn't helpful.。
You listened to what men said they wanted,。
and that's not helpful either.。
So you started tuning into movies,。
you listened to the Broly trinity of gladiator。
and Braveheart and the Patriot,。
and you realize some of that might be useful.。
And then you moved on from there。
and you checked out the manosphere.。
And what you found in the manosphere。
is a wide array of different masculine personalities,。
all of which are nonetheless still confusing.。
And the product of it all is yes,。
you may have become a more impressive looking person,。
but you are still just as unconvinced today。
if you're actually a good man.。
Because here's the thing,。
the world has so much that it wants to offer you。
in terms of description and definition。
as to what a man is supposed to be.。
But what you realize is all of these variations。
are the product of someone's personality。
or some product they're pushing。
or some agenda they're selling.。
This is the way it works.。
You look out into the worldwide web。
and you realize masculinity is a marketplace.。
Everyone's trying to make you into。
whatever their version of it is。
because it benefits them and not you.。
God is looking at you though and he's saying,。
"No, I have a version of manhood that was always。
"and still is intended for you today.。
"I'm not wanting you to suppress your masculinity,。
"I am wanting you to sanctify it."。
And the way that that happens is by walking with him.。
He has five things that he wants to be true of you men。
if you want to be God's man.。
Week one, we talked about the purpose of manhood.。
Then we moved over to the problems that men face.。
And tonight, the goal of our time。
is to talk about the path to becoming one.。
Five steps on this path,。
all of which are found in 1 Corinthians 16, verse 13.。
It says, "Be watchful, stand firm in the faith,。
"act like men, be strong."。
Verse 14, "Let all that you do be done in love."。
You see, the first step on the path to becoming God's man。
is you have to know that a man of God is on guard.。
A man of God is on guard.。
That's what Paul means when he says that we should be。
watchful in fencing.。
You know what I'm talking about?。
What do they yell to one another?。
On guard, why?。
Because they're trying to tell their opponent,。
"I'm about to smack you around a little bit."。
The truth of the matter is,。
there's fellas getting smacked around all over the place。
because they are not on guard themselves.。
Paul is saying real men, they're vigilant, they're alert,。
they stand at the ready, they're prepared for an enemy,。
they understand there are evils both outside of themselves。
and inside of themselves that they need to be prepared。
to stand against.。
That was the case in Corinth.。
Like it was a mess, just go read it.。
This is at the end of the letter,。
but if you work your way from the very first chapter,。
chapter by chapter, you will uncover a litany of sin.。
You'll see things like fights and feuds。
between rival groups.。
You'll see issues of spiritual pride and immaturity.。
One dude sleeping with his mother-in-law.。
People filing lawsuits against one another.。
Weird sexual acts, tons of idolatry.。
The church in Corinth, it looks like bad reality TV.。
Like if you go read it,。
it's like keeping up with the Corinthians.。
It just looks like an absolute mess.。
And yet in the same way that they were in danger,。
fellas, listen to me, you are in danger too,。
which is why you must be watchful.。
As Paul says, you must be on guard.。
First Peter 5.8 says, "Be sober-minded, be watchful."。
Why?。
Because your adversary, the devil prowls around。
like a roaring lion seeking someone to devour.。
Matthew 26.41 says, "Watch," there it is,。
"and pray that you might not enter into temptation.。
The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak."。
I think that that second scriptural reference is so helpful。
because the context of that moment。
is Jesus is praying in the garden of Gethsemane.。
And what is happening to his boys?。
They're falling asleep.。
He's asked them to pray, they're falling asleep.。
And so he says, "Hey, be watchful,"。
which actually leads us to what the genuine word means.。
It means wake up.。
Jesus is telling them to wake up.。
And Paul is saying the same thing too.。
He's saying, "Men, you must be awake."。
If you wanna be God's men, then you have to wake up.。
You need to realize that your battle is not against flesh。
and it's not against blood.。
It is against rulers and authorities, cosmic powers,。
and the forces of spiritual darkness in the heavenly places.。
Meaning your enemy, check this,。
is not just working against you.。
You have an enemy that is warring against you.。
So be on guard, wake up, be watchful.。
Sometimes the way the enemy works, it is so obvious.。
You've seen it, some of you have experienced,。
like something happens in your life and you're like,。
"Oh my gosh, that is so clearly from the pit of hell.。
That is from Satan himself."。
And yet here's the thing, though he will work obviously,。
sometimes the enemy will work.。
Actually, most oftentimes he will do so subtly.。
And the reason for it is because the enemy。
does not need to destroy you.。
He just needs to put you to sleep.。
Like he doesn't need to kill you off to take you out.。
He just needs to shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh.。
Go to sleep.。
Go to sleep.。
And the reason why is because he knows。
that he doesn't necessarily need you destroyed.。
He just needs you distracted.。
He just needs you spiritually lethargic,。
spiritually apathetic.。
Some of you, you're here, fellas,。
and you're so complacent in your spirituality.。
You're so stagnant in your walk with Jesus.。
And the reality of it is because you have just grown sleepy.。
I don't know what it looks like for you in your own life,。
but the enemy, he doesn't need you to give up。
reading the word of God every single day.。
He just needs you to neglect to do it most days of the week.。
He doesn't need you to up and sleep with a sex worker.。
He just needs you to keep pornography a secret.。
He doesn't need you to stop attending church.。
He just needs you to sit in rooms like this。
and care more about the game than you do the sermon.。
He doesn't need you to renounce your faith.。
He just needs you to neglect sharing the good news。
with other people.。
That's the enemy's play, guys.。
He is trying to put you to sleep.。
And so we're here to tell you, you gotta wake up.。
So let me ask you, like, where's he got you sleepy?。
Where do you see, like, spiritual apathy。
beginning to encroach?。
Where do you find a tolerance for sin in your life?。
Is it with your girlfriend?。
Like, do you guys sit on the couch。
and you throw your arm around her,。
but the arm around her becomes kind of like。
the arm around her waist 'cause you got tired,。
but now it's like a hand around her rear。
until it's a hand up under her clothes?。
Jesus has some pretty explicit things to say about that.。
Cut it off!。
Like, get rid of the arm, bro.。
Like, if it's causing you to sin。
and it's doing likewise to her, then get rid of it.。
Maybe it's not with your girlfriend.。
Maybe you're just lazy.。
You hit snooze in the morning, you take long lunch breaks,。
you procrastinate your work.。
You know what you need to do in the evening,。
but you just don't wanna do it in the evening。
because you'd rather watch another episode of Hard Knocks.。
Jesus got a lot to say about lazy workers,。
none of which is good.。
Maybe it's not laziness.。
Maybe you're just casually Christian.。
You just do this for your girl?。
Come to church to check the box,。
include it on your hinge profile。
because it looks good out there。
even though it is excluded in here.。
Jesus says he will spit the lukewarm from his mouth.。
I'll be honest with you.。
I have no idea what that means,。
but that is not a place that I wanna be found.。
And I don't think you wanna be there either.。
Listen, when it comes to sin, fellas,。
boys make excuses, men take responsibility.。
Men take responsibility.。
So I don't know what it is for you,。
but whatever it is, for the love of God,。
you have got to identify it。
because there's two ways to spot the enemy's trap.。
You wanna know 'em?。
You see it or you step into it.。
Men all over the world are really good at one of those two.。
You know which one it is?。
Stepping into the enemy's trap.。
It happens all the time.。
It has happened in here.。
It has happened to me.。
It has happened to you,。
but the truth of the matter is every man。
may step into the trap,。
but God's men are capable of seeing the trap.。
And the reason we do is because Jesus did.。
We watched the life of Christ。
and we realized he was tempted。
by the enemy in the wilderness.。
And in that process,。
he uncovered the three traps。
that the enemy only has to offer.。
Because here's the thing about your enemy.。
He's not creative.。
He's crafty.。
He's got three plays.。
He runs them over and over and over and over and over again.。
He will dress them up.。
He will distort their appearance.。
He will try to veil them from looking the same as last time,。
but they are the same every time.。
And they are only three。
because what they do is they appeal。
to three core human vulnerabilities that we all have.。
You wanna know what they are?。
The first one is your appetite.。
The second one is your approval.。
And the last one is your ambition.。
John describes it like this in 1 John 2.。
He says, "For all that is in the world,。
"the desires of the flesh, that's your appetite.。
"The desires of the eyes, that's your approval.。
"And the pride of life, that's your ambition.。
"It's not from the father.。
"It's from the world.。
"It's from Satan."。
This is exactly how he tempts Eve in Genesis 3.。
This is exactly how he tempts Jesus in the wilderness。
in Matthew 4 and in Luke 4.。
And it's exactly how he tempts you today.。
He's not creative, he's crafty.。
He dresses these things up in ways which you cannot see.。
So how do you avoid stepping into them?。
How do you avoid stepping into his snare?。
You learn how to set one.。
You learn how to set the trap yourself.。
Like if you were gonna trap yourself, how would you do it?。
That's probably the way he wants to do it.。
Like I've made sure。
to have a really firm understanding of who I am。
and how he would come get me.。
For some of you, it's when it's late,。
it's when you're alone, and it's when you're bored.。
That's when the enemy is like, "Got him.。
"Go ahead, scroll on your phone.。
"There she is.。
"What you thinking about now?。
"Oh, it's late, you're gonna be up later."。
Like that's the way that he would get you.。
And you know that about yourself.。
Like others of you, you're here and you know.。
It's when you're gonna be out, you're a few drinks in,。
you're hanging with your friends,。
and it's gonna be right then that he tells you。
this is an opportune time to bend the truth。
just to make yourself look a little bit better.。
Others, it's gonna be when you get the promotion.。
You finally get a seat at that table,。
you're moved into the halls of power,。
and you're recognized in public.。
Then he's gonna be like, "Right there, got you."。
Because it's in that moment that you know,。
I actually think I'm a little bit better。
than everybody else.。
He knows how to get you.。
The thing he doesn't know is you know how to get you too.。
Learn to set the trap against yourself。
and you'll be able to see the trap he sets for yourself.。
This is how you defend against the enemy's attack.。
You play defense, but here's the thing.。
Anybody play pickup basketball in here?。
Yeah.。
You don't just hustle on defense。
'cause nobody likes that guy.。
Nobody likes the guy that is full of energy。
and is kind of a spaz on the court。
and there's a whole lot of movement,。
but not a lot of productivity.。
You can't just hustle on defense.。
What you have to do is you have to learn how to play it.。
Meaning you need to know your opponent,。
the scheme they're running,。
so that way you can adjust yourself accordingly。
and you can meet whatever their attack actually is.。
But you can't just play defense and expect to win, can you?。
You have to learn to play offense,。
which is where Paul goes next.。
Paul says this, right after we watchful,。
he says to stand firm in the faith,。
which gives you your second point.。
A man of God lives with conviction.。
A man of God lives with conviction.。
Notice he doesn't say,。
you should stand firm in your personality,。
in your opinions, in your political position,。
in your personal preferences or your favorite team.。
Why?。
Because here's the truth.。
You're not an American man before you're God's man.。
You're not a boss man before you're God's man.。
You're not a hunting or golfing。
or cross-fitting man before you're God's man.。
You're not a ladies man before you're God's man.。
You're not a man's man before you're God's man.。
You're not a family man before you're God's man.。
You're not a wing man before you're God's man,。
even though some of your boys need you to be one of those.。
So learn how to be a wing man。
'cause every brother is served well by somebody。
that can step into that gap.。
None of these titles make you into a man.。
Only God can do that.。
That's why we have to stand firm in our faith.。
Hebrews 11 says, "Now faith is the assurance of things。
"hoped for, the conviction of things not seen."。
What is conviction?。
Well, Hebrews 11 gives us a good idea.。
It says that a synonymous word,。
a parallel consideration would be assurance.。
You see, conviction is an unwavering belief。
in someone or something that cannot fail,。
which is the reason God is the only true source。
of conviction because God has been the only safe bet。
for all time.。
He has only always guaranteed his promises.。
He is the only sure thing out there.。
So let me ask you, fellas,。
why is it then that so many guys struggle。
to stand firm in Him?。
Because it is hard to stand firm。
in a faith you barely know.。
It is hard to stand firm in a faith that you barely know.。
Just think about it.。
Your confidence in something directly correlates。
to your knowledge of that something.。
Some of you guys, you have an immense amount of confidence。
at the gym because you know what to do at the gym.。
Some of you, you have a lot of confidence with the ladies。
because you know they don't want you to play any games.。
They just want you to walk up and be normal for once.。
Some of you, you have an immense amount of confidence。
in your investments because you understand。
what's happening in the marketplace.。
Some of you, you have a lot of confidence in the cowboys.。
(congregation laughing)。
Even though we've been battered one too many times。
to have such confidence.。
The level of your confidence depends directly。
on the level of your knowledge.。
And the reason you have such little confidence in God。
is because you have such little knowledge of God.。
You have such little confidence in Him。
because you have little knowledge of Him.。
And because of this, here's the thing.。
So many of us, we will preach our problems to God。
as opposed to preach God to our problems.。
You need to know Him.。
So how do you do it?。
You read the Bible.。
Sophisticated answer, right?。
Like that's what you do.。
You grab this book and you open it up.。
You don't read it from your phone.。
You get the book, you peel open the leather,。
you read through the pages, you ask it good questions,。
you receive its questions and you consider them carefully.。
You don't outsource your theology to a podcast。
or to Instagram or to your girlfriend.。
You choose to do the work yourself.。
If you feel confronted by a passage,。
you don't lean out, you lean in.。
And then you look up and you ask Him to give more.。
Like this is the way that we should express。
our dependence on God.。
We come to learn about Him.。
We need to know this God.。
I pray like, yes, I want you to have a faith。
that is full of the experience of God,。
but do not have a faith that is empty。
of the reason for God as well.。
You need both.。
We're called to be true worshipers, which are what?。
In spirit and in truth.。
What's typically true is we major in one。
and we suck at the other one.。
No, be good at both.。
Like learn this book and then learn the spirit。
who illuminates your eyes to see within it.。
You have to know Him.。
And the reason why is 'cause that's what leads you。
to mature manhood.。
Ephesians 4, it tells us this.。
It says in verses 13 to 14,。
it says that God is building up the body.。
He's given those in the church。
until we all attain to the unity of the faith。
and to the knowledge of the Son of God to mature manhood,。
to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ,。
which is important.。
We gotta stop 'cause you need to understand。
like He just told you what mature manhood looks like.。
It looks like Jesus.。
You caught that, right?。
Like mature manhood, it does not look like your physique.。
It doesn't look like your beard.。
It doesn't look like your bank account.。
It doesn't look like your body count.。
It looks like Jesus Christ.。
That's what mature manhood is.。
And He goes on.。
He says, "So that way we may no longer be children。
"tossed to and fro by the waves。
"and carried about by every wind of doctrine,。
"by human cunning, by craftiness in deceitful schemes."。
Translation, your confidence in God increases。
when your confidence in God increases,。
your confidence in life increases.。
That's what he's saying.。
Why is that?。
Because you know His plans can't be stopped.。
His purposes, they can't be thwarted.。
His people cannot be taken.。
And when you know that about God,。
that He actually does reign over it all,。
He is actually supreme over everything.。
He holds all things together by the word of His power.。
When you know that is your God,。
it changes the way you move through the world.。
Like, it gives you a different sort of swagger.。
Not the weird machismo, silly kind that you see。
where dating coaches are like,。
"You gotta do the shoulder sway."。
Not that kind of swagger.。
It gives you a swagger that is sure,。
and it's steady, and it's certain.。
Because you know a God that is sure, and steady, and certain。
and because He is that way,。
you have confidence that you can move through life likewise.。
And when you have that sort of demeanor,。
it's the kind of confidence。
that dignifies people's confidence in you.。
Like, it helps you to be a man of your word。
so you can keep it whenever you give it.。
It's the kind of confidence that makes difficult decisions。
when other people cannot do it.。
It's the kind of confidence that it stays the course。
even when difficult days come and trials abound.。
It's the kind of confidence that inspires a woman。
to walk with you for a child to look up to you。
and a family to be led by you.。
This is what you need.。
You need to have a faith upon which you can stand, burn.。
So many men are tossed about。
because they don't have a solid rock upon which to stand.。
Christ has come that you might have something so solid.。
So why don't you stand on Him?。
And if you know Him, and it feels shaky nonetheless,。
you do not know Him as well as you should.。
The good news is you that seek to know Him more。
can have the confidence that He sought。
to be known by you first.。
That's how good your King is.。
A man of God lives with conviction。
because, and this is important, Jesus died with conviction.。
He knew full well the plans that God had to save His people,。
the price that Christ Himself would have to pay to do it,。
and the cost that a relationship with us would require,。
and He went to the cross anyways.。
He has shown us what conviction looks like,。
and He has filled us with the Spirit。
so that by His strength and not our own,。
we can live the same.。
The next point we catch whenever Paul says to act like men.。
This point is that a man of God acts courageously.。
A man of God acts courageously。
because courage is what moves a man from point one and two。
into the rest of the points in this passage.。
That's the beauty of it.。
Like what moves a man of watchfulness and truthfulness。
into action is courage.。
I love the way that God commissions Joshua in Joshua 1.。
He says this, He says, "Be strong and courageous."。
That's the same word in the Septuagint.。
"For you shall cause this people to inherit the land。
"that I swore to their fathers to give them.。
"Only be strong and very courageous,。
"being careful to do according to all the law。
"that most of my servant commanded you.。
"Do not turn from it to the right hand or the left,。
"that you may have good success wherever you go."。
And then verse nine, "Have I not commanded you,。
"be strong and courageous?"。
Yeah, God, we got it.。
You said it a few times.。
"Don't be frightened, don't be dismayed,。
"for the Lord your God is with you wherever you go."。
You see, here's the thing, fellas, look at me.。
Any guy can have the best of intention,。
but it takes a real man to follow through with action.。
Like, I see it every, every single Tuesday night.。
Like, some girl will come down。
and will talk to me about her relationship,。
and she'll say something like this.。
Like, "He knows that he's supposed to pursue me more,。
"and he's told me that he wants to do that."。
Or, "He knows that we're supposed to have purity。
"in our relationship, and so he wants to do a better job。
"of honoring our parameters."。
Or, "He knows that he shouldn't speak to me that way,。
"and he's told me that he wants to do better,。
"and he wants to try harder."。
And every single time I talk to these ladies,。
I just feel something in my heart hurt so deeply for them,。
because I think about my own daughter。
who is coming into the world soon,。
and I just want her to know,。
as well as every woman here to know,。
by way of you men, that a man of God。
doesn't need to be defended by a woman,。
because he does the work of defending.。
You tracking?。
Like, men of God do not need someone。
to make excuses for them.。
Men of God make efforts for those people instead.。
Because he's courageous.。
Like, literally, that's what the word here means.。
When he says, "Act like men,"。
that word actually means to prove yourself to be a man,。
to be brave, to be mature, to be self-controlled,。
all of which does not come by way of your own strength.。
It comes by way of the Spirit at work within you.。
But here's the thing.。
A boy didn't know how to do that.。
My son is a boy, and I love him to death.。
He is cute, and he is fun,。
and he will melt your heart。
if he falls in and snuggles with you.。
But at the same time, he will smack you in the face,。
throw food at you, and scream until he gets his way.。
Why does he do that?。
How can these two things exist at the same time?。
Because he's immature.。
The difference between my boy and your boy。
is my boy's two and your boy's like 30.。
That's the difference here.。
And the truth of the matter is,。
you need to stop making excuses for him.。
First Corinthians 13, 11 says, "When I was a child,。
"I spoke like a child, I thought like a child,。
"I reasoned like a child, but when I became a man,。
"I gave up childish ways."。
Boys, I expect you, I encourage you,。
learn and live this verse.。
Because the takeaway on this point is pretty simple.。
You need to grow up.。
And listen, I say this not in a belittling or demeaning way.。
If you feel that from me,。
if you feel like I'm emasculating you right now,。
I am not wanting to do that。
because the world has done a bang-up job of that on its own.。
I do not want you to feel in any way torn down.。
I'm looking at you and I'm saying to you, young men,。
we need you.。
And I believe you can do this。
because I believe the spirit of God is within you。
and wanting to bring it to pass.。
Like, I have such confidence that this can happen。
because the truth of the matter is,。
the ultimate man to ever live, he did this.。
He took nothing from us and he gave everything to us.。
He had the courage to do what needed to be done。
and I believe that you can do it too.。
Boys think only about what they can get,。
but men, men think about what they can give.。
Christ gave it all.。
If you want to look like him,。
then you got to give something too.。
So gentlemen, let me ask you,。
what haven't you done that you know you need to do?。
I'll just be real with you right now.。
Like, this point, this moment,。
this is not a moment that I just need you to like,。
take notes and agree with concepts。
and walk out thinking that was nice to listen to.。
This is a moment where real work needs to be done.。
What haven't you done that you know you need to do?。
Like, what's the spirit of God been knocking on your heart。
and asking you to take action towards?。
I would dare say, every one of us knows there's something.。
And the courageous thing to do is take action.。
Courage is doing what is right, even when it hurts.。
And so for some of you, it's secret sin。
that you have been hiding in the dark。
and you just need to bring it to the light.。
And I'm begging you, let's just do it tonight.。
Walk out and be fully known.。
I guarantee you, you come, you tell us,。
and not only will we be fully known,。
you will be fully loved.。
You can tell me anything that has ever caught me off guard.。
Some of you, you need to confess to your girlfriend。
that you cheated on her.。
She deserves to know.。
Some of you, you're thinking about taking your life.。
And I don't have to know you to care about you.。
If a person is imbued with the image of God,。
I am begging you, please, do not make。
an irreversible decision.。
We want you here, and we will walk through。
the valley of the shadow of death alongside you.。
Some of you, you're here, and you fellas,。
you know, like, you're addicted.。
You're addicted to sports betting,。
you're addicted to gambling, you're addicted to alcohol,。
you're addicted to porn, and I just,。
I'm like, man, let's talk about that.。
Let's not make allowances for things。
that Christ has not made an allowance for.。
Let us not entertain sin that took him to the cross,。
and he died to bury with him when he went.。
I don't know what it is for you fellas,。
but do not delay your obedience any longer.。
The tendency towards men is we will do one of two things.。
We will be passive and do nothing,。
or we will be performative and we'll do too much,。
meaning we will not listen to the spirit of God。
and respond to his conviction,。
or we'll try to do it all on our own strength。
and we'll tell Jesus we don't need him.。
Don't do either of those things tonight.。
Jesus is wanting to partner with you instead,。
so be a good partner to him and take the necessary step.。
If you've been putting it off,。
what if tonight you could walk away。
and you could say, I didn't put it off any longer.。
I did it.。
Like, I took the step that God has been asking me to take,。
and I've received the fruit that I knew。
he promised he would give in my life.。
It might be harder, but it can be better.。
Because hear me, and this is something。
I need to just level with you about.。
Courageous men, they deal with the consequences。
of their actions.。
Cowards avoid them.。
The most courageous thing you could do。
is not just live under fire,。
but even put yourself into the fire.。
So that way you can find the one who is in the fire。
alongside you and who will hold you together。
until you get through it.。
Let tonight be the night that you do it, fellas.。
The fourth thing you gotta learn is this.。
A man of God perseveres.。
That's what Paul means when he says, hey, be strong.。
Like, when he says be strong,。
he's not saying that you gotta be a part。
of the 1,000-pound club.。
He's not saying you gotta be able to open beer by the hand.。
He's not saying that you gotta grow a full beard.。
He's not saying that you gotta。
ruck around the neighborhood.。
Even though all those things are probably good ideas,。
he's saying something different.。
What he's saying is that instead,。
true strength is not something you build on your own.。
True strength is something you receive from God.。
Ephesians 3, 14, 16.。
I've got several verses.。
I'm just gonna read you one for the sake of time.。
It says this.。
For this reason, I bow my knees before the Father。
from whom every family in heaven on earth is named,。
that according to the riches of his glory,。
he may grant you to be strengthened。
with whose power?。
His power through his Spirit in your inner being.。
That's the beauty of this all.。
God gives us this kind of strength。
because I hate to tell it to you, boys.。
You're weak.。
I'm weak.。
We're weak.。
But Christ is strong.。
And so he wants to give to you the strength。
that we do not have in ourselves.。
You see, in Christ, you become the kind of man。
you could never make yourself into。
and you become the kind of man。
that other people actually need you to be.。
It's interesting.。
The world says real men don't need anybody,。
but the gospel says real men need somebody.。
And that somebody is Jesus.。
And they're willing to put their hand up and say,。
"That's me.。
"I know that's my King.。
"He can do what I conduct.。
"He's the one I require."。
And this is huge.。
The reason you need him is because if you try to do。
all of this on your own, you're gonna run out of steam, boss.。
Like you need the Spirit of God at work within you。
to produce these things.。
You cannot sanctify yourself.。
You need the Spirit to do that work.。
The truth of the matter is some of you though,。
you're sitting here and you're like,。
"Man, I haven't really considered how sanctified。
"I've been in a while."。
That happens whenever we slip into our young adult years.。
We find ourselves growing more apathetic.。
This is a chance for you to be geared up。
and launched out to be reminded。
that God isn't done growing you yet.。
You see, the strongest man in any room。
is the one most willing to admit they need Jesus.。
That's the strongest man in any room.。
I don't care how big you are.。
I don't care how wide you are.。
The strongest man is the one that says,。
"I know I need Jesus."。
I remember when I was in college,。
there was this guy that I would always run into。
at the rec center.。
And I mean, he was like the alpha male.。
He was GigaChad 3000.。
You know, like there was no emotional soy boy。
in this man whatsoever.。
He was 1000% the dude, silverback gorilla.。
Like he was the guy that you would just know。
he was taking up more space.。
His shoulders were broad and the guys。
were always dapping him up and saying, "How's it going?"。
And there was just heavier weights near him。
near than near any of us.。
Like he was that guy.。
And yet what I loved about this dude,。
what stood out to me most about this guy。
is it wasn't who he was in the weight room.。
It's who he was in worship.。
Because he would always, always take a seat near an aisle.。
Because he needed some space, not because he's big,。
but 'cause he was gonna make some moves.。
He was gonna raise those hands.。
He's gonna beat those fists.。
He kind of like would like march.。
And then when he was really into it,。
he would just start jumping.。
And I remember thinking, man, that guy,。
he stands out the most, not because he's the strongest guy,。
but because he's the neediest one.。
And if he can do it, then I should too.。
Because that's true strength.。
Because when you've got all you need in Jesus,。
you know you don't need anything else from anybody else.。
That changes the way we move full stop.。
It means we can quit people-pleasing.。
We'll see how this flushes itself out.。
You can stop people-pleasing.。
You don't need people's validation。
because you got God's validation.。
Do you know, let's talk to the people-pleasers。
in the room for a minute.。
You know how unkind it is to actually be a people-pleaser?。
Like you're manipulating someone into liking you。
so you feel better.。
It looks like you're doing it for them.。
So they feel welcome, and so they feel heard,。
and so they feel seen, and so they wanna come back,。
but you're only doing it for yourself.。
Man of God, listen to me.。
You don't need to do that.。
You don't need their approval.。
You got his.。
And the beautiful thing about being strong in Christ。
is you don't need to walk into a room。
and worry about who's enjoying you.。
You can walk into a room。
and worry about who you're enjoying instead.。
It changes things.。
You move different because of it.。
You can stop avoiding conflict.。
Because here's the thing,。
you don't see conflict as an obstacle to relationship.。
You see it as an opportunity for relationship.。
Why is that the case?。
Because that's what Jesus did。
when he saw the conflict between us and God.。
He realized there's a lack of relationship.。
What an opportunity.。
Nobody can solve this, but I got what they need.。
I'm gonna step in,。
and I'm going to redeem what they have broken.。
We should be the same way,。
and yet so many guys will not have the hard conversation。
because it's inconvenient.。
It's not that big of a deal.。
It's easier to just sweep it under the rug,。
and here's the reason why.。
Men are traditionally,。
speaking as one of the male populace, fellas,。
we are traditionally either dismissive。
or defensive in conflict.。
And listen, I get it.。
I'm in conflict all the time.。
At work, at home, with friends.。
I'm a passionate guy.。
It's hard to reign this in sometimes.。
I understand you might be in conflict with someone.。
You might be in conflict with your girl.。
That's hard.。
She's smarter than you.。
She's probably more right than you are,。
and you're gonna have to swallow your pride,。
and that's gonna be a tough pill to take.。
But godly men, they persist through the pain。
because they know the outcome is worth it on the other side.。
You got godly strength,。
then you can stop choosing the path of least resistance.。
I'll give you one sound bite on this.。
The path of greatest faith。
is never the path of least resistance.。
You choosing the easy way out?。
Jesus didn't do that.。
Praise God he didn't.。
You can stop self-indulging。
because comfort isn't the goal, God's glory is.。
It's impossible to truly serve someone and stay comfortable。
unless the person you're trying to serve is yourself.。
You ever thought about that?。
Like men, listen to me.。
You push the snooze, that serves you.。
You're on your phone when you're with your friends,。
that serves you.。
You call in instead of drive in for that meeting,。
that serves you.。
It doesn't serve anybody else.。
You objectify that girl by fantasizing over her photos。
when she's not, that serves you.。
You video game to save a fantasy world。
while the real world is burning down around you,。
that serves you.。
We do not serve ourselves.。
Men of God, we seek to serve others.。
Why?。
Because Christ has served us。
in that he gave his life for us.。
So give your life away.。
And then the last one is。
you can stop abdicating responsibility.。
Like why do guys blame other people for their problems?。
Adam did it with Eve, Abraham did it with Sarah,。
Aaron did it with the Israelites and the golden calf.。
We do it today.。
Why does this happen?。
Because we're fragile.。
It's the truth.。
Like we may look all tough and rough on the outside,。
but on the inside, many, many men are wildly insecure.。
But godly men, they see broken and busted situations。
and instead of making excuses。
and letting someone else do it,。
they step in and they say, "I'll handle it."。
And that's what Jesus did.。
That's what we do.。
God is making miracles out of men。
who rely not on their strength,。
I love what Philip Brooks says.。
He says, "Do not pray for easy lives.。
"Pray for stronger men.。
"Don't pray for tasks equal to your powers.。
"Pray for powers equal to your tasks.。
"Then the doing of your work shall be no miracle,。
"but you, you shall be the miracle."。
He's wanting to make a miracle out of you, fellas.。
You want to let him?。
Last point.。
Man of God does everything in love.。
Man of God does everything with love.。
That's what Paul says in verse 14,。
which is an interesting end to this, right?。
Like he's just rolled out the tape for all the men.。
He's like, "Hey, you be watchful, you stand firm,。
"you act like a man, you be courageous, you be strong,。
"and you do everything in love,"。
which just feels like a really strange place。
to land the plane.。
And yet when you think about what true manhood is。
and who the true man is, it makes perfect sense.。
Why?。
Because God is love.。
Christ is the embodiment of God.。
And what we know by way of Christ is he was and he is,。
and he will always be love itself.。
If your goal is to be like Christ, guess what?。
Love's on the horizon, fellas.。
That's what's happening to you.。
That's what will be true of you.。
First John four, it says this.。
It says, "Beloved, let us love one another,。
"for love is from God.。
"Whoever loves has been born of God, and he knows God.。
"Anyone who does not love," guess what?。
Doesn't know God because God is love.。
Verse nine.。
"In this, the love of God was made manifest among us."。
How?。
"He sent his only son into the world。
"so that we might live through him."。
Jump down to verse 19, "We love."。
We gotta do better on that.。
"We love because he first loved us."。
Verse 19, it is easily one of the most quotable scriptures。
in all the Bible, and here's the thing.。
Despite its familiarity for many of us, men most of all,。
the power of its truth has fallen on deaf ears.。
Why is that the case?。
I'll tell you why.。
It's because you think that this is kind of what God does.。
It sounds like work of the big guy, man.。
Like he just kind of loves everybody.。
No, the love of God has fallen on deaf ears.。
It has fallen on vacant hearts。
because we don't have a misunderstanding about who God is.。
We have a misunderstanding about who we are。
and the kind of love it would take to do what Christ has done.。
We fail to realize how far he would go to get to you,。
how much he would give to get you.。
We fail to realize how hard it would be。
for any one of us to do the same, and yet he did it.。
How did he do it?。
Not by accident, not by mistake, by choice.。
I look at every couple I've performed the weddings of。
and I stand in the altar, I tell them,。
"Love is sometimes a feeling."。
It's always a choice, it's always a choice.。
Why?。
There's no more incompatible couple in the world。
than Christ and his church.。
So why the heck does that relationship work?。
Because he chooses her again and again and again and again.。
Loves her sacrificially.。
The same should be true for us, fellas.。
See, it's interesting in the world,。
the world, it needs a reason to love you.。
But with God, God has given you a reason to love us instead.。
That crazy?。
Totally shifts the paradigm, flips it all on its head.。
And true men, God's men, they love。
because they have been loved themselves.。
We see needs and we move towards it.。
We see the hurting, we work to heal it.。
We see the crying, we seek to comfort it.。
We see the battle, we seek to fight it.。
That's what we do.。
It's the most loving thing you can do.。
And we do it all because he did it for us.。
Final story.。
Years ago, I had a young man that I was discipling.。
He had come into our ministry。
and he had recommitted his life to Christ。
because he had made an absolute mess of his life beforehand.。
And we were sitting over dinner。
and we were just processing the mess that he had made.。
Definitively, it was on him.。
And he was like, "What do I do with this?。
"I see the God, man.。
"I see Christ Jesus and I wanna be like that,。
"but I feel like in light of everything I've done,。
"that is so far off the grid.。
"It is impossible for me to reach.。
"How do I get there?。
"How do I be better than I've been?。
"How do I make right what all I've done wrong?。
"How do I move forward different。
"than the way I've moved in the past?"。
And I told him, I was like, "Man, you can't do any of it.。
"It is only by God and his grace that you come to life.。
"And it is only by God and his grace。
"that you move into the abundant life.。
"But on the other side of your salvation,。
"the way this works itself out,。
"to become a man of God,。
"you do it by his strength。
"and you do it through your choice."。
Every day, making the hard decision。
to walk the narrow road instead of the wide path.。
Every day, willing to swallow your pride。
for the benefit of other people.。
Every day, willing to live out。
what has been loved in every day.。
Making the choice to move with him。
in the way that he moved.。
It looks like being watchful。
because when we were not on guard,。
Christ was on guard for us.。
Lived perfectly where we could not.。
It looks like standing firm in the faith,。
acting, living with conviction。
because Christ had such conviction.。
He never once wavered or second-guessed。
what he was here to do.。
It looks like acting like a man,。
moving into maturity,。
taking up courage in doing what must be done。
because Christ did what must be done。
and how much courage did it take to go to the cross.。
It looks like strength or resolve。
to persist when others would give way.。
Why?。
Because your beloved is worth it.。
And it looks like love, doing everything in love。
because Christ did everything like that himself.。
And the beauty of that guy's story。
in a moment when he felt like such a boy。
and there's just a couple of years along the way,。
having watched him do all that I just said,。
take the hard right over the easy wrong。
again and again and again.。
I stood in the altar with he and his wife。
on the day in which they were wed。
and I've never been more proud of someone.。
Not because he did it,。
because Christ did it.。
And he just agreed day after day,。
oh God, won't you do it again?。
It's by his strength.。
It is by your choice, gentlemen.。
Will you make the choice starting tonight?。
Let me pray you would.。
Lord, we love you.。
God, I want for these guys, what I want for my own son,。
what I pray over my boy every night.。
I want them, God, to be filled with wisdom.。
I want them, God, to be filled with courage.。
I want them, God, to know your truth.。
I want them, God, to be filled with compassion.。
I want them, God, to have your strength.。
Come, oh Lord, do it here.。
Do it now and do it with them, I pray.。
Christ be magnified in the way we move into this response.。
And may every choice the men make here。
roll up to the glory of God.。
And may it be for our world's good,。
and would it make us as men so very glad.。
We love you, Lord, and it is in your name。
we pray these things, amen.。
