(soft music)。
- All right, well, Porch, how we doing?。
We doing good?。
Great to see you.。
Welcome back this Tuesday night,。
whether you're here for the very first time。
or you've been here every single time,。
we love that you would choose to be here with us.。
I mean, God has been doing an amazing thing in Dallas, Texas.。
We live into it.。
Like just a couple weekends ago,。
we were a part of God's movement here through Awaken,。
a gathering of young adults here in our sitting.。
And yet the amazing thing is you're still sitting。
in a gathering of young adults within the city.。
And so I believe that what God did two weeks ago,。
he is far from finished doing that.。
He still wants to move。
over the course of our time here together.。
And that's what he does,。
that he enthrones himself on the praises of his people.。
Do you know that's what was happening?。
You were raising your hands, we're singing along。
and God's like, that looks like a good time.。
I'm gonna show up.。
That's what you're a part of here。
when you're here on Tuesday nights.。
And God has been doing it Tuesday after Tuesday。
after Tuesday here in Dallas, Texas。
and in cities all over the place, just like this one,。
because we got Porch Live locations。
kind of all over the country.。
So, hey, Dallas, give it up。
for all of our Porch Live locations real quick, would you?。
Like, let them know we see them, we love them.。
Special shout out to Porch Live Boise,。
Scottsdale and Porch Live Fort Worth,。
our friends just down the road.。
Man, I'm so excited for tonight.。
Let me start off by saying this.。
If you're a young man in the room。
and you wanna get married one day,。
I've got some, like, yeah, man, that's me.。
Why do you think I'm here?。
Calm down, young man.。
I wanna give you some advice。
because this is advice that I've given。
to a lot of young men, a lot of young men in your shoes,。
because they, too, wanted to be married at some point,。
and they found themselves sitting in the pressure cooker。
of having that inevitable conversation。
where they had to ask the future father-in-law's blessing.。
And here's what I would tell you.。
When you find yourself in that moment,。
don't just tell pops you love her.。
Prove it.。
Like, show him that you actually do,。
and you're probably like, okay, that's a nice idea.。
How do I actually prove that I love his daughter?。
Well, I'm glad you asked。
because there's a couple of things that I would tell you.。
The first thing you gotta know。
is you're never going to love her。
the way that he has loved her.。
It's impossible.。
Like, if he's a good father,。
the reality is he has literally been there。
for every defining moment in her life.。
He has a photographed book。
filled with every childhood memory。
that is meaningful to her and meaningful to him.。
You gotta realize the fact that he paid for her braces,。
that he sat through elementary school music recitals,。
that he has been a part of it all.。
He has literally struck the fear of God。
into young men like yourself。
as they tried to ask to date her.。
And he let them know, no, you cannot do that。
because you're not worthy of my girl.。
You likely will not be anyone。
that can contest his love for his daughter.。
And yet, if you take my advice,。
you can't demonstrate to him。
that you do, in fact, nonetheless still love her.。
How do you do it?。
You show three things to him in that conversation.。
You show him your calendar,。
you show him your finances,。
and you show him your career plans.。
Why do you do it?。
Well, you show him your calendar。
because it shows that you know how to spend your time。
and you know how to spend it wisely.。
It's difficult to look at a dad and say,。
I really love your girl.。
And he's like, well, how do you spend your time?。
And he sees, like, 14 hours committed on Saturday。
to fantasy football research.。
That doesn't really speak well。
to the fact that you can love her.。
You need to be able to demonstrate。
that you know what to do with your time.。
You need to show him your finances.。
I did this.。
Like, I literally, I organized my finances。
and I brought them to my wife's dad at the time.。
And I was like, hey, here it all is, man.。
I want you to know I can take care of your girl.。
I know how to provide for her。
in the same way that you've been providing for her.。
And the good news is, you don't gotta be rich.。
You just gotta know how to manage your money.。
Because the truth of the matter is,。
the logic of, I swipe and see if it works,。
will not work with him.。
He's gonna wanna know that you know how to manage。
the importance of money in your life.。
And then you gotta bring him your career plans。
because no dad wants to hand his daughter to some guy。
that doesn't know what he's doing with his life.。
Which is why I've got grace for you.。
If you don't have a job,。
maybe just hold off on the conversation, you know?。
Get that thing squared away and then you can circle around。
and you can talk to him a little bit about it.。
Because here's the point.。
It's one thing to tell someone that you love them.。
It's another thing to show them that you do.。
Which in our world, is pretty obvious.。
Like it's pretty easy to see what people love, isn't it?。
Like just take sports, for instance.。
Like you can tell the difference between casual sports fans。
and like the people that really have a problem with sports.。
And the way you can really discern the difference。
is you just listen to who's arguing with the referee.。
That's the one that typically has an issue。
and they care a lot more about sports。
than just a normal spectator.。
Or just take people with coffee, for instance.。
Like they're people that take their coffee way too seriously.。
Like at some point,。
grocery store grounds just weren't good enough for 'em.。
And now they have to have beans that have like a backstory。
and a roasting profile and a preferred altitude.。
And they've gotta be delivered,。
drop shipped, direct to your front door.。
You can tell what someone really loves。
when that's how they handle their coffee.。
And we all have that friend that just gets food, you know?。
The person that already knows about the new restaurant。
that just opened up across town.。
That you call window and you're asking them,。
they're like, "Oh my gosh, yeah,。
"this is the name of the chef。
"and here's what you should order。
"and here's what you should not order.。
"And here's the time to get a reservation。
"if you actually wanna go."。
And you need to make sure。
that when you do make your way there,。
you ask for this specific seat。
because this is the best seat in the house。
and the vibes will be immaculate.。
We all know that friend, the foodie.。
They love these things.。
People demonstrate very clearly what they love in life.。
Everybody loves something.。
And what we love is a way of showing up in how we live.。
Which means the question in front of you here tonight。
is not, are you a lover?。
The question is, what kind of lover are you?。
That's what this series is about.。
And it's based out of a scripture。
that the Apostle Paul gives us。
as he's writing to his protege, Timothy.。
We read it in 2 Timothy 3, one through five.。
I'll read this to you, we're in a different passage.。
But this is the anchor text。
where we're gonna be spending。
the next several weeks together.。
Paul says this, he says,。
"But understand this, in the last days,。
"there will come times of difficulty.。
"For people will be lovers of self,。
"lovers of money, proud, arrogant, abusive,。
"disobedient to their parents, ungrateful, unholy,。
"heartless, unappeasable, slanderous,。
"without self-control, brutal, not loving good,。
"treacherous, reckless, swollen with conceit,。
"lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God,。
"having the appearance of godliness,。
"but denying its power.。
"Avoid such people."。
See, Paul's diagnosis of the human heart's pretty simple.。
He's like, everybody loves something.。
And he categorizes it for us.。
And we're gonna spend the next several weeks。
working through every single one of these categories.。
You're a lover of self, or you're a lover of money,。
or you're a lover of pleasure.。
You may even be a lover of evil.。
But ultimately, everyone is meant to be a lover of God.。
That's what he unpacks for us,。
and that's what we're going to evaluate。
as we journey through this series together.。
No, it's not a dating series.。
It's scriptural.。
Paul defines all people by this name.。
You are a lover of something,。
and yet there's only one thing worthy of your love,。
and that is God.。
But before we get into all the particulars。
about why we love money, and why we love pleasure,。
and why we love ourselves, before we get into any of that,。
we have to talk, first and foremost,。
about why we love other things,。
which is why we're gonna be in the book of Exodus.。
So if you have a Bible, turn with me to Exodus chapter 32.。
This is a very familiar story.。
Whether you've been in the church for a really long time,。
or you just showed up here tonight,。
and you're not even sure who Jesus is,。
there's a good chance you've heard。
about the story of the golden calf.。
And the reason why you have heard about it。
is because it is one of the most,。
if not the most, infamous stories in Israel's history.。
This is their darkest moment.。
Like, this is the moment when things become。
particularly bad for the people of God.。
And it's because they choose to love something other。
than the one worthy of their love.。
They choose to worship an idol.。
This is what it says.。
We won't be able to read the entire thing,。
but I promise I'll explain it to you as we go.。
And as we do, my hope is to give you。
kind of three movements in the text.。
I wanna talk to you about how idolatry works,。
how it actually happens in your life.。
The second thing I wanna tell you。
is how does God react to idols?。
And then the third thing is I wanna tell you。
how does he respond to idolaters?。
So the first category is how does idolatry even happen?。
Well, we pick it up like this, starting at verse one.。
When the people saw that Moses。
delayed to come down from the mountain,。
the people gathered themselves together。
to Aaron and they said to him,。
"Up, make us gods who shall go before us.。
"As for this Moses, the man who brought us up。
"out of the land of Egypt,。
"we don't know what's become of him."。
So Aaron said to them, "Well, take off the rings of gold。
"that are on the ears of your wives and your sons。
"and your daughters and bring them all to me."。
What's interesting is all the gold。
that they collect for this golden calf,。
it was plundered when God delivered them。
from the nation of Egypt.。
Isn't that interesting?。
They simultaneously forget his goodness。
'cause they worship something else.。
So all the people, they took off the rings of gold。
that were in their ears and they brought them to Aaron。
and he received the gold from their hand。
and he fashioned it with a graving tool。
and he made a golden calf and they said,。
"These are your gods of Israel。
"who brought you up out of the land of Egypt."。
We'll stop there.。
Now at first glance, there's a good chance。
you're reading this and you're like,。
"What the heck is even going on?"。
Not because this is confusing。
and it's difficult to understand,。
it's difficult to relate to.。
Like I don't imagine anybody in here。
is like cooking up an idol in the back.。
No one's got a block of wood。
that they're kind of shaping up。
because they're gonna set it in an altar。
and they're gonna worship when they get home.。
Most people are not indulging。
this specific practice here today.。
And so we read this and we're like,。
"Goodness gracious, like how antiquated are they?。
"What are they even thinking about doing?"。
And yet the truth of the matter is we do this ourselves.。
You see, we could actually hop in a time machine。
and take ourselves back to the ancient Near East.。
What we would realize is they have very good reason。
for actually indulging idolatry.。
They have three reasons specifically.。
They have the reasons of control, acceptance, and permission.。
That's why people made idols for themselves.。
They would make idols for the simple sake of control.。
Because the idea was is that the moment an idol was carved,。
the God that that idol represented。
would embody the statue itself.。
And that meant that God was present with you immediately.。
And so now you have the ability with him right there,。
or her right there to manage and manipulate。
and get out of that God whatever it is that you wanted.。
How many of you are so annoyed。
with the reality that you have to trust in God?。
With an idol, you don't.。
With an idol, you don't have to trust God。
because you can control God.。
See the appeal?。
That's why they did it.。
And now listen, we don't do this.。
I'm not necessarily expecting。
that any of you are carving calves at home,。
but we still try to control our outcomes nonetheless,。
don't we?。
You build five-year plans, you obsess over your。
career trajectories, you move cities。
because there's a better dating opportunity,。
all because you wanna make sure your life turns out。
the way you want your life to turn out.。
It looks different in 2026,。
but the impulse is the same nonetheless.。
We want control.。
The second reason that they would carve idols。
is because an idol would offer them acceptance.。
It would offer them acceptance.。
The nations surrounding Israel at this time,。
they all worshiped idols.。
Everybody worshiped idols.。
And so to fit in, you did so similarly.。
Like there were gods for everything in this time,。
gods for pregnancy and harvest and conquest and vitality.。
And so the beauty of this was for that time,。
it was not just acceptable, it was expected.。
Like everybody does it, so you should do it too.。
Again, I don't think that anybody here。
is necessarily thinking to themselves,。
like I must bow to Baal.。
And yet the truth of the matter is,。
you walked into this room and you nonetheless。
asked a similar question, how do I fit in here?。
And because you're desperate to fit in,。
you obsess over how you look and what you drive。
and what you make and where you're going。
and who your friends are, all of the details。
about your life you are so fixated on。
because you want acceptance.。
And the third reason they would worship idols。
is because it gave them permission.。
Permission.。
You see, idolatry gave you the permission。
to live your life however you wanted.。
And specifically for them, it gave them permission。
to indulge their promiscuity, their sexual desire.。
We don't necessarily do the same。
in the sense that we don't believe sex on earth。
means sex in heaven, and so sex in heaven。
produces big rain and big crops and big livestock.。
None of you are checking the yield on your crops this year.。
And yet the truth of the matter is,。
the world, and Christians included, nonetheless,。
don't permission to sleep with whoever they want。
whenever they want.。
You see, idolatry, it takes a relationship。
that was designed to be God-centered,。
and it makes it me-centered.。
It inverts the entire relational paradigm.。
You see, no longer do I exist for God.。
God exists for me.。
How does that happen?。
How do we get in a situation where everything。
was upside down from what God actually intended?。
Well, that's what I want to tell you.。
The way that idolatry happens, first and foremost,。
is idolatry begins with getting used to God.。
Idolatry begins by getting used to God.。
Look at verse one.。
It says, "The people saw that Moses delayed。
"to come down from the mountain."。
They saw that Moses delayed.。
This is crazy, because what's happening in the moment?。
That the presence of God has descended on Mount Sinai,。
like thunder and fire and wind and smoke。
and all of the honor and glory of God is upon that mountain.。
He has come to covenant with his people,。
have everlasting relationship with them.。
This is what's happening in the moment,。
and yet they don't realize that.。
They just realize that our guy Mo hasn't come down yet.。
How does that happen?。
Because they got used to God's presence.。
They got used to his presence.。
And the same thing happens to us.。
We find ourselves getting used to God's presence。
and his provision and his power,。
and the reason why is because we've been at this。
for a long time.。
The crazy thing for them is they were there for 40 days,。
and just 40 days later, they're already tired of it, man.。
They're bored with the whole thing。
that they've been called into,。
and so they start looking to the left and to the right。
for something else to appeal to their interests.。
Do we not do the same?。
Why?。
Why does it happen?。
Well, I'll share a story that I think might help.。
My sister, years ago, it's not what she does anymore,。
but years ago, she nannied for one of the wealthiest families。
in the city of Dallas.。
I don't know how she landed in the gig,。
but she found a job, and what she had to do one summer。
is she had to watch the kids in this family。
as the family took a three-month-long cruise。
across the Caribbean in their private yacht.。
It was a really tough job, but someone's gotta do it.。
And so she decided that she was gonna make the most。
of the experience.。
She gets out there, and while she's doing it,。
she's experiencing the most amazing places,。
like they're at St. Lucia, and Anguilla, and Aruba,。
and the Bahamas, and the Grand Cayman Islands.。
They're doing all of the amazing things,。
meeting the most amazing people,。
eating the most amazing food, seeing the most amazing sights.。
They are having the best time of their lives,。
and yet when she comes back, and we're catching up,。
and I'm like, "Tell me all about it,"。
she's like, "You wanna know what the spiritual crisis。
"of my summer was?。
"I would've killed for a hamburger and French fries."。
And I was like, "That's it?。
"That's what you wanted?。
"You were experiencing the most amazing thing,。
"and yet all you wanted was a Big Mac?。
"Like, come on, man, that feels wild."。
And yet the reality of it was this.。
It's not that the Caribbean became less beautiful.。
It's that she became accustomed to beautiful things.。
That's what happens to you.。
It's what happens to me.。
We get used to being in the presence of God.。
We get used to his power in our lives.。
That's why we wake up and we drag ourselves to quiet time,。
because it's a non-negotiable, I'm supposed to do this,。
it's a rite of passage, it's a civil duty I must do。
according to the kingdom of God.。
It's why your prayers feel so forced.。
It's why your worship feels so tired.。
It's why coming to church feels coerced.。
It's like why all of the regular rites of our Christianity。
feel so very difficult to indulge。
because they've just become so normal.。
They've just become so bored.。
And so what ends up happening。
is we stop focusing on all that we have in God。
and we start focusing on all that we do not have instead,。
which is the second reason idolatry happens.。
Idolatry grows when we're discontent with God.。
It begins because you're used to him, you're bored with him,。
but it grows when we are discontent with him.。
Like we stop focusing on what he's given。
and we start focusing on everything that he hasn't,。
that God hasn't given me that relationship yet,。
that God hasn't given me that job yet,。
that God hasn't given me clarity about my future yet,。
that God hasn't given me the life that I dreamt。
that he was going to give me, he hasn't given me that yet.。
And as we realize all the things。
that God has yet to give us,。
and we fail to remember everything he's already afforded us,。
what we decide is that if God won't give me what I want,。
then I'll find something that will.。
That's where golden calf comes from.。
That's where idolatry springs up.。
Because it leads us to do pretty crazy things。
when we're in this spot.。
I've seen it, like I've seen guys take jobs。
they have no interest in solely because it pays well.。
I've seen girls date absolute losers。
because they just want to find love.。
I've seen friends compromise their moral integrity。
because they just want to fit in.。
I've seen believers lie, bold-faced lie to others。
because they want to preserve their reputation.。
This happens all over the grade.。
When I was in college ministry,。
I remember seeing this what it felt like on a weekly basis.。
There was like a young lady in our ministry。
who she showed up and she was in a position。
where she desperately wanted to get this job.。
And the opportunity came for her to get that job.。
And she didn't necessarily want to take the job。
because she was interested in the job.。
She just wanted the job because the job really paid well.。
And it felt like that was a repeat soundtrack in my life.。
I remember years later visiting with a friend。
who actually, he did the same thing.。
His experience was one where he landed the gig,。
like the job that everybody would have killed for.。
He was one of two people hired for.。
And this job, it was prolific for two things in specific.。
It was prolific for the fact that。
they paid ridiculous amounts of money.。
And it was also prolific because they worked their employees。
ridiculous kinds of hours.。
And as we sat there a couple of years later。
from the time that he took the job,。
he walked in, he looked like a shell of himself.。
And as we sat down and he pulled out not one,。
not two, but three phones, all of which were work-related.。
I remember asking him, how's the job?。
And he said, I'm a miserable man.。
I hate my job.。
I get no sleep and I have no life.。
But where else can I go to make this kind of money, right?。
And I remember thinking to myself,。
you're choosing the job instead of God.。
You're choosing this to provide for you。
instead of him to provide for you.。
And as sad as that seems to us,。
like even just the emotional reactions in the room,。
we do this, this is us.。
We're a part of this same kind of decision-making.。
Like we can't help ourselves from doing likewise.。
Like the Israelites, they do it themselves.。
They literally, it says right here,。
hey, make us gods that shall go before us.。
Why do they say that?。
Why do they look at Aaron and they're like,。
hey, make us gods who will go before us.。
The language there is interesting.。
Make us gods who will go before us.。
What God went before them in getting into this moment.。
Yahweh, like the God of Israel.。
He's the one that led them here.。
And yet that God,。
he's still swirling up on the mountain, I guess.。
Our boy Moses, he's trapped up there.。
We have no idea.。
Nobody's heard from him.。
Guess he lost cell reception.。
And so I guess, you know what?。
We need a new God who will take us out of here。
to the very place that we want to go.。
We want to go to the promised land.。
And so yeah, we could go on God's time,。
but we'd much rather go on our time.。
We'll wait instead。
for our desire instead of God's.。
We'll get up and we'll move ourselves out。
as opposed to wait for him to do so.。
And the truth of the matter is,。
like they wanted so badly for the promised land.。
They wanted to get there as quickly as they could.。
And I can't help but wonder how many of us in this room。
are in a similar place that are just dying。
to get into whatever your proverbial promised land is.。
To get into that job, that relationship, that body,。
that tax bracket, that group of friends,。
that level of influence that you'll bail on God。
the way they bailed on God。
just so you can get there as soon as you can.。
I've been there.。
I've done that.。
And it never works well.。
It never works well when we want the promised land。
more than the promised maker,。
which is exactly what they did.。
Now, let me be very clear.。
Some of you are like, but my promised land doesn't feel bad.。
Theirs wasn't.。
Their promised land was great.。
Land flowing with milk and honey.。
Anybody want to move in?。
I'm like, that sounds awesome.。
I don't even know what that means, but it sounds great.。
I'd take that over 105 degree heat in Texas summer.。
And yet the truth is, as great as it is,。
as good as the promised land is,。
a good thing can become a dangerous thing。
whenever it becomes an ultimate thing.。
And so many of us, we have good things in our lives。
that we desperately want, that have become ultimate things。
that we've placed above God,。
that we want more than we want Him.。
Tim Keller says it this way.。
He says, "When anything in life is an absolute requirement。
"for your happiness and self-worth,。
"it's essentially an idol,。
"something that you're worshiping."。
And that's the scariest part.。
But the minute you want something more than God,。
it's not that you stop worshiping Him.。
It's just that you start worshiping something else,。
which is what happens in the story.。
It says in verse five, "When Aaron saw this,"。
talking about the golden calf,。
"he built an altar before it,。
"and he made a proclamation that said,。
"'Tomorrow shall be a feast to the Lord.'。
"And so they rose up early the next day,。
"and they offered burnt offerings,。
"and they brought peace offerings.。
"And the people sat down to eat and drink,。
"and they rose up to play."。
In some scriptures, different translations,。
"Rose up to play" is the word revelry.。
It has the connotation of sexual promiscuity.。
They just started to sleep together.。
And the reason why all of this happens。
is because though idolatry begins。
with getting used to God,。
and it grows from a discontentment with God,。
is it ultimately redefines the worship of God.。
It redefines the worship of God.。
Because here's the thing。
that you need to notice about the story,。
and it's subtle, but it's true.。
The golden calf was not a replacement for God.。
It was a redefinition of God.。
And you just read it, and you can see the examples.。
Like Aaron builds an altar to it.。
Where do you think he learned the idea of building altars?。
That was an instruction given from Yahweh,。
from the God of Israel himself.。
He proclaims a feast to the all-caps LORD,。
meaning the covenantal name of Yahweh,。
like the feast that they're giving is to Yahweh.。
And they're still bringing burnt offerings。
and peace offerings, why?。
Because they still love God.。
They just wanna do whatever the heck they wanna do.。
They wanna eat, and they wanna drink,。
and they wanna have sex with whoever they wish.。
It would be the equivalent of this.。
It would be the equivalent of someone saying,。
"Hey, I really wanna lose weight,。
"and I wanna eat an entire pizza."。
And you'd be like, "That doesn't work.。
"Like that is impossible.。
"It doesn't make any sense.。
"Like that won't allow you to get where you're trying to go."。
Or if someone came to you, and instead,。
they were like, "Man, hey,。
"I really wanna take some time off work,。
"but I don't wanna take any vacation time."。
You'd be like, "You're fired, you know?。
"Like that's not how this works.。
"You're not allowed to do that.。
"It doesn't make sense.。
"You cannot want two opposing ideas。
"that will achieve the same inevitable end.。
"That doesn't work.。
"What's the phrase of speech?。
"You can't have your cake and eat it too."。
That's what they're trying to do.。
And we do this as well.。
I used to see it in college ministry all the time.。
I would see it with a young lady that was in our ministry.。
Like she would come to us,。
and she had a really hard past, a really difficult story,。
and yet she found herself like loving the people of God,。
and so invested in her community and Christian friends,。
and yet she nonetheless actively lived a gay lifestyle.。
We had another young man in the same ministry。
who he was so bought in。
on everything that was happening in the ministry.。
He had great buddies that were all holding him accountable,。
and yet he was nonetheless sleeping with his girlfriend.。
And I remember looking at both of them。
and just like leaning in very gently。
and pressing on the issue and just asking like,。
"Hey, how does this work?"。
Because there's an incompatibility here.。
Like you can't claim to love Christ。
and likewise live for the things that he died。
to free you from.。
How does that happen?。
There's an incompatibility.。
And I remember the answers they would give。
were things like,。
"But come on, man, like there's grace for that, right?。
"God just wants me to be happy.。
"Like it's not that big of a deal.。
"Like surely God isn't, he's not to eat up over this."。
And what I learned in that moment。
is like they didn't want to replace God.。
They just wanted to redefine him to fit their own desires.。
And we do this.。
Here's the thing.。
We do it, man.。
Like we were praying in here earlier,。
me and my team, and there was just this,。
this suspicion that when the topic of idolatry comes up,。
we would think it's someone else's problem。
when the reality is it's everyone's problem.。
Like idolatry is the beginning of all sin.。
It's the worship of something other than God,。
which means every single person in this room is an idolater.。
And the reason why all of us are subject to it。
is because we are redefining God to meet our own desire.。
Like some of you, you're redefining him。
so you can watch porn whenever you want it.。
Some of you, you're redefining God。
so you can drink just to unwind at the end of the day,。
even if it leads you to the point。
of having a little bit too much.。
Some of you, you're redefining him。
so you can gossip behind that person's back.。
Others of you, you're redefining him。
so you can justify what you post online.。
I could go on, but here's the truth of the matter.。
Idolatry is not just saying, "I don't want God."。
What it is saying is, "I want God.。
"I just want him on my own terms."。
And so many of us are guilty of it.。
But what happens in that world。
is we end up with a version of God。
that is not consistent with the one true God.。
James 4:4 says, "You adulterous people,。
"do you not know that friendship with the world。
"is enmity with God?。
"You cannot have them both.。
"Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world。
"makes himself an enemy of God."。
You see, when you have an incomplete view of God,。
you will have an incorrect response to God.。
And it's very dangerous ground。
when we start bending our theology to accommodate our lusts.。
When we take the portions of God that we like。
and we discard the portions that we don't.。
How do you think that would work in my marriage?。
If I only interacted with Brooke。
on the basis of the qualities that I liked about her,。
I think it would go really bad.。
I love that she's gracious,。
so I guess I'll just use that to flirt。
with anybody else that I want.。
I love that she's patient, so you know what?。
I bet she won't mind if I don't help out around the house.。
That's insane.。
Like, I either respect all of who she is。
or I disrespect all of who she is.。
And the same is true with God.。
You either have all of him or you have none of him.。
Some of him is not an option.。
That's how idolatry happens.。
So how does God react to idols?。
Well, this is what it says in verse seven.。
"And the Lord said to Moses,。
"Go down for your people whom you brought up。
"out of the land of Egypt have corrupted themselves."。
What's interesting about that,。
it's the first time God has ever。
identified the people of Israel as not his own.。
It's the first time.。
He says in verse eight,。
"They have turned aside quickly out of the way。
"that I commanded them.。
"They have made for themselves a golden calf.。
"They've worshiped it and sacrificed to it.。
"And they said, these are your gods of Israel。
"who brought you up out of the land of Egypt."。
Isn't that interesting?。
God heard every word.。
"And the Lord said to Moses,。
"I've seen this people and behold,。
"it's a stiff-necked people.。
"Now, therefore, let me alone。
"that my wrath may burn against them,。
"that I might consume them in order。
"that I might make a great nation of you."。
God's like, I'm done, man.。
I'll start over with you, Moses.。
And yet Moses, he goes on in the passage。
and he intercedes on behalf of the people。
and he asks God to reconsider.。
And what we see is that God ends up relenting.。
But when we read this passage,。
we nonetheless find ourselves confronted with a God。
that is just really difficult to defend.。
It's so easy to look at people like,。
man, God's loving and God's forgiving and God's pursuing.。
But then when you start talking about this,。
it's like, oh, man, why is God so angry?。
Well, we don't have time to get into all the detail of it.。
But what you need to know,。
what's happening in Mount Sinai。
is this is their wedding day.。
This is literally the moment。
from the very beginning of Israel's existence。
that God has been building towards.。
But the same way, like, yo, man,。
I've got a Pinterest board for my wedding.。
He had a Pinterest board for his.。
He was waiting for this moment。
when they would finally arrive at Mount Sinai。
and then everything goes sideways.。
Nothing happens the way that he expects.。
He's called them to this moment。
to covenant with them in everlasting relationship.。
And yet they absolutely betray him.。
Exodus 19 says it like this.。
It says, you yourselves have seen what I did to the Egyptians。
how I bore you on eagle's wings。
and I brought you to myself.。
Isn't that romantic?。
God rescued them out.。
He drew them to himself.。
Now, therefore, if you'll indeed obey my voice。
and keep my covenant,。
you shall be my treasured possession among the peoples.。
For all the earth is mine。
and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests。
and a holy nation.。
The only one, there are none other.。
He's like, this is my people.。
You're the ones that I've chosen.。
These are the words that you shall speak。
to the people of Israel.。
And what happened in Exodus 19。
is the people responded with, yes.。
Yes, God, we will do everything that you have asked.。
All that you have commanded, we will do.。
And so God, he springs in action.。
He starts getting everything ready.。
Like he starts moving the people, consecrating the people,。
wooing the people,。
instructing how they should interact with one another.。
And yet right as Moses is coming down,。
after all the vows have been made,。
he walks into something。
that is not just synonymous with adultery.。
He walks into something that is synonymous with treachery.。
It'd be like this.。
It would be like you came to the porch。
and you met a great guy.。
You met the best guy.。
He's cute.。
He's intentional.。
He's fun.。
The two of you get along amazing.。
And so you decide, you know what?。
Hey, like, let's meet the family.。
Meet the families.。
Oh, like, it's great.。
I love the in-laws.。
And you get engaged and you decide, okay,。
it's time for us to get an apartment.。
And so you move in, not him, because it's just you.。
And you move into the apartment.。
You start the nest and get the place ready and homemade.。
So that way it's ready and set up for the two of you。
whenever the big day comes and you become husband and wife.。
And then eventually what happens is the big day does come。
and you've survived your mother-in-law's。
crazy wedding opinions and everything is perfect.。
And you're standing there in the altar。
before God and family and friends,。
and you exchange your vows to one another.。
And you share your first kiss as husband and wife.。
And the people, they stand and they applaud。
at the announcement of Mr. and Mrs.。
And you run down the aisle。
and you make your way to the reception.。
Only somewhere along the way, you lose him.。
And so you do the sensible thing.。
You just start asking, seeing, has anybody seen him?。
And everybody's like, no, I have no idea where he's at.。
And so you keep searching。
until eventually you do find him.。
Only you don't find him alone.。
You find him with another woman.。
How would you feel in that moment?。
That's how God feels in this moment.。
This is not just a moment of betrothal.。
This is a moment of betrayal.。
It was meant to be the union of God to his people.。
And yet it is actually the division of the two.。
And as God stands there,。
after everything he's been through with these people,。
he just simply says, I'm out.。
I can't do it anymore.。
That's why God's so upset.。
That's why God's so angry.。
And when put like that,。
I don't think there's a single person in the room。
that would blame him.。
And yet here's the truth.。
No one has experienced betrayal。
like God experienced betrayal。
because no one has done for his beloved。
what God did for his beloved.。
That's the reason why he reacts the way he does.。
That's why he reacts with wrath towards idols.。
You see, God's wrath is terribly appropriate。
for idolatry.。
It's terribly appropriate.。
An issue in any issue we have。
with God's wrath against idolatry。
as being an overreaction is incorrect。
because instead we are the ones。
who have an under reaction to his wrath against it.。
That's why we take advantage of it.。
That's why we have licensed by way of his grace.。
And we try to just finesse our way along and love God,。
but also love the things that he went。
to the cross to pay for.。
You know, God will not share his glory with any other.。
That's why it says in the scripture in Psalm 96, four,。
for great is the Lord.。
He's greatly to be prayed.。
He is to be feared above all gods.。
Psalm 145, three says, great is the Lord.。
He's greatly to be praised.。
His greatness is unsearchable.。
God alone is worthy,。
which is why he takes idolatry so personally.。
It's not because he's an 85 year old grandma。
who's insecure and needs to be told she's pretty.。
That's not what's happening here.。
God is not insecure.。
He is not threatened by any rival to his worship.。
God is no more threatened by an idol。
than a world-class piece of art。
is threatened by a refrigerator magnet.。
He is in no way threatened.。
You know what he is?。
He's offended.。
He's offended because nothing deserves。
what solely belongs to him.。
Isaiah 42, eight says, I am the Lord.。
That's my name, my glory.。
I give to no other, nor my praise to carved idols.。
And yet we are the ones who have exchanged the glory。
of the immortal God for images,。
like Paul says in Romans one.。
What a tragic trade.。
And you know what the tragedy of the trade befalls?。
It falls upon us because what it does。
is it never delivers, it only corrupts.。
That's what God says to Moses in verse seven.。
He says, they have corrupted themselves.。
That word corrupted in verse seven of Exodus 32,。
it literally carries the idea。
of they have destroyed themselves.。
They've ruined themselves.。
It's like mold in a house.。
I had a friend who in his bedroom, they had black mold.。
And his response wasn't, man, that's unfortunate.。
I'll just decorate around it.。
No, like he called up the landlord.。
He was like, you've got to take care of this.。
It's a massive problem.。
Like I need someone to come in。
and search this thing out and solve the issue.。
Why?。
Because mold, it spreads, it corrupts,。
it kills whoever lives in the house.。
God similarly hates sin for the same reason.。
It corrupts good things.。
You want to know what sin does?。
It takes love and it corrupts it into lust.。
It takes ambition and it corrupts it into pride.。
It takes desire and it corrupts it into obsession.。
It takes money and it corrupts it into greed.。
It takes success and it corrupts it into power.。
It takes beauty and it corrupts it into vanity。
until eventually sin doesn't just destroy。
the things around us, it destroys us.。
That's what happens.。
Psalm 115, it tells us what idols do in our lives.。
It says their idols are silver and gold,。
the work of human hands.。
Those idols, they have mouths.。
They don't speak.。
They have eyes, but they don't see.。
They have ears, but they don't hear.。
They have noses, but they don't smell.。
They have hands, but they don't feel.。
Feet, but they do not walk.。
And they do not make a sound in their throat.。
Those who make them become like them.。
So do all who trust in them.。
Listen to me.。
This is one of the most important things。
you could hear tonight.。
If you worship anything other than God,。
you will become like it.。
That's why if you worship money,。
you become increasingly materialistic.。
That's why if you worship success,。
you become increasingly driven by achievement.。
If you worship people's approval,。
you become increasingly controlled by what people think.。
If you worship sex, you become increasingly promiscuous.。
If you worship yourself,。
you become increasingly self-centered.。
See how this works?。
But there's a turn, and this is such good news.。
Because if you worship God,。
you will become increasingly like God.。
And the reason we know it。
is because all of these people are down in the valley,。
and they're worshiping an idol,。
and they're becoming like the beast of burden itself.。
There's one man on the mountain。
who is becoming like the God he worshiped.。
We see it, it's where it ends.。
Jump all the way down to verse 30.。
I would encourage you, go read,。
'cause you'll see more of this。
as you listen to Moses and God's dialogue.。
But it says this in verse 30.。
"The next day Moses said to the people,"。
after he came down, he says, "You've sinned a great sin."。
I love that.。
He doesn't minimize it.。
He doesn't belittle it.。
He doesn't diminish it.。
He doesn't say, "Hey, everybody makes mistakes."。
Like, he just levels with them,。
because that's what love does.。
Love is honest.。
He says, "Hey, you have sinned a great sin.。
"And now I'll go up to the Lord,。
"because perhaps I can make atonement for your sin."。
And so Moses, he returned to the Lord.。
He ascended the mountain.。
And he said, "Alas, the people have sinned a great sin.。
"They've made for themselves gods of gold,。
"but now, oh God, if you'll forgive their sin,。
"but if not, then blot me out of your book.。
"And blot me out of the book that you've written."。
But the Lord said to Moses, "Whoever has sinned against me,。
"I will blot out of my book.。
"But now go, lead these people to the place。
"about which I've spoken to you.。
"Behold, my angel shall go before you.。
"Nevertheless, in the day when I visit,。
"I will visit their sin upon them."。
It's interesting.。
God makes a promise to deal with sin,。
but he also honors a promise to let them live.。
How?。
How does that happen?。
Because God reacts to idolatry。
different than how he responds to idolaters。
that place their faith in him.。
Because although God's wrath。
is terribly appropriate for idolatry,。
God's grace is wonderfully inappropriate for idolaters.。
Wonderfully inappropriate.。
And it's a grace that we see come。
through the man in the middle,。
the one who stood in the gap,。
the one who stood between the people and God,。
because Moses asked God,。
he said, "Blot out my life in the book of life."。
He said, "Punish me rather than punish them."。
He said, "I will stand in their place。
"if only you'll let me."。
He said, "I'll do anything for them,。
"even at great cost to myself."。
And yet here's the thing.。
God looks at Moses and he says, "You can't.。
"You can't do it.。
"No man can.。
"You cannot be a sufficient sacrifice。
"for the sins of these people。
"because you need a sufficient sacrifice for your own sins."。
He says, "You cannot be the perfect life that they need。
"because you yourself do not have a perfect life."。
He says, "You can't bear the sins of the people。
"because you need someone to bear your sins.。
"Instead, you can't do it, Moses.。
"No man can save my people。
"from the idolatry which they've indulged.。
"But I can.。
"I can do it.。
"And I will do it."。
Because what we see in the cross。
are these two radical realities colliding.。
We see just how seriously God takes our sin。
and we see just how deeply God loves the sinner.。
Because where Moses couldn't give his life,。
Jesus Christ has given his life.。
Where Moses could not make atonement,。
Christ has atoned for everyone who believes in him.。
Where Moses could not keep the law,。
Jesus fulfilled the entire thing.。
Where Moses went up the mountain to entreat the Lord,。
Jesus came down the mountain to entreat you。
and to entreat me.。
What was his entreatment?。
Believe and be saved.。
In the weeks ahead,。
we're gonna get very specific。
into money and pleasure and self and evil.。
We will talk about all of it and what you do with it.。
And yet here tonight, the first thing we have to acknowledge。
is that we need someone to stand in the gap.。
That we cannot depose our idols on our own.。
That's what's interesting.。
The people don't tear down their idol.。
Moses does it for them.。
You know what happens when you identify an idol。
in your life?。
You can't just turn away from it.。
What they do is they burn it up.。
They grind it to dust and they scatter it.。
They're done with it forever.。
Maybe tonight that's the step some of you need to take.。
Maybe tonight you need to actually get legitimately serious。
about the sin in your life.。
You need to ask someone to pray for you。
because the prayer of a righteous person has power。
while it's working and you need some power in your life.。
But no man stands in the gap, it's Christ who has.。
And so we plead the blood over every idol in our life, amen?。
Let me pray that you believe it.。
God, we love you.。
We need you.。
And we ask, oh God, as we take time here。
in this moment, right now,。
would you please move amongst the seats within our hearts。
and God, would you compel us to response?。
Lord, we don't, let me be very clear.。
God, we do not want to respond emotionally。
and check yourself on that.。
God, we don't want to respond emotionally。
but what we do want is to respond convictionally.。
The spirit of God working in your heart,。
convicting you of something and take action on that.。
God, we don't want to just create a space right now。
where we performatively respond.。
God, we want to create a space right now。
where we legitimately respond.。
And so we pray, oh God, would you help us。
to have the courage to do what we should,。
to seek prayer down front if it's required,。
to confess in the altar if it's what's needed,。
to lift our hands and worship the King that has saved.。
Help us, oh God, help us, oh God.。
We know not a single one of us can save ourselves。
but we need not do it for you, oh Christ, have done it.。
Maybe you're here and you've not placed your faith in Christ。
for the forgiveness of your sins.。
You can do it tonight.。
You don't need to clean yourself up or earn anything more.。
You just need to simply receive the gift of grace。
that is afforded through the loving kindness of Christ's。
perfect life, the sufficient death He died on your behalf,。
fulfilling the wages of your sin。
in the victorious resurrection where He conquered Satan,。
sin, and death for you that have faith in Him.。
And others of you, maybe you've gotten used to Him.。
Maybe you're discontent with Him.。
Maybe you've even redefined Him to fit your own desire.。
Let's confess that stuff.。
Let's repent that stuff.。
Let's cast down our idols.。
Let's grind them to dust.。
Let's scatter them across the room。
and let's be finished with it here tonight.。
In the strong name of Christ we pray, amen.。
