(upbeat music)。
- All right, well, Porch, how we doing?。
We doing good this Tuesday night?。
Man, it's so good to see you.。
I was gone last week.。
I got to watch it back.。
It was amazing.。
But man, I genuinely missed you.。
I was in Oklahoma doing ministry someplace else,。
but I left my heart in Texas.。
I was here with you the entire time I was gone.。
It's so good to have you.。
If you're a regular to the room, welcome back.。
If you're new to the room, welcome in.。
We love that you would choose to be here。
because God is doing something just crazy on Tuesday nights。
in this space, all across the country,。
through the lives of people just like you.。
And as a part of our ministry,。
you see, we've got the porch here in Dallas.。
Let me hear from you, Dallas.。
There you are, amazing.。
But we've got Porch Live locations all over the country,。
which I want to shout out.。
Porch Live Springfield, Porch Live Dayton,。
and Porch Live Scottsdale.。
Love you guys.。
Love what God is doing there.。
Man, I'm so excited for tonight.。
If you've been tracking with us through the previous weeks,。
we've been in a series called He Said, She Said.。
Anybody been around for that one?。
It's been great.。
We're back to it next week,。
but we're taking a brief pause。
because I am beyond excited.。
I am giddy with every part of my being。
to introduce to you somebody。
that I have admired from a distance,。
and I've gotten the chance now to visit with up close,。
that I think is one of the most profound thinkers。
and communicators in our day.。
He is an author, founding pastor and lead pastor,。
podcast host alongside of his wife, Jenny,。
and he's here with us tonight,。
eager to teach to us from God's word.。
I'm gonna introduce him to you in just a minute,。
but let me just say this to you.。
We're really protective of this platform。
because we want the word of God。
to be rightly divided for his people,。
and I think that this guy,。
he is able to teach the word in such a way。
that inclines our hearts to God's testimonies。
and leads us to understand it,。
not only clearer, but with more relevance.。
So friends, would y'all help me。
in doing an amazing job?。
It's all the way from Montana,。
so you gotta give it up for him,。
the Texas kind of way.。
You gotta put your hands together。
and help me welcome up my good friend, Levi Lusko.。
(audience cheering)。
- Thank you for being here.。
- Thank you.。
- Thank you for being here.。
- Thank you.。
- Yeah, thank you.。
- Man, what is it like to have Tom Hardy。
as your pastor, this guy?。
(audience laughing)。
- You were accustomed to the dark,。
but I was born in it.。
- I mean, just unbelievable.。
That just quenched the spirit.。
Holy Spirit's gone,。
but it just hit me sitting there just now.。
The porch, it is such a joy to be with you.。
Thank you so much for having me.。
It's such an honor, such a big fan。
of what God is doing in your midst and truly amazed.。
I wanna say hello to, I understand,。
not just this room, this moment here,。
but all the Porch Live locations,。
which are happening probably on the moon as it turns out,。
and a special shout out。
to the Fort Worth Porch Live location。
and to my friend, Ritesh,。
who is there for the first time tonight.。
He's never been to the porch before,。
but he's here tonight at the Fort Worth location.。
So come on, show some love, say hello.。
(audience applauding)。
It is really a remarkable thing to get to see this.。
I've been tracking with what God's been doing。
at the porch for so many years and aware of it。
and just amazed by it, have heard the story.。
Like Paul told the Thessalonians,。
he said that from you, God's word has sounded forth。
in such a way that not only Thessalonica。
but the whole region, Achaia, and even further than that,。
is like saturated with the gospel.。
And he said it to them, like he said,。
he said, it's so much gospel is coming out。
from what God's doing in you that he says,。
I try to tell people about Jesus and they already know.。
Like Paul was low-key like angry, like, come on,。
save some people for me to reach with the gospel。
because you're just fulfilling。
the great commission by yourself.。
And that's kind of, as I was thinking。
and catalyzing my thoughts and my heart。
about this ministry and what it's meant,。
pumping out young people on fire for Jesus。
for so many years.。
I'm just amazed by what God's doing here。
and having heard of it for so long,。
but now to get to see it,。
it's like the Queen of Sheba said about Solomon's day.。
Like, it's like even better than I've seen.。
The half has not even been told.。
So can we just together thank God。
for what he's been doing in his kindness for the kingdom.。
- And if you look around, I mean, this is,。
this is just a casual Tuesday night,。
young adult Bible study.。
So, wow.。
I'm traveling with my daughter, Daisy.。
Daisy's here in the front.。
I want everyone to say hi to Daisy.。
Just my absolute joy.。
She's a bright beam of light into my life.。
So creative and kind and so fun.。
And then just a ton of friends who are here with me.。
I'm grateful to open up scripture.。
If you have a copy of the Bible, Hebrews chapter 12,。
I want to base our thoughts tonight。
out of Hebrews chapter 12, verse 11.。
The title of this message is "Wow, Wow, Wow."。
Could you say it with me?。
I have to say all three times.。
- Wow, wow, wow.。
- Wow, wow, wow.。
Those words mean a lot to me.。
And I want to share what God's spoken to me。
through them to you tonight.。
It's much more than a message for me.。
This is, it's been an anthem in my soul.。
It's meant so much in my journey.。
Wow, wow, wow.。
A few months into 2024,。
a friend reached out and told me。
that he had gone to an auction。
where one of the items that he bid on and won。
was a stay in a yurt at the Grand Canyon.。
And he was so sad because he couldn't go.。
And so last minute, he said,。
next month, could you go to the Grand Canyon。
and stay in a yurt?。
And it was the worst possible timing.。
Like I looked at the calendar。
and it was like, I'd have to come from Bolivia。
and then go straight into like teaching five teachings。
on a soundstage.。
And it was like, but it was like,。
you know, I'm an old fashioned guy.。
If it's for free, it's for who?。
It's for me.。
So I'm like, a stay in a yurt。
that I don't have to pay nothing for?。
That sounds, I can't, I can't say no.。
So I said yes and then told my wife, right?。
Pray for me on a journey guys.。
But I said, honey, we're going from Bolivia.。
We're going to a yurt at the edge of the Grand Canyon.。
Here's the thing about me.。
My dad took me to the Grand Canyon when I was a little guy.。
And so even the thought of returning to the Grand Canyon,。
it was like, I just knew it was gonna be ratatouille.。
Like it was gonna suck me back into my childhood.。
I was gonna get it back just for a moment,。
have a taste of it.。
And so I said, we gotta go to the Grand Canyon.。
I need these kids to have that kind of a moment with me。
as their father and the patriarch of this family。
standing at the rim of the largest hole on earth.。
And my wife's a kind, loving woman.。
So she said, okay.。
And we stayed in this yurt.。
And then the next day,。
anybody here been to the Grand Canyon, right?。
It's kind of a process, right?。
That's the thing.。
You think, oh, we're just gonna go to the Grand.。
You don't just go to the Grand.。
Like you fly into Phoenix or Vegas。
and you drive until you think you can't drive anymore.。
And still there's no Grand Canyon.。
And then you get to a national park checkpoint。
and you go through after waiting in line for a long time,。
because ever since COVID people have decided。
national parks are very exciting.。
And so you go into this long drive。
and then it's already hot and dusty。
and you've been up since five and the whole deal.。
Now, my wife, my daughter, Daisy,。
my daughter, Clover, my oldest, Olivia,。
and then my young son, Lennox.。
Until Lennox was born, we were just a sorority and me.。
I was the minority in the sorority,。
but now it's Lennox and I.。
So ever since Lennox has been born,。
it's been very exciting.。
Now, there are whole new aisles in Target。
I've gotten to go down, right?。
In the toy department.。
It was all pink and purple in My Little Pony.。
And now, you know, things are violent。
and Lennox is peeing on everything.。
It's great.。
Everything's great.。
We're fine.。
So we're starting to lose heart.。
You know, like the morale of the family?。
I could just tell we're losing heart。
because now we've parked and we're walking。
like the children of Israel sojourning in the desert。
and we still have seen no canyon.。
And it is not grand.。
The time we were having is not grand。
because I can just tell, like, you know, the spirit,。
the spirit of the moment?。
Like, it was just like, it was wrong.。
It was bad.。
It was like wet cat.。
You know what I mean?。
Like just a bunch of girls, sad, mad, hot, angry, you know.。
We just come from South America.。
So there's a little bit of that gastric thing going on。
if I'm just being completely honest, right?。
So we're having to try and like keep tracking our heads。
of where the pit toilets are,。
which is a great experience, by the way.。
And I could tell, like, my daughter, Clover,。
who just a little bit about Clover.。
Clover's like the CEO of our home.。
She's 13, but Clover, when she was like 10,。
like would wake up every morning and say,。
"What's the plan for today?"。
Like every day, I was the first, "What's the plan for today?"。
And we'd say, "Clover, we're gonna," you know,。
"Okay, great."。
She needs to know.。
And one day I said, "Clover, one day,。
"the day is coming when you're gonna run life。
"for Mom and I, our church, our life.。
"You're gonna run everything."。
And you know what she said to me in response to that?。
At the age of 10, she said, "I'm gonna need Fridays off."。
(congregation laughing)。
So you never wanna get on the bad side of Clover.。
And I could tell Clover was really having。
some morale problems because she turned to me。
just as the Grand Canyon was about to come into sight.。
We hadn't seen it yet.。
And she said to me, "Now, where is this Grand Canyon?"。
(congregation laughing)。
She said that to me, looking over her shoulder,。
sassy, "And I'm scared to death of Clover.。
"If you aren't, you haven't met her."。
And I literally just pointed。
because we had just come around the corner。
where you could see it.。
And she goes, "Now, where is this Grand,"。
and she saw it.。
And she just went like this, she goes, "Oh."。
(congregation laughing)。
And my whole family, for the first time that whole day。
or ever, were all speechless.。
And I took this photo as they just silently,。
for the first time, took it in.。
Now, where is this, "Oh."。
Because here's how they felt.。
Here's how I felt.。
Here's how, if you ever see something like that,。
you feel like, "Wow, wow, wow."。
The author of Hebrews, chapter 12, verse 11,。
says this, this is so important to think about.。
Bring that emotion, that feeling, that fatigue,。
then all of a sudden that payoff with you is he says,。
or she says, "No training seems pleasant at the time.。
"In fact, it seems painful."。
But later on, someone say, "Later on,。
"it produces a harvest of godliness and peace."。
Godliness and peace, but when?。
Later on.。
At the time, not pleasant, but painful.。
But later on, it produces a harvest of godliness and peace.。
It does that for those who have been trained by it.。
And God, I thank you that as we travel through this world,。
there are gonna be so many moments。
when we are dry and dusty and tired and cranky。
and irritable and upset and walking through things。
in a place where we don't want to be.。
And we're gonna feel like we've lost heart.。
And God, thank you that you have an, oh,。
you have a wow, wow, wow coming for us all。
in what we're facing today that we dread,。
that we despair of, even just another moment。
in the midst of, and whether that's just monotony。
or fatigue, God, or disillusionment.。
Thank you, God, that if we will be trained。
by what we're walking through,。
you are more than prepared to guide our feet。
into the way of peace and to shine your light upon us。
as we sit in what feels like a valley of a shadow of death.。
And I pray, God, that as we consider。
what this could mean for each of us, that you would breathe。
your fresh life upon us, and we would see Jesus,。
something new in his face, something new in his presence.。
Thank you that in the ages to come,。
it's gonna take ages to come for us to get a sense。
of the exceeding riches of your kindness。
in your grace to us.。
And thank you that that doesn't have to start。
in the ages of eternity.。
If only that can happen right here, right now,。
and we pray it would.。
In Jesus' mighty name, amen.。
Jonathan Edwards was used mightily by God。
as a part of what we refer to as the first great awakening,。
a time of, to this present day until perhaps。
these Labor Day days of unprecedented revival。
in this country.。
I mean, it was said that during the great awakening,。
even as Jonathan Edwards would preach his sermons,。
which he did so in a monotonous, nasally tone,。
literally his nose buried in his manuscript,。
just reading with an unpleasant sound, they say,。
the words to his sermons, people would be literally writhing。
in the aisles, begging for the conviction。
of the Holy Ghost to stop upon them.。
I mean, the palpable sense of revival and repentance。
and awakening, and even in these days,。
we say, Lord, do it again.。
Come again, come upon us again.。
Let there be a holy fear upon us.。
Let there be a return to you that would be happening.。
I mean, and as I'm literally in this moment。
watching this happen, if this isn't revival,。
I don't know what is.。
Young people seeking God.。
We're living in such a unique moment.。
There's such a sense of God catalyzing, of breathing.。
We're just sensing and feeling and watching.。
We're walking in holy days in this moment.。
But as Jonathan Edwards would preach,。
he did so at the age of 42, preaching。
that prolific sermon, Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God,。
one of the most famous sermons that perhaps has ever。
been written.。
But it wasn't his first sermon.。
In fact, far from it, he had been preaching for 20 years。
by the point that God really began to bless and breathe。
on his ministry in the way that we, of course,。
have heard it go down in history.。
His first sermon he ever preached, he was 18 years old.。
And the title of his sermon was three--。
listen to this.。
This is 1721, an 18-year-old Jonathan Edwards.。
Here's the sermon title.。
Are you ready for it?。
The Three Irrefutable Reasons Why a Christian Should Be。
the Happiest Person in the World.。
How's that for a sermon?。
You think that would get clicks on YouTube?。
It's like he did everything wrong.。
You know what I'm saying, it's too long.。
I love it, the three irrefutable reasons。
why Christians should be the happiest people in the world.。
As his outline, as you could imagine, these three reasons.。
And let me just condense them for you.。
The first was the Christian should be the happiest person。
in the world because every hard thing that we ever。
go through in this world, God's going to use for good.。
That's pretty good, right?。
Why should you be the happiest person in the world?。
Because every, he says, bad thing you ever。
face in your life, God's going to use for good.。
The second reason, irrefutable, he。
says, why Christians should be the happiest people。
on the face of the Earth is because every good thing God。
gives us, we will get to keep forever.。
Every good thing he does through the bad things we face,。
every single one of those, you get to keep forever.。
Do you see what he's doing?。
The bad that you do not keep forever。
because every bad thing that gets turned to good。
is no longer bad, thus the bad you don't get to keep forever.。
It's the same logic Paul made in 2 Corinthians 4。
when he says the troubles we face now,。
they're soon going to be gone.。
But the glory God reveals through them,。
those things are going to last forever, right?。
So he says the second reason you should be the happiest。
person on the world is every actual good thing you ever。
receive in this world from God's hand,。
you'll get to keep it forever.。
It's almost like we go through a metal detector into heaven。
and all the bad, like, oh, yeah, you're not coming.。
But every good thing God did through the bad,。
that you get to keep.。
That you can bring on in here.。
And then the third irrefutable reason。
why the Christian should be the happiest person alive.。
Jonathan Edwards, 18 years old, he said is this.。
He says for the Christian, our best is yet to come.。
And I know we know that got famous because Frank Sinatra,。
but like Jonathan Edwards saying it first, OK, right?。
The best-- truly, if you're not in Christ,。
this world is as good as it can possibly be.。
So you better enjoy it.。
You better smoke it.。
You better collect all the bad.。
You better eat, drink, and be merry, bro.。
What are you even doing here?。
Your bucket list had better get--。
if you don't know Christ, this world, this life。
is as good as it can possibly be.。
And then what?。
The end.。
Blackness.。
What?。
Nothing.。
End scene.。
It's over.。
But for the Christian, we have heaven to look forward to.。
We have God's presence to look forward to.。
We have eternal life to look forward to.。
So I think the case that he made is a good one, right?。
We should be the happiest people in the world.。
And yet, I've been walking with Jesus since I was 14 years old,。
and even with all that hope, there are still。
days when it's hard.。
There are still days when it's difficult.。
So here's the question we want to ask.。
The author of Hebrews is pointing out。
that there are painful days, difficult days,。
discouraging days, where no matter。
what theological truth you know, you're。
still going to feel fatigued.。
Otherwise, why did Paul in 2 Corinthians。
say that sometimes life got so hard for him serving God。
that he despaired even of life itself?。
That's 2 Corinthians 1.。
And you're like, dude, Paul, come on, bro.。
Don't you know that all things work together for good?。
Yeah, he wrote that.。
He knew.。
Come on, tell your neighbor, he knew.。
He knew all the three points of Jonathan Edwards' sermon.。
Paul knew better than anybody about heaven.。
How do you know that?。
He got to go there one time, just like for the day.。
It's crazy.。
He died and got taken to heaven, and he。
got to experience it for a minute,。
and then he had to come back.。
And yet, Paul, who knew that the best is yet to come, what?。
I despaired of life itself.。
So you had a bad day?。
Yeah, a really bad day.。
It takes a lot for Paul to feel like I don't even。
want to live anymore, and yet he felt it.。
And if you walk with God long enough, you're going to feel it.。
So the question I want to ask you。
is what do you do when serving God, knowing the truth,。
walking in your purpose, you feel。
like you're coming unglued?。
And that's not theoretical or abstract for me.。
I am 44 and 1/2 this year.。
When I turned 38, it was like going 60 miles an hour.。
I drove straight into a brick wall.。
It happened like someone turned a light switch on at bedtime.。
I started having panic attacks at 2 in the morning.。
If you've never had a panic attack, for me,。
it was the most bizarre experience, because I'd never。
experienced anything like that.。
My heart started pounding like 180-something beats per minute.。
I was looking at my watch, just so confused,。
felt like I was going to die.。
And that began for me a season that from beginning。
to where I felt like I was up out of the clouds out of it,。
enough to where I could actually talk about it in the past tense,。
it lasted about 18 months long.。
That was one of the most bewildering periods in my life.。
And the most perplexing part about that season。
was there was nothing I could point to。
as to why it was going on.。
If you break a leg, which the year we planted our church。
in Montana in 2007, I snapped my femur in half。
in a snowmobile wreck.。
People are kind to you.。
It's like, what's wrong?。
Well, my leg, biggest bone in my body, yeah,。
sort of broken in half.。
My leg's pointed that way.。
Not so much this way, mostly that way.。
You know what I'm saying?。
And why are you having a hard time?。
Well, my femur's broken.。
Oh, cool.。
Amazing.。
Well, please have a seat.。
Oh, excellent.。
I think I will.。
Yeah.。
My daughter, my second-born daughter died in my arms。
five days before Christmas, five years into our church plant.。
And I did CPR until the paramedics got there.。
And she went home to be with Jesus.。
And that was a really discouraging, hard, brutal,。
painful period.。
I knew she's in heaven, but I just missed her.。
She'd be 19 this year.。
And everybody was so cool to me because they were like, dude,。
your daughter just died.。
And I was cool to me because I was like, well,。
my daughter just died.。
I will have ice cream.。
You know what I'm saying?。
It's the ultimate diet hall pass.。
I was so kind to myself in that season.。
But here's the crazy thing about when。
you feel like what made you you just got taken from you,。
and you feel like you've lost your mind,。
and you don't understand.。
And there's not even a medical or explainable reason。
as to why this is all happening.。
That's what made that so confusing for me.。
Because on paper, it was all fine.。
And yet, it wasn't just the panic attacks.。
It was also this weird feeling of dread。
that I had never experienced in my life。
before that was just constantly there pulling。
at the edges of my lungs.。
I've always felt gifted by the Holy Spirit。
and just prone towards ideation, creativity, storytelling.。
Here's what's next.。
Where do you think Clover got it from, that type A.。
And I felt like all of those things。
that always were so natural, intuitive just got put in a bag。
and taken away from me.。
I, for the first time, had no sense of this is what's next.。
And I was just like, how do I get that back?。
Started to feel like I don't even--。
have I gone as far as I can on my calling。
and in the position I'm in?。
Started to just-- all these big questions,。
all these massive questions.。
So I go into the doctor.。
I'm like, my testosterone level's fine.。
Is there-- got scanned, got on paper.。
None of this should be happening.。
It didn't make any sense to me.。
And it was a hard, difficult, discouraging season。
to feel like I was lost in the woods。
without a compass or any bearings,。
couldn't see the stars.。
Would I ever get out of this?。
I was reticent to call it what it was.。
Some of you might have figured it out.。
What was I having?。
I was having a full-blown midlife crisis.。
Oh, I would have hated it if you would have told me。
that in the moment, though.。
At any point in this 18-month-long journey,。
had you insinuated to me, bro, this is-- chill.。
Take a breath.。
You're having a midlife crisis.。
I'd have been like, get out of here,。
because that feels so cliche.。
Like, what am I going to do?。
Go buy a Corvette?。
Unbutton my shirt to an uncomfortable degree?。
Three more necklaces?。
Like, get out of here, you know?。
Start doing CrossFit?。
I'm kidding.。
I'm joking.。
The classic midlife crisis.。
Do an Ironman.。
Just all the things, you know what I'm saying?。
And yet, I was exactly in the halfway point。
of the average life expectancy for a human being。
on this planet, which, by the way, is 72.。
72, globally, is the average amount。
of time a human being gets to live。
on this third rock from the sun.。
So technically speaking, I was just a late bloomer.。
I should have been having my midlife crisis。
two years earlier, at 36, which is the halfway point of 72.。
Here's something that'll really cook your noodle.。
That means that 18 is the quarter life.。
That's wild, right?。
And so I was spinning and having all this big, big questions。
about purpose and mission and use of the time。
that God gave me on this planet and all the rest.。
And the big question was, how do I。
regain my footing to find my way through my calling with joy?。
Again, knowing all of the points to Jonathan Edwards' sermon。
didn't keep me from feeling discouraged in that moment.。
Now, just to pause and bring us all in here,。
because some of you might be like, well, hey,。
that's great, Boomer.。
I'll call you if I need you when I get there.。
But here's the reality.。
It's not just people in midlife who。
end up facing crisis like this.。
In fact, as I've now looked into it and written on it。
and spent in the last several years bottling up。
some of these lessons and distilling them to try。
and help other people-- because I believe anything you fight。
your way through, you should turn back and generously help。
whoever's coming behind you, right?。
That's biblical, to give comfort you've received.。
And what I've discovered is that midlife。
isn't the only kind of crisis that people。
face in this world.。
In fact, it's not even the most common.。
Did you know that later life crisis is。
far more common than midlife?。
And that's defined as those retirement years,。
the empty nest era.。
For some of you, be kind to your folks.。
What they're walking through is uncharted territory for them.。
They spent the last 18 years of their lives serving and caring。
and being there for you.。
And so they're finding their way--。
you might be like, oh, they don't understand.。
They don't understand themselves.。
What they're going through is uncharted for them,。
just like it's uncharted for you to be going through what。
you're going through.。
But did you know that currently-- this is 2026。
data--。
the most common kind of crisis you can go through in America。
today is actually not the later life nor the midlife.。
It's currently what they are calling the quarter life。
crisis.。
And it is the exact demographic that's。
eligible to come here to the porch, that 18 to 30-ish kind。
of like loosey-goosey phase, where there's just like,。
I'm not in high school.。
I'm not even in college anymore.。
Like, the career, the life, laundry bills.。
Like, is there a job for me with AI encroaching?。
Like, all of this, this big stuff。
that's being pushed upon you.。
And I think a lot of times, we can just feel like we're not。
equipped for the season of life that we're in.。
That no one prepared us for what we're having to deal with here.。
That we're an imposter in the story that is our life.。
And just this feeling of like, I feel behind.。
Like, I've got friends who are closing in on 40,。
and they're not married.。
They feel like, I'm behind.。
I don't have kids yet.。
If I am married, I feel behind.。
I should be further along in my career.。
I feel behind.。
Or I'm exactly where I want to be in my calling,。
or my career, or my family, but it。
doesn't feel like I thought it would feel.。
I was talking to someone the other day。
who told me that they sold a company they built, scaled,。
and always intended to sell.。
And they knew God called them to do it.。
They knew God led them.。
They knew God provided.。
They weren't stupid.。
They were not turning into an idol。
they're giving them glory for.。
But they said the day they got to that finish line。
and sold it was the emptiest and most discouraged。
they ever felt.。
Because it was what they knew they were supposed to do,。
but when they got to it, it didn't。
feel like they thought it was going to feel.。
I think for a lot of us, whatever the finish line--。
and I'm not talking about ego stuff,。
and I'm not talking about pride stuff.。
I'm talking about stuff we know God's called us to do.。
When we get to those finish lines,。
they just don't feel like we thought。
they were going to feel.。
So for whatever reason, we can end up spiraling.。
But what God began to show me, what Hebrews 12, 11 is saying,。
is that for every one of us losing heart going,。
now where is this that God's got in?。
Oh, waiting for you to erupt in your spirit with a wow, wow,。
wow.。
I see what you had in store.。
There is a payoff.。
There is a peace.。
There is a godliness boost.。
There is something inside.。
If we don't lose heart, there is, I believe,。
blessing waiting for us in our seasons of spiraling.。
Blessed are the poor in spirit. Blessed are those who mourn.。
Blessed are those who grieve.。
None of us want to be any of those things, by the way.。
Give me the choice of being poor in spirit or rich in faith.。
I'm picking rich in faith.。
Anybody with me?。
Blessed are those who mourn.。
Part of me wants to interrupt Jesus giving the beatitudes.。
Time out.。
No one's blessed for mourning.。
Mourning sucks.。
Grieving is awful.。
It's terrible.。
And yet Jesus is saying, there's actually favor on you。
in the midst of these hard things.。
You're going, what are you talking-- what are you smoking?。
Get out of here.。
Just go.。
Go back to Montana immediately.。
Go peddle that nonsense somewhere else.。
What's the blessing waiting for us in our spiraling?。
Listen, I understand spiraling's awful, debilitating, confusing,。
destabilizing.。
And yet I could pass five polygraphs。
with the light of Jesus shining in my eyes。
to tell you there is blessing for you。
in the midst of your difficulty.。
And this specific 18-month-long season of my life。
that I was walking through from 38 to 40, I look back on now,。
and I am so grateful for those hard nights.。
I am so grateful not just for the nights where。
there was a panic attack, but the next night where。
I was wondering with the tremors,。
is it going to happen again?。
I'm so grateful for what?。
The way that God came near, the way that God right-sized me.。
Listen, when we're cruising along。
and we're catching all the green lights。
and we just feel like everything that God has。
is touching turns to gold, there can be a way。
that you become bigger in your life than God.。
And in these hard moments, these difficult moments。
when we're crying out to him like we。
should be all the time for our next breath,。
that God shows up in our story in the way。
that we only can when he is literally giving us。
our next breath.。
And God is there.。
I speak over your 2 AM fear.。
I speak over your anxiousness.。
I speak over your loneliness and the sense of,。
like, am I going to make it through this, that God。
is seeking to meet you in these moments in ways。
that you could never expect.。
He's near to the brokenhearted.。
He saves such as have a contrite spirit.。
There is blessing for you in your seasons of spiraling.。
When we took all of these truths and began。
to feel a calling to put them in a book and release it, why?。
Because books have changed my life.。
And I wanted to continue to offer up to anybody coming。
behind me who feels like they're going through something。
they're not going to make it through.。
We began to feel like we should put this into a book.。
I told the publisher, I just asked。
that you put on the cover a tornado built out。
of wildflowers.。
Why?。
Why tornado specifically built out of wildflowers?。
Because the tornado is one of nature's。
most destructive symbols.。
A tornado coming on the horizon will tear a house down,。
will tear a neighborhood down.。
And yet, the juxtaposition of, yes, it's your mourning,。
you're grieving, you're hurting, you're confused.。
And yet, the poetry, the beauty, the art of this tornado。
being built out of flowers, that was the image in my heart,。
in my life, as I began to feel like God was growing me。
in the spiral.。
He was deepening me.。
I was encountering Him in the spiral, that He came near,。
that I was humbled, that I was right sized,。
that I began to feel like Isaiah chapter 6.。
Like in the year King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord.。
Do you see the juxtaposition there?。
I'm spiraling low.。
This king that I loved was taken out.。
And yet, there I saw the Lord on His throne.。
That's the beauty.。
That's the tornado, but it's built out of wildflowers.。
Holy, holy, holy, out of what?。
Woe is me, I am undone.。
The way that God produces in you what He can then take you。
to the next level with.。
The way God prepares you.。
It was A.W. Tozer who said that it is doubtful that God can use。
a person greatly until He has first bruised them deeply.。
If we can choose to speak over, and speak about,。
and think about, and look at our seasons of spiraling。
and difficulty as God getting ready, as God preparing,。
as God choosing to honor us enough,。
to entrust us with a trial that can hone and shape。
the edge of our soul for what He wants to do with us next.。
If we could actually believe a season of spiraling。
is God's great compliment upon us,。
that He wants to come near to us and come close to us。
in that unique and particular way.。
It was Charles Spurgeon who said that God gives。
His most difficult assignments to His most trusted soldiers.。
Because here's the reality.。
All of us have a misconception--。
I've done it so many times in my life-- of what we think。
growth can and should look like.。
Here's what we want growth to look like.。
Just up and to the right indefinitely.。
A vertical line so steep you could ski down this sucker.。
This is what I want my marriage to look like.。
This is what I want my growth and Christ-likeness。
to look like.。
This is what I want my ministry to look like.。
Just up and to the right forever.。
But that's not realistic or desirable.。
A better picture my counselor helped me to see and understand。
was that this is what true growth looks like.。
It's more unpredictable.。
It's more broken.。
It's more janky.。
It's a little bit, and then over,。
and then you plateau in that growth,。
and then you take a new break.。
What he said to me is growth is not like a straight line.。
It's actually like what?。
What does that actually look like?。
Stairs.。
And what that means, then, is that whenever。
you've come to the end of a growth。
mode in your character, in your development,。
in your calling, in your relationship,。
you first hit what?。
You hit a wall.。
But what if what you hit-- what if what。
I felt like I hit at 60 miles an hour wasn't a wall?。
What if it was a stair?。
What if it was the opportunity?。
What if it was the cue to grow?。
What if it was now the chance to take a step of trust?。
To take a step into the wilderness with God?。
To have everything torn back.。
To get back to brass tacks.。
To come to know Him.。
To have Him become all I need, because in that moment,。
He's all I have.。
And so what that means to you is that you。
can begin to use different language to speak。
about your seasons of suffering.。
These dark nights of the soul.。
What if instead of having the fatalistic, bleak language。
of I'm cooked, we're toast, this is over, we're done.。
It's never going to get better.。
I'm being destroyed.。
What if instead you could say, I'm being deepened.。
I'm being developed.。
I went as far as I could with the tools。
I currently possessed.。
But God is bringing me into a desert place.。
He's bringing me into a wilderness place.。
He's bringing me into a wilderness place。
to retool me for what He has next for me.。
I love this company, Shinola.。
It's a watch company.。
How they make turntables, and bicycles,。
and all kinds of random stuff.。
They make them all in Detroit.。
And what they've done is they've taken。
some of these auto manufacturing facilities。
where production ended up going over and out.。
And we know Detroit, the city, in a lot of ways,。
like some of its glory days were kind of behind it.。
And this company has chosen to take some of these buildings。
that are no longer making cars.。
And people don't have to.。
And now they're bringing beauty, and these artistry items out。
of it, watches, and bicycles, and turntables,。
and all this stuff.。
And I love the thought that these factories didn't。
need to be torn down.。
They just needed to be retooled to make what is new,。
to make what is current, to make something bespoke, to make。
something beautiful.。
In your life, whenever you feel like, oh my gosh,。
there's nothing more for me.。
No, no, listen.。
This doesn't need to be torn down.。
Just retooled that God's preparing you。
for what He has prepared you for.。
That there's a blessing for you in your spiraling.。
Many of us read in the news and saw on Instagram。
all the story about Jeremy Renner, the actor who。
plays Hawkeye, among other things.。
He got accidentally run over by his own 14,000 pound snowplow。
while trying to save the life of his nephew.。
Broke 30 bones, pierced his lungs, crushed his skull.。
Should not have lived.。
But I was listening to an interview。
where he was asked, like, are you better yet?。
Are you back yet?。
Do you feel like you've recovered yet?。
And he said, no.。
The guy said, I don't think you understood the question.。
I'm asking, like, do you feel like you're back to where。
you were before the accident?。
He goes, no, I'm not back.。
I'm better.。
He then said, I got so many gifts from almost dying.。
I'm not back.。
I'm better.。
But God stripped me down.。
God had me lying down.。
God had me at the place where I literally。
did not think I was going to make it through this.。
Why?。
To give you so many gifts from dying.。
Tim Keller once said, Christianity。
is not about going from strength to strength and just grace。
to grace.。
It's a religion predicated upon going from death。
to resurrection.。
And as he did it, he's doing it in you.。
When you feel like you've been brought to a place of death,。
let me tell you, there's resurrection that can follow,。
because you're filled with the same Holy Spirit that raised。
Christ Jesus from the dead.。
You remember that when you feel like it's over.。
You remember that when you feel like your greatest days were。
behind.。
You feel like when you feel like there's nothing more for you.。
There's no point for you.。
You are about to go from death in Jesus' name to resurrection.。
He's got something more for your future.。
If you're not dead, he's not done.。
He's still with you, so take a shaky step in his name.。
Up that jagged staircase of growth,。
there's blessing for you in your spiraling.。
Is that not what James is saying when he says in James 1,。
verse 2, "Consider it pure joy, my brethren,。
when you face various trials of all these different kinds?"。
Why?。
Because you know that the testing of your faith。
develops perseverance.。
Think about that as a step.。
And from there, God wants to develop your perseverance。
into finishing its work so that you may be mature and complete,。
lacking nothing.。
There's a-- and I love it because we don't even。
have to imagine as we think about a staircase and a spiral。
because literally it's climbing a spiral staircase.。
It is a symbol that we have a mental picture for of how we--。
what that means, though, is that we。
have to stop thinking about spiraling down。
like a graveyard spiral a plane would enter,。
and we have to choose in Jesus' name to spiral up,。
to spiral in the right direction.。
Why?。
Because we are in an upside-down kingdom.。
So even though we feel like we're being struck down。
and hard-pressed and discouraged, what's happening?。
He's showing the life of Christ, the divine life of Christ,。
who gives you all things pertaining to life。
and godliness, is at work in you.。
And when Paul got so discouraged in 2 Corinthians 1。
that he despaired even of life itself, what did he say?。
He said, these things happen to me。
so that I would not trust in myself,。
but so that I would trust in God who raises the dead.。
When you come to a season of spiraling, listen to me,。
God allowed it to happen so you would not trust in yourself,。
but you would trust in whatever crisis you're in,。
in the God who raises the dead.。
So I believe in Jesus' name.。
There's a wow, wow, wow coming for you。
if you would just be willing to put the label-maker down。
and stop trying to label things before he's finished.。
Because you're going to call it bad.。
You're going to call it terrible, losing that job。
and having that person betray you。
and going through what you're going to go through.。
And that medical emergency, you're。
going to want to say, this is bad, this is bad.。
And how crazy would it be for us to be labeling something。
bad that God already has in his mind determined。
from before the foundation of the world that he's。
going to use to bring forth good for you and glory for him.。
And that the day could come that you would look back upon it。
as one of the most treasured things you ever experienced,。
but you were tempted in a moment to label it。
like you knew better than him.。
So with all due respect, put the label-maker down.。
If you hear me and you've received, hopefully,。
some encouragement that could help you navigate future。
spiraling, I praise God for that.。
But I wonder if maybe there's one or two here today。
who would say, man, I'm spiraling right now.。
This isn't some future hypothetical.。
I'm spiraling literally today.。
What do I need to do right now in a moment of spiraling?。
I'm going to give it to you, and you could jot these down.。
Five quick things that are going to be done that hopefully。
would be helpful to you.。
Or, here we go, for someone you care about who。
you're watching spiraling.。
My wife Jenny is the unsung hero in all of this。
because she was right there with me.。
And secondhand spiraling is real.。
To know how to care for someone in chaos。
without falling into crisis yourself。
is an art to be celebrated and a calling to be recognized.。
So this could be for you or for a friend or someone。
you love who is spiraling today.。
Five things to do when you're spiraling.。
Number one, understand the season you're in。
and the one you're heading into.。
Think about the season you're in today。
and the one that's coming next.。
This can help you.。
This is what the Bible says.。
Help me to know a day is coming when I'm going to die.。
This will give me a heart of wisdom.。
That's what David said, right?。
Help me to consider my end.。
Help me to remember my days are not infinite but finite.。
The 72-year thing, when you think about that,。
it will give you a heart of wisdom.。
Why?。
Because it's going to give you a sense of,。
I'm in the season now, and that season's going to end,。
and the next season's going to come.。
Because life is ultimately like three acts.。
You're building a container, choosing。
to fill that container, then needing。
to give that container and its contents away.。
So that the three acts of life, I think,。
are many times behind the scenes when we feel despair.。
It's because we didn't properly recognize and prepare。
for the season that snuck up on us.。
But it's not like it wasn't coming for me.。
Well, it's not like midlife wasn't subtly there,。
showing, what is the gray hair?。
What's going on with that?。
Oh, the crow's feet, interesting.。
What could that mean?。
No, it was always coming.。
And yet, sometimes we act all surprised。
when something that was always going to come to an end。
all of a sudden comes.。
So how do we fight against that?。
We understand not just the season we're in today,。
but also the season that is coming.。
Proverbs 20, verse 29 says, "The glory of young men。
is their strength, and the splendor--"。
do you see that word, "splendor"?。
Does that sound awful?。
The Bible is honoring and recognizing.。
"Splendor" to what?。
The gray head of the old man.。
God really encouraged me with that verse。
one day when I said to Him, I'm not。
going to be terrified of what you've declared splendid.。
Do you hear me?。
I can have excitement for not just the current season。
that I want to hold on to, like forever 21,。
like what a life in this pit of hell,。
as though that were possible or desirable, right?。
But instead, to be excited about what God has already declared,。
not just glorious, which is what's now,。
but splendid, which is what's coming ahead.。
So we can understand what we're in,。
but also prepare for what season is coming next,。
so that it's not some big enemy that shows up.。
It's something we were preparing for.。
That's what Proverbs 6 says.。
Look at the ant, see how wise it is.。
It knows what season it's in today。
and the season that's coming.。
One little thing you could do would。
be to prepare your last will and testament.。
Did you know that almost 70% of Americans。
do not have an up-to-date will?。
And do you know what percent of Americans are going to die?。
All of them.。
So even just a simple act of honoring God by the way。
you're a steward over whatever you do--。
I don't have anything.。
I'm not going to be-- well, you'll。
be a steward over very little as long as you。
continue to have that attitude.。
It was the one talent person who hit us in the ground.。
So if you'll begin to say, whatever you give me, God,。
I'm going to honor you with how I am faithful to you with it,。
knowing I'm going to, at one point in my life,。
release all of it to you forever,。
and I'm going to prepare to do that.。
I actually think that tithing is a dress rehearsal for death。
that we get to be a part of every single week.。
Opening the hand, opening the hand.。
Because when you die, it's all coming out,。
whether you like it or not.。
So every time we open that hand up to God,。
it's a dress rehearsal for what is inevitable,。
and that is the release of everything back to him.。
So that's number one.。
Number two, jot this down, we connect the dots.。
If you're spiraling today, connect the dots.。
For me, there was not just during that 18-month-long。
period the question of, why is this happening?。
Oh, it's because I'm at midlife.。
There was also some other biological things going on.。
Pace of life stuff.。
Because the Bible says we are not just body.。
We're body, soul, spirit.。
In the church, we love to focus just on the spirit,。
but there was some other stuff going on there.。
How many things I was saying yes to, how hard I was going,。
the fact that I had been trying to basically burn。
the candle at both ends and in the middle。
for two decades in ministry, using language like,。
I'm going to drive the devil out of the state of Montana,。
just all this stupid stuff you say when you get a full tank。
of gas, and it's like, well, do we have to do all of Montana?。
So you get a little older, like, can we just do the county?。
You know what I'm saying?。
I'm being a little tongue-in-cheek and facetious。
here, but I think just the reality of hard living。
without always respecting my own personal limitations。
and the need to restore my own soul that I had to address.。
The fact that I would have, for a long season of my life,。
found it completely crazy to think of giving myself。
a day to go hiking, or a day to go fly fishing,。
or a day to play tennis, to go sit in the sauna。
and not feel guilty, because there was surely。
something I could be doing for God in that moment.。
And so learning some of those rhythms of rest, and release,。
and Selah, and Sabbath.。
So connecting the dots on, that's how I got here.。
I got here because the body does keep score.。
I got here because pace does matter.。
And I'm a simple human, not Iron Man, right?。
Just that realization that I have limitations.。
I also had to get off pre-workout.。
I don't know if this could be for somebody here,。
but my doctor was like, hey, could you。
text me a picture of everything you take in a day?。
And I texted the pre-workout to her, and she wrote back,。
have you read this?。
Have you ever read this?。
It says may cause feelings of panic, you moron.。
She didn't say that.。
Doctors don't say moron.。
I said that.。
I did that all myself.。
I'm like, Lord, help me with my panic attacks.。
Glug, glug, glug.。
You know, it's like--。
it could be as simple as that.。
You're like, pray for me.。
I have headaches every day.。
Tell me what you drink in a day.。
Nothing but sweet tea.。
Connect the dots.。
I had family of origin stuff too.。
I had to deal with a lot of stuff from my childhood。
I had never faced down.。
It was all connected.。
OK, number three, recalibrate your scoreboard.。
This was huge for me in my second half of life.。
I was talking to a friend this morning playing tennis,。
and he asked about what's getting me so much joy。
in ministry these days.。
And I was saying, it has everything。
to do with the chance to fight for young people。
and everything to do with to fight for other leaders who。
are going to release and reach young people.。
And that's what puts bright, shining light in my eyes,。
much more than is it the biggest thing or the most--。
all that stuff is fantastic, right?。
I want to reach everyone for Christ.。
Amazing.。
We get it, right?。
That's fantastic.。
But I've recalibrated my scoreboard。
to not just what appears successful,。
but what is actually significant connected。
to what God has called for me to participate。
in in the second half of my life.。
And a part of that is just, for me,。
reigniting the flame of passion for personal evangelism,。
not from a platform, but just person to person and heart。
to heart, and finding a column on your scoreboard。
for things that no one on Earth is going to celebrate,。
but ignites the greatest applause in heaven。
because God sees it's what He has for you。
in this coming season of recalibration and retooling。
of the factory of your heart.。
I mean, don't get me wrong.。
Luke Skywalker's great.。
We all want to be Luke Skywalker and Leia and Han Solo.。
But man, the kingdom of God needs some Obi-Wan Kenobis。
and some Yodas as well, right?。
And maybe even Jar Jar Binks, although that's debatable.。
We could go back and forth about that.。
Hot take, he's the worst.。
OK, anyhow, number four, I would say this.。
If you're spiraling today, be kind.。
You've never been here before.。
Be kind.。
You've never been here before.。
If I'm completely honest, I made my season of spiraling worse。
because I was berating myself for not doing better.。
And very few things will make you feel less better when。
you're feeling bad than you trying。
to make yourself feeling bad for not feeling better.。
And when God opened my eyes to this,。
I was doing a hospital visit.。
My friend, Stu, he's been a part of our church for--。
well, he had been a part of our church for 18 years.。
And he had Parkinson's.。
And his wife called me and said, Stu thinks he's dying.。
Can you get here as quick as you could?。
And the quickest I could get there was the next morning.。
So I walked into his room, and he was skin and bones.。
And he was-- you know what he was?。
He was so ashamed.。
He said, I can't believe I asked her to call you.。
I thought I was dying last night.。
I didn't even die.。
I actually feel really good this morning.。
He was embarrassed, and I laughed.。
And you know what I said to Stu?。
We had a good relationship.。
I said, Stu, you're terrible at this.。
You're so bad at dying.。
And then I said, but how could you be good at it?。
You've never done it before.。
And he laughed.。
And I said, I have a prediction, Stu.。
I said, I bet you're going to suck at dying when you die.。
You're going to be so bad at it.。
It's going to be so clumsy.。
It's not going to be, like, finesse.。
It's going to be like, ah, eh.。
That's what I said.。
I'm not a great pastor, obviously.。
I said, you're going to be so bad at dying because you've。
never done it before.。
I said, but do you know who's so good at death?。
Jesus.。
He has never dropped the ball on the death of one of his saints。
ever.。
He conquered death, and he's going。
to bring you through despite you being bad at it.。
So you can trust your death to him.。
And Stu laughed.。
He laid his head back on the pillow.。
He closed his eyes.。
And it was just a few days later,。
he went home to be with Jesus, badly, clumsily.。
But Jesus guided him through.。
How could you be good at what you're。
dealing with today, loved one?。
You've never been here before.。
You've never been 25.。
You've never started a company before.。
You've never had to sell the company.。
You've never been at Empty Nest.。
You've never been here.。
Of course, you're not good at it.。
So quit trying to act like you're。
good at what you've never done before and just tell。
your father you are bad at it and let him help you,。
because he's good.。
All the time, God is good.。
So be kind to yourself.。
You've never been here before.。
And then lastly, we close with this.。
And this is so important.。
Anchor your identity in what can't be taken away.。
Anchor your identity in what can't be taken away.。
To be just completely and totally in a moment。
of transparent confession before you,。
there was a lot of my identity in that season。
I discovered, thanks to the kindness of the Holy Spirit,。
that came from what I do for God.。
Because I planted a church at 23,。
wrote my first book at 30.。
I started preaching at 14.。
My whole life, I was always being celebrated。
as this young man doing great things for God.。
And I never intended for that to be what I built me on.。
But there was some part of that that got cooked in there,。
that God was trying to burn out and smoke out.。
Because here's the thing.。
There is going to come a day when my body is going to slow.。
And I will not be able to hop on an airplane and preach.。
And I will not have anything to say in a book。
that anyone's going to want to read.。
There is going to come a day when I won't be doing anything。
for the kingdom of God, drooling down。
my shirt in a retirement home, or in a roadside。
ditch after a car accident.。
My identity in that moment, it will--。
if it's based on anything that's me, let me tell you something.。
That ship will have sailed.。
And it's coming for us all in the things of this world。
that we would be tempted to build our identity from and on.。
But do you know what will never be taken from you?。
That you are a blood son or daughter of the King of kings.。
What never will be taken from me is。
that I was created in God's image, that He loves me,。
that He sees me, that He knows me,。
that He's got my name written on the palm of His hands.。
And so my season of spiraling, it。
was there to get me to recalibrate。
what actually matters.。
And that is that Jesus loves me.。
And that's enough.。
And that none of what I do for God is anything other than just。
thank you that you gave me that opportunity and back。
to the serious business of being lost in your presence,。
of being lost in your love.。
The weekend I finished writing the book that。
has the message in it I'm sharing with you,。
18 months of spiraling, then the next several years。
of condensing and catalyzing those lessons in your book。
form, the very weekend I finished。
writing that book, The Rough Draft,。
I called my dad to tell him about it.。
Called my dad every day.。
Talked to him every day.。
He was my best man at my wedding.。
He was my best friend.。
He was a champion to me.。
In the very same week I finished this book,。
Blessed Are the Spiraling, my dad。
called me to tell me he had been diagnosed with stage 4。
pancreatic cancer.。
And one year to the day of his diagnosis,。
my dad, skin and bones, he struggled。
to say his last words before he went home to be with Christ.。
He got to go with me to the last Passion Conference。
in the Mercedes-Benz Arena when Agnes Day broke out.。
And we all sang about the holiness of God。
for 17 minutes or something like that.。
He was there in the room when it happened.。
He was so sick with chemotherapy.。
And the cancer was eating his lungs and his liver。
and his pancreas.。
And he was freezing and had his hoodie on.。
And my dad was dying.。
On his deathbed, he spoke one last time.。
He did it three times.。
He would open his eyes and his hand would open and close。
and open and close.。
And he would say over and over again, wow, wow, wow.。
Wow, wow, wow.。
And I didn't know my dad, who taught me how to ride a bike,。
who gave me my first Bible, who taught me。
how to treat a woman with God's love and kindness,。
told me when you go on a date for the first time,。
you start that date with prayer.。
Invoke God's name, His presence in that car, in that date.。
I did it.。
My dad, who had taught me how to do so many things,。
how to drink my coffee black like a man does,。
always take the lid off because it tastes better。
with no lid on that coffee.。
He would spill his coffee everywhere.。
His car was filthy.。
Driving down the road like a psychopath。
with coffee spilling.。
My dad, who taught me all those things,。
was teaching me how to die.。
Wow, wow, wow.。
So no matter what pain you go through on this earth,。
just keep the actual prize in your mind.。
The end of your spiral staircase spiraling up,。
one shaky step at a time, at the end waiting for you。
is not something, but someone.。
His name is Jesus, and He always leads His children in triumph.。
And so Father, we thank you for being。
the author of Seasons of Spiraling,。
having written every word to the story to bring us back to you,。
to bring us back to you.。
If you're here and you would say in one of these moments,。
you would say, I'm spiraling today,。
but I choose to believe I'm spiraling up in Jesus' name.。
Could I just ask you to raise a hand up?。
Just raise your hand.。
Torch live every single heart, every single life.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
Thank you.。
Touch my friends.。
Give them courage.。
Give them peace.。
Thank you for the confession with eyes closed, hands up.。
But I pray for grace in a moment。
to ask for prayer from someone in their life。
to pray for them and give them love and show them courage.。
Bless your people now.。
You put your hands down.。
If you're here and you've not trusted Christ。
and you need to be saved, your works, your goodness,。
your being kind can't save you.。
Only the blood of Jesus shed for you on the cross,。
his resurrection, his life in you can save you。
from your sins, can give you that promise of heaven,。
can give you all those three things Jonathan Edwards talked。
about and more.。
If you're here and you've never trusted Christ,。
I'm going to pray a prayer.。
I want you to pray it with me.。
This is a prayer I prayed at 14 to give my life to Jesus.。
This can be your prayer tonight to God。
if God's brought you into this moment for such a time as this。
to save you in his kindness, secure you。
forever because of his love.。
I want you to pray this prayer with me.。
For the benefit of those praying,。
we as the church family are going to pray this out loud。
together with you to show we're with you,。
proud to be with you in this decision.。
Pray this prayer out loud.。
Mean it in your heart.。
God will hear you.。
Church family, let's pray it together.。
Dear God, I know I'm a sinner.。
I can't fix myself.。
But I believe you can because of Jesus, because of the cross.。
I repent.。
Ask you to forgive me.。
Thank you for the cross.。
Thank you for the resurrection.。
Make my heart your home, my song your throne.。
In Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
