(soft music)。
- So awesome to worship with you guys.。
And I know Fort Worth, you just finished singing praises。
to God in Houston and wherever you're at,。
I pray that you would just start this message。
before we dive in, acknowledging God and His sovereignty,。
a creator of the heavens, the earth,。
and just that He's a good God。
and He's involved and active in our lives.。
And it's fun to sing of His praises with you.。
And it is a great honor to do so.。
Great to be with you tonight.。
If you would turn in your Bibles,。
if you brought them to 1 Samuel 17, 1 Samuel 17,。
we're talking about the man after God's own heart tonight,。
David, David was a shepherd, David was a king,。
shepherd turned king, and David fought Goliath。
here in chapter 17.。
And so if we're going to talk about David and Goliath,。
what more appropriate than to start with a fighting story?。
And unfortunately, I have a few to choose from,。
but I'll start with the kind of first fight。
I had ever gotten in or been in.。
And it started at Red Lobster, okay?。
This guy had been talking trash about me behind my back。
and I had caught word and me and my boys。
were at Red Lobster and he was there。
with his grandparents, right?。
And who's gonna fight in front of their grandparents?。
And so I walk up to him and I did what any coward would do.。
And I pushed him against the walls。
like in front of his grandma, man.。
I mean, what is wrong with me?。
And don't let the pink shirt fool you, man, I'm thug.。
And so I'm just like, hey, you got something to say?。
And he's just kind of like looking at his grandma。
and then he gets in the car.。
I'm like, that's what I thought, you know?。
And that was that.。
And so then he went to a different school than me.。
And so I'm at a basketball game at his school, okay?。
I'm on his turf, his territory.。
And this is after the little Red Lobster skirmish.。
He, at halftime of this basketball game,。
he walks out to center court right there in the circle。
and he calls me out of the stands。
and he looks at me and he's like, you know,。
and I'm like, oh man, I think he's upset.。
And so after the game, you know, he comes up。
and he's got a few things to say。
and I'm like, okay, it's gonna go down, you know?。
And that's cool because I had taken Taekwondo.。
I was like at least a yellow belt and stuff.。
And so it was like the scene in a movie.。
It was nighttime, we go in the back,。
we're on the blacktop, the asphalt,。
and there's hundreds of people around。
from his school, of course,。
and so they're chanting his name, I'm like, okay.。
And I'm thinking like, just truth be told,。
I'm thinking, I'm gonna kill this kid, okay?。
'Cause he's a little guy, he was short,。
I'm six foot seven, you know,。
I was this height in high school,。
and I'm like, I'm gonna kill this kid.。
I'm like, where are you at, you know?。
About to Daniel LaRusso this guy.。
And so anyways, he, you know, the crowds part。
and he comes forward and I'm just like, I'm ready, you know?。
And he kind of feints back like he's gonna punch me。
and then he goes to wraps me up。
and I'm just cocky, I'm just like,。
I had slipped off my Doc Martin sandals,。
I'm ready to do work.。
And I just remember saying this in his ear,。
I'm like, dude, you're not gonna slam me, you know?。
And then right about then he slammed me.。
And he just started, boom, unloading on my face.。
And it dawned on me, oh, we're really gonna fight.。
Up until now, I was like, we just wrestle, you know,。
it was all fun and games.。
I didn't know this was really gonna go down like this.。
And so I'm staring at the street light,。
the street light's like flashing like a camera flash。
every time I get punched by his fist.。
And it was terrible.。
It was like, I got slaughtered by this dude.。
Like just completely annihilated.。
I was so humbled by this guy.。
It was the worst, it was such a terrible day.。
And you know, and it just not how I thought。
it was gonna go, you know?。
I thought it was gonna go different than that.。
And as I think about that experience,。
I had trusted in all the wrong things.。
Like I had trusted in my strength,。
I had trusted in my stature, my size, my height.。
And I had placed my faith in the wrong things。
and it failed me.。
And anytime you place your faith in you,。
it's not going to go well, well for you.。
And I'm not saying that if I would have only,。
you know, stepped up to the, you know,。
the ring trusting in God, that would have went a lot better.。
No, had I trusted in God,。
I would have never been in that situation.。
Had I placed my faith in God,。
I wouldn't have been in the situation to begin with.。
But because I had placed my faith in myself。
and it manifested in this gross arrogance,。
it didn't go well for me.。
In fact, it humbled me.。
And as I think about Christianity today,。
I think so many of us walk around。
throwing around this word faith,。
like we have it in God。
and really we just have it in ourselves.。
Like God, we trust you and really we trust our jobs,。
we trust our money, we trust our savings,。
we trust our relationships,。
we trust our strengths and our abilities.。
And really what we pray for are things。
that would allow us not to trust you.。
God, give me comforts.。
Give me the easy life.。
Give me everything I want。
so that I wouldn't need to trust you,。
I wouldn't need faith in you, God.。
So trusting in yourself has two outcomes。
that I wanna talk with you about this evening.。
One is fear and the other is false confidence.。
When you trust in yourself,。
you are left with fear or false confidence.。
Let me just illustrate this for a second。
and ladies, I'll rope you in。
to the old fighting illustration, if you will.。
And so if you trust in your looks,。
if you feel like you're the prettiest girl,。
you're gonna have a false confidence.。
You've trusted in what is fleeting,。
you've trusted in something that's going to go away.。
But when a prettier girl comes,。
then all of a sudden you become fearful,。
you feel threatened.。
Okay, so it either leads to a false arrogance。
or a false confidence or it leads to fear。
because you've put your faith in the wrong thing.。
And this is what I think marks American Christianity,。
us placing our faith in the wrong thing.。
And so tonight we're talking about the results of faith.。
We're gonna look at the faith of Goliath,。
the faith of the Israelites。
and the faith of the man after God's own heart, David.。
To define faith, it's defined this way,。
complete trust or confidence in someone or something.。
Complete trust or confidence in someone or something.。
When you have that complete trust。
in the things of this world,。
if you've built it on fleeting things,。
it falls out from underneath you like a trap door.。
Sooner or later it leaves you devastated,。
disappointed, discouraged, wanting.。
But if you placed your faith in something constant,。
it never fails you.。
It's always there for you.。
If we can learn this this evening,。
this is a life changer,。
it's a game changer for the way that you live.。
And I think this story really teaches it.。
And so I'm gonna give you two examples of misplaced faith。
and one of a correctly placed faith。
before you leave here this evening.。
And so David and Goliath is a historical account.。
It happened about 1024 BC,。
so about a thousand years before Christ shows up on the scene。
it happened in a real place, the Valley of Elah.。
I was just there, I drove right by this little area。
just south of Jerusalem where this fight went down.。
Two hills, valley in between,。
that's where they're at right now.。
David, a lot of times the storybooks。
kind of picture him as a little boy.。
He wasn't a boy, he was 18, not 20,。
not old enough to fight in Saul's army yet, but a man.。
So he was probably 18 or 19 years old, David, in this story.。
He's the son of Jesse and we know he has brothers.。
This is the real true Cinderella story.。
People love this story.。
The History Channel continues to retell stories。
about David and Goliath.。
They talk about how his sling。
could have actually killed this man.。
They've tested it.。
They brought in an expert, a sling expert of today。
who tosses a rock, not a slingshot like this,。
but two straps and a place to hold the rock。
that you spin around like this and you release it.。
And this is still something that some areas practice.。
They still hunt with these things evidently.。
And so in chapter 16, it's this incredible picture。
where Samuel, the prophet Samuel shows up.。
Saul is king, Saul looks like a king.。
Saul is what everybody thinks of when they think of a king.。
And then there's this child, this new man,。
this 18 year old David who's a shepherd in the field。
and the prophet Samuel comes and anoints him as king.。
He says, it's not your older brother,。
it's not your older brother, it's not your older brother,。
no, it's you, David, you're gonna be king.。
And what David does is an incredible act of humility.。
He goes back to being a shepherd.。
He tends to the sheep.。
He goes to be Saul's armor bearer.。
He carries the king's armor.。
He plays the harp for the king.。
He's a servant to the king.。
God says, you're going to be king.。
He says, great, today I'll be a servant.。
Would you have the courage,。
would you have the humility to do that?。
If God shows up and says, hey, you're gonna be king,。
would you be like, well, when?。
Let's get that show on the road.。
Or would you be like, great,。
today I'll take the lowliest position possible。
and I'll serve people.。
And so now in chapter 17, it starts like this.。
I'll be in verse two.。
Saul and the Israelites assembled and camped。
in the valley of Elah and drew up their battle line。
to meet the Philistines.。
The Philistines occupied one hill。
and the Israelites another。
and the valley was in between them.。
So the Philistines, they're the sea people。
who occupied the land of Canaan.。
This was a land that was promised to God.。
These are wicked, vile people.。
They worship many gods, but their main God was named Beel。
where we get the word Beelzebub or Satan.。
Okay, Satan or Beel and Asherah,。
would, they would have God sex, I guess.。
Okay, and this is, they practiced this kind of gross form。
of sexuality, a grotesque form of sexuality.。
It marked these people.。
Think modern day Satan worshipers.。
That's who the Philistines were.。
Okay, they would picture Asherah。
as this kind of well-endowed naked woman。
over a bunch of bloody skulls.。
It's gross, it's evil, it's wicked, it's dark.。
That's who these people were.。
And they had bronze.。
Okay, so what that meant is basically they had。
the nuclear weapons of this time.。
They had an advanced military technology。
that was not available to everyone else.。
And so not only were they gross warriors,。
they were also incredible.。
They had an incredible military.。
That's who these people were.。
Verse four, a champion named Goliath, who was from Gath,。
came out from the Philistine camp.。
This word champion is very important.。
When you see it, I want you to circle it in your text.。
It comes from two Hebrew words,。
one for man and another for go between.。
This word champion is for the man who goes between,。
and I'll tell you why in just a second.。
His height was six cubits and a span.。
That's around eight feet to nine feet, six inches.。
He's a giant, okay?。
He is a literal live giant.。
He made a bronze helmet on his head。
and wore a coat of scale armor of bronze。
weighing 5,000 shekels.。
On his legs, he wore bronze greaves。
and a bronze javelin was slung on his back.。
His spear shaft was like a weaver's rod。
and its iron point weighed 600 shekels or 15 pounds.。
His shield bearer went ahead of him.。
This dude's got somebody whose only job。
is to carry his shield so that he doesn't get hit by stuff.。
Can we just agree that's the worst job in the world?。
Can you think of a worse job?。
And he failed miserably on this account.。
And so, Goliath shouted.。
He stood and shouted to the ranks of Israel,。
"Why do you come out and line up and battle?。
"Am I not a Philistine?。
"And are you not the servants of Saul?。
"Choose a man and have him come down to me.。
"If he is able to fight and kill me,。
"we will become your subjects.。
"But if I overcome him and kill him,。
"you will become our subjects and serve us."。
Then the Philistine said,。
"This day I defy the armies of Israel.。
"Give me a man and let us fight each other。
"that we're champion."。
It's this winner-takes-all mentality.。
I will fight on behalf of my whole army.。
Send a man, let's duel, and the winner takes all.。
Let's go.。
And he's calling them out.。
This is the equivalent of your mama.。
What are you gonna do about it?。
Nothing, that's what I thought.。
Mic drop, get over it.。
He's just talking madness to these guys.。
And so my first point this evening。
is arrogance is misplaced faith.。
Arrogance is misplaced faith.。
Cockiness, confidence in yourself is misplaced faith.。
See, Goliath was, he was as courageous as David.。
We think, well, this story is about courageous David.。
Goliath is just as courageous as David.。
Maybe more courageous.。
Like, he's there before David ever shows up on the scene.。
He's like, "Send me any guy, your strongest guy,。
"your biggest, baddest, fastest guy.。
"Send him to fight me."。
He's very courageous.。
But his courage comes from the wrong place.。
His courage comes from his faith and his stature,。
his faith and his strength, his faith and his possessions,。
his faith and his technology.。
He's big, he's tall, he's strong.。
He has 125 pounds of bronze on him, this text tells us.。
The tip of his spear weighs 15 pounds, this text tells us.。
He has a man who carries his shield.。
Some modern commentaries would tell you。
that Goliath is an underdog.。
Like, the text is trying to tell you that he's an underdog.。
This text goes into great detail in the Hebrew。
to make one point to you.。
Goliath is a bad warrior of a man.。
He, by logical, worldly standards,。
is absolutely not the underdog.。
He is the favored victor here.。
That's Goliath.。
And so his arrogance comes from trusting in his own ability.。
He has a cocky courage.。
Proverbs 16, 18 says that pride goes before the fall.。
And the Bible goes on over and over,。
this is what I want you to hear me.。
The Bible goes on to tell you over and over。
that people who trust in themselves are enemies of God.。
That people who do what they want,。
they live for themselves, they trust in their own abilities。
are enemies of God.。
And I think for so many of us, we're like Goliath.。
Like, we say we have a faith,。
but we live our lives by our own abilities,。
our own strengths, our own degree, our own relationships,。
those who we know, those are the things we worry about,。
those are the things that we obsess about.。
And the Bible says, the Scripture says,。
this book teaches us that God has distributed talents to you。
not for you, but for him, so that you would plug。
into his body and those talents would come alive。
as you serve others in the name of God。
and you serve God with those talents.。
That's why you were created.。
If you're not doing that, you are missing out。
on your purpose of life, you are living without a purpose.。
Let me say it more strong.。
You are wasting your life if you are not doing that.。
You are wasting your life.。
And so let me ask you a question,。
what is the source of your confidence this evening?。
Is it a degree?。
Is it who you know?。
Is it a drive in you?。
Is it, it's like entrepreneurship, is it your looks?。
Is it the way you look?。
Is it your physique, the way you work out?。
Is it your income, is it your car or your possessions?。
Is this where your faith comes from?。
Is this where your confidence comes from?。
Is it your strength, your popularity?。
Is it your address?。
Is it your family's name?。
If it is anything but God, you've missed it.。
Those things don't define you.。
You're a child of God, the creator of the heavens。
and the earth, 100 years from now,。
that's the only thing that will matter.。
And so I think we're like Goliath。
in that we seek to trust in our stature。
and our strength over our savior.。
See, the enemies of the Christian faith,。
they have to trust in their abilities.。
They have nothing else to trust in.。
All they're left with is their degree.。
All they're left with is their education.。
All they're left with is their abilities,。
that part of their resume that say skills and abilities.。
That's all they got.。
But you, Christian, you have something。
much greater than that, much more incredible than that.。
Goliath, he's an enemy of God.。
He was prideful in something other than God.。
And when you become prideful about something,。
you are playing in the enemy's territory。
when you are prideful of something other than God.。
And so the question for us is today,。
who are the enemies of God?。
Who are those people, the groups out there。
that gather around and say,。
"We are prideful over something other than God,。
"over the one true God.。
"We find identity in other things.。
"We practice other things.。
"We work in other ways.。
"We do other things."。
Who are those Goliaths today?。
And how do we lovingly, winsomely, kindly,。
but courageously stand in opposition。
to those who stand in opposition to God?。
His culture always has and always will。
until Jesus returns, mocked God.。
James 4, 6 says, "God opposes the proud,。
"but gives grace to the humble.。
"He favors the humble."。
If you're here in your pride,。
for you stand in opposition to the creator。
of the heavens and the earth.。
When you trust in fleeting things, you face failure.。
When you put your faith in fleeting things,。
you face failure.。
Verse 11, "On hearing the Philistines' words,。
"Saul and all the Israelites were dismayed and terrified."。
And he goes on to say that David,。
he's the youngest son of Jesse,。
and Jesse was from Bethlehem in Judah,。
telling you that Christ, Jesus Christ,。
comes from the lineage of King David.。
Jesse had eight sons.。
He was very old.。
And his three oldest sons followed Saul to war.。
That was Eliab, Ben-Hadad, and Shammah.。
They're at war.。
And it says, "For 40 days," verse 16,。
"For 40 days the Philistine came forward。
"every morning and evening and took his stand."。
This 40 days is the time of judgment in the scripture.。
It rained in Noah's time for how long?。
40 days.。
Jesus was tempted in the desert for how long?。
40 days.。
And for 40 days, Goliath, the Philistine,。
stands in opposition to God's army.。
It is a time of judgment for God's people.。
And so Jesse comes to David and says,。
"Hey, I want you to go check on your brothers."。
He says, "Hey, I want you to take grain。
"and bread and roasted corn and ten cheeses。
"to the commander of their unit."。
He's the cheese boy.。
That's who he is.。
He's coming and bringing them hors d'oeuvres.。
That's what David, he's like, "You want some gouda?"。
That's what he's doing.。
And so David leaves the sheep with a shepherd。
and goes where the armies are lined up.。
Verse 22.。
"David left his things with the keeper of supplies.。
"He ran to the battle lines。
"and asked his brothers how they were."。
He's like, "You want some refreshments?。
"A concession stand, evidently."。
"As he was talking with them,。
"Goliath, the Philistine, champion from Gath,。
"stepped out from his lines。
"and shouted his usual defiance."。
And David heard it.。
"Whenever the Israelites saw the man,。
"they all fled from him in great fear."。
Now, the Israelites had been saying,。
"Do you see how this man keeps coming out?。
"He comes out to defy Israel.。
"The king will give great wealth to the man who kills him.。
"He will also give him his daughter in marriage。
"and will exempt his family from taxes in Israel."。
This text says this three times.。
Okay, whoever will kill this guy,。
he gets the girl, okay?。
He doesn't have to pay taxes, right?。
He has all of these things.。
He goes on to being royalty, right?。
It's a sweet deal.。
He gets money, he gets the girl,。
and he doesn't have to pay taxes still today,。
a very sweet deal.。
And so David hears this.。
He's like, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, what?"。
He asks, he's like, "Hey, tell me this again.。
"What are you saying?。
"What, like, you gotta be paid。
"to stand in opposition to that。
"and stand in opposition to God?。
"Hold on, tell me again what's gonna happen?。
"Are you serious?"。
In verse 29, I'm sorry, verse 28.。
"When Eliab," that's David's oldest brother,。
"heard him speaking with the men,。
"he burned with anger at him and asked,。
"'Why have you come down here?。
"'And whom did you leave those few sheep in the wilderness?。
"'I know how conceited you are。
"'and how wicked your heart is.。
"'You came down here only to watch the battle.'"。
Isn't it interesting that David's faithfulness。
is misunderstood as arrogance?。
This is gonna happen to you.。
People are gonna say, as you choose not to do wrong,。
as you choose to worship the one true God,。
they're gonna say, "Why are you so arrogant?。
"What, do you think you're better than us?。
"No, no, no, why are you judging us?。
"What are you talking about judging?。
"I'm not gonna do that.。
"I don't need to go do that.。
"Why are you so arrogant?"。
That's what, this is gonna happen.。
His faithfulness is seen as arrogance.。
Verse 29, "Now what have I done?"。
David said, "Can't I even speak?"。
"He then turned away to someone else。
"and brought up the same matter。
"and the men answered him as before."。
What's gonna happen?。
You're telling me that this guy gets the money,。
no taxes and the girl?。
"What David said was overheard and reported to Saul。
"and Saul sent for him.。
"David said to Saul,。
"'Let no one lose heart on account of this Philistine.。
"'Your servant will go and fight him.'。
"Saul replied, 'You are not able to go out。
"'against this Philistine and fight him.。
"'You are only a young man。
"'and he has been a warrior from his youth.'"。
And so I told you the first thing。
is when you trust in yourself,。
when you have faith in yourself,。
it can appear as arrogance.。
It can also appear as something else, fear.。
Anytime you put too much faith in yourself,。
it can be fear.。
It's this simple equation that is,。
if you look at the situation,。
you look at what you have,。
if you have more than what the situation calls for,。
you have a false confidence.。
If you have less than what the situation calls for,。
you have fear.。
Okay?。
This is a simple math.。
This is faith placed in the wrong thing.。
My second point is fear is misplaced faith.。
Fear, the emotion of fear is misplaced faith.。
It's like, what, what, what?。
Will I be single forever?。
What if I never make that much money?。
What if I get laid off?。
What if I am not good enough?。
What if I don't have what it takes。
to get through that situation?。
What if your God does?。
What if your God is so big that he speaks things。
and they happen?。
What if he numbered your days?。
What if he ordained everything that's gonna happen to you,。
everything you're gonna walk in?。
What if he's enough?。
What if that?。
What if he's so powerful that he can move you。
through death back to life?。
That you can live in paradise with him。
forever and ever and ever。
so that your little worries in this world,。
these little things that you face,。
they're not that big for him.。
What you see as a giant is not a giant for him.。
Or it's his giant.。
The Israelites are terrified.。
Saul is terrified.。
And in simple logic, they should be.。
If they're operating in the logic of this world,。
they should be terrified because they see a giant.。
But if they're operating in the world of the supernatural,。
a God who created everything,。
why would they even think of being afraid?。
Say, oh, that's a giant.。
Man, my God is so much bigger than a giant.。
Oh, that's a warrior.。
But my God, that's my God's warrior.。
He controls everything.。
Why would I even think about being afraid?。
Oh, no, my senses, my common senses tell me to be afraid.。
But my supernatural heart tells me not to fear anything。
but God himself.。
This would be what some of us would do, right?。
We'd be afraid.。
We'd be like, hey, come here, guys.。
Let me tell you why you shouldn't fight Goliath.。
No, he's really big and he's got bronze.。
And this is why God would not want you to do this.。
And David's like, hey, give me a rock.。
Any stones around here?。
I'm tired of this guy mouthing off, man.。
I gotta take care of this.。
Hey, come here, David.。
Let's sit down and let's apply some logic to this situation。
because I've been looking at Goliath and he's big.。
He's like nine feet tall or something。
and you're not very big.。
And he's got a sword and you don't.。
And man, let's just talk about this for a minute。
because I don't know that this is。
what God would want for you.。
Hey, you talk about it.。
I'm gonna go get a rock.。
The only thing necessary for evil to prevail。
is for good people to do nothing.。
The only thing necessary in your lifetime。
for evil to win is for good people to do nothing.。
And friends, I want you to know that。
Goliath is not the problem here.。
Unbelieving people are the problem here.。
Goliath is not the issue here.。
Unbelieving people, that's the issue here.。
Goliath is no problem for God,。
but God's plan has always been to work。
through the faithfulness of others.。
And so if there's no one there willing to be faithful,。
that presents a problem for God's plan.。
Goliath isn't the issue.。
People sitting on their rear ends,。
not wanting to do anything but pursue their comfort,。
that's the issue.。
Giant ain't the issue.。
Us pursuing the American dream。
and American Christianity, that's the issue.。
Giants aren't the issue.。
And so what's the bigger disgrace?。
Goliath's blaspheming or Israel's unbelief?。
I've heard it said that courage cannot exist。
unless fear is present.。
Unless fear is there, there can't be courage.。
I will tell you for Christians,。
unless faith is there, there can't be courage.。
Unless we believe in something greater than ourselves,。
we cannot act out of courage.。
Because if we did, it wouldn't be courage,。
it would just be cockiness.。
It would be false arrogance.。
It would be strength and trust in our own abilities。
and God determines the outcome.。
God topples giants.。
You may think you're good enough.。
You may think you have money.。
You may think you have a palace.。
You may think you have everything that the world wants。
and he can shake it loose like a trap door。
out from underneath you.。
And you're less devastated。
because you placed your faith in the wrong things。
and I've seen it happen with my own eyes。
over and over and over again.。
And it's gonna happen to some of you here.。
It's gonna happen to some of you.。
You're gonna leave here, you're gonna hear this message。
and you're gonna be like,。
I know, I'm gonna be the exception, man.。
Like a trap door.。
It's gonna fall out from underneath you.。
May it never be.。
And so let me ask you two questions.。
Two questions.。
I want you to think about 'em.。
What do you fear?。
What do you fear?。
(coughing)。
The second question.。
Why?。
Why do you fear it?。
What are you afraid of?。
I get discouraged because I've noticed。
that mature Christians seem to grow uncourageous.。
Like the Israelites in the story.。
Some people, the longer they know God,。
they learn more about him.。
The less courageous they become,。
they get so much wisdom.。
It's like, I don't think we need to do anything there.。
That's a giant.。
And I've noticed, 'cause I've done this for a little while,。
that a lot of times it's the brand new believers.。
Like, I just trusted in Christ,。
why didn't anybody tell me this?。
He died for my sins, he came back from the death,。
what do I have to be afraid of?。
Hey, where is hell and where is a water gun?。
'Cause I'm going, you know, like those guys, right?。
I've just noticed this, that sometimes those people。
are the most courageous and others are like,。
no, I've wised up, I grew up in Sunday school, man,。
you don't wanna do that, hell is hot.。
You know?。
And I don't know why, it bothers me.。
It bothers me.。
I think sometimes we're growing towards God。
and our faith is getting smaller and smaller。
and smaller and smaller.。
We've believed some lie in this American dream。
that God wants me to be comfortable。
and he doesn't really want me to get uncomfortable.。
And I can just take it easy and be in church。
and Sunday school and everything's gonna be okay。
and Jesus comes back and I get to go to heaven。
and it's all good.。
Yeah, but you wasted your days, man.。
Like, what did you do with your life?。
I think we read this story。
and we think, man, this was David's moment.。
Like, David knew, like, this is a dream situation,。
David's gonna fight the giant and he gets to show people。
that he's courageous, David wasn't courageous.。
Okay, let me say something.。
If you say he is, that's fine, I won't disagree with you。
and that's fine, but I'm just gonna say,。
to make this point,。
and I believe it's true, David wasn't courageous.。
He was faithful.。
David did what David had always done.。
I'm just gonna trust God, guys, as a giant.。
I mean, I've been trusting God my whole life,。
it's kinda worked out for me.。
Like, every day I apply faith。
and in this situation it's no different,。
I'm just going to apply faith.。
I'm gonna have the courage to do right。
and the courage not to do wrong, okay?。
This guy's doing wrong, I'm doing right,。
this guy's doing wrong, I just have faith。
that God doesn't like that dude,。
that big dude talking about him,。
so I'm just gonna step up and give God a chance。
to use me if he wants to,。
but I'm just going to have faith, okay?。
This was an everyday, normal faith for David,。
it's the way that he lived,。
and so you can ask yourself the question,。
what is God asking you to do today that requires courage?。
And if you think of something specific, that's great,。
what is God asking you to do today that requires courage?。
And here's what I'm saying, everything!。
Live, that you would walk by faith,。
that you would put yourself in situations。
where you need to be rescued,。
that God would have to intervene,。
that you would live so courageously, so boldly,。
so very, very different than what you've seen。
from your friends in America who call themselves Christian,。
you would be radical, you would say,。
I'm going against the grain for the name of Jesus,。
not just to stand out, to draw attention to me,。
but to shine a light on him,。
to show the world who he is and how amazing he is。
and what he's done for me.。
I just got back from vacation.。
I didn't get a Palm Beach TAN membership,。
no, I've been on the beach with my family,。
it's been incredible, and we go somewhere once a year,。
and this was that once a year,。
and great time, man, on vacation.。
Didn't really check emails much.。
You sit back about two days,。
it takes kind of for the Lord to calm my heart,。
and then I'm there, and on vacation you get pampered,。
you know, it's just like the meals are taken care of,。
and there's not a lot of thinking,。
not a lot of planning, not a lot of responsibilities.。
And what happens is about day four or five,。
my heart gets really used to it.。
And I start, I've been this really familiar to me,。
I'm like, man, maybe I could have a shack on the beach,。
man, like maybe this is what we should do,。
like where would my kids go to school?。
Yeah, I bet we could make that work.。
Maybe like a surf stand or something.。
Some of my, no, I just kind of want to take it easy,。
you know, like this is, I like the pace here.。
A little slower.。
Man, I didn't worry about anything today,。
I mean, just like, this is okay,。
and I start living in that, I start daydreaming,。
I start thinking, man, maybe I don't have to go back.。
Maybe I can just take life easy and coast.。
And it's like this internal war in me,。
because that raises up,。
and I kind of begin to feed that thought.。
Like some of us feed fears, whatever we feed grows, right?。
And I begin to feed that thought,。
and that thought grows and it grows and it grows,。
and then praise God, I wake up.。
Oh man, I want to change the world.。
Send me back to Dallas and give me a rock.。
And a couple thousand young adults.。
Let's do work, man.。
There's Goliaths in our midst,。
and I don't want to waste my life.。
I don't want to get up to heaven。
with a collection of seashells, man.。
Okay, that's not what I'm after, that's not the dream.。
That what's so interesting about that whole story。
is my greatest fear,。
if I was to be as vulnerable with you as I can,。
my greatest fear in life is that I would waste my life.。
That I would get to the end of this race。
and it didn't matter, there would be nothing.。
No one saved, no one in heaven because of the way I lived.。
No eternal significance whatsoever,。
no treasure stored up there with God, nothing.。
Fleeting things, bricks and mortar that will crumble.。
Collections, seashell collections.。
That's my greatest fear,。
and yet that's the war inside of me when I taste it.。
I don't want that for me,。
and I don't want that for you,。
'cause it ain't the Christian life.。
The Christian life is take up your cross and follow him.。
Live on mission, be a light.。
Tell others about the way that they can live forever。
and ever and ever and ever with God.。
Oppose evil, stand in opposition to that。
which stands in opposition to God courageously.。
Share truth, the life-changing truth of the gospel.。
But we don't do that when we see Goliath.。
We do that every day.。
The day before I left for vacation, I went to the gym。
'cause I was gonna have my shirt off,。
and that's what you do is you go to the gym.。
But I worked out legs, so that breaks down a little bit.。
So I went to the gym, worked out legs,。
and I don't work out legs ever.。
And so on this particular day I did, and it was hard.。
And here's what I learned is my legs are embarrassingly weak。
like really, really weak, okay?。
Like people are laughing at me in the gym.。
Like toothpicks under a squat bar are weak.。
Like that's me.。
And the reason is is because as I said,。
I never work out legs.。
And if you never exercise something, it's weak.。
You don't exercise your faith when you see a Goliath.。
You use the faith you exercise every day。
when you see Goliath.。
Do you hear me?。
You can't just say, okay, now I see a Goliath,。
let me use my faith.。
No, every day you use your faith。
so that when you see Goliath, it's just normative.。
I'm just gonna put my faith into practice, let's do work.。
And so stop partying and do something with your life.。
Stop wasting your life and use it.。
Verse 34, "But David said to Saul,。
"your servant has been keeping his father's sheep."。
Saul's like, you can't do this.。
He's like, yes I can.。
I've been a shepherd.。
"When a lion or a bear came and carried off a sheep。
"from the flock, I went after it.。
"I struck it and I rescued the sheep from its mouth.。
"When it turned on me, I seized it by its hair.。
"I struck it and killed it.。
"Your servant has killed both the lion and the bear.。
"This uncircumcised Philistine will be like one of them。
"because he has defied the armies of the living God."。
And you might be tempted to think here that,。
well, David's kind of arrogant.。
I mean, he's boasting in his skill。
against the lion and the bear.。
And he's like, man, this, you know,。
same thing I did to them, I'm gonna do to this Philistine.。
He's boasting in his gifts and his strength.。
Let me, hold on, let me show you verse 37, the next verse.。
"No, it's the Lord who rescued me.。
"It's Jehovah Jireh, Jehovah Nisi, El Shaddai,。
"the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob,。
"the creator of the universe who came in and rescued me.。
"And the same God who rescued me from the lion。
"and the bear is going to rescue me。
"from this uncircumcised Philistine。
"who defies the armies of the living God."。
My God's got me.。
And I love that he says he rescued me.。
I needed to be rescued.。
How humble is that?。
I was in a situation, I consistently put myself。
in a situation that if God doesn't show up,。
I'm lunch for a lion.。
If God doesn't rescue me, this evil will overpower me。
but he will rescue me.。
The Lord who rescued me from the paw of the lion。
and the paw of the bear will rescue me。
from the hand of this Philistine.。
Saul said to David, "Go and the Lord be with you."。
It looks like he has a faith.。
"Go and the Lord will be with you," but he doesn't.。
Now come back, let me dress you in my tunic。
and my coat of armor and bronze helmet.。
And David fastened on his sword over the tunic。
and tried walking around because he was not used to them.。
Saul's like Goliath, he has faith in his stuff.。
"I cannot go in these," he said to Saul,。
"because I'm not used to them."。
So he took them off and then he took his staff in his hand,。
chose five smooth stones from the stream,。
put them in a pouch of a shepherd's bag。
and with his sling in his hand approached the Philistine.。
You might be tempted to say here,。
"Well, if you really had a faith,。
"why did he grab five stones?。
"Why didn't he just grab one stone?"。
And I love this in the text, it's a historical account.。
Grab five stones, that's why it's here, grab five.。
And he doesn't know how God's gonna use it.。
Like I could go one further and be like,。
"Well, if he really had a faith,。
"why would he grab any stones?"。
'Cause he just went to throw in blows。
or something out there, like, "Why does he need any rocks?"。
You know, if you really have, and here's the deal,。
he's saying, "Hey, I don't know how God's gonna do this.。
"I'm gonna go prepared and I'm gonna trust。
"that God is going to intervene in my efforts,。
"in my preparation.。
"It's gonna be his power working through me.。
"But I'm gonna look at the situation。
"and I'm gonna take what I need,。
"what I think I need in my human logic。
"and trust that God's gonna intervene and help me.。
"And so in case one misses or two misses,。
"I don't know if God's gonna use the fourth stone。
"or the third stone, I'll take five, let's go."。
(congregation laughing)。
Meanwhile, the Philistine, with his shield bearer。
in front of him, #dirtyjobs, kept coming closer to David.。
He looked David over and saw that he was little more。
than a boy, glowing with health and handsome,。
and he despised him.。
He said to David, "Am I a dog that you come at me with sticks。
"and the Philistine cursed David by his gods.。
"Come here," he said, "and I will give your flesh。
"to the birds and the wild animals."。
I think he's angry.。
David said to the Philistine, "You come against me。
"with sword and spear and javelin,。
"but I come against you in the name of the Lord Almighty,。
"the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have defied.。
"This day the Lord will deliver you into my hands。
"and I'll strike you down and cut off your head.。
"This very day I will give the carcasses。
"of the Philistine army to the birds and the wild animals,。
"and the whole world will know that there is a God in Israel.。
"All those gathered here will know。
"that it is not by sword or spear that the Lord saves,。
"for the battle is the Lord's,。
"and he will give all of you into our hands."。
As the Philistine moved closer to attack him,。
David ran quickly toward the battle line to meet him.。
Reaching into his bag and taking out a stone,。
he slung it and struck the Philistine on the forehead.。
The stone sank into his forehead。
and he fell face down on the ground.。
So David triumphed over the Philistine。
with a sling and a stone,。
and without a sword in his hand,。
he struck down the Philistine and killed him.。
He had his faith in the right place.。
The third point, faith placed in God always prevails.。
Faith placed in God always prevails.。
Faith is complete trust or confidence。
in someone or something.。
David had complete faith,。
complete trust or confidence in God.。
David's faith was in someone who would never disappoint.。
He's called a man after God's own heart.。
If you don't know what that means,。
Acts 13, verse 22 tells us,。
says that God says about David,。
"He will do anything that I ask of him."。
How great is that?。
God says, "I look down,"。
could you imagine if God says that about you?。
"I look at her and I say,。
"'She will do anything that I ask of her.。
"'She'll do anything that I ask of her.。
"'He'll do anything that I ask of him.。
"'He's gonna steward money the way I ask him to.。
"'He's gonna date the way that I ask him to.。
"'He's gonna pursue purity the way that I ask him to.。
"'He's gonna pursue sobriety the way that I ask him to.。
"'He does everything that I ask him to.。
"'He's faithful, she's faithful.。
"'Everything that I ask of her, she does.。
"'They work as though they are working for me, not for man.。
"'They do everything that I ask of him.'"。
2 Chronicles 16, verse nine says,。
"For the eyes of the Lord reigns throughout the earth。
"to strengthen those whose hearts。
"are fully committed to him."。
He looks down, he says,。
"Hey, I wanna fight some Goliaths today.。
"Whose heart's mine?。
"Whose heart do I have?。
"Who do I wanna use?"。
In 1999, around the same time。
I'd gotten that cowardly little skirmish,。
there was a shooting in Columbine High School.。
Two guys came in with weapons and pipe bombs and guns。
wanting to wreak havoc on the school,。
and specifically they targeted Christians.。
They were upset, confused young men.。
They went up to a girl named Rachel Scott,。
a known Christian on the campus.。
They shot her in each of her legs。
and shot her in her torso.。
And then they asked her again,。
"Are you a Christian?" with a gun to her head.。
And she looked them in the eyes and she said,。
"You know that I am."。
By an eyewitness account who was there.。
And they shot her.。
And they said, "Then go be with him."。
And what happened out of that was the Rachel Scott movement,。
the gospel moved throughout public schools,。
all throughout our nation.。
It continues to do so.。
The movement even from '99 gains momentum.。
And I remember Christians in that day saying,。
"Man, I wish somebody would do that to me,。
"put a gun to my head, ask me if I'm a Christian.。
"And show I'm, I'll show that, you know."。
I'm like, "Yeah, I'm a Christian."。
Why don't you show them today。
without a gun to your head?。
And they're like, "Oh man, there was a Goliath here,。
"you know, give me a slingshot."。
Well, how about the way you date?。
How about what you find identity in?。
How about the way you party?。
How about how you spend your weekends?。
How about your thought life, your obsessions?。
You're so courageous.。
I wanna courageously change the world,。
but I don't wanna courageously change myself.。
Right, I want the faith to change the world,。
but I don't have the faith to change myself.。
Right?。
God is looking for someone who has the courage。
to do the right thing and not do the wrong thing.。
Sometimes it takes more courage not to do the wrong thing。
than to do the right thing,。
but he's using someone who practices their faith.。
On this account, David had the faith to fight a giant,。
but David had a low point in his career.。
It's when he lacked faith.。
He put faith in his desires.。
It's 2 Samuel chapter 11,。
when he saw someone by the name of Bathsheba,。
and he took another man's wife and he slept with her,。
and it was David's downfall.。
It was the beginning of the end for King David。
because he lost that faith.。
He lost sight of that faith,。
and he trusted something other than God.。
Verse 51, but on this day, he was victorious.。
David ran and stood over him.。
He took hold of the Philistine sword。
and drew it from the sheath.。
After he killed him, he cut off his head with the sword.。
Good night, kids.。
When the Philistines saw that their hero was dead,。
they turned and ran.。
When the men of Israel and Judah surged forward。
with a shout and pursued the Philistines。
to the entrance of Gath and to the gates of Ekron,。
the dead were strewn along the Shurim road。
to Gath and Ekron.。
Don't you see what's happening, friends?。
This story is about a man。
who fought on behalf of his people.。
It's Goliath, the champion, the man who goes between,。
says, "Hey, I will fight on behalf of my army。
"and a type of Christ."。
David, the shepherd, shows up,。
someone who's from his lineage.。
Jesus is gonna show up on the scene.。
David steps up and says,。
"Oh, you want to represent all things evil.。
"I'll represent all things God,。
"and you're going down.。
"I will fight on behalf of God.。
"I will fight on behalf of his people."。
And one man defeated evil.。
This is Jesus.。
It's the gospel.。
Jesus is the champion.。
Goliath was always the underdog.。
Goliath was born to die in this battle.。
It's why he existed.。
God created him to be defeated in this moment.。
He was never, he never had a chance because he opposed God.。
No one will ever have a chance opposing God.。
No one wins in opposition to God.。
They do not ever win.。
The most powerful force in the world。
will always prevail over that evil.。
And it happened on the cross about 2,000 years ago。
when all of the sins, the very sins you felt guilty for。
over the past 45 minutes went on Jesus Christ,。
the man who went between,。
the man who stepped in the gap,。
and he was crushed for your sake.。
He was the king.。
And so today you live by faith in him.。
You walk by faith in him.。
I know he died for my sins.。
I know God raised him from the dead.。
What do I have to be afraid for?。
What's the worst thing that could happen to me?。
Death?。
No, you get to go through that.。
It's a paradise.。
God's kingdom.。
This is the story of Jesus.。
This is the story of the gospel.。
Hebrews 12, two and three says,。
fixing our eyes on Jesus,。
the pioneer and perfecter of faith.。
For the joy set before him endured the cross,。
scorning its shame,。
and sat down at the right hand of the throne of God.。
Consider him the champion, the one who went between,。
who endured such opposition from sinners。
so that you will not grow weary and lose heart.。
And so check this out.。
We step onto the battlefield with the trophy in our hands,。
with the crown in our hand.。
The victory is ours.。
We fight from a position of victory。
that the battle over sin has already been won。
through Jesus Christ.。
Pornography does not win in your life.。
That abortion will not get the best of you.。
Drunkenness does not consume you through the grave.。
Jesus paid for it.。
You can stop finding identity in men and relationships.。
You can stop spending money。
like you're going to fill that void in your heart.。
You can stop finding identity in your image,。
who you know, what you do, where you work, what you drive.。
It's been paid for.。
It's been purchased.。
You live forever with God.。
You have a go between a man who stood in the gap。
and fought on your behalf.。
Let me pray and we'll worship him.。
(pastor sighing)。
Father, thank you for example of Christ.。
Would you stir in us a courage。
that comes from a trusting in you completely,。
not when there's a gun to our head or a giant in our midst,。
but when we wake up in the morning,。
when we go to bed tonight, when we drive home.。
Help us not to give the enemy our thought life.。
Help us to take captive our obsessions,。
the thoughts that circle in our head。
that feed fears and arrogance and false confidence.。
Father, if you need to take things in our lives。
that distract us from you。
so that we would be greater servants of you,。
so be it.。
What a scary prayer.。
What a terrifying idea.。
But if you need to take relationships,。
if you need to take money,。
if you need to take positions,。
if you need to take things that we trust in instead of you。
so that we would trust in you, so be it.。
But God, be merciful.。
Would you mercifully help us to trust in you completely?。
Would you become greater, God,。
so that we might become less?。
I don't know what you're afraid of, man.。
I know the only thing you have to be afraid of is God.。
The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom.。
And that God is crazy about you.。
He is ridiculously, madly in love with you.。
I bet the farm on that truth.。
I bet everything I've gone all in on that truth.。
I'm asking you to.。
He's like, what do I gotta do to show you that I love you?。
You want me to give my son on your behalf?。
Done.。
Done, game over.。
Died for everything you've done。
so that you don't have to pay for it.。
So if you trust in that,。
you can be with him forever and ever and ever.。
What do you have to be afraid of?。
And can I tell you something else?。
You're not that good.。
You're not that good.。
You don't have what it takes.。
I'm not trying to beat you up.。
I'm just saying the things that you trust in, man,。
they're gonna fail you one day.。
And if they're the only things you trust in,。
you're going to face despair and depression and devastation.。
And I just, I love you guys.。
I'm just tired of having that conversation.。
I'm tired of talking to one more rich, young ruler。
who trusted in all the wrong things.。
They're handsome and they're beautiful.。
And they got great degrees and good jobs。
and they just found themselves。
where they just can't stop being sad.。
Like, oh man, I know why you're sad.。
You trust in the wrong things.。
You trust in things that are gonna disappoint you.。
Of course you're sad.。
But I know someone that's not gonna disappoint you.。
Someone that's eternally fixed.。
Someone that is eternally strong.。
Eternally wise.。
Someone who loves you.。
Someone who's numbered your days.。
Someone who's always gonna be with you.。
Someone who's never gonna disappoint you.。
That when you find yourself all alone,。
you're not alone, they're with you.。
Someone you can trust in completely.。
Someone, the only one, who can carry you through the grave。
from death to life, into eternity, into paradise,。
into his kingdom forever and ever and ever and ever and ever。
and you're not going to be the first one。
in the history of history to pursue the world and get it.。
And what does it forfeit a man to gain the whole world。
yet forfeit his soul?。
What does it give a man or a woman to do that?。
Don't be crazy.。
Pursue Christ.。
He's enough.。
He's yours.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
