Hey Porch, join me as we read God's word together from the。
gospel of Matthew chapter 14 verses 22 through 33.。
Immediately he made the disciples get into the boat and。
go before him to the other side while he dismissed the crowds.。
And after he dismissed the crowds he went up to the mountain。
by himself to pray.。
When evening came he was there alone but the boat by this time。
was long away from the land beaten by the waves for the wind。
was against them.。
And in the fourth watch of the night he came to them walking on。
the sea.。
But when the disciples saw him walking on the sea they were。
terrified and said it is a ghost.。
Then they cried out in fear but immediately Jesus spoke to them。
saying take heart.。
It is I.。
Do not be afraid.。
And Peter answered him Lord if it is you command me to come to。
you on the water.。
He said come.。
So Peter got out of the boat and walked on the water and came to。
Jesus.。
But when he saw the wind he was afraid and beginning to sink he。
cried out Lord save me.。
Jesus immediately reached out his hand and took hold of him。
saying to him oh you of little faith why did you doubt.。
And when they got into the boat the wind ceased and those in the。
boat worshipped him saying truly you are the son of God.。
Now our sixth message in our series called Disciple.。
Porch how we doing?。
We doing OK tonight?。
Man it's always great to be with you.。
Great to see you.。
Special shout out to our Porch Live locations all over the。
nation that are tuning in with us tonight and a special special。
shout out to Porch Live Fort Worth and Tulsa and Scottsdale.。
Love what God's doing there and grateful that we get to be a。
small part of it.。
Well earlier this year I was convinced into attending a。
George Strait tribute concert.。
And I say convinced because it's not that I don't love George。
Strait.。
I do love George Strait and I wasn't sure that anyone less than。
the king of country would actually suffice for this。
concert.。
You see I had grown up listening to all of George's music in the。
back of my granddad's pickup truck driving through East Texas。
singing his music out loud.。
I'd seen George perform live several years ago at the Houston。
Rodeo and I had seen just how great he actually was in。
concert.。
So the idea of a cover artist concert really didn't excite me。
all that much.。
It left me a little bit reluctant and yet I decided you。
know what hey let's go for it.。
So we're at the concert.。
It's an outdoor venue.。
We're setting up our lawn chairs.。
We're getting ourselves we're getting ourselves accommodated。
whenever the emcee comes up and the emcee announces to us the。
artist that's going to be performing and begins to give us。
some of the credentials to support the fact that they're。
really quite the act.。
Credentials like they were the number one international George。
Strait tribute band in the world which is quite the claim。
because as I've done some study in the music impersonation。
business there's a big difference between being a cover artist。
and a tribute artist.。
I don't know if you know this.。
I didn't know it and yet the differences are this that the。
cover artist is one that performs a wide variety of music。
whereas a tribute artist focuses singularly on the music of one。
specific artist or band.。
So while a cover artist may perform a song really well it's。
the tribute artist that proves they actually know the individual。
behind the song themselves.。
And our George Strait tribute artist proved he knew everything。
about George Strait because when he came out on stage he walked。
like George and he talked like George and he sang like George。
he played like George and he looked like George.。
I was I was confronted by the fact that this guy had to have。
spent several hours studying George Strait.。
Like as I process it I wonder to myself like how long has he sat。
watching game tape of the way that George moves on stage or。
how long has he actually spent listening to George's music so。
that way he can actually understand all of the unique。
inflections in Mr.。
Strait's voice or how much money has he spent on the George。
Strait collection at Cavendish.。
You know what I mean.。
Like this guy is fully invested into the person of George。
Strait like he had mastered every mannerism of George like。
he was the guy that could tip his hat at the appropriate part。
of the song so that way the crowd knew he was singing not。
just to a broad room but to very specific individuals.。
He would rest his arms on the top of his guitar as he would。
break into chorus.。
He would smile that big Texas smile to warm everybody's hearts。
to him that way he could thank them for their applause.。
He was in that moment of time in that particular place with all。
of those people George Strait.。
Like by all accounts he was the closest thing we could get and。
many people didn't even realize he wasn't the genuine article.。
Like people came up to him at the end of the show and they。
were asking for autographs and wanted to get selfies and having。
him sign merchandise and he would tell them I'm not the。
real guy I'm just a tribute artist and yet people would go。
nuts anyways because he was so indistinguishable from the real。
thing.。
You see he may not have been the king of country himself but he。
sure looked a lot like the king regardless.。
Why do I tell you that?。
Because that's actually a really good picture of discipleship。
except instead of looking like George we're supposed to look。
like Jesus.。
Like we should look like Jesus and live like Jesus and love like。
Jesus and walk like Jesus and talk like Jesus and think like。
Jesus and speak like Jesus.。
We should literally look like Jesus ourselves.。
But here's my fear Porch.。
I think so many of us are really good cover artists of Christ but。
we're really bad tribute artists of Christ.。
Like we know some of his hits.。
We know to love our neighbors and read our Bibles and come to。
church and help out the elderly and make sure we keep our。
manners and give some money whenever the collection plate。
comes across.。
We know some of his hits and yet we also know that we like some。
of the other hits in the world.。
We really like the idea of turning it up on the weekends。
and we really like that one about pushing some physical。
boundaries with our boyfriend or our girlfriend.。
We really enjoy making sure that we're identifying with our。
accomplishments or finding validation how much money we。
make or what people actually think of us.。
You see we know some of Jesus's songs and we even like to play。
them from time to time.。
But we prove by the way we live our lives that we don't actually。
know the artist as well as we think.。
We prove that we're just cover Christians instead of true。
genuine tributes to the one and only king.。
So how do we change it?。
Well that's what we're talking about tonight.。
So you have a Bible you can turn with me in Matthew chapter 14.。
That's what Carrington read for us and so that's what we're。
going to work through over the course of our time together.。
We've been in a series called Disciple where we've been asking。
the question what does it mean to actually follow Jesus Christ.。
You see so many of us in this life we want to be connected to。
something greater than ourselves.。
We want to live a life of lasting impact.。
We want to experience really deep joy and have meaningful。
connections with other people.。
We want to live in such a way that we ultimately feel。
fulfilled where we grow into something greater.。
We're shaped into something significant.。
We're molded into something meaningful.。
Do you want this?。
I want this.。
Like this is what I want in my life and what we know is that。
the argument from the Bible is that God wants it too.。
Like God wants this for you in the way he intends to bring you。
into this sort of experience is he wants to make you like Jesus。
because Jesus is the epitome of everything I just described.。
It's becoming like Christ not just behaving like a Christian。
but actually becoming like Christ that we find the kind of。
life all of us want to find.。
And so tonight I want to do the hard work of talking to you。
about what it means to actually become like Jesus and the way。
that we're going to do it is we're going to look at the way。
that Peter interacts with Christ over the course of this。
passage and we're going to see Peter take a really big step in。
the process of becoming like Christ.。
And I think in watching his step we might find a step for。
ourselves.。
So we're going to pick it up.。
Verse 22.。
This is what it says.。
"Immediately he made the disciples get into the boat and。
go before him to the other side while he dismissed the crowds.。
And after he had dismissed the crowds he went up on the。
mountain by himself to pray.。
When evening came he was there alone but the boat by this time。
was a long way from the land beaten by the waves.。
The wind was against it and in the fourth watch of the night he。
came to them.。
He was walking on the sea but when the disciples saw him。
walking on the sea they were terrified.。
They said it's a ghost and they cried out in fear.。
But immediately Jesus spoke to them saying take heart.。
It's I.。
Do not be afraid."。
So just a little bit of context that we need before we dive into。
the rest of this story.。
Jesus and the disciples they have just feeding the five。
thousand and what we know is on the hills of this grand feast。
that they served is popular opinion is that he is unanimously。
loved.。
Like everybody that was a part of this giant meal wants to make。
Jesus king which is a really reasonable response.。
You know he just foot the bill for you and several thousand of。
your best friends.。
I think we'll keep him around.。
And yet that's not a part of Jesus' plan whatsoever.。
That's not what he came to do.。
And so what he decides is okay let me grab my disciples.。
Let me put them on a boat.。
Let me send them across the Sea of Galilee.。
They will go ahead of me and I'll settle the crowd down.。
I'll make sure people they come to a place of peace.。
Now I'm not actually going to be made king and then I'm going to。
pray and then I'll depart.。
I'll catch up to my guys along the way.。
While Jesus is doing all of this we see the disciples.。
They're sailing across the Sea of Galilee and what we know is。
that they sail directly into a windstorm which is a really bad。
idea.。
It says that they're on their way and that it's the fourth watch。
of the night.。
In the Jewish in the Jewish worldview there were four watches。
in the night.。
The fourth being the last mean that they are somewhere between。
three and six a.m. in the morning.。
And if you read John's John's gospel account what you know is。
that there are three to four miles in route.。
Meaning they have spent a long time rowing into the wind and。
they don't have much to show for it.。
So how do you think they feel the same way you feel if ever。
you've tried to run up a descending escalator.。
You feel frustrated.。
You're weary.。
You're exhausted.。
You're tired.。
You're wondering to yourself why did I even choose to do this.。
That's what they're thinking and they actually have an answer as。
to why they chose to do this.。
They chose to do this because Jesus said so.。
So they're not just discouraged that this is really difficult.。
Now they're disappointed because the guy that's supposed to have。
their best interest in mind is the one that has led them into。
the worst possible scenario.。
So why would Jesus do it?。
Because he wants to make them like him.。
And Jesus knows that complicating our lives will。
cultivate our growth.。
That's what Jesus does.。
Like he will complicate our lives to cultivate our growth.。
And he's not crazy for doing this.。
Like we do this all the time.。
I don't know if you ever went to sports camp growing up.。
Maybe a cheer camp or chess camp or band camp.。
I can't really speak for those.。
I didn't go to those.。
And yet when you go to a sports camp what you know is you have。
to learn a very select set of skills in a very short amount of。
time.。
And so the goal of your coaches is to help you adopt some。
specific expertise with very little time to make that thing。
happen.。
And so I don't know how your coaches did it for you but I。
remember going to basketball camp and my coaches they did so。
very creatively.。
They decided in order to teach me to dribble with my left hand。
that they would tie my right arm behind my back and they would。
put blinders under my eyes so I couldn't see the ball.。
Which made a mess of an experience for me.。
Right.。
But I looked ridiculous.。
Sure.。
The ball was rolling all over the place of course.。
And yet you know what never occurred to me.。
My coaches hate me man.。
Like they don't have my best interest in mind.。
No.。
Like that never occurred to me.。
I knew my coach just wants me to learn to use my left hand and。
praise God I did.。
I learned how to use my left hand.。
How?。
Because my coach complicated my life to cultivate my growth.。
Jesus does the same thing.。
Now to be clear.。
Jesus does not cause evil.。
He does not condone sin.。
He will occasionally orchestrate our circumstances to promote our。
individual growth.。
That's the way that he works.。
If you want to learn more.。
The first chapter of James really verses 13 through 17 it'll give。
you a really good explanation of how Jesus does this.。
And yet what we know is that Jesus will introduce momentary。
complications in life to produce a meaningful transformation of life.。
Like he wants to make us more like himself.。
Which is a really fascinating idea to think about.。
Okay.。
Cool.。
Like he's going to lead me into adversity.。
He's going to produce some resistance to help me grow.。
Really fascinating to think about.。
Really frustrating to live through.。
Can I get an amen?。
Exactly.。
I know for so many of us you're, you're sitting in a situation, the。
likes of which you can't plausibly understand why you're still struggling。
within it.。
Like you're in the middle of a situation that, man, it just doesn't。
make sense.。
Even on God's own standard.。
Like you work harder than everybody else in your department.。
And yet for whatever reason, you're always the one that goes unnoticed.。
That never gets promoted.。
That's never afforded a bonus.。
Like others of you, you've been faithfully preparing yourself for。
marriage.。
Like you have been pursuing personal purity and yet you're still stuck in your。
singleness.。
Others of you, you're trying so hard to move past whatever it was that took。
place in your history.。
And yet no matter how hard you try to move on, it seems like the shame and the。
guilt and the pain of what transpired back then continues to creep into the。
here and now.。
Some of you, like you're trying to be so consistent in managing your money.。
Like you're being a good steward of the resources that God's given.。
And yet bills continue to pile up.。
Some of you, you're so kind to everybody.。
Like it doesn't matter who it is.。
You're like a golden retriever.。
You'll make a friend out of anyone that's within a six foot radius of you.。
And yet whenever the weekend rolls around, everyone is someplace that you're not.。
You see, I know some of you are struggling with some things I couldn't begin to。
understand.。
Things that make no sense whatsoever for God to let continue.。
So then why does he let these things continue?。
To prove that no matter how high the waves rise, Jesus still walks above them.。
That no matter how high the waves rise in your life, your Jesus, your King,。
still walks above them.。
John 16, 33 says, I have said these things to you that in me, you may have peace.。
Notice, where's your peace found?。
It's in him.。
It's not the job.。
It's not in a relationship.。
It's not going to be found in some personal acceptance.。
Your family finally getting their act together.。
It's not found in anything else but him.。
In the world, you'll have tribulation.。
Some of your versions say trouble, but take heart.。
I've overcome the world.。
Like it's interesting.。
It isn't until they're a long way from land, they're beaten by the waves.。
It's the fourth watch of the night that Jesus finally comes to his disciples.。
Just think about it.。
In this moment, like the waves couldn't be stronger.。
Like the wind couldn't be louder.。
The night couldn't get darker.。
And yet it's in this moment right now that you choose to show up, Jesus.。
Like, why did you wait this long?。
Why didn't you show up sooner?。
Why have you waited until the worst possible moment?。
Because it's through the strength of the storm that he wants to clarify who he is.。
It's through the strength of the storm that Jesus wants to clarify who he is.。
Namely, that he's more than a ghost.。
That that's actually a really poor identification of who he is.。
You see, Jesus is going to say something pretty powerful about himself.。
He does so in this story because by the end of it, he's going to identify himself for the very first time in the eyes of the disciples as the one and only son of God.。
But we also know in the other gospels, he's trying to declare something significant about himself by walking on the water.。
If you go and you read this same story, it occurs in three different gospels.。
But if you go and you read the story in the gospel of Mark, something fascinating happens.。
It says that Jesus sees his disciples and yet he meant to pass them by, which feels really inconsiderate.。
Like, come on, man, don't you see us struggling out here?。
Like, why are you trying to move past us?。
Why does he mean to pass them by?。
Well, if you know your Old Testament, he's alluding to something really significant.。
He is intending to take his disciples back to these defining moments in the lives of two very special men.。
He wants to take them back to a defining moment in the life of Moses and in the life of Elijah, where the glory of God passed both of them by.。
That's what Jesus is wanting to do in walking on this water.。
He means to pass by his disciples to demonstrate to them.。
This isn't just a cool party trick.。
No, it's a demonstration of my deity that I am God, that I am not just the son.。
I'm the son of man.。
Yes, but I'm the son of God as well.。
He wants to elevate their view.。
He wants to elevate ours in a way that it's never been before.。
Here's the thing. It's because of the storms of life, not despite them, that he's able to do it.。
It's because of the storm that he's able to do it.。
So, friends, listen, maybe your frustration is just an invitation to know him more.。
You thought about that, like maybe the frustration you feel, whatever your hurt or hang up is, maybe your situational difficulty is just an invitation from Jesus to know him more, which is really vital in the process of becoming like him.。
Like it's kind of Christ to look at you and me and say, hey, before I make you more like myself, I want to show you more of myself.。
I want you to get a full picture of who I am.。
That way you can know just how full a picture you will become.。
This is an amazing thing.。
And so he's using the storm to prove to us just in fact who he is.。
He will complicate our life because he ultimately wants to cultivate our growth.。
And so he does this with Peter.。
He takes Peter to a place where ultimately he is making him more like him.。
But he doesn't just take him to a place.。
He's also going to ask some things of Peter in that place.。
And that's what we see in verse 28.。
It says, "And Peter answered him, Lord, if it's you, command me to come to you on the water.。
And he said, come.。
And so Peter got out of the boat and he walked on the water and he came to Jesus."。
Like, I love it.。
In the face of this storm, Peter is needing to clarify exactly who Jesus is, despite the fact that they're boys, like they're really close, like they're best friends.。
Like Peter knows Jesus really well by this moment.。
And yet Jesus is doing something so significant, so category shattering, that Peter's looking out into the winds and the waves.。
He's like, "Is it really you?"。
Like, that's what Jesus is doing here.。
Like, he is defying the normal expectations that the disciples have of him by walking on this water.。
So a little bit more Old Testament trivia.。
In the Old Testament, the sea was a common symbol for cosmic disorder.。
Like, it was not a place conducive to things like life and peace and prosperity.。
Like, none of those things existed within the sea.。
The sea was full of danger and chaos.。
Like, it was synonymous, in fact, with the grave.。
It even represented hell in some instances.。
It was feared by all accounts because no one could control the sea.。
No man could control the sea except for God.。
So here comes Jesus walking on the water, doing something that no man should be able to do.。
And in so doing, he's declaring something big about himself.。
That's why Peter can't wrap his mind around what he's seeing.。
Like Job 9, 8 says that the Lord, Yahweh, is the one that tramples on the sea.。
And here comes Jesus doing the exact same thing in front of Peter.。
He is defying all expectation because he wants Peter to know, "Hey, I'm the God-man.。
Like, I'm not just a philosopher.。
I'm not just a teacher.。
I'm not just a miracle worker.。
I am those things.。
Like, yes, that's a part of who I am, but I am the God-man," which is wild.。
Like, God himself, transcendent, became God-contained in the person of Christ.。
That's an amazing thing.。
That's a wild reality.。
But what's also wild is that that God handpicked this group of guys.。
Like, he could have picked anybody, and yet he chose to pick these guys.。
Why is that so crazy?。
Well, in order to understand why it's crazy, you have to know a little bit about the Jewish education system.。
So I'm going to give this to you really simply, very short.。
But the idea within the Jewish education system is that there were three stages of learning.。
If you were a Jewish child, at the age of six, all Jewish children, they would go to this thing called Betsefer.。
Betsefer was the idea of going to school to learn the Torah, and not just learn the Torah, the first five books of the Bible, but memorize the Torah.。
So all Jewish children, they would learn the Torah.。
They would memorize it cover to cover.。
And then whenever they graduated within four years, sometime around the age of 10, they would likely be rolled out from school, and they would go and they would learn their family trade.。
Carpentry, fishing, something of that sort, tent making.。
And yet, if you were really distinguished, like if you really knew your stuff, they would actually, they would promote you to the next stage.。
And the next stage would pick up at the age of 10, and you would go to the age of 14.。
And it was called, it was called Bet-Talmud.。
Bet-Talmud was the idea of not just learning and memorizing the Torah, but learning and memorizing the rest of the Hebrew scripture, which was the Old Testament Bible that's sitting in your lap.。
They would memorize it completely.。
And then, if you were especially distinguished, really good, you knew your stuff, you could actually debate on the topic of textual criticism, you would get promoted to the third stage.。
Now, very few people made it to this stage, to the stage called Bet-Midrash.。
And yet at this stage, what you would find is, is your education would continue, not in a classroom, but under the tutelage of a rabbi.。
And this is why it's significant for us, because whenever you would reach this stage, very few, very few kids would make it to the spot.。
You would be interviewed by your rabbi, like they would assess whether you're actually worthy of walking with them, if you're actually deserving of following them.。
And so they would interview you.。
They would do with these kids the same thing that you have happen whenever you go in for a job interview.。
They would ask you questions and they would check your credentials and they would take you through a technical portion of the interview to assess just how smart you actually are.。
And then if you actually impressed the rabbi, the rabbi might invite you to walk with them.。
They would look upon you and say, come and follow me.。
And the idea of following a rabbi is that you would not just, you would not only adopt their scriptural interpretation, but you would adopt a personal imitation of the rabbi themself.。
Like you would learn everything they know and you would live exactly as they live.。
You would, to bring it into our modern context, become a method actor.。
What's a method actor?。
Someone that not only learns their lines, but really lives the part, you know, like on set, off set, like on screen and off screen.。
They are fully immersed into becoming the character that they're seeking to exhibit.。
So Daniel Day Lewis, he was an amazing disciple of Abraham Lincoln.。
Or Austin Butler, amazing disciple of Elvis Presley.。
Or Heath Ledger, amazing disciple of the Joker.。
You get the idea.。
Like a disciple's goal was to become as much like their rabbi as possible.。
Now, why does any of this matter?。
Because Jesus handpicked his disciples.。
So what kind of disciples did he pick?。
Did he pick guys that, I mean, they were well-versed in the Hebrew scripture.。
Did he pick guys that were the stuff of rabbinical pride?。
Did he pick guys that could just whip anybody in a textual debate?。
No!。
He didn't pick anyone like that.。
Like he picked fishermen and he picked tax collectors and he picked zealots and thieves.。
He picked common, ordinary, really unimpressive and uneducated people to follow him.。
Like in the eyes of the world, Jesus' disciples, they had no business walking with a rabbi.。
And yet in the eyes of Jesus, he wouldn't pick anyone else.。
These were the people that he wanted to walk with him.。
He wanted them to do what every good disciple was meant to do.。
Become covered in the dust of their rabbi.。
To follow him so closely that they would be covered in the dust of every place he walked.。
That they might live exactly as he lives.。
You see, Jesus, he doesn't just want us to learn from him.。
He wants us to live like him, become like him.。
That he is picking anyone and everyone that's wanting.。
You don't need to be impressive.。
Like you don't need to be approvable.。
You just need to be wanting for it.。
Willing to say, I'll go with you, Jesus.。
I will walk where you walk.。
I will do what you do.。
I will speak what you speak.。
I want to follow after you.。
Even if it means walking on the water.。
Because that's our second point.。
Jesus will call us on the water to make us like himself.。
Jesus will call us on the water to make us like himself.。
Like, have you ever thought about this?。
Like Jesus, he never asks us to do anything that's easy.。
Can I get an amen?。
Like Jesus is calling us to walk on the water.。
That's unbelievable.。
And yet everything Jesus asks us to do feels really unbelievable.。
Sell everything and give it to the poor.。
That's tough.。
Take up your cross and follow me.。
That's going to hurt.。
Die to yourself.。
Ouch.。
Love your enemies as yourself.。
Do I have to, Jesus?。
Like he continually asks us to do things that feel so unbelievable.。
I don't know about you, but every command, they're not remotely simple.。
And every time I read them, I'm often filled with this, like, God, why do you。
expect so much of me?。
And yet here's the catch.。
It's not that God expects so much of us.。
It's that he believes so much in us because he believes we can be just like him.。
Isn't that amazing?。
Like he thinks, Hey, I see you and I believe you like a good disciple have。
the potential to become like me.。
So I'm going to ask you to do some things that I am willing to do, but that's so。
unbelievably hard.。
I know.。
But I believe you can do the unbelievable.。
That's the heart of Christ towards us as we walk with him.。
So let me ask you, what's he asking you to do?。
What water is he asking you to walk on?。
Like, is he asking you to end a relationship because it's really unhealthy?。
Like move out because the nature of your relationship is really ungodly.。
Is he asking you to like put in your two weeks because the things your boss asks。
you to do, they're really unethical.。
They're truly immoral.。
Is he asking you to finally share with a friend the way that you're hurting。
yourself and seek some help?。
Is he asking you to confess to someone that you genuinely envy and have slandered。
and seek their forgiveness?。
Is he asking you to give some of the money that you have to support someone else。
that's actually in need?。
Is he asking you to leave the corporate career and actually jump into a life of。
full-time ministry?。
Is he asking you to leave America and go overseas to reach the nations?。
Like what is Jesus asking you to do?。
What water is he asking you to walk on?。
Listen, he's asking you to walk on it because in walking on it, you will become。
more like him.。
That's the nature of what he does.。
Like Peter, he doesn't move until Jesus commanded him.。
But the minute Jesus called him on the water, he bolted.。
Like he went overboard.。
Like he jumped out of that boat and he started walking towards Jesus.。
He was fully obedient.。
Like, even when it doesn't make sense.。
Like to the world, walking on water, it's impossible.。
But with God, walking on water is inevitable.。
We're going to do things that people look at and say, "That doesn't make sense.。
That is totally crazy.。
They must be outside their mind."。
We're going to go places no one else will.。
We're going to do things no one else can because that's what Jesus did.。
Like Jesus went someplace no one else would.。
He moved from heaven to earth to do what no one else could, to die for the sins of。
the world.。
That's your Jesus.。
He is willing to do the unbelievable, to do the imperceivable, to go where no one。
is willing to.。
And he's saying, "I want to make you like that."。
Do you want that?。
Because that's what he's trying to build into you.。
That's what he's trying to mold out of you.。
He wants to make you like himself.。
And yet here's the thing, Porch.。
Doing stuff like this is never easy.。
It's always hard.。
It wouldn't be unbelievable if it wasn't.。
But just think about Peter.。
I guarantee you, I wasn't there, but I guarantee you the hardest step in that。
moment had to have been the first one.。
Like, can you imagine sitting on the edge of the boat and being like, "I don't know。
about this."。
Like, "I don't think I'm gonna be able to stand.。
Like, this is wet, God."。
And yet he's willing to put his foot down and make a move because Jesus called him。
out.。
Like, it's better to be brave on the waves with Jesus than safe in the ship without。
him.。
And so Jesus is calling some of us out of the boat.。
The question is, will we follow?。
Deuteronomy 31, 6 says, "Be strong and courageous.。
Do not fear or be in dread of them, for it is the Lord your God who goes with you.。
He will not leave you or forsake you."。
Now, does that mean that we'll never falter as we follow?。
No.。
Look at verse 30.。
It says, "But when he saw the wind," talking about Peter, "he was afraid and。
beginning to sink, he cried out, 'Lord, save me!'。
And Jesus immediately reached out his hand and he took hold of him, saying to him,。
'Oh, you of little faith.。
I love it.'"。
In the Greek, those four words, "Oh, you of little faith," five words, it's。
actually one word, and it's like a nickname.。
Little faith.。
Jesus looks at him and says, "Little faith?。
Why do you doubt?"。
And when they got into the boat, the wind ceased.。
And those in the boat worshipped him, saying, "Here it is.。
Truly, you are the son of God."。
The first time they ever identify him as such.。
You see, Peter, he's walking on the water, but he breaks his focus from Jesus.。
And the minute he stops seeing his Savior and he starts seeing his。
circumstances, he sinks.。
So, I remember when my wife and I moved to Houston, Texas, which is where we were。
prior to moving here to Dallas, I went into that move with so much anticipation。
because I was stepping into a job that I had been expecting and wanting for for so。
long, I was finally getting the opportunity to lead a ministry and teach the Bible and。
develop teams and help people.。
I was so eager for it.。
And so, we finally make the move, and with the opportunity, I have all of these。
expectations of what's going to happen.。
Like, it's what I've been wanting for so long.。
It's what I thought God had gifted me for, and I thought he was specifically calling。
me into.。
And so, when I made my way to Houston, I came in, like, fully ready to kick butt。
and take names, except the only butt kicked and name taken was my own.。
Like, year one for me in Houston, Texas, in my prior job, was arguably the hardest。
year of my life.。
Like, I encountered some things that I didn't expect.。
I suffered in some ways that I didn't predict.。
I was circumstantially depressed for the very first time.。
For all intents and purposes, it felt like I was sinking, like I was sinking really,。
really fast.。
And so, it was one evening, after we had another gathering, a program that we had。
produced, that I had another one of those, like, "What in the world?"。
kind of moments.。
And I remember driving home at 3 o'clock in the morning, and I was just processing,。
like, what I was living through.。
And I remember, like, banging my steering wheel and just crying out to God, like,。
"God, I don't know what we're doing here.。
Like, why is this so hard?。
Like, I thought this was going to be so good, and yet, God, I've stepped into a。
situation that I can't do anymore.。
Like, I can't do this anymore.。
And so, you're the one that's going to have to do it for me."。
And in that moment, like, it clicked for the very first time that I had actually been。
trying to do everything on my own.。
I had not realized, like, I wasn't walking with Jesus any longer, I was working by。
myself.。
I was trying to teach the Bible, and I was trying to help people, and I was trying to。
organize ministry, and build big structures and systems, and I was trying to make a。
difference and change the world, and I was doing it all on my own.。
And because I was doing it all by myself, I was drowning.。
Until the moment that I finally came to my senses, and I cried out.。
It was in that moment that everything changed, because Jesus will catch us if we。
will only cry out.。
Jesus will catch us if we'll only cry out.。
The Bible's convinced of this.。
Psalm 18, 6 says, "In my distress, I called upon the Lord to my God.。
I cried for help from his temple.。
He heard my voice, and my cry to him reached his ears."。
Psalm 34, 17, "When the righteous cry for help," guess what?。
"The Lord hears, and he delivers them out of all their troubles."。
Psalm 41 and 2, "I waited patiently for the Lord.。
He inclined to me, and he heard my cry.。
He drew me up from the pit of destruction, out of the miry bog.。
He set my feet upon a rock, and he made my steps secure."。
Psalm 116, 1 and 2, "I love the Lord, because he has heard my voice,。
and my pleas for mercy, because he inclined his ear to me.。
Therefore, I will call on him as long as I live."。
Psalm 145, 19, "He fulfills the desire of those who fear him.。
He also hears their cry, and he saves them."。
You see, listen, the issue is not that God never hears our cries.。
The issue is that we seldom realize we actually need to cry out.。
That's the issue.。
We don't understand that God is often waiting for us to cry out that,。
"God, we need it.。
We feel like we've got to put on a strong face.。
We've got to keep up a good front.。
Like, we have to be strong for the sake of those that are under our charge."。
And yet, God's saying, "No, you're not supposed to do anything on your own strength.。
You're supposed to do it with me.。
Don't work for me.。
Walk with me."。
And yet, it took me a year before I realized I was drowning in my job.。
Because that's how it works.。
I love the way this passage reads it.。
Like, it says that Peter began to sink.。
Like, I'd always pictured Peter walking on the water one minute and then falling。
through a trapdoor in the Sea of Galilee the next.。
Like, it felt really sudden, really abrupt.。
Like, it came out of nowhere.。
And yet, that's not what it says.。
Like, it says that Peter began to sink.。
Like, it was a gradual process.。
It's the same as you walking from the shallow end of the pool to the deep end。
of the pool.。
Like, you can feel the water rising.。
That's what happened to Peter.。
Like, the signs of danger, they were all around.。
And some of you know what this feels like.。
Like, some of you have been sinking in your circumstances for a really long time.。
Like, you've been pulled under because your full focus is on fixing your family,。
or finding the one, or making a difference, or living with security,。
or being approved of.。
And yet, as you focus on these things and you forget about Jesus,。
you're just consistently sinking.。
I think God has brought so many of you here tonight because He wants。
to ask you the question, "What are you afraid of?。
What are you actually afraid of?"。
Because here's the case porch.。
You will either walk in faith on the waves, or you will sink in fear beneath them.。
And what you fear will ultimately determine the outcome.。
Like, I think God desperately wants some of you to know that whatever's trying。
to sink your life, it's still under the feet of Jesus.。
No matter how great the storm in your story feels, Jesus still walks upon it.。
He's still the one that considers the water as concrete.。
He moves through it without any difficulty.。
He is completely at ease in the face of your hardship.。
He wants you to know, "I stand upon that which seeks to drown you,。
and you can stand upon it too.。
If only you'll replace your fear with faith in me."。
That's what He's calling of us.。
James 1, 3 through 4, it tells us that we can count on joy when we make trials。
of various kinds because we know that the testing of our faith produces。
steadfastness, and we should let steadfastness have its full effect that。
we may be perfect, complete, lacking in nothing.。
I read that to you because I don't want us to be mistaken that Jesus is just going。
to fix your problem.。
That the minute you cry out, He's just going to resolve the issue.。
He's just going to solve your storm.。
No.。
Like, what we know is that the road to maturity, it's paved with adversity.。
That's what James is saying right here, and that's what we should know as well.。
Like, He wants to make you like Himself, and the way that He's going to make you。
like Himself is He's going to test your faith, not bend to your will.。
So, I remember a few years ago, some dear friends of mine in Brook,。
they lived through the devastation of a miscarriage.。
And it was especially devastating because it was their first time。
ever being pregnant.。
And yet, I remember being so blown away by the way that they navigated this。
particular storm because instead of grumbling against God and raging。
against the heavens, demanding He provide a solution,。
that He fix all their problems, they responded in a way that looked。
so much like Jesus.。
They chose to trust in the character of a God that had proven so many times。
in the past that He loved them, that He was for them.。
And all of their belief in this God ultimately led them to become。
like this God and make a decision that was so characteristic of Christ.。
They named their daughter Eden, which means paradise,。
because they wanted to use her story, tell the tale of her short life,。
that the world may know life is not just found in the here and the now.。
Life is found.。
Paradise is ahead forever and always.。
This is what it means to face the storm, to stand in it,。
not apart from God, but with God.。
It looks like crying out and trusting Him to catch you.。
That's what Peter does.。
Like he cries out for help in this moment.。
And immediately, Jesus reaches for him.。
I love that.。
Immediately, like Jesus is waiting and He reaches as fast as possible.。
And yet here's the thing, Jesus immediately reaches for him.。
He doesn't immediately resolve the problem.。
He doesn't immediately solve the storm.。
Some of us just want that.。
Like we just want a quick fix.。
We just want God to give us what we want and get out of the way.。
And yet Jesus is not saying that that's what He'll do.。
But what He is saying is that He will stand in the storm with you.。
He will reach for you and He will pull you out.。
That's what He does to Peter.。
And what you notice is that the storm doesn't resolve until they get back to the boat.。
Meaning that Peter, he comes back up out of the deep,。
and yet the storm is still raging around.。
Like there's chaos abounding.。
And yet there's total peace within.。
Why?。
Because he stood with Jesus.。
And I love this.。
We don't know that this is true.。
This is a total inference.。
And yet how do you think Peter actually got back to the boat?。
Again, this is just my belief.。
But I think that once Jesus reached and pulled him to his feet,。
they walked back to the boat together.。
Disciple and master, side by side, walking through the waves,。
one becoming like the other.。
So I don't know what the storms of your life look like.。
But what I know is that Jesus will use them to make us like Himself.。
Like He will complicate your life.。
He'll call you onto the water.。
He will catch you when you're drowning because He loves you too much to leave you as you are.。
And the reason I know that is because He was willing to become like us,。
to make all of this happen.。
But that's the story of the gospel.。
Like Jesus, He complicated His own life to cultivate our growth.。
Like He left heaven, He came to earth, and He endured all the trouble of mankind.。
He endured all the iniquity of our sin upon the cross.。
He complicated His life infinitely because He wanted you to grow.。
He wanted you to have life.。
He walked on the waters.。
Like Jesus walked over all the disorder and all the chaos in our life to ultimately make us like Himself.。
He went to the cross.。
He absorbed the consequence of our sin.。
He endured our shame that we might be with Him in glory.。
And what we know is that Jesus, He'll catch us if only we'll cry out.。
Like He rose from the grave that any who call on the name of the Lord may be saved.。
Listen, porch, you cannot become like Jesus until you come to Jesus.。
And I believe that for some of you, He's telling you to come tonight.。
Let me pray for us.。
God, we love you.。
God, I thank you that it's in your heart to make us like yourself.。
Not because you're insecure and egotistical and you need a bunch of little yous running around,。
but because God, you know that the best thing for us is to be as much like Jesus as possible.。
We know that in walking like Christ, in loving like Christ, in serving like Christ, in living like Christ,。
we find all of the joy, all of the meaning, all of the purpose, all of the depth, all of the fullness,。
all of the satisfaction we so desperately long for.。
And I thank you, God, that you're willing to do whatever it takes,。
even lead us into uncomfortable spaces, upon difficult waters,。
and possibly into the depths of our own drowning to make it possible.。
Porch, look at me real quick.。
I think that there are a few responses here for us just on the basis of these three points.。
Number one, Jesus has complicated some of your lives.。
He's trying to cultivate your growth.。
That's you. I think the response is just a prayer of consent, that I consent, God.。
I yield. I surrender. I lay down. Have your way. Do in me what you want to do.。
For others of us, what we need to know is that he will call us on the waters because he wants to make us like him.。
For some of you, it's not consent.。
The response is to come. It's to move into the difficulty, into the unbelievability of whatever he's asking you to make the difficult decision,。
that you might ultimately arrive in his likeness.。
And for others of you, you are drowning in difficulty.。
You are sinking in your circumstance.。
And what you need to do tonight is you need to cry out and say, "God, save me. Save me."。
Because he will reach for you immediately.。
We believe it, God. And we respond to you now.。
Have your way in this space. Move amongst us, we pray. In Jesus' name, amen.。
