(upbeat music)。
- What's up, Porch?。
(audience cheering)。
Thank you, I paid that entire section to be here.。
Guys, it is so good to be with you tonight.。
My name is Josh Thames, and I have the wonderful privilege。
of being on the Porch team over in Fort Worth.。
Welcome to all of you guys here in the room tonight,。
all of everyone listening online.。
Guys, Phoenix, Phoenix started the Porch tonight.。
Welcome, Phoenix.。
They are living in the promised land,。
living in Arizona, and now the Porch is there.。
I'm excited for them.。
Guys, we are in an incredible series.。
I've enjoyed it called Self-Care,。
where we have taken a dive into a biblical look。
into what does it mean to care for our mind, soul,。
and our body, and tonight, tonight,。
we are talking about a subject。
that I am really passionate about.。
I'm really passionate about it.。
This is what this has looked like for me.。
We're talking about what it looks like。
to care for your body, a biblical perspective。
on how to care for your body,。
and this has been something you guys need to know。
that for 25 years of my life that I didn't do right.。
Like for 25 years, I was pretty sure。
that my body was just about me,。
and I sought affirmation really in two ways.。
The first way was this, in just the way that I looked.。
I sought affirmation in the way that I looked.。
I was really excited about being fit from here to here,。
or really in the way that my body。
could perform as an athlete.。
That changed for me.。
Four years ago when I came here,。
and friends of mine, Bobby and Becca,。
asked me to jump into a ministry called Well.。
And in that ministry, we spent, myself and others,。
spent 12 weeks taking a deep dive into God's word,。
and what does it have to say about our bodies.。
And it changed my life.。
I began to learn for the first time。
that my body was not my own,。
that it was given to me by God,。
and instead of for my glory, actually for his.。
And so at the end of 12 weeks,。
not only was I more physically healthy,。
there was a healthiness between me。
and my relationship with God, just personally,。
as I began to see what that looked like.。
And here's why I'm excited about it.。
Really, there's two reasons.。
And the first one is this,。
is I don't think that we have done an excellent job。
talking about this subject.。
I mean, it, in a lot of ways, is kind of taboo.。
I mean, we'll talk about pornography,。
and we'll talk about drug addiction and alcohol abuse,。
but talking about our bodies is just something。
that I frankly don't think we have done。
an excellent job about.。
And then the second reason is this,。
is that each one of us has a relationship with this topic.。
Each one of us has a relationship with the topic。
of how to care for your body,。
because each one of us has a body.。
Every person in here.。
So this is, whether or not you've thought about it well,。
or you haven't, each one of us has a body,。
each have a relationship with how we view,。
treat it, and care for it.。
And so here's the thing.。
I think our culture is telling us。
there really seems to be two extremes.。
Two extremes here in our view of the body.。
One extreme is like, hey, you're obsessed with working out。
and making your body look a certain way, right?。
Hashtag fit fam, or motivation.。
This is not motivation, it's demotivating.。
And then the other camp is this.。
The other camp is really like,。
hey, you just like love for you for you, you know?。
Like, the way you're made is great.。
Like get somebody like self-love,。
curves of the new beautiful, right?。
You can't body shame me.。
There seems to be like really two camps here.。
And I don't know if you may end up on one of those extremes,。
but it just seems the problem with both of those。
is that they center around us and not around God.。
And you're gonna be like,。
well, I don't land in either one of those extremes,。
but I do think that if you pay attention tonight。
that there's things inside of God's word。
that are going to help you。
in how you view and care for your body.。
God cares that we are healthy.。
He cares about our fitness,。
but I think differently than the way you and I care.。
We're gonna be taking a look at what the world says。
about this topic, what the world says,。
what the word says, and then how to,。
how to care for our bodies。
in light of what God's word has to say.。
And so if you have your Bibles,。
you guys can open those up to 1 Corinthians.。
1 Corinthians 6 verses 19 and 20.。
This is Paul writing to the church in Corinth.。
And so it should be up here on the screen。
and I'll read it to us.。
He says this, "Or do you not know。
that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you,。
whom you have from God?。
You are not your own,。
for you were bought with a price.。
So glorify God in your body."。
In context, Paul is warning against the use of our body。
in sexual sin, but he says some pretty crazy things here.。
He says, one, that our bodies are a dwelling place。
for the Holy Spirit.。
And then that our bodies are not our own,。
they're actually God's.。
And because they are God's,。
our bodies are meant to bring him glory and not us.。
My first point this evening is this,。
the world says to worship our bodies as God.。
And when I say worship, I don't mean。
what just happened here with the lights low。
and our hands up high,。
but what I mean by worship is to love, admire,。
and to care for something very, very much,。
and to make something that God in your life。
is to mean your world centers around it.。
Right, that it's kind of everything to you.。
The world is telling us to worship our bodies as God.。
I mean, it's almost as if everything around you。
is telling you that what you look like is everything.。
We see this, it doesn't take long to see this play out.。
TVs reinforce this, movies reinforce this,。
pornography reinforces this,。
the billboards that we drive by reinforces this,。
fitness blogs and models are literally making a living。
because of the way that they look.。
Our world is telling us to worship our bodies as God.。
And we also say that if we worship,。
if you worship your body good enough,。
we're gonna worship you as God.。
You don't believe me, I'll prove it to you.。
Anyone in here know the name Harrison Schmidt?。
Harrison Schmidt, anyone?。
Harrison Schmidt was the last man to walk on the moon.。
Like there's been 12 total people,。
Harrison Schmidt being one of them。
that ever have walked on the moon.。
You have to imagine that as he's walking around up there,。
you know, like I don't know how that like looked,。
it had to have been amazing, you know, he's like,。
I can't wait to be a household name.。
Like I'm never paying for a meal or drink。
for the rest of my life, right?。
Yeah, I'm gonna be a household name.。
People are gonna name their kids after me.。
It's going to be amazing.。
You know what is a household name?。
Kim Kardashian.。
Gotcha, yeah, why?。
Because of how she looks.。
But I mean, she hasn't done anything like amazing,。
she hasn't created something,。
she's not like flipping houses down in Waco.。
I mean, literally because of the way that she looks,。
we know her, right?。
So in like the famous club, who's gonna be famous?。
Who's gonna be a household name club?。
They're like, walk on the moon, meh, got a big butt.。
Yep, you're in, right?。
I mean, it's crazy.。
It's crazy the world that we live in.。
We were literally saying, hey,。
if you worship your body as God,。
good enough, I'm gonna worship you as God.。
It's craziness.。
It's craziness and it's affecting all of us.。
We're buying into this way of thinking.。
Cosmetic surgeries are up 200% since the year 2000.。
Surgery, surgeries that are enhancing the way。
that you look and enhancing your physical features。
have become normal today.。
They've become normal.。
What we choose to post on social media shows us this.。
Like, I'm gonna post that 'cause I look great, right?。
What we choose to not post on social media proves this.。
We are buying into the lie that we are meant。
to worship our bodies as God.。
Here's another thing.。
Another way I know this for a fact is when you go,。
a lot of us are hiring personal trainers。
and I don't know if you guys have ever,。
some of you may have not,。
but when you, there's a classic question they ask you。
which is, "Hey, what are your goals?"。
And it's like, "To be hot?"。
Right?。
Six pack would be good.。
How much would an eight pack cost me?。
Right, I mean, it's one thing.。
And so what I'm trying to do here is to show you。
that it is clear that in God's word,。
the temple being our bodies that he's talking about,。
which is a place where we go to worship.。
Instead of worshiping in this place,。
the world is telling us to worship the place,。
the temple itself.。
Instead of worshiping in the temple,。
we are worshiping our bodies.。
If you invest into your body,。
you're investing in something that's depreciating.。
Like it's going away.。
Like gravity wins, people.。
Like, I don't know if you know this.。
I had a friend tell me this recently.。
He said, "Hey, when you wanna think about。
"what you're gonna look like when you get older,。
"like don't pick up a magazine.。
"Like go to like an old photo album。
"and find like your grandma.。
"Like that's where you're headed."。
Right?。
That's where you're headed.。
And it'd be if in 2013, your friend said,。
"Hey, you know what?。
"We should all invest all of our money into Vine."。
Which now as we know, 2019 is like extinct, gone.。
People, you investing in your body, caring for your body.。
Wait, if you do that, if you make that your world,。
if you make that what your world is centered around,。
you're investing in something that is depreciating.。
Here's the thing, we are left empty and insecure.。
Because whether you have decided you're going to work hard。
to make your body look a certain way,。
or you've found a way to rationalize inside your mind,。
like, ah, just like doesn't matter what I look like.。
I don't care what people think.。
Both of those are leaving us broken and hurt and insecure.。
It used to be magazines.。
Used to be magazines, but all of us know。
those are like, you know, Photoshopped,。
electronically enhanced.。
Now, it's your social media.。
Now it's your Instagram feed.。
Now like the normal people in your life。
look better than you do, right?。
I mean, I don't know how everyone is so tan toned。
to eat pizza and like live in their like VW camper vans。
on a beach, right?。
I mean, it's crazy.。
Like what seems to be the normal,。
what's on your phone is proving to you,。
or it seems as if like that should be what I look like.。
And I don't look like that.。
What's wrong?。
Here's the thing.。
If we are worshiping our bodies of God,。
we are finding our worth.。
We find our worth in what we worship.。
If what you worship is money,。
then the number in your bank account。
is where you're going to find your significance.。
But if you worship your body and you find your worth。
in what you look like, it's dangerous。
'cause it's going down.。
And here's a good way to tell if you have bought into this.。
If you are worshiping your body as God,。
if your mood changes,。
if your mood changes,。
if your mood changes,。
depending on like what you look like that day,。
maybe like there's a pimple on your face。
and you're like, "Hey, what are you looking at?"。
And no one even knows it's there.。
Maybe it's like you had a bad hair day。
or possibly it's a number on a scale.。
If your mood changes because of either how you look like。
or a number on the scale,。
that is a telltale sign for you。
that you are worshiping your body。
as God.。
Yeah, it just seems that there's really two responses。
to the world's message.。
And that is those who accept it and those who avoid it.。
And those of us who accept it,。
we make our life about working out。
and the way that our bodies look.。
And those of us who avoid it, we just rationalize,。
but we're insecure.。
Am I saying that it's wrong to be super fit?。
No, I'm not.。
Am I saying that it's wrong to be comfortable。
in your own skin?。
No, but what I am saying is the Bible speaks。
to the heart behind both of them.。
The Bible speaks, these verses speak to the heart。
behind both of them.。
And so my second point is this,。
if the world says to worship our body as God,。
the word says to worship God with your body.。
I'm literally just gonna read these verses again.。
It says this, "Or do you not know that your body。
"is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you,。
"whom you have from God?"。
I don't think we get this, guys.。
If you have trusted in Christ,。
God has decided that your body is going to be the place。
where his spirit lives.。
It says, "You are not your own,。
"for you were bought with a price,。
"so glorify God in your body."。
You see, God did not only created you and gave you your body,。
he bought you back at the infinite cost of his own son.。
So he emphatically means for you to worship him。
with the body that he's given you.。
And so what these verses are really saying。
is that how we care for our bodies is a stewardship issue.。
Your body is not your own, it's a gift.。
It's for God's glory and not for yours.。
And we have a great responsibility to steward it.。
You may be wondering, what is a steward?。
When I think about this,。
here's a good illustration for being a steward.。
I have a 403B, which is 401K for pastors, okay?。
And if I went and found the guy that's investing my money,。
who's taking care of my 403B,。
and said, "Hey man, I'm here for my money."。
You got it, he's like, "Yeah, your money."。
Wow, where did I put that?。
Right, I think it's around here somewhere.。
Like I would say, "Cool, I'm gonna take my money,。
"I'm going to have,。
"I'm going to give that to a different steward,。
"someone who is better at taking care of it.。
"It's money that's not his,。
"but he is responsible for taking care of it."。
That's what I mean when I say。
that you are a steward of your body.。
It's not your own,。
but you are responsible for caring for it.。
You're responsible for how you view it,。
for how you use it, how you treat it.。
God made the body that you have.。
Some of you need to know, when you think about this,。
there are ways in which you have not been excited。
on how God has made you.。
And you need to know this, this is Psalm 139.。
He says, "For you have formed my inward parts.。
"You have knitted me together in my mother's womb.。
"I praise you for I am fearfully and wonderfully made.。
"Wonderful are your works.。
"My soul knows it very well."。
Guys, you are the pinnacle of his creation.。
When God made everything that you see,。
he said that you were the only ones made.。
You and I as humans were made in his image.。
The very best, all the beautiful things in this world。
that you've seen, the trees, the birds,。
everything that's amazing, he says,。
you are the very peak of that creation。
and you are beautiful and wonderfully made.。
And he didn't mess up on you.。
And he made us all different.。
We look different, we have different abilities.。
Friends, I know this very well.。
I know that we look different,。
that we have different abilities.。
Two friends of mine last year went to。
one of my favorite places in the world。
and it's called Havasu Falls.。
Havasu Falls is a part of the Grand Canyon.。
It's in Arizona and it's an incredible place。
and it's quite the hike to get down there.。
It's about a 10-mile hike down, 10-mile hike out.。
And both of these friends, they look different than I.。
And so we are on the hike down, it's not so bad。
'cause we're headed down.。
On the way out though, my friend Andre is in the front。
and then my friend Ryan, and I noticed something.。
I noticed that we have differing abilities。
because as they were walking,。
I was walking at exactly the same pace as they were,。
but I was losing about six inches every step, right?。
Like, I'm like, this is a problem, people,。
because now not only are my legs having to work。
to keep up with them, my lungs are dying, right?。
And so there's just a difference。
in the way that we were made, but that's okay.。
Their worth, because they're made that way,。
isn't any more than mine.。
God made all of us in his image.。
God has made all of us in his image。
and God didn't give me their body to steward.。
God didn't give me yours, he didn't give you theirs.。
The person on your Instagram, he gave you yours。
in the way that he has made you。
is fearfully and wonderfully made.。
And you need to remember that.。
Some of you just need to sit in that.。
First Samuel 16, seven says that the man looks。
on the outward appearance, but God looks on the heart.。
God cares about your health and fitness。
because the body he gave you is actually his.。
It's the only body that he's given you to serve him。
as much as you can, as long as you can.。
And you are the only person in this world。
that can steward the body that you've got for God's glory。
and not something else.。
And instead of making our bodies what we are worshiping,。
making our bodies God, the word says。
to worship God with your body.。
Some of you might be thinking, man, Josh,。
I don't know, how do I do this?。
How do I do this?。
If it's really true that my body is not my own,。
that it was given to me by God for his glory。
and not my own, one, there's probably a view,。
the way in which you view your body tonight,。
I hope it changes.。
Friends, I hope what you hear me saying。
is that I'm not mad or frustrated.。
I'm not here to be angry at you。
or tell you that God's angry at you,。
but to tell you that your body is not yours.。
It was made for God in his glory.。
That could have an impact on some of you.。
Some of you may need to get out of the gym.。
Some of you may need to stop going to the gym。
because you are going there to make your body。
look a certain way so that you will gain affirmation。
from it.。
And then some of you may need to get into the gym。
for the very first time because God cares.。
God cares about your health and your fitness.。
And he's given you a body to serve him。
as long as you can, as much as you can.。
And so I want to be really practical with you guys tonight。
to give you a few ways in which you can do that.。
A few just simple how-to's.。
And the first one is this, is to train.。
Train your body through movement.。
Now, if you're in here tonight and you're a mailman。
and you walk 10 miles today, hey, good on you.。
You're good.。
You've used your body, you've moved your body today.。
But if we're really honest,。
all of society has made a more inactive。
and sedentary lifestyle normal, right?。
A lot of us are sitting at a desk for most of the day。
and God did not design your body to be inactive.。
He has actually designed it to move.。
And so I can't tell you what type or how much,。
what type of workout or how much you need to work out。
that you would be a good sewer.。
But I, and I'm not saying that it's required to work out。
to be a good sewer, but I am saying。
that if you leave your body inactive,。
you are being a bad steward.。
It was never meant to be inactive.。
And so for some of you,。
the most honoring thing that you can do tomorrow。
is to set your alarm, get up and go run a mile, right?。
Some of you, the most God honoring thing that you could do。
is to get up, spend time reading your Bible。
and remember that your identity and worth。
is not found in how your body looks.。
So, I mean, I don't know what that looks like for you.。
I can't tell you a good principle is three times a week.。
Do that, just like start at three times a week.。
Train your body through movement three times a week.。
Find a movement or something,。
a workout that you like, that you enjoy.。
Some of you might be like, man,。
I don't even know what to do anymore.。
Like what kind of working out should I do?。
Is it, you know, should I run。
or should I do Pilates or any of that?。
Is it CrossFit?。
And yes, the answer is CrossFit.。
I'm kidding.。
(congregation laughing)。
But kind of, no.。
But I am saying like, God has designed your body to move.。
And when you leave it inactive,。
you are actually taking away from the health。
that God has meant for you to live in.。
And you are not worshiping him as well as you could.。
And the next one is this.。
So if it train, train your body through movement.。
The next one is this, eat with purpose.。
Eat with purpose.。
And here's what I mean by that is,。
we know that God's primary reason for food was for fuel,。
literally to keep us alive.。
Like that is the primary reason,。
but he also made it for pleasure.。
I mean, we all know how worshipful。
eating a honey butter chicken biscuit can be.。
(congregation laughing)。
No, I need an amen, yes?。
Yeah, we know.。
And that's okay.。
And we know that meals often are a great time。
of like fellowship,。
like food is meant to bring enjoyment and pleasure,。
and that's a good thing.。
But what I'm asking is that you eat on purpose.。
That if every time, if you find yourself,。
every time you're in a certain mood,。
you're a little bit down,。
you're turning to Blue Bell ice cream.。
Hey, that's maybe not it, right?。
To know how different foods affect your body.。
And I would even go as far as just to say,。
hey, eat more for fuel over pleasure,。
or even how it tastes.。
Some of you are mad at me, including my wife.。
Eat for fuel over pleasure.。
Here's three principles there that I got told。
that have been helpful for me。
that could be helpful to you guys,。
and it's this, eat real food, not too much, mostly greens.。
It's a great principle.。
When you think about how you eat,。
eating on purpose in a way that it'll feel your body,。
think about just eat real food, not too much, mostly greens.。
And so train your body through movement.。
Eat with purpose.。
And then this last one is this, sleep.。
Sleep, because your body needs it.。
Yes, hey, we live, hey, our current culture。
is telling us, man, you've gotta get up,。
you've gotta be a hustler.。
You know what I mean?。
It's hard.。
I am here, I will tell you that sleep is difficult for me.。
There just seems like there's so many things,。
sometimes 'cause I'm just a little excited。
and I wanna do everything,。
and then other times it's just because。
I believe it rests on my shoulders,。
that if I, like sleeping means。
something's not going to happen.。
And so not only does your body need it,。
not only is that meant to be where your body recovers,。
but it's a trust issue as well, people.。
Like when you go to bed at night, it is a trust issue,。
knowing that if I go to sleep right now,。
even though all the world around me feels like。
I need to do all of these things,。
when I go to sleep, I'm telling God, like,。
hey, I know that you don't need me to do anything,。
that you're big enough, that you've got it under control.。
And so sleep and sleep well.。
Here's some of the ways that that played out for us。
in this ministry called, well,。
when we were thinking about eating on purpose,。
we did a sugar challenge.。
And some of you, this could be a good principle。
for you to start with tonight.。
The sugar challenge is this, for 30 days,。
no sugar, literally that.。
Okay, you didn't get to eat sugar, not 30 days, two weeks,。
y'all thought I was crazy.。
Two weeks, no sugar, right?。
And then, and here's what it looked like,。
if you ate sugar, if you showed up to group the next day。
and you had eaten sugar, it cost 10 burpees.。
It didn't cost you 10 burpees,。
it cost everyone else 10 burpees.。
And so you got to be that guy like, I'm sorry, team,。
the cake was awesome, right?。
But just that discipline, the discipline。
to stay away from sugar is incredibly hard.。
And that could be a good thing just for you to start.。
It's like, hey, I'm gonna go on a sugar fast.。
I'm gonna tell my friends, hey,。
we're gonna go two weeks sugar fast.。
At the end of that, we'll do as many burpees。
as many times as we ate sugar.。
It's scary, try it.。
Yeah, the other one is this, we had a sleep challenge.。
We had a sleep challenge where we had to be in bed。
at least eight hours.。
Eight hours, you guys are like, this is craziness.。
And on top of that, not only you couldn't have any type。
of caffeine, including chocolate four hours。
before you went to bed, okay?。
And then you couldn't look at your phone four hours。
before you went to bed because that little blue light。
inside your phone, it actually stimulates your brain。
and keeps you awake.。
And so we did a sleep challenge there。
that was just so helpful for me because one,。
I began to realize how attached to my phone I was.。
And then also just through, I began to realize。
like how well I was not taking care of the body。
that God has given me because I just wasn't sleeping.。
I just wasn't sleeping.。
And so again, to run through this,。
you guys train through movement.。
Don't be inactive, eat with purpose and sleep。
because your body needs it.。
We worship God with our body when we understand。
that it is His.。
It's where He abides.。
Holy Spirit lives inside of us.。
And so the way that we steward it,。
the way that we think about how we use it,。
it's no longer how it's going to make us feel。
or how it's going to make us look,。
but is it going to be honoring to God?。
I don't know what faithfulness looks like for you,。
but I am asking you to begin to understand。
that your body's a gift.。
It is made by God, for God, it is made on purpose.。
There's a show that I love to watch.。
I bet many of you guys know, and it's called "The Voice."。
The Voice fans in here, yes, it's amazing.。
In here, "The Voice" is incredible.。
If you guys don't know, it's a show where people can come。
and use their voices to hopefully land deals。
with all of these famous people.。
And it's pretty amazing because they've taken something。
away from the judges that's not normally taken away.。
They got all of the judges,。
they're going to listen to this person sing,。
but the judges are facing the opposite direction.。
Like they can't see the person at all.。
And so you've got, you know, Adam and Christina。
and Blake down there, like listening, like,。
"Hey, you guys, do you hear it, man?。
Wow, their voice is amazing."。
And you're going to touch your button,。
you're going to turn around,。
you're going to turn around and pick this person,。
say you want them on their team.。
What's awesome about it is that it has nothing to do。
with their looks at all.。
They don't know what they look like.。
They just are, they're basing, if they want them,。
on their abilities and what they can do and on their voice.。
And I think guys, that's similar to how God looks at us.。
That's similar to how God treats us.。
It's not about the way that we look.。
He doesn't, he's not worried about us on the outside.。
What has actually happened is God knows you,。
has made you in his image.。
And because he loves you, because he wants you,。
he has hit the button and turned around on you。
to choose you.。
And if you don't know, if you don't know this God,。
this God that has made you in his image, I want you to.。
He's made you because he loves you.。
And even though we, all of us are broken,。
it's the greatest love story ever。
because in the midst of when God made us,。
we at one point in our lives said,。
"Hey God, I know you made us to be。
"in a right relationship with you,。
"but we're gonna choose to go our own ways."。
And this really amazing, terrible thing happened.。
It's sin, sin entered the world。
and it broke the relationship you and I。
were meant to have with God.。
It's what causes our relationship with our bodies。
to be broken is this thing called sin.。
And the Bible tells us that all of us have sinned。
and that sin deserves death.。
But then God, in his love for us, sent his only son。
to come and live on this earth, to live perfectly.。
And then for all the ways that we have sinned against him,。
to die on a cross, literally a robber's death,。
he carried the sin.。
He bore the sin, he paid for the sin on the death。
when he died on the cross and he rose again。
three days later, conquering the death。
so that you and I can be restored。
back into a right relationship with God.。
That's the God that's made you in his image.。
That's the God that's given you,。
each of you, your unique body.。
And he has made you to glorify him in it.。
The world says that you are at the center of your body。
and its image is your value.。
God's word says that God has made you in his image。
and that you are invaluable.。
I'm gonna pray for us.。
Father, we are thankful for you.。
And I just ask that you would open the eyes of our hearts,。
Father, to recognize your incredible love for us。
and our deep and desperate need for you.。
And Father, I repent of the ways in which I have treated。
and used my body for my own glory and not for you.。
And I pray for all of my friends in this room,。
Father, that maybe if this is the first time。
that they have recognized or heard and understood。
that, man, this body, this temple that you've given them。
is not meant for their glory, but for yours,。
Father, just change their hearts.。
And may we be people that are identified,。
not in how we look, but are identified。
by the love that you have given us.。
You have died on the cross and now,。
if we have put our faith in Jesus,。
you now identify us as sons and daughters.。
Thank you again for this evening。
and the fact that we can open your word up freely。
and we can begin to learn how you would have us live.。
It's in your holy and precious name that I pray, amen.。
- Man, thank you, Josh.。
It was awesome and encouraging.。
And from just a brother who spent years。
helping people experience what God wants us to experience。
as it relates to wellness and health,。
not for the sake of vanity,。
but for the sake of bringing honor to him。
and experiencing part of the abundant life that's here.。
Some of you in the room,。
the most important thing that you need。
to walk away with tonight。
is not that you need to wake up tomorrow morning。
and go do CrossFit or go do Camp Gladiator。
or go do whatever is in your regimen.。
It's that you need to stop focusing on the outside。
because there is a hole on the inside。
that you have never addressed.。
And you have tried to fill it with different substances,。
with different people, with working out, with money.。
And it is a hole that God, the eternal creator,。
said, "I placed eternity in the hearts of men,"。
Ecclesiastes chapter three said.。
A hole that God placed inside of you。
so that you would reach out and find him.。
And the thing more than anything else that you need tonight。
is not an encouragement to go get fit。
and let's all get a six pack in 2019.。
What you need is to accept the free gift。
that the God who is so crazy about you,。
that he gave his own life for you,。
despite everything that he knows,。
everything broken about you, it's no mystery to him.。
And yet before you ever breathed your first breath,。
he was reaching out arms for you.。
It is the thing you came into this world。
craving, needing, wanting most.。
It is the thing that on your dying deathbed。
with your last breaths, you will most need.。
And tonight is your night.。
And he's offering the eternal gift,。
the gift of eternal life, if you will just by faith.。
Say, "God, I'm not trusting in what I do.。
"I'm not trusting how good I am.。
"I'm trusting in Jesus.。
"I got no shot but him."。
And if you're ever gonna experience eternal life。
and the abundant life in this planet,。
it won't happen by you going to 24-hour fitness more.。
It's gonna happen by you walking with Jesus.。
And that is the message you need to walk away with tonight.。
Others of you, you don't need to accept the truth。
'cause you already have.。
But you have bought in some of the lies。
that the world is selling you every single day.。
Lies about who you are, lies about where your worth is,。
lies about what beauty is, and you hate yourself.。
And you look amazing.。
On the outside, no one would ever know it.。
You got it all together.。
You're the prettiest girl or handsome,。
most handsome guy in your whole crew.。
And you're the person crushing every workout regimen.。
But you have bought lies。
as it relates to where your value is.。
And tonight, the challenge,。
and everything in addition to what Josh said,。
which was so encouraging and so helpful,。
what you need to do is speak the truth to yourself.。
You need to speak the truth.。
Some of you, I don't know what that is,。
but from God's word, there's different truths。
that really are the things that you need。
to rehearse in your mind and replay。
over and over and over and over again.。
'Cause we live in a world。
that as soon as you walk outside of these doors,。
they're gonna say, this is what beauty looks like,。
this is where worth is found,。
this is what you should look like for,。
or look for in a spouse,。
and look like it if you're gonna get a spouse.。
And you need to speak the truth.。
There is power when you speak the truth.。
Whether it is you rehearsing。
in the face of sin, temptation, or shame,。
I am the righteousness of God in Christ Jesus.。
That's who I am.。
Whether it is you saying,。
hey, I am fearfully and wonderfully made,。
I'm not gonna find my value in the number on a scale,。
I'm not gonna find my value。
in what some guy thinks of me,。
I'm not gonna find my value。
with the world and the Oscars。
and what everyone needs to look like,。
that's not where I find it。
because all that's there is emptiness.。
One of the things that even in the porch。
that we week after week see,。
for whatever reason God is entrusted in,。
hold on, just a platform where different people。
at different stages and different successful spheres。
are connected to this ministry。
or have been encouraged by it。
and will reach out in different things。
and over and over and over again,。
despite the fact that they have。
everything you would ever want in life,。
despite the fact they look like everything。
everyone would ever want to look like,。
they're saying, I'm empty, I'm empty,。
and I feel like I'm finding hope。
because I'm finding Jesus.。
And you need to speak the truth to yourself.。
When you wake up tomorrow。
and you are tempted to binge and purge again,。
you are tempted to hate what you see in the mirror.。
I am fearfully and wonderfully made,。
my God makes no mistakes.。
Whatever was said about me in the fourth grade。
that I've carried around,。
I'm big bone and big shoulders,。
I refuse to let that define me anymore.。
My God has made me,。
he makes no mistakes.。
And I'm gonna embrace who I am,。
I'm gonna know who I am,。
I'm gonna like who I am,。
I'm gonna be who I am.。
'Cause if God is gonna use you,。
he's gonna use you as you trying to be you.。
Not you trying to be me,。
not you trying to look like her,。
not you trying to look like him。
or trying to be anybody else.。
And you need to speak the truth to yourself.。
There is power when we speak the truth.。
This is who I am.。
And then finally, there's some of you。
who you're walking alone.。
And I don't know what goals。
or what you're trying to accomplish,。
but I know this, it is not likely to happen。
if you don't have others in your life.。
Whether it is, I mean,。
you could just see the worldly example.。
The reason CrossFit has this like crazy。
cult following with it。
is 'cause they all kind of come together。
and it's like, hey, I'm in.。
Where were you, Barry?。
And it's just, we're all circling together.。
That is how you were designed to live.。
And that's what the Christian life is all about.。
That God didn't say it's for CrossFit.。
The reason CrossFit's so popular。
is because God, from the beginning of creation,。
said it's not good to be alone。
and you're meant to have others in your life。
and you don't have those people.。
And you're not gonna experience。
the abundant health that God wants.。
You're not gonna experience a soul care that God wants。
if you don't have other people.。
So tonight, there's a chance for you。
to take the next step and get plugged into community.。
You can go right down this hall if you're a guy.。
You can get in a circle with other guys。
that are just like you,。
that don't have people walking alongside of them.。
And you'll take that step towards health。
in lots of directions,。
primarily on the inside,。
but also it often leads,。
discipline has this weird thing where it's contagious.。
When a discipline shows up in your life,。
it's like it invites its friends.。
And you become more disciplined and more disciplined.。
And you can step towards that tonight。
with other people in your life.。
If you're a girl, you can go right down this hall。
and get connected with other girls。
to walk alongside of you.。
And finally,。
I know there's some that are here。
that are walking through,。
man, you have just bought the lies。
and you don't even know where the truth, where to turn.。
As a dad of a daughter,。
I have become so much more aware。
and so much more cognizant.。
And I'll speak just to the ladies。
of how many lies day after day after day are fed.。
Dude, this is what you should look like ladies.。
And it's a lie.。
And I also am highly aware the same lies are fed。
to the men about where your worth is found。
and what kind of woman you should look for.。
And you may not have anyone to turn to.。
You may be like, man, I feel like I'm,。
I just can't get out of this rut.。
We would love to pray with you,。
come alongside of you,。
connect with you at whatever degree you're interested.。
And we have an entire team that'll be down front。
that would love to serve you in any way that you can.。
Whether it's about tonight's message,。
maybe you just have an uncle who's sick。
and you just want someone to pray for you.。
We'd love to pray for you, answer questions,。
recommend a good restaurant next,。
anything that we can do to serve you,。
we would love to do.。
But for the rest of you guys,。
that's all that we have tonight.。
We love y'all.。
Go in peace to love and serve the Lord this week.。
(audience cheering)。
