[Heartbeat]。
[Exhale]。
Love it.。
We are continuing the series, Exhale.。
If it's your first time, you came on a great night,。
and we would highly encourage you to go back and check out all the exhale messages。
as we just explore this topic of finding relief or finding an exhale in a world。
that seems to be anything but relaxing or providing anything but relief.。
And so we're walking through the Psalms where we're just experiencing what God has provided for us.。
So hello, friends of the room. Hello, friends of Fort Worth, friends of Houston.。
I'm going to start by reading Psalm 118. If you have a Bible, you can flip over to Psalm 118.。
We're going to explore that together, and I'm going to read it, and then we will walk through it.。
It says this, Psalm 118, starting in verse 1.。
"Give thanks to the Lord, for He is good. His love endures forever.。
Let Israel say, 'His love endures forever.'。
Let the house of Aaron say, 'His love endures forever.'。
Let those who fear the Lord say, 'His love endures forever.'。
When hard-pressed, I cried to the Lord. He brought me into a spacious place.。
The Lord is with me. I will not be afraid. What can mere mortals do to me?。
The Lord is with me. He is my helper. I will look in triumph on my enemies.。
It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in humans.。
It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in princes.。
All nations surrounded me, but in the name of the Lord, I cut them down.。
They surrounded me on every side, but in the name of the Lord, I cut them down.。
They swarmed around me like bees, but they were consumed as quickly as burning thorns.。
In the name of the Lord, I cut them down. I was pushed back, about to fall.。
But the Lord helped me. The Lord is my strength and my defense.。
He has become my salvation. Shouts of joy and victory resound in the tents of the righteous.。
The Lord's right hand has done mighty things. The Lord's right hand is lifted high.。
The Lord's right hand has done mighty things. I will not die, but live,。
and will proclaim what the Lord has done. The Lord chastened me severely,。
but he has not given me over to death. Open for me the gates of the righteous.。
I will enter and give thanks to the Lord. This is the gate of the Lord through which the righteous may enter.。
I will give thanks for you answered me, and you've become my salvation.。
The stone the builders rejected has become the cornerstone.。
And the Lord has done this, and it is marvelous in our eyes.。
The Lord has done it this very day. Let us rejoice today and be glad.。
Lord, save us. Lord, grant us success. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord.。
From the house of the Lord, we bless you.。
The Lord is God, and he has made his light shine on us. With bows in hand,。
join in the festal procession up to the horns of the altar.。
You are my God, and I will praise you. You are my God, and I will exalt you.。
Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. His love endures forever.。
Let me pray, and we will dive in.。
Father, we thank you just for this psalm.。
And I pray for the next 30 minutes that we'll have together.。
I pray that you would allow us to see more of the King that we just sang to.。
The King that we worship through song.。
Many of us have a relationship with the King whose name is Jesus.。
Whose name we will praise for all eternity if we know him.。
And so would you help us to see him, because you tell us in seeing him we're changed.。
Thank you for just today. Thank you for the cold weather.。
Thank you for Thanksgiving week. Thank you for a million other things that I take for granted.。
And we have much to be thankful for.。
And at the top of that list is Jesus. Help us now to see him. We love you. Amen.。
Have you ever been, I'll start tonight like this, stood up for something?。
And it's a terrible feeling, isn't it?。
I remember my earliest memory of being stood up was when I was like five or six years old.。
And it was involving something called Indian guides.。
You guys remember Indian guides or Indian princes? Yes.。
You know Indian guides are still around.。
It's like on a very short list of politically incorrect things that we still are hanging on to.。
Along with Aunt Jemima.。
And so I was an Indian guide, which if you don't know what Indian guides are,。
it's like a Boy Scout, but you're essentially you go camping father-son.。
You go stay in teepees and you camp out and do these camp outs.。
And I was an Indian guide.。
And I was like five years old and we had this camp out that was going to take place.。
And I was so excited for it. I was pumped.。
It was going to happen. Going to go out camp with all the different people in our tribe.。
You go out and you stay in this big teepee all together.。
And you and your father go out there.。
And I went out with a friend because my dad was going to come meet us out there that night.。
And so we go out, we set up camp. This is great.。
You know, we're playing with s'mores, getting to see fire.。
And as a five-year-old, this is amazing.。
And I'm beginning to realize, oh man, it's getting late.。
It's getting close to dinner. We have the s'mores, we do dinner.。
And oh no, it's getting later and later.。
Dad still hasn't shown up. Where is he?。
I'm sure he's going to come. I'm sure he's coming through.。
Where is he going to come? Or when is he going to come?。
And I continue to wait. And all of a sudden, it's like, oh no, it's getting later and later.。
It's like nightfall. It's time to go to bed.。
And dad still hasn't shown up. Oh man, he's going to show up.。
And he continues. Or I continue to wait and wait.。
And he still hadn't come. And now everyone's going to sleep.。
And I'm like, oh my gosh, where is my dad?。
I'm sitting outside of the teepee because I can't sleep.。
Because I'm in there with a bunch of my friends and their dads who are just scary old men to me.。
And so I'm waiting outside going where, when is he going to come?。
This is like pre-cell phone, so there's no like, hey, I got you.。
It was like, oh man, where is he?。
If anything, he may have had a pager, but it didn't allow immediate communication.。
And I continued to wait and waited, honestly, until like two in the morning.。
And I see this car that pulled up because he had just gotten back from a business trip.。
But it's one of those moments where I was like, man, is he going to show up?。
Where is he? He's letting me down.。
I don't know if he's going to come through. Will he come through?。
He certainly didn't come through like I had planned for him to.。
And the reason I start there is because I think a lot of us, as it relates to our relationship with God,。
wondering like, where is he? Is he going to show up?。
Is he going to come through? Is he going to appear?。
Like I find myself, I feel like I'm waiting.。
I feel like God isn't right now fighting for me.。
I wish that my circumstances in my life were different.。
I don't feel like God's going to come through and provide a job.。
My singleness doesn't seem to be going away.。
And this might, my biological clock is ticking.。
I don't know if God is going to come through. Where is he?。
And so tonight we're going to look at a psalm.。
And we just read a psalm that really answers that question as we just explore a really common experience for all of us,。
including believers of wondering this question.。
God, are you going to come through? Where are you?。
Will you come through? Can I trust and can you be trusted?。
Can I trust that you're going to show up?。
And David gives us the answer to that inside of the Psalm 118.。
And so Psalm 118, there's a little bit of background as we just explore why we can be confident God comes through for his people.。
Psalm 118 has a very particular background that I'll kind of dive into and give us an explanation and do it as clearly as I can.。
Hopefully, Psalm 118 was very unique among all the psalms.。
So the psalms we're doing this series, exhale,。
we're looking at these songs that were part of the Psalms, which is just a songbook.。
So the Israel, Nation of Israel, had on the Israeli iPod was the psalm book, if you will.。
All the different psalms are just songs that they would sing.。
Psalm 118 was very unique among all of them.。
Arguably, it was one of the most sung of all of the psalms.。
It was a psalm that was sung to remind the nation God will show up and fight for his people.。
And it was sung every year at a very particular event.。
That event was a holiday known as Passover.。
In other words, on Passover, which is like this holiday, they'd come every single year, they'd get together and at Passover, they'd have this meal.。
Similar to Thanksgiving, honestly.。
Thanksgiving, we think food and football, right?。
And at Passover, you thought food and football.。
We didn't think football.。
At Passover, you got together and you thought food and you thought about this event.。
As you looked back, and it was a celebration, much like Thanksgiving where we celebrate the pilgrims and the Indians getting together.。
Much like there, at Passover, you'd come together and you'd eat this meal.。
And it would be done in remembrance of a moment in time where God showed up for the people and the Nation of Israel.。
He fought for his people and did so by passing over them.。
Passover. What does it mean to pass over?。
What took place that led to the annual celebration of Passover?。
Passover goes back to the founding of the Nation of Israel.。
So I promise this is going somewhere.。
Because this is the context in which they would sing this song every single year.。
Passover was a celebration of what God did when the Nation was founded.。
The Nation was slaves, originally, in Egypt.。
So Pharaoh, slaves. Remember this story?。
Moses is raised up. The Nation is there.。
And God says, "Moses, go get my people, the Nation of Israel, out of slavery."。
There are slaves down there. They're doing all the work for the Egyptians.。
Moses goes to Pharaoh and says, "Hey, God wants his people back. We'd like to leave."。
Pharaoh says, "No."。
And so God says, "I'm going to send different plagues."。
Moses goes again and says, "Let my people go."。
Pharaoh says, "No."。
He sends another plague.。
And Pharaoh is just like, "Come on. We can take it. Frogs? I like the frogs. You want some more?"。
God continues to send these ten plagues.。
And eventually, he sends one that loosens Pharaoh's grip.。
And it was the plague known as the Death of the Firstborn.。
And in the Death of the Firstborn, Moses goes to Pharaoh and says,。
"God is going to kill every firstborn in the land,。
unless they have the blood of a spotless lamb over the doorframe of their home.。
And if that blood is there, of this spotless lamb, the angel of the Lord will pass over.。
But I'm going to do this, Pharaoh," God says, "so that you will let my people go."。
Pharaoh says, "Bring it."。
The angel of the Lord shows up. He passes over every home.。
Or he does not kill the firstborn in every single home that had the blood of the lamb over it.。
Pharaoh's home did not have that.。
His child dies, and he finally opens his hand and says, "Get out of here."。
And so the nation of Israel celebrated because that allowed them to go become a nation.。
That moment took place with the Passover feast.。
And at the Passover, they would sing Psalm 118.。
And remember, our God is a God who shows up and comes through.。
And in Psalm 118, we realize why they were so confident.。
God's going to show up and fight for his people.。
So we're going to pick it up in verse 1, and we'll walk through this story of this song。
that they would sing every single year together over the Passover feast.。
When you thought about Passover, much like Christmas, it's like, "Oh, holy night."。
You think Christmas songs.。
The NSYNC Christmas playlist on the Passover playlist was Psalm 118.。
I love it. It's such a great album.。
Okay, verse 1. Here we go.。
"Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. His love endures forever."。
"Let Israel say, 'His love endures forever.'"。
So let the nation say, "Let the house of Aaron's"--that's the priests.。
"Let them say, 'His love endures forever.'"。
"Let those who fear the Lord say"--that's the non-Jews.。
If you were not a Jew but you believed in God, you were called a God-fearer.。
"So let those who fear the Lord"--the non-Jews--say, "His love endures forever."。
So it really starts high-energy, up-top song.。
It's like a pep rally where the singer is basically going,。
"Hey, where are my Jews in the house? Praise the Lord!"。
"Where are all my priests? We got no priests in this place? Praise the Lord!"。
"Where are my Gentiles at? You're not a Jew. Praise the Lord. Let me hear from you."。
And it starts off really high-energy, up-top, where he's going, "Hey, everybody get involved."。
And then all of a sudden it goes from everyone to just one person stepping up to the microphone,。
and he begins to say why they can praise and define the Lord.。
But he gives us, inside of this, this defining characteristic of who God is。
and why he can be trusted to come through.。
Inside of that. In other words, David starts off this psalm and he says,。
"Let me tell you why you can trust God."。
He's a God who's marked by one quality.。
One defining characteristic pops out, and it's a characteristic that his love endures forever.。
"His love never ends," your American translation would say.。
"His love never ends."。
The first idea, or the first point that comes from this song is that God never stops loving you.。
God never stops loving you.。
If you're a part of God's people, God's covenant people,。
the first idea introduced in this song is that God never stops loving you.。
And he uses a specific word. His love endures forever, and he uses the word "hesed."。
What does the word "hesed" mean?。
"Hesed" is a word that appears over and over in the Old Testament.。
Covenant-keeping love.。
What is "hesed"? What's the word? His love.。
What kind of love endures forever? My covenant-keeping love.。
In other words, David says his love towards his people that he has stepped into a covenant with.。
When God looks at you, his love never ends.。
If you are in covenant relationship with him, it never ceases.。
There's nothing you can do to stop it, nothing you can do to change it.。
And David says, "Let's start by praising the Lord, everybody in the different spheres,。
because God's a God whose love will never cease, will never stop, because we're in a covenant with him."。
What's a covenant? A covenant is very different from a contract.。
God says, "I have this very particular love for my people,"。
which would be then the nation of Israel.。
If you're a part of the church, you've put faith in Jesus, you are a part of the people of God.。
And God says, "You're in a covenant with me, and that covenant means I'll never stop loving you."。
If you're a part of his people, I'll never stop loving you, because this isn't a contract.。
A contract is you do certain things, and if you do them, or you don't do certain things,。
I don't want you to, then I'll love you.。
But if you stop doing those things, or you start doing the things I don't want you to, then I'm out of here.。
That's a contract. God says a covenant.。
A covenant says no matter what you do, I will not stop loving you.。
I will never stop. You can run, you can hide, but I will not stop loving you.。
It's not dissimilar, or really marriage is the clearest example that we have of this.。
It's an imperfect one because of so many marriages that just imperfectly reflected,。
but marriage is a covenant.。
I remember when I married my wife, and JP did the ceremony,。
and we stood up there, and I looked eyeball to eyeball with my wife, Callie,。
wearing this white dress, and we made these insane promises.。
We took these vows, and we promised that I will never stop loving you,。
for better or for worse. I'm not going anywhere.。
If you go crazy, and you run off to Venezuela, I'm coming after you.。
I will never stop loving you.。
That's the promises that you make inside of that covenant.。
And she looked at me. It means there were no ifs inside of that.。
You never go, "And I vow that as long if, or if you don't do this, then I will."。
Inside of that, it's not conditional. That's what a covenant is.。
I'll never stop loving you.。
And God looks at his people, which is the church, and here the nation of Israel,。
and says, "I'll never stop loving you."。
And David says, "Praise the Lord. Here's how we know we can come through,。
because no matter what, I can go to sleep at night knowing God loves me。
because I'm a part of his covenant."。
He's a covenant-keeping God whose love endures forever.。
He never stops loving you. Never stops loving you.。
David starts by saying, "Let's thank the Lord. He's good. He's rich in love.。
That's not the only reason. We know he will come through."。
Here's what he says, verse 5.。
"When I was hard-pressed, I cried to the Lord, and he brought me into a spacious place."。
David says, "I was in an overwhelmingly tight place."。
You ever felt like you're overwhelmed, anxious, feel like your chest is getting tight?。
"I'm in this tight place right now in life. I don't know what I'm going to do about my job,。
my finances. I was in this tight place, and what did I do?。
I didn't turn to anxiety medication. I didn't turn to substances. I didn't turn to anger.。
I turned to you, Lord, and you brought relief," is what David says.。
In other words, in my initial response, which is so foreign for me,。
when I get overwhelmed or stressed, I feel like I just get angry.。
And maybe you can relate to that.。
Or maybe you get like just, you just start wailing because you're overwhelmed.。
Maybe you get emotional. Maybe you start turning to alcohol.。
I don't know what it is for you, but all of us will turn in our anxiety to something.。
And David says, "Here's what I do. I turn immediately to you, God.。
I bring my anxieties to you immediately. I'm overwhelmed, and I go immediately to you.。
I'm in this tight place, and I don't turn to any of these other places.。
I turn to you, and I go, 'God, will you help me?。
I'm going to bring the things I'm anxious about to you.'"。
How much of your life would change?。
How much more would you be able to exhale if you really did that?。
And I don't know why that's so hard for us when we get anxious,。
and I'm like, "Man, I'm just really worried about this."。
And someone will be like, "Well, have you prayed about it?"。
"No, I haven't prayed about it. I really enjoy being anxious about this right now."。
Like that, it doesn't make sense at all.。
We wouldn't even say that, but it's like, "Of course, I should pray about it,。
but for some reason, that's not my knee-jerk response."。
And David says, "Immediately, I'm overwhelmed, and I go to you."。
And unlike those things, like alcohol or anger or anything that brings temporary relief,。
which is why we go to Him,。
He says, "I go to you, and you bring lasting, enduring relief。
without other consequences for those other things.。
I turn to you in my anxiety."。
He says, verse 6, "The Lord is with me. I will not be afraid.。
What can mere mortals do to me?。
The Lord is with me. He is my helper.。
I will look in triumph on my enemies.。
It is better to take refuge," I love this,。
"It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in humans."。
"It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in princes."。
David describes why he's confident that he can face the world around him,。
and it's not because his confidence is in himself or in his friends。
or in some other person or in his job.。
He says, "My confidence and security is in you.。
I'm going to take refuge in you. You are the shelter.。
You're the reason that I can face the world around me。
that feels like it's falling apart because I find security and strength in you."。
Our second point tonight introduced in this text。
is that God's protection never fails.。
God's love for you never stops.。
His protection never fails.。
To those who go and seek his protection。
or who will accept his protection, it never fails.。
And David identifies why he can face so confidently the world.。
His source of protection are found in you alone, God.。
And it's so--I feel like this is so relevant。
because it's so easy to do the opposite of what David says,。
where he says, "Hey, look, don't find security in other people,。
in yourself, in money, in the way that you look, in any of those things."。
Like, all of us are going to be tempted to find security。
in the things that David just listed out, particularly two of them,。
as it relates to a person.。
"Don't find security in a person," David says,。
"or in princes," he says,。
"or in getting married." Like, I don't find my security。
or who I am in dating someone.。
I'm not the person who always has to be dating someone。
because there's not a me without a her.。
And so I always have to have someone inside of my life,。
some sort of relationship that's going on.。
I'm not going to be defined by whether or not I'm married.。
I'm not--I don't find my security in those things.。
How relevant is that?。
I mean, some of you may need to memorize verse 9.。
"It is better to trust in the Lord than to trust in prince,"。
insert "charming" at the end of it,。
that I'm not going to find my security。
in a man showing up or in a woman,。
princess, charming, showing up.。
I'm not going to be defined by whether or not I'm married,。
by any of those things.。
"Leave alone, Lord," or where I'm going to find my security.。
I'm going to find my strength.。
I'm not going to date to feel loved。
because I'm secure in that I'm loved.。
That's not the reason I'm going to date.。
I may date out of the overflow of my relationship with God,。
and I want to make sure that I'm rooted and grounded,。
but I'm not going to date or need to have a boyfriend or girlfriend。
just because I don't feel loved,。
and that's the only way I can experience it.。
No, David says that's crazy.。
All of those things, if you find security in a person,。
it's going to fail you, but there's one who won't.。
Or find our security in money.。
How easy it is, David, or we experiencedly--。
I know, personally, to find my security in money.。
There's something about where I'm like,。
"Man, if I just have a little bit more in the bank, I just feel.。
The more I have, the more I feel a little bit like,。
'Whew, I can sleep a little bit better at night.'"。
And David would say, "That's crazy.。
There's only one who can give you true security."。
Ironically, money, despite how it makes us feel more secure,。
is the thing that we print on it,。
"Hey, don't find security in this,"。
or "We don't find security in this."。
You ever think about that?。
Like, think about it.。
On the money, we literally print, "In God we trust."。
We don't trust in these little green pieces of paper.。
It's almost like a comical joke, like,。
"In God we trust. Oh, my God.。
And by God, we mean these things."。
And it's like hilarious.。
We find security in this.。
It's all of those who fall away in an instant.。
There's nothing holding up an economy that's based on opinion.。
All of those can fall away.。
But God is the only thing that provides lasting security.。
Trust in Him.。
Confidence or security being found in your looks.。
David would say, "Don't do it."。
The way that you appear, your appearance, your external beauty,。
all of those things are going to fall away.。
If that is the thing where you find security,。
it's going to fail you and let you down.。
We see this.。
Thousands of moms within a very short distance of here。
have found their security in the way they look。
and they're injecting all kinds of weird things into their body。
to hold on to the beauty that they had in their past.。
And it's falling away.。
And David says, "Don't hold on or don't be defined.。
Find your security in the way that you look.。
Find it alone in God.。
He's the only thing that will last when the storms come.。
He's the only thing that will last throughout time."。
Finding security in a job or in health.。
David says, "I'm going to take refuge in the Lord。
because all of those things can crumble.。
I'm not going to find my confidence in them."。
It's not dissimilar to...。
Have you ever heard of a storm room?。
Have you guys heard of...。
Friends from Oklahoma, a storm room or like a storm shelter。
or storm dorms, if you will.。
Storm dorm is actually a company in town.。
There's a guy who goes to Watermark, remember here,。
and he sells these things called storm dorms.。
And they're these like metal boxes.。
That's what they look like right there.。
And inside of a storm dorm,。
it's basically like a box they'll put inside of your house.。
They'll put it in your garage.。
They'll build a home around it sometimes.。
Very common in Oklahoma.。
Any Oklahoma people in this room?。
Three of you.。
Oh, man, awesome.。
Man, and any...。
Never mind.。
Okay, we'll keep going.。
Inside of Oklahoma,。
they find different houses with this inside of it.。
And so in that, if a storm comes,。
I go inside of that room.。
And here's why.。
Because this is what happens when a storm comes。
and the houses around you fall apart.。
But those will last in the midst of the storm.。
They stay standing.。
It's a steel box around you。
that can withstand like thousands and thousands。
of pounds of things on top of it.。
And they provide, not only do they stay standing,。
but anyone inside of them, like think about this.。
I just want you to see this.。
Anyone inside of that, anyone that goes inside,。
family came out of that.。
And that family was protected.。
The four-year-old came out of that.。
And the four-year-old, if he had been four feet away。
to the left, would not be alive, found protection.。
And the only thing that stays standing,。
David says, if you find security。
or you go to anything else to be your protection,。
it's going to crumble, but there is one.。
And everyone who goes and seeks refuge inside of him,。
Jesus, God, will find protection。
no matter what storms in life come.。
But he alone, like he liked that storm dorm。
in the midst of a storm, stays standing。
and everything inside of it is protected.。
God is that same way.。
When all else around us in this world can crumble,。
he won't.。
And David says, go to him, run to him.。
In this room, I know very personally,。
in conversations, there are storms。
that many of you are walking through.。
And David would say, and the Bible teaches,。
will you come to God?。
Will you come and find your security, rest,。
protection in him?。
His protection never fails.。
The world around you may, your health may,。
but he won't.。
And if that is where you find security, you win。
in this life and the next.。
And he continues and gives us further illustration。
of how God delivers his people。
in the song that they would sing,。
looking back how God delivered them in Egypt,。
delivered them in Israel at Passover.。
Here's what he says.。
This specifically refers to when they were delivered。
in Egypt.。
It comes directly from Exodus.。
Here we go, verse 10.。
All nations surrounded me, but in the name of the Lord,。
I cut them off.。
They surrounded me on every side,。
but in the name of the Lord, I cut them off.。
They swarmed around me like bees,。
but they were consumed as quickly as burning thorns.。
In the name of the Lord, I cut them off.。
I was pushed back and about to fall,。
but the Lord helped me.。
The Lord is my strength directly from Exodus.。
This is directly from the song they sang。
after they crossed over the Red Sea.。
I'll explain that in just a second.。
The Lord is my strength and my defense.。
He's become my salvation.。
Shouts of joy and victory resound。
in the tents of the righteous.。
The Lord's right hand has done mighty things.。
The Lord's right hand is lifted high.。
The Lord's right hand has done mighty things.。
David refers back and knows his protection never fails。
and they look back as they celebrate。
the events that took place。
where he delivered them from Egypt.。
How did he deliver them?。
This was when Pharaoh said,。
"Finally, you guys get out of here."。
Then Pharaoh went back to his life。
and realized it's noon, it's time for lunch.。
There's no one here to make me lunch.。
Let's go get these slaves again, guys.。
They go after the slaves。
and the slaves have left the nation of Egypt。
and they're going to found their nation.。
All of a sudden, Pharaoh's army shows up。
and they surround them.。
The bad news for the nation of Israel。
is their back was to a sea.。
They have this entire army surrounding them。
and then their back is to this ocean.。
They're wondering, "What are we going to do?"。
All of a sudden, God says to Moses,。
and you probably know the storyline,。
"Stretch out your hand."。
He reaches out his hand with his staff。
and God parts the sea。
and the nation walks across dry land.。
It says it's like walls of water were created。
and they walked across.。
When they got to the other side,。
Pharaoh's army came after。
and the walls crashed down on them.。
This is the song that they sing.。
The very first song the nation of Israel ever has。
is this one right here,。
that the hand of the Lord has done mighty things.。
The hand of the Lord has done mighty things,。
that God is in control.。
God is in control.。
He will deliver and He will come through.。
He says this in verse 17,。
"I will not die, but live。
"and will proclaim what the Lord has done,。
"that I'm going to live and I can trust。
"because God's in control.。
"God's protection never fails。
"and I will not die before God has appointed the time."。
That as one of our pastors on staff says often,。
"You are immortal until God is done with you."。
Another guy who had a open heart surgery。
in response to,。
he basically was going into open heart surgery,。
which is a really dangerous thing,。
and was having a either triple or quadruple bypass。
and somebody asked him,。
"Hey, are you nervous about it?"。
'Cause like you're on the table.。
I mean, open heart surgery is like,。
"Hey, one bad snip, you're done."。
And, "Are you nervous about the surgery?"。
And he says, "No."。
And they asked, "Why?"。
And he said, "Because I'm not gonna live one day less。
"than God has already ordained for me."。
And so if so, if I'm on the table and that happens,。
God knows it, He's in control.。
I'm not nervous because God is in control。
and He's the one who moves the ships.。
He's the one who knows what's going to happen.。
His protection never fails.。
He's ordained and I'm immortal until He's done with me.。
He then says this, verse 18,。
"The Lord has chastened me severely,。
"but He's not given me over to death."。
That David, wait a second, the Lord disciplined you?。
Yes, He disciplines, even His discipline。
is a form of protection.。
You get that, you see what I'm saying in that?。
Like even God, David says,。
"Look, the Lord even disciplines me,。
"but even in that discipline, it's God protecting me."。
It's God, sometimes God will allow inside of your life。
consequences, you to experience consequences for sin,。
me to experience consequences for sin,。
not because He's angry and He's trying to get payback at you,。
it's because He's trying to get you back.。
You know what I mean by that?。
It's not because He's trying to get payback,。
He's trying to bring you back to relationships.。
So He's going to say, "I'm gonna let you get a DWI.。
"I'm gonna let you get an STD.。
"I'm gonna let you lose that job,。
"not 'cause I'm angry, because I love you."。
So even my discipline is protecting you。
because if I don't do that,。
then you may just continue down that path。
and experience more and more pain.。
Even my protection is an expression of my love。
or even my discipline is an expression of love。
and protection for you.。
It's not dissimilar to, I have a dog。
that is a Rhodesian Ridgeback and he's like 130 pounds.。
He's like a little baby elephant running around.。
And we have a shot caller on him,。
which I know I'm getting judged right now。
by all my PETA friends in this room.。
And we'll use the shot caller。
because he will run out and take off into the street.。
And so right when he gets over to the edge of the street,。
all of a sudden the electrocution begins。
and he starts taking off back into his owner.。
The reason I do that, it's not that bad.。
I've done it to myself plenty of times.。
Okay, easy guys.。
It's a static shock.。
The reason we do that is not because we're angry at him。
because we love and we want to protect him。
from running off to where it could hurt God in the same way.。
Allows us to experience consequences。
and disciplines his children, not to pay them back,。
but to bring them back to him.。
And David says, look, you disciplined me。
not to hurt me or kill me,。
but because of your love and protection for me.。
And after establishing that,。
how we know he's going to come through,。
that God always protects, his protection never fails.。
His love never ends.。
He really begins to proclaim。
how we know now we have victory in God.。
And the song turns into like Queens,。
we are the champions from here.。
Here's what happens.。
It does.。
Verse 19, open the gates of the righteous。
and I will enter in and give thanks to the Lord.。
This is the gate through which the Lord,。
the gate of the Lord through which the righteous may enter.。
I will give thanks to you for you've answered me.。
You've become my salvation.。
David continues speaking about this like parade。
and this triumphal entry of open up the doors for me.。
The victory is already mine.。
The third idea of the Psalm proclaims。
is that victory is already ours in God。
because God is on our side.。
Who can be against us?。
Because God is for us, that victory is already ours,。
that God's victory is certain.。
The third idea introduced that no matter what happens,。
we win.。
That no matter what we face in this life,。
if you're in Christ, you win.。
And David says the victory is already ours.。
You can be confident and certain.。
He's basically saying, give me the crown of victory.。
Open up the gates, start up the parade。
because I know that my God wins。
and me with him, I win, David says.。
And he takes a transition that indicates really。
that there's something else going on in this Psalm.。
Here's what he says, verse 22.。
The stone the builders rejected。
has become the cornerstone.。
Come, the Lord has done this。
and it is marvelous in our eyes.。
The Lord has done it this very day.。
Let us rejoice and be glad.。
Lord, save us.。
Lord, grant us success.。
Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord。
from the house of the Lord.。
We bless you.。
And then David begins to lay out something else。
that's going on in this Psalm.。
The stone the builders rejected.。
We're gonna come back to that in a second.。
But he also points out this idea of Hosanna。
or the Lord has brought success.。
The Lord brings success.。
The word and the reason I say Hosanna is verse 25。
is that word.。
Those three words, Lord, give us success。
or Lord, save us, is the word Hosanna.。
Hosanna.。
If you grew up in church, you may have heard the word before.。
You may have heard this whole sentence before.。
Hosanna, Hosanna.。
Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord.。
The very words that Jesus,。
as he walked into Jerusalem。
on what was called Palm Sunday.。
If you ever heard of Palm Sunday.。
If you went to church growing up as a kid,。
you'd hold these palm branches around.。
On Palm Sunday, Jesus walks into the city of Jerusalem。
and the men and women gather around him。
and they throw those palm branches on the ground。
and they shout Hosanna, Hosanna.。
Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord.。
And David says and refers to this parade, this triumph.。
We're a part of the victory parade.。
We get to be a part of it.。
David may know or may not know fully。
that he's talking about an event。
that would take place with Christ.。
But he says, let the parade begin.。
Hosanna, Hosanna.。
Words that would later be repeated。
referring to Jesus as they walk in.。
Verse 27, the Lord is God。
and he's made his light shine on us。
with boughs or tree branches in hand.。
Join in the festival procession。
up to the horns of the altar.。
So in other words, gather around, bring out palm branches.。
Palm branches would be,。
they were symbolic of the nation of Israel.。
It's just like patriotism, right?。
It'd be like the state of Florida being like,。
we all got oranges.。
If you go over to the nation of Israel,。
they have palm branches everywhere.。
So palm branches represented the nation of Israel.。
This is kind of our flag.。
And so they all gather together.。
We're going, we are God's people.。
There's victory that we have been given through God.。
And they start this processional, this parade, if you will.。
You are my God, verse 28, and I will praise you.。
You are my God, and I will exalt you。
and give thanks to the Lord for he is good.。
His love endures forever.。
The David and the nation of Israel,。
because of David's writing,。
would gather together and say,。
God, your love never stops.。
You will never stop loving me。
because I'm a part of your people.。
You were the only protection in a world that is so broken。
that will never fail and never falter.。
You're the only thing that at the end of my days。
will not crumble around me.。
Relationships may, my bank account may,。
my job may, my children may,。
my future spouse may, whatever it is,。
but you never will.。
You're the only thing that will,。
and victory is mine no matter what happens, God.。
Through you, we win.。
Through you, we win.。
And they would gather together every year,。
and they would sing this song,。
and they'd look back,。
and the reason the nation of Israel would look back。
and say, look, we know God's gonna come through.。
We know he comes through.。
He's a God no matter what we're facing right now.。
We know God's coming through。
is because they would look back,。
and they'd point back to Passover,。
the single event in the nation's history,。
and they'd say, look, look at what happened.。
We know God delivers his people.。
We know that this took place.。
We know he will come through for us.。
And we, as followers of Christ,。
if you're one of those,。
we have a vantage point that is so much better than theirs,。
because the reason you and I know。
if you're facing a storm right now,。
if you're facing trial,。
when you face anxious times in life,。
the reason you and I know。
that God is a God who comes through,。
and he will come through,。
is not because of Passover,。
and not just because of the words in this song,。
but because of something else,。
because of something else this song,。
and even Passover,。
always pointed to.。
In other words, this psalm,。
that's all about Passover, right?。
It was sung at Passover.。
This would be what they'd come together.。
They'd sing this song.。
Hey, God's gonna come through for us.。
They would sing this song at Passover.。
It's all about Passover,。
but it's not just about Passover.。
There's clearly something else going on.。
In fact, Passover is not just about Passover.。
They're both about Jesus.。
Here's how we know that.。
Here's what I mean by that.。
Passover, when Jesus came together,。
he told his disciples on his last night on earth,。
where they came together,。
and they came together for an event。
that was called Passover.。
They came together,。
and Jesus on his last night together,。
we call it the last supper,。
if you've ever heard of the last supper,。
where they'd come together,。
and they'd have this meal together,。
and Jesus and all of his boys,。
they'd get together,。
and Jesus begins to open。
and begin to speak up about how Passover,。
the psalms, it's all been pointing to Jesus.。
It's all been about him,。
and the reason why we can have great confidence。
is not because of what God did in Exodus,。
but because what God did after this last supper。
and that meal on the cross.。
Jesus sits down at Passover,。
where they would have gotten together,。
they would have had this meal,。
they would have had this cup of wine,。
they would have had this dinner,。
and then this cup of wine,。
and then this bread,。
that both all were symbolic of the Passover feast.。
They were kind of a part of it.。
And Jesus gets them together,。
and at the end of that feast,。
they would have sang Psalm 118,。
Psalm 118, and he gets them together,。
and he starts off by saying。
that the psalm and all the psalms and Passover,。
they weren't about Passover,。
they were ultimately about me,。
the spotless lamb,。
that whoever by faith applies it to their life。
will find protection and be passed over.。
God will allow to experience life.。
Jesus says, "It was all about me."。
He takes this cup,。
and they're sitting at this meal,。
and all the disciples had been little Jewish boys,。
they'd sat through Passover dozens of times.。
It'd be like you opening Christmas presents。
on Christmas morning,。
like you know how it works,。
you know what's gonna take place next.。
You got together,。
and Jesus at this meal,。
he doesn't say what normally took place at Passover.。
He begins to go off the script.。
He begins to say things that they'd never heard before.。
In other words, they came together,。
and he lifted up the cup,。
and they'd seen the cup,。
I mean, it was just, it's a part of the meal,。
and he lifted up the cup,。
and he didn't say what you were supposed to say,。
which is this,。
"Lord, oh merciful one,。
"make us worthy to live in the days of the Mashiach."。
Allow us to be the Mashiach, the Messiah.。
Allow us to be worthy enough, Lord,。
to live in the days of the Messiah.。
Jesus takes the cup,。
and he looks at his boys in the face。
and the Passover meal,。
and he says, "This is about me,。
"and my blood that will be shed for you,。
"and the new covenant that will be established。
"by what I'm about to do on the cross,。
"and then he takes this bread,。
"and he begins to say,。
"This is not what they would have heard normally,。
"would be this is the bread of affliction。
"that our ancestors ate as they left Egypt,。
"and he says, "This bread has always been about me.。
"This is my body, broken so that you don't have to be."。
That he displays the unending love of God,。
the protection of God,。
the victory that would come through God,。
dying on the cross,。
and he says, "This is about me.。
"It's always been about me.。
"Passover, think about it.。
"The time where God allows the firstborn spotless lamb。
"to be killed, and anyone who accepts。
"the provision of that and puts it over their life。
"will by faith live.。
"They will be passed over and have life.。
"The spotless lamb of Jesus,。
"whose blood was shed,。
"and anyone who accepts the protection that he extends。
"freely will experience life,。
"and will be passed over from the wrath of God.。
"It's always been about me," he says,。
and he looks at them,。
and then as they begin to sing the psalm。
that they would have heard and sang all the time,。
all of a sudden it has to eclipse.。
Jesus, the Son of God,。
begins singing out this psalm, 118.。
He begins referring as he leans back and sings out,。
"The love of God endures forever,。
"and I'm about to go show it on the cross."。
And the Son of God sings out loud,。
"The love of God endures forever,。
"the love of God endures forever,。
"the love of God endures forever."。
And his disciples, who had no idea。
the fullness of everything that Jesus was saying,。
as he's about to display,。
"It's always been about me.。
"The psalm has always been about me,。
"and me displaying there's no end。
"to which I will not go to show you that I love you.。
"There's no thing that can come against my protection。
"for those who will accept it.。
"There's no thing that can stop my victory,。
"because whoever trusts in me, in Christ, we win."。
And he sings as he leans back and sings a song.。
Matthew 26, 30 says this,。
that Jesus sang a hymn,。
and they went out to the Mount of Olives.。
All scholars today, they still will sing psalm 118。
at the end of the Passover meal.。
And Jesus just laid out, "It's always been about me."。
The reason we have confidence God will come through。
is because he already has in Christ.。
And so no matter what we face,。
he invites us to turn to him,。
invites us to experience just the blessing。
of living in relationship,。
but we rest in the fact that no matter what comes our way,。
we're gonna make it, we're gonna be okay,。
whether that's in this life or the next,。
no matter what, we win.。
The whole psalm, I mean, think about it.。
Lay out the palm branches, it had to have clicked.。
And here's how we know the psalm 118 clicked.。
Oh my gosh, for the disciples,。
the men sitting at the table,。
maybe it was after Jesus rose from the dead。
that this has always been about Jesus.。
The stone the builders rejected has become the cornerstone.。
The stone that builders or the leaders crucified。
became the cornerstone?。
It became the stone that was first laid,。
the firstborn, the stone on which every other stone rests.。
And if you remove that stone, the whole thing crumbles,。
but it is that thing that holds everything else in place,。
it's about Jesus.。
And at some point, the men sitting around that table,。
it all clicked.。
The reason we know that is six different times it appears.。
The stone the builders rejected has become the capstone。
or become the cornerstone.。
Six different times, Peter and all the boys,。
they write, the writers of the New Testament write out,。
it's always been about Jesus.。
And we have confidence now in this life.。
We have confidence that we know his love endures forever。
because of what happened when Jesus,。
after he leaned back and he sang out the words,。
"Let the nation of Israel say, 'His love endures forever.'。
"Let the priesthood say, 'His love endures forever.'。
"Let all who fear the Lord say, 'His love endures forever.'。
"Because I'm gonna walk out overwhelmed。
"to the point of grief, and I'm going to die。
"so there is no end, that I, the God of the universe,。
"will not go to pay the price for those whom I love。
"to remain in covenant.。
"I will not stop loving you,。
"and anyone who will accept my protection。
"will be able to say for all of their days,。
"no matter what happens, we win.。
"No matter what I face, I'm gonna make it."。
And in the end, we win, and we win through Christ.。
If you don't know that God, if you don't know that message,。
that's the meaning of Christianity.。
That's the meaning of everything inside of your Bible.。
It's always been pointing to Jesus.。
And Jesus is a God who doesn't look at you and say,。
"Why don't you get it together already?"。
He's a God who says, "Look, I will die for you on a cross.。
"I will pay, and in doing so, I will pay for your sins.。
"I will pay the debt that you deserve to pay.。
"I will die the death that you deserve to die.。
"I'll live the life you cannot live,。
"and if you will just by faith。
"accept that Jesus paid for my sin,。
"you will live forever, and you will say,。
"with all the saints for eternity, we win.。
"And no matter what happens, we win.。
"No matter what we face, we win.。
"Neither death, life, nor anything else。
"in all creation, tribulation, famine, distress,"。
as Romans 8 says, "can separate us from Christ.。
"We win, and we exhale now,。
"knowing that you are the God who comes through,。
"because you already have, and you will come again,。
"and you've already paid, and through you, we win."。
If you don't know that God, I'm gonna pray that you would.。
We'd love to talk to you about it.。
That's why we do everything that you see here.。
That's why every psalm was written.。
That's why all of life, all of your life exists.。
That's the meaning for which you were born.。
I'm gonna pray that you would.。
Father, thank you for the psalms.。
Thank you for David.。
Thank you for the writings。
of just men who loved you, and who knew you,。
and who through their writings,。
we are able to know you better.。
Thank you.。
God, thank you for Jesus.。
Thank you for Jesus.。
Thank you for the Passover lamb,。
the true one whose blood was shed。
so that mine would not have to be.。
And who did so not because of a reluctance or an obligation,。
because he really loves us.。
You love us with a love that for your people never stops,。
and provides a protection that never fails,。
and through which we can have confidence to say,。
"We win, no matter what comes my way."。
"What comes my way, and I don't know what that will be, Lord."。
Would you allow us to walk by faith and say,。
"We win in this life and the next."。
And to be men who trust in that lamb,。
who trust in the meaning of Passover,。
Jesus, the meaning of Psalm 118.。
Amen.。
