Good evening and welcome to the porch.。
I'm here to guide you on your journey through the complex world of relationships.。
Can we cue some music please?。
From our friendships to our romantic endeavors, we'll explore our family bonds, estranged。
relationships, work dynamics, and perhaps even the relationship with oneself.。
So how do we relate?。
To answer this, we'll look to scripture and find exactly what God has to say about our。
relationships.。
This is After All, the Relationship Series.。
All right, Porsche, how are we doing?。
We doing okay tonight?。
Man, it's good to see y'all.。
Gosh, you know, we were talking about this as a team.。
It's actually a frequent point of conversation, but we realized like on Tuesday nights or。
whatever night it is that you may be possibly streaming this at a later time, you could。
do anything else.。
Yet you chose to show up here, which one leads me to just say, thanks.。
Like we really great.。
We're really grateful that you would choose to trust us with your evening.。
But also here's what I want you to know.。
Maybe this is like rhythmic for you.。
It's habit.。
Like you always come to the porch, you show up with your friends, you sit in the same。
seats, but maybe this is a new thing for you.。
Anybody here for the first time tonight?。
Welcome.。
You know, it's great to have you in the space, but what you need to know, regardless of whether。
it's your first time, you're here all the time is we genuinely believe that God knew。
you'd be here and God has something very specifically in store for you.。
The question is, are you willing and ready to receive it?。
You willing and ready to receive it porch?。
Yeah, man, I think it's going to be awesome.。
Special shout out to our porch live locations that are tuning in with us tonight.。
It's so great to have y'all with us as always.。
Special shout out to porch live, greater Lafayette and Atlanta.。
We were grateful that you guys are here.。
I was thinking about the, I was thinking about tonight and the topic of dating, which you。
couldn't tell is where we're going this evening.。
And I couldn't help but be reminded of my first job working in ministry with college。
students.。
It was an amazing job, like loved so many different aspects of the job, but easily the。
best thing that I got to do is I got to work with a group of student team leaders, 20 college。
guys, college girls, that they were the highest of character and the highest of caliber you。
could imagine.。
Like these are people that they not only loved Jesus, which was true, but man, they, they。
served faithfully and they worked really hard and they adhered to our values and they adopted。
our mission statement.。
They could repeat it on command and they met our expectations and they virtually never。
caused any kind of problems.。
That is until love entered into the equation because I remember inevitably one of the guys。
would start crushing on one of the girls, violating one of the oldest rules in the ministry,。
which was no team leader dating.。
It was not allowed.。
We'd been down that road before.。
We had learned our lesson in the past because love makes people do really dumb things.。
You know it.。
You've done something dumb yourself in the name of love.。
Like it impairs your judgment.。
It stirs up your emotions.。
It unleashes your unpredictability.。
And I knew this was the case.。
And yet regardless, every single semester, like clockwork, I would always get a text。
message from one of my guys that said, Hey man, do you think we could meet up and talk。
sometime?。
And I knew it.。
I could call the shot.。
I knew what they were coming to visit with me about.。
And yet regardless, I would agree to meet with them where we would sit down and over。
a cup of coffee and during our conversation, they would, they would tell me about their。
unprofessed, undying love for one of the girls on our team, which they knew was not allowed.。
And yet even still love would lead them to have that conversation and they would do crazy。
things like I had one guy come up and beg me, please, man, like, I just, I don't know。
what to do with these feelings.。
I want so badly to pursue her at another guy that tried to appeal to my logic and reasoning。
as if I would be an understanding individual.。
Another one tried to move around me, not even tell me about it, just kind of swerve and。
move on the slide towards his target.。
But we definitely found out what was happening there.。
I even had one guy like bow up to me and tell me this is stupid.。
And I looked at him and said, tough luck, brother.。
Like, you know, this is just the way it is here.。
Love, it has a powerful effect on people.。
Amen.。
Yeah.。
And again, these are some of the best young leaders I knew.。
Like I handpicked them myself.。
They were consistent and reliable and self-sacrificing.。
You could trust them to run a ministry to thousands of college students.。
And you could also trust them to run your grandma to the grocery store.。
They were tremendous people.。
But the minute they caught feelings or love injected into their system, they became completely。
and totally unpredictable.。
You see, love has a powerful and polarizing force.。
In this room alone, just the mention of the fact that we're going to talk about dating。
tonight, there are a dozen of different responses across this room altogether.。
Some of you have shown up here very specifically for this topic.。
Finally, they're going to talk about it.。
Others of you have already leaned over to your friend and said, "Hey, you want to get。
out of here?"。
Like, we've heard this thing before.。
This is a frequent flyer for the porch.。
Some of you have approached this evening cautiously optimistic.。
Maybe I'll learn something new.。
Others of you are hopelessly romantic, hoping I will give you the keys to unlocking that。
secret that will lead you to the love of your life.。
Amen.。
Some of you have been burned.。
While others of you are trying to stoke a fire tonight.。
The idea of love, it's true.。
It sends us all in different directions.。
But regardless of what direction it sends you in, the truth is we all want it.。
I could bore you with the statistics.。
But if you look across the nation, by and large, young adults want love.。
They desire romance and relationships.。
So how do you then know which one to choose?。
If everybody wants a relationship, if everybody is eager and looking for a committed romantic。
partner, how then do you look across the vast array of people that are wanting for the same。
thing and know which one you should choose?。
Which person is worthy of your pursuit?。
There's so many options out there.。
So how do you evaluate who you should date?。
Well, you can't make the right call with the wrong criteria.。
And if you just do a little bit of research, which you don't need to, I've done it for。
you, what you see is that we're operating often under the wrong criteria.。
As just one example, Tinder recently reported that young adults named personal growth and。
happiness as their number one priority when searching for a romantic partner, which sounds。
really reasonable and even very good.。
And yet what you realize when you hear that the desire for a romantic partner, according。
to user subscriptions on Tinder, is that I would find personal growth and happiness.。
What you realize is people aren't looking so much for a relationship as much as they're。
looking for a rescuer.。
Like we're looking for someone to fill up the vacancies inside of me, to give me that。
thing which I've always wanted for and I know I need.。
And yet what you're doing is you're putting a pressure on people that they cannot measure。
up to nor support the weight of.。
Because people aren't meant to be your rescuer, Jesus Christ is.。
You see, what we find when it comes to dating is we're seeking a partner, but the reason。
for our seeking is we're just really seeking for ourselves.。
Do you see it?。
And because this is the case, we find ourselves in all sorts of different romantic relationships.。
Like yes, there's the true traditional relationship model where it's one guy and it's one girl。
and they're sitting at dinner and they're getting to know each other and they're asking。
casual questions, but in our society, what you realize is that's just not the norm anymore.。
Like you see polyamorous dating where people are really open in a relationship and they're。
inviting multiple parties to be a part of the romantic dynamic.。
You see that people have friends with benefits where really I don't have any romantic interest。
in you at all, but I'm co-opting you and trading in sexual favors so that way I can scratch。
that itch.。
And so many of you are codependent in your friendships because you don't trust the opposite。
sex.。
And so what you want to do instead is you want to find that emotional need met by way。
of a trusted friend.。
If you look at our generation across America, what you see is a more diverse and wider array。
of romantic constructs today than at any other point in human history.。
And yet here's the thing, despite the diversity, there's one commonality as to why we seek。
these.。
And it's because we're self-seeking, which isn't loving, right?。
That's what Paul says when he writes to the Corinthians in chapter 13.。
He says, love is patient.。
Love is kind.。
It does not envy.。
It does not boast.。
It is not proud.。
It does not dishonor others.。
It is not self-seeking.。
True love doesn't self-seek.。
And so instead of tonight walking in and just talking to you about who it is you should。
date, what I want is I want to flip the script.。
I want to turn the tables and I want to ask the question, should someone date you?。
Because the reality is to just ask, who should I date?。
That's self-seeking.。
But to say, am I dateable?。
That's self-searching.。
And so we're going to do some self-searching tonight.。
Okay, porch.。
And the way that we're going to do it is we're going to look at Paul's letter to Timothy。
in 1 Timothy.。
So if you have a Bible, you can pull it out.。
You can turn to 1 Timothy.。
We're going to be in chapter 4, but here's just what you need to know.。
We are going to be all over the place this evening.。
We've got scripture from across the book.。
1 Timothy chapter 4, verse 12 is a good place to put your finger because it's the verse。
we're going to anchor in and build our argument from for the rest of the evening.。
And yet we're going to be all over the grid.。
But this is what it says.。
1 Timothy 4, chapter 4, verse 12.。
It says this.。
Let no one despise you for your youth, but set the believers an example in speech and。
conduct and love and faith and in purity.。
Now admittedly, this is not your normal passage for a dating talk, but it's the perfect passage。
for an evening of self-evaluation.。
Because what Paul is saying is he's looking at young Timothy and he's saying, "Hey, there。
is a standard that I want you to meet.。
And that standard is godliness.。
And that standard of godliness, it's relevant for every area of your life, including your。
dating life."。
So what does godliness have to do with dating?。
Great question.。
Here's the answer.。
A meaningful connection to God is the source of meaningful connection to other people.。
A meaningful connection to God is the source of meaningful connection to other people.。
If you want to have a meaningful relationship with another person that actually descends。
to the depths of delight that you can find in romance, then you need a meaningful relationship。
with God.。
He's the one that designed it.。
So learn from him if you want to love at its greatest length.。
And according to Paul, as he talks about godliness, his idea is that true godliness is reliable。
enough to trust and it's desirable enough to follow.。
True godliness is reliable enough to trust and it's desirable enough to follow.。
This is the main point of the night.。
So if you're taking notes, here it is.。
This goes on top and then we're going to have three points that go underneath it.。
Just look at the standard he gives Timothy for how he should live his life.。
He says, "Hey, set an example.。
So what's an example?。
An example is a standard worth following.。
That's what an example is.。
I don't know about you, but when I learned the alphabet at the ripe age of three, the。
way that I learned the alphabet is by replicating an example.。
I saw for my teacher a standard that I should meet.。
What needed to be true of that standard?。
It needed to be reliable enough to trust.。
Like when I received that this is the way an A is supposed to be shaped, I didn't question。
if it was legit or not.。
I just believed it was reliable enough to trust, but know that it was desirable enough。
to follow.。
That I was willing to actually emulate the pattern I saw before me.。
Okay, my little hand is making the A out.。
I was willing to follow that example.。
That's what Paul is saying to Timothy.。
He's saying, "Hey, live in a way that's reliable to other people.。
That people will look at you and they'll see someone that's steady and movable and constant。
no matter what the shifting sea of circumstance brings in your life.。
But don't just be reliable.。
Give an example that's desirable to follow.。
That people will look at you and be like, "Man, look at him go.。
I want to go that way.。
I want to live like that."。
This is what we should do with our lives.。
We should walk with a kind of godliness that sets an example before people.。
Why does that matter to dating?。
Because you want this in dating.。
You want this.。
You want someone in a dating relationship that is reliable enough to trust.。
That no matter what comes, man, they're trustworthy.。
I can depend on them.。
They're constant.。
They're immovable.。
I'm not going to wake up one day and they're going to be gone.。
That's not something you have to worry about because there's a godliness, a reliability。
to them.。
But then also, they're desirable enough to follow.。
That, "Man, I see the way you're living your life, the direction you're going, and I want。
to go with you.。
I want to link arms and run into the future together, whether it's for a short while or。
it's until death do us part."。
If you want to date, then your life should look like this.。
It should set a standard worth following.。
So how do we know if that's happening or not?。
How do we assess the quality of your dateability?。
Well, first, you study your behavior.。
You study your behavior.。
That's what Paul means when he says, "Set an example in speech and in conduct."。
When you take those two things, speech and conduct, and you pull them together, what。
they encompass is all observable human behavior.。
Emphasis on observable.。
The reason that's important for us to know is because you make your dating decisions。
based upon what you see and what you hear about somebody.。
This is important for us.。
So when my wife and I lived in Houston, we had a Nest security camera.。
The kind of notifications it would report to me were always on the basis of two things,。
the sounds it heard and the movements it saw.。
Now what was important to know is those notifications could instigate within me a variety of different。
feelings.。
If I got a notification that my Nest camera saw someone pick up my trash can, which had。
blown over, that would instigate feelings of gratitude.。
Thank you.。
If I got a notification that my Nest camera heard a sound, a crashing blow in the middle。
of the night, it would leave me panicked.。
If my Nest cam notified me that somebody was taking packages off my front porch, that would。
instigate a feeling of anger.。
It would give me observations that influenced the feelings I had.。
You catch that?。
So it is with your behavior as well.。
The behaviors that you demonstrate in life will have an impact upon the people who see。
them.。
You will instigate a feeling within your romantic interests, depending upon how you speak and。
how you act.。
So what do your behaviors say about you?。
Do you tear people down with your words?。
Do you lash out in anger and get defensive when things aren't going your way?。
Do you have a short fuse that doesn't take much to set you off?。
Proverbs 25, 28 would say, "A man without self-control is like a city broken into and。
left without walls."。
Nobody wants to be in a relationship like that, where there is no safety, there is no。
security, where one partner in the dynamic is angry or unpredictable to the point that。
the walls of our relationship could come crashing down at any given moment.。
Do you tell half-truths to get out of trouble?。
Transparency builds trust, but dishonesty breeds division.。
Proverbs 12, 19 says, "Truthful lips endure forever."。
Do you want your relationship to endure forever?。
Did you need truthful lips?。
You need to speak the truth.。
But a lying tongue is but for a moment.。
You see, truth and honesty, they are vital for long-term relationships.。
But if you can't tell the full truth on something that's small right now, how are they going。
to be able to trust that you will tell the full truth on something big that happens tomorrow?。
Do you flirt frequently?。
Like are you emotionally entangling someone else, getting their hopes up with absolutely。
no expectation of doing anything with that romantic interest?。
That's not kind, that's confusing.。
First Corinthians 14, 33 says, "For God is not a God of confusion, but of peace."。
So listen to me, if you're deep-liking stuff on their social media, or you're DMing them。
on Instagram, or you're commenting on their posts, or you're sending them pictures, or。
you're texting them frequently, or you're dressing a certain way to garner their attention,。
whatever it is, that's not kind.。
If you don't actually have romantic interest, do not do it.。
You're getting someone's hopes up only to drop them in such a hopeless fashion.。
What about your actions?。
Like do you say one thing but do another?。
Like it's going to be really hard to be reliable in a relationship then.。
James 1, 22 says, "But be doers of the word and not hearers only deceiving yourselves."。
Like we want to date people that say what they mean and mean what they say, right?。
That's what you want.。
You want someone that is going to give you their word and then follow through.。
Like they're not all intention and no action because that's not healthy.。
Do you choose the hard right over the easy wrong?。
Like are you willing to forego something that you really want for yourself that you can。
take care of that thing that they really need you to do?。
Proverbs 3, 27 says, "Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due when it's in。
your power to do it."。
You see, the way someone behaves says a lot about their romantic viability because the。
way someone behaves says a lot about their character.。
And that's what Paul's getting at.。
He wants us to consider what it means to be people of character.。
And what you need to know about character is that character isn't presented in a moment,。
it's proven over time.。
Character is not presented in a moment, it is proven over time.。
Anyone can turn it on for the first date.。
Some of you know it.。
We went on that first date and he was amazing.。
And then we went out the second time and oh my gosh, he was a completely different person.。
I don't know what happened there.。
Anyone can play the part when they meet your parents.。
Like anyone can make a really good first impression on your friends because they know that matters。
a lot and they need to get their approval so they can get yours too.。
Anybody can look good in the initial interaction but it takes someone of character to have。
a long standing reputation that's worthy of writing home about.。
Anybody can be full of charisma but what you're looking for, not only in someone else but。
particularly in yourself, is character.。
That's what you want.。
Think about it like this.。
When you apply for a job, why does the employer ask you for character references?。
Why do they ask you for character references?。
Because you may go into the interview and have an amazing conversation with them and。
your employer may grasp some fraction of your character but they cannot get a full comprehensive。
grasp of your character in that interview.。
Why?。
Because it takes time to understand how truly right and worthy of repute is someone.。
And so they ask, "Hey, give me references.。
Tell me the names and phone numbers of people that can speak to the way you speak, that。
can inform me of how you listen.。
Like tell me of some people that can actually attest to your behavior.。
I need to know of people that can speak with greater credibility as to your character.。
Give me working character references."。
Just to bring it into our context, what would your dating references have to say about your。
character?。
What would your dating references have to say about your character?。
Just imagine whether it's a romantic interest you have or it's a current boyfriend or girlfriend。
sitting here with you tonight, what if they could call up everyone in your dating history?。
What would they learn?。
Would they see a report that marks you with genuine godliness, the way that we're describing。
that, "Man, this is someone that has conducted themselves with high character."。
Or would they see someone that just knows how to play the part?。
And I know that that can feel really indicting.。
That can feel really convicting.。
What you also need to know is that we don't date people with regard to who they once were.。
We date people with regard to who they now are in Christ Jesus.。
And so you're here tonight and if you feel, "Man, I've done some things.。
I've been some places.。
I've seen some things.。
I'm filled with regret."。
Take hope, brother, sister.。
God does not regard you what you've done.。
He's paid for that in full.。
He regards you with who you are right now.。
And we should date people with a similar type of heart.。
But it's important for us to consider if you want to bring your best self to a dating relationship,。
what's your behavior got to say about you?。
Be a student of your behavior.。
Like watch yourself like you're watching game tape.。
I remember when I played football, my coach was a drill sergeant when it came to tape.。
Like he would fast forward and rewind and fast forward and rewind every missed assignment。
I had.。
It was painfully unbearable to endure.。
And yet the reason he would do it for me isn't because he hated me.。
He would do it for me because he wanted to make me better.。
But not just that, he wanted to make all of us better.。
When you consider your behaviors, you're not just trying to be a better version of yourself.。
You're trying to be a better version for them as well.。
That's what you're trying to aim towards.。
And here's the thing that's crazy.。
What does it look like to date people in such a way where when they come into your orbit。
and they interact with you, you leave them better than you found them?。
There's all this awkwardness and tension around breaking up.。
Man, there's no awkwardness and tension in breaking up.。
If that person whom you're breaking up with can actually look at you and say like, man,。
I'm so grateful.。
Even though this is hard, even though I'm sad, I'm grateful that my life intersected。
with yours because I'm a better person today than I was at the beginning.。
How amazing would it be if their future spouse, husband, wife could look back upon you and。
say I'm grateful they dated you.。
They're better because of you than they would have been without.。
Let our behavior be marked with that kind of character, a character that leaves people。
better than we found them.。
The second way we've got to evaluate our relational readiness is we have to examine our beliefs.。
You've got to examine your beliefs.。
As Paul is writing to Timothy, who's taking charge of the church at Ephesus, he wants。
to be clear that a godly example should be marked by love and faith, which makes total。
sense in the life of a believer.。
But it begs the question, what does it have to do with dating?。
Well, let's just take these ideas, love and faith, one at a time.。
If you study Paul's writings, love is always directed towards the benefit of another person.。
It's not expressed in serving ourselves.。
It's always expressed in serving someone else.。
First Corinthians 13, it says this, "If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels。
but have not love, I'm a noisy gong.。
I'm a clanging cymbal.。
If I have prophetic powers and understand all mysteries and knowledge and if I have。
all faith so as to remove mountains that have not love, I'm nothing.。
If I give away all I have and if I deliver up my body to be burned but I have not love,。
I gain nothing."。
For Paul, love is so significant that the most captivating and brilliant and generous。
person in all the world is rendered useless without the proper motivation.。
What's the proper motivation?。
Love.。
I mean, just think about it like this.。
Who wouldn't sign up for some of what Paul is talking about?。
Just looking at the verse, "Speaking of tongues of men and angels," yeah, please, I'll take。
some of that.。
"Prophetic powers to understand all mysteries and knowledge."。
I mean, if you're offering, Paul, sure.。
How about faith to move mountains?。
Yeah, that could help us a little bit around here.。
I'm in for all of this and yet Paul is adamant in the point that as awesome as it all is,。
it is meaningless if it's not marked by love.。
What kind of love?。
The kind of love he talks about is the kind of love that's characteristic of God.。
It should be an unconditional love, a love that is so binding in its force that it could。
hold a perfect God to an imperfect people.。
Man, if that kind of love can bind that kind of incompatibility, then that's the kind of。
love I need for whatever relationship I'm trying to create here on earth.。
I need the love of God.。
If it could hold him fast to me, it will hold me fast to someone else.。
But here's the thing.。
We often rely so frequently upon things that are much smaller than this to bind us together.。
He's cute.。
She's nice.。
I love their family.。
We have a great time together.。
We rely on small flimsy things instead of things that are of strength and substance。
like the love of God.。
And I'm not saying that that's bad.。
I hope she is nice.。
I hope he is cute.。
I hope your relationship is marked by some of these nice-to-haves, but the need-to-have。
is the love of God.。
Because here's the thing.。
Appearance is a powerful binding force until you begin to age.。
Like success and money and wealth and power, that is a powerful binding force for a relationship。
until you lose your job.。
Fun?。
Yeah, that's a powerful binding force for two people to one another that is until hard。
times fall upon one or the other.。
But the love of God, that is the most powerful binding force of all.。
Like that's the force that never gives, it never fails, it never wavers in any way whatsoever.。
And that's the kind of force that you need to bind you to one another.。
That's why Paul says this to the church in Corinth.。
He says in 2 Corinthians 6, "Do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers, for what partnership。
has righteousness with lawlessness?。
Or what fellowship has a light with darkness?。
What accord has Christ with Belial?。
Or what portion does a believer share with an unbeliever?"。
You see, God's design is one that wants us to link up with somebody that values the same。
things in life and has the same vision as they move forward through life.。
And this is a non-negotiable.。
Like I talk to people down front that are believers and they're dating non-believers。
and there's strain and stress already in the relationship.。
Why is that the case?。
Because even though you're bound by some kind of force, there's an enduring, indomitable。
force in the life of the believer that's not there for the non-believer.。
Because the reality is they love God and you don't.。
You know, like there's this incompatibility that's ultimately, though it may work today,。
is ultimately going to divide in the future.。
You want to be linked up, equally yoked along somebody that can run so parallel straight。
with you that there's never divide on the basis of the most important things in life.。
And so if you're a believer, date believers.。
And to be frank, this isn't just a non-negotiable for believers.。
This is a non-negotiable for non-believers too.。
If you're here in the room, why would you want to be bound in relationship to someone。
that's going to be dragging you to church, to a building that you don't care the teachings。
of?。
Why do you want to be linked up to someone that's going to be guilting you into moral。
conformity to a set of beliefs that you just don't hold?。
That sounds tough, you know?。
Now let me be very clear.。
Believers and those that don't believe should be deep, great friends with each other.。
The Bible is littered with that type of relationship where we're bound to each other in friendship.。
And yet I am saying it's better to be alone with God than lonely with a spouse.。
So why faith?。
If that's why love matters, why does faith matter?。
Because the Christian life is not just theoretical, it's practical.。
It's one thing to say you trust God when things are really good.。
It's another thing to say that you trust God when things are really bad.。
It's easy to show up here on Tuesday nights and worship alongside all of your friends,。
but it's another thing to wake up Wednesday morning and worship him all by yourself.。
Anybody can walk like a Christian, but not everybody can walk like Christ.。
Does that make sense?。
You should have a faith that looks like Christ's.。
What does Christ's faith towards us look like?。
It's one that is, he has a love that is deeply convictional for you.。
It's not just conceptual.。
It's not just like, "Oh, I know them.。
I love them."。
No, it's convictional enough to the point that I would die for them.。
Like I would be willing to let all of my raw emotion for them become like urgent action。
for their sake.。
And we should have the same faith should compel us to act in a way that conforms with the。
love we have for God for the sake of the one whom we love.。
If he was willing to lay down his life for the sake of those he loved, then bound by。
our own belief, we should do so likewise.。
That's the kind of relationship we want to be a part of.。
And the last thing to consider if you're evaluating your romantic readiness is you need to inspect。
your boundaries.。
You need to inspect your boundaries.。
Because according to Paul, we can't set an example worth following without purity.。
If you've been around the church for any amount of time, the popular narrative around the。
topic of sex and hookup culture is that it's extremely prevalent within the young adult。
generation of America, which isn't shocking.。
Like we live in a world where eight of the 10 top songs on the 100 Billboard chart are。
filled with romantic language and sexual deviancy.。
It's not surprising that people can make the leap that this is what we're interested in.。
And yet what's interesting is if you study the sexual trends of the last five to 10 years。
amongst our generation, that perception would be wrong.。
Gene Twenge, psychology professor at San Diego State University, and one of the foremost。
experts on young adults has reported that people in their 20s are two and a half times。
more likely to be abstinent than their parents were at their age.。
Now I know that doesn't represent the entire room here, but it is one startling data set。
in a bigger conclusion that many researchers are claiming about today, which is they have。
ascribed this title as true of your generation, that there is a sex recession.。
So why the emphasis on purity then, Paul?。
Like if it's never been better, why do we need to worry about it?。
It sounds like we're doing good.。
Our parents should take a lesson out of our playbook, you know?。
Why then are we talking about it?。
Because although there is perceivably less casual sex, there is just as much committed。
sex today as there has been in times past.。
According to Pew Research, 72%, so three out of four young adults, believe sex is acceptable。
in a committed relationship.。
Meaning that although young adults are less inclined to hook up with a stranger, they。
are equally, if not more inclined to hook up with somebody that they are in a longstanding。
and committed relationship with.。
For a different example, if you survey porn usage since 2020, research shows dramatic。
increases in overall consumption.。
I'll spare you more statistic, but here's the bottom line.。
The sex recession is not a lust recession.。
It's not.。
Like we may not be hooking up or casually engaging with strangers in a sexual way, but。
the reality of the matter is people are having just as much sex today as they were then.。
It's just in a different context.。
People are finding ways to indulge their sexual appetites as they always have.。
And a dating relationship in this modern day is one of the leading places that people search。
for it.。
Because a dating relationship is a place of commitment.。
And that's where people want to find, that's where they want to satisfy their sexual appetite.。
Now am I saying sex is bad?。
No.。
Sex is amazing.。
God created it.。
It's wildly powerful.。
So powerful in fact that it's the means through which he has decided to populate the earth.。
Like when you engage in a loving, covenantal sexual union with a person, you have the ability。
to create life.。
That image is God.。
Do you see that?。
How amazing that is?。
That God which creates something from nothing has given you the ability to do the exact。
same thing?。
It's an amazing thing.。
And yet what we need to know is while it is amazing, it is so very dangerous.。
It's so very dangerous outside the confines of marriage.。
Proverbs 6.32 says, "He who commits adultery lacks sense.。
He who does it destroys himself."。
First Corinthians 6.18 says, "Flee from sexual immorality.。
Every other sin a person commits is outside the body, but the sexually immoral person。
sins against his or her own body."。
Sexual compromise outside of God's design is dangerous.。
Also because you practice how you play.。
If you're willing to make compromises sexually this side of marriage, won't you be willing。
to make compromises sexually on the other side of marriage?。
Like a pattern of adultery today is just preparation for adultery tomorrow.。
And nobody wants to be in a relationship with someone like that.。
Now again, this is not an indictment upon you for the decisions you've made.。
This is just a call to a better way.。
But this is just an opportunity to look and say, "Hey, you go be like Aladdin in the cave。
of wonders, in a sea of tempting jewels ripe for the taking.。
You take only the lamp.。
You sweep in and you grab that which is most desiring of your focus, which is purity."。
Which is purity.。
That's where life and love and joy and deep fulfillment is found.。
So how do we do that?。
Paul says in Romans, "Put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh。
to gratify its desires."。
Which just means don't invite unnecessary temptation into your life.。
Why would you do that?。
Why would you invite unnecessary temptation into your life?。
There's already plenty of temptation out there that is outside of your control.。
So don't invite it unnecessarily.。
Start building parameters today instead of provisions for the flesh.。
Stop doom scrolling on Instagram.。
Stop looking at your Explorer page, especially if you've not set limits upon the algorithm。
that determines what populates in that space.。
Have someone tonight block the person you've been sexting with.。
Don't do it anymore.。
Don't leave here this evening without actually taking that step.。
Find some accountability.。
Let people know where you go and where you're tempted.。
Set boundaries early.。
Honor them always and revisit them frequently.。
I'll say that again, man.。
Set boundaries early.。
Honor them always and revisit them frequently because you will find areas within your defense。
where there is some gap that needs filling.。
You be vigilant.。
You keep fighting the good fight for Christ has fought the good fight for you.。
Now you do the same.。
And listen, this is just for free.。
When you get into a relationship, I love what J.D. Greer once said, some parameters for。
you to set up.。
If you don't have parameters here tonight and you're in a dating relationship, here。
are your parameters.。
You should write these down.。
Nothing in the dark, nothing below the chin, nothing horizontal, and nothing lasts longer。
than five seconds.。
You laugh because you know it'll work.。
Nothing in the dark, nothing below the chin, nothing horizontal, and nothing lasts longer。
than five seconds.。
You be self-controlled.。
You be self-controlled.。
That most odd gift of the spirit that lies at the end of the list, have you ever wondered。
how unique that is?。
Like the gifts of the spirit, love, joy, peace, patience, kindness.。
Like yeah, these all make sense and then you get to self-control.。
It's like what is going on with that?。
Like that is so outside the realm of the rest of these.。
And it here's why self-control is so meaningful.。
It is that, it's that fruit of the spirit which distinctly sets us apart from the rest。
of the created order.。
Like nothing else, no other creature can exercise self-control.。
Like you put a bowl of food out, your dog will come running to it because they're hungry.。
But you and I, we can choose to fast an entire day long if we so choose.。
God has given you a sense of agency, a sense of control that you might subdue your flesh.。
You might become the master of yourself, that you might look like him.。
Second Timothy 2.22 says, "So flee youthful passions and pursue righteousness, faith,。
love and peace along with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart."。
I love this.。
Like Paul is penning his final letter to Timothy and he tells him, he's like, "Hey, yes, flee。
youthful passions."。
But it's not just that.。
It's not just a command to pull yourself together.。
Like be strong, Timothy.。
Wage war.。
Like it's not just a command to fight off sin.。
It's also a call to pursue God.。
The kind of life he's invited you into.。
Like you've not just been set free from sin, you've been set free to new life.。
Like Jesus so often is misunderstood as the guy that sweeps in, saves you from your sin。
and lets you go along your merry way.。
And yet that's just not the case.。
He's not just a savior.。
Like he didn't just show up to save you, clean you up and then get you back out there, kid.。
Like that's not his heart.。
The heart of Jesus is one that says, "Yes, I will save you from your sin.。
And I will lead you into better life, into life like you've never known, life like you。
couldn't dare dream."。
Do you want that?。
Like what if the worst day of your life was always the day behind you?。
In the best days, we're forever and always forward.。
That is the invitation of the cross.。
He says, "Hey, flee youthful lust and passion.。
Set aside the things of the world and pursue righteousness.。
I gave my life to give it to you, to rightly unite you and put you before the Father.。
Like you walk, pursue my righteousness, put feet to your faith, experience my love, enjoy。
my peace.。
Like this is what I'm affording you."。
And the reason I love this so much is because on a talk like this, which as I was writing。
it, I just felt this trepidation of like, man, it can feel like the pressure of perfection。
can weigh so heavy on an evening like this.。
Like, hey, here's everything you're not doing.。
The reason I love this is it tells us like the goal isn't perfection.。
The goal is pursuit.。
That's it.。
Like the goal is to pursue the one that pursued you, to walk in the way that he walked for。
you, to enjoy the life that he gave for you.。
Like we pursue not perfection, but we pursue the only perfect one who would pursue an imperfect。
people.。
We pursue the only lovely one that would pursue such an unlovely people.。
And we pursue the only worthy one that would pursue an unworthy people.。
You see, Jesus's behavior was perfect when ours was not.。
He lived the life you could not.。
You could not meet the standard that God had set for you.。
And yet he saw you, saw me in our disarray.。
And he said, "I'll live it for you.。
I'll be perfect on your behalf."。
His belief in what God was doing in the world, the kind of redemption he was trying to afford。
us, all the kind of rescue that he had written at the beginning of time was still bringing。
into fruition.。
Jesus believed and prevailed in the face of our disbelief.。
And he was pure, purging us from all our impurity, the stain of sin which had grown so deep that。
we thought will never be cleansed.。
He laid down his life.。
He broke his own body.。
He spilled forth his blood to say, "I will clean it.。
I'll save you.。
You just have to believe in me."。
That's the invitation on the table.。
All you have to do tonight, brother, sister, is place your faith in him and you can be。
forgiven.。
Before you consider pursuing anyone else, first consider the one who pursued you.。
Before you worry about a standard you should reach, think about the standard you could。
not but the one who could reach it for you.。
Let me pray for us.。
Father, we love you.。
So grateful for this evening, God.。
I know that this can be a heavy topic, that self-evaluation can be really exposing.。
And so, God, I just pray for my friends here.。
There are some here tonight, God, that have been exposed, that have done things, seen。
things, been places, and yet, God, they want to change tonight.。
They do.。
I pray they would know, God, that change is possible with you, that it can happen right。
now if only they would ask you, God.。
Others are here and they feel exposed but they don't feel some sense of conviction.。
They see in themselves and in their relationship, and we're moving towards marriage.。
That's okay.。
We're playing husband and wife already.。
God gives us a pass, free license to run on all these things the way we wish.。
God, that's just not the case.。
I pray, God, that these friends would know they're cutting the legs out from the joy。
that you would give them.。
And then, Father, there are some here tonight that realize, man, I'm not ready for a dating。
relationship but I am ready for a relationship with the one whom my soul has so eternally。
longed for.。
I pray, God, that they would place their faith in you and walk with you into the future you。
have.。
We love you.。
It's in Jesus' name we pray.。
