(upbeat music)。
- All right, welcome friends of the room。
and Fort Worth, Austin, El Paso, Phoenix, Houston,。
Philly, Cedar Rapids, any of the 16。
other Ports Alive locations.。
We are continuing this series, Bloodline.。
I'm gonna start by telling a story.。
My son is about to be four years old。
and he is in this stage of life。
where he is constantly singing about everything.。
Sometimes he just makes up songs,。
other times he just like has these little kid CDs。
they're constantly singing.。
We drive in the car, constantly singing.。
It's like high school musical is our life at all times.。
And to the point where my wife will like。
take little videos of him singing stuff。
and then he'll ask questions about different things.。
In fact, here's a video of one time recently。
or in the past week where he's just。
belting it out in the car,。
doesn't even know exactly what he's singing.。
♪ Oh how I loved you ♪。
♪ Because you first loved me ♪。
- Wait for it.。
♪ Oh how I loved you ♪。
- Here's what's funny about that.。
He has no idea what he's singing.。
Most of the songs that he sings he has no idea。
because one thing is for certain,。
he does not love Jesus yet.。
He is a Christian or he's not a Christian yet.。
He's a little sinner living in our home.。
And his little sister is for sure a sinner。
living in our home.。
And hopefully one day he does, but he'll sing these songs.。
You know, just kids, they'll pick it up。
and kind of whatever's playing, they'll sing the songs.。
And he was listening to a song recently。
where we were driving in the car。
and it's not one that anyone would recognize in here,。
but it said something about like trusting God.。
And so we asked a question as he'll do often。
just 'cause he's like,。
I don't even know what I'm singing right now.。
I just like to sing.。
And he asked, what does it mean to trust God?。
And then as a father, you begin to like play,。
how do you answer a three-year-old。
on what it actually means,。
like what the word trust means。
and what that actually explains.。
And I begin to like try to put into words。
and give him like, man, it means that we live。
according to what he says, we listen and obey.。
And this was either a great parenting moment。
or a terrible one.。
Oh, listen and obey like Kanye's Chick-fil-A song.。
And I was like, yeah, kind of like Kanye's Chick-fil-A song。
and began to explain what does it mean to trust God?。
And I gave a couple answers.。
And as I thought about that question,。
I don't know that there's gonna ever be a moment in his life。
where he asks a more significant question than that.。
I don't know that anyone in this room。
could ask a more important question than that.。
What does it look like and what does it mean to trust God?。
Although the Bible, the Bible indicates。
that if you can't answer that question correctly,。
it's gonna have significant implications in this life。
and in the life to come or in eternity.。
And yet it's one of those phrases that, you know,。
trusting God or having faith or believing。
will throw out there。
and people will use it in different ways.。
And often they'll use it in ways。
that don't exactly align with the Bible。
where people are like, hey dude,。
this year, 2019 has been terrible.。
2020, I'm telling you, it's coming.。
I'm just believing and having faith for great things.。
It's gonna be amazing.。
And that is not necessarily a bad thing,。
but that would be closer to hoping for great things.。
When the Bible talks about faith,。
it talks about different aspects。
and that as believers, you and I are called。
if we're gonna experience a relationship with God。
to walk by faith.。
So what does it mean to walk by faith or to trust God?。
What does that actually look like?。
And so tonight I wanna explore。
as we continue the series Bloodline,。
looking at the father of faith,。
where we learn inside of his life, his name was Abraham,。
what it looks like to trust God.。
True faith and trusting God。
are synonymous with one another biblically.。
That to trust is to have faith.。
And like I said, this question is at the heart。
of whether or not you will spend eternity with God.。
How you answer this question。
and whether or not you get this answer right。
will impact whether or not you spend eternity。
and has significant implications。
for how you experience life in this world.。
How you sleep at night, the peace you experience,。
the type of marriage that you're gonna have,。
all of which hinge on having true faith.。
So tonight we're gonna look at the father of faith。
and explore as we continue this series Bloodline.。
If you're just joining us or you missed last week,。
here's what we kicked off.。
We are tracing the bloodline of Jesus。
through the Old Testament.。
So over the next four weeks,。
we're looking at the main message of the Old Testament.。
If you've ever wondered what's the big picture story。
of the Bible, you are about to get it。
as we trace through the Old Testament.。
Last week, we kicked off with Adam and his girl Eve.。
They're in the garden, everything perfect.。
That lasted five minutes.。
They sinned against God, everything broken.。
And from there, they had kids, they had kids,。
they had kids, and really things didn't get worse.。
And the sin that entered the world。
whenever Adam and Eve disobeyed。
was passed on to their kids and passed on to their kids,。
passed on to their kids.。
And the storyline continues,。
and we're gonna pick it up with Abraham。
and kind of what's happened in between。
is just humanity's continued to fill up the earth.。
There was Noah and the flood.。
That was a pretty crazy deal.。
And that took place in Genesis chapter 12。
through Genesis 22.。
We are introduced to Abraham.。
And it's as though God says, just like I promised。
after Adam and Eve fell and sin entered the world,。
I'm gonna enact a rescue mission to save humanity.。
And tonight, we're gonna look at the next sequence。
or the next part in that rescue mission。
through the story of Abraham.。
Here's what we gotta know about Abe.。
Abe gets 10 chapters in the book of Genesis.。
The story of creation gets two.。
The story of sin entering the world gets one.。
Noah essentially gets like two and a half.。
So for somebody to get 10 chapters was a really big deal.。
Like Abraham and the Jewish faith,。
Father Abraham had many sons,。
and Father Abraham was a significant, significant deal.。
There probably is no greater or more significant figure。
for Jewish, those of the Jewish faith today.。
And we're gonna look at his story。
because God in his relationship with Abraham。
gives us an indication of really the rescue plan。
that he's unleashed for all of us.。
He gives us also the answer of what true faith looks like.。
So we're gonna be in chapter 15 of Genesis.。
If you have a Bible, you can flip open there.。
If not, it'll be up on the screen.。
Or as always, you can pick up, if you're in Dallas,。
a Bible at the Welcome Center that is our gift to you.。
So we'll start in verse one of chapter 15。
as we look at three marks of true faith.。
Let me set up what has happened from 12 to 15.。
God shows up to Abraham, raises his hand,。
"Hey, Abe, I'm starting something with you.。
"I need you to pick up, and I want you to move your family.。
"I'm gonna take you to a promised land that I have for you.。
"I'm gonna make you into a great nation."。
And he's about 75 years old when that happens.。
About a decade goes by, and he is not a great nation.。
He doesn't even have a kid.。
And God shows up and says this.。
"After this, the word of the Lord came to Abram."。
He's about to have a name change in two chapters,。
and I'll explain what that means,。
but same dude, Abram, Abraham.。
"And he came with a vision.。
"Do not be afraid, Abram.。
"I am your shield and your very great reward.。
"But Abraham said, 'Sovereign Lord,。
"'what can you give me since I remain childless?。
"'And the one who will inherit my estate。
"'is Eleazar of Damascus.'"。
Poor Eleazar, man.。
"And Abraham said, 'You have given me no children,。
"'so a servant in my household will be my heir.'。
"And the word of the Lord came to him and said,。
"'This man will not be your heir,。
"'but a son whose your own flesh and blood will be your heir.'。
"And he took him outside and he said,。
"'Look up at the sky and count the stars,。
"'if indeed you can count them.'。
"And then he said to him, 'So shall your offspring be.'"。
He goes out, takes Abraham outside,。
says, "Look up at the stars."。
This wasn't like stars in Dallas where you're like,。
"Oh man, is that one star right there?。
"No, that's a plane."。
This was like if you've ever been out in places。
where there's no smog or no industry or any of that,。
you look up and you're like, bam, lights everywhere.。
And he sees, that's gonna be the descendants that you have.。
I've even been told recently this week。
that there are more stars in the galaxy。
they've accounted for。
than there are grains of sand on the planet.。
I don't know if that's true, but that's crazy.。
Either way, it's clearly God communicating,。
I am going to make your descendants more vast。
than you can even understand.。
And Abraham in response to that,。
looking up at the night sky, it says,。
"Believed the Lord and he credited to him as righteousness."。
That Abraham heard the promise of God。
as a 80 plus year old man,。
that he's gonna have a son.。
And he believed that what God said would happen.。
And in that moment, God, it says,。
credited to him righteousness.。
What's righteousness?。
It's a really churchy word.。
It's just a word that means。
having a right relationship with God.。
In a moment, think about this.。
This is what would set apart Abraham。
and really the Christian faith。
from every other worldview and world religion that there is.。
In a moment, he believed what God said。
and what God promised would happen.。
And in that moment, he was declared righteous.。
You have a right relationship for all time now, Abraham,。
because of you believing God。
and believing the promise that he made.。
The first mark of really true faith。
is that true faith trusts in the promises of God.。
True faith trusts in the promises of God.。
As it relates to the Bible,。
there's a lot of promises that God makes.。
And as someone who has true faith,。
if you're gonna have that,。
it is someone who looks at the faith。
or looks at the promises that God has made and says,。
"Man, I'm believing that God said that's true."。
Abraham looked up and in a moment was declared righteous.。
Three times in the New Testament, this verse right here,。
it gets a significant verse.。
Paul would be like, "Dude, this is a game changer.。
"This is what Christianity,。
"at the heart of Christianity is the message of.。
"It is not your behavior。
"that gives you right standing with God。
"or right relationship.。
"It is your belief.。
"And your belief always impacts your behavior.。
"But the heart of the New Testament,。
"the message of Christianity is not,。
"Hey, good people go to heaven, bad people go to hell,。
"just really work on being a good person.。
"It is that forgiven people go to heaven.。
"And there is only one way to get forgiveness.。
"That is by believing and putting your trust in Jesus。
"as the payment for your sin.。
"Jesus showed up, that he gave his life,。
"dying on the cross, rose from the grave。
"to pay for your sin.。
"And in the moment that you, like Abraham,。
"believed God and the promise that he made,。
"in the moment that you believe God's promise to you,。
"that you can have eternal life,。
"not by being a good person。
"or trying to earn your way to heaven,。
"but by putting your faith or trusting,。
"not in how good of a person you are,。
"but in Jesus and what he did on the cross,。
"you, like Abraham, in a moment are declared righteous.。
"Unlike any other worldview that there is out there,。
"that you don't earn your way to God.。
"And Abraham, the father of faith,。
"this was initiated with him."。
John picked up the idea of the promise。
that God has made to you.。
And anyone in this room who in a moment believes it,。
you are declared righteous.。
And he said this in John chapter three,。
verse 16 and 17, verses you've probably heard before.。
"For God so loved the world。
"that he gave his one and only son,。
"that whoever believes in him shall not perish,。
"but have eternal life.。
"God did not send his son into the world。
"to condemn the world, but to save the world.。
"Whoever believes in him is not condemned,。
"but whoever does not believe stands condemned already。
"because they have not believed。
"in the name of God's one and only son."。
There is only one way to have a relationship with God.。
And just like Abraham, in a moment, look at the night sky,。
believe God, declared righteous.。
So with you and I, true faith,。
trust in the promise of God,。
that in a moment that you put your faith,。
not in how good of a person you are,。
but in what God did, everything changes.。
What's crazy is we live in a world。
that communicates anything other than this.。
Constantly, people are like,。
"Dude, hey, if you wanna have a relationship with God,。
"you need to earn your way, you need to be a good person,。
"you need to show up at church,。
"probably need to pay your taxes every now and then,。
"don't kill anybody, and you're probably good."。
I mean, it's one of the most widely spread beliefs。
that there is, that God who's out there,。
as long as I'm relatively good, I'm not Hitler,。
I'm probably going to heaven.。
And it is nuts.。
And the Bible communicates something very different.。
It communicates that good works don't work,。
and good works will never work。
to get you in a relationship with God.。
And some of you guys, you're listening to me right now,。
and you're not even like,。
it's not even settling in on you.。
Like, this was your first time in church in a while,。
and you're like, "Dude, did he just say good works?"。
Like, God isn't out there for me。
to just like change my behavior.。
No, God didn't come to make bad people good,。
he came to bring dead people alive.。
And the only way that that happens,。
the only way that you get eternal life。
is by putting your trust not in how good of a person you are,。
but in what Jesus did on the cross,。
because good works don't work.。
It's like this.。
A couple weeks ago, I got sick,。
and I went to the doctor, thought it was the flu,。
and you go in, and you kinda get all the swabs。
and all the tests,。
and you're just hoping for like some relief.。
And she does the test, runs it,。
and she's like, "Well, we'll let you know,。
"but hey, here's a prescription for a Z-Pak,。
"and here's a steroid, and here's some other antibiotics.。
"And we'll let you know in a couple days。
"if this is bacterial or viral."。
And hopefully, if it's bacterial, or if it is bacterial,。
you know, Z-Pak is an antibiotic,。
so that'll take it down, and you'll be all good.。
But if it's viral, it's gotta run its course.。
There's nothing man-made that can cure a virus,。
which is kinda crazy, honestly.。
Feels like we should double down。
on the medical field on that.。
But there's nothing man-made that can cure a virus,。
but there is something man-made that can cure an antibiotic.。
When sin entered the world,。
it was like a virus that is more deadly and more pervasive。
and spread wider and faster and farther and more deeply。
than any other virus that has ever existed.。
And just like as it relates to your health,。
there is no antibiotic or no man-made thing。
that can cure a medical virus.。
So there is no man-made action。
that can cure the virus of sin.。
It has to be outside of this world.。
And anything that you do is not going to earn you。
into a relationship with God through your behavior,。
through your not having sex, through abstaining from sex,。
through having a good past, through you paying a bunch of,。
you know, trying to tie to the church。
to make up for whatever mistakes that you have。
in your present or in your past.。
The Bible says there is only one way。
to have right standing with God.。
And some of you tragically do not believe me.。
And with all of my heart, I am pleading you to understand,。
you will spend eternity in hell。
if you do not put your faith in Jesus.。
Not if you try to be good for him.。
If you do not put your faith solely,。
God, I'm not a good person.。
You alone are the only reason。
I can have a relationship with you.。
And if I'm gonna spend eternity with you,。
it's not 'cause I earned it。
despite all the different ways。
that I try to live in line with what you want.。
I do not deserve it.。
And yet you gave your life for me.。
And so I accept the free gift that you offered me.。
That alone gives anyone a right relationship。
or the righteousness that God says.。
And in that moment where you just got,。
I'm totally dependent on you, I believe you,。
you are declared righteous forever.。
True faith always involves trusting in the promises of God.。
It is not a perfection.。
Like here's what's crazy.。
Abe is, like we look at Abraham。
and I don't know what you know about Abraham,。
but a lot of times you can read these Bible stories。
and be like, oh man, this guy, he's just amazing.。
He's a hero of the faith.。
Abraham did some awesome things,。
but he also didn't have the perfect past.。
Like two points in the story,。
if you read the story of Abraham,。
we don't have time to go into it.。
At two different points,。
he finds himself in the exact scenario。
where there's this like foreign king。
that they kind of enter into his town。
and he's walking up and he's there with his wife。
and he's like, oh dang, my wife, she is fine.。
And these guys are gonna try to kill me.。
And so they get with my wife.。
So hey, Sarah is his wife's name.。
Here's what we're gonna do.。
Let's just tell him you're my sister, you know,。
and that'll be cool.。
And they won't kill me.。
And that's always a win.。
And you know, it'll be great.。
So they go into the town.。
The first guy is the Pharaoh.。
And Pharaoh was like, oh dude, who is that?。
That's Sarah girl is fine,。
which is crazy 'cause she's also 75.。
So, you know, Pharaoh, you do you.。
And he goes up and he's like, oh man,。
it's your sister, dude.。
Well, let's have him over.。
And Sarah, I'd love to get to know you.。
You know what I'm saying?。
Listen, I'm in older ladies and this is my thing.。
And they spend time together.。
And then it shows that God shows up to Pharaoh。
and he's like, hey, because you've taken another man's wife,。
I'm gonna kill you.。
And Pharaoh's like, what?。
And why Abe, did you lie to me?。
And so Pharaoh basically is like,。
hey, you guys need to get out of here and leave.。
And the same thing three chapters later。
happens again with another guy.。
Where Abe, this is just his thing,。
goes in, tells his wife, man,。
I think they're gonna kill me.。
And so let's do the whole like sister act thing again.。
And it happens again.。
I mean, I think all of us would agree。
the ideal husband does not pimp out his wife twice,。
let alone one time.。
If that wasn't enough, there's another place in Abraham,。
like this storyline of his faith。
where he's not sure how God is gonna show up and move。
and God's promised him, hey, I'm gonna give you a son.。
And he's only getting older and older.。
And Sarah's only getting older and older.。
And she's like, Sarah says, hey,。
God's gonna give us a son.。
You know what, I don't think it's gonna be through me.。
You should sleep with the maid.。
Dude, you should read your Bible.。
This is in the Bible.。
Where she says to her husband,。
hey, you should sleep with the maid, Hagar.。
And Abraham is like, I guess I'll take one for the team.。
And he goes to sleep.。
(congregation laughing)。
This woman commits adultery.。
And yet God didn't give up on him.。
It was only by grace or undeserved favor。
and him believing and trusting in the promise of God.。
It wasn't because he had a perfect past。
or was a perfect person.。
It is because he trusted.。
And if you have a right relationship with God,。
it won't be because you have a perfect past or present.。
It'll be because you trust in Jesus。
and his promise that was made。
that anyone who believes in him。
and his payment for their sin will have eternal life.。
So the first mark of true faith。
is that it trusts in the promises of God.。
As Christians, it is the promise。
that only through Christ we can have eternal life.。
And the second mark we get in chapter 17 of Abraham's story。
where several things have gone by.。
It's just so many things, so many rich parts of his story.。
But basically God shows up again and he's 99 years old,。
still doesn't have any kids.。
Just think about that.。
And God is like, hey, I promise through you。
and his wife's like 10 years younger,。
I threw you and her, your 90 year old wife,。
you are gonna have a baby.。
And God shows up and says this.。
Verse five of chapter 17.。
"No longer will you be called Abram," God speaking.。
"Your name will be Abraham.。
"For I have made you the father of many nations.。
"I will make you fruitful。
"and I will make nations out of you.。
"Kings will come from you."。
Abraham is a word that just means father of many nations.。
So God shows up, says, hey dude, good to see you again.。
Got another thing I'd like you to do.。
I want you to change your name.。
I want you to change it from Abram,。
which just means kind of like exalted dad,。
to father of many nations,。
despite the fact that you don't have any kids.。
And he's not done and then he says this.。
"God also said, as for your wife Sarai,。
"you are no longer to call her Sarai.。
"Her name will be Sarah,。
"which means mother of many nations.。
"I will bless her and I will surely give you a son by her.。
"I will bless her so that she will be。
"the mother of nations.。
"Kings of people will come from her."。
Think about this interaction.。
You got a 99-year-old dude, you got a 90-year-old woman.。
Abraham's out, hanging out, doing whatever,。
you know, what you did back then.。
He's riding his camel around, hanging out.。
God shows up, he's like, hey, gotta meet again.。
I know I promised you 24 years ago。
that you're gonna have a son.。
And you were old then.。
Like you were 75, now you're 99, you're still waiting.。
Here's what I want you to do.。
I've got something for you.。
And Abe's gotta be thinking, is it a son?。
No, I've got a name change that I'd like you to do.。
And from now on, you're not going by Abraham anymore.。
I want you to go by essentially Big Papa.。
That's where you, I mean, that's essentially what it is.。
Hey, you're the father, I mean, imagine that.。
You're 99 years old and God's like, hey,。
you know, I know we're pretty late in the game here,。
but love to suggest a name change.。
And Sarah is gonna be Big Mama.。
So you got Big Papa, Big Mama.。
What did that conversation look like。
at the dinner table that night with Sarah?。
God, you know, they're sitting down and he's like,。
dude, God showed up to me today.。
And she's like, well, we've been waiting 25 years.。
Yeah, we didn't get the son, but he did have a message.。
He would like you to go by Big Mama from now on.。
Think about that.。
Before he ever had a son,。
God said, I want you to change your name.。
That's how much of a reality。
the fact that you're gonna be the father of many nations is.。
Take it to the bank, change your name, Abraham.。
How did his interactions with his neighbors go?。
Bill's coming over, asking to borrow the lawnmower,。
whatever exchange they had, and they're like,。
Abraham, hey, I'd love to borrow that thing.。
And he's like, actually, from now on, I will be Abraham,。
father of many nations is what I should be called.。
Think all of those things happened。
that he's having to tell people from now on, guys,。
I would like to go by father of many nations.。
But Abraham, you don't have a son.。
You don't have any children.。
I still would like to go by Big Papa.。
And I love it when you call me that.。
So, thank you.。
It's true.。
What does that have to do with true faith?。
True faith involves embracing God's identity for you.。
True faith involves embracing who God says that you are.。
Abraham, or Abram means exalted father.。
It was basically a word that was synonymous with like,。
his dad basically was going,。
great dad would be another way of saying it.。
So his dad named his son, great dad,。
whether it was about him being a great dad,。
or his son, you know, naming, hope Abraham's a great dad,。
all about the past, his dad or the present.。
Abraham is all about the future,。
all about who God says that you are,。
even if you don't feel like it, even if you can't see it,。
this is who you are and who you will be for all time.。
In the same way, God has given identities to you and to me,。
if you're a follower of Christ,。
that you may not always feel like it,。
and it takes walking by faith today,。
and not trusting in how you feel,。
or what you did, or what you think,。
but trusting in who God says that you are,。
even when you don't see it, like Abraham had to trust,。
man, I'm the father of many nations,。
even though I don't have any kids.。
They were coming.。
And God has called you, hey, you are righteous.。
If you are in Christ, there have been titles。
and things that have switched and your identity has changed.。
You are righteous, pure, no matter what you did today,。
no matter what your sexual purity looks like.。
Listen to me, if you're a Christian,。
this is nuts.。
You are as white as snow, the Psalms say,。
that God has taken your sin,。
and it was like Scarlet, he's washed it white as snow,。
that whatever you've done, you are as pure as Jesus is.。
Think about that.。
And I'm talking to you, like if you've trusted in Christ,。
and today you looked at pornography,。
Jesus says, you are the righteousness of God in Christ Jesus.。
2 Corinthians 5, verse 21.。
If you're living in a way that you know is wrong,。
and you're a follower of Jesus,。
you have believed and put your faith only in him.。
You have the righteousness of Jesus.。
You are a child of God.。
Your identity is so wrapped up in that.。
And you know what takes faith?。
Just like it took Abraham faith to believe,。
God, I'm supposed to go by the,。
I'm the father of many nations.。
To believe that what God says about you。
is what is most true about you.。
You are holy, you are his, you are sealed, you're secure.。
And listen to me, if you're a believer in Jesus,。
only believers, nothing, anyone, no sin,。
nothing can separate you from Jesus.。
Every addiction in this room,。
for anyone who's put their faith in Christ, will fall.。
Eventually, it'll all pass away。
because Jesus has won the victory, you are his.。
And today, we like Abraham, walk by faith。
and trusting that man who God says I am is who I am,。
even when I don't feel like it.。
Like my wife and I, when we got married, something happened.。
We got married, came together, and there was a name change.。
Her last name was Callie Vines,。
or her maiden name was Vines.。
We got married, she became Callie Marvin.。
There was a name change, her identity shifted.。
And that came with all different types of ramifications。
from this new covenant forming and new relationship forming。
where we began to live together, we became one,。
our decisions were impacted with one another.。
Now, here's the deal.。
Do you think there's ever a moment in marriage。
where it's possible?。
Like I'm just talking about any marriage,。
where somebody could wake up and not feel married?。
Yes, of course.。
Someone could wake up and be like, you know what?。
I feel just like I did like a month before we got married.。
I don't know that I feel anything different.。
And yet, through a new covenant,。
something clearly has changed.。
In the same way, when you became a believer in Christ,。
your identity like Abraham switched and shifted.。
And today, part of faith is not relying on how you feel,。
whatever enemy lies you may believe, whatever shame, guilt,。
not allowing your past to define you,。
not even allowing your present to define you,。
but allowing what God says about you。
to be the characteristics and the qualities。
and the truth about who you are.。
This is why this matters so much.。
And I'm gonna just put up some of these。
for you guys to hold on to,。
or we'll even put on our Insta stories。
so you can take a screenshot。
and you can put it on your phone.。
I don't know, next to what you believe about God,。
I don't know that there's a more significant thing。
that's gonna shape your life。
than what you believe about yourself,。
who you see when you look in the mirror,。
how you think about yourself.。
I don't know that there's a more significant thing。
that's gonna shape who you become,。
how you handle your work, where you find your value.。
Like, candidly, let me just be honest。
with some of you girls.。
The reason why you tolerate such dysfunctional men。
is because you have a really low view of yourself.。
And you put up with it, and you're like,。
this guy cheats on me, but he keeps being nice,。
and I'm okay with it, and we get back together.。
And that, heartbreakingly,。
is because you have a low view of yourself.。
You don't have the correct view and lens on you。
that God has on you, that you are a daughter of the king.。
And that there's a God in heaven who says,。
you are mine, you are pure, you are not damaged goods.。
I don't care if there's an abortion in your past.。
I don't care what sexual sin is in your past.。
I don't care what sexual sin is in your present.。
You're mine, and he has no claim over you.。
And the reason why you keep going back。
like a dog to its vomit to that messed up,。
broken relationship with that guy。
you know is no good for you。
is because you have a low view of yourself.。
And the degree to which you're gonna tolerate。
dysfunctional, not God-honoring men。
is related to what you think about yourself.。
And what you believe and how you see.。
Same thing with guys.。
I mean, the reason why so many of us can be tempted。
to like, man, I'm gonna give my life to corporate America。
because I think that my worth and my value。
come from what I do, how much I make,。
the job that I have, how fast I can climb。
the corporate ladder.。
And so I'll put up with whatever they ask of me at work。
as long as it keeps increasing my paycheck,。
as long as I keep getting higher,。
'cause you are so obsessed。
with what everyone else thinks of you.。
And you find your identity and value。
in how much you make in your bank account.。
Because you have not actually believed。
and trusted men who Jesus says I am。
is infinitely more valuable.。
I don't serve my boss in order to hopefully。
get some raise in promotion.。
I serve him because he's a human,。
and God has put me on this planet to love and to serve。
and to work for my boss, whoever they are,。
as though I'm working for the Lord.。
And I'm gonna leverage any opportunity I can,。
hopefully someday, to share the gospel with this dude.。
Because your identity is too wrapped up.。
And candidly, I hear it all the time。
of guys being like, dude, I'm just afraid。
if I share the gospel, share my faith at work,。
it's gonna cost me or I won't get the promotion.。
And you have bought lies about what matters,。
about who you are.。
And walking my faith involves trusting。
that what God says about me is the thing。
that is most true about me.。
There's a slide that our team put together。
of some of these, and some of you guys,。
you can either take a picture of this。
or hold onto this, but you have got to。
have a death grip on who you are.。
This will define and shape how you see yourself,。
how you see life, who you date, who you tolerate.。
And you gotta know, man, I'm a child of God.。
I'm a member of his church.。
I'm a citizen of heaven above anything else。
that I'm a piece of God's workmanship。
or poetry that he spun his creation.。
That I'm a new creation, a minister of God,。
justified, righteous, and there's so many others.。
I'm secure in his hand, and nothing。
can separate me from him.。
And I don't have to wonder,。
and I don't have to walk in securely.。
And when shame and guilt come,。
I let that drive me back to the reason。
I trusted Jesus, because I am a sinner.。
And walking my faith involves trusting。
in who God says that you are.。
And let me finish here, a third idea.。
Which comes from Genesis chapter 21,。
and then really 22.。
Verse five of chapter 21.。
Abraham was 100 years old。
when his son Isaac was born to him.。
Sometime later, verse one of chapter 22.。
So Abraham's 100 years old.。
They waited 100 years.。
His wife was 90.。
Imagine that day.。
God finally fulfills his promise.。
As a 90-year-old woman, let alone how astounding。
that must have been.。
You know any 90-year-old women?。
And they have this baby.。
They've been waiting years and decades and decades.。
I mean, how many family get-togethers。
had they got together?。
She's 90.。
And you know how many kids have sat on her lap。
that were her own?。
None.。
Every single time they get together,。
and there's another baby, another people in the family,。
and they sit there, and they're always holding other kids。
or other people's kids, thinking,。
"Man, I would love to have one of these."。
And then God promises, and for 25 years,。
all they hold is other people's kids,。
holding on, and then God promised this would happen.。
And then it happens.。
And then in verse one of chapter 22,。
after Isaac's had a little bit of time。
where he's grown up, Isaac is the name of the son,。
it says this.。
Sometime later, God tested Abraham.。
And he said to him, "Abraham,"。
and Abraham said, "Here I am."。
And then God said, "I want you to take your son,。
"your only son, whom you love, Isaac.。
"Take your one and only son,。
"and I want you to go to the region of Moriah,"。
which is an area today right outside of Jerusalem,。
"sacrifice him there.。
"As a burnt offering, on a mountain that I will show you."。
Early the next morning,。
Abraham got up and he loaded his donkey.。
I've gotta be thinking, he's going,。
"Where are you going with this, God?。
"You promised that Isaac would be the one。
"that you would continue the bloodline through.。
"You would continue your promise,。
"you would keep your covenant with him.。
"You promised not just any son,。
"but you promised through Isaac.。
"In chapter 17, you want me to kill him?"。
What I think had happened is over his time,。
Abraham had gone from the guy that was afraid for his life,。
so he basically sold out his wife。
and told her to be his sister,。
to then he sees at 90 years old,。
his wife give birth to a baby,。
and that's gotta strengthen his faith.。
And he sees God come again and again through,。
and it strengthens his faith.。
And so I don't know what emotions were going through,。
I'm sure as a father,。
and he's going, "What are you asking me?"。
But God, I'm learning and I've learned to trust you.。
And so I'm not sure what you're doing, but we'll go.。
If you're asking me to sacrifice my son,。
I'm not sure where this is going, but I'll trust you.。
And he took with him two of his servants and his son Isaac.。
When he'd cut the wood for the burnt offering,。
he set out for the place that God had told him about.。
On the third day, Abraham looked up。
and he saw the place in the distance.。
So God said, "Hey, I'm gonna tell you exactly where to go."。
And it ends up being a place。
right outside of modern day Jerusalem today, Moriah.。
And he gets there, took three days with his boy,。
two servants, and he says this.。
He said to the servants, "Stay here with the donkey。
"while I and the boy go over there.。
"We will worship and then we will come back to you."。
Wait, he said, "What?"。
"Stay here, servants.。
"I'm gonna go over there with the boy。
"and we will worship God.。
"And then we will come back over here."。
Abraham, God told you to sacrifice your son.。
What are you saying?。
We will come back over here.。
God knew, or sorry, Abraham knew。
that even in the midst of God asking him to sacrifice,。
we're told in the book of Hebrews,。
that he believed that even if God was asking him,。
that he knew God could even raise him from the dead.。
And so he knew, I don't know what this is gonna look like,。
but I know that even if it requires him dying。
and being brought back to life, God can do it.。
Abraham took with him the wood for the burnt offering。
and he placed it on his son Isaac.。
And as Isaac carried the wood。
that he would be sacrificed on up the mountain.。
And he himself carried the fire and a knife.。
And as the two of them went on together,。
Isaac spoke up and he said to his father,。
Abraham, "Father."。
And he said, "Yes, my son.。
"The wood and the fire are here,。
"but where's the lamb for the burnt offering?"。
And Abraham answered,。
"God himself will provide the lamb。
"for the burnt offering, my son."。
And the two of them went on together.。
When they reached the place that God had told him about,。
Abraham built an altar there, he arranged the wood,。
he bound his son Isaac,。
and he laid him on the altar on top of that wood.。
Then he reached out his hand。
and he took the knife to slay his son.。
But the angel of the Lord called from heaven,。
"Abraham, Abraham, here I am," Abraham replied.。
"Do not lay a hand on the boy.。
"Do not do anything to him.。
"For I know that you fear God。
"because you've not withheld from me your son,。
"your only son."。
And Abraham looked up and there in the thicket,。
as he raises his eyes, he sees a lamb,。
I'm sorry, a ram caught by its horns.。
And he went over and he took the ram。
and he sacrificed it as a burnt offering instead of his son.。
So Abraham called that day, "The Lord will provide."。
And this day it is said,。
"On the mountain of the Lord it will be provided."。
So Abraham gets ready, he's about to kill his son,。
and he's called from heaven, and God says, "Don't do it."。
And God provided, miraculously, a ram。
in the midst of the thicket.。
And he goes over and he sacrifices,。
and Abraham renames the mountain, "The Lord will provide."。
I'm gonna come back to that here in a second.。
But the third quality that we see。
from the story of Abraham is that true faith。
involves surrendering to God, even what we value most.。
Like for Abraham, I don't know that there was a thing。
in his life that he valued more than his son.。
I mean, I've talked about it before, like as a dad,。
it is hard for me to communicate how much I love my son.。
Like I'll wake up in the middle of the night,。
sad about ever not being around,。
or being apart from my child.。
And as a dad, he's waited 100 years,。
and now God is saying, "Hey, I want you to。
"sacrifice him to me.。
"I want you to trust me.。
"Do you trust me?"。
And at some point, as the journey of faith happens,。
for all of us, it involves us, begged the question,。
"Do we trust you with what we value most in life?"。
I don't know what you value most in life.。
For many of us, or for all of us, it's probably different,。
but it's probably some that run through the room.。
But think about that.。
Like is it marriage?。
Like you may not say like, "Yeah, of course,。
"at the end of the day, the thing that I value most。
"is marriage."。
But it would be at least in the category of like,。
"Man, that's a really big deal to you."。
If it came down to never getting married,。
because of following God's way,。
or you can do whatever the world says and get married,。
if you were like, "Yeah, I'll probably just go。
"with what the world says and get married,。
"I mean, there's forgiveness, right?"。
You would know that that is something。
you value tremendously.。
Whatever that line that you'd come up to and be like,。
"If God asked me to get rid of this or to not do this,。
"I'm not doing that,"。
reflects something that you're like,。
"Man, I value that so tremendously."。
And as Abraham journeyed along that,。
he was forced to reckon with, "Man, do I trust God,。
"not just with my eternity, with my sin,。
"with kind of everything, but with this,。
"with everything in my life?"。
Maybe for you, it's like job.。
Maybe for you, it's health.。
Maybe it's just your plans,。
what you hope to happen.。
And if God ever began to mess with those and say like,。
"You know what, I don't want you to make a million by 35.。
"I want you to work a job, you're gonna make 40 grand。
"for the rest of your life,。
"and I want you to be faithful right there."。
And you're like, "Nope, not doing that."。
You would be exposed to the fact that, man,。
he would be asking you to trust him with something。
that is of incredible value to you.。
And he's saying, "You can trust me.。
"It will always work in your favor.。
"And if you don't, you will forfeit the ability。
"to see God work."。
I don't know what that is,。
but a question you should leave here asking is like,。
man, what is the thing,。
what are the things that I value most?。
What are the things that maybe you woke up this morning。
thinking about, you're gonna go to bed thinking about?。
Where I would be tempted to go,。
"I don't know that it's worth it."。
And Abraham saw God show up.。
And here's what I think is amazing.。
Like I said earlier, his faith grew, he got stronger.。
It's like, as he journeyed through life,。
like he clearly got stronger and stronger,。
because here's what faith is.。
Faith is a muscle.。
This is huge.。
This is why some of you don't have faith,。
and it's really hard for you to get back in it,。
and you had it like in youth group in high school,。
but you're like, "Dude, I haven't picked this thing up。
"since high school."。
And it might as well be like a letter jacket。
you haven't picked up.。
It doesn't fit right anymore.。
And you're like, "I'm trying to get back into faith."。
Faith is like a muscle.。
If you don't use it, you will lose it.。
And I don't mean eternal security,。
because once you are sealed, you're eternally secure.。
But your confidence, that like, "Man, I can follow God.。
"He's gonna show up.。
"He's gonna provide.。
"I can trust him.。
"His way's always best."。
The reason that it's so hard for you,。
as it relates to dating, as it relates to your job,。
as it relates to money, is 'cause you have not flexed。
that muscle in a long time.。
It's like this.。
Like, weights.。
I don't wanna brag, but these are 15-pound weights,。
and I can do curls with them, okay?。
And so, thank you, gentlemen.。
And that's because, you know,。
I've done relatively enough weight。
to be able to lift up what is not even the size。
of a small child.。
And these are 35-pound weights.。
A little bit harder, but I can pull 'em a little bit.。
Yeah, no big deal.。
I'm gonna stop there.。
(audience laughing)。
These are 70-pound weights, and I can barely pick 'em up.。
And I can't even come close.。
Okay.。
You know why?。
Because I haven't flexed the bicep muscle enough,。
and used it enough to strengthen me to be able to do that.。
Like, there's a dude on our team, a guy on our tech team,。
that did it backstage earlier,。
which was very painful for my man card.。
But it's because I haven't gone through the sequence。
of like, man, I can do that.。
Like, I could get there if, over time,。
I flex that muscle, and flex that muscle,。
and flex that muscle.。
But because I haven't, there's no way I can lift that.。
Abraham, over his life journey,。
like, he began to trust God, and trust God, and trust God,。
and his faith grew, and it grew stronger.。
Romans chapter four tells us that his faith grew in God。
as he journeyed through life.。
Faith is like a muscle, and if you don't use it,。
it's gonna atrophy, and it's gonna go away.。
That's why some people, you look at them,。
and you're like, dude, you got cancer?。
You're dying of stage four cancer.。
And you are like, God is good.。
I can't wait to go home.。
I want him more than anything else in this life.。
He's all that I want.。
And you're over there, and you're like so ticked。
that you're not able to have the first floor apartment.。
And you're like, where is God in the midst of all of this?。
And then you see people who suffer incredibly hard things,。
and they're able to walk through it.。
Not 'cause they love hard, challenging things,。
but because they trust God in the midst of this,。
'cause they flex that muscle.。
They flex that muscle.。
They flex that muscle.。
And some of you haven't flexed that muscle in years.。
And the way that you begin to strengthen that again。
is you take step by step today,。
God, I'm gonna do what you say.。
If your word calls me to it,。
I'm just gonna take that step, even if I don't want to.。
And you know what I'm gonna do when I don't want to?。
I'm gonna say, God, I do not want to do this.。
I do not wanna leave this relationship.。
I don't wanna get in the community.。
I don't wanna join church.。
And I really don't wanna leave my job.。
I have to look for something different。
'cause they want me to work 100 hours a week。
or 80 hours a week, which means I can't actually follow you.。
And so you tell me I need to be in community。
and small group and things like that.。
So I'm at least gonna tell you I don't want to do that.。
Will you help me to have trust in you to do that?。
And you just flex that muscle and you take that step。
and you see God come through.。
And when you don't, you forfeit seeing God show up.。
Abraham, had he not been willing to follow。
and be obedient to God, you forfeit seeing God show up。
and miraculously provided a ram for him.。
But you forfeit, like some of you, it breaks my heart, man.。
You're dating guys or you're dating girls。
and you know that God has called you.。
This is not for you.。
This is not the type of relationship,。
like there's dysfunction all over it.。
The dude's not even following Jesus。
or maybe she's not following Jesus。
and you need to break up and get healthy.。
And you're like, yeah, but I feel like I'm just too invested.。
I mean, I don't wanna start,。
oh, this may be the only shot I got.。
Better to have one here than none.。
And when you do that, you forfeit。
who God could have brought along.。
You forfeit seeing the plan and the story。
he wanted to write or would have written.。
And I'm not saying it always ends。
like you at the altar guaranteed.。
I'm saying you forfeit showing, seeing God show up。
in a way that is better than you could have imagined.。
Same thing at work.。
When you're unwilling, when you see people。
that you work with and they're crossing lines morally,。
ethically, they're telling you, this is what you do.。
You go to strip clubs.。
And you're like, well, this is not what people。
who follow Jesus do.。
I don't go to strip clubs, so I'm not doing it.。
And if it costs me my job, it costs me my job.。
And when you basically go and do,。
I'm just gonna go to a strip club, it's not that big deal.。
You forfeit seeing.。
When you do that versus standing up and saying,。
I'm not gonna do that, you forfeit seeing。
what God could have done in his provision。
and him showing up.。
Ultimately, the story, and I'm gonna land here,。
is an incredible parallel to Jesus.。
Like, I don't know if you saw it all throughout the pages。
and all throughout the story.。
It's like in every turn, it echoes。
that this thing was pointing to something so much more。
than Abraham, something so much more than Isaac.。
And even the idea of like, he looked up。
and what did he see?。
He saw a ram.。
There's also something else we're told that he saw.。
Like, you know what I mean?。
Like in Genesis chapter 22, it says,。
Abraham looked up and he raised his eyes at the last minute。
and there in the thicket, he saw a ram。
caught by its horns in the thicket.。
Jesus would say, 2,000 years later,。
that is not the only thing that Abraham saw.。
He says this in John chapter eight, verse 56.。
He's talking to this crowd。
who is like this bunch of Jewish leaders。
and Jesus shows up and he's a total savage Jesus。
and he's like, hey dude, you guys are not children。
of Abraham, you're not actually descendants。
by faith of him.。
And they're like, yeah, we are, we love Jesus,。
or we love God, yes we do, we love God, how about you?。
And he's like, no, you're not.。
Abraham looked to me, Jesus speaking.。
He saw my day coming and he longed to see it.。
This is what it says.。
Your father, Abraham, rejoiced at the thought。
of seeing my day.。
Listen to the next few words.。
And he saw it and was glad.。
That's a funny thing to say.。
Jesus, what are you saying?。
Also, the Bible, there's times where Jesus would be like,。
hey, those guys would have loved to seen me.。
I'm Jesus, this is awesome.。
And people in the past would have loved to seen me.。
The Bible says, the past would have loved to seen it.。
He says something really different here.。
He says, Abraham would have loved to seen my day.。
And he saw it.。
And he was glad.。
It's as though in the midst of looking up in that thicket。
and he saw the ram that he saw much more than a ram,。
but he would see in some way that God doesn't tell us.。
God connected the dots.。
Can you see it, Abraham?。
It's not just a ram there.。
In a way, he would have been seeing the lamb of God,。
not caught in a thicket with his horns,。
but caught there with a crown of thorns on his head,。
that one day all of this was pointing to Jesus.。
And on that mountain, in that moment, he says,。
don't kill your son 'cause one day I'm gonna kill mine.。
Isaac carried the wood up the mountain for his sacrifice.。
Jesus, we're told, carried the wooden cross up his mountain。
to be sacrificed for you and for me.。
Every turn showcases this was so much bigger than Isaac。
in that moment of faith.。
It was about you, it was about me, it was about Jesus.。
(congregation laughing)。
We're told that Jesus was sacrificed。
on a mountain named Calvary.。
Do you know what that mountain also is called?。
Mount Moriah.。
The same mountain Jesus died,。
like that's where they're standing.。
And I don't mean like metaphorically,。
like it was a mountain and you're like,。
well, he raised a mountain.。
I mean the same dirt.。
They're standing in the very same place。
where 2,000 years later, God would send his son。
to die on that cross to provide the sacrifice,。
not just for Abraham and his bloodline,。
but for you and for me, for every person.。
It was all pointing to Jesus.。
The whole storyline points to Jesus。
because there was a sickness in the bloodline。
and he entered into human form in order for you and me。
to have access to God, not through being a good person.。
And Abraham, he looked up and he's there with his son。
and we're told by Jesus and he saw it.。
He saw everything was about Jesus.。
He saw the coming Messiah was coming.。
He saw the plan of God in a way that we're not told。
all the details and ins and outs,。
but we're told that he saw Jesus coming and he was glad.。
I don't know what you're walking through tonight,。
but I know this with all of my heart.。
Everything that you've experienced today, this week,。
in your life has been an attempt from the God。
of the universe to get you to see Jesus.。
And the same way that in that moment,。
he looked up and he saw his day coming。
and he was glad.。
Everything you've experienced,。
and listen to me very closely,。
every heartbreak, every challenge,。
every sickness in your family,。
every struggle at work, everything broken about our world。
is a chance where God is trying to get you to look,。
to see the Savior, for you to see what Abraham saw.。
The lamb who would come, who would give his life,。
who all darkness bows to, who defeated death that day.。
And when he rose, here's what you gotta know.。
He put sin on an expiration date。
and it has no power, it has no hold.。
And if you are in Christ, you are righteous.。
You are part of that covenant.。
There is nothing that can separate you from the bloodline。
because of the one who gave his blood.。
And some of you, you're still trusting not in Jesus。
and faith in him, but in what you do.。
And tonight is your night where God is saying,。
it will never work.。
And all of your life, I'm trying to get you to see Jesus。
and see him in the midst of even the brokenness。
would point you to the need for a Savior and a solution。
that God sent his son.。
Let me pray.。
Father, I pray for anyone in this room right now,。
and there are many who've never trusted in Jesus.。
I pray for the men and women。
at the 17 other PortsLive locations。
that are hearing my voice,。
that right now are bowing their head。
and they know that they are far from you.。
They know that they have not lived in line with you.。
They know that they are not deserving。
of a relationship with you,。
that you would protect them from buying the enemy's lie,。
that good things and good works and good deeds。
could possibly earn them the right.。
Father, thank you for just the incredible truth。
that you loved us so much, that you gave your life for us.。
You're still at work.。
Darkness is bowing to you and it will bow to you。
in every addiction, every sickness,。
everything that sin brought into this world is breaking away。
and you're reversing the curse,。
but I pray, God, that you would right now。
stretch your hand out and open eyes。
for people to trust in you who've never done that.。
We love you, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
