[Music]。
[Applause]。
Porch, how are we doing?。
We doing okay tonight?。
Doing alright?。
It's great to see you.。
Man, I'm so glad to be back.。
There feels like no better way to start a brand new year。
than being right back in this room with this group of people.。
So thanks for being here.。
If this is your very first time, let me be, hopefully not the first,。
but one of the first to just welcome you.。
This is a really special thing that's happening,。
not because I'm standing up here or the band's up here。
or we've got amazing leaders that are around the room,。
but because God is here.。
I really believe that.。
God is, he's really given us as a team and as a ministry。
and as a group of friends a great vision for what he wants to do this year.。
And yet the heart behind this entire ministry。
is that this wouldn't just feel like something you show up and spectate in.。
It would feel like something we're all participating in.。
That's why we wanted to represent it with a big choir on the platform.。
We wanted to put people in front of you just like you.。
That way you know, man, this is something we're all on the same level。
engaging with the same God about.。
So welcome. So glad that you're in the room.。
You need to know this before we go any further.。
We're going to look at a different text in just a minute.。
But the passage of scripture that we're established on as a ministry。
that's straight right to the core of who we are。
is a scripture called, a scripture that's Psalm 27, 4.。
And it says this, it says,。
"There's one thing that I ask that will I seek after。
that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life。
to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple."。
That's what we want this place to be.。
A place where, man, every one of us is seeking to get as close to God as possible.。
God, we want to dwell in your house.。
Like, yes, there's so many things in life that could demand our attention.。
And yet there's one thing worthy of our attention,。
and it's to be with you. It's to get close to you.。
And so, God, that's what we want. We want to come near.。
We believe there's no one like you, that you're most beautiful of all,。
and you're worthy of knowing.。
And so that's what we're going to do.。
The way that we do it is we like to read the scriptures together.。
And we love that God is letting us do this with the people here in Dallas, Texas,。
but he's also letting us do this with the people all over the nation。
because the porch doesn't just gather in this room,。
it gathers in rooms all over the country.。
So would y'all do a great job of helping me say hello。
to our Porch Live locations right now?。
That'd be awesome. Porch Live, we love you.。
I just want to say a special shout out to Porch Live, Fort Worth, Indy, Midland, Wheaton,。
Springfield, Dayton, Greater Lafayette, Scottsdale, and Fresno.。
We love what God is doing where you are.。
And as much expectation as we have for this room,。
we have an equal amount where you are too.。
Well, it is the beginning of a brand new year.。
How are you feeling about it?。
2025 is officially upon us. How do you feel?。
You feel good? Yeah. Mixed reviews. I get it, man.。
And yet what we know is at the beginning of a brand new year。
is likely the start of a journey towards some new goal。
that you may have set out for yourself.。
Sure, maybe you don't subscribe to traditional resolutions.。
You might be an ins and outs list kind of person.。
And yet the reality is wherever you fall with respect to your commitment in the new year,。
what we know is we all want to do something meaningful with ourselves in this calendar year.。
We want to achieve something or accomplish something or attain something significant.。
It's characteristic of us all.。
Maybe it's losing 10 pounds.。
Or maybe it's gaining 10 pounds and drinking as much creatine as it takes to get there.。
Maybe it's landing that job that you have always dreamed of.。
Or it's leaving the job that you currently dread.。
They've taken too much of my life.。
It's time for me to get some of my life back.。
Maybe it's finding new friends or reconnecting with old friends.。
Maybe it's speaking out more.。
Letting the world know, "I've got a voice."。
Maybe it's thinking before you speak and letting the world know you actually can control your voice.。
Maybe it's getting more sleep at night.。
Or maybe it's just trying to get out of bed every morning.。
I don't know what the case may be for you.。
Why don't you tell me? What are your new year's resolutions?。
You got something? Anything that's in for the new year?。
Just shout it out.。
Run a marathon.。
You're going to do that one on your own, my guy.。
What else you got? Give me something else.。
Wait, wait, wait. Ironman? You just got one-upped.。
This friend says he's going to go further.。
He's also going to swim and bike.。
What else? Give me something more.。
I heard basketball.。
What was it? Come on, man.。
Dunk a basketball. Dunk a basketball.。
Okay, man, let us know when it happens.。
What else?。
You know, if I could discern what you all want to do,。
I would call these things out, but it's a massive humanity.。
And what I know, though, is you're verifying the fact。
that we've all got something we want to do in the new year.。
We've got big dreams, big hopes, goals that we want to achieve,。
destinations that we want to arrive at.。
That was the case for Brooke and I.。
Whenever several years ago we decided to go and visit the Greek islands.。
While we were there, we spent several days on the island of Santorini.。
Anybody been to Santorini before?。
Show of hands, anybody want to go to Santorini?。
If you don't have a hand up, you should definitely put a hand up,。
because that place is amazing.。
While we were in Santorini, there was one thing we knew we wanted to see,。
because it was a must-see attraction.。
It was this volcanic hot spring.。
Just the sound of it is awesome.。
And yet, it came with one massive complication,。
because in order to get to the volcanic hot spring,。
you had to sail through the Aegean Sea, which sounds awesome.。
Even just the thought of moving through a Greek sea sounds incredible,。
until you think about the fact that while beautiful,。
at the time of year which we were in Greece,。
we knew that there were these melteme winds,。
which are really unpredictable or unreasonable gale force winds。
that would stir up over the sea and would throw the entire thing into a commotion.。
It was a disorienting journey, to say the least.。
And yet, we knew we wanted to get to this volcanic hot spring.。
So how did we do it?。
Did we do it because we really wanted it,。
and we were going to find a way to get there on our own?。
No. We needed to find someone that was skillful at decision-making,。
that was accustomed to the open waters, a true sea dog, if you will.。
We needed to find a captain who was trained at reading the waves。
and watching the wind and adjusting course accordingly,。
depending upon what happened in the journey.。
Now, why do I tell you that?。
Because the reality is, many of us, we enter into a new year。
with hopes of a proverbial hot spring.。
We've got something that we really want to get to,。
and yet the difference between where we are and where we want to be。
requires not just desire, not just discernment,。
but true dependence on someone that knows better than ourselves.。
You see, the reality is, the hope you have today。
and the future you want tomorrow。
is separated by the difference of several decisions。
that you must make along the way.。
But what you bring to the table is not your savvy decision-making.。
You bring a really intentional dependence。
on one that knows the waters better than yourself.。
That's what I want to talk with you about tonight.。
We're sitting at the beginning of a brand new year,。
and yet there's a way to navigate the new in 2025,。
particularly three steps that I want to help you understand.。
So if you have a Bible, you can turn with me to the book of Numbers.。
Chapter 13. Numbers 13.。
Just to bring you up to speed,。
we're catching up to the people of God in a moment where。
they're standing at the beginning of a brand new chapter themselves.。
They are staring down the barrel of their own new beginning.。
They're at the precipice of God's promise,。
the doorstep of the land they've longed for.。
But to get there, to go into the promised land,。
they have to make a really big decision.。
They have to navigate their own set of new.。
And as we watch them do it, we'll learn some things for ourselves.。
So this is what it says, Numbers 13, starting in verse 1.。
The Lord spoke to Moses saying,。
"Send men to spy out the land of Canaan, which is the promised land."。
That's the land that they're going into.。
"Which I'm going to give to the people of Israel.。
From each tribe of their fathers you shall send a man,。
every one a chief among them."。
Now, at first glance, this feels really wise, doesn't it?。
Like send spies out, collect new intel, do some reconnaissance,。
build a scouting report.。
Like it makes reasonable sense to do research before you make a big decision.。
Yes?。
Listen, if you're in the room, you're a young man,。
you want to ask out a young lady, you should probably do some recon.。
Like you should probably figure out, man, like is she available?。
Is she interested in actually dating somebody?。
If she were, where would she want to go?。
What would she want to do?。
What would be the best way to actually engage this individual?。
Should I text her?。
Nah, that's probably too impersonal.。
Should I call her?。
Ah, that could be awkward.。
Maybe I'll just flirt with her through her Insta story.。
Ah, that might be slightly misdirected.。
Is DMing still a thing?。
Should I send one?。
Maybe I shouldn't.。
That might be ill-advised.。
Talk to her?。
No way.。
I would never, right?。
No, you need to do some recon.。
Like you have to do some research to figure out, man,。
what's the best way for me to make a big move?。
So spying on the land seems like a really good idea.。
That is until you realize that it's not God's idea.。
It's the people's, which can feel confusing because you read this in verse 1,。
it says, "The Lord spoke to Moses saying, 'Send men to spy out the land of Canaan.'"。
It sounds like God's idea.。
So how is it not his?。
Well, if you go and you read Deuteronomy, what you find is Moses is actually speaking。
to an entire new generation of Israelites, and he's recollecting this story.。
He's telling them what happened in times past,。
and this is what he says in Deuteronomy 1, verses 20-22.。
He says, "Then I said to you, 'We've reached the hill country of the Amorites,。
which the Lord our God is giving us.'"。
See, the Lord your God has given you the land.。
You hear the past tense?。
"Go up and take possession of it as the Lord, the God of your ancestors, told you.。
Don't be afraid. Don't be discouraged.。
Then all of you came to me and said, 'Let us send men ahead to spy out the land for us。
and bring back a report about the route we are to take and the towns we will come to.'"。
So was it God's idea or was it the people's?。
It was the people's. They cook up the idea.。
So then what's happening in verse 1? God is simply permitting the pursuit of it.。
That's what he's doing in verse 1. He is allowing them to do that which they want.。
You see, God isn't telling them, "Yeah, you really need to go spy out the land,"。
because by this point, God has already spied out the land.。
Like, he's not searching anything he has not already searched.。
If you go and you read, what you see is God has been promising this little piece of real estate。
to God's people, their ancestors, for centuries.。
Like, you see, he predicts literally everything they're going to find.。
What specific nations there were, Genesis 15, how rich the land would be,。
how he would defeat their enemies in Exodus 3, that this was their promised inheritance in Genesis 12.。
They had no reason to search out the land because God already searched it out for them.。
So why did they do it?。
Because they trusted themselves more than they trusted God.。
They knew. There's a destination that we want to get to,。
but I don't know that the captain knows best.。
Maybe we should grab the will and we should direct this thing ourselves.。
It's a massive misstep, and it's not one we should take if we want to navigate the new.。
Instead, the first step we have to take as we move into a new year。
and we consider the things that we believe God is leading us towards。
is we have to know it is better to trust God's word than man's wisdom.。
It's better to trust God's word than man's wisdom.。
They have every reason to believe God.。
They don't get to this point, to the foot of the promised land, without him.。
And yet what they realize is despite everything he's done, they conclude he hasn't done enough.。
Which feels crazy when you think about everything they've lived through.。
If you go and you read the moments that lead them to this situation here,。
two years after they've been journeying from Egypt to the foot of the promised land,。
what you see is God part of the Red Sea for them.。
He brought manna from heaven. He brought water from a rock.。
He was leading them by his own presence through a cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night.。
You hear all that and it's like, "They are crazy!"。
Why wouldn't they believe him?。
Why wouldn't they trust him?。
Why do they need to actually discern what's ahead for themselves?。
Why would they do that?。
What's funny is we do equally crazy things.。
Often we choose to trust ourselves instead of trusting in God.。
Because you see, where God made a way for them through the waters,。
he has made a way for you through your sin by Jesus Christ.。
Where they forgot the fact that he provided manna from heaven,。
we often forget the fact that we've been given the bread of life through Christ himself.。
Where he poured water from a rock, we have living water in Jesus.。
The presence of God, cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night, that's amazing.。
We have the presence of God indwelling through his Holy Spirit.。
It's crazy that we wouldn't trust him ourselves.。
And yet we do this.。
Like we stand on the cusp of that which God has been leading us to.。
Moving to a new city and taking a new opportunity.。
The chance to change our career all together.。
Or having gospel conversations with our neighbors.。
Or going to therapy to unpack our past and pursue healing.。
Or reconciling with a friend that we've lost touch with because of some hurt caused in the distant past.。
Whatever it may be, we often stand on the cusp of what God's leading us into.。
But rather than respond in faith porch, we reason in fear.。
We reason in fear.。
We do what they do.。
We talk ourselves out of what God is talking us into.。
Because we trust our discernment more than we trust his own.。
Listen to what the psalmist says in Psalm 146.。
He says, "Put not your trust in princes, in a son of man in whom there is no salvation.。
When his breath departs, he returns to the earth, and on the very day his plans perish.。
Blessed is he whose help is in the God of Jacob, whose hope is in the Lord his God."。
You trust in him, you don't trust in yourself.。
Now, some of you hear me unpacking this point and you're like, "But Kylan, listen.。
Are you telling me that I shouldn't be measured and prudent and wise with respect to my choices?。
Like, I'm supposed to just trust my gut, follow my heart, follow my instincts?"。
No, I'm not telling you to just do that.。
And neither is God.。
And yet the reality is, often, we are not at risk of being hasty.。
We are in danger of being hesitant.。
Like, we hear the call of God.。
We know what his word says, and yet we're slow to obey it.。
We feel conviction, but we're reluctant to take any action.。
We process and we pray and we second-guess, despite the fact that everybody in our community is looking at us and saying,。
"Yeah, you should do it. You should go for it."。
We're reluctant.。
You see, what we do is we, instead of initiating in faith, we procrastinate in fear.。
And the reality for why that is is because we don't just want clarity of God's plans.。
We want certainty of God's plans.。
Some of you are so locked up.。
You won't move into what God is trying to do in your life because you're just not certain it's going to happen.。
In what world is faith and certainty possible?。
Those things cannot coexist, for faith requires the presence of some uncertainty,。
because in the face of uncertainty, trust can exist.。
God wants you to trust him.。
Now, he's not going to leave you out on a limb.。
He's going to give you clarity.。
He's going to bring conviction.。
He's going to call you to take a step.。
And yet, too often, we procrastinate in fear rather than initiate in faith.。
Warren Weirsbe said, "Faith takes God at his word, and it needs no other evidence."。
It trusts, man.。
God knows best, and what he says goes.。
So if he says, "I go," then here I am.。
I'm ready, God.。
And yet, here's the thing.。
We struggle to do this.。
We wrestle with it.。
We know, oh, man, I really want to, but God, I don't know yet.。
And yet, in his kindness, he knows we want for more reason, and so he often gives it to us.。
He does that right here in this passage.。
He does that for the Israelites.。
If we keep reading, we'll actually jump to 17.。
It says, "Moses sent them to spy out the land of Canaan, and he said to them,。
'Go up into the Negev and go up into the hill country and see what the land is。
and whether the people who dwell in it are strong or weak, whether they're few or many,。
whether the land that they dwell in is good or bad,。
and whether the cities that they dwell in are camps or strongholds,。
whether the land is rich or poor, and whether there are trees in it or not.。
Be of good courage.。
Bring some of the fruit of the land.'。
Now the time was the season of the first grapes."。
I remember reading this, and it's striking me how strange it was。
that Moses was giving such very specific instructions,。
and yet Moses is giving specific instructions because he knows what they'll find.。
Like, he's not curious.。
I wonder if there's any fruit.。
He already knows because God has already told them.。
And so he gives them very detailed instruction on what to look for.。
He tells them in verse 18, "Hey, go and investigate the people.。
Are they strong? Are they weak? Are they few? Are there many?"。
In verse 19, "Go and investigate the land."。
Like, is it a good land or is it a bad land?。
How about their cities? What are they like?。
Are they big? Are they strong?。
Verse 20, he tells them to investigate the soil.。
Is it a rich soil or is it a poor soil?。
How about the trees? Are there trees there?。
Do you see fruit? Bring some of the fruit with you.。
Like, Moses is oddly specific in what he wants them to search for。
because he knows what they'll find.。
God's told him, and he wants them to know.。
If you find what God has already foretold,。
then you will have sufficient motivation to go.。
Because as we seek to navigate the new,。
our second step is God will give you good reason to go if he calls.。
God will give you good reason to go if he calls.。
And so they're going to seek.。
God's given us really good reason to take this land.。
And yet, Moses knows they have to find it to find sufficient motivation.。
So several years ago, Brooke and I, we were snow skiing。
whenever she lost her iPhone somewhere out on the mountain.。
Naturally, she really wanted me to find it.。
Which wasn't incredibly motivating.。
You want me to find your phone on the side of a ski slope?。
It's crazy. It's a needle in a haystack.。
There's no way I'll do it.。
And so the mission was not incredibly motivating for me.。
That is until I learned that her Find My Friends was miraculously working.。
Now I had good reason to go.。
I actually was moving in a way where I wasn't just searching, but I was seeking.。
I wasn't just aimless. I was directed.。
I knew where I could find it.。
And it motivated me to get out of my chair and get back on the mountain.。
And miraculously, we did in fact find the phone.。
You see, that's what's happening here.。
The spies, they want to survey the entirety of the land.。
But Moses, he doesn't want them to do it aimlessly。
because that's not going to make any kind of difference for the people.。
No, Moses gives them very clear instructions.。
He doesn't want them to search.。
He wants them to seek several things in specific that will motivate the people when they're found.。
That's why he says, "Hey, go and see if there's fruitfulness."。
He's literally sending them to a place called the Valley of Eshkol,。
which means the Valley of Grape Clusters.。
And it's during the season of the first ripe grapes.。
What do you think they're going to find?。
They're probably going to find some grapes.。
And not just regular grapes, but grapes so big。
that they actually have to be carried between two men on poles.。
Like that's the kind of reality they're walking into.。
This is the ancient Near Eastern Napa, okay?。
That's where God's taking them.。
It is bursting with life.。
It is full of flourishing.。
And Moses knows, "Hey, this is a land that will motivate our people to go."。
But you're also going to find some things that will motivate our people to not go alone,。
but to go with God.。
He tells them, "Hey, go look at the nations.。
Assess their strengths. Inspect their cities.。
How strong are their fortresses?"。
He knows, "Hey, the people are going to see this is a land that is bursting with abundance,。
and yet also it is a land that is begging for dependence."。
There are plenty, plenty of reasons to go,。
but there are plenty of reasons to not go alone.。
That's how you know if God's leading you someplace new.。
Some of you are here, and you're like, "Man, I'm torn between two decisions,。
and I don't know which one I'm supposed to take."。
I'm trying to discern whether God's leading me in or He's leading me out.。
How do I know? He gives you two reasons.。
He says, "Hey, look for signs of life," number one,。
"and then look for causes for trust," number two.。
Like, it should be bursting with life, and it should be begging for dependence.。
That's how you know.。
It should be bursting with life.。
Like, that's what Jesus says whenever He talked in John 10:10.。
He's like, "Hey, the reason I came is I came to give life.。
Like, the thief came to steal, kill, and destroy,。
and yet I came that you may have life."。
And guess what? Have it abundantly, just like this.。
To the places that you consider, the things that you do,。
you should really evaluate, "Is this going to let me give life。
to the rest of the world, to the people I engage with,。
and to the places that I occupy?"。
Because that's what the gospel does.。
The gospel gives life.。
And so here's the thing.。
If you're thinking about a new job, and yet there's no opportunity。
within that job to bring gospel flourishing,。
to lead people to life in Christ, then Jesus is not leading you there.。
He doesn't want you to take it, because He is going to lead you。
to a place that is exploding with fruitfulness.。
That's what He wants to do.。
If you're thinking about dating someone, and what you realize。
is in this relationship, I'm more prone to compromise in my sin。
than conformity in Christ, He's not leading you there.。
He doesn't want you in it, because that's not what He's come to give.。
If you're thinking about friends, man, your friends,。
are they exclusive or inclusive?。
Because one is characteristic of Jesus, but the other is characteristic。
of the world.。
Do they gossip, or do they encourage people?。
Because one is what Christ would do.。
The other, Christ would have nothing to do with.。
What decision are you trying to make?。
Does it have signs of life?。
But then also, it should have causes for trust, which is what we see。
as we continue to go.。
Verses 25-28, it says,。
"At the end of 40 days, they returned from spying out the land,。
and they came to Moses and Aaron, and to all the congregation of the people。
of Israel in the wilderness of Paran at Kadesh.。
They brought back word to them, and to all the congregation,。
and they showed them the fruit of the land.。
They found it.。
'Hey, man, here it is.。
Look at this stuff.'。
And they told him, 'We came to the land with which you sent us,。
and it blows with milk and honey.'。
And this is its fruit, so big we had to carry it between two of us.。
But the people who dwell in the land are strong,。
and the cities are fortified and very large.。
And besides, we saw the descendants of Anak there.。
Like God has led them to a land bursting with life。
and brimming with potential and boasting with resistance."。
It is boasting with resistance.。
Why would God do that?。
Because as God leads you into a new place, and you navigate the new,。
you should know God will not lead you someplace faith is not required.。
God will not lead you someplace faith is not required.。
The path of greatest--or the path of least resistance。
is never the path of greatest faith.。
The path of least resistance is never the path of greatest faith.。
And the reason for that is because the path of least resistance needs no God.。
We don't live lives where we do not need Him.。
Such an existence is not possible.。
If we follow God, then we can expect we will go places beyond compare,。
and we will go places far beyond our depth.。
Why? Because He wants you to trust Him.。
He wants you to need Him.。
He wants you to cling to Him, not just in the face of adversity.。
Yes, He wants that.。
But He wants you to cling to Him, grip Him,。
hold fast to Him in the moments of opportunity as well.。
Like these people, they knew, "God, we really need you in the wilderness.。
We've got some big problems out here."。
And yet, God, the minute we've gotten to the promised land,。
I think we're good. I think we don't need you any longer.。
We can make decisions for ourselves.。
We can figure out the way on our own.。
God's having none of it.。
Like, God is not just a God that we need in the face of our troubles。
and our trials and our testing.。
No, God is a God we need at all times and in all ways.。
Like, I think God is looking at them in this moment.。
He's like, "Hey, that is not how this relationship works.。
Like, I will be there with you to work through your problems,。
but I will also be there to walk with you into my promises.。
You will never not need me.。
You will never not need me."。
And that's actually good news,。
because I will never not be there.。
So many of us, we wrestle with inadequacy,。
but have you ever thought your inadequacy, "I'm not enough,"。
is actually, it's just a declaration of dependency, but my God is.。
Sure, I'm not enough to be eloquent in my workplace。
and lead my coworkers to Christ,。
but my God is enough, and I depend on him,。
and so I know I can do it.。
I'm not bold enough to approach my neighbor。
and really help them in the face of their situation。
and share Christ's love with them,。
but even though I'm not bold enough,。
Jesus in me is bold enough.。
I can move in my dependency.。
I'm not strong enough to forgive that person.。
Good thing Christ is with me.。
He is strong enough to forgive every person.。
That is the heart he has, not just to love his friends,。
but to love his enemies.。
Any inadequacy you feel, it is a declaration of dependency.。
Jesus, I never don't need you,。
and you are always here with me, God.。
Praise the Lord that that is the case.。
Friends, God will never take you someplace where he becomes optional.。
He will always take you places where he is required,。
because those are the only places that actually exist.。
He will take us where we are most dependent,。
for when we're in greatest need, he is closest by.。
Like, God did this to me yesterday.。
Yesterday.。
Like, I was going a completely different direction with this talk.。
I had been planning it for weeks.。
I had been doing deep study。
and building great illustrations。
and assembling carefully worded points。
and gathering parallel scriptures,。
all pointing to the person of Jesus.。
I had been prepping this message that I felt God gave me。
shortly after the porch ended in 2024.。
And yet last night, in the wee hours of the morning,。
it's like I hit a block.。
And I was talking to the Lord, and I was like,。
"God, I've been writing, but I can't write any longer.。
What is happening, God?"。
Like, we've been sitting on this.。
Like, this is something we've been preparing for, Lord.。
Why is it so frustrated now?。
Why are you complicating my life?。
Why are you contesting my purposes, Lord?。
And I think he was looking at me, and he's like,。
"Hey, I have something else I want you to do.。
I want you to walk with me and depend on me along the way.。
I want us to do something different,。
and I want you to be willing to move by faith."。
And so we started thinking about this passage.。
And it feels so consistent with what God would do in my life,。
so consistent with what God will do in your life,。
because he will not lead us places。
where faith is not required.。
I remember when I moved from Houston,。
and I came to Dallas, I was driving here,。
car loaded with all of my belongings to finally settle.。
And I told the Lord, "God,。
if your presence will not go with me,。
do not take me up from here.。
And we made that agreement, birthed right out of Exodus 33.。
And as I've arrived, what I know is,。
even in moments where faith feels required,。
I know that agreement still stands,。
for God is always with me.。
His presence will not depart.。
Now, why do I tell you that?。
Firstly, because whenever I do preach that other sermon,。
it's gonna be great.。
And I can't wait for the day when it happens,。
so you should stick around.。
But secondly, and primarily the reason I share that with you,。
is because God, in his kindness, will lead you places。
where your faith will be asked much of,。
but his presence will always deliver on.。
Do you want that?。
Do you want that?。
Like to live not just a year, but to live a life。
where you experience the unexplainable,。
where you make way through the world。
into things that happen.。
People can't really measure up who you are with what that is.。
There's a discrepancy.。
You're not great enough, you're not smart enough,。
you're not impressive enough, you're not talented enough.。
Why then are these things happening?。
Why is it that someone so simple as you。
could find yourself dwelling in the face。
of something as amazing as this?。
How is it that you arrived to a place of promise?。
And you'll be able to look at them and say,。
it's nothing that I've done,。
but it's by everything that my Christ has done.。
That's what they have the opportunity to do,。
to move into a place that is so significant,。
and yet they're shackled in fear.。
And yet as we read, we find one man who defies the rest.。
Like he looks forward and he's not shackled in his fear.。
Instead, he is released by his faith.。
It says in Numbers 13 30, but Caleb, he quieted the people.。
Everyone's freaking out.。
And he's like, calm down.。
Everybody's silent.。
Let us go up at once and occupy it.。
For we are well able to overcome it.。
Caleb knows this is impossible apart from God.。
So thank goodness our God is with us.。
No foe is too great.。
No fear is too strong.。
No force is too mighty.。
If God goes with us, how do we know that?。
We can be confident that God will go with us in times ahead.。
Because God came towards us in times past.。
We can look back and we can see the fact。
that Christ has stepped into our reality。
and he has made all the difference.。
Like Jesus, he trusted the words of God。
more than the wisdom of man.。
Like he knew there's a call on my life。
and he did not hesitate from fulfilling it.。
He was obedient.。
He wasn't reluctant.。
He was released.。
He made moves because he knew if God's saying it,。
then I'm going for it.。
And we also know that Jesus,。
he knew God had given him a good reason to go.。
Like he looked at you and he looked at me。
and he was like, man, they are enslaved in darkness.。
They can do nothing for themselves.。
I need to get there.。
They need my help.。
I will go quickly and I will come to them。
that they might be with you again, God.。
And then Jesus, while going to Calvary,。
walked to a place where faith was most required of all。
as he laid down his life for the sins of many.。
Friends,。
it's better to follow Jesus into a dangerous future。
than abandon Jesus for a safe existence.。
For Jesus abandoned a safe existence.。
(soft music)。
So that you might not have a dangerous future.。
What is shackling you in fear tonight?。
What is keeping you dependent upon yourself。
as opposed to God?。
He wants to identify it.。
And then he wants you to let it go.。
Not just because it's a new year,。
but because you have a new life in Christ Jesus.。
God, we love you.。
And we thank you that we had time now, God,。
just to work through your scripture.。
We're eager to sing back to you, God.。
(soft music)。
God, we want to be a people。
that live our lives where faith is most required.。
(soft music)。
We want to be a people that go God wherever it is you want.。
We know God so often,。
it's our fear that locks us up,。
that keeps us at bay,。
that will not let us move forward.。
And so God, what we're asking。
is that you would release us from that fear.。
That you would set us free from a safe existence。
and lead us into a glorious inheritance.。
The chance, God, to be with you,。
to live as Christ,。
and to experience all God that you want to give.。
This isn't a prosperity gospel.。
No, God, this is your promise to us。
that every day forward with you。
is better than any day we've lived behind.。
And yet, God, we know that days forward。
are days where we must walk by faith and not by fear.。
And so God, we pray that you would help us to do it.。
I pray, God, that you would help us right now。
as we take action on it, please.。
