[Heartbeat]。
[Heartbeat]。
I am so excited to be in the Psalms with you tonight.。
We are covering an idea that frankly changed my life.。
And so I'm going to tell you more about that before we dive in.。
Let me just read this Psalm to you or recite it to you.。
And so it's Psalm 23.。
"The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not be in want.。
He makes me lie down in green pastures.。
He leads me beside quiet waters. He restores my soul.。
He guides me in paths of righteousness for His name's sake.。
Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death,。
I will not fear, for you are with me.。
Your rod and your staff, they comfort me.。
You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies.。
You anoint my head with oil. My cup overflows.。
Surely goodness and love will follow me all the days of my life.。
And I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever."。
Let me pray.。
God, we never needed a truth as much as this one.。
And in the same way that 13 years ago as I sat in the back of a church hungover,。
and you used this reality to come into my life and turn it upside down.。
Would you reach into the hearts, please, God, of young adults this evening?。
And would you reveal to us our pride?。
Would you reveal to us our sin nature?。
Would you reveal to us our desperation for a Savior?。
That we might live the rest of our days in dependence on you,。
our good shepherd.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
Amen, amen, amen. It's great to be with you guys this evening.。
I'm super pumped, as I said, to be in this psalm.。
Did everyone have a good Halloween?。
You can shout for Halloween in church.。
I know in some places you're like, "Oh, can I say, yeah? Can I do anything?。
What do I do? No, it's evil."。
Yeah, Halloween, man.。
I forgot how big of a deal this is to kids.。
So as a father of three and now that we're in our home,。
I mean, this is a huge deal to kids.。
Do you remember this?。
I mean, do you remember going, it's like you're collecting things,。
and then you have this collection and you're proud of it.。
And I don't know if you remember, but you like pour it out and you look at it.。
You're like, "Wow, I've never even heard of this one."。
And then you start to sort them.。
You're like, "What is bit-o-honey?"。
And then it's like, "Here's the chocolate and the Skittles and the fruity."。
And so anyways, it's just like this.。
And when you're that old, it's like, "This is everything I own right here,。
and they gave it to me free."。
And so I just forgot what a big deal this is to kids.。
And so I don't know, have you guys seen Jimmy Kimmel's bit?。
Yes.。
Oh, some of you are shaking your head.。
Okay, we'll pray for you.。
No, you know what?。
Let's do this instead.。
How about we just show it to you?。
Watch this.。
Love it.。
You gotta love it.。
Hey, let me just say this.。
It matters to them.。
And so now we have perspective, so we can look back on that,。
and we'd be like, "Man, those kids are silly.。
It ruined my life."。
You know, how silly for them.。
But think about what this would be like for you today.。
It's like I come up to you, and I'm like, "Hey, I spent all your money."。
And you're like, "What money?"。
And I'm like, "Every dollar you've ever earned and saved, it's gone.。
I spent it."。
Like, we're going to have issues, right?。
Or somebody comes up to you, and they're like, "Hey, I took your girlfriend."。
She's like, "Oh, that's the one that got gassed."。
She's like, "Ugh!"。
Or, "Hey, I took your job.。
It's gone. It's mine."。
Like, these are the things that matter to us today, and so we look back then,。
and we're like, "Oh, that's so silly. Their candy was so important to them."。
But what if these things that are so important to us today are just as silly,。
and we just can't see it because we're right in the thick of it,。
just like the kid with the candy?。
And the problem for some of us is, as we hear about a God who controls everything,。
we're in this series called Exhale, and last week we looked at Psalm 46,。
and we talked about how God controls everything.。
And some of you, tonight, you live in fear that He's going to take things from you,。
that He's withholding good from you,。
that He's going to come in with His sovereignty and His might,。
and He's going to get you with some IRS tax audit,。
or some things that are coming.。
You're just going through life waiting for something bad to happen to you。
that God's going to rip you off.。
And so tonight, we're in Psalm 23, looking at the reality,。
defining the reality that God is a good shepherd who doesn't want to keep good from you.。
He wants to pour good to you.。
He wants to give you good things.。
He's not trying to withhold good from you.。
He's giving it to you.。
He doesn't want to rip you off.。
He's looking to set you free.。
He's a good God.。
Because here's the truth.。
If He controls everything, you know, we talked about how He breaks the bow and bends the spear。
and melts the shields, and it's like, "Wow, He's so big and sovereign."。
But if He doesn't love you, it doesn't matter, right?。
If He doesn't love you, then that big, sovereign view of God's control doesn't help me walk with Him.。
He just feels big and distant and far.。
And so some of you are here tonight, and you're thinking,。
"Man, God's trying to withhold good from me.。
When He says, 'Hey, wait till I'm married,' yeah,。
He just wants to give me a bunch of rules to follow.。
He wants me to be generous with others.。
He doesn't want me to get drunk.。
Yeah, He's just trying to keep me from the party, this God."。
He's not.。
He's trying to give you life abundantly.。
Abundantly.。
And so we're asking questions this evening, like,。
"How do we know that God will guide us toward what is good for us?。
How do we know He will guard us from what is harmful?。
And how do we know He will keep His promises of everlasting life to us?"。
And so tonight, as we dive in this psalm, looking at God, the Good Shepherd,。
I'm going to expound the reality to you that changed my life,。
that God used to change my life.。
And so this psalm was written by the shepherd king, David,。
the greatest human king that has ever lived.。
And he started out in the humble beginnings of being a shepherd.。
This is the most quoted psalm, the most famous psalm from the Old Testament.。
Some scholars and great, amazing, brilliant theologians would say。
this is the greatest psalm or the most famous psalm ever sung.。
Because this is a psalm.。
Psalms are a psalm.。
And so this is featured in movies like "Jarhead," "True Grit," "Titanic,"。
"Book of Eli," "Dangerous Minds"--remember that one?--。
"Elephant Man," "Deep Blue Sea," and even in an episode of "Lost."。
It's been in songs by U2, Kanye West, and my favorite, Coolio.。
[laughter]。
"As I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I take a--"。
Yeah, you guys know, man.。
All right.。
You left me hanging out there for a second.。
That's cool.。
Told you that wasn't going to work.。
So last week we looked at how Obama read Psalm 46 on the 10-year anniversary of 9/11.。
On 9/11, President Bush quoted Psalm 23.。
When we're looking for peace as a nation--and I love this psalm.。
I love this psalm.。
And then I read a book.。
It's Philip Keller's "A Shepherd's Look at Psalm 23,"。
and it made this psalm come alive for me.。
Philip Keller was a sheepherder, or a shepherd for short, and also a pastor.。
He was a shepherd as a vocation.。
He cared for sheep.。
And as he wrote a commentary on this psalm, it came alive to me.。
It came alive to me.。
And so I know a little bit about raising sheep, the resident sheep-raising expert in the room.。
In fact, I have a picture here.。
There you go.。
That's me, Quero, Texas.。
That's a sheep, and that's my real hair.。
[laughter]。
And there I was, blue ribbon, okay?。
And so I spent some time with sheep so that I can expound on this psalm with you this evening.。
Let's go.。
We're going to look at how God is my guide to life, how he is my guardian from evil,。
and how he gives me everlasting goodness.。
Verse 1.。
"The Lord is my shepherd.。
I shall not be in want."。
And so this is a familiar occupation of David.。
If he owned a gym, he'd be like, "The Lord is my trainer."。
If he worked at a hospital, he'd be like, "The Lord is my doctor."。
If he was a teacher, he'd be like, "The Lord is my professor."。
Or a student, "The Lord is my teacher."。
But because he's a shepherd, he's like, "Hey, I know how I care for the sheep.。
I know the care that I give to these animals."。
So God, Yehovah, creator of the heavens and the earth, is my shepherd.。
He cares for me.。
He cares for me.。
He looks after me.。
And so who is God to you?。
Is he a strong tower?。
Is he a mighty fortress?。
Is he just the creator?。
Is he sovereign and in control?。
Or is he the one who cares for you?。
He makes me lie down in green pastures.。
And so Philip Keller paints this picture of how sheep travel through this psalm.。
They start in the spring and winter months in the lowlands or the grasslands.。
And then they travel through the valley up into the tablelands during the summer.。
In the warm months, they go to the top in the tablelands.。
In the winter, they're in the lowlands.。
And they travel through the valley of the shadow of death to get to the tablelands.。
And so here we have a picture of the grasslands behind me.。
And this is going to change as we make this journey together through this psalm.。
He makes me lie down in green pastures.。
Philip Keller says there's four things necessary for sheep to lie down.。
He says, one, they must be free from fear or free from external attacks.。
That if they even sense that a dog is coming near them or near them, if they smell a dog, they will not lie down.。
He says they have to be free from conflict or internal attacks.。
Okay, so if there's somebody in your community group that is constantly raising conflict,。
that they're constantly attacking you or they're having questions,。
or if you're at odds with someone in your life, you just can't lie down, you can't rest.。
He says they have to be free from pests, bugs, and flies.。
And he likens this to the worries and the bothers in our life that spin around in our mind.。
Then when we lie down, we can't find rest because we just continue to play the tape and continue to think.。
And he says they have to be free from hunger.。
Fourth, they have to be free from hunger. Their appetite must be satisfied.。
And so some of you will go through life, you have what the world calls drive,。
and what the scripture calls something that will never be satisfied.。
You go through life constantly wanting more.。
You think I'm just going to climb to the top and you just wear yourself out on this hamster wheel。
because you don't know how to get off.。
He says their appetite must be satisfied.。
Because the greatest idol to a sheep is green grass.。
In fact, sheep will reach their neck through a fence to get to green grass.。
They will actually strangle themselves trying to get to that green grass.。
And some of you will strangle yourselves trying to satisfy some insatiable appetite that you have.。
And so what are you reaching for that is keeping you up at night?。
And you know right now with a sober mind that God would give it to you if he knew it was best for you.。
He leads me, my shepherd leads me beside quiet waters. He restores my soul.。
And so the second idol in a sheep's life would be water.。
They need these two things for life, food and water.。
But the problem with sheep is what they drink from is the cesspools of their hoof prints.。
And so their hoof prints make these holes in the mud that fill up with water when it rains.。
And they defecate and urinate in there.。
They go to the bathroom and it becomes gross and contaminated.。
But they drink from there. You want to know why?。
Because sheep are afraid of water.。
Specifically raging water or rushing water is terrifying to them.。
So still water or quiet water is appealing.。
That's what the shepherd leads them to.。
At first I was like, "Really? Sheep are afraid of water?"。
And then I began to think about it.。
I mean, they are living sponges, these sheep.。
I mean, they pretty much have like 30 Abercrombie sweaters wrapped around them, right?。
And if they fall into the water, it's a lead weight.。
They've got these little drumsticks for legs.。
Of course they're afraid of water.。
And so the shepherd knows what they need and he leads them to that which can give them life.。
And he's saying to us, "Stop drinking from the wells that will kill you.。
Drink from an everlasting well."。
He guides me, my shepherd. He guides me in paths of righteousness.。
Why? For his name's sake.。
He delights in blessing you for one reason.。
So that others would know him.。
He loves to give you good things for his glory.。
So that people see you and say, "Oh, that's the person who follows God.。
She trusts God. He trusts God.。
And he gives good to her. He gives good to him."。
It's the greatest apologetic of all time.。
Someone going through life trusting God, being blessed by him.。
And that blessing at times looks like not being afraid。
or trusting in times of conflict, in times of challenges.。
But he's done it. We constantly want to take credit for what he's done.。
My little girl, when she was little, Presley, when she was little,。
she would do this thing where she just goes, "I did it all by myself."。
And so what that would look like, she'd be like, "Daddy, can you help me on the monkey bars?"。
And so I would go and I would hold her with all my strength up.。
And I would carry her through the monkey bars so her hands would hit them.。
She'd get to the other end and she'd go, "Mommy, look at me. I did it all by myself."。
And I was like, "No, you didn't. I did it all by myself.。
You didn't even really help very much."。
And so some of us, this is what our relationship with God looks like.。
Is we actually do something good.。
Maybe you're here and you're like, "Man, I haven't really done anything wrong.。
I drink it. Sex. Not me."。
And you're like, "Yeah, because I'm good."。
No, you're not. He did that in your life.。
He guides you in paths of righteousness for His namesake.。
That's His grace in your life.。
And you're like, "Here, look, I did it all by myself."。
You're just as silly as Presley on the monkey bars.。
He comes to you and he's like, "Hey, come out of the bar. Come out of the club.。
There's not life there. You're drinking yourself to death.。
Sick of hangovers yet? Come out. Come on. Hey, there's life here. Come on. Come on."。
And then we go, "Okay, really, God? Okay."。
And then, "Look, I did it all by myself."。
He's like, "Hey, stop sleeping around. There's not going to be life there.。
How many pregnancy scares are you going to have to go through to figure out there's not life there?。
Come on. Come on."。
And then He's like, "Oh, wait. I did it all by myself."。
No, you didn't.。
God did that.。
And so what if I die? What's next?。
Where is this all going?。
Will I ever get married?。
What if I'm not good at whatever it is I'm going to have to do next?。
These are the worries of this world, right?。
And so what I'm telling you from this psalm is that God is your guide to abundant life.。
That's my first point. God is your guide to abundant life.。
You don't want to go anywhere that the Lord is not leading you.。
Let me say that again in case you missed it.。
You don't want to go anywhere in this world, in this lifetime.。
You don't want to go anywhere that the Lord is not leading you.。
That He's not saying, "Hey, come on this way."。
This is where life is.。
And so how many of us find worries by going on paths that cause anxiety?。
We have pride, thinking that we have to do it all ourselves.。
This causes anxiety in our lives.。
Or thinking that you actually can do it by yourself and that you don't need a shepherd.。
And this causes anxiety in your life.。
Going out and getting drunk on a regular basis.。
Living to escape and flee from accountability.。
"Oh man, I called you last night. I was drunk."。
Like that's the cover all, "Oh, you were drunk. Well, that's okay if you were drunk."。
Does that not cause anxieties in our life?。
Promiscuity or giving the physical so that we would feel wanted causes anxiety.。
Debt, spending money that we don't have causes anxiety.。
Pornography, continuing to say, "Well, I'm struggling with pornography."。
No, you're not struggling. You're giving in to pornography. You're not struggling.。
You're carrying that path with you in your pocket so that you can access it whenever you want.。
Let me ask you a question. How long are you going to struggle with pornography?。
Because if you look backwards, it's been since the fifth grade.。
You're going to be 50 still struggling with pornography?。
Leads to anxiety.。
The body image being so focused on you.。
Self-obsession in general.。
Needing the approval of others. "What do they think of me?"。
"What do they think of me?" Walking around, "They must be talking about me."。
"I've got to be liked." "Is this dress okay for them?" "Are these jeans okay?"。
"Is this okay?" "Is this what's going to give me the job?"。
And just a critical spirit in general.。
Can you think of anything that's more a greater rejection of God。
than to go through the abundant life that he gave us and just not be grateful.。
Just be critical of everything. You're the person that constantly points out the holes。
but never steps in the gaps.。
All of these things lead to great anxieties.。
They're not paths that God is leading you to.。
And so there is peace, great peace in the will of God.。
And so what does transformation look like for you tonight?。
It looks like, "Hey God, I'm not going anywhere you're not taking me."。
"If you're not taking me there, I'm not going there."。
"If you don't want me to go there, then I'm simply not going there."。
And it begs the question this evening, do we trust that he is not only in control。
but he desires to give us good things to guide us in good paths.。
The kids did alright trick-or-treating.。
They got their loot.。
They were really excited about it.。
We had to put this kind of two-limit candy bar per day on them.。
And so Weston, my three-year-old, wakes up early that morning, Sunday morning.。
And he just goes straight to his candy jar and he grabs this little bite-sized,。
this little mini take five.。
And it's a candy bar evidently.。
And he's just gripping it in his hand. He comes and brings it to me.。
I'm still in bed. He's like, "Daddy, can I eat it?"。
I'm like, "No, not for breakfast, son. Hold on."。
And I was just like, "Wait for it."。
And so he just carries it with him through the day, gripped in his hand like this.。
I mean, it's all sweaty, palm, nasty, melted chocolate.。
And so he's like all day, "Daddy, can I eat it? Daddy, can I eat it?"。
And so finally, after lunch, I was like, "Alright, buddy. Listen. I want you to hear me.。
I want you to give me your candy bar."。
I mean, it's squished like a Tootsie Roll by this point.。
And I'm like, "I want you to give it to me."。
And he's like, "No, Daddy. You told me I could have it. You told me I could have two per day."。
I'm like, "Son, I know, but I want you to trust me. Do you trust me? I want you to give it to me."。
And he's like, "No, Daddy, I can't. Can I eat it? Can I eat it?"。
I'm like, "Hey, buddy, you can eat it, but I'm asking you, would you give it to me?"。
And he's like, "No, Daddy." And he just opens it up, takes a bite.。
And he doesn't like pretzels.。
And so I think what happened, he took a bite, tasted the pretzel, and he's like, "Okay, you can have it."。
And as soon as he gave it to me, I picked him up, and I took him in the pantry.。
See, what you may not know about me is I love candy.。
Like, I am a sucker for candy. I love chocolate.。
I'm a sucker for any kind of candy that doesn't have fruit in it is good candy to me, because that's like a salad.。
And so I take him, I lift him up, and I've got this top shelf in our pantry.。
And I mean, I go all out, man. I mean, I stock up.。
I mean, there's run-of-the-mill Hershey's bar in there, and then there's the fine-dining chocolate you can only buy at a certain place.。
I mean, there's Skittles. There's a bag of Dum Dums. He likes lollipops. That's up there.。
There's the big--I get the movie-sized candy that you can buy every now and then at the grocery store.。
They have the big bin right there, the five for five dollars. I'll store up on that.。
That's up there. Dots. All of the big M&Ms, the big peanut M&Ms.。
I've got a bag up there of chocolate-covered peanut butter M&Ms, which are like the gold in my book.。
That's where it's at. And then anything Reese's.。
And so I take him. He's in the pantry. He's looking down. He's seeing the water bottles are at the bottom.。
I lift him up. He doesn't know what to do with himself. He had no idea his daddy was that rich.。
And I'm like, "Buddy, take your pick, since you trusted me with your little melted, bite-sized take five.。
When I asked you for it, you were so confused. Why would you take that from me?"。
"It's because I wanted to give you something better."。
And so some of you are here, and you're like, "Well, God just wants to take from me."。
You don't trust that he wants to give you something better than what you think you want.。
That he's a good shepherd. He has an abundant of riches at his disposal.。
He can give you anything, even greater and more than you can imagine.。
Verse 4. "Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will not fear, or I will fear no evil, for you are with me."。
And so we've transitioned now from the grasslands to the valley of the shadow of death.。
Sheep, every single year, would make this trek from the winter months in the grassland,。
through the valley in the spring, up to the summer months.。
Up to the summer months in the table lands.。
And so now we're in the valley of the shadow of death.。
And so here's what's going on in the valley. This is when the sheep come closest to their predators.。
The predators live in the hillside. And so as they walk along the hills, the cougars, they're right there.。
When I say cougars, I don't mean moms from Frisco. I mean cougars, okay?。
Some of you were thinking it. I had to address the issue, okay?。
I'm talking about real live teeth, eat you alive. Cougars, they're right there.。
Wolves, they're right there, okay? This is what's going on right here.。
And so the sheep, they're walking down the valley of the shadow of death.。
And not only do they come the closest to these animals, these predators that want to kill them,。
but they come the closest to the raging waters, closest to the cliffs.。
There's death all around them if they do not stay close to the shepherd.。
Ironically, in the valley, the sheep is also closest to the shepherd.。
As they walk this narrow path, the shepherd is right there with them, protecting them every step of the way.。
They have to stay close to the shepherd.。
And so I love what's going on in this. I don't know if you caught it.。
He switches from "the Lord is my, the Lord, he" to "you."。
He changes. He changes from who he's talking about God to talking to God.。
As I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, you are with me.。
I will not fear because you, God, you are with me. Now he's talking to him.。
Your rod, back in the scripture, your rod and your staff, they comfort me.。
A shepherd uses two tools. One is a rod. A rod is basically like a baseball bat.。
It's used for one thing, killing.。
Anything that would attack that sheep, that shepherd goes like a baseball bat to the face on a wolf or a cougar or whatever it is to kill it, to protect.。
The other is the staff. The staff is what Little Bo Peep carried.。
It's the little shepherd crook with a curve on it. It's used for correcting.。
Tenderly, to guide the sheep, he'll put that staff on the sheep's shoulder and say, "Hey, I want you to go right."。
On the sheep's shoulder, say, "Hey, I want you to go left."。
If a sheep falls into a ravine, he goes and uses that hook to lift them out of that ravine.。
So one is used for protecting and the other is used for correcting.。
You know, Jesus says, "Who, if they lost one sheep, would not leave the 99 and go after the one?"。
You're the one. You're the one. He will leave the 99 and go after you.。
He loves you that much. "I will leave the flock and I will find you in that pit that you fell into.。
I will not desert you because a shepherd that loses sheep is not a good shepherd.。
I will risk it all to find you, to pull you out of that pit."。
God, our guide, he has everything that he needs to protect us from evil and to lead us not into temptation.。
And so you're here and you're like, "But the world is so messed up. There's so much wrong.。
What if something terrible happens to me?" My second point this evening is that God guards you from evil.。
God guards you from evil.。
And so when danger is near, you stay close to the shepherd.。
Last week in Psalm 46, we talked about how the fish go deep, deep, deep into the ocean when there's a storm.。
They go to a place where the storm is not bothering them.。
We talked about how we go deep, deep into our relationship with God whenever there's a storm in our life.。
And likewise, here you go and you lean into the shepherd. You go close to the shepherd.。
And this is work, y'all. There's no cruise control in Christianity.。
There's not where you get to a place where you're like, "Hey, I know God and now I'm cool and I can just kind of shift into overdrive or autopilot."。
There's no autopilot in Christianity.。
Every day you have to pursue God so that he's familiar to you.。
When trouble comes, you're not like, you know, like pulling the parachute or some lifeline.。
Like, "Hey God, I know we don't know each other very much, but I think I'm pregnant."。
Of course you think you are. We haven't been walking together.。
"Hey God, I know we don't know each other very much. I know I haven't talked to you in a while, but there's this really scary situation at work."。
Hey.。
And so we use him like a lifeline. He's like, "No, I want to be familiar to you."。
Every day. That's a fine time to go to God if you haven't gone to him any other time, but it's a miserable time to go to God in reality.。
Because he's available to you every single day. The Good Shepherd is right there wanting a relationship with you.。
This weekend, I took Presley to gymnastics.。
She goes to gymnastics on Saturday. And so after gymnastics, they had this haunted house up.。
And so I'm sitting there waiting on her to be done. And she just kind of runs up to me.。
She's like, "Daddy, I went in the haunted house." And I was like, "Cool."。
And I was like, "Was it scary?" She's like, "I don't know." And I was like, "Why do you not know? Have you went in?"。
She's like, "I ran out."。
And I was like, "Why did you run out?" She's like, "I was too scared."。
And I was like, "Let's go back in. You can go back in. You can check it out."。
And she's like, "No, I can't." I mean, she was like, "There's no way. I'm not going in there."。
And I was like, "Hey, come on. I'll go with you."。
She's like, "Okay."。
It's interesting, right? She's terrified. Like, "There's no way. You're not going to make me go in there."。
I'll go with you. "Okay, if you'll go, let's go."。
Nothing changed in that haunted house. Like, this time we go, and she was fine.。
We walked through. I mean, it's a gymnastics haunted house, you know, not a house of horrors or anything.。
And so we go through there, and we come out. And she's like, "Oh, that was so much fun."。
The only thing that changed is who she was with.。
Now, I don't know if you would have walked up to her and said, "Hey, Presley, I'll go with you."。
She'd be like, "No, I'm not going." Because y'all don't have a relationship.。
But she trusts me. We have a relationship.。
I mean, she's the one. When I told Weston, I said, "Hey, give me your candy."。
Like, "Presley knows that game." She's like, "Daddy, you can have all my candy."。
You know? I've been there before with her. She trusts me.。
She knows I desire to give her good things. She's been with me longer, not three years, but eight years.。
And there in the haunted house, where I like, "Listen, God is there. He wants a relationship with you."。
When you have that relationship with God, there is a sense inside of you that I can endure all things.。
There's nothing that this life can throw at me that's going to bring me down.。
God is with me. God, the creator of the heavens and the earth, the one who breaks the bows and bends the spears,。
that's my shepherd. That's the one who cares for me.。
The one who spoke this creation into existence. He cares for me, man. He's got my back.。
My front, my underneath, my everything. He's with me.。
People tell me, young adults tell me all the time, "Man, I was in this terrible thing. I was in this wreck, or this thing happened."。
But I felt God's presence. And I had God's peace.。
He says, verse 5, "You," back to talking to God, "You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies."。
You, God, you prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies.。
And so now we went through the valley of the shadow of death to the table lands.。
We're up in the table lands. And so what does it mean that you prepare a table for me?。
Some people think, some commentaries on this Psalm say it transitions from shepherd to host, but I'm with Philip Keller on this one.。
I think he's still talking about shepherds and sheep.。
He says, "You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies."。
In the table lands, what he means by prepare a table is in the table lands, there's plenty of grass to eat, but now you are free from predators.。
The predators can't attack you because you're back in the field guarded by the shepherd.。
But there's these things called their white camas.。
And it's this white flower that sheep would love to eat, but it's deadly poisonous.。
If they eat it, they will die.。
And so the shepherd has to go through there and work toil to pull all of the poisonous weeds out.。
You prepare a table before me.。
And in the table lands, there's the top of the hills where the cougars and the wolves live in the crevices of those hills.。
And they're watching on as sheep, their prey, feast in the presence of their shepherd, protected in the presence of their shepherd.。
Philip Keller talks about how he knows of cougars that have killed 200 sheep in one night, 200 sheep dead.。
But he's never seen a cougar.。
He said they will not come in the presence of the shepherd.。
They will never attack in the presence of the shepherd.。
I want you to think about the humility that David has right here.。
Because he's not just saying, now this has got to hit home for you here, Dallas and Fort Worth and wherever you're listening.。
He's not just calling God the shepherd.。
He's calling himself a sheep.。
Now sheep are the single most vulnerable animals ever to live.。
One expert says they're the only animal without a defense mechanism.。
And I was like, really?。
What about rabbits?。
No, rabbits run fast.。
What about cats?。
They got claws.。
What about rats?。
They bite.。
You know what sheep do when they're attacked?。
They freeze.。
That's what they do.。
That's their defense mechanism.。
They stand still and they're devoured.。
Cougars will play with sheep like a ball of yarn before they eat them.。
Sheep must have a shepherd for life.。
And they must trust that shepherd.。
But here in the table lands, the predators watch on as the sheep feast.。
So our shepherd never sleeps.。
He's prepared a place for us in eternity.。
He says this, "You anoint my head with oil.。
My cup overflows."。
And so now in the table lands, in the herd, the greatest predator to the sheep is what is known as pestilence, flies.。
The diseases that they would get from bugs.。
And so these little flies buzz around their head.。
And this is going to be gross, but I'm telling you, you're learning about sheep tonight.。
And so in the moist membrane of the sheep's nose, the flies will lay eggs.。
And those eggs will hatch to larvae.。
And the larvae or the little worm will crawl up a sheep's nose and get in its head.。
And a sheep will be so bothered by this that they will run and they will butt their head against a tree, hurting themselves and even killing themselves, trying to get rid of the bothers in their head.。
And the solution is a loving shepherd coming to them, anointing their head with oil that keeps the flies away.。
You ever have something in your head that you can't get out of there?。
And you're so bothered, you feel like you're beating your head against the wall.。
I can't transition. I can't stop thinking about this conversation that I had at work.。
I can't believe my boss said that. Why don't they ever trust me to do those sorts of things?。
Why do they always trust her? And why did he say, and I can't believe he broke up with me for that reason.。
This is crazy. And I'm just beating my head against the wall.。
And God comes and says, Hey, I've given you everything that you need to have peace.。
Everything that you need to have peace is found in me.。
Your cup overflows.。
God has gone to great lengths to rid your lives of the worries of this world, promising you another world.。
He says, Hey, what are your greatest worries compared to a billion years from now? Eternity with me forever and ever in heaven.。
He writes verse six, surely goodness and love will follow me all the days of my life.。
Not a temporary goodness, but an everlasting goodness.。
Have you ever had goodness? You ever had a good time?。
And I mean, I'm not talking church answers here. You ever go on a spring break? Good.。
Man, that was a great time. Those moments you go club and it's like, man, I'm just, I'm just going to let my guard down.。
And so for some of you, that was this weekend. Others of you, that was that one time in college.。
But there's just that moment where you're like, Hey, I'm just going to let my guard down. I'm just going to go for it tonight.。
I'm going to live like there are no rules. And you, you're having a great time. And man, that was a great time.。
Some of you are addicted to that great time. You can't stop having that great time.。
And then you have those moments afterwards, like, man, do we even know each other? Like, who are you? And how did we get here?。
And I just like, I don't even remember. Did we go there? I can't believe we went there. What happened?。
That's temporary goodness. What a joke, man. You're wasting your life.。
God says in my presence are riches forever. Goodness forever. Ever lasting goodness.。
And so this and I would dwell in the house of the Lord forever.。
This is the realization that our shepherd is good, that we don't want to be cared for by anyone else.。
That God is our shepherd and he's so good. And God gives us eternal life with him.。
That we can be with him forever and ever and ever and ever.。
This this Sunday, as we left church, the girls were talking to my two girls and their little girls.。
And they were talking to Weston. I think they talked about evangelism and Sunday are here at church rather.。
And so they're like Weston, you know, my three year old, they're like, do you want to go to heaven?。
And he's like, no. And and you know, of course, they're real concerned for their brother's salvation.。
And so they're like, no, nobody. You do want to go to heaven. It's like Disney World, you know, and they're like, there's like lots of candy there and all these things.。
And I've never seen him respond like this. But he like he's like, no, I don't. I don't.。
I guess you do. No, I don't want to go to heaven. I don't want to go.。
And he starts crying is really sad. Everybody was all concerned. And I just said, hey, everybody, calm down.。
Everybody calm down. I said, Weston, man, I know you three, you don't you don't know how great heaven is.。
And it's not like Disney and it's not like lots of candy. I said, but but God, who is good, he lives there.。
And I just said and I said this, I want you to think about this. I said, Weston, if you knew how amazing heaven was,。
you would live every moment of your life trying to get there. Longing for it.。
And I just heard this voice saying, then you don't know how amazing heaven is, JP.。
You must have lost sight of how amazing it is because you don't do that.。
And you get distracted by work and by conflict and trying to make money and living in Dallas and wondering what others think of you.。
And stupid, stupid, stupid things like how many people liked your Instagram photo or how many Twitter followers you have, how pathetic.。
JP, you clearly don't understand how amazing my kingdom is.。
So my third and final point is God gives you everlasting goodness.。
God offers you an everlasting satisfaction, not a temporary one.。
And so if you know that he's in control and that he gives good to those who follow him, you can stop wearing yourself out, trying to get ahead of the game.。
You can exhale because your shepherd is good. You can stop. You can rest. You can lie down in green pastures.。
You can rest beside quiet waters. You can stop feeling like everything is up to you because it's not. He's in control.。
He's God and he loves you. He's crazy about you. You specifically you.。
And he wants to give you good things. He's a good God that desires to give you good things.。
I just want to show you something. You know, David, he was a shepherd.。
But he was also in first Samuel 16. He was anointed as king.。
And so the prophet Samuel comes up and it's this real Cinderella story.。
They're like, hey, you know, one of your sons is is going to be king. It must be Elieb. He's the big one.。
No, it's not him. And he kind of works through these sons and he gets to David was the boy.。
He's just a boy. He's a shepherd. And he goes up to David and he anoints his head with oil.。
As a sign that he is going to be king, he's going to sit on the throne.。
And he's the he was the greatest human king that ever lived, but his greatest moments that that are memorialized forever in the scripture, like this song.。
I mean, we're reading it thousands of years later. No one's going to be singing a song, you know, 4000 years from now.。
OK, no one. Right. But here we are looking at the writings of David.。
Who was king. But who was shepherd. And so Samuel says you're going to be king.。
And you know what he does. You know what he does.。
He goes back to being a shepherd. I don't got to be king today when God wants to make me king, he'll put me in the throne.。
Until then, I'll protect the sheep. You know what he does. King Saul King, the one who was king, says, hey, I want you to come here and I want you to play the harp for me.。
He's basically Saul's iPod. And there he is playing the harp for the king.。
I don't know if he's in the palace thinking, hey, man, this is my palace. Like, let me pick out the doors. Let me pick out the floors.。
No, he's just there playing the harp. I'm going to serve the king until God wants me to be king.。
You know what he's Saul's armor bearer. Saul says, hey, you're so good at playing the harp. Why don't you carry my armor for me?。
Sure, man, I'll serve you king. Until the Lord wants to make me king.。
He's not trying to wear himself out to get some. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want.。
He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside quiet waters. He restores my soul. He guides me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake.。
Even though I walk to the valley of the shadow of death, I won't fear for you with me. Your rod and your staff, they protect me.。
You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil. My cup overflows.。
Surely goodness and love will follow me all the days of my life. And I dwell in the house of Yehovah forever and ever and ever.。
His greatest moments were marked by him trusting God when his enemy is in a cave sleeping, he doesn't kill him.。
When the enemy of God shouts blasphemies against him and an entire army is afraid of him, he kills him with a rock.。
Because the greatest king of all time understood that he was just a sheep pointing to a good shepherd who was a better king.。
Jesus is all the evidence that you and I need to know that God is a good shepherd because he laid down his life for us so that we might live forever and ever and ever and ever.。
This is captured in John 10 where it says in verse 7, Jesus said again, "Verily, truly, I tell you, I am the gate for the sheep.。
All who have come before me, they're thieves and robbers, but the sheep have not listened to them.。
I am the gate. Whoever enters through me, Jesus says, will be saved.。
They will come in and go out and find pasture. The thief, he comes to steal, kill and destroy.。
I have come that they might have life and have it to the full.。
And have it to the full. And have it not temporarily, not with hangovers and pregnancy scares and not pride and not wondering if you're going to climb your way to the top and have everything you ever thought that you wanted, fame, fortune.。
But have abundant life to the full that's only found in Jesus Christ.。
And so Jesus is your guide to an abundant life.。
Jesus, it's personal. Jesus is your guardian from the evil one.。
And Jesus gave his life in order to give you eternity with God.。
I just want to tell you that, man, when we were out there trick or treating, my kids weren't very good at it.。
I was pretty discouraged. We were patrolling the neighborhood in the golf cart and going up to the houses.。
And they wanted to go to the friendly old people.。
And I'm like, they give you apples and granola bars. Hang with me.。
And there's scary houses with the strobe lights and the smoke machines. They didn't want to go near those.。
I'm like, these are the people that know candy, though. They take Halloween serious.。
And so I'm like, hey, I'm your guide here. I'm the candy master. I get this stuff.。
Follow my lead, OK? And ask them for some for your dad.。
And so we're kind of patrolling the neighborhood and we're having a good time.。
But I want to show you something. See, my friend Jimmy, he loves Halloween.。
You may know him. He's been here. He's led worship here at the porch.。
And he sees Halloween as an opportunity to show how good and generous his God is.。
And so Jimmy lives in this house that is on the top of a hill.。
And so there's this crazy staircase up into his house.。
And so what they do is they start to write on the staircase saying, hey, if you'll just go up there.。
And so they put the candy there. There's Kit Kats and Snickers and Reese's.。
And so there it is. If you see that's what they're kind of writing.。
They're just trying to get the folks there. But at the bottom of the staircase is the sign.。
And the sign says this, if you make the climb, we have king sized bars because there's not a king as generous as ours.。
And so Jimmy and his wife, Kelly, they begin to store up candy all year.。
And so let me show you what's inside of this house.。
Abundant riches forever.。
I mean, he stockpiles candy. He stockpiles it.。
And everyone knows, hey, that's the good house. That's the house you want to go to.。
Right. He's earned a reputation. You want to make the climb.。
You want to get to the top. And so there they are. Right.。
The people line up because when you know that there's good inside, you live your life moving to that destination.。
And others see you moving to that destination and they say, how do you endure the climb?。
And you say, you don't understand how good my shepherd is.。
He desires to give me good things, riches at his right hand forever and ever and ever.。
And so whatever trouble comes my way. Right.。
He's protecting me. He's guarding me. And when I don't know the way he's guiding me and he is going to give me goodness forever and ever and ever.。
And regardless of the situation, I can trust him.。
And it's the greatest apologetic known to man is a young man or woman who says no matter the trial, no matter the situation, my shepherd is good.。
And I will follow him. I'm going to follow him.。
And the greatest heresy that you can live out. Is to deny the goodness of God.。
The most rejecting thing that you can say to a God who pours out his loving kindness to you.。
Is to say you're not good. Or to live like he's not good.。
And not trust him.。
You can trust him.。
Let me pray that you would.。
Father, thank you for this incredible song that you've preserved through the ages.。
Thank you for your servant David, just a man after your heart.。
A man who says I want to love what God loves and I want to stand in opposition to the things that stand in opposition to my God, to my good shepherd.。
Would you help us to be men and women like that, God?。
And father, would you just convince even as we sing these words, would you convince in the hearts of my young adult friends that you love them?。
That you're crazy about them?。
That you desire good things for them, not to rip them off, but to set them free, to give them an abundant life.。
In the name of Jesus, amen.。
I want to say this before we sing, because maybe you're a visitor tonight, maybe you haven't been here and you're like, oh, he's just a pastor, he's a preacher, he's supposed to say that.。
Man, I want you to know, man, I have drunk from the poisonous wells.。
I've been hung over more times than I can count.。
And not just alcohol, right? I've pursued drugs, sex, when I've woken up next to strangers, who are you, how did I get here?。
I thought there was life there.。
I pursued money, I've lived the life that this city offers.。
I've bought things, I've had cars and a penthouse condo, and I don't say that to boast, I say that so you know I'm just not up here naively teaching these things.。
I've found life, abundant life in Jesus alone.。
I love what someone said last week, they came up to me and said, man, when you first said that, I thought, oh man, you just don't know.。
And then she just said, you know, I've found life too, since then.。
In Jesus alone.。
So maybe you're here and you're like, oh, you just don't know.。
I'm like, no, you just don't know.。
You don't know my God, you don't know my shepherd.。
But I hope he changes that tonight.。
Let's worship him.。
