[Music]。
All right, welcome friends in the room.。
Everybody tuning in online.。
Get excited.。
We are continuing this series.。
There he said looking at shocking statements that Jesus。
said.。
Let me read the passage we are going to be in tonight where。
Jesus said astounding things about prayer and asking and。
talking to God.。
This comes from Matthew 7.。
Starting in verse 7, Jesus is in the middle of sermon on the。
mount, one of the greatest if not the greatest sermon of all。
time.。
And he's talking about prayer.。
And he says this...。
Ask and it will be given to you.。
Seek and you will find.。
Knock and the door will be opened to you.。
For everyone who asks receives.。
Everyone who seeks finds.。
And the one who knocks, the door will be opened.。
Which of you if your son asked for bread would give him a stone?。
Or if you asked for a fish, would give him a snake?。
If you then, though you are evil, know how to give good。
gifts to your children, how much more will your father in heaven。
give good gifts to those who ask him?。
Ask and you shall receive.。
Ask and it will be given to you.。
What is Jesus saying?。
It kind of reminds me of a season in life.。
Anybody engaged in the room in here?。
Yeah.。
Sore subject.。
Okay.。
Nobody elbow.。
And please do not let that cause conflict later tonight.。
Just blame it on me.。
He said it cannot cause conflict.。
Those of you that are engaged, you are in a season where you。
get to experience what I think is one of the best parts if not。
the best part of being engaged which is called the wedding。
registry.。
What is the wedding registry?。
Well, this is whenever you and that special someone, that。
special person get together and because you did the incredible。
thing of deciding to get married together, you now put a list of。
every gift that you would like someone else to buy you together。
and then send it out to your friends.。
It's pretty astounding.。
Because it's the only time in life where you can send a list。
of specified gifts.。
Hey, look, you don't have to give me anything but if you do, I。
would like it to be one of these.。
And you have not come across as entitled and like a brat that。
you are giving specific, here are the things we would like for。
you.。
We want a gift from you.。
And we have already picked out the gift we want to get from。
you.。
It's amazing.。
It's incredible.。
And if that wasn't good enough, at some point along the way, they。
added an element I think to make it better for the grooms who had。
to go through Bed Bath & Beyond and Crate & Barrel and wherever。
else one goes.。
And it's this.。
It's a laser gun.。
So you go in and they hand you a laser gun.。
You don't sit down and write a list and check it twice.。
They give you a laser gun and you go around the store playing。
duck hunt, shooting whatever you and your fiance would like to be。
a part of, you know, the gifts that people give you.。
It sounds similar.。
And the reason I bring that up, it's this idea of like, hey, ask。
put together the list of everything that you would like to。
receive.。
Bring your asks together.。
Let me give you a couple in case you are engaged.。
This is just for free while we're on the subject.。
Haven't done this in a while.。
Here's the things if you are engaged to take off of your list.。
Okay.。
Number one, find China.。
You do not need -- the queen of England is not coming to your。
house any time soon.。
Nobody needs teacups and all that.。
Find China.。
Another one that you do not need and I'm going to give you the。
best ones that you need is a juicer.。
For whatever reason, fiancees come in and they're like, we need。
a juicer.。
You will not in marriage need a juicer.。
It's going to sit in that shelf and take up the very limited。
real estate that you have in that one-bedroom apartment.。
Okay.。
Another one, you don't need a popcorn maker.。
They got microwaves, bro.。
You don't need an ice cream maker.。
These are things you're going to be tempted to register for and。
you will never, ever use them.。
They will look back and they will just be relics.。
A waffle maker.。
You don't need a waffle maker.。
You're going to make waffles -- okay.。
You're going to do it.。
You're going to do it one time.。
You're going to put the chocolate chips in there.。
It's going to get mess everywhere.。
It's not going to look like any restaurant you have been to and。
you will put it up and never use it again.。
There are a few things, again for free and don't get in the。
message.。
If you are engaged, the list of things you should ask for should。
include some good towels.。
Okay.。
I don't know why I'm talking about this.。
But you're going to have those towels for years and years.。
People pick out some high quality.。
Number two, high thread count bed sheets.。
You spend a third of your life and you're going to be in that。
bed with her or with him.。
You want to make sure that you're sleeping on something。
comfortable.。
And number three, this is most important.。
Especially men, if you're engaged, you got to hear me on。
this.。
A robotic vacuum.。
Okay.。
We are living in the Jetson age now.。
And you get that robot vacuum.。
And here's what I have noticed about women.。
They all have something in common.。
They love clean floors.。
I have never met one that doesn't love clean floors.。
You get the robot vacuum, it's not that expensive.。
You get it, you put it on your house, you set it, it cleans。
everything.。
You're going to be husband of the year.。
And I would like a little bit of credit.。
Okay.。
So add it to your list, robot vacuum.。
But whatever is on your list, you're going to be a husband of。
the year.。
And I say all of that because in a similar way, it seems like。
Jesus says that as Christians we are to put together as it were。
a wedding registry, a list of bringing all of your -- not。
wedding asks.。
But all of your asks to God.。
And he seems to say, and when you do so, you're going to。
receive.。
And I'm not saying that you're going to receive.。
I'm saying that you're going to receive.。
And when you do so, you're going to receive.。
Or is he saying that?。
Maybe better say, yeah, what are you saying, Jesus?。
We're to put together a list of things that we want and we're to。
bring them to you.。
And how do we make sure that we do receive what we're asking for?。
So I want to walk through this passage as we're in the series.。
And I want to sit and look at the shocking statement of Jesus.。
Ask and you will receive.。
Because I think there is two ways we misunderstand this。
verse.。
One is we think of God as -- man, it seems like Jesus is。
saying -- he's like genie from Aladdin.。
Rub the lamp, give the wish, going to get it.。
And that's not entirely what he's saying.。
Or it's not what he's saying.。
But the other way we often think of in prayer, we write it off,。
man, of course he's not saying, ask for things and you're going。
to receive them.。
Prayer doesn't work and every time I try it, it feels like。
God is going to do what he's going to do anyways.。
And I pray for 15 seconds and my mind is flooded with distractions.。
I don't know where you're at in the room but as it relates to。
prayer, I want to talk and break down what exactly Jesus is。
saying.。
Look at two ideas behind this idea.。
There he said it, ask and you shall receive.。
Two ideas from Matthew 7.。
I'm going to read and break down the verses again and we'll walk。
through it.。
Jesus says...。
Now look at verse 8.。
So he just said ask and you'll be given, seek and you'll find,。
knock and the door will be opened.。
Now for everyone who asks, receive and the one who seeks,。
finds and the one who knocks, the door will be opened.。
He just said the exact same thing twice.。
And not only that, he essentially says the same thing。
three times twice.。
In other words, even the Greek word for ask and seek and knock。
are really not that different.。
But the first idea that Jesus is pointing out and hitting home is。
that you and I have been invited into a relationship where you。
continually are bringing, God these are the things that I am。
fearing and facing and the things that I feel right now.。
These are the wants that I have.。
And that you and I, if you are a follower of Jesus, have been。
invited into a relationship where whatever I am facing, I'm。
to talk to God about it.。
Talk to God about it.。
And so Jesus as it relates to ask and you'll receive, the。
first thing he's hammering home is you are to be praying。
continually.。
You know what's interesting?。
All throughout the New Testament, Jesus has a running。
theme of teaching this idea.。
Where on multiple occasions he tells stories and parables in。
Luke 12 and Luke 18 right here where he's saying, go to God.。
Go to God.。
And in Luke 18 it says this...。
If that wasn't enough, even think of the English translation。
of ask, seek, knock.。
What is that spell?。
Ask.。
As though he could not be any more clear.。
Bring those requests to God.。
Which is really important.。
Because often times in life, for most Christians and。
conversations I have with things they are afraid of, job。
interview coming up.。
Worried about a sickness in themselves or their family or。
something in their life.。
And I will ask, have you prayed about that?。
No, I haven't prayed about it.。
And when you think about it, it makes sense.。
Why Jesus would say, God wants a relationship where you are。
continually communicating.。
Where you are constantly in conversation with him.。
That he is saying, ask, go to God.。
Get your ask in gear and go to him and communicate.。
All right, send me the email.。
I mean that as though you ask and ask and ask.。
And he's further saying that God's door is always open.。
Unlike today where when somebody knocks at the door, there is。
like a suspicion and it's kind of bizarre.。
For whatever reason in the last 20 years this changed.。
When I was growing up as a kid, people would knock on the door。
and you run to the door.。
You are so excited.。
It could be Girl Scout cookies or neighborhood kid wanting to。
play kickball.。
And everybody freaks out.。
It's like -- why does DoorDash not just leave the food there.。
I don't need to hand off.。
Just leave.。
Even from the other side, you are looking through that peep hole。
in your apartment and I think he will leave it and go away if we。
wait long enough.。
We have a closed door policy and Jesus says God's door is always。
open.。
He's always there.。
And this is a context, really important context.。
When Jesus gives this sermon, he's trying to paint a picture to。
an audience that had some understanding of God.。
But saw him as some distant force.。
Someone that priests in the temple, which was very nearby。
when Jesus spoke this.。
Where priests could go and talk to God and have a relationship。
and be near to God.。
And Jesus says, no, you have been invited into a relationship。
where you see God as father.。
And where you understand he sees you as a child.。
His audience is having every category blown.。
I can talk to God?。
And not just that, like God hears me?。
Over and over throughout even Matthew 6 when he teaches the。
church, and he's right there, right before this how to pray.。
And he says, here's how you should talk to God.。
Father in heaven.。
Heavenly dad.。
Holy is your name.。
You are amazing.。
You are incredible.。
Would you give me today's needs.。
When we even think about that, for whatever reason our brain。
translates it into old English and we don't hear what his。
audience is saying.。
Our father in heaven, Hallowood be your name.。
And King James version, his audience heard something very。
different.。
Jesus saying, no, no, that's like a father.。
And he wants a relationship like a father with you.。
I know there is parts of my heart and my life and I think all。
of ours, that's so difficult for me to comprehend.。
Because think about the type of relationship a child has with。
somebody.。
Or a neighbor's kid has with somebody.。
Remember when you were a kid and thirsty and Mrs.。
Johnson, would you mind if I had a cup of water.。
When it was your house, it didn't look like that at all.。
Hey, yo mom, we ain't got Capri Sun, can somebody go to Kroger。
and get Capri Sun, because we are playing video games.。
It was astounding.。
And the Bible hammers home, not in an irreverent way but you are。
my father in heaven.。
And that's the type of relationship he's invited you and。
I into.。
And some of you when you pray, God is saying ask, continually。
ask.。
Bring those asks to me.。
It's hard for you to compute that.。
Because you talk to God different than you talk to。
people.。
And maybe it was because of the way you were raised or modeled。
and heard priests pray.。
But when you do pray, you down shift into King James version。
like you are reading the declaration of independence or。
something.。
And not just God, man, I'm really anxious right now.。
I don't know if I'm going to get the job.。
And I feel like I'm just overwhelmed and honestly I'm still。
thinking about the last conversation that I had with。
my coworker and what they think about me.。
You don't feel like you can have that type of honest dialogue.。
And maybe the best take away for some of us in the room is pray。
honest prayers.。
It's not like he doesn't know already.。
It's not like you didn't understand and see what you are。
feeling.。
I was talking to a friend not long ago and I'm telling you, I。
think this is so pervasive in how we think.。
Where we try to reverse psychology on God.。
And I was talking to a friend, a girl serving here for years,。
amazing godly girl and single.。
And I'm struggling with singleness and I asked have you。
prayed about that?。
What does that look like?。
She said, no, I feel like honestly I can't talk to God about。
that.。
Because if I say I'm struggling with singleness, he's going to。
make me continue to be single until I'm okay with not being。
single.。
And I can't tell God that because if I tell God that, he's。
going to continue to make me single until I'm happy being。
single.。
You're crazy.。
It could be inside of all of our heads.。
We're like man, I can't -- you know, part of us just thinks, oh。
no, he doesn't really know.。
He knows all of it.。
And Jesus says he's invited you into a relationship where you。
call him father.。
What do I pray for?。
As it relates to go to ask and ask.。
It's very important.。
Anything you care about, you should talk to God about it.。
First Peter 5 verse 7 says cast all of your cares on God because。
he cares for you.。
What do you think he means by cast?。
Like throw it out in the water?。
No, clearly he's saying bring all of those things to God.。
It's really beautiful, powerful verse.。
Cast everything you care about to God.。
Bring all of what you care about to God because you are what God。
cares about.。
Pretty profound.。
That anything that you're anxious about, anything you're。
feeling, any of those desires, man, I'm going to bring all of。
those to God.。
God, I want to have a spouse.。
Doesn't mean you're guaranteed you're going to get a spouse.。
But it doesn't make you spiritual for pretending you don't want。
that.。
It makes you inauthentic.。
And he's invited you in a relationship where you see him。
as father and bring those requests to me.。
Is he saying, this is important, that everything you ask for, you。
will get it.。
No.。
Thank God you were not saying that.。
Or else so many of us would be married to Stephanie from second。
grade right now.。
Or we would be like an astronaut or some other job that you are。
like this is all I want to be in life.。
No, he's not saying that.。
You will get an answer.。
And the answer will either be yes, no, or not now.。
The answer will be yes, no, or not now.。
When does God -- when is it an automatic yes?。
The Bible seems to say there's occasions where it's an。
automatic yes.。
And those occasions are where God's will for your life and。
God's desires align with our requests.。
Jesus says over and over again this idea that anything you ask。
in my name or according to my will, ask it and I will do it.。
John 14...。
John 15...。
And John 16 and 17...。
Does that mean we say, hey, Lord, I would like a Lamborghini。
in your name.。
Boom.。
No, that would be amazing.。
But no, it means whenever God's will, revealed will and sovereign。
will, when it intersects.。
Those are the times we understand it happens.。
But nevertheless he's invited us to a relationship where you。
bring those things constantly to him.。
If you are in a dating relationship right now, you know。
the things that weigh you the most down.。
Like your mom is sick or you are out of a job.。
Do you know the person you are dating about that one time?。
No.。
You are not like, oh, man, my mom is sick.。
Okay, good.。
We talked about it.。
We can move on.。
You bring it.。
It's constantly there.。
And he's invited us into a relationship where you can ask。
and trust him.。
Then he goes into and answers I think a really important。
question that a lot of us are wondering whether we would put。
it in this way as it relates to -- when I ask and I don't get。
what I ask for.。
And I do get something I didn't ask for.。
Is that because God is a bad gift giver?。
Like remember that registry, when my wife and I registered。
for ours, we registered and filled it out.。
And inevitably this is going to happen if you are engaged, get。
ready for it.。
I am telling you your future right now.。
Somebody will do what is called, I went off the registry.。
And they will buy a gift that you didn't ask for but they。
thought, you know what, I'm going to give them this.。
Which is always a gamble.。
And oftentimes it's just because the person is just not very good。
at giving gifts.。
For example, with us, somebody gave us this gift and it was a。
nativity set.。
Which is awesome.。
But it had Mary and Joseph and Jesus.。
Each of them were a foot and a half tall.。
It was like a statue.。
I was like, oh, man, this is great.。
And the worst part was, they were a well-off family.。
I am like, dude, I know this is like a $500 set that we can't。
sell on eBay or do anything that is sitting on our attic right。
now.。
And we didn't ask for it, they just went off the registry.。
And I am thankful.。
I thought it was great.。
It's my wife, she doesn't like it if you listen to this.。
It was just a reflection of, oh, man, why did you not just stick。
with the registry.。
The times when we get something we didn't ask for.。
Because God is -- is he just not great at giving gifts?。
And Jesus answers that in a really important way.。
As crude or comical as I am being about it.。
Here's what he says...。
Which of you if your son asked for bread would give him a。
stone?。
Jesus is talking.。
I'm going to talk to all the dads in the room.。
If you had a son come up and say, dad, can I have some bread.。
Would you give him a stone?。
Or if he asked for a fish, would you give him a snake?。
If you then, though you were evil, know how to give good。
gifts to your children.。
And by evil he means in comparison to God.。
The best and worst earthly father in comparison to God is。
evil.。
Compared to a perfect, loving, holy God.。
He says even the worst dad is not going to do that.。
How much more will your father in heaven give good gifts to。
those who ask him.。
And then he brings up bread and fish.。
Bread and fish was an incredibly common meal in that day.。
You read the New Testament and see multiple occasions where。
fish and loaves or ate fish and had bread with it.。
Very common, not fancy or hors d'oeuvres or filet mignon.。
And the son comes up and says, dad, can I have some bread or。
fish.。
I just need to eat in order to live.。
And Jesus is saying, just like in that scenario where a child。
is saying, this is the bare need that I have.。
I'm bringing it to you, dad.。
There is no dad out there, even the worst dad wouldn't be like,。
you want some bread.。
Here's a rock.。
Here's a fish.。
Here's a snake.。
Nobody would do that.。
It's crazy, comical.。
I love these jokes.。
And he's going, even the worst dad out there would not do that.。
And you by comparison are evil.。
Do you think God would do that?。
He says, no, God only gives good things.。
He doesn't give all things.。
He only gives good things.。
The second idea I want to talk about this idea of ask and。
receive.。
It involves continually praying continually.。
That's the first idea.。
And the second one is equally as important.。
And that is trust constantly.。
As it relates to living the Christian life, there is a faith。
that is involved to walk through and hold on to the fact of the。
teachings of Jesus, which is he only gives good things.。
Which means if I experience a not good thing, it's either not。
from God and it's a part of living in a broken world.。
Or it is something that though I cannot see it right now, will be。
good.。
Because God's not done.。
It is either not from God or it is something that one day I will。
see how despite the ways and times and feelings, why would。
this happen?。
I will see it and see that it was good.。
Because God, he only gives good things.。
And if he goes off the registry of my asks and he gives me。
something I didn't ask for or he doesn't give me something I ask。
for.。
It's not because he doesn't love me.。
He proved that by dying on the cross and coming and dying for。
everything you have done.。
And he doesn't care about you if he doesn't give you what you。
want.。
And it's not because he can't.。
All powerful, created everything, he can do anything.。
The reason why is because he knows something that I don't.。
So if I ask for something and I don't get it, it's not because。
he doesn't care and not because he can't.。
It's because he knows something that I don't.。
It's like this, my daughter is three and she's probably the。
most beautiful kid in the world.。
And I'm totally kidding.。
But what is not kidding, she would eat Cheetos and Pringles。
for every meal.。
Amen.。
Thank you.。
You are a people.。
We're going to eat vegetables and try a piece of fruit.。
Anything other than Cheetos and Pringles.。
And she doesn't understand.。
She will throw fits and say I want Pringles.。
Give me the Pringles.。
And you are about to get a spanking and she will starve。
herself until you give me the Pringles.。
She can't comprehend that you can't eat Pringles and Cheetos。
for every meal.。
And the fact that you are angry at your parents because we won't。
allow you to do that.。
Because we understand something you don't, that's not a healthy。
nutritious diet.。
You will be malnourished and at three you can't comprehend that.。
But there's something you don't understand.。
And I'm not giving you Pringles not because I don't love you and。
not because I don't have them.。
Because I know something you don't know.。
I understand something you don't.。
And could it be possible that in a very similar way, if a three-year-old。
to a 30-something-year-old, there's a breakdown in understanding。
that an infinite, holy, perfect, all-knowing, all-wise God could。
look at us when there's something we're saying, I want the Pringles。
of blank.。
And he says, it's not because I don't care about you.。
It's not that I couldn't give it to you.。
It's I know something you don't.。
And you can trust me.。
I've shown I'm a God who will care for you and provide for you to the。
farthest length, even dying on a cross.。
I know in this room there are some times where life, and because it's。
a broken sin world, it feels like it just handed you a snake and a stone.。
And there are times where represented here, I know in this room right。
now, and listening at 14 different locations, you're walking through。
something and it feels like a snake and a stone.。
And some of it is because it's not from God.。
He didn't want it.。
He didn't create it.。
He didn't cause it.。
He may have allowed it.。
And the challenge emotionally is when you're walking through a chronic。
illness, when you're walking through a breakup, when you're walking。
through the loss of a parent, it doesn't matter if he caused it or if。
he allowed it.。
I'm still walking through pain.。
And it's hard to understand how that's not a stone or a snake.。
And the Bible tells us that God has promised everything good comes from。
one place.。
That's him.。
And for Christians, everything not good will be made good in eternity.。
That one day we will see it from a different lens and understand how。
right and all the brokenness and all the pain and all the suffering that。
he was working and bringing about good through it in ways that I'll never。
be able to understand and candidly I wouldn't even try or I would fail。
miserably to try to articulate in your particular situation with all the。
pain that you've walked through.。
How is God going to bring good about through that?。
This week is like I mentioned earlier, it's JD's birthday, which is。
awesome, so fun.。
It's also the anniversary of his dad dying in his early 40s of pancreatic。
cancer.。
Do you know how rare that is?。
How do you tell me that's anything but a stone or a snake?。
And while I don't know all the ways God will bring about good through。
that, through your pain, I know that he has promised one day every tear。
will be wiped and I will make everything beautiful in its time.。
Ecclesiastes chapter 3 verse 11 says, he has made as in it's done, it。
will be done, everything beautiful in its time, that God will redeem。
everything that he allows.。
Every chronic illness that many friends in this room have that you。
plead with God to take away.。
I can't even understand how he would use that or abuse, how he's going to。
take horrific things and weave them together for good.。
But he's promised that he will.。
In Romans chapter 8 verse 28 it says a very common verse, we know that in。
everything, all things, God works together for the good of those who。
love him.。
Who have been called according to his purpose.。
I don't know what you're walking through but I know in this life or in。
the one to come you will see and I will see even the worst of things。
woven together for good.。
Maybe you're walking through a breakup.。
I remember one of the most terrible times of my life was a breakup that I。
had with my wife.。
We broke up and spent two years apart.。
And I was in that stage and you know it, breakups, they're not the end of。
the world but the end of something that was a huge part of your world.。
And it feels like oh, man, just ripped the heart out of my chest and put on。
Brian McKnight songs and Taylor Swift and wondering why God, why did this。
happen to me.。
And we spent two years apart and ended up, we dated again and got married。
shortly after that.。
And that two years which I never would have asked for and pales in。
comparison to so much of the pain represented here.。
But God got a hold of my heart and deepened my faith and my knowledge of。
his word in a way that today I still pull from.。
I don't know who I would have been without those two years.。
And I look back and it was so painful and yet I'm so thankful.。
And I pretend to transfer that onto horrific pain that is represented here.。
Just saying like that and dozens or hundreds of other ways in my own life。
and lives of other people I've seen, I've seen God bring about good through。
tragedy, through pain, through heartache.。
Sometimes we can see it and someday we will see it.。
And we see it from above.。
I remember this, I was invited to a football game.。
Somebody had tickets and I got to go down and sit on the ground floor or。
sit on the floor.。
And I was walking around and seeing the game and halftime, it was college。
football.。
And marching bands come out on the field and do the marching thing.。
And if you have sat on the front row or on the field level, seeing the game。
and seeing the marching band is a totally different perspective.。
You can't quite see all that you can see if you sit in another location.。
So I'm watching the marching band and I see these guys come out and you have。
the tubas and trombones and clarinets and trumpets and all these different。
instruments and walking and going and it looks like they are walking right at。
each other.。
And you are like, oh, man, the tuba is about to take out that trombone and。
take a turn and make the sharpest turns and going all these angles.。
And you have drummers going everywhere.。
It looks chaotic.。
What is going on?。
It's like somebody kicked an amp pile of band kids on the field.。
And it just looks chaotic.。
You are seeing it like eye level.。
And then you look up at the jumbotron.。
And when you see it from above, you see there is purpose and beauty and。
order.。
And it's spelling out something.。
And everything that looks so chaotic when you looked at it on the ground。
level, so messed up.。
When you see it from above, there is purpose, intentionality behind all of。
it.。
And I wish that I could connect the dots in your life of how that's going to。
happen.。
But I can't.。
But I do know it's going to happen if you are a follower of Jesus.。
And in the meantime, he's invited you to come and ask and know and bring。
all of those requests.。
And if he doesn't answer the prayer the way you want it, it's not because he。
doesn't care.。
It's not because he can't.。
It's because he knows something that you don't.。
I don't.。
Tim Keller who is a well-known pastor put it this way, he said God will give。
us when we ask him, we ask to receive.。
He will either give us what we ask or what we would have asked if we knew。
everything he does.。
God will either give us, God, will you take this away, will you bring a spouse。
in my life, will you take the sickness away, will you help me to finish school,。
will you provide a job for me.。
He will either give us those things that we ask for or what we would have asked。
for if we knew and could see everything that he sees.。
And in the meantime he's invited us, you can ask knowing.。
Your father in heaven, he only gives good things.。
So if it's not good, it's either not done or it's not from him.。
And he will bring about good eventually through it.。
I said earlier, just to wrap up, that the best thing about being engaged was。
all the different presents that you get and the gifts that you receive when you。
get married.。
Really that's not true.。
The best thing about being married is not the fact that you're going to sit there。
and eventually you get married, you receive all those gifts, and you're sitting。
open in the toaster and for this person the waffle maker and for you whatever。
other things you added to your list.。
That's not the best part of being married at all.。
It's not the gifts you receive, it's the relationship you step into.。
And you know what's funny is as awesome as all those things you ask for are。
and everything you get, you enter into this relationship where all of them。
shrink and pale in comparison to the greatest gift which is her or a wife or。
him, a husband.。
And all the other stuff, it's nice and it's cool, but it's a joke to even put。
them on the same level, playing field of husband and gifts, receiving things you。
ask for.。
I think there's going to come a day where all of us will see that the greatest。
gift, need, thing that we at our heart of hearts have ever wanted was none of the。
things that you've asked for, wished that God would do.。
It's always been him.。
It always will be him.。
I believe that because you know the same passage occurs in two different places。
in the New Testament.。
It occurs in Matthew chapter 7 and it occurs in Luke chapter 11.。
Exact same verses.。
Exact same words.。
With two exceptions.。
Luke reads through and says...。
And then he says the same thing.。
Luke chapter 11, verse 13...。
Same exact story.。
Another occasion Jesus is teaching and he says...。
And Luke says...。
He loves giving good things, but you know what more than anything he loves?。
Giving the best thing, which is him.。
So much so that he would give his own life on the cross so that you would have。
the greatest need, desire, and ask that you will ever have, which is him.。
And candidly, the longer that I've just been doing this and the older that I get,。
the more that I see in life people going, as they deepen in their relationship。
with God, they discover all of the things that they think, "Man, if I just had that,。
I would be happy. If I just had that, man, life would be amazing."。
They begin to discover, you know, "I'm thankful that God has given me what he has.。
I'm thankful that he's given me a house or family and a car, but more than anything,。
I am thankful that I have him.。
More than anything that I want in God, I'm thankful for all the stuff that you've given me.。
More than any of that, though, I want you."。
Like I mentioned with my kids, I love giving them good things.。
I hope they have good things.。
I hope they have good lives.。
I hope they're healthy.。
I hope they get married.。
I hope they get to be a grandfather of their grandkids or of their kids.。
I hope that all of life goes well.。
But more than any of that, I hope that they know Jesus。
and they receive the greatest gift, the greatest need, and the greatest thing。
that they desire, whether or not they realize it, which is him.。
And that is a gift that if you ask for tonight, God has an amazing track record.。
When you begin to go, "God, you know what?。
I do need a car and I do need a job, but more than any of that, I want you.。
I want more of you.。
I want you and a deeper relationship with you," you will discover that is a prayer God loves to answer.。
And if you're in the room tonight and you have never invited or asked God,。
"Hey, I'm asking you, Lord, for a relationship with you.。
I'm inviting and I'm asking."。
I'm beginning to think I was made for something more than just the American dream.。
I was made for a relationship with you, God, and so I'm asking you,。
will you allow me to put my faith in Christ, receive the Holy Spirit?。
I want you. I want you.。
You will discover tonight the one you were made for,。
the one who died on a cross for every sin that you've ever done and ever will do,。
who came back alive, who you came into this world with every breath,。
desiring whether you realize it or not, and you will die and breathe your last breath,。
having been made for him.。
And the reason you're here tonight is to receive that, because if you ask,。
you will receive the one you were made for, who has a name, Jesus,。
and God, who is willing and dying quite literally for you to know him.。
Let me pray.。
Father, I pray that you would allow any person who's never put their faith in Jesus。
to receive the greatest desire and ask and need that they have,。
which is not more stuff, it's not a different relationship status.。
It's you.。
And you would allow them to simply say, "God, I believe that.。
I know I'm not on my own. It's not working. I need your help."。
And I invite you. I'm a sinner.。
And I ask you for your help.。
And I receive through Christ forgiveness.。
Take my life.。
God, would you bless every person in here?。
Would you allow them to have favorite work, incredible marriages, incredible futures?。
But more than anything, would you give them more of you?。
That they would ask that for the rest of their days and receive.。
In Christ's name, amen.。
