(upbeat music)。
- All right, well, hey, let's go.。
Welcome friends in the room,。
friends in Houston, Texas,。
Northwest Arkansas, in Boise, Idaho,。
Cincinnati, Ohio, Tulsa, Scottsdale, Arizona,。
Cedar Rapids, Iowa, wherever you're joining us.。
And for the very first time tonight,。
North Houston at Champions Four,。
so Porch Live North Houston.。
We are kicking a series off, Hot Take Summer,。
where we are gonna look at some hot takes from God's word.。
A hot take is something that, you know,。
you throw out there that you would say,。
man, I'm just spitting facts,。
but there's a lot of people that may have,。
see it as a hot take,。
as though it's not the consensus of the world。
or of maybe even most people.。
Let me give a couple of hot takes。
that I would say are for me personally.。
Hot take, Michael Jordan is without question,。
undeniably, uncontroversially, that's not a word,。
the greatest basketball player of all time.。
(audience cheering)。
Hot take number two, McDonald's is delicious.。
I don't care what you say, it's amazing.。
And if you're saying, ooh,。
it's, you knew that you could lose weight。
and eat there every meal, you would eat there, fact.。
Hot take, this one's gonna sting a little bit,。
cheerleading is not a sport, okay?。
(audience cheering)。
Just saying, that's in my Bible.。
Hot take, a meal without meat is not a meal that is a snack.。
(audience cheering)。
Man, okay, hot take, iced coffee。
is the only way to drink coffee.。
Man, these are not hot takes at all, so at home.。
Hot take, the show "Friends" is overrated.。
(audience cheering)。
Wow.。
Good night, everybody.。
Man, you guys on another level tonight.。
Hot take, a Whataburger is better than In-N-Out.。
(audience cheering)。
Hot take, Texas is, in fact,。
sorry everyone tuning in from everywhere else,。
the greatest state in America.。
(audience cheering)。
And hot take, some of you don't come to the porch。
to hear about Jesus, you come to look for a spouse.。
(audience laughing)。
Just call it like it is, all right?。
Tonight, we are gonna look at another hot take,。
and it's one of the more unusual topics that we have covered,。
but God's Word talks about it,。
and we think it's appropriate and an important one,。
especially as we kick off summer, and that is this.。
Hot take, modest isn't hottest, but it's better.。
Hot take, modest isn't hottest, but it's better.。
If you grew up like me in church,。
or you grew up around the church,。
you may have heard phrases,。
or even honestly outside of the church,。
where people are like in an environment。
where it's a co-ed pool party, junior high,。
mom comes up, "Remember, ladies, modest is hottest."。
Or you were at a youth group event, summer camp someday,。
and somebody came up, and their wardrobe was like,。
"And let's all remember, modest is hottest."。
In the back of your mind, everybody went,。
"No, it's not, no, no, no, it's definitely not."。
And that's because it's not.。
In other words, modesty, and dressing modestly,。
is not always as hot, if you will,。
especially in terms of how culture uses it,。
and anybody who says that it is,。
is just kind of kidding themselves, but it is better.。
And so we're gonna look at what God's Word。
has to say about this subject,。
because it's a really important one,。
and can't wait, it's a topic that,。
there are so many different mixed messages that come,。
in so many ways, that I think, even as Christians,。
our thinking has been impacted and influenced。
more by what the world says,。
as it relates to how you dress,。
as it relates to the way that you look,。
as it relates to what's okay and what's not,。
that are robbing some of us。
of who Christ is calling us to be.。
I think the topic tonight is directly related, candidly,。
to who some of you are gonna marry,。
because you're gonna get this right.。
And as you're gonna see, it matters a lot,。
and it is directly connected。
to the type of relationship that you have,。
the type of person you're gonna end up marrying.。
So we're gonna look at why modest,。
although it may not be hottest, it is better.。
But first, I'm gonna set up, hey, even what modesty is.。
So as it relates to modest is hottest,。
oh, this was my favorite meme that I saw this week,。
that captures maybe the only guy。
who thinks modest is hottest, and it's this meme.。
It's just one of those, like, boom, oh man, that's hot, woo!。
See that ankle.。
Other than this guy, and maybe your grandma,。
modest definitely is not hottest, but it is better.。
But first, we gotta unpack what is modesty,。
and I wanna unpack first what it isn't.。
What modesty isn't, just before we dive in,。
then we're gonna look at three reasons why it's better.。
Three myths about modesty.。
Number one, it's simply a woman's problem.。
It's just not true.。
Some of the most unaware people,。
as it relates to being immodest, and how they dress,。
and what they're doing with their body,。
and just what they post, are often guys.。
It's not that it's not a woman's problem,。
it's all of our problems,。
it's something that the Bible commands all of us。
to be about, but it's not just a woman's problem.。
That's myth number one.。
Myth number two, it doesn't matter.。
Doesn't matter what I wear, I can wear whatever I want.。
That's true, unless you are a follower of Christ.。
Because as we're gonna see, it's a really big deal to God,。
that he cares a lot about your heart,。
and he cares about how that heart leads you to dress.。
Myth number three, being modest is about being a prude.。
The truth is that no, it's not.。
God is all about sex.。
He's all about immodesty,。
and an appropriate boundary called marriage.。
Where the two are naked, without shame, altogether.。
That God is not a prude, God's not against sex,。
he's all about sex, he invented sex.。
We did an entire series called Rated R for Romance,。
one of my favorite series we did.。
It was on the book of Song of Solomon.。
Song of Solomon was a book that was so scandalous,。
that until you were 30 years old,。
Jewish boys could not read it,。
because of the sexual content, think about that.。
In other words, they were sneaking in。
to read some of the Bible as a young boy, as a teenager,。
hoping to not get caught with a lamp,。
and like, oh my gosh, I can't believe this.。
(audience laughing)。
That's Song of Solomon, God's all about it.。
In Proverbs chapter five, it says this,。
"Let your wife be a fountain of blessing for you."。
It's talking about sex.。
"Rejoice in the wife of your youth, she's a loving dear.。
"Let her breasts always satisfy you.。
"May you always be intoxicated or captivated by your love."。
God is all about amazing sex.。
In the context of marriage.。
It's not because he's approved.。
Myth number four, modesty is about your clothes.。
As we're gonna see, modesty is about your heart.。
In 1 Timothy chapter two, verse nine, Paul says this,。
"I want women," you can apply the same thing to men,。
"to dress modestly, with decency and propriety."。
Propriety is not a word that we use often,。
it just means with appropriate dress,。
or appropriate clothing.。
"Adorning themselves, not with elaborate hairstyles,。
"gold, pearls, expensive clothes, but with good deeds,。
"appropriate for those women who profess God."。
What is he saying, God's against hairstyle?。
No, in this day and age, this was written to Timothy,。
who is inside of the city of Ephesus.。
Ephesus was a city that oftentimes women。
would put all kinds of things and flashy things。
in their hair in order to attract the attention。
of other men.。
It's also where the temple of Aphrodite was.。
And so it was a very sexually promiscuous city。
and environment, and Paul's not saying。
God's against those things.。
He's saying, "Let your true beauty come from inside.。
"May you be adorned with a modesty of the heart."。
It's not just about your clothes,。
it all comes down to the heart behind what you wear.。
He says, "May they be marked with good deeds,。
"focused not just on good looks, but on good work."。
So here's the biblical definition of modesty.。
Modesty means dressing in a way that reveals godliness。
and humility of the heart.。
It doesn't mean being frumpy, doesn't mean being unstylish.。
You be on trend and all of that, and still honor God。
with how you dress yourself.。
But modesty is a matter of the heart.。
One of the reasons it's further challenging,。
and it is a matter of the heart,。
is what it looks like to be modest in different cultures。
looks different.。
If you go to different areas in remote parts。
of third world countries today,。
they would not be described in our culture as modest.。
You go to different time periods throughout history,。
and 100 years ago, what's totally appropriate today。
would not be appropriate.。
You guys know what this is?。
[tapping]。
This is a bikini.。
I know you guys have probably never seen。
one of these before.。
It's a lot of awkward laughter just now.。
The bikini was invented in 1946。
by a guy named Louis Reard.。
He was a French guy.。
It's always the French, man.。
[audience laughing]。
He invents this thing, and he named it bikini.。
You wanna know why?。
Because at that time, in 1946,。
there was an island off of West New Guinea.。
It was an island that America occupied。
that had done all types of testing for nuclear atomic bombs.。
And on that island was where they were testing。
these atomic bombs.。
And Reard said, "This invention that I've come up with,。
"this two-piece of clothing, will be an atomic bomb。
"throughout culture and fashion."。
And it was.。
Reard was famous for saying that he came up。
with an invention, a two-piece bathing suit。
that reveals everything about a girl。
except her mother's maiden name.。
[audience laughing]。
It was so scandalous at the time.。
To us, it's not scandalous at all.。
It was so scandalous at the time。
that Spain, Italy, and America outlawed it.。
In other words, that teeny-weeny, itsy-bitsy,。
yellow polka-dot bikini you've heard this song before,。
that's about a girl who won't come out of the water。
'cause she's afraid she's gonna be seen.。
Because if you got seen, you would be dismissed。
or not able to swim at the beach.。
It was scandalous.。
And then the sexual revolution took place,。
and we have all been so desensitized.。
I don't know if you guys like hot tubs.。
One thing happens any time you get in a hot tub.。
This just took a weird turn.。
We got bikinis, hot tubs.。
[audience laughing]。
You know what happens when you get in?。
It's like 103 degrees, feels great, this is awesome.。
10 minutes in, what?。
[laughs]。
You're sweaty, yeah, it's true.。
You're like, it's not hot.。
You're kinda like, oh man, 'cause you want the hot tub。
to just bring it just a little bit on you,。
and whenever you get used to it, it's not as hot.。
And it's not because the temperature changed.。
It's because you got desensitized to it.。
Same thing has happened as it relates to modesty。
for all of us, and really as a culture.。
So our cue doesn't come from culture。
and what the world says around us。
is the appropriate standard of modesty.。
It comes from what God's word says,。
and it comes down to a question and a matter of the heart.。
Why am I wearing what I'm wearing?。
Is what I'm wearing honoring to God?。
So modesty, first and foremost, is a matter of the heart.。
It is choosing to reflect through my dress。
godliness and humility that exists inside of my heart.。
Because Christ has changed my heart,。
it often leads to me changing my clothes.。
So here's three reasons why that type of modesty。
at a heart level, where you begin to evaluate,。
hey, is what I'm wearing honoring to God or not?。
Begin to evaluate, why would I wear this?。
Why would I post this picture?。
Three reasons why modesty is better.。
The first one is huge.。
Because modesty attracts the right people.。
Modesty attracts the right people。
or attracts the right person.。
Most of us in the room would say we're single。
and we are interested, likely and hopefully。
not being single forever.。
And if you in this stage want to make sure。
that you attract the right person along,。
directly related to that is how you dress.。
Because how you dress is gonna determine who you attract.。
It's not dissimilar to this.。
I don't know if we got any fishermen in the room.。
There we go.。
Man, represent, bro.。
This is a bunch of tackle and fishing stuff.。
Depending, if you know anything about fishing。
like this guy does, you would go fishing。
and depending on what type of bait you use。
will determine what you're gonna catch.。
So if you're gonna use live worms or stink bait。
or something like that, you're gonna catch catfish.。
If you wanna catch a bass, you're gonna use something。
that looks closer to something like this.。
And I just, now I'm bleeding.。
Poked myself with a hook.。
You're gonna use something more like this.。
If you wanna attract a striper or some other,。
I don't really like fish, so whatever you're gonna attract,。
it just determines what you're going to catch.。
Every fisherman knows whatever he uses bait。
determines what you're gonna catch。
'cause there's certain fish that they're not。
gonna be appealed to by this.。
They're not gonna bite on that.。
And then there's other ones that are,。
but they wouldn't be appealed to by this.。
As it relates to what culture tells us。
when it comes to modesty or really when it comes。
to attracting someone, the message is。
that you use your body as bait.。
You use how you dress.。
You shake what your mama gave you.。
You dress in a certain way that shows off your lady humps.。
You put your biceps out there。
and you show the girls where it's at.。
Here's the danger in that.。
Whatever you use as bait is gonna determine what you catch.。
You wanna catch a bass?。
Use those things.。
You wanna catch a dumb bass?。
You use your body.。
(audience laughing)。
I'm just talking about fish, man.。
If you want to catch somebody who is a body snatcher,。
that they want you for your body,。
then you should use your body.。
You should post more yoga pics of you doing yoga.。
You should post more pictures of you in crop tops。
and those biker shorts.。
You should be more seductive.。
You should do everything you can out in public。
or out right now.。
This is not meant to put shame.。
I'm literally just giving you advice.。
If you wanna catch somebody that wants you for your body,。
then you should go full send in that direction.。
But if you wanna catch a godly guy or a godly girl,。
let me give you the honest facts.。
You come in and you're wearing, you know,。
Beyonce's Super Bowl outfit from two years ago.。
Every guy in the room is gonna think you're attractive.。
Godly guys will not be attracted to you.。
They may struggle with lustful thoughts about you,。
but they will not be attracted to you。
because the godly guy does what?。
The godly guy is attracted to the things。
that God is attracted to.。
Just like a godly girl is attracted to the things。
that God is attracted to.。
What is God attracted to?。
In 1 Samuel 16, it says this.。
Do not look at the outward appearance,。
for the Lord does not see as man sees.。
Man looks on the outward appearance,。
but the Lord looks at the heart.。
The Lord looks at what's inside of a person.。
That's what makes them attractive,。
their heart, their character.。
This is what a godly guy looks for.。
And when I say, hey, godly guys,。
you come dressed in that way,。
you're gonna catch the attention of men who are like, wow.。
But the people who are gonna be drawn in。
and bite onto that bait。
are not gonna be the godly men that you want。
or the godly women that you want.。
They're gonna be people who want you for your body.。
You know the danger if you catch a guy from your body。
or catch a guy for your body,。
you catch for your boobs, catch from your leg gap,。
you will lose him for someone else。
with better boobs, better leg gap,。
better butt, more fit, younger,。
because you caught a body snatcher.。
That's what you did.。
You baited, you used the bait.。
I'm gonna catch somebody。
that doesn't care about what's on the inside like God does.。
He cares about what's on the outside.。
So the moment he finds something better on the outside,。
he's moving on.。
And God, and I think most of us are your heart of hearts,。
you don't wanna be somebody who just attracts somebody。
based on the superficial characteristics.。
That's why you ended up got a man.。
The danger further。
is that, and this is where,。
like Ken and my heart breaks for the women in the room.。
As a dad of a daughter,。
my heart on this issue has only become more concerned。
and more heartbroken of all the different temptations,。
the things that candidly, the women in this room,。
and men have challenges, temptations as well.。
But from an early age,。
all the different messages about what's beautiful。
and what you need to look like。
and how you should be thinner and how you should be skinnier。
and how you should physically display yourself in nuance。
and show off your curves。
and show off different accentuate parts of your body。
and how dangerous that is.。
If that's at the centerpiece of your relationship,。
if that's ultimately the reason why。
you attracted that person,。
specifically for women,。
because do you know the standard of beauty for men and women。
as they age varies dramatically?。
In other words, the average age of what a woman,。
when she's 22, is attracted to,。
and a woman when she's 42 and attracted to,。
and 52 and attracted to,。
is very, very different than what a man,。
when he's 25 and attracted to,。
35 and attracted to,。
45 and attracted to the average man.。
In fact, let me show you.。
Here's a chart of a woman,。
a woman's average age of attraction.。
So this is, if you're 22 on the left,。
all those numbers represent the age of the woman.。
So if she's 26, she's attracted to 27 year old, on average.。
She's 29, 29 year old.。
33, 32 year old.。
39, 38 year old.。
44, she gets a little crazy,。
goes for the 40 year old.。
50, 46.。
It just, generally speaking, follows.。
That's why your mom is like, oh my gosh, George Clooney.。
Oh, George, George.。
But most of you girls would be like,。
oh man, Shawn Mendes is way more attractive than he is.。
Let me show you the male chart.。
Boom!。
(audience laughing)。
Yeah, it's pretty shocking.。
Here's why this really matters.。
One, it shows how much more shallow guys are.。
Number two, the average guy,。
if you attract and bait with the average guy,。
or even the average girl out there,。
you wanna find somebody who doesn't just love you。
for your physical characteristics or attraction,。
but you can take that down.。
But they are attracted to your character, like God is.。
God says that you and I are to look for other people,。
or spouses of noble character.。
Because unlike beauty, all of that is going away.。
Gravity wins on everybody.。
Nobody beats gravity.。
Even the 57 year old who's Botoxed to the roof。
doesn't beat gravity.。
She just looks like she can't stop smiling.。
And so you wanna make sure, in this stage of life,。
next to who you're gonna worship as your God,。
who is gonna be your master in life,。
who's gonna be your mate that you run with,。
is one of the most important decisions you make.。
And you wanna make sure that it's not a relationship。
that's built, that starts, that's initiated,。
by you baiting with your body.。
Second reason why modesty is not hottest, but it's better,。
is modesty reveals your dignity.。
It says something about you.。
When you decide, I'm gonna dress modestly,。
like I'm aware, I'm thoughtful, I'm not frumpy,。
I'm not ugly, I'm not unstylish, I'm classy,。
I reveal my dignity.。
First Peter chapter three says this.。
Your beauty should not come from outward adornment,。
such as elaborate hairstyles,。
wearing of gold jewelry, fine clothes.。
Not that those things are a problem,。
that's just not where you should find your beauty,。
your worth.。
Rather, it should come from your inner self.。
From the unfading beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit,。
which is of great worth in God's sight,。
it should come from inside.。
This is the way holy women of the past。
put their hope in God, used to dress or adorn themselves.。
Let me read that verse in ESV, it's another translation.。
It says, "Let your adorning come from the hidden person。
"of the heart, with the imperishable beauty。
"of a gentle and quiet spirit,。
"which is precious in God's spirit."。
But you are a person.。
You don't dress in order to accentuate a part of your body,。
you're so much more than a body part.。
You're a person, you're made in the image of God.。
You have no idea how of a measurable worth you are.。
And accentuating your butt, your boobs, your biceps,。
any of that stuff in order to get the attention。
of a person belittles you down to a handful of parts.。
You're a person.。
And Peter says, "Your beauty should reveal,"。
or modesty, "reveals the dignity that you have."。
For those of us who believe this,。
especially as a child of God, of the King.。
Maybe the best way of putting modesty。
is modesty is not about hiding your body.。
That's typically what people think.。
It is about revealing your dignity.。
Modesty is not about hiding your body, covering up,。
it is about revealing your dignity.。
That you're a person, you're not a part,。
some parts are an object to be used.。
There was a Princeton study that was done。
that Guardian wrote about where it basically says this.。
It links to the fact that there's an association。
that happens, and this is really important, girls.。
It's a science saying something happens。
when a person is seen in either an outfit。
or a scandal clad or is immodest.。
And here's what they wrote.。
This is from Princeton University.。
In a Princeton study, male students were shown。
images of women they did not know that were scandally clad.。
Underwear, midriff, bikini.。
Brain scans were done as they saw them。
that revealed when looking at the pictures,。
the section of the male brain that responds to tools。
like hammers and wrenches lit up.。
Scans of some of the men found that a part of the brain。
associated with empathy or concern。
for other people's emotions went completely dark。
after looking at the pictures.。
The lack of activation, Susan Fiske,。
the psychologist at Princeton, in this area。
is really odd because it hardly ever happens.。
It's as if they are reacting to women。
as though they are not fully human.。
It's consistent with the idea that they're responding。
to these photographs as if they were responding。
to objects, not people.。
What is it, what's the Princeton study saying?。
It's saying, hey, when we show these pictures。
of images of women and they were not fully clothed。
in all the way that would be modest,。
it activated something in the male brain。
and it shut something else down。
where it began to see the person they were looking at。
not as a person but as an object to use.。
There's a really tragic movement right now。
that has attached itself to some really positive things。
like women's empowerment and Go Women,。
which we are all about.。
God made you uniquely you, beautifully in the image of God.。
You are a queen, sister.。
But it has attached itself to a freedom,。
you can't tell me what to do, my body, my choice,。
you don't have any right, I'm gonna do whatever I want,。
dress however I want, I'll go out naked if I want to,。
which is ironically, in an ironic twist,。
under the name of power, that I can do whatever I want.。
It's exercising power.。
But the power, Princeton University says,。
after studying, that power is to shut down。
a male's ability to see you as a person。
and become an object.。
Ironically, the exact opposite。
of what would actually empower women,。
that I'm more than just some breasts in a body,。
I'm a person.。
And our culture rages on about, man,。
you should do whatever you want, dress however you want,。
it is empowering to see Beyonce get up and do what she does,。
it is empowering to see Cardi B get up and do that.。
It's powerful in all the most destructive ways.。
Modesty reveals your dignity.。
To those in the room, I know there's part of us,。
candidly, honestly, when you hear about like,。
oh man, seen as an object, lusted after,。
there's something in you that's like, I kind of want that.。
Just want you to ask the question, why?。
Am I telling you that what you wear。
and you can't wear something?。
No, I'm saying you're so much bigger than what you wear.。
You're a person, you have dignity,。
you're made in the image of God.。
And maybe you're trying to fill some hole。
because you didn't have a strong father figure。
that was around in your life.。
You didn't have somebody that called you beautiful.。
So there's something inside of it just craves,。
you know, the attention 'cause it makes you feel beautiful.。
And it's leading you to look for affirmation。
that candidly, you can feed and you can post pictures.。
You can go on Instagram today, post the whole butt pic,。
do whatever you want and you know what you're gonna get?。
You're gonna get attention from men.。
You're gonna get that itch scratched,。
but that itch isn't going away.。
It's gonna come back and come back。
and lead to cycles of insecurity and need for approval。
and need for attention,。
all in the name of trying to fill some void, some emptiness.。
And the guy who's gonna give that attention,。
he doesn't care about you.。
What's going on in his brain right there is object to use,。
object to use, object to use.。
You are so much more valuable than that.。
A friend of mine was, he's a graphic designer。
and he was starting kind of a side,。
he works full time as a graphic designer。
and he was starting his own private company。
and we went to lunch and I was catching up with him。
and I asked him how stuff was going。
and he had just started it and I asked him,。
what do you charge?。
Like, what do you charge per hour?。
And what he charged was like so low.。
I was like, dude, you're worth so much more than that.。
You totally need to charge more than that.。
People, one, will pay it and two,。
you are worth way more than what you're charging per hour。
to do graphic design for things.。
Don't sell yourself short.。
To every person in the room who is using their body,。
giving themselves away, putting themselves out there,。
trying to get attention,。
you are worth so much more than that.。
You're worth so much more than the fleeting attention。
of some dumb ass guys.。
That yeah, they'll give it to you。
and they wanna see it.。
Thank you.。
You are worth the very life of Jesus on the cross.。
And everything that I'm saying may not be enough,。
but I just want you to examine your heart。
and ask yourself, 'cause remember,。
modesty is a matter of the heart.。
Why?。
And maybe the most godly thing you could do tonight。
is go, it's not enough.。
I'm not enough.。
I find who I am and what other people think about me.。
I find who I am and what other people say about how I look.。
I find who I am in getting attention from people,。
girls and guys.。
And that would be the most positive step you could take.。
'Cause you can't change and you can't face,。
or you can't fight what you're not willing to face.。
So second reason is it reveals your dignity.。
And reason number three, the reason modesty is better。
is because of who it attracts.。
It attracts the right people.。
Reason number two, and that it reveals your dignity.。
And that modesty, number three, honors God。
by serving others.。
Modesty honors God by serving other people.。
You may not know this and be aware,。
but the Bible says that you and I, if you're a Christian,。
this is only to Christians, by the way,。
there is something far more important。
if you're not a follower of Jesus。
that you understand and that you learn。
that how you dress and whatever you came in.。
But as it relates to Christians,。
the Bible says that you and I are connected。
and to be aware and to be thoughtful。
about how we interact and how our actions impact。
other people around us.。
In 1 Corinthians 8, it says this,。
"Be careful," this is 1 Corinthians 8, verse 8,。
"that the exercise of your rights,"。
hey, I'm free, I can do anything,。
nobody can tell me what to do,。
"be careful that that exercise of rights。
"does not become a stumbling block。
"or cause other people to stumble, to sin."。
Stumbling block to the weak.。
One of the ways that modesty and dressing modestly。
and being thoughtful about why am I wearing what I'm wearing。
is what I'm wearing honoring to God,。
what is what I'm wearing communicating,。
is that it serves other people around us.。
How does it serve other people?。
Honestly, it serves both sexes here.。
We live in this weird environment and culture。
where social media makes everything。
this constant comparison game.。
And one thing that we as Christians to do。
is not feed into it, where I'm gonna make sure。
that I'm not putting a thirst trap out there。
for other people to post on and tag on。
and you're gonna get comments from people。
that are gonna be positive like,。
"Oh man, that body though."。
But it is feeding into this comparison,。
insecurity, constantly evaluating and comparing myself.。
And then, you know, I need to go home,。
make sure that I post this picture of me on the beach。
with my girls from up top.。
And it's not serving other people.。
And one way that you and I can say,。
"I'm just not gonna feed into that.。
"I'm not gonna be doing TikTok videos in my underwear,。
"running around, trying to get attention from people."。
That's a thing, okay?。
I think it's a thing, I don't know honestly, but.。
(audience laughing)。
If it is a thing, if it's your thing,。
maybe worth evaluating.。
But one way it does is it serves others.。
It serves the opposite sex by not being a stumbling block.。
And this is really, really tender.。
So let me try to be as careful as I can。
'cause it can be really challenging.。
A lot of times when this comes up, it's like,。
"Hey, it ain't my problem if he lusting over this, okay?。
"I could wear a burlap sack and he'd be like,。
"Oh girl, where you get that burlap from?"。
It's not, that's his problem.。
He'd be in an astronaut suit and he'd be like,。
"Hey girl, where you at, astronaut?"。
(audience laughing)。
Fact, that is correct.。
That is his problem.。
That is somebody's sin and the decision to give in。
to that sexual temptation or to lust after somebody else,。
that is their own problem.。
We talk a lot about that issue all around here.。
But the Bible says that you and I are to be thoughtful。
to not put a stumbling block in front of somebody else.。
To not put a stumbling block in front。
of a brother in Christ or a sister in Christ.。
The decisions that we wear and the response of,。
"Hey, well it's my body, I can do whatever I want with it."。
That is right, unless you're a Christian.。
First Corinthians chapter six says this。
about the idea of whose body it is.。
You were not your own.。
You were bought at a price.。
That price was Jesus on the cross.。
Therefore honor God with your bodies.。
You remember Cain and Abel?。
One of the very first sins of humanity。
was a story Cain and Abel, Genesis chapter four,。
early in the game, straight out the gate.。
First two kids on the planet.。
Things didn't go well 'cause 10 minutes in, Cain kills Abel.。
God shows up to Cain, says, "Where's your brother?"。
And Cain says, "What am I, my brother's keeper?"。
And the response was, "Yes, you have a responsibility。
"and I have a responsibility。
"to what's on the inside of our life."。
So one of the ways that modesty is better。
is that it serves God and honors other people around us.。
I think one of the challenges of this issue。
is you can't only just to be really real.。
When sin entered the world, everything fractured.。
Every person in this room, every person who's ever lived。
has a sin nature.。
Things are not as they're supposed to be.。
Our thoughts are not as they're supposed to be.。
Our heart is not as it's supposed to be.。
Because we have something called a sin nature,。
which means sin comes naturally to us.。
That's what happened when sin entered the world.。
The male brain as it relates to lust,。
and I'm sharing this not to create anything。
other than a better understanding。
where I think there is a bit of a gap.。
As it relates to a woman, when you walk in the room。
and you're wearing your workout clothes。
and there's a midriff and you think,。
oh my gosh, matching, so cute.。
He's not thinking that.。
He's thinking, if he's a godly guy,。
he's thinking, oh my gosh, I do not wanna look at that.。
I do not wanna look at that.。
I do not wanna look at that。
because I'm gonna picture her naked.。
And part of me will think through。
or could lead to thoughts of having sex with her.。
It's just easy to go there.。
I was talking with some of our team earlier today。
and I was mentioning the bikini thing。
where honestly this further is just confusing。
and breaking my heart.。
Where on the label it's like something cheeky。
about the level of cheekiness.。
I was like, there's levels of cheekiness?。
And this led to, oh yeah, I went to the store。
and there was a mannequin display of cheekiness levels.。
What would go through?。
And one of the other guys responding to this guy saying that。
was like, dude, you shouldn't be looking。
at those mannequins like that.。
If you're a girl in the room, you're thinking,。
what is wrong, it's a mannequin.。
If you're a guy, you're like, yeah, I got that.。
Get that, yep.。
I connect those dots.。
There's just something when sin entered that broke。
and it's not right.。
And godly men fight it, surrender to the spirit,。
they pursue purity and they prioritize intimacy and sex。
inside of the context of marriage.。
But you have to understand the visual aspect of men,。
partly in order to just love your brother。
and understand it and know that they live in,。
here's what you don't know about men.。
We live in a world where pornography for most of us。
was introduced, at least for me at age 12.。
It was introduced at such a young age。
and that brokenness gets attached to it.。
We live in a world where we can't drive around。
and you know all that visualness and you're like,。
yeah, I like visual too.。
It's not the same for most.。
Psychological studies even show the sexual drive。
of men and women is very, very different.。
I don't have time to go into all of that right now.。
But you live in a world where every man around you,。
the ability to have a woman in lingerie。
in the moment that he sees her,。
be the very first time that he's ever seen her,。
be their wedding night, was taken from him.。
He can't drive down the street or drive down the road。
without seeing a billboard with that.。
He can't watch the Super Bowl。
without seeing Janet Jackson's exposed.。
All of that was taken.。
Same thing was taken away from women in this room.。
I mean, imagine a world where the very first time。
you ever saw someone naked of the opposite sex。
was your wedding night.。
Not even like, you never saw a bikini,。
you never saw a lingerie, anything.。
The poof.。
That's sinning in the world and it's fractured everything.。
And as Christians, we can either decide that,。
you know, we're gonna feed into it and contribute it。
and be okay with it and go along with it.。
Or we can say, I am worth so much more than my body.。
I'm a person.。
I'm not gonna feed into that.。
I don't need that to feed inside of me。
and the parts of me that candidly,。
I kind of do want it to feed, you know,。
and I wanna feel attracted and desired.。
I wanna surrender those to God,。
confess those to people around me。
because I'm going to honor God。
by serving other people around me.。
Other people, and if you're listening,。
this isn't just about guys and it's not about girls。
'cause guys can be just as guilty and just as unaware。
of walking around with your shirt off。
or posting a picture shirtless with sunglasses。
being like, check out my new sunglasses.。
And it's like, bro, you're thirst trapped, man.。
It's for you, you're thirst trapped.。
This is exactly what you're doing.。
But Christians, the command that Jesus said。
would be the criteria or the quality that would mark us.。
This is how you'll know you're my followers.。
John 13 said, by this one thing,。
the whole world will know that you're my followers,。
that you love one another.。
In Romans chapter 13, I'm about to land the plane.。
Paul wrote something that I think。
is such a beautiful way of putting it。
where he talks about how Christians。
should interact with each other.。
And here's what he says, Romans 13, verse seven,。
"Let no debt remain outstanding."。
In other words, pay off every debt.。
"Accept the continuing debt to love one another.。
"For whoever loves has fulfilled the law.。
"The commandments, you shall not commit adultery,。
"shall not murder, shall not steal, covet,。
"whatever other command you could find,。
"are summed up in this one command,。
"love your neighbor as yourself.。
"Love does no harm to a neighbor.。
"Therefore, love is the fulfillment of the law."。
As we wrap up, I just want you to think about。
why do you wear what you wear?。
When you get dressed tomorrow,。
about why am I going to wear what I wear?。
Why am I posting what I'm posting?。
Is it to draw attention to myself?。
Is it to draw attention or to get some affirmation。
that I just feel like there's such a hole?。
Or is it to honor God, to reveal my dignity,。
whose I am and who I am?。
In conclusion, modest isn't hottest.。
It's holy and it's better。
because it attracts the right people.。
It reveals your dignity and it honors God。
by serving other people around you.。
There's a show my wife and I have been watching。
called "The Crown."。
It's a show about the British royal family.。
It's a fascinating kind of show。
because Queen Elizabeth, who's a queen right now,。
has been queen for like 10,000 years.。
And it goes all the way back to when she was a high schooler。
or yeah, a high schooler.。
And it goes up through today, essentially, or it will.。
Inside of the royal family, it's really interesting。
because one of the designations, I didn't realize this,。
but do you know every member of the royal family。
has a crown?。
In other words, when you go to a wedding,。
you go to a banquet, you go to a state event,。
one of the ways that you can know this person is a royal,。
this person is not, is they have a crown.。
Based on what they wear, you know who they are.。
Based on what they wear, you can just see if they're a royal.。
What's further interesting about the royal family is。
it's all pretend.。
I know we think like, no, it's not.。
They're not Harry, they just had a baby.。
Yeah, it's all pretend.。
They don't have any authority, they're mascots.。
They don't have any legislative law.。
They don't even have any ability to,。
hey, you know what, we're changing this whole thing,。
parliament, and you're done.。
They're mascots.。
They're all based on the opinion of people。
assuming like, oh, you're a royal.。
It's pretend.。
And all these ancient etiquettes and all that stuff,。
it's cool, and it's, you know,。
some ways kind of historically poetic,。
but it's pretend.。
There's nothing special about the royal blood.。
In fact, the family's not even English.。
They changed their name to the House of Windsor。
from Saxe-Gotha because it sounded too German in the war,。
and they were like, German's not a great look right now.。
Let's change it.。
You know what, from the blood of the English heritage,。
it's this pretend.。
You know what's not pretend or infinitely more true?。
If you were a Christian, this is not cliche,。
you are a daughter of God.。
You are a son of the King of Kings.。
The royal blood of Christ has both covered you,。
and the DNA of God Almighty。
runs through your spiritual veins.。
You are part and have been adopted into the family of God.。
There's no title, there is no job,。
there is no honor you could hold。
that will be higher than that.。
Unlike a pretend King of England, you are a royal.。
And you could tell what a royal is by what they wear.。
And Galatians chapter four says this,。
"At the right time, God sent his son, born of a woman,。
and Jesus came to buy freedom。
for those of us who are slaves to the law,。
so that he could adopt us as his very own children.。
And because we're God's children,。
he sent the spirit of his son into our hearts,。
calling us to cry out, Abba, which means dad, father,。
and now you're no longer a slave, but God's own child.。
And since you're his child, he's made you an heir.。
So often we post things because we wanna be wanted,。
we wanna be chosen, we wear things。
'cause we want attention, we wanna be chosen,。
we wanna be wanted.。
And the truth behind that lie is you already have been.。
If you are a follower of Christ, you have been chosen.。
I've got a two and a half year old daughter.。
Here's a picture of her from today.。
Her and her mom went picking berries.。
She's the best.。
She's about to be three.。
We call her, her name's Monroe.。
She's a firecracker.。
We call her Momo, and she is gonna be a handful。
for the rest of her life.。
Already, she's obsessed with shoes, pink, with clothes.。
Like, I mean, the girl has some opinions.。
Here's what I want for her so desperately.。
I want her to know that no matter what she does in life,。
no matter what she looks like, who she marries,。
who she dates, that she is of such extraordinary value。
of incredible dignity because she was made。
in the image of God.。
She was so valuable to God that he would give his life。
on the cross for her, that he would go to that cross。
and he would pay for every sin that she's ever committed,。
everything that she will ever do, and die in her place.。
She has been chosen, and that in accepting that,。
she's adopted into the royal family of God,。
the only royal family there is.。
And she doesn't need to look to men, and my heart breaks。
'cause I know that I can't protect her。
from all the temptations and all the different lies。
and all the different identity problems。
and all the different insecurities。
that are gonna come for her.。
But I pray that when she does, she will do what you do,。
which is cling to because of what Christ did,。
I am a daughter of the King, I am chosen, I'm forgiven.。
I'm not gonna settle for any man。
who treats me less than that.。
How long are you to give yourself over to guys。
who are jerks?。
They want you for your body, they want you for sex.。
Or girls, on the flip side, guys, how long are you。
gonna give yourself over to settling for somebody。
who doesn't have the characteristics of a godly woman?。
You are worth so much more than that.。
And I hope she knows modest isn't hottest,。
it is holy and it is better and it leads to life.。
Let me pray.。
Father, I do pray for protection.。
I just, I wanna pray for every person in this room。
who they feel like they are damaged goods.。
They feel like their value comes from how they look.。
They've been told messages maybe from people。
who said they were Christians, maybe from parents。
who said, you know, you really need to cut back。
on what you eat or you shouldn't look this way,。
you need to change.。
I pray that you would be louder right now.。
Would you bury into our minds the truth。
that we, through Christ, we are children of God Almighty.。
We are a part of the only royal line there is。
and ever will be.。
And we would live and carry ourselves as such.。
We wouldn't settle, we wouldn't allow,。
we wouldn't tolerate being treated as such。
or living as anything less than that.。
I pray for every girl in this room。
who fights thousands of lies。
that I may not even be aware of.。
I probably never will fully understand.。
That you would fill them with strength,。
clothe them with strength and honor,。
like you say in the Proverbs.。
And they would be godly, God-fearing women。
who end up marrying godly, God-fearing husbands。
and be godly parents together.。
And we would raise up a generation。
who doesn't find our worth in how we look,。
but in who we worship.。
We worship you in song, amen.。
