[heart beating]。
[heart beating]。
♪ ♪。
[heart beating]。
♪ ♪。
[breathing heavily]。
♪ ♪。
Let me start tonight by reading from Psalm 46, where we'll be.。
"God is our refuge and strength and ever-present help in trouble.。
Therefore we will not fear, though the earth give way。
and the mountains fall into the heart of the sea,。
though its waters roar and foam and mountains quake with their surging.。
There is a river whose streams make glad the city of God,。
the holy place where the Most High dwells.。
God is within her; she will not fall.。
God will help her at break of day.。
Nations are in uproar, kingdoms fall.。
He lifts His voice; the earth melts.。
The Lord Almighty is with us; the God of Jacob is our fortress.。
Come and see what the Lord has done,。
the desolations He has brought on the earth.。
He makes wars cease to the ends of the earth.。
He breaks the bow and shatters the spear.。
He turns the shields with fire.。
He says, 'Be still and know that I am God.'。
I will be exalted among the nations.。
I will be exalted in the earth.。
The Lord Almighty is with us.。
The God of Jacob is our fortress."。
Let me pray.。
God of Jacob, Lord Almighty, God of hosts,。
I ask that you would take this ancient writing,。
this scripture, this documentation of a celebration of victory。
and that you would bring it to life tonight,。
that we would apply it to our lives in Dallas and Fort Worth and Houston。
or wherever we would tune in from around the world.。
That we would take what the Sons of Korah meant as a celebration。
and we would be able to apply it to our lives,。
not just our battles, but the victory that we have in Christ,。
the forgiveness of sins that we've received through Him,。
and the relationship that we have with you because of it.。
Thank you for this time and for all that you will do over the next few minutes together.。
In Christ's name, amen.。
Two weeks ago was absolutely crazy for me.。
It was an extraordinary week, not a normal week.。
I had taught in Waco on Sunday three times, taught there Monday night,。
came back here for the porch, taught Tuesday here, stayed late,。
left about 10.30 p.m., got home at 11, woke up the next morning at 5.30。
and came and taught again that Wednesday morning.。
All different messages. Again, that's not normal.。
Leadership here does a phenomenal job of making sure that I and my peers。
run a sustainable pace, but that week was just exceptionally heavy.。
It was all okay, and here's why.。
I taught Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and that Thursday,。
Monica and I were leaving for vacation.。
We were going to Mexico. This was our 10-year anniversary trip。
that we're taking, 11th year of marriage.。
We're going to Mexico, and we planned this trip.。
If we know each other at all, I love Mexico.。
It's one of my favorite places in the world, the Caribbean and Mexico.。
This is coming, so I'm just enduring. I'm running the race.。
I'm doing everything I can to get to that moment where I can exhale.。
Vacation. It's here. We go to the airport.。
We fly. We land there in Cancun, and we wait a little bit for our bags.。
We eventually get them, go through customs, and then you kind of walk。
through this war zone of an airport where everybody's coming to you,。
trying to get you a taxi or a bus or something.。
We had rented a car, and I'd already paid for this.。
I take the shuttle to the rental car place, and I get there.。
We have to wait, and there's this language barrier.。
That's okay because it's a foreign country, and so there should be.。
That just kind of makes me feel like we're where we need to be.。
She's charging me $130, and I'm trying to tell her I've already prepaid.。
Look here, I prepaid through Orbitz. I've reserved this car,。
and this is twice as much as I actually paid.。
She's like, "No, it's for insurance." I'm like, "I don't want insurance."。
I don't have insurance in Mexico. I think you're lying to me.。
So we're kind of doing this, and she's like, "You need to pay for gas."。
I'm like, "I'll fill it up." We're having this conversation,。
and we're just going back and forth. We're not really getting anywhere,。
and she's kind of escalating. I'm like, "This shouldn't start this way.。
It's a vacation, so whatever. Fine. Okay. Whatever. Whatever."。
She's like, "We need to put a $700 hold on your credit card."。
I'm like, "Okay. Whatever. Okay. I'll dispute that later."。
Eventually, we wait. We get the car. We put our stuff in the car,。
and we leave. I'm like, "I'm on the way. Vacation. I'm on the way."。
We get out on the road. We're trying to leave the airport,。
and that was really difficult because these roads are confusing,。
and these signs are confusing. It's like Terminal 1, Terminal 2,。
Terminal 3, Terminal 1, Terminal 2. I'm stuck in Groundhog Day.。
I'm like, "I don't know how to get out of this place."。
I'm trying to follow the signs to Flight O'Carmen, but it's just taking me。
on these roundabouts, and my wife's losing confidence in me.。
I'm trying to get out of the airport, and then finally, finally,。
I'm like, "See this other road we haven't been on. Turn on it, and see a road."。
I'm like, "Okay. I'm on vacation."。
The car starts going beep, beep, beep, and flashing all these lights.。
She's like, "What does that mean?" I'm like, "I don't know."。
I'm like, "What does that word mean in Spanish right there on the dash?"。
She's like, "I don't know." It's going beep, beep, beep, flashing lights.。
Beep, beep, beep, flashing lights.。
Turn around, going back to the rental car. I find out what it is.。
It's just that the parking brake was a little bit engaged, so let that go.。
No big deal. No big deal. Vacation. Going to the resort.。
We get there. We finally get there.。
They have this private check-in, which is amazing.。
They're like, "Welcome." I'm like, "Yes. Here."。
We go, and they take us to this other room to check in, and we walk by the pool.。
Now, some of you like to relax on vacation. I'm not that person.。
I don't relax well. I like to go and do.。
I'm excited about playing volleyball and hanging out, swimming by the pool,。
and at the pool, and going to the beach, and doing excursions.。
That's what I'm thinking about.。
We walk by the pool. It's a party.。
I'm like, "Yes. Vacation."。
We check in, and then we go and get in our room.。
We put up our bags, our luggage, our clothes, and everything.。
Then we come outside, and it's pouring down rain.。
It doesn't stop.。
We're like, "The sun will come out."。
God's like, "No, it won't. Not for five days."。
It's not going to come out.。
We didn't see it. It rained the entire time.。
Torrential downpour.。
I don't know if you've ever been in this place where you're like,。
"Why is life fighting me right now?。
Why is nothing going my way?"。
I know, #FirstWorldProblems, but here's the deal.。
If you have this high view of the sovereignty of God, you're like,。
"God, why are you fighting me right now?。
You can make the rain go away, but you hate me.。
Why? Why are you so mad at me?。
Why are you crying from heaven? What's going on?"。
You start to think all these things, and you're like,。
"God, what is the deal? What's going on?。
I just wanted to come here. I just wanted to exhale.。
I wanted to relax, and even this vacation is stressful."。
And so we're moving, beginning, starting this series, "Exhale Tonight."。
I don't know where you're at,。
but if it feels like life is fighting you,。
if it feels like God is fighting you,。
I want to show you from the text tonight that He's not.。
And specifically from Psalm 46,。
we're going to learn that God is in control.。
And if we've come into the family of God,。
He is not fighting us. He's fighting for us.。
And that difference, that makes all the difference in the world,。
that little change there, God's not fighting us.。
God's fighting for us.。
If we are in the family of God, He's fighting for us.。
That makes a tremendous difference.。
So I want to show you tonight how important it is to understand。
the control of God, that God is in control,。
and how understanding that can change your life.。
It changes everything. It changes the way you live,。
the way you date, the way you work,。
the way you build relationships, the way you study the Word.。
It changes everything, this reality that God is in control.。
And so through this series, Exhale, we're going to camp in the Psalms.。
The Psalms is essentially the Hebrew iTunes playlist.。
The Psalms is like what a young Jewish man before Christ would have had on his iPod.。
These are actual songs that people wrote.。
A lot of them David wrote.。
We're going to be in one tonight that the sons of Korah wrote.。
Sons of Korah are responsible for about 25 of the Psalms.。
And specifically Psalm 46, if you want to turn there,。
where we're going to be tonight.。
And we're going to look at God's protection, God's power, and God's peace.。
And this message tonight may cause some real stress for some of you.。
You're like, "Wow, that's really counterintuitive, Exhale series."。
But I hope if you're here and you're in the family of God,。
it brings a deep, deep abiding, sustaining sense of peace for you.。
The goal tonight is that you would leave here and just see how awesome God is in this Psalm.。
This is a Psalm that President Obama read on the 10-year anniversary of September 11.。
This is a Psalm that influenced Martin Luther's "A Mighty Fortress is Our God."。
And this is a Psalm that influenced the "Shane and Shane" song we just sang or touched on,。
"Lord of Hosts," Psalm 46 from their new album.。
And the sons of Korah, they were basically a group, a music group for God's people at this time.。
They were essentially the Shane and Shane of 700 years before Christ.。
That's who wrote this Psalm, and so it's an actual song.。
And the context that it was written in is there's this king, Hezekiah.。
He's the king of Judah.。
And so he's there in Jerusalem.。
He's the king of Judah, and there's these terrible people, the Assyrians, the Assyrian army.。
And they're coming in.。
They're led by this guy, Sennacherib.。
Oh, man, I messed that up.。
I'm sorry.。
Sennacherib.。
There we go.。
Led by this guy, Sennacherib.。
And so he's just an awful guy.。
And so let me just tell you how awful.。
Think ISIS, all right?。
So think that you're there.。
You're on this side of the wall, and ISIS, they're conquering the world, and they're coming for you inside the wall.。
And what they're really good at, what these guys are pros at, is skinning people, skinning humans.。
That's who's waiting on the other side of the wall for you.。
Can you imagine?。
So I don't know what kind of stress you're in right now.。
I don't know what kind of battles you're facing, but you're sitting on this side of the wall, and the enemies are out there saying, "Hey, we're coming for you, man.。
Everybody ready?。
You ready?。
We're going to conquer them.。
We'll skin them."。
And you're just like, Hezekiah's inside, like, "Oh, man, God, what do we do?。
What do we do?"。
And this psalm was most likely written as a battle cry and really a victory cry for that situation right there.。
Let's dive in.。
Verse 1.。
"God is our refuge and our strength and ever-present help in trouble.。
Therefore, we will not fear, though the earth gives way and the mountains fall into the heart of the sea, though its waters roar and foam and the mountains quake with their surging."。
And then what you might have in your scripture there is the word "selah," which is just like a exhale, a rest, relax.。
And so my first point this evening is the protection of God is ever-present.。
He is our refuge and strength and ever-present help in trouble, verse 1 says.。
The protection of God is ever-present.。
Let me ask you, what do you turn to in times of trouble?。
When you face trouble, is it your first reaction to stop and say, "Okay, God, I know your control of everything.。
I know you're protecting me right now, protecting me at work, protecting me from this persecution, protecting me from -- in the midst of this heartbreak, you're with me, God."。
You're who I want to turn to first, God.。
He says, "When the earth gives way, have you ever felt like the world around you was falling apart, that relationships end out of the blue, that a job turns south, a family member gets sick, you get in a wreck, your car breaks down, it just seems that everything around you is falling apart, it seems that life is fighting you."。
What are you grasping for in that time? That will really define your faith.。
That will really define what you believe, is that when everything is falling apart, what are you grasping for?。
What are the constants? What are the things that will hold you up?。
God is our refuge.。
That word just means literally shelter from danger.。
He's a shelter we cling to or run to in danger, and not just our refuge but also our strength.。
Ever-present help.。
We were -- this summer, my family and I were driving back from family camp in Missouri, and we were driving through these towns that had been torn apart by tornadoes, Joplin, Missouri, and outside Moore, Oklahoma.。
And I don't know if you remember this, but the weather was really bad on this particular day.。
And I weigh these words so carefully, what I'm about to tell you.。
I don't want to exaggerate.。
It was the single worst weather I have ever driven in.。
And so it's raining, torrential downpour.。
There's winds that are blowing my wife's Suburban, like back and forth on the road.。
I feel them.。
It's torrential downpour.。
It's like someone has a fire hose, like just pointed at our windshield.。
Zero visibility.。
I can't see the little concrete wall right beside me.。
I remember looking specifically out the driver's side window, and I can't see it.。
And there's hail.。
It's thunderous inside the car.。
You cannot hear another human being.。
It's so loud.。
And then my iPhone's going off.。
It said flash floods right now, and I'm like, oh, does that ever really happen?。
And then I just see a car float by.。
True story.。
I mean, there is water up to its door handles.。
And this is on the side of the road.。
The road's elevated, luckily.。
And so we're driving through this, and this is what happens.。
What I do, my response is to grip the wheel and lean forward and to look with everything I can.。
It's kind of like, okay, I'm in control.。
My wife's response is, hey, I think you need to pull over.。
I think you should pull over.。
Let's wait this one out.。
And so she's strategizing around what she thinks needs to happen.。
Okay.。
My son Weston, he has a night-night.。
That's code for a blanket.。
And he kind of covers his head.。
You know, I'm like, oh, we're going the ostrich strategy here.。
We're going to wait.。
It doesn't go away, Weston.。
And so he's sucking his thumb, covering his head.。
He's going towards comfort.。
And then Finley's in the back, and she is going hysterical.。
She's our kind of drama queen, if you will.。
And she is just screaming, crying, hyperventilating in the back, terrified.。
She's trusting her fears.。
And then there's my 8-year-old Presley.。
And she's like, guys, guys, guys, listen.。
Everybody listen to me.。
I'm like, okay, I'm listening.。
She's got a plan.。
She goes, we need to pray.。
And I'm like, man, she's right.。
Like, Presley just knows who controls the tornadoes, the flash flooding, the rain, the winds.。
The winds and waves obey him.。
And she knows that.。
And she's like, hey, you gripping the wheel, you saying to pull over, you crying,。
and you covering your face with your night-night, that ain't going to help.。
We need to pray.。
So we prayed.。
She said, hey, this is where we need to go to the God who controls the world, the earth, and everything in it.。
He's our protector, and his protection is ever-present.。
It's always available.。
Let's turn to him.。
Verse 4.。
There is a river whose streams make glad the city of God, the holy place where the Most High dwells.。
God is within her.。
She will not fall.。
God will help her at break of day.。
Let me just pause there for a second and say this.。
Hezekiah is memorialized today for this thing called Hezekiah's tunnels.。
If you go to Jerusalem, you can still see them.。
I think we have a picture.。
And so these are these tunnels of water that move through Jerusalem.。
And so what he did is when Sennacherib came to the city is he closed off the springs and the other rivers.。
He dried up the water sources.。
And they still had water in the city because of these tunnels that he had dug.。
And so when we know that and we read this in a new light, there's a river whose streams make glad the city of God.。
Verse 6.。
Nations are in an uproar.。
Kingdoms fall.。
He lifts his voice.。
The earth melts.。
The Lord Almighty is with us.。
The God of Jacob.。
He is our fortress.。
He's saying God is powerful.。
His voice melts the earth, the very earth that he spoke into existence.。
He can now destroy it with his voice, with his words.。
And so it's not enough that God is ever-present protector.。
He's also powerful.。
You understand why that's important?。
Because if I've got an ever-present protector, like let's just say I've got a bodyguard walking around with me, but he's a little guy and he doesn't even know karate.。
You're like, that's cool that you've got this ever-present protector, but I'm not very intimidated by him.。
God's an ever-present protector who's all-powerful.。
All power is his.。
He can do anything that you can imagine, anything that you can fathom.。
That's my second point this evening is the power of God prevails.。
The power of God prevails.。
It says he's almighty, the Lord Almighty.。
I looked that up and it says in the dictionary, there's two definitions for it.。
One is having complete power and two is a name for God.。
He's almighty. He has complete power.。
And he's not just a refuge like we looked in that first section.。
He's also a fortress.。
A refuge is a place for shelter, but a fortress is a fortified place full of soldiers, full of warriors.。
And why I tell you that, because the Hebrew word for almighty there is Jehovah Sabbath.。
The Lord Almighty Jehovah Sabbath, which actually literally translates the Lord of hosts.。
Maybe your Bible actually says the Lord of hosts.。
What does that mean?。
He's the God of angel armies.。
He's the commanding officer of an army of angels.。
Now why is this important?。
Anytime you see angels in the scripture, you know what it's usually followed by?。
Get up.。
If an angel shows up, usually the first words they say is get up off the ground.。
Why? Because someone sees them and they're terrified and they fall to the ground in fear.。
These guys are amazing supernatural warriors.。
Right?。
And so God is the commanding officer of these supernatural warriors.。
And so what happens in the dialogue, in the narrative, is Sennacherib is outside the city.。
And he's saying, hey, we're going to skin you.。
And really what he says literally in the scripture, he says, I hope you don't think your God's going to protect you.。
Every other nation we've defeated thought their God was going to protect them.。
Your God can't stop us.。
And then he turns to the people that Hezekiah is leading.。
This is 2 Kings 18 and 19 and 2 Chronicles chapter 32 if you want to write it in your Bibles there.。
He turns to the people that Hezekiah is leading.。
He speaks to them through the walls and he says, if he's told you that his God is going to protect you, he's wrong.。
Your God can't protect you.。
Can you imagine being on this side of the wall?。
And your faith becomes real at this point.。
Like do I really believe in this God?。
I mean these guys are going to skin us.。
Do I really believe in this God?。
And so Hezekiah goes into the temple.。
He says, God, what do I do?。
They're going to kill us.。
They're waiting outside the wall.。
What do I do?。
And the prophet Isaiah comes and says, do not fear.。
The Lord is with you.。
He's going to deliver you from the hands of your enemy.。
In fact, he's going to send him home to his homeland Nineveh.。
Don't be afraid.。
And do you know what happens that night?。
The angel of the Lord moves through Sennacherib's army and kills 185,000 men.。
They wake up the next day and the army is dead.。
185,000 men slayed at the sword of the angel of the Lord.。
One angel, God is the commanding chief of an army, an army of angels.。
One of them he sends to slay 185,000 men.。
This is history.。
Those tunnels, they're still there.。
You can go see them today.。
The tunnels that this king Hezekiah dug.。
It's history.。
And so how do you battle?。
How do you feel distressed as you turn to your own power, your own control?。
Is that why you're checking your bank account every day?。
I know for some of you that's a really sad moment.。
But for others of you, you're trying to build up confidence.。
I'm going to be okay.。
No matter what, if I get laid off, I'm going to be okay for a few months.。
Get in the gym.。
Build up your strength.。
I'm going to build security, building relationships, counting friends on social media.。
Whatever I've got to do to feel secure and comfort and safe.。
People who have the most stuff don't have the most peace.。
People who have the most faith have the most peace.。
People who have the most things don't have the most peace.。
People who have the most faith, people who have the most God have the most peace.。
Have you ever met these people?。
They seem delusional.。
Whatever life throws at them, it's like, "Hey, I've got cancer."。
"What? That's terrible."。
"No, it's just an incredible opportunity to share the gospel in the hospital."。
"What is wrong with you? Who thinks that way?"。
Listen, I'm not trying to make light of cancer.。
I know these people personally.。
I talk to them.。
I'm like, "Man, you have so much faith in God.。
You kind of seem out of your mind.。
I don't even trust you. You have that much faith.。
But okay, I love the way you trust God, but I also want that for myself."。
I wish I moved through life and I held it so loosely.。
Whatever happens to you, it's like, "God is in control.。
Who shall I fear?。
The God, the creator of the heavens and the earth is with me.。
He's in control. I'm going to be with Him soon."。
What difference does this make?。
Our things, our stuff, it just gives us the illusion of control.。
Your stuff doesn't give you control.。
Have you ever seen someone and you're like, "Oh, man, they've got so much stuff.。
He must have a complete piece."。
Let me show you, in fact, a house.。
Let me show you a palace of someone.。
A pretty incredible house.。
I've seen it, actually.。
That is the palace of a prince, a president, if you will, a ruler, a controller.。
That's where he lives.。
It's not the White House, in case you haven't seen the White House.。
That's not it.。
It is an incredible, incredible place where a king, a president lives.。
You must look at that place and think, "Wow, how much peace does that guy have?"。
He's got all kinds of stuff at his disposal.。
He can do anything.。
He is in absolute control.。
He's sovereign.。
I went and saw that house.。
I went and saw that palace.。
Let me show it to you.。
That's what I saw.。
I went and saw it in 2010, right after the earthquake hit Haiti.。
Port-au-Prince, that's Port-au-Prince Palace, was the epicenter of the earthquake.。
It had been shaken to pieces.。
In fact, the whole second floor has collapsed there.。
Those four pillars that sat in the front, making it feel so strong and safe, they're gone.。
They turned to dust right there.。
It's interesting because in Haiti, they worship Satan.。
Literally, their president dedicated the nation to Satan.。
Through voodoo, they worship Satan.。
When this happened, the whole country returned to God.。
You know what they said?。
They told me this.。
I heard this.。
They said, "Satan can't shake the world like that.。
We know there's a God.。
We know there's a God."。
So he used the earthquake for good.。
He woke up a nation.。
The sovereign of that nation's home was shaken to rubbles, to pieces, to dust.。
So come and see what the Lord has done, the desolations he has brought on the earth.。
Come and see the piles of dead men, 185,000 that came against our God.。
Come and see them.。
Wake up.。
They're out there.。
The Lord has shown his faithfulness.。
He's shown his face to us.。
He makes wars cease to the ends of the earth.。
He breaks the bow and shatters the spear.。
He burns the shields with fire.。
He says, "Be still, be still, and know that I am God.。
I will be exalted among the nations.。
I will be exalted in the earth.。
The Lord Almighty is with us.。
The God of Jacob is our fortress."。
So let's just look at his abilities real quick.。
He scorches the earth with his words.。
He breaks the tools that we use to fight people, to break things.。
He melts the best military technology of the time with fire.。
And he makes wars cease, bringing peace.。
I want you to know there's two ways to bring peace in a human being.。
There's two ways to bring peace in a land.。
You can change the hearts of the men and women of that land and bring peace,。
or you can destroy the men and women of that land who are not about peace.。
Do you see that? Let me say that again.。
There's two ways to bring peace in a land.。
You can take the evil hearts of people, the hearts of unrest of people,。
and you can change them for good,。
or you can take the evil hearts of people and destroy those people。
so that all that's left there is peace.。
God does both, and this text is talking about the second one.。
Do you understand that?。
That everyone here will experience a peace one way or another.。
Either God will change your heart to where you become a follower of Christ。
and there's peace in your life because you're following Christ,。
or one day, if we have not trusted in Christ,。
He will destroy those whose hearts are wicked, whose hearts are not His,。
and bring about peace in the land as heaven comes here to the earth.。
And so my third and final point is God's protection and power gives peace to His people.。
God's protection and power gives peace to His people.。
This is a really simple math equation for you.。
It's God's protection plus God's power equals your peace.。
This God who loves you is protecting you.。
He is all-powerful.。
What do you have to worry about?。
Exhale.。
Exhale and know that He is God.。
I know that life is like a conveyor belt.。
It's going backwards.。
If you're not marching forward with every step you can, fighting to get to the top,。
you're going backwards.。
If you sit still, you're moving backwards.。
You're digressing.。
I know it feels like that.。
In fact, if you will, let's just do this, a participatory illustration.。
If you will, grip your hands as tight as you can.。
Clench your body.。
Right now, grab your hands.。
Make a fist, the tightest fist you can.。
Let me see that some of you aren't trying.。
Tightest fist you can, both hands.。
Come on.。
Tightest fist.。
You hold on.。
It's like you woke up and the alarm clock came on late。
and you get to your car and it doesn't have power.。
The battery's dead.。
And you drive to work and you're late for the meeting。
and everything's falling apart.。
And you're like, "Okay, but I'm a Christian.。
But I'm--ah!。
And I've got to control and I've got to get to promotion。
and I've got to fight them."。
And we just take a deep breath and exhale.。
And say, "He is God."。
That was so lame, man.。
And say, "He is God."。
Okay, guys, one more time.。
And say, "He is God."。
Indeed He is.。
And you are not.。
You're a miserable God.。
You're not in control of anything.。
Not anything.。
But He's in control.。
God knew what I needed on vacation.。
Just like He was saying, "Oh, you want to go and do?。
No, bro, you've got to stop.。
I want you to be still."。
And in fact, I control the weather.。
We had an amazing vacation.。
Incredible.。
Because we rested.。
We say a lot.。
We exhaled.。
We were still and reminded that He is God,。
the God of the weather.。
That storm that we were in turned into Hurricane Patricia,。
which has done some damage to Mexico,。
if you watch the news at all.。
And it raises the question for me,。
as we sat there over the ocean,。
and I've read an article about this。
and heard a message about it once.。
What happens to the fish in the midst of a hurricane?。
I mean, when the water and everything is being stirred up。
and there's so much turbulence,。
these fish that swim at the surface of the ocean,。
what happens to them when there's such a huge storm。
that can lift a house and throw it miles away?。
What happens to the fish?。
And so I read about them,。
and what these fish do is they go deep, deep, deep into the ocean.。
They sense the storm because the pressure changes,。
and they go deep, deep, deep into the ocean。
where they're not disturbed by the turbulence.。
They're not disturbed by the storms above.。
Here's what that means.。
There's a place where the fish can go,。
where the turbulence around them and the storm around them,。
they cannot even be felt by them.。
And what this text is saying is there's a place where Christians go,。
followers of Christ go,。
deep, deep, deep into their relationship with God。
where the storms of life and the turbulence around them,。
they are not affected by it.。
They sit in the peace of God.。
This is why Paul writes in Philippians 4,。
"Do not be anxious about anything,。
"but in everything by prayer and petition。
"present your request to God with thanksgiving."。
And the peace of God which transcends,。
a peace of God that no one can fathom or even understand,。
the peace of God himself,。
sovereign creator of the universe,。
will protect your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus.。
And here's our application this evening.。
And to trust that God is in control, that he's powerful,。
that he protects us.。
And because he loves us, he's for us, we have peace.。
And when trouble comes, our first reaction is to go deep, deep, deep。
into relationship with him.。
It's an intuitive reaction.。
It's not a worldly reaction.。
It's the reaction of his followers.。
So don't lean on your control.。
Find peace in his control.。
Do not lean on your control,。
but find peace in God's control.。
If you are here and you are not in sin,。
actively sinning,。
you are not fighting against God.。
He's fighting for you.。
He's fighting for you, the Lord of hosts,。
the God of angel armies.。
Can I just tell you something really amazing?。
Outside the very walls that Sennacherib and his army stood,。
where an angel of the Lord slayed 185,000 of them,。
another man was slayed.。
The same place, the same city.。
Hundreds of feet from where this took place.。
Jesus was slayed.。
God allowed his own son to be killed for you,。
for your sins.。
He paid the price for everything wrong you've done。
to bring about peace in your relationship with the Lord of hosts,。
the most powerful force in the universe.。
You have peace with him, the scripture says,。
if you have trusted that his son, Jesus Christ,。
was slayed, killed on your behalf for you.。
In the same place where this took place.。
700 years before this, men wrote this song celebrating victory.。
Today, in a moment, we're going to sing a song。
celebrating the victory we have in Jesus Christ。
because of what God has done for us through him.。
We get to be with God forever and ever and ever.。
We sit still in this reality.。
In summary, God's protection, it's ever present.。
God's power, it always prevails.。
His protection and his power leads to our peace.。
As I wrap up, let me just throw this disclaimer on this story.。
I was not a Christian in college.。
I'm a Christian in college.。
Sometimes I tell stories that are descriptive, not prescriptive.。
This is definitely one of those.。
You don't want to relive this story for yourself.。
I wouldn't relive it today.。
I was at this party and we were pitching washers.。
Do you guys know what that means?。
You throw these little round things into holes in the ground.。
You follow me? Pitching washers.。
Okay, we're there.。
That was the extent of my athletic experience in college, pitching washers.。
I'm pitching washers and this guy comes up to the party。
clearly drunk.。
He's a big guy.。
A huge, huge, huge beast of a man.。
He walks in front of me and I truly innocently throw this washer and it hits him in the side.。
No big deal.。
It's like getting hit with a quarter tossed underhand.。
No big deal.。
He turns to me, big deal, and says, "You better watch where you're throwing that."。
Explicative.。
I kind of smile.。
I'm like, "Oh, my bad."。
Now he comes up to me quickly, is chest to chest with me, and says,。
"Do you think something's funny?"。
I'm like, "No."。
See, here's what's going on.。
This guy was bored.。
He's drunk. He's bored.。
He's looking for a fight.。
He's a tall, skinny guy.。
These guys always go after the tall guy so they can say they accomplished something.。
But little dude, I'm tall, skinny, scrawny guy, and gangly dude.。
He goes up to Gumby and he's like, "I'm going to kill you."。
I'm like, "I don't really want to be killed tonight.。
That's not really what I'm looking for."。
He's there and he's like, "Do you think something's funny?"。
Here's what happened unbeknownst to him.。
My boys were there.。
In college, I ran with some thugs.。
They're hitting each other.。
One of them touches--hey, JP's in trouble.。
They turn around.。
They stop whatever shenanigans they were doing.。
They circle us.。
It's just him and his buddy, little buddy, his workout partner or whatever.。
It's him.。
Now he's surrounded by eight or nine of my boys.。
He asked me again, "Do you think something's funny?"。
I kind of look around, kind of survey the land, if you will.。
I'm like, "Now that you mentioned it, I kind of think it's hilarious."。
Here's what I'm thinking.。
Whatever he's going to do to me, he's not going to do it for very long.。
See, I was the scrawny one.。
My boys weren't scrawny.。
No, they love the weight room.。
They were big dudes.。
There they are, circled us.。
He didn't know.。
He trusted in his ability.。
He trusted in his own strength.。
He didn't see what was really happening.。
I'm sitting there, and I'm like, "Hey, whatever I'm about to endure from this guy,。
it's not going to last very long."。
That's the truth of whatever you're in right now.。
If you've trusted in Christ for the forgiveness of your sins,。
whatever you're enduring right now, I just want to say,。
relatively speaking compared to billions and billions and billions of eternity,。
it's not going to last very long.。
Because the Lord of hosts is with you.。
And some of you, you're here, and you're trusting in your abilities.。
You've surveyed the land, and you have tragically underestimated our God,。
the creator of the heavens and the earth.。
And he's going to bring you to a place of surrender, and he's going to do it, I hope.。
I pray out of an act of love to you, because every knee will bow.。
Either willingly, God, you're God, or by force, God, you're God.。
And every tongue will confess.。
And the scriptures are full of stories who underestimated people who underestimated God.。
I mean these God's people having victory in the most unassuming of circumstances.。
When everyone looks at them and says,。
"Certainly this little boy is going to be defeated by this giant.。
Certainly there's no way this group of armies are going to get into the walls of Jericho.。
Certainly there's no way we can make it through this sea when Pharaoh's army is coming.。
Certainly there's no way we can be victorious."。
And God says, "You don't see what I'm doing.。
I'm the Lord of hosts, and I'm with you in battle."。
One of my favorites is in 2 Kings 6, it's Elisha.。
And the Arameans are coming after him, and these are also amazingly powerful people.。
And in fact, his servant sees them.。
And so his servant runs in and says, "Elisha, Elisha, the Arameans,。
they've lined the horizon there with horses and chariots.。
They've come after us."。
And Elisha says this, "Don't be afraid."。
The prophet answered, "Those who are with us are more than those who are with them."。
And Elisha, the scripture says, Elisha prayed that his servant's eyes would be opened。
and that he would see.。
And just then the servant lifted his head and saw Elisha surrounded by an army of hosts,。
an army of angels whose chariots were on fire.。
He saw the Lord's army.。
There's a battle going around you right now that you are unaware of.。
And if you are on God's team, he is fighting for you.。
Be still and know that he is God.。
Serve him courageously.。
Do everything you can.。
God has your back.。
Let me pray to that God right now.。
Father, we acknowledge you as the one true God, the creator of the heavens and the earth,。
the same God that allowed Hezekiah victory over the Assyrians,。
the same God that allowed Elisha victory over the Arameans,。
the same God that allowed Joshua victory time and time again,。
the same God that allowed David victory over the Philistines.。
Now you are with us, in us, fighting for us.。
God, help us not to fight you.。
Your scripture says that you oppose the proud but give grace to the humble.。
Father, would you find us humble in spirit, not fighting you in our pursuit of pleasures and sin,。
but surrendering to you fully in your finished work on the cross.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
Imagine that they sung this psalm, Psalm 46, inside the walls as 185,000 men lied strewn throughout the field.。
An angel of the Lord killed them all in protecting and preserving God's people.。
And in the same way, Jesus Christ through you has slayed evil on your behalf。
so that you might courageously walk with him, not getting caught up in the worries of this world,。
but living a life in radical surrender to God,。
in reckless abandonment to his Holy Spirit at work within you.。
So stand on your feet, get on your feet right now.。
Raise up, army of God, raise up to your feet.。
And as we sing this song, you picture Hezekiah and the people of Jerusalem。
as they sang from a position of victory, knowing the work that God has done.。
The Lord of hosts, let's go.。
Sometimes in ministry you have to look at somebody in the face and just remind them how much God loves them.。
That God, this being, this creator, that he loves them tremendously, like so much.。
He showed it on the cross. He wanted to be in a relationship with you so badly.。
He allowed his son to die so that you could be in relationship with him.。
And so many of you need to hear that tonight.。
It's like God puts his hands on your face and he pulls you near and he says, "I love you."。
Your life really matters.。
I've got plans for you.。
But my sense tonight, if I'm just being obedient, I hope,。
is that some of you need to hear you matter a whole lot less than you think you do.。
And I know that contradicts everything I just said, so stay with me.。
Your life is expendable.。
You're like your great-great-grandfather whose name you don't even know because to dust he's returned.。
You're fighting the wrong battle.。
You're in the world and you think, "I've got to make a name for myself. I've got to be big."。
And your life is marked by anxiety and worry and you think you're in control and you don't control anything.。
It's an illusion.。
The God who shakes the earth, he's in control.。
You're not in control.。
You're not in control.。
And some of you, that may startle you and I hope it moves you to a place of,。
"I'm not in control. I'm not in control. I'm not in control."。
God, you're in control. I'm not in control. You're in control.。
And the goofy guy up there told me you love me.。
And that's good news.。
He said, "I can be with you forever.。
And my job won't matter when I'm with you forever.。
My broken heart won't matter when I'm with you forever.。
What I don't have or have in the bank account won't matter when I'm with you forever.。
All that will matter when I'm with you forever is what did I do with you here in my few moments,。
my few seconds.。
It doesn't matter who knew me,。
if I was famous, if I made a name for myself.。
It's like, "What did I do for you?。
What did I trust in?。
How did I walk by faith in your promises?"。
You're the Lord of hosts.。
And if you want to hear more about that, you want a dialogue about that,。
if you're just real angry right now, I'd love to talk to you.。
I love talking to angry people. I'll be up here with some friends.。
And we'd love to pray for you.。
If you're looking for community, there's guys who walk down this hallway,。
there's a room in there of guys who are willing to talk with you about community,。
what it looks like, other guys who just say, "Man, I'd love to get to know you."。
Girls, you walk down this hallway over here, and there's a room right outside those doors。
that just say, "Hey, I'm glad you're here. If you're here for the first time, it'd be great to check out."。
Just say, "Man, what is community? What does that even mean?"。
And we'd love to talk with you more about that.。
Check out the Psalms 2 album. That song is on it.。
It's not even my favorite one on the album. I'll give you that insight.。
It's one of my favorites, but it's not my favorite. It's an amazing album.。
I love you guys more than you could ever know or imagine.。
I look out there, and I just see hope.。
Honestly, I look out there, I see your faces. I see me, frankly.。
10, 15 years ago, I just know God wants to use you to change the world.。
And I know your city wants to exploit you.。
I know the enemy is after you, and he wants to smash you into nothingness.。
That sometimes looks like a suburban house and a white picket fence and a German shepherd.。
Don't fall for that trick, man.。
Go all in. I love you. Have a great week of worship.。
Go in peace, to love, and serve the Lord.。
