- All right, here we go.。
What's up all my friends,。
all the Porchies tuning in live right now at home,。
cuddled up, quarantine.。
Thanks for taking precaution。
and not coming here to Watermark tonight.。
Just want to say welcome。
and welcome to the Porch Live Experience.。
We want you to know that just here shortly,。
I'll be interviewing Mr. David Marvin.。
And so what I'd like for you to do。
is you can kind of zoom out in this moment,。
hit share and tell all your friends to tune in.。
We want everyone watching。
what's gonna be discussed tonight.。
I think it's gonna be really helpful, really powerful.。
So we'll get started here shortly.。
Everyone grab your hand sanitizer,。
sanitize up and we'll see you soon.。
Let's go Porch.。
(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
- All right, what's up guys?。
Hey, this is David.。
I'm joined with my friend JD Rogers.。
- Hey everyone.。
- If you haven't gotten to meet JD,。
he's a part of leadership here。
and we are doing what is probably gonna be the first。
of several different things。
where we stream messages on Two Tonights。
for at least the next few weeks or the time being,。
who knows how long that'll take place,。
but we're gonna do what we always do,。
which is look at God's word。
and say, what does it look like。
in this season of young adulthood。
practically apply scripture and principles。
in the midst of any season of life。
and particularly in this season of life.。
What a crazy time, dude.。
- Yeah, I mean, it really is just crazy。
all that's happening just with the virus。
and the way that the world is responding to it.。
And so I'm glad that we get to come to a place like this。
and talk about it to hopefully be helpful。
and just talk about all that's going on.。
And I'm just excited.。
And so I know for me, David, I'm 26, single,。
and I'm sitting in my apartment watching。
all that's happening.。
The media is giving so many mixed messages。
and I am at home going, I don't even know where to begin.。
Like, gosh, I wish I was way more media savvy,。
news savvy before this.。
And I don't know which kind of voices to trust.。
I don't know.。
I mean, it's like, it seems like Trump is on there。
every day telling us things.。
It seems like, I mean, for our city of Dallas,。
things are changing every single day.。
And I'm going, what do I do?。
Like, how do I actually respond?。
Should I be more afraid than I am?。
Should I be more cautious than I am?。
Like, are we even six feet right now?。
Like, and I think, you know,。
you have a lot of wisdom on this topic。
and just even getting to talk for you for just a little bit.。
I think you have a lot to provide。
for the people watching right now。
and the people tuning in, which by the way,。
shout out to our friends on YouTube.。
- YouTube. - Streaming with us.。
We're trying to push more and more to our YouTube page.。
And so glad y'all are here.。
But, you know, I just want to hear from you.。
Like, I'm about to take the posture of just a student。
in this moment and just let you,。
let me have it of all I should know。
about how we should respond as Christians,。
as people to the coronavirus.。
And I'm just excited to hear from you.。
So thanks for letting me just sit in this chair。
and listen to you.。
- Well, Jude, I think both of us。
are gonna get a chance to hear just from God's word。
and what it says.。
The principles in the midst of all the craziness。
in the world around us of anxiety。
and how to find peace have never been more relevant.。
And tragically, too many Christians。
in the midst of a virus or just life,。
even before the virus, their life is marked by anxiety.。
And yet God calls us and has invited us。
to a life that's marked by peace.。
I'll start by sharing this.。
A few weeks ago, I had a chance to go speak。
at another ministry organization that was a few hours away.。
And I had a chance to take some friends with me。
on a plane that a mutual friend of ours。
had allowed us basically, which is the most random scenario.。
There's not many times in my life。
that this would be the only and probably only ever time。
where somebody's like, yeah, dude, hey,。
we're not using the plane.。
If you wanna take it down there for ministry purposes。
and speak and then fly back,。
'cause I had back-to-back speaking engagements。
two days in a row and they'd let us.。
- And it was so sketchy though.。
- It was so sketchy.。
Well, it's a great plane.。
- Yeah, yeah, yeah. - So if you're listening,。
but a friend of ours or a friend of mine。
who used to work for me actually was the pilot.。
And he was like, yeah, we'll take you down there.。
We'll take you on the plane.。
We'll fly you down.。
I was like, dude, that's amazing.。
It was a small like two prop, which is two propeller plane.。
And both all this excitement was filled with,。
that's gonna be incredible, two weeks out.。
And then a few days before I was like,。
oh my gosh, I know this guy.。
I know the pilot.。
And the pilot is somebody, it's almost like a brain surgeon.。
You don't wanna be like buddy-buddy with the brain surgeon.。
You don't wanna have any relationship with him.。
You don't want him to be the guy that like,。
oh, remember that one time that was so funny.。
- Yep.。
- And so anyways, as we were preparing for it,。
my community group, JD and another friend of ours。
were going down.。
They joined me to fly in, speak, and then fly back.。
- Didn't really know what to expect, honestly.。
- Totally.。
- Getting on the plane.。
- The weather, we began to realize.。
- Storming.。
- It was stormy.。
So like 24 hours before, I have a friend who's the pilot。
who I honestly don't even know if he flies planes.。
This could be a whole joke.。
It's stormy weather.。
- Mm-hmm.。
- And I remember telling my wife like,。
hey, if we don't make it back, here's where the will is.。
And here's what to do.。
And you know that scene in Armageddon。
where like all the astronauts are hugging their wives,。
maybe this is the last.。
It felt like that.。
And honestly, all my community group, ironically,。
or not ironically at all, felt that same way.。
And-。
- I should call my mom.。
- Yeah, I bet you did.。
- I did, I called her.。
- I bet you did.。
Here's the biggest irony is I was flying down there。
to teach on anxiety。
and how you can experience peace from it.。
And we're like on the plane and it's bumpy。
and I'm feeling every single bump.。
And I just remember feeling like, man,。
a mixture of hypocrisy and irony。
and God teaching me something。
'cause I'm flying in to teach on anxiety。
and the topic of experiencing freedom from it.。
And yet what is filling me right now is anxiety.。
- And it's hilarious 'cause like, y'all have to know,。
it's like a pretty small plane。
and there was how many guys?。
- Six.。
- Six grown adult men on this plane.。
And I'll never forget,。
we're all like trying to low key act tough,。
but like at the end of the day, it starts to storm.。
I remember looking at my friend and he's looking at me。
and I was like, "You scared?"。
And he was like, "Yeah, I'm scared."。
I was like, "If we grab hands, we're just praying."。
- This part I did not know, okay?。
Up in the front just praying, staring at one seaters.。
- Dude, but how hilarious that you have six Christian people。
one of which is flying in to teach。
thousands of people on anxiety。
and his life is marked by anxiety.。
And I start there 'cause I think a lot of us。
experience despite the fact that the Bible promises。
or calls Christians to a life。
that is guarded by peace that surpasses understanding.。
Philippians chapter four says,。
that God wants you to experience a life。
that is marked by a peace that surpasses understanding.。
So many of us as Christians,。
we experience anxiety that surpasses understanding。
or an imperfect peace, despite the fact that God says,。
in Isaiah chapter 26,。
"If you keep your eyes fixed on me,。
I keep in perfect peace, Him whose eyes are fixed on me."。
And yet that's often not the case。
of the experience of a lot of people and in our lives.。
And so I think as a Christian,。
the constant question is how do I continue to apply。
rightly the principles that God has given us。
on fighting anxiety,。
whether it's in the midst of a Corona epidemic,。
where I know a lot of us are,。
what's at stake is not just maybe I get some symptoms。
of a cold that in my generation,。
the effects are not really that big,。
but I may lose my job.。
It's probably a more fearful thing.。
- Yeah, I was sitting down with a friend yesterday。
and six feet apart, obviously.。
And they were just expressing to me like,。
"Hey, I actually don't know what to do."。
So they just moved to Dallas to start a new job。
and they get a call from their job.。
And they're like, "Hey, no one can come in。
until like a month."。
And that means that they moved here。
expecting to get a paycheck to start paying their rent。
and their new apartment, which they're not cheap in Dallas.。
And they're not gonna get that paycheck。
'cause they're not getting to start work.。
No HR, nothing.。
They haven't got to do any of the process.。
And now they are literally stuck in Dallas。
in an apartment, jobless.。
And they're just expressing,。
"I couldn't have predicted this.。
Like, what do I do?"。
- Yeah, and what do I do with those feelings of anxiety?。
Or like, there's thousands of people infected。
in our country.。
By the time you listen to this, if it's a week late,。
you're maybe 10 times that,。
which means there are hundreds of thousands of people。
who have someone they know that's being impacted.。
And so we just wanted to open up and talk a little bit。
about the subject of anxiety and what God's word says.。
And it's a timeless conversation。
or the truths from God's word are timeless,。
regardless of what's going on around us.。
But we know that that's a real scenario.。
There's thousands of people that listen into the porch。
that are in Seattle, that are in Phoenix,。
that are at the different 15 Ports Live locations。
and in Dallas and all over.。
And so we know everyone is experiencing some degree。
of being impacted by this and likely is being impacted。
by the future of uncertainty that faces all of us.。
So what I wanted to do was just open up a few things。
that we know from scripture, from God's word,。
and just talk a little bit about some of the stuff。
that it says.。
The Bible says, it'd be a way that I'll put it.。
If there was a slogan for the Bible,。
it would be do not fear.。
Like slogan, like what I mean by that,。
like what's your favorite company slogan?。
Like slogan, I mean like Nike, just do it.。
Arby's, what's the Arby's?。
It's we have the meats.。
- That one's weird.。
- Yeah, that one is kind of weird.。
- I think mine is--。
- Or maybe it's Maybelline.。
No, maybe she's born with it.。
Maybe it's Maybelline.。
- Every kiss begins with K.。
- Every kiss begins with K, that's right.。
- Mine is the, I go to like the Donut Palace down the road。
and their slogan is you deserve a donut.。
It just makes me feel good about myself.。
- That is one of the, no one,。
I've never heard of the Donut Palace.。
- I promise you David, everyone, the donut,。
this is the classic, it says donut in red letters.。
Everyone knows those places, they're all over.。
Yeah, that's like the donut palace.。
- So your version of that and on the bag they have--。
- Every bag has the pink sprinkle donut。
and it says you deserve a donut.。
And I'm like, you know what?。
I do deserve a donut, it's Monday.。
- Dude, I love it.。
Whatever slogan is your favorite,。
here's what, if the Bible had a slogan,。
whether this would be it or it'd be in the top three。
would be do not fear.。
It's either like, you know, it would be the slogan。
or at least be in the top three of things.。
Because, and the reason I say that。
is the most repeated command in all of scripture。
is do not fear.。
More than hey, believe, more than pray,。
more than anything that you would pick up,。
more than like, hey, don't have sex outside of marriage.。
The most repeated command in the Bible is do not fear.。
So God wants us to experience a life。
no matter what is going on that knows。
and is marked by peace or not by fear.。
It says it 366 times, we've joked at the porch before.。
That is one for every day of the year.。
If you took all of them out, including leap year,。
like the one that we're in right now,。
like God is clearly hammering home this message.。
And so first, just a high level。
that God doesn't want his people to live in fear.。
So he's given principles and a path。
towards really us experiencing that.。
I think one of the things that I think is redeeming。
of Corona, at least in, you know,。
the little bit amount of time that I've had。
or that we've all had seeing it,。
is it's kind of put things into perspective.。
It's began to remind us that as Christians,。
biblically we're not home.。
And a virus popping up reminds us that,。
oh man, this is, we live in a broken world。
that is full of sickness and death.。
And sometimes because we live in America, it's so protected.。
Like viruses that pop up in most of history。
have popped up that wipe out huge amounts of the population.。
We kind of like have medical staff and we're like,。
oh, you get a shot for that.。
And now we're being reminded, no, life and mortality。
or your death is a real inevitable thing.。
And there's some redeeming aspects that have come with it。
that can remind us I'm not home.。
When I was in, I spent like five weeks in Africa。
when I was in college.。
It was like a summer, it was a long time.。
It's a really long time.。
- What part of Africa?。
- East Uganda.。
- Oh. - Yeah.。
- I love Africa.。
- Dude, we were like outside of Kampala, two hours.。
- Wow. - We were in the bush.。
Like when people talk about out with the bush,。
we were there, we were by the bush.。
It was so far off the grid.。
We stayed in this village.。
I mean, the experiences,。
we could talk for endless amounts of time.。
- That's amazing.。
- I remember at some points。
when we were kind of nearing the end of it,。
there would be certain niceties。
that we every once in a while got。
where you get like, oh, we get Coca-Cola.。
- Cold.。
- Yeah, we get a cold beverage this time.。
Or we get to go experience eating at a restaurant。
or not just eating rice and beans and plantains。
out in this village or different things。
that were kind of niceties of our experience.。
And there would be times。
where we were looking forward to that。
and then it wouldn't happen.。
And it was like, oh man, that's a letdown.。
Or times where our experience had had a change of plans。
or somebody got sick or like I got ringworm at one point,。
which is not a fun experience to go through.。
- You still, does that stay or?。
- No, I actually still have ringworm.。
And it went through, what if it did?。
And I still have ringworm.。
Just these like different, man, that's really unfortunate.。
But every time, because the perspective of,。
oh, I'm going home soon.。
Like this is not my permanent and new reality forever.。
I'm not home.。
I can face this and it put those frustrations。
or disappointments or even sicknesses all into perspective。
that, hey, I don't have access to Advil right now,。
but I will soon, I'm going home and I'm not home.。
And it just was a constant reminder.。
And in some ways, one of the reminders for Christians,。
I think, that Corona has put in the forefront of us。
is the reminder, you are not home.。
It can be so tempting to make my life。
and try to make it so comfortable.。
And one of the things that,。
I don't know if it's done this for you,。
it's put in perspective, man, I'm not home.。
This life, the Psalms say is a vapor.。
It's like some of you guys。
are in cold environments right now, you're streaming in.。
And when you go outside and you breathe,。
you see the air and when you breathe and it's cold outside,。
you can see your breath and then it disappears.。
That's what the scriptures say our life is like.。
And so to hide behind this,。
we're gonna be here forever,。
our life is gonna go on forever.。
And I'm not trying to invalidate some of the pain。
and some of the tragic scenarios that people are walking in.。
And who knows, man, you and I could be sick。
in any amount of time.。
- Yeah, at least we're both gonna be together.。
- Yeah, yeah, exactly.。
Sick as a result of this.。
And with ringworm again.。
But no matter what, as Christians,。
we've been told this is not our home.。
Philippians chapter three, verse 20 says,。
"We are citizens of heaven,。
"where we anxiously await the returning of Christ。
"to make all things new, put all viruses aside.。
"And God has commanded us in the midst of this,。
"do not fear, I'm in control."。
- Yeah, I think what I'm recognizing with this。
is it's causing a lot of people,。
at least my age, to really think.。
Like they're forced to think.。
I was talking, you know, all the colleges。
have basically shut down,。
and so a lot of college students from Virginia,。
Austin, different people are back in Dallas.。
And I was talking to a few of them this morning,。
and one of them was telling me that a group of her friends。
are essentially like talking about。
why is God allowing this to happen?。
And they're just pondering that of like,。
why is God not stopping this crisis?。
- Yeah.。
- Why is he letting this spread?。
And it was just interesting hearing the different takes。
on different people's thoughts and perspectives。
on why God was allowing this,。
or what God was doing with this,。
and trying to pinpoint, okay, what's his reason?。
What's he doing?。
- Yeah.。
- And, you know, of course there was things like。
maybe he's trying to point people back to him,。
maybe he's displaying his sovereignty,。
how he's in control, all these different things.。
And so we could talk, we could get down on that,。
but it's, I think what's just so unique。
about what is happening with this spread and the virus。
is so many people are like, wow, like it's crazy。
how much life can change.。
I mean, if you think about what's happening,。
I've never in my 26 years of life。
experienced anything like this.。
The closest thing was like post 9/11。
when I was like in second grade.。
- Yeah.。
- But I mean, the world is, it feels like it's shutting down.。
- Yeah.。
- And I mean, social media,。
just the different things that you're seeing。
take place around the world is just crazy.。
And so you're right.。
It's just bringing this whole,。
these thoughts that I've never thought about before。
about regarding life.。
- Yeah.。
- And what's the point, what's the deeper meaning?。
What have I been distracting myself with?。
And so.。
- Yeah.。
- I'm glad we're talking about it.。
- It's broken through that mold.。
There's a passage I want us to read from Matthew chapter six。
where Jesus talks about, you know, like I meant earlier,。
we're so, I don't know if it's blessed.。
We are so blessed in America。
that we forget how most people in the world today live。
and how most people throughout history live,。
where the average person I've heard it said in the 1500s。
thought about their death every single day.。
The average Christian never thinks about their death.。
The average young at old, at least.。
They think they're immortal.。
They're going to live for forever.。
But when the life expectancy, not many centuries ago,。
was, you know, 45, you were confronted with reality。
that I'm not going to live forever.。
- Yeah.。
- So to your point, it is causing people。
to be confronted with the fact。
that there's brokenness in our world.。
My death or mortality is a real thing.。
And what am I living for?。
Jesus spoke in a context in Matthew chapter six,。
where he spoke to an audience that did live in a time。
where, you know, there wasn't antibiotics。
and there wasn't some of the niceties that we have.。
Refrigeration wasn't around, different things.。
- Yeah.。
- And he spoke about the topic of anxiety.。
I just think it's so relevant.。
So I'm going to start in Matthew chapter six,。
verses 24 through, let's go through 34.。
Jesus says, starting in 25, actually,。
do not worry about your life.。
What you will eat or drink or about your body,。
what you will wear is not life more than food。
and the body more than clothes.。
Look at the birds of the air.。
They don't sow or reap as in like plant and harvest。
and get food or store away in barns。
or go raid their local target, you know, of toilet paper.。
Yet your heavenly father feeds them or provides for them.。
Are you not much more valuable than they?。
Can any of you by worrying at a single hour to your life?。
And why do you worry about clothes?。
See the flower of the fields grow.。
They do not labor or spend, but I tell you。
that not even Solomon in all of his splendor。
was dressed like one of these.。
If that's how God clothes the grass of the field,。
which is here today and tomorrow is thrown in the fire,。
will he not much more clothed or provide for you?。
Oh, you of little faith.。
So do not worry saying, what should we eat?。
What should we drink?。
What should we wear for the pagans。
or people who do not have a relationship。
with their heavenly father?。
They don't know they have a heavenly father.。
They run after all of these things。
and your heavenly father knows that you need them.。
But seek first, this is what I think is one of the most。
misunderstood and misapplied verses as it relates to anxiety.。
Seek or prioritize first God's kingdom。
and his righteousness.。
And all of these things will be given to you as well.。
Therefore do not worry about tomorrow。
for tomorrow will worry about itself.。
Each day has enough trouble of its own.。
That Jesus says so many different things。
that are relevant about anxiety.。
Like, hey, what benefit is worry?。
Where he says you can't add anything to your life.。
Basically getting his whole audience to go.。
Worry is not really helpful.。
So spending time worrying about something,。
he's not saying don't be thoughtful,。
don't be practical or wash your hands or care about things.。
He's not just like Bob Marley,。
sitting on a beach with an actual Corona beer or something.。
He's saying, actually be thoughtful.。
But at the end of the day,。
you don't have to have a life that worries。
and is marked by worry.。
Because you have a heavenly father who's promised。
to provide and to care for your needs.。
Ultimately on the cross through Jesus dying,。
he provided in the most ultimate way.。
But he's promised, man, I'm a heavenly father。
who cares about you.。
And then as it relates to the seek first,。
I think it's so relevant to where we are。
because it's one of the most misunderstood principles。
on anxiety.。
And the reason I say that is Jesus essentially says,。
hey, I want you to prioritize first,。
as first in your life, God's kingdom,。
or God's reign, or God's agenda for your life.。
Like whatever God's will for your life is,。
prioritize that.。
Prioritize what God wants for your life above yours.。
Let there be no competition for whose will。
and whose kingdom comes first.。
My kingdom, my desires, what I want,。
what I wish would happen, or what God wants to happen.。
He says, prioritize those things first.。
I think most people read this verse and they think,。
Jesus is just saying, hey, don't worry.。
Just go on a mission trip.。
Or don't worry, just have a quiet time.。
And in doing so, neither of those are bad things.。
Those are great things.。
Things you should do.。
But that misses the broader application。
of what Jesus is saying, where he's saying,。
hey, I want you to embrace as first。
on the throne of your life, God's kingdom.。
Focus on that, prioritize that, embrace that,。
and his will for your life above your will for your life.。
Even when they contradict。
is where I think it becomes really practical.。
The two ways that we think about God's will,。
and so help me flesh this out if this doesn't make sense.。
- Can I just really fast?。
When I read that verse, I think for me,。
just right now personally, where I get convicted。
is I'm so prone to take part two of that verse。
and all these things will be added to you.。
And I think I want all of these things to be added to me。
without seeking first the kingdom of God and what he wants.。
Because I think I know that when I seek God。
and what he wants, the things that I want to be added to me。
will probably change.。
So right now what I want to be added to me is,。
will you get rid of this thing?。
So that way I can get back to my normal life.。
But what if I sought the kingdom of God first?。
And what actually changed in me was like,。
hey, if this means that a world will come back to you,。
then so be it.。
- Totally.。
- And that's scary.。
Like that's a scary thing to ask essentially for suffering.。
- Yes.。
- To ask for person, like to ask to go through a trial,。
because that's just not how I'm prone to think.。
I'm prone to go, I want my things to be added to me.。
And so what that can create is like this like。
cause and effect with God where it's like,。
okay, I'll go do my quiet time.。
I'll seek first.。
And then you'll answer my prayers.。
Like these things will be added to me.。
- Yes.。
- And it's just like, if you're truly seeking God's kingdom,。
that means that you are actually setting aside your agenda,。
like you said.。
And then it's kind of, your agenda is not existing anymore.。
And I don't want to do that.。
Like, I don't know.。
- Yeah, I mean, if you're like, hey, I'll do these things。
so that I will get God to give me what I want.。
- Yeah.。
- God's not your God.。
The things that you want are your God.。
- Yeah, you're not actually doing those things.。
- Yeah, or you are your own God.。
- Yeah, you're playing a mind game on yourself.。
- Yeah, and so I think as it relates to prioritizing。
God's will for my life, what does that look like?。
The two ways that we know the will of God for your life。
is what's revealed in scripture.。
It's actually like theological people,。
or if you go to like school and seminary。
or Bible college to study this stuff,。
they'll talk about how there's two wills of God.。
There's the unrevealed will,。
which is kind of like how he allows sovereignly,。
which is just a word like he's in control,。
but he allows things to happen。
that are a part of our broken world,。
but he's still controlling things.。
I mean, he's still working things for good.。
And then there's the revealed will, which is the Bible.。
Like everything in here, we can know,。
hey, what does God want for certain arenas of life?。
We know it and we can read it.。
And so as it relates to prioritizing first,。
I think it looks like, hey, I'm gonna prioritize.。
I wanna live according to what God calls me to live by。
as there is revealed will is here.。
So I'm gonna do what he calls me to.。
And then his unrevealed will,。
I prioritize that by embracing as it unfolds in my life,。
like as things go and my day unfolds before me,。
and it's not going how I wish it would have gone,。
or even my life is not going the way。
I wish it would have gone.。
I wish I would have been married by this age.。
I wish I would have not moved to Dallas and lost my job.。
I wish there wasn't a coronavirus。
that was putting everything on hold.。
As that goes, I'm gonna choose to embrace,。
God, if that is your will, I trust you in the midst of it.。
I trust you're bringing things together for good.。
You've promised that in Romans chapter eight.。
I trust that you have a plan that you are bringing。
according to your wisdom to pass.。
He's using this clearly for good.。
Even where an outbreak took place in China,。
the church has been strengthened。
and people are seeing the way。
that Christians over there are responding.。
And it's just showcasing, man, Jesus is better,。
that he's using even the worst things he's bringing about.。
So I think as a Christian, I am confronted with,。
'cause candidly, what I get anxious over。
is not God's kingdom, it's over mine.。
I mean, I don't know about you, you probably never do,。
but when I get anxious, it's like the things。
I don't want to happen may happen,。
not like God's will happening.。
So whenever I'm confronted with things not going。
as I wish that they would, I can either be anxious。
or I can trust, man, God, as it's your sovereign will。
is unfolding in front of me, I trust you, I trust you.。
And my worries about I'm not ultimately。
gonna get what I want are kind of crazy。
because the truth of the matter, as we've talked before,。
is like, you're not gonna get everything that you want.。
Life and everything that you want it to go as,。
or however you want your life to go,。
it's not gonna always go the way。
that you wished it would, right?。
So you're not gonna get everything you want。
always, so you can have not everything you want in life。
and peace or not everything that you want。
in life and anxiety, but not everything you want。
or having everything you want in life,。
that's not an option, but peace is for the believer.。
And what I think is so hard, my son is into like superheroes。
right now and like Avengers.。
- Favorite one.。
- He like changes every day.。
So he wore a Black Panther for Halloween.。
He's wearing, candidly, he's wearing Black Panther。
right now, Wakanda.。
- My favorite movie.。
- And I'm not kidding.。
If you follow me on Instagram, you'll see like,。
that is every day.。
He's fighting the coronavirus with the mask of Black Panther.。
He's four, by the way.。
So anyways--。
- Black Panther's not getting the coronavirus.。
- No, oh dude, definitely not.。
- Honestly, he might be onto something.。
- He's got that purple thing that makes him so.。
Anyway, so he's like all about it.。
And his favorite one changes like every day.。
And so he has a new superpower like every day。
of like, man, I'll fly or I can do this.。
It's just like this made up superpower。
that he'll act like he has 'cause it's what you do。
when you're four.。
- Or 26.。
- Or 26.。
This stuff that JD was actually wearing。
his Black Panther costume right before we started here.。
We thought about wearing it, but no.。
It's a made up superpower.。
He doesn't actually have that thing.。
And when I think, I hear people talk about,。
times like this are hard 'cause I just struggle。
with control.。
Even our language around that is a funny way of putting it。
because it's like my four year old son saying,。
dad, I just struggle with super Hulk strength.。
And it's like, no, you don't son.。
That's not a good excuse for why you pushed。
over your sister.。
Because you have super Hulk strength, which is,。
that happens.。
- I see where you're going with this.。
- In the same way, somebody is like, man,。
I just struggle with control.。
You're like the four year old saying,。
no, I just have super Hulk strength that I struggle with.。
No, you don't.。
You struggle with, that's nuts.。
You struggle with not having control.。
You're delusional.。
You don't have control.。
You've never struggled with control.。
You struggle with not having control.。
And God has invited us to a life where we surrender.。
We say, God, I trust you.。
I can bring all my anxieties to you。
'cause you care for me.。
You're a father in heaven who loves me.。
And when things don't go as I wish that they would,。
I can pray and ask those things to change.。
But I've been invited to trust you。
'cause I know you're good and you love me。
and you're at work around me.。
So I'm gonna embrace your kingdom。
and your agenda for my life first.。
Does that make sense?。
- Yeah, that's so relevant to this。
because it's moments like this where you have no control.。
It just shows how much we can do nothing.。
We're literally just waiting around。
for Trump or whoever to tell us what to do next.。
And it just does something to us。
because we're so used to thinking we have control.。
I mean, something else that people are,。
this is kind of bringing up people talking。
about just all that's happened in 2020.。
Like I think about when Kobe died。
and Kobe, you know?。
And I think that's what people were most shocked by.。
It was like, he was this figure of like strength。
of like, I mean, he was just a rock.。
- It's still crazy.。
- Exactly.。
And then you see, boom.。
- Yeah.。
- It just gone.。
Life is a vapor.。
- Yeah.。
- And it's like, wait, no, not Kobe.。
- Yeah.。
- That can happen to random over here,。
but not Kobe and his daughter.。
Like what, what, how?。
And it's just, I mean, not even Kobe had control。
of his life and he had everything.。
- Yeah.。
- And so this, I mean, God is just doing something。
- Totally.。
- In 2020 where he's showing, I mean the whole world,。
but I mean really American people,。
what I'm seeing is like,。
I think there are parts of the world right now。
that are like, our lives are, I mean,。
this isn't the biggest deal to them,。
like it is to America.。
You know what I mean?。
- Oh yeah.。
- And we are like, what do we do?。
I mean, we're freaking out.。
- Yeah.。
- Because we just don't know how to respond。
to these kinds of things.。
It's really revealing, like you're saying.。
- Totally, man.。
So the final thing I think is so relevant for Christians。
as it relates to anxiety.。
So if you're going, hey, if you put them into buckets,。
it's that one, knowing God has called us,。
we don't have to live a life of fear.。
He's commanded us and invited us to pursue a life。
that perfects that peace,。
increasingly more perfect peace,。
no matter how imperfect the peace we experience now is.。
He's invited us to trust him, that he's at work.。
If you're a Christian, you can trust him.。
That'd be the second idea,。
that he's at work in the midst of your circumstances。
and you don't have to worry.。
Worrying is not helpful, it's not productive.。
And as things unfold in front of you。
that are not how you want them to go,。
God is saying, trust me.。
I love you so much, I gave my son for you.。
You can trust me.。
And ultimately, you can see that provision。
of a heavenly father through what he did through Jesus.。
And then the final most practical thing。
that I think is the most overlooked is prayer.。
That the number of people who,。
a number of times probably in my own life,。
that I felt anxiety and it didn't move me quickly。
towards prayer, but just towards further anxiousness。
and dwelling on whatever I'm worried about,。
rather than going, man, now I'm gonna take this moment。
and pray.。
And I don't know what it is.。
It's like that fog you get in when you get anxious。
where you can't even like snap out.。
You need somebody else to be like,。
hey, have you prayed about this?。
Like, have you prayed yet?。
And you're like, oh yeah.。
That's exactly what I should.。
Philippians chapter four,。
I think we've got this verse in there.。
Philippians chapter four verses four through six。
or six and seven.。
Yeah.。
It talks about, do not be anxious about anything,。
but in every situation and everything that you face,。
by prayer and petition with thanksgiving,。
present your requests to God and the peace of God,。
which transcends all understanding will guard your hearts。
and your minds in Christ Jesus.。
What is so nuts to me about this verse?。
It says the same thing three times.。
Like people will try to distinguish。
and we may agree to disagree here.。
If you go back and look at the Greek,。
the differences between prayer,。
which is bringing your request to God,。
petition, which is bringing your request to God,。
like asking if you petition something,。
you're asking for something,。
and then presenting your request to God,。
they all mean the same thing.。
They're so close.。
In other words, sometimes I've heard people be like,。
no, this is this type of prayer。
and this is this type of prayer.。
It's not really a great case for that.。
The usage is in the original,。
let's not even go into it.。
Point being, Paul's point is just,。
hey, go to God, bring your request to God.。
You should bring those things,。
whatever you're anxious about.。
First Peter chapter five says,。
cast all of your anxieties or everything you care about。
on God because he cares for you.。
Bring all of those things.。
So I think as Christians,。
we're reminded that we're to be in constant communication。
to bring every moment of anxiety that we have。
and bring those to our heavenly father.。
And we recently on my team,。
I'll illustrate it like this on our staff team here,。
we switched to something called Microsoft Teams,。
which I know you've been using。
or have been forced to use recently.。
- I have.。
- Microsoft Teams is like, for people who don't know,。
it's like a, if Evernote and FaceTime.。
- Zoom.。
- Yeah, and Zoom had a baby.。
- Yeah.。
- And maybe like another one.。
- It's like a Slack.。
- Yes, yes, that's exactly like Slack。
or like any work communication.。
It's like all those together.。
And we switched over it,。
like I think sometime last year, nobody ever used it.。
Like I'd never used it ever.。
- I did.。
- Production team may have, but our team.。
- We used it strong.。
- Never did.。
- And we're ready now.。
- And you were ready until our team never used it。
until this week.。
And because it allows you to like FaceTime and communicate.。
- Now you're all waking up.。
- Now we're all waking up.。
And so we are all over that thing。
'cause people are working remotely.。
And the reason that's relevant is it's like,。
hey, we never use that communication。
until a catastrophic event hit.。
And now we're all over that form of communication.。
- I'm just seeing, I mean,。
everyone's posted about it on Instagram.。
Like I just keep seeing all these leaders and stuff。
post their teams with all their faces,。
you know, on the conference calls.。
Dude, totally.。
- It's hilarious.。
- My guess is most of them never used that until this week.。
Until this catastrophic event.。
- And you don't even know, like they've asked us,。
like, it's like a thing that's like,。
hey, we need to use this.。
- Do this, yeah.。
- We got this to use it.。
And we're like, yeah.。
- Yeah, it's a point.。
- And it's hilarious.。
I know where you're going with this.。
Obviously, like God has asked us to pray.。
- Constant communication.。
- Constantly.。
- And most Christians, it takes a,。
just like in Microsoft Teams,。
nobody used it till a catastrophic event。
or catastrophe happened.。
- I hope I better come to God now.。
- That's when most Christians pray.。
And God has said, no, this is not the bat phone。
where it's like, man, every time there's an emergency,。
go to that one red phone and call it.。
It should be a constant walkie talkie。
or constant texting with God, if you will,。
through prayer of what I'm feeling, what I'm experiencing.。
So I want to give three questions really quick,。
and then four things that should mark Christians.。
Three questions, if you're experiencing anxiety,。
and I think we're probably close to wrapping up,。
is man, what am I anxious about really?。
In that fog of anxiety,。
I just want you to ask the question,。
what are you really anxious about?。
Like your friend, let's use her or him。
or whoever moved here, their job.。
- Her.。
- Her, I'm worried that I'm not gonna be able。
to make rent that I just signed a lease,。
and I'm worried that I won't be able to make rent, okay?。
- Yeah, here's what I want to first say to her,。
is like, that is so valid.。
- Totally valid.。
- That's what like, I want people to hear like,。
your concern is valid.。
- You should, you should be thoughtful, but let's--。
- And as a Christian.。
- Yes, if there's an irrational level of like panic,。
I'm freaking out, I'm worried,。
I think then you gotta go--。
- You gotta chill.。
- What's behind, like further behind that?。
Well, I'm worried I have to move back home with my parents.。
Okay, what happens if you move back home with your parents?。
I feel like I'm gonna be a failure,。
or that I'm not going, this is not what I wanted to happen.。
Okay, you're ultimately worried about。
you not getting what you want to happen,。
and that's okay, it's an understandable thing,。
but as Christians, we've been invited to say,。
God, as things don't go how I want them to, I trust you.。
So I just want to ask the question of like,。
what are you really worried about?。
Like, what is behind the worry?。
Most people just stop and they say,。
I'm worried about not making rent.。
Okay, well, what happens if you don't make rent?。
I'd have to move back home.。
What happens if you have to move back home?。
Well, I'm--。
- My mom's divorced and can't stand--。
- To be so toxic.。
- Yeah.。
- Okay, hey, you're worried that God may want you to be。
on mission to your mom for a season,。
and let's just be honest, you just don't wanna do that.。
You're worried about not getting what you want.。
So I just wanna encourage everyone to evaluate,。
really, what am I worried about?。
And then the second question behind that。
is what would scripture say to inform my worry?。
Whether it's, well, I don't wanna live with my mom.。
Philippians chapter two says,。
do nothing out of selfish ambition,。
like selfish desire, like what you want,。
do nothing in that way.。
So maybe the most loving thing is that God moves you back in。
because he wants you to be on mission to your mom。
who doesn't know Jesus and has that.。
So what is the lie behind there?。
And then I would, no matter where you are,。
as you're trying to navigate, what am I feeling?。
What am I really anxious about?。
And then what's the lie?。
What's the scriptural truth?。
What would God say about this?。
Like whatever's behind actually my worry.。
And then I would continue to pray。
and just bring those things to God, confess those things.。
God, I'm anxious, I'm gonna have to move back in。
with my mom, and I don't even wanna admit that,。
but I don't want to do that right now.。
Just say those, bring those honest prayers to God。
in the midst of this time.。
- I think that verse you referenced,。
I think a lot of people are familiar with that verse.。
Do not be anxious about anything but,。
and everything, prayer, supplication, all that.。
The ending of that verse, it says,。
"The peace of God, which surpasses all understanding."。
- Yeah.。
- Again, control.。
There's something about, like even in peace,。
we want to understand, like we want to know,。
how do I get it?。
How do I obtain it?。
And how do I know when I have it?。
- Yeah.。
- And there's just something about like,。
it's this peace that surpasses all understanding.。
So it's like, people are, I think they don't trust prayer。
because they don't really trust that they're gonna,。
it's like, how can I get peace from this?。
- Yeah.。
- There's no way.。
- Yeah.。
- If there's no way I can get peace from this situation,。
you don't know it, dude.。
You don't know what I'm going through.。
You don't know how much I have to pay,。
or how much debt I'm in, blah, blah, blah.。
And it's like, there's no way I'm getting peace from this.。
- Yeah.。
- They don't trust it.。
And I would just say to that,。
I've had to like take that step of,。
I don't understand it.。
- You know why I think Paul says that?。
This is kind of my opinion, but I think it's in the text.。
I think he implies that as you know God,。
and especially the more you know him,。
the more you bring those things,。
you're like, I don't wanna move in with my mom,。
but I know that you're good, you love me, you're for me.。
You got this, you're in control.。
Like you're a great dad.。
Like the more you know God, the more you go,。
here's what I wanna do,。
but it doesn't look like that's gonna happen.。
I trust you, you're awesome.。
- Right.。
- And I think the more you know God,。
the more you're like, God is awesome, he's for me,。
he's good, I can trust him.。
And people whose faith like amazes me,。
like, man, I got cancer and I'm praying God。
will take it away.。
But if he doesn't, that's okay,。
are people who know God deeply and intimately.。
So that's where I think the idea of imperfect peace,。
there's a perfecting to peace。
that comes through knowing God more.。
The more that you know him,。
the more that you experience increasing levels。
of that ever increasing peace or ever perfecting peace.。
And--。
- It's so, like I always say with prayer,。
for people that haven't actually practiced it,。
the way that we're called to,。
I always say like people who don't pray。
are people who have never prayed.。
And like, I know that sounds duh,。
but what I mean is like,。
once you have biblically and like how you're called to pray。
and communicate with God,。
it creates such change in your life。
that you're like, I don't ever want this to stop.。
And so I would just encourage people,。
like we need to be,。
like we need to pray now more than ever before.。
And like you said, pray,。
don't just pray like, Lord, take away the coronavirus.。
Like, I think a lot of people right now need to pray。
about those things that they're actually worried about。
and to spend time actually talking to God。
and not just like, you know, but communicating with Him.。
So that's good.。
- I, here I'll close this,。
close here and give you guys four things。
that I think God wants to mark us right now.。
In my front and backyard,。
I'm like trying to get grass to grow.。
It's a pretty frustrating thing.。
And that for whatever reason,。
God has sovereignly given me a yard that will not,。
that every year I like put down sod。
and then it dies or it gets patchy。
and it's like, good grief, this is so annoying.。
- Your neighbors have good grass?。
- Oh, they have great grass.。
Dude, they have the best grass.。
I'll take a picture and send it to you。
'cause it's like, oh my gosh, this is unbelievable.。
And I'm embarrassed and I look like the neighbor。
who's not trying and it's like, people,。
I am trying, I'm giving it 100 out here.。
- Hey, Marty, and he's like, hey, Dave.。
- Oh, dude, he's fertilizing, it looks incredible.。
Yeah, exactly.。
Anyway, so, but one of the problems is like,。
I'll get weeds will come in。
and I don't like to pick weeds。
'cause you gotta go down, you can't just weed eat.。
You gotta like get the roots, you gotta pull them out。
because those will choke out the grass.。
And the reason I share all that is because。
what's interesting is like weeds and grass,。
and this is profound, require the same thing to grow,。
soil and water and sunlight.。
Like those are the same things.。
I know this is not a botany class.。
- Facts. - Facts.。
They require the same thing to grow.。
And without those, they're not gonna grow.。
And what's interesting is faith and fear。
require the same thing to grow.。
The soil of uncertainty.。
And the same way that grass and weeds。
both grow in the same dirt or the same soil.。
So fear and faith both grow in the same soil,。
which is uncertainty.。
And in this time, yeah, you should write that down.。
- Can you tweet that?。
- In this time, God, I think,。
wants to grow the faith of Christians.。
As we face uncertainty,。
He wants us to begin to prune。
just like I'm pulling out the weeds so the grass can grow.。
Anytime those fears pop up, I'm taking those,。
I'm confessing them, I'm addressing them with God's word.。
I'm doing everything I can to bring others in。
and just say, man, I'm afraid of this right now.。
I don't think it's what God wants for me,。
the scripture says.。
I don't wanna confess those things。
'cause He wants us now.。
And I think there's such a huge chance。
for people in society to go,。
there's something different about Christians.。
They're marked in uncertainty.。
What's growing in their life is faith.。
What's growing in my life is fear.。
- Yeah, that's good.。
- And so how do I make sure that I'm disciplined。
to proactively, I wanna prune my life。
through confessing when I got a weed of fear there。
and addressing it with God's word.。
- That's what pumps me up the most about this。
is I think we've talked about this.。
I think this is a time like never before。
where the gospel and Christianity is just screaming.。
It's just proclaim to the world.。
- Totally, man.。
- And that is such a good, I'm gonna use that.。
- You mind if I?。
- Dude, you'd steal it away.。
Nothing to it.。
Hey, last four things.。
Do you know what time we're at?。
I don't know how much time we have.。
- I think we're in like.。
- 40?。
- Yeah, something like that.。
- Okay, here's the last things.。
I think it's worth flying through these really quick.。
- Okay, totally.。
What are they doing?。
- Yeah, they're hanging at home.。
- Netflix?。
- Knitting a sweater?。
- Turn off the Netflix.。
Good grief for that.。
- It is time.。
- You can knit while you watch.。
Here's four characteristics.。
I think scripturally that we shared earlier。
on Instagram live that I think are what God would have。
at least these things, Marcus.。
And as I pray through, like God, increase these in my life,。
that we should be in their four Ps.。
In this season, we should be prayerful as Christians.。
We should be marked by productivity。
and that we're not just, hey, every day, what do I do?。
I'm home, I can't go to work, I just Netflix binge.。
We should be marked by productivity,。
by proclaiming the gospel with people that are around us.。
Hey, you can go back.。
Go back to the one before that.。
Productivity, go back to the one before that.。
Go to the fourth one.。
Oh yeah, and practical.。
That scripture says, hey, we should be practical.。
So what do I mean?。
So very quickly, like prayerful.。
Colossians 4, verse two says,。
hey, be watchful, be devoted to prayer.。
That you and I should be praying for Trump,。
for the administration, for leaders.。
Romans 13 says, all those in high places.。
Or 1 Peter 2 says, pray for all those who are in high places.。
Prayer should mark your life.。
You should be praying for those who are sick.。
Pray for vaccine.。
Pray for a chance for the church to be strengthened。
wherever you live in.。
You should be practical.。
As in like, it's not heroic or extra Christian。
to be like, I'm not washing my hands ever.。
No, that's just selfish.。
One of my favorite verses-。
- I trust God.。
- In James 4, we were laughing about this before,。
where James 4 says, hey, wash your hands, you sinners.。
And which I know someone's like,。
that's not what they're talking about.。
I know, it's just a funny verse at least.。
- Yeah, yeah, yeah. - It's a funny context.。
So hey, be practical, be thoughtful.。
Don't be selfish.。
And be considerate of things to not spread。
the continuation of the virus around you.。
Be productive.。
Ephesians chapter five says, make the best use of time.。
So be productive.。
That's the third P, if you will.。
Like, how do I grow in my relationship with God。
in this unique season where I'm slowing down?。
How do I connect with God?。
And then proclaim.。
How can I use this through my interactions with my neighbors,。
through my interactions on social media?。
How can I showcase the gospel to people?。
And then I care for people and the needs of people.。
Maybe there's elderly folks around you。
and you go out of your way to not bring virus to them,。
but say, can I care for you?。
Is there anything that you need in the midst of this time。
to prevent them from having to go out in public?。
And also I wanna proclaim faith over fear。
that God is in control.。
I have a heavenly father and I know that,。
and I believe that.。
So man, I think that would be all that I have.。
- Dude, that's good stuff.。
- Come on, dude.。
- I know I'm encouraged.。
I'm walking away.。
Like, seriously, I'm not just saying this。
'cause you're my boss.。
Like, I'm walking away. - And he has to.。
- Way more empowered.。
Thank you.。
And just way more like,。
I feel like I just have more purpose in this pandemic.。
And I think I have a lot more now。
just to be equipped in to help people.。
'Cause I do think that this isn't over soon.。
- No, I think you're right.。
- And so I think grabbing onto resources like this。
are really helpful.。
So thanks for just taking time.。
I know you have a family.。
I know you have things that you have a lot going on.。
You're trying to run a ministry now, all digital.。
And so thanks for taking the time to sit down with us。
and those tuning in live right now。
and just sharing like your wisdom.。
It's like super helpful.。
- I would not miss it.。
We love Porch Nation and love my own family。
and love the Porch family get to be a part of.。
So let me pray.。
Hey, if you are on YouTube watching this,。
we'd love to hear from you.。
What are you going through?。
How can we be praying for you?。
You can go to the porch.live/prayer。
and we'd love as a team to pray for you.。
You can also send us and hit us up on Instagram。
and just let us know what prayer requests。
you may even put out an official one of those.。
And like you said on YouTube earlier,。
if you're hitting this,。
make sure to hit subscribe so that you're notified。
'cause we're gonna go live regularly。
and at least every Tuesday.。
- We're gonna try to like funnel more。
onto our YouTube channel.。
And so that's why we want you to subscribe.。
It's not like, girl, we're following.。
It's like, no, we want you to actually be notified。
'cause more than ever before,。
we're gonna be utilizing YouTube.。
So that's kind of the intent behind that.。
- I love it.。
Hey, let me pray.。
God, thank you for just a chance through communication,。
through digital communication and through technology。
and just all the different people。
that are a part of helping put this on,。
you're allowing us to still communicate your word。
all over different cities and states and people's homes.。
And so I pray that whatever we shared today。
was in line with your word would be remembered and applied.。
And would you deeper apply those。
and help JD and myself to more deeply apply。
just those principles to experience increasing peace。
in our own life from the God who's invited us。
to experience it.。
So we pray that you would stop the virus.。
You would provide a vaccine and a cure,。
but we pray that you would help your church to be strong。
and full of faith, not fear in this time.。
And so help us to be marked by that and to live that out.。
We love you.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
Would you come quickly?。
And if you don't, would you make much of yourself。
in the midst of this?。
We love you.。
Amen.。
- Amen.。
- All right.。
We'll see you next week.。
- Hey, well, elbows.。
- Elbows.。
- You guys stay safe out there.。
- This is like worth like $1,000.。
- Yeah.。
- Like that's incredible.。
All right.。
Hey, we'll see you next week.。
