[no audio]。
♪ Oh I, I'll tell you something ♪。
♪ I wanna hold your hand ♪。
♪ Wise men say ♪。
♪ Only fools rush in ♪。
♪ But I can't help falling in love with you ♪。
♪ You're just too good to be true ♪。
♪ Can't take my eyes off of you ♪。
♪ You'd be like heaven to touch ♪。
♪ I wanna hold you so much ♪。
♪ You know it's true ♪。
♪ Everything I do ♪。
♪ I do it for you ♪。
♪ I'm not gonna write you a love song ♪。
♪ 'Cause you ask for it ♪。
♪ 'Cause you need one ♪。
♪ You see, I'm not gonna write you a love song ♪。
♪ Have I told you lately that I love you? ♪。
♪ Have I told you there's no one else above you? ♪。
♪ Your love's got me looking so crazy right now ♪。
♪ Your love's got me looking so crazy right now ♪。
♪ Your love's got me looking so crazy right now ♪。
♪ Look, I'm so crazy in love ♪。
♪ Got me looking, got me looking so crazy in love ♪。
♪ Love's got me looking crazy right now ♪。
♪ Every little way you look at me ♪。
♪ Love's got me looking so crazy right now ♪。
♪ You're the only one I see ♪。
♪ Baby, it's very, very extraordinary ♪。
♪ And every moment's a dream ♪。
♪ Lead me to where you are ♪。
♪ Others who broke my heart ♪。
♪ They were like northern stars ♪。
♪ At last my love has come along ♪。
♪ My lonely days are over ♪。
♪ And love is like a song ♪。
♪ In the name of love ♪。
♪ One more in the name of love ♪。
♪ I really wanna love somebody ♪。
♪ I really wanna dance the night away ♪。
♪ I will always love you ♪。
♪ You always love me ♪。
♪ Give your all to me ♪。
♪ I'll give my all to you ♪。
♪ You're my end and my beginning ♪。
♪ When I lose, then I'm still winning ♪。
♪ When I see your face ♪。
♪ There's not a thing that I would change ♪。
♪ 'Cause, girl, you're amazing ♪。
♪ Just the way you are ♪。
♪ And when you smile ♪。
♪ The whole world stops and stares for a while ♪。
♪ 'Cause, girl, you're amazing ♪。
♪ Just the way you are ♪。
♪ The way you are ♪。
♪ The way you are ♪。
♪ 'Cause, girl, you're amazing ♪。
♪ Just the way you are ♪。
♪ 'Cause, girl, you're amazing ♪。
♪ Just the way you are ♪。
[cheers and applause]。
- Oh, I love it! Amazing!。
Oh, drop the microphone! Let's go!。
[cheers and applause]。
What a perfect way to start the next part of a dating series.。
"Just the Way You Are."。
That song was a perfect ending for where we're gonna begin tonight。
because that song is not only incredibly popular,。
but it's popular because in some ways it really is the cry of every person,。
particularly maybe it resonates with some of the ladies in the room,。
that someone would love you just the way that you are,。
and it exploded the Super Bowl.。
I mean, that song, I feel like I've heard so many different times。
because it resonates with so many different people.。
And what's interesting is that message of "you're loved right now,。
exactly who you are" is so counter to so many of the messages。
that we hear in our world about "you're not loved just the way that you are."。
But in order to be loved, you need to be different,。
or you need to change if you were thinner, or if you made more money,。
or if you had more hair, or if you had better hair,。
or different color hair, or anything with hair.。
If you had less weight, more weight, more muscle, whatever that is,。
the world around us screams that these are the things that are valuable,。
and if you would just be more this way, then you would be loved.。
And we're gonna discuss tonight a topic as it relates really not only to dating,。
but all men and women, and this subject of value,。
and where that comes from, because we live in this culture,。
in a society that has devalued and devalues something that God has assigned。
extraordinary value.。
And any time a culture or a person devalues something that God has declared。
of incredible value, the outcome is catastrophic.。
And so we're gonna go on a little bit of a journey,。
and I'm gonna have to set it up with a history lesson。
that will explain kind of where we're going,。
and indicate really what I mean by how dangerous this is.。
In the early 1990s, something took place in a country called Rwanda,。
which was called the Rwandan Genocide.。
Probably a lot of you guys saw the movie Hotel Rwanda,。
or you've heard about this, but in a hundred days, think about this.。
Like, this is crazy.。
In a hundred days, a million people were brutally murdered.。
A million.。
It was the worst genocide in the history of the world。
within that small of a time frame.。
Enough bodies that would fill up this room, and many others.。
And they weren't murdered by some incoming army,。
they were murdered by their neighbors.。
Think about that.。
How does that happen?。
A million people.。
And what happened was, in Rwanda,。
there were primarily two groups of people.。
A group called Hutus, and a group called Tutsis.。
And these two groups had a long history of animosity towards one another,。
and one thinking they were better than the other,。
and one thinking that the other was just cockroaches,。
they're less than us, they're not even human.。
And eventually, their relationship got so bad,。
that the Hutus, who would use labels and terms for the Tutsis,。
which were the minority in the country, that they're just cockroaches,。
they're not even human.。
Eventually, that way of thinking infiltrated their lives and their nation,。
that a civil war broke out.。
And in that civil war, all of the Tutsis fled to the edges of the country,。
and the Hutus pursued them and stomped them out on the basis。
that they are less than human.。
And a million people died in less than a hundred days.。
President Clinton said it was the biggest regret of my entire life,。
and my entire presidency, that I did not act sooner.。
And the mist was what was going on, because any time, in this case,。
human life, any time a person or a culture devalues or wrongly values。
something God has declared of incredible value,。
the outcome is catastrophic.。
In Nazi Germany, the same thing took place where devaluing。
something God had said is of infinite value, humans,。
made in the image of God, and they called women,。
all Jewish women are whores, all of them, and all Jews are rats.。
They're not even human.。
And they exterminated millions of people.。
We did it in our country when slavery existed.。
We said, "Hey, slaves, they're less than human."。
Then we did it with Native Americans.。
They're less than human.。
And any time a culture or a person devalues something God says。
is extraordinarily valuable, the outcome is catastrophic.。
And you're probably wondering, "Why are we talking about genocide。
and slavery? Isn't this a dating series? Where am I right now?"。
It's so relevant to the topic we're going to discuss tonight,。
because our culture has done something as specifically as it relates to women。
as we're going to see when it comes to the topic of devaluing.。
What's interesting, as we transition really to the first century,。
when we look at the first century, the context in which Christianity。
was birthed, so this is really historical, so I'm going to try to make it。
as interesting and clear as I can.。
What was going on then was not dissimilar from what was going on。
with the Hutus and the Tutsis.。
Only this time, it was not Tutsis that were being declared less than human.。
It was women.。
The first century world as it related to women specifically。
and the Roman Empire is a world we cannot even really begin to imagine。
because it would be so foreign to us.。
Infanticide or the killing of infants was so common, millions of baby girls,。
just the girls, were thrown out with the trash because no one wanted。
to have a baby girl.。
There was a dramatic shortage of women during this time,。
and there were so many men because no one wanted to have a baby girl.。
You'd walk past the trash and you'd hear the cries of a little baby girl。
because girls were of no value according to Roman law and Roman rule.。
They had no rights.。
They had no status.。
First century writing even records a husband right around the time。
when Jesus was born, and here's what he says.。
He's writing a letter to his wife, and he says, "If you're delivered。
"of a child before I come home, if it is a boy, keep it.。
"If it is a girl, discard it."。
One of the first laws of Rome, the law of Romulus,。
one of the first laws when the empire was formed,。
one of the first things written in the declarer is that any male。
that is born must be kept.。
Any human male, any healthy male that is born must be kept,。
but every household, you only have to keep one healthy female.。
All the rest you can totally discard.。
It was a world that was so foreign, and we cannot even begin to imagine.。
Prostitution was legal and encouraged.。
It was a form of birth control.。
Women had no rights.。
And not only that, it became so bad that men were in such power。
and women were just cattle that at some point marriage started。
to rapidly decline, and so two times--think about this--。
two times before the Roman Senate, bills came forward that said,。
"We want to mandate marriage because none of the men would marry."。
Why would I marry? I can have sex with the prostitutes all that I want.。
And if I marry, all I have to do is take on the obligation。
and responsibilities of a woman.。
So I don't think so. Two different occasions.。
In fact, it was so at the heart of their culture,。
even some of the most famous teachers that anyone in this room。
probably recognizes taught that women not only just were to be。
less valued, they actually biologically were less valuable than men.。
Here's what Aristotle wrote about women.。
He said, "The female is, as it were, a mutilated male."。
How about that? Encouraging for church.。
"For there is only one thing they have not in them, the principle of a soul."。
Plato said this, "It is only males who are created directly by the gods。
and are given souls. Those who live rightly return to the stars。
or to the heavens. But those who are cowards may be reasoned to have。
supposed to have been changed into the nature of a woman。
and come back in the second generation.。
That if you lived a right life, then you would go into the heavens,。
but if you weren't good, then you would have to come back as a woman."。
I mean, it's laughable, isn't it? But here's what's so crazy.。
This was the world into which Christianity was born,。
into which Jesus appeared. Jewish culture was not much different.。
There are rabbinical teachings or teachings from a rabbi。
from the first century that say this, "I would rather have the Torah burned。
than have it given or instructed to a woman."。
How about that for light-hearted? This is a common first century prayer.。
"Blessed are you, eternal God, who has not made me a Gentile,。
a slave, or a woman."。
I mean, think about that. Imagine. What if we started that,。
and that was the way that we started our church services.。
"God, I just want to thank you for not making me a woman.。
I'd like to invite all the men in the room to thank God with me。
that they have not been made."。
I mean, 60% of our audience would just step out and walk out.。
But this was the culture and the world into which Christianity was born,。
and it is so far and so hard for us to imagine.。
But then appeared Jesus, and into this world Jesus spoke,。
and He acted in a way that was so revolutionary。
and was so beyond anything anyone had ever seen.。
And then Peter, His follower, showed up, and Peter spoke。
as they embraced the teachings of Jesus as it related to women,。
and the world would never be the same.。
Jesus, one day in John chapter 4, in the Gospel of John chapter 4,。
Jesus is speaking with this woman who's a Samaritan woman.。
And Samaritans were like half-breeds.。
They were looked down upon in society.。
And Jesus is all by Himself, and He's speaking with a woman,。
this half-breed woman, and not just any woman,。
but a woman who had been married five times。
and was now exchanging sex for rent with her current live-in partner.。
And in the first showing of who He is,。
the first time He tells anyone, "I am the Messiah," it's her.。
His disciples walk up, and to us it's like, "Yeah, what's the big deal?。
They're a woman."。
His disciples walk up, and they're astounded。
because He's talking to a woman.。
They see Him in this conversation, and they go, "He's talking to a woman.。
Why is that astounding?"。
Because she's a woman. You don't talk to women.。
Men didn't talk to their wives in public.。
And He's talking with this woman, and they walk up,。
and here's what it even says.。
I mean, I've never noticed this before, but it says this.。
"Just then," verse 27 of chapter 4,。
"His disciples came back, and they marveled。
that He was talking to a woman,。
but none of them wanted to ask, 'What do you seek?'。
or 'Why are you talking to her?'"。
He's not only speaking and telling her before anyone else,。
"I am the Messiah,"。
but He offers her, asks to drink out of her cup.。
I mean, this would have been crazy.。
Drink out of her cup? Ew, gross.。
She's a Samaritan woman. There's cooties.。
That is disgusting.。
Who would drink out of the cup of a dirty woman。
who's been divorced five times and is exchanging sex?。
That's disgusting.。
Who would do that?。
God in the flesh would do that?。
I mean, it was like nothing the world had ever seen,。
and nothing His followers had ever seen.。
Another day, He's brought this woman.。
This is John chapter 8.。
And this woman who had been caught having sex。
with a man who wasn't her husband。
is thrown at His feet by these religious leaders,。
and they say, "The law says we should condemn her.。
What do you say?"。
And He goes over there.。
This is like more astounding。
than any of us will be even able to grab onto.。
He kneels down, He associates,。
and begins to speak with this woman,。
this unclean woman.。
And He tells her, "I don't condemn you.。
Go and sin no more."。
Jesus not only allowed women to learn,。
He encouraged it.。
And I'm telling you,。
we cannot even begin to understand how revolutionary,。
because He believed and He taught。
that every person, man or woman,。
has dignity because they are made in the image of God,。
and they should be treated as such.。
And then Peter shows up.。
And Peter, who helps start the early church。
and he gets it rolling,。
and he writes a couple of the letters。
that we have inside of our Bible,。
he shows up.。
And Peter, who watched Jesus do all of this stuff。
they had never seen before,。
stuff the world around them。
did not at all encourage or tolerate.。
And Peter, who watched it all。
as he's writing to these pagan men。
who just became Christians,。
in a world where women are nothing.。
Here's what he writes.。
And he writes in the context of husband and wives,。
but he says it's about all women。
based on who they are.。
And here's what he says.。
This is 1 Peter 3, verse 7.。
"Husbands, in the same way,。
be considerate as you live with your wives。
and treat them with respect as the weaker partner."。
The word "treat them with respect,"。
think about this.。
Why is that even in there?。
Peter, why?。
You're writing the Bible.。
Why do you have to write "treat them with respect"?。
Everyone knows you should treat them with respect.。
No, they didn't.。
Women, Peter, you're telling us I have to treat women?。
But she's a woman.。
And Peter said, "You don't understand.。
You are to treat them with respect."。
It's really the word "ascribe to them honor."。
It's the only time in the New Testament。
this phrase appears.。
That I want you, when it comes to the women in your life,。
those you are dating,。
those who you took out on a date。
that maybe you now try to avoid,。
those who you have just spent time with,。
the friends, the girls, all of them,。
he says, "Here's what I want you to do.。
I want you to ascribe to them honor."。
And I'm not just saying, "Hey, treat them as equals."。
I want you to honor them.。
How do you honor someone?。
If President Obama came in this room,。
all of us would know how to honor him.。
Or if the queen of whatever came in,。
we would know what it is to honor。
this distinguished person.。
But Peter says, "I want you to treat。
all of the women in your life with honor."。
I mean, it was revolutionary.。
Like nothing they had ever heard or seen.。
And he says this, "As the weaker partner,"。
which ladies, don't get offended,。
it just means guys would probably win in a fist fight。
or a boxing match if we had one in here.。
He ascribes this, "As the weaker partner,"。
and here's why,。
"and as heirs,"。
heirs was so significant。
because remember, women could not be heirs.。
"And as heirs with you of the gracious gift of life."。
So Peter says, "Look, I know they cannot be heirs."。
Woman and heirs, never been written before.。
That does not go together.。
And I know that's the way that things play out here,。
but I want you to understand something, men.。
They are co-heirs with you of the gracious gift of life.。
Maybe not heirs in this Roman kingdom,。
but they are in the kingdom of heaven.。
And so you are to treat them as heirs.。
That every woman you have ever met。
is someone who's not only made in the image of God,。
but someone for who Jesus died for on the cross.。
Heirs as in remember who her father in heaven is,。
and you treat them in accordance with that.。
That in essence, that you are dating,。
if you are dating someone,。
or if you know someone, the boss's daughter.。
A couple weeks ago, Todd came and spoke,。
and he spoke about just the way that he has any guy。
who wants to take his daughter on a date, call him.。
If you want to take him on a date, you know.。
And I was having lunch with a friend shortly after that,。
and he said, "Man, that guy was intense.。
"I don't know that I would want to take his daughter on a date.。
"It's just too much accountability."。
Here's what Peter's saying.。
You're accountable to an even greater。
and even more powerful heavenly father。
for the ways that you treat them so much so that--look at this--。
so that, in other words, this is going to be contingent on--。
or the way that you treat them is so important,。
and if you don't do so appropriately,。
so that nothing will hinder your prayers.。
Wait a second. Peter, you're saying that the way。
that I treat the women in my life。
is going to affect whether or not God hears my prayers?。
Peter, that's--but she's a woman.。
Guys, you're clearly not understanding.。
I want you to honor the women in your life。
and see them as heirs.。
You remember who her father is.。
The head of our marriage ministry today--。
we were discussing at Watermark--。
there's a guy who heads up all the marital stuff here,。
and he said, "Look, understanding that my wife。
"is God's daughter。
"will do more to impact the way I treat her。
"than 100 marriage books ever has."。
And these teachings were so revolutionary。
that Paul then shows up--。
the apostle Paul, who shows up after this--。
and Paul writes this.。
He says, in Galatians chapter 3, verse 26,。
"So in Christ Jesus,。
"you are all children of God through faith.。
"For all of you who are baptized into Christ。
"have clothed yourselves with Christ."。
And here's it.。
"There is neither Jew nor Gentile.。
"There is neither slave nor free,。
"nor is there male or female,。
"for you are all one in Christ."。
This is the very first time--。
secular historians say that men and women--。
this is so crazy--。
men and women were given equal value by a writer.。
You're looking at it right there.。
You're looking at it.。
This is the very first time in all of human history--。
secular history says the very first time。
that we know that men and women were considered equal。
was when the apostle Paul wrote in his letter to Galatians,。
chapter 3, that man and woman are equal.。
They are one in Christ.。
The Bible gets hit on for being chauvinist,。
or, man, they just don't treat women.。
That would have been so ludicrous in the first century.。
I mean, it would have blown people--。
you think the Bible is chauvinist?。
That's--yeah, that's a good one.。
I mean, it was crazy the way that they flocked to the church--。
women--。
because they were treated like nowhere else in the entire world.。
They were given such an elevated status。
at a time when women were not elevated in any way,。
and it changed the course of human history.。
I mean, think about it.。
In today, nations that do not have a Christian influence,。
women are still second-rate citizens.。
Malawa Yousafi, this past year,。
a 14-year-old Pakistani girl,。
was shot in the head for advocating for women。
to have education in Pakistan.。
40 million baby girls killed。
in the last couple decades in China。
because of the one-child policy, which says,。
look, basically people would have a baby girl,。
and they go, we'll keep her until we can have a baby boy,。
and then she's gone.。
163 million more men in Asia than women。
because of selective abortion.。
If it shows up a girl, we kill it.。
It is so not natural.。
In Saudi Arabia, women cannot drive cars.。
And all over where Christ and His people have not touched,。
it still remains the same.。
And Jesus showed up and spoke,。
and He changed everything because He said,。
every woman has such extraordinary dignity。
because she's made in My image。
and is someone I died on the cross for.。
And men, you are accountable to God。
for how you treat them,。
not just the ones that you date,。
but including the ones that you date.。
It was staggering.。
And here's why I think this is so important,。
because we live in a time and a culture。
that is devaluing women,。
and we are headed in a direction fast,。
or they are valuing the wrong thing.。
And any time a culture or a person or a people group。
devalues something that God has said。
is of extraordinary value to Him,。
the result is catastrophic.。
And every day, the message that's sent to women。
and sent to men is that women are objects,。
take me, use me, trade me in for another one。
whenever you get done.。
My body determines, or my beauty determines my worth,。
and it is devaluing and discarding。
everything that Jesus came to establish.。
Here's what I mean.。
If you look at the culture and the world around us,。
the movies, ads, everything that you see,。
it's sending a very clear message,。
and it is one of a deteriorating culture.。
I just pulled some of the top songs right now,。
not just any songs, these are the top songs,。
and the top five, three out of the top five right now,。
and what they say as it relates to the message of women.。
And here's what they say.。
Here's the first one.。
This is "Talk Dirty" from Jason Derulo.。
I don't even know if I can read this.。
"Been around the world, don't speak the language,。
"but your booty don't need explaining.。
"All I really need to understand。
"is when you talk dirty to me, talk dirty to me."。
I'm not even gonna read the rest,。
but you can just read through it.。
This isn't any song.。
These are the most popular songs in America.。
It's crazy.。
And if it's not to you,。
it's because you have been indoctrinated。
and you drunk the Kool-Aid.。
This is unbelievable.。
And any time a culture or world--。
let's go to the next song.。
This is Beyonce and her boo, Jay-Z.。
"Stumbled all in the house, back up--"。
I can't even.。
Okay, let's go to the next one.。
This is just--。
Timber.。
The big--we're done.。
I mean, just read it.。
It's crazy, and this is the message,。
and you're going, "Ah, I just like the beat."。
This is the message,。
and if you think you can listen to something。
over and over and over again。
and it not affect the way that you think。
or the way that you see,。
you're crazy, too, and you drank the Kool-Aid.。
And our world and our culture around us。
is deteriorating, and it's sending a message。
every single day as it relates to women。
being sexual objects,。
being bitches and whores and hoes.。
And as the church,。
we are not to stand, support, or allow。
or participate in.。
And you may be going, "Oh, what are you--。
"This is just the culture.。
"It's just kind of art."。
Newsflash.。
We, as Christians, have a superior culture in Christ,。
and any culture that is comfortable。
with calling a woman a bitch or a whore。
or a sexual toy。
is an inferior culture.。
(audience applauds)。
It really is important.。
It really is, because any time,。
as we talked about with Hootoos and the Tootsies,。
any time that you allow yourself to refer to someone,。
whoever they are, because of their skin color。
or whatever they are, male, woman, nationality,。
the amount of money that they make,。
any time that you allow to address a label,。
eventually, it gives you permission。
to treat them in that way.。
And it's not just music.。
Everywhere that you look, the message is the same.。
Women, your bodies are something。
that you leverage to get a guy.。
And depending on how beautiful it is,。
that's the amount of guy you'll probably get。
or be able to keep.。
And guys, women are things to be taken。
and used and traded in at the end。
for something better.。
And it is going to destroy the culture.。
And men, as Christian men,。
we have to stand up because there's a war going on。
and we're losing it.。
We're losing it.。
And is it any wonder why pornography in our country,。
I mean, you look at this stuff,。
porn is out of control.。
Rape is out of control.。
It's higher than it's ever been.。
Abortion, out of control, higher than it's ever been.。
It's more common to be raped today。
than to be a smoker.。
Can you believe that?。
It's crazy.。
Sex trafficking is exploding in the United States。
and people are going,。
"Man, we really got to get this under control."。
And you look at what entertains the world around us.。
And any time a culture celebrates。
devaluing something that God has said。
is of extraordinary value,。
the end result is catastrophic.。
And it will be for us.。
And these things are so important。
because all of us are being brainwashed.。
All of us, and I know it's like,。
"Doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, church,。
"we're being brainwashed."。
It is influencing the way that you think.。
Guys, I just want to talk to the guys。
for a few minutes as we kind of give some application。
to this as it relates to why this is so important,。
especially when it comes to battle of the sexes。
and genders and treating women and women,。
how you can respond and help us.。
Guys, a couple weeks ago,。
we read the verse in 1 Corinthians 13。
that just says this,。
"When I was a child, I talked like a child,。
"I thought like a child, I reasoned like a child.。
"When I became a man,。
"I put the ways of childhood behind me."。
And so I want to give just a couple ways。
that I think we as men in this room,。
especially those who make up the church,。
have got to put the ways of childhood behind us.。
Here's the first one.。
You need to change the focus.。
Change your focus as it relates to who you are looking for.。
The habit, generally speaking, of Christian men。
is that they will either come to Christ。
or they'll just be influenced by the culture around us to go,。
"Okay, so now I'm a Christian,。
"so I still want what I wanted before,。
"which is a supermodel woman who reads her Bible。
"every day at 6 a.m. and makes me brownies at night。
"and comes over and does my laundry."。
And that becomes kind of the focus of what we're looking for.。
And you are looking for a unicorn.。
They are not out there, and you are not going to find it.。
It's true.。
And here's all I'm asking,。
is that you would elevate character over curves,。
that that would be the focus for you.。
And I hope you marry gorgeous women.。
There's some in the audience right now.。
Maybe you should ask them out when we get done.。
But I hope that happens for all of you.。
All the girls are like, "Yes!"。
I really do.。
But here's what is so much more valuable.。
So much more valuable.。
Character.。
Character.。
And if you sacrifice character for a bust size,。
whatever bust even is, I'm not even really sure.。
If you sacrifice character,。
you are going to lose.。
The second thing you need to do is change what you're feeding yourself.。
I think this relates really to women and men,。
but you have to watch what you're feeding yourself.。
Whether it's the music you're listening to,。
what's coming in and going in your body.。
Or pornography.。
I don't know, we talk about porn, I feel like, every week.。
I know, maybe you're like, "Yes, you guys do. You need help."。
But we do it because there's so many in the room around you sitting right now。
who looked at porn today, and yesterday, and the day before it.。
And here's why that's so dangerous.。
Because every time you watch porn, you are going to school,。
and you're learning some lessons.。
Here's what you're learning.。
A real human body is not good enough.。
One real human body is not good enough.。
And your wife's future human body will not be good enough.。
And today, you are becoming what you will be as a husband.。
You've got to watch what you're feeding yourself.。
And for any of you that may be going to Regen or seeking help,。
women, here is where we need your help.。
We need you--I'll start off with this--we need you to change some things.。
We need you to change your target as a person,。
and don't focus on curves for yourself,。
but focus on the character that you maintain,。
which is of so much greater value.。
Any guy--if you're going, "Yeah, but I'm not going to get a great guy."。
Any guy who does not care about your character and only your curves。
is not a great guy.。
He's a little boy.。
A couple people excited.。
It's true.。
And you need to send him home to mommy and his video games.。
I'm being totally serious. I really am.。
And then you need to change, I think, your view on three things.。
And these three things are really, really important,。
especially maybe the first one for us.。
Modesty.。
We, as guys, need your help.。
And I know modesty is hard because I feel like the church has given this kind of bad rap。
about, like, "Yeah, modest is hottest, but not really."。
And so we need you to help us.。
And modest does not mean frumpy or dressing like grandma.。
I'm the most stylish, modest person in the room.。
But modesty--here's what modesty is.。
It's the best definition I know of.。
It is not hiding your body.。
It is revealing your dignity.。
And that is what modesty is.。
And we, as guys, we need your help.。
Even here on Tuesdays, we need your help.。
And you're going, "Oh, but that's your problem."。
You're right. We have a problem, and we need your help.。
And we will just keep turning the air conditioning up in here。
until people start dressing modestly.。
I'm totally kidding. Kind of.。
I'm totally kidding. Totally kidding.。
Although it may be a good solution.。
We need your help. I'm being serious.。
And then your body.。
Same thing.。
Your view as it relates to your body.。
Any guy who is pressuring you to have sex,。
or if you feel a pressure to have sex,。
you're not dating a man.。
You're dating a little boy.。
You need to tell him to go home, too, with his friend.。
I was like, nervous laughter.。
I'm not sure what just happened.。
And then just your value.。
You have such -- I'll just say this to the girls.。
I won't be able -- I'll fall short of what I'm about to try to do.。
You have no idea how high your value is.。
And I couldn't even begin to describe it.。
But God who sits in heaven says, as my daughter,。
you are of a royal bloodline, and I care so much about you.。
Every part of you.。
And your value is so high, I'll die for you。
before I would want you to degrade yourself or be devalued.。
And the world around you is sending you a lie,。
and me a lie, and all of the guys in the room a lie。
about where your value lies.。
I was getting married about a year and a few months ago.。
And when you get married, you have to -- you have a wedding.。
And when you have a wedding, you need a wedding ring.。
And so I had -- I was getting a wedding ring for my wife,。
now my fiancee then.。
And her grandma had these -- had some diamonds that I was given。
to, like, be a part of that wedding ring, which was awesome.。
I can highly recommend that for any of the guys in the room,。
if you are getting a wedding ring, as though you, like,。
can control that grandma.。
So I am getting these diamonds, and I have a ring made,。
and it's amazing.。
I mean, it's perfect.。
And at that time, I'm, like, breaking the bank to be able。
to make this incredible ring.。
And there's not much left in it after that.。
It's the most valuable thing that I own, which is so --。
it's so bizarre, because you're driving around in a car,。
and you're, like, if this thing falls in the couch cushion。
or in the car, we're done.。
I'm going to have to replace it with a rubber band.。
So we -- I get this ring made, and I give it to her,。
and it's perfect.。
She loved it.。
It was exactly what she wanted, and to this day,。
still the most valuable thing we own.。
And so I, this past week, had her go, because anything that's。
of great value, you often want to insure.。
And so she goes to get it insured and have it appraised,。
because you have to have an appraisal.。
We were told it was worth X amount of thousand dollars,。
and the guy comes back, and he had appraised it, and he said,。
"I'm sorry it took so long, and I wish I had good news for you,"。
which is not a great thing to hear at this point in an。
incident, but these are fake diamonds.。
They're not real.。
Shane, you jerk.。
These are fake diamonds.。
It was a lot sadder than this laughing thing that we're。
experiencing.。
Like, what?。
Grandma, what?。
Oh, my gosh.。
But we eventually said, "Somebody told you a lie.。
These are not real diamonds."。
The only thing that even makes this ring worth anything is the。
gold on the band.。
That's the only thing worth something.。
And it was like, what?。
And here's why I say that, because we thought, we had been。
told it was this amount of thousands of dollars.。
We had been told it was very valuable by trusted people.。
We had been trusting in the fact that this thing was of。
incredible value.。
But when we went to the expert, and we took it to him, he very。
quickly said, "This is worthless."。
And I know a lot of us in the room would say that we trust。
God.。
I trust him.。
Hey, if I said, "Hey, who trusts God in here?"。
"Oh, I trust God."。
"Who trusts Christ?"。
"Oh, I trust it in Christ."。
But if I said, "Do you trust what he has to say as it。
relates to your future spouse?"。
You may even say, "Yes."。
And I don't know if you know this or not, but the expert。
has said, "Hey, this is what's valuable, and this is what's。
not."。
I mean, that's worthless.。
Its value is leaving quickly.。
Here's what he said.。
He said this in Proverbs 31, which we talk about a lot, where。
he just said, "Look, charm is deceptive or deceitful.。
It can deceive you.。
Some of you have been deceived by a man or woman you thought。
was charming."。
And he says, "Beauty is fleeting.。
It's leaving.。
All of us are getting uglier.。
It's depressing, isn't it?"。
But he said, "A woman," or insert, "man, who has reverence。
for me, who fears in the posture of their life is to revere me."。
That is a woman or a man who is worthy to be praised, and that。
is what is of value.。
But that other stuff is not.。
And he, the expert, has spoken.。
And as you and I date and interact, or you date, I'm not。
dating.。
These are the qualities that are valuable and trusting God will。
take going, "Look, I'm going to trust that that's what I'm。
setting my sights on, and I hope everything else falls。
underneath it.。
But that's what I'm looking for from the God who loves you just。
the way that you are."。
I'm going to pray, and the band's going to close this out.。
Father, will you help us?。
Just dating is a miserable, terrible thing.。
And it is no wonder you didn't speak of it in the Bible,。
because there would have been chapters and chapters.。
And so will you help us just as my friends in the room navigate。
these waters?。
Will you prepare even now a spouse for them?。
Will you give them a renewed vision and renewed mind?。
Will you help us as men to lead the way in a culture that is。
headed downhill fast and devaluing this incredible gift。
you call your daughters?。
Will you help women in facing the temptation in a culture。
around us that says sex and your body are things to be。
leveraged?。
Will you help us to be modest?。
We thank you for Jesus who died on the cross, who not only。
showed us how incredibly loved we are and the teachings he had。
about women and men, but in the way that he died for all of our。
sins and came back from the dead.。
Thank you that we have new life to walk trusting in your ways,。
not ours.。
We pray all these things in his name, amen.。
Well, Jesus showed up and he changed not only the calendar。
and not only the world's view of women, but he changed many of。
the lives in this room.。
And he introduced and helped us understand even how we have a。
relationship with God, which I know everyone probably knows or。
maybe you know, but as Christians believe, it's not good。
people who go to heaven and trying to be good and bad people。
are the ones who go to hell.。
But it's forgiven people who go to heaven.。
Fundamentally, to be a Christian means to say, I'm not a good。
person.。
I can't be good.。
I need you.。
And if you've never had that conversation or you've never been。
a part of that, or maybe you just have questions, we have a team。
down here.。
We'd love to help work through and walk through and be a safe。
place for you to work through those things.。
I hope the guys don't feel discouraged.。
It's hard.。
So ladies, give us a lot of grace as we try to seek.。
Give us grace when we are trying to follow Christ's call and kick。
us to the curb when we're being little boys.。
But we love you guys and we think it's such a joy to get to。
serve with you.。
Go in peace to love and serve him this week.。
Amen.。
Have a good week of worship.。
[Applause]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
