[Music]。
All right, let's go, let's go. How we doing porch? Hey, I'm pumped to be here. My name is。
Jadie, if we haven't met. I serve as the associate director here at the porch on。
Tuesday nights and I'm just thankful we get to do this. It's not beside me.。
Y'all know this is crazy, right? Like this doesn't happen anywhere else in。
the world. Are we thankful to be here? Okay, I'm thankful to be here with you。
guys. I want to go ahead and say we are doing this series FAQ, frequently asked。
questions. I'm gonna take off my typical kind of more pastor, you know, let's do。
this, charge the mountain, Jadie, and put on my teacher hat and we're gonna learn。
together. So I hope you brought your journal, your pen, because we are gonna。
tackle a pretty big question tonight. Before I do that, I want you guys to help。
me give a big shout and welcome to our friends tuning in from Porch Live, Fort。
Worth, Porch Live, North Houston, and Porch Live, Midland, Texas. Let them hear you in。
the room here in Dallas. Before we get to tonight's frequently asked question,。
speaking of Midland, Texas, I want to tell you all about a time that I've only been。
to Midland one time. Anyone from Midland in the house? All right, two of you. That's。
what I thought. So before I worked at the porch, I lived in the great city of。
Collar Station, Texas. Any Aggies? A lot more than Midland, but when working at a。
ministry there called Breakaway Ministries, we did this thing where we。
were like, "Hey, let's take Breakaway on the road for a summer. There's so many Aggies。
that go home for the summer that are missing Breakaway. Let's go to all of our。
major cities where there are different Aggies across the state of Texas." And our。
last stop was in the beautiful city of Midland, Texas. And so we go to Midland。
and we're like on the last leg of the tour, and so we kind of got this thing.。
It's a well-oiled machine, and my job responsibilities were kind of passed。
away, and I had one job. It was to get the director, Timothy Atik, who's now the。
teaching pastor here at Watermark with us. My job was to get TA to his host home。
after the event so he could sleep because he had a big day the next day or。
something like that. So my job, drive him to his host home. So the night ends, he's。
talking to people, everyone kind of goes away. We get in the car, I type in the。
address, we start driving. And you would think these people would set up a host。
homes are already in an awkward situation. If you've ever stayed。
somewhere that you don't know anyone, it's like you're coming in after。
midnight, they may be asleep. Do they know you're coming? You never met these people.。
Is this the right address? Are you about to get taken out? You're walking into。
this home. Also, where am I supposed to know where the bedroom is? What if I open。
up the master bedroom? Like this is gonna be really awkward. So we're already kind。
of feeling uncomfortable. We're already kind of dreading this. But we're driving。
and now we find ourselves yawning. We've like found ourselves at the end of the。
conversation. We're both tired. We're looking down and it's getting close to。
like 1 a.m. And so I'm like, "Surely something's wrong." And he's like, "JD, we。
got to be getting close to the house." I'm like, "Okay." It says one more turn, point。
one miles away. And we turn and I want y'all to imagine suddenly the road was。
no longer black, it was brown because we turn on this dirt road. And we start。
taking off and the mask is still saying, "Go down this dirt road." So we're hitting。
all these bumps. I mean we're in the middle of the desert region of West。
Texas. There are tumbleweeds. There are like, what are they, jackrabbits? Jackalopes?。
Like up to my hip. There are huge rabbits. That's all I remember. Running across。
like looking at us like, "What up? What up?" I'm like, "The rabbits here are insane." And。
so I remember driving and all of a sudden it dawned on us like we looked。
around and you could not see a house, a building in sight. Like if it were。
daytime and you could zoom out, you would hear like, "Hello, hello, hello." Birds, you。
know, in the tree fly away. Like we were in the middle of nowhere with some。
coyotes. And so I look over at him and I'm like, "This can't be right." He's like,。
"JD, we are in the middle of nowhere. Like where are we going?" And he looks at a text。
and he looks at my address that I typed in and I look at the address that was。
sent to him and the address had four numbers and I had one number off. I was。
given the wrong information. And so long story short, we type in his address, put。
in the right information, turn around, head back, awkwardly come in at like 1:30。
in the morning and go to sleep. Why do I start there? Information matters. Right。
information matters even more. Our information in that moment, the wrong。
information led us to the wrong destination. We found ourselves lost,。
worried, alone, confused. And I think a lot of us, because we've been given wrong。
information, we find ourselves often confused, searching, empty, wondering,。
guilty, shameful, because information determines destination. For the Christian,。
it's really important that accurate information plus application will result。
in the right destination. That's why we're tackling this series. A lot of。
people aren't willingly inviting really controversial, hard topics to the stage。
because they understand all the different convictions and gray areas and。
opinions and the ways that you could potentially upset people, but we are。
committed to you guys to inform you with accurate, biblical keyword, biblical。
truth that is never changing, not shaped by culture, but shaped and defined by God.。
Because we believe all those salvation is given by faith alone. God is so kind。
to us as his children, he does not make us operate by faith alone. With God's。
Word, with God's people, with God's Spirit, we have so many answers that can help。
inform us, inform our faith, inform our life, inform our walk, and actually。
strengthen our faith. Because we do have answers. So that's how we talk about。
things like sexuality in the church. That's how we talk about things like。
messing up God's will for our life. And that's how we talk about things like the。
question we're asking tonight. The question we're asking, write this down, is。
"Can a Christian lose their salvation?" Can a Christian lose their salvation? If you。
were to go to GotQuestions, one of the most top Christian kind of resources。
online, it gives you the top listed 20 questions asked in the world. This。
question is the fourth most asked question on GotQuestions. "Can a。
Christian lose their salvation?" This question divides and literally creates。
different denominations because different people interpret Scripture in。
a different way, resulting in some people believing that you can or cannot lose。
your salvation. And I believe the reason why we got to talk about this is because。
what you believe on the other side of this question has huge implications on。
your life. Freedom and flourishing are an outcome of what you believe to be the。
answer to this question. Because for some of you, you might have been born into a。
Christian home, gone to a church, been raised in the church, said a prayer at。
VBS, and then at youth camp, and then kind of went off the path in college, and now。
because your friends come to the porch, you found yourself at the porch, and。
every Tuesday you find yourself coming back to God again and being like, "I'm。
sorry for what I did." And I sit with young adults time and time again, and I。
ask this question. They say, "Yeah, I'm a Christian. Yeah, I grew up in a Christian。
home." And as we start to talk about the faith more, I just say, "Hey, on a scale of。
one to ten, if a ten is I'm absolutely positively sure that I will get into。
heaven, where do you land?" And the people who say, "Yeah, I'm a Christian," often。
look at me and go, "Huh, that's a good question. I think a five. I think a seven." I。
ask, "Well, why do you, if you're a Christian, why are you not a ten?" And as I got my。
heart wrapped around this question, I did a lot of research and a lot of different。
studying of what the Bible has to say about this topic. What I've come to。
realize is most people who are coming into the church, they aren't actually。
wrestling with the idea of losing their salvation. They are actually wrestling。
with if they have ever been saved to begin with. Because when they look at。
their life and they look at the path they've taken, and if right now I were to。
ask you to imagine the moment if you were to get in a car ride on your way。
home and you were standing for God Himself, and He were to look at your life。
and to say, "Hey, should I let you in?" What would you say? I know for me, I wrestled。
with texts like in Matthew chapter 7 where it says, "Many people will stand。
before me in the day that Jesus returns," and they'll say, "Didn't I go to church in。
your name? Didn't I prophesy in your name? Didn't I go on mission trips in your name?。
Look at all I did for you!" And Jesus will say, "Depart from me. I never knew you." That。
question haunted me for most of my life because I always wanted the back of my。
mind, "Did I lose my salvation? Did I ever have salvation?" And because of that, it。
prevented me from freedom and flourishing, and that's where the enemy。
likes to keep us. The enemy wants to keep us. It's a perfect sweet spot for him where if。
he could have you coming to the church time and time again, and you come to a。
place that's meant to offer freedom, healing, and restoration, yet you walk out。
fearful, afraid, enslaved, because you don't truly know where you're at with。
God. So here's my prayer for this message tonight. For the person who knows。
that you know that you know, that you're like, "I'm a 10," I hope this message, first。
off, educates you how to educate others, but secondly, I hope it just strengthens。
your faith that you just want to press in and love God more until you're with。
him. For the person tonight who's wrestling, who would say, "I don't know。
where I'm at," I hope that this message requires you to wrestle. I'm okay with。
the wrestling. I want you to be honest tonight with God. Don't be distracted. Put。
your phone down. This could be the most important conversation you've。
ever heard, and God could be wanting to speak to you tonight so that you can。
stop the exhaustion that comes with wrestling, and you could be assured,。
because assurance is possible for every person in this room. There is an answer。
to the question, a black and white answer, a yes or no, to can you lose your。
salvation if you are a Christian, and we're gonna tackle it. So let's do it.。
Pen, paper, everyone ready? Say yeah. All right, here we go. To answer if a。
Christian can lose their salvation, we must first ask the question, "Well, what。
actually is a Christian? What is a Christian actually?" I think we have to。
start here, because right now, it's like, "Hey, what's a Christian?" You'd have like a。
churchy answer. You'd have a one-liner answer, but the reality is Christianity。
and what a Christian is in 2022 is a mess. The word Christian has lost its。
meaning through and through, time and time again. Ladies and some men, you。
really know this, because what happens? You see Christian in that Hinge bio. Do。
you think, "I'm absolutely sure, because it says it." Bio means like biography, his。
life. This guy, his life is marked by Christian. No, no, what do you do? You're。
like, "Uh-huh, I'll believe it when I see it. They all are Christians." Because the。
reality is, and I even tripping, "Fellas, we deal with the same thing. Girls will。
have the verse in their bio, and then they're like, "Never mind." But times have。
changed. Anyways, that is not the talk tonight. Dating series coming soon. But。
here's the thing. The reason why you want to see their life is because you know。
Christianity is not merely putting something on a description. Christianity。
is not something that you just say that you are when it's convenient to you to。
pick up someone, or when you're around your grandparents and they want to be。
proud of you, or when you want to get a job and you know the boss is a Christian。
owner or a Christian establishment. Christianity or being a Christian has。
nothing to do with you. It's not about praying a prayer when you were seven or。
at a youth camp. It's not about going to church. It's not about coming to the。
porch. It's not about the time that your parents had you sprinkled at your。
grandma's church when you were a child. Christianity... I was sprinkled. Any of my。
sprinkle friends out there? That was me.。
That's not what Christianity is. Christianity is not religion. Christianity。
is not being judgmental. Christianity is not someone who has high moral values.。
And we have to start with an understanding. If I'm gonna be able to。
answer the question, "Can a Christian lose their salvation?" I have to。
make sure that you and I are aligned on what we know to be a Christian is. What is。
a Christian? So, because one of the main things that we'll see when we get to。
heaven, God is... it's called Judgment Day, and God is going to look at all people。
and he's going to tell you, "Were you living like I called you to or were you。
not? Were you truly a Christian?" If right now I call myself an NBA player, does。
that make me an NBA player? No. I could have the jersey. I could go to the games.。
I could play the pickup game. But if I really... if you wanted to know, "Is JD。
actually an NBA player?" Where would you go? You go to the roster. You would go and。
you would look at all the rosters of all the teams to see, and guess what? Shocker,。
shocker, you're not gonna find my name. With Christianity, you can wear the jersey.。
You can come to the game that is church. You can sit on the sidelines. You can。
play church. You can have the cross tattoo. You can have the Jesus necklace.。
You can wear the Jesus loves you hoodie. But one day, there's gonna be a roster,。
and it's called the Lamb's Book of Life, and it's gonna have every player in that。
book. And God's not gonna worry about how the world defined Christianity. He's not。
gonna ask how culture defined Christianity. He's not gonna ask how you。
define Christianity. He's gonna want to know, "Did you live like I called you to。
live according to my word for me?" It's so important that we can define what a。
Christian is, not for how it makes us feel or how it betters our life, but how。
God defines it. So looking at the Bible, how does God define Christianity? We're。
gonna do this through a little illustration over here. Teacher JD is on.。
Here we go. First, a Christian is justified. Say justified. Say justified.。
What does it mean to be justified? This is language of a courtroom. God is the。
judge. We are the suspect. We have committed a crime against God. That crime。
is sin. God is holy. He cannot be in the presence of sinful man. And we were。
called to depart from our sin, to choose God, and what did we do? We chose sin time。
and time again. And the more we chose our flesh, the more we gave in to that。
temptation, the more separated and separated we were from God, the more that。
we were due a punishment. That punishment, eternal separation from Him in a place。
called hell. Totally away from God. The worst punishment that a man can ever。
experience. That's where we were at. But luckily for us, Romans 5.1 says, "Therefore。
since you have been justified by faith, you have peace with God through our Lord。
Jesus Christ." So I want you to imagine the scene in the courtroom. God is。
sitting there as the judge. He's looking down at you, the prosecutor. He's saying,。
"Hey, you have been found guilty. You have committed sin, a major crime against me.。
Your punishment is death." And right when he's about to say guilty, Jesus steps。
into the scene. "Therefore since we have been justified by faith through who? Our。
Lord Jesus Christ." Jesus stands up and says, "I'll take it. I'll take it. Give the。
death to me. Give the penalty to me. I'll take it." How did he do that? He came down。
to earth. He walked earth in skin and he had bones just like us. He was fully God。
and fully man. The difference in us is he was gonna be the atonement for our sins.。
The perfect sacrifice for our sins. The payment for our sins. How did he do that?。
He remained perfect in every way, making him an appropriate payment for our。
penalty. He lived on the earth 33 years. He then died a sinner's death on a cross.。
He hung there and on that cross he took every sin that you committed against God。
that deserved death. He took it and he died in your place on the cross. And if。
you put your faith in that, what happens? You are justified. You are now a。
Christian because you've been justified by faith. You were once。
opposed to God. Now therefore, because we have been justified by faith, we now have。
peace with God. Because of the death, burial, and resurrection, Jesus went into。
the grave three days. Three days later he rose from the grave conquering sin,。
conquering your shame, your guilt. So now you don't have to be afraid of death. You。
don't have to be afraid of a penalty. You can stand free before God. Because of。
Jesus, you are justified. Once opposed, now at peace. But how do we obtain this peace。
with God? Not by works, but by faith. Ephesians 2, 8 through 9 says, "It's for by。
grace you have been saved through faith. This is not of your own doing. It's a。
free gift of God, not as a result of works that no man can boast." We have。
nothing to do with this. We have nothing to do with this story. It has everything。
to do with what Jesus has done in our place. You were justified because of。
Jesus. All because of Jesus. A lot of times when I sit down with people and。
they're questioning, "Okay, I think I want to be a Christian. I just don't know how."。
And if I were to stand before God and he were to ask me, "Hey, why should I let you。
into heaven?" Well, I look at him and I say, "Well, let's say you're standing before God。
and he asks you, 'Why should I let you into heaven?'" And here's oftentimes what。
they'll say. "Well, because I..." I'll go, "Eh." We'll talk some more and we'll flesh it out。
some more. I'll say, "For by grace you've been justified through faith. This is not。
of your own works. It's nothing to do with you. It's the gift of God." So then。
I'll say, "You're standing before God. You died. You're there. You're seeing God. And he。
says, 'Why should I let you in?'" "Well, because I..." "Eh." So then go back. We'll go back.。
We'll go back. Okay. Not because of anything you've done. It's the great。
exchange. You did nothing. You got everything. You're standing before God.。
And he says, "Why should I let you in?" And it's like, the lights go off. And every time,。
a big smile. And they go, "Because Jesus." And I grab and I'm like, "Yeah, let's do it! Let's do it! Because Jesus!"。
And I'm like, "That's right!" And they're like, "Because Jesus took my sin on the cross. He paid it. He went to the。
grave for me. Now I can be free. No more shame. No more guilt. That's why. Because。
of Jesus." And I'm like, "Yeah!" And they're like, "What do I do now?" And I'm like, "It's not like, 'Ugh, I can feel it!' It's not like that."。
But we are told in Romans 10, 9 through 10, "And if you confess with your mouth。
that Jesus is Lord, He's not just your friend. He's Lord. He's worth your all.。
He's worth your surrender. If you will confess that Jesus did do this for you。
over 2,000 years ago. He did die on the cross. He did defeat sin. He did pay your。
payment that you deserve, that you owe to God. If you will confess with your mouth。
that He is Lord, and you will not just say it, you will not just put it on your。
bio or tattoo it on your arm, but you will tattoo it to your heart. You'll。
believe in your heart that God, through the power of the Holy Spirit, raised Him。
from the dead. You will be saved. For with the mouth, one confesses and is saved.。
With the heart, one believes and is justified." That's what the Bible tells us.。
So then I say, "Do you want to confess with your mouth and believe with your。
heart?" They say, "Yeah. Yeah, I do." And in that moment, salvation takes place and they。
become a part of the family of God. They are justified. And they're not just。
justified though. Then they become verified. Everyone's trying to be verified。
on Instagram. You don't have to be verified on Instagram. You can be verified。
by what? By the Holy Spirit. Because upon being justified, upon being saved, becoming。
a Christian, one of the biggest marks of a Christian is they are sealed with the。
Holy Spirit. Say, "Verified." Say, "Verified." By who? The Holy Spirit. Ephesians chapter 1.。
Here's what it says in verse 13. "In Him you also, when you heard the word of。
truth," so the word of truth, what I just proclaimed, "the gospel of your salvation,。
the good news of Jesus Christ and what He's done for you, and believed in Him,。
were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of your。
inheritance until we acquire possession of it to the praise of His glory." I want。
to keep this one pretty simple. We know, when we think of the word "verified," like I。
said, on Instagram, the blue badge. I want to rant for just a second. I think it's,。
the blue badge is losing its power for me. It doesn't mean anything. I go on。
there sometimes, I see people with like 2,000 followers with the blue badge, and。
I'm like, "How did you, there's some kind of black market, shady stuff happening。
behind the scenes. People are getting these blue badges and now it's losing。
its meaning." Because why? What was the blue badge intended to do? It was intended to。
verify and say, "Hey, this is truly who I am. Anyone else that tries to use my。
username, anyone else that tries to claim to be this brand, this is the one.。
This badge verifies who I am and where I belong." I'll just say it. Some of you,。
you got this blue badge, you got like 200,000 followers, 28 likes, bots, bots,。
bots. You've been buying those followers. I'm just gonna say you need to repent。
and you can get rid of them, okay? But,。
verified, that blue check says, "Hey, this is who I am. This is me." In the same way,。
Paul says in Ephesians chapter 1, that the Holy Spirit, upon salvation, comes。
inside of you and now he verifies you. Romans chapter 8 tells us that the。
Spirit of God, the Holy Spirit, bears witness now with the Spirit inside of us。
and it sees us now as a child of God. We now are identified as a son and a。
daughter of God because the Holy Spirit identifies and verifies the Spirit in us.。
Upon salvation, we are given the promised Holy Spirit, but we're not just given。
him, we are sealed in him. This language comes from, I literally just learned how。
to do this, so bear with me. I'm not gonna do it right now, but anyone know what。
this is? This thing? I don't even know what it's called, actually. So, if someone knows, let me。
know. It's like a stamp seal thing of like the olden days. The people that are。
really bougie put on their wedding invitations, okay? So, this right here is a。
seal made by this. I did it myself. These are wax beads. I took the wax beads, I put。
them inside this thing, and people thought I had a meth lab in the back.。
Because then I take it and I took a lighter and I opened flame, burnt them。
mugs, and so then after I burnt the wax, I then poured the wax onto this envelope。
right where it closes it, and then I took this guy and I stamped it. I sealed it.。
The reason why they would use these back in the day is because the only way that。
this could be opened was when it got into the proper hands of the recipient,。
the proper recipient of the letter. If the letters would get to the person it。
was meant to go to, and if any way it were opened, because once these seals are。
broken you cannot reseal them. You can't. So, if it ever got to someone and it was。
broken, that person went through severe punishment. Because these types of seals,。
once broken, cannot be resealed. And it was really important that the letter was。
not tampered with, especially back in the war days, because he wanted to make sure。
that it was valid or verified information going to the proper hands. So。
they create a seal that could not be broken until given to the right person.。
You are sealed with the Holy Spirit upon salvation and it cannot be broken. It。
says one day it guarantees that you will get the inheritance. You will be in。
heaven with God. He is the receiver of you and then he will see the Holy Spirit。
as your seal. The Holy Spirit will be what verifies you and because of the。
Holy Spirit in you, you will now be with him and experience your inheritance in。
heaven. So upon salvation you become a Christian when you are justified, but not。
only just justified by faith apart from works, you now are verified with and。
sealed with the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit has many roles in the life of the。
believer. Not only does it verify us, not only does it empower us, but it also。
sanctifies us. The third thing that marks a Christian is that they。
are sanctified. A Christian is being sanctified from sin. This is one of the。
biggest... You have to understand what sanctification is for the life。
of the Christian. What it means. Because this is where we kind of start getting。
into the whole conversation of religion versus relationship. If you don't。
understand why we have sanctification, why we're called to be sanctified. What。
is sanctification? Sanctification is basically when you become a Christian,。
when you are born again and given the Spirit of God, you now are called to be。
sanctified. Which means that you are gonna learn the things of Christ through。
His Word and through His Church and through His Spirit. You're gonna learn。
the things of Christ to begin to look more like Christ. 2nd Corinthians 5 17。
says, "Therefore if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed。
away, the new has come." Notice it did not say improved. You are an improved。
creation. You're not a better version of yourself. You are a 100% new。
creation. I think a lot of you wrestle with your salvation because you。
proclaimed with your mouth that Jesus was Lord, yet you did not make Him Lord。
of your life. And you're supposed to look new, but yet you still look like the。
world. And it makes you confused. Because nothing changed. But when you encounter。
Jesus, when you encounter the indwelling of the Holy Spirit and the power of God。
comes inside of you, suddenly going out doesn't hit like it once did. Bottle。
service isn't as fun as it once was. You and your girlfriend, y'all hook up and。
now, dang it, I feel guilty after. What is this? Lingering on social media,。
watching those things on Netflix, listening to that kind of provocative。
music. Those things just aren't doing it anymore. Why? Because you're new.。
Because now you are a new creation and you, because of the Holy Spirit in you, is。
being sanctified. You are being sanctified, renewed, day by day, looking。
more like Christ. The Bible refers a lot to us in our spiritual walk as we begin。
when we're born again. It's that illustration that we become like an。
infant and we need milk. We need spiritual milk. But as we mature and。
become more sanctified, more like Christ, we go from milk to solid food, that we。
can start to understand the more mature aspects of Christianity. Some of。
you, you question your salvation because you've been a Christian since you were。
seven, yet you're still on milk. There's no evidence of a readiness to。
encounter solid, mature food. You don't know God's Word. You don't know。
how to be called out by community. You don't know how to be active in your。
church. You wonder why you don't see God do a great work in your life. It's。
because he's still small in your life. He's not God of your life. And so I'm。
here to tell you that sanctification, it is not popular, it's not sexy, it's not。
trendy, but on the other side of that obedience is where you will see the most。
flourishing in fruit and intimacy and thriving in your gifts and calling like。
you were created to. It's who you were created to be in Christ. You cannot claim。
to love God and not make him Lord, not be obedient to God in his Word. You're。
called to be sanctified. Romans 6, I believe, tells us that just like you are。
alive in Christ, you died like Christ. You died to your own self. Therefore, how can。
someone who says they died to their sins still live in it? He talks about abusing。
God's grace. Just because God's grace is overflowing for you, you shouldn't。
just say, "Well, I'll do this because I'll get more grace. I'll get more grace." No, he。
says, "To love me is to be like me. Be holy as I am holy." Holiness just means set。
apart. If you look like the world and you're supposed to be looking like Jesus,。
how are you doing? Talking about sanctification, I can't help but talk。
about my marriage. It's full of sanctification.。
Hi, Jenna. I love you, girl. I was actually being sanctified last night. I made more。
like Jesus, laying down my life. In marriage, here's what's funny. I think。
when I was single, I thought that when I was married, everything would feel。
immensely different. We joke all the time because you're like, "We're。
married!" Everyone's like, "Sparklers!" You run out and you're getting the。
card. You're like, "We just have an adrenaline rush." Then you do。
stuff and you go to sleep. I'm like, "Am I just gonna skip over that?"。
I'm gonna be more sanctified tonight after saying that.。
The next morning, though, I remember laying there and being like, "I'm。
married." I'm like, "Is this real?" Then I turn over and I see a girl in my bed.。
I'm like, "Boop, boop!" I poked her for like two weeks. I'm like, "Is this real?"。
Why? Because I entered into this new relationship and it felt weirdly no。
different. But the reality was everything was different. Everything was different。
forever. What now it requires of me in this relationship with Jenna is that。
as I seek to love her more, I must first seek to love God more. As I seek to。
love her more, I'm now thinking of myself less. I'm loving her more because I'm。
loving God more. In that process, I'm realizing how selfish I am, how many。
problems I got, how frustrated I can be, how prideful I can be. I'm being。
sanctified. You don't have to be married to be sanctified. You are called to be。
sanctified the moment you enter into this relationship with God. I think a。
lot of us, we think salvation, becoming Christians, are gonna be this huge。
feeling that takes place. Obedience, it's not because of some feeling that, "Oh, I do。
this to get some feeling." No, no, you do it despite what you feel because you love。
Him. That's what sanctification looks like. A Christian is marked by。
sanctification. And then lastly, a Christian is not only sanctified, not。
only verified, not only justified, but we are glorified. Praise God, hallelujah. We。
will be in glory. Another way of saying that is we will be one day made。
completely new in heaven. We live a life now of sanctification to look more like。
Jesus until one day we are truly restored and like Him in our glorified。
bodies in heaven. How do I know this? John 3, 16. A verse we all learn. "For God so。
loved thee that he gave his one and only begotten, that whoever believes in him。
shall not perish but have everlasting eternal," tomato, tomato, "you have eternal。
life." God gave his son so you could be glorified in eternal life forever with。
him. But here's the thing. To get heaven, you have to first put your faith in。
Jesus who justifies you. I think because a lot of us have followed religion for。
most of our lives, we live with a mentality that to get heaven we operate。
out of a performance-based acceptance mentality that I will be accepted into。
heaven based off my performance. But a relationship with God, the mark of a。
Christian is someone who understands, no, no, no, I operate out of an acceptance-based。
performance with God. I do not perform to be accepted. I do things. I become。
sanctified. I follow God's commands because I've been accepted. This is the。
process of becoming a Christian and it is really important that you don't put。
doing for God before being justified by Christ. If you had to do to receive,。
sanctification would be right here in the process. You would do things to be。
like God to get God. But Romans 5:8 tells us that God demonstrated his own love。
towards us that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. While we were。
still sinners, Christ died for us. Therefore, you don't get heaven, you don't。
get accepted by God because of what you've done. It's all about faith and。
what Jesus has done for you. And if you would believe that, if you would believe。
that it's because of Christ, it's in Christ and through Christ, that's。
embarrassing, it's in Christ that you are justified, verified, sanctified, and。
glorified all because... You don't gotta clap and make me feel better about it being。
upside down. No, but you can't clap for Jesus because in Christ, in Christ, and。
through Christ, because of Christ and him alone, you can be a Christian. You can be。
Christ-like. That's what makes a Christian. By faith alone, not by works,。
the Spirit in you, being like Christ until you're with him in glory. So now to。
answer our question, if this is what God defines as a Christian, can a Christian。
lose their salvation? Can a Christian lose their salvation? Studying the Bible,。
studying interpretations, biblically the answer, just point blank, is absolutely。
not. In no way, shape, or form can a true Christian indwell by the Spirit of God。
according to the power of God for the glory of God through Christ alone. Can。
they lose their salvation? And I'm gonna answer it quickly using the same。
illustration of why we know that's true. If a Christian is justified by faith。
alone, not by works, like Ephesians 2, 8 through 9 says. Titus 3, 5 also says that。
he saved us, not because of our righteousness, but according to his own。
mercy by the washing of regeneration and the renewal of the Holy Spirit. He saved。
us not because of works. If we are justified and we did nothing to earn our。
salvation, that means there's nothing that we can do to lose our salvation. If。
you did nothing to earn it, there's nothing you can do to lose it. If your。
actions could dictate your salvation, that means that your actions determined。
your salvation. But it had nothing to do with your actions. We just talked all。
about it. It was everything that Jesus did for you. So just like you didn't get。
your salvation, you can't, there's nothing you can do to lose your salvation. Also,。
to be justified by Christ means that Christ was the perfect payment for your。
sins. To say that there's something that you can do that would take you from。
justified to guilty would mean that when Jesus stood up and said, "I'll take the。
payment," God said, "Jesus, you're not enough." No, because they're gonna do this。
action down the road that your blood will not be able to cover. To say that。
there's something that you could do to lose your salvation would mean and。
diminish, it would diminish the power of what Jesus has done for you. It would。
mean that the blood of Christ covers just part of you but not all of you. But。
we know that that's not true. We see it in 1 Peter chapter 1. "For you know that。
God paid a ransom." He paid his one and only Son to save you from the empty life。
you inherited from your ancestors. It was not paid with mere gold or silver, which。
loses their value. It was the precious blood of Christ, the sinless spotless。
lamb of God. Everything Jesus did to pay for you paid for it all. It was perfect。
in every way. It covered every sin of the world, past, present, and future. To say。
that there's something you can do that means that you could lose your salvation。
means there's something that Jesus has done that wasn't enough. So in the same。
way that there's nothing you did to get it, you can't do anything to lose it, and。
the same way that you could say, "Well, something I've done could have me lose。
it," that means that what Jesus has done is not enough. The next thing that we see,。
there's something that you can do to lose your salvation. It would mean that。
you were actually never verified. You were actually never sealed with the。
Spirit. Whenever I take one of these envelopes, and it doesn't have the seal。
on it as you can see, this is one of those like, you know, clothes, I don't trust those。
kind of envelopes. I put tape on it still even after looking at that thing.。
Because I don't trust it. I don't trust that it won't be popped open. That's。
basically what you're saying. If you can revoke your salvation, you are saying。
that the Holy Spirit could be unsealed. That the Holy Spirit won't keep His。
promise to give you your inheritance. What is your inheritance? Glory. Eternal。
life. John 3:16 says that we will, as Christians, receive eternal life. If。
there's something that you can do to take back the gift of eternal life, was。
it ever truly eternal? If you get eternity, that gift, upon salvation, and。
let's say I gave you a gift, and I said you can have it forever, and I walk away。
for a few years, and then I come back and I say, "Okay, I want it back." What did。
forever mean? It didn't mean forever. That's what you're saying God is doing。
to you. That He's basically this Indian giver. That He gives you the gift of。
eternal life, and then, "Oh, but you did that thing. Okay, it's not eternal. I want it。
back." To say that you can lose your salvation is to change the definition of。
the gift of eternal life that you receive the moment you are saved. So to。
say you can lose your salvation, to say that God is not trustworthy, that God。
will take back what He's promised, and God will take back the gift that He's。
given to you, all three of those things are inconsistent with what the Bible says is。
the character of God. God is trustworthy. God has given the gift of His Son in。
eternal life, really, and He's not taking it back, no matter what you've done. The。
two biggest oppositions to this question, people say, "What about the Christian who。
lives in unrepentant sin?" They get that from Hebrews chapter 10, verse 26. If you。
want to talk about the context of how that's written to the Jews, and how the。
Jews at the time did not believe that Christ was the Messiah, and all that。
Hebrews meant for them, and the supremacy of Christ, come down front. We'll talk。
about it. I don't have time. But they say, "What about the Christian who lives in。
unrepentant sin?" The second opposition is out of Hebrews chapter 6, verses 4。
through 8, and they ask, "What about the person who was a proclaimed they were in。
the faith, but then they went away from the faith? They're now practicing a。
different lifestyle. They're an atheist." The problem with these two oppositions。
is they come with the assumption that these people were actually Christians to。
begin with. That's why I spent three-fourths of this message defining。
what a Christian is, because that is the force behind this argument. If。
you are someone who lives in unrepentant sin, 1 John chapter 3, verse 6, says。
that if you know God, if you abide in Him, you will not continue a life of sin.。
1 John also actually says that if you walked with us, and you looked like。
us, and then you walked away, you were never one of us. 1 John chapter 2, 23。
through 24, it says, "No one who denies the Son has the Father." No one who denies the。
Son has the Father. So if there's any point in your life where you say, "No, I don't。
believe Jesus has done this for me," you do not have the Father. You never had the。
Father. That's what the Bible would teach in 1 John. Look it up. Chapters 1, 2,。
and 3. They might have been religious at one point. They might have been in。
church at one point. They might have done cool spiritual things at one point, but。
the Bible teaches us that they did not have a relationship with God. So I could。
go on and on with all the scriptures that point to the confidence that we can have。
and possess in our salvation. There's just an overwhelming amount of how God。
just confirms time and time again in Romans chapter 8, "There's nothing you can。
do to separate you from the love of God." Nothing. Nothing. The word "nothing," what's。
it mean? Nothing. There's nothing you can do to separate God from his children. In。
John chapter 10, it's a lot of words in a short amount of time. John chapter 10,。
Jesus says there's no nothing, nothing on earth in this world that can snatch us。
out of our Father's hand. Luke chapter 15 talks about how Jesus, He gives this。
analogy of a lost sheep and how He gladly, gladly takes ownership of leaving。
the 99 to go after the one. That's the character of who our God is. He goes。
after the rebellious. He goes after the child who's wayward. He goes after, He。
waits for the prodigal son to return. He doesn't reject. He doesn't push away. Yes,。
can you walk away from salvation? Can you walk off the path of a relationship with。
God? Sure, but God is not walking away from you. He has not walking away from。
you and He is right here calling you tonight. If you have been wrestling, if。
you could not say you're a 10, if you have been wondering where you are at。
with God, it's time to stop wrestling and it's time to know that you know that you。
know because on the other side of that assurance is flourishing. There's freedom。
and the life of a Christian is meant to be marked by freedom. And so if you're in。
any place tonight going, "Yeah, I don't know. I'm standing before God and I don't。
know if I'm saved. I don't know if I'm not saved." That can change. So here's what I。
want to do. I want everyone to bow your head, close your eyes, and I just want to。
take a moment and I want to ask this question. I want you to ask the question,。
first off, 1 to 10. 10, I am confident that I am going to be glorified. I'm gonna see。
Jesus face to face. God is going to let me in heaven, not because of anything。
I've done. I'm confident. Where are you at? Scale of 1 to 10.。
There's some of you that maybe you are wayward. Maybe you come here tonight and。
you don't know where you're at with God. Sure, yeah, you believe there is a God and。
sure, yeah, maybe there was a moment that you professed him as Lord but he hasn't。
fully been Lord of your life. Your life would look nothing like a new life. Sure,。
you prayed a prayer but nothing changed and you want change. You want to be。
sanctified. You want to look more like Jesus.。
Maybe for some of you, you've been struggling with an addiction or a secret。
sin for so long and you're terrified to one day stand before God and you're。
terrified that you might hear the words, "Depart from me, I never knew you."。
Wherever you're at tonight with your relationship with God, my prayer for。
tonight's message is that we would no longer continue the exhausting life of。
wrestling but we would know. We would know where we stand. We wouldn't be。
lukewarm. We would be all in. So here's what I'm gonna ask you to do. If that is you。
tonight, if you're tired of coming to the porch every week and praying the same。
prayer and having nothing change, if you want to truly go all in with Jesus, it。
might be uncomfortable and I'm gonna ask you to stand up right now.。
I'm gonna ask you to stand up. I'm gonna ask you, like I said, Romans chapter 10。
verse 9 and 10. Yes, I see you in the back. Thank you. Romans 10 9 and 10. Here's what。
it says, "If you confess in your mouth that Jesus is Lord, you believe in your。
heart that God raised Him from the dead, you will be saved." You will be saved.。
So I want to start with a confession. I want you to repeat after me, "Dear Jesus,。
I believe that you have died for me. I believe, I have faith that your blood。
shed on the cross for my sins offers me new life in you."。
Jesus, would you help me to stop living for the world, to stop playing church, and。
to have a real intimate relationship with you?。
I make you Lord of my life. Thank you for what you've done for me.。
In your name that I pray, you can take a seat.。
Here's what I want to do. I want everyone that just stood, your next step into。
continuing to walk with Christ is to walk with His people. And I would ask you,。
come down front after the message and let someone know what you just did. Don't。
walk out of here being the only person who knew what you just did. Come down。
front, talk to one of our people and say, "Hey, here's what I just did. I just。
professed my faith to Jesus." And they're gonna tell you how you can now walk with。
Him and to become more like Him with your life. For all of us, my prayer, I'm。
gonna just pray right now, my prayer God, is that there's anyone here who didn't。
stand, if there's anyone here that's still living a life that has anything。
less than your best for us because they believe it's something that they can do,。
or they're still trying to earn your love and earn your salvation, would that。
break tonight? Would they step into the freedom that you and you alone offer, all。
for you, all for your glory, not on our own strength, but all for you, King Jesus.。
In that I pray, amen.。
