- Testing, one, two, three, can you hear me?。
Well, hey everyone, and welcome to The Porch.。
We're going to be diving into the question。
that's been on everyone's mind.。
Why in the world are women so hard to understand?。
- I think what you meant to say was,。
why in the world are men so confusing?。
- Okay, so it seems like both genders。
may have some difficulty understanding each other.。
- Which is why each week,。
we're spotlighting a different side of the room。
to dig into issues we face within our own gender。
while growing an understanding for the opposite sex.。
- One night, we're putting the guys under the microscope.。
- The next night is for the girls.。
But don't worry, everybody's invited every night.。
- Because here's the thing we figured out.。
- We're not actually short on opinions about men and women.。
- He's saying this.。
- She's saying that.。
- But what does God have to say about all of it?。
- Welcome to the debate that culture can't settle.。
- Welcome to what's actually true.。
About him.。
- And about her.。
- Welcome to your favorite Tuesday night series.。
- He said.。
- She said.。
- Well, when I was working in college ministry,。
I discipled nine guys.。
Now, these were not just your run-of-the-mill dudes.。
These weren't guys that just hung out around church.。
These were legit Christian brothers.。
Like, these are guys that they walked with God。
and they wanted to be like Jesus,。
and they were serving for the sake of their generation。
during their college years.。
They were unusual, and they were also a mess.。
They were not unusual just because。
they had a slew of problems.。
They were unusual because they were honest。
about those problems.。
Like, week after week, I would meet with all nine of them,。
and they would tell me the same thing.。
They'd be like, man, I messed up again.。
Or, oh, bro, like, I don't know what's happening.。
I don't know why I keep slipping up.。
I keep stumbling into this thing.。
I don't know what to do.。
I can't get myself,。
I can't get out of the way of my own self.。
And so finally, after having the same conversation。
over and over and over and over and over again,。
I just decided to stop the replay。
and pull all of them together at once。
and sit them in a room,。
and I decided to give each of them a black erase marker,。
and we sat in front of a whiteboard,。
and I was like, write your problem on the board.。
Whatever your greatest struggle is, put it up on the board.。
And it was funny, I looked out at them,。
and they were all awkwardly silent.。
You could tell they were wondering,。
have I come to the wrong Bible study?。
Is he actually asking me to confess all this。
in front of these guys?。
And yet, what was amazing is one by one,。
they eventually got up, they walked to that whiteboard,。
and they wrote down things like lack of discipline,。
quick temper, pornography, people pleasing,。
fear of never being enough, loneliness,。
comparison, procrastination, and a lack of purpose.。
And you know what happened when they did that?。
Nothing.。
Nobody gasped, nobody looked shocked, nobody was panicked,。
nobody ran for the door.。
Instead, they looked at one another。
and they realized something that I knew they needed to know,。
that maybe my struggle has a different name,。
but I'm not the only one fighting here.。
And so I looked at them and I gave them one more assignment.。
I told them, next to your struggle,。
I want you to go and I want you to write one way。
that you can start fighting it today.。
And apparently, they all misunderstood that assignment。
as come up with the most ridiculous solution possible,。
because here's some of the things。
that I remember them specifically writing.。
One guy who struggled with lust,。
he decided that every time he walked across campus,。
rather than bounce his eyes between girls,。
he would just bounce a tennis ball,。
'cause it would keep his focus right there.。
One guy who had a crazy temper, gave his roommates。
permission to shoot him with a water gun。
if ever he started to heat up.。
Another guy struggled with loneliness.。
And so he banned himself from listening to music in the car。
and required that he would call someone。
every single time he got behind the wheel.。
One guy who was lazy, he committed to setting。
his alarm clock 30 minutes earlier the next day,。
should he snooze it at any point.。
Another one struck a deal with his roommates,。
that at any time one of them looked at porn,。
the others had to go run a mile in his place.。
Yeah, you wanna talk about some legitimate accountability.。
They didn't call it an accountability group,。
they called it an atonement group.。
That if you messed up, they suffer.。
You wanna see if you can get your sin figured out,。
that's one way of doing it.。
And then the last one, one guy,。
I still don't know if this was brilliant or insanity,。
he decided that whenever he was trying too hard。
to impress people, his roommates called him out for it.。
He had to go shoot 20 free throws。
in the driveway with his offhand.。
Now listen, I don't know if this is spiritual formation。
or if this is just cruel and unusual punishment,。
but these guys, they were willing to look awkward,。
like appear ridiculous, do the craziest things,。
because they understood something。
that I desperately want you men in the room to understand,。
that momentary discomfort is far better。
than lifelong regret.。
Momentary discomfort is far better than lifelong regret.。
They knew their problems did not get。
to determine their future.。
God had determined their future,。
and I am praying some men in this room。
will understand that tonight.。
But in order for us to understand it,。
we gotta go to the whiteboard, fellas.。
We've gotta get honest about the problems。
that we face in our lives,。
because before we can become the men。
that God is calling us to be,。
we have to be honest about the things。
that are keeping us from becoming those men,。
because so long as you're not those men,。
catch this, everyone and everything suffers.。
The Bible is explicit about this,。
but so is the culture.。
Like in the world we live in,。
the World Health Organization estimates。
that one in three women worldwide,。
it's roughly 31%, have experienced physical。
or sexual violence by a partner.。
Just let that sink in, one in three women.。
According to the CDC, more than one in five women。
have experienced completed or attempted rape。
in their lifetime, 80% of which happens。
before girls turn 25.。
With respect to absentee fathers,。
63% of youth suicides come from fatherless homes.。
70% of juveniles in state-operated institutions。
come from fatherless homes.。
And 85% of children who exhibit behavior disorders。
come from fatherless homes.。
On a topic of domestic violence,。
more than one in three women,。
that's over 43 million ladies around the world,。
have experienced violence or stalking。
by a romantic partner in their lifetime.。
Among female homicide victims,。
more than half are killed by a former。
or a current intimate partner.。
And generally, and this is just generally speaking,。
men account for 80% of the violent crime arrests。
in the United States.。
Now to be clear, I am not saying that men。
are not likewise victimized by these same areas.。
Some of you have been.。
And I'm also not saying that correlation equals causation,。
that men are the sole cause。
for everything I just described.。
But what I am saying is that so much of the pain。
inflicted upon women and children in the world。
is the result of male failure.。
And so listen, I know these last two weeks,。
fellas, I've gotten after you a little bit.。
It's because I know we need you.。
It's because I read statistics like this.。
It's because I look at this book。
and I understand that as goes the man,。
so goes the family and so goes the world.。
Like in the beginning, God checked Adam for Eve's failure.。
We have a responsibility, gentlemen.。
And so we're going to talk very honestly with one another。
because I know we need you.。
We need your masculinity not suppressed.。
We need it sanctified.。
Like I need you strong and selfless.。
I want you faithful and fearless.。
I want you controlled and courageous。
because when you are that kind of man,。
everything goes good.。
And so we're going to talk tonight。
about five battles men very specifically face.。
I'll just say this from the outset.。
It's not a conclusive list of the things that men deal with.。
This is not every challenge you will ever face。
or every problem you will ever deal with,。
but these are five of the biggest battles。
I believe men will face in their lifetime.。
And the truth of the matter is some of these battles。
are going to feel completely irrelevant to you gentlemen.。
Like some of these things that we're going to talk about,。
you're going to look at it and be like, man,。
that feels like LeBron against a kindergartener.。
Like playing one-on-one, like that kid stands no chance.。
I've got no problem with this sort of issue.。
But some of these battles will also feel。
like the beaches of Normandy in your life.。
Like you will feel like you're hunkered down。
in a foxhole someplace and heavy fires raining overhead。
because the enemy is after you.。
All of these battles though are relevant to you guys.。
And the reason why, whether it's a battle。
you personally relate to or it's a battle。
that you don't very specifically resonate with,。
all of it is relevant because whether it is for you。
or it is for a brother that needs your backup,。
we should all together understand。
what the scripture is teaching us about ourselves.。
And so let me just encourage you guys,。
take notes on all five.。
Ladies, why are you in the room?。
One, because we invited you.。
And then two, I think it's really good for you to be here.。
The reason why I think it's good for you to be here。
is I think it's good for you to understand。
what our guys are stacked up against.。
And I think it's good for you to realize。
that you don't need to be against them also.。
They've got enough problems in their life.。
They are dealing with enough difficulty as is.。
The day is very dark for the men in this room.。
And so you're here not to give an amen.。
Tell 'em, pastor, whenever I start。
to preach something to them.。
Instead, it's to hear what we're talking about。
and offer to them the kind of encouragement。
that they need to keep going.。
I've said this before.。
Every man wants to be believed in.。
They don't wanna be belittled.。
Now, boys, let me just say this.。
We need to act like men.。
And so what that means is we gotta put boyish ways。
behind us.。
First Corinthians 13, it says,。
"When I was a child, I spoke like a child.。
"I thought like a child.。
"I reasoned like a child.。
"But when I became a man, I gave up childish ways."。
So what are these childish ways?。
We're gonna look at 'em.。
There's five of 'em.。
And the way that we're gonna look at 'em。
is we're gonna look at specific individuals。
from the scripture.。
I wanna point you to different men。
that we see across the Bible。
because what you will see are those。
that have faced these battles。
and failed in the face of these battles.。
And I'm praying you will take from them。
what my mentor once told me before,。
that you don't have to learn。
by way of your own experience.。
You can learn by way of someone else's experience.。
That, in fact, can be your best teacher.。
So with all that said, what's the first battle?。
The first one is the battle of pride.。
It's the battle of pride.。
It's funny, I was thinking about this point.。
And just yesterday, I was at the gym。
and I was changing my clothes,。
getting ready to go work out,。
and I saw a group of high school guys。
flexing in front of the mirror。
and taking pictures of themselves.。
And I thought to myself,。
that is the perfect definition of pride。
because pride is less about self-exaltation.。
It's more about self-absorption.。
And then I proceeded to tell them。
that shirtless selfies don't do anything。
for the opposite sex.。
So keep those to yourself, boys.。
Pride is less about self-exaltation.。
It is more about self-absorption.。
Another way of thinking about it。
is it's not just thinking too much of yourself,。
it's thinking of yourself too much.。
It's why some of you guys,。
you're curious how well your post is doing,。
even though it was just five minutes ago。
that you actually put it out online.。
It's the reason why you're running to your buddies。
and you're asking them, hey, how did that thing sound?。
When in reality, they've already told you that it was good.。
It's the reason why you walk into a conversation。
and it's not even about you,。
and yet it somehow ends up being about you.。
It's why when you're in an argument and you're 90% wrong,。
somehow the 10% that is right。
ends up being the very last word that is extended.。
We know that for many of us, we struggle with pride,。
that our lives are living to tell the greatness of us。
instead of the greatness of God.。
And that's a really dangerous quality to carry.。
The reason why is because we read this。
about God's position on pride in James 4:6.。
This is just one verse, there's many,。
but for the sake of time, I'll give you one.。
It says, "God opposes," or the Greek there。
is also the idea of he resists the proud,。
but he gives grace to the humble.。
A good way of thinking about this is the same way。
that in the Revolutionary War,。
when people would draw battle lines,。
one group of men would stand across the field。
from another group of men,。
and they would take turns shooting at each other.。
You know what I'm talking about?。
In the same way, God has lined up against you, proud man,。
and yet though you may have a musket, he has a tank.。
It's not gonna end well for you.。
Like he opposes you, he resists you.。
That's the idea that's being communicated by way of James.。
So why the heck do we do this?。
Like if this is the heart of God with respect to the proud,。
why is it that we continue to function in pride?。
Because pride is very tricky.。
The first thing you gotta know about。
is that pride starts out as insecurity.。
Pride starts as insecurity.。
That's what we see in the first character。
we're gonna look at tonight.。
We see this in the life of King Saul.。
We meet him in 1 Samuel 10.。
We're gonna be in different passages all over the place.。
You can try and Bible bowl your way around。
and keep up if you want,。
but they'll be on the screens.。
1 Samuel 10 says this.。
It says in verse 22,。
"So they inquired again to the Lord,。
"is there a man still to come?"。
You see, this is a group of people。
that were awaiting for God's appointed representative,。
his appointed king, to be identified.。
And yet it reads that behold,。
that guy has hidden himself among the baggage.。
Gentlemen, some of you have hidden yourself。
in the baggage here tonight.。
You are like King Saul.。
You have put yourself in a place where you are now hidden,。
hiding among the baggage because you're insecure.。
Like that's what happens with those that suffer in pride.。
We snap into self-preservation mode.。
Why is Saul hiding in the baggage?。
He's hiding in the baggage。
because he's afraid of failing as Israel's first king.。
That's a really big job.。
And yet he didn't ask for it.。
And because he doesn't have the confidence in himself。
to do the work, he chooses instead to hide himself away.。
You see, this is interesting。
because when we think of pride,。
we often think about the guy that like puffs his chest out,。
doesn't need help, never cries about anything.。
And yet pride can also be just as true for the guy。
whose chest is caved in.。
Because here's the thing,。
insecurity looks a lot like humility,。
but they have nothing in common.。
That's why some of you,。
you struggle to celebrate other people's success.。
It's why others of you,。
you'll get 10 compliments for what a great job you did,。
but it's the one criticism that lives in your mind。
and reigns supreme over all your thoughts.。
It's why you'll ask friends。
if you made the right decision or not.。
It's why you go from one relationship to another。
because the validation of God in your life is not enough.。
You need the validation of other people, of other things.。
And so you run to them instead.。
But that's not all pride does.。
The second thing that you have to know about pride。
is that pride thinks it knows better than God.。
Pride thinks it knows better than God.。
Like in just a couple of chapters later。
from 1 Samuel chapter 10, when we meet King Saul,。
we see King Saul in battle.。
And what we realize is he starts off strong.。
Like he begins to have some success.。
And yet in chapter 13, when he's supposed to wait on Samuel,。
the prophet to come and to offer a sacrifice。
so that way they can go into war against the Philistines,。
Samuel's late, according to Saul's estimation.。
And so he does what he thinks is best.。
Like he knows the Philistines are coming.。
My army is scattering, time is expiring.。
And so he goes ahead and he sacrifices。
in order to prepare his people for battle.。
And yet, instead of trusting God,。
he trusts his own discernment.。
He does what he believes to be right.。
And it actually is wrong instead.。
It's funny.。
This idea of pride thinking it knows better than God。
is actually something that is proliferate among men.。
And I've experienced this,。
I've interacted with different guys.。
I remember when I lived in Houston,。
there was a guy who came up to me。
and he wanted to justify his desire。
for masturbation and marijuana.。
And I remember looking at him and asking what his case was.。
And his case was a really simple case.。
He came in, the Bible doesn't explicitly talk。
about either one of those.。
It doesn't declare that either of them。
are specifically wrong.。
And I looked at him in response.。
I was like, well, brother,。
the Bible also does not specifically say。
that 90 day fiance is wrong,。
but we can both agree that that is not a good thing.。
We knew in that moment。
that he was doing what man should not do.。
He was trying to impose his will upon the word of God.。
He was trying to mold God's word to fit his life。
as opposed to fit his life into God's word.。
And to do such a thing is a very proud thing to do.。
Deuteronomy 4.2 tells us do not add to what I command you.。
Don't subtract from it,。
but keep the commands of the Lord your God that I give you.。
Another thing that you need to know。
in the battle against pride。
is that pride sends other people to fight our battles.。
That's what Saul does with David in 1 Samuel 17.。
Like in a moment when the king of Israel,。
the tallest, broadest, strongest guy。
should walk into the valley of Elah。
and he should risk his life to deliver his people.。
He instead chooses to risk David's life, a shepherd boy.。
And the reason why is because pride,。
it says something interesting.。
Pride treats you as the most important person in the room.。
And because that is the case,。
it will sacrifice other people to protect you.。
That's why you'll joke at the expense of other people。
to make yourself feel good.。
It's why you will pressure your girlfriend into sex。
because that feels good.。
It's why you'll force your future kids。
to play whatever sport you want them to play。
because that feels good.。
This is what proud men do.。
They send other people to fight their battles.。
You wonder who sends other people to fight their battles。
according to the scripture?。
Not kings, cowards.。
It's what pride turned King Saul into.。
And that's what pride is trying to turn。
some of us into as well.。
And then lastly, you need to know this.。
Pride turns friends into enemies.。
At the end of his reign, all Saul did was envy David.。
And it was crazy when you consider what David did for Saul.。
Like David was his son's best friend.。
David had delivered the people from Goliath.。
David was even ministering to Saul。
in the midst of his own suffering.。
And yet Saul envied him nonetheless.。
And the reason why he did and the reason why we do this too。
is because manhood is measured in our world。
by how much you achieve, how much money you make,。
how high you can climb on the corporate ladder,。
how much influence you have,。
how many girls you've been with.。
And whenever we see another guy who has more,。
it often feels like a threat to our legitimacy as a man.。
But according to Jesus, your manhood is not measured。
by how much you have.。
It is measured by how much you give.。
Because listen to me, and this is big.。
Pride might turn friends into enemies,。
but Jesus turns enemies into friends.。
He does what proud men never do.。
He gives of himself for the benefit of other people。
as opposed to taking from other people。
for the benefit of himself.。
Now, with all that said, because we gotta keep rolling,。
I do feel the need to just tell you a couple of steps。
on how you can begin to battle against pride。
in your own life if this is something。
that you're resonating with.。
If you're sitting here and you're like, dude, this is me,。
I don't wanna admit it 'cause I'm proud,。
but this is totally me.。
Like, I'm struggling with this right now.。
I can look in my life and I can see the ways。
that I've operated in insecurity.。
I know the fact that I have subjected other people。
to the public ridicule of my friends。
because it actually makes me look good.。
I've torn people down to build myself up.。
I can look at all different areas of my life。
and I can see the way in which this is true.。
Kylan, what do I do?。
I would give you three ways, three steps you can take.。
The first one is you can worship, you can worship.。
And the reason why worship is a really great step to take。
is because worship is not about you.。
But here's the thing.。
I'm convinced that many men struggle to worship。
because they actually think it is about them.。
The way that you function in worship。
is you don't wanna look dumb, you don't wanna sound dumb,。
and so what you end up doing is the dumbest thing.。
You end up making the entire set。
about what people think of you。
rather than what people think of God.。
That's not what worship is.。
Worship is about King Jesus, not King you.。
And so the best thing you can do。
is you can worship like you actually mean it.。
I think about some of the manliest men in the scripture,。
and you wanna know the way that they worship?。
David danced indignantly before God.。
Think about the fact that the people of Israel。
would regularly raise hands。
and raise a joyful noise to the Lord.。
What if this was true?。
What if the truest thing about the worship experience。
here at The Porch was not。
that the bass from our speakers was loud,。
but the bass of our men's voice was louder?。
What if that was actually true?。
What if you felt the worship in the room。
because the men sitting side by side。
were singing loudly to the glory of God。
as opposed to the glory of themselves?。
That's the first thing you can do.。
The second thing is you can fast.。
You can fast, and I do mean you can go without food.。
I'm not talking about one of those other kind of cheap fasts。
where it's like, I'm gonna fast from social media,。
I'm gonna fast from my television.。
I'm talking about the legitimate kind of fast,。
the fast where you actually deprive yourself of nourishment.。
Because here's the thing,。
there's no quicker way to realize that you're not the man。
than to go 24 hours without food。
and see just how quick you turn into a little whiny baby.。
Fasting humbles you.。
Like you might, I've seen it.。
You might bench 400 pounds,。
but you miss your bowl of Cheerios in the morning。
and you're less than the perfect version of yourself.。
That's the kind of impact that food actually has。
in the life of a person.。
Fasting proves how weak we are.。
That's why we should do it.。
It should remind us that we're not the one who is strong.。
God is the one who is strong.。
Because while we depend on other things for life,。
life depends on God himself.。
And then the third thing that I would tell you。
is you should pray.。
You should pray.。
Like some of you, you need to do this.。
You need to come down here at the end of the service。
and you need to tell God you need his help.。
You need his help with your job。
and you need his help with your family.。
You need his help with your addiction.。
You need his help with your dreams。
and you need his help with your confusion。
and your mental troubles.。
And you need his help with respect to your relationship.。
I don't know what it is you need his help with,。
but he knows.。
He's just waiting for you to come and tell him,。
to humble yourself and talk to him about it.。
That's why every Tuesday we open this space。
and we have a team down front.。
And tonight they will be here too,。
ready for you to take that step.。
Verse Peter 5, six through seven says,。
humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God。
so that at the proper time he might exalt you,。
casting all your anxieties on him because he cares for you.。
We gotta humble ourselves, men.。
Pride will demand recognition,。
but Christ embraces humiliation.。
Pride protects reputation,。
but Jesus laid down his reputation。
and considered himself nothing.。
And where pride fears losing anything,。
Jesus lost everything for our sake.。
You wanna know how to be humble?。
Look to that man and you will see the way.。
That's one.。
Two, second battle you need to know you'll face。
is the battle against anger.。
On average, men are more likely to express their distress。
externally through anger and aggression and risk-taking,。
while women are more likely to express their distress。
internally through anxiety and sadness and worry.。
This is why, gentlemen,。
when your team begins to struggle, you yell at the TV.。
You don't know how else to express yourself.。
And ladies, this is why you cry。
whenever you feel overwhelmed.。
We're built different.。
Now, it's important to say this.。
Anger as an emotion is not sinful.。
Anger as an emotion is not sinful.。
In fact, it's inevitable.。
Even Jesus experienced anger.。
So when then does anger become sinful?。
When your anger is not in defense of someone else,。
it is in defense of yourself.。
That's when it becomes sinful.。
So listen to me.。
If you get upset about the injustice。
some other person is facing,。
some indignity done against somebody else,。
you should be.。
That's a good thing to be angry about.。
That's a good thing to feel a righteous indignation towards.。
Like we need men who actually feel that way,。
who will run to help the innocent,。
who will race into the fray,。
who will rally their brothers towards the cause of Christ,。
wherever the cause of Christ is not represented.。
We need you to feel that.。
Jesus felt that.。
But if you get upset because someone disagrees。
with your political position online,。
or someone cuts you off in traffic,。
or someone unintentionally hurts your feelings,。
or someone offers you feedback,。
then that anger is sinful.。
Righteous anger, hear me on this,。
righteous anger is a response to evil.。
Unrighteous anger is a response to ego.。
That's what we learned from our guy Moses.。
It's funny, when you read Moses' story,。
you see he's got a little bit of an anger issue.。
There's two moments that stand out。
really strongly above the rest,。
where he expresses his anger.。
One is a righteous moment,。
and one is an unrighteous moment.。
The righteous moment is when he。
smashes the Ten Commandments.。
Like he breaks the two tablets。
because he sees the evil and idolatry。
of the people of God as they worship the golden calf.。
That's a good and righteous anger.。
The unrighteous anger that we see of Moses。
is found in Numbers chapter 20.。
And this is what it says.。
Then Moses and Aaron gathered the assembly。
together before the rock.。
And he said to them,。
"Hear now, you rebels.。
"Shall we bring water for you out of this rock?"。
And Moses lifted up his hand,。
and he struck the rock with his staff,。
not once, but twice.。
And water came out abundantly,。
and the congregation drank in their livestock.。
And the Lord said to Moses and Aaron,。
"Because you didn't believe in me,。
"to uphold me as holy in the eyes of the people of Israel,。
"therefore you shall not bring this assembly。
"into the land that I have given them."。
This is unrighteous anger.。
Why is that the case?。
Because Moses has had enough.。
He looks at the people,。
and his patience has worn thin,。
his fuse has burned up,。
he has grown annoyed as he has journeyed with them。
through the wilderness.。
And yet, as he's done all of this,。
it proves to us why he snaps in a given moment.。
And it's this.。
Anger begins with legitimate frustration.。
Anger always begins with legitimate frustration.。
Moses is legitimately frustrated.。
He has spent, in this moment now,。
almost 44 years in the desert with these people.。
And that entire time, they have constantly grumbled,。
they have constantly complained,。
they have personally attacked him,。
they have only been a miserable party to road trip with.。
And yet, he has been patient all the while。
until this moment.。
And yet, in this moment,。
he gets frustrated enough under all of this。
leadership fatigue, and he does what men do.。
He explodes.。
But here's the thing you need to know.。
Men do not explode over one event.。
Men explode over the accumulation of several events.。
I can take this thing now.。
It's kind of like this.。
It's kind of like this Coke Zero.。
Not regular Coke, 'cause Zoke is just better.。
Can we acknowledge that?。
Zero calories, baby.。
The beauty of this is that it won't explode。
under one event.。
But if she keeps nagging me,。
and if they don't give me a break,。
and if they only ever offer me feedback,。
and if I just find that I'm never enough for these people,。
and they keep grumbling against me,。
and I'm gonna have to journey with them forever,。
eventually the lid's gonna pop.。
(congregation laughing)。
And it's gonna make a mess of everyone and everything.。
The difference between you and this Coke bottle。
is some of you can't keep your lid on.。
Because this we can control.。
Some of you cannot control yourselves.。
You need to also know that anger stems from entitlement.。
It's not something we struggle with, is it, guys?。
Like, we never get annoyed。
because that person is sitting in the right turn lane,。
but they're not choosing to turn right.。
They're waiting to go straight.。
It never frustrates us。
that our friend happens to tell us the score of the game,。
even though we're recording it at home,。
and we plan to go zero dark 30。
until that time when we can watch it by ourselves.。
This happens to us a lot.。
We feel some sense of entitlement,。
and because we are, we, like Moses,。
we will represent our interest,。
but as we do so, we will misrepresent the interest of God.。
That's what you do when you get angry.。
Whenever your anger stems from entitlement,。
you misrepresent who God is.。
Look at me.。
Gentlemen, when you blow up, when you lose your cool,。
when you say things you wish you could take back,。
but you know you cannot,。
how is that representing God?。
How is it representing Him?。
Do people see you in that moment and think,。
"God, He is so patient, and He is so gracious,。
"and He is so long-suffering,"。
or do they look at you and think,。
"That guy's got a temper.。
"I don't want anything to do with him.。
"Who even invited him in the first place?"。
Like, what is people's response to you?。
When they respond to you in your fit of anger,。
they are demonstrating some sense of response。
to your representation of God.。
Who you are is about so much more than who you are.。
It's about who He is, so check yourself.。
And then lastly, anger can be costly.。
It costs Moses the promised land,。
and it can cost us too.。
Many men have lost their marriages.。
They've lost a friend's trust.。
They've lost their credibility at work.。
They've lost a hard-earned reputation,。
and they've lost decades of influence。
because they reacted emotionally.。
Hear me on this, guys.。
How do you react whenever conflict arises?。
This will save you.。
You do not gear up, you gear down.。
I tell guys all the time,。
you move through conflict in four-wheel drive.。
Oftentimes, men will do so in two-wheel drive,。
that conflict is like mud.。
What do you do when you start spinning your wheels。
and hitting the gas?。
You just dig yourself down deep.。
But instead, you put it in four-wheel drive.。
You change your state of being,。
and you go slow, and you stay low。
until you get all the way out.。
That's how you move through conflict.。
That's how you ensure you navigate a difficult situation。
with the kind of long-suffering character。
that is consistent with God.。
Now, I could tell you a lot more.。
Here's four things on how you can make sure。
you're navigating your anger well.。
If you're here tonight and you're angry,。
the first thing I would tell you is you try to understand.。
Try to understand the other person's position.。
The second thing I would tell you。
is you need to own what you can.。
The third thing I would tell you。
is you need to seek to forgive.。
And the fourth thing I would tell you。
is you need to eat a Snickers.。
(congregation laughing)。
Because you're not yourself when you're hungry or angry.。
The third battle that men fight。
is a battle against isolation.。
A battle against isolation.。
This is one of the defining issues for our generation.。
Young men today are experiencing less friendships。
than generations past.。
They are more likely to live by themselves。
in single-person households,。
and they are waiting longer for marriage。
than at any other point in human history.。
There's a lot that we could point to as to why this is,。
but I actually think that there is one primary reason。
why this is.。
I think it's because men love to hide.。
I think it's because men love to hide.。
When I was growing up, I had a group of friends。
that loved to go to the high school。
and play the game sardines after dark.。
Anybody know what sardines is in here?。
It's the opposite of hide and seek.。
One person hides, and everybody seeks,。
and the reason we loved playing this coming up。
was because we love, we thought it was so fun。
to frustrate our friends。
by way of having an amazing hideout.。
Some guys are playing sardines,。
just not in a game with their life.。
They are hiding themselves from everyone that is around,。
and because they are doing so,。
they might look all right on the outside,。
but they are not all right on the inside.。
And if isolation's your issue,。
you have no one other than Judas Iscariot to relate to,。
because what we see of Judas。
is he looked the part, man.。
He was one of the disciples.。
He was there for all the miracles.。
He got to listen to Jesus' teachings.。
He was one of the boys.。
He was even in charge of the budget of the ministry.。
Like, this guy was an integral figure。
to the work of Christ during his three-year ministry,。
and yet, though he was surrounded by everybody,。
he was never known by anybody,。
and isolation killed him.。
How did it do so?。
Well, first, isolation begins with hidden sin.。
That's how it starts.。
John 12, four through six says,。
"But Judas Iscariot, one of his disciples,。
he who was about to betray him."。
I love it.。
John, he's writing this after the accounts。
of Jesus' life, death, and resurrection,。
and so knowing that Judas suffers from isolation,。
he doesn't want to out himself at all.。
He's like, "Yeah, man, this is the guy。
that's about to betray him."。
He said, "Why was this ointment not sold for 300 denarii。
and given to the poor?"。
He said this not because he cared about the poor,。
but because he was a thief,。
and having charge of the money bag,。
he used to help himself to what was put into it.。
This is just my take, but gentlemen, listen,。
I'm convinced that the single greatest isolator of men。
is unconfessed sin.。
That is the thing that is isolating you most here tonight.。
It's not like friends, it's not like a community,。
all of that stuff, it's available.。
Come talk to us after.。
We would love to help you get connected。
and to find brothers that you can battle alongside,。
but the single greatest isolator facing men。
is unconfessed sin.。
Like a lot of you, you have friends for your hobbies.。
You've got friends for pickleball,。
and you've got friends for golf,。
and you've got friends for video gaming,。
and you've got friends for, I don't know,。
what else do you guys do?。
You have friends for that stuff,。
but what you do not have is you do not have brothers for war.。
You've got companions for all of your activities,。
but you don't actually have any battle buddies.。
And because you don't, you have no one to fight。
the enemy with, and that's why the enemy。
is kicking your butt.。
We see in 1 Peter 5 through eight。
that we should be sober-minded.。
We should be watchful because our adversary, the devil,。
prowls around like a roaring lion。
looking for someone to devour.。
I remember hearing Joby Martin talk about this,。
and I thought it was so good.。
How does a lion hunt?。
It separates an individual from the herd.。
We just read his play.。
We know his scheme.。
This is his tactic, and yet some of you,。
you are sitting under his claws and within his jaws tonight.。
So get back in here.。
Like, we're the family of God.。
Jesus didn't just save us from our sin.。
He saved us into a family,。
so that way you never have to run alone.。
That way, whenever you feel weak, you've got us.。
We can be strong, so that way, whenever you feel。
like you don't understand what's happening,。
you can look to us, and we can give you wisdom and insight.。
We're here to support one another.。
That's what Jesus has done.。
That's why there's safety in community.。
You don't need to run by yourself.。
Some of you guys, you're like,。
"But I can run faster if I go by myself."。
You won't go very far, though.。
He will take you out sooner than you can think.。
You need us.。
Like, you do not, in an effort to maintain。
the appearance of strength,。
actually, instead, weaken yourself.。
Do you see how stupid that is?。
That you wanna be perceived as strong?。
You don't wanna own your sin?。
Because that's weak.。
No, actually, the weakest thing you could do。
is isolate yourself instead.。
James 5:16 says, "Therefore, confess your sins。
"to one another and pray for one another。
"that you may be healed.。
"The prayer of a righteous person。
"has great power as it is working."。
Man, listen, like, tonight, some of you,。
you need to come down here。
and you need to confess。
all of it.。
I know some of you have been in this long enough。
and have listened to it too many times to count.。
You think taking it to the grave with you is a good idea.。
That play will not work。
because God is too merciful to let you do that to yourself。
and sacrifice the kind of life that is available to you。
in the here and the now.。
So, confess, come clean, receive forgiveness.。
The freest person in the room。
is the person that has nothing to hide.。
What if you walked out of here。
and you actually felt fully free in Christ?。
You need to know that isolation hardens your heart.。
We need to move on, but for the sake of time,。
in John 13, Jesus is sitting at the Last Supper。
and he looks at his disciples。
and he just calls Judas' shot.。
He says, "Hey, one of you will betray me."。
And what he's doing in this moment,。
it seems interesting to us as we read the text,。
but I actually think it's very compassionate of Jesus.。
He is pitching Judas a softball.。
He's like, "Hey, I see you.。
"Come confess.。
"Come talk to me about it.。
"Come repent."。
And yet Judas resists.。
You know what happens when you repeatedly resist something?。
You build calluses.。
Play the guitar enough, lift weights enough,。
work in the yard enough,。
and you're gonna build calluses。
because that's what happens whenever you resist repeatedly.。
Some of you have resisted the Holy Spirit's conviction。
and so you have built calluses on your heart.。
You're hard-hearted.。
But tonight, Jesus wants to break your hard-heartedness.。
And I promise it's so much better to have a heart of flesh。
than a heart of stone.。
You just have to come to him.。
And then lastly, isolation convinces us。
that we're too far gone.。
For Judas, this ultimately cost his life.。
He took his own life。
because that's the danger of isolation.。
Hear this.。
Isolation begins by hiding sin,。
but it ends by hiding grace.。
It wants you to think you're too far gone.。
Like, what are they gonna think if you come clean?。
You're gonna lose your reputation.。
There's no way anybody can help you.。
That's what the enemy wants you to think.。
It wants to hide the grace of Jesus towards you.。
But here's the amazing thing.。
As you read Judas's story, is by the end of it,。
Jesus doesn't give up on him.。
Jesus, he literally, he washes Judas's feet.。
He shares a meal with him.。
They break bread at the Passover together.。
And then he even calls him friend。
when Judas betrays him with a kiss.。
Jesus is trying to tell him you're not too far gone.。
Like, there's still grace for you.。
I'm going to the cross, yes, because of you,。
but I will also rise forth from the grave for you.。
Listen to me, men.。
Jesus, he went to the cross because of you,。
but he also rose forth from the grave for you.。
Come to him.。
You're not too far gone.。
He has a better plan and a purpose for your life.。
The fourth battle is the battle of passivity.。
The battle of passivity.。
We live in a world that does not want things to be hard.。
It wants things to be easy.。
Endless entertainment and online dating。
and early retirement and instant gratification,。
whether it's Pornhub or it's DoorDash,。
are always saying this is the case.。
But here's the thing.。
Listen to me, fellows.。
You were not made for easy.。
You were made for hard.。
We see this.。
We talked about it two weeks ago.。
You were made to order chaos.。
You were meant to subdue the earth.。
You were meant to provide and protect a family.。
This is what you were designed for,。
which means hard work will not kill you,。
but laziness will.。
Laziness will kill you.。
In the Proverbs, we're introduced to a character。
who has no name.。
He's just known as the sluggard.。
How would you like that?。
Nicknamed Slug.。
That'd be tough.。
And yet what we learn about Slug。
is that his life doesn't collapse overnight.。
It collapses over time because that's what happens.。
People that suffer from passivity,。
they break over time.。
First crack in the dam for Slug is this,。
that passivity begins with love and comfort.。
That's where it starts.。
Proverbs 6, 9 through 11 says,。
"How long will you lie there, O sluggard?。
"When will you arise from your sleep?。
"A little sleep, a little slumber,。
"a little folding of the hands to rest,。
"and poverty will come upon you like a robber。
"and want like an armed man."。
Notice the issue for sluggard is not that he is resting,。
it's that he is resting too much.。
Like he hit the snooze button one too many times.。
He didn't take my friend's advice.。
He did not choose to set that alarm 30 minutes more early.。
Because therein lies the danger of laziness.。
A lazy man is not someone who does what is wrong.。
A lazy man is someone who fails to do what is right.。
You see, laziness or passivity is an issue of initiative.。
And men have been battling this one since Adam.。
We see it.。
Adam, he suffered from passivity.。
He was sleeping on the job and we have not woken up since,。
though we have lived generations now.。
It just looks different for us today.。
We avoid difficult conversations.。
We say, "I don't care,"。
anytime a decision needs to be made.。
We let our girlfriends plan every date.。
We do the bare minimum.。
We never are the first to reach out and build friendship.。
We want to be told what to do.。
You see, the great scheme of the enemy。
isn't that he needs to destroy you men,。
it's that he needs to distract you men.。
He doesn't need you to commit a crime,。
he just needs you to neglect your job.。
And he's really good at it.。
So it's worth asking, how's he distracting you?。
The next thing you need to know about passivity。
is passivity wastes potential.。
We read about this in Proverbs 24,。
where the sluggard's vineyard is destroyed.。
And yet what you see is that his vineyard is destroyed,。
not because of an enemy or because of a natural disaster,。
it is destroyed by way of neglect.。
He doesn't get up and he doesn't get to work.。
And the result is it costs him.。
You see, this is just true.。
Men, we often start well, but we seldom finish well.。
I see it all the time.。
See it with a young guy that gets into a relationship。
with another girl and man, that guy's Romeo.。
Like he's out here and he's planning dates。
and he's getting his car clean。
and he's bringing flowers to the door。
and he is writing notes and he's sending texts。
and he's dropping sweet little voice messages。
so she hears his voice first thing in the morning.。
He's doing all of it.。
He is going so beyond.。
And yet the primary cause of divorce。
is not a dramatic affair, though that is true for some.。
It is the result of that same man failing to pursue his wife。
and the two of them growing apart.。
You see, neglect destroys.。
And ladies, let me just encourage you on this.。
You need to know that as men lean into the desire。
to be more active, not passive, they're going to mess up.。
They're going to perform poorly.。
They're going to make mistakes。
and they don't need you to criticize them or belittle them.。
They need you to encourage them.。
Like, if he tries to express his emotions, don't laugh at him.。
Instead, thank him because he's trying to meet you。
in a way that serves you well.。
If he tries to take initiative, don't criticize him。
because he didn't do it the best way possible.。
Encourage him because he actually did it instead.。
There's a place for you to support his activity as a man。
and that will discourage his passivity.。
You need to also know that passivity wastes potential.。
I already said that one.。
You need to know that passivity will be the death of you.。
Passivity will be the death of you.。
Proverbs 21, 25 says, "The craving of a slugger。
"will be the death of him because his hands refuse to work."。
Men, nobody drifts towards greatness.。
Nobody drifts towards greatness.。
What is greatness?。
Jesus defines it for us.。
He tells us, "The greatest among you。
"will be the servant of all."。
It's he who works to the benefit of other people,。
not to the benefit of himself.。
Greatness is available if you embrace inconvenience,。
take responsibility, and move with obedience。
just as Christ did even to the point of death.。
Last one.。
Fifth and final battle is lust.。
You didn't think you were getting out of here with that one.。
[congregation laughing]。
There is not a sin as I hold my baby boy every single night。
that I pray more vehemently。
that he would not suffer from than this.。
And the reason why is I have seen it do so much damage。
in the lives of men, in the lives of women,。
in the lives of children, in the lives of families。
because this is final boss type stuff.。
This is the sort of thing that you will war against。
'til kingdom come.。
You will have to master your flesh。
because it wants to master you.。
So much damage has been done, like addiction and divorce。
and abuse and fatherlessness and shame and secrecy。
and disqualification, you name it, this thing has done it,。
which raises an important question.。
Why is it so dangerous and why have so few men。
actually been able to slay it?。
Well, there's a few things you have to know.。
The first is this, that lust strikes。
when your defenses are down.。
Lust strikes when your defenses are down.。
And we learn this from no one better than King David himself.。
We read this in 2 Samuel 11.。
It says in the spring of the year。
when kings normally go out to war,。
David stayed behind in Jerusalem,。
which means by the time David sees Bathsheba,。
who the text says is a woman of unusual beauty。
bathing on the roof, he was already cooked.。
He's not where he's supposed to be.。
Kings are supposed to be in battle.。
You know what happens when you're in battle, men?。
Your defenses are up because you expect danger.。
You're prepared to be vigilant.。
Your sensitivity is heightened。
because you know there is an enemy.。
And yet when you are not where you're supposed to be,。
your defenses come down and it is then that lust strikes.。
Like every guy that has ever come and talked to me。
always begins with the words, with respect to the sin,。
I know I shouldn't have been there.。
Like I know I should have been out with the guys.。
I know I should not have stayed late at her house.。
I know that I shouldn't have kept my phone by my bedside.。
I know that I should have done what we talked about,。
but I didn't do it.。
I wasn't where I should have been.。
No, yeah, you weren't in battle.。
You were left at home and because you were there,。
your defenses were down。
and the enemy decided to attack you then.。
It's funny, when Brooke and I were dating,。
we had a strict rule that there was no lingering。
in the driveway.。
Why?。
Because that's always at the end of the date。
and you're always a little sleepy at that moment.。
You look a little snuggly too and your bellies are full。
and it'd be so nice to not necessarily use any more words。
because we're all talked out.。
And so we knew in that moment, we had to flee.。
We had to get away.。
I'd pull in, I'd kick her out and I would drive off。
as if I was gonna like be in severe danger。
'cause I was in danger.。
This is the problem with men。
when it comes to issues of sexual immorality.。
We do not flee, we flirt.。
I've said that before, but we do not flee, we flirt.。
We find ourselves in a position。
where we're entertaining our lust.。
But here's the thing, man, listen to me.。
You realize that you do not indulge your lusts。
before you entertain them.。
That's how it always works.。
Like you're gonna find that you're just scrolling。
late in the evening becomes searching late in the evening.。
You're gonna find that the girl you see at the gym。
turns into a conversation with the girl you see at the gym.。
You're going to move from entertaining your lusts。
to indulging your lusts because that's always how this works.。
That's why we gotta flee from it.。
You gotta know like lust never just looks once.。
That's the second thing about it.。
Lust never looks just once.。
Your battle against lust will be decided。
in how you respond to that first。
and that initial temptation, gentlemen.。
And hear me on this.。
If you lose that fight, you will lose the battle.。
That's why, listen, you're on your explore page.。
Do not click that post.。
It's going to suck you in。
and you're not gonna be able to get away.。
You see a pretty girl, don't look up her name。
'cause you're gonna find yourself。
someplace you're not supposed to be.。
And for the love of God,。
do not send a you up text at midnight。
'cause nothing good comes from that either.。
You need to make sure that you win the battle。
whenever that first temptation comes.。
And ladies, on behalf of all the men here,。
let me just tell you how you can help us.。
You can put some clothes on.。
I'm not saying that to shame anybody.。
I'm telling you that because the truth of the matter is。
it's not gonna take that much to get him excited.。
He doesn't need to know the contours of your body。
nor your curves.。
He just needs to see you the way God sees you.。
And that will be sufficient for any man of God.。
And lastly, lust dehumanizes people.。
Second Samuel 11 three says this,。
and David sent and he inquired about the woman。
and he said, and that servant said,。
"Is not this Bathsheba, the daughter of Ilium,。
"the wife of Uriah the Hittite?"。
David is reminded that Bathsheba in this moment。
is someone's daughter and someone's wife.。
And yet he doesn't see that she's a human.。
He only sees her as a body.。
Men, when you look at porn,。
when you go to OnlyFans,。
when you flirt without any intention。
of committing to that girl,。
when you pressure her for nudes,。
when you sleep around,。
you are stripping her of her dignity。
and you are refusing to recognize her God-given worth.。
Do not do that.。
That is God's girl.。
You mess with her, you mess with him.。
And that is not a fight you want to be a part of.。
The fight against your lust is so much easier。
than the fight against him.。
We're late, where do we go from here?。
Here's where we go.。
We take action.。
We do what my guys did at first.。
They put it on the board。
and then they addressed the issue the day of.。
The day's almost done, but it's not done yet.。
There are going to be people down here。
that would love to pray with you.。
There's going to be a space for you to come。
and hit your knees.。
The demands of tomorrow, I know they're barking.。
He doesn't need to destroy you,。
he just needs to distract you.。
Why would you rush away when the Spirit is calling?。
If you're here and pride's your issue,。
then man, it's time to worship him like you mean him.。
It's time to worship like he's the greatest.。
If anger is your battle,。
then maybe tonight you get honest with God about that.。
If isolation is your battle,。
come, confess your sin, not some of it, all of it,。
the whole 100% and walk away fully known and fully loved.。
If passivity is your issue,。
brother, get back in the game, we need you.。
And if lust is your problem, you're not alone.。
Come beg God for help。
and brothers will be here to help you.。
Jesus, he overcame every battle, he overcame even our sin.。
And though he has conquered it already。
for those that place their faith in him,。
he will come back and finish what he started.。
But today is the day of salvation,。
so respond while there's still time.。
Let me pray for us.。
God, thank you.。
I knew coming into this that God,。
I had way too much content and yet God,。
I think that you've been doing something。
over the course of this series.。
You've been using these extended messages。
and these sensitive subjects to change us,。
to call us, to draw us.。
So God, won't you do it again now?。
Won't you call us, won't you draw us,。
won't you change us, won't you move?。
We need you to move, oh God, we need you to move.。
It's in Christ's name, amen.。
