(upbeat music)。
(gentle music)。
- Welcome, welcome.。
Friends of the room here in Dallas.。
Tonight we're gonna continue the Colossians series。
that we're in.。
I'm gonna tell a story,。
they'll kinda tell us where we're going.。
When I started dating my now wife,。
then just date,。
she was driving a very unique automobile.。
And it was this 1994 Toyota Camry。
that was like a piece of junk, totally.。
It had hundreds of thousands of miles on it.。
The windows wouldn't roll down.。
And she lived in College Station, Texas,。
which is, whoop, very, it's very hot.。
And she didn't have a radio.。
She couldn't open the driver's side door.。
So anytime that we would hang out together,。
she would open the door for me and her。
and then crawl over to get to her spot.。
So we didn't take her car very often.。
But it was just like this total clunker of a car.。
Every time that she would turn,。
her bumper was hanging from the front of the car。
on the left side.。
So when she would take left turns,。
it would like sparks,。
would fireworks show,。
would just go off from this car.。
And really, she grew up in kinda circumstances。
that that was, the only reason you drive that car。
is if you have to.。
And this was kinda her case.。
She drove it 'cause she had to.。
She was raised in a single, for the most part, mom family.。
And that was the car that she had.。
And so when I started dating her,。
this was kinda the case.。
So we would take my car most of the time,。
my little exterior lady car, sorority car,。
like we talked about a couple weeks ago.。
But there came a day where in the midst of this,。
in the midst of her driving this,。
her mom remarried.。
And he remarried a guy named Charlie.。
And Charlie was about to totally change。
a lot of things in their life.。
And one day, they went out to dinner as a family.。
And she went out and she was with him.。
And she walked outside after dinner,。
they left the restaurant.。
She comes outside and she sees this like brand new car。
with a bow on it.。
And she goes, "Oh my gosh, that's so cool.。
"It looks like a commercial.。
"Somebody's getting a car."。
And Charlie, sugar daddy, just goes,。
I'm kidding, I'm kidding.。
Charlie, if you have more of them,。
I don't know why I'm pointing up.。
So it's like, Charlie.。
Charlie said, "You're that person.。
"You're getting this car."。
And she's like so pumped.。
She's ecstatic.。
Of course, all she's ever known is this car,。
Camry, she called Hank, which for some reason like fit.。
I'm sorry if your name's Hank in the room.。
But she's now stepping into a brand new car.。
She's calling me, she's like excited。
about the little things like the windows go down。
and there's air conditioner and there's a radio。
and all these things that she was so excited about.。
And her relationship with Charlie and him,。
this father presence in her life。
would change a lot more than the car.。
She was able to go to grad school.。
They were able to finally have a home.。
They kind of had house hopped and rented。
for years and years and years.。
And this new fatherly relationship totally changed。
and totally brought with it access。
to all kinds of things in her life.。
The reason I tell you that is because tonight。
we are continuing the book of Colossians。
where Paul in the end of the first chapter,。
so if you have your Bible, you can flip there,。
is gonna really lay out some of the things。
that our new relationship as Christians,。
we have been given access or given a new relationship。
through Jesus and trusting in Jesus' death alone for us,。
we now enter into a new relationship。
that brings with it access of all kinds of things.。
And Paul's gonna lay out really what those things are。
and how they impact our life.。
And I think what's so important about this message。
is that I think not knowing and not understanding。
what you and I have in Christ,。
what Christ has given us is responsible。
for so much of the defeated mentality, empty mentality,。
empty experience of life and really despair。
that many, even if they're Christians,。
experience in this life.。
And so Paul writes to lay out to these Colossians,。
no, you don't know how much you have,。
you don't know who you are。
and what Christ has given you through him.。
So if you have your Bible, you can open it up to Colossians.。
If you don't know where that is,。
the best way to get there is there's a table of contents。
in the front of the Bible, revolutionary.。
And if you flip open to that, you can go there。
'cause I know what it's like to be like, where, nay whom?。
I went to seminary and I don't know where that is.。
I'm just flipping, don't judge me.。
And so go to the front and find Colossians.。
We're gonna be in the first chapter.。
If you missed the last two weeks,。
highly encourage you to go check out those messages.。
They're all on the porch app。
or you can find them online at theporchdalas.com.。
We're gonna pick it up in verse 24。
as we continue Paul's letter。
to this group of new believers in Christ。
who are mainly Gentile or non-Jewish。
who are trying to figure out how to live。
this new Christian life when the New Testament was new。
and trying to explore what that looks like.。
So Paul writes to give them clarity on this.。
We're gonna really kind of get a running start。
through the first four verses。
and then pick up our first point there.。
So here we go, we're gonna be in verse 24, chapter one.。
Paul speaking, "Now I rejoice。
"in what I am suffering for you.。
"And I fill up in my flesh what is lacking。
"in regard to Christ's afflictions,。
"for the sake of his body, which is the church."。
Now Paul basically starts and he says,。
"Look, I rejoice or I take joy in suffering。
"to get the message of Jesus, to fulfill,。
"extending and delivering the message of Jesus。
"to all people who don't have it."。
That's bizarre, specifically the point where he says,。
"Look, I rejoice in suffering."。
And if you don't think it's bizarre,。
it's because you've been desensitized to it.。
Who rejoices?。
What kind of like glutton for punishment are we here, Paul?。
Where you're like, "Hey, punch me in the arm,。
"punch me in the arm, punch me in the face,。
"punch me in the face."。
Where Paul is going, "Look, I rejoice to suffer."。
But there's something, it's not like Paul is a superhuman,。
there's something behind why in the midst of suffering。
to get the message out, which he's sitting。
in a Roman prison, he can still take joy。
and he's about to tell us what that is in his life.。
Verse 25, "I have become its servant。
"by the commission God gave me, servant of the church,。
"to present to you the word of God in its fullness."。
That word of God, the Old Testament,。
"That I've become the servant of the church。
"to present to you what God has been doing。
"since the beginning, what everything's pointed to."。
Verse 26, "The mystery," he says,。
"that has been kept hidden for ages and generations,。
"but is now disclosed to the Lord's people.。
"To them," so he's gonna tell us what this mystery,。
so I'm here to tell what the mystery is.。
"To them God has chosen to make known among the Gentiles。
"the glorious riches of this mystery."。
So lots of buildup, here's the mystery.。
"Christ in you, Gentiles."。
In other words, for generations past and generations past,。
the idea that God was a God who really wanted all people。
to be a part of his chosen people,。
and not just the Jews, was a mystery.。
In other words, Paul says, the mystery is that Christ。
or God loves everybody.。
Christ will accept anybody.。
The door is wide open, regardless of your color of skin,。
regardless of the things that you've done,。
regardless of who you are or who you think you are.。
Paul says the mystery is that God is for everybody.。
And again, we read that,。
and it's not really mysterious to us.。
It would be like me saying, hey, let me tell you a mystery.。
The earth is not flat.。
It's round, and if you go to the very edges of it,。
you will not fall off.。
But to them, this would have been a mystery,。
that this was something that they didn't know.。
To us, we're like, yeah, I've known that for a long time.。
But to them, for the longest time,。
all of the Jewish people, or many of them,。
a mystery that Noah, Moses, all of them,。
for generations past, did not fully know.。
They thought they were uniquely chosen by God,。
that if you said, two, four, six, eight,。
who does God appreciate?。
The Jews, the Jews, and that would be how they thought.。
And so Paul says, no, this has been a mystery。
that they didn't know for centuries past,。
that there's been something done in our midst,。
and it is this, that God cares and loves。
of every person who's ever existed.。
He wants everyone to know them.。
This is the mystery.。
And then he gives us our first point,。
that Christ in everybody, or Christ in you,。
and he says, Christ in you gives you this, first point.。
Christ gives us the hope of glory,。
that anyone in the room,。
and I just want you to think about this.。
You've been a Christian for a long time.。
If you have Jesus, regardless of what you've done today,。
or yesterday, or emotionally, where you feel,。
if you have trusted in Jesus Christ,。
and his death on the cross, and resurrection,。
Paul says, you have the hope of glory。
through Christ in you right now.。
Speaking of eternity, you have hope in the midst,。
and hope is so powerful.。
And he says, your hope is not just some aimless hope,。
it is the hope of one day, there's gonna come a day,。
like Isaac said in that spoken word,。
where God restores everything, he makes everything right.。
That in essence, I mean, the power of hope,。
is that it allows us to endure,。
no matter what the circumstances are.。
It strengthens our patience, or increases our patience.。
Because here's the deal, you and I, spoiler alert,。
we know who wins.。
We know how this thing ends in the end.。
That in the end, there's gonna come a day,。
where everything's made right, and Jesus wins.。
Jesus wins over death, Jesus wins over sin,。
Jesus wins over seizures, Jesus wins over cancer,。
that everything will be made right.。
You will finally be home if you have Christ.。
You'll never stand next to the deathbed of a loved one,。
you'll never attend another funeral,。
you'll never battle against sin in your own life.。
Racism will not exist, hatred will not exist.。
Jesus wins, and there's gonna come a day,。
you're gonna see him, if you know him.。
And you're gonna stand before him,。
and you're gonna look into his eyes that are like fire,。
the scripture says, you're gonna see。
the nail prints in his hands,。
and he's gonna say, welcome home.。
You're finally home, and the war will be over.。
That we have this hope, Paul says.。
If you have Christ, that's where your hope is.。
Hope is powerful, because it allows us to endure singleness,。
heartbreak, shame, whatever we're feeling,。
it allows us to continue to endure.。
Because we have hope.。
Hope fulfilled in Jesus.。
He continues.。
And he really tells us how Christ in him。
gives him not just the hope of glory,。
but it does something else.。
Here's what he says.。
He, verse 28, Jesus, he is the one that we proclaim,。
admonishing and teaching everyone with all wisdom。
so that we may present everyone fully mature,。
you may have fully complete in Christ.。
To this end, I strenuously contend。
with all the energy Christ so powerfully works inside of me.。
Who does Paul say is the one,。
the focal point that we proclaim?。
It is a pretty easy answer.。
Any idea?。
Nope.。
Jesus.。
And it's church, safe answer.。
Jesus is the one.。
I mean, think about this.。
So here's what Paul just said.。
He just said, look, Jesus is the point.。
Jesus is the message.。
Jesus is the means by which, or is the focal point,。
the starting point to everyone that we proclaim.。
Jesus, who do we go to?。
What is first on God's agenda for humanity?。
Accepting Jesus.。
I mean, the church has like historically。
been so, done such a bad job at times。
of doing this right here.。
Like the biggest thing God's concerned with。
for your non-Christian coworker。
who's sleeping with their boyfriend,。
or your friend who's gay, or can't stop smoking pot。
is not stopping smoking pot or their sexuality.。
Jesus is.。
Jesus is the message.。
Jesus is who we proclaim.。
Paul says the starting point for every person。
is proclaiming the message of Jesus.。
Our job is to point to him.。
Jesus.。
Because what keeps someone out of a relationship with God,。
or out of heaven, is not their sexuality,。
it's not an addiction,。
it's not accepting Jesus.。
And he says that's the starting point.。
That's who we push people to.。
That's when we engage with people.。
Do you know who Jesus is?。
And here's why I think this is so huge for us。
as we talk and have conversations with non-believing friends。
or maybe if you're in the room and you're like,。
I'm still figuring this faith thing out.。
Here's what I think you would know if you knew Jesus,。
if you could see him as who he is,。
as who the Bible presents, you would like him.。
Your non-Christian friends would like him.。
There's parts of Jesus that are honestly。
pretty irresistible.。
Like who doesn't wanna have rest?。
Who doesn't wanna find rest for their soul?。
Jesus says if you're tired and worn out and burned out,。
come to me.。
How can you resist that?。
Who doesn't wanna have freedom from guilt and shame?。
Or who likes to carry around guilt and shame?。
And Jesus says, I came to deal with that.。
I mean, even like the compassion of Jesus,。
it's like, it's hard not to be drawn to him.。
This week we're celebrating Easter。
and all over the world, billions of people。
will gather together and they're gonna focus。
on the death and resurrection of Jesus.。
And even in the cross, we see this like crazy compassion。
of Jesus where Luke tells us in the 23rd chapter,。
Jesus is on the cross.。
He's been nailed into wood behind his hands。
and he looks down and his compassion is even there。
where he says, Father, forgive them。
for they know not what they are doing.。
Speaking of as he looks down at these Roman soldiers。
and it's like, I think they knew what they were doing.。
They've done this a lot of times.。
I think they know exactly.。
He says, look God, when it comes for them。
to give an account for everything they've ever done in life,。
would you not hold this against them?。
Would you not hold this that they crucified your son,。
that they crucified Jesus?。
I mean, even the generosity of Jesus is like really hard。
not to be drawn to.。
Generous people in general are like,。
you just like to be around him.。
It's hard to not like someone who's generous.。
Have you noticed this?。
Like you just kinda, if they're generous with their time。
or their money, they're like, yeah, let me serve you.。
Or they're like, hey, I got dinner.。
It's like, I'd like to hang out with you some more.。
We got a dinner tomorrow and the next day.。
It's just hard not to be,。
or not to like someone who's generous.。
And I mean, another portrait you'll probably hear。
this weekend of just Jesus on the cross。
and how insanely generous he is.。
That I'm here to pay for everyone's sin.。
Anyone who wants the free gift, I've paid for it.。
They can have that.。
Regardless of what they do,。
regardless of what they've ever done.。
I mean, on the cross, he's sitting there。
and there's a thief behind him or beside him.。
Who asked Jesus for a favor.。
In his dying breaths, he looks over and says,。
Jesus, I haven't really lived a good life.。
I'm here for stealing or murdering.。
And I'd like to ask you a favor.。
Will you remember me when you come into your paradise?。
And Jesus doesn't look at him and go, nice try.。
After living your entire life away from me,。
you think I'm gonna let you in?。
That's funny.。
Nice try, buddy.。
He doesn't say that at all.。
I mean, what could the guy even offer?。
In his life.。
I promise Jesus, I'll never do it again.。
From this point on, I'm so sincere.。
I mean, nothing.。
And Jesus looks at him and he says,。
today, you'll be with me in paradise.。
I mean, there's a level with Jesus,。
it's pretty irresistible.。
So we as the church, we just get out of the way。
and we point them to Jesus.。
Do you know this Jesus?。
Do you know this God who loved you enough。
to give his life for you?。
Who changed the calendar?。
Who changed the world?。
What do you think about him?。
And Paul says, he's the starting point.。
He's the one we proclaim.。
And he really says, who is this to?。
He says, everyone, three times.。
Admonishing everyone.。
If you have the NIV, they removed one of the everyone's.。
Not sure why, but they did.。
Admonishing everyone, teaching everyone。
that we may present everyone, every person,。
red, yellow, black, and white, rich or poor.。
We admonish, we tell everyone about Jesus.。
Jim Elliot said that as the church,。
we are a bunch of nobodies telling everybody。
about somebody who can save anybody.。
I love that.。
We are a bunch of nobodies telling everybody。
about the only one who's a somebody。
who can save anybody or anyone.。
Paul answers also how he did this.。
Like, what moved you, Paul?。
Paul's sitting there and he's saying,。
this is what drives my life.。
I tell everyone about Jesus.。
I wanna proclaim Jesus first and foremost,。
and Christ powerfully works within me to do this.。
But like, what was behind Jesus sharing?。
I mean, Paul sharing Jesus with everyone he encountered.。
Christ, inside of him.。
100 years ago, 101, I believe, actually,。
in two weeks, there was an event that took place。
that really shook the world,。
and it was the sinking of the Titanic.。
And on the Titanic, which I'm sure everyone knows about,。
saw the movie, and on that boat,。
there was a man who got on there,。
and his name was John Harper.。
And he was a famous pastor from the UK,。
and he was going to speak at a guy named D.L. Moody,。
who's in Chicago.。
He was going to speak at a church in Chicago.。
And he was getting on a boat to get over there.。
And he got on with his six-year-old daughter,。
and he had lost his wife, actually,。
in delivering their child.。
He was a widow.。
And he and his six-year-old daughter get on the boat,。
and they're going over on the Titanic.。
And then on April 14th, around midnight,。
as we know, they hit an iceberg,。
and the ship began to go down.。
And people who survived say that John Harper。
ran all over the deck saying,。
"Women and children, and those who don't know Jesus,。
"on the lifeboats."。
And then he took his six-year-old girl, and he took her,。
and they had a spot in the lifeboat, for both of them,。
because he's a famous pastor, he's a widow,。
and so both of them had a spot.。
And he kisses his six-year-old girl,。
and says, "I've gotta go, but I'll see you again someday."。
And he leaves her, and he voluntarily,。
at a time when people are trying to buy their way。
onto a lifeboat, he gets off of the lifeboat,。
and he goes back and continues telling people about Jesus.。
And then as the boat goes down, he jumps into the water。
and begins swimming with his life jacket on。
from person to person, saying, "Do you know Jesus?。
"Are you saved?"。
And then he would explain the gospel if they didn't.。
And he came up to one man who said,。
"No, I don't, and I don't want to."。
And he's holding onto a piece of wood,。
and John Harper says, "Take my life jacket,。
"because you're gonna need this more than I do."。
And he gives him his life jacket, and he swims off,。
he continues to tell people.。
And then at one point, the waves brought him back。
to this man he'd given his life jacket,。
and he said, "Are you saved?。
"Do you know Jesus?。
"Have you trusted him?"。
And he says, "I haven't, but I want to."。
And he led him to Christ, and then John sank, and he died.。
There were six people that were rescued。
from the 1500 in the water, and one of them was this man.。
And he stood up three years later。
at a survivor's meeting in Canada,。
and they all shared their stories, and he said,。
"I am the last convert of John Harper.。
"I was saved twice that night,。
"once for eternity, and once for this life,。
"all because of a man who could've taken an easy way out,。
"but said, 'Everyone lives forever somewhere.。
"'How can I not go in?'"。
They've got bigger issues。
than just how much life they have left here.。
They've got eternal life awaiting them.。
And the reason I think that's powerful to me。
is I just was praying and thinking on this week。
in light of this passage,。
it's like, what was the driving force behind John Harper?。
I mean, it's the same driving force behind Paul,。
that it wasn't just John's a really great guy,。
loves the water, it wasn't that at all.。
I feel like that's not a good joke.。
Moving on, it wasn't that at all.。
It was Jesus, like, you know who loved those people。
more than John?。
Jesus.。
Enough to move inside of one of his servants and say,。
"Go tell 'em, go tell 'em you're gonna be with me forever.。
"Go tell 'em they can be with me forever."。
Like, he didn't jump in the water, 'cause he was like,。
"Maybe I'll get into heaven then."。
He jumped in the water to get others to heaven.。
And the same thing is true with Paul.。
Who loved those Colossians more than Paul?。
Jesus.。
And he wants to take your life and my life。
and powerfully work through it to proclaim him,。
to proclaim hope, to proclaim eternal life。
and abundant life in this one for anyone who will let him.。
He then gives us really even more insight, Paul does,。
into how Christ works inside of him,。
of how Christ gives him the ability to live this new life.。
He picks it up in verse one of chapter two.。
I want you to know how hard, Paul's speaking,。
I am contending with you, for you,。
and for those at Laodicea,。
and all those who have not met me personally.。
Scholars kind of across the board agree。
when he says contending, he's sitting in a prison cell。
and he's pointing to prayer.。
That Paul says, I want you to know how hard I'm praying。
for you people, even though you've never met me before,。
and I'm praying that God would allow you,。
that my goal is that you would be encouraged in heart。
and united in love.。
And in reading this, I was like so just amazed。
at how much love Paul has.。
I mean, I've never met you people,。
but I'm spending hours in this little prison cell。
praying that you would be encouraged in heart,。
encouraged in love, even though I've never met you.。
I mean, Paul, most of us don't pray for our friends。
or family unless they're sick.。
And Paul's going, I've never met these people,。
but I am just on my face in front of God,。
praying that they would be not just anything,。
but encouraged and united in love.。
I mean, it becomes further even, wow, that's crazy love,。
when you contrast it with Paul's former life.。
I mean, Paul was the artist formerly known as Saul.。
Remember Saul?。
Saul was the guy who tried to stomp out。
the Christian movement, who literally head up。
persecuting and killing Christians,。
going around trying to stomp out Jesus.。
And then all of a sudden, one day he's on the road。
and on his donkey and Jesus knocks him off and says,。
you're gonna come, that's a true story,。
you're gonna come work for me.。
Not like a donkey metaphor, he got knocked on his donkey.。
Anyways, so Jesus says, you're gonna come work for me.。
You're gonna come serve me.。
And his life was radically changed.。
But I mean, still, I mean, how terrible or terror filled。
was Saul that even after he converts,。
he goes to Jerusalem to meet up with the other disciples。
and they like won't let him in the house。
'cause they're like, it's Saul, oh my gosh,。
everybody hide, shh.。
And they won't let Paul in who's saying,。
I became a Christian.。
And yet years later, this man who had murdered people。
in his past is now saying, I'm just begging God on my knees,。
I haven't met you yet, I can't wait to,。
that you would be filled with encouragement,。
filled with love for one another.。
And so that, here we go, the rest of verse two,。
you may have the full riches of complete understanding。
in order that they may know the mystery of God,。
namely Christ, in whom are hidden all treasures。
of wisdom and knowledge.。
So I'm praying that as we know,。
or as we talked about in the weeks before,。
Colossians was like a place where they had。
all these competing ideas.。
It was like we said, Austin, like keep Austin weird,。
keep Colossi weird, where there were all these different。
ideas about, hey, what does God want?。
And yes, Jesus, but add some other things.。
And he says, no, I'm praying that you would know。
you're complete in Christ.。
That's really the whole message of Colossians,。
if you write in your Bible.。
He uses complete 30 times, more than any other letter.。
That you're complete, you have the complete riches。
of understanding.。
I tell you this, verse four, so that no one may deceive you。
by fine sounding arguments, that no one will come up。
and say, yeah, Jesus, but what about if the two of you。
are on a desert island, and that no one would deceive you。
with plausible arguments, that you would know。
Jesus is enough.。
Jesus is enough.。
Whatever you're walking through,。
that you would know Jesus is enough.。
Verse five, that for though I'm absent in body with you,。
I'm present with you in spirit, and I delight to see。
how disciplined you are, and how firm your faith。
in Christ is.。
It doesn't say how disciplined.。
We were talking about this as our team today.。
I delight to see how disciplined you are,。
and firm your faith in Christ is.。
He's not saying how disciplined, like, hey,。
you get up every single morning at 5 a.m.,。
and you have a quiet time for the next four hours,。
then you start your prayer life in the next six hours.。
He's not saying that.。
Those are great things.。
You have a great schedule, I guess, if you do that, kind of.。
But he's not saying that by discipline.。
He's speaking to a group of people that don't have Bibles.。
He's saying, look, I want you to hold on。
that Jesus is enough.。
Jesus is enough.。
He paid for everything.。
You don't need to add anything to it.。
Be disciplined, stand firm.。
I wanna come and see that you believe Jesus is enough.。
There's nothing that needs to be added.。
There's nothing that can change that.。
Jesus is enough.。
Hold on to that.。
Don't let anything slip into that.。
Jesus is enough.。
And stand firm in that.。
And here's what he says.。
Really, he gives us the key, and really, third point。
that we're gonna cover tonight,。
the key to living out the Christian life, verse six.。
So then, just as you, I love this verse,。
just as you received Christ Jesus as Lord,。
continue to live your lives in him.。
Just as you received Christ Jesus as Lord,。
continue to live your lives in him,。
which begs the question, how did they receive Christ?。
Paul, you're saying, look, basically he says,。
hey, finish how you started.。
The Christian life is finishing how it began.。
That's how you live the Christian life, Paul says.。
Continue to live, well, how did they receive him?。
Total trust, total dependence.。
In other words, they didn't come,。
God, I'm gonna try to be good,。
and you on the cross, you pay for a lot of that,。
and so I'm gonna work my way.。
It wasn't that at all.。
It was, God, I'm totally dependent on you。
if I'm gonna have eternal life.。
I'm totally dependent on you。
if I'm gonna have a relationship with you,。
because no matter how good I think I am,。
I'm not good according to comparison with you.。
It was total dependence, and Paul says,。
the same way that we live or we get access to eternal life。
is the same way we live the Christian life.。
And this is so huge, because the Christian life。
is not just hard, it is impossible.。
It is impossible for you alone.。
The Christian life is not just like,。
yeah, just try a little harder.。
It's impossible, and Paul says, look,。
don't get away from this.。
You finish how you started, totally dependent.。
And every moment, moment by moment, dependence.。
God, I can't, but you can.。
I can't walk through the anxiety that I'm feeling。
as I just look towards not having a job,。
but you can, and you can through me.。
I'm trusting you, will you help me?。
This moment by moment, dependent relationship,。
Paul says, that's how you live the Christian life,。
totally dependent on him.。
I think really, Cali, who's my wife's car,。
in some ways is like, continue to be such。
a illustration of this, where,。
or this last idea of just keep coming back to him,。
keep coming to him, moment by moment, dependence.。
Dependence, even just as you walk through your day,。
God, will you help me now?。
God, you know how I'm feeling.。
God, I'm feeling so alone.。
I'm so tired of being single.。
I'm feeling so full of shame。
that you take all those things, you keep coming to him,。
you keep walking, keep trusting。
that God is good, his word is true.。
I'm gonna keep trusting you, totally dependent on you,。
moment by moment, keep coming back to him.。
My wife's car, when she got it, she was in grad school,。
and so she had no money, and so anytime something bad。
would happen to the car, she was back to Charlie.。
Anytime she got in a wreck, and not even just bad stuff,。
like in keeping the maintenance, Charlie was the one。
that she would come back to, and he would help。
kind of walk through, this is what you need to do,。
here's the oil change, every X number of miles,。
you need to get this done, and he instructed。
how to maintain this gift.。
Also, when she would get in a wreck,。
it would go back to Charlie, and she would keep coming。
back to him on those wrecks, which happened a lot.。
They say something about our driving.。
I'm gonna pay for that later.。
(audience laughing)。
But it's kind of worth it.。
Anyways. (audience laughing)。
Man, I'm gonna pay more now.。
Gosh, I love you guys, that's what this is about.。
Okay, so she just kept coming back.。
In any situation, this is what she would do.。
If I got in a wreck, I'm coming back to you.。
If I get in trouble, I'm coming back to you.。
When things are going well, I'm coming to you.。
You know how to best care for this gift。
that you've given me.。
And in essence, that's the Christian life。
that Paul says, you just keep coming to him.。
If you're walking through shame from adultery。
committed this weekend, you just keep coming to him.。
If you're walking through just a season of life。
where you're going, God, I hate where I am right now,。
you just keep coming to him, tell him that.。
He wants this moment by moment dependence.。
When things are going well, when things are going bad,。
you continue to keep coming back to him.。
You keep coming and living in relationship with him.。
I mean, if Charlie, who is wicked,。
it's not personal, Charlie, it's what the Bible says,。
that he is not compared to God,。
and just in general, we all are, wicked,。
knows how to love and care for this girl。
who he's embraced as a daughter.。
How much more does your heavenly father。
want you to come to him?。
I love you enough to die for you,。
will you just keep coming back to me, moment by moment,。
totally dependent on me.。
Whatever you're walking through,。
that he's the first person we turn to,。
that we would keep coming to him.。
There were times where Callie, my wife, again, with the car,。
she would, something would happen。
or she'd get a fender bender, and she'd go, oh my gosh,。
she wouldn't bring it back there,。
even though she couldn't afford to have it fixed,。
she'd go, I'll just not drive it for a little while,。
I feel like there's been too many of these lately,。
and there have, I'm sorry, I'm paying the insurance now.。
But she would just not drive it.。
And then Charlie found out, and he's going,。
what are you doing, bring that to me,。
of course I wanna take care of it, I love you.。
I mean, how much more does your heavenly father,。
when you're walking through and you've blown it,。
and will you just come to me, I've paid for it.。
I wanna tell you how to maintain, how to live out this life,。
I wanna instruct you from my words, will you come to me,。
will you keep coming to me, I love you.。
And that's the invitation he gives all of us,。
that not just eternal life,。
but Paul says how we live this life in Christ,。
totally dependent.。
And I wanna live this way.。
I read Paul's words and I go, I wanna have that hope,。
God, will you help me, I wanna have that hope.。
I wanna be fixed on no matter what I'm walking through,。
I wanna stand firm that there's coming a day。
where all of this is gonna be behind us,。
it's gonna be over like that,。
and the war will be won, I will be home.。
I wanna make sure that I proclaim Jesus first,。
I don't want anything to get in the way,。
or make someone think that Christianity's about。
not smoking or not swearing unless you're in traffic,。
or not anything, it's about Jesus.。
And I wanna live in dependence on him,。
and I think that's what he wants for all of us.。
I think that's what Paul would say,。
that's how you can live this life,。
that's how you can live this life.。
And that's the invitation he's given all of us。
to experience, not eternal life alone, but abundant life.。
I'm gonna pray, we'll close out.。
Father, we love you, and man,。
we need your help to love you more.。
Thank you that you haven't left us just to try harder。
to do what is impossible,。
but you offer us a way.。
You offer the same way that we got in。
is the same way we now live out.。
Thank you that you're coming back.。
Lord, we pray that you would come quickly.。
Your bride, the Christ, says, "Come, Lord Jesus."。
Would you help us to proclaim your son。
the hope of the world, the hope for those of us。
who know him in our hearts?。
Proclaim that he's come, he's coming again,。
he loves humanity enough to die for them,。
and he offers new life to anyone.。
Just take the free gift.。
Would we be diligent, would you powerfully work in us。
who know you to take that free gift?。
We love you, we need you, amen.。
need you. Amen.。
