When I pray in my office, which sits directly next to 635, I always do it with the awareness。
in the background that traffic is just zooming by.。
You can hear it, zoom, zoom, like everyone is racing to and fro.。
They're trying to get wherever it is they're going.。
And it just stands as this great irony to me that in the middle of my moment of quiet,。
the world knows nothing about it.。
But isn't there such clarity in the quiet, to have a moment to just reorient yourself,。
to kind of just stop everything as it was running and instead take a stand of faith.。
Because that's actually what you just did, whether you believe it or not.。
You just made a deliberate move away from the way in which everything normally runs.。
Like the rest of the world has already got you scheduled, your inbox is filling up as。
we speak.。
You haven't cleared them in the last week.。
Your calendar has things still set ahead.。
Your phones, which might've gone off in that moment, are trying to break into the silence。
the world is wanting, man.。
They want for you to give them their attention.。
And yet here's the amazing thing.。
What happens when we take our attention back?。
Something amazing happens.。
You make a declaration of faith.。
You take a stand against the world, and you consecrate even just two minutes like we did,。
and you offer it to God, and you say, "No, God, the world doesn't dictate the way that。
I go.。
You do."。
Because silence leads to faith, and faith then always leads forth into action.。
Tonight, we're starting a brand new series, which is going to be a very short series.。
It's only three weeks long, but this is the heart of it.。
We want to talk to you about what real, genuine belief actually is.。
Not just the faith that saves, but the faith that moves, that actually leads you out of。
this room and into the world and changes the way in which you engage it therefrom.。
That's what we want to do.。
And the reason why we're doing it is because just a couple of months back, in the middle。
of the night, February 25th specifically, I woke up suddenly.。
My heart was racing.。
Not just a little fast, but I mean it was pounding in my chest to the point that I woke。
up and I was worried.。
I was thinking, "God, is this what a heart attack feels like?。
I know I'm getting older, but I'm still young, man.。
I'm not ready to go yet."。
And so as I laid there in bed, flat on my back, eyes wide open, feeling myself totally。
aware, I started counting my beats per minute, and I realized I wasn't having a heart attack.。
But then something even bigger occurred to me.。
"No, God, maybe in fact I'm not having a heart attack.。
Maybe instead you're just wanting my attention."。
Have you ever had a moment like that?。
Where everything in you knows, like this isn't random, this isn't nothing.。
God is actually speaking.。
Have you ever had a moment like that?。
So right there in the quiet of the night, with Brooke laying to my left, trying not。
to disturb her, but trying to engage with God, I asked him.。
I was like, "God, please, would you pour into my heart whatever is in yours?"。
And it came like a rush.。
"Kylin, I am so disenchanted with the state of my people.。
I'm so saddened by the disenchanted state of my people.。
Now, I don't know about you, but when something like that comes to you, I don't want to just。
move on a feeling or trust my own instinct."。
And so I responded.。
I was like, "God, then I need you to confirm it.。
I need you to take me to the scripture.。
I need you to substantiate this in your word."。
And he took me to Mark chapter 6, if you've got a Bible, join me there.。
While you're doing that, I do need to admit to you that this series was never in the cards。
for us.。
This was not a part of our plan.。
Every year at the end of the year, my team and I, we get away and we pray and we seek。
and we ask God, "God, what do you want us to teach?"。
And we map everything out from top to bottom, January to December, and then we go and we。
do it.。
And we always hold it loose because we're like, "God, we know that this is your ministry.。
It's not ours.。
You're the one that leads.。
We're the one that hosts.。
But God, if you want us to do these things, then these are the things we want you to,。
we want to do."。
But it was on February 25th that it became so very obvious to me that the series we were。
going to do, a series that I'm very excited about doing that we're going to do later on,。
needed to wait for the time being because this felt like a clarion call from heaven。
to us, not just us generally speaking, but us generationally speaking, a group of young。
adults here in Dallas, Texas, but then all of our young adult friends that are at Porch。
Live locations as well, shout out to Boise.。
It's been a minute since we've said hello to you, shout out to Scottsdale.。
We want to say hi as well, and then shout out to Midland.。
We love you guys.。
But we talked to all of our Porch Live locations about what God had given, and what we realized。
in that moment was, man, there's this deep desire for us to confront cultural Christianity.。
It's prevalent here in the South.。
Many of you have grown up underneath it, and yet as God woke me up at 2.39 in the morning。
that night, and I spent over two hours with him in Mark 6, I realized that that's exactly。
what he was trying to communicate to my heart, and then express from me to your own.。
Because the passage we're going to look at together, it looks a lot like you and I.。
It details a group of people that grew up with Jesus.。
They knew all about him.。
They actually thought really well of him.。
They'd listened to his teachings.。
They thought that those things were super compelling, and they believed that he was。
even making a significant impact in the world.。
They knew all about him, but the text tells us something important.。
It tells us they didn't believe in him.。
They knew him, but they didn't believe in him, which should feel really alarming to。
us because that tells us something.。
It tells us that we can know about Jesus.。
We can talk about Jesus.。
We can even pray to Jesus, and yet somewhere along the way, we actually can miss Jesus.。
Like you can do it.。
You can believe that he was born of the Virgin Mary.。
You can believe that he grew up and then lived his life in Israel.。
You can believe that he called 12 disciples to follow him over the course of his ministry.。
You can believe that he performed many signs and wonders.。
You can believe that he taught the scriptures with great authority.。
You can believe that many people followed him as he went along his way.。
You can believe that he did make his journey to Jerusalem, and it was there that he not。
only lived the perfect life for all of us, but then gave up that life by dying upon our。
cross, and then he rose forth from the grave in three days victoriously.。
You can believe all of this about Jesus, but here's the thing.。
There's a big difference in believing about Jesus and believing in Jesus.。
How does that happen?。
Because if it happened to them, my conviction is it can happen to us, and here's the thing.。
My concern is it is happening to some of us, so what do we do when that's the case?。
How do we recognize if that's true?。
Well, that's what we're going to do as we work through this text and we spend the next。
three weeks on this series, so if you've got a Bible, look at verse 1 with me in Mark 6.。
It says this, "He," talking about Jesus, "went away from there, and he came to his hometown."。
See, these are the people that grew up with him, spent 30 years in this place before he。
started his ministry, and his disciples followed him, and on the Sabbath, he began to teach。
in the synagogue, and many who heard him, they were astonished, saying, "Where did this。
man get these things?。
What is the wisdom given to him?。
How are such mighty works done by his hands?。
Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary and the brother of James and Joseph and Judas。
and Simon, and are not his sisters here with us?"。
And they took offense at him, and Jesus said to them, "A prophet is not without honor except。
in his hometown and among his relatives and in his own household, and he could do no mighty。
work there, except that he laid his hands on a few sick people and he healed them, and。
he marveled because of their unbelief."。
So Jesus just said it, he just said this is his hometown.。
His hometown is the city of Nazareth.。
Some of you know that he was born in Bethlehem, and you know that he headquartered later on。
in Capernaum, but what you need to know is he was raised in Nazareth.。
Thirty years of his life before he began his ministry, it was in this city.。
This is where he was raised, minus those years that he was in Egypt, which would have been。
like somewhere between three to four, so 26 to 25 years of total time.。
He grew up in this place.。
These were the people that knew him so well, and yet here's the crazy thing about Nazareth.。
Nazareth was this little bitty town situated in the mountains of South Galilee.。
It was approximately 500 people in total size, 60 acres large.。
I had a farm growing up.。
Our farm was bigger than Nazareth was.。
You see, this was the kind of town where there was only one stoplight that regulated all。
the traffic.。
Everybody knew everything about everybody, and your high school graduating class might。
have been larger than it as well.。
You would have missed it if you blinked.。
This is where Jesus was from.。
This is where he lived until he called those disciples, and he set out on his way, and。
he began to do what we know he did, which tells us something really radical about the。
person of Jesus.。
It tells us that Jesus was not business class.。
He was working class.。
It tells us that Jesus didn't grow up in popularity.。
It tells us that he grew up in obscurity.。
It tells us that he wasn't raised in significance.。
He was raised in insignificance, and because everybody knew that about Jesus, because everybody。
here in Nazareth had grown up with him, that's what they expected of him.。
They were super familiar with him.。
But therein lies the danger, so listen to me, Dallas.。
If you grew up with Jesus, there is a danger in your familiarity with him, and I'm going。
to give you three reasons why.。
The first one is familiarity forgets how good Jesus is.。
Familiarity forgets how good Jesus is, because that's what happens when you've been around。
anything for long enough.。
You start to forget what you have, don't you?。
I remember towards the very end of our honeymoon, I started to get ready to kind of go home.。
We'd been there.。
We'd done that.。
I'd eaten all the food.。
I'd sat on the beach.。
I had finished my book, and so I was kind of at that place of like, "Man, this is kind。
of getting old.。
I'm kind of ready to go home, be challenged, get developed, grow a little bit more, get。
back on the job," until I got home, and then it was there, as I swung open the fridge door,。
and I stared inside, and I saw no food, and I had no plans, and I knew the crushing reality。
of fending for myself had once again returned to me for the rest of my life, that I was。
no longer where I once was.。
You see, when we were on our honeymoon, I would casually walk up to a beachside counter,。
and my life was all about quesadillas and crepes, and yet now, my life wasn't about。
that at all.。
My whole life was just about trying to get through day by day by day.。
You see, I had wildly underestimated how good I actually had it, and the same thing happens。
when we've known Jesus for a very long time.。
We forget just how amazing he is.。
That's what's happening here.。
These are a group of people that have grown up with him, and yet, what does it say their。
reaction to him is?。
It says that they were astonished.。
It's an interesting word in Greek.。
The word "astonished" in Greek is the word "pleso," and it means to hit or to strike,。
and when you use the passive form, it means to be hit or to be struck, which is what's。
happening here, and yet, when you look at it and you add the preposition on the front。
end, it intensifies the word, which means everything Jesus is saying is astonishing。
to them.。
It is hitting them hard.。
He is literally blowing their minds.。
He is defying all of their expectations.。
They can't believe.。
This is the same guy we grew up with?。
Is that true?。
He doesn't look like the same guy that we once knew, and yet, this is a common experience。
throughout Scripture, because anytime Jesus opened his mouth to teach to people like you。
and me, people were frequently amazed.。
Matthew 7, 28-29 says, "And when Jesus finished these sayings, the crowds were astonished。
at his teaching, for he was teaching them as one who had authority and not as their。
scribes."。
John 7-15 says, "The Jews therefore marveled, saying, 'How is it that this man has learning。
when he has never studied?'"。
Jesus didn't grow up underneath a rabbi, he didn't go to school to get educated on how。
to teach the Scriptures, he didn't go to college, he didn't have a master's degree or a Ph.D.。
of any kind.。
He just had it, because he actually was the word himself.。
Luke 4-36 says, "And when they were all amazed and they said to one another, 'What is this。
word?'。
For with authority and power he commands the unclean spirits, and they come out."。
You hear it?。
They were amazed at his teaching.。
He spoke as one that was knowledgeable to them.。
He was marvelous in his presentation of the Gospel.。
It's astounding actually, when you look at ancient historical scholars, often what would。
happen in synagogues, whenever traveling rabbis would come and speak, if they didn't have。
great oratory delivery, they would actually speak into the ear of someone else that would。
communicate instead, because oratory mattered a lot to these people.。
Which tells us, if Jesus is the one actually doing the teaching, guess what?。
He was a really good communicator.。
He didn't just have the right things to say, he had the right way of saying them, a way。
that invited people in.。
He was astonishing in the way that he presented the text.。
He was amazing.。
Why then do we forget it?。
Why do we forget this about him?。
Because as you've heard it said, familiarity breeds contempt, sure, but it also breeds。
complacency.。
Familiarity breeds complacency, because that's what happens when something new grows old,。
doesn't it?。
Because it's luster.。
So when you got that brand new car, you were so good about getting washed every single。
week, but now you just hope the rain accidentally washes it off for you, because it's grown。
old.。
Some of you, you got that shirt and it was your power fit.。
You loved putting that thing on, going out, but now it's the same thing you wear when。
you go to sleep.。
It's like pajama wear.。
It got demoted at some point.。
The same thing happens in our relationships with Jesus.。
He used to be exciting.。
How exciting was he for you when you first started out, Christian?。
Get up early, read those scriptures, get together with a friend, kill a couple of hours at a。
coffee shop, show up to service, come back on a Tuesday, come back on a Wednesday, roll。
through on Thursday, and you loved it.。
Whatever happened.。
Why is it that our experience of Jesus today does not look like our experience of Jesus。
back then?。
He's become common.。
We've forgotten how good he is, because we start coming into places like this and we。
start doing what many of us do.。
We critique how loud the music is.。
We critique how large the crowds get.。
We critique how long the services run.。
We critique how strong the messages feel.。
Because we do, because we start to detail how everything can be better, it communicates。
something massive to us.。
It tells us that often we can become so focused on how things should be better, because we。
have forgotten how good he already is.。
Psalm 16 says in verse 2, "I say to the Lord, 'You are my Lord.。
I have no good apart from you.'"。
And then if you jump to the end, it says in 11, "You make known to me the path of life.。
It's in your presence there's fullness of joy.。
In your right hand are pleasures forevermore."。
Do you hear what this is saying?。
It's saying that goodness is not found anywhere but with God.。
James 1:17 would tell us that every good and perfect gift, it comes down from the Father。
of heaven and the lights.。
That if you receive anything in life that is good, it is from God himself.。
I love the way Saint Augustine says it.。
He says, "God is always trying to give good things to us, always, but our hands are often。
too full to receive them."。
Now I'm not saying that this other stuff doesn't matter, but if you frequently find yourself。
church hopping Sunday to Sunday, judging people as you sit in services, defending your ministry。
preferences, nitpicking your way through sermons, or leaving with more bad to say than good,。
you might be missing Jesus.。
Because again, he is good.。
It should take none of this for us to experience the depth of goodness and enjoyment that he。
has to offer.。
And so if you're looking for good where good is not found, guess what, you will not find。
it there.。
And yet here's the amazing thing, and I'm fully convinced of this porch, I'm fully convinced。
that he has you here tonight because he wants to amaze you again.。
I believe it.。
Some of you, you're so disenchanted in spirit.。
You're so stagnant in your Christianity.。
You feel like you have dried up in a drought.。
Well, hold fast because Jesus wants to amaze you.。
He wants to show you a better way.。
But first and foremost, you got to take him as he is, not as you want him to be, which。
is exactly where they go wrong.。
It says in verse three, "Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, the brother of James and。
Joseph and Judas and Simon?。
And aren't his sisters here with us?"。
And they took offense at him.。
It's interesting what they point out about him.。
They ask a few questions.。
They say, "Is this not the carpenter?"。
Why do they do that?。
Because they're implying this guy's not qualified to teach us.。
They go on and they say, "Is this not the son of Mary?"。
Which is interesting because that goes against Jewish custom of naming men according to their。
relationship with their father.。
Jesus should have been announced as the son of Joseph, but they didn't do it.。
Why?。
Because they believe he is an illegitimate son of Joseph because he scandalously came。
into the world through Mary, whom they likely believe was born out of wedlock.。
They ask, "Aren't his siblings with us?"。
Implying that although two of these brothers, James and Jude, will come to believe in Jesus。
after the resurrection, even write their own letters in the New Testament, although they。
come to believe in him after the resurrection, at this point, they don't believe in him at。
all.。
You can go read through the gospels and you can see his own family thinks he's crazy.。
The only person that believes in him is his mother.。
That is until Jesus dies and rises from the dead, and then they all come to believe.。
You see, all of this proves to us the second danger of your familiarity in the faith.。
It tells us that familiarity reduces Jesus to something manageable.。
It's the danger, the second one, is your familiarity with him will reduce him to something that。
is manageable.。
That's what happens when you go back to your hometown, isn't it?。
What happened to him happens to us.。
You walk into Walmart, and you grab a shopping cart, and you take 10 steps through the door,。
and it's then that it feels like you just signed on for a full-on reunion tour that。
you did not want anything to do with.。
I don't know if that's your experience.。
That's always my experience.。
I walk into Walmart, and someone sees me that I haven't seen in 20 years, and yet all they。
can think about is who I was 20 years ago.。
You still drive that truck?。
I have one with the six-inch lift kit, big tires, yeah, man, good east Texas boy.。
You still have the farm?。
You guys still go out there ever?。
No, we don't do that anymore.。
What about, did you go to law school?。
I knew you always wanted to go to law school.。
Did you go to law school?。
They talk to me in light of who I used to be, not in light of who I've become.。
That's what happens to Jesus when he goes to his hometown.。
They don't see who he's become.。
They see who he used to be, because that's the version they're most comfortable with.。
That's what the people in this story do, and here's the truth, porch.。
This is what we do with them as well.。
When the real Jesus starts confronting our comfort, we often reduce his rule and his。
reign in our life.。
We don't outright reject him, but no, man, that's the guy that's going to get me into。
heaven.。
I don't want to be sideways with him.。
I don't want to reject him and put him off, but though I might not reject him, maybe I。
can remake him.。
So yeah, you agree, people shouldn't sleep together before they get married, but we've。
been dating so long and man, we've already gone through premarital counseling and we're。
basically married.。
You're basically not married, and so you probably shouldn't be doing that, but you think you're。
the exemption to the rule, or you know, man, I can't serve God and money, but your situation,。
it's different because your job is rare.。
Your industry is competitive, and yet this thing, it kind of fell in your lap and you're。
making more money than anybody else around you.。
You are in the top half percent, 1% of people your age when it comes to income, and so yeah,。
man, you know you can't serve God and money, but God feels kind of like God put this thing。
in my lap, even though you're having to compromise your values in order to keep the position.。
Or you say, man, God is in control.。
You trust him with your whole future, and yet you've planned everything out.。
You've scheduled everything out.。
You've optimized everything.。
You know what your calendar says.。
You've got your to-do list already finished.。
Your meal is planned for the entire week, and your fitness regimen is already locked。
and loaded because trusting God sounds good, but being in control feels a lot safer.。
See how this works?。
I could go on, but the oohs and aahs tell me that's convicting enough already.。
We treat Jesus like he's customizable to the life we want to live.。
Let's get real with you.。
Jesus was never meant to be the customizable feature in your life.。
You were meant to be the customizable feature to his.。
We're trying to get Jesus onto our agenda when he's always trying to get us onto his.。
Why then can't we do it?。
Why can't we trust him and get on board?。
Why is it that we become selective in our obedience?。
You know what I mean by that?。
Selective in your obedience?。
That's when you do whatever you want to do that agrees with Jesus, but you don't do what。
you don't want to do because, well, it doesn't agree with you.。
You just silently ignore those statutes, those commands that you don't necessarily want to。
do because those are inconvenient, those are uncomfortable or awkward for you.。
The reason for that is you may want Jesus as the savior of your soul, but you don't。
want him as the Lord of your life.。
You want him to get you out of the jam of your sin, but then you want him to get out。
of the way of your future.。
So yeah, you'll embrace his moral framework because it feels good to have clarity in life,。
to know what's right and to know what's wrong.。
Nobody likes to operate in the grave.。
We want to know what's black and white, and yet though you'll take his moral framework,。
you don't want him to have absolute authority over everything you do.。
People accept the fact that he offers comfort in the midst of crisis, but you don't want。
to submit to him whenever it is in fact you're comfortable.。
You're willing to let your beliefs kind of live in the background of your life, but you。
don't want them to make their way to the forefront and disrupt the way you live.。
We want to be in charge.。
I'm saying we because I myself am included.。
I was born and raised in the hometown of Christ's own kingdom.。
I knew, born on a Saturday and in the pew on a Sunday, I know what it's like to want。
to be the Lord of my own life and to struggle to give up that position, but that throne。
was never meant for me to sit on.。
It was always intended for him.。
He did what I could not.。
He died what I deserve.。
He rose forth on my behalf, and now he gets to sit where I want to sit.。
He takes the throne.。
He's the Lord of my life.。
He's the only one.。
First Corinthians 8.5.6 tells us, "For although there may be so-called gods in heaven and。
on earth, as indeed there are many gods and many lords, yet for us there is one God, the。
Father, from whom all things and for whom we exist, and one Lord, Jesus Christ, through。
whom all things are and through whom we exist."。
There's one Lord.。
So listen to me, porch.。
This is important.。
It means if your version of Jesus never challenges you, then your version of Jesus is fake.。
That's what's so crazy about this story.。
You can be amazed by Jesus, but you cannot be changed by Jesus.。
Isn't that wild?。
You can be amazed by him, astonished by him.。
You can consider him a living marvel, and yet you can go completely unchanged by him.。
You can walk into rooms like this.。
You can sit in seats like yours.。
You can enjoy the worship we've had, and you can walk out, and you can never, ever be different.。
It's because you're amazed, but you're not changed.。
So let me just put it to you like this.。
Let me ask you a question I myself have been wrestling with as of late.。
When's the last time Jesus asked you to change something, and you actually did it?。
Be gut-level honest with yourself.。
When's the last time he asked you to change something, and you didn't just talk about。
it?。
You didn't just think about it?。
You didn't just pray about it?。
You didn't just wrestle with it, struggle through it?。
You actually did something about it.。
When's the last time that happened?。
The reason why I ask you that is because often we don't do what he's asked for the same reason。
they don't, because we have grown offended by him.。
We have grown so offended because we don't want him to be our Lord.。
We want him to be our carpenter.。
That's what they identified him as.。
That's what they were comfortable with, and yet here's the thing.。
If you treat Jesus like a carpenter, he's only going to be a carpenter to you.。
What does that actually look like?。
Well, I'll tell you what it looks like, because that's where the passage ends.。
Look at verse five with me.。
It says, "Because of this, he could do no mighty work there, except that he laid his。
hands on a few sick people, and he healed them, and he marveled because of their unbelief."。
Isn't that crazy?。
Did you ever think you'd read that in the scripture?。
Because of this, Jesus could not do something that you thought Jesus could do.。
What is with that?。
Well, it's important because it gives you the third and final danger that comes with。
familiarity.。
It tells you that familiarity can miss out on Christ's power.。
Familiarity can miss out on Christ's power.。
Did you hear it?。
He could do no mighty work there.。
What the heck does that even mean?。
Has Jesus suddenly lost all of his power?。
Is he shackled because of all of our skepticism?。
Did their unbelief zap him of his strength?。
No, because all throughout the Gospels, you see Jesus perform miracles for people that。
lacked faith.。
So it's not telling us that a lack of faith is like a lever that keeps God from doing。
whatever you want him to do.。
It's not like manifesting in the new age.。
It's not, "Well, you'll receive it if you believe it."。
That's not what this is saying.。
The reason we know it is because you can look all throughout the Gospels, but very specifically,。
if you go and you look back at Mark 5 and you look at the very end of Mark 4, you're。
going to see four different accounts that detail a lack of faith and yet a massive demonstration。
of God's power.。
You see at the end of Mark 4, you pick up with the disciples as they're crossing over。
the sea and Jesus is in the boat and he chooses to calm the storm.。
You move on from there and you find him on the shore of the Decapolis and he meets a。
demon-possessed man, the demoniac, and he exercises him.。
You go forth from there and he heals the bleeding woman and then after that he goes and he raises。
Jairus's daughter.。
What's fascinating about every single one of these stories is it tells us something。
incredible about the authority, the power, the capability of Jesus.。
It tells us that he has authority over all creation.。
It tells us that he is capable over all nature.。
It tells us that he is capable over all demonic forces.。
It tells us that he is capable over all sickness.。
It tells us that he is capable even in the face of death.。
This is the extent of Jesus's power.。
Each of these stories, there is unbelief and yet though that is present, his power is not。
absent.。
So your faith is not a mechanism that controls outcomes and you need to hear me on it because。
there are some people in the church that are going to tell you otherwise and they're heretical.。
They're wrong.。
That is not what the scripture teaches.。
It's not about the amount of faith you give.。
It's about the object of your faith instead because that's where this goes.。
When it says he could do no mighty work there, it's trying to tell us that Jesus won't force。
his power where it's not wanted.。
He will not force his power where it's not wanted.。
So how do you know if you want it?。
Well, how do you know if you want anything in life?。
You want a sandwich, bro?。
You're just going to sit there and wait.。
That's not going to work.。
You have to get up.。
You have to go get one, right?。
When I moved to Dallas out of Houston, my car broke down, I needed to get a new vehicle.。
I knew exactly what I wanted.。
I wanted a square body 1990s Ford pickup truck.。
And so you know what I did?。
I went to work, baby.。
Like I was all over auto trader and car gurus and Facebook marketplace.。
I was haunting with the amount of time I gave to it.。
Like my regular screen time was like two and a half hours and that thing jacked up to six。
hours because I was feverishly, that wasn't right, I was feverishly trying to find this。
specific pickup truck.。
And whenever it seemed like all hope was lost and I was driving to buy a 2010 Ford Fusion,。
no hate if you have one, but I was on my way to buy that, which I did not want.。
I continued to search and there it was located in Mesquite, Texas.。
I had given so much time to find it.。
In fact, to the point that I knew more about trucks in Nebraska than I did about what was。
happening in my family's life at the time.。
And it was all indicative of the fact that I wanted that.。
That's what you do when you want something.。
You don't just think it through.。
You leverage your life in the direction of it.。
A lot of us say that we want Jesus's power and we want his presence in our life.。
But when we look at the evidence, when we're really honest with ourselves, our lives tell。
us we want something different.。
I see this all the time, man.。
I talk to people like you.。
I talk to you.。
I stand down here and I'm available every Tuesday.。
And I will always tell you what I believe the word of God wants to rightly and truthfully。
say.。
And when you come down and you tell me, man, I'm spiritually stagnant, I'm in a drought,。
bro.。
I can't find any water.。
I just feel like I'm stuck.。
I can't move forward.。
I can't grow as fast as I want to grow.。
It feels like God was once so close, but he's now so far off.。
Whenever those people come up and they start talking to me, you know what I always tell。
them?。
I ask them the same question.。
Well, what's your algorithm got to say about that?。
Because here's the truth.。
Your algorithm will actually tell you what in fact you genuinely want.。
Because it looks at past behavior to predict future behavior.。
So you may be saying you want that, but the truth of the matter is you want this.。
And the reason why is because you've chased that.。
What you want, you will chase.。
So you may think you're close to God, but the truth of the matter is you're close to。
something else instead.。
I think that's one of the dangers for people that have grown up with Jesus.。
People like us.。
We think we're close to him because we know all about him.。
We've heard the stories.。
We speak the language.。
We play the part, but we're further away than we dare admit.。
Our spirits have grown cynical.。
Our worship is unmoved.。
What was once a delight to us now feels like such the duty to uphold.。
But our faith is fully forced.。
Don't you want more?。
When you look at the state of your Christianity, don't you want more for yourself?。
Everything that that book promises.。
Let me ask you.。
Does it feel like a rumor?。
Because it's supposed to feel like reality.。
It's supposed to break into your experience.。
Same God yesterday, today, forever.。
Often though, we treat him like he's just the same God yesterday because we haven't。
seen him here today.。
Friends, I'm begging you to believe he is wanting to move.。
He is just searching to see, is there a faith that will invite him to do so?。
Is there a faith that Jesus will marvel at?。
Only twice in the gospels does Jesus ever marvel at the belief of someone, twice.。
The first one is when he stands in front of that Roman centurion.。
He sent a messenger, sent for Jesus to come and to heal, and yet as Jesus is on his way,。
he tells him, "You do not even need to come.。
You merely need but speak a word, and it will be done."。
And Jesus says, "Not in all of Israel have I seen a faith, a belief like this."。
And he marveled.。
And the second is right here.。
And he marveled because of their unbelief.。
He marveled because of their unbelief.。
What's the state of your belief, friend?。
We've got to get real about this.。
What's the state of your belief?。
I'll be really honest with you.。
In my job, I think a lot about these seats.。
I think a lot about you that sit in them.。
Twenty years in, man, that's what we're celebrating this year.。
We're 20 years old.。
Isn't that amazing?。
What a move of God to keep the porch around for 20 years.。
We're going to celebrate it big in a couple of months.。
But I just want to be vulnerable with you, man.。
I lose sleep at night wondering what the next 20 will be like, praying that God let the。
best days of the porch be out in front of us, not behind us.。
Not because I want to have my name written in lights, because I want to leave a great。
legacy for others to follow.。
No.。
I want it because I want it for you.。
I want it deeply for us, for our generation, for what God is doing in our city, for the。
way that he is moving across the country, even our own world, and he is drawing people。
to himself, all kinds of people from all sorts of backgrounds.。
He's inviting them in, which feels crazy when you think about it.。
People from all over the place, they're getting the same invitation, a wide spectrum of spirituality,。
a broad degree of belief, people that they've grown up with them, people that have never。
known about them, that have never heard of them.。
He is inviting them, "Hey, come to me."。
How does that work?。
Because right here we see he doesn't do any mighty works amidst those that have unbelief.。
Well, there's something to this story that you've yet seen.。
This is the second time that Jesus has come to Nazareth.。
The first is in Luke 4, the very beginning of his ministry.。
He comes to his hometown, one of the first places he visits, to the people that knew。
him, to a place like Dallas, and he opens the scripture, and he reads this.。
He says, "The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because he has anointed me to proclaim good。
news to the poor.。
He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovering of sight to the blind,。
to set at liberty those who are oppressed, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor."。
And as he closes the scroll and he returns to the people, he tells them, "This word which。
has been spoken is fulfilled before you today.。
The Messiah has come.。
He is calling.。
He is inviting, and he is still changing those that receive the invitation."。
But you know how that story ended?。
In a really wild way.。
They were astonished.。
They were amazed.。
They loved what he had to say.。
But then they took offense at him, and in that first time to his hometown, they tried。
to kill him.。
Literally, they tried to throw him off of a cliff.。
And yet Jesus, doing what he does, he passed through them, and he went on, and he worked。
his ministry.。
And over the course of that time, miracles, signs, teachings, wonders, all sorts of things。
that would substantiate his authority came to pass.。
And then after he added credibility, offered veracity to his ministry, he went back.。
He returned to his hometown a second time.。
Because here's the truth.。
Though they rejected him once before, he wanted to give them a second chance.。
That's the heart of your God.。
It's looking at you, and he's saying, "I want to give you another shot.。
I want to give you another chance.。
I want to invite you to follow.。
The same call that I made before, I'm making it again.。
The same invitation that I extended in the past, I'm extending here again today.。
I want you to follow me.。
I want you to believe in me.。
I want you to place your faith in me, because if you will do so, Ports, listen to me, then。
mighty works will be done in your life."。
But here's the truth about faithfulness, and it's a truth that I'm living into today.。
Faithfulness often feels very foolish, because there are no miracles where there is no vulnerability.。
And we know that no more clearly than in the life of Jesus, because though we may have。
forgotten how good Jesus is, we know that he never forgot about us.。
We know that though we likely have reduced Jesus in some way to fit ourselves, Jesus,。
he reduced himself to fit into our lives instead.。
And we know that maybe we are missing out on Christ's power, but we don't have to miss。
out on it any longer, because it is through his life, death, and then the demonstration。
of his resurrection that that power is most manifestly and majestically made known, that。
we might place our what?。
Our belief in him again.。
What will he see when he looks upon your faith?。
What will he see when he thinks about your belief?。
Might he do these mighty works?。
Oh, porch, from the bottom of my heart, from someone that thinks about you, prays for you,。
and loves you dearly, I believe it, and I'm praying you'll believe it with me.。
Let me pray that we would.。
God, we love you, and we're thankful for tonight, and we're thankful for this time, and God,。
we give it all to you.。
Oh, God, I want some things to change.。
I want some things to change, not just in our room, but God, in these people.。
Those of you that hear my voice, I want something to change in you.。
I want fresh faith.。
I want a fierce fire.。
I want an all-consuming passion that upends the ways in which you've lived, and it changes。
the ways in which you go.。
I want for you to have a kind of joy the likes of which this world will never give you, but。
Christ has come to give freely and without regret.。
I want forgiveness for those parts of your life that feel so very cringeworthy because。
Jesus went to the cross to die for them.。
I want something to change for you.。
I want something to change for you.。
Oh, Jesus, come and change it, come and change it.。
Jesus says, in the familiar passage of Matthew, he says, "When the Son of Man returns, will。
he find faith?"。
Oh, God, let faith be found here.。
Let faith rise up from within.。
Let faith extend across our seats, into our city.。
Let it extend, God, out over our country.。
Let it make way into our office spaces, into our neighborhoods, across estranged relationships。
in family lines, and then, God, let our faith rise up into heaven, and because, God, this。
is our faith, a faith that says, "God, we believe you are who you say you are.。
We believe you have done what you said you will do, and we believe you are coming again。
as you have come before because we believe, oh, God.。
Let mighty works be done here, and may you marvel at your people."。
We love you.。
It is in Christ's name we pray, amen.。
