(upbeat music)。
- Welcome to the porch, we're so excited.。
My name's David Marvin.。
I could not be more thrilled to introduce to you a panel。
unlike any panel we've ever had before.。
And so some of these faces you'll probably recognize。
and some of them you may meet。
or will be meeting tonight for the first time.。
So I'm gonna let our panel introduce themselves.。
You'll probably recognize Shane, Shane and JP,。
but Shane, why don't you start。
and you can introduce to us your better half,。
her lovely wife.。
- My name is Shane.。
And--。
- I think we got that.。
- This is Beth, my wife.。
She is the most beautiful woman in the whole world.。
- I'm not sure you're following instructions here.。
- And.。
- Okay, perfect.。
(laughing)。
That was really touching.。
So good luck, Shane.。
- So my name is Shane.。
This is my wife, Kelly.。
She's married the most beautiful man in the whole world.。
(laughing)。
- Wow.。
- I tell her you're welcome twice a day.。
(laughing)。
- All right, my name is Shane.。
(laughing)。
And it's just incredible just to be one of the greatest。
Christian vocalists in the world.。
And so I wrote you a song.。
♪ The very first time ♪。
♪ That I saw your green eyes ♪。
Kind of blue.。
♪ Blue eyes ♪。
This is my wife, Monica,。
and it's fun to be here with you.。
Okay.。
- Powerful.。
So what I thought we'd do。
and what we're gonna have each couple do。
is kind of share briefly their story.。
And we even have some pictures of each couple。
from back in the day,。
which should be, if nothing else, entertaining.。
And so we're gonna look at those。
and why don't you guys start us out?。
How'd you meet?。
As we kind of explore for the last few weeks,。
if you haven't been with us,。
we're in this series called Battle of the Sexes,。
which is all about dating, marriage, sex, relationships,。
and really man and woman interacting.。
And so tonight, we're finishing,。
we're doing a panel to just address some of the questions。
that we did not cover,。
either because we didn't have the ability。
to take up an entire message for them。
or they just weren't on our radar,。
but thanks to you, they now are.。
So in order to get to know the couples,。
we just asked if they would prepare。
to be able to share briefly kind of their story,。
how they met and how long you've been married。
and where you are right now.。
- We, well, we've been married for six years,。
coming up in just a couple of weeks.。
And we met out on the road on tour.。
(laughing)。
- I'm not sure what to do with that.。
- I don't even know.。
- This is gonna be such a chain reaction.。
- This is what happened when you met?。
- No, that's the wrong picture.。
Is there another one?。
No, that's the wrong one.。
That's our family now.。
- That's the day you met.。
- She kissed me the first time we met.。
It was weird.。
No, you know, touring,。
Beth, her goad name is Bethany Dillon.。
- Because she's also a recording artist.。
- She is a famous Christian singer.。
(laughing)。
And no, she came on tour with us。
and going out on tour on a tour bus。
is a super unique situation。
because there's 12 bunks, there's 14 people,。
and you're out on the road for two months.。
And so we didn't share about that.。
I don't know why you said that.。
But no, it's just such an interesting--。
- The math is breaking down a little bit.。
- Yeah, well, you know--。
- 14 people.。
- I wanted to clarify.。
- We're all a little confused.。
- Yeah.。
- We're just going right past it.。
- We're just going right on past it.。
- So you met, you dated on a tour bus.。
- We didn't date.。
We didn't date, which that was lesson number two.。
Don't date on a tour bus.。
- We're all confused.。
- I know, we should have gone first.。
- You're married, though.。
That's where we met.。
- All right, I'll tell our story.。
So we met on the road.。
(audience cheering)。
And we're friends, and then liked each other,。
and then dated each other.。
And I lived in Ohio.。
I'm from Ohio, and he was here in Dallas.。
And it was kind of a long process。
from being friends to dating。
because there's an age difference between us。
of about 20 years, not really.。
But I'm just kidding.。
Not that much.。
- But close.。
- But close, no, not, no, anyway.。
- It's a decade.。
- So it took, I think it took a while。
for us to say that we liked each other。
and stop the texting and actually talk on the phone。
and make plans to see each other.。
And so, yeah, and then we dated for, right?。
'Cause I need to tell that.。
So we dated for almost a year,。
and then we were engaged for about 10 months.。
And then, yeah, we've been married for six years.。
We've got two kids, Lucy and Haven,。
who are awesome, and they're three and one.。
- Who we saw a second ago.。
- Yeah.。
- So beautiful.。
- I love it. - Not us, but yeah.。
- Amazing, okay, so I'm sure we'll hear more。
kind of as a question that's about your story。
and how those intersect.。
But what about you guys?。
So you guys met a long time ago in high school, right?。
- High school, yeah, we met in high school.。
So picture this.。
(audience laughing)。
Chemistry class.。
(audience laughing)。
Test tubes and love.。
(audience laughing)。
We served up a beaker of love.。
No, we didn't, we didn't date.。
We didn't date then.。
Kelly, we met in high school.。
She dated a buddy of mine, and then we didn't talk.。
(audience laughing)。
No, seriously, I didn't know the Lord in high school.。
I got saved my senior year in college,。
and Kelly knew the Lord in high school,。
at least the part that I knew her.。
She claims that we weren't friends,。
but in my mind, we were friends.。
(audience laughing)。
But I was at A&M, and she was at Baylor.。
(audience cheering)。
Yes, so we were, so anyway,。
I ended up getting saved my senior year,。
and went to Baylor for this thing,。
and we just happened to run into each other,。
and I was like, man, I need to talk to you.。
So she was the only, really the only Christian girl。
that I knew, and so I was like,。
man, my options are really small.。
(audience laughing)。
I'm kidding, I'm kidding, I'm so kidding.。
That's stupid.。
- This panel's going--。
- I'm available for marriage counseling.。
- Better than we thought.。
(audience laughing)。
- Anyway, so no.。
- It's turning out to be a bad idea.。
- Seriously, check this out.。
We were, I didn't really know any Christian girls,。
but I had this dance coming up called Ring Dance at A&M.。
And you got that picture?。
Throw that one up.。
Come on, guys.。
You knew it was coming.。
Anyway, so we went on, our first date。
was this thing called Ring Dance.。
- There it is.。
Are you sure that wasn't high school?。
- That was our first date, right there.。
April 26, 1997, is that right?。
I think it's right.。
Is that right?。
So we went on a date, and I was in love,。
and we dated for about eight months or so.。
Then she broke up with me, and here's a good dating tip.。
When she was breaking up with me,。
she lived in the, what were the apartments called?。
The Village at Baylor.。
She was like, "We need to break up."。
I'm like, "Oh, man, I'm not hearing that from the Lord."。
But anyway, she broke up with me.。
As I'm saying goodbye, like this is the final goodbye,。
she sticks her head out the door, and she goes,。
"I love you," shuts the door.。
Did you know that?。
You knew that, right?。
- I think that's gonna be a good thing to talk about。
when guarding the heart and all that.。
- Yeah. - That was the first time.。
- That was the first time she told me she loved me.。
"I love you," shut the door.。
- And locked it. - Locked it.。
- See you later, forever. - I was like.。
I'm calling the police.。
- Ask, seek, knock.。
- Yeah, so anyway, all that to say,。
after a few years, we ended up reconnecting.。
She went abroad for a few years, came back,。
and now we ended up reconnecting,。
getting engaged after about four months.。
We're married, now we're married almost 12 years,。
this coming up, in May.。
12 years, we have three girls,。
Olive, Lillian, and Emma, Rose.。
And Olive is seven, Lily is three,。
and Emma's nine months.。
So that's it, I'll shut up.。
There they are. - There they are.。
- I love it.。
We've been married nine and a half years,。
and we met in college.。
She was my best friend's sister,。
and so we were at a party, at an apartment,。
it wasn't really a party,。
we were hanging out at an apartment,。
and I told him, hey, his sister wanted to come over,。
and he was like, oh man, my sister wants to come over,。
and I was like, man, I'd like to meet your sister.。
And I had no idea how badly I wanted to meet his sister.。
And basically, we were not Christians,。
if you know my story, if you've been hanging out。
with us for a while, and so it was just kind of,。
it was everything not to do,。
that's pretty much Monica and I's story.。
I moved to Dallas, she stayed in Waco,。
we started dating in a committed relationship,。
it was manic highs and lows, I love you, I hate you.。
I probably went through depression in that time,。
just from being here and not really knowing anyone,。
and just kind of holding onto that Waco,。
that college lifestyle.。
And then I was at a bar, hungover,。
I was at a bar, invited to church, came, hungover,。
trusted Christ, radical life change, talked to her,。
I said, you know, who do you believe,。
what do you believe about God,。
and we had talked about God before,。
and she had straightened out morally before I did,。
and so she kind of got on the straight and narrow,。
and didn't think partying was still fun like I did,。
and she just matured, you know,。
and so she articulated the gospel,。
we both kind of knew the gospel,。
and she articulated the gospel,。
and I said, okay, I believe that too,。
we need to figure this deal out,。
and God just kind of came in our lives,。
and we were not pure by any stretch of the imagination,。
and then we stepped into that world,。
and said, okay, now we need to stop all things sexual here,。
which was incredibly difficult, as you can imagine,。
and so then shortly thereafter,。
you know, the way that that works out,。
once you cut off the physical,。
I mean, we were engaged very shortly thereafter,。
(audience laughing)。
'cause my friend Paul says,。
it's better to marry than to burn,。
and so we did, we were engaged for four months.。
- Is she having more? - She's counting, she said.。
Yeah, four, five months, so we were engaged five months,。
and then married, and I'll tell you more about this later,。
but essentially, Christ was at the center of our lives。
at that time, but there was just a lot of baggage,。
and so we spent about three years in our marriage。
really healing from all of the baggage。
that we brought into it,。
which was pretty difficult times, frankly,。
and so today, we have two little girls,。
Presley and Finley, and then a 17-month-old in Weston.。
I don't know if we have those, do we show any pictures?。
So there's the family.。
That's good.。
- Well, that really transitions,。
or your story's a perfect transition。
to one of the first questions that's come in,。
which is about if two believers are dating,。
and they're not initially sexually pure,。
but are now wanting to pursue purity,。
what are some practical steps to help with this?。
And really, your story answers the second question,。
and is it even possible to have a healthy relationship。
after sexual impurity, which could still lead to marriage?。
So practical steps on a couple。
that's had sexual past together,。
like they've made a mistake, but they're saying,。
hey, we wanna fight, and we wanna pursue purity,。
what would you say are some steps that helped?。
- Yeah, I just think once you start pursuing Christ,。
you become a new creation, right?。
And so God's bigger than that,。
but you have to pursue him, ultimate in your life.。
In 1 Corinthians 6, it just says,。
flee sexual immorality.。
And so the easiest way to flee sexual immorality。
is to Matthew 6, 33,。
seek first his kingdom and his righteousness.。
And all that other stuff, he's gonna add to it,。
he tells you, but if you seek him first,。
and so I'm not talking about。
check the box Dallas Christian,。
like I'm going to church and the porch on Tuesday,。
I'm talking about the trajectory of your life。
is pursuing the creator of the heavens and the earth,。
that's why you were created.。
Once you begin doing that,。
we had a guy tell us this in premarital counseling,。
he just says, hey, stop pursuing each other,。
'cause we were, you know,。
just pursuing each other with everything.。
He says, stop pursuing each other。
and start pursuing the Lord together.。
And I thought that was such stupid advice。
until it was really what saved us.。
I mean, it was what gave us marriage。
and preserved our marriage,。
is when we started pursuing God ultimately,。
see, when you pursue each other, it's hit or miss,。
but when you pursue God ultimately,。
you're constantly growing closer and closer together,。
and you're trusting the spirit to make you。
and conform you to the image and the character of Jesus.。
And so two human beings cannot get along.。
I mean, we don't do that well,。
particularly when you're male and female,。
you're so different,。
but when you're pursuing the Lord。
and he's making you both like Christ,。
all of the sudden there is a spirit of oneness that happens.。
What would you add?。
- Yeah, I think just, and even in hearing that question,。
and when Jonathan, or sorry, I call him Jonathan, not JP.。
And so when he came to me last week。
and just said, "Hey, we're gonna do this panel,。
"here's what we're thinking."。
And I just immediately was like, "Oh no, that's not me."。
And just really feeling inadequate to get up here。
and talk on just dating and what that looks like,。
because we just did everything wrong.。
I mean, the Lord did grab hold of our hearts,。
and so thankful for that.。
And so the one thing that we didn't even do,。
he did, is just redeem us.。
And so no matter where you are, or where you've been,。
or what you've done, I mean,。
he is more powerful than any of it.。
And he redeems and he saves.。
And the verse that I think of is,。
"While we were still sinners, Christ died for us."。
And so it is not what you're gonna be,。
or what you were, but where you are right now.。
I mean, he just comes in and redeems and makes new.。
- Yeah, and I just pursue him ultimately,。
would be what I say, and he can.。
If you're not gonna pursue him ultimately,。
break up right now.。
Like, don't waste any more time.。
- Excellent.。
Okay, so this question would probably be good for you guys,。
'cause I'm sure you had to do this.。
But we talk about guarding against sexual impurity.。
How do you guard your heart emotionally?。
And being in a bus, I'm sure you either。
did this well or didn't.。
And so maybe you can speak to how。
you would answer that question.。
(audience laughing)。
- There's actually one night that was really weird, 'cause--。
(audience laughing)。
Shane and I, we were bus drivers.。
So most of the time, most of our lives,。
we've been driving a bus.。
So he would drive at night, till like a tour,。
yeah, the tour bus, till like 3 a.m. or 4 a.m.,。
and then I would get up in the morning,。
and I would finish the drive at like 6 o'clock.。
Well, I'm a really light sleeper,。
and so I just, we would go all day.。
We would play every single day, or six out of seven days.。
And so we would just be traveling across the country,。
and I would go to bed at one or two in the morning,。
and then Shane would be driving, so that's terrifying.。
Because he would be watching a DVD,。
the computer screen would be up,。
he'd be on the phone, be playing a video game,。
and driving a bus full of people.。
And so I would just be terrified.。
And so I started to take Ambien to help me sleep,。
which totally worked.。
But so I took Ambien one night,。
and then I tried to go to bed, and--。
- Do we need to preface anything here?。
- Like something would happen,。
and I would turn into like Shane-bian.。
(audience laughing)。
And I don't even remember this,。
but there was one night where I started。
messing with, playing with Beth's toes.。
(audience laughing)。
- What?。
- Someone else was there.。
This is so weird.。
I feel like I'm just getting more and more scared。
of your answers, the longer we're on this.。
(audience laughing)。
- No, I would just say, I would say,。
I would say, you know, self-control.。
(audience laughing)。
No, seriously, seriously.。
Like, man, you wanna guard, you wanna guard--。
- It sounds like, you have self-control.。
- Well, the toe incident was, yeah, it was wrong.。
I repented.。
- Shane, I got self-control out of that.。
That's what I heard, self-control.。
(audience laughing)。
- No, I would just say--。
- He was there too, so that was a camera.。
- Yeah, self-control.。
I mean, you know, our version of dating,。
you guys have done such a great job of teaching on dating.。
And we have a tendency to adopt。
all of our culture's ideas of dating.。
And so it's like, you know, hang out with a girl,。
hold hands, kiss, connect the dots, you know,。
touch the toes, you know.。
It just, it goes there.。
Just don't do that.。
I mean, just don't do that.。
Why would you, I mean, like, yeah,。
I would just say, if you treat,。
like do some of the things that we've heard。
the last few weeks, like if you haven't heard it,。
just go back and podcast it.。
If you treat a woman like your sister,。
it helps with the guarding of the heart thing, you know.。
Because you don't have to, you haven't crossed。
all these sexual boundaries that you have to,。
that you have to all of a sudden go, oh, you know,。
I did that, and see you later.。
And, you know, on top of a whole--。
- But what about emotional guarding?。
- And it sounds like you guys communicated,。
you reached a point where you said,。
hey, we can't just text any longer.。
We're gonna communicate really well。
on where we're going and what's going on,。
which probably helped at some level guarding the heart.。
- I would say he's hilarious and so, you know,。
so wise, like the Lord really, for all of his funniness。
and quirkiness, when I think about our story,。
like, and before that even, he was on the road a lot。
as a single man, and there are a lot of stories。
of girls who had crushes on him or would talk to him,。
and he really had to, like, be disciplined。
in guarding people's hearts as far as, like,。
length of conversation or being in the same room。
with someone or being in the same car on a road trip。
or I've heard as his wife multiple stories.。
So I know that the Lord really gave him。
a lot of grace in that and so then when we started。
liking each other and then dating long distance。
and there was almost an impatience in me。
of wanting him to just, like, cut to the chase。
and say, I love you, I wanna get married。
because I felt that in my heart,。
but then, like, later on in our,。
in, like, further down the road and we are engaged,。
like, it took him a long time even to just talk。
about marriage, like, he didn't, which this isn't a rule,。
but he didn't wanna talk about marriage。
until it was like, I've got a ring for him。
because it was like, I wanna guard your heart.。
Like, I don't want, I don't wanna, like,。
string this out and play this out in your mind。
and in your heart and we're far apart。
and, you know, not guard my heart.。
And so I would say that he did it really well。
as far as just being thoughtful。
about what we even talked about。
and the way that our time together looked and, you know.。
- Yeah, that's excellent, love it.。
Well, this next question says, and so E,。
maybe you and Kelly can speak to this one.。
Is it ever okay for a girl to nudge。
or slash pursue a boy she's interested in?。
(congregation laughing)。
- Uh.。
Well, you know, I mean, I think it's weird.。
(congregation laughing)。
- Can I say something? - Yeah.。
- Okay, I like this question because Shane would be。
like the poster boy for what it looks like to pursue a girl.。
And I'm gonna get teary a little bit.。
(congregation laughing)。
He is a beautiful man.。
- The book's coming, the book's coming.。
- Oh, hi.。
- I'm just kidding. - You're welcome.。
- Yeah.。
Anyway, I just wanna start too。
with just a verse that's coming to mind.。
And in looking back, I just see that this,。
that God's word proves itself true.。
And it usually happens in our humanity to look back。
and go, oh yeah, you were right, Lord.。
But in Ephesians 5:33, I think it says,。
wives or husbands love your wives,。
wives respect your husbands.。
And I can see how in the way that you pursued me,。
in the way that we're created,。
or a woman's heart wants to be pursued.。
We wanna be loved and men wanna be respected.。
And so backing up, so I was at Baylor。
and Shane was at A&M and I worked at a coffee shop。
at Common Grounds and it's still cool.。
And I am a morning person, so I took the morning shift。
at 6 a.m., opened the coffee shop.。
And Shane would leave A&M, I guess you had to leave。
at like 4.30 in the morning to get to Common Grounds。
an hour and a half later by six to meet me there。
to help me open the coffee shop.。
And he would help me sweep and mop up。
and get ready for the day.。
And then I had an eight o'clock class。
so then he would leave.。
And then another time we were,。
or I was pulling an all-nighter in Baylor's library。
and just up typing a paper down in the basement。
where all the computers were back then.。
And I'm sitting there typing and I look over。
and there's Shane and he goes to A&M。
but he's at Baylor's library.。
And I look over and I'm like, Shane, Shane,。
what are you doing?。
He's like, oh hey, what's up?。
[audience laughing]。
And you're not even supposed to be able to get。
in the library unless you're a Baylor student.。
So he would just maneuver, he would place himself。
at different places around campus.。
I'd be running the bear trail.。
And he drove this big red truck。
and my accountability partner's like, isn't that Shane?。
[audience laughing]。
And I'd be like, yeah, it is, what are you doing here?。
>> It's kind of psychotic, it's kind of stalkerish.。
[audience laughing]。
But she was into me, you know?。
So it made a difference.。
>> But anyway, all that to say is that。
he really pursued me.。
There were just endless stories that I could tell。
to people about and they could see。
that this person is pursuing you.。
This person loves you, he likes being around you,。
he respects you, all of this.。
And even if I wasn't that into him,。
I mean, it really made me go, wow,。
this person really likes me, this person really loves me.。
There was no doubt about it in my mind。
that I was being pursued.。
And then the very natural response to that is,。
do I want to be pursued?。
Do I like this?。
And so, you know, then I could say no or yes.。
And I did like it and I did like him,。
and so I allowed that.。
And now that we've been married for 11 years。
and we have three children and life is messy。
and I'm changing diapers and the girls are sick,。
or you know, it just, you have layers and layers。
of these roles now as a wife and a mother。
and all of these things and life gets hard.。
And even when we conflict, I can think back。
to where we started and there's a confidence。
in knowing this man pursued me, he loved me,。
and he loves me, and that's where we started.。
So, I just think back to being single。
and wondering who my husband would be one day。
and for all you girls out there that, you know,。
are single and I just know it's in every girl's heart。
to be pursued and you wanna be sure.。
You don't wanna be married five years in。
and have a conflict and go, you know what?。
You never loved me anyway.。
You didn't pursue me, you know?。
And 'cause that's where you go, you go back.。
When you're having a hard time, you go, okay,。
why am I married?。
Oh yeah.。
Anyway, there you go.。
I love you.。
- Okay.。
So, no, but tons of good stuff.。
Like, you responded and you communicated,。
hey, keep pursuing me, which is big 'cause when guys pursue,。
girls need to say either stop or yes.。
- Yeah, I think there's just a level of,。
I think just in general, I think our culture is,。
they're big feelers.。
I mean, I think we're all kind of feelers。
and we wanna feel it out.。
We don't wanna put ourself out there。
because we're scared of the rejection。
or we're scared of hurting someone's feeling.。
Girls, hurt their feelings, they'll be fine.。
You know, hurt their feelings.。
It's not worth it.。
It's not worth dragging some poor dude along。
that you're like, ah, you know, I guess he's,。
you know, he's somebody.。
That's ridiculous.。
Don't do that.。
And guys, vice versa.。
It's just like, man, don't hang out with her。
'cause she's fine.。
If you're not pursuing her, you know she likes you。
and you know if he likes you.。
To think that you don't is great.。
You know, you always hear people talking like,。
ah, we're just hanging out.。
I don't like him, but he's fun.。
Pays for dinner, come on.。
You know, like, I think the reality is。
it's just like usually somebody's liking somebody, you know?。
And I think we all kind of glaze over that,。
but I think you guys know what the other's intent is。
and I think as long as you are clear,。
I think you can save friendships。
and you can save a lot of heartache。
if you just, you are clear.。
You can't be responsible for if somebody else is clear.。
You know, it's just like if you're a girl。
and you got the dude that's taking you out。
for 16 Dutch dates, you know,。
and you're like, are we doing this?。
And if he's like, you know, hey man,。
you know, we're just having a good time.。
Get rid of that jerk, you know?。
It's just like, come on.。
And guys, vice versa.。
You know, I mean, I just think,。
just be honest with each other about where you are,。
you know, emotionally and like, man, I'm in this thing.。
I'm pursuing you, you know?。
And if not, you know, go see a movie by yourself.。
(congregation laughing)。
- Really good, anything you'd add?。
I know you've said before, maybe not ask out,。
but put yourself in front of them。
or you wouldn't say that's what it is.。
- Yeah, I just think, I think, man,。
a good play is the serving, you know,。
serve somewhere, serve together.。
You don't have to, okay?。
Like, trust God, God's big.。
He controls everything.。
Like, don't lose sight of that.。
Like, God really does control everything.。
He's sovereign and he loves you.。
He loves you more than you'll ever get your mind around,。
that he loves you, he has a plan for you.。
Don't give up on him, okay?。
And so, serve somewhere.。
I mean, continue to be faithful, continue to pursue him.。
And you know, he does have a plan for your life.。
And you don't have to be bold and,。
I mean, if you ask a dude out,。
you're probably gonna end up with a passive guy.。
And I see that all the time and it's just a train wreck, so.。
- Yes, and I think, too,。
I would just add to that,。
that I was talking with a friend。
just the other night about this,。
just in that, you know, if you see a guy,。
if you're a girl and you see a guy and you're like,。
oh, I really like him, you know,。
I would love for him to ask me out.。
And I feel like you start going down a path。
of almost fantasizing, oh, well,。
I wonder what it'd be like to date him.。
And I wonder, you know, what this is like。
and I wonder what that is like.。
And instead of doing that, like, absolutely,。
you can pull out qualities of godliness。
that you see in, you know, whoever it is,。
but don't make it a personal thing where it's,。
oh, I've gotta have that guy.。
And so there might be qualities in that guy。
that you're like, you know what,。
I would love to marry a man that has that quality,。
but just not making it personal.。
And that helps to guard, I think,。
a woman's heart, just in that.。
- That's great, excellent.。
So next one is for you guys.。
Can you go on a date with several people。
or can you date at the same time several different people?。
- Well, I would say it depends on how you define date.。
I think that if you're, you know,。
seeking a relationship, then no.。
You know, the Bible tells us to, you know,。
even just the golden rule of loving others。
as you would love your, or love others。
as you would be loved, as you would wanna be loved.。
And it's just not loving to anyone,。
to yourself or to other people.。
If you're in a relationship with more than one person,。
I would say, you know, just a casual date。
that is nothing, you know, it's just,。
hey, do you wanna hang out or do you wanna grab coffee?。
Or I think it depends on how you're defining date。
that I would say.。
- Yeah, can you go on a date, you know,。
can you go on a date this week with a date,。
hey, sorry, not interested, next week,。
can you go on a date, hey, sorry, not interested?。
Here's what I'd say, everything you're doing,。
you're earning reputation, you need to know that.。
And so, man, the circles of which。
you can actually marry someone,。
they're really small circles.。
I mean, the whole world, and then like the ones。
who really follow Jesus, that's a really small circle.。
And so all of a sudden, you're the guy that's like,。
yeah, man, you know, girls are like,。
oh, you know, he asked out my best friend last week。
and my other best friend this week and me, you know,。
and so then you're that guy.。
So be careful, 'cause you're earning reputation.。
It depends on how you date.。
And so if you're there and you're leaving them。
better than you found them, then she would just say,。
hey, you know what, I'm bummed that there's not。
a second date, but I can't hold anything against you。
based on the way you talked to me,。
the way you were honest with me,。
you looked me in the eyes, and you told me,。
you kind of, you didn't leave me to wonder.。
But can you date multiple people at one time?。
I would say that doesn't honor God.。
Romans 12, nine says that love must be sincere.。
Paul says to the Philippians,。
do nothing out of selfish ambition or vain conceit.。
We see throughout the scriptures,。
consider others more important than yourselves,。
or as Monica said, love others how you wanna be loved,。
give to other people.。
And so nobody wants to be the person。
that's kind of dating, so I mean, you know what I mean?。
Like we see, I know we see that on TV,。
where one person's dating a bunch of people at one time,。
and it looks ideal and it looks okay.。
It's not okay, it was never God's ideal.。
It was never, ever, ever God's ideal.。
- Amazing.。
So this one's come up a few times,。
just been texted in, thoughts,。
and we've touched on this a little bit at the porch,。
but online dating.。
So do you guys have thoughts on what is appropriate。
and not appropriate, and how would you handle,。
specifically it's come in, hey,。
what are your thoughts on online dating?。
Any advice on how to handle online dating?。
What, is online dating okay?。
- I have no idea.。
(audience laughing)。
I have a good friend, I have a good friend who。
doesn't have, or doesn't even put himself in a position。
to have a lot of avenues to meet people.。
And so online dating is a commonplace for him,。
but it doesn't usually end up very good.。
And so I'm a bad person to ask, I really don't know.。
I would assume that there is a whole bunch of stories。
that have made it and have been God-honoring.。
I just don't know one, so.。
- Two things I'd say, here's what I'd tell you.。
So there's just two things you can live by, okay?。
Don't date a stranger, okay?。
And so what I mean by that is,。
you should have some level of information about someone。
before you engage with them,。
and before you're alone with them at Starbucks or wherever,。
you should know, hey, this person's sold out for Christ.。
They have an honorable reputation.。
And then I would say, so one, don't date a stranger.。
Two, profiles lie, okay?。
And so I can be whoever I wanna be online.。
Don't get catfished, right?。
I mean, that's happening.。
And so I can be online and be like,。
oh man, I just got back from starting an orphanage in Haiti。
and I saved kittens from burning buildings。
and I love Jesus with all my heart,。
and I could be a serial killer.。
And so just be wise in the way that you go about that.。
Here's the biblical perspective on online dating,。
there's not one.。
And so God doesn't say, hey, thou shalt not.。
I'm not gonna tell you thou shalt not, but be wise.。
Don't date a stranger, profiles lie.。
- Amazing.。
Well, how about this?。
We've talked about this a little bit earlier。
about how specifically the question is,。
Psalm 37 promises the desires of my heart.。
Does this include desires for a husband and for children?。
How do I know if marriage is a part of God's plan for me?。
- I would say that I think that desires to be married。
and be a parent are godly desires,。
especially as a believer.。
One of my dearest friends is, I grew up with her,。
and she's single and actually lived with us.。
She was living overseas and came back and lived with us。
for a year at our house,。
which was a wonderful year to get to hang with her.。
And she has a huge desire to be married.。
And then even more so when she lived with us,。
I was pregnant for our second while she was living with us。
and had our second within that span of a year.。
And so she was involved in the nitty gritty of,。
you know, just like everyday married life, being a mom.。
She got really connected with the girls。
and was really honest with me.。
You know, she had some hard days of like,。
I really desire this.。
And I would say that she, for me,。
because I got married young,。
and so it's just been good for me。
and such a learning experience of trusting the Lord.。
And she's just set a really good example, I feel like,。
as far as desiring those things,。
but those things not being ultimate things.。
Mark Driscoll, the pastor of a church called Mars Hill。
in Seattle, has said a few times。
that good things can quickly become bad things。
when they become ultimate things.。
And so I just see her, I mean, it's a process.。
She's not everyday like, I wanna be married and a mom,。
but whatever, I just love the Lord.。
I mean, it's a wrestling in her heart。
because it hasn't happened。
and there's nothing on the horizon.。
And she's awesome, you know, and she's pursuing the Lord。
and she's being, you know, faithful.。
I mean, messy faithful, like I'm messy faithful,。
but she's being faithful and loves Him。
and is in community and serving and in the Word。
and praying and doing all the right things,。
all the checks, you know, and it's not happening,。
and that's a desire of hers.。
But I feel like the Lord is just teaching her a lot。
about contentment in Him and also being honest。
because those aren't bad things to desire.。
I think it's just a hard place to be in.。
And so even though I'm not single,。
I feel like she's living that out in a good way。
because He's what satisfies our hearts。
'cause she saw firsthand in our house, like,。
oh, being a wife, even to Shane Bernard,。
even though he's awesome, being a wife and being a mom。
doesn't make you happy perfectly all the time, you know?。
Like, Beth doesn't have an awesome day every day。
because she's married and she's a mom.。
Like, she knows that, but she saw that.。
And still she desires that.。
And so I think it's that cyclical, like,。
yeah, He satisfies her heart。
and He's also put the wiring in her of like,。
I wanna be a mom.。
I wanna walk alongside someone.。
And so anyway, I just think she's faithfully walking。
that out and I'm really encouraged by it.。
- Yeah, that's great, Beth.。
I would say, truly, Psalm 37 says,。
"Delight yourself in the Lord。
"and He will give the desires of your heart."。
And we love that second part。
and we forsake that first part.。
And so Psalm 37 is not a promise。
that if you want a husband and children,。
that you will have that.。
There are a lot of things that I want that I don't have。
and there are a lot of things that I want that are unhealthy.。
And so specifically, that first part。
is delight yourself in the Lord.。
And as we see in Luke 11, Jesus says,。
"Hey, this is how you pray."。
And at the end of it, it says,。
"Your father desires to give you good things.。
"He's a perfect, loving Father in heaven。
"whose all power is His."。
And at the end of it, it says,。
"This is how He answers your prayers.。
"He gives you more of His Spirit."。
And so as you bring your request to God,。
there isn't a lining of the heart that happens。
and He gives you more of Him.。
And I promise you, that's better than a husband.。
And so you live in a broken world.。
I mean, there are good things that you desire.。
We see in the Proverbs that, you know,。
he who finds a wife finds a good thing,。
that marriage is a good thing.。
But it's not promised to you and you're gonna be okay.。
And if you trust in Christ, you're gonna die。
and you're gonna go to heaven.。
And I'm still really confused。
when heaven stopped being good enough.。
Like we put so much stake on this life。
and the German shepherd, the picket fence,。
the house in Frisco, you know,。
the spouse, two kids, boy and girl.。
Listen, you get heaven at the end of this deal。
and you're not even married in heaven.。
Marriage is an ultimate.。
God tells us you're not married in heaven.。
And so, listen, here's what just happened.。
Yeah, right, Joker, you're married.。
You know, your wife's sitting right next to you.。
How can you tell us that?。
I get it, I spend a lot of my time with single people.。
Okay, a lot of my time.。
You're not a lesser than.。
You're not in a waiting room.。
You're not in a holding tank, okay?。
You will never in your entire life。
be able to be used more for the kingdom。
than you are right now.。
Check out what Jesus says in Matthew 19, you know?。
He says, "It's good to be single。
"for the sake of my kingdom."。
And so, you've got resources that, frankly,。
I've got three kids and responsibilities。
that do weigh me down, not that they're bad things,。
but I have responsibilities that you don't have.。
And I do, I think my greatest regret,。
our greatest regret as single folks。
is, man, we just wish we would've used that life。
for pursuing God rather than the bar or the next thrill.。
- So, this is one that just came in for you guys.。
What do you do if you're dating someone。
who's not a Christian?。
Do you stay with them and try to bring them to God。
or do you break it off?。
- You just taught on this.。
I gotta be careful.。
I think you break it off, that's what I think.。
I mean, we're not to be unequally yoked with somebody.。
I mean, you can't, Kelly and I talked about this。
we have for years.。
It's just like we have a standard that we hold to。
and that's the word of God.。
We have a high priest, we have a mediator,。
we have Christ dwelling within us.。
And to spend a life with somebody。
who doesn't operate on the same plumb line,。
who doesn't have the same standard,。
because when I'm not loving Kelly well,。
which is often, she can hold me up to the standard。
that I know and that's Christ.。
And if you, I just don't, for me,。
if my wife didn't know the Lord,。
I just don't know what I would do.。
It would be because Christ teaches us how to forgive.。
Christ teaches us how to love.。
Christ teaches us how to abstain.。
Christ teaches us how to speak.。
I mean, the word of God in our hearts。
and the spirit within us is the only way。
that we have a chance to experience marriage。
in the way that it was meant to be experienced.。
I mean, you can have a friend.。
I mean, we all know our friends who are married。
and seem to have great relationships。
that don't know the Lord.。
I mean, people make it.。
I'm not saying that they don't.。
But to experience marriage the way that it was meant。
to be created apart from the spirit of God is impossible.。
I believe it's impossible.。
And I just, I thank the Lord that I have a wife。
who loves Jesus more than she loves me.。
It's the greatest gift that I've ever been given.。
And I hope that for all of you。
because you've seen them go bad.。
All of you have seen them go bad.。
And without the standard of Christ in our life,。
the chances are great, you know?。
'Cause it's hard anyway.。
That's the truth.。
- That's really good.。
Really, anything--。
- And I would say just to the ladies that,。
I mean, even in marriage, you know,。
there are disappointments and we all come into marriage。
thinking that it's one way and then the reality of marriage。
is something totally different.。
And it's better, but it's different than the expectations。
that you project on this relationship。
from the time that you're a little girl.。
And the first year of our marriage,。
at the end of the first year,。
when we sat at Bob's Dickenshop house to celebrate,。
I just was bawling.。
I mean, just reality check.。
I was bawling not because he's a bad husband。
or wasn't what I thought he would be,。
but because I was disappointed in the reality。
of what marriage really looked like.。
It was real and he was still the same person。
and I was still the same person,。
but it wasn't like all of our problems went away。
and we just lived happily ever after.。
You know, it was more like a mirror held up。
to your selfishness.。
And in dating and in engagement,。
I thought I was the nicest person on earth。
and I thought he was the sweetest,。
most romantic, pursuing man on earth.。
And then after a year of marriage, I was like,。
oh, this is what it is.。
Not in a bad way, but that's just the reality, you know,。
and tagged onto that, I just wanna say that。
because of the reality being better,。
believing God's word to be true in the midst of going,。
this doesn't feel better。
than what I thought marriage would be,。
that pressed me in to Jesus。
and that pressed me into God's word。
and I found some treasures there。
that if he didn't know the Lord in the first place,。
I couldn't cling to, which is where it says,。
wives, submit to your husbands,。
and it compares us to Christ submitting to the Lord。
and it says, submit to your husband。
so that if any of them, the husband,。
is not obedient to the word,。
which there'll be times when they're not,。
if any of them are disobedient to the word,。
you will win them over without a word。
by your chaste and respectful behavior。
and that was so powerful to me。
because I realized that in my disappointments。
or in the things that I saw in him,。
that I was like, I didn't know this,。
like, Lord, what am I supposed to do now?。
He wasn't everything that I thought,。
just like I'm not,。
I wasn't the nicest person he thought either.。
I realized I have an advocate in my marriage.。
Like, the Lord can speak to him.。
I don't have to be his boss.。
I don't have to be his Holy Spirit。
and I cannot tell you how many times at night。
we lay in bed after I talk to a friend。
that married an unbeliever。
or there's just distress in marriage,。
I say, Shane, I'm so thankful.。
I'm so thankful that you love Jesus。
and you're submitted to him。
because it takes all the pressure off.。
You don't have to marry the perfect person.。
You don't have to be the perfect person。
but if you're both, like JP said,。
you're both pursuing Jesus,。
then you have the same advocate who's for you。
and when the person next to you。
isn't doing what he's supposed to do,。
this is what the word says you're supposed to do。
and you're not doing it and that's not fair.。
That's how I felt, like, wait a minute.。
This wasn't what I signed up for.。
Then I can go, oh, Jesus says I can win him over。
without a word.。
I don't have to be a knack.。
I don't have to force him.。
I can go to my advocate。
and if you both don't know Jesus,。
if you're in a relationship。
or you're dating someone that doesn't know Jesus,。
then that person doesn't have the same resources。
that you do and you need to cut it off.。
That's the most loving thing you can do。
if you're in a relationship with an unbeliever.。
- That'll preach. - It's break up.。
- That'll preach, love it.。
- Because that brokenness will lead them.。
They'll see that they're broken。
and that brokenness will lead them to Jesus。
and if the Lord wants you to be married,。
he can bring it back around。
'cause we broke up and it was over。
and the Lord brought it back around.。
So that's all.。
- I'll just say too, I don't know if you can,。
it is like the greatest,。
you've heard Shane say it。
and I've heard JP say it personally to me several times,。
but just to have someone who loves Jesus。
more than they love you.。
I mean, someone who loves Jesus。
and who surrendered to Jesus,。
there's just nothing greater。
and if you're in a relationship,。
we all know what it's like,。
oh man, they've won my heart.。
We all know that pull。
when there's an attraction with somebody。
and man, I can't do anything about it.。
We just say maybe just don't trust your heart.。
Inform your heart with the word of God。
and with community, with a loving community。
'cause it is almost impossible。
to not follow your heart in those situations.。
This situation that came in,。
whoever you are, you're going,。
I hear what you're saying,。
but it's impossible for me to not want to love this person.。
And I would just say, just don't follow your heart.。
Your heart is wicked above everything else,。
it says in Proverbs.。
And so inform your heart with the word。
and sometimes it just means doing what you don't want to do。
and trusting that God is better.。
- Love it.。
Okay, so we'll do two more.。
This one, I think you guys could speak to well.。
It just talks about, there's been several that say,。
how do you date and deal with your baggage。
and when do you need to break up。
because of the other baggage that a person is bringing in。
or that you're bringing in as it kind of comes。
to the surface?。
And so what do you do with that?。
Does it mean that you have to break up?。
And how do you work through that?。
- There was a message we did,。
I think it's called Baggage Claim.。
It was in Boy Meets Girl series。
and I just share some of Monica and I's story.。
But you have to deal with your baggage.。
I mean, whatever, I've never met,。
I mean, we meet with tons of single folks,。
we'd meet with people who are engaged,。
we'd meet with lots of married people.。
I've never met with, I've said this before,。
I've never met anyone with marriage problems.。
There are always single problems brought into marriage.。
And so you've got to, that baggage,。
that thing that you're holding onto。
that you're gonna try to hide,。
that abortion, that rape, that abuse,。
that pornography, that sexual promiscuity,。
that homosexual tendency, that whatever that is,。
that's gonna destroy your marriage。
before you even meet the person you're going to marry.。
So like in the future, like that's already done。
until you have sought healing in that。
and pursued Christ in that.。
And so we're not up here like trying。
to put a heavy yoke on you guys.。
There's about 3,000 folks here.。
Nothing would bring me more joy。
than 1,500 healthy marriages, like nothing.。
Like that would, like we talk about all the time。
changing the world.。
If there were 1,500 healthy marriages。
that came out of tonight, right,。
and I don't mean necessarily every boy and girl。
just hooking up, you guys know what I mean.。
But if there were 1,500 healthy marriages。
that came out, I mean, we would change the world.。
You would make disciples, your kids would grow up,。
they'd have, I mean, you would change the legacy。
of the brokenness in your family.。
But you've got to start working on that now.。
And so I would just say if you're in a relationship。
and the path, the course you're on。
is not dealing with the baggage。
but continuing to fall into it, break up,。
hey, get well, and like, hey, I'm enabling you,。
so you go get well.。
And then if the Lord brings us back together, great.。
But I'm not counting on that.。
I'm gonna go and I'm gonna pursue him。
and you need to go and pursue him.。
And I'm enabling you or causing you not to pursue him.。
So this is over.。
- And you're not gonna be the one。
that's gonna change your boyfriend or girlfriend。
or spouse, like it is the Lord who's gonna do that work.。
And how great that if you realize that when you are single。
that you're not in that marriage, thinking,。
you know, or even praying.。
I feel like one of the questions maybe was about,。
just about praying for your spouse and what that looked like。
and it's great, like to pray for them。
to be who God wants them to be,。
but not who you want them to be.。
And you're just not the one that's gonna change them.。
It's gonna be the Lord.。
- That's excellent, excellent.。
So there may be a scenario where they are in community。
and their community is helping them work。
through their baggage.。
And honestly, their community may be better able。
to speak into whether or not this is a deal breaker。
or hey, you're healing.。
- Yeah, community's gotta play, here it is.。
Community's gotta play a role in that.。
It's this simple.。
People tell me all the time, I'm struggling with pornography.。
I say all the time, no, you're not, you're not struggling.。
You're just looking at porn.。
That's different.。
Like struggling looks like creating barricades。
so that you can't get to it though you want to.。
That's struggling.。
Looking at it is different than struggling, okay?。
And so if you're looking at it, break up.。
If you're struggling well, you're building barricades,。
you're not looking at it though you want to。
and you're having God deal with that desire。
and you're pursuing him and you're victorious。
in your pursuit of him, awesome.。
And so replace pornography with whatever is that struggle,。
eating disorder, materialism, whatever it is.。
I mean, if you're working and growing in that, great.。
If you're not, there's no better time to work on that。
and community's key, as David said.。
- That's excellent.。
So this will be the last question.。
But really, all of these questions。
can be answered in community.。
I mean, a lot of them, there's no mystery or secret.。
It's amazing and godly.。
I know personally all of you to be.。
A lot of these scripture can just address fairly clearly。
and you guys don't have any secret keys or sauce。
that allows you to do them.。
So if you asked a question, we didn't answer it,。
we would love to and we'd encourage you。
to go to your community.。
If you don't have one, we'd encourage you。
to be plugged into a body and have community.。
And so this question, there was a number of questions。
that came in just about the crazy teaching last week。
that was at the porch and this pastor who had gone rogue。
up here and taught this ridiculous bomb。
of a message on divorce.。
And so JP, could you add any clarity。
to just divorce, remarriage,。
and what does the Bible say about it?。
- We have removed him from, no.。
(congregation laughing)。
- This will be my last porch here.。
- This is actually a farewell party.。
I mean, here's what I would say.。
I listened to the message yesterday.。
I was so encouraged, bro.。
So encouraged by the way you handled that text.。
It's such a hard topic and people hate you for it, man.。
I mean, they will.。
No one likes to be told things different。
than the desires of their heart.。
And so that message, thank you for handling that well, yeah.。
(congregation applauding)。
- I mean, it was really hard.。
It's been a hard week for our whole team。
because of how much.。
- Here's why, here's why it's been a hard week.。
So we got lots of emails.。
You quantified lots, like a dozen.。
(congregation laughing)。
And let me just say this real specific.。
- Painful dozen.。
- Let you into our world.。
They're long emails.。
You know why they're long?。
Because everybody, and this is not a judgment.。
So like if you sent that email, know that.。
Like we love that you sent that email.。
But I wanna give the rest of you a perspective。
into those emails.。
They're all long because everybody wants to tell you,。
hey, this is my story.。
And your story matters.。
I want you to know that God cares about your story.。
But what you're doing, you're justifying.。
You're saying, hey, this is why.。
Man, my husband was abusive.。
My wife was abusive.。
She cheated on me with my best friend.。
Her and the pastor, you know, whatever that was, right?。
And it's like, this is my story.。
You don't understand.。
This is my story.。
You don't know what happened to me.。
It's different.。
And I would just say, God's so much bigger than that.。
And what I heard David say, very appropriately,。
and I support him 100% because he's teaching the Word.。
And a lot of people, like people wrote in,。
like what's Watermark's real stance on divorce?。
It's like, well, it's just the Bible.。
Like, Watermark's stance is just what the Scripture says.。
It's not that Watermark's stance, it's the Bible's stance.。
You know?。
There's not like this unique, and yeah,。
not all churches are going to teach that.。
You're gonna have churches that have said,。
hey, bought into cultural, have a cultural worldview.。
But here's what I would say, is you've gotta ask the question.。
What I heard David appropriately say,。
is you need to wrestle with this.。
So if divorce is a part of your story,。
you more than anybody else should be an expert。
on what the Scriptures say about it.。
And so wrestle with those Scriptures,。
because the Scriptures have a lot to say about it.。
In Matthew 19, Matthew 5, 1 Corinthians 7.。
We have a lot of Scriptures to inform。
our idea of what that looks like.。
I believe David handled that text really, really well.。
And so what happened is some of you heard,。
I need to go and reconcile to my spouse。
who was abusive and crazy and Satan himself in the flesh.。
And I would say, I want you to understand。
that the only options are not divorce or be abused.。
Those are not the only options.。
I mean, and so nobody, it is not God's desire。
that you would be in an abusive relationship.。
That is not God's desire.。
But it may be God's desire to save your abuser.。
I was an abuser, okay?。
I was an abuser, like that's my, I mean,。
I was an adulterer in the form that I was a sex addict,。
looking at porn all the time,。
verbally abusive, playing mind games with her.。
I mean, I was that person.。
And the Lord changed me, and so whoever you were,。
God is big enough.。
So you ask yourself this hypothetical question.。
What could bring God the most glory?。
And I promise you, you show me the most wicked,。
evil man in the world, and I'll show you God,。
someone who God can take and make a missionary out of.。
See, also the Apostle Paul,。
who killed Christians, women, and children, okay?。
And so I'm just, we're just,。
we're not trying to put a heavy yoke on you.。
We're saying, hey, as you pursue God's best,。
you're going to win.。
God's best is your best, all day, every day, I promise you.。
And so I know that that's frustrating.。
I know that you hear that, and we,。
David, I know you've had some great meetings with folks.。
I mean, some of you, I'm so proud of you.。
I mean, some, there were folks who were angry,。
and then we met, and it was just like, you know what?。
I'm gonna start praying for my ex-husband.。
I'm gonna start praying for my ex-wife.。
I'm gonna start praying the Lord would save 'em,。
and change their hearts.。
And I think God is up in heaven,。
saying that's what honors me, and that honors me.。
And so just wrestle with the text.。
If you, if divorce is a part of your story,。
you should be an expert on the topic.。
I'm going to go ahead and tell you.。
There are tons of churches that would just say,。
oh yeah, no big deal, divorce, no big deal.。
And I'm just, I'm telling you as lovingly as I can,。
it's just not what the Bible says.。
It's just not what God says, so.。
- And that's, what you just said, though,。
is maybe the first step in pursuing reconciliation.。
I think a lot of people who had an abusive relationship。
heard you need to pursue reconciliation,。
is we're telling them to walk back into an abusive,。
violent, and we're just saying, hey,。
that may look like praying, God, save him,。
while I stay physically separated from him.。
- Pray for them, be in community,。
have your community speak into this.。
I mean, it's not, we would not advise you to leave here。
and run back to that abuser and say,。
hey, I'm here, I'm back, you know.。
That's not the counsel.。
And so be wise in that, and if we can speak more,。
if we can speak more clarity into that,。
just know that we're willing to, we'd love to, okay?。
And we know that everybody's story's unique,。
and we can imagine, we can think with our minds,。
but here's the absolute worst case scenario.。
You're not gonna surprise us.。
You know, my husband was a murderer and crazy,。
and he lied to me, he was a con artist,。
and I would say, man, out of everybody in the world,。
you chose that one, and so we just need to think through。
what God would do now or could do now。
to bring glory to himself.。
I'm not trying to make you feel guilty.。
There's no guilt here.。
I'm just saying, let's follow the Spirit。
and see what God could be doing,。
what he might be up to, 'cause I've seen him。
do some crazy things.。
He took this sex addict, crazy fool,。
and made him a pastor.。
Not that that's the end all, be all,。
and he's still at work in my heart,。
but he can do some crazy, crazy things.。
And so, I'll just wrap this up.。
I'll say this.。
Thank you guys for being here。
and just sharing wisdom with us.。
(audience applauding)。
I remember, if you've been with us for a while,。
you've heard this story, but I remember our wedding day,。
and it was 2004, and I remember being up there.。
I love Jesus.。
She came down the aisle, and I just was like,。
man, I got the prize.。
And the guy up there, we read some scriptures to each other.。
We talked about how much we love God。
and how much we love each other.。
And I remember, you may kiss your bride,。
and they played that music, and we walked down the foyer。
at Truett Seminary there on Baylor's campus.。
And we were sitting in the foyer,。
and I held you in my arms,。
and I remember praying over us, and just where I was,。
and I remember praying specifically,。
Lord, thank you so much that you allowed me。
to escape the consequences of my sin.。
God, I mean, just how merciful are you。
that you allowed me to escape the consequences of my sin?。
And specifically, I was thinking like a child。
without a wedlock or an STD or a psycho ex-girlfriend。
waiting to kill me outside.。
Like, those were the things that were going through my mind.。
And I was just like, you know, there's none of these things.。
Like, God, I win, you know?。
Your grace is enough, and your grace is sufficient.。
And we got into two years of marriage,。
and I realized how messed up I was because of my past.。
And like, I had no idea how to love this woman.。
I had no idea.。
I didn't know the first thing.。
I never, I had, I mean, I had every relationship。
I'd ever been in.。
I broke up as soon as it went south。
and jumped into another one.。
I was so codependent.。
And now I'm in this covenant relationship with her,。
with God, and I have no idea how to be here.。
And it was a complete mess,。
and the divorce word was being thrown around,。
and we were fighting all the time.。
And I mean, it was absolute torturous misery.。
I mean, me, not even her, me.。
I mean, we're both broken, but mostly me.。
And so I want you to know。
that you're not getting away with it.。
No one does.。
You're not getting away with it.。
And I don't say that so that you feel guilty.。
I say that because there's nothing。
that would bring me more honor.。
There's nothing that would bring me more joy。
than 1,500 healthy marriages walking out of this room.。
And it's game time, folks.。
This was a fun series.。
It's time to pursue God with all your lives.。
We will change this world if you do that.。
We will wreck shop in this place.。
God will change this world through you.。
But there is some growing up that has to do,。
that has to happen.。
And so bring him your junk right now.。
I don't care who you are.。
I don't care what you've done.。
He can handle it.。
You bring it to him right now.。
You say, God, I'm done.。
Man, I know that I have not been respectful。
and honorable to your daughter, my sister,。
who you told me is like my sister.。
I know that I have not fleed sexual immorality.。
God, I know that I am a codependent.。
Lord, I know that I have been promiscuously,。
I have been promiscuous with my words and my heart,。
maybe not even sexually, maybe not even physically,。
but I have let my heart drift.。
I've been in an imaginary relationship with,。
God, I know I've sinned against you in these ways.。
Father, would you fix this?。
And if you're not in community, get in community.。
That's key.。
And begin to confess your sins。
and watch him change your life.。
He did that for us.。
I know he did that for you guys.。
And I know you guys have always been holy,。
so we're glad you're here.。
- No, the toe thing.。
You didn't hear about the toe thing?。
- Oh, yeah, yeah.。
And we do need to-- - And we champion.。
- We do need to talk about that toe thing.。
That was off script, Shane.。
- Beat it dirty.。
- Hey, but we love you guys.。
Let me pray.。
And after we pray, you guys do a song。
and we'll just close and end in worship.。
Is that cool?。
Okay.。
Father, we do.。
But I pray that everyone here that desires a spouse,。
Lord, that we would give them one.。
Someone who loves them,。
someone who loves you more than them.。
And Father, before you do,。
would you make them someone who loves you。
more than they love their spouse?。
And Father, there's some folks here,。
we've been saying some crazy things。
and Jesus was thrown out a lot.。
And there's people here that don't know。
you through your son.。
Lord, would you save them?。
Father, would your spirit convict hearts,。
folks who slept with someone last night or this weekend,。
and someone who looked at porn yesterday.。
Lord, would your spirit just,。
would you just give them a new heart?。
There's no, listen, Christ died for that.。
You don't, you tell us in Paul's letter to the Corinthians。
that you're no longer counting our sins against us.。
How crazy is that?。
It's incredible.。
So Lord, thank you just for the way that you love us.。
Thank you for the son that you gave for us.。
Thank you for the things you've done for us.。
And Lord, we'd love to sing to you。
and pray that you'd be honored.。
I pray that our lives would be songs to you,。
but right now we just wanna sing to you.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
(congregation applauding)。
(upbeat music)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
