Well, Porch, how we doing tonight?。
(audience cheering)。
Okay, that was okay.。
Porch, how we doing tonight?。
(audience cheering)。
There it is, there it is.。
Man, there's something about singing,。
gathered up in a space like this,。
songs that we just sang, and I hope, oh, I hope,。
I was just praying over there in my seat,。
like, Lord, please don't let this be fake.。
I'm just not that interested.。
I don't know about you, some of you,。
this is your first time coming into a place like this.。
I'm just so glad some of you, you've been here a lot.。
Regardless of where you are, I just so don't wanna be。
around something or a part of something performative。
in this day and age.。
I just, to my core, wanna be a part of something。
where I look around and go, man, there's a few of us。
who we just, with our whole, the orientation。
of all of our being, we mean what we're saying,。
and God, make it true where it's not.。
And so, Lord, would that be the case?。
Man, we're just glad that you're here,。
whether you're here in Dallas,。
whether you're watching online,。
whether your port's live location,。
it's so exciting to be here on a Tuesday.。
Special shout out to some live locations。
that are tuning in, to Dayton and Springfield and Boise.。
Can we give it up for them tuning in?。
(congregation cheering)。
I know at Boise, when we give 'em a shout out,。
they have lights going crazy and all kinds of things,。
so Boise, go crazy.。
Okay, we're glad you're here.。
Hey, I was thinking about when my family and I。
moved up to Dallas about a year and a half ago,。
and I was thinking back on it。
'cause it was just such a crazy season.。
Like, for example, we're packing up the truck,。
like, to move from Houston up here to Dallas,。
and we have money down on a house in Plano,。
and as we're packing up the house,。
I get a call from the realtor, and she goes,。
"Hey, hey, it fell through."。
We're like, what do you mean it fell through?。
Like, do we need to make a phone call?。
She's like, "No, you didn't get that house.。
"Like, it didn't work out."。
So we're like, "Oh, okay, you know, like, start over?"。
She's like, "Yeah, we're starting over."。
So I make a call to my brother who lives in Cedar Hill.。
I'm like, "Hey, man, you got an extra space。
"for like five of us?"。
He's like, "Yeah, man, bring it on."。
So I'm commuting from Cedar Hill.。
I know there's some of you that come from that area.。
Come on!。
But I was doing it every day,。
Monday through Friday, crazy.。
And so anyway, we move in there, we get settled,。
and I start my first week here at Watermarken.。
And we found a house in Richardson.。
And so we found it, we're getting settled.。
And then the night before we're gonna move in,。
my daughter, my five-year-old at the time,。
my daughter starts throwing up the night before.。
I'm like, "Oh, man."。
So Jen, my wife, she's like,。
"Hey, you go be with the movers, I'll stay with the kids."。
So I'm like, "Okay, I'm feeling good.。
"Everything's fine, everything's good."。
So I move up, I come up here, I'm helping the movers.。
And then I get a text from Jen,。
"Ty, my son went down.。
"Malachi, my other son went down.。
"All my brother's kids just went down."。
I'm like, "Okay, Lord, please."。
Like, I still feel good, I think I'm all right.。
So we finish out the moving.。
Then that night, I'm supposed to go to Kylan's house,。
the executive director at The Porch, Kylan's house,。
to meet all the team leads of The Porch, our team leaders.。
And it was my first impression.。
So I was like, "I really don't wanna blow this.。
"This is important."。
And as I'm going over, I get a text from Jen,。
and she goes, "I just went down."。
I'm like, "Oh no, this is not good."。
So I'm chugging, this is a true story,。
I'm chugging Pepto-Bismol as I'm driving to Kylan's house,。
just like, "Lord, give me a few hours, that's all I need."。
So I get there, I'm having conversations with people,。
I'm like seeing double, you know, and I share,。
they're like, "Share your testimony."。
I'm like, "So, I was born at a young age."。
Like, I'm just trying to go through, go through the thing.。
And I barely make, they're like, "Okay, we're dismissed."。
I run back to my car, I get home, and I was not okay.。
It all just happened, as you know.。
Okay, a week later, I get through it.。
A week later, my in-laws, my wife's parents,。
invite us up to Oklahoma to hang with them.。
And we warn 'em, we're like,。
"The stomach bug just went through."。
You're like, "You sure you want us there?"。
They're like, "Come on, we're good, it's fine."。
And we go up there, and we're swimming, and we're playing,。
and everything's fine.。
We drive back to Dallas on Sunday,。
and then we get the text from them,。
"We're down, not good."。
Like, "Oh, man."。
Okay, now, why do I tell you that?。
I tell you that because the stomach bug,。
similar to the stomach bug,。
is a virus that all of us know about.。
And the thing about this virus is,。
we see it happening to everyone else,。
and we're concerned that it could happen to us,。
but we don't realize that it's affected us。
until it's too late.。
And the virus is the love of money.。
Oh, yeah, you came today, and we're talking about money.。
Buckle up, come on, get your checkbooks out.。
I don't think we'd use those anymore, but I'm just kidding.。
We're not asking for your money,。
but we're gonna talk about it.。
If you have your Bible,。
turn to 2 Timothy chapter three.。
2 Timothy chapter three.。
We're in a series right now called "Lovers,"。
which is not a Taylor Swift song,。
and it's not a relationship series.。
It's actually talking about false loves and idols。
that we so often in life grip close to above,。
and we put above God in our worship.。
And I think no other idol has been more destructive。
in the life of the human heart than the love of money,。
the love of money.。
In fact, if Satan was gonna take you out,。
he may try sex, he may try suffering,。
and if those don't work,。
then his next play will be the subtle drift。
into the love of money.。
I remember reading the book by C.S. Lewis,。
"Screwtape Letters."。
Okay, if you haven't read "Screwtape Letters,"。
it's an allegory of two demons talking to each other,。
and the older demon is kind of teaching the younger demon。
how to tempt human beings.。
Just a fascinating book.。
And there's one section where he's going through。
all the hardship that you can bring a human being,。
whether it's suffering or difficulty or temptation。
or the lure and appeal of suffering and sin.。
And then he says this.。
I have it on the screen.。
He says, "If, on the other hand,。
"their middle years prove prosperous,。
"our position is even stronger.。
"Prosperity knits a man to the world.。
"He feels that he is finding his place in it。
"when really it's finding his place in him.。
"His increasing reputation,。
"his widening circle of acquaintances,。
"his sense of importance,。
"the growing pressure of absorbing an agreeable work。
"build up in him a sense of really being at home in earth,。
"which is just what we want."。
See, this is what we see in 2 Timothy chapter three,。
which is the anchor text for this series.。
You see, in chapter three, verse one,。
Paul's gonna describe the church in the last days,。
which is the church age,。
from Jesus' ascension to his return,。
what we're living in right now.。
And he says in verse one, he says,。
"But understand this, that in the last days,。
"in our days, there will come times of difficulty."。
Says it's gonna get hard.。
Why?。
Verse two, he said, "For people will be lovers of self,"。
we talked about this last week,。
"and lovers of money."。
And then he goes on and lists 17 other idols.。
But we're gonna hang out on lovers of money tonight.。
Now, the question is,。
what does it mean to be a lover of money?。
My guess is that many of us, if we're honest,。
we're all kind of lovers of money.。
If I had a hundred dollar bill and gave it to you and said,。
"Hey, do you want this?"。
I don't think many of you would be like, "Oh, no."。
Like, I don't love that.。
You'd be like, "Sure, you know, what's the catch?"。
But like, I would love a hundred dollars.。
We're all kind of lovers of money.。
So what is he talking about here?。
Lover of money, as Paul's talking about,。
is someone who looks to money to feed their deepest desire.。
Someone who looks to money to provide。
for their deepest needs and desires,。
which begs the question, is that true of us in here?。
And maybe more important question, is that true of you?。
We all know this, but we live in a monetized society today.。
Like, have you even realized, like,。
influencers these days are not even shy to talk about,。
like, what they make and what they spend these days.。
They just, it's all out there in the open.。
We all know.。
I mean, there are girls who make a million dollars a month.。
We're gonna go there on OnlyFans,。
not knowing what it's gonna cost later.。
There are guys who spend their time。
on another kind of fan, FanDuel, right?。
That spend their life and their dreams。
and their thought thinking, "Okay, how can I get rich quick。
"trying to make up for the bad bet of last week?"。
Right, cowboys?。
Okay, or whatever.。
Like, or all of us, when we go on our devices,。
see a stream of sponsored ads that are tailored right to you.。
I was thinking today, I was like,。
let me just see what mine is.。
Pulled up Instagram, I'm like, hmm, running shoes, okay.。
New car wash place, okay.。
Hair loss treatment, like, ah, dang.。
You know, but it knows me.。
It knows me, and it knows you,。
and it's feeding you all the time.。
You want a better life?。
You want more?。
You want to be satisfied?。
Here's what it is, here's what it is, here's what it is.。
Plus, everything these days is expensive.。
Paid $4 a gallon to fill up my truck yesterday.。
Housing prices make owning a home。
seem unattainable for you.。
Deloitte reported that 80% of millennials and Gen Z。
cite financial stress as one of the primary contributors。
to stress and anxiety in their life.。
80%, 70% this year, millennial and Gen Z,。
took concerted effort to cut back on spending。
due to the nature of costs being so high.。
And yet, I love this, this is just what my research,。
92% of millennials and Gen Z。
still treat themselves on a regular basis.。
And over half do it at least once a week。
with the latest sweet treat.。
Things like fall seasonals at the coffee shop,。
not you, I'm just saying the research, fall seasonals.。
Or the latest movie, or brunch with the girlies,。
whatever it is, this is what comes up in our life.。
We go, I'm working hard, I'm cutting costs,。
so I deserve this, I deserve this.。
Or you go, look, I'm at a new city,。
I'm trying to meet people, everyone's going to that movie,。
I don't really wanna go,。
but how am I gonna meet people if I don't?。
I don't really wanna go to brunch,。
I'm not really a brunch person,。
but that's where you meet everyone, so I gotta go.。
I don't even like coffee, I get tea,。
but that's where they are, so I'm gonna go.。
Whatever the thing is, you feel this pressure,。
and yet spending remorse is real.。
41% experience financial guilt at least once a week.。
And nearly four out of five young adults。
have some sort of debt that they're living under.。
So what do you do when it comes to money?。
Are you supposed to just not care?。
Hey, let go, let God, who cares, man?。
Money is money, we'll figure it out.。
Someone will provide for your needs,。
the government or whatever, you know, just who cares?。
Or are you supposed to obsess about it,。
game the system and try to figure it out?。
It feels like a never-ending web。
that you have to try to navigate.。
How are we supposed to live in this monetized world?。
The Apostle Paul will speak directly to this。
in the letter he wrote before 2 Timothy, which is what?。
1 Timothy, good job, that was a test, you're awake.。
So just go a couple pages over to 1 Timothy chapter six.。
1 Timothy chapter six.。
Paul wrote 1 Timothy to Timothy, his son in the faith,。
and he's warning him against false teaching.。
And in chapter six, he says there's three ways。
false teachers are gonna infiltrate the church.。
He said the first is they're going to come in。
with false doctrine.。
He said the second is they're going to actually infiltrate。
with dissension and disunity.。
And he said the third is they're gonna try。
to monetize your motivation for God.。
They're gonna try to exploit your faith for monetary gain.。
And this is what he speaks to,。
and yet Paul's gonna give three big ideas。
to a culture that's in love with money.。
That's where we're gonna hang on。
with the rest of our time today, three big ideas.。
The first big idea is this.。
It's gonna sound simple, but it's profound.。
Number one, it's contentment with God is true success.。
Contentment with God is true success.。
We're gonna pick it up in 1 Timothy 6, starting in verse six.。
Paul's just gonna hound this.。
It's in verse six.。
But godliness with contentment is great gain,。
for we brought nothing into the world。
and we cannot take anything out of the world.。
But if we have food and clothing,。
with these we will be content.。
What Paul does right at the beginning is he says,。
I'm gonna level the playing field.。
Do you remember what true success is?。
Do you remember, Timothy?。
Because true success is not bigger and better.。
It's not the prosperity gospel。
of you do all the right things。
and God will do all the right things to you.。
That's not what it is.。
But he says it's also not lesser and minimalist.。
It's not the poverty gospel.。
It's neither one.。
It's with God, regardless of circumstance, I am content.。
And I'm just curious, is that where you are today?。
That regardless of what happens to you in life,。
regardless to you of what happens in finances,。
you're content.。
That pursuing God and trusting him to provide your needs。
is your level playing set.。
This is what success is in my life.。
Or do you spend your life entitled?。
It's interesting.。
So I have four kids now.。
I think I have a picture of them from this summer.。
This is my crew right here.。
And just love those little buddies.。
The guy on the right is my oldest son.。
His name is Ty.。
And Ty turned five this year in March.。
And Ty's a little shy, softer spoken.。
And it's been harder for him to find friends。
up here in Dallas.。
So for his birthday, his fifth birthday, he was like,。
"I wanna have a party so that I can meet some friends."。
That's what he told us.。
We're like, "Oh, buddy."。
So we like put together a little thing and some people came,。
but it was just not awesome.。
So I was like, "You know what, buddy?。
Me and you, we're going on an adventure together."。
And this was like last minute.。
I'm like, "What do I do?"。
So I'm like, "I'm gonna go to Stonebriar Mall, okay?。
It's gonna be awesome."。
We go to Stonebriar and there's a Lego store.。
Not Legoland, just a store that's selling some Legos.。
And we walk in and you would have thought。
he was at the North Pole, man.。
He was like, "No way."。
He's looking at all of it like, "Dad!"。
You know, we're just going through the whole thing.。
He's like, "Can we buy this?"。
I'm like, "No."。
He's like, "Okay."。
And we bought something for like 10 bucks, you know?。
And he got it and he just cherished it.。
I was like, "Oh, buddy, that's great."。
Like, "What else do we do?"。
I'm like, "Oh, the Cowboys practice facility's up here.。
Let's go to the star."。
So we go over to the star.。
We're just racing each other, you know, on the star.。
I think we have a picture of that。
where he and I were just racing each other.。
Yeah, he's just all pumped.。
And we get to the end of that.。
I'm kind of like, "Man, this is fun, but you know,。
sorry, buddy, this is kind of lame."。
And we're walking back and he looks at me。
and he grabs my hand.。
He said, "Daddy, this was the best day ever."。
He said, "I just love being with you."。
We walked to the car and I'm like,。
"You want a car?。
You want a, you know, like, I don't care.。
You can have whatever you want, buddy."。
Like, "There's nothing better in the world.。
I can get teared up now."。
Like, then having your five-year-old that would say to you,。
"Dad, I just, this is the best day ever。
'cause I just got to be with you."。
Is that your relationship with God?。
Do you get to the end of the day,。
regardless of circumstance, and just go,。
"God, this was the best day ever。
'cause I just got to be with you.。
Man, I get to be near you.。
Like, you call me your son.。
You call me your daughter.。
You have good things planned for me。
and I don't always know in the present,。
but I trust you in the longterm."。
It's just so good to be with you.。
Or do you spend your life entitled?。
Always complaining about what you don't have.。
Always frustrated at God of,。
"How come they have and I don't?。
How come you won't?。
How come I'm still single?。
How come I still in this job?"。
It's okay to be honest with God.。
And just, is your orienting nature towards God。
a contentment that, "God, I just want to be with you,"。
or is it a complaining?。
"Why haven't you done this, this, and this?"。
One is contentment, one is entitlement.。
Be honest.。
Are you content with God so that money。
is a means of ministry in your life?。
Or are you not content?。
Do you walk in here going, "I am not content。
and I'm looking for a lot of things,。
but potentially money to try to fill what is lacking in me."。
The reality is, if that's you,。
no amount of money will ever be enough.。
And Paul's about to explain why in the second point.。
The second point, he says the big idea of,。
you know, in a culture obsessed with money,。
number two is that craving for money is a trap.。
Craving for money is a trap.。
These are popular verses that we're about to read,。
but I want you to really think,。
"What is Paul saying here?"。
This is crazy.。
Look at verse nine, 1 Timothy 6, verse nine.。
He says, "But those who desire to be rich。
fall into temptation, into a snare,。
into many senseless and harmful desires。
that plunge people into ruin and destruction."。
Wow, Paul, what do you really think?。
Okay, verse 10, it's the popular one.。
"For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evils.。
It is through this craving that some have wandered away。
from the faith and pierced themselves with many pangs."。
Paul says here, he starts at the beginning and he says,。
"But those who desire to be rich,"。
which I think we all have in our mind that person,。
but I just want you to think,。
who in this room wants to be rich?。
I'm curious, who wants to be rich?。
Okay, a couple of honest, a lot of honest people.。
Wow, way more.。
We all want to be rich, let's go.。
Okay, he's talking to us.。
Here's what I say, there's two kinds of people in this room.。
There's those of you who want to be rich。
or those of you who are rich。
and those of you who want to be rich, that's it.。
And I don't mean rich like you're flaunting it,。
I mean rich like just a little bit richer。
than you are right now, right?。
Like, man, if I could just have a little better job。
that would pay me a little bit more。
to give me some disposable income。
or my boss would finally give me a promotion。
so that I can live.。
Or man, if I could just get a house。
with a bathroom to myself, like that would be nice.。
Or if I can get a car that's not constantly breaking down,。
I'm not looking for a Lamborghini, that'd be great,。
but I'm just looking for like a car。
that's not in the shop, another 500, another 1,000.。
Man, it would be great to have a phone。
that battery actually lasts like through the day.。
Like I'm not trying to, you know, get diamond earrings,。
I just want a phone that can like not crash。
on me all the time.。
We all wanna be a little richer.。
So Paul is talking to all of us。
and he's not saying your desire to be rich。
is evil in itself, he's saying,。
just know if you wanna be richer in life,。
it's a trap, it's a trap.。
Anyone ever trapped anything before?。
Okay, come on, porch.。
I'll be honest, it's only happened to me one time.。
And if you were at launch, I've told this story,。
but it was just too applicable here,。
I have to tell all of you.。
So a few years ago, I was living outside of Houston。
and I kept seeing trash, all my trash,。
all through the backyard.。
I'm like, what is going on with all this trash?。
And at first I thought it was my dog,。
then I thought it was my kids,。
then I'm like, no, this is too chaotic, even for them.。
And so what I did, it's like true dad move,。
I put up a security camera and a motion light。
right on my camera and I was like,。
we're gonna figure this out.。
And so then I went to bed and I woke up the next morning。
to notification, notification, notification,。
I was like, oh man, we got something.。
And when I opened it up, this is what I saw.。
We have a little video here.。
This is what I saw, yeah.。
What is that?。
Yeah, raccoon, a little by himself.。
No, not by himself, it's his girl.。
He brought his girl to my trash can.。
I named him Randy and Rebecca, okay, that's him.。
And I'm like, wow, they're on a late night escapade。
in my lawn, you know, like in my trash can.。
So then I go to sleep the next night,。
I didn't even know what to do.。
I wake up the next morning, notification, notification,。
I'm like, Randy, Rebecca, you're back.。
And so I open it and this is what I see.。
How many?。
It's a double date, okay.。
They brought their friends, Reggie and Regina, okay.。
And they're just living it up in my trash can.。
So I was like, this ends tonight.。
So I call up the Fort Bend County Animal Services.。
I'm like, I got raccoons.。
Like they're double dating in my trash can.。
Like, what do I do?。
And they're like, oh, just come get a trap.。
I was like, me?。
You know, like, I'm so glad you have that confidence in me,。
but are you sure?。
I'm like, it's easy, come get it.。
So I drive down there, I get it.。
They show me how to use the device.。
I'm like, how do I trap them?。
They're like, here's what you do.。
Put a scoop of peanut butter。
right on this little inside part.。
And I promise you'll get one.。
I'm like, I don't know, they're sneaky, double date.。
So I put it out, I set the trap,。
I put the peanut butter on it, I go to sleep.。
Next morning, notification, notification,。
I go outside and this is what I see.。
Yeah, yeah, that guy.。
And that's what I thought.。
I was like, oh, Randy, like, man, you're sweet.。
And I go up to him, I'm like, hey, buddy, it wasn't personal.。
And then he does the like, ah, you know, demon raccoon thing.。
And I was like, forget it, it's your funeral, bro.。
You know, I've had them come pick it up。
and he's in raccoon heaven probably somewhere.。
No, maybe they released him in the wild。
for you animal people, I don't know.。
Here's what I want you to do.。
Keep this picture up for a second.。
Paul is saying, some of you,。
that if your desire is to be rich,。
I just want a little better phone, a little better car,。
a little better job.。
He said, this for many of you is the trap。
that you are in and you don't realize it.。
It's interesting, that verse in verse 10,。
it says, "The love of money is the root of all evil."。
It doesn't say money.。
Money is peanut butter, okay?。
Nothing wrong with peanut butter,。
but peanut butter, when a raccoon has the craving,。
that desire, I've got to have it, I got to have it.。
They are laser focused on getting it。
and they will walk straight into a cage,。
not realizing that thing's about to close behind them。
and raccoon heaven is in their future.。
They don't realize it, why?。
Because their craving led to a wandering that led to pain.。
Just want to make this real for us.。
How many of us is our love for peanut butter,。
our love for money, our desire to be rich,。
driving us straight into a trap,。
into a snare that's gonna hold us。
and keep us from the life that God has for us?。
Leads to wandering and it leads to pain.。
Have any of you seen someone out of a desire。
and love for money lead to pain in their life?。
I remember meeting with a man who is a VP。
of an oil company in Houston and he was a go-getter。
and he was fit and he was brilliant。
and he was wearing the nicest clothes,。
he was doing all the stuff, but when I met him,。
that man was broken and defeated.。
And the reason why is he had cheated on his wife twice。
over the past year with multiple women。
and when his wife found out about it,。
she demolished his car and she posted it。
all over social media and she wanted nothing to do with him.。
And he's in my office and we're talking.。
And I remember asking him, "Bro, how did you get here?"。
And I will never forget what he said.。
He said, "Man, I got caught up, snared,。
"in a desire for more.。
"Everything in life became a game。
"and I got good at it, but I lost my soul in the process."。
He knew how to make money, he knew how to be fit,。
he knew how to game the system and marriage。
and relationships to him was just another game.。
And he lost his soul.。
Let's be real, are you trapped in your life right now?。
Analyze your life, you don't have to be rich.。
You don't have to actually be rich in society's eyes。
to have a love of money.。
I mean, we mentioned it earlier, but the sports betting thing。
is crazy right now, it is crazy.。
I just read that the Surgeon General calls it。
the new opioid of 2026.。
In 2018, sports betting over the whole year。
got $6 billion of revenue.。
In 2025, it was $165 billion.。
This is exponential as it's been legalized。
and it's everywhere.。
You can't watch a game without seeing 20 ads。
saying, "Hey, hey, your first one's free,。
it's gonna be nothing, you're gonna make a ton of money."。
You know, and all the while, it's gambling,。
that's what this thing is.。
Man, are you trapped?。
What started as like, "Oh man, it's not a big deal,。
let me just go in," everybody's kind of doing it,。
it's now taking over your life.。
Do you feel the need to have a new outfit on。
to be confident?。
Do you walk into your closet full of clothes。
and sit in despair going, "There's nothing I can wear,"。
and walk out feeling insecure because you have no clothes。
that make you feel confident and secure?。
Are you trapped?。
You know, some of you have the goal。
of being a millionaire by 30.。
I've heard you, I've sat across from the coffee shop。
out there being like, "Man, I'm doing it."。
There's nothing wrong with that, praise God, do it,。
tie it to our church, like, that's awesome, I love it.。
(congregation laughing)。
But many of you, with that desire, you will claw and abuse。
and take advantage and lie to get your way there.。
I was a finance major at A&M and some of my buddies,。
it's interesting, they will reach out to me, DM,。
occasionally, they're living it up, nice car, nice job,。
and yet they'll hit me up and go, "Man, my life is broken,。
I need help."。
The reality is money is not bad, it's peanut butter,。
but it's the desire for it, the love of it,。
the all-consuming nature of I have to get that。
no matter what is a trap, and are you aware of it?。
So Paul, okay, like, I get it, content in Christ,。
desire for money is a trap, but like, what do I do then?。
Like, I live in America, I'm in Dallas or wherever you are,。
like, how do I survive?。
Like, I gotta have a car payment, I gotta have, you know,。
I gotta survive, what do I do?。
And that's the third thing.。
The third idea that Paul's gonna give。
is a charge to the rich, a charge to the rich.。
Verses 11 through 16 are amazing,。
we're gonna come back to 'em,。
but I want us to go down to verse 17.。
Verse 17 says, "And as for the rich in this present age,。
charge them not to be haughty,。
nor to set their hopes on the uncertainty of riches,。
but on God, who richly provides us。
with everything to enjoy.。
They are to do good, to be rich in good works,。
to be generous and ready to share,。
thus storing up treasure for themselves。
as a good foundation for the future,。
so that they may take hold of that which is truly life."。
The section's just so good,。
it's chock full of amazing things, a lot to unpack here.。
But he starts with, "As for the rich in this present age,"。
we've talked about this, but here's the reality,。
that's all of us in this room.。
I know many of you don't feel like you're rich,。
some of you are unemployed, but the reality is,。
there's so many different numbers,。
what I locked in on is half the world makes $8 a day.。
50% of the population, $8 a day is what they live on.。
If you make $35,000 a year,。
so I know our baristas are like, "We're out of, we're good,。
like it's not us," but like everybody else,。
those of you who make $35,000 a year,。
you're in the top 10%。
of all the world's revenue earning population, 35,000.。
We are rich.。
What is the Bible saying to us?。
And Paul, inspired by the Holy Spirit,。
it's just this shotgun of things.。
So we're gonna fly through this.。
I might not be able to say everything I wanna say,。
but we're just gonna fly through,。
and here's where it's gonna get practical.。
It's just like, what do you do?。
How am I supposed to live this way?。
The first, verse 17.。
Verse 17, he says, "As for the rich in this present age,。
charge them, command them not to be haughty,。
nor to set their hopes on the uncertainty of riches,。
but on God, who richly provides us with everything to enjoy."。
He says, don't be haughty, don't set your hope on riches,。
but put your hope on God.。
Why?。
Because one thing is certain, and one is uncertain.。
How many of you have ever seen a friend of yours,。
not you, a friend of yours, like, brag about their new job。
and be all excited about it, just for three months later,。
to be complaining about that same job?。
The commute, the boss, the, ah, it's the worst, right?。
You're just saying how great it was.。
Why?。
'Cause it's uncertain.。
And yet, God is certain.。
He's not moving, He's trustworthy.。
Have any of you ever been in a place。
where you've had to rely on God。
in the midst of financial uncertainty?。
I was thinking back when my wife and I first got married,。
and I just wanna be completely honest。
and transparent with you here.。
Sometimes using real numbers creates a comparison thing,。
and I'm not trying to do that.。
I just wanna be real with you, transparent.。
When my wife and I got married, I was a youth pastor,。
she was a teacher, I was working in Grapevine,。
she was in Frisco, right up here.。
I was making 50,000, she was making 50,000, around.。
We got married, 100,000.。
Double income, no kids, dink.。
We were like, this is great, 100,000.。
We're doing awesome.。
Two months into marriage, we got pregnant, as a surprise.。
And right after that, the job that I had。
had some uncertainty, and we were moving to Nashville.。
And I went from being just a youth pastor。
to a youth and groups pastor。
at a small little church up there,。
and I upgraded to a $40,000 salary at that church.。
And then our baby came, and Jen,。
and as we were praying about it, she's like,。
"Man, I think I'm supposed to stay home。
"with this little girl."。
I'm like, "Go, okay."。
So we went from 100,000 in Dallas to 40,000。
with a kid in Nashville, crazy expensive.。
And so I was like, all right, I'm gonna speak on the side,。
and just like speak at different camps and stuff.。
So I got everything set up to speak。
over the summer of 2020, okay?。
And then March of 2020, the world shut down,。
all camps shut down, there goes all the disposable。
extra income, and then we had an intern。
living with us that summer.。
And I remember writing in my Bible,。
in April of 2020, "God, we trust you."。
Then crazy things started to happen.。
In April of that year, our landlords were renting.。
Our landlords, he calls me, he's like,。
"Hey man, all this COVID stuff's crazy.。
"Don't worry about paying rent in April."。
Don't worry, what?。
What land, I mean, has that ever happened。
in the history of landlordness?。
Like, that's crazy.。
Wow, you know, hang up.。
Then we get a letter in the mail。
from a missionary we had supported, $100 a month.。
We had just, we'd said, "We wanna sow into your ministry,。
"we wanna support you."。
They wrote us a check for $1,200 saying,。
"We wanna give back to you everything。
"you gave to us this year."。
We just felt compelled to.。
Just like, wow, and things like that just kept happening,。
happening, happening, and my wife and I look back at that。
and we just go, wow, even though we're in a different。
financial situation now, God provided for us.。
How many of you are, you're not allowing God。
to come through in your life in powerful ways。
because you're not obeying, why?。
Because your hope is set on the uncertainty of riches.。
God has called you to do something and step out of the boat。
and you go, "I can't because the salary,。
"I can't because how am I gonna live?。
"I can't because," and so you won't obey.。
You won't do that thing.。
And maybe God is saying, not be lazy,。
not just, oh, let go, let God, who cares?。
No, you're gonna grind, you're gonna work hard,。
but trust me.。
I didn't know if I was gonna say this,。
but I just think it's important.。
When I got married, a mentor came to me and he said,。
"Hey, husbands are supposed to do four things。
"for their wives.。
"They're supposed to protect, they're supposed to provide,。
"they're supposed to pursue,。
"and they're supposed to position them for success."。
He said, "Tyler, when you and Jen get married,"。
'cause he knew Jen wanted to work.。
Jen was like, "I'm gonna work forever,。
"this is gonna be great."。
And we were setting up kind of our finances that way.。
He said, "Hey, your job as a man is to be the provider.。
"That doesn't mean your wife can't work.。
"In fact, if she does work, praise God, that's awesome,。
"live on two income.。
"Just don't allow your living expenses,。
"your lifestyle to supersede what you can afford,。
"such that if any day she wants to stay home,。
"feels convicted by God that she's supposed to stay home,。
"that you would have to say back to her,。
"we can't, 'cause I can't afford to pay for it."。
And I know so many Christian guys。
who their wives start to have that conviction。
and they go, "Sorry, you gotta work,。
"because we can't afford this lifestyle。
"with just one income."。
And I would go, "Well, figure it out, bro, figure it out.。
"You gotta get a better job,。
"or you gotta not get that new car, figure it out."。
All right, we gotta keep moving.。
Oh boy, we're a little behind.。
Okay, verse 18, it says,。
"They are to do good, to be rich in good works,。
"to be generous and ready to share."。
So the second thing that Paul says is,。
man, to the rich people,。
to the people who are wanting to be rich,。
do good and be rich in good works.。
Man, I have so many verses I wanna share and everything,。
I'm just gonna get cut to the chase.。
I think sometimes in Christian circles,。
we do everything I just said.。
We go, "Let go, let God, God's just gonna work it out."。
So like, who cares about money?。
The reality is, all through the New Testament,。
all through Proverbs, it's look at the ant, man.。
That guy's working, he's grinding.。
God wants you to work.。
It says in 2 Thessalonians,。
"He who doesn't work, let him not eat."。
Some of you, you're so good at asking people to support you.。
You're support raised,。
not because you're doing something,。
like missions with your life,。
just because you want people to take care of you.。
You live at your parents' house,。
not because it's the wise thing to do in this moment,。
just 'cause you're lazy.。
You live off of someone else's income,。
not because it's what's wise in that season,。
but because you're lazy.。
And Paul's saying, "No, do good, be rich in good works.。
"Figure out what you're good at and get paid for it.。
"And don't be ashamed to go to your boss。
"if you're working, grinding hard and going,。
"Hey, I'm actually worth this."。
Don't be a snot about it, but say it.。
This is what I'm worth, I wanna be paid this.。
That's okay, Christians, that's all right.。
But don't go around mooching off of people。
when you're not working.。
Man, we could say so much more on that.。
The second half of verse 18 says,。
"Be generous and ready to share."。
It doesn't just say, be generous,。
and when someone asks for money, go ahead and do it.。
It says, "Be ready, be eager to share."。
Do you have this mentality。
when it comes to giving in your life?。
Remember a mentor of mine, he would in his wallet。
carry two $20 bills that he called his giving fund.。
He said, "Every month, I wanna give those $20 bills。
"to someone and just bless 'em."。
He called it his blessing fund, sorry, his blessing fund.。
He said, "Whether it was someone at the gas station,。
"as he's pumping gas, he's just like,。
"You know what, I wanna pay for their gas.。
"Whether it's a single mom that he sees,。
"you know, paying at Costco and you just,。
"20 bucks ain't gonna do much, but you know,。
"just something or a really nice tip or whatever.。
"I just wanna give."。
Maybe in this day and age, inflation, it's 420s.。
I don't know, but you're just prepared going,。
"I wanna give, I wanna give."。
I remember when I was a youth pastor,。
I was driving to work and I got a flat。
and I didn't have a spare,。
so I'm like getting into the parking lot。
and I had to figure out to get a tow truck and all this.。
And my students, I didn't tell anybody,。
my students heard about it.。
And behind my back, they collected money.。
And then when I went out to my car,。
they put this on my car.。
I think we have a picture of it.。
It just said, "Tyler, for your tire,。
"God loves you and sees you.。
"Praying Philippians 1, 9 through 11, over you."。
So my students put,。
and I remember seeing that just being so excited.。
And then I went and saw them,。
they're all like hiding, like looking,。
you know, waiting for me to see it.。
And then they were just overjoyed.。
I mean, students that didn't even like each other。
were like, "Yeah, man, we did that."。
You know, like they just were bonding.。
Why? Because Jesus was right.。
It's more blessed to give than to receive.。
I've gone through times in my life。
when I've just been in what I call a funk.。
And I don't know if it's straight up depression。
or if it's just whatever it is,。
but there's just moments where I'm just like,。
"Man, I am in a funk."。
The only way I know how to get out of that。
is by blessing someone else.。
I gotta get in my car, go to Starbucks。
and pay for the person behind me.。
It's just like, oh man, I just,。
something about it, I just feel better.。
It's not for that purpose,。
but just do you have in your life a rhythm of giving?。
We're at church, so we gotta talk about this.。
Tithing, okay?。
If you're a Christian,。
oh man, maybe that was the enemy.。
My note just went away.。
Oh boy, okay.。
Tithing.。
If you're a Christian,。
there is nothing in the New Testament。
that tells you to tithe.。
I don't know if you know that.。
There's not a verse in the New Testament that says,。
"You better give 10% of your income to the church."。
It doesn't exist.。
The reality is what the New Testament says。
is all of your life and all of your income is God's.。
It's 100% His.。
And now you're a steward of His resources in your life.。
So what someone told me early on。
is that the 10% is not the ceiling of what you should give.。
It's the floor.。
And what my wife and I've done throughout our marriage。
is we've gone, regardless of if we like our church or not,。
regardless of if we're on board with their leadership or not,。
10% of our income is going to our church regardless.。
And we want it to grow.。
And through our marriage, it's grown.。
And it was less about the church.。
It was more about me getting my hands off of my money.。
It was like God was saying,。
"Tyler, I want you to trust me with 10%.。
"Just give it."。
Like recurring giving, just give it away.。
'Cause I don't want you to see it.。
I want you to learn to live on 90。
and see 10 as an offering to me.。
That doesn't mean you don't care what happens at the church.。
Man, we should care.。
But I'm saying, do you have that rhythm?。
The reality is in a room like this,。
you don't, many of you.。
And maybe the application coming out of this sermon。
is you start, whatever your local church is,。
you start giving to them.。
And young adults are the ones。
not only fueling service in ministry,。
but finances in ministry.。
Last one, verse 19, it says,。
"Thus storing up treasure for themselves。
"as a good foundation for the future,。
"so they may take hold of that which is truly life."。
Paul says, "Man, to the rich, tell them,。
"hey, open your eyes.。
"Real life is offered to you.。
"And it's not in the latest gadget。
"or the latest monetary game."。
That's not what it's in.。
He says, "If you're living for temporary things,。
"just for yourself, you're settling on real life."。
Jesus in Matthew chapter 6, 33 will say,。
"But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness,。
"and all these things will be added to you."。
I remember Francis Chan, a pastor in California,。
saying one time, "Live a life that demands an explanation."。
If you're living for yourself, if your finances,。
if you look at it, it's all about you,。
your sweet treat, your car, your housing situation,。
you, you, you, you, you,。
that doesn't demand an explanation.。
So you're obsessed with you, pretty easy.。
If someone were to look at your finances and your time,。
the way you spend your life, would they go, "What?。
"Wait, wait, hold on, what?。
"Why do you do that?"。
And would you just be able to point them to Jesus,。
what he's done in your life?。
This is what so blew me away with my wife.。
When I first got to know her,。
she would just spend all of her time。
pouring into these middle school girls and discipling them.。
I was like, "Why do you do that?。
"That's crazy, I'm a youth pastor and that's crazy."。
Middle school, she would save up to go on mission trips。
for long periods of time.。
She would set aside money, saving money,。
for a future to contribute to a down payment。
of a home one day.。
When we got married, Jen was the one who was able。
to provide a significant impact of when we purchased。
our home because of that saving.。
This is life, it's like real life that's offered to you.。
All right, I wanna end with this.。
The part that we skipped, I won't read it,。
but it says, "One of my favorite passages。
"in all of the Bible, when I was a chaplain。
"of an organization at college,。
"I had every single guy memorize 1 Timothy 6, 11 and 12.。
"But you, oh man of God, flee these things.。
"Pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love,。
"steadfastness, gentleness, fight the good fight of faith.。
"Take hold of the eternal life to which you were called。
"and about which you made the good confession。
"in the presence of many witnesses."。
He charges Timothy at the end and he says,。
man, flee the things that are gonna tempt you.。
Fight the good fight of faith and take hold of that。
which is real life.。
2 Corinthians chapter eight, verse nine,。
describes the gospel in monetary terms.。
Paul says, "For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ。
"that though he was rich, yet for your sake,。
"he became poor, so that you by his poverty。
"might become rich."。
The answer to the problems, to the money problems。
that you have in your life is not another trick,。
it's not another tip, it's not another budget,。
it's not even tithing or any of these things, it's not.。
The answer is to see the exchange。
that happened in the gospel.。
I was spiritually poor and you God,。
who are rich, became poor for me,。
that I would be rich in you.。
I don't care how much money you make or you don't make,。
in Christ, you are spiritually rich.。
And Jesus says in the Beatitudes in Matthew chapter five,。
he says, "Blessed are the poor in spirit,。
"for yours is the kingdom of heaven."。
When you finally realize how bankrupt you are outside of me,。
you get God, you get the fullness of the earth given to you.。
And so what is God doing in you?。
Has the virus that we rarely think is us。
affected you in your life?。
And where is God's loving invitation。
by the power of his spirit。
through what happened in the gospel,。
calling you to deal with that virus today?。
And maybe what that is, is here in a minute,。
literally giving your life to Jesus。
as the one who purchased your freedom,。
who made you rich and going,。
God, I am bankrupt without you.。
God, I need you, I am poor and broken,。
and yet I invite Jesus into my life.。
Come, make me rich in Christ。
by filling me with your spirit.。
And I love you, like the song we sang earlier.。
I love you, I love you, I love you.。
Or maybe there's something else。
that's going on in your life.。
Man, I've been praying that God would do business。
in each of our lives after this, let's pray.。
Father, we thank you that when we were poor,。
you became poor for us,。
that we might be rich in you.。
Jesus, we just confess that we live in this world。
where money is everywhere, temptation is everywhere,。
and it's a lure, it's a trap.。
And God, would we not be scared of money?。
Would we not be flippant with money?。
But would we see it as an amazing tool for kingdom purpose?。
God, give us contentment in you.。
Lord, where there's shame and isolation,。
would that go away as we find healing and hope in you。
and then can live in the light?。
And be honest with people, man, I'm struggling.。
Only God, would you meet us where we are?。
We love you, we trust you, we need you, God.。
We want our worship to be all about Jesus,。
our God and our King.。
It's in his name we pray, amen.。
