[Waves crashing]。
[Birds chirping]。
[Music]。
[Phone vibrating]。
[Phone ringing]。
[Phone ringing]。
[Phone ringing]。
[Phone ringing]。
[Phone ringing]。
[Phone ringing]。
[Music]。
[Birds chirping]。
[Music]。
[Birds chirping]。
[Music]。
[Birds chirping]。
Alright, well Porch, how are we doing tonight? We doing okay?。
It's great to see ya.。
Welcome back. If you're a familiar face, if you've been in the room, we're so glad you're here.。
If you're new to The Porch, thanks for choosing to give up your Tuesday and join us here.。
It's amazing just to every single week be a part of worship and see how God is working in the lives of young adults right here in Dallas, Texas.。
Like, I know he's doing it in my life, I believe he's doing it in your life, but he's not just doing it here, he's also doing it all over the nation.。
He's doing it in rooms just like this, and he's doing it in some of our Porch Live locations.。
And we're so grateful that we get to be a part of what God is doing there.。
If you're a part of The Porch family, thanks for tuning in with us as well.。
I want to give a very special shout out to a couple of locations.。
To Porch Fort Worth, our friends just down the way.。
We love you guys. Porch Midland, our other friends just a little further west of us here.。
And then Porch Springfield. We love that we get to tune in together.。
Well, I've never been skydiving, but over the summer I got the chance to try the next best alternative.。
I went indoor skydiving. Anybody been indoor skydiving before?。
It is far less superior to the real thing, I would imagine.。
And yet, there are a couple of distinct advantages to indoor skydiving to that of outdoor skydiving.。
I know this because I asked our instructor, who was apparently goaded as the skydiving expert in our beloved city of Dallas, Texas.。
The advantages are this. Number one, when you indoor skydive, you actually get a longer free fall experience than you do when you're outdoor.。
The reason why is when you're outdoor, it's estimated that 30 to 60 seconds of your time is actually spent in free fall.。
And then of course you get to slowly float your way to the ground.。
If not, then something terribly tragic has happened to you.。
When you go indoor, you actually get 90 seconds of total time, which is awesome.。
I'm sure they'll give you more. You just have to pay for that. That's the first advantage.。
The second advantage is you actually get to fly solo, which is awesome.。
Because it means that you don't have a full adult grown man attached to your back.。
And traversing through the skies, you both fall to your inevitable doom.。
You get to free fall by yourself. You get to fly all alone.。
And so I'm pumped for it. We show up. We get all of our gear and we're making our way in line.。
And as we're watching the group in front of us kind of go through all the motions of free falling, we're standing there killing a little bit of a moment.。
I look over to our instructor and I just ask him, trying to be kind, make conversation.。
But he's also goaded, so maybe he's got something that can help me. And I just simply ask the question,。
"Hey, any final advice for a future free faller?"。
He looks at me and he says something that has stuck with me to this day.。
He said, "What you feel determines how you fly."。
So if you feel yourself sinking, then open up your body, spread your hands, lift your chin.。
If you feel yourself drifting one direction, then turn your hands the opposite and let it pull you back the other way.。
Ultimately, though, know this, whatever you do, don't fight the wind. Just feel it.。
And he was right. As I did these things, my experience, which was unlike anything I had ever experienced before, was amazing.。
Like I found myself in a situation that I had never encountered.。
One where the wind was rushing in this tunnel and I could feel the deafening noise and my heart was pounding in my chest.。
And yet in the midst of it all, I knew so long as I could feel the wind, I wouldn't fall flat on my face.。
I could actually fly through the air.。
Now, why do I tell you that? Because I think his advice is not just good advice for free falling.。
I think it's good advice for you and me.。
And the reason why is we're going to similarly find ourselves in moments where we're encountering something the likes of which we've never experienced.。
We're going to be put in a proverbial wind tunnel and they're going to crank up the engine and things are going to get crazy.。
And what we choose to do in that moment, how we respond to whatever we feel, how we process our emotion,。
is going to determine whether we fall flat on our face or we actually fly through the air.。
You see, you've got to know how to process the things that are happening inside.。
And while that seems obvious, human beings are notoriously bad at this.。
Christians are especially bad at processing what we feel because what we do is we find ourselves kind of camped in one of two extreme categories.。
We're either all head and no heart or we're the alternative.。
So for those of you in the room that are all head and no heart, you know what's right.。
And so you do what's right.。
And even when what's right doesn't feel right, you do it anyways, because right is right and wrong is wrong and that is that.。
You know, it doesn't matter if you feel an alternative way.。
You take those feelings and you stuff them very deeply down inside.。
You suppress them in a way where you never acknowledge them.。
You lock them away. You throw away the key.。
You don't recognize your feelings.。
You refuse them all together.。
This is some people's approach whenever their emotions come into play.。
But for others, they're not all head and no heart.。
They're all heart and no head.。
Rather than suppressing their feelings, they become possessed by them.。
So much so that when they catch feelings for that guy or that girl, it's all they can think about.。
It's all they can talk about.。
It doesn't matter if you're their friend and you have something else that you would like to discuss.。
That's what they're going to talk to you about.。
If you find yourself cut off in traffic, you know who you are.。
You wage war against the entire interstate.。
Because one passerby chose to take an issue with you.。
You know, like that's your approach.。
You're possessed. You're consumed.。
You're overwhelmed by what you feel.。
By and large, we go one way or the other.。
But what if there was a third option?。
Like what if you didn't have to go all head or all heart?。
What if you could actually be both at the same time?。
Well, that's the option that the Bible gives us.。
It wants to teach us a different, a better way to process what we feel.。
To not ignore what we feel and to not enable what we feel, but to inform what we feel.。
To inform it with God's truth.。
You see, as we read the Word, what we find is that we should feel all of our feelings.。
And then we bring them under submission to God's Word.。
We let Him tell us how we process those things.。
And as we do, something amazing happens.。
What we find is our anxiety turns into peace.。
Our fear becomes trust. Our anger becomes patience.。
We engage a kind of spirituality that forms not just what we know, but really who we are.。
Which is exactly what young adults, people just like you, are wanting.。
According to Barna, when asked this question,。
"What are you looking for when you consider your spiritual beliefs?"。
Young adults, out of 10 different options, all of which were really compelling,。
they selected these three as their greatest desire.。
They selected inner peace, hope, and healing as the fruit of that which they wanted to be true in their spiritual experience.。
Which is massive. I don't know if it clicks for you why it's such a big deal.。
But what that's telling us is we want a spirituality that doesn't just change what we do,。
as much as it changes who we are.。
That impacts us at a core, internal level.。
That can fix what's gone wrong.。
That can heal what's been hurt.。
That can mend the parts of you that feel unmendable.。
What this also does is it strikes, at least me, maybe you, with a really surprising notion.。
That our current reality is not giving us the tools or the solutions we need to actually change who we are.。
You see, it's surprising because we live in the most therapized era in human history.。
You see, never before has the conversation around mental health been more destigmatized than right now.。
So much so that people are using therapy language in everyday regular speech.。
We were recently visiting with a girl and she was telling us that she's falling head over heels for this guy,。
but she's not sure if it's a legitimate feeling or if it's just the result of some trauma bonding they had as they were fighting traffic at the state fair.。
I don't necessarily know if traffic qualifies for trauma bonding, but I have my suspicions that it doesn't.。
You see, we have adopted mental health language in our regular conversations.。
We say things like toxic and trauma and manic and OCD and emotional attachment or anxious attachment or codependency or gaslighting in everyday normal conversation.。
And it's telling us that we live in a moment in history where mental health is more accepted than ever before.。
But, and this is big, we are nonetheless the most anxious, depressed, and lonely generation that has ever been recorded.。
Isn't that interesting?。
Now, is that telling us that therapy is bad?。
No, of course not.。
Correlation does not equal causation, not in every instance.。
It's not saying that therapy is bad, but it is telling us that therapy isn't enough.。
What we need to shape our perspective of reality is more than just worldly wisdom.。
We need God's truth.。
We need his word, which is what this entire series is about.。
Over the course of the next several weeks, we want to help bring your mental health into proper perspective.。
And to do it, we thought we would work through the book of Psalms.。
The reason why is the book of Psalms is the best teacher on how to feel all of your feelings and then bring those things to God.。
I don't know if you've read them before, but it is characteristically normal to look at the Psalms and see David is freaking out over something.。
And yet by the end of the Psalm, he is presenting his requests to God and he is changing at his inmost level.。
We think the Psalms will be informative for us as we engage this specific topic for that reason.。
You see, it teaches us to not stuff our feelings away, but to address our feelings with God's truth.。
And just to kick off the series, what seemed most plausible was for us to just start with that mental health disorder that is most common in our country.。
Depression.。
According to the American Psychological Association, depression is a negative affective state ranging from unhappiness and discontent to an extreme feeling of sadness, pessimism, and despondency that interferes with daily life.。
You see, that tells us something really important about depression.。
It tells us that there is a continuum that we need to consider where on one end you have general discouragement and on the other you have very personal despair.。
And the reason why it's important for us to consider that continuum is in a room this size with this many people, including all of those that are tuning in online or watching this later,。
we all can more than likely find ourselves, if not right now, at some point on the range of those possibilities.。
I know that was the case for me.。
I never thought in my own life that I would be depressed, and yet I found myself having lived through some specific hardships,。
being forced into a counselor's office, and kind of processing through all the circumstantial difficulties I had lived through.。
And as a result of that experience, I found out that I was situationally depressed.。
And it was paradigm shifting for me in that season.。
It changed things in a way where it gave some explanation to why I was the way I was, why I was thinking the way I was thinking, why I was feeling the way I was feeling.。
It helped me to understand, man, this makes sense, why I'm insecure about my job, or why I'm irritable in my marriage,。
or why I find myself indifferent about the things that I used to love to enjoy.。
I'm situationally depressed.。
And as I began to process that experience, I would talk to my counselor, who's a biblical counselor,。
and she would inform me that I needed to spend some time in the Psalms.。
And those Psalms, they minister to me in a deep way because this is what the Psalms are useful for.。
They're useful for explaining our emotion and bringing those things to God's truth and helping form us into new people.。
Psalm 42 was particularly helpful for me, which is why I want to look at it with you tonight as we talk about depression.。
So if you have a Bible, you can turn there with me.。
While you're doing that, I do think it's important to say at the outset of this series,。
every person struggling with mental health needs God's truth.。
But for some, your challenge is going to be more clinical or physiological than situational,。
meaning God absolutely may choose to heal you completely,。
but he may also use a combination of the Bible's counsel, God's truth, in pairing with medication in your life.。
You see, in this series, I, we are going to be speaking more specifically to situational cases.。
The reason why is I know my depth. I'm not a medical professional. I'm not a doctor.。
I don't intend to stand on the stage and act like I am one.。
And yet, nonetheless, whether you find yourself facing situational depression or clinical depression,。
what you have to know is God's word is vital.。
But if your situation is more severe, your mental health disorder is one where there is a prescription from a doctor.。
God's word can be a really useful partner to whatever has been prescribed.。
So with all that said, I just think that's important for us to know at the outset.。
Now let's get into it. The goal here is I want to help you understand a new perspective on depression.。
But before we can do that, we have to understand the problem of depression.。
So starting in verse one, this is what it says.。
As a deer pants for flowing streams, so pants my soul for you, O God.。
My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God?。
My tears, they've been my food day and night while they say to me all the day long, where is your God?。
So when dealing with depression and trying to understand the problem of it,。
the first thing you have to understand is that depression starves you of life.。
Depression starves you of life.。
That's what the psalmist means when he says that he is like a deer thirsting for water.。
Notice that he doesn't say as a deer searches for water, so my soul searches for you.。
That's not what he says. He says as a deer pants for water.。
Why does that matter? Because it tells us the state of that animal and thus the state of our psalmist.。
He is spiritually dehydrated. He has been deprived of life.。
He's at a spot where he's injected the psalm with some drama because he wants God to understand.。
I can't do this anymore. I'm at the end of my rope.。
It feels like I don't have what it takes. Time is running out.。
Please, God, where are you? He goes on and he says he needs not just a pool of water,。
but flowing streams of water. Isn't that interesting? Why flowing streams?。
Because a pool of water might satisfy him for a moment, but it's a limited resource.。
He'll drink to the bottom of it. A flowing stream has an endless supply of life.。
It is useful for today and tomorrow and forever. That's what he wants.。
He knows I don't want to be in this situation anymore.。
I have been deprived of life. I feel starved in my soul and God, give me what is needed。
so I never have to experience this again. Do you hear it in this passage?。
There is a starving quality to this guy's experience and there is a starving quality to depression too.。
Like it's persistent. I was thinking it's like a marathon that you run in the snow.。
It goes on for a really long time and the entirety of the race is miserable.。
It numbs you out. And so you wake up day after day after day and you just sense in yourself。
it's hard to get out of bed or the hobbies that you used to really enjoy.。
Like you've lost interest in those things. You used to love playing pickleball or going to run club。
or hiking through the woods and yet you don't do any of those things now。
because you just are generally pessimistic and that actually builds on。
because your whole attitude, your outlook on life has probably changed.。
You see in yourself where once you were lighthearted, you'd carry casual conversation,。
you'd crack a joke, hope it lands. Now instead you see in yourself just a negative disposition.。
One that seems to have a perspective of gloom and despair on the day.。
You see depression takes those things which once gave you life and it renders them lifeless.。
That's the way it works. It starves you of life. But it doesn't just do that.。
We got to keep understanding the problem and so as we read verse 2 it tells us a little bit more.。
It says, "When shall I come and appear before God? My tears have been my food day and night."。
"While they say to me all the day long, 'Where is your God?'"。
So the second thing you need to understand if you're trying to kind of get your mind wrapped around。
the problem of depression is that depression fills you with despair.。
Depression fills you with despair. Meaning it doesn't just take away from you what's good.。
It does that for sure but it also gives to you what is bad.。
It kind of be like a cookie jar set on a shelf that's been emptied of its cookies and filled instead with spiders.。
That's kind of what depression wants to do to you. It wants to empty out what's good and it wants to replace that with what's bad.。
That's why the psalmist he asks himself a question. He says, "When shall I come and appear before God?"。
That question is actually not a hopeless question.。
You see for him, "When shall I come and appear before God?" is not a matter of if but when.。
There's an expectation that though he feels far from God right now, God will return to him again.。
And yet as you keep reading, you realize that in verse 3, a secondary question is asked.。
It goes from "When" to "Where" and it's an alternative voice.。
It's not his but someone else and as the question of "Where is your God?" is posed to the psalmist,。
something altogether darker enters the scene.。
Let me explain it like this. If I were to ask you, "Hey, when are your friends showing up?"。
There's nothing offensive or moderately depressive about that question.。
The expectation behind it is they're on their way, right? Or they're coming at some point this evening.。
You have an expectation that they will arrive.。
But if I ask you, "Hey, where are your friends?"。
We move from an expectation that they'll come。
to a question about why they're not here already.。
Do you see that? It fills the psalmist with despair.。
That's how depression works. It wants to fill your mind with the belief that help isn't coming.。
There's no way out of this. I know you think a better day might arrive, but you're actually thinking wrong.。
It's fitting in this passage that it's a different voice in the psalmist who asks the second question。
because in our life it is often a voice of accusation,。
the voice of an enemy that wants you to buy into the belief that help will not come.。
When we choose to forgo the voice of truth and listen to the voice of condemnation,。
what happens is we experience in our spirituality some sort of spiral.。
We find ourselves indulging unhealthy behaviors. We feel down.。
You start drinking to try to cut the edge, cope with a long day.。
You feel down, so you find a sexual outlet, whether it's pornography or it's an old boyfriend or old girlfriend。
or it's masturbation or sexing. You find a sexual outlet just because you want to feel something that,。
man, it seems to be good, but in reality it's only wrong. Or you feel down, and so you binge.。
You binge shopping. You binge eating. You binge Netflix. You binge social media.。
You binge whatever it is that just helps you to get through today and arrive at tomorrow,。
which raises the question, "Why do we do this kind of stuff?。
Why do we find ourselves locked into a spiritual spiral?"。
Well, I ask people a similar question relatively often. I'll ask them, "Why do you sin?"。
Which always gets me an interesting response. Typically falls into one of two categories.。
One, people will look at me and be like, "Huh? Who do you think you are asking me something like that?"。
But the second question or the second response I'll often get is something that is super spiritual sounding.。
People will say something along the lines of, "Well, you see, I live in the already but not yet.。
Though sin has lost its power over me, sin still has a presence in my life."。
And they're not wrong. They're speaking truth, like Galatians 5:17 would say,。
"For the desires of the flesh are against the spirit. The desires of the spirit are against the flesh."。
They're opposed to each other to keep you from doing the things that you want to do.。
But here's the thing. When you consider, "Why do you sin?"。
Really what I'm trying to get at is, "What is your motivation for sinning?"。
And here's what I would say. And I'm pretty well convinced of this.。
I've done a lot of personal study on the topic.。
For those in Christ, and that's a really important distinction,。
for those that have placed their faith in Jesus, you sin because you're sad.。
And what I mean by that is this. Every one of us in life is seeking after satisfaction.。
That's what we want most. And what we know as believers in Christ is where satisfaction is found.。
And life to the full is found in God.。
And yet when we seem to fall short of the satisfaction we want in Him, what do we do?。
We seek satisfaction elsewhere, proving to the point that we are not satisfied.。
We are in fact sad. And it's our sadness, our lack of satisfaction,。
that drives us away from Him and into the arms of alternative love.。
And what we feel in that experience may be a quick hit,。
something that is fast in satisfaction, but it is not fulfilling.。
That's why the spiral perpetuates though.。
Because what we find ourselves is we just want a quick hit.。
We don't want something full.。
So many of us, we will find ourselves struggling in depressive tendencies。
whenever we continue to indulge our sin.。
Because what it does is it leads us not towards life, but further from life.。
It masquerades as being the very thing we want,。
but it never actually delivers on the promise.。
The last thing you got to know if we want to understand the problem is in verse 4.。
It says this, "These things I remember as I pour out my soul,。
how I would go with a throng and lead them in procession to the house of God。
with glad shouts and songs of praise, a multitude-keeping festival."。
The last thing you have to understand if you want to know the problem behind depression。
is depression isolates you from others.。
Depression isolates you from others.。
You can hear it in this verse.。
He says, "I used to go with the throng to the house of God."。
Now, you probably don't refer to your friend group as a throng.。
Maybe you refer to them as a squad or a group.。
But what he's saying is I used to go with my peers, my friends, my pals,。
to the house of God.。
And it's not just that he would go with them.。
He even says he used to lead them,。
which tells us something about the spiritual state of this guy.。
He was a leader in the church.。
He was someone that you would see in Bible study not sitting in the room。
but sitting at the front of the room,。
which in a roundabout way is kind of encouraging。
because what it tells us is that you're not spiritually inferior。
if you struggle with depression.。
It tells us instead that you may be spiritually isolated.。
This is exactly what happens to Elijah.。
Like what we see in his life after he faces the prophets of Baal。
is Jezebel threatens him.。
She's like, "Hey, I'm going to do to you what you did to them."。
And so he runs for his life,。
and he is isolated from all forms of community,。
and depression sets in.。
So that way, the threat he thought he faced。
is replaced by a completely different threat instead,。
the threat known as himself.。
1 Kings 19.4 says,。
"But he," talking about Elijah, "himself went a day's journey into the wilderness,。
and he came and he sat down under a broom tree,。
and he asked that he might die, saying, 'It's enough now.。
O Lord, take away my life, for I am no better than my fathers.'"。
You see, there is a real danger in isolation.。
So much so that it took a man like Elijah, a mighty prophet of God,。
and it provoked him to consider the unimaginable.。
It provoked him to consider ending it all.。
Some of you, you're here,。
and I just want to speak to you for a moment。
because you get this space.。
You know those thoughts because you have thought them.。
You've prayed that prayer because you're so very tired。
with how things are right now.。
You, yourself, you've thought about ending it all.。
If that's you, I want to ask you to do what Elijah did.。
I want to ask you to choose life.。
You see, Elijah believed what you need to believe,。
and God is in control, and he has a beautiful plan for your life.。
And there are people, there is a group of people here at the porch,。
if no one else is available that wants to walk with you。
through the valley of the shadow of death, and you need no ending,。
it all doesn't stop the pain, it just spreads it.。
Choose life. There is hope,。
which is what I want to turn our attention to right now。
because this is important.。
Depression may be your problem,。
but hope can be your perspective.。
You see, we want to lead you, by God's word,。
into a material change,。
one where what may have been true is no longer true.。
Instead, in your life, you've gained a new perspective。
in place of what was once an old problem.。
And as we read the rest of the Psalm, we're going to see how that happens.。
So let's keep going.。
If you want a new perspective, a perspective of hope,。
then look at verse 6.。
He says this, "My soul is cast down within me.。
Therefore, I remember you from the land of Jordan。
and of Hermon, from Mount Mazar, deep calls to deep,。
at the roar of your waterfalls, all your breakers and your waves,。
they've gone over me." So the first thing that you have to know。
if you want a perspective of hope is that hope admits when things are not okay.。
Hope admits when things are not okay.。
That's what the psalmist is saying here.。
He acknowledges that things are not okay.。
He says, "Hey, my soul is cast down within me.。
Therefore, I remember you."。
Do you see it? He feels his feelings and he brings them to God.。
He doesn't put on a strong face and act like everything's okay.。
He doesn't laugh to keep from crying.。
He doesn't pull himself up by his spiritual bootstraps。
because he's a good soldier in the Lord's army.。
That's not what he does.。
Instead, he just admits honestly how he's doing.。
And I love that it says he does so from the land of Jordan and Hermon,。
from Mount Mazar.。
You see, he's referencing that area of the land of Israel。
that was furthest from the house of God.。
Mount Hermon was the northernmost boundary marker。
for the nation of Israel when they came to conquer the land of Canaan.。
And so he's saying, "God, I am as far away from you as humanly possible,。
and yet I will still remember you.。
I will still seek you and believe the fact that you will come for me."。
What's the point of it?。
He knows, and we need to, that it's hard to be honest,。
but it doesn't matter how far off you feel.。
You need still be honest.。
Now, this is crazy because we do this with one another.。
People walk up and be like, "Hey, man, how you doing?"。
I'm doing great.。
And you're actually not doing great.。
You're kind of suffering. You're smothered.。
You're drowning in something.。
It's hard to be honest with one another.。
But here's the thing, and I want to speak to a different subset。
because I often think that while it is difficult to be honest with others,。
it's often more difficult to be honest with God.。
Why is that?。
Because we're too smart for our own good.。
I think we're too smart for our own good.。
Rather than admit to God how we're actually doing,。
what we often do is we prematurely apply the truths we know。
before we even finish praying the prayer we're trying to pray.。
It's kind of like autocorrect.。
I know in my phone, like when I first got it,。
I would type my name, Kyle, and K-Y-L-E-N,。
and every time it would autocorrect to Kyle,。
"That's not my name!"。
But the phone thought it was.。
It would autocorrect to what it assumed was right.。
And for many of you, your prayers, they function a lot like that.。
So rather than just admitting, like,。
"God, I don't know why this happened in my life,"。
you can't even get through the prayer。
before you start to register and autocorrect.。
Well, don't forget, though,。
God works all things according to the good of those who love him.。
You autocorrect your feelings with truth。
before you even express them to the Lord.。
Others, you'll say something like, "God, instead of processing,。
"I'm so lonely, I'm afraid that I'm going to be single。
"for the rest of my life."。
You'll autocorrect in the middle of your prayer。
to something along the lines of, "But don't forget,。
"you're not going to be alone for the rest of your life。
"because you have Christ and his church."。
Others of you, you'll be praying,。
"God, I care so much about what other people think of me."。
But before you can even get the full prayer out,。
you'll autocorrect to something along the lines of,。
"Do not forget, though, though you care what other people think of you,。
"you should care more what Christ thinks of you."。
You'll autocorrect to something along the lines of,。
"God, I care so much about what other people think of me.。
"I care more about what other people think of me."。
You'll autocorrect to something along the lines of,。
"God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care so much about what other people think of me.。
"I care more about what other people think of me."。
You'll autocorrect to something along the lines of,。
"God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
You'll autocorrect to something along the lines of,。
"God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
Others of you, you'll be praying, "God, I care more about what other people think of me."。
As I sat in Psalm 42 and God spoke to me out of His Word, it was my inner voice was so very loud.。
It was so very defeating, but it was only when Christ's voice by His Spirit through His truth began to speak。
that the defeating voice was defeated, that a victorious voice actually spoke instead, and it changed my life forever.。
I found hope in that place, not because of anything I had to offer, but because of everything that Jesus had to give.。
So if you're here, you need to know you have a reason to hope in God.。
That if you don't feel good enough, you don't need to stroke your ego to make yourself feel better, because the reality is,。
no one was good enough. All of us, like sinners, had gone astray.。
We were enemies of God, not His children. No one was good. No one was righteous. No, not one.。
And yet Christ, He stepped in and He became good on our behalf. He did what we could not.。
If it's, "I feel too far gone," then you don't need to coddle your emotions and tell yourself something wrong,。
tell yourself something untrue. You need to understand, yes, you were too far gone, for we all were too far gone.。
And yet no one was outside the reach of God's long stretched arm.。
For Christ would go as far as was necessary to save anyone that would place their faith in Him.。
For some of you, you feel like you're just a burden. Here's the thing.。
You don't have to fool yourself into feeling differently, because we all were a burden.。
No one had anything good to offer God. No one had any value to bring to the table.。
And yet Christ stepped into our story and He offered everything that we could not.。
This is the gospel. You may feel hopeless, for we all were hopeless.。
And yet for those that believe Jesus Christ is the Son of God, sent to save the world,。
for all who would place their faith in Him, then you can go from hopelessness to hope.。
You can move from depression into prosperity. You can believe, I can have life and have life eternally.。
Let me pray that you would believe that true for yourself tonight.。
Jesus, we know we have reason to hope, for in you we see one who has granted us salvation.。
I pray, God, please here tonight for these friends in this room,。
I'm asking you, would you work in a way that doesn't just change what we know?。
God, so many Christians are, they're content to just learn more, change what they understand.。
But God, we don't want to just change what we know. We want to be changed at who we are.。
We want to be different, God. And for my friends here tonight that are struggling with depression,。
and I don't know where on that range they fall, whether they see themselves as just generally sad,。
or if they find themselves truly despondent, God, I pray here tonight, would you liberate them?。
Would they, as we go into this final song, would they speak to their soul?。
Would they say, "Why are you so downcast?"。
Hope in God, for I have good reason to hope. Not because of anything I have to give,。
not because of anything that I've ever done, but because of all that Christ has given, and all that Jesus has done.。
I have reason to hope. I will not suppress my feelings. I will fill them in full.。
And yet I will bring all of that emotion to the cross, because it's there that everything can be changed.。
Please, God, do that now. There are some here that do not know you. Save them, please, God.。
There are some here who, as I'm praying, they're thinking about what's next.。
They're wanting to figure out the rest of their evening. They've already discounted this next song,。
but you, God, have not counted them out yet. You have something even still for them.。
There are others, God, that they feel like they're in an amazing spot tonight.。
And Lord, they get to rejoice at the fact that you, Jesus, have given them this situation.。
And yet they also can take heart, because they know, though the clouds are always moving,。
the sun above is always shining, my Jesus sits enthroned forever.。
God, we pray, meet with us here. We want to be more like you.。
And so would you do that in us, please, we pray, in Christ's name. Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
