(drum roll)。
- Hello, Porch!。
What's up?。
I like it, this is good.。
We got the crew that's gonna make it happen。
for the next several decades right here.。
And I know some of you guys。
may not be drinking Millard Light like JP,。
but something better,。
still hanging out in lower Greenville.。
(audience laughs)。
And you're thinking, if I'm your future, bro,。
you got some real problems, all right?。
I'm here for anything but to be your future tonight.。
But I'm gonna tell you, man, our hope and our prayer。
is that something's gonna hit you。
in the midst of looking around and seeing。
that some other people apparently have discovered a truth。
that maybe you haven't,。
that there's life somewhere other than the world。
tells you where you can find it.。
It might be tonight.。
We're praying that somewhere,。
as you interact with people in this room,。
that have been recipients of mercy like I have.。
I love that I have been asked to jump in。
and have a little bit to do with this great series。
called Battle of the Sexes.。
Man, we battle, don't we?。
We're very, very different.。
I just wanna just take a moment,。
because I know girls, I've got three little girls, right?。
And so I'm very, very engaged。
when it comes to thinking about。
how young men should treat young women,。
especially now that I'm not one of those young men。
that's gonna have to live underneath my laws。
of what is right.。
But I will tell you, men, if you understand。
about a law of love, about how to treat women,。
it's gonna change everything.。
And little girls, I'm telling you, young ladies,。
there is a Father in heaven,。
even if you don't have a heartily Father,。
that cares about how you're treated.。
And so as a public service announcement,。
what I wanna do is just explain something to gals。
as we get started,。
and I'm just gonna basically explain to you。
why guys never call back after a successful first date.。
(congregation laughing)。
All right?。
So let me just explain that.。
So today we are going to explore the mysterious topic。
of how guys think, which baffles women in general。
and the editors of Cosmopolitan magazine specifically。
for thousands of years.。
The big question, of course,。
is how come guys never call after successful dates?。
I mean, you single women out there。
know what I'm talking about.。
You go out with a guy, you have a great time,。
he seems to have a great time,。
and at the end of the evening, he says, quote,。
"Can I call you?"。
And you, interpreting this to mean, "Can I call you?"。
(congregation laughing)。
You answer and say, "Sure."。
Well, listen, the instant you say this, of course,。
the guy's body begins to dematerialize。
right there in front of you.。
Within a few seconds, you can stick a tire iron。
right through him and wave it around.。
In a few more seconds, he will have vanished entirely,。
gone into the mysterious guy-Bermuda Triangle。
where whole squadrons of your dates。
have disappeared over the years,。
never to be heard from again.。
Eventually, you start to wonder,。
is there something wrong with you?。
Some kind of emotional hangup that you have.。
This is silly.。
There's nothing wrong with you.。
In fact, you should interpret the behavior of your dates。
as a kind of a guy compliment to you。
because when a guy asks you if he can call you,。
what he's really asking you in guy code is,。
"Will you be willing to marry him?"。
(congregation laughing)。
Let me explain that.。
You see, your basic guy goes straight ahead,。
bottom line kind of thought process。
that does not really work as well。
with the infinitely subtle complexities。
of normal human relationships.。
So here's what the guy's thinking.。
If he calls you, you'll go out again。
and you'll probably have another great time,。
so you'll probably go out again and have another great time。
and so on until the only possible option will be。
that you will get married.。
This is classic guy logic.。
So when you say, "Sure," in your bright and cheery voice,。
you may think you're simply indicating。
your willingness to go out again,。
but as far as he is concerned,。
you're endorsing a lifetime commitment。
that he's quite frankly not ready to make。
after only one date.。
So he naturally decides he can never see you again。
at the risk.。
From that day forward, if he spots you in the street,。
he'll sprint in the opposite direction。
to avoid the grave risk that you might actually talk,。
which means you might actually have a good time,。
get a cup of coffee again,。
and start the whole process over。
where you're enjoying each other's company。
and then suddenly out of nowhere,。
JP will appear at your table and you'll get married.。
Now you might think this is crazy, right?。
Well, you guys are probably out there going,。
"That's exactly right."。
So my advice for single gals here tonight is this.。
If you're on a date with a guy and you like him。
and he asks you in a non-threatening way,。
can I give you a call again?。
Respond with a, "No."。
Or a rather disinterested, "I guess,。
"but bear in mind I am planning on becoming a nun."。
See, this will make him comfortable about seeing you again.。
And each time he'll get more courage。
to more closely approach you in a manner of a timid,。
maybe easily scared woodland creature like a chipmunk.。
And in a few years, if the two of you have a common interest。
and common personalities, you might reach the point。
where he'll be willing to take a big step。
like eating granola out of your hand。
or something like a chipmunk.。
So no matter how close you become, remember this.。
Do not pressure the guy to face。
his innermost sense of thoughts and feelings with you.。
Guys hate this and I'll tell you why.。
'Cause if you were to probe inside a guy's psyche,。
beneath that macho exterior and the endless dronings。
about things like the 2011 World Series,。
you would find down deep inside in his passion little heart,。
he has a deep felt interest in the 2011 World Series.。
[congregation laughing]。
So girls, you just need to understand.。
That's why you're not getting a call back.。
I've kept this, you guys might have heard this before.。
This one, this makes me laugh, you know,。
because it's continuing education courses for women.。
Written by obviously some bitter guy,。
but nonetheless, here they are.。
Here's a class for you.。
It's called Silence, The Final Frontier,。
Where No Woman Has Ever Gone Before.。
[congregation laughing]。
How's this one?。
It's called The Undiscovered Side of Banking,。
Making Deposits, it's a class for women.。
Here's one, Parties, How to Go Without a New Outfit.。
It's a class a lot of gals maybe need, all right?。
Here's a class, Man Management,。
Discover How Minor Household Chores Can Wait。
Until After the Game Is Over.。
That's for future reference.。
There are many.。
Later when you're married, you'll be one,。
the guy wants you to take a class called Cooking 101,。
Bringing Back Bacon, Eggs, and Butter, Cooking 102,。
Bran and Tofu Are Not for Human Consumption,。
and Cooking 103, How Not to Inflict Your Diets。
on Other People.。
[congregation laughing]。
I love that.。
So here's one, the girls responded, right?。
Well, here's some basic classes for men。
that men need to take, right, in continuing education.。
Introduction to Common Household Objects, number one,。
the mop.。
[congregation laughing]。
Introduction to Common Household Objects 102, the sponge.。
Refrigerator Forensics, Identifying and Removing the Dead.。
[congregation laughing]。
That's a good one.。
Here's one, Design Pattern or Splatter Stain。
on the Linoleum.。
You can tell the difference.。
[congregation laughing]。
Accepting Loss 101, if it's empty, you can throw it away.。
Accepting Loss 102, if the milk expired three weeks ago,。
keeping it in the refrigerator won't bring it back.。
Get it out of there.。
[congregation laughing]。
Knowing the Limitations of Your Kitchenware.。
No, the dishes won't wash themselves,。
and it goes on and on.。
If you're around the opposite sex very much,。
you'll learn that there is some unique differences about us,。
and they're not just in those kind of silly things。
that I'm reading right there.。
Now, I'll take you all the way back。
to a guy that when God was so pleased with this guy,。
said, "I'll give you anything that you want.。
"You just name it.。
"Give me anything you want."。
He asked that God would give him wisdom.。
And God was so pleased with that, he gave him wisdom.。
He blessed him with a lot of other things,。
but as this guy went on throughout his life,。
writing down the things that he learned,。
at the very end of his life,。
as he's jotting down different things that he's learned,。
I want you to watch what he wrote down。
in Proverbs chapter 30.。
This is what the guy says.。
The wisest man that ever lived.。
Proverbs 30, verses 18 through 19.。
It says, "There are three things which I do not understand,。
"four of which are too wonderful for me."。
Number one, he says, "The way of an eagle in the sky."。
He didn't understand how an eagle could fly.。
Number two, "The way of a serpent on a rock."。
This thing's got no legs and then he moves powerfully.。
Number three, it just says, "The way of a ship。
"in the middle of a sea."。
And number four, he says, "The way of a man with a maid."。
I just can't figure out the whole guy-girl thing.。
This is the wisest guy that ever lived.。
And so, as we find ourselves here in our 20s, 30s,。
I don't know, you might be going,。
"Hey, I'm trying to figure this thing out,。
"this little battle, this little relationship thing。
"that we're moving into and I can't quite make it."。
Let me just tell you something,。
God doesn't want this mystery to be out there forever.。
He created us different for a very specific reason.。
I'm gonna explain to you why God made us different tonight.。
I'm gonna explain to you why God wants us to take。
our commitment to each other, specifically in the context。
of a covenant relationship, extremely serious.。
Let me just tell you this, man, God loves marriage.。
God loves you.。
And he wants you to know that you'll never have。
a healthy marriage until you go into that marriage。
as a healthy person.。
Any relationship is only as healthy。
as the least healthy person in it.。
And the problem is, is that most people go into marriage。
thinking that this other person is gonna meet their needs.。
And what you're gonna find out very quickly。
is there is no person on earth that can ever give you。
what you need and what you're looking for.。
That is why as a dad, when I started shepherding。
my little girls, I did this with my guys,。
I said, okay, the Bible says this, it tells me。
in 1 Corinthians 16, 13 and 14, it says, man,。
be on the alert, stand firm in the faith, act like men.。
Be strong, let everything you do be done in love.。
I have three boys, so I'm supposed to raise。
these three boys to learn how to act like men.。
And if you wanna just bring silence into a room of men,。
you just say, hey man, define what a man is.。
And what you'll find is guys will immediately run。
to some macho expression that they've picked up。
from some action movie or from some fleeting whisper。
in culture that doesn't really match what a real godly man。
is supposed to look like.。
Or you'll find out that guys are been so beaten down。
that maleness and manhood is not anything worth honoring。
and pursuing that you'll find emasculated men.。
And so, not to be crass, but what you basically find。
with guys that are not informed by a God who designed them。
to be loving and strong, tender warriors,。
you'll find guys that either wanna be badasses。
or scared to death they're gonna be a bad boy.。
And neither of those things is what God says。
a man should be.。
And so I just sat down and said, hey boys,。
this is what it means to be a man,。
and I've written down definitions for them.。
For my young ladies, I said this is what it means。
to be a godly woman, I want you to know.。
And the very first thing I told my little girls。
as a principle for them to understand what it means。
to be a godly woman, and both of these things,。
by the way, are available if you're curious。
at wordsfromwags.com.。
I just threw them on there.。
All the verses that go with each one of them,。
you can go there, there's all kinds of little hyperlinks。
you can click and just see and read those verses。
and understand why I've chosen them。
if you're curious about this stuff.。
But let me just tell you this,。
the number one thing I told my little girls。
is don't you ever buy the lie that anyone or anything。
other than Jesus Christ, who is a perfect,。
loving, tender warrior, can satisfy you.。
Don't you dare buy the lie that your worth。
is gonna come from some guy, from some man,。
'cause you'll never get your value from man.。
God gives you your value by saying you're my daughter.。
I tell my little girls all the time,。
and you are our treasure, and treasures don't do the hunting.。
You don't need to advertise, flaunt, flirt,。
give yourself away, compromise, you are a treasure.。
And that is why still to this day,。
you wanna know something?。
To this day, I've got girls in college,。
and when a guy wants to take them simply to a dance,。
they call me.。
And you might go, are you kidding me, man?。
What kind of control freak are you?。
I'm not a control freak.。
I just want those guys to know that little girl matters.。
Every little girl matters.。
And you need to know that one,。
someone's paying attention to that one.。
And so you might just be wanting to take her out。
for an evening, but I'm gonna tell you something.。
I've been taking her out for 18, 20 years,。
and I'll continue to court her, honor her,。
love her, protect her, value her,。
until some other man steps up and say, I got it from here,。
in the same way that you did it, dad,。
with a tremendous sense of responsibility and stewardship,。
focusing on her interest and not yours.。
I got it from here, man.。
I'm gonna love her, cherish her, and honor her,。
serve her in every way that a man should.。
And until that time, they call me, man.。
And they go, hey, I, you know,。
they go to my little girl, and they'll just ask her。
right now, they'll say, hey man, can you,。
you wanna do something with me?。
And they'll say, hey, you know what?。
I'd love to talk to you about that,。
but before you do, you gotta call my dad.。
And by the way, this word gets out pretty quickly,。
that that's what's gonna have to happen.。
And I've had amazing conversations.。
I don't grill guys, I don't put 'em through some big test.。
I just share with them why I do this.。
And I let 'em know what's gonna, you know,。
happen with them that night when they're。
with my little girl.。
And why I expect them to treat her a certain way。
and to leave her in better shape than they found her.。
That's just to hang out for a night.。
My older one,。
my older one had one about a year and a half ago come。
and just say, hey, I don't wanna just hang out。
with your girl for a night, I'd like to intentionally。
begin to pursue her, and that entered into。
a whole different level of conversation.。
(congregation laughing)。
And appropriately so.。
And you know, man, it's been awesome.。
It has been awesome.。
I'll tell you one quick story about Allie。
that's worth you knowing.。
When Allie first got to Oklahoma State University,。
she went to a little party that her sorority。
and one of the fraternities there on campus,。
that was called a stoplight party.。
You ever been to one of those?。
Okay, a stoplight party, I'd never heard of one either.。
But a stoplight party is where everybody。
either wears green, which means I'm here, baby,。
and I'm ready to go, all right?。
Yellow is it's complicated, and red is I'm committed,。
you know, and so I'm not really here。
to really mingle and mix.。
And so when you show up, what they do is they break you up。
into three different rooms, you know,。
the people that are available and free.。
You guys might go, hey, I like this.。
Where's the green section at the porch?。
I'm looking for it.。
(congregation laughing)。
All right?。
St. Patrick's Day every day, right?。
So green goes one place, yellow goes another,。
and red goes in the other room.。
They can just hang out and talk。
'cause they know everybody here。
has already got something going on.。
And so Allie says, hey, Dad, you know what I did?。
You wanna know what I wore?。
I go, sure.。
She goes, I wore white.。
She goes, 'cause I'm not defined。
by my relationship with a guy.。
And she said, I showed up.。
I go, well, what rooms you go to?。
She goes, I went into all of them.。
I had the best time.。
I'll hang out with the green people for a while.。
And every one of them wanna talk to me.。
Why are you wearing white?。
And she looked them in the eye.。
She goes, because in relationships,。
one day I'll have one, but that's not my thing.。
That's not how I'm defined, man.。
How about you?。
Have a good day.。
She walked to the yellow room.。
Had great conversations.。
Hey, it shouldn't be complicated, man.。
It should be really easy.。
You're valuable.。
You don't need each other to validate one another.。
She moved into the red room.。
All right?。
She said, everybody said,。
if I ever go to another one of these things,。
I am wearing white.。
That's what they all told her.。
And here's the deal, gang.。
Wouldn't it be, and Allie got that。
because from the time she was little,。
I kept telling her,。
you're not gonna be defined by another person.。
You're gonna be defined by your value as a person.。
You're so valuable that God。
wouldn't redeem you from your lostness.。
Wouldn't you love to have a father that told you that?。
That didn't leave you。
vulnerable,。
longing for somebody who could protect you。
and care for you,。
and then when some guy showed up。
and said he cared for you and valued you。
and honored you and gave you some affection,。
you let him give you all kinds of affection。
'cause he told you that's what you would do。
if you loved him?。
And you go, that didn't feel like a father's love.。
That felt very selfish。
and makes me feel very insecure。
and I don't feel like a treasure.。
I feel trashed.。
Man, God doesn't want you to feel that way.。
See, you matter a lot to God.。
This whole thing matters a lot to God.。
Marriage is a big deal to God.。
It's the foundation and the strength of our culture.。
God intended for you to be raised。
by a mom and a dad like that。
that taught you what it was to be a man,。
that taught you what it was to be a little girl,。
to protect you and honor you and value you。
and to teach you how to protect, honor, and value others.。
That loved and modeled commitment and tenderness。
and oneness with each other。
and you grew up and you were secure.。
You know, you maybe have heard this in the Bible.。
The Bible says God hates divorce.。
You ever heard that?。
Well, some of you guys。
that are children of divorce households,。
you might go, well, you know, the Bible says God is love。
and if God is love, he better hate divorce。
'cause I'm gonna tell you what divorce did to me,。
how it left me scared and vulnerable,。
insecure, bitter, angry, alone.。
Can I encourage you with something, man,。
for some of you in this room?。
The Bible never says God hates divorcees.。
The Bible never says God hates sinners.。
The Bible says God demonstrates his love for sinners。
and for little girls that let themselves be treated。
like a sexual object because he loves them。
and wants to redeem them from that kind of abuse。
and misinformation.。
And he's not even angry at guys。
that abuse those little girls.。
He's just like, hey, man, all that looking for love。
and all that trying to establish your strength。
and significance by doing that,。
it's not making you real happy.。
In fact, it leaves a series。
of destructive relationships around.。
I'm not mad at you, I'm just really sorry for you.。
And by the way, there's gonna be a consequence。
that's even bigger than that emptiness。
in your heart that's coming.。
It's gonna be a real emptiness。
and a real separation from what is good eventually。
if you don't deal with it.。
God loves every single person in this room.。
I don't care what you've been through.。
And tonight, what I wanna just share with you。
is what God intended marriage to be.。
And I'm gonna show you a metaphor in the midst of marriage。
that really does relate to every single one of us.。
And we have to do it really quickly.。
But I want you to see why marriage is a big deal to God。
and so why you oughta to right now。
start preparing yourself for it.。
And when you get into it, you oughta understand。
why it's more than just some agreement。
you make for a little while.。
It reminds me of a cartoon I saw one time。
of a couple that was there and the guy。
was just sweating profusely.。
He goes, "Man, what are you so nervous about?"。
And he goes, "I'm getting married."。
And the guy goes, "Well, man, I understand.。
"Seven or eight years can be a really long time."。
And you know, man, it kinda comes down to that now。
where we start to look at any relationship。
like I'm in this thing as long as it works for me.。
See, that's what needy people do.。
That is why the way, man, we're not here。
to talk about sex tonight, but one of the,。
let me just tell you, man, sex will keep you。
in a bad relationship long past its time。
and it also will drive you out of a relationship。
that could've been good and life-giving to you。
before you needed to be driven out.。
When you find people that really understand。
what love is, love gives.。
Love can't wait to give.。
It's lust that's constantly wanting to get.。
And you find somebody that all they wanna do。
is get, get, get from you and get after it with you,。
I'm gonna tell you, that person,。
no matter what they're whispering in your ear,。
let me just tell you, they are not driven by love.。
Okay, because love can't wait to give,。
not themself in pleasure, but themself。
in surrender and death.。
If you define love by anything less than a cross,。
you have cheapened love to something。
God never intended it to be.。
When the Bible describes love,。
it doesn't have anything to do with emotion.。
It is patient, it is kind, it is not proud,。
it is not arrogant, it doesn't boast,。
it does not act unrighteously,。
it does not act unbecomingly,。
it doesn't seek its own, it's not provoked,。
it does not take into account a wrong suffered.。
It bears all things, believes all things,。
hopes all things, it endures all things,。
it never fails.。
That's the love you want anyway, isn't it?。
But some of you guys are just, you know,。
you go, man, love is that feeling I feel。
when I feel like I've never felt before.。
No, it's not.。
Man, love is when I can't wait to give myself。
and get from that person.。
No, that's lust.。
And so many people go into a marriage relationship。
and what they're wanting to get。
is a sense of worth and value and fun.。
And man, marriage is work because it's two people。
who are distinct in person,。
who are working to become one in essence.。
And that means there has to be a constant surrender to self.。
I'm gonna give you an amazing image of that tonight.。
And we should tell you what happens。
when you have a marriage the way God intends.。
Some of you were blessed to grow up。
in a marriage like that, in a home like that.。
And it's a tremendous gift of grace.。
Some of you guys have gotta learn。
what that really looks like 'cause you've never seen it.。
God's gotta re-parent you big time.。
And he wants to.。
And I hope tonight's a little bit of that.。
This is what God said marriage is all about.。
Marriage, biblically, has really five big purposes.。
I'm gonna move rather quickly through these.。
But the first one is to mirror his image.。
See, the person of God is very complicated.。
The word trinity, you guys do know,。
never shows up in the scripture.。
You might hear that we are what we call Trinitarians.。
And people go, "Well, what's that mean?"。
It means basically that we are describing。
using a word that's not in your Bible。
what God has described himself to be like。
in multiple places throughout the scripture.。
The Bible says God is one.。
But it also reveals God in the person。
of the Father and the Son and the Spirit.。
We don't believe there are three gods who are one God.。
That's a contradiction.。
We believe there is one God who is revealed in three persons。
and there's all kinds of analogies。
that people try and use to explain the trinity to you.。
And the most famous one is water.。
And so what they'll say is like,。
you know, God's kind of like H2O,。
two parts hydrogen, one part oxygen.。
And depending on what's going on,。
he's either a liquid, a solid, or a gas.。
And he kind of morphs with the environment。
and what he needs to do.。
And so there was a time when he walked on earth。
and he needed to kind of morph into a solid.。
And so we beheld the solid.。
And we called the sun solid.。
Bro, you solid, we love you.。
You died for us, that's solid.。
But that's not consistent with what the scriptures teach.。
Okay?。
We don't believe in what's called modalism,。
where God just shifts his mode.。
That's the problem with that analogy.。
There's all kinds of different analogies。
to explain the trinity.。
But can I tell you something?。
The Bible only gives us one that he says really explains it.。
And it's a mystery.。
And it's when two very distinct person, this is key,。
who are equal in value and dignity,。
and who in this case are both sempternal.。
Meaning from some point, they came into being。
and they exist forever.。
That's every man and every woman that ever existed.。
God is not sempternal, he is eternal.。
He always was and always will be.。
And God said that he has always existed forever。
as Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.。
And companionship and completion and love。
have eternally existed in the character and nature of God.。
They're not human inventions.。
They're not the highest metaphysical ideas of men.。
They've been eternally there.。
And what God says, you wanna really see the mystery。
of what I'm like?。
It's when you've got two persons。
who are equal in dignity and essence.。
Choose to give themselves to one another,。
not because it's easy, not because they feel like it,。
not because they get pleasure from it,。
but because they are going to say,。
we are going to love each other.。
And the two shall become one.。
You know, the old joke is that most couples,。
when they get married, they spend the first five years。
fighting over which one they're going to become.。
And that's not the picture.。
The picture is that there's something really beautiful。
about JP and Monica, about Todd and Alex,。
as we live in mutual subjection, remember that.。
Mutual subjection.。
So marriage mirrors God's image.。
When it's done the way God says it should be done.。
There is no way to mirror God's image。
unless you are walking with the Lord。
and have been redeemed from the Lord。
to walk in the way that our relationships walk.。
By the way, what was the very first casualty of the fall?。
It was that these two people that lived。
in relationship with God,。
therefore they were at peace with one another.。
And the very second that they chose。
to find and find life apart from God,。
immediately it was a blame game.。
You're not like me.。
I'm embarrassed in front of you.。
Why'd this happen?。
It's your fault.。
No, it's your fault.。
And they hid from God and they hid from each other.。
The very first casualty of sin was relationship.。
Relationship with God and relationship with one another.。
Now I'm gonna show you, remember this.。
In Genesis one and two,。
I'm gonna show you in just a second。
what God said the order of creation was.。
And it was beautiful and it was without conflict.。
And we mirrored his image.。
Two people together who were one。
had distinct and specific roles,。
but lived in mutual exaltation, admiration,。
and subjection to one another.。
The son says, "The Father is greater than I."。
The father says to the son,。
"This is my beloved son in whom I'm well pleased.。
"Listen to him."。
The spirit says, "I live to exalt the son."。
The son says, "I don't do anything。
"that's not the will of the father."。
The father says, "The son is the one。
"with the name above all names."。
It is a mutual admiration society.。
It's not one trying to get the other to serve him.。
They're both saying, "I'm all about you."。
And in a marriage, when we yield to Christ,。
and that's what happens in our heart as we're regenerate,。
it becomes a really beautiful thing.。
I'm gonna show you a picture of this.。
It's gonna blow you away in a minute.。
It mirrors God's image like nothing else.。
There's no other metaphor or analogy out there.。
Secondly, in Genesis 1, 28, it multiplies.。
Marriage was the means that God gave us。
to multiply a godly heritage.。
God blessed them.。
God said to them, "Be fruitful and multiply."。
In other words, when he gave this command,。
it was a man who walked with God,。
a woman who walked with God, who loved one another,。
and he said, "You raise others to know me。
"and the goodness of my will and way."。
And they will follow you as you follow me.。
Now, by the way, just like good seed brings forth good fruit。
when Adam and Eve rebelled against God,。
guess which kind of fruit they brought forth?。
Other little rebels.。
That's always the law of creation,。
that creatures produce after their kind.。
And ever since that moment, there's been nothing。
but fallen humanity which comes forward.。
All of us are imperfect.。
All of us are in need of redemption.。
And God offers redemption to all of us.。
And I'm gonna show you what happens。
when you receive that redemption.。
But we were to mirror his image.。
We were to multiply, and then we were to manage.。
Watch this, it also says, "And let them rule。
"over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the sky。
"and over the cattle of the fields.。
"And over every other creeping thing。
"in the face of the earth."。
They were to rule together.。
They were to manage the world.。
They weren't supposed to let the world manage them.。
Together, husband and wife, male and female,。
with all their complexity and differences and components.。
Guys with their ability to kind of segment。
and guys with their individual strength。
and guys with all the ways that he made them had a role.。
And in concert with women who were tender,。
much more complex, much more in tune,。
who can't wall things off,。
who speak clearly and lovingly to their husband,。
with all the input in the world,。
as the husband confidently listens to them。
because he understands that he needs that girl.。
I'm gonna show you how he knows that.。
See, marriage is God's means to mirror to the world。
his image that he is desperate to know。
who he is, what he's like, and why they should love him.。
It is his means through which the world。
will be multiplied with others that can enjoy him forever.。
It is his means through which the world can be ruled。
and managed in a way that reflects his honor and glory.。
And marriage, in Genesis 2:18,。
when God retells the creation story。
by focusing on the pinnacle of this creation,。
which is man and woman, is when he says,。
hey, it's not good for man to be alone.。
He shows Adam that.。
Before he allowed Adam to have the woman,。
he showed the man, you aren't perfect yet.。
God said it was good, it was good, it was good.。
And when he completed and finished creation。
by bringing the fullness of the revelation。
of what he decided to do through humanity。
into that with woman and man,。
that's when he said it is very good.。
What he did with Adam is he had Adam。
of all the animals of the earth parade before him,。
and he saw for every Mr. Hippo there was a Mrs. Hippo,。
every Mr. Kangaroo there was a Mrs. Kangaroo.。
And he goes, there's no Mrs. Adam for Adam.。
And so God said to him, I'm gonna put you to sleep,。
and from the flesh of your flesh and bone of your bone,。
I'm gonna bring forth the woman that you need,。
and it's not good for you to be alone.。
You need one another.。
There's a mutual completion that happens in marriage.。
Let me just tell you, when you get into marriage,。
you'll find out that we both, as I said in the beginning,。
we're two persons, very distinct,。
equal in dignity and honor,。
but we have different strengths,。
and we have different roles.。
Many guys go, my role is to lead the wife.。
The wife's job is to be subject to the husband.。
By the way, guys, do you know this?。
The Bible never tells the man to lead his wife.。
The Bible tells the man to love his wife.。
By the way, women, you are not called to submit to men.。
You are called one day when you find a man。
who follows Christ and loves as Christ has loved。
because he's been loved by Christ,。
to covenant with that man as he promises。
to give himself to you the way Christ gave himself。
for the church, and to that one man you submit.。
What kind of man, a man that does nothing。
from selfishness or empty conceit。
but with humility of mind considers you。
as more important than himself,。
and would never tell you what to do for him。
because he's gonna love you the way Christ loves the church?。
Man, you find a guy like that,。
you find a God that dies to redeem you,。
and I'm like, what wouldn't I do for that God?。
I'm not trying to earn his love,。
I'm just trying to respond to it.。
Every woman dreams of giving herself wildly。
and recklessly to a man who wildly, recklessly surrenders。
to cherish and honor, celebrate and sanctify her.。
Right, ladies?。
That's what you're dreaming of.。
That's why every fairy tale has this noble guy。
who risks his life to rescue you.。
See, you don't need to be rescued, you're already rescued.。
But what he should do is model the great rescuer's love.。
Ladies, don't you dare, don't you dare marry a guy。
who doesn't understand what love looks like.。
Love can't wait to give.。
Those guys that tell you they love you。
and all they're doing is getting, they're lying.。
They're lying.。
Marriage is God's way to mirror his image to a world。
that he's desperate to reveal himself to.。
It's his way to multiply godly heritage。
through which one day evil would be defeated.。
It's his way to manage and rule the world。
in a way that would speak of his complexity and glory.。
It is his way to mutually complete。
his most cherished creation, and watch this.。
This is the one I wanna spend a little bit more time on.。
It's his way to model to the world his infinite love.。
And so when you get to Ephesians chapter five,。
what you see right here is God starting to really speak。
about this metaphor of marriage.。
And what I love about this is I'm gonna show you tonight,。
as you one of what really makes a relationship work,。
what really makes a relationship work。
is when the stronger one loves and serves the weaker.。
When the stronger one gives their life for the weaker。
and doesn't use their strength emotionally and physically。
to lord it over the weaker.。
This is what the scripture says in Ephesians chapter five.。
The M I'd give you for this is just simply to model.。
It says, we'll start right there in verse,。
let's start in 18.。
'Cause verse 18 says, "Don't get drunk with wine,。
"for that is dissipation, but be filled with the Spirit."。
This is talking to people that have already come。
to understand what it means to know about the goodness。
and the greatness of God.。
And it's saying that God that you acknowledge。
is good and great, yield to him, follow him.。
Now that you have the Spirit of truth in you,。
and this is the Spirit of truth, that God is good。
and that he loves you and he's not trying to rip you off。
and keeping you from fun and party.。
God's trying to lead you to where the party is.。
He is the party.。
Read your Bible.。
Your Bible doesn't say that God is a rule monger。
that's trying to slap your hands。
every time you reach for something sweet.。
The Bible says, "In his presence is fullness of joy,。
"and in his right hand is pleasures forever."。
Get that little small-minded, deceitful lie。
out of your mind that God is here to rip you off.。
It is why you keep looking to a liar。
who tells you that you can find life。
where there is no life at all.。
There is emptiness.。
And he tells you you are so treasured。
you can be your own king.。
What he doesn't tell you is you are in no condition。
to be a king, because you are broken.。
And you follow a spirit of error in a world of error.。
And there's a God who's over there whispering,。
here's a spirit of truth,。
and there's a kingdom that is perfect.。
Come, come here.。
And so what this verse is basically saying,。
when you come to know that God,。
the spirit of rebellion, the spirit of deceit,。
the spirit of error, is now replaced。
with a spirit of truth, that God is freely given。
to all of us who know him and love him.。
We see him for who he is,。
and we're not running away from him anymore,。
but we're finally saying, man, if it's true。
that you are God and you died for me,。
then what else wouldn't you do for me?。
Is that good thinking?。
Isn't that good thinking?。
What if I told you this was the story?。
God was there, he created you, he put you in paradise.。
You thought you could do better than him.。
You flipped him off, scoffed at him,。
and you suffered for it, and that paradise。
became a place of destruction and insecurity.。
And God should have killed you right then,。
but he didn't kill you.。
He brought forth an atoning sacrifice。
that anticipated the one day that he himself would come。
and be a perfect eternal sacrifice to atone。
for the perfect eternal debt you had。
before a perfect eternal God.。
What if I told you that story,。
and I could show you it was true?。
And what if I told you that God doesn't want you。
to earn his love, but just receive it?。
And he tells you to come here,。
and all you gotta do is acknowledge。
this little paradise you're trying to create。
is not a paradise.。
It's a place of loneliness and unwanted pregnancy,。
and sexually transmitted diseases, and insecurity.。
And he's just saying, I'm not mad at you.。
You're just reaping what you're sowing.。
I'd love you to come out.。
I'd love to touch you and make you whole。
and beautiful again.。
And so he says, quit following that Arab deceit.。
What he's saying is, look, sometimes when you drink wine,。
that's why they're called spirit shops,。
you drink wine, you become less than the person。
you should be.。
When you don't walk in the spirit of truth,。
you become less than the person you should be.。
That's why what it's saying right here。
is not you're empty, you need something else,。
but it's saying, having come to understand。
that God is good, let that truth control you.。
And so when you think of being filled with something,。
it's not something empty, getting something poured in,。
it can mean that, but it also means control, right?。
Man, that dude's filled with lust, that's why he does it.。
That dude's filled with road rage,。
that's why he just shot that guy.。
That guy's filled with insecurity,。
that's why he always acts that way.。
That's the way the words use right here.。
Be filled with the spirit.。
Be continually controlled by the spirit of God.。
Now watch what happens when you do that.。
It changes your tongue.。
You speak to one another differently.。
It changes your attitude towards God.。
You're no longer bitter and wanting more.。
You know what he's done for you,。
and all you do is thank him, because even the trouble,。
he says he's gonna work out.。
He said, "Don't be surprised by the trouble.。
"That's 'cause you live in a world。
"that I've not completely redeemed yet,。
"although there are redeemed ones living in it."。
That's why some of you guys come here。
and you live hell as his life,。
but every time you leave, you go,。
there was something sweet about that place tonight.。
It's because there's some people here。
that are reminding you of something that's so wonderful,。
and you still don't have the faith to believe it's true.。
And then the third thing that happens is, watch this.。
This is so important.。
It's in verse 21.。
People that are filled with the spirit。
are subject to one another in love.。
Everybody forgets that verse.。
They go right to verse 22, and they freak out.。
But remember, what is marriage?。
It mirrors the Trinity.。
The Father is subject to the Son.。
The Son is subject to the Father.。
The Spirit is subject to the Son.。
The Son is subject to the Spirit.。
It says now, "Wives, to these men。
"that are redeemed by this God and this God of grace。
"who loves you and is gonna love you。
"in a way I'm about to teach you,。
"be subject to that guy.。
"Let him do what I created him to do.。
"You do what I created you to do.。
"Wives, be subject to your own husbands."。
It doesn't say women, be subject to men.。
It says, "Wives, be subject to your godly husband."。
"As to the Lord, for the husband is the head of the wife,。
"as Christ also is the head of the church,。
"he himself being also the savior of the body."。
Watch this, "But as the church is subject to Christ,。
"so also the wives ought to be subject。
"to the husband in everything."。
Now I'm gonna remind you of something in just a second.。
Watch this.。
Now it says this to the guys.。
"Husbands, love your wives just as Christ。
"also loved the church and gave himself up for her."。
So here's what I wanna do.。
I'm gonna take this to the moment.。
I'm gonna show you the husband's job description。
and the wife's job description.。
And I'm gonna give you a little compassion。
for each other as you battle.。
All right, when you get married,。
it's not gonna be easy because even though。
I've been redeemed by the blood of Christ,。
I still am not sanctified completely yet.。
I'm learning his ways and there are times。
I'm not filled with the spirit, I'm filled with Todd,。
and so I act in an unloving, abusive way towards my wife.。
And it's never sweet and there's never oneness。
when I do that, it's just like the garden.。
It's your fault, no, it's your fault.。
And we turn into two junior high kids.。
And it's just pitiful.。
(congregation laughing)。
But watch this, this is the husband's job description.。
We'll just kinda rip 'em off.。
The husband's job is to love Christ,。
and love the wife as Christ loved the church.。
That means he is to love unconditionally.。
Not just unconditionally, but constantly.。
Not just constantly, but completely.。
And not just a little bit, but sacrificially,。
even to the point of death, which is completely selfless.。
There's that, the point of the death thing.。
Endlessly, eternally, constantly initiating.。
Not waiting for the wife to come to her senses,。
but while she is still stuck in whatever it is。
that she's stuck in, to initiate love and grace with her.。
With great patience that's tender, unshakable,。
and we're to do all of that like Christ did,。
at which is to say, perfectly.。
Look at that job description.。
That is how Todd Wagner's supposed to love Alex Wagner.。
Y'all think that's easy?。
There's no chance in the world I have got。
to love anybody that way unless Christ。
is informing my entire life.。
All the time.。
And I am being filled with the spirit.。
Now watch, real quickly, we'll come back to that。
in a moment, let me show you the wife's job description.。
The wife is to be subject to the husband。
as the church is to be subject to Christ.。
So how is the church to be subject to Christ?。
How is the wife to relate to this husband。
who loves her that way?。
They're to be responsive, respectful, obedient,。
submissive, there's that word, humble,。
enduring, fully committed, and devoted.。
I could give you more words, but there basically。
is the job description of a woman in the context。
of a relationship with a man that has been redeemed.。
This is how the redeemed get along.。
And so let me just remind you, take a good look。
at these two job descriptions right there.。
And I want you to just have a little bit。
of compassion for each other.。
Hey, gals, it is not easy。
to have to try and love you the way Christ loves you.。
And we're gonna need mercy, and we're gonna need grace,。
and we're gonna need your patience and forgiveness.。
But I mean, honestly, look at those two.。
What's harder, to respond, be respectful,。
obedient, submissive, humble, enduring, full, and devoted,。
or to love unconditionally, constantly, completely,。
sacrificially, selflessly, to the point of death,。
endlessly, eternal, initiating with great patience,。
tender, unshakable, and do it perfectly?。
Which of those two do you think is harder?。
It's not the guy.。
It's not the guy, and I'm gonna tell you why.。
Are you ready, man?。
Because just remember for a second,。
this isn't just the guy's job description。
and the wife's job description.。
This is what Christ really did,。
and what we're supposed to do to respond to him.。
So let me ask you a question.。
Is there any guy in the history of the world。
that has loved the way that Christ did?。
Say no with me.。
No.。
Here's my question.。
Is there any Christian in a church。
in the history of the world that has a God。
that did what Christ did?。
All of us.。
Which means my bridegroom loves me unconditionally,。
constantly, completely, sacrificially, selflessly,。
to the point of death, endlessly, eternally,。
initiating with me in my sin, with great patience,。
tenderly, unshakably, and perfectly loving me.。
I've got a perfect husband, a perfect bridegroom.。
My question is this, Todd,。
how are you doing at responding to him。
and living respectfully, obediently before him,。
being submissive to him, humbly adoring him,。
fully devoted to him?。
And I've got a perfect husband.。
Can you imagine, guys, how hard it would be。
to do that when you've got a moody, insecure,。
constantly changing, misinformed leader?。
How'd you like to serve that God?。
Who's good in the days that he wants to be,。
who uses his strength to intimidate you,。
who uses his wisdom and his verbal skills。
to just shut you up and wear you out,。
and say, "Why don't you just submit to me?"。
You see, God doesn't lead like that.。
And ladies, I know some of you have been told,。
you'll never submit to a man.。
I don't want you to submit to a sinner either.。
I want you to know a guy that is doing everything he can。
to respond to a lover like this,。
so that they would begin to imitate him.。
That you might have a man that,。
at least when he doesn't do that,。
doesn't tell you just to submit,。
repents before you and seeks your forgiveness,。
and loves you the way that God says he should all over again.。
Do you see why?。
Let me tell you something, guys.。
This is why Jesus is saying to you,。
"Hey, don't rush into this metaphor,。
"this thing called marriage, too quickly.。
"And please don't do it with somebody。
"who has not been loved by me,。
"because they will not love you.。
"And what you'll have to do is take up arms against them."。
"And it will not be pretty, and you will suffer,。
"and your children will suffer,。
"and the society you live in will suffer,。
"so much so that you'll want to start loving。
"somebody like you instead of a man."。
And when that starts happening,。
it gets really, really lonely.。
And God's just saying to you,。
"I'm not mad at you.。
"There's no way you guys are gonna get along without me.。
"From the moment you left me,。
"you've been pointing fingers at each other.。
"But can I show you something really beautiful?。
"I'm gonna give you the metaphor right here,。
"and then I'm done."。
I stumbled across this in 1996.。
I came across two little girls that were six years old.。
One's name was Abigail, and one name was Brittany.。
I want you to see a picture of them.。
They're co-joined twins.。
And Abigail and Brittany have what is called dicephalus.。
And so, let me just show you a picture of their body。
and what's going on.。
They have two separate trunks.。
And so, from the waist up, they're two different people,。
but they're co-joined.。
And from the waist down, they're one person.。
They each got one leg.。
They couldn't separate them。
because neither person could survive without the other.。
And even if one could,。
how would they choose which one was gonna die,。
the parents said.。
And so, as these little girls grew up,。
let me just tell you a little bit about them.。
Each of them has their own heart, their own stomach,。
but together they rely on three lungs.。
Their spines join at the pelvis,。
below the waist they have organs of a single person.。
Each controls the limbs and trunk。
and feels sensations on her own side exclusively.。
If you tickle the ribs on the right, only Abby giggles.。
And yet the girls manage.。
No one knows exactly how, watch this, to move as one being.。
No one knows how they're doing it。
because they have completely different nervous systems。
and yet they're completely aware of one another.。
They have learned to swim, they have learned to ride bikes,。
they've learned now as they're older。
to ride motorcycles, drive cars.。
They can run, they can skip.。
They're completely different.。
Everything is different.。
Abby likes blue, Brittany prefers pink.。
Brittany's an animal, Abby loves to draw.。
Brittany loves milk, Abby despises it and loves orange juice.。
Abby is strengthened from the calcium that Brittany drinks.。
Brittany is strengthened from the vitamin C。
that Abby gives her.。
(audience laughing)。
Brittany finds food boring, Abby tends to be the leader.。
Brittany, the one on the left,。
is a little bit more quiet and reflective.。
Sometimes they argue.。
One time, Brittany hit Abby in the head with a rock.。
But they have obvious incentives。
to arrive at a consensus very quickly.。
(audience laughing)。
When they can't agree on which way to go,。
which is a rare occurrence, they can't go anywhere.。
They literally cannot move.。
When one misbehaves, they're both sent to the room.。
(audience laughing)。
It's beautiful.。
I watched this and the more I read, the more I go,。
man, that's my marriage.。
And the amazing thing is is when I love my wife。
as my own body, which is what Ephesians 5 tells me to do,。
through the mystery of becoming like Jesus。
as I yield to his spirit and I die to myself day by day。
as a response to the God who loved me。
and gave himself for me, I don't just,。
when my wife says to me,。
hey, you're not making me feel very valued,。
I don't say something like this.。
Well, if you didn't feel that way,。
we wouldn't have a problem.。
I go, hey, man, it really doesn't matter how I feel.。
If that's how you feel, I gotta change what I'm doing.。
I wanna understand why you feel that way.。
Because if one of us is not doing well, we both suffer.。
And there are days that I do that because I love Jesus。
and Jesus is patient with me and guides me.。
And man, it's beautiful.。
Let me read you this line.。
It says, bound to each other but defiantly independent.。
One, is that just a beautiful description of marriage?。
Bound to each other but defiantly independent.。
God doesn't want you to lose your personage。
when you come into a relationship with him。
and you don't lose your personage。
when you come into a relationship with another,。
but both of you guys become what Jesus。
wants you to be together.。
It says, these little girls are a living textbook。
on camaraderie and compromise, on dignity and flexibility,。
on the subtler varieties of freedom and togetherness.。
These little girls have volumes to teach us about love.。
Can I just make a suggestion to you, man,。
if you can ever figure this thing out,。
and you live together with a woman that just goes,。
you wanna know why I'm subject to that guy?。
'Cause all that guy does is serve me, love me,。
honor me, cherish me, and value me.。
I can't wait to have sex with him.。
I can't wait to wash his underwear.。
I can't wait to pick up his dirty laundry。
because if you knew what that guy did for me,。
if you knew the way he treated me,。
you know what, I can't wait to vacuum up the mud。
that his boots drag across this floor。
because on those boots carry the man。
who loves me like no man has ever loved a woman.。
That's my man, and I'm his woman.。
And when you see a guy do that,。
and it's all about her feelings,。
and it's all about what's important to her,。
the world just goes, who are you to?。
You've got something to teach us about love,。
and we can say, you know how this is happening?。
To insecure, fallen, selfish creatures,。
we have been redeemed, and we don't battle anymore.。
Selfless people don't battle.。
Love can't wait to give, and I serve the king。
who has loved me, and I love much.。
You see, God's not looking to rip you off, man.。
He's looking to set you free.。
And I just close by telling you this.。
Listen, every relationship is only as healthy。
as the least healthy person in it.。
And so if you're gonna have a successful marriage,。
instead of wondering who it is you're gonna marry,。
start focusing on who you're going to be。
when you get married.。
And I would beg you not to marry somebody。
who isn't already well married.。
What do I mean by that?。
What I mean by that is you find a guy。
who is responding to Jesus, yielding to Jesus,。
submitting to Jesus, living purely,。
because that's what Jesus says is the right。
and pleasant and pleasing and right。
and glorious thing to do.。
Gals, can I just tell you something?。
If you got a guy who says he loves Jesus。
and isn't doing what Jesus says he wants him to do,。
and Jesus is a perfect lover,。
what makes you think he's going to be faithful to you。
in your imperfection?。
I would just tell you guys, man,。
don't lower your standards, lengthen your patience.。
I have a good friend, when she turned 40,。
her Christmas card was a picture of a cow chip and her.。
And she said, "Do you wanna know what women。
"and cow chips have in common?"。
And because she was single,。
and she just put her cell phone number down。
so we'd all call her on Christmas.。
She said, "Call me on Christmas and I'll tell you."。
And so it was a riddle, and I love that.。
And I called her, I go, "Kathy,。
"what do women and cow chips have in common?"。
And she goes, "The older they get,。
"the easier they are to pick up."。
I thought that was hilarious.。
(congregation laughing)。
The year she turned 40, that was her Christmas card.。
And I wanna tell you something,。
Kathy was a virgin, and Kathy remained a virgin。
for three more years.。
Kathy never lowered her standards.。
She lengthened her patience.。
She found her significance in Jesus Christ.。
And now she is married to an incredible guy。
that loves her the way Christ loved the church.。
I don't know if you're gonna get married,。
but you gotta get out of that lie。
that a good marriage is 100,。
and not being married is a zero.。
And so if I get in a bad marriage, at least it's a one.。
That is a lie from the pit of hell.。
Can I tell you something?。
A good marriage might be 100, but a bad marriage is no zero.。
It's a negative 100, friends.。
And so Jesus says, "Come to me.。
"Don't worry about who's gonna marry you.。
"Let me show you how much you're worth.。
"And you grow in relationship to me.。
"And one day as you're seeking me,。
"maybe you'll run up against somebody。
"who's doing battle against their selfishness,。
"and they might jump in the ring of faithfulness with you,。
"and it will be a glorious thing."。
Amen?。
Father, I pray for my friends,。
that they would believe those words,。
that they would come to a place where they understood。
that you love them,。
and that you're not looking to rip them off,。
but you want them to have a picture。
of what real love looks like.。
It's not some erotic feeling.。
It's not some emotional welling up.。
It is a selfless surrendering,。
a shedding of blood, a tearing of flesh, a sacrifice。
that is perfect, that initiates with somebody。
that was not lovable at all。
for the purpose of redeeming them.。
Oh, Father, that we would know that love,。
and that we would then begin to respond to the Spirit。
that informed that love,。
and it would indwell us,。
and we would begin to love others as we have been loved.。
And that there might be a day that we share, then,。
a life and a covenant with to mirror to the world。
how two distinct persons equal in dignity can become one,。
even as you're three in one.。
That we might together manage our lives。
in mutual subjection to one another。
in a way that would bring dignity and glory。
to a family and to children.。
That we would multiply a godly heritage。
as we live in subjection to you。
and raise our kids to walk with a God that redeems.。
And that we would model in a way that the world would say,。
you two have much to teach us about love.。
And we would say,。
do you wanna know the solution to this mystery?。
It's Christ in us.。
And apart from this, we have no hope.。
So, Father, that relationship will start。
as people in this room begin to seek you first。
and not a spouse.。
Would you do that?。
For your glory and their good.。
Amen.。
- There's such a danger in preaching and teaching。
because in so many ways, I feel like those。
that open the word of God really defined your view of God.。
And they kinda show you who God is and what he's like.。
And then when you sit alone with him,。
you think back on the things you learned,。
and you're like, oh, that's who you are.。
I know you.。
That's the man who taught me who God was.。
Can we thank him one more time?。
(congregation applauding)。
He talks about Ali and Kirby and Landry and his kids,。
and he just said that,。
don't you wish you had a father like that?。
And I want you to know you do.。
You do have a father like that.。
It's like he's asking you, what do you want me to do。
to show you that I love you?。
I've done a lot of weddings, and I love how they're,。
I watch the groom, I love how he watches the doors。
as the doors come open and the bride comes through,。
and she gets blurry because he begins to cry,。
and he's just beaming, you know?。
And it's like, that's the moment,。
that's what we're waiting for.。
And that's how Christ looks at you, right now,。
not when you get right, man, not when you get clean,。
not when you clean up your act right now,。
and I'm talking about you, specifically you.。
He's like, man, I love you so much.。
I died for you.。
I paid the price for you.。
(silence)。
(silence)。
(silence)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
