(upbeat music)。
- There you are, what's up, Porch?。
Hey, it's great to see ya.。
Welcome back.。
Man, it's good to have you in the room.。
We're so glad that you would choose。
to be here with us tonight.。
For all of you in Dallas, welcome.。
And for all of you that are tuning in online,。
we're so glad you're here with us as well.。
We're firm believers that God is doing something,。
not just here in Dallas, Texas, though he is,。
but also all over the nation in cities。
and in places just like where you are right now.。
So we're really glad that you're tuning in.。
If you're a part of our Porch Live family,。
we wanna give a special shout out to you.。
We're so glad.。
And a very special shout out to Porch Live,。
Wheaton, Springfield, and Greater Lafayette.。
Can we give it up for 'em?。
There you are, amazing.。
Hey, Porch, I am really excited for tonight。
because you are going to get to hear。
from one of my favorite Bible teachers on the planet.。
I was processing what I wanted to say。
as I came up here and I gave an unnecessary endorsement。
to someone that's very familiar to all of you.。
And yet I wanted to take time and come up here。
and just tell you the person that you're hearing。
from tonight is easily one of the greatest。
spiritual influences in my own life.。
Like I have been so personally impacted。
by way of his teaching and his ministry。
and his leadership and his shepherding.。
He is the same person from here as he is down there.。
And so you're gonna get to hear。
from the one and only Timothy Atik, TA, tonight.。
[audience cheering]。
When Brooke and I were processing making the move。
from Houston, Texas to Dallas。
to take on this job here at The Porch,。
one of the primary reasons we made the move。
was because I wanted the chance to work with TA again.。
I wanted the chance to be led by him。
and I now have the joy of calling him my pastor.。
TA is the lead pastor of vision and teaching。
here at Watermark Community Church.。
He was the interim director of The Porch。
for a season of time and he's here to speak to you tonight.。
So would y'all do a great job of welcoming him to the stage.。
[audience cheering]。
Thanks for being here, bro.。
As TA comes, I'd love to pray for him。
and I'd love to pray for you, so let's pray together.。
God, we're so grateful for tonight.。
Already, God, in worship, I just sensed the nearness。
of your presence here in this room。
as we were declaring back to you, God,。
all the demonstrations and declarations of your love for us.。
What impacted me in that moment was this idea。
that Kylan, if I would do all these things。
to save you and save them,。
why wouldn't you then believe I have something for you。
and for them tonight?。
Maybe you're here and you don't know why you are.。
I believe it's because God has something for you.。
So would you take a moment and would you just pray。
for yourself where you are and ask。
that God would speak to you?。
Maybe it's been a long time since you've talked to him,。
but he's eager to listen.。
Take a moment and pray for yourself.。
If you would, take a moment and pray for TA.。
As he comes to preach God's word, would you pray for him。
that everything he says would be true and helpful to us?。
(coughing)。
Well, God, we agree.。
There is none like you in heaven, on the earth,。
and under the earth.。
And so it's you that we listen to now.。
It's in Christ Jesus' name we pray.。
Amen.。
Give it up for TA one more time.。
(congregation applauding)。
- Hey, good evening, Porch.。
It's so good to be here with you.。
Kylan, you said everything exactly how I told you to say it.。
So thank you.。
Exactly how I wrote it for you.。
Hey, let me say this, and this is not just because。
of everything that Kylan just said to me.。
I've known Kylan now for almost 10 years.。
And I can honestly say that one of the greatest joys。
in ministry is getting to minister alongside him.。
So I am so glad that God brought him here to Dallas。
and that you get to experience his leadership。
because he is a man who truly loves Jesus。
and is calling a generation to fully surrender to Jesus.。
So I'm just excited about what's happening here.。
Kylan and I talk about what is happening here on Tuesdays。
is leading the way for our church as a whole.。
So I believe in your generation。
and what God is stirring inside of you。
and how he's using you to shape and inform。
what's happening at this church as a whole.。
So it's great to be here with you tonight.。
And I'm excited to talk about what we're talking about.。
Prior to being here at Watermark,。
I was the executive director of Breakaway Ministries。
on the campus of Texas A&M University.。
For the Aggies in the room.。
And when I took over Breakaway,。
I took over Breakaway from a guy named Ben Stewart.。
Many of you are familiar with Ben.。
Ben is a very close friend.。
He's truly one of,。
he's one of the greatest Bible teachers in our nation today.。
But what I didn't realize is when I took over after Ben,。
what I didn't realize was that I would spend years。
fielding compliments for Ben Stewart.。
Like no one told me that, no one made me aware of that.。
But now I've come to realize that God's desire for me。
is to have people tell me what they think about Ben,。
which has been amazing.。
And Ben and I joke about it.。
So this is not an awkward thing right now.。
Let me just give you some examples though。
of what I've gotten to hear about Ben over the years.。
I remember this guy came up to me and was like,。
"Hey, TA, I just gotta tell you,。
"no one speaks to me like Ben Stewart."。
He's like, "You're good too, but man, nobody."。
It's like, "Oh, I got it.。
"I heard it the first time you said it."。
I was speaking out of town in a different state。
and after I finished speaking, this girl came up to me。
and she was like, "Texas A&M University?"。
I was like, "Yeah."。
She was like, "Ben Stewart?"。
I was like, "Sure."。
She was like, "What do you think about him?"。
I was like, "Well, I think,"。
and she was like, "I think he's great."。
It's like, "I think he's great too.。
"Ben is one of, truly, he's one of my favorite people。
"in the world, very close friend."。
Then I was speaking at a camp a few summers ago。
and I had only been there about an hour。
and this girl comes up to me and she was like,。
"You're from Breakaway?。
"I just love Ben Stewart."。
I was like, "I love Ben Stewart too."。
Another hour after that, this guy came up to me。
and he's like, "My wife's favorite speaker is Ben Stewart."。
It's like, "I'm so glad you told me that."。
And then at the same camp, just a few days later,。
I get a random text from a guy。
that I usually talk to about once a year.。
So out of the blue, same camp that I've been at,。
I get a text from this guy.。
Here's what his random text says to me.。
He has some Aggie camp counselors staying at his house.。
Here's what it says.。
"Me too, Aggie camp counselor staying at my house.。
"Hey, do you know that Timothee guy?"。
Here's their response.。
"Yeah, he's pretty good, but Ben Stewart was better."。
(audience laughing)。
I was like, "You chose to send that."。
We haven't talked in a long time.。
It's like, "You know what?。
"TA needs to hear this."。
It's just a part of it.。
And Ben and I, we've talked about it.。
We have joked about it.。
But tonight, I wanna talk to you。
about how you deal with other people's success.。
Like what I'm really talking about。
is how you respond to other people。
who just seem to be doing better at life than you.。
Because here's the reality.。
Ben and I, we can talk about this.。
We can joke about it.。
But there was a season of my life。
where I honestly really battled insecurity and jealousy。
when it came to Ben's success.。
So my question to you is,。
how do you respond to coworkers, neighbors, roommates,。
friends, siblings, brother-in-laws, sister-in-laws,。
the guy you know about, but you don't really know him?。
How do you respond to those people。
who in the eyes of the world are smarter, funnier,。
skinnier, prettier, godlier, healthier, richer,。
more successful, more influential, more in shape,。
more likable, in just higher capacity than you?。
Who is that in your life?。
Like is someone just popping into your mind right now?。
Like put a name with it.。
And if you're like, no one comes to mind,。
it's 'cause you're the guy that everyone's like,。
I hate that guy.。
Everything just works out for you.。
Everything you touch turns to gold.。
Everything about your life is perfect.。
You've got the perfect physique, the perfect salary,。
the perfect vacations, everything is just perfect.。
How do you deal with that?。
I wanna show you a story from the scriptures tonight,。
which is going to show us that there's honestly。
three ways you can respond.。
And I'll tell you what those three ways are right now.。
The options are this, comparison, rejection,。
or celebration, okay?。
Those are the options.。
Comparison, rejection, and celebration.。
And just to not keep you guessing, the goal is celebration.。
But you have three options,。
comparison, rejection, celebration.。
And I'm gonna show you these three things from a story。
from the life of King David.。
So if you have a Bible, I wanna invite you to turn with me。
to 1 Samuel chapter 18.。
If you're new to the porch, if you're new to the Bible,。
I'm so glad that you made it tonight.。
If you don't know much about what is happening。
in the Bible, then there's a chance that the only thing。
you know about David is that he is the guy who,。
the tale goes that he conquered a giant named Goliath.。
And if you know that, you're in a pretty good place.。
But I'll fill it out for you a little bit more.。
David was the second king ever of the nation of Israel.。
He came after a guy named Saul.。
Saul was a mediocre king.。
We know that because God basically told him。
that he was mediocre.。
And because he was mediocre, God had made plans。
to replace Saul with a new king.。
We know that that king turned out to be David.。
But we're picking up a story where Saul is still king.。
And this is the story where Saul is going to now find out。
that David is the king that God is going to replace him with.。
The story that we're looking at comes right after。
1 Samuel 17, where David has his greatest conquest,。
which is conquering the giant named Goliath.。
So now we pick it up in 1 Samuel chapter 18.。
I'm gonna read you a big chunk of scripture.。
I'm gonna read you verses one through 16,。
and I would encourage you to follow along.。
It says this.。
It says, "As soon as he finished speaking to Saul,。
"the soul of Jonathan was knit to the soul of David,。
"and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.。
"And Saul took him that day and would not let him。
"return to his father's house.。
"Then Jonathan made a covenant with David。
"because he loved him as his own soul.。
"And Jonathan stripped himself of the road that was on him。
"and gave it to David and his armor,。
"and even his sword and his bow and his belt.。
"And David went out and was successful。
"wherever Saul sent him so that Saul set him。
"over the men of war.。
"And this was good in the sight of all the people。
"and also in the sight of Saul's servants.。
"As they were coming home, when David returned。
"from striking down the Philistine," that's Goliath,。
"the women came out of all the cities of Israel。
"singing and dancing to meet King Saul,。
"with tambourines, with songs of joy,。
"and with musical instruments.。
"And the women sang to one another as they celebrated.。
"Saul was struck down as thousands,。
"and David as ten thousands, and Saul was very angry,。
"and this saying displeased him.。
"He said, 'They've ascribed to David ten thousands,。
"'and to me they've ascribed thousands,。
"'and what more can he have but the kingdom?'。
"And Saul eyed David from that day on.。
"The next day, a harmful spirit from God rushed upon Saul,。
"and he raved within his house。
"while David was playing the liar, as he did day by day.。
"Saul had his spear in his hand,。
"and Saul hurled the spear,。
"for he thought, 'I will pin David to the wall.'。
"But David evaded him twice.。
"Saul was afraid of David, because the Lord was with him,。
"but had departed from Saul.。
"So Saul removed him from his presence。
"and made him a commander of a thousand,。
"and he went out and came in before the people.。
"And David had success in all his undertakings,。
"for the Lord was with him.。
"And when Saul saw that he had great success,。
"he stood in fearful awe of him.。
"But all Israel and Judah loved David,。
"for he went out and came in before them."。
So that was a lot,。
but this is a story about how two different individuals。
respond to David's success.。
The reason I can say that this is a story。
about David's success is because of the repeated words.。
So if you want a helpful tip。
when you're studying the Bible,。
pay attention to the words that the author repeats,。
because authors repeat what they want emphasized.。
Let me repeat that.。
Authors repeat what they want emphasized.。
We see that in verse five.。
"David went out and was successful。
"wherever Saul sent him."。
Verse 14, "David had success in all his undertakings,。
"for the Lord was with him."。
Verse 15, "When Saul saw that he had great success,。
"he stood in fearful awe of him."。
It's a story about David's success.。
Now we're going to see how Saul responds to David's success。
and how Jonathan responds to David's success.。
What's interesting is that Saul and Jonathan。
are from the same family.。
Saul is Jonathan's dad,。
but these two people from the same family。
have two very different responses to David's success.。
Saul is going to respond first with comparison,。
and then he's gonna respond with rejection,。
and then his son Jonathan。
is going to respond with celebration.。
So let's just unpack these three responses.。
The first way that you can respond to someone's success。
is with comparison.。
I'm going to define comparison tonight。
as ranking God's will for your life against others.。
It's ranking God's will for your life against others.。
Where do we see comparison in the story?。
Well, we see it in verse eight.。
Look back at it.。
Remember what is happening?。
David is coming home from conquering the giant.。
Saul is coming home with his army as well.。
Women come out from the town.。
They begin to sing.。
They begin to bang tambourines.。
They begin to sing songs。
in which they declare certain things。
about David and about Saul.。
Verse eight tells us this.。
"Saul was very angry."。
Why was he angry?。
"And this saying displeased him."。
What was the saying that displeased him?。
He said, "They have ascribed to David 10,000s,。
"and to me they have ascribed thousands.。
"And what more can he have but the kingdom?"。
Do you see the comparison?。
Saul begins to compare the praise that David receives。
with the praise that he receives.。
They are declaring that David is a guy。
who's conquered 10,000s,。
and he's a guy who has conquered thousands.。
And just from this moment right here,。
we learn two different things about comparison,。
so don't miss 'em.。
The first one is that comparison feeds on er and as.。
No one's saying amen to that,。
so I probably should explain that.。
Okay, comparison feeds.。
It's nourished by it.。
It finds life in er and as.。
Here's what I mean by that.。
One pastor referred to our need。
for what he called the er factor.。
Like we wanna know that we are smart-er,。
strong-er, pretty-er, funny-er,。
wealthy-er, skinny-er, godly-er,。
successful-er than the people around us.。
We want that.。
Follow me on this.。
Women come out from the city。
to meet and sing songs to who?。
I'm asking.。
Saul.。
The text is really clear.。
It says that women came out from the town。
to sing songs to Saul.。
They come out and they play tambourines for Saul.。
Men, let me ask you,。
when's the last time a girl played the tambourine for you?。
Never, why?。
'Cause you're not important enough for a girl。
to play the tambourine for you.。
Saul was.。
So these girls come out, they write a song,。
they're playing a tambourine to Saul.。
And in their song, they actually declare。
that Saul is a conquering king.。
Yes, they do say that David has conquered his 10,000s,。
but they also say that Saul has shrugged down his thousands.。
So they're declaring him to be a conquering king.。
The issue was not that Saul wanted to be great,。
because they're declaring him to be great.。
The issue is that Saul wanted to be greater.。
And that's where things began to unravel for him.。
He didn't wanna just be great, he wanted to be greater.。
And for some of you, that's what's happening in your life,。
is you don't wanna just be great,。
you wanna be able to look around in insecurity。
at the people around you, and you just need to know。
that you have the Ur-factor over them.。
It gives you some sense of significance.。
It makes you feel strong.。
It makes you feel significant when you know。
that you're stronger than that other person at the gym,。
that you are more likable,。
that people want you more than they want her.。
That you're skinnier.。
That you're more successful.。
That you take better vacations.。
And something in you just needs that.。
See, comparison feeds on the Ur-factor,。
but some of you are hearing that and you're like,。
I don't, that's just not me, I don't feel that.。
Like, I don't look around and need to have the Ur-factor。
over people, well, for you, it might be a need。
for the As-factor.。
What I mean by that is that you've decided in your own mind。
what the ideal is.。
And so you just find people in the world。
that you think represent the ideal,。
and you think to yourself, if I could just be。
as likable as that person,。
if I could just be as influential as that person,。
if I could just be as successful as that person,。
then I would truly be enough.。
Let me just identify one problem with the Ur-factor。
and one problem with the As-factor.。
Problem with the Ur-factor is while you'll always。
have the Ur-factor over some people,。
someone will always have the Ur-factor over you.。
And if you haven't found that person, just wait longer.。
The problem with the As-factor。
is that perfection is an illusion.。
Perception is hardly ever reality.。
Some of you all have seen this before,。
but this is the Atik family Christmas card。
from a while back.。
And you know what, I wish we had time to just form a line。
for y'all to each walk by,。
just to glance at an incredible family.。
Like, if you want to see a family that's crushing life,。
(audience laughing)。
this is it.。
Like you would see Noah was in second grade this time.。
He was crushing second grade.。
Andrew, the time, kindergarten,。
just smoking people in kindergarten.。
And then like there's baby Jake,。
who I guarantee you deserved a baby modeling contract.。
We just think people were having a hard time。
getting ahold of us.。
And you know what the good news is?。
Like, bam, we're just getting started here, people.。
Like this thing keeps going.。
Like there's just so much amazingness to us.。
Like sometimes I'm amazed at how amazing we are.。
We're awesome.。
Okay.。
Do you want to know what was happening。
on either side of the button being pressed。
on the camera taking these pictures?。
Well, on the front end, I was all over my kids.。
It's like, get off the ground.。
Stop messing around with each other.。
Stop tilting your head in a weird way.。
Like look at the camera and smile.。
I was all over.。
On the back end, well, we took those pictures。
in about 20 mile an hour winds。
and something blew into the eye of Jake,。
who was about four months old at the time.。
And it cost us about a thousand dollar trip to the ER.。
So I would say we were crushing life.。
Do you know what year this Christmas card was?。
This was 2017.。
Do you want to know why I brought the 2017 Christmas card?。
'Cause we haven't sent out Christmas cards since 2017.。
We didn't even finish sending them out in 2017.。
Why?。
'Cause sometimes the Atik family。
is just barely holding it together.。
There are some days that we are just so day to day.。
It's just reality.。
And yet you can look at this and be like,。
you know what, if we just had what they had.。
Have you ever thought that the people。
that you're looking at as the ideal,。
what if they're looking at someone else as the ideal?。
Isn't that crazy to think about?。
If you want to feel a little bit crazy,。
just think the person that you think is the ideal。
is discontent with themselves,。
wishing that they had what someone else had.。
That's comparison.。
And it's a thief of joy.。
The first thing that we find out。
is that comparison feeds on urn ads.。
The second thing that we find out。
is that comparison has terrible side effects.。
It has terrible side effects.。
You know those ads that show up。
like they're like medication commercials.。
You know what I'm talking about?。
I'm always so surprised at the activities。
that people are doing on those medicine commercials.。
Just next time you see one, be like,。
"Man, I never thought about the glass blowing business。
"in how that guy will need that medicine in his occupation."。
Or like, you know, someone's like wrestling with their dog。
or sitting in a bathtub on a beach。
next to someone else in a bathtub.。
And it's like, "Where'd those bathtubs come from?。
"Like, did you just walk out and find them?"。
And it's like, "Let's get into them."。
That's, as a germ freak, that's horrifying.。
But there's like that soft, soothing voice。
at the end of the commercial that tells you the side effects.。
It's like, "Talk to your doctor before trying this medicine.。
"It can cause nausea, diarrhea, vomiting,。
"demon possession, or even death."。
And it's like, "Wow. [audience laughing]。
"Those are some serious side effects."。
Comparison has terrible side effects.。
Verse eight, Saul was very angry.。
Verse nine, Saul eyed David from that day on.。
So comparison fueled suspicion and paranoia.。
Verse 12, Saul was afraid of David,。
caused him to live a life of fear.。
Like the event that we're looking at in 1 Samuel 18,。
this is the event where Saul's life。
began to circle the drain.。
Like, if you were to keep reading on,。
you know what you would find?。
Comparison led Saul to spend the rest of his life。
trying to kill David,。
which led to Saul losing the respect of his son,。
his daughter, and his men.。
In the end, Saul committed suicide.。
Comparison produced terrible side effects in Saul's life,。
and it'll produce terrible effects in our lives.。
Like, you're gonna experience competition,。
pride, envy, jealousy, anxiety, and exhaustion.。
Comparison isn't a medicine, it's a poison.。
I know this 'cause I've lived it.。
You know what it took me far too long to understand?。
It took me way too long to understand。
that the cross of Christ does what comparison can't.。
Do you wanna know why we compare?。
Leon Festinger popularized the social comparison theory.。
Do you wanna know why we compare?。
Because we're trying to determine our value.。
We're trying to figure out how we stack up value-wise。
in comparison to other people.。
But if that's how you determine your value,。
your value's gonna consistently be fluctuating.。
You know what the cross of Jesus Christ does?。
Is it places value on you.。
That's permanent.。
So when we look at the cross of Jesus Christ,。
we first find the infinite value of Jesus Christ,。
because Jesus Christ is so infinitely valuable。
that what we find on the cross of Christ。
is the eternal Son of God leaving heaven,。
coming to earth, living perfectly,。
dying sacrificially, and rising victoriously.。
So the cross declares Christ's infinite value.。
But on that cross,。
Jesus Christ was making payment for you and for me.。
That's why 1 Corinthians 6 says that you and I,。
we were bought at a price.。
What was the price?。
It was the body and blood of Jesus Christ.。
So it's not that you earn your value from God,。
it's that God in His infinite love and grace。
decides to place value on you.。
So what is the value that is handed to you freely?。
You are now valued at the body and blood of Jesus Christ.。
Okay, all right.。
Let me say that one more time.。
Because maybe,。
I don't know anything more important I can tell you tonight.。
If you want to know what you're worth,。
God has decided to give you your worth.。
That now never changes.。
So God has decided to make you worth。
the body and blood of the eternal Son of God.。
Did you just let that sink in?。
Which means you don't have to run out into the world。
asking them to give you something。
that God freely gives you in Christ.。
Second option is rejection.。
So if comparison is ranking God's will for your life。
against others, then rejection is saying no to God's will。
for your life and others.。
That's what rejection is.。
It's just saying God, no.。
I don't want that for them and I don't want that for me.。
Where do we see that in the story?。
Well, again, verse eight, it says,。
"And Saul was very angry and this saying displeased him.。
"He said, 'They've ascribed to David 10,000s,。
"'and to me they've ascribed thousands.'"。
Watch this, "And what more can he have but the kingdom?"。
So this is the moment where things are beginning。
to become clear for Saul, where he's realizing。
that David is actually the guy。
that God is going to replace him with as king.。
And what does Saul say?。
Hey, what more can he have but the kingdom?。
This is Saul saying, I see what you're doing, God,。
and I reject it.。
I say no to it.。
Then in verse 10, look at what it says.。
It says, "The next day, a harmful spirit from God。
"rushed upon Saul."。
That can be really concerning to read.。
Here's what I want you to know about that harmful spirit.。
Don't think that this harmful spirit。
is an evil demon aligned with Satan.。
No, this is a specific consequence from God.。
This is an angel that God has assigned specifically。
for Saul's disobedience as the king of the nation of Israel.。
The way that God dealt with the nation of Israel。
was very specific in the Old Testament.。
This is a specific consequence for King Saul。
as the king of the nation of Israel.。
Each time the harmful spirit is mentioned,。
it's mentioned back in chapter 16,。
it's mentioned ahead in chapter 19,。
each time it's mentioned,。
David's success in God's favor upon him is being discussed.。
Saul tries to kill David twice.。
Why?。
Because he rejects God's will.。
So back to verses 10 through 12.。
"The next day, a harmful spirit from God。
"rushed upon Saul.。
"He raved within his house while David was playing the liar。
"as he did day by day.。
"Saul had his spear in his hand and Saul hurled the spear。
"for he thought, 'I will pin David to the wall.'。
"But David evaded him twice."。
It always makes me laugh that it says。
David evaded him twice.。
I'm like, David, after the first time, it's like peace.。
You know, like it's been fun, but I'm out.。
He's stuck around.。
But Saul is trying to kill him, why?。
Because he rejects God's plan.。
Verse 13, it says, "So Saul removed him from his presence。
"and made him a commander of a thousand.。
"And he went out and came in before the people."。
So Saul makes David a commander,。
and you might hear that and think,。
oh, well, that's pretty nice.。
Saul gives David a promotion.。
No, this isn't a promotion, this is a tactic.。
Because Saul is thinking, okay,。
David had success once when conquering a giant,。
but let's see what happens。
when he has to lead an army of a thousand.。
What if he doesn't have the leadership capability。
and he fails in people's eyes?。
Better yet, what if he goes into battle and gets killed?。
This is a tactic to take David out.。
What was God's will?。
It was for David to fade in and Saul to fade out,。
and Saul is emphatically declaring, I reject that.。
That's what rejection is.。
It's saying no to God's will for your life and others.。
How does this play out in our lives?。
How do we reject God's will for our life and others?。
Well, the main way that you will see this crop up。
in your life is through subtle resentment.。
You'll resent other people's successes。
because you believe that their success makes you a failure.。
And then you resent God for not giving you。
more of what others have.。
Do you see what you're doing there?。
You're rejecting God's will for their life.。
I resent their success because their success。
is saying something about me.。
And God, I resent you and I reject your will for my life。
because you should have given me more。
what you gave to them.。
Another way this shows up is isolation.。
Like you'll just keep people at a distance。
because they're your competition.。
Jesus has to be our example.。
We find Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane。
on the night that he's betrayed, praying,。
God, not my will, but your will be done.。
What was God's will for Jesus?。
To be crucified for the sins of the world.。
What was God's will for Christians?。
That we who were rebellious towards God。
would be saved through the death, burial,。
and resurrection of his son.。
Those who were spiritually dead。
would be awakened to life with God.。
And Jesus says, yes, I will die so that they can live.。
Jesus has to be our example.。
The Christian life is a surrendered life.。
The Christian life is just opening up your hands。
and saying, God, I accept and I receive。
whatever you give to me,。
and I say yes to whatever you give to them.。
God, you don't exist for me, I exist for you,。
so you can have your way in my life.。
Whatever you wanna do through me,。
however you wanna use me, God,。
I trust that you have wired me and gifted me。
with everything that you want me to have,。
and I'm committed to cultivating the talents。
that you have instilled in me,。
and I will do it to your glory.。
And if there's other people who do it better,。
then God bless them, but my responsibility。
is to be faithful with what you have entrusted to me.。
That's the Christian life.。
[audience applauding]。
Which leads to the third way to respond to people's success.。
So you've got three options,。
comparison, rejection, or celebration.。
You know what celebration is.。
Celebration is a resounding yes to God's will。
for your life and others.。
And we see this surprisingly。
in the life of Saul's son, Jonathan.。
Who was Jonathan?。
Jonathan was Saul's oldest son.。
Do you know what that means?。
It means that Jonathan was actually。
the next in line for the throne.。
Jonathan was the one who was supposed to be。
the next king of Israel.。
So if anyone had a reason to be paranoid about David。
and to reject any thought of David being king,。
it would have been Jonathan.。
And yet, what do we find Jonathan doing。
all the way back in verses three and four?。
It says, "Then Jonathan made a covenant with David。
"because he loved him as his own soul."。
Watch this, this is amazing.。
Verse four, "Jonathan stripped himself of the robe。
"that was on him and gave it to David,。
"and his armor, and even his sword,。
"and his bow, and his belt."。
Here's what you need to understand.。
Think about this, process this.。
The clothes that Jonathan is wearing,。
they are royalty.。
That is a part of what defines him。
as part of the royal family.。
So when Jonathan strips himself of his robe。
and gives it to David, when he takes off his royal armor,。
when he takes his royal sword and he hands it to David,。
do you know what he's declaring?。
He is declaring, "You rule and reign instead.。
"You're the rightful king, not me.。
"Not me, the one who is the successor to the throne.。
"In man's eyes, no, we're gonna do things。
"according to what is in God's eyes.。
"You're the future king."。
And I celebrate that.。
This is Jonathan's resounding yes to God's will。
for his life and David's.。
And as I've processed Jonathan's relationship with David,。
there's three things that I take away from it。
that I hope you don't miss.。
Here's the first thing.。
Instead of seeing people for their success,。
see them for their stewardship.。
Instead of seeing people for their success,。
see people for their stewardship.。
David was called by God to steward the throne of Israel.。
So instead of resenting David, Jonathan supported David.。
Everything someone has been given to them by God。
has been given by God for them to steward for God's glory.。
And they will have to give an account。
for what they did with what God gave to them.。
So when I think about my friend, Ben Stewart,。
I'm like, instead of comparing or rejecting,。
I wanna celebrate.。
Like God has wired Ben in such a sweet and unique way。
and he has put Ben in the capital city of our country。
and he's given Ben this ability to speak。
in a very clear and winsome and compelling way。
to people in positions of power.。
So instead of seeing Ben for his success,。
I should see him for his stewardship。
because one day he will have to give an account。
for what he did with what God entrusted to him.。
So the best thing I can do is to pray for my friend, Ben.。
The same is true for me.。
The same is true for every single person。
in this room.。
God has given each one of us brains and bodies。
and mouths and hands and feet and feelings,。
senses of humor, talents and giftings to steward.。
And one day you will give an account。
for how you stewarded the things God gave to you.。
So if that's the case, we don't have time to waste。
wishing that we had what someone else had.。
We don't have time to waste comparing or resenting.。
The second thing I learned from Jonathan。
is the death of who you're supposed to be。
is often the birth of who you were made to be.。
The death of who you're supposed to be。
is often the birth of who you were made to be.。
At some point, Jonathan let the dream of being king die.。
He had to let go of the dream of who he was told。
he was supposed to be.。
He grew up.。
I guarantee he grew up believing that he would be king.。
That's who he was supposed to be.。
That's who his dad told him he was supposed to be.。
But God's plans were for Jonathan。
to be David's greatest support.。
So I just want you to think about that real quick.。
Who have you been told you're supposed to be?。
Just think about that.。
Who have your parents told you you're supposed to be?。
Who does social media tell you you're supposed to be?。
Who have you been told you're supposed to be?。
Or who have you told yourself you're supposed to be?。
You're supposed to be CEO or president of something.。
You're supposed to be rich。
with multiple houses and nice cars.。
You're supposed to be someone on Forbes' 30 under 30 list.。
You're supposed to be an influencer。
with hundreds of thousands of followers.。
You're supposed to be someone who works 60 hours a week。
and have ton of friends and tons of plans。
and great vacations and still somehow crush。
every single aspect of life.。
Sometimes the death of who you're supposed to be。
will be the birth of who you were made to be.。
When I became the executive director of Breakaway in 2016,。
because of the directors that preceded me,。
I started believing that because of my position,。
I needed to be, this is who I believed I was supposed to be.。
I believed I needed to be one of the wisest,。
most strategic, most godly, most creative,。
most intelligent, most interesting,。
most captivating leaders, authors, communicators,。
and pastors in the nation.。
And I'll tell you what, it was crushing.。
It was a crushing weight to carry.。
It was exhausting.。
Do you know where freedom was found?。
Freedom was found in embracing who God had called me to be.。
God hasn't called me to be anyone。
other than a faithful servant of the king.。
The third thing I learned from Jonathan is this,。
others don't have to lose in order for you to win.。
I remember running on the treadmill at the gym years ago.。
I say that just so you think that I go to the gym.。
But I remember running on the treadmill。
and it was like God just slapped me on the side of the head,。
like in a loving way.。
But I felt like I heard God so clearly in that moment.。
And here's what I felt like he said,。
you need everyone else to be a failure。
so that you can feel like a success.。
Here's the reality, Jonathan still won.。
Today when pastors preach on friendship,。
do you know who is held up as the ideal model?。
Jonathan.。
There's enough room in this world。
for more than one person to win.。
And honestly, it's not about you and me winning.。
Christ is already won.。
We live to exalt the one who has conquered。
Satan, sin and death.。
Every single person here has the potential。
of living a faithful life in the eyes of God.。
What does God celebrate?。
God doesn't celebrate fame, he celebrates faithfulness.。
When you cross into heaven,。
what words are you expecting to hear?。
Well done, good and famous servant.。
Good luck with that.。
Well done, good and high capacity servant.。
Nope.。
Well done, good and wealthy servant.。
Well done, good and like in shape,。
crushing the CrossFit open servant.。
No.。
Well done, good and faithful servant.。
That's what God celebrates.。
Steward the life and purpose you have been given.。
Let me just encourage you.。
I encourage you tonight to sit with the Lord。
and just ask him to reveal any relationships。
in your life where you've given。
into comparison or rejection.。
Like if someone comes to mind,。
I would just encourage you,。
ask the Lord for forgiveness here.。
Like find a way to encourage that person this week.。
And then thank God for the value。
that Christ's cross gives to you.。
Thank him for how he made you.。
Thank him for the plans that he has for you.。
And then I would encourage you to wake up。
and thank God for the value he's placed on you。
and say yes to the plans that he has for you today.。
Just say yes.。
But I'll tell you this,。
it would be such a failure of a message。
if we just closed up right here.。
Because when you study someone like David,。
the goal is to learn from David,。
but the goal is also to look through David。
to the greater David.。
And that's Jesus Christ, the greater David.。
Because here's the way that David and Jesus are so similar.。
Just as David rose to fame, Jesus Christ rose to fame.。
Just as Saul sought to thwart God's will for David's life,。
Satan through Pharisees and Sadducees。
sought to thwart God's will for Jesus' life.。
Saul tried to put David to death.。
Roman soldiers actually did put Jesus to death.。
But just as David was God's anointed,。
Jesus was and is the Christ, the anointed one.。
And just as David went out and came in victorious,。
Jesus Christ went out from heaven, came to earth,。
conquered Satan's sin and death for you and for me。
through his life, through his death,。
through his resurrection,。
he's made a way for those who had no way back to God.。
He's kicked open the door into the family of God。
for you and for me.。
And while David eventually became king for 40 years,。
Jesus Christ rose from the dead victorious。
as the King of kings and the Lord of lords。
for all of eternity.。
So when it comes to how you respond。
to Jesus, the greater David,。
you're either gonna respond like Saul。
or you're gonna respond like Jonathan.。
Jonathan stripped himself of the throne。
because he knew it wasn't his in the first place.。
The right response to Jesus Christ,。
the King of kings and Lord of lords。
is to come to him and to say,。
"Jesus Christ, you're king, I'm not.。
"You get to rule and reign over my heart。
"and my entire life.。
"My life belongs to you, it doesn't belong to me.。
"Let's not play games.。
"Let's not just make Jesus a part of our lives.。
"He's either the point of your life。
"or you have no life."。
Or you can respond to Jesus like Saul.。
You can grasp for a throne that doesn't belong to you.。
And you can insist on your own way。
and you can buy into the mirage of life。
where you're in control.。
You need to know you being in control of your life。
is never even an option.。
Either Jesus Christ will be in control。
or sin will be in control.。
But you being in control isn't even on the table.。
My hope and prayer is that the young adults。
of the porch here in Dallas and all over the nation。
would just be a generation that rises up。
among their peers and just declares,。
"There is one king and his name is Jesus.。
"He's the king of my heart and he should be。
"the king of yours."。
Let's pray together.。
If that's you tonight,。
if you're sitting there just realizing。
and you just sense like God's pressing。
on your heart right now,。
that God is reaching into your life,。
just saying, "Look, I want you to be mine.。
"I want you to be mine."。
If that's you tonight,。
then I just wanna invite you right now。
to just say yes to Jesus,。
to give your life over to him,。
to just say, "Jesus Christ."。
You can just pray this in your own heart.。
Just say, "Lord Jesus, would you come into my life tonight?。
"Thank you that you died on the cross for me.。
"Thank you that you rose from the dead for me.。
"Would you come into my life?。
"Would you forgive me of my sins?。
"And would you lead me in a new life?"。
And then if you already know Jesus as king,。
would you just invite him to reveal。
that the aspects of your heart,。
where there's still comparison or rejection,。
and would you just ask him right now。
that by the power of the spirit,。
he would strengthen you。
towards celebration?。
God, I thank you for the young adults in this room,。
all over the nation right now.。
My hope and prayer is that you, God,。
would rule and reign in every heart.。
If there's anyone whose heart is still cold to you,。
would you just light it up right now?。
Warm it up in the name of Jesus.。
And I pray that workplaces would be different tomorrow,。
gyms would be different tomorrow,。
apartment complexes would be different tomorrow,。
because there's a critical mass of people。
who are just owning the calling on their lives。
and celebrating the calling on other people's lives.。
There's no comparison, there's no envy, no jealousy,。
no resentment,。
just a bunch of young adults saying,。
"Look, I've got one life,。
"and I'm clear on who God has made me to be,。
"so I'm gonna run this race in a way that I win."。
And that's exalting Christ through my life.。
Use the people for your glory, I pray, in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
