(soft music)。
- Hello, hello, how we doing?。
Greetings, Dallas, Fort Worth, Houston,。
as you gather in the chapel there,。
we're praying for you as well.。
And anyone listening around the world,。
tuning in, streaming live, we're excited to be here.。
We just sang a song here in Dallas that says,。
"Nothing formed against me will stand."。
And life doesn't always feel that way.。
And in fact, I'll start by asking you this question.。
Have you ever been facing accusation,。
condemnation, or separation?。
Are these things that you've ever faced?。
I'll tell you about a time that I did,。
and that's just as a disclaimer。
in case you're a guest with us.。
I did not walk with Jesus in college.。
I was not a Christian.。
I was not a believer.。
I was a fool.。
I was a complete and total idiot in college.。
And so I was pursuing the things of the world.。
I thought there was life in girls.。
I thought there was life in the party,。
life in getting drunk, life in getting in a fight.。
I mean, these were my life goals, if you will.。
And so this one particular evening in college,。
we kind of, this girl had invited us to a party,。
but we really didn't want to go there.。
We went to another party, and when that party was over,。
we were looking for the after party.。
So we thought at this point, we'd go to this girl's party.。
So we go to her house, but it's dead.。
And like, no, you know, there's nothing going on.。
It's just like, man, we can't win.。
You know, there's nothing going on.。
We walk in, there's a couple of people。
sitting around the island in the kitchen talking.。
We're like, "Hey, where's our friend?"。
They're like, "She's asleep."。
We're like, "Oh, okay, great, sweet party."。
And so as we're leaving, my buddy, the guy that I'm with,。
there's three of us, and I'm with this guy,。
and he gets in this little verbal argument。
with one of the girls that was sitting there in the kitchen,。
kind of like insulting their party。
because it wasn't happening.。
He's leaving, too much to drink, you know, you get it.。
And so as we're walking out,。
they get in this verbal argument.。
I'm like, "Man, we just can't win."。
And as it gets outside onto the sidewalk,。
it escalates to such a point where like,。
she's in his face, you know, like, you know, doing this.。
And I'm like, "I don't know where this is going。
"with, you know, Xena the warrior princess。
"or what's about to happen."。
But, and as he's just like, "Get away from me."。
And she says, "Boom!"。
And I mean, Ronda Rousey, this fool.。
And he's like, "Whoa," you know, like,。
"JP, did you see that?"。
I'm like, "How could I miss it?"。
Like, "We can't win, where is this gonna go?"。
And she's just still like, "Come on, what?"。
You know, and I'm like, "Oh my goodness,。
"this is not gonna go well for us, right?"。
And so I'm like, "Let's go, let's go."。
Well, meanwhile, all of these guys come out of the woodwork.。
Like, I don't know if they were sleeping in the bushes。
or what was going on, but they just start closing in on us.。
I'm like, "We cannot win, okay, let's go.。
"Come on, buddy, let's go, let's go."。
We get in my truck, like we're running from these guys,。
running from, you know, Ronda Rousey.。
And we get in my truck and as we're pulling away,。
which is foolish because we've been drinking,。
as we're pulling away, whoop, whoop.。
And I'm like, "Oh, we cannot win."。
And so I stop and this police officer comes to my door,。
opens the door, a Coors Light spills out from my truck。
onto his shoes, to which he says, "You're going to jail."。
And so they cuffed me, put me in the back of the car,。
the police car, and I sit there for an hour and a half。
and here's what happens.。
For an hour and a half, they begin to meet。
with the other guys who came out of the woodworks,。
you know, the secret ninjas that showed up.。
They begin to meet with them one by one。
and right outside the window of where I'm at。
in the back of the car, and I listened to these guys。
and they said, "Yeah, man, they were beating up on her."。
And I'm like, "What?"。
And I find out the reason that the police。
were so aggressive with us was the call they got。
was that there were three men beating up。
on this Baylor student, this girl.。
That's the call they got.。
And I'm like, "Oh no, like we cannot win."。
I'm sitting back there and I'm continuing。
to listen to accusation after accusation.。
It's like, "Yeah, they came out, you know,。
"they were just looking for a fight.。
"They got in a fight with the,"。
and I'm just like, "Are you serious?"。
Then I find out that this girl, said girl,。
is the granddaughter to the judge in Waco.。
And I'm just like, I'm like saying my goodbyes mentally,。
like wonder if prison is air conditioned, you know.。
These are the questions like I can't win.。
Have you ever been in this place。
where you find yourself in such a hole,。
it's like there's no way you're going to dig out.。
It's like a wave knocks you over。
and you get up and another wave knocks you over。
and you get up and another wave knocks you over.。
Now don't get me wrong, we were fools.。
We were guilty.。
We just weren't that guilty, right?。
We weren't guilty of all of the accusations。
that were coming against us, but we were certainly guilty.。
Certainly deserved some punishment.。
And I don't know if you've ever been in this place in life。
and it may not, you may be here。
and you've walked with Jesus for a while,。
praise God for that.。
And it may not be that you're facing。
the kind of accusations that I was facing。
or the kind of condemnation。
or the kind of separation that I was facing.。
But maybe you've gone through a breakup,。
maybe it's that you were laid off,。
maybe your roommate moved out or you're being evicted,。
you can't pay rent, maybe just a difficult day,。
maybe you didn't get the promotion.。
And you're in this place。
where people are saying things about you。
and it feels like God is far.。
Like you said, okay, I'm a Christian,。
like I thought life would be a little easier than this。
and it feels like God is far from you。
and this is why you desperately, desperately。
need this promise tonight。
because this is for when you are tempted。
to doubt that God is not in this,。
this is when you are tempted to doubt God's love for you,。
this is why the apostle Paul。
scribed this passage to the church in Rome,。
a people group whom he had not met。
in the 50th century,。
saying, hey, you guys need to hear this.。
You need to hear this promise from God to you。
and so tonight we're in the finale of Romans 8,。
the series that we titled Walk by the Spirit。
and here's the subject,。
I wanna give it to you, write it down if you can.。
It's this, it's the love of God。
cuts through all accusations,。
condemnation and separation。
to give you good without reservation.。
I'll say it again so you can tweet it out,。
write it down, whatever you're going to do,。
the love of God cuts through all accusations,。
condemnation and separation。
to give you good without reservation.。
That is the best summary I could come up with。
out of this text, let me read it to you.。
We've looked at the Christian life,。
we talked about letting the spirit drive,。
how we're God's children,。
all out of Romans chapter eight,。
we talked about how God waits for us。
and then last, two weeks ago rather,。
we took a break last week from Romans 8,。
two weeks ago we talked about how God flips。
everything for your good and so Paul says,。
what then, if this is true, what then,。
shall we say in response to these things?。
If God is for us, who can be against us?。
He who did not spare his own son。
but gave him up for us all,。
how will he not also along with him。
graciously give us all things?。
Who will bring any charge against those whom God has chosen?。
It is God who justifies.。
Who then is the one who condemns?。
No one.。
Christ Jesus who died, more than that,。
who was raised to life is at the right hand of God。
and is also interceding for us.。
Who shall separate us from the love of Christ?。
Shall trouble or hardship or persecution。
or famine or nakedness or danger or sword?。
As it is written, for your sake we face death all day long.。
We are considered as sheep to be slaughtered.。
No, in all these things we are more than conquerors。
through him who loved us.。
For I am convinced, Paul writes,。
for I am convinced that neither death nor life,。
neither angels nor demons,。
neither the present nor the future,。
nor any powers, neither height nor depth,。
nor anything else in all creation。
will be able to separate us from the love of God。
that is in Christ Jesus our Lord.。
Amen.。
And so we're gonna go through that passage verse by verse.。
And then I'm gonna give you four truths from the passage。
as we wrap up this amazing chapter in the scriptures.。
And so Paul is coming out, hey, you have been,。
God is going to glorify you.。
This is the specific good that he's giving to you.。
We know that in all things,。
God works together for the good of those who love him,。
who have been called according to his purpose.。
And two weeks ago, if you missed it,。
listen on the app or online if you missed it,。
two weeks ago we talked about。
what that good is specifically.。
And so Paul says, what then?。
I like to picture it like a rap battle or something.。
What then?。
What then?。
Shall we say in response to these things,。
if God is for us, who can be against us?。
And I think you're tempted to read that。
like God is on your team.。
Like maybe you're playing three on three basketball。
and you've got LeBron James on your team.。
And you're thinking, who then can stop us?。
That's not what this passage is saying.。
It's not saying that God is on your team。
and he's a really good player.。
It's saying that God is the referee。
and he's already said who's won.。
He's saying, no, God determines the outcome.。
It's been determined.。
And as you play the game, you know you've won。
because God gets to decide who won.。
This is not David and Goliath saying,。
oh, that's a giant, but I've got a bigger giant on my side.。
No, this is David fighting Goliath saying,。
yeah, that's a giant, but my giant controls that giant.。
My giant's numbered his days.。
My giant knows that he's about to die。
by a rock through his forehead, little giant.。
Let's go.。
He who did not spare his own son,。
but gave him up for us all,。
how will he not also along with him。
graciously give us all things?。
In the gospel, God proves himself to be crazy.。
Seems blasphemous.。
I find it to be true.。
I want you to consider if it is that God proves himself。
to be crazy out of his mind for you.。
You say, well, JP, how can you say that?。
Let me just give you a very direct metaphor。
or illustration if I might.。
If your heart fails and you need a heart transplant,。
and I have my son, Weston, my three-year-old son,。
whom I love very, very much, my only son,。
and I say, you need a new heart, take Weston's.。
You can have Weston's heart.。
Oh, I love Weston, but you can have his heart。
so that you can live.。
Would you not think for a moment, man, this guy's crazy.。
At least he's crazy about me.。
Why? He loves me more than his son.。
I mean, as he loves his son, he loves me,。
that he would give his own son's heart。
so that I might live like this is crazy.。
And what you wouldn't do is you wouldn't wonder,。
wonder if I can ask him for a stick of gum。
or a dollar.。
No, you'd be like this guy who is willingly handing over。
his son for my life would give me anything.。
If he would give his son, he'd give me anything.。
This is what this passage says.。
Who will bring any charge against those。
whom God has chosen?。
Verse 33.。
It is God who justifies.。
It's saying that God is the judge,。
and if the judge is for us, if the one who decides。
whether you are guilty or innocent is completely,。
totally, and radically on your side,。
who can be against you?。
Who then, verse 34, who then is the one who condemns?。
Who?。
Who can condemn us?。
Right?。
He answers it here in the NIV 2011.。
It says no one.。
Because, and here's why the no one,。
because Christ Jesus who died, more than that,。
who was raised to life and is now at the right hand of God,。
he didn't just die for your sins.。
He's alive so that he can intercede for you。
on your behalf to God, the creator。
of the heavens and the earth.。
He's there saying no, he's not guilty.。
Remember, I paid for that.。
I paid for what she did.。
I paid for that abortion.。
I paid for that porn addiction.。
I paid for that sex.。
I paid for that alcoholism.。
I paid for that self-righteousness.。
I paid for that legalism.。
I paid for it on the cross.。
They're not guilty.。
It's been paid for.。
If he's interceding for you,。
right, he's at the right hand of God.。
He's also interceding for you.。
You know what happened in that story?。
It's crazy.。
There I sat in the back of that police car。
waiting for my fate.。
Certainly it wasn't going to be good.。
And the girls whose house it was woke up.。
Police lights in her front yard, you know.。
Of course she woke up.。
And as guy after guy after guy who was,。
they were holding court essentially outside my door.。
He's guilty.。
He's guilty, that guy.。
That guy beat up a girl.。
He's guilty.。
She comes up.。
She goes, no, no.。
Hey guys, listen, policemen, come here.。
No, this is my house.。
I invited these men.。
No, they were here.。
What?。
They hit, I know these guys.。
They hit a girl.。
Hey, they didn't hit you.。
Did they hit?。
They didn't hit you.。
That's what I thought.。
They didn't hit her, see.。
What?。
Open the door.。
Unlock the cuffs.。
Told us to walk home.。
What?。
She steps up.。
I've never seen anything like it.。
The enemy's like, she had an abortion, God.。
Kill her.。
No, no.。
He's a pervert.。
Did you see what he did in his bathroom all by himself?。
He's a pervert.。
Kill him.。
Did you see them at Lake Louisville hitting the funnel?。
Did you see them on 8th Street?。
Did you see what they were doing?。
They said they loved you.。
Just kill them.。
No, because I killed him.。
Because I killed him instead of them.。
They're mine.。
They're mine.。
They belong to me and my kingdom forever.。
That's the beautiful gospel.。
Who shall separate us from the love of Christ?。
Verse 35.。
If God is the judge determining the outcome。
and Christ is giving testimony in your defense,。
not that you're good, but that he's paid for your wrong,。
he's paid for the wrong you've done,。
then if that is the case, shall trouble or hardship。
or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword,。
as it is written, for your sake we face death all day long.。
We are considered as sheep to be slaughtered.。
That comes from Psalm chapter 44, verse 22.。
And I believe that is in here。
because Paul is saying, this is not a new idea.。
People who have followed Jehovah have suffered。
in the Old Testament, BC, before Christ.。
They've suffered from the beginning.。
They've suffered.。
What's gonna separate us from the love of Christ?。
He's saying, Christian, every evil thing。
that could happen to you will happen to Christians.。
In this fallen world, it will happen.。
You trusting in Christ does not mean that you're protected。
from the evil that can happen to you.。
It means that you can overcome it.。
It means that you can rise above it.。
It means that you will be rewarded through it, for it,。
conformed to the image of Christ because of it.。
And so you say, we don't have clothes to wear.。
How can God be good?。
We're hungry.。
How can God be good?。
Christians are losing their heads.。
How can God be good?。
Or maybe you say, I'm still single.。
How can God be good?。
I don't make enough money.。
How can God be good?。
I can't pay rent.。
How can God be good?。
Verse 37, you win in Jesus, you win.。
No, in all these things,。
we are more than conquerors through him who loved us.。
No, in all of these sufferings, we are more than conquerors.。
It's like a made up word.。
It's like, Paul is not saying, hey, you're an endurer.。
In all these troubles, you're gonna endure.。
You're an endurer.。
He's not saying in all of these troubles,。
you'll overcome, you're a conqueror.。
He's saying, no, you're, I don't know,。
you're more than a conqueror.。
You'll have something greater than victory.。
Something I don't even have a word for.。
You're more than a conqueror.。
We win.。
Let me tell you something.。
Jesus promised you two things.。
It's John 16, verse 33.。
He says, in this world, you will have trouble.。
I'll read it from the beginning.。
It says this, I have told you these things。
so that in me, you may have peace.。
In this world, in Dallas, in Fort Worth, in Houston,。
and wherever you're at, you're going to have trouble.。
That's, I'm promising you, you're going to have trouble.。
But take heart, I've overcome the world.。
Here are the two promises.。
Promise one, you're going to have trouble.。
Promise two, you can trust him for peace.。
He says, have peace.。
Take heart, I've overcome the world.。
Okay, so here's the two promises.。
You're going to have trouble and you can trust him.。
Do not forsake the second promise because of the first.。
Do not get to the trouble and say, I can't trust God.。
No, when you get to the trouble, you say,。
oh, God told me I was going to have trouble.。
He promised me that.。
That means if I could trust that promise,。
that I could trust this promise, that I could trust him.。
Let the trouble serve as a reminder that you can trust him.。
Oh, I'm suffering.。
Oh, this world is broken, it's hard.。
I feel alone, I feel lonely.。
Oh, that's right, God, Jesus promised me that I would.。
He promised me that I would.。
And what was the other promise?。
Oh, he told me that I could have peace.。
He told me that I could trust him。
because he's overcome the world.。
What this means is he's already promised this future world。
that he's kind of building through his people.。
It's this weird, theologians call it,。
already, not yet theology.。
It's this crazy idea that we're in this world,。
this earth that will be completely new。
and renovated and perfected,。
and we will live in it forever and ever and ever and ever.。
And 100 years from now,。
it will not matter that you're single.。
100 years from now,。
it will not matter that you got laid off.。
100 years from now, it will not matter,。
dare I say it, that you have cancer.。
It won't matter.。
A billion years from now, it won't matter.。
For I am, verse 38, convinced。
that neither death nor life,。
neither angels nor demons,。
neither the present nor the future or any powers,。
neither height nor depth,。
nor anything else in all creation。
will be able to separate us from the love of God。
that is in Christ Jesus, our Lord.。
He's saying there is no state of being,。
no created being, no time, no power, no measurement,。
not anything in all of creation。
that ever was or that ever will be。
that will separate you from God's love for us。
that is secured by Jesus Christ.。
It cannot happen,。
and it leaves no room for the possibility.。
It is an impossibility for you to be separated。
by God's love for you.。
And so let's look at four truths。
from this passage for you tonight.。
We'll go quickly.。
Number one, there is no accusation brought against you。
that will prevail.。
This comes from verses 31 through 33.。
You will not be found guilty of any accusation。
that the enemy will bring against you,。
even those that you are guilty of.。
This guy's drunk in the back of this car, innocent.。
What?。
The enemy says you're guilty,。
and Jesus says, nope, I paid his sentence.。
The enemy says you had an abortion, you had sex,。
you're a pervert looking at porn,。
and it wasn't just normal porn.。
It was same-sex porn.。
He said, crazy things against you.。
You cut yourself, you're so gross.。
And Jesus says, no, man, they're not gross, they're mine.。
And they win, and you lose,。
and everything that is mine is theirs.。
It's like they're rewarded in me,。
and I take joy in forgiving them their sins no longer.。
The scripture says no longer holding their sins。
against them.。
It is for God's pleasure that he does it.。
They're not gross, you fool.。
They're mine, my children, praise him.。
At the foot of the cross, there is accusation,。
but at the empty tomb, there is none.。
The second truth from this sentence, or this passage,。
there is no condemnation sentenced to you。
that you will pay.。
This comes from verse 34.。
There is no condemnation sentenced to you。
that you will pay.。
You will not be punished or sentenced。
for any said accusation.。
The enemy says, give them to me, let them burn in hell。
like they deserve, and Jesus says, no.。
Remember when I paid an eternal punishment on the cross。
because I'm an eternal God.。
I'm the only thing on the planet。
that can satisfy an eternal sentence.。
Because I'm an eternal God,。
in a moment it can be satisfied on the cross.。
I've paid for the hell that they deserve.。
They will not go there.。
It was satisfied on me.。
Because of his porn, because of his self-righteousness,。
because of her need for approval from men,。
because of her lack of trust and parents。
or authority or whatever, I paid for it.。
Here's the classic illustration, one I love is,。
it's like you stand before the judge, he's there,。
you're in the courtroom, you're front and center.。
The accusations have been piled on, you're found guilty.。
The judge in his robe stands up from the chair。
and hits the gavel, guilty, guilty.。
And then he steps down from the platform,。
from behind the podium.。
He walks to the ground, he takes his robe off,。
he puts it on you.。
And he says, I'll pay the sentence.。
I'll pay the punishment they deserve.。
And not only that, but my loved one,。
my dear, dear daughter, my dear son,。
you move into my place, you move into my estate,。
my mansion, my palace, where I live, it's yours.。
I'm gonna go to prison for you.。
This is the gospel.。
Third truth is there is no separation of you。
from God's love, comes from verses 35 through 36。
and 38 through 39.。
You will know what you've been missing,。
this void in your heart that you've been trying to fill。
with the approval of men, a boyfriend,。
significant others, a job, material things, a car,。
the obsessions that you have, shows, whatnot.。
That void that you've been trying to fill,。
you'll see it filled completely。
and why you were left wanting that it was only God,。
only Jesus who can fill that.。
And so you will know what you've been missing。
and you will not be missing anything all at one time.。
You will know what you've been missing。
and you will not be missing anything all in one time.。
The fullness of everything you ever wanted realized。
in God's presence.。
And it says that his love, it's following you.。
You can't be separated from it.。
It's following you like your shadow.。
You ever tried to outrun your shadow?。
No, no, it's following you like your shadow.。
And not only that, but it's in front of you like the horizon.。
Everywhere you go, it's behind you.。
Everywhere you go, it's in front of you.。
You turn here, it's there.。
You turn here, it's there.。
You turn here, it's there and there and there, right?。
It's all around you.。
You cannot get away from God's love.。
It won't happen.。
You cannot outrun the love of God.。
You cannot outrun the love of God.。
It's following you like a shadow.。
It's in front of you like the horizon.。
And the fourth truth from this text is this.。
God gives good to you without reservation.。
That's verse 32.。
God gives good to you without reservation.。
And I think this is the one。
you might struggle with the most.。
And I think we say, well, what good, JP?。
What good is he giving?。
It's not the good I want.。
I mean, this is the good I want.。
I don't have it.。
Why don't I have the good that I want?。
And here's what I would tell you as lovingly as I can.。
You don't know what you want.。
Like you don't want,。
what you want today is not what you wanted yesterday.。
It's not what you wanted last week or a year ago.。
You don't know, like who should determine what you want?。
God, the sovereign being creator of the heavens。
and the earth who is been eternity past。
and eternity future?。
Or you in a moment.。
I've heard it said, if we knew everything God does,。
then we would pray for what he gives.。
If we knew everything that God does,。
then we would pray for what he gives.。
The good that you want, it's always changed, man.。
Let me try to prove this to you.。
I've got three children, Presley, who is nine,。
Finley, who is seven, and Weston, who is three.。
I love them all.。
I sat with them this week.。
I asked them this question.。
I said, kiddos, come here.。
If God could give you anything,。
right now, if he would give you anything that you ask for,。
what would you ask him for?。
Presley, my oldest, spoke up.。
She said, I would ask him for enough food。
to feed everyone who was hungry.。
It's where you say, oh, oh, that's sweet.。
Oh, Presley, very benevolent, very kind, very caring.。
What a selfless ask of God, feed those who are hungry.。
Finley, what about you?。
Said, daddy, I would ask for wings so I could fly.。
(congregation laughing)。
Okay, all right, all right, good.。
Weston, what about you?。
I want a donut.。
(congregation laughing)。
Okay, got one.。
The spectrum is enough food to feed everyone and a donut.。
I mean, that's the end of the spectrum.。
These are the things that I want.。
And so he's just like, hey, I want a donut.。
And so I don't know what you would ask for.。
You might be, I want a spouse or a new job or health,。
and you're gonna get up there and you're gonna find out。
that thing that you wanted most, it was a donut.。
He wanted a donut.。
And you're like, no, no, no, JP, how can you say that?。
I'm like, yeah, of course, right?。
We always think that we've graduated。
to some higher learning, some higher level of education。
or understanding, and today is not the day。
we're asking for a donut, just like Weston thinks.。
No, it's not a donut.。
You're gonna get up there and be like, man, how?。
Today, today, it won't be on that day, today,。
how dare you that you kept me single?。
How dare you that you took that loved one?。
How dare you that I didn't get that job?。
You were tempted to doubt God's goodness,。
and you get up there and you're like,。
oh, I was asking you for a donut.。
I see that now.。
I was down there like saying,。
God, would you give me a glazed crispy cream?。
You know, it's like that's the reality of my,。
and it's insult, you're furious.。
Some of you are furious right now.。
How dare you have the audacity?。
For I know that all things work together。
for the good of those who love Him。
who have been called according to His purpose.。
It's not me who has the audacity.。
It's the God that created you that says,。
no, it may not look good, smell good,。
taste good, seem good, but wait for it,。
'cause it will produce good.。
There's not a single person at the cross。
that's like, you tell me,。
like 'cause I'm just, I'll be transparent with you.。
Like I'm following Jesus, Jesus,。
I'm betting the farm on you.。
Everybody says that I'm, everybody says that I'm crazy,。
but then there's something, you're doing something, okay.。
I'm going all in with Jesus.。
Next thing you know, Jesus is screaming on two sticks。
with nails in His hand, bloody.。
Everybody's laughing at Him,。
entertained by His gruesome death.。
And you're standing there and you're,。
I promise you more than any other time in creation,。
you're gonna be tempted to doubt the goodness of God.。
That ain't good.。
That's not good.。
I went all in with Him.。
There's no way that could be good.。
He's dead.。
Wait for it.。
Wait for it, man.。
I'm gonna show you something really amazing.。
Wait for it, trust me.。
In this world, you will have trouble and wait for it.。
So in summary, let me give this to you again.。
The love of God cuts through all accusations,。
condemnation, and separation。
to give you good without reservation.。
Every night, most nights, not tonight, I'm with you.。
Most nights I tuck my kids in, we say our prayers.。
I ask them two questions all the time.。
Multiple times a week, I ask them the same two questions.。
Same two questions.。
Here's what I ask them, Presley, Finley, Weston.。
What would make me stop loving you?。
And the only right answer is nothing.。
And they say nothing, they respond to nothing, Daddy.。
Sometimes they have fun with it,。
sometimes I have fun with it.。
They'll begin to ask rhetorical questions.。
Daddy, what if we run away from home?。
I'll find you, I won't stop loving you.。
What could make me stop loving you?。
Daddy, what if someone takes us?。
I'll go Liam Neeson on 'em, man, they'll find you.。
(congregation laughing)。
I will find you.。
Daddy, I mean, the other day, right,。
they're messing with me now, right?。
She's like, what if we worship Satan?。
Come on, man.。
I'm not gonna stop loving you, I'll be sad.。
I'm like, where did you learn that?。
Did your mama teach you that?。
(congregation laughing)。
I'm not gonna stop loving you.。
There's nothing that can make me stop loving you.。
And the second question is this,。
who loves you more than Daddy?。
To which they say God, to which I say, who else?。
And they say no one.。
Sometimes they say Jesus, 'cause we haven't got。
the Trinity thing down and we're working on that.。
I'm like, no, God is Jesus and the Holy Spirit,。
but we'll later, you know?。
But I say, who loves you more than Daddy?。
God.。
There's a daddy that says, there's nothing。
that's gonna make me stop loving you, I promise.。
There's nothing that's going to make me stop loving you.。
I promise you.。
And there is someone who loves you more than me.。
He's perfect.。
My love's so imperfect.。
It's got my emotions and weird insecurities wrapped up in it。
but this God, this being, this person loves you perfectly。
more than I do.。
And there's nothing in the world。
that's gonna separate you from that.。
That's what I want you to leave here with.。
I want you to leave here with the promises of God.。
So I'm gonna pray, my friends are gonna sing,。
come up and sing a song over us.。
You can listen to the words as you sit there。
and you'll have a chance to respond in just a moment.。
But I want you to listen carefully。
to the promises of God tonight.。
And so Father, thank you so much。
that your love for us is not conditional.。
God, we don't know unconditional love.。
Every love that we've experienced on this earth。
is some flavor of conditional love。
based on our performance or based on a covenant。
or based on us keeping something。
and yet you love us unconditionally,。
not because of what we can do for you。
but because of what you've done for us.。
Father, would you please help us know that,。
help me understand that for my friends。
who followed you for a while,。
would you awaken that truth and hope in their hearts?。
And for my friends that don't know you in the room。
or that are listening,。
Father, would you please penetrate their hardened hearts,。
crack them open and overwhelm them with this reality。
that they can't run fast enough。
or sin hard enough to get away from your love,。
that there is nothing that's going to separate us from it,。
not anything in all of creation,。
not anything that could come against us,。
not anything that could be done to us,。
that there is nothing that will separate us。
from your love, God.。
Would you help us believe that?。
As we sit here and as this song is sung over us,。
Father, would you remind us of these truths?。
We love you so much.。
(gentle music)。
♪ More than I know ♪。
♪ More than I'd hope ♪。
♪ Your love is strong ♪。
♪ Nothing can break or separate ♪。
♪ Your love is strong ♪。
♪ The measure of what shall we say ♪。
♪ If God is for us, who can be against ♪。
♪ The measure of His matchless love ♪。
♪ He did not spare His Son but gave Him up for us ♪。
♪ I stand amazed ♪。
♪ I stand amazed ♪。
♪ More than I know ♪。
♪ More than I'd hope ♪。
♪ Your love is strong ♪。
♪ Nothing can break or separate ♪。
♪ Your love is strong ♪。
♪ Who can condemn ♪。
♪ He justifies ♪。
♪ Through Jesus Christ who lived and He who died ♪。
♪ And more than that ♪。
♪ He beat the grave ♪。
♪ Now seated on the throne forever ♪。
♪ I stand amazed ♪。
♪ I stand amazed ♪。
♪ More than I know ♪。
♪ More than I'd hope ♪。
♪ Your love is strong ♪。
♪ Nothing can break or separate ♪。
♪ Your love is strong ♪。
- For as high as the heavens are above the earth,。
so great is His love for those who fear Him.。
As far as the east is from the west,。
so far has He removed our transgressions from us.。
- God has said, "Never will I leave you.。
"Never will I forsake you."。
So we say with confidence, "The Lord is my helper.。
"I will not be afraid.。
"What can mere mortals do to me?"。
- The Lord is the everlasting God,。
the creator of all the earth.。
He never grows weak or weary.。
No one can measure the depths of His understanding.。
He has power to the weak and strength to the powerless.。
- Though the mountains be shaken,。
the hills be removed,。
yet my unfailing love for you will not be shaken,。
nor my covenant of peace be removed,。
says the Lord who has compassion on you.。
- There is therefore now no condemnation。
for those who are in Christ Jesus,。
for the law of the spirit of life。
has set you free in Christ from the law of sin and death.。
- For I am convinced that neither death nor life,。
neither angels nor demons,。
neither the present nor the future nor any powers,。
neither height nor depth nor anything else in all creation。
will be able to separate us from the love of God。
that is in Christ Jesus, our Lord.。
♪ Separate ♪。
♪ Separate ♪。
♪ For the love is strong ♪。
♪ More than I know ♪。
♪ More than I hold ♪。
♪ Your love is strong ♪。
♪ Nothing can break ♪。
♪ Or separate ♪。
♪ Your love ♪。
♪ Your love is strong ♪。
♪ And more than I know ♪。
♪ More than I hold ♪。
♪ Your love is strong ♪。
♪ Nothing can break ♪。
♪ Or separate ♪。
♪ Your love is strong ♪。
One more time, more than I know.。
♪ More than I know ♪。
♪ More than I hold ♪。
♪ Your love is strong ♪。
♪ Nothing can break ♪。
♪ Or separate ♪。
♪ Your love is strong ♪。
♪ Strong ♪。
Amen.。
(congregation applauding)。
He's crazy about you, man.。
And daughter, sons,。
he is wildly in love, madly, crazy,。
truly, deeply, incredibly in love with you.。
And don't you dare,。
don't you dare insult the cross.。
Do not insult the death of Jesus Christ。
by thinking that you've sinned。
to some past degree that he can forgive.。
That would be ridiculous.。
And whenever you face the troubles in this world,。
you hold fast to the reality。
that Jesus looked you in the face。
through the word of God, by the spirit of God,。
and said, "That's gonna happen.。
"You can trust me.。
"I got you.。
"I'm doing something in you。
"that is better than you could ever imagine,。
"and you're going to be somewhere more beautiful。
"than you can fathom with me。
"in the presence of God in his fullness。
"forever and ever and ever and ever and ever,。
"and it's better than anything that you even know of。
"or can think of or can imagine."。
That's the truth.。
It's been so fun to be with you。
moving through this single chapter。
in the Bible that is so rich with theology。
and truths about our God and creator,。
our savior and Lord, his Holy Spirit.。
And so tonight, hang out with us.。
We have ministry partners out there.。
You can go and talk through, interview,。
meet with other organizations that we partner with here。
as we sit on the porch and look out on our city。
and meet the needs of the city.。
If you're going through life alone。
and you're in this place where you're like,。
"Man, I just don't know any cool Christians, man.。
"I don't know anybody that I just even want。
"to hang out with that knows Jesus."。
If you're a guy, I'd strongly encourage you。
to walk down this hallway and into a room over there,。
and there'll be lots of other guys。
asking some of those same questions。
in this deal we call Open Community Group.。
If you're a girl, walk down this hallway。
and in a room over there,。
and there'll be lots of girls in that room。
asking those same sorts of questions.。
If you're looking for community or have questions about it,。
please check that out.。
Up here is gonna be a lot of folks。
with light bulbs on their shirts,。
basically ready to answer your questions,。
to pray with you, to wrestle with you out there.。
Is that what you're telling me?。
Everywhere, they're everywhere.。
Ali Wall says they're everywhere.。
She wants you to know.。
Our people with light bulbs on their shirts.。
And so go up to them, ask them, say,。
"Hey, will you pray for me?"。
That's why they're here.。
You can just walk up and say,。
"Hey, I'd love to ask you this question.。
"I'd love for you to pray for me."。
And they would love to do that.。
I love you guys so much, I really do.。
I wanna change the world with you。
for the sake of Jesus Christ,。
for his glory, for his fame, for his namesake.。
And so, hey, Shane B wrote that song this week,。
we just sang, we were like,。
"Hey, will you write a song?"。
So let's thank him for that.。
[congregation applauding]。
It's a gift.。
It's a gift to the church, these guys and their voices,。
and just the way they lead us in worship.。
And so thank you guys.。
Go in peace to love and serve the Lord.。
