[Music]。
Let's go, Porsche, come on!。
[Cheers]。
Man, it's so great to be back with you guys.。
I love this place. You need to know that. I love this place.。
We don't know each other. I used to hang out here for a long time.。
And I love the people here. I love Kyle.。
I'm so thankful for his leadership and the way that God is using him.。
And those aren't just platitudes. As I sit there and I worship, I'm just like,。
"Holy Spirit, you are moving in this place."。
He was so kind to say that you're going to get to hear from me.。
But my prayer is really, literally, today that you would hear from God.。
Not my words, but the Holy Spirit would intersect with those words and change lives.。
And some of you, you're like, "Oh, man, I didn't even know where I was coming to.。
A friend invited me to the porch. I thought I was going to a restaurant."。
And here we are. And so I'm glad you're here.。
No drink specials tonight, but we have the water that will make you never thirst again.。
I'll show you something I brought with me tonight.。
And so this here is $100 bills.。
And so you can kind of see that, right? I don't know.。
I figured I would give it to somebody.。
And so, yeah, a couple of hands.。
Okay, I'm going to do that. Before I do, before we give it away,。
I've got to tell you the story behind it.。
People have different hobbies.。
My biggest hobby is Facebook Marketplace, okay?。
I buy and sell. I know, there's like me and you.。
I buy and sell stuff on Facebook Marketplace.。
And so I had this motorcycle for sale, and this guy DMs me and says,。
"By the way, it's 1130 at night, almost midnight."。
And he DMs me. My phone, I'm up. My phone makes that noise.。
I'm like, "Oh, I got a DM."。
And he goes, "Hey, I want to see your bike right now."。
And I was like, "Hey, that's not happening."。
And then he responds with some curse words.。
So I was like, "No big deal, buddy. You're not going to happen."。
Well, the next day I'm going on a date with Monica, my wife,。
and we're on our way to this restaurant.。
We actually pull up to the restaurant, and my phone makes that noise.。
I get a DM. And I look at it. He goes, "Yo, I'm at your house."。
Which is confusing because he didn't have my address.。
So I'm like, "How did he get to my house?"。
And I'm kind of panicking because the kids are there by themselves.。
I'm like, "What do I do?" And I look at Monica, and I'm like, "Okay."。
I'm trying to figure out how I tell her the back story of what's going on.。
And then right then, my neighbor calls me.。
My phone rings, and it's my neighbor, Tyler.。
Tyler's who you want to have as a neighbor.。
He runs marathons for fun with guns.。
No joke. I don't know what it is, but you run a marathon, and you shoot stuff.。
That's what he does for fun. That's my neighbor. He always knows what's going on.。
So he calls me, and he says, "Hey, you know somebody's on your lawn?"。
He's always watching, right? And I go, "Yeah, Tyler, man. Here's what's going on."。
And I kind of catch him up. I'm like, "I got this motorcycle for sale.。
This dude DMs me." And now he just shows up.。
I don't even know how he got my address. And Tyler, he's like, "Yo, I got you."。
And I'm like, "What do you mean?" He goes, "The bike's in the garage?"。
And I'm like, "Yeah." He goes, "I'll show it to him. If he wants to buy it, I'll take the cash.。
If he doesn't, I'll send him on his way."。
I was like, "Yo, Tyler, man. Love your neighbor as yourself, you know? That's what's up."。
And so then Monica and I, we're at the restaurant now, this Italian place,。
and we got the Ring Cam, you know?。
And so we just pull up the Ring Cam, and we're being entertained as we sit there,。
you know, ordering spaghetti.。
And I see the guy there. He's got a perfect view.。
I see Tyler go get my motorcycle out of the garage.。
I see him walk it out to the street to the back of this guy's truck.。
And then they're out there for a long time. It kind of stalls for a minute.。
Like, "What's going on? He doesn't like the bike. I don't know."。
You know, he's looking at it. And no, I see him hand Tyler some money, right?。
And then, again, it just stalls. It's taking way too long.。
"What's going on?" You know, we're just watching, right?。
And then I see Tyler walk the bike back to the garage.。
And then he calls me again. He goes, "Hey, did you see that?"。
I was like, "How'd you know?"。
And I go, "Yeah, what happened?"。
"I saw you bring out the bike, and then I saw you put it back.。
I saw him give you money." I go, "What happened?"。
This is what he said, okay?。
He goes, "Fake bills."。
I go, "What do you mean?"。
He goes, "He was trying to buy your motorcycle with fake money."。
And I was like, "Well, how did you know?"。
Because I'm like, "Would I have sold it to him? I probably would have been like,。
'Thanks, man. Here's the bike. Thank God for Tyler.'"。
He goes, "Well, I just held it up to the light.。
It felt funny to me. I held it up to the light,。
and I realized it didn't have all the markings that it was supposed to have.。
It wasn't authentic. It wasn't real."。
And so, you know, what you need to know about this。
is I bought it for $12 on Timu.。
You know? Right?。
And the reason I start there is because, like, you're at church on Tuesday night.。
Okay? You're singing some song.。
♪ Battle belongs to... ♪。
♪ I fight on my knees... ♪。
♪ Hands raised, hands lifted high. Oh, God. ♪。
Right?。
Surely you're a real-deal Christian.。
And what I learned doing ministry here for a long time。
is that there's people that memorize scriptures.。
They got Icthus tattoos on their ankles,。
Philippians 4.13 on their letter jackets.。
You know?。
And they--all the things--。
But, like, you look at last night or last week。
or your search history,。
okay, the hashtags you click on,。
your TikTok algorithms,。
and you're like, "Wait a minute.。
I don't know that Jesus is actually reigning in my life."。
And I'm not trying to scare you, okay?。
This is not--this is not a fear tactic.。
I just get compensated to tell you the truth.。
And I want you to know there's a real danger。
to you going out there saying,。
"Hey, I'm the real-deal Christ follower,"。
but you not being the real-deal Christ follower。
because you have an enemy, and he hates you.。
I studied--I spent the last three years。
studying spiritual warfare,。
everything the Bible has to say about Satan.。
The Scripture says more about spiritual warfare。
than it does about marriage.。
And here are some conclusions.。
I'll give you the punchlines up front.。
You don't even need to buy the book.。
This was all for a book.。
You don't need to buy the book.。
I'll tell you some conclusions I made.。
It's one, you've got an enemy, he hates you.。
He hates your spouse before you met your spouse,。
and he hates your children long before they were born.。
And he studied you and generations past,。
your parents and your grandparents。
and your great-grandparents,。
and he knows your inclination to sin.。
He understands your appetite.。
And when I say "he," there's thousands,。
hundreds of thousands of demons, of devils, right?。
They have a leader, but there's lots of them.。
And he's not in any way--。
listen, listen--。
he's not in any way afraid of you.。
You don't scare him in the slightest.。
He's not going to be like, "Oh, I know jujitsu."。
No, that's not going to work, okay?。
He's terrified of your God.。
He is terrified of your Jesus.。
So you want to make sure。
that you're the real deal follower of Jesus.。
Like, you don't know of him, you know him.。
You have a--that's different.。
I know of him, I've read his book.。
That's different than I commune with him,。
I talk with him, I have a relationship with him.。
I know his voice. It's different.。
And let me show you from the Scriptures the danger.。
There's a story in Acts 19.。
That's not where I'm going to be, this is just a setup.。
I'm going to be in Ephesians 6, but to set it up,。
there's a story in Acts 19 where Paul--。
Paul was this dude who was lost,。
he would have been hung over, you know, at the port.。
He was lost, he was a religious zealot, actually,。
and a terrorist, okay?。
That's this guy.。
And he has this radical conversion,。
and he becomes the greatest missionary。
the world has ever known, and now the church is moving.。
And in Acts 19, people who get near Paul。
are healed in the name of Jesus.。
Like, if his shadow falls on somebody,。
they couldn't walk, and all of a sudden they can walk.。
Like, they couldn't see, now they could see.。
They couldn't hear, now they could hear.。
They couldn't talk, now they could talk.。
Like, he's healing people.。
The Spirit of God, through him, is healing people.。
And he's casting out demons.。
And there's these seven brothers, okay?。
Their dad's name is Sceva.。
Sceva's a Jewish priest.。
And these seven brothers are going around,。
and they saw Paul.。
Like, they saw him at the porch, hands raised.。
They're like, "I'll fight all night."。
They're singing a song, you know, getting the tattoos,。
letterjacked, the whole deal.。
And so what they do, they see a demon-possessed man,。
and they go up to him, and they say,。
"Hey, in the name of Jesus, who Paul talks about, come out."。
This is what it says.。
"One day the evil spirit answered them,。
'Jesus I know, and Paul I know about, but who are you?'。
Then the man who had the evil spirit jumped on them。
and overpowered them all.。
He gave them such a beating that they ran out of the house。
naked and bleeding."。
Now, here's a question.。
Did that happen?。
Did that really--is that history?。
Is that like--like somebody saw it, they wrote it down.。
Does it happen today?。
I don't know if you caught it.。
It's seven dudes ran up to one guy,。
and that guy turns on them with a demon,。
and he fights them, and they leave naked and bleeding.。
Like nobody's wondering who won.。
This isn't like, you know, Jake Paul versus Tyson,。
was it thrown?。
You know, nobody's asking.。
Like you go into a fight with clothes on,。
and you leave without clothes on?。
You lost every time.。
It's like, loser, take the L.。
You lost to the demon man.。
Why?。
Because they were pretending to know Jesus.。
You know who knew Jesus?。
The demon did.。
They got whooped because they were pretending。
to have a relationship with Jesus.。
I'm going to be in Ephesians chapter 6.。
We're going to look at the armor of God chapter.。
I'm going to give you seven articles。
toward victory in this state of warfare.。
That's the reality.。
If you were a real Christian,。
you understand you are in real warfare.。
That's not a word we use often,。
spiritual warfare.。
And so if you are a real Christian,。
a follower of Jesus,。
then you understand, right?。
You start reading the book,。
and you understand you are in a battle,。
at war, in warfare.。
And that's the message today.。
And I'm going to fly.。
I'm breaking preaching rules.。
I'm going to go too fast.。
I'm going to give you too much.。
You write down as fast as you can.。
Don't get stuck.。
If I say something,。
you're like, "Oh, let me wonder about that."。
No, no, no.。
Write it down and think about it tomorrow.。
Because I'm going to keep going,。
and the train's going to leave you.。
I'm just telling you,。
it's going to be like drinking from a fire hydrant.。
So take notes as fast as you can.。
I'm going to be in verses 10 through 18,。
Ephesians chapter 6.。
Paul wrote this.。
Here's the setup,。
just so you know what's going on.。
Paul wrote this.。
He's in prison in Rome,。
but on house arrest.。
He's got one of those ankle bracelets.。
That's what's going on.。
Some of you got those tonight.。
So we're glad you're here.。
Welcome, welcome, welcome.。
Paul's on house arrest,。
most likely chained to a Roman soldier.。
And so as he's kind of talking through these pieces,。
we're like, "Put on the helmet of salvation。
"and the breastplate of righteousness。
"and the belt of truth."。
And like, maybe you grew up in that church.。
I'm like, "I don't know what that means."。
I don't do well when I'm like, "Wait, is it on?。
"I don't know 'cause I can't see."。
So I think, here's my suspicion.。
I think Paul is talking about the marks of a true Christian.。
Someone who has a real relationship with Jesus,。
an authentic Christian.。
That's what I think he's talking about here.。
And this is what he says,。
"Finally, brothers, finally be strong in the Lord。
"and in his mighty power."。
You don't have to be afraid.。
You have access to God's power.。
"Put on the full armor of God."。
It's not an article, like one thing after the other.。
He's like, "Put it," in the Greek, it's like,。
"It's all on," or not.。
"Put on the full armor of God。
"so that you can take your," what's the word?。
One more time.。
"You can take your," what's the word?。
Yeah, "Underline it when you see it。
"'cause you're gonna see it a lot.。
"So that you can take your stand。
"against the devil's schemes.。
"For our struggle is not against flesh and blood,。
"but against the rulers, against the authorities,。
"against the powers of this dark world,。
"and against the spiritual forces of evil。
"in the heavenly realms."。
This is huge.。
Your enemy is not your roommate.。
Your enemy is not your boyfriend。
or your ex-boyfriend's girlfriend.。
Okay?。
Your enemy is not that person。
who sat behind you in calculus.。
Your enemy's not your neighbor。
whose dog barks in the middle of the night.。
That's not your enemy.。
Your enemy is demons.。
They hate you,。
and they'll use people to discourage you.。
And whenever you cut yourself,。
hate yourself, wanna kill yourself,。
whenever you poison yourself with alcohol,。
and you're like, "This is amazing!。
"One more drink, drink!。
"We're playing drink, and you drink!。
"And you're having fun, and then you're hugging the toilet!"。
They receive it as worship.。
You're like, "Vape, the THC,。
"like, oh man, I just gotta escape my reality!"。
They're like, "Worship."。
You hear me?。
They receive it as worship.。
They love it when you hurt yourself.。
Like, you have sex, the soul ties,。
the bonds, and then the rip, and the heartbreak,。
and you can't sleep, and you're crying!。
And they're just like, "This is amazing, guys.。
"Hey, circle up and watch it.。
"He's so pathetic."。
And they receive it as worship.。
"I'm not playing games.。
"What's going on?"。
Therefore, put on the full armor of God。
so that when the day of evil comes,。
that's the moment of your greatest temptation,。
can't sleep at 2.30 at night,。
what are you gonna do, who you gonna call?。
You may be able to stand your ground,。
and after you've done everything to stand,。
there it is again, then stand firm。
with the belt of truth buckled around your waist.。
Okay, we're gonna fly, you ready?。
Number one, first point, walk in the truth.。
Real followers of Jesus who understand real warfare。
walk in the truth.。
There is a war over what is true,。
and you grew up in a generation, lucky you, right,。
where it's their truth, and your truth,。
and his truth, and her truth, and our truth,。
and that's just not the truth.。
Okay, if your truth is you can fly,。
and you go up to the top of the Bank of America building,。
and you jump off, the truth, capital T truth of gravity。
is going to show you that your truth was a lie.。
Okay, there is truth, and there's this war。
that's fought over what's true,。
but here's the problem with most of you.。
Now hear me out, okay, 'cause I know it feels like。
I'm throwing shade early in the game.。
Hear me out.。
Most of you aren't on a truth journey.。
You're on a happiness journey.。
You're not asking, well, what's true,。
'cause I wanna pursue that no matter what it costs.。
You're like, what's gonna make me happy?。
And that's all I want.。
Like if I can believe a lie, and it makes me happy,。
then I wanna believe a lie,。
and if I can know the truth, but it makes me sad,。
then I don't wanna know the truth.。
Keep me naive to the truth, right?。
Here's the good news, is the truth will set you free.。
Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life,。
and no one gets to the Father except through him.。
That's the good news, and if you believe a lie,。
it may make you temporarily happy,。
but at some point, you're going to come to the realization。
that it's a lie, and it's gonna make you very, very, very sad.。
Okay?。
So find the truth.。
With the breastplate of righteousness in place,。
number two, acting in righteousness.。
Okay, if you are a real follower of Jesus,。
and you understand that there is real warfare,。
then you are acting in righteousness.。
The breastplate of righteousness, it guards your heart.。
It protects your heart.。
Your heart, this is what you need to know about your heart.。
Your heart works like Netflix.。
Do you guys understand what I mean by that?。
Okay, you know how Netflix works?。
You like suits?。
How about The Office?。
What about Office Space?。
Right, you like Gossip Girl?。
What about Gilmore Girls?。
What about the Summer I Turned Pretty?。
What about Outer Banks, right?。
Just me, no?。
Okay, like that's how your heart works.。
You feed it something.。
Some people say, "Well, the heart wants what it wants,"。
Selena Gomez.。
No, the heart wants, listen, the heart wants what it's fed.。
Okay, your heart wants more of what it's fed.。
Listen, okay, because I used to have this,。
because I spent a lot of time here.。
I love this place, man.。
It's like home for me.。
I love you guys, man.。
I look out there, and I'm just like,。
the future of the church is bright.。
Oh, praise God.。
I used to have this conversation here all the time, okay,。
right here, right like right there.。
I'd stand there.。
Young lady would come up.。
"Pastor, I need help.。
"I need some relationship advice.。
"I only date losers."。
I don't know what's wrong with me.。
I'm only attracted to losers.。
Like I'm attracted to guys that hurt me.。
Can you help me?。
And I go, "Hey, let me ask you a few questions."。
"Sure, sure, ask away."。
Okay, "Hey, what's your favorite songs?。
"What music do you listen to?。
"Who's your favorite artist?"。
She's like, "No, I'm looking for a relationship advice."。
"I got you.。
"Hang in there with me, okay?。
"Hang in there.。
"We're going to get there.。
"Just hang in there real quick.。
"Who's your favorite artist?"。
"Man, I don't know.。
"Sabrina Carpenter, you know, please, please, please.。
"Espresso, that's a jam, a real bop.。
"Anything by Taylor, you know, like the Queen, right?。
"I mean, come on.。
"Oh, gosh, you know, Virginia Beach, Drake,。
"got to throw Kendrick in there, you know, that's..."。
And I go, "Okay, okay, all right, all right, all right.。
"Okay, what's your favorite show?"。
"Oh, man, I may have confused you.。
"I'm looking for a relationship advice."。
"No, I got you, I got you.。
"What's your favorite show?"。
"I don't know, man.。
"Love Island, uh..."。
(congregation laughing)。
"But, Pastor, I just don't understand。
"why I'm only attracted to losers."。
It's because you systematically fed your heart。
through algorithms to only love losers.。
That's why.。
And you thought, "Oh, no, it's not,。
"the music doesn't affect me."。
Sure it does.。
Look at your dating history.。
It affects you.。
Okay, you're like, "Do I need to say it louder。
"for the people in the back?"。
It affects you.。
Grandma was right.。
Garbage in, garbage out.。
It's true, though, right?。
This is how they work.。
It's how they work, I'm just telling you.。
Homage to Grandma.。
(congregation applauding)。
And with your, verse 15,。
"And with your feet fitted with the readiness。
"that comes from the gospel of peace."。
Number three, ready with the gospel.。
If you're following Jesus,。
you understand you're in warfare.。
You are ready with the gospel.。
You represent the gospel.。
The gospel is the greatest news the world has ever seen.。
I was just getting my hair cut.。
That's right, I paid somebody to do this to me.。
(congregation laughing)。
I was there, and the guy, you know,。
he had a bright smile.。
I said, "Hey, listen, do you have a faith?"。
He said, "Yes, I'm a Christian."。
And so I asked him these two questions,。
between one and 10.。
10 being certain, one being not so sure.。
If you died today, how certain are you。
that you would go to heaven?。
To which he said,。
he kind of answered somewhere in the middle,。
but I'm gonna ask you guys,。
just 'cause it's, like, I'm home tonight,。
so I'm just curious who were here.。
So I want you to think of a number, one to 10.。
If you were to die today,。
how certain are you that you would go to heaven?。
10 is I'm certain, don't say it out loud,。
just think of the number, right?。
10 is I'm certain.。
One, I probably wouldn't, you know, five,。
I'm not, you know, seven, I don't know where you are.。
I want you to think of your number, okay?。
Think of it right now,。
'cause you're gonna do something with this.。
So get a number, round up or down,。
don't go .5 on me, okay?。
Just kidding, some of you are like,。
"Oh, man, you caught me."。
Get your number, you got it?。
Give me a good head nod, "Hey, I got it, I got it.。
"I'm not gonna overthink this, I got my number."。
You got it?。
Everybody, you got it?。
Okay, everyone close your eyes, okay?。
Just for a second, I'm gonna watch your purse.。
I know not everybody's believers.。
(congregation laughing)。
Close your eyes, close your eyes.。
Got your eyes closed, I'll call you up here so fast,。
don't play with me.。
Okay, close your eyes, you too, close your eyes, I see you.。
Close your eyes, all right, everybody's got 'em closed.。
All right, okay.。
If you are, you're gonna raise your hand,。
everybody's gonna raise their hand.。
If you are a four, five, or six, raise your hand.。
Okay, all over the room, four, fives, and sixes.。
Up top, down low, everywhere, four, fives, and sixes,。
you're not alone, okay.。
Put it down.。
If you are a one, two, or three, raise your hand.。
And we'll say zero, two, okay, lots of one, twos, and threes。
all over the room, okay, you're not alone,。
you're not the only one, there's lots of you.。
Okay, you can put it down.。
Okay.。
If you are a seven, eight, or nine, raise your hand.。
Okay.。
All over the place, sevens, eights, nines, okay.。
Hands down.。
All right, open your eyes.。
So he says I'm a seven, the barber.。
And I say if you stood before God and he said,。
"Why should I let you in?"。
What would you say?。
Think about this question.。
If you stood before God and God, the creator of the heavens。
and the earth, says, "Why should I let you in?"。
What would you say?。
And this is what he said, and I was surprised by it.。
He said, "Because he sent Jesus to die for my sins,。
and he raised Jesus from the dead."。
Okay, and here's why that surprised me.。
Almost always, I ask somebody this every day,。
and almost always if they say seven, they go,。
"Well, because I tried hard, because I was good,。
because I went to church, because I read the Bible,。
because I was born a Christian, because my parents are Christian,。
because I," right?。
But it's not what he said, because Jesus,。
because God sent Jesus, which you just need to know, okay,。
so that you're clear.。
That's the right answer, okay?。
But here's what I asked him next.。
I said, "You believe Jesus died for your sins?"。
He said, "Yes."。
I said, "Well, what are you going to do in hell then?"。
He was confused just like you.。
And he said, "What do you mean?"。
And I said, "You told me there's a 30% chance you're going to go to hell.。
The only thing that anybody can do in hell。
is pay for their sins forever.。
The only person who doesn't have to go to hell。
is the person whose sins have been paid for.。
Every sin, listen, every sin will be paid for。
either in eternity in hell or on the cross.。
And if you believe that it was paid for on the cross。
through Jesus, then you're going to heaven."。
That's 1 John 5:13.。
"I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God。
so that you may know that you have eternal life."。
Scripture says you can know.。
Ephesians 3 and 9, "For it is by grace you've been saved through faith.。
It's not of yourself. It's the gift of God,。
not by works so that no one can boast."。
The salvation is a gift from God。
gifted to those, 100%,。
to those who have believed upon Jesus,。
His death and resurrection for the forgiveness of sins.。
So I asked him, "Do you think Jesus died for 70% of your sins?"。
He said, "No, 100."。
I said, "Let's pray."。
Okay?。
It's amazing how we can be in church on a Tuesday。
and miss the gospel.。
And I'm not mad at you.。
I'm so angry at times at Satan。
who just distorts the truth a little bit。
and would have you here tonight thinking that you can't be certain.。
You're like, "Well, it would be arrogant for me to be sure that I'm going to be with God."。
Arrogant if it had anything to do with you.。
But if it has everything to do with God's work on your behalf,。
then you, like Paul, are boasting in the finished works of Jesus.。
So I'll boast about Jesus, because I can't get in there on my own.。
But Jesus paid my way in.。
In addition, verse 16,。
"In addition to all of this, take up the shield of faith。
with which you can extinguish all the flaming arrows of the evil one."。
If you have a real relationship with Jesus,。
if you understand you are in real warfare,。
you are number four firm in faith.。
Firm in faith.。
Roman shields were not like trash can lids.。
They weren't like Captain America.。
Roman shields were large and wooden.。
They were like doors, like five and a half feet tall doors, pieces of wood.。
And to defeat the Romans, all you would need is these flaming arrows, flaming darts.。
You shoot them in the shield, and it would turn into firewood.。
And so Romans learned they could soak a strip of leather in water overnight。
and then coat the outside of that shield with wet leather,。
and it would extinguish the fiery darts of the enemy.。
And so Paul's using this verbiage to say,。
"Hey, you are to stand firm in the faith."。
Like you, you're there in your faith.。
Your belief in God is your protection.。
I believe, listen, this is an interesting takeaway。
from studying spiritual warfare for three years.。
I believe the enemy can only be victorious in your life。
in direct correlation to how little your faith is.。
The greater your faith, the more your ability to be protected from the enemy.。
Okay, when I was in Dallas, when I moved to Dallas, I was not a believer.。
Love the party scene, uptown, lived in uptown, lower Greenville at the time.。
I was there at this bar near the village apartments,。
and I had become a Christian, but I don't have Christian friends yet.。
That's like some of you here.。
I hadn't learned that I need to replace all my old friends。
with new Christ-falling friends, so I'm with all my old friends,。
and we're at the bar, and some of them had had way too much to drink,。
and I'm a brand-new Christian, and so the littlest one of our crew, right,。
he does what guys do when they've had too much to drink,。
is he walks through the bar, and he finds the littlest guy in there,。
and he goes, "What are you looking at?"。
And then they get all like chest-to-chest, guys do that weird thing.。
I don't know what's going on, but they're like bumping each other。
with their chest, you know, two little dudes.。
And so I walk up, and I'm just like, "Hey, man, I'm sober."。
You know, I'm a believer at the time.。
I separate the two of them, and I pause, and say, "Hey, I'm so sorry.。
He's had too much to drink."。
And I go like this, and I'm like, "Hey, I'm going to take him home."。
And he goes, "Don't you touch me."。
And I was like, "No, I'm sorry. We're going to go.。
He's had too much to--I'm sorry, sir.。
I didn't mean to interrupt your evening."。
And they get all chest-to-chest again, right?。
So I go again, and I separate them again, and he goes,。
"I told you, don't you touch me."。
Hey, man.。
Why are you doing that, little buddy, man?。
I'm just like--I'm trying to get my friend home, you know,。
and you don't have to be all mean to me.。
I'm just--I'm trying to get him home, you know, and by that time,。
like, all my boys came, and like my boys,。
they know where the creatine is.。
Like, they're big dudes, and they like--and so they circle up,。
you know, there's eight of them, and I'm just like, "Oh, no, guy.。
This is not going to go well for you."。
And he does the craziest thing I've seen, man.。
This guy pulls out his phone, right?。
He's just looking at me, you know?。
You can't tell from down there.。
I'm weird tall, like 6'7", you know?。
You don't--you can't tell down there, but I really am.。
People always come up, like, "I didn't realize you were really 6'7".。
No, I'm a liar. Come on.。
And so he goes--he pulls out his phone.。
I'm watching him, and he pushes a button.。
He goes, "Hey, you here?。
Good, I got something I want you to take care of."。
I'm like, "Who was that?。
Batman? Who'd you call?"。
You know, and I don't want to find out, so I'm like, "We got to go, man.。
Let's go. Everybody--hey, we got to go, guys.。
Let's go. Party's over. Let's go."。
And we go outside, and I mean, you know,。
Brock Lesnar and Jon Jones had a big--these dudes--。
I mean, it was two guys. There was two of them.。
He had a chain around his neck, not like this chain,。
like a chain you pull a car with, with a padlock right here,。
just walking up, like, coming at me, you know?。
And they're like, "These the guys?"。
I was like, "No, sir, they left."。
And I just--but I think about--。
I think about that young man, his response.。
He's just looking at me unfazed, like,。
"You don't know who I know.。
Whatever you're going to do to me, you're not going to do long.。
Like, backup's on the way."。
That's what it means to stand firm in the faith.。
Like, "No, no, no, no matter what it costs me,。
I'm going to follow Jesus.。
If I'm all by myself, I lose all my followers。
and all my friends,。
my significant other breaks up with me,。
I'm still going to follow Jesus."。
Like, because, you know, heaven's--。
I'm going to be in heaven with Jesus forever.。
And so whatever you're going to do to me,。
you're not going to do long.。
Like, I'm just going to go with Jesus, okay?。
1 John 4, verse 4 says,。
"Because the one who is in you。
is greater than the one who is in the world."。
So verse 17, "Take up the helmet of salvation."。
Helmet guards your mind. It protects your mind.。
This is your thinking.。
Number five, aware of your salvation.。
If you're a real follower of Jesus,。
you understand you are in warfare.。
You are, number five, aware of your salvation.。
Wars are fought over real estate, okay?。
And so the enemy is trying to attack your thinking。
by whispering lies to you.。
"You're not pretty enough. You're not fast enough.。
You don't make enough money.。
You're not stylish enough.。
You don't have enough friends. You don't make enough."。
All the things. These are the lies, right,。
that he comes at you with.。
And you've got to be mindful,。
as the Scripture says,。
"Take every thought captive and make it obedient to Christ."。
Okay? Because we don't fight with the weapons of the world.。
That's what it says.。
And so you want to reflect.。
What it says is, "Set your mind on the things above.。
Do not conform any longer to the patterns of Dallas,。
but be transformed by the renewing of your mind."。
It's Romans 12, 2.。
And so you're thinking about, stay here,。
you're thinking about, "What does it look like that I'm saved?。
What does it mean that I'm saved?。
How does that impact?"。
And you say, "Well, I can't control my, like, these intrusive thoughts.。
I can't control my thoughts."。
Do you know who controls your thoughts?。
Do you know who controls your thoughts?。
Does anybody know who controls their thoughts?。
Anyone?。
They're right.。
You do.。
And the enemy doesn't want you to know that.。
He wants you to be like, "No, intrusive thoughts, they rule the day."。
No, intrusive thoughts come and go.。
What you do with them is up to you.。
You don't think you control your thoughts? Watch this.。
Think of a yellow school bus.。
Just think of a yellow school bus.。
It's got the yellow side in black.。
It's got the tires.。
See all the windows.。
You see the yellow school bus?。
You see it?。
Give me a head nod if you can see a yellow school bus in your mind.。
See a yellow school bus?。
You got it?。
Yellow school bus?。
Okay, got it.。
All right.。
You just controlled your thoughts.。
That's what you just did, right?。
You're like, "I'm going to think of a yellow --"。
I told you to think of a yellow school bus.。
You said, "Okay, I will."。
And so you did.。
You control your thoughts.。
And so you say, "Yeah, but what about when he tells me to kill myself?"。
Tell him no.。
I'm not going to do that.。
Like, no, how about I think of Jesus on the cross?。
Jesus died in my place.。
I'm going to think about Jesus --。
What if he's like, "Well, cut yourself."。
Nah, I don't want to cut myself.。
Instead of doing that, I'm going to remind myself that I've been created in the image of God,。
and, you know, my body is a temple of the Holy Spirit who is in me,。
who I received from God.。
I'm not my own.。
I've been bought by a price, and therefore I'm going to honor God with my body.。
You know, just do that.。
Okay?。
Like, you don't have to believe a lie.。
You don't.。
And he says, "And the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God."。
Number six, if you are a real Christ follower in real warfare, you're responding with the word.。
Okay?。
You're responding with the word.。
The enemy is going to lie to you, and you respond with the word.。
You've got to know the truth.。
This is, you know, your offensive weapon, as they say, the mark of a believer, right?。
You respond.。
So Jesus, he's tempted four times, like Satan himself.。
Satan's never been anywhere near you, okay?。
Like you got assigned some demon or something, some lower-level snaggletooth demon, right?。
Satan's -- he's with rulers and where there's wars.。
He's not omnipresent.。
So you've got some demon tempting you.。
But Satan himself was there with Jesus, and Jesus hadn't eaten in 40 days.。
And Satan tempts him four times, and Jesus responds four times with memory verses from Deuteronomy.。
If your only hope of overcoming Satan is to respond with a memory verse from Deuteronomy, how are you going to do?。
Okay?。
And so what might Satan tempt you with?。
How might he lie to you?。
Like what's the temptation that you most face or the lie that you're most, you know, susceptible to believing?。
This is the dialogue.。
What?。
Anxiety.。
Like he's like, "Be anxious."。
And what if you were just like Philippians 4, "I'm not going to be anxious about anything but in everything by prayer and petition.。
I'm going to present my request to God with thanksgiving and the peace of God, which transcends all understanding.。
He's going to guard my heart and my mind in Christ Jesus.。
I'm going to go 1 Peter 5, 7.。
I'm going to cast my anxieties on him because he cares for me.。
I'm going to go Matthew 6.。
Do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow has enough trouble of its own.。
Who by worrying can add a single hour to his life?"。
What else might he say?。
You're not man enough.。
What if you then respond with, "Okay, well sometimes you can even say, 'Hey, I'm not.。
Like I just got the creator of the heavens and the earth on call, but I'm going to go Genesis 2 on you, right?。
That I've been created in the very image of God, the creator of the heavens and the earth.。
And Philippians tells me that he's going to finish the work that he started in me.。
And Ephesians 2, 10 says that I am his masterpiece created in Christ Jesus to do good works,。
which God has prepared in advance for me to do.。
So therefore I am man enough."。
What else?。
What else?。
What else might he say?。
So the enemy's going to come to you and he's going to say that I'm not loved.。
And you're going to go, "Well, that's interesting."。
Because the most famous verse in all of the scripture says, "For God so loved the world,。
that he gave his only begotten son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have eternal life."。
And then the scripture says, "This is love."。
Not that one lays down his life for his friends, but that he lays down his life for his enemy.。
That while I was yet a sinner, Christ died for me.。
And here's the deal.。
The purchaser gets to determine the value of something.。
And God, the creator of the heavens and the earth, said that I was so valuable.。
He was willing to give his son for me.。
So it seems like he loves me a lot.。
What else?。
What else might he say to you?。
I heard physical pain.。
What?。
You will fail.。
You will fail.。
Here's the deal.。
That's true.。
Like a lot.。
I just like jujitsu that.。
He's like, "You're going to fail."。
I'm like, "You're right.。
You're right."。
But he's the God of second chances.。
Romans 8 says, "There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus."。
And 2 Corinthians 5 says, "He's no longer counting my sins against me."。
Did you hear that?。
He's no longer counting my sins against me.。
And when he says, "I'm going to inflict pain on you like I did Job,"。
the scripture says, "These are light and momentary afflictions that are producing something in me, a greater joy."。
And in Romans 5, it says that, "I'm going to rejoice in my suffering because it produces in me hope and hope character and character perseverance。
so that I can keep on going because I'm not yet home.。
Like one day I'm going to be home and I'm on my way home, but I'm not there yet."。
And so you just respond to those lies with the scripture.。
Now listen.。
You're like, "Hey, that's cool.。
You're a pastor.。
You went to seminary."。
First of all, no, I didn't.。
Second of all, I'm dyslexic.。
Okay?。
I'm ADD.。
I've failed just about any subject you can think of, right?。
But this is my survival tactic.。
It's like all I got, man.。
So I'm writing.。
I don't enjoy reading anything, like nothing.。
But I do it out of discipline, to discipline myself for godliness so that when the day of trouble comes, I know the truth.。
And pray in the spirit on all occasions with all kinds of prayers and requests.。
With this in mind, be alert and always keep on praying for all the Lord's people.。
If you are a real follower of Jesus, you understand the warfare, you are engaged in prayer.。
You're engaged in prayer.。
Okay?。
I'll just say it like this because I'm running light on time.。
It's like if all of these pieces of armor are in a trunk and the trunk is locked, okay, and you want to put the full armor of God on, the way that you access the armor, the key to the trunk is prayer.。
In every war, the soldier is talking to his commander in chief.。
The soldier is talking to their commander in chief constantly.。
"Hey, I'm walking into this Starbucks.。
Who's in here that I need?"。
I'm not talking about prayer like you're in your closet on your knees.。
Those are good prayers.。
I'm talking about praying without ceasing.。
"God, I'm at the porch tonight.。
There's temptation around me.。
Would you strengthen me?。
Is there anyone here you want me to share the gospel with?。
God, I think my neighbor raised their hand.。
Would you give me the courage to have a conversation with them afterwards?"。
You're talking to your commander in chief, okay?。
And so, in summary, if you are a true follower of Jesus, you understand that you are, one, walking in truth, that you are, two, acting in righteousness, that you are, three, ready with the gospel, four, firm in faith, five, aware of your salvation, six, responding with the word, and lastly, you are engaged in prayer.。
And this is what it means to understand that you are in real warfare, okay?。
It's like magic.。
It's not.。
It's just like -- it's just the first letter.。
It spells warfare.。
It's not a big deal.。
Guys, I'm burdened.。
I'm burdened.。
Because there was a lot of you that raised your hand earlier.。
I don't know if you'd have the courage.。
You don't even have to.。
I'm not going to call anybody out.。
But I'm just curious.。
Anybody raised their hand earlier, you just could raise your hand right now and say, "I raised my hand earlier."。
And one of those numbers, I don't know if it was zero or nine, but if you raised your hand earlier, would you raise your hand right now?。
Could you do that?。
Okay.。
There's a lot.。
Like I'm just telling you, there's a lot of -- like most of the room, right?。
Okay.。
Thank you for your courage to say that after what I shared.。
I've kind of bet the farm.。
Like I've gone all in.。
This is the great news and why you're here.。
It's really good news.。
I forgot to say that about my barber when I told him that.。
He smiles real big.。
He goes, "That's good news."。
And I was like, it is good news.。
The best news ever.。
You don't have to pay for your sins.。
That's what God did on the cross is he paid for all your sins.。
Like you can be with him forever.。
And so I'm just curious.。
Is there anybody who raised their hand?。
Like a second ago you raised your hand like I was an 8 or I was a 9 or I was a 7 or I was a 5.。
I was a 2.。
And right now you say, you know what, I believe that I'm a 10 because of what Jesus did on the cross.。
I believe -- I'm getting that kind of for the first time.。
I understand he paid for all my sins.。
Not 90% of my sins.。
Not 60% of my sins.。
But all my sins.。
I believe that right now.。
I believe Jesus Christ, all my sins were taken care of on the cross.。
Is there someone who just raised their hand that would say, no, I'm now a 10.。
I was a 7 earlier but now I'm a 10.。
I was a 2 earlier.。
Just keep it up real high.。
Like that's big stuff, man.。
It's like really crazy stuff.。
[Applause]。
This is life-changing stuff because I'm going to ask you to do something.。
And if you didn't just raise your hand, you're like, I don't want everybody to see me, you know.。
I'm going to make it even harder on you.。
Okay.。
This is my gift, my gift to you.。
And this is what it means.。
Like as you follow Jesus and you're going to take your stand against the enemy, your shield of faith is going to increase.。
And I just like if you're here and you're like, hey, I was a 4, now I'm a 10, I was a 9, now I'm a 10.。
You just raised your hand or you didn't and you should have.。
Would you just stand up?。
I'm going to pray over you.。
That's what's going to happen right now.。
Just stand up.。
It's going to feel like you're going to be like everybody is looking at me.。
They are.。
They are looking at you.。
That's true.。
That's true.。
[Applause]。
That's true.。
Yeah.。
Broncos, I want you to come here.。
You right here, Broncos.。
Yeah, yeah, you come here.。
Yeah.。
Because I bet you, and y'all just stay standing.。
It's okay.。
Everybody is looking at me.。
They are, for sure.。
I'm saying this for all of your benefits.。
Because sometimes I think you hear this and you're like, okay, great.。
I was a 9, I'm trying.。
I get the boyfriend and the vape thing.。
I'm trying.。
I love to party.。
I'm trying.。
Anybody ever feel that?。
I'm trying.。
I'm trying to go all in.。
You know what I mean?。
Right?。
Here's what I want you to do.。
All right.。
Well, I'll ask you, which would you rather have?。
This is the real deal.。
This is $100.。
You try to spend this, you're going to go to prison.。
It's $12.。
It's $12.。
Which one would you rather have?。
You'd rather have this one.。
Hey, real quick, God is the same way.。
Like he would rather you follow Jesus.。
If nobody else here did and just you did, like he's like, I would rather you be real than all 3,000 of you pretend.。
Okay, wherever you're at, wherever you're watching us from, he would rather one of you say, I'm really going to go all in with Jesus than all of you to know every word to the song and just pretend.。
Right?。
And so I just want you to -- what's your name?。
Roxanna.。
I just want you to try to take this from me.。
I wasn't ready.。
Like you took it fast.。
Good.。
I want you to try to take it from me.。
Okay, you did it again.。
You took it.。
Try to take it.。
You can't try to take something that's being freely given to you.。
You can take it -- listen.。
Listen, you can take it or you can leave it.。
That's up to you.。
But God's given.。
It's a gift from God.。
Give it up for Roxanna.。
That's yours.。
That's a gift for you.。
To those of you standing, I am moved by your courage.。
Okay, just you taking it.。
The word repeated, stand, stand, stand, stand firm in the faith.。
Stand.。
And right now you are standing firm in the faith.。
If you are sitting and you are a follower of Jesus, you have the Holy Spirit at work in your life.。
You are like I'm a 10.。
Would you just throw your hand on the back of somebody standing.。
You can stand up too.。
Just stand up around and put your hand on the back.。
Don't let anybody be by themselves, faithful people.。
Like you right here, if you are followers of Jesus, move around.。
Find somebody.。
Throw your hand on the back of somebody.。
We're just going to pray over them.。
That's what's about to happen.。
We're just going to pray over them.。
We're moving around the porches.。
The Holy Spirit has been moving here in ways Kylan has told me about.。
And I just celebrate that with you all.。
And so I'm going to pray.。
If you're a follower of Jesus, pray this out loud with me.。
And if you stood up tonight for the first time, we're praying it with you.。
You can pray it with me.。
And there's nothing magic about these words.。
It's about the heart behind these words, okay.。
And so I'll just say a line and you can repeat it.。
Dear God in heaven, I have ran from you.。
I have sinned against you.。
I have gone my own way.。
And I know that you sent Jesus to die for my sins.。
And you raised him from the dead.。
Would you give me that same spirit and guide me in this life,。
walking towards you everlasting.。
Thank you for salvation.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
The Lord's salvation has visited you tonight.。
