(upbeat music)。
- Gather here.。
Ah, this is fun, Cupid, we're back in it.。
And so, as I thought about tonight,。
you know, the thing, there's a part of this,。
which I love to do, and then there's a part of this。
that I'm just burdened to do,。
'cause it causes me to do a lot of reflecting,。
a lot of wrestling with the scripture.。
I feel like this week, particularly,。
just a lot of wrestling in the past 48 hours, even,。
with a scripture.。
But as I thought back on my own dating life,。
like, I wish that I had this, okay?。
And so there's a part of me that's like,。
man, this is, you guys are here,。
and I wish that someone would have told me。
that, you know, all the things that I was doing,。
that they would have said, hey, those are wrong,。
and here's the way, and I could, you know,。
sort the truth from the lies,。
and that's, I think, one of the most difficult things,。
is the world is constantly trying to get your attention,。
and so there's just a part of me that says,。
no, no, the world is doing it so wrong.。
And so, as I thought about how to start this tonight,。
I just, I want you guys to watch this clip.。
So here's my question for you.。
Do you know where you're going?。
Do you know where you wanna be?。
Okay, we're talking about dating,。
and so as you consider dating,。
do you have a destination in mind?。
Because we all agree, like, there's something different。
when, there's something different from, like,。
putting in a destination into the GPS。
and driving intentionally to that destination.。
Remember when you would do it in high school?。
You kinda cruise the strip,。
or whatever you guys would call it, right?。
You just kinda drive aimlessly, okay?。
I did this, maybe I'm the only one in the room,。
but we would just kinda, you know,。
hey, mom and dad, I'm gonna go driving,。
and like, driving where?。
I don't know, just around.。
So that's, some of you, that's how you date.。
Like, you just go dating.。
Where's that going?。
I don't know, just kind of around, right?。
And then some of us, right,。
we understand that we have to go somewhere,。
and so strategy is this simple.。
I have a friend who graduated from Harvard Business School,。
and he was the lead strategic consultant。
of a leading hedge fund, and he says,。
"Strategy is this simple.。
"It's knowing where you are, knowing where you wanna be,。
"and then taking a step in that direction."。
Or he would say, "Formulating a plan to get there."。
And so for me, as I ask you guys,。
do you know where you want to go?。
Like, if I wanna go towards the back of this room,。
if I wanna head that direction,。
then I need to be facing that direction.。
And I know that seems like common sense,。
but some of us, we're saying, "Hey, we wanna be there,。
"but we're facing here when it comes to dating."。
We're going the wrong way,。
and we need to hear that at a head level and a heart level.。
And so tonight, I wanna talk about what it looks like。
to go the right way.。
What it, 'cause if we're not doing it the right way,。
right, we're doing it the wrong way,。
and the wrong way's gonna get us to the wrong location,。
the wrong destination.。
We're gonna continue to beat our head against the wall,。
and here's the crazy part about this.。
This is just pure logic.。
Most people, by most I mean the majority, over 50%,。
do this the wrong way.。
How crazy is that?。
Right, they don't end up in the right destination.。
Literally, statistically, most people do not end up。
where they wanna be, and so how are you going to change that?。
Right, and the world has all of this,。
these rules and regulations for you.。
In fact, the myth this week,。
'cause we're busting these myths,。
the myth this week is that there's all of these rules。
to dating, there's not a bunch of rules.。
There's really just a few rules.。
So what the world tells you is that there's all of these。
rules to dating, and kind of above and beyond all of them。
is to follow your heart.。
Okay, in fact, I did a Google search, rules to dating,。
and it showed me 9,300,000 results.。
I'm talking dozens and dozens of books。
titled rules to dating.。
I think, yeah, there you go.。
Just 9,300,000 results on a search,。
rules to dating, in quotes.。
How crazy is that?。
And then above all of them, it says, and follow your heart.。
And so what I want you to know tonight。
is that there's not that many rules to dating.。
I wanna make this simple, and really,。
I wanna make it worry-free for you.。
I wanna bring it down, and I wanna tell you,。
don't follow your heart, inform your heart.。
That's what the scripture says.。
Inform your heart.。
Tell your heart where it should go.。
Show it what is right so that it knows。
to pursue that thing, right?。
Because if you show it the wrong things,。
it's gonna chase the wrong things,。
and I think so many of us, we're going the wrong way.。
And so I know you're like, simple, worry-free,。
that's not dating.。
Well, the reason it's not dating。
is 'cause it involves our heart.。
Frankly, it's our heart that makes this difficult.。
It's us giving our heart to someone,。
or not knowing who to give our heart to,。
and then when they take it,。
and they do the wrong things with it,。
and then it's broken, and we're left hurt,。
and there's all of these things that are fallout。
from this word called dating that we're here to talk about.。
And so Jeremiah 17, nine says,。
"The heart is deceitful above all things,。
"and beyond cure, who can understand it?"。
Tonight, I just wanna give you a biblical dating strategy。
that goes beyond follow your heart.。
Here's really what I wanna do.。
You're gonna leave here,。
and most of you in the room tonight,。
most of you that wanna be married,。
you will be married, most of you.。
Okay, if that's your heart's desire,。
most of you, you will be.。
It's just a reality, okay?。
And then about half of you will be divorced.。
Just another reality, it's just a statistic.。
And the statistic, we know,。
is the same in the church and out of the church.。
And so what I wanna do for you,。
as the Spirit makes alive to us the word of God,。
is I wanna curve that statistic.。
Okay, I just wanna give you a better chance。
when you leave here than a 50/50 ending rate, okay?。
A 50/50 disaster rate, it's really higher than that。
because so many marriages that stay together。
aren't really marriages at all.。
So the disaster rate is so much higher than 50%.。
And I just wanna leave you here with a better chance。
of having a good, healthy, God-honoring relationship。
because God has some things to say to this.。
And so people, when they follow their heart,。
they come up with these really stupid ideologies.。
And I don't know how else to say it other than that,。
just really stupid ideas when they follow their heart.。
And so I heard this on the radio the other day.。
They're like, this girl's on the radio。
and she's talking about these people dating。
or thinking about getting married.。
And she's like, well, of course they're gonna live together。
before they get married.。
Like, of course they're going to.。
And like, who would ever wanna marry someone。
without living together?。
And I just thought about that.。
And so I said, I wanna look at the data.。
And so we built a graph to show you today.。
And so here's the data.。
This is pure logic, okay?。
This is secular information, all right?。
So before you get angry, before you leave,。
I'm just presenting the facts to you.。
Think about this with a clear mind.。
You see that black line?。
Okay, that black line is the cohabitation rate.。
Simple as that.。
You see, before 1970, it was virtually nonexistent.。
In fact, it was illegal.。
Did you know that cohabitation today is still illegal。
in four states, in the United States of America?。
Fact, okay?。
And so before 1970, virtually nonexistent.。
You see how drastically it declines, or it inclines.。
Okay, that red line?。
That red line is the divorce rate.。
And you see how rapidly that increased, right?。
Right with, along with, as cohabitation increases,。
the divorce rate increases.。
Okay, but you say, well, wait a minute.。
You say, wait a minute, JP, right there about 1985,。
it seems like the divorce rate is going down a little bit.。
Okay, that's in numbers, not percentages, okay?。
So let me show you this.。
That blue line right there?。
That blue line, that is the marriage rate.。
You see what's happening?。
You see how that starts to go down?。
So people aren't getting divorced less.。
The divorce statistic has remained the same.。
The numbers are less because people are married less.。
That is just information.。
That's just data.。
You see how logic can debunk these things in the world。
that God says, no, no, no, no, I don't want you to do that。
because I love you and I want you to be。
in a healthy, God-honoring marriage.。
Where do you want to be, let me ask you.。
If you're dating, I hope one of the places。
where you want to be is in a marriage,。
but not just in a marriage.。
Like if you said that, when I say, hey,。
where do you want to be?。
You say, I want to be in a marriage.。
No, you don't.。
You want to be in a God-honoring marriage.。
You want to be in a healthy marriage。
to a wife or a husband who loves you。
as God has called them to, who cares for you.。
You want to be in an uncommon marriage,。
in a marriage that rarely exists today.。
Between two people who are fully committed to God first。
and then love each other out of the overflow。
of that commitment, that is what you want。
if you are looking to get married and want to get married.。
And so tonight, I just want to talk about。
how to get pointed in the right direction.。
How to stay within the lines.。
Like what are the principles。
that the Scriptures tell us to?。
I'm telling you, it's not a bunch of rules.。
It's just some kind of big principles to think through。
that are pretty self-evident, self-explanatory.。
And then before you leave here,。
just understanding the destination,。
where we're actually going.。
And so yesterday was February the 4th.。
Here's what that means for me.。
If I'm doing a Proverb a Day, on the 4th day,。
I read Proverbs 4.。
On the 27th day, I read Proverbs 27.。
And so kind of go along with that.。
And so yesterday was the 4th.。
I read Proverbs 4, and I just felt like the Lord。
gave me this verse to put before you.。
And so this is Solomon, the wisest man in all the world,。
writing this thing.。
And so what's interesting is he's going to say,。
so he has all of this wisdom.。
Solomon, he writes this book。
called the Book of Wisdom, or Proverbs, right?。
He's the wisest man ever to live。
in the history of humanity.。
And he scribes these things down,。
and he gets down to this Proverbs 4.23,。
and it's a verse you've heard again.。
Again, much like Proverbs 31,。
it's one of those that either wants to make you throw up。
or like, yeah, that's truth.。
And so it's that one that says, guard your heart.。
Right, you ever heard that, guard your heart?。
Yeah, we don't know what that means, man.。
That's one of those things pastors say。
that sounds like, yeah, guard your heart.。
You're like, yeah, that's what I'm gonna do.。
I have no idea what that means, you know?。
And so today I wanna talk about what does that mean?。
What does it mean to guard your heart?。
'Cause the scripture's gonna say, it's gonna tell us.。
And so this is what the wisest man。
in the history of the world says.。
He says, above all else,。
and all this other stuff I've written down,。
I've given you some real truths,。
I've given you some things to think about,。
I'm the wisest man ever to live,。
above everything else, guard your heart.。
For it is the wellspring of life.。
What does that mean, the wellspring of life?。
Here's what that means.。
It means that everything else in your life。
comes out of your heart's desires.。
Do you get that?。
That which your heart seeks, your body follows,。
your life follows.。
And so when your heart wants something, right,。
if you're not careful, then all of a sudden。
your whole entire life is over there.。
You feel that?。
You want something, and then your whole life,。
the trajectory of your life is following your heart.。
Guard your heart, above all else,。
for it is the wellspring of life.。
Life springs from it.。
Put away perversity from your mouth,。
keep corrupt talk from your lips,。
let your eyes look straight ahead,。
fix your gaze directly before you,。
make level paths for your feet,。
and take only ways that are firm.。
Do not swerve to the right or to the left,。
but keep your foot from evil.。
(congregation laughing)。
So it directs the rest of our life.。
And so what do we need to do?。
The first thing that we need to do。
is to give our heart instruction.。
Okay, I want you to give your heart instruction.。
I want you to think about it like this.。
Your heart is like a GPS.。
It is going to lead you.。
It is.。
It's going to tell you where to go.。
But what is the first thing you have to do with the GPS?。
You have to input your destination.。
So you tell your heart, this inner working device,。
this GPS inside of you,。
you ultimately, you tell it where to go,。
you inform it.。
And so what are the Proverbs before 23?。
You can mark this in your Bible.。
The Proverbs before 23, it says,。
hey, this is the truth.。
Write it on your heart.。
Bound it around your heart.。
Do not forget these things I've told you.。
This is the scripture, the holy word of God.。
And so you inform your heart with the truth。
of the creator of the heavens and the earth.。
You set the destination in your heart.。
You let your heart know, hey, this is where we're going.。
And then it will direct you.。
If you do not let it know where you are going,。
it will lead you off a cliff, man.。
It will lead you off a cliff.。
It's going to lead you, but you gotta tell it where to go.。
Woody Allen said,。
when he had an affair with his wife's daughter,。
the famous line, the heart wants what it wants.。
Woody Allen was right.。
The heart does want what it's want.。
When his relationship with Soon-Yi did not last long,。
we know now that it's no longer existing.。
Evidently, the heart didn't want it very long.。
But that's how some of us think.。
We think with our heart.。
Listen to your heart.。
Got more of that.。
And so I want to exhort you tonight。
to not let an uninformed heart direct you.。
If you're not doing this God's way,。
I mean, this is cheesy, but it's true.。
If you're not doing it God's way,。
you're doing it the wrong way.。
If you're doing it the world's way,。
you're doing it the wrong way.。
And so we've gotta recalibrate our heart, our GPS,。
and say, okay, what is God's way?。
That's the way I'm committed to doing it.。
He created everything.。
He loves me.。
He's real.。
I'm gonna be with him forever.。
He's purchased me by the blood of his son, Jesus Christ.。
And so I might as well do this thing the way that he wants.。
He's like a loving dad.。
So God, what do you want?。
How do you want me to do it?。
And so you're telling your heart what to pursue.。
If not, your heart's gonna tell you what to pursue.。
You're either telling your heart what to pursue。
or your heart is telling you what to pursue.。
And the reality of it is, is what you feed your heart,。
that's what it's going to lead you to.。
Okay, this is truth now.。
I want you to hear this.。
What you put in your heart, what you feed your heart,。
that is what it's going to lead you to.。
So if you're feeding your heart junk from the tabloids。
and gossip from the TV and junk from music,。
I'm not trying to be legalistic now,。
I'm just being honest with you.。
If that's what you're feeding your heart,。
that's what it's going to lead you to.。
It's gonna start saying, hey, that's familiar,。
that's familiar, that's what you want, that's what you want.。
You want him.。
You want it that way.。
That's what he's going, right?。
That's what he's saying.。
And your heart's screaming that, right?。
It works like Netflix.。
You guys got Netflix, anybody?。
Love me some Netflix.。
We don't have cable, we just have Netflix.。
And so here's what Netflix does, is it's smart, this Netflix.。
It knows what shows I like, okay?。
It sees what shows I watch, and then it says,。
hey, here's some suggestions for you, Jonathan.。
And so what it does, if you go on my Netflix,。
what it suggests to you is Dora the Explorer。
and My Little Pony, because that's what my little girls。
watch all day long, right?。
Dora the Explorer, My Little Pony.。
And so you go on it, it starts to suggest it.。
So what happens, right, when I watch that documentary。
that was intriguing to me about pornography,。
which I didn't watch, but I was really tempted to,。
it starts saying, oh, pornography, here's what you want,。
here's what you want, this is what you want.。
Your heart works the same way.。
When you feed it crap from the TV,。
it's like, this is what you want.。
Go after that, that's what you want.。
When you go on Pinterest and you start, oh,。
lusting after a wedding dress, you know,。
that's what you want, that's ultimate.。
Nervous laughter.。
(congregation laughing)。
Please, no elbows tonight, no pointing, okay?。
And so don't let an uninformed heart guide you,。
but don't let a misinformed heart guide you either.。
Let me ask you this, guys,。
don't let a misinformed heart guide you.。
Can a Christian be madly in love,。
head over heels in love,。
with someone who is no good for them?。
Let me ask you like this, can a Christian,。
can a follower of Jesus be head over heels,。
madly in love with a non-believer?。
Absolutely they can.。
Oh, I've sat with them, they have wept in my office.。
You're telling me what, I can't what?。
I'm not telling you anything, dude.。
2 Corinthians 6, 14, it's in the scripture.。
That's not me, that's God,。
that's the creator of the heavens and the earth.。
He loves you, by the way.。
See that pain that you feel right now?。
It's gonna pale in comparison to the pain that you feel.。
When a loving God says, hey, don't do that.。
He's not mad at you, he's not angry at you.。
He looks at you and he loves you.。
And he says, I want life for you.。
I teach that, every single time I've taught that,。
it's gotten me an angry email.。
And so one of you guys will email me angrily.。
And I'm just like, what are you,。
I'm the messenger, man.。
It's black and white in the word of God.。
God loves you, he's not trying to rip you off.。
He's trying to save your heart.。
Okay?。
He's trying to help you.。
He's trying to help you not be a statistic.。
Give you greater than 50/50 chance.。
You ever felt like, so can the heart,。
the heart wants what it wants.。
Sometimes the heart, you ever feel like。
you're going the right way,。
and all of a sudden you're not?。
You feel like you're on track, you know,。
you're not listening to GPS,。
you're just kind of driving by your senses,。
by your emotions, like I'm certain I'm going the right way.。
And you look up and you've been going。
like the 180 degrees in the wrong direction.。
Only me, you know?。
This is what it's like.。
We've gotta follow something other than。
an uninformed or a misinformed heart.。
Proverbs 24 says, put away perversity from your mouth.。
Keep corrupt talk far from your lips.。
Let your eyes look straight ahead.。
Fix your gaze directly before you.。
Make level paths for your feet.。
And take only ways that are firm.。
Okay, and so it's telling us the way that we should go,。
the way that we should go.。
But this idea of dating,。
you're really trying to find someone.。
You're trying to identify a person。
who you're willing to spend the rest of your life with.。
And so what are those things that you're supposed。
to be identifying in them?。
What are you looking for?。
And so I'm supposed to guard my heart,。
I'm supposed to protect it,。
I'm supposed to feed it healthy truth。
so it knows what's to look for.。
And so what should it look for?。
Well, the scripture says,。
and so my second point is protect your heart。
from people going the wrong way.。
There's people all around you,。
even this evening here, who are going,。
who are headed the wrong direction,。
and you don't want your heart to latch onto one of them.。
Because if you do, then they're gonna pull you。
in the wrong direction.。
They're gonna be driving down the wrong direction.。
Okay, and so what are those things that we can look at?。
I think there's three things, directly from the scripture.。
Number one, the speech.。
Number two, their focus.。
And number three, where they actually physically go.。
And so let's just talk about their speech for a second.。
This is something that you would observe in them.。
This is key, guys.。
This is key, ladies.。
Okay, their words are going to show you。
the contents of their heart.。
It's going to show you the way that their GPS works.。
This is straight from Jesus Christ himself,。
Matthew 12, verse 34, it says,。
"For out of the overflow of the heart, the mouth speaks."。
The words that come out of the mouth show,。
display the content of their heart.。
And so if they're angry, right,。
if they're constantly angry, they got an angry heart.。
Right, and so some of you, some of you are here tonight,。
and you're angry, and the reason you're angry。
is because you're not married.。
And it can be seen on you.。
Now you thought, man, I will never be 37.。
Or 42, or whatever, and single,。
that's just not what I thought.。
I didn't think this in the way it was going.。
And so now you're angry.。
Maybe you're angry at God, maybe you're angry at men,。
maybe you're angry at women.。
I don't know what you're angry at.。
But I strongly suggest that you go to the Spirit of God。
and say, what is it that you would have for me?。
Because I know James 1:19 says,。
"Our anger does not bring about。
"the righteous life that God desires."。
And so it's the great irony there。
is the reason you're not married。
is because you're angry that you're not married.。
You know, that's the thing that's keeping you single.。
How do they talk, do they gossip,。
are they talking about others?。
The person who's talking about others。
has nothing else to talk about,。
and is not someone you wanna spend。
the rest of your life with.。
That they're showing you the contents of their heart.。
Are they honest?。
Are they truthful?。
Girls, be honest, okay?。
Like, I'm gonna ask you a question,。
I want you all to shout no, okay, ready?。
Would you like to go have coffee with me?。
Okay, let's do it real loud, like heartfelt, ready?。
One more time.。
Excuse me, beautiful.。
Say, girl.。
♪ The very first time ♪。
Hey, come here, baby, come here.。
Hey, would you like to have coffee with me?。
That's right, you see how that works?。
It's okay, why?。
That's a good reason.。
(congregation laughing)。
Yeah, that's a good reason.。
Here's the deal, no, why?。
I'm not feeling that, I'm not attracted to you,。
your breath stinks, I don't like that shirt,。
you need to comb your hair, you need to grow up,。
you're not very godly, I don't know why,。
whatever the reason is, but it's not。
because you gotta change your sock drawer, okay?。
So help him along.。
If there's a reason that he doesn't want,。
like you don't wanna be on a date with him, right?。
Let him know so that he, you know, somebody else,。
maybe he has something he can change,。
something within his power,。
or you're just not feeling that,。
but I feel like, ladies, like you feel like。
all of your authority and power has been taken away,。
and you've taken this word to submit,。
which is in the Bible, and I get it,。
but you think that now that means you can't be honest.。
And I want you to know you can be honest.。
You don't have to be hurtful, so don't hear me say that,。
okay, you don't have to be hurtful.。
Guys are like, yes, you don't have to be hurtful.。
(congregation laughing)。
But you can be honest, you know, and you can be confident,。
and you can look 'em in the eyes with dignity。
and just say, hey, that's not where I'm at right now.。
You know, or, you know, don't say I'm not open。
to dating if you are, 'cause I'm not,。
I don't wanna do that.。
Just whatever honesty is, that's what you can say, okay?。
There's nowhere in the scripture, I searched for it,。
there's no allotment in here to be anything。
less than honest, okay?。
I know that's crazy, it's like, what does he say。
to be honest, I don't, that's crazy.。
No, it's not, it's just biblical.。
It's just from the scripture.。
Guys, be intentional, amen?。
It was a weak amen.。
Well, here's what that means, okay?。
It means, it may be obvious to you where you're at.。
Like, you may be there on a date, you know,。
at Chewy's or whatever, but she may not know that.。
And so, all you gotta do is just kinda talk。
about where you're at, hey, it's good to be here。
with you on a date, you know?。
(congregation laughing)。
You feel that?。
'Cause she's like, wait, is he, am I a friend,。
am I in the friend zone, or what's going on?。
Is this like, you're on a date, like,。
with your sister on a date, or?。
You know, and so, it's good to be here with you。
on a date at Chewy's, you know, and here we are,。
you order the enchiladas, I got the quesadillas.。
Great to be here with you on a date, you know?。
(congregation laughing)。
And see, 'cause some of us, we're doing this thing。
we like to call affectionately here, friendationships.。
You know, and here's what that is.。
That's where you get all of the affirmation。
from the opposite sex that you need through a friendship.。
And that's foolish.。
And it's not God-honoring.。
And it's hurtful.。
Because what you're doing, you're thinking,。
hey, well, she's just a friend,。
she knows she's just a friend.。
He knows he's just a friend,。
I don't mean just to pick on the guys.。
He knows he's just a friend, and he doesn't.。
His heart's done drifted.。
So you just, hey, this is where we're at,。
this is what I'm doing, this is where I'm headed,。
I'm just being intentional, not intense, but intentional.。
This is what's going on, I want you to know.。
Hey, this is where I see this going,。
this is the destination I have in mind.。
This is where this isn't going, I gotta tell you,。
this is where it stops.。
Whatever that is, you guys can be honest with one another.。
As you love each other, you're brothers and sisters。
in Christ, you can be honest with each other.。
What that means is no games, okay?。
We drop games in the sixth grade, Romans 12, nine says,。
love must be sincere.。
What do I mean by games?。
Games are where you say or do something,。
hoping to get something in particular in response.。
If someone's playing games with you,。
that's because they haven't outgrown that,。
and they're probably not gonna make a good wife。
or a husband, okay?。
What is a game?。
A game is like when you hung up on somebody。
in the fifth grade, hoping they'd call you back,。
that's a game, we don't play games.。
Love must be sincere, we're honest,。
we're just, everything that comes out of here。
is evidence of here, and that's just absolute truth.。
That's what I teach my little girls,。
just speak with absolute truth.。
Whatever the truth is, the truth is always good enough.。
The only reason to lie is because you think。
the truth isn't good enough,。
and the truth is always good enough.。
And so you can ask this question,。
how do they talk to you, do they build you up?。
Ephesians 4, 29 says, do not let any unwholesome talk。
come out of your mouth, but only what is helpful。
for building others up according to their needs,。
that it may benefit those who listen.。
Do they benefit you?。
This is, whenever we, as our porch volunteers,。
go somewhere, and so every now and then we'll do a retreat。
at a lake house or something, or we'll go somewhere,。
and what we always start with is, as I just said,。
hey, we wanna leave this place better than we found it.。
And so what that means is, we wanna leave it cleaner。
than we found it, everything in its place,。
and we want to leave it better than we found it.。
That's how you date, when you date someone,。
you want to leave them better than you found them, okay?。
Like if they go off to marry someone else,。
then that person who they marry is gonna be glad。
that they dated you, how novel of an idea is that?。
That's revolutionary, okay?。
Let me say it again, in case you missed it,。
you might have fell asleep, okay?。
If you date someone, leave them better than you found them.。
Don't give them a bunch of baggage,。
because they were around you, like here, hold my baggage,。
you know, and okay, peace out.。
No, leave them better than you found them.。
Leave them more like Jesus than when you met them, okay?。
My friend said this this week, she just,。
she wrote this to me in an email,。
this is a girl I'm in community with,。
she's married to my friend Marshall,。
and she just says this, "I always told myself。
"that if Marshall weren't to be my husband,。
"then I pray that I wanted to help him。
"become more like Christ, more ready for his bride。
"than before meeting me.。
"I didn't want to be on the list of the baggage。
"he would take with him into another relationship."。
I just read that, I'm like, how true is that?。
That you would date someone in the way。
that you would treat them, and build them up,。
and point them to Jesus, would leave them better。
than you found them, I know that's really counterintuitive。
in Dallas, but I promise.。
That's right.。
Check out their focus, so number one,。
check out their speech, two, what are they focused on?。
What is their life looking at, okay?。
What are they feeding their hearts with?。
This is important, oh, that's a nice effect.。
I thought, it's the rapture for a minute.。
(congregation laughing)。
What are they feeding their hearts?。
Okay, this goes back to the whole tabloid。
kind of gossip thing, all of that stuff,。
like I'll just tell you this, I told you I like Netflix.。
I was watching this show, somebody recommended it,。
and I started watching Breaking Bad, and,。
hold the applause. (congregation laughing)。
I knew that was gonna happen.。
So I started watching Breaking Bad,。
and I realized, after a couple episodes,。
I realized it wasn't good for me.。
Oh. (congregation laughing)。
It just did something, it did something to me,。
and maybe not you, maybe you're more spiritually mature。
than I am, or something, but where I was at,。
it just wasn't good for me.。
I kinda started walking around, like, feeling prideful,。
and I started thinking about words。
I don't usually think about in my vocabulary,。
you know, and I just kinda started feeling。
just a little puffed out, and at the same time,。
a little dark, like, there's just kind of a dark cloud,。
it's a dark show, there's kind of a dark cloud。
over my heart, and I just realized it wasn't good for me.。
I was taking in some stuff that was making my heart dirty.。
And so you need to look at, hey, what are they focusing on?。
What are they looking at, you know?。
This is gonna cover things like pornography, certainly.。
Like, if they're ingesting pornography,。
like, if that's you, like, I know that's a lot of you, man,。
you guys know, like, a lot of you are here。
for the first time, like, that's a huge part of my story.。
I was a major porn addict.。
I mean, it took years, frankly, of recovery,。
which every day I hoped it would be,。
today would be the day I'd never look at it again, you know?。
And like a dog to his vomit.。
And so here's what I want you to know, man,。
if you're here, and you looked at porn this month,。
like, that's a part of your life,。
and I know, ladies, it's one in three of you,。
I know that.。
If that's a part of your life, get help.。
Like, raise your hand, not now, but later, raise your hand,。
and say, hey, I need help, and we're here to help you.。
We want to, okay?。
We got this incredible thing called regeneration,。
incredible things called community groups,。
great pastors who would love to help you。
through that struggle, but you need to get help.。
Okay, but before you pull someone into that struggle,。
you need to heal from that struggle.。
What are they looking at, right?。
What are they looking at?。
Pinterest, I said earlier, you know?。
It's funny, the scripture says,。
gaze directly before you.。
See, I think some of us, like, our problem is,。
we're idolizing 10 years ahead,。
the white picket fence, and the husband。
who just got home from his firm,。
and you know, the cars, and the dog,。
and some of you are just like, man,。
I just want him breathing, that's all.。
If he'd just be breathing, that'd be fine, you know?。
And I'm just telling you, like, stop.。
Look right ahead of you, where am I at?。
Where do I want to be?。
What's the next step?。
That's the question, what's the next step I can take?。
I know ladies, I know some of you feel really helpless.。
I want to help you.。
We, our staff, our team, our volunteers,。
we want to help you.。
Hopefully you're gonna leave with something tonight.。
Meaning wisdom, not necessarily a person.。
(congregation laughing)。
You know, what's their focus on, intimacy?。
I know that's, like, some of us, that's the destination.。
Like, the desired destination.。
I mean, some of us here tonight.。
The desired destination is not。
a healthy, God-honoring marriage.。
Like, the desired destination is intimacy tonight.。
And you're really gonna hurt somebody.。
Like, one day, you're gonna look in that rearview mirror,。
and you're just gonna see cars piled up on the road,。
and you're gonna realize that it's been your bad driving。
that's responsible for all that damage.。
And before you do that, like, as someone who,。
that's a part of my story, I just want to say,。
hey, get help now.。
Just say, hey, man, I really, like, I don't know,。
I think I love God, but at the same time,。
I really love doing this stuff over here, and I need help.。
Okay, I need help.。
And so, come up and talk to me.。
You don't have to email, just come up tonight,。
or tomorrow, or next Tuesday, or whatever.。
Just come up and talk to us.。
And say, hey, we need help in that way, okay?。
And so, some of you, you're here tonight,。
and you feel like there's no hope for you。
because you know that that's a part of your story.。
You're like, man, pornography, check.。
Sex and intimacy, check.。
What's my hope?。
You know when you go on your GPS,。
and you start inputting an address,。
and it tells you everywhere you've been,。
like, it has the whole history there?。
You know, your heart's kind of the same way.。
Like, it shows you all these, like, you know,。
it reminds you, you reflect back.。
Maybe you're trying to, a quiet time,。
or be with God, or something, and you just start。
thinking about all of this stupid stuff you've done.。
But let me tell you something.。
You know how GPS, how it works?。
When you start entering new addresses,。
you know, you start saying, hey, this is where I'm going,。
this is where I'm going, and all of a sudden,。
those old addresses, they go out of the system.。
Your heart works similarly.。
When you start going to new, healthy places,。
you start putting new truth in.。
Some of that old junk, right, goes away.。
I'm not saying you never did those things.。
You don't have to act like you didn't.。
Okay, but you say, hey, I'm a new creation.。
Jesus gave me a new heart.。
God gave me a new heart.。
That's not who I am.。
That's who I was.。
That's not who I am.。
Hey, guys, look, it's not who I am.。
It's who I was.。
It's not who I am.。
Okay, you can say that.。
You start going to those new destinations,。
and so that's the third thing you watch, okay?。
Number one, their speech.。
Number two, their focus.。
And number three, where they go,。
straight from the scripture.。
Where do they go?。
Literally, like, where do they hang out with?。
Who do they hang out with?。
Okay, where do they spend money?。
That's gonna show you what they're interested in.。
Let me just say it, like, plain as day,。
like, just pure logic.。
If they party like the world,。
it's 'cause they're worldly, you know?。
If they go to worldly places,。
it's probably 'cause they're worldly, not godly.。
So just be aware, like, hey,。
where are the places that they go?。
You know, who are they hanging out with?。
If they're hanging out with a bunch of sinners,。
and they're not Jesus, right?。
You know, maybe, right?。
Maybe that's their ministry,。
and so don't email me on that.。
If that's their ministry, great, I trust you.。
But be wise.。
Who are they hanging out with?。
I realize we're all hanging out with sinners,。
'cause we're all sinners.。
I know that.。
And so, here's the deal, we're all headed the same way.。
If you're here, let me say it like this,。
if you're here, and you've trusted in Christ。
for the forgiveness of sins,。
you're going the same direction.。
We're all headed to be with God forever and ever and ever.。
And I know these, like, few years you're not married,。
or these few years you want something,。
or these few years you're really struggling through purity,。
and it's a battle every night, it's a battle.。
Like, one day you're gonna be with God。
forever and ever and ever.。
Like, forever and ever and ever, man.。
Forever and ever, to the power of infinity,。
it's gonna be incredible.。
Like, God's gonna be there, and Father, Son, and Spirit's。
gonna be there, and your great-grandma's gonna be there,。
and that neighbor who loved Jesus is gonna be there,。
and some of your community group,。
and you're all gonna be there forever and ever and ever,。
and these light and momentary afflictions, they're right.。
Right, it's gonna fade away, so focus on that,。
knowing the destination where you're going.。
So let me just say, the last point tonight is just。
stay moving towards your destination.。
Stay moving towards your destination, continue.。
Right, it's where am I, where do I wanna be,。
what's the next step, okay?。
What's the next step, what's the sure footing。
the scripture says?。
And so here's what I want you to know,。
a lot of rules to dating, there's not a lot of rules。
to dating, love God with all your heart, soul,。
mind, and strength, and then date however you want.。
You hear me?。
If God is ultimate in your life, like if he is。
the ultimate destination, and you know if he's not,。
I don't know, but you know if he's not.。
If you woke up this morning, you're like,。
Jesus, I just wanna be with you, I can't wait。
to open your word and just walk with you,。
and I want intimacy with you, and you are ultimate.。
Hey, keep me away from the temptations of this world,。
but I wanna walk with you, and it's not,。
it was like today and yesterday, and I'm not talking。
about like these momentary slumps we feel in,。
you know, I'm talking about I love God with my whole life.。
I don't wanna do that, I wanna love God.。
That's where you're at.。
Then stay there and date however you want.。
People ask questions like, well what about。
online dating, or can a girl pursue a guy,。
and this, I don't know, man.。
Doesn't say a lot about that.。
Like honestly, in here, there's just not a lot。
about dating.。
Like there's a little bit about marriage,。
but it's not about dating, it's about another relationship。
that's ultimate, you're gonna be with him forever。
and ever and ever.。
That's what's ultimate, and so if you make that ultimate,。
then date however you please.。
I got no fear.。
But if it's not ultimate,。
then maybe even before you date,。
before you consider dating, you think about,。
hey, how do I make that ultimate?。
Like I wanna change my life, JP.。
God, I wanna change my life.。
I'm tired of this reckless driving,。
I'm tired of beating my head against guardrails.。
I'm tired of getting these dents in my ride.。
I wanna drive straight, I want to go to him.。
I'm tired of dating these fools, these guys that hurt me.。
I hate that that girl who's no good for me has my heart.。
God, I wanna be right with you, okay?。
It's not a bunch of rules.。
You don't follow your heart, you inform your heart,。
and you tell it where it needs to go.。
Is there some principles that you should listen to?。
Yeah, but to be really honest with you,。
it's like when you're going to driver's ed,。
and you're there with the teacher,。
and they got that steering wheel on their side too。
'cause they don't trust you in those brakes,。
'cause they don't trust you,。
and you're sitting there and you're thinking through,。
and there's some rules, like there's some,。
go 35, like some laws, right, go 35 miles an hour here.。
Why, because there's some idiots。
that would drive 100 miles an hour。
through a school zone with kids, right?。
And so there has to be laws to protect some folks, right?。
But the reality of it, she's never sitting there,。
and as she's going through the things。
that you need to attend into, you know,。
and look ahead of you, she's never saying,。
hey, and by the way, there's some trees。
on the side of the road, don't hit those, okay?。
Right, because everybody's like, yeah, of course,。
she's like, whenever you're driving straight,。
whatever you do, don't jerk the wheel into an oak tree.。
You're like, yeah, why would I do that?。
That's kind of the same things to dating.。
Like there's like these big principles。
that are a little obvious.。
Hey, don't do that.。
If you don't do that, you're gonna be fine.。
I'll give 'em to you real quick, I know we're over,。
I'll give 'em to you real fast, okay?。
And so one, be honest and intentional, I said that.。
Be honest with yourself, like where are you at, right?。
Like what's going on?。
You know, if you want a 23-year-old supermodel。
who reads Greek and serves the poor and loves football,。
you know, make sure that you're looking in the mirror。
and you know where you're at.。
(congregation laughing)。
Be honest, be honest with yourself.。
Don't look at anyone not actively pursuing Christ, okay?。
That's the wrong way!。
Don't look at anyone not actively running hard after Jesus.。
It's 2 Corinthians 6, 14.。
Do not be unequally yoked with nonbelievers.。
What do light and darkness have in common?。
That's a loving God trying to save you some grief, man.。
He is trying to help you.。
For what do righteousness and wickedness have in common,。
or what fellowship can light have with darkness?。
Pursue absolute purity.。
Don't hit that tree!。
Of course, pursue, I'm not married, of course.。
Pursue purity, of course.。
You know, what can I, no!。
Get married!。
Okay, what about this?。
Is this, how far is too far?。
Don't, put a ring on the finger, that's not too far, okay?。
Do that!。
Find someone who loves Jesus and marry them.。
That's what's frustrating about this talk,。
is there's people that are like,。
hey, what are the tips and tricks, you know?。
I wanna know how to date, and really,。
what you need to hear is like,。
man, you're just not in a place where you should.。
And then there's folks that are like,。
man, I've heard the tips and tricks and the talks,。
and I've listened to so many dating talks,。
and what you need to hear is get married!。
It's time, if that's what you want, go!。
Find someone who loves Jesus, and you're like,。
JP, but I'm a girl and I'm waiting for some guy,。
you know, and I get that.。
Guys, stop being idiots.。
I love you, but man, it's game time.。
Okay, I mean that in the most affectionate way, okay?。
I mean that, 'cause I love you.。
But I'm serious.。
If you're a guy here and you love God。
with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength,。
and you're running after Him,。
look and find someone in this room。
who loves God of the opposite sex。
with all their heart, soul, mind, and strength,。
and put a ring on it.。
That's good advice, I promise.。
You're like, no, that's bad advice.。
It's not bad advice, okay?。
It just says in 27, do not swerve to the right or the left,。
but keep your foot from evil.。
I mean, here's the deal, like I wrote that blog,。
you know, 10 Things to Look For in a Guy,。
10 Things to Look For in a Woman.。
You can check that out on our website.。
But I just said it, you know, number 10,。
it's like, hey, if you get this,。
then one through nine's taken care of.。
And that's how I feel about dating.。
Like, if they have that, if they have number 10,。
like if they're pursuing Christ with their whole hearts。
and their whole lives, like all that other stuff,。
it's gonna be okay.。
There is no compatibility among sinners.。
That's us, you and me.。
There's no such thing as compatibility among us.。
There just isn't.。
We're not compatible.。
We're two selfish people coming together,。
determined to be unselfish towards each other.。
That's the reality, okay?。
And so inform your heart with truth.。
Consider who you are interested in。
and keep moving towards your destination, right?。
GPS, consider your GPS, right?。
Tell it where to go.。
The other day I was,。
I was driving back from being at my parents over Christmas.。
My parents live like six hours south of here.。
And so six, like compute this for me.。
Six hours in the car, three kids and my wife.。
My wife, that's the good part, but three kids, you know.。
One of those kids is a brand new one, a baby, infant.。
He's there, and so six hours in the car with him.。
And he's getting restless.。
And really, at about this time,。
so I'm pulling into Dallas,。
and it was like the best thing ever。
because everyone had fallen asleep.。
And I got, for Christmas, I got these Beats, earphones.。
And so I'm listening to Shane and Shane, actually,。
and to an album I just downloaded,。
and I'm just in there and I'm just worshiping.。
Like, everybody's sleeping, and I'm just,。
yeah, you know, I wanna yearn for you.。
And I'm just worshiping.。
And I'm pulling into Dallas after six hours.。
Like, it's this beautiful glow of the Dallas skyline.。
I see the ball, the Reunion Tower,。
and I see the Bank of America building and the green neons.。
I'm driving by that giant giraffe at the Dallas Zoo,。
and I'm heading over.。
And this is a drive, I've made this drive。
hundreds of times, literally.。
When I moved to Dallas, I dated Monica in Waco,。
and so I made this drive so many times, hundreds of times.。
And so here I am, I'm almost home, and I'm worshiping.。
I got my earphones in, everybody's sleeping.。
Like, it's the greatest thing ever.。
And we haven't been home for a week now.。
We had been gone.。
And so I'm just like, yes.。
And so I'm driving, and I'm worshiping,。
and I'm driving, and I'm worshiping.。
And I'm driving, and I'm driving, and I'm driving.。
And I look up.。
I'm like, Cabela's?。
[LAUGHTER]。
What?。
I've never even seen that Cabela's before.。
[LAUGHTER]。
You know?。
And I'm like, what just happened?。
And I leave.。
It says, you are now leaving Keller.。
I'm like, Keller?。
Where is Keller?。
[LAUGHTER]。
Is that in Texas?。
You know?。
And Monica wakes up, and she's like, what are you doing?。
I'm like, go back to sleep, babe.。
[LAUGHTER]。
I'm like, did you know they put a Cabela's over here?。
I just wanted to see if it was open.。
It's closed.。
But yeah.。
And she's like, where are we?。
I'm like, I don't know.。
[LAUGHTER]。
And I said, OK, I'm going to need your help.。
She gets out her iPhone, put in her address, 7619.。
And it's like, OK, an hour and 23 minutes from my house.。
[LAUGHTER]。
I know, I didn't tell the story up front.。
I would have lost all credibility.。
An hour and 23 minutes out of the way, I took us.。
An hour and 23 minutes.。
And I'm like, OK, but here's the deal.。
OK, I'm done.。
I'm done trying to feel this thing out.。
Like, take me home.。
I'm like, babe, you got it?。
You got it?。
We're ready?。
Let's go.。
And we're in that car together.。
She's navigating.。
She's listening to the GPS.。
She's telling us where to go.。
We're going to the same direction, the same destination.。
We're driving the same pace, her and I. And we're going.。
And we're both running towards home.。
And that's you, right?。
That's what you're doing, right?。
You've got these stops along the way.。
But if you're here, you've trusted in Christ.。
You're running home.。
You're going home.。
Find someone going home with you.。
Not tonight.。
[LAUGHTER]。
Find someone headed to that same destination,。
like with all of them.。
Not some of their life, not half their heart, but all of them.。
Say, hey, man, let's navigate these waters together.。
Let's go.。
Let's rock.。
Let me pray.。
Father, the things I said that were not of you, erase them.。
Please, God.。
And Father, the things that I said that were consistent with。
your spirit and your character and who you are, the exegesis。
of your word and the truth from your scriptures made alive to。
us by the power of your spirit.。
Lord, I pray they would stir in our hearts and our minds,。
Father, that we would know what they are, that we would。
yield to them.。
I know there's folks frustrated right now.。
But he didn't address.。
I know.。
God, would you remind them of the truth they need to hear?。
Would you, in your sovereignty, move in and fill。
the voids that my teaching leaves?。
Father, would you stir our hearts and our minds around the。
truths we need to hear?。
And God, would you make us new?。
There's some folks tonight that just need to be made new.。
Lord, thank you for the way you made me new and others in my。
life new.。
And I just pray you'd make them new, that your spirit would。
make them new.。
You remind them how much you love them through Christ.。
We sing to you now.。
Hope that I have for you is like, I don't care how far off。
the path you are.。
You can return to it right now.。
Just go and say, God, conform this wretched device in me to。
that of your son.。
Give me a new one to pursue the things that you desire for me.。
Because God, you're a holy and a good and amazing God.。
And you desire good things for your children.。
And so I pray that this thing in all of us would pursue the。
things of you.。
Help us, God, to reprogram our broken GPS devices.。
Father, give us new ones that work.。
Lord, help us to set the destination on you.。
Amen.。
I do.。
I want you to leave it with that hope.。
Wherever you're at, whatever you look behind you, there's。
broken cars, and maybe you're just the person here that。
knows that you want something that's not。
available to you so bad.。
Just go to that heart.。
Say, God, would you reprogram it?。
Father, would you give me a new one?。
Would you set it on you and return to the path and walk one。
foot in front of the other towards him?。
OK.。
If we can help you do that, we want to.。
We have this deal tonight called Open Community Group.。
And so if you're here and you're just like, man, I just。
need some friends who are believers, OK?。
And particularly--。
yeah, I'll start there.。
If you are looking for some friends who are believers,。
it's a community, you're committed to that idea, or you。
want to hear a vision on it, you want to hear what it is,。
then guys, you can go to this room right here, right through。
this door.。
You can walk forward and then go through that room as soon。
as we're done here.。
And girls, you can go through that door right there, and。
there's a glass room right there.。
And this will be full of other girls who are saying, hey, I'm。
looking for some friends, looking for community.。
Some full of some guys over here, they're saying, hey, I'm。
looking for some friends who are looking for community.。
And our community team's going to be in there to talk with。
you through that.。
Also, if you have these questions, you're like, man,。
he didn't cover my question.。
One, we've got two weeks left.。
Two, we have the Google+ Hangout tomorrow.。
We're going to broadcast that on the internet.。
And so I think it's at 9--。
what time is it?。
1130.。
But then also, we're going to record it.。
And so it will be online.。
And so you can tweet your questions into us or put them。
on Facebook, and we will do our best to cover those。
questions in that interview tomorrow.。
I love you guys.。
I hope you know and understand that.。
I hope more than that.。
If you don't know that I love you, know that God does.。
He's crazy about you, and he desires good things for you.。
So go in peace to love and serve the Lord.。
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]。
