(upbeat music)。
- Alright, hey we're wrapping up our series,。
Cupid, Dating Myths, taking one myth per week。
and just kind of addressing that from the scriptures.。
Trying to see what God, the creator,。
the heavens, the earth, what truths he has for us.。
And there's just this reality that I think a lot of us,。
as we think through our expectations。
or just this idea of love or we look at culture,。
you know, it really throws us off.。
And so we're kind of scrambling with resources。
and you get this book and like let's be honest,。
it doesn't, if this whole book,。
and you know it's a bunch of pages,。
you know everything that it has to say about marriage。
is probably less than that, okay?。
And so then you know, we kind of resort to,。
okay well where else can I learn, you know,。
Us Weekly or what, you know, Cosmo,。
where else are there truths?。
And I think a lot of times we turn to, you know,。
Hollywood or the romantic comedies that are put out there。
and I just, I wish somebody would show an honest movie,。
right, say hey this is honest, like this is real,。
this is what love actually looks like.。
In fact, before we go any further,。
I want you guys to watch this.。
That movie is fantasy.。
And here's why it's fantasy,。
'cause I don't know if you've seen it,。
I'm gonna ruin the ending so if you care, earmuffs.。
But you know, essentially the lady has Alzheimer's。
and it ends in this beautiful picture of commitment.。
But you don't get commitment in the way that。
traveling the path the movie takes you down, okay?。
People who travel that path don't end up in commitment,。
they end up somewhere different, that's fantasy.。
Now I think a lot of us, we're here tonight。
and the reality is I prayed through。
where the Lord would take us to tonight。
as we wrap up this series,。
I think a lot of us are hoping in fantasy.。
And I know fantasy, see I got two little girls,。
two little girls, right, and you walk into my house。
and it looks like Disney threw up in my room,。
like it exploded in my house, okay?。
Everything is Disney princess.。
Like I walk in and Presley who's five,。
she's the daddy, Finley's usually the mommy,。
poor baby Weston is always the baby。
and they're always taking care,。
they're always playing house,。
they're always dressing up like princesses,。
put on their little crowns,。
and I mean they have proposed to me 17 times。
and it's sweet, you know, daddy will you marry me?。
Yes baby, I'm married to mom.。
You know they proposed to Weston 17 times as well.。
And so just all of these things,。
in fact we went to the movies on Sunday。
and Finley's like, hey daddy can I wear my crown?。
I'm like sure, you know, come on princess,。
wear your crown, so she wears her crown to the movies。
and after we go to Starbucks and this lady's like,。
oh man, you look so beautiful,。
you know dressed up like a princess,。
did you go to a ball today?。
I'm like no, we went to the movies, you know,。
and so that's their world, right?。
And so for some of you, that's where it started.。
It started with Disney, Happily Ever After,。
and you've been pursuing that ever since。
and that's what your crosshairs are on,。
that's what you're looking for,。
that's where your expectations are,。
but the problem is,。
the problem is your greatest disappointments。
come from your expectations。
and that's why so many people,。
as they consider dating and marriage and relationships,。
it is riddled with disappointments,。
discouragement and despair。
and I think everybody's looking for something to hope in,。
but too many of us are hoping in fantasy。
and so today the myth is just this idea。
that marriage is for happiness.。
It's a really popular idea that you marry。
to be happy, that marriage is for happiness.。
Monica and I, I know this firsthand,。
because my wife and I, we pursued fantasy.。
Like we wanted the happily ever after story。
and I even think like for so much of our relationship,。
we actually enjoyed living in the soap opera,。
so I remember the day that she walked in,。
I was at this party in college, you know,。
in this tiny little apartment,。
'cause somehow you have big parties。
and tiny little apartments in college,。
and she walked in wearing this leopard dress。
and I looked up and I was just like,。
oh my goodness, who is that?。
And I was in a committed relationship。
and she was in a committed relationship,。
but that didn't stop us and we started pursuing each other。
and somehow, you know, somehow we ended up。
in this relationship where we kept pursuing each other。
and it looked like, and I'm gonna give you a glimpse。
into it, it looked like manic highs and manic lows.。
It looked like I love you, I adore you,。
we're star-crossed lovers, blah,。
and then I hate you, I never wanna see you again,。
get out of my face, I can't live without you,。
walk home, you know, these are the things.。
(congregation laughing)。
Some of you are like, yeah.。
That's, I mean, those are everything I just said。
or things I had said then, dozens and dozens。
and dozens of times.。
And then this incredible thing happened。
where we became followers of Jesus。
in the midst of all of that turmoil,。
we found someone else to love besides each other.。
In fact, I remember as we went through pre-marital。
counseling, sitting with this little pastor,。
very skeptical, and he looked at me。
and he just said, hey, I want you guys。
to stop pursuing each other and start pursuing God together.。
And I just thought, you are so stupid.。
Like, what does that even mean?。
Like, okay, we're gonna start pursuing each other,。
we're getting married, dude.。
And as I look back on the work that God has done。
in our relationship today, and that's exactly what happened,。
when it turned around, we had stopped pursuing each other。
and we started pursuing him together。
and things started straightening out,。
not before we got married, okay?。
Year one, honeymoon, year two, disaster.。
Disaster.。
And so some of us, you know, we never grow out of this。
pursuit of happily ever after,。
this pursuit of someone to love.。
You know, and I told you, the Bible doesn't have。
a lot to say about it, but what it does have to say,。
it says marriage is hard, it gives instructions。
because it's difficult, and then it says。
it's actually about something beyond each other.。
It says that marriage is actually this metaphor。
for us learning more about God。
as we look on what marriage looks like.。
That's really what the Bible has to say。
about marriage in a nutshell.。
And so I just wanna, let me recap where we've been。
in Cupid series, the first thing, week one,。
we talked about resetting our sights,。
we talked about the criteria,。
setting our sights on godly character,。
and I just said this idea, hey, you don't need。
a trophy wife or a husband, you need someone。
to go to war with, okay, marriage is hard,。
discipling your children, that's difficult,。
life's gonna throw all these curveballs at you,。
you don't know what's coming, you don't want。
a trophy wife or husband, you want someone。
you can go to war with.。
Week two, we talked about how we're resetting our strategy,。
I just said, hey, don't follow your heart,。
inform your heart, we looked at Proverbs 4:23,。
said, hey, tell your heart where to go。
and what to look for, don't do this baggage swap。
where you meet with someone and you say,。
hey, you take some of my baggage,。
I'll take some of your baggage,。
but actually leave someone better than you find them。
as you date them, as you spend time with them.。
If you do break up, if it doesn't end in marriage,。
then make them better for someone else, right?。
Hopefully the time that y'all spend together,。
you grow more godly together, that's what it looks like。
as two Christians would spend time together.。
And then week three, we talked about。
resetting our commitment.。
This idea that sex is a powerful gift,。
but outside of the context of marriage, it's destructive.。
That you can have sex outside of marriage,。
but then all of a sudden, you can't have that kind of sex。
inside of marriage, and I see that over and over and over,。
and we talked about how this crazy idea。
that the world says is insane,。
we talked about how purity is possible,。
and that there's people doing it,。
that if that's you, that you're not a weirdo,。
that it's God-ordained, it's absolutely possible.。
Well, tonight I wanna talk about resetting our expectations,。
how you and I, how we respond,。
or should respond when our expectations aren't met.。
And so we're gonna talk about。
dealing with disappointments in dating,。
dealing with despair in dating, and dealing with divorce.。
And before you leave, I hope I can give you a glimpse。
of what it looks like to doing it right,。
and I hope you'll stay in there with me 'til the end, okay?。
I think there'll be temptation.。
If you hear something that rubs you the wrong way,。
you'll walk out, and I hope you'll hang in there with me,。
so that we can really see what God has to say in this.。
Let me start in 1 Corinthians 13.。
It's the chapter in your Bible on love, okay?。
And so in verse four, it just says this.。
Love is patient, love is kind, it does not envy,。
it does not boast, it is not proud, it is not rude,。
it is not self-seeking, it is not easily angered,。
it keeps no record of wrongs, love does not delight in evil,。
but rejoices with the truth, it always protects,。
always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres,。
and it's a really high bar.。
It's like, well, how am I supposed to do that?。
Keep no records of wrongs, always persevere, always trust?。
How am I supposed to always trust?。
And then he says this.。
When I was a child, verse 11, when I was a child,。
I talked like a child, I thought like a child,。
I reasoned like a child, but when I became a man,。
I put childish ways behind me.。
When I grew up, I stopped with the childish fantasies.。
I put Disney away, and I started pursuing something else。
to inform what it would mean to love.。
Greater love has no one than this,。
that he would die for us.。
That Christ would die for us.。
Last night, my little girl, my four-year-old,。
love her, she says the craziest things, she's so funny,。
and I'm tucking her into bed, and we're reading a story,。
and she's just out of nowhere.。
The way that we handled the Santa Claus thing。
is we just told them, hey, there's a secret about Santa,。
'cause we want them to trust us,。
you know, we don't ever wanna lie,。
and we want them to be able to have fun,。
and so just as we celebrate Santa, and do it big,。
and leave him milk and cookies,。
I just always tell them, hey, remember,。
there's a secret about Santa, one day you're gonna know,。
and I'm telling you right now, there's a secret about Santa.。
Last night, I'm reading her the Bible story,。
and out of nowhere, she goes,。
"Daddy, what's the secret about Santa?"。
And I'm like, baby girl, I can't tell you.。
And I tuck her in, I go in the living room,。
and I'm writing, and I just hear her wailing in there.。
You know, like, just, I'm talking, crying, like,。
(panting)。
just like, crying hysterically in there.。
And, you know, and I'm listening, and she goes,。
"You hurt my feelings, you hurt my feelings."。
And so I go in, and I'm like, Finley Bear, what's wrong?。
And she's like, "You won't tell me the secret about Santa."。
I'm like, baby girl, listen, there's a secret,。
I'm telling you there's a secret, I want you to find out.。
And she's like, "Well, I just wanna know."。
And she's so disappointed that I won't tell her this thing,。
this, you know, this little joke.。
Santa's not real, by the way.。
Somebody's crying back.。
(congregation laughing)。
Sorry.。
Here's the deal.。
It's funny when you're three, or four, she's four.。
It's funny when you're four.。
You know, she hasn't learned how to。
deal with disappointment.。
But some of us, man, we're 24, maybe 34.。
He doesn't love me.。
It's not so funny, though.。
You know, it's less funny.。
And the scripture says, hey, when are we gonna stop。
fantasizing about this thing, that there's gonna be。
this Prince Charming that's gonna swoop in,。
we're gonna leave, I know you wanna believe。
that that hope is real.。
But I'll tell you that men and women are miserable saviors.。
Miserable saviors.。
And so let's just talk about dealing with disappointment.。
What does it look like when our expectations aren't met,。
dealing with disappointment?。
Proverbs 16, nine says this, that in his heart,。
a man plans his course.。
In his heart, a man says, I want that.。
In his heart, a man or a woman says,。
I want the white picket fence and the suburban home。
and the German shepherd and the two kids,。
one boy, one girl.。
But the Lord determines his and her steps.。
And so you may not be where you had hoped,。
but you must trust that God is at work,。
that tonight you may have came in here。
and maybe you thought by now, man, I thought surely。
by the time I'm 32, I would be married.。
By the time I'm 39, I thought surely that I would be married。
and so you had these expectations and just as I said earlier。
your greatest disappointments come from your expectations。
and if you're not careful, those will turn into despair,。
those will turn into depression,。
those will turn into darkness.。
And so the question that I have for you tonight right now,。
just as we look at Proverbs 69 is do you trust。
that God is good and that God is in control?。
And you've gotta answer that.。
Do you trust that God is good and God is in control?。
But as I thought about that, I want you to know,。
'cause I don't wanna give you bad dating advice,。
I want you to know there's two kinds of trusting God.。
Okay, there's a passive trusting.。
This is what that looks like.。
It's like when you look around。
and your circumstances aren't met。
or you are in a situation of unwanted circumstances,。
okay, you trust that God is in control of that.。
You stop where you are, you acknowledge,。
hey God, you are God, I am not God and you are in control.。
You have numbered my days ahead of time。
and you are on your throne and all power and honor。
and glory is yours.。
I trust you.。
Okay, and then there's an active trusting.。
This is Proverbs 3, five and six.。
It says, "Trust in the Lord with all your heart。
"and lean not on your own understanding,。
"but in all your ways acknowledge him."。
In the Hebrew, it's not like acknowledge,。
it's like the trajectory of your life。
acknowledges that there is a God.。
In all your ways acknowledge him。
and he will make your path straight.。
He will set your path straight.。
This active trusting is, hey God,。
I wanna know what you have said is good。
and I wanna pursue it.。
God, I wanna test the desires of my heart。
with the instruction that you have given me。
and then I want to pursue them。
if they are good and consistent with you.。
So don't say, 'cause some of you guys are like,。
well, the reason that I'm not married。
is because I'm waiting for God to bring me a wife.。
And I'm just telling you,。
like while you're playing World of Warcraft or whatever,。
like she's not gonna fall through the ceiling。
onto your lap and a pastor pop up。
or come down the chimney and say,。
here we are, let's do this deal.。
Like that's not gonna happen.。
There is a part of this deal。
where you have to actively pursue her.。
And the scripture says,。
he who finds a wife finds a good thing.。
So should you want a wife, you should look for a wife.。
Ladies, amen?。
Okay, okay.。
(congregation laughing)。
And so I think some of us thought that。
not just that we'd be married by now,。
but that we'd be married to a particular person by now.。
Like maybe you hope that he would have。
bought that ring by now.。
Or maybe you're looking back。
and wondering what he's doing right now。
or where he's at or what city he's in right now.。
And so some of us are,。
or when I'm going to meet him right now.。
Where is he, God, have you forgotten me?。
Have you forsaken me?。
The scripture says no.。
I think some of us were chasing the one, you know?。
The one, you guys remember the one?。
We always talk about that every year,。
we gotta talk about the one.。
The one is out there on a unicorn in Fantasia somewhere.。
(congregation laughing)。
Let me hit you with this.。
And this is gonna blow some of your minds, okay?。
There is no one.。
There's ones.。
Like there's people that you can choose from,。
but there's no one.。
And I'll tell you to kind of help you out,。
the pool from which you can date from,。
it's a relatively small pool, okay?。
It's those, you know, you look at the world,。
it's full of people who do not follow Jesus.。
And so it's like, you know, a lot of the world,。
you're like, hey, well, none of them.。
And then you look what's left,。
and it's like, okay, these are the people。
who are passionately, with their lives, seeking Christ.。
And so these are the folks that I can choose from.。
You know, not just someone like check the box,。
like I had this experience around six,。
but like today, I am currently running after Jesus.。
That you would be that person,。
and that you would look for that person.。
And so let me hit on this one thing for a second,。
as I always do.。
People are like, what do you mean there's not a one?。
Somebody's always mind blown on that.。
And so I just ask like this,。
was I the one for Monica?。
And before you shut up, the answer is yes, and here's why.。
Because we went down the aisle together,。
and we sat in front of that pastor,。
and we made a covenant before God together.。
Do you know the difference between a covenant。
and a commitment?。
A commitment is a if-then statement.。
A commitment is if you do this, then I will.。
A commitment, it's an if-then, it's a hey,。
if you meet your terms, then I'm going to meet my terms,。
and if you don't meet your terms,。
then I can do these, I can take this action.。
A covenant is I will, regardless of what you do.。
A covenant is you standing before God,。
saying hey, I will do this,。
for better or worse, sickness and health,。
till death do us part,。
regardless, if she loses her mind,。
I'll be there.。
All right, so now let me ask you this.。
Is there someone better for Monica?。
And the answer is a resounding yes.。
Lots of them.。
You get that, mind blown?。
Stay with me.。
Okay, there are guys out there。
that love more, I mean, more compatible for her.。
There's guys out there, you know, she's 5'3", I'm 6'7".。
There's shorter guys.。
There's guys that don't like guns and motorcycles like I do.。
You know, she doesn't love guns and motorcycles.。
There are guys out there, there's hundreds,。
maybe hundreds of thousands of guys。
that would be better suited for Monica than me.。
Maybe hundreds of thousands of girls。
that would be better suited for me than Monica.。
But we found each other,。
and we committed to each other.。
Crazy, huh?。
It's crazy.。
And we committed, so we're doing this thing together, right?。
We're running together.。
There's no one, there's these ones。
that God has said, "Hey, choose from these people."。
Even as Abraham sent Eleazar to find a wife for his son,。
he said, "Hey, go to these select people。
"and choose someone for him."。
All right.。
And so you're not waiting to be swept away in some fantasy.。
You're growing more godly.。
These are not these days that we waste.。
You're not lesser of a person。
because you're a single person.。
In fact, you're the engine of the church。
as a single person.。
Single people are the most well-resourced,。
have the most time.。
You are the engine of the church.。
That's why God, that's why Jesus used a bunch。
of young adults to change the world.。
That's why he did it.。
I believe wholeheartedly.。
You read the scriptures, look at the disciples.。
Between the ages of 18 and 32, Jesus says,。
"Hey, give me some young adults, I'll change the world."。
'Cause they were ready and willing.。
It's game time, you're in your prime.。
We've said that before.。
And so what do you need?。
What do you need to meet the one?。
It's pretty simple, man.。
You need to be in the same location geographically.。
You have to see each other.。
You need to be in the same location spiritually.。
All right?。
You need to be in the same location spiritually.。
The scripture says, "Equally yoked."。
Second Corinthians 6, verse 14.。
Same location spiritually.。
You need to be traveling the same direction.。
Right, hey, we're both running towards God.。
The trajectory of our life is that we believe。
that there's a God and we're gonna die。
and we're gonna go be with him.。
And so we use this life for that.。
And then lastly, you know, compatibility, romance,。
I don't, you know, chemistry.。
I would say you need to be able to ride。
in the same car together.。
And more, and before you scoff at that,。
let me say this.。
There's gonna be days where you don't want to.。
So before you think that's crazy,。
there's gonna be days where you're like,。
I would rather ride in the car。
with any other single breathing person than you.。
And so write that down.。
Say, JP said this, I think he's a liar,。
so that you can come back and say,。
well, man, I repent.。
(congregation laughing)。
So you are becoming something.。
God is at work in you, right?。
He's at work in you.。
And so I pray that the trajectory of your life。
would be you pursuing Jesus.。
The reality of it is,。
and it's interesting, I've been hearing this lately,。
like, people are like, man, I've been doing。
what you said, it didn't work.。
What does work, like, you mean you didn't get married。
in two weeks?。
What does that mean, it didn't work?。
Well, you know, she said, no,。
that doesn't mean it didn't work.。
Don't you understand, like, this is a refining moment.。
This is God working, it's okay,。
like a no doesn't mean it didn't work.。
A breakup doesn't mean it didn't work.。
See, the process is not about you getting married,。
but you growing godly.。
And you can grow godly through a breakup.。
You can grow godly through a no.。
You do that by navigating those waters with honesty.。
By asking questions, hey, help me understand.。
Hey, how could I have loved or cared for you better in this?。
And you grow more godly, and whatever you're doing,。
if you're doing it His way, it will work.。
People say, well, I'm gonna give Christian dating a shot.。
What does that mean, Christian dating?。
If you're Christian and you're dating,。
you're Christian dating, right?。
I mean, right, I'm just confused by that.。
It's like, Christians would be like,。
well, I'm gonna give secular dating a shot.。
What does that?。
(congregation laughing)。
No, give pursuing Christ a shot.。
Don't give it a shot, give it your life.。
And then what comes out of that。
will be out of the overflow of those things.。
See, I think that,。
I think that God is using our challenges。
and our disappointments to grow us into His man or woman.。
I've been doing this thing,。
this vocational ministry thing for six years now,。
and I've met with hundreds and hundreds。
of hurting married folks.。
And I've realized there are, I've never,。
I'll just say, I personally,。
I've never met someone with marital problems.。
Every person I've met had single people problems。
they brought into marriage.。
You tracking with that?。
Like their marriage problems。
were problems before they were married,。
and they brought them into marriage,。
and then they didn't know how to work that out。
with someone else.。
And I think as we work through that conflict,。
as we grow through that, God is working in our hearts.。
He says this in James,。
"Consider it pure joy, my brothers,。
"whenever you face trials of many kinds,。
"because you know that the testing of your faith。
"develops perseverance,。
"and perseverance must finish its work。
"so that you may be mature and complete,。
"not lacking anything."。
See, your faith is being tested in dating.。
Your faith is getting tested in dating.。
I get asked all the time,。
"Well, what does it look like if I'm a guy,。
"I know the Scriptures say that I'm supposed to lead,。
"what does it look like to lead as a guy in a relationship?"。
Simple, my answer to that is simple.。
You lead in purity.。
See, here's the reality.。
If he can help, if he can guard himself。
against his greatest urge, right,。
he's probably gonna do all right at keeping the lights on,。
you know, paying the bills and keeping the kids fed.。
Like, if he can protect himself,。
if he can be self-controlled or controlled by the Spirit。
enough to lead you towards purity,。
he's probably gonna be an all right provider,。
and he's probably gonna be faithful to you,。
but likewise, if he can't,。
his faithfulness to you, it's a guess.。
It's a shot in the dark.。
We'll see.。
It's a gamble.。
It's a gamble.。
And so, if you haven't found that guy,。
if you haven't found that girl, don't be discouraged.。
We talked about how discouragement can lead to despair,。
and so the second thing I wanna cover。
is just this idea of dealing with despair.。
Dealing with despair.。
See, maybe the person you thought you'd end up with。
broke your heart.。
Breakups are hard.。
It's an understatement.。
Breakups are difficult.。
And so, let's just talk through that for a second.。
If you're in a breakup or you're going through a breakup,。
would you do this for me?。
Would you just be honest?。
Okay, don't drag God into your breakup.。
Don't drag God into your excuse.。
"Well, I just feel the Lord is, you know,。
"I just think God is just telling me."。
Just say, "Hey, I'm not feeling this anymore."。
That's the truth.。
I don't need to over-spiritualize this.。
And maybe we didn't do a great job。
of guarding our hearts in that.。
I know that's ambiguous and people tend to hate it,。
this idea of guarding your hearts.。
And so, you may hurt and I may hurt,。
and the reality of it is we need to go our separate ways.。
I don't know what the truth is, right?。
It may be like, "I don't like your hair,"。
but whatever the truth is,。
I'm just saying, "Hey, just use the truth."。
You don't have to over-spiritualize it.。
You don't have to say something that it's not.。
You don't have to be scared.。
The Lord gave you a spirit of power and love。
and self-discipline, not a spirit of timidity,。
the scripture says.。
You can sit there and respectfully look somebody。
in the eyes and say, "Hey, let me just be honest with you.。
"Because I'm a Christian and that's what we do,。
"we're honest.。
"And I don't need to over-spiritualize it.。
"I don't need to make it God's fault."。
That's like when I spank my girls,。
I'm like, "Well, God said I have to, you know?"。
That's not gonna increase their view of God.。
Hey, I know you're really, really hurt right now,。
but it's God's fault.。
Okay, like I know you wanna blame me for this,。
but the reality of it is it's God's fault.。
No, it's not.。
It's not God's fault.。
Okay.。
And so, let me say this.。
If your brother or sister has sinned against you。
in that relationship, you go and you tell them, honestly.。
You say, "Hey, you've sinned against me.。
"You have hurt me.。
"I think you've done something。
"that contradicts the scriptures."。
But if you're hurt because of their actions,。
like you're hurt is just the product。
of their feelings drifting.。
Like if you're hurt is the product of their feelings,。
but they haven't sinned against you,。
then it's okay.。
You need to know this.。
It is okay to be hurt, okay?。
But the reality of it is, is hurt people hurt people,。
and it's not okay to hurt people.。
Okay, so you take a deep breath.。
You know, take a deep breath.。
Call your girlfriends, call your guy friends, respectively,。
and say, "Hey, here's where I'm at.。
"I'm hurting, and I wanna hurt someone.。
"I wanna call him right now,。
"after a shot of tequila at 2 a.m."。
You know, or whatever that is, right?。
But I'm not gonna do that.。
That's not who I am.。
So maybe you're realizing that right now,。
the despair in your life as we go through this series。
that you've done some terrible things.。
You know, maybe that guy who had your heart。
convinced you to do things with him。
that you swore you'd never do.。
And maybe you didn't need convincing.。
Like, maybe you're numb to sex, right?。
Maybe you're just kind of at this place where,。
"Hey, honestly, like, if a guy would give me attention,。
"like, I'll sleep with him.。
"It's no big deal.。
"That's just kinda where I'm at.。
"If a girl will show me some affection, whatever.。
"I'm down for whatever."。
Maybe that's where you're at.。
Maybe you came in tonight with addictions。
that you've never even called addictions.。
And it's all of a sudden, you lift your head up,。
and you realize this porn thing's been going on。
since the fifth grade.。
It's been over a decade, over two.。
You're like, "Man, I think I got a problem.。
"I've just been thinking that it's gonna fix itself.。
"Maybe you've been raped.。
"Maybe you've gone through sexual abuse,。
"and I'm not making light of that.。
"I hate that for you.。
"I hate that for you.。
"Maybe you have made the choice to have an abortion,。
"and I want you to know that God is good,。
"and He loves you, and He's crazy about you.。
"And now I've got a question for you.。
"What's your story gonna be?。
"What's your story gonna be?。
"What story are you gonna write?。
"Are you gonna be that girl。
"that swears she's never gonna tell anyone。
"about that abortion, and she's gonna take it to her grave?。
"Are you gonna be that girl that says,。
"'Hey, I had an abortion,。
"'and I wanna help others who have had abortions。
"'come from the bondage that I felt from that decision?'。
"Are you gonna be the girl that says,。
"'Yeah, you know what?。
"'I'm addicted to pornography, and I'm a girl,。
"'and girls don't talk about that,。
"'but I wanna fight the porn industry now.。
"'I wanna take my life and my story and my struggle,。
"'and I wanna set other people free from it.'。
"Are you gonna be the guy。
"that has sexual abuse occurred to you,。
"and so now you walk around as a victim,。
"carrying that burden on your shoulders?。
"Are you gonna be that guy that says,。
"'Yeah, you know, my uncle did that thing to me,。
"'but I wanna help you, and you, and you, and you.。
"'Would you guys come and follow me,。
"'and can we sit and we talk about。
"'what's your story gonna be?'。
"Are you gonna be that person?"。
And you look backwards, and you realize。
it's hundreds of partners, or dozens of partners,。
or five partners.。
And you're like, "You know, that's not who I am, though.。
"I'm not that guy, I'm not that girl.。
"I've been made new in Christ,。
"and so I'm gonna use my story to minister to others."。
'Cause 2 Corinthians 5:17 says that,。
"Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation.。
"The old has gone, and the new has come."。
And so you, my friends, are not defined by your past.。
You're defined by Christ's past,。
and he's redefining your future.。
You're not defined by your past.。
You're defined by Jesus's past,。
and he's changing your future.。
And it's time that you found hope in that,。
'cause I think as so-called Christians,。
we're walking around defeated,。
and that was never his intentions.。
2 Corinthians 7, verse 10 says。
that there's this godly sorrow, this godly despair,。
that brings repentance, that leads to salvation, freedom,。
and leaves no regret, but worldly sorrow,。
shame, guilt, brings death.。
See, I think often our disappointments。
and our despair brings us to things。
that we never thought would be,。
we never hoped to be, we never even fantasized about,。
and so one of those things is divorce.。
And before we wrap up this series,。
we just wanna talk about that.。
I know that's a lot of your stories here tonight,。
and here's the crazy truth.。
I'm just gonna hit you with this.。
It hurts my heart to even say this.。
For about over half of you, it will be your story.。
For over half of the faces I'm looking at right now,。
it's gonna be your story.。
I know all of you are like, "Not me."。
Like you've seen the Disney movie。
where the prince comes in and rescues her,。
and they fall in love, and then they get a divorce?。
No, you haven't seen that one.。
Right, that's not the one Disney makes.。
And I know it wasn't the thing you fantasized about。
when you were growing up,。
or were a little girl or a little guy,。
and so let's just talk about dealing with divorce.。
First of all, for those who haven't been married,。
let me say to you, divorce is not an option, okay?。
And so for those of you that have gone through that,。
maybe you didn't know, maybe you hadn't read the scriptures,。
grace abounds, God forgives your new creations.。
But for those of you who haven't been married,。
we're gonna skew that statistic,。
because my prayer for all of us is that we would get married。
and none of us would get a divorce.。
We know in Malachi 2:16, God says that he hates divorce,。
but God does not hate the divorced.。
You need to know that.。
He hates divorce, he hates the sin,。
he doesn't hate the sinner.。
He loves the sinner.。
And so divorce is not an option.。
I want you to know for me it was.。
Divorce was absolutely an option.。
In fact, I was so immature in my thinking,。
like I was just kinda looking at this girl,。
she was my best friend's sister,。
and I loved her family, and I was like,。
man, I don't know, like I might as well get married.。
You know, it'll be great, it's gonna be awesome.。
Like I had all of these expectations,。
it'll be sex every night,。
and we have one big giant sexcapade,。
everybody knows that's what marriage is, you know.。
I'm gonna learn Victoria's secret, you know.。
And then we get there,。
and it didn't really happen like that,。
it's not really what played out.。
And I just thought, hey, if this isn't what happened,。
if that's not how it goes, then we'll just jump out,。
no big deal.。
We'll just jump out, no big deal.。
Get out of this thing, everybody's doing it, 52% of people.。
So we'll just get out.。
And so about two years into marriage,。
like where I'm at, I'm so immature,。
and this isn't that long ago, you know,。
I'm embarrassed to tell you,。
and so I'm throwing around the D word.。
I don't know how to love a girl,。
like I had dated like a lot of you date,。
which is serial dating, I jumped in a relationship,。
and when it went wrong, I jumped out,。
and I jumped in another relationship,。
and it went wrong, I jumped out.。
Now is that training for marriage,。
or is that training for divorce?。
See, this is why dating's important.。
See, I had trained for divorce.。
I had trained myself, I had conditioned myself for divorce.。
And so here we were in marriage,。
and I'm like, man, I'll just, you know,。
you wanna act crazy, I'll just jump out.。
It was really me acting crazy.。
And it wasn't until I realized,。
like I started reading this,。
and I realized that out wasn't an option,。
and I'm like, man, if I'm gonna be with this woman。
for the rest of my life, I better start loving her,。
and I'm like, how should I love her?。
Yes, Christ loved the church,。
but Christ died for the church,。
gave himself for her, it's Ephesians 5:25.。
Man, I better start giving my life for this woman.。
And when I started doing that,。
everything changed in our marriage.。
She became this incredible woman of God,。
this amazing woman, she really already was,。
I just couldn't see it, 'cause I was so wicked.。
I was so messed up in my head,。
my expectations were so whack, and I was so angry.。
But when I realized that divorce wasn't an option,。
marriage finally was.。
Marriage finally was an option.。
And so I think the best training for marriage,。
and I want you to hear me on this,。
'cause this is important, people never believe me on this,。
and I promise you it's true, you're gonna find out.。
I think the best training for marriage。
is dealing with conflict well.。
That's the very best way for you to train for your marriage,。
is to have a roommate, a really dysfunctional roommate.。
Like one that leaves the dishes out,。
and doesn't pay rent on time,。
like that is excellent training for marriage, you know?。
Monica's like, babe, have you paid this bill?。
I haven't, you know?。
I'm that dysfunctional roommate.。
Monica has that dysfunctional roommate,。
leaves the dishes in the sink,。
that's great training for marriage.。
For you to go to your community group,。
and when you really hate the person。
that you're sitting across the circle with,。
you're diligent, the scripture says,。
in preserving the unity of the spirit,。
and the bond of peace.。
You take that conflict head on,。
you remove the log in your eye,。
you say, what have I done?。
What is my part in this conflict?。
I am committed to resolving it with you,。
because we are both brothers and sisters in Christ.。
And so we must bring down these walls.。
We will wrestle with this until there is forgiveness。
between brothers and sisters in Christ.。
That is incredible training for marriage.。
And so if you've been divorced,。
I want you to know that he's crazy about you,。
he loves you.。
I want you to know that there's grace there.。
I'm the product of divorce,。
both my parents had been married before,。
got divorced, remarried, had me,。
still married now.。
The first wedding I ever did here at Watermark,。
I had never even in my life considered divorce。
and remarriage, 'cause there's two options here,。
and I want you to hear this.。
There's divorce, like so, can we get a divorce?。
And then there's, can we get remarried?。
And they're not no-brainers.。
Like, it is possible that you can get a divorce, okay?。
It's possible, and you don't remarry,。
and you stay single.。
Like, you gotta wrestle with the scriptures。
that are there so that you can find the life。
that God has ordained for you,。
to say, hey God, here's where I'm at.。
Is this an allotment for me,。
because of the broken world that we live in,。
is this possible?。
And so the first wedding I did was this girl,。
and we're wrestling, and I'm walking through the details。
of her first marriage, and what's so crazy。
about the stories, I actually saw them this weekend。
at a marriage conference I was speaking at right here,。
and it was this incredible thing,。
'cause I remember this like it was yesterday.。
I went to her fiance, and I said,。
I think she needs to pursue reconciliation,。
to her ex-husband.。
And he said, what?。
Could you imagine?。
Like, he loves this woman.。
He's like, what?。
He goes home, he reads the scriptures,。
and he says, she absolutely does.。
He says, I'm gonna call with her.。
And he calls her ex-husband with her.。
It's crazy.。
I sat there with the ex-husband on speakerphone,。
and he had remarried, we didn't know that.。
And so now he can walk,。
knowing that he was faithful, that she was faithful,。
as they stewarded that in their lives.。
How great is that?。
Let me show you what the scripture says,。
and again, if this is your story,。
I don't say this to judge or to take blame.。
I say this because I'm committed to teaching the Bible,。
and this is what it says.。
Jesus, chapter 19 of Matthew, verse three.。
"Some Pharisees came to him and said,。
"they asked, is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife。
"for any and every reason?。
"Jesus responds, haven't you read, he replied,。
"that at the beginning the Creator made them male?"。
So they're asking this question.。
Is it lawful to get a divorce?。
Jesus says, "Haven't you read, he replied,。
"that at the beginning the Creator made them male and female。
"and said, for this reason a man will leave his father。
"and mother and be united to his wife,。
"and the two will become one flesh,。
"so that they are no longer two but one.。
"Therefore what God has joined together,。
"let man not separate."。
And so in one word, what is Jesus' answer?。
No.。
Jesus takes the long road to answer the question,。
no, it's not lawful.。
What God has joined together, let man not separate.。
And so if you're hearing, and that's a part of your story,。
I know you feel justified in your divorce, frankly,。
because I've never met the person that's like,。
man, I got a divorce, and it was wrong.。
I mean, I have seen people actually remarry each other,。
but very rarely do I talk to that person and say,。
hey, I know that it was wrong.。
And so you may need to seriously,。
prayerfully consider reconciliation,。
and you may hate me for that.。
I'm well aware that I'm hated for that often,。
but it's for this reason, as I search the scriptures,。
that my personal conviction is that I won't remarry someone。
if reconciliation is an option,。
if their ex is alive or not remarried.。
And do you know that people hear that,。
and they actually leave, and they're like,。
that place is crazy, did you know。
that that's where they stand, the JP's crazy?。
Before you go there, I encourage you to do a little reading.。
Okay, 'cause I've been reading.。
And just check out what the scripture says,。
so that you can make an informed decision,。
because the God, the creator of the heavens and the earth,。
he loves you, he's crazy about you,。
and he has some desires for you.。
Okay, he doesn't want to rip you off,。
he wants to give you life abundantly,。
the most amazing life that you could have ever imagined.。
And so you may say, hey, of course,。
I was justified in my divorce, but let's be honest,。
you have no idea what God was going to do.。
Because my God, he changes people.。
And people are like, well, she was crazy.。
I'm like, you married crazy.。
Like, you chose crazy, right?。
Like, you stood there before God and said,。
hey, I want a covenant with crazy here.。
(congregation laughing)。
Right?。
And you didn't, it wasn't if then,。
it wasn't if she's not crazy, then,。
it was, hey, if she goes crazy, I'm gonna stay with her.。
That's why the notebook actually has some redeeming elements。
in it, she went crazy.。
And he, yeah, we brought it back to the notebook, I did.。
(congregation laughing)。
And he stayed with her.。
God is at work.。
Let's just end here, we'll talk about some disappointments。
from the scriptures.。
There's some real disappointments in the scriptures, okay?。
There's some real despairs in the scriptures.。
Let's go disappointments.。
Abraham, okay, so God talks about,。
so Abraham's God's man, man of faith,。
he promised that he's gonna have a kid.。
The problem with that is he's 75 years old,。
this is Genesis 16, and so the reality of it is,。
is after, you know, a decade goes by, some time goes by,。
Abraham's like, hey God, can I trust you?。
I don't think I can trust you anymore.。
He stops trusting God, he takes matters in his own hands。
and he has an affair with his servant.。
But God makes good on his promise.。
You think that when God said, hey, you're going to have。
a child and a lot of time goes by and he doesn't have one,。
that he's not dealing with disappointment?。
He absolutely was.。
We can talk about Isaac, his son for a minute, right?。
He meets Rebecca, who seemed to be an amazing woman,。
because she's at a place where servants hang out。
and she's serving people, and so here's kind of。
meeting your spouse 101, go to a place where servants。
hang out and find someone serving people, right?。
That's what we learned from the story of Isaac and Rebecca.。
That's where she is, and so she's taking care of some folks.。
They get married and everything seems to be good,。
except for he goes, has to go to this Philistine king。
of Bimelech, and he lies and says that she's his sister,。
and the scripture implies that some of the Philistine army。
is about to sleep with this woman because he lied.。
Dealing with some disappointment, Isaac and Rebecca were,。
and then there's Jacob, this is a crazy story.。
The Bible has some crazy stories of despair and discouragement.。
Jacob, right, sees this woman, falls in love with her.。
Rachel goes to her dad, says, hey, I'll work seven years。
for her, he does it, hey, ladies, marry a guy。
that will work seven years for you, okay?。
Moral to the story, works seven years for her, okay?。
The wedding comes, the wedding night, and the dad tricks him。
and he actually marries and sleeps with the older,。
much less attractive sister.。
That's crazy, he slept with the wrong girl.。
Wakes up the next day like, what, who are you?。
You know, was I drunk last night, what happened?。
He probably was.。
It's in your Bible.。
And so, here's the deal.。
Here's the deal, I wanted to hit you with this.。
Leah's lot in life was to be married to a man。
who actually was in love with her sister.。
That was her lot in life, man.。
You talk about disappointment, that actually feels。
more like despair to me, that she would marry。
that like her lot in life was to marry a man。
who actually wanted to be married to her sister.。
So let's talk about Tamar for a second, okay?。
This is a real character.。
Tamar marries Judah's son, Judah's son sins。
and dies because of his sin, marries Judah's other son。
who sins and dies because of his sin,。
so now she's a widow twice, two times over.。
Judah promises her his youngest son。
and then he doesn't make good on that promise,。
so she despairs, okay?。
She's been abused and so she dresses up like a prostitute,。
sleeps with her father-in-law and gets pregnant.。
Crazy, despair.。
Ruth, and before we go to Ruth, we'll talk about Rahab.。
Married Salman, Rahab was a prostitute,。
you probably heard of her, she hid some spies.。
She had sex with men to honor foreign gods.。
That was her job, she got paid for sex.。
Okay, despair.。
Ruth, her husband dies, she loses her husband,。
she essentially goes with her mother-in-law,。
she's begging for food, right?。
She meets Rahab, the prostitute's son, Boaz.。
She marries Boaz after her bold move,。
Jedi game that Ruth had,。
and so her and Boaz are now married, right?。
And so that's kind of her lot in life.。
And then lastly, we'll talk about David,。
the man after God's own heart.。
He had seven wives.。
He has an affair with Bathsheba.。
We're talking about divorce?。
Like he doesn't say, "Hey, Bathsheba, go get a divorce."。
He just kills her husband.。
Crazy.。
You're talking about despair?。
These are crazy stories.。
I wanna show you something.。
See, none of these folks, you're like,。
"JP, where are you going with this man?。
"Lay in this plane.。
"You gotta go home."。
Here we go.。
None of these guys fantasized that that would be their story.。
Leah, as a little girl, dreamed of Disney。
and be like, "Man, I hope I marry this guy。
"who actually loves my sister。
"and married me by accident."。
Right, that's not what she dreamt of.。
But that's what happened.。
But God's bigger than that,。
because do you know that all those people。
I just told you about, you know,。
they're all kind of spread out throughout the Old Testament,。
and then they all show up in the same place。
in the New Testament, all in the same place,。
on the same page in your Bible.。
Can I read it to you before we end?。
Let me just read it to you, Matthew 1.。
A record of the genealogy of Jesus Christ,。
the son of David, the son of Abraham.。
Abraham was the father of Isaac.。
Isaac, the father of Jacob.。
Jacob, the father of Judah and his brothers.。
Judah, the father of Perez and Zerah,。
whose mother was Tamar.。
Perez, the father of Hezron.。
Hezron, the father of Ram.。
In verse five, Salmon, the father of Boaz,。
whose mother was Rahab the prostitute.。
Boaz, the father of Obed, whose mother was Ruth.。
Obed, the father of Jesse.。
And Jesse, the father of King David.。
David was the father of Solomon,。
whose mother had been Uriah's wife Bathsheba.。
And Jacob, the father of Joseph.。
Verse 16 now, the husband of Mary,。
of whom was born Jesus, who is called the Christ.。
Don't hope in fantasy.。
You hope in Jesus.。
Your life is not about you.。
Your singleness is not about you.。
Your marriage is not about you.。
Your dating is not about you.。
Marriage is not for happiness.。
Marriage is for holiness.。
It is God conforming you to the image。
and character of Christ.。
Singleness is not for happiness.。
It's for holiness.。
You're here for that long.。
Then you die, and then you're with God forever。
and ever and ever and ever and ever,。
and that's the truth.。
And that's as simple as I can give it to you.。
And so my wife, Monica, she is a great girl.。
An amazing woman, an incredible wife.。
She is a miserable savior.。
And I'm a worst one.。
Don't you see what God did there?。
God took Rahab, the prostitute, and made her a princess.。
God took Ruth, the widow, and made her a princess.。
He took these whacked out guys and made them kings,。
heirs to the kingdom.。
That's what God did.。
He put the king of kings, the Lord of lords,。
in their lineage.。
So Presley and Finley, the reality of it is,。
is they're not pursuing some fantasy.。
Presley and Finley are princesses,。
not because of the prince charming that's going to come,。
but because of the one who's come.。
Because of the rescuer.。
The one who came 2,013 years ago,。
a baby born in a manger,。
lived a sinless life for about 33 years,。
and said, "Presley and Finley and Kelly。
"and Jennifer and Sarah and Kim and Ashley。
"and Michael and Scott and Kenny and David and John,。
"I'm here to rescue you.。
"All that junk you've done,。
"that thing you did with that guy you swore you'd never do,。
"that thing you looked at,。
"that abortion,。
"that thing you did by yourself,。
"like I'm here and I'm dying for it.。
"And your little life, your little 60 years,。
"your little 50 years, 80 years, it's about me.。
"You pursue me, okay?。
"You pursue me, and I'll take care of that other stuff."。
You trust in the Lord with all your heart,。
and you don't lean on your own understandings,。
but in everything, you acknowledge Him.。
And I'll say your pastorate, I got you.。
God says He's got you.。
He's good and you can trust Him.。
He's good and you can trust Him.。
You don't have to wanna play house, okay?。
You can play servant of the Most High God, all right?。
You hope in Him, hope in Christ.。
Let me pray.。
God, you are holy。
and mighty。
and good.。
Father, you save us in spite of us.。
Father, you change us, kicking and screaming.。
Lord, I pray that you would take those of us。
who are wrestling with your word。
and we're looking like, how could God want that from me?。
And I pray that you would renew it in our spirit.。
Anything that I said, Father, tonight,。
that was not of you, I pray that it would be forgotten。
before they leave here, as I pray often.。
But anything that I said that is consistent。
with your spirit and consistent with the truth。
of your scriptures, Father, I pray that you would stir it。
in our hearts and our minds so that we can't forget it,。
we can't shake it.。
Lord, thank you for the work that you do.。
It's in Christ's name, amen.。
(silence)。
(silence)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
