(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
- Love it.。
Well, we are continuing through Colossians.。
Anyone Six Flags fans here?。
There we go, a few of 'em.。
Anyone ever been to Astroworld?。
Ever heard of this?。
There you go, okay, yeah, rest in peace, Astroworld.。
So I grew up in Houston, Texas,。
and me and I had two brothers, there you go,。
a couple of Houston folks.。
Let's just keep playing this game.。
Who likes bread?。
Okay, so I grew up in Houston, Texas.。
I don't know where that came from.。
And me and my brothers would always go to Astroworld。
at Six Flags, it was like the greatest thing ever.。
We loved roller coasters, it was the thing we wanted to do。
for every birthday, for every fun event,。
Astroworld or Six Flags.。
And we would go, and we'd go on these roller coasters,。
and something happens when you go on roller coasters。
over and over and over again.。
They begin not being quite as exciting。
as they were the initial time,。
and so in order to make them more fun and more entertaining,。
we would develop little games to play on the roller coaster.。
And one of the games that we would play。
would be we would switch shirts。
with the person sitting next to us on the ride。
who we always knew and was always a male,。
and we would sit and we would switch shirts.。
So I'd start with a red shirt,。
my brothers has a yellow one,。
and we're switching, you and the ride,。
and that's what church kids do for fun.。
So we would play these games,。
and eventually we got to the point where even that。
was no longer as exciting or as entertaining.。
And so we decided that we would up the ante a little bit,。
and we would do a full body clothes switch,。
everything but underwear, shirts, shorts, and shoes.。
Some people are like, oh my gosh.。
Yeah, it was exciting.。
So we planned the whole thing out.。
Of course, it has to be like a roller coaster。
with at least two flips on it.。
Has to have one of those bars so you can't be buckled in,。
'cause that would kinda inhibit your ability to change.。
And we had just kind of a system developed。
to where I would know and I could confirm,。
you had to confirm, do you have the shirt?。
Because if you don't, it's gone,。
and one of us is leaving here without a shirt.。
So we had a whole thing planned out.。
We were gonna do this.。
We were pumped.。
We thought we could do a full body clothes switch.。
So me and this time it was a friend。
that I had dragged into doing this with me,。
and we get on the ride, and you couldn't start。
until click, click, click, click, you're on the descend.。
So we're headed up, click, click, click, and it hits me.。
My clothes are very different than his clothes.。
I'm wearing basketball shorts and a T-shirt,。
and he's wearing jeans and boots。
for whatever reason to Six Flags.。
And I'm going, oh my gosh,。
I'm working with like two inches of room here.。
How am I gonna be able to pull on jeans and get boots up?。
And the ride begins.。
And so we're going, we're going through,。
we do the shirt switch through one flip.。
We do the, we begin to do, this is so embarrassing.。
Where am I going with this?。
We're doing the pants switch, of course,。
and we're doing it, and so he's got the basketball shorts.。
I've got the jeans.。
Next flip, holding onto the boots and the jeans,。
trying to pull them up, going around the last turn,。
trying to get them up,。
trying to move within the two inches that I have.。
And then all of a sudden,。
we're coming down the final stretch and,。
and I didn't make it.。
And so I have to stand up,。
pull my pants up in front of the entire lines。
of everyone at Six Flags,。
as I walk off, we were like, what kind of ride is this?。
And so, of course, we went to the kiosk。
where they take the picture,。
'cause they're like, this is gonna be awesome.。
Where on the ride did this happen?。
And we go up to the kiosk,。
and you guys know what I'm talking about.。
There's like little pictures, they take the ride,。
and they have all the different carts,。
and you see the pictures.。
And then there's one, one screen that had our picture。
and, or it had where we should have been,。
and here's what it was.。
It literally was just that.。
Who even knew they had that on those things?。
And I go up to the lady, it's like, Shondra,。
hey, what happened to that one?。
And she says, inappropriate conduct,。
indecent exposure, inappropriate dress.。
And I was like, man, there are some bad people in this park.。
Not knowing if she makes a connection,。
hey, do you think I could just see it?。
Which I'm sure she thought was curious.。
And then eventually she makes a connection,。
and it's like, you're lucky.。
No, you can't see it, inappropriate conduct,。
you can't have the picture.。
You're lucky that I don't call the park security on you。
for indecent exposure.。
And her bottom line was, it was inappropriate dress,。
inappropriate conduct.。
And the reason I tell you that story,。
which may seem very random, watch this transition.。
The reason I tell you that story is because tonight,。
the Apostle Paul is gonna lay out and discuss。
in the book of Colossians what is appropriate conduct。
and what is inappropriate conduct。
within the life of a believer.。
We've been studying the book of Colossians。
and really for the past few weeks,。
we've gone through the first couple chapters。
and you may know this already,。
but when Paul writes a letter, typically what he'll do。
is for the first couple chapters, he will talk doctrine,。
he will discuss who you are in Christ,。
he's writing to the church。
and he'll lay out these doctrinal truths。
and then he'll get to practical application.。
And tonight, he's gonna go really practical。
and he's gonna say, this is what the appropriate conduct。
and appropriate dress for a believer is who's in Christ.。
And not only that, but this is why I think。
this is such an important message for all of us.。
He lays out how we get there.。
Like he doesn't just say, act this way,。
he says, let me tell you the path to take。
to assume this appropriate conduct.。
If you've ever wondered, man, why,。
if you're a Christian in the room,。
this is gonna be primarily for you,。
it may fill in some gaps if you are not a follower of Jesus,。
but if you're a follower of Jesus and you've ever wondered,。
why do I still do the things that I don't wanna do?。
I've been given a new nature, I've been made alive,。
I've been changed, Paul says in these first two chapters,。
you're totally complete, all these things。
that sometimes feel so far from me.。
How can I be the person that Christ says that I am?。
How can I stop doing the things I don't wanna do。
and do the things I believe are for me to do,。
what God calls me to do?。
So tonight, he's not only gonna tell us。
the appropriate conduct, but lay out for all of us。
how we get there and you just might be surprised。
about how we get there.。
But first, so we're gonna pick it up in Colossians 2,。
we're gonna start in verse 16,。
and then we'll work our way pretty quickly into chapter 3.。
He's gonna start and he's really gonna lay out。
when it comes to living the Christian life,。
how you don't do it.。
So he starts there and then he gets to how we do do it.。
So we're gonna pick it up in 16。
and really, I'm gonna read a paragraph for you。
that's gonna have all kinds of confusing terms.。
I don't want you to get lost on the terms.。
I'm gonna give you the big picture。
for the next five sentences, what he says.。
He basically says you don't do it。
through a bunch of new rules, rules, rules.。
You don't do it through a bunch of new rules,。
but something else.。
And he lays out a bunch of religious rules。
that people in the Church of Colossae were saying,。
this is what it looks like to live the new life.。
This is how you do it.。
And he says, no, that's not it, but here's where we go.。
Verse 16, therefore, after all that we've talked about。
already, that you're a new creation, you're complete,。
your sins have totally been paid for,。
past, present, future, you're made alive.。
Nothing can stop that because of faith in Jesus。
and what he did, not because of anything you did.。
So here we go.。
Therefore, do not let anyone judge you。
by what you eat or what you drink。
or with regard to a religious festival,。
a new moon celebration or a Sabbath day.。
So don't let anyone look down or judge you。
for not doing certain religious things.。
These are a shadow of the things that were to come.。
The reality, however, is found in Christ.。
Do not let anyone who delights in false humility。
and the worship of angels disqualify you.。
Such a person also goes into great detail。
about what they have seen.。
They are puffed up with idle notions。
by their unspiritual mind.。
They have lost connection to the head, speaking of Christ,。
from whom the whole body is supported。
and held together by its ligaments。
and sin whose growth as God,。
grows as God causes it to grow.。
What are we talking about, Paul?。
Verse 20, since you died with Christ。
to the element of spiritual forces of this world,。
why then do you act as though you still belong to the world?。
Do you still submit to its rules?。
Verse 21, do not handle, do not taste, do not touch.。
These rules, which have to do with things。
that are destined to perish with use,。
are based only on human commands and teachings.。
Such regulations indeed have the appearance,。
this religious acts have the appearance of wisdom。
with their self-imposed worship,。
their false humility and their harsh treatment of the body,。
but they lack any value in restraining sensual indulgence.。
So Paul basically says, look, living the new life,。
let me start with what it is in case you're going,。
what, new moons, festivals and celebrations?。
Yeah, the next time somebody tries to look down on you。
for a new moon celebration, I'm kidding, bad joke.。
Okay, so in 16th, what he's basically laying out,。
hey, these are all religious things。
that you are being told you need to do。
to live out the new life, and Paul says,。
no, those are not it at all, those are silly things.。
The vision and worship of angels, new moon festivals,。
that's not how you live out the new life.。
Here's how you live out the new life, starting in verse one.。
Since then, you have been raised with Christ.。
Speaking of the resurrection, so you may not know this,。
but when you came to faith in Jesus,。
if you're a follower of Jesus, when you said,。
I trust Jesus paid on the cross for my sins,。
Paul, and the Bible teaches that you。
died with Christ on the cross。
and you were resurrected with him,。
that you went through a resurrection in a spiritual sense,。
and you're going, what, when did I die, when did I rise?。
In a spiritual sense, when Jesus died and Jesus rose,。
he gave you a new life, just like he came back to life,。
you died and you were given a new life.。
There's gonna come a day where you will physically rise,。
but spiritually speaking, Paul says,。
you have already been resurrected。
and already previously died.。
And since that has taken place,。
set your hearts on things above,。
where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God,。
set your minds on things above, not on earthly things,。
for you died and your life is now hidden。
with Christ in God, this is our first point.。
We are made new, this is how believers are made new,。
by our resurrection, not religion.。
We are made new by our resurrection,。
that when Christ died, we died with him,。
and spiritually speaking, we were given new life,。
that you have gone through in a spiritual sense,。
you've been given a new life, and the way you embrace。
this new life is so huge.。
The way you and I begin to start embracing。
the new life that we have, all begins on the inside.。
It all begins, according to Paul, look at the verse,。
set your hearts, set your minds on things above.。
That God is not a God, he's not saying,。
hey, here's a bunch of rules,。
this is how you do the new life.。
God says, I don't work outside in, I work inside out.。
My goal is not for you to just do good things。
and change you from a good person to a better person,。
I take dead people and I make them alive.。
That's how I work, and I work from the inside out.。
My goal is not just for you to stop being anxious,。
and for you to not go to the bars,。
and stop looking at porn, I want your heart to be changed.。
So Paul says, in order to begin embracing。
your resurrected life, it starts with the mind,。
and it starts with the heart,。
and fixing it on things that are eternal.。
He says, if you and I can begin to focus。
not on what's going on around us,。
not on this earth, not on things that are passing away,。
but fixing our eyes on what's eternal,。
on what matters, on the fact that we're gonna be here。
for only a few more instants, then it's gonna be gone,。
we're gonna be with Christ forever and ever and ever.。
That's, he says, where change begins to take place.。
If you and I can orient our minds around the reality。
of the future eternity awaiting us,。
and the resurrection that you have already experienced。
in Christ, through faith in Christ, change begins.。
Here's how I know that's true.。
If you and I really come to grips with the fact。
that we have, in Christ, died and be given a new life,。
gone through a resurrection, we would begin。
to experience life in a whole new, different way.。
There was a guy, actually, in the Bible,。
you may know this story, who actually really gives us。
a great example of what it looks like。
when a person really understands。
and really experiences death and new life.。
His name was Lazarus.。
Jesus comes up to a guy named Lazarus.。
Lazarus is a single young adult.。
His closest friends are his two sisters, Mary and Martha.。
You probably heard this story.。
They're really close with Jesus.。
There comes a day where Lazarus, this is in John 11,。
if you wanna go read this later,。
where Lazarus, he gets sick, and he dies.。
The next scene we're given is really,。
they're at the funeral, and Lazarus is in the tomb,。
and Jesus shows up, and he's talking with the family,。
and the family says, "Oh, man, if you had only been here."。
And Jesus says, "Lazarus, come out of the tomb."。
And Lazarus walks out of the tomb alive.。
This man who had been dead。
had been totally raised back to life.。
Now, let me ask you this.。
Do you think after walking through death and resurrection,。
Lazarus' life the second time around。
was different than the first time?。
In other words, Lazarus dies.。
He's a single young adult.。
He's got bills to pay.。
He's trying to figure things out.。
Maybe he would be a porchy,。
and he's trying to figure out life, and then he dies.。
Do you think when he comes back to life,。
he's worried, anxious, bogged down。
about the things he used to be?。
Like, he's still going, "Oh, my gosh, great.。
"I'm back, and I'm still single, God.。
"How am I gonna afford rent in Jerusalem?。
"It's out of control in here.。
"Unbelievable, this world has fallen apart."。
Do you think that after experiencing this new life,。
that the things, even the way he saw this life was the same?。
In fact, the next chapter, we're told that really,。
because Jesus raised him from the dead,。
and crowds, like, it exploded.。
Jesus' followers exploded。
'cause he raised the guy from the dead,。
which just happens if you raise somebody from the dead,。
I guess, and so all these people are following Jesus,。
and the religious elite said, "We need to kill Lazarus, too."。
And word gets back to Lazarus.。
Do you think it scared Lazarus that time?。
He's like, "They're gonna kill me.。
"I've been there, done that.。
"What am I afraid of anymore?。
"Jesus is all that matters."。
And Paul continues, really, around this idea。
of if we could understand that as real as Lazarus。
being raised from the dead。
was you being raised from the dead and given new life,。
it would change everything.。
He continues saying, in verse four,。
"When Christ, who is your life, appears,。
"then you will also be with him,。
"or you will appear with him in glory."。
That Christ is your life.。
I mean, this was so real to Paul.。
Jesus is not a concept.。
Jesus is not a component of life.。
He says Jesus is life.。
Remember those shirts that say baseball is life?。
Baseball's not life.。
Shopping is not life.。
Sex is not life.。
Marriage is not life.。
Jesus is life, Paul says.。
Ironically, in the same passage, John 11,。
when Jesus comes up to the tomb,。
and they said, "If only you had been here,。
"Lazarus would not be dead.。
"He would be alive.。
"He would have life."。
And Jesus responds, saying, "I am life.。
"I am all that life is about.。
"I'm all it will ever be about.。
"I'm the only place you will ever find。
"true satisfaction in life."。
Jesus is life.。
He is not a component.。
He is life.。
He's all, and if you know him,。
that's why Jesus is the only thing that will ever satisfy.。
Really, regardless, he's the only thing.。
But especially if you've been raised。
to walk in newness of life.。
And he is your life, Paul says.。
He now continues and says,。
"How do we live out this new life?"。
And he begins, really, by talking about our old life.。
Verse five.。
"Put to death, therefore, whatever belongs,"。
so set your minds on things above,。
"and put to death whatever belongs to your earthly nature."。
Let me just say what he just said.。
He just said, "People who have been raised。
"to new life in Christ have earthly nature,"。
or sin nature, you may have if you have the ESV,。
inside of them.。
It doesn't just immediately go away,。
they have to put it to death, or put an end to it,。
Paul says, and now he's gonna tell us。
some of what we are to put an end to.。
"Sexual immorality, impurity, lust, evil desires,。
"greed, which is idolatry.。
"Because of these, the wrath of God is coming.。
"You used to walk in these ways in the life you once lived,。
"but now you must also rid yourself。
"of all such things as these, anger, rage,。
"malice, slander, filthy language from your lips.。
"Do not lie to each other."。
So he says, "Take all of these things。
"that are part of your old nature,。
"and I want you to put an end to them."。
And he's about to tell us how,。
but I think if you're back in church。
for the first time in a long time,。
or maybe first time ever,。
oftentimes what Christians hear。
when they read a verse like this。
is just Paul saying, "Stop lying,。
"stop thinking lustful thoughts,。
"stop being angry, stop being filled with rage,。
"just stop cussing, even when you're in traffic,。
"stop all those things, just stop it."。
And so we hear that message,。
and maybe even tonight, or even on messages。
that we're not trying to communicate exactly that,。
or that's not the fullness of it,。
you hear that, and then you go,。
"Yes, this is gonna be my week.。
"I'm not cussing in any traffic.。
"I'm out of here, I'll be here next week, no cussing."。
Then we go out, "No, I said it again.。
"Okay, I'm back, I'm gonna try it again this next week."。
Paul would say, "That doesn't work.。
"It's not just stop, stop it.。
"That doesn't work."。
But he does tell us how and why, and how we stop.。
Here's what he says.。
"Since you have taken off the old self and its practices,。
"and you've put on the new self,。
"which is being you've been given a new self,。
"and it's not fully new."。
In other words, there's still renewal that takes place,。
and is being renewed in knowledge,。
in the image of its creator.。
Paul just said, "The way and the process。
"through which you and I, who've been given a new self,。
"become increasingly new, is through the process。
"of what the Bible calls renewal."。
That you and I, the way that we put off the old,。
and put on the on, we're gonna discuss in a second,。
is through the process of what Scripture calls renewal,。
or renewing our mind.。
This is what Romans 12, two says.。
"This is how you and I are transformed."。
It's not through just stop it, try harder,。
motivational pep talks, it's through renewal.。
That's how it takes place.。
This is what Romans 12, two.。
"Do not conform to the pattern of this world,。
"but be transformed."。
How do I get transformed, Paul?。
By renewing, or by the renewing of your mind.。
This is how you transform.。
This is how you change.。
If you are struggling right now, with anxiety,。
or with a sexual relationship, or with materialism,。
whatever it is, insert fill in the blank,。
the way you change is not me going,。
no, stop it, stop it right now.。
That's not how you change.。
Paul says, "The process by which we change is renewal."。
Having our minds renewed.。
Now what is renewal?。
When the Bible speaks about renewal,。
it speaks, renew means make again new, again new.。
That's what renew means.。
And when the Bible speaks of the process of renewal,。
there's really two components of it.。
It involves taking off and putting on.。
It's like when girls do nail polish,。
and you guys use that stuff that eats through the floor,。
if it gets on there, it's like, what is that called?。
Whatever it's called.。
You gotta take it off, right?。
My wife is so embarrassed right now.。
You gotta take it off, and then you gotta paint,。
or then you put on the other one.。
And so in the same way, renewal takes place,。
and it's not called painting, is it?。
Renewal takes place when you take off and you put on.。
Now what do we take off and put on?。
'Cause it's renewing our mind.。
The process by which we take off, or what we take off,。
is the lies that you and I believe。
that fuel our bad behavior.。
And we put on the truth about reality,。
about the world around us, truth all found in God's word.。
But we renew our mind by taking off the lie。
and putting on the truth.。
'Cause here's what I know about you, and I know about me.。
Every bad behavior, every sinful behavior,。
every struggle that you have is fueled by a lie.。
Right now, everything.。
Every time that you sin, it's fueled by a lie.。
Satan is called the deceiver of the entire world,。
Revelation 12 calls him.。
That your problem, anytime you're like,。
oh man, I'm just struggling, I need to get better,。
is because you're believing a lie at some level.。
In my, even marriage with my wife, our conflicts,。
we have conflict Sunday night,。
driving back from me doing a wedding.。
And we have conflict 'cause I'm selfish.。
You know why I'm selfish?。
'Cause that selfishness is fueled by a lie。
that my wife is here to serve me.。
And it's a lie.。
When God's word and truth tells me。
that I have been put into a mutually submissive relationship。
where I am there to serve her.。
If you are struggling with an eating disorder,。
it's fueled by a lie.。
It may not be all the same one, but it is fueled by a lie.。
Satan comes to deceive, to kill, and to destroy.。
Pornography, fueled by a lie.。
Sleeping with your boyfriend, fueled by a lie.。
Anxiety, fueled by a lie.。
I'm in control, or I'm afraid God's not in control.。
Or I'm afraid God's not really good and in control.。
Or I think my way would be better than his way.。
All those different circles are fueled by lies.。
And Paul says, the way you change,。
this is how people change.。
It's not they just finally go,。
I'm putting my boots on, this is my day.。
It's by taking off the old and putting on the new.。
Renewing your mind.。
If you change, you are a new person.。
You have a new self.。
And you renew that new self by changing the way you think.。
Taking off the lies, putting on the truth of God's word.。
And that changes how you live.。
This is why some of you,。
like you're in the room and you've been struggling。
for a while with whatever it is.。
And you just are like, man, I feel hopeless.。
I've prayed the prayer to accept Christ like 27 times,。
and I just can't seem to get over X,。
my anxiety, my pornography, whatever it is.。
That's not the problem at all.。
For some of you, maybe you should trust Christ.。
But for some of you who have, the problem is renewal.。
You haven't renewed your mind.。
There's no secret there.。
This is the process by which people change。
and pulses we take off by putting on the new.。
Verse 11, he continues, and I wish we really had time。
to cover this more fully, but we'll comb through it。
and then pop on to our next point.。
"Here in Christ, there is no Gentile or Jew,"。
so there's no racial distinction.。
"There is no circumcised or uncircumcised."。
In other words, there's no religious distinction.。
"There is no barbarian or Scythian,"。
which is the barbarians were,。
basically, there's no education distinction.。
Barbarians were called that。
because they couldn't speak Greek.。
Well, they would, bah, bah, bah.。
(audience laughing)。
I hear bah, bah, bah, ran every time I do that.。
I don't know why, but I do.。
My team was like, don't say that.。
I was like, I'm gonna do my best.。
Just come down.。
Scythian was the same thing.。
It's just like, rogue, bad, were like the barbarians.。
Slave or free, there's no distinction,。
but Christ is all that matters,。
and Christ lives in all of us.。
That he says there are no categories inside of the church,。
inside of God's people, through Christ.。
He's all that matters, and he lives in all of us.。
Social distinctions, the color of your skin,。
the amount that you make, none of it matters.。
Christ is all that matters.。
And if he lives in them, there's no distinction。
between them and the next person,。
who he lives in, his followers.。
I mean, I wish we had time to camp here,。
'cause I feel like our nation is so hurting right now.。
And how you look around at Baltimore,。
you look around at what's been going on。
for the past few months in New York, Ferguson,。
and how important it is that the church,。
there be a body of people, Paul says,。
that when they come together,。
what defines them is not their skin tone.。
What defines them is not the job that they work.。
What defines them is not where they grew up,。
or where they were born.。
What defines them is Jesus, he's all that matters.。
And they know that, and they believe that,。
and they've trusted in that, and that is a group of people.。
And when people begin to see,。
when the world sees a group like that, it's powerful.。
That's how change happens.。
That's how the church, in those situations,。
can be the church, and can rise up and say,。
it may happen here, it may happen in that city,。
but it's not gonna happen inside of God's people.。
It's not gonna happen here.。
We gotta keep moving.。
Okay, that was a sad note, probably, hopefully worth it.。
Verse 12, therefore, as God's chosen,。
so he begins to tell us what the new life looks like.。
So this is what the new life,。
so you take off through renewing your mind,。
and here's what it looks like。
whenever you begin to renew your mind,。
and here's what the new life looks like.。
Therefore, as God's chosen people,。
holy and dearly loved, I'm gonna read that again.。
Therefore, as God's chosen people, if you're a Christian,。
as God's chosen people, holy and dearly loved,。
you know what Paul just said?。
He just said that when God looks at you,。
if you know Jesus, he doesn't see your sin from today,。
he doesn't see your sin from yesterday.。
When he looks at you, he sees,。
and he knows all the sin from your past life.。
He knows everything you've done today。
and will do tomorrow and the next day,。
and he looks at you because of your faith in Jesus,。
and he says, "Mine, chosen, I love you,。
"righteous, holy, mine."。
That's who you are.。
If you've trusted in Christ, that's who you are,。
and some of you, that's what you need to hear。
more than anything else in this message.。
That's who you are.。
That's who you are, righteous, holy, loved.。
And as those people, here's what he's gonna tell us。
to clothe ourselves with, compassion, kindness, clothes.。
Let these be the things that you put on each day,。
like the clothes you wear, humility, gentleness, patience.。
Bear with each other and forgive one another。
if any of you has a grievance against someone.。
Forgive as the Lord forgave you,。
and over all of these virtues, put on love,。
which binds them all together in perfect unity.。
That these are the church clothes.。
Remember when you were a kid and your mom,。
maybe this is just me, my mom,。
she would come in and be like,。
"We gotta get ready for church here, put on this,"。
and then I would put something on,。
and she'd be like, "You can't wear that.。
"You can't wear soccer shorts to church.。
"You have to bring your finest。
"to the house of the Lord."。
And I'd always be like, "What?。
"Why does God want me in khakis?。
"What, why do I have to wear these things?"。
The clothes that are to mark the church,。
turns out those were not the clothes。
that are to mark the church.。
But love, compassion, gentleness, kindness,。
these are church clothes.。
These are to be the things that Christians adore.。
This is honestly why people have a bad perception。
of the church, is because there's so many believers。
running around without their clothes on,。
to use the metaphor that Paul uses here.。
They're not running around clothed with love,。
kindness, compassion, gentleness.。
They're running around clothed。
with either form or life clothes,。
and Paul says these are the things that you are to put on.。
And it's like, how attractive are these?。
Like, humility looks good on everybody.。
Love looks good on everybody.。
Kindness looks good on everyone.。
Unlike the opposite things of our sinful nature,。
where it's like, no one's ever thought,。
oh my gosh, let me tell you what's hot, anger.。
Greed, he was greedy.。
No one's ever thought.。
What is wrong with me?。
I have too much coffee today.。
But it's true, right?。
Like, these are the things.。
These are the things the church is meant to put on.。
These are the things that we are to put on.。
And here's how we really do it.。
Here's how we, through renewing our mind,。
we take off and we put on,。
and here's one of the ways that we renew our mind.。
Verse 15 and 16.。
Let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts,。
since as members of one body, you were called to peace.。
So live in peace with one another.。
He begins to talk about one another.。
And be thankful.。
Let the message of Christ dwell among you together,。
richly or abundantly, you may have in there.。
Let it be saturated with the abundance of Christ's words。
in your midst together,。
and admonish and teach one another.。
The message of Christ is in like the gospels,。
the Bible, it would translate for us.。
Let that be among your lips as you talk and engage。
with one another with all wisdom through psalms,。
hymns, and songs from the Spirit,。
singing to God with gratitude in your heart.。
So Paul just said, what, get together and sing?。
Like Christian karaoke?。
That's not what he's saying.。
He's saying, in this culture, they didn't have Bibles.。
You probably know that, but they really,。
this was early on, they had just maybe a letter, maybe two.。
And they would get together, and Paul says,。
I want you to take the teachings that you know。
from Jesus and his apostles.。
I want you to sing together as you come together.。
I want you to speak into each other's lives.。
I want you to sing songs to one another。
and gather around each other,。
that you and I are to be marked with new relationships.。
That's our third point,。
new relationships with God's people renders change,。
that you and I are to get together.。
And why are they talking about Jesus's word to one another?。
Why are they singing songs?。
They renew each other's mind.。
This is what Paul's driving towards,。
that as you come together,。
I want you to speak to one another the truth.。
This is why we harp on community so much around here,。
because all of us need, I need you, and you need me,。
and we gotta come together, and we lock arms.。
That's what we do in community,。
and we speak the truth to one another.。
We speak from God's word,。
and we help each other take off the lie.。
I'm not letting you go, and I need you to not let me go,。
because we're all broken.。
There's no special pastorage up here where we don't,。
I'm jacked up just like everyone else in this room.。
There is no Superman.。
We're all just mere mortals who are all prone to go crazy.。
This is why we harp on community,。
'cause if you and I do not renew our mind,。
you will not live new, and neither will I.。
And so we get together every single week.。
We look in the whites of each other's eyes.。
We say, I know you're broken, and I'm gonna help you,。
and I need you to help me.。
Will you speak the truth when I'm drifting away,。
when I want to look at something I shouldn't be looking at,。
when I'm anxious and I shouldn't be anxious,。
when I'm driven by people-pleasing,。
will you tell me and call me out?。
Will you speak to me?。
Will you help me renew my mind?。
That's what they're doing.。
Paul says, I want you to get together,。
and I want you to speak God's word over each other.。
I want you to sing songs together。
so that your minds on a day-by-day process are renewed.。
That's how you change.。
That's how you change.。
There's no magic secret sauce.。
It's just an everyday moments,。
everyday, ordinary moments where we get together,。
and a lot of you do this every single week.。
It's your experience and change.。
In coffee shops all over the city,。
on Wednesday mornings and Friday mornings。
and Tuesday after the porch and Monday nights。
and all every day of the week,。
people gather around and they speak the truth。
to one another.。
That's what he's driving at.。
Because left by ourself, our minds don't get renewed.。
Renewal is a team sport.。
I need you and you need me.。
And it's through the one another's。
we begin to experience change thinking, change lives.。
And this really isn't new.。
This really has been the way God's always done it.。
From the very beginning.。
It's not good for man to be alone.。
There's 62 one anothers in the New Testament.。
62 verses or 62 places where it talks about。
do this one another, one another,。
be together, one another.。
That's who you are, my people.。
Help each other, renew each other's mind.。
Come together.。
And the earliest, outside of the Bible,。
you know the earliest reference to Christian literature。
that we have actually comes from a governor。
not far from Colossae.。
So inside of the Roman Empire,。
there was a guy who in 111 AD,。
this is so amazing to me and probably only me,。
hopefully not, but so in 111 AD,。
there was a guy named Pliny the Younger。
and he's the governor of an area in Turkey。
which is where Colossae is.。
And he's writing to the emperor and it's 111,。
it's 10 years after John, the apostle John,。
remember him, took care of Jesus' mom,。
10 years after John's dead.。
So this is early in the game.。
And he's writing and Pliny who's not a Christian,。
he writes to the emperor of Rome and he says,。
there's all these Christians popping up everywhere.。
What am I supposed to do with them?。
I've never really handled Christians before。
but they're everywhere.。
He says in the letter, you should Google,。
Pliny the Younger to Trajan,。
Pliny the Younger for those of you。
who wanna look it up later.。
And in the letter, he says, there's Christians。
and they're exploding of every age, every sex,。
every area of life, they're coming。
and these Christians, they're going into the cities。
and into the towns, what should I do with them?。
And he says, I've begun to investigate。
and I began torturing to find out from them。
what they're all about 'cause I don't really know。
what Christians are all about.。
What do you think I should do, Trajan?。
And in that letter, Pliny says this。
about what he discovered about this new cult。
that he didn't understand.。
This is what they were doing.。
The sum and substance of their fault or error。
had been they were accustomed to meet on a fixed day.。
This is your heritage.。
Before dawn and sing a response。
that they'd come together on a fixed day before work,。
they'd get together and it's still dark。
and they would sing a song to Christ as God.。
And then they would bind themselves with an oath。
and it wasn't an oath to commit some crime, I love that.。
Pliny's thinking, how bizarre are these people?。
They would bind themselves not to commit a crime。
but to not commit a crime, to not commit fraud,。
to not commit theft, to not commit adultery。
or to falsify their trust or to keep their word.。
They would come together and they'd say,。
I need you, will you help me today?。
I don't wanna commit adultery today.。
I don't wanna lie, I don't wanna steal, will you help me?。
And they sang to Christ all together.。
And then it says this, after they were done,。
when this was over, it was their custom to depart。
and then they would come back together。
and they would partake of food.。
So they would leave, they'd go to their jobs。
and they'd come back together and they would eat。
and they would help each other and say,。
look, we're not gonna get focused。
on things that are on this earth.。
We're gonna fix our eyes as long as we're on this planet。
on things that are eternal and I don't do that on my own.。
So I need help.。
And today, collectively, we're gonna take an oath.。
I mean, how amazing is that?。
It's Pliny's writing in the letter, he's going,。
why are we arresting these people?。
They're the best Romans we have.。
And they came together day after day, renewing their mind.。
This is how it's always been done.。
This is how change happens.。
That's how you change.。
That's how Christians change.。
I know across the room, for those of us who are believers,。
I mean, we have every type of,。
if you're in a community group or a Bible study,。
I think the question that I ask when I look at this。
is how am I doing at this?。
Is it not enough to just have a group,。
but am I coming together?。
Am I renewing my mind?。
Are people speaking into my life?。
Am I taking off the lies?。
Am I replacing with truth, with others speaking in?。
Help me not go after what looks dead.。
I have a new self, and tomorrow morning,。
I'm gonna wake up and I'm gonna go wander。
after what's dead.。
So I need you to help me.。
How am I doing at that?。
How are you doing at that?。
Do you have that group?。
That's why we harp, not 'cause we're like,。
we just love community groups.。
It's in the watermark name.。
Because we believe that's how God's always done it,。
how we'll always do it.。
Every night at the porch,。
we have open community group afterwards.。
There's one thing you can be a part of here.。
It's not the porch, and I mean at watermark.。
It's being, doing life with other people,。
renewing your mind.。
Because what happened to this group, Pliny referenced,。
is that as they came together, they were changed.。
And they changed the world.。
They changed Asia Minor.。
They exploded.。
That's what happened.。
If you go back and read church history,。
as people see the new life lived out.。
If you're not a believer, man, we'd love to talk to you。
about where you are in the faith journey.。
The reason you can't live out the new life。
is you don't have new life.。
But God offers that to you.。
Just by believing, it's better news than you can imagine.。
There's nothing you can do to earn it.。
And he offers it to you if you'll just accept it.。
And we believe, we were praying as a team,。
we believe there's people in the room,。
there's a person in this room tonight,。
and it's your night.。
And you're gonna leave the grave clothes behind。
and come walk in newness of life.。
I did a wedding this past weekend,。
and weddings are really interesting moments。
where I'm like the officiant,。
and there's a bride and groom, of course,。
and maybe not for long, bad joke, okay.。
(congregation laughing)。
Okay.。
Man, moment killer.。
And in that, there's like this moment that takes place。
where you pronounce man and wife.。
And in an instant, the two become one.。
Like literally a change the Bible tells us,。
and experientially we see happens。
where the two persons are now one.。
They are no longer two, no longer a single man。
and a single woman, but they've been totally united.。
That's who they are.。
That's reality.。
The two have become one, and now they get to experience。
all the benefits, all the opportunities。
that come with two becoming one.。
They get to live together, they're sleeping together,。
they have a honeymoon, get excited.。
They have all the benefits that come with those two。
because in an instant, they've changed.。
They also get to experience the calling。
that God has for a husband.。
This is what you do as a husband.。
Now you get to not have poker night every night,。
but you now are responsible.。
You have one flesh.。
This is who you are.。
Be the husband who you are.。
It's not be that or else you won't be a husband.。
You are a husband.。
You are one flesh.。
Be who you are.。
This is what Paul says changes people.。
Renewing their minds, and it begins by accepting。
who you are.。
Be who you are.。
Who it defines you is not your sin struggle,。
not a relationship.。
Be who you are.。
You're not materialistic.。
Even if today you worked out the credit card,。
you're not a porn addict.。
If before the service you were looking at porn,。
that's not who you are.。
And the way you can walk in freedom。
and really experience the reality。
that that's not who you are if you've trusted in Christ。
is by renewing your mind.。
By renewing your mind, that's how you're transformed.。
That's how you become increasingly free。
to live like who you really are.。
And that takes place through knowing his word。
and through having others around us。
sing his truths and words over us。
as we take off the old and we put on the new.。
I'm gonna pray that we do that.。
Father, we need your help to really believe。
who you say that we are, to trust and to walk in that.。
I pray tonight that right now,。
truly shackles will begin to fall off of people.。
Whether they're shackles of trusting in themselves,。
trusting in what they've done,。
and they would trust only in what you have done.。
But Jesus died on the cross for their sins.。
I pray that shackles would fall off of sin,。
of mistaken identity, that minds would,。
moving forward, continue to be renewed.。
We pray that people would move out of isolation.。
Would you renew us?。
Would we be your people, marked by your qualities?。
Holy, beloved, chosen, yours.。
Thank you for Jesus.。
Thank you that you've raised us to walk in newness of life.。
Would the same perspective Lazarus had。
be one that I have, be one that we have,。
if we know you, we love you, amen.。
(music fades)。
