(rock music)。
Check, check, amazing.。
Hello, welcome friends.。
Welcome friends in the room,。
friends in Fort Worth, friends in the Woodlands,。
and in Houston.。
I'm gonna read the text that we're gonna look at tonight。
as we kick off this brand new series.。
Thank you, Arts Team, or Team Landscape,。
for that amazing video.。
You guys are incredible.。
Our volunteer Arts Team creates all the graphics,。
all the videos, and tons of other stuff that we do here.。
And so, they're incredibly gifted,。
and they produce stuff like that.。
I'm gonna read the passage,。
and then we're gonna kick off this new series.。
But let me read this.。
This comes from Romans chapter one,。
starting in verse 18,。
and then I'm gonna pray,。
and we will dive into tonight.。
Paul says this.。
The wrath of God is being revealed from heaven。
against all ungodliness and wickedness of people。
who suppress the truth by their wickedness.。
Since what may be known about God is plain to them,。
because God has made it plain to them.。
For since the creation of the world,。
God's invisible qualities,。
his eternal power, and his divine nature。
have been clearly seen,。
being understood from what has been made,。
so people are without excuse.。
For although they knew God, verse 21,。
they did not honor him,。
or they neither glorified him,。
nor gave thanks to him.。
But their thinking became futile,。
and their foolish hearts were darkened.。
Although they claimed to be wise,。
they became fools and exchanged the glory。
of the immortal God for images。
made to look like a mortal human being,。
and birds, and animals, and reptiles.。
Therefore, God gave them over。
in their sinful desires of their hearts。
to sexual impurity,。
for the degrading of their bodies with one another.。
They exchanged the truth about God for a lie,。
and they worshiped and served created things。
rather than the creator who is forever praised, amen.。
Let me pray.。
Father, just as we do start this series,。
and we look back at the role that Christianity。
has played in our country,。
as we look at just the calling。
that you've placed on our lives。
as believers in Jesus, as followers of Christ,。
as it relates to living in a democracy,。
would you give us wisdom?。
Would you speak from your word?。
Would you move us in the direction。
that you would have us move?。
Would we listen and hear your voice tonight。
as we look back at some of the past,。
and in the weeks ahead as we just explore。
what does it look like for a Christian。
living in this republic, democratic republic,。
to faithfully engage in culture,。
to stand firm in the faith,。
and to showcase to a watching world。
what it looks like to experience。
the abundant life you call us to?。
Would you strengthen your church,。
and would you begin with us in this room?。
Amen.。
A few weeks ago, I got to go on a date night with my wife,。
and we're in this season where we don't have。
a ton of date nights,。
and so this was something we were looking forward to.。
It was gonna be great.。
We have a 10-month-old that comes along,。
usually because we don't like to pay for babysitting,。
and so we'll bring him along,。
and we're planning on going to Gloria's.。
If you have Gloria's in Fort Worth,。
you know what I'm talking about.。
Yeah, you know what I'm talking about.。
Free bean dip, let's go.。
Houston, I'm sorry, I don't know。
if they have that down there.。
So anyway, so we're going to Gloria's.。
We get there, it's the early bird special,。
'cause we got an infant that goes down really early,。
so we're there with like mom and pa,。
and it's five o'clock.。
We go in, we sit down.。
My wife begins to put him in a baby chair,。
or an infant chair, whatever that's actually called.。
They bring one over to the table.。
We're sitting at this little four-top,。
me, my wife, the baby.。
She's putting him in the baby chair.。
She gets him all sitting there.。
All of a sudden, she goes to sit down,。
and the waiter has removed her chair from behind her,。
and she has no idea at this point,。
because the waiter was thinking she would sit over there.。
I thought the baby chair would go right here.。
He takes it, walks it right away.。
I didn't see it happen.。
She didn't see it happen.。
She all of a sudden does not look back,。
and she doesn't realize what was there。
that is no longer there,。
and she goes in a moment from just moving.。
All of a sudden, all I see is feet up in the air,。
and she's over there on the ground.。
I'm like, oh my gosh, what happened?。
I run over, I'm picking her up.。
I'm like, gosh, she's so clumsy.。
I can't take her anywhere.。
And it's not at all what I said.。
And I'm like, what happened over there?。
She realized the chair had been gone.。
Everyone around us all of a sudden sees what had happened.。
It was like the people sitting next to us。
saw this whole thing happen.。
So they're laughing and going, oh man, I'm sorry.。
Is she okay?。
I'm like, yeah, I think she's okay.。
The waiter comes back.。
He's super apologetic.。
It ended up working in our favor。
'cause Gloria's comped the whole thing.。
Thank you, Gloria's.。
And I was like, man, we're gonna do this at every restaurant.。
You've gotta go in there and move and just fall.。
And it's not true at all.。
But it was one of those moments。
where what she had done is in failing to look back,。
I had to ask for permission to tell this story too,。
by the way, because it's like,。
in failing to look back and see。
what was behind her,。
and specifically to see what was no longer,。
what had once been there but was removed,。
in failing to look back and see what had been there once。
but had been removed, it led to her falling.。
In failing to look behind her, if you will,。
and restore what had been taken away,。
bring the chair back,。
in failing to do that, it led to her falling.。
Now why would I start with a random Gloria's table story?。
The reason is because as it relates。
to the state of our country,。
one of the most problematic things is that we as a country。
have failed to really look back,。
to be educated in a way where we look back behind us。
and we realize what has been taken away from us.。
What was once there, specifically,。
as it relates to the Christian foundation。
that was behind us, and that creates all kinds of like,。
wait a second, I learned in school that this,。
we're gonna address those here in just a second.。
But as a country, we are experiencing。
and have experienced the reality。
that when we fail to look back at what was once behind us,。
specifically a Christian moral foundation,。
when we fail to look back and realize it's no longer there,。
we fail to restore it and bring it back。
and it is leading to the fall of our nation.。
And so tonight, we're gonna explore just that very idea。
as we kick off this series, One Nation Under God.。
Tonight will not be a, it'll just be, honestly,。
a starter for this series.。
And so it's gonna leave lots of different things。
on the table that we're gonna discuss in weeks ahead.。
You don't wanna miss out on those.。
But let me just get this out of the way as well.。
Two things, one, this is gonna be an unusual night。
where it's gonna be scripture-light,。
we're gonna look at those verses,。
but beyond that, we're not gonna look at a ton。
because really, we're gonna teach and educate。
and attempt to inform all of us in the room。
on something that likely you will never hear taught。
outside of this tonight.。
Not because it didn't exist,。
not because it's not very clearly a part of our history,。
but because everywhere you look,。
it's being taught in the opposite direction.。
You're being taught something very not true with history。
and the opposite of what we're gonna talk about tonight.。
So that's the first thing.。
And the second thing is this is not。
a political message at all.。
And so if you're in this message being like,。
I think I know what he's trying to get,。
what he's getting at here,。
I am not getting anything other than what I'm gonna say.。
In other words, this isn't me waving a flag。
for the Democratic Party, for the Republican Party,。
for any party, other than as our senior pastor says,。
the party of the lamb or the party of Jesus。
more than anything.。
And so that's what we're gonna explore tonight.。
And so that may raise some questions.。
I'm gonna do my best to remove them,。
but we are going to look back。
and hopefully discover how to restore what's been removed。
so that we don't collectively continue to fall.。
And so three things we're gonna talk about tonight。
or one of the overarching thing we're gonna talk about。
is what made America great in the first place.。
A lot of conversation has been going on about,。
hey, make America great again,。
and how do we make it great again?。
Again, we are not attaching to anyone's political slogan。
here, but we do wanna talk about。
what made America great in the first place.。
Has she been great?。
Specifically, we're gonna talk about what made her great。
and what will make her cease to be great,。
what will lead to her fall.。
Specifically, the first question of is America great?。
So this is very, there's no scripture in this first point.。
I just wanna prove to everyone in the room。
there's something unique that has taken place。
with the founding of the United States of America.。
And that it has become the most prosperous,。
most successful nation distinctly。
from the rest of the world.。
And here's some of the things that we know。
about has America been great.。
America is the most prosperous country。
that has ever existed.。
The gross domestic product,。
which is just like the income,。
if you took everybody's income in the room。
and everybody's income across the different nations,。
you compare them, how much money they all make,。
America makes more than every other nation on the planet.。
Significantly more.。
If you were to combine second place,。
third place and fourth place,。
you would just barely have enough。
to match what America makes.。
We've been the most prosperous economic nation。
in the country.。
We are so opportunistic, we have such opportunity,。
the land of the free, we have opportunity。
where you can do anything.。
We have such, which does not exist in many countries,。
where there's class systems.。
America is so focused on social mobility,。
we have a name for it.。
We have coined a name, it's called the American dream.。
There's no like the Saudi Arabian dream,。
that dream does not exist.。
But we're so like, "Oh man, you can go for rags to riches,。
"anybody can become anything with hard work,。
"opportunity, chance, you can do it."。
By generally speaking.。
We're the most internationally dominant country,。
at least in the modern era that has existed.。
Where we have won two world wars,。
arguably prevented a third.。
We've gone out of our way,。
not only are we internationally dominant,。
we have this thing where we do it with a conscience.。
We go out of our way to help other nations.。
After we defeated Germany and Japan in World War II,。
if you remember from history class,。
we went back and helped rebuild them,。
using our money and our people.。
When the Soviet Union in the 1950s。
surrounded West Germany, if you remember the Berlin Wall。
and Gorbachev dared on this wall,。
if you remember all that,。
whenever West Germany was surrounded by Soviets。
and the Soviets said, "We're cutting off food,。
"we're cutting off supplies,。
"this will not be a free country."。
The United States said,。
"We don't like seeing bullies pick on little guys."。
We flew into West Germany 500,000 tons of food。
for 12 months.。
We landed planes every 90 seconds。
because we said, "We are going to fight。
"for freedom to exist here,。
"and we do not like seeing little guys。
"picked on by big guys."。
We parachuted in candy for the children.。
We have this international conscience。
that is a part really of even our dominance,。
so to speak,。
we're the only abstaining superpower that's ever existed.。
What do I mean by abstaining superpower?。
Superpower is kind of like somebody。
who rises on the world scene,。
who's like, "Hey man, it's all me."。
America, unlike other imperialistic countries,。
is the only abstaining superpower.。
We are not here to like,。
"We're gonna take Mexico,。
"we've been eyeing you for a while, we're taking it."。
That has never once crossed legislatively。
what you see in America.。
Versus like the British Empire,。
which said, "Hey, we're gonna conquer Australia,。
"we're gonna conquer South America, or South Africa,。
"we're gonna conquer these different places around."。
You still see ripples about,。
America has never been a superpower that is there.。
We'll go in, we'll help, we'll try to bring peace,。
but then we leave.。
We're the most generous nation in history,。
by a wide margin.。
America gives more in foreign aid than any other country,。
it's not even close.。
Are we the only country that gives money to foreign aid。
and to what's broken in our world?。
In our world, no.。
But out of the top 10 humanitarian relief organizations,。
out of the top 10,。
"Hey, these are the most generous organizations in the world,"。
all 10 are American.。
America is not only generous in our funds and resources,。
we're generous in our acceptance.。
That anyone, I mean, it's a part of our national DNA,。
anyone can come to America,。
go through the process of immigration,。
become an American citizen,。
can begin to work, can pursue a job,。
and can make a living.。
It's written on Lady Liberty, the Statue of Liberty.。
This is what's on the bottom of it, you probably heard.。
"Give me your tired, your poor,。
"your huddled masses yearning to be free.。
"The wretched refuse of your teeming shore will take them.。
"Send these, the homeless, tempest-tots to me.。
"I lift my lamp beside the golden door."。
That does not sit outside of normal nations,。
but it's a part of our fabric of DNA.。
We've done more for human rights。
than any other country in history.。
And you may be like, "No, no, no,。
"Europe's all about rights,"。
because we exported it to them.。
There's never been a caste system in the United States.。
There's never been, hey, if you watch "Downton Abbey,"。
where there's the lords and the whatever,。
there's never been any of that here.。
We believe that all men are endowed by their creator。
with equal rights.。
We are the most pro-human rights that there's been.。
Slavery is a dark part of our past,。
but it is a past that,。
in the midst of that terrible mark on our history,。
was Christians who said, "This is wrong,"。
and hundreds of thousands of Americans gave their life。
and spilt blood to eradicate it.。
We've spilt more blood to get rid of history。
or slavery than any other nation,。
because we believe in human rights,。
and we've exported it all around the world around us.。
It's become the norm because America has led the way.。
Education, other countries send their people。
to learn from our colleges.。
China, we think of China as, man,。
they're just so smart over there.。
160,000 Chinese come to the United States。
to learn in colleges every single year.。
They would send more if they could afford it.。
Athletics, we're the most dominant athletically。
in terms of the Olympics that there's ever been.。
There's more American medals than any other nation.。
There's more gold medals than any other nation.。
Culturally, the world listens to our music,。
watches our movies, surfs our internet,。
uses our dollar bills or the American dollar,。
and speaks our language.。
The international language of the world is English.。
We brought democracy as it is known today into existence,。
and we perfected it, and then we sent it back。
to the monarch of France, Spain, Britain,。
and all over our world.。
We invented the telegraph, the light bulb,。
the motion picture or the movie,。
the airplane, the automobile, baseball, football,。
jazz, blues, rock and roll, computer,。
internet, cell phone, smartphone, iPhone,。
email, GPS, chemotherapy, and though we didn't invent。
ice cream, we did invent bluebell.。
(audience cheering)。
Yeah, these colors don't run, boom.。
And Ben and Jerry's.。
America over the last 240 years has distinctly stood out。
on the world stage.。
I mean, there's no question.。
We are not in a time where we're the most pro-patriotic,。
you know, America everything, but there's no question.。
If you look around the world and you look at history,。
there's something distinct about our country.。
So what made America great?。
It's clear that she has been great.。
What has led to her success?。
That's the second question I wanna answer tonight.。
And there's a few answers you could come up with.。
Maybe it is the size.。
You got 360 million people.。
Maybe it's because we're just so big.。
If that was the case, then you would see nations。
like India or China, you'd see other nations,。
Russia that have enormous populations。
also having incredible success.。
It's clearly not the size of the country.。
Maybe it's our model of government.。
You know, maybe it's like democracy.。
Maybe the fabric that leads to success,。
the secret sauce of America is democracy.。
If that was the case, then when democracy is introduced。
to countries, you would think they would flourish.。
And see Iraq, where we set them free,。
we took down Saddam Hussein.。
If you remember that whole thing with Iraq,。
what happened there is we went in,。
we took out Saddam, we were like,。
hey, democracy, go get 'em.。
And they were like, pfft, pfft, to one another,。
and it fell apart.。
And that's what happened.。
That it's clearly not democracy。
and not a model of government that leads to flourishing.。
Maybe it's like geography.。
Maybe it's America, you know, we're in the West,。
North America, maybe it's just kind of where we are,。
you know, fertile and lots of different types of climates.。
Maybe that's it.。
If that was the case, then you would also expect。
to see the same type of success take place。
in South America and the countries down there,。
or in Mexico and in Canada.。
And I'm not saying there hasn't been flourishing。
and they're part of the Western world.。
I'm saying there's something distinct about America.。
What is it?。
And we know it's not just like, oh, because the English,。
the English were superior to everyone else。
because it's just not the case.。
Other places that they landed and tried to introduce society。
they didn't flourish like America.。
What was it?。
What I wanna attempt to convince you。
for the next 20 minutes, if you will,。
is that it is the Christian moral foundation。
that has led to the incredible success。
that we've seen in the United States.。
Specifically, there was something distinct about America,。
about the way it was founded,。
about the faith of the founders,。
about the principles they established it on.。
So that we might look back,。
I wanna show you what is behind us。
by hearing from the voices of these men。
so that we in effort might be able to restore it。
to prevent us falling because we are falling.。
And it's not hard to see beyond the presidential race。
that looks like an SNL skit.。
It's becoming harder and harder to tell。
what's the SNL skit and what's not.。
And so we're gonna hear from the founders,。
why has America been great?。
Because of the Christian moral foundation.。
And a lot of you have been taught that,。
nah, I mean, they weren't really that Christian.。
Like, you know, Thomas Jefferson was kind of a deist, right?。
A deist believes that God is a clockmaker.。
He spun up the world and was like, peace out,。
I'll be back in a little while,。
take care of things for me.。
That is not the faith of Thomas Jefferson.。
It wasn't the faith of any of the founders.。
So I wanna read some of the writings of them.。
By and large, the founders that founded this country。
were Christian, not just in name.。
They wrote of him in a way that was clearly,。
it was clear they understood the gospel.。
Were there outliers?。
Yes, Jefferson and Franklin to name two.。
But they were very much the minority,。
and even they were steeped。
in a Judeo-Christian perspective.。
They saw the world from a Christian worldview.。
So let me read a few of them.。
Alexander Hamilton, here's one.。
Alexander Hamilton is famous right now,。
if you watched Saturday Night Live this past weekend.。
The guy who is the head of the Broadway,。
Alexander Hamilton, if you've seen the play Hamilton,。
that guy was leading SNL.。
Alexander Hamilton, in his dying words,。
he was one of the secretary of treasurers,。
he's just founding father.。
Here's what he said.。
I have a tender reliance on the mercy of the Almighty,。
through the merits or the works of Christ alone.。
I am a sinner, and I look to him for mercy.。
Pray for me.。
Our George Washington, our first president。
of the United States, kept a prayer book.。
Inside of it, we get access to reading some of his prayers。
of this man who clearly understood who Jesus was.。
There were so many to pick from。
that I just picked one of them.。
Here was one of them.。
Lord, I beseech thee my sins.。
This is George Washington.。
Lord, I beseech thee my sins.。
Remove them from my presence,。
as far as the east is from the west.。
Accept me, Lord, for the merits of thy son, Jesus Christ.。
Bless my family, kindred, friends, and country.。
Be our God and our guide forever,。
for his sake, the sake of Jesus.。
Who lay down his life in the grave and arose again,。
Jesus Christ, our Lord, amen.。
Benjamin Franklin, who's like, oh man, he was a deist,。
he didn't even believe, you know, he's crazy Ben.。
Here's what he says to the Continental Congress。
as they're trying to write the Constitution.。
And they were hitting a roadblock.。
They were in disagreements with one another.。
He turns and he says this.。
I have lived, sir, a long time.。
And the longer I live, the more convincing proofs。
I see of this truth, that God governs in the affairs of men.。
And if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground。
without his notice, is it probable that an empire。
can rise without his aid?。
We have been assured, sir, in the sacred writings。
that except the Lord build the house,。
they labor in vain that build it.。
I firmly believe this.。
I therefore beg leave to move,。
that henceforth prayers imploring the assistance of heaven。
and its blessing on our deliberations be held。
in this assembly every single morning。
before we proceed to business.。
Benjamin Franklin just said, I think that we need to pray。
every morning before we write the Constitution.。
As they were meeting to write it,。
God, please bless America, bless our time together.。
It doesn't seem the writings of a man。
who thinks it's a watchmaker.。
Clearly, even if his faith is complicated,。
it's steeped in a perspective that comes from one place,。
the Bible.。
Sam Adams, known as the father of revolution,。
organized a tea party, said,。
"Jesus alone is the hope for salvation."。
John Adams said, "If a country just sets the Bible。
"as their law, it will become a utopia and a paradise."。
Over and over again.。
Even Webster, the Continental Congress in 1777,。
we're at war, what did they say?。
They say, "Hey, we gotta give all the soldiers in the army。
"two things, a gun and a Bible."。
It was very much a part of the DNA。
and the fabric of our country.。
Not only was it a part of the founders,。
it was a part of the perspective of the people,。
in case you're like, yeah, I guess the founders,。
you know, the top 1%, but were the people Christian?。
Here's what we know about the Christian practice。
of the people.。
Do you know the first celebrity in the United States was?。
Like, I mean, before there was like Selena Gomez。
and Justin Bieber and the Kardashians,。
who was the first celebrity in the United States?。
He had two initials, GW.。
George Whitefield.。
And you're going like, what?。
Didn't see that coming.。
Who is George Whitefield?。
George Whitefield, no, it wasn't George Washington.。
He wasn't even the most famous guy with the initials GW.。
George Whitefield was a Bible teacher.。
Scholars say that the most famous person。
prior to the Revolutionary War,。
right around that time, was George Whitefield.。
What did he do for a living?。
He taught the Bible to people.。
It is estimated by scholars that 80% of the people。
in the colonies heard George Whitefield.。
Everywhere they went, they flocked.。
Now, why do I tell you that?。
Not to prove like, oh man, they'd all heard him.。
I'm trying to prove that the culture of the times.。
Imagine what it would take today。
for the most famous person in our land to be,。
and specifically the most famous outside of the royal family。
is what scholars believe.。
So out of King George in England and the royal family,。
the most famous person was George Whitefield,。
who was a pastor, a traveling Bible teacher.。
What would it take today in a culture where like,。
the Kardashians are who we look to,。
or Justin Bieber, whatever it is,。
for our culture to see the most famous people would flock,。
they'd go anywhere to hear a traveling Bible teacher.。
It was steeped in the practice of the people.。
The French nation sent someone named Alexis de Tocqueville,。
who came here to study America.。
The French had had a revolution.。
Basically like France was like, oh man,。
America just went through this revolution.。
It looks like things are going good.。
We should go study them.。
1830, they send this guy over.。
He gets on a boat, gets over there.。
He's like, hey guys, I'm here to take some notes。
and learn about America.。
Alexis looks around.。
He writes a 12-volume book called Democracy in America.。
And here's what he writes.。
There's so many different things that he says。
about the Christian faith that was everywhere,。
but he writes this.。
There is no country in the world。
where the Christian religion retains a greater influence。
over the souls of man than in America.。
America is great because America is good.。
If America ever ceases to be good,。
America will cease to be great.。
All over our founding was this new way of thinking,。
this Christian moral foundation。
was at the heart of our founding.。
Even so much of the way that you think today,。
that Americans think, that I think today。
is all steeped in Christian values.。
Like it's so hard that we can't even believe it。
because it's the world, it's all we've ever known.。
It's everywhere that we look.。
We've only known a world where we think。
it's natural and normal that everyone should think,。
oh man, women have rights.。
Even me saying that is like, dude,。
did you just like suggest they may not have rights?。
You'd be like, that's ridiculous.。
We think that's normal.。
We think everyone should think,。
yeah, of course, men and women have rights.。
We think that the weak should not be abused by the strong.。
We think men and women should be treated fairly.。
We don't think that the disabled。
should be taken advantage of.。
We don't think anyone should be taken advantage of.。
We think everyone, regardless of their skin color,。
regardless of the amount of money they make,。
Bill Gates and a homeless guy, same value.。
No better.。
And we think that's normal.。
You were taught that.。
That comes from a Christian perspective。
that is so steeped in our thinking,。
we don't even realize that it all comes back。
to one place, the Christian moral foundation.。
Here's how you can like look outside and see,。
huh, yeah, I guess that's not normal to everybody.。
If you look around our world, it becomes very apparent.。
They don't think like us.。
Like when you look in the Middle East,。
there's a reason why if anybody went on vacation。
this past summer, I'm guessing at the top 10 of your list。
was not like, yeah, so I spent a little time。
in Afghanistan and then Pakistan,。
and then just decided to stop by Syria。
to see what they had going on.。
And then I decided to, you know,。
Saudi Arabia seems beautiful.。
They have the shore, Mediterranean,。
just was great, pita bread, oh, it was great.。
None of us think that way.。
Here's why, here's why people are not flocking over there.。
Because women can't drive cars in Saudi Arabia.。
Because if you attempt to be, if you're a woman。
who tries to get educated, who even suggests。
that girls should be educated in Pakistan,。
you're liable to be shot and killed, and have been killed.。
Even in Asia, you look around,。
there's 160 million more men than women in Asia。
because of the one-child policy of China.。
And people, if they have a baby girl, they'll kill it.。
Or they'll use selective abortion.。
And you look around the world, it becomes very clear,。
they don't think like we think.。
There's something different in they don't think。
like we think.。
And we think like, yeah, I know, and it's wrong.。
Everybody should think that way.。
You were taught that.。
You were taught that everyone has value.。
You were taught that everyone is endowed by their creator.。
And I believe with all my heart,。
it's the truth that everyone has dignity and rights.。
Because the scripture tells me that it's true.。
And we stand on the firm foundation。
that they don't stand on.。
Specifically, even the countries I named。
of like, you're not going vacationing there,。
they don't have a Christian foundation.。
Think about that.。
They have an Islamic foundation.。
And this isn't some effort to rally anger。
towards Islamic thinking or Islamophobia。
other than it is not, not all world views are created equal.。
And the Christian worldview is steeped。
in the way that you and I think.。
Chinese sociologists also studied America more recently.。
So Alex Tocqueville did in 1930s for France.。
He said, "Man, America, I think it's the faith。
"that they have."。
Here's what Chinese sociologists came and studied America。
and here's their conclusion.。
This comes from the chief editor for Time Magazine,。
David Aikman, who was the correspondent in Beijing。
for a number of years.。
He wrote "Jesus in Beijing."。
It's a book.。
And in there, he talks about this lecture that he attended。
with 18 other American people that was held.。
It was being a lecture.。
This Chinese sociologist and a number of them。
were given this lecture on their studies。
of what they thought led to the success of America.。
You can read it in his book,。
"Jesus in Beijing," Time Magazine.。
He says that the Chinese sociologist said this,。
"One of the things that we were asked to look into。
"was what accounted for the success,。
"in fact, the preeminence of the West all over the world.。
"We studied everything we could from your historical。
"to your political, economic, and cultural perspective.。
"At first, we thought it was because you had。
"more powerful guns than we had.。
"Then we thought it was because you had。
"the best political system, democracy.。
"Next, we focused on your economic system, capitalism.。
"But in the past 20 years, we have realized。
"that the heart of your culture is your religion.。
"That is why the West has been so powerful.。
"The Christian moral foundation of social。
"and cultural life is what made possible。
"the emergence of capitalism。
"and the successful transition to democratic politics.。
"We don't have any doubt about this.。
"Studies reveal that in rural areas of China,。
"where traveling evangelists," we call them missionaries,。
"introduce the Christian faith,。
"opium addiction goes down, crime drops,。
"and Christian families grow wealthier than their neighbors.。
"Even other countries, despite our reluctance。
"to acknowledge it, look on and they say,。
"'Huh, I don't know why they've been so successful.'。
"Their faith, their Christian perspective。
"then informs and has allowed for capitalism to flourish,。
"has allowed for democracy to take place.。
"And it is the thing that allows。
"and will allow us to not fall.。
"But we're in a time and place where it is continued。
"to be removed and removed from society,。
"and the church, more than ever before,。
"needs to stand up and continue。
"to not just pick it out in the streets,。
"but continue to love and move forward.。
"The mission is more important than ever before,。
"as our country continues to move and spiral down."。
So the third idea from this talk tonight。
is will or why will America fall?。
Or why will she cease to be great?。
We read early in Romans one that Paul just says,。
"Hey, the wrath of God is revealed from heaven."。
And here's how the wrath of God is revealed against heaven.。
He basically says that, hey,。
they begin to suppress the truth.。
Like what happens, when you wanna see God's wrath,。
this is so crazy, 'cause I think a lot of us think,。
oh man, God's wrath, I got a cold today,。
or a lightning bolt struck him,。
or man, I'm running late today,。
God, why are you angry?。
And Paul says, "The wrath of God is revealed。
"from heaven against people。
"who begin to suppress the truth。
"and run after vices, after sin,。
"and God will not just stop them。
"or hit 'em with a lightning bolt,。
"he'll let them keep going.。
"He'll even let them suppress the truth that God exists."。
I mean, it's Paul's words, it's Paul's passage that is,。
we hold these truths to be self-evident.。
Paul, what's self-evident?。
That God exists.。
And you see it in the creation around us,。
and any person who says God does not exist。
is clearly experiencing just the wrath of God。
because he's letting them run from him.。
But he says, any time that a person runs from God,。
they run towards destruction.。
They run from the truth and towards a lie.。
So how will America fall?。
Paul just told us the way a person falls。
is they run from their creator.。
They worship created things, maybe it's a job,。
maybe it's money, maybe it's sex,。
maybe it's a dating relationship, maybe it's whatever.。
He says, any time that someone runs from that,。
and God in his wrath, which is a terrifying thing,。
he will allow people to run,。
or that's what he's saying,。
he will allow people to run,。
or that's one of the ways you see his wrath.。
And Christ, we're not talking about Christians here,。
as you have been placed under a totally different covenant.。
But Paul says, when you run from God,。
you invite destruction into your life.。
That's how a person falls.。
So how does a democracy fall?。
A democracy is a government of the people,。
a bunch of people.。
So the way you bring down an individual person。
is that person runs from God.。
The way you bring down a democracy。
is the people begin to run from God.。
That's the problem, honestly, with democracy.。
Because if everybody's corrupt,。
if everybody's like, yeah, man,。
we should all cut off our hands, that would be cool.。
Who wants to vote?。
51% cut off our hands, cool, we're all doing it together.。
All of a sudden, you're like, oh, man, we are toast.。
If a democracy is only as strong。
as the people that make it up,。
if the people are corrupt, the democracy's corrupt.。
Aristotle, this Greek thinker, said democracy,。
he was a guy who wrote a bunch of different books,。
influenced lots of people.。
He basically said, hey, of all the governments,。
democracy's the worst one。
because the people are too corrupt to be able to handle it.。
America has defied that for 240 years。
because of a Christian foundation, which is disintegrating.。
One of the scholars have really put the perspective。
and beliefs of the founders。
into something they called the golden triangle of freedom,。
which is so directly related to this.。
I'm gonna try to make this engaging again,。
where a guy named Oz Guinness,。
and basically these thinkers said, hey, this is,。
let me give you a framework。
for how the founders thought about freedom.。
They said it could only work。
if these three things were a part of it.。
So in other words, if these things disappear,。
you will not be able to sustain a free society.。
They said that the golden triangle of freedom,。
which I think we have a slide for, contains this.。
It says that freedom,。
the nature of freedom requires virtue.。
Like in order to be free,。
you have to have some element of virtue.。
Like in order for me to not be a heroin addict,。
I have to say, yeah, I'm not gonna do that.。
In order for me to remain free from that,。
I have to not do that.。
That's an extreme example,。
but in order to maintain freedom,。
they said you have to have a level of virtue.。
You have to voluntarily say。
that I'm not going to murder somebody。
even if I get away with it.。
And in order for people in society to flourish,。
freedom requires virtue.。
That virtue, by essence of what it is,。
it requires faith.。
That you can't just require or say,。
hey, everybody be virtuous.。
I want everybody to only sleep with their spouse.。
You can't just require and demand it.。
So virtue, the founders believed, required faith.。
It required a set of beliefs.。
It required a person could only govern,。
we could only be a self-governing people.。
Like hey, we're self-governing.。
We govern ourselves if we know。
how to individually govern ourselves.。
And the founders believed this.。
So they believed that Christianity or morality, religion,。
was the best encouragement that man had。
to encourage society to flourish, to encourage virtue.。
John Adams said this.。
We have no government armed with the power。
capable of contending with the human passions。
or human nature.。
In other words, there is not a government strong enough。
to fight against human nature if it's unbridled。
or doesn't have bridling it, morality and religion.。
Our constitution was made for a moral and religious people.。
It is wholly inadequate to the government of any other.。
But Adams says, if we get rid of religion,。
we will not be able to hire enough police.。
And we will self-destruct.。
That is our second president of the United States.。
The third thing, so freedom requires virtue.。
Virtue requires faith.。
And faith requires freedom.。
A part of the founding of a country was like,。
hey, we're gonna have freedom of religion.。
Everyone is free to worship any way that they want.。
Here's why that's so important.。
Here's why that's so important.。
The founders were rebelling against a state church.。
That's why the First Amendment was written in.。
Because in England, hey, you're church of England。
or you're dead, okay?。
So we're gonna have this like,。
hey, everybody gets to worship where they want.。
If you don't worship here, we're gonna kill you.。
Bloody Mary and the battles with the Catholic Church。
in England, they were rebelling against that.。
The Catholic Church had taken over France and Spain。
and was an integral part of that.。
And so, hey, you're Catholic or you're gone.。
And so all of this state church had really influenced。
the thinking of the founders where they said,。
everyone's gonna be free.。
You cannot have true religion if we enforce it by law.。
Like if I'm forcing you to come to church and worship God,。
you're not actually worshiping God.。
Does that make sense?。
And so the founders said, look,。
in order for faith to truly take place,。
true religion is free religion.。
People have to choose to do it or it's not true faith.。
And they said, faith requires freedom.。
And if you lose any of those, you will forfeit your freedom.。
Franklin, Ben Franklin said, the more vices a people has,。
the more they need masters and dictators。
because they can no longer govern themselves。
and they'll fight and war with one another.。
And as we continue to eradicate faith from our society,。
we will eradicate virtue and eventually eradicate freedom.。
And we will destroy ourselves just as Paul said,。
anytime a people runs from God,。
they run from the source of life, order, and peace.。
And it is a drift that is happening.。
I mean, it's not hard to see like, man,。
if you drift as a nation towards away from faith,。
like things just don't go well for you.。
You can see it all over Europe.。
You could see it, let's take a look at Amsterdam specifically.。
One example, inside of Europe,。
once during its golden age,。
Amsterdam was considered the epicenter。
of Protestant Christianity.。
It was known for its churches.。
It was known for the faith。
and the people that was producing.。
It was known for a way of life very different than today.。
Today, it is known for, it is secular.。
The church has drifted from its place or from that nation.。
And it is known for sex slavery or for prostitution。
for very different reasons.。
Anytime a nation drifts or runs from God,。
they invite and bring destruction on their land.。
And it is happening as a Christian faith。
continues to be removed and restricted.。
And the church, which has done a horrible job。
of standing up and not compromising,。
anytime the church is weakened in a nation,。
the nation becomes morally weak。
and moves towards destruction.。
We are already seeing signs of decline in our country.。
It is a more divided nation than ever before.。
We have $20 trillion in debt.。
The disintegration of the family。
has happened in the last 50 years.。
In 1965, 5% of children were born to single mothers.。
Today, it's over 40%.。
Think about that.。
In the African-American community,。
the black community, it's 72%.。
In the Hispanic community, it's 53%.。
All over, I mean, in the white community,。
it's just right there with the Hispanic community.。
The Asian-American community is doing honestly the best.。
Now we're seeing this disintegration of the family。
all over the place.。
We're seeing enormous amounts of death.。
One in three children are raised in poverty in America,。
according to a UNICEF study that came out a year ago.。
One in three below the poverty line.。
Is it any wonder as our nation moves from God,。
pornography is the most successful industry in America.。
Pornography makes more money than the NBA,。
MLB, and the NFL combined.。
It is more common today to be raped than to be a smoker.。
Think about that.。
And our nation, as it continues to run from God,。
is gonna continue to spiral and continue to fall。
if it does not restore what has been removed.。
And even our political leaders,。
I don't know what degree,。
like, you guys have been following any of that stuff,。
but are we really surprised?。
Our leaders are a reflection of the culture around us.。
If some of them have said crazy things,。
which are horrendous,。
they're not things that are not being said in rap songs,。
in sitcoms, all over the place.。
Is it any surprise?。
And our nation will continue to spiral。
until the church steps up and is the church,。
'cause here's what we know.。
Like, our hope, and I'm about to close。
and land the plane right here, our hope is not in America.。
As Christians, our hope,。
our, like, if you're a follower of Jesus in the room,。
your hope, my hope, is not in America.。
But you are the hope of America,。
because you're the body of Christ.。
You are the closest that anyone will ever be to Jesus.。
It's you.。
The democracy that is around us,。
the democratic republic, if you call it that, which it is,。
but the democracy that we're a part of。
will only be as strong as the church that makes it up.。
If you're a follower of Jesus Christ,。
that is your responsibility and mine.。
Because America's not our hope, you're the hope of America.。
And the question that's been asked of us,。
will we rise up and be the church more than ever before?。
It is crucial that our mission as followers of Jesus。
to do whatever we have to, by whatever means possible,。
to allow people to know the God who loved them so much。
he would die for them.。
And take the message of Christianity。
all over to every place and space in our town,。
in our city, in our state, and in our country.。
'Cause you're the hope.。
I love what one man said where he just said,。
"Look, Jesus did not come to take sides,。
"democrat, republican, he came to take over。
"and take over the hearts of people and change the world.。
"And as the body of Christ,。
"you're the means he's doing that through."。
And that's our role, that's our hope,。
that's our application.。
Because if we do not restore that is not restored,。
we will continue to fall.。
I'll close here.。
I like,。
I think in a weird way,。
we're like this rose as a country.。
And follow me.。
(congregation laughing)。
I feel like this is like, just became The Bachelor.。
(congregation laughing)。
If this thing, like it looks pretty,。
like it's like, oh man, it's a good looking rose.。
This thing is dying.。
It's cut off from its roots.。
Like it looks beautiful today,。
but I don't know if you've ever been around flowers.。
I'm guessing for the girls, for sure you have,。
and if guys, hopefully you have.。
If this thing is not placed in water,。
it's gonna die quickly.。
And here's what, no matter how much water we put in it,。
in a week, this will not look like this.。
Like it may look somewhat pretty right now,。
but be assured, it is dying。
because it is cut off from its roots.。
The church in America。
is the only hope of reconnecting our country to its roots.。
Our nation will be like this flower will be in a week,。
and that it may look pretty right now,。
you're like, "Yeah, but look, dude,。
"I got the new iPhone 7.。
"I mean, my life is pretty good.。
"I mean, things are going fine.。
"The economy's okay.。
"Everything looks okay.。
"Everything still looks pretty."。
But when things get cut off from their roots,。
their foundation, they begin to die.。
And so it will be for us。
if we do not reconnect and reestablish,。
go back to the America the founders dreamed of,。
the America that Jesus loves a lot more。
than you and I ever will,。
because he loves people。
and the people that made up and make up America.。
I don't know if you're like,。
I like have this weird, I've always loved our country.。
And I don't know, anybody like,。
anybody love America in here?。
Hopefully you do more of this message.。
I think even from like a young age,。
I like find writings.。
I was looking through in this past week。
'cause I was like trying to find an illustration。
for something and I was looking at stuff。
that was all like, man, as a six-year-old,。
man, I just love America.。
Everybody should move to America.。
I love America.。
Here's what you and I love about America.。
And what will continue to be lovable about America。
or will cease to be an America worth loving。
is not the American culture.。
It is the Christian culture.。
And man, I want that with all of my heart.。
And I know in this room,。
there's men and women who share that desire,。
who share the desire that, hey, all over the city,。
all over this town, all over this country,。
we're gonna take the message of Jesus Christ.。
It is the Christian culture that provides freedom.。
It is the Christian culture that says every person,。
man, woman, red, yellow, black, and white,。
all of them are precious in his sight.。
All of them deserve dignity.。
All of them should be treated with care, with opportunity.。
All of them have rights.。
That is the Christian message.。
And if there's any part of you,。
if you walk out of here tonight,。
you're like, man, they're just like all about America。
in this place.。
I'm like more like world-focused.。
We're all about Jesus.。
And we're all about people knowing Jesus.。
We think that America is not our hope.。
We are the hope of America because of Christ.。
And if you're not a Christian,。
you're not the hope of America.。
But there's a hope you need to know, and that's Jesus,。
your savior who loved you and died for you,。
the savior of George Washington,。
the savior of the men who founded this country,。
the savior of our world, of every Pakistani,。
every Saudi, every English person,。
everyone who's ever lived,。
and the only one who offers hope to a world who needs it。
and life, and who when we follow will lead us。
as a person and as a people to life.。
Let me pray that be the case.。
Father, would you heal our land?。
You tell us that if your people,。
in the Old Testament, speaking of Israel,。
now as the New Testament,。
your people, the church, will humble themselves,。
repent, will seek your face,。
then you will hear from heaven and you will heal their land.。
God, would you heal our land?。
Father, we need you.。
Would you help us to stand firm as followers of Jesus。
as we look at a government that is spiraling out of control。
and realizing that we live not in a monarchy.。
We don't submit to a king.。
We submit to a savior and we live in a democracy.。
And so we, the people, millions of Christians,。
if they act like Christians and follow Jesus,。
are more forceful, more powerful,。
have more influence than any political leader ever will.。
Would you strengthen your church, Lord?。
And would you multiply it all over this world?。
Would you bring freedom, and equality, and rights。
through the power of forgiveness。
that is found in Jesus alone in every nation,。
in every place, in every space, Lord?。
Would you come quickly?。
Would you bless our nation by turning our nation to you?。
Amen.。
- Dude, that's the best version of God Bless America。
there's ever been.。
Man, we love you guys.。
We wanna make sure you know about a few opportunities。
that are coming up and it's so perfect.。
We were talking about the blessing of God on America,。
that the worst thing God can do。
is financially bless our country if we're running from him.。
So sometimes the blessing of God looks like,。
hey, I'm just gonna turn you guys back to me。
through whatever it takes,。
through a broken political system,。
through a less than ideal president on,。
yeah, I'll just stop there.。
Sometimes he turns through a recession,。
through whatever it is, man.。
And that's the most loving thing he can do,。
to do whatever it takes, I'm gonna turn you back.。
And so we're praying that that would take place.。
That's why they sang that part right there.。
We wanna make sure you guys know。
about a couple opportunities.。
If you wanna talk about anything that you heard tonight,。
we'd love to talk with you, we'd love to pray with you.。
If you're walking through something down front,。
we'll have volunteers that'll be here to connect with you.。
We'd love to meet and love to speak with you.。
If you're not in a community group,。
tonight is an opportunity for you。
to get to connect with other men and women.。
We think that no one should have to walk through life alone.。
And so if you don't have a small group of people。
that come around you and encourage you。
in your walk with Jesus,。
my guess is that walk is lonely。
and a lot more difficult than God wants it to be.。
And so tonight you have a chance to get plugged in.。
If you're a guy, you can go right down。
this little hallway right here.。
There'll be a room right at the end of it.。
You can meet and connect in a small group with other guys.。
If you're a girl,。
you can go right down the edge of this hallway.。
If you are new here and you're looking for information。
about, man, what are all the opportunities。
that exist at Watermark to get connected,。
to find out kind of like what we believe。
or what is our vision, values,。
what opportunities to serve in the city,。
all those things.。
We have something called Next Steps,。
which is just essentially, if it's your first time,。
we wanna make sure you know everything that's available。
to answer any questions you may have.。
That'll be in the chapel,。
which is right outside of these doors.。
If you go up these stairs right here,。
you'll see the chapel.。
And in college, we'll be in stage two,。
partying tonight.。
You don't wanna miss it.。
We love you guys.。
You guys have a great week of worship.。
(cheering)。
