[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
Welcome, friends in the room.。
Welcome, friends in Fort Worth.。
We're going to start in a unusual way.。
I need everyone to stand up.。
Everyone to stand up.。
We're going to play a little game.。
We're going to play a little game.。
Yeah, there you go.。
Get excited.。
Stand it up.。
Get some energy out.。
Jumping jacks.。
OK.。
We're going to play a game called Simon Says Fort Worth.。
I'm talking to you two.。
Everyone stands up in the room.。
I need everyone to play.。
You can't be too pretentious, speaking particularly。
to my friends in Dallas here.。
It's a struggle of ours.。
Everyone's going to play.。
Simon says.。
There may be a prize involved.。
We already gave away an Apple Watch.。
Who knows what else we got?。
A new car.。
So here we go.。
Everyone's involved.。
And if you see someone who doesn't follow along,。
you got to point them out.。
Citizen's arrest may get happen.。
Tell them to sit down.。
Here we go.。
Simon says right hand up.。
Simon says left hand up.。
Right hand down.。
Oh, there we go.。
You're sitting down.。
Sit down.。
Sit down.。
Sit down.。
I think I see some people who didn't.。
All right, here we go.。
All right, here we go.。
Right hand down.。
Oh, man.。
It's so terrible.。
All right, Simon says clap once.。
Simon says clap twice.。
Clap once.。
I love it.。
Man, this is really getting people going.。
Here we go.。
All right, here we go.。
Simon says both hands down.。
Left hand up.。
Simon says right hand up.。
Simon says right hand down.。
Simon says right hand up.。
Clap once.。
Simon says clap once.。
Simon says clap twice.。
Both hands down.。
There we go.。
Man, we are just steady.。
Simon says both hands up.。
Right hand down.。
Man, it just works every time.。
All right, Simon says both hands up.。
Simon says both hands down.。
Simon says both hands up.。
Simon says both hands down.。
Simon says left hand up.。
Simon says both hands up.。
Somebody needs to sit up there.。
I see you in the back.。
I see you in Fort Worth, too.。
Yeah, uh-huh.。
Yeah, you in the back.。
All right, both hands down.。
No, man.。
Golly.。
Simon says clap once.。
Simon says clap twice.。
Clap twice.。
Simon says both hands down.。
Right hand up.。
Simon says both hands up.。
Simon says both hands down.。
Simon says sit down.。
Simon says stand back up.。
Sit back down.。
Simon says both hands up.。
Left hand down.。
All right, here we go.。
Stop right there.。
Y'all stay standing.。
Stop right there.。
Stay standing.。
Stay standing.。
The reason we start with that game is-- let me tell you this.。
So let me ask you this.。
What would you say if I said only those people in the room。
and in Fort Worth who are right now standing get into heaven?。
Woo!。
[LAUGHTER]。
[APPLAUSE]。
It's not actually true.。
All right, it is true.。
OK.。
All right, you guys sit back down.。
Only those people who followed the rules Simon says sit down.。
I love it.。
Man, we got rule followers.。
I love it.。
We got some firstborns in this room.。
In other words, what would you say if I said only。
the people who perfectly followed Simon's rules。
or the rules got into heaven?。
What would you say, furthermore, if Jesus said that?。
Because tonight, we're going through this series。
all summer long called Summer on the Mount,。
where we're diving into Jesus's most famous sermon of all time.。
Arguably the most famous sermon of all time,。
the Sermon on the Mount.。
And tonight, the interpretive challenge。
from the text we're going to look at in Matthew chapter 5.。
If you have a Bible, you can flip there right now.。
It'll be up on the screens.。
If you don't have one, no problem.。
But the interpretive challenge for tonight is Jesus says that.。
So what could he possibly mean?。
So tonight, we're going to really explore。
the subject of what does heaven require?。
Because he says one of the most shocking,。
if not the most shocking statements。
in his entire ministry in the verses。
that we're about to read.。
We're going to pick it up in verse 17.。
We're going to explore really what this relationship--。
heaven, how we can get to heaven,。
and how that relates to the law, which is。
what Jesus is about to address.。
And by law, I mean the Old Testament, the Old Covenant,。
the first half of your Bible, if you have one.。
We're going to explore how does Jesus fulfill the law?。
What role does the law play for us today?。
On this side of Jesus, what role does the law play for us today?。
Is it still relevant?。
And why do we abide by certain parts and not other ones?。
Why is it OK to eat shellfish, but homosexuality is not OK?。
What role does the law play for us today?。
And then really, how can we keep the law?。
So I'm just going to set the scene.。
We talked about it last week.。
If you weren't here, I'd encourage。
you to go to the Porch app.。
And you can listen to that message.。
You can be totally caught up on where we are in this series.。
But here's what's going on.。
So Jesus, early in his ministry, he's done some miracles.。
Things are going well.。
His popularity is continuing to take off,。
because when you can do miracles, that happens.。
And he goes up on this mountainside.。
And this crowd gathers around him.。
And Jesus says, I'm going to take this opportunity。
to teach them.。
And he begins to lay out these radical teachings。
that those in the audience who were there that day。
would go on to change the world.。
And so this summer, we're exploring。
what some of those radical teachings were.。
We're going to pick up in verse 17,。
where Jesus begins the discussion around the law.。
Here's what he says.。
Do not think, Jesus speaking, that I have come to abolish。
the law or the prophets.。
So what is the law?。
The prophets, the prophets.。
And the law is the Old Testament,。
would be what his audience would have heard.。
I have not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them.。
That Jesus says, let me get this out of the way,。
right up front, I did not come to do away with the law.。
I'm not saying, hey, the law, I was just kidding.。
You know, you guys are crazy.。
We're just going to do away with that.。
That's not what I'm here to do at all.。
I have come to fulfill it.。
Now, when you and I think law,。
we think something different than the original。
ancient Jewish audience that he's talking to.。
When you and I think law, we think taxes you need to pay。
or a speeding ticket and kind of a long arm police。
of the law.。
The audience in this case, or in this context,。
heard something very different.。
Law really involved every part of their life.。
In other words, they didn't just hear law,。
okay, that means I can't ride my camel。
in a school zone too fast.。
They heard the term that was identified。
with every aspect of their life.。
The law informed everything that they could do,。
everything that they couldn't do.。
The law told them what they could eat.。
The law told them how to maintain,。
experience relationship with God.。
It told them when they could do things,。
when they could not do certain things.。
The law was huge.。
It was what set the nation apart.。
The law was not king, but it was close.。
And so they're hearing Jesus say,。
hey, I haven't showed up on the scene。
to do away with all those Old Testament rules and laws.。
I've come to fulfill them.。
Now, what does he mean by fulfill?。
The word fulfill is the same word。
for to fill in what is lacking.。
You can probably imagine.。
What Jesus says is I didn't come to get rid of it.。
I came to fill in what is lacking.。
And there's three ways.。
We're gonna move kind of quick through this.。
There's three ways Jesus really fulfills。
what is lacking inside of the law.。
When it comes to the Old Testament rules。
and how they were supposed to live,。
Jesus says I didn't come to do away.。
I came to fulfill them.。
And the first way he does that is by giving clarity。
to what they always were intended to mean.。
Or raising the standard would be another way.。
It seemed like he was raising the standard,。
but he just gives clarity to what the rules。
and laws he was giving.。
That's the first way Jesus fulfills the law.。
In other words, throughout this whole sermon。
for the rest of the summer,。
we're gonna explore how Jesus over and over says this.。
You've heard it said, but I tell you.。
You've heard it said you shall not murder,。
but I tell you if you're angry,。
you've committed the same sin.。
You've heard it said that you shouldn't commit adultery,。
but I tell you that if you look at someone with lust,。
you're an adulterer.。
Jesus says over and over again,。
you've heard it said, but I tell you.。
And he brings clarity that you guys。
are all about the letter of the law.。
And let me give clarity to the spirit of the law,。
what it was always intended to mean.。
It's as though he was saying to us,。
you've heard it said you shouldn't drive 70.。
I say you should only drive 30,。
or you shouldn't drive a car, you should take a bike.。
Jesus says, I've come to explain the intended meaning。
or to raise the standard。
to where it was always intended to be.。
And the second way Jesus really fulfills the law,。
so that he brings clarity to, oh man,。
anger and murder, they're not far apart.。
In fact, according to Jesus, they're the same thing.。
The second way that he does is that he lives,。
he fulfills the law by living the perfect life.。
The only person for thousands of years,。
Jews would have these 613 different commands。
and there were 10 big ones,。
you've heard probably called the 10 commandments。
that Charles and Heston came down with the mountain from.。
And he, Jesus, was the only person。
who perfectly could live the mountain.。
He's the only person standing at the end of Simon says.。
He's the only person who is able。
to fully fulfill what the law required to do what it says.。
In fact, even in one scene, Jesus,。
his crowd continues to grow。
and there's this group called the Pharisees。
who doesn't like Jesus stepping on their turf.。
And so like, hey buddy, get your own city,。
Jerusalem's ours.。
And the crowd is gathering around him。
and they say, we're gonna kill this man.。
And Jesus responds, what sin would you convict me of?。
What sin have I committed?。
And it's literally this like awkward silence。
and Jesus just walks off.。
That there was never a time where he broke the law.。
Second way he fulfilled it was by his life.。
And then the third and really most important。
and most emphasized in the Bible。
way that Jesus fulfilled the law。
was that he fulfilled its demands for you and for me.。
And a lot of you guys know this,。
but this may be a review,。
maybe you haven't heard this before.。
Jesus steps in and he fulfills what you and I,。
when we broke the law or did not live up to God's standard,。
when we were angry, when we were lustful or adulterers,。
Jesus would say.。
Anytime those sins were done, there's a debt created.。
There's a penalty that must be paid。
and Jesus fulfills the law by saying,。
I will pay fully for everything that you have ever done.。
For anyone who will trust in me,。
I will totally satisfy the righteous requirement。
or the requirement and the debt that you've created.。
It's like you got a speeding ticket in that scenario。
and Jesus says, I'll pay for it.。
I'll cover the gap that you created by your decisions.。
Jesus is the fulfiller of the law。
and we're gonna really come back to that.。
But it's not dissimilar from Jesus stepping in。
and filling what is lacking from when you,。
this is the best way I can say it.。
I don't know if you're like me,。
but the dentist, I like avoid the dentist like the plague.。
And it is probably not good for my teeth.。
In fact, I know it's not.。
But I think it's because my first experience。
at the dentist was when I was 22.。
So, ouch, okay.。
So, everyone's laughing.。
I don't know, that's hurtful.。
So when I was growing up, I was raised by a single mom。
and we didn't have dental insurance.。
She was like, your teeth are straight, get back in the game.。
And so she would, we never went to the dentist.。
And so my first time to the dentist, I was 22。
and I was like, I feel like I should just go.。
I'm out on my own.。
This probably seems right.。
So I go to the dentist and I sit down,。
explain the scenario to the dentist.。
And he takes the x-rays and I'm like,。
everything's exciting for me 'cause I've never been.。
I'm like, this chair, it leans back.。
This is awesome.。
And he comes in and he's like, hey, this is great.。
Well, I've got some bad news。
and I need to ask you some questions。
in light of that bad news.。
And I said, okay, great, what's the bad news?。
And he said, well, you have 14 cavities.。
I'm like, did you double check?。
Did you count that?。
Are you sure?。
You have 14?。
And he goes, yes, pulls him up, shows me.。
And I'm like, how can that be?。
He begins to say, tell me about how much soda。
you're drinking.。
Do you put sugar in your coffee?。
Are you sleeping with candy in your mouth?。
What are you doing that is causing all of these cavities?。
And I'm like, what?。
Is that wrong?。
And of course, what he does is he goes in。
and he begins to fill all of the cavities.。
All of the holes or all of the decay。
that through my decisions had been brought into my life.。
Jesus comes, or the dentist comes.。
(congregation laughing)。
Jesus came in that day.。
(congregation laughing)。
And, oh man, gotta get more sleep.。
And the dentist fills in what's lacking.。
In the same way,。
Jesus says, I'm going to come and fill in。
what is lacking or what decay, destruction,。
you have brought into your life through poor decisions.。
Whatever holes, cavities, things you've created。
by your decisions, by your mistakes,。
by past relationships, by past addiction,。
by a current addiction, by poor decisions, sin.。
Jesus said, I will fill what is lacking.。
He's the fulfiller of those things.。
And really, that's not only what he says,。
but he tells us about how our relationship。
to the law exists today.。
Here's what he says, verse 18.。
For truly, I tell you, until heaven and earth disappear,。
not the smallest letter nor the least stroke of the pen。
will by any means disappear from the law。
until everything is accomplished.。
Therefore, anyone who sets aside。
one of the least of these commands。
and teaches others to do accordingly。
will be called least in the kingdom of heaven.。
But whoever practices and teaches these commands。
will be called great in the kingdom of heaven.。
This brings us to our second point。
of what role does the law play for us today?。
Because Jesus just said, the Old Testament,。
all the laws are still in play。
until their intended purpose has been accomplished.。
Until it's been totally achieved,。
until their purpose has been accomplished.。
In other words, all the laws that make up the 613 laws。
in the first half of your Bible,。
if you ever wonder why, if we're set free in Christ from law。
why do we have these?。
Jesus just said, until each one of those laws。
reaches their intended purpose。
or accomplishes the fullness for which they were given,。
they will not be done away with.。
Now here's why that's significant。
and here's how that relates to us.。
So when we look at the Old Testament,。
we really, we see 613 laws that are broken up。
into three different categories.。
And the first two are kind of similar。
in that they deal with specific instructions。
to the nation of Israel.。
So God sets up the nation of Israel,。
says hey, this is what you're gonna do,。
this is what you're gonna do.。
Not because I'm trying to rip you off,。
I'm trying to give you life.。
I'm trying to set you free.。
I'm trying to lead you towards life.。
So he gives them all these rules。
and inside of the laws that we see there,。
the first two of those three categories。
are the ceremonial and the civil.。
They're like specific to the nation of Israel.。
This is how you're gonna govern yourself.。
This is how your kings should act.。
This is how you should do these things.。
This is the kind of food you should eat.。
You shouldn't eat shellfish.。
That was included in there,。
we're gonna come back to that.。
And the ceremonial, whenever you sin,。
or when you do this sin, something has to die。
or there has to be shedding of blood.。
I want you to associate that with the payment.。
So God says nation of Israel,。
these are specific in how you're to act within society.。
So those are that set of laws.。
Those two out of the three groups.。
The third group, and those both of the other two。
have been, and Christ would go on to teach,。
and really his disciples, fulfilled by Jesus on the cross.。
You don't have to sacrifice goats anymore。
because Jesus was the perfect sacrifice.。
All of those things reached。
and achieved their intended purpose, Jesus would say.。
But the third group of laws that we see。
is what's called the moral laws.。
These are the moral laws.。
These are what the 10 commandments really would fall into.。
These are the laws you shouldn't steal,。
you shouldn't commit adultery, you shouldn't lie,。
you shouldn't commit murder.。
All these different moral laws。
that really indicate timeless things。
that their fullness has not been accomplished yet.。
In other words, the laws,。
when it comes to the Old Testament that we keep。
are the ones that are the moral instructions.。
They provide for us what our relationship。
or what laws we're supposed to keep。
inside of the Old Testament.。
And really, it's not that we're to keep those。
because they make us have right standing with God.。
In other words, a Christian is made a Christian。
by Jesus on the cross.。
You guys following me on this?。
It's really heady stuff, we're going ancient Judaism.。
The Christian is made a Christian by Jesus dying.。
And so why would I have to keep any laws?。
If I trust in Christ alone, I get to have eternal life.。
The reason we keep moral laws。
is not to have a relationship with God,。
but because we have a relationship with God.。
God didn't give the nation of Israel。
a bunch of moral laws because he wanted to rip them off.。
He wanted to protect them.。
I love you.。
We don't do it to, we don't keep the moral laws。
to earn God's love, but to experience his love.。
Does that make sense?。
There's a huge difference.。
And so when it relates to the Old Testament,。
which one should we follow, which one should we not?。
We know that the moral laws are the ones。
that have not been fully accomplished according to Jesus.。
And those are given to us not to bind us up,。
but to set us free or to give us life in following them.。
It's really not dissimilar from when I was in high school,。
there were certain laws that I had to abide by。
because I was underneath the authority of the high school.。
And while I was there, even though,。
or while I was there, I would get,。
if I didn't show up to first period class,。
we would get demerits.。
My team made fun of me today 'cause they were like,。
who got demerits?。
We got demerits.。
And I would show up, and if I didn't show up on time,。
I would get demerits.。
And if I got three demerits, you had to go to detention.。
So if I didn't abide by that rule, I got in trouble.。
Now, there were other laws。
that I would also get a demerit for,。
such as running in the hallway with scissors.。
And I don't know why that would be appealing to anyone,。
but especially in high school.。
But if you did that, you would get in trouble.。
Now, both of those were laws.。
And although I've graduated from high school。
and am no longer under the tyranny of high school,。
and can do, I can run all I want with scissors,。
I don't have to be at class on time,。
and I can run with scissors,。
but the principle behind running with scissors still exists.。
It's still not a good idea.。
Poke your eye out, die.。
And that's what God has, that's what God,。
even though we've graduated from the Old Testament law。
of relating to God,。
there are still laws and still moral revelations。
or still moral will, God's moral will that's revealed。
that it's still not a good idea to murder,。
even though that's not gonna affect。
my relationship with Christ,。
even though we've graduated from the system of the law.。
Does that make sense?。
So those are the laws as it relates to the Old Testament。
that haven't been accomplished,。
and those are the ones that still apply to us today.。
Because God is a God who loves you and loves me.。
And he gives us not just the letter of the law,。
but the spirit, I have an intention behind it。
to protect you.。
Why could you not eat shellfish,。
and why would homosexuality be wrong?。
The nation of Israel didn't eat shellfish,。
and you're gonna hear this if you haven't heard it yet,。
especially with as much of a issue。
as just sexuality in general is in our culture,。
but homosexuality right now, this is a common argument.。
How come you can eat shrimp, but you can't be homosexual?。
Or we would say that would not be something to do.。
And the reason is, the reason God outlawed shrimp。
at this time, to the best of our understanding,。
is because in ancient, you can still research this today,。
in ancient cultures, the shrimp were bottom dwellers,。
and they were, because of the nature of that。
and the cleansing abilities at that time,。
they were unable to clean them.。
God basically says, I wanna protect you.。
The reason I don't wanna eat pig,。
pig has this worm that is unique to pig inside of it,。
if it's not cooked, or if it's in a pig herd,。
where they're infested with that,。
and God says, I want to protect you.。
I was gonna say, you guys know pigs don't sweat?。
That's another thing that kinda messes me.。
We're just gonna keep moving on.。
Maybe that, I wouldn't be surprised if we get up there。
and God's like, you ate the pig?。
Really, I told you not to eat the pig.。
Anyways, so the reason why we would say those things,。
because now we're able to, to the best of our ability,。
the intent behind the law was protection.。
Now, based on how we can clean things,。
we're no longer in danger of those certain things.。
Things like marriage, divorce, stealing,。
these things haven't changed.。
Homosexuality has not changed.。
And if that wasn't enough,。
the New Testament also addresses that issue.。
And if that's something you would love to hear more about,。
we'd love to talk to you.。
And there's resources on the Porch app。
we'd love to point you to, Same Love.。
There's a message JP did during Lyrics and Lies,。
it's one of the best messages I've ever heard on the topic.。
Please go listen to it.。
Okay, so moving on.。
And what does it relate to our ability to experience。
what the law was meant to point us to?。
Or what does Jesus have to say。
with our righteousness that heaven requires?。
What does Jesus have to say,。
which is what he's about to tell us?。
And he finishes and gives maybe the most radical statement。
Jesus ever gave, and he gave a lot of them.。
For I tell you that unless your righteousness。
surpasses that of the Pharisees and the teachers of the law,。
you will certainly not enter the kingdom of heaven.。
I'm gonna read it again.。
For I tell you that unless your righteousness surpasses。
that of the Pharisees and the teachers of the law,。
you will certainly not enter the kingdom of heaven.。
At this point, his audience is sucking air going,。
"What, what did he just say?"。
Okay, this guy needs to go back to carpentry。
'cause preaching is not his thing.。
They're all going, "How can that even be possible?"。
He uses the word, unless your righteousness surpasses,。
it's really the word excels abundantly.。
Unless your righteousness excels abundantly。
beyond the Pharisees and the teachers of the law,。
you won't enter.。
Who were the Pharisees and teachers of the law?。
They were the most religious men, disciplined men。
that the world had seen.。
Today, even the Hasidic Jews that we know of,。
pale in comparison to the laws。
that these men would have followed.。
They were men and women who kept not only all 613 rules。
in the Old Testament and memorized them,。
most of you haven't even read most of the Old Testament,。
they memorized it.。
And not only that, they added 1,500 different rules to it.。
They added a bunch of other rules。
to make sure they wouldn't get close to breaking the 613.。
And in order to not break the third commandment,。
you shall not take God's name in vain,。
they said, we're not even gonna say God's name.。
We're not even gonna mention it.。
So anytime we're gonna pray, we're just gonna go,。
you know what I'm talking about.。
That would be what they do.。
They wouldn't mention it today.。
I mean, you've probably seen this.。
They would not mention the law.。
They had this group of Pharisees。
that were like the super religious Pharisees,。
and they were the ones called the bleeding Pharisees.。
Here's why.。
Pharisees would walk around with their head bowed。
in order to not be tempted to look at a woman。
and have sexual temptation.。
And the bleeding Pharisees were the ones。
who were so committed that they kept on bumping into walls,。
and it was a badge of honor to be covered in blood。
because they were so committed to not breaking the law.。
They had laws around the amount of work.。
You could only carry a fig.。
Anything that weighed more than a fig on the Sabbath,。
you could not carry.。
These were the elite of elite.。
If anyone was good at being religious,。
at keeping the rules, it was them.。
And Jesus just said, not even they are even close.。
You need to excel abundantly beyond where they are.。
This is like me saying, look,。
this is how his audience would have heard it.。
Unless you're better at basketball than LeBron James,。
you will not enter the kingdom,。
or Steph Curry, based on his track record.。
Unless you're better than he at basketball,。
you will not enter the kingdom of heaven.。
Or unless you're more generous than Bill Gates,。
who was named last week the most generous human。
that's ever lived.。
Unless you're more generous, you're going,。
what, that's impossible.。
Or unless you're more pure than Mother Teresa,。
you're going, what?。
Wait, David, she was a nun.。
She wasn't married.。
Yeah, unless you're more pure.。
Wait, but she never had sex.。
She never kissed a guy.。
Unless you're more pure.。
And his audience is going, what?。
How can this be?。
If that's the case, no one's good enough.。
How can that be possible?。
And if it wasn't bad enough already,。
Jesus, a few verses later, would say this.。
You, therefore, this is verse 48 of chapter five,。
must be perfect, as your heavenly Father。
is perfect.。
And they're going, Jesus, it was already hard enough.。
I mean, you're coming and making it even harder on us.。
How, no one can be good enough.。
And Jesus would say, that's the point.。
That's why he would start the message。
with his thesis statement we talked about last week.。
Blessed are the poor in spirit,。
for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.。
In other words, what does God require。
in order to get into heaven?。
You gotta be perfect.。
What, Jesus, perfect?。
No one can be perfect.。
You gotta be perfect if you wanna experience heaven.。
Well, how does that connect to blessed are the poor。
in spirit, because Jesus taught in what。
the New Testament teaches is that there is。
a perfect righteousness that is only found in Jesus。
and that he offers freely to anyone who will take it.。
In other words, poor in spirit is someone。
who's spiritually bankrupt, who says,。
I know on my own, I can't get in.。
I do not deserve God's love.。
I do not deserve to experience eternity with him.。
I am spiritually bankrupt.。
And Jesus says, that's the person who's a perfect candidate。
to have a relationship with me, to have eternal life.。
But the person who says, no, no, no,。
I'm a pretty good person.。
I think I can do it.。
I'm gonna follow these rules.。
I'm gonna make sure I only carry a fig.。
That person, they'll never make it。
because you gotta be perfect.。
But the person who says, I know I'll never get there,。
Jesus says, yours is the kingdom of heaven。
because I've offered a free gift.。
If you'll just accept it, you can earn it.。
This is why Jesus would say later to the Pharisees,。
this religious, they always went to church.。
They were the seminary grads.。
The prostitutes go in before you do to the kingdom of heaven.。
You guys who have totally oriented your life。
around keeping God's law, the prostitutes,。
the thieves, sinners will enter the kingdom before you will。
because you're self-righteous.。
Here's the hard thing about self-righteousness.。
It's hard to see in the mirror.。
Like most of us in the room, we go,。
no, I'm not self-righteous.。
I mean, I'm great with carrying way more than figs on Sunday.。
I'm not self-righteous at all.。
The most common example of self-righteousness。
is really what I think is probably the most common belief。
in our country.。
It's the belief that I'm a pretty good person.。
Like if someone was to come up to you and ask,。
hey, if you were to die today,。
do you think you'd go to heaven?。
And your answer would be, yeah, yeah, I think so.。
And they said, well, why?。
And you said, well, I'm a pretty good person.。
I mean, I'm not the best, I'm not perfect,。
but I'm better than most people.。
I'm not Hitler and I pay my taxes。
and I try to be a nice person.。
Self-righteous, depending on yourself。
for your righteousness.。
All those things are connected to self.。
And Jesus says, if you are self-righteous,。
if you depend on yourself for righteousness,。
you will not be righteous enough。
because the standard is perfection.。
And I think the scariest thing。
is that so many of us in the room。
have bought into that lie,。
that I'm a pretty good person.。
I mean, I may have done some mistakes,。
but I try to be nice and I try to be kind.。
And really what we buy into is this idea。
that somehow our deeds,。
and this is every major world religion.。
So Jesus would say, all of them,。
if they wanna get in, they have to be perfect,。
unless they wanna accept me and my perfect righteousness。
that I'll give them freely.。
But he says, look, if you wanna depend on yourself,。
you've gotta be perfect.。
And all of us would say, look,。
I think God will probably,。
or a lot of us would say,。
God would probably accept me 'cause I'm a good person.。
I've done some bad things,。
but I try to outweigh them by some good things.。
And Jesus would say, that doesn't work.。
I mean, we know this doesn't work.。
If I was to hit your car or cause damage,。
burn down your house, and I won't.。
But if I was to do something to you,。
and then I was like, look, all right,。
so that's behind us.。
But how about I bring you Starbucks every Friday。
for the next six months?。
That would be nice, right?。
It wouldn't make up for it.。
We know that, and even if you're going,。
that's too extreme.。
Those are way on the opposite ends of the spectrum.。
If someone was to hurt your child,。
or hurt your parents, or kill your close friend,。
you wouldn't be like, yeah, that's fine.。
Just try to be nice to me.。
We know that it doesn't make up for it.。
And yet this is such a common belief。
that if we just are good,。
and Jesus says that's self-righteousness,。
and as long as you trust in self,。
you will not enter the kingdom of heaven.。
You will go to hell.。
Jesus alone fulfills the law,。
and he alone offers the payment。
for the debt that our sin has created.。
What Jesus is showing in this verse。
is that you and I have an inability to keep the law.。
And not only that, we have an inability to pay for our sins.。
We can't afford it.。
It's too high.。
And even if we could, the sins keep piling up。
and piling up.。
But Jesus says, if you'll trust in me,。
if you'll trust in me,。
if you'll trust in my perfect righteousness,。
you can have eternal life。
based on whatever you've done,。
no matter what you've done.。
If you'll accept that free gift, it's yours.。
When I was, my first year on staff at Watermark,。
it was six years ago, and I was in grad school.。
And I was part-time here and full-time in school,。
and I was making 700 bucks a month.。
So I was rolling in it,。
and I was trying to make ends meet,。
and I'm trying to pay tuition bills.。
And I was literally homeless.。
I didn't have a home.。
I was living with this family in their spare bedroom,。
and doing odd jobs on the side,。
power washing and giving plasma,。
and trying to pay bills.。
And during that time,。
I was able to kind of make ends meet。
for one of the semesters,。
and then I was looking towards the next semester,。
and I still had debt behind me。
from already one semester of school,。
and I was looking towards the next one,。
and I got my bill for the second semester,。
and I was going, oh my gosh,。
I feel like I'm never gonna be able to pay this off.。
I'm never gonna get out of this.。
Because the minute that I can pay a little bit。
from this $700 a month,。
the higher and higher the debt continues to get.。
You have a debt, and I have a debt。
that we'll never be able to pay off.。
No matter how good you think you are,。
how good you could live for the rest of your life,。
the debt will only continue to grow,。
and get higher and bigger,。
and you'll never be able to pay it off.。
I went into the family's home。
to really kind of say goodbye.。
It was Christmas break,。
and I was gonna go home to Houston,。
which is where I was from, or am from.。
And I went in, and basically it was Christmas break,。
and so, hey, goodbye, Merry Christmas.。
And they handed me this letter,。
and they said, hey, we wanna give you something.。
And I opened it up, and it said, it's been paid for.。
We paid for the debt that you owed.。
We covered it.。
And immediately, I'm going,。
this mixture of like gratitude, and like what, how,。
and humbling, and I'm going, how's that even,。
how did you even know who to call to pay that off?。
How were you able to do that?。
I thought, no, no, no, this is too much.。
It's too much.。
I need to pay you back.。
I need to do something.。
I need to go, I'll mow the lawn for a while.。
And they're like, we have a lawn boy.。
We have several, actually, so you're not gonna make a debt.。
And it was in that moment, really,。
that I was reminded, that's what Christ has done for you,。
and for me.。
There's a debt that you couldn't pay。
that kept getting bigger and bigger,。
and he said, I'll pay it.。
I'll pay for it, and whoever will put their trust in me,。
I'll pay for it.。
Whoever will say, Jesus, on the cross,。
I believe that you died for me,。
for everything that I've ever done,。
and you paid for it on the cross.。
You paid for my abortion.。
You paid for my pornography.。
You paid for my materialism.。
You paid for my anxiety.。
You paid for it, and I don't deserve it,。
but I'm trusting in that.。
Jesus to that person says,。
you have perfect righteousness, now and forever.。
The sins you haven't committed, think about that.。
You haven't even committed yet,。
the sins in your future, paid for, totally paid for.。
And that's the message that Jesus offers,。
and standing on that hillside,。
he would go on to tell them,。
unless you have perfect righteousness,。
we can't be perfect, that's the point.。
But I am, and I've paid for it.。
Will you just accept it?。
But God, you don't know what I've done,。
or when I look behind me, I've stolen, I've cheated,。
I've committed adultery, I paid for it.。
I paid for it.。
Will you trust in me?。
All of the Bible can be summarized down to two words.。
Trust me, that God speaks to humanity.。
I love you, and I paid for it.。
Jesus is the fulfiller of the law.。
He's the only one who can keep it.。
And he's paid for all the lawbreakers like me,。
and like you, and anyone who would trust in him.。
I'm gonna pray that we do that.。
Father, we love you, some of us do.。
Regardless, we all need you.。
We all have sins in our past, actions,。
mistakes, things that we've done.。
Some that we regret, some that we don't even remember,。
and you speak over all of us.。
I've paid for them.。
Will you trust me?。
Father, I pray for my friends in the room。
who have a past of sin and pain,。
and poor decisions that mark all of us.。
But they don't know you.。
They're self-righteous, even though they don't know。
or believe that, they're trusting in themselves.。
Would you, by your Spirit, be heavy on their hearts now,。
reminding them and reminding us all that we need you,。
and you alone offer the payment。
for all that we've ever done?。
We love you, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
