(gentle music)。
- Love it, awesome.。
We are continuing Romans eight.。
Hello, Fort Worth, hello, friends in the room。
and friends in Houston.。
I'm gonna read the passage that we are in tonight。
and then we will dive into the text.。
So this comes from Romans chapter eight.。
We're gonna start in verse 18。
and we will go through verse 27.。
Paul says this, "I consider that our present sufferings。
"are not worth comparing with the glory。
"that will be revealed in us.。
"For the creation waits in eager expectation。
"for the children of God to be revealed.。
"For the creation was subjected to frustration,。
"not by its own choice, but by the will。
"of the one who subjected it in hope,。
"that the creation itself will be liberated。
"from its bondage to decay and brought into the freedom。
"of the glory of the children of God.。
"We know that the whole creation," that's our world,。
"has been groaning as in the pains of childbirth。
"up to this present time.。
"And not only so, but we ourselves,。
"who have the first fruits of the Spirit,。
"are groan inwardly as we wait eagerly。
"for our adoption to sonship, the redemption of our bodies.。
"For in this hope we were saved,。
"but hope that's not seen is no hope at all.。
"For who hopes for what they already have?。
"But if we hope for what we do not yet have,。
"we wait for it patiently.。
"In the same way, the Spirit helps us in our weakness,。
"and we do not know what we ought to pray for,。
"but the Spirit himself intercedes for us。
"through wordless groans.。
"And he who searches our hearts。
"knows the mind of the Spirit,。
"because the Spirit intercedes for God's people。
"in accordance with the will of God."。
Let me pray before we dive in.。
Father, I pray just for the next 30 minutes。
that we'll have together,。
I pray that you would use your word。
to strengthen the hearts of my friends in this room。
who have a relationship with you.。
Would you allow us to see more of who you are?。
You tell us in your word that when we see Jesus,。
we're changed from one degree of glory to the next.。
And so would you do that?。
That's something no message, no song,。
no music could ever do.。
Father, I pray for friends who don't know you.。
Would they be exposed to and encounter you in a real way?。
For those of us who do,。
would you even raise our awareness of you,。
your presence in our life, in our world,。
your sovereignty and control of all things?。
We love you, thank you for your word.。
Teach us now and encourage us now, amen.。
Well, I have a four-month-old son named Crew,。
and so we are not sleeping much at all right now.。
And this past Saturday,。
there was a day where we had a wedding。
to go to that evening,。
and he did something that he's been kinda。
in this last week or two doing a lot lately,。
which was scream his head off for like seven hours.。
And so the day started and it was going great,。
and there will be these moments and times。
where we just woke up and all of a sudden,。
he will start inexplicably crying and screaming out,。
and we'll hold him and we'll try to do。
all the different things, change the diaper,。
what's wrong with this baby?。
There's no instruction manual that came with this thing,。
so we're trying to figure out what do we do,。
how do we get him to stop crying?。
He cries, he'll stop for a little bit,。
then he started crying again.。
It was really a day unlike any day we've had yet.。
And it gets even more depressing and sad。
whenever you go into the evening stages.。
And so the last three days have been days。
where at 3 a.m. this morning,。
I'm like, Lord, please return right now, please.。
I'm so tired, please.。
Even right now, if I fall asleep up here, V,。
just assume I'm in prayer and come back up。
and play the last song.。
But it's just been one of those seasons。
where it's like, man, what is going on?。
What is wrong with this baby?。
I can't figure out what is going on here.。
And I was telling a friend about this。
and just telling him, 'cause I'm the kind of person。
that has to tell if I'm going through something hard,。
I want everyone to know about it,。
or if I worked out, I'm like,。
I worked out yesterday or three weeks ago.。
And so I'm that guy.。
And I was telling a friend about this yesterday,。
it was JP, we were at lunch,。
and I was like, dude, I don't know what is wrong。
with the baby, maybe it's colic-y,。
we took his temperature, can't figure out,。
screaming like crazy, I mean, I know, I know.。
It's our cross to bear.。
And he's like, dude, I know what your problem is.。
It's a baby.。
(congregation laughing)。
And I'm like, that is not true.。
It cannot be this hard for everyone.。
That is not the case.。
No one else, or it cannot be like,。
this is just normal for everyone.。
People would not have more than one kid。
if this was the case for everybody, I guarantee it.。
And he's like, yes, there's nothing wrong with it.。
It's a baby.。
That's just part of the stage of life that you're in.。
And I start there because I think that common question。
about, hey, what's wrong with this child,。
is not unlike questions that have really been a part。
of stages of my life and days past.。
I find that all of us have shared times。
where we find ourselves wondering,。
hey, what is wrong with this?。
What is wrong with this coworker?。
What is wrong with this parent?。
What is wrong with this job?。
What is wrong with the weather outside?。
What is wrong with my car?。
What is wrong with this dating relationship?。
What is wrong with me?。
What is wrong with my lack of dating relationships,。
or me that's leading to that?。
I think all of us have found ourselves asking,。
or at times, different questions around,。
hey, what is wrong?。
And really, all of those questions could be said。
in one question, which is, what is wrong with our world?。
And tonight, the Apostle Paul, in this text,。
is going to lay out exactly what is wrong。
with the world that we live in.。
Because just like me, in that scenario with the baby,。
where I'm like, man, I wish somebody would've told me。
this is what is about to happen,。
many of us find ourselves in this world。
where maybe no one has ever told you。
exactly what is wrong with this world.。
And the Apostle Paul begins to answer。
one of the biggest questions that you and I。
will wrestle with in this life,。
is how do we reconcile suffering and the goodness of God?。
How do we find hope in a world。
that feels hopelessly broken?。
And he's about to lay out the answer to those questions.。
So tonight, we're gonna explore。
verses 18 through 27 of Romans chapter eight.。
We are in a series called Romans eight.。
It is believed by many scholars。
to be the greatest chapter in all of the Bible.。
It was a chapter that had significant influence。
on all kinds of heroes of the faith.。
So we've been exploring it for the past couple weeks.。
Last week, JP covered verses 14 through 17。
and how we are children of God in Christ.。
If you have put your faith in Jesus,。
you have been adopted by the King of kings.。
And now Paul begins to lay out where our kingdom lies。
and how we can face this world。
that seems hopelessly broken.。
So we're gonna pick it up in verse 18。
and we will dive right in.。
Paul says, "I consider that our present sufferings,"。
so whatever you're suffering right now in this room,。
this is a bold statement from the Apostle Paul,。
"is not worth comparing with the glory or with the future,。
"with something that's about to take place,。
"with something ahead of us,。
"that the present sufferings we experience。
"are not even worth mentioning,。
"with the glory that is to come。
"that's going to be revealed to us and around us."。
That the Apostle Paul, who was not a stranger to suffering,。
because when I read that, I'm like,。
man, Paul, you don't know what so many people。
in our world are suffering inside of this room.。
You may be walking through the pain of a heartbreak。
in a broken relationship.。
Maybe you're walking through cancer, job loss,。
through the loss of a loved one, a parent.。
And the Apostle Paul has the nerve to say,。
look, I consider that it's not even worth talking about。
all the suffering in our world。
when you compare it to the glory that's ahead of us.。
And I'd say two things about the Apostle Paul that we know.。
One, he was not a stranger to suffering.。
In other words, he didn't write this。
from a lawn chair on the beach。
with a margarita or a mimosa being like,。
and then the suffering is nothing to compare.。
He wrote this likely from a prison cell.。
The Apostle Paul suffered in ways。
that honestly most of us will never have to.。
He was beaten with a whip with nails on the end of it。
nine different times, five different times, sorry.。
He was beaten with rods as if that was not enough。
three different times, permanently disfigured.。
He was shipwrecked three times.。
He was stoned, not like smoked something,。
stoned like pelted with rocks, stoned.。
He was a man who was very well acquainted.。
Scholars estimate he spent one quarter。
of his life in prison.。
And Paul writes, it's not even worth talking about.。
Further, if you were walking through suffering,。
here's what I know about Paul.。
He would be the first to mourn with you.。
He wouldn't wanna minimize it.。
He said, mourn with those who mourn.。
And yet at the same time,。
he's also giving us a big picture worldview。
that whenever we understand。
if we could have the perspective that Paul does。
of comparing our present circumstances,。
the broken world we're a part of,。
if we could just see for a moment。
what awaits us in eternity,。
it wouldn't even be worth mentioning is what he says.。
And he begins to lay out what awaits us in eternity.。
Here's what he says, verse 19.。
For the creation, that's our world,。
that's everything that is.。
Stars, moon, mountains, you,。
the grass, trees, animals.。
For the creation waits an eager expectation。
or straining forward, waiting, longing for.。
What are they waiting for?。
For the children of God to be revealed.。
In other words, for Jesus to come back。
and set up finally his kingdom.。
The creation is straining.。
Everything around you is waiting for that day.。
And Paul begins to talk about the future.。
And it's as though he's like,。
and let me make sure you understand。
why the creation is waiting.。
And he goes from the future back to the past.。
Here's what he says in verse 20.。
For the creation was, that's again,。
our world around us, was subjected to frustration.。
He begins to talk about an event in the past.。
Not by its own choice, but by the will of the one。
who subjected it in hope that the creation itself。
will be liberated from its bondage to decay。
and brought into the freedom of the glory。
of the children of God.。
So Paul gives us the indication to our first point,。
which is the source of our greatest hurts in this world.。
The source of our greatest hurts is sin.。
He says, look, before I go into what's waiting us in glory,。
let me cover what's taken place in the past.。
Let me explain some of the world in which you live.。
All of us, he gives us an indication。
in the context of everything we've ever known.。
He says, you live in a world。
that was never meant to be this way.。
And he records this event in the past.。
He's talking about the Garden of Eden.。
This moment in time when sin entered into the world,。
that God created the world perfectly。
and sin entered because of Adam and Eve disobeying God。
and creation was fractured.。
Everything in our world was broken.。
He says, subjected to frustration。
and put in bondage to death and decay.。
That when Adam and Eve chose that, hey, God,。
you know what, I don't want you to be God,。
I'm gonna be my own God,。
they cut off the creator from the creation through sin.。
Sin always brings death.。
It cut off the perfect harmony that God had with his people,。
with the world around us.。
God was there on the planet hanging out with Adam and Eve.。
Everybody's naked, it's amazing.。
All of a sudden, they disobey God。
and everything's fractured.。
And Paul says, not only was man's relationship。
with God fractured, the tree's relationship。
with their creator's fractured.。
The wind around us, tornadoes,。
all kinds of things like that came as a product。
of this fracturing when sin entered the world。
and death came with it.。
Because death is a result of not being connected to life.。
And when you cut God out or you kick him out,。
you invite death because you're kicking life out.。
In Adam and Eve's decision, Paul says,。
trapped the world around us that we see in bondage.。
Trees were never meant to die.。
Animals were never meant to kill one another.。
Dementia, cancer, the world around us that we see,。
babies were never meant to die or be born stillborn.。
Men were never meant to die of a heart attack。
in their mid-30s.。
The world was fractured and everything was broken.。
And Paul says, before you understand,。
let me explain the context for which we live.。
It wasn't that God invented a world like this.。
It wasn't like this from the beginning.。
Man invited sin into the world.。
Man often, who's responsible for sin,。
now gets angry at God after bringing sin into the world,。
but God did not create it.。
Man kicked him out and chaos came in.。
We use an illustration.。
When I was around like 11 years old,。
my mother went out of town and she basically。
went on a vacation to see some family that we had in Kansas.。
She left me and my siblings with my older brother,。
who's five years older.。
He was gonna watch us.。
He could drive the car.。
It's gonna be great.。
She was the one who kept order in the household.。
She kept things clean, did the laundry,。
made meals, all that stuff.。
All of a sudden, the one who keeps things in order。
has left the premises, and all of a sudden,。
we are left on our own.。
And so it turns into a weekend that is like Lord of the Flies.。
We're eating Blue Bell for breakfast.。
We don't know how to do the laundry thing machine.。
Milk straight out of the milk gallon.。
Everything's left out.。
We don't know what we're doing。
because the person who kept order had left。
and chaos took place.。
In the same way, when man kicked God out of their life。
or said, "I wanna be God,"。
they took the one who kept order。
and they kicked him from their life.。
They kicked him from our world and chaos took place.。
And we see it everywhere we look.。
I mean, why do cells multiply in your body。
and attack your body?。
That's what we call cancer.。
Because the creation was subjected to frustration,。
put in bondage to death,。
because sin was brought into the world。
and everything fractured.。
And Paul says, "This is what took place in the world."。
This is the world in which we find ourselves.。
That the creation, in Genesis 3, we're told,。
was placed under a curse.。
The curse of not having a relationship with God.。
The curse of being disconnected with God.。
I mean, honestly, we don't even have to prove that like,。
hey, if you're not connected with God,。
you kinda go crazy, things spin out.。
A lot of us in the room could stand up and go,。
"Yeah, I kinda drifted and woo,。
"things went crazy for a while,。
"and I'm back in church and God is using it。
"and my life is growing."。
But it's not hard for us to imagine,。
hey, when you drift away from the one who keeps order,。
the creator, the creation begins to invite chaos。
and that's what took place.。
And Paul says, "This is the world。
"in which we find ourselves."。
You need to understand the context in which you live.。
It was subjected to futility, but not without hope,。
even in God saying, "Cursed is the ground,"。
Genesis 3, you can go read it later.。
He gave them a hope of a promise,。
but this will not remain forever.。
Which is what Paul means when he says, "In hope."。
And he gave a promise that there will be a day。
when a descendant of Adam, we call him Jesus,。
will crush Satan and sin.。
It's verse 15 of Genesis chapter three.。
But until that day, creation right now,。
everything in the world around us longs to be restored。
to Eden, longs to be restored to paradise.。
It waits eagerly, is the word Paul uses.。
As though it almost remembers.。
It remembers that it wasn't intended to die.。
Everything that you walk past,。
when you go on a walk at the lake at White Rock,。
if you live in Dallas, or you go on a lake,。
Grapevine or wherever you go,。
everything that you see, every bird in the air,。
it was never meant to be this way.。
And Paul begins to lay out that it won't always be this way.。
He says this in verse 22.。
"We know that the whole creation has been groaning。
"as in the pains of childbirth,。
"right up to this present time.。
"And not only has the whole creation,。
"or our world been groaning in childbirth pains,。
"but we ourselves, who have the first fruits of the Spirit,。
"grown inwardly as we eagerly await。
"our adoption to sonship,。
"the redemption of our bodies.。
"For in this hope we were saved,。
"but hope that is not seen is no hope.。
"For who hopes for what we already have?。
"But if we hope for what we do not yet have,。
"we wait for it patiently, or with endurance we endure."。
This brings us to our second idea in this text,。
the first one, of the source of our greatest hurt。
in this world is sin.。
The second idea is the source of our greatest hope。
is the resurrection.。
And you may be going, where do you see that in that text?。
Let me explain.。
What Paul just laid out is that the world around us,。
creation has been groaning in the pains of childbirth.。
Why did Paul use pains of childbirth?。
It's an analogy that's used throughout the New Testament.。
Here's what happens in childbirth pains.。
I'm gonna really explain how you have a baby.。
Really, are you about to do this, David?。
Here's what happens, you all know what happens。
in childbirth, but childbirth pains,。
there's two things about them.。
They're temporary.。
When my wife gave birth to the baby,。
the pain, it was temporary.。
I knew that it was not gonna last forever,。
like literally forever.。
It was only gonna be temporary.。
The second thing about that pain。
is that it was filled with hope,。
that it was moving toward something.。
And Paul says all the pain in our world,。
the world that we live in, it's like creation is pregnant,。
and the pains of pushing forward to new life,。
it's pain in our world that's temporary.。
All the pain that you and I experience is temporary.。
It will not last, Paul says.。
And it's filled with hope.。
Every time that we experience pain, he's saying,。
we're reminded that we're not home yet,。
that the world is moving towards new life.。
That's why he uses the analogy of pregnancy.。
And Paul answers the question, really,。
as he lays out, honestly, he addresses。
one of the fundamental misunderstandings。
we have of heaven.。
What he just said, and why our hope is in the resurrection,。
is that the world groans to be made new.。
And you may not know this, but the world around us。
that place that we are, one of the things。
that people think about heaven and about eternity。
is we'll say things, and I think sometimes even myself。
or people who teach can say things like,。
hey, you're gonna spend eternity in heaven。
with God up there forever and ever and ever,。
and we give this distorted perspective。
on really what heaven's like.。
Maybe you think of heaven and you're like,。
I don't know what we're gonna do.。
We're gonna be in the clouds, harps, wearing diapers,。
I guess, or what are we gonna do for all,。
am I even gonna like it?。
It sounds like, man, that's gonna be a long time.。
That'd feel a lot of heaven.。
Are we gonna enjoy that?。
And the idea that you will spend eternity。
somewhere out there flies in the face。
of what the New Testament teaches.。
The Bible teaches that the creation around us。
longs for the sons to be revealed。
or longs to be made new.。
Like in other words, Christianity is not just the message。
of like, hey, believe in Jesus。
and you'll go to heaven forever.。
The message of Christianity is that if you believe in Jesus,。
you will be a part of the new world.。
Like that was the message of the early church.。
It wasn't, hey, believe and you'll go up to heaven。
and float up there forever.。
No, it was a new world is coming.。
Jesus resurrected from the dead.。
We thought he was dead.。
He came back to life and anyone who accepts him。
will live again.。
You will rise.。
That's why our hope is in the resurrection.。
Paul just said, the world around us cries out.。
Trees cry out, make us new.。
We were never intended to die.。
We long for the day when we will live forever.。
Animals, everything, your dog, you and your body。
longs to be a part of eternity.。
Eternity is placed inside of man。
and the world around us longs that the eternity。
will be spent not in heaven far off, but on this earth.。
This was what the early church proclaimed。
as they went around, is that what happened at Easter。
with Jesus in the resurrection。
will happen to our whole world.。
It will rise again.。
It will be resurrected.。
You will spend eternity.。
Let me say it this way.。
On this earth made new, you will spend forever。
and ever and ever, not in heaven somewhere, here.。
Maybe not in Dallas, but here.。
I don't know if I'll call it Dallas.。
Be redeemed, if nothing else, probably better weather.。
But you'll spend eternity here.。
You and I, followers of Jesus, will spend forever and ever。
on this world made new.。
The reason creation cries out, make us new.。
Blades of grass are dying and they're groaning out.。
We weren't made for this world。
and there's gonna come a day, Paul says,。
the groans will be put away and creation will be made new.。
What happened at Easter with Jesus。
was just the first of what will happen everywhere.。
And the message of Christianity was,。
be a part of the new world.。
It's coming right.。
We'll take over wrong.。
Everything broken will be fixed and put back together.。
The curse will be lifted.。
Our world will be forever changed.。
And Paul says, that's why,。
despite the suffering in our world, we can have hope。
because our hope is not in the broken world。
around us that we see.。
Like, we live in a world that's full of suffering.。
Paul's like, what do you expect?。
It's like telling a guy who's like,。
oh, I have a baby that's crying all the time.。
What do you expect?。
You have a baby, dummy.。
What do you expect?。
When you live in a world of suffering, he would say,。
don't put your hope in this world.。
It's a suffering world.。
The world keeps letting me down.。
Paul would say, you're in a let me down world.。
Don't put your hope here.。
Our hope as Christians is in the world to be made new.。
Right now, we live in a world that's hopelessly broken.。
We're suffering as a part of the deal.。
Jesus said, I promise you this,。
you will suffer in this world,。
but there will be a day when the world will rise again.。
And everyone who trusts in Jesus,。
you will literally come out of the grave.。
I know it sounds doo-doo-doo crazy.。
That's what Christianity teaches.。
Physically, your body will rise,。
and you will live forever.。
That's why Paul says Jesus is the firstborn。
among many brothers, who will rise again in the flesh.。
Let me just give some of the verses that inform this idea.。
This was at the heart of the early church.。
It wasn't just like, oh, that's kind of a part.。
This was the epicenter.。
There's a new world coming, and if you accept Jesus,。
if you will be a part of it, you will live in the new world,。
and you will live eternally on this earth.。
Heaven is not your destination forever.。
In fact, the Bible says heaven will be wed to earth,。
and God will live on this earth with his people.。
Here's what it says in Revelation chapter five,。
or chapter 21, verses one through five.。
It talks about the new heavens and the new earth,。
and God dwelling with his people forever.。
There will be no more death, it says,。
no more crying, no more pain.。
I will make all things new.。
Isaiah 11 says this.。
There will be a new world,。
and the animal kingdom will be restored.。
The wolf and lamb will live together.。
No longer will even the animal kingdom。
be torn apart by hostility.。
The leopard will lie down with the baby goat.。
That a little child will lead the leopard and the lion.。
That there will be no danger, there will be no death.。
Nothing will hurt, he says, this is Isaiah 11.。
Nothing will hurt or be destroyed in all my holy mountain,。
because the earth will be filled。
with people who know the Lord.。
Isaiah 66, 65.。
I will create a new heavens and a new earth.。
The former things will not be remembered.。
I love this verse.。
The sound of weeping and crying will never be heard again.。
Never again will there be an infant。
who lives just a few days,。
or an old man who does not live out his years.。
Hebrews 12, God will through fire destroy the earth。
and destroy all sin and refine it,。
and everything that was not of him,。
everything broken will be finally restored,。
and the earth will be made new.。
Revelation 22, verse three.。
The curse and the new earth will be no more.。
The curse will be lifted.。
That included in our hope is the resurrection,。
or the source of our greatest hope is the resurrection,。
because what happened to Jesus is gonna happen to you.。
You don't have to fear death anymore.。
Our world will be set free once and finally,。
once and for all, and death will be no more,。
and everything broken will be made new。
and restored finally and fully forever.。
It almost reads like a fairy tale, doesn't it?。
Like Paul, like there's this curse on the land,。
there's darkness, but there's coming a day。
when the curse will snap.。
It's almost like, hey, there's winter everywhere,。
Paul says, but winter is beginning to,。
the ice is beginning to melt.。
And Paul lays out this like fairy tale.。
I mean, think about it.。
Here's the novel of a fairy tale,。
that there's a city or a land。
that comes underneath control of a villain of darkness.。
Call him Jafar, call him Scar, call him Darth Vader,。
call him the Joker, call him the Wicked Witch,。
call him whatever you wanna call him,。
call him Captain Hook, that there's been this land,。
and it's underneath the terror and the reign of darkness,。
and all of a sudden, a hero emerges,。
and the hero comes, and he restores the kingdom。
to the rightful place that it was always intended to be.。
Call him Simba, call him Aladdin, call him Dorothy,。
call him Batman, call him Luke Skywalker,。
call him every single story that we know, every fairy tale.。
Why does every fairy tale, every Disney movie。
has at its epicenter this same plot?。
Well, because the writers of Disney,。
the writers of these stories know that there's something。
that resonates with mankind in that story.。
Why does it resonate?。
Because it's imprinted on every single person,。
every heart in this room that longs。
for something otherworldly to be true,。
for the curse to be broken.。
We know there's something wrong with the world.。
And Hollywood's making a fortune off the fact。
that this story rings inside of our hearts,。
and it rings because it's true.。
And one day, we will see it take place,。
and the kingdom will be restored,。
this earth will be restored, and you'll live here。
forever in perfect harmony with God,。
with no weeping and no crying, the scriptures tell us.。
If you've accepted Jesus, the curse will be broken.。
And so till that day, we wait with hope,。
not without suffering, because we're in a world。
that's broken, and I wish that I could say,。
hey, there's not gonna be any suffering。
for anybody in this room, it's gonna be awesome.。
But that's just not the case.。
And Paul says, why would you even expect that?。
You're in a broken world, but it's not gonna last.。
Just like childbirth pains, they're temporary.。
And let that pain push you towards hope.。
One day, it will be no more.。
This world is fleeting, falling away.。
You don't wanna stay here anyways.。
This is a broken world, and Paul says,。
let that push you towards hope.。
And while you wait, be filled with hope.。
And not only hope, he also tells us,。
while we wait, there's something else that we have.。
Verse 26, in the same way that we wait with hope,。
the Spirit helps us in our weakness.。
For we do not know what we ought to pray for.。
So he gives an example, he says,。
look, in the same way that you wait with hope,。
you also, if you're a follower of Jesus,。
you wait with someone.。
The Spirit, the Holy Spirit, waits with you,。
and he's there to be a helper, help you in our weakness.。
And one of the ways he helps us is even through prayer.。
For we do not know what we ought to pray for,。
but the Spirit himself intercedes with us。
through wordless groans.。
And he who searches our hearts, that's God,。
knows the mind of the Spirit,。
because the Spirit intercedes for God's people。
in accordance with the will of God.。
This brings us to our third idea.。
So we have the source of our greatest hurt is sin.。
The source of our greatest hope is the resurrection,。
and gosh, it's coming.。
And the source of our greatest help while we wait。
is the Holy Spirit of God.。
That the Holy Spirit, God says,。
"Not only am I gonna give my life for you on the cross,"。
it's so huge, "I'm going to give my spirit to you。
"while you wait."。
Not only am I gonna give my life, Jesus,。
God says to you to be to humanity,。
"Not only will I give my life for you on the cross,。
"I'm going to give my spirit to you while you wait.。
"I will not leave you alone.。
"I'm not just gonna die, and I'll see you later.。
"Peace out, I'll be back.。
"That I'm going to leave my spirit with you。
"while we wait for the resurrection to fully take place。
"and to be fully revealed."。
That Paul just said, "God stays with us,。
"helps us in the meantime."。
One of the ways he helps us is even through prayer.。
Did you see that in the text?。
He says, "Look, even the spirit helps us,"。
and he gives one example.。
His point is that the spirit's with you,。
that while we wait, 'cause Paul just went。
from the past to the future,。
and then we got this huge middle section,。
which is where we are.。
So it's gonna be amazing someday.。
What about now, Paul?。
Paul says, "Even now, while you wait, God is with you."。
And he says, "One of the ways that he's here to help you。
"or he's helping you is even in your prayer life,。
"you're not a good prayer, I'm not a good prayer."。
And he says, "Even the spirit helps with prayer."。
That in other words, you pray things and I pray things.。
I think we could all probably admit,。
yeah, there are things I'm glad God。
did not answer that prayer.。
I would've been married to Becky, and Becky's crazy.。
And, or whatever it is, we all have things。
we look back and like, man, God, you are so at work,。
and I'm so glad.。
That's what the Bible just said,。
that the spirit, that as believers,。
sometimes because we're weak, because we can't see。
all that God can see, we'll pray things,。
and it's like the Holy Spirit catches it,。
and he's like, we are not answering this.。
I'm gonna upgrade to what really is the best thing for him,。
and he takes something else and says,。
God, give him this.。
This is in accordance with your will.。
Because he doesn't know what I know,。
and I know he asked for this, but there's something better,。
and so I want you to give him this.。
That's what the spirit of God does for us.。
It's not dissimilar to this past weekend.。
I was at a wedding, and anytime I have a friend。
who gets married, I have been told from another friend。
who works at a hotel industry that, hey,。
if you will call the hotel, and it's someone's wedding night,。
this is just free tip for everybody.。
Keep it our secret, though.。
If you'll just call the hotel and ask them,。
say, hey, it's my friend's wedding,。
they will upgrade them for free.。
So anytime I have a friend that gets married,。
I will call the hotel, if I know that the hotel。
they're staying at, and say, hey, will you upgrade them?。
So I did it here.。
I called, I said, hey, what room?。
His name was Cody.。
What room is he staying in?。
Oh, he's staying in the standard room.。
Oh, that's great.。
Hey, will you upgrade him?。
I know that he asked for that room,。
but he doesn't know what I know.。
I know that you will upgrade him,。
'cause you're great people.。
Will you upgrade him to a higher-level room?。
And they said, yes, done.。
Then in the same way, I know he asked for that,。
but there's something better.。
He doesn't know what I know.。
The spirit of God says to you and to me,。
even in our prayers, he said, I'm gonna help.。
I'm gonna give you an upgrade to something better,。
'cause you don't see what I see.。
You don't know what I know.。
And even in our prayers, he helps us.。
This verse, side note quickly, has been used。
to really encourage this weird teaching on tongues,。
on private prayer language.。
That's not what Paul's saying here,。
and even if there was a case to be made for that,。
it wouldn't be from here.。
He's using it 'cause it's like groans.。
Maybe that's what he's saying,。
this ecstatic speech.。
He doesn't say he groans, the spirit of God groans in us.。
He says for us.。
And not only that, groans is like an alliteration。
Paul is using.。
If Paul was here, he wouldn't be like,。
I'm not talking about groans, ecstatic speech.。
I'm talking about, I said creation groans,。
we groan, the spirit groans.。
It kinda works together.。
That was his point.。
He used those three things.。
It wasn't some sort of private prayer language。
that he was teaching here.。
The point he was trying to make is that God is with us.。
He helps us in the meantime,。
that as we wait and the resurrection is coming,。
man, I hope that nothing else.。
This is a message that it's less like,。
hey, what to do, and less like,。
hey, you gotta stop going to club on the weekend,。
and more like, hey, I just wanna lay a foundation。
so that in your mind, you understand what's coming.。
This is a more, not what to do, what to know.。
How to understand what the Bible says,。
what we're headed towards,。
what eternity's going to be like.。
The point Paul ends with here is that。
here's what you gotta know.。
God is with you.。
While you wait, he will not leave.。
He's holding onto you.。
God did not just give his life for us on the cross.。
He gives his spirit to us while we wait,。
and he's going to help walk with his spirit,。
depend on his spirit, and know that the spirit of God,。
you may try to let go of it.。
It will not let go of you if you've accepted Jesus.。
It's going to wait, and it's going to see you through。
to eternity, to the resurrection.。
I'll close with this.。
When my wife gave birth to our son,。
we got to the hospital on that day.。
It was kind of like an emergency C-section day,。
'cause his size was off.。
Everything was fine, but we basically found out,。
oh, we gotta get him out of there.。
We went to the hospital, we checked in,。
and they put us in this room.。
And then they wheeled us in the new hospital gowns,。
and they put us in this different room,。
and they began to hook all these kinds of weird things。
up to my wife, which was an interesting experience.。
I'm sitting there, and they're about to perform surgery,。
and I'm waiting as she begins to give birth to our son.。
I'm holding her hand, and I begin to hear her,。
and she's squeezing tightly, and I can tell。
that she gets anxious.。
Throughout while we were waiting, she was like,。
"You're going to stay with me in there, right?"。
Even when, at one point, they separated us from the room。
right before they got started, she got anxious。
because she didn't have her husband there with her,。
'cause how awesome I am, that's not a dull lie.。
Because, of course, like, oh my gosh,。
they're about to cut me open.。
Can I at least hold someone's hand?。
And so, of course, I stayed with her.。
I made sure I was in there.。
Came in early, held her hand,。
and stayed with her the whole time.。
And do you know what never happened during that process?。
Like, there was never one moment where I was like,。
"You know what?。
"I'm gonna stop holding your hand.。
"I'm gonna go get some of the snack machine.。
"Good luck in here.。
"Let me know how it goes.。
"Somebody take pictures for me while I'm gone,。
"if you don't mind."。
It never happened.。
I'm not going anywhere.。
Even despite the pain that she's going through,。
all that I felt was, man, I wish I could even。
take away this pain.。
And I'm not going anywhere.。
I'm staying right here.。
And even when the moments came where she would let go。
of my hand because of the pain,。
I didn't let go of hers.。
I wasn't letting go.。
That is what the Spirit of God does to believers in Christ.。
In this world, he says, "I will not let you go.。
"I will stay with you in your weakness.。
"You're weak, but I'm not leaving you.。
"I will see you through to the new world.。
"And you can let go of me at times 'cause of the pain,。
"but I will never let go of you.。
"You are not getting away from me.。
"You cannot shake God off if you have accepted in Christ."。
And he says that to all of us.。
I am staying with you.。
If an imperfect husband wouldn't walk away。
or get distracted and be like, hey, good luck in there,。
how much more the Spirit of God who says,。
"I will die in your place.。
"I will take the pain for you."。
How much more will he stay and say,。
"I am holding on and not letting go.。
"And I know it hurts, but it's gonna be over soon.。
"And let it fill you with hope of what is to come.。
"And I will not leave you.。
"And I will not let go of you.。
"And I love you."。
And he said that to all of us.。
And if you're a follower of Jesus, that is true of you.。
And you're gonna rise again.。
Death is dying.。
And you're gonna live forever.。
The world we live in will live forever.。
Because God will dwell with his people。
on this earth made new.。
And until that day comes, the Spirit says,。
"I'll never leave you."。
Let me pray that we believe that.。
Father, you are everything that we long for.。
Everything that we yearn for is being restored。
back to a relationship with you, our God.。
All peace comes from you.。
All life comes from you.。
All order is restored.。
Cancer is stopped.。
Chaos is stopped.。
Death, racism, disease, they will all end。
once we establish and get back in full relationship。
with you when the resurrection that took place。
with Jesus on Easter takes place。
with all those who know you.。
And we rise again.。
Our world rises again.。
We long for you and now we walk in relationship with you。
and thank you that you have left your Spirit here。
to allow us to experience the first tastes。
of the future kingdom, the future world,。
even while we wait.。
And Lord, would we wait, not putting our hope here,。
but in what is to come in you.。
We love you and we yearn for you。
and we worship you through song now, amen.。
One of the things in that message that I like wrestling with。
is I know in this room there are a lot of people。
who are suffering is not some idea.。
It's your world right now.。
And like my heart breaks and even that message。
is less like, hey, just tough it out,。
we're getting through it.。
Because also inside of the New Testament,。
we find examples of like, hey, mourn with those who mourn.。
And we're not telling you if you're walking through that,。
just tough it out and pull your bootstraps.。
We'll mourn with you.。
Come down, we'll have a whole team cry, hug, listen.。
And I know that Jesus mourns with you.。
A world that was never meant to be this way.。
There's a story that like messes with my mind。
and I don't understand it,。
of Jesus coming to the grave。
of a good friend of his named Lazarus.。
And he walks up to the grave。
and Lazarus, his good friend, he just died.。
It was two days ago when he died and he shows up.。
And Jesus is about to heal him.。
He's about to say, hey, Lazarus,。
get up and come out.。
And he walks up to the funeral。
and he sees everyone weeping around。
and Jesus begins to weep.。
Why are you weeping?。
You're about to call him out, why are you weeping?。
Because he's not some God who's standing there saying,。
tough it out, come out.。
He moves towards his people.。
He knows the pain that they feel。
even more than they know it.。
If you're in the midst of suffering,。
he mourns with you the pain of a world。
that was never meant to be this way.。
That's why I think he mourns.。
If anyone knows humanity,。
creation was never meant to taste death.。
It was not supposed to be this way.。
It's the creator.。
And so if you're in that place right now。
and I didn't communicate that well,。
please forgive me.。
I know that you would feel the love of Jesus。
if you was here.。
And I know that the pain you're walking through。
grieves the heart of God.。
If you have never placed your faith in Jesus。
as the payment for your sin,。
I know that that grieves the heart of God。
because the message for all people,。
if you're here for the first time or the 50th time。
and you're like, I don't know where I stand with God,。
you need to know that Christianity's not about being good.。
Could God accept me?。
You know, that's nice, new world.。
Will I be a part of it?。
Not that good here, done some bad things.。
Today, I did some bad things.。
Christianity's about accepting the fact。
that you cannot be good enough to get to God.。
But he came to earth and died for you in your place.。
That's what Christianity's about.。
And if you've never trusted in that,。
you won't be in the new world.。
But the offer still stands in this world。
for you to receive that and accept that.。
We're gonna have an entire team down here.。
If we can answer questions you're wrestling through,。
talk to you, pray for you.。
If you're mourning or you're just going。
through a hard time, we'd love to pray with you.。
There's a class we do every once in a while。
called Next Steps.。
If you're looking to connect around here,。
to plug in around here, we want this place to feel small。
for you to have relationships, be connected here.。
You may be wondering, what is Watermark。
or what does the porch have going on?。
How can I get plugged in?。
We do a class called Next Steps for you.。
And so tonight is that class.。
Right after here, you'll have a chance to hear。
from some of our friends up in the loft,。
which is just the room right outside these doors,。
one floor up, you'll see loft.。
Go right up there, you can hear about everything。
that's going on, learn about connecting here.。
We love you guys.。
You guys go in peace to love and serve the Lord this week.。
