[MUSIC]。
[MUSIC]。
All right, Ports, how we doing?。
We doing okay tonight?。
Great to see you.。
Welcome back.。
So glad that you would make your time to be here with us this。
Tuesday and particularly in this series.。
I don't know what it is.。
I just have so much expectation for what God is going to do as。
we read his word and we work our way through this series.。
And it's not just an expectation for what he's doing here in。
Dallas, Texas, though we love you and we think he's doing。
something tremendous here.。
It's also an expectation for what he is doing all over the。
nation.。
So if you're tuning in with us right now, welcome.。
We love that you're a part of the porch wherever it is you。
are.。
We're firm believers that God can meet with any person at any。
place at any time, including you.。
Special shout out to Portslide, Springfield, Scottsdale, and。
Fresno.。
Hey, Fresno, give it up, you know.。
Hey, I want to dive into this, but I want to make sure that we。
take a moment and we pray.。
Again, I'm a firm believer in this space, if you're not。
familiar, that my goal is not to be the weekly entertainment.。
I do not want to stand up here and just be the man in the。
arena and preach to a large room.。
I really want you to meet with God himself because I'm a firm。
believer.。
He wants to meet with you.。
So can we just pray for a moment?。
Would you be willing to do that?。
God, we're so grateful that we have a moment here with you.。
It's good to be near you.。
God, we know that we're always near to you, God, that for those。
that have placed their faith in your son for the forgiveness of。
their sins, nothing can separate us from your love.。
And yet, God, oftentimes we grow desensitized to the fact that。
you're close.。
More, God, than even that.。
We grow discouraged to the fact that it is in your heart to be。
close.。
And so, God, right now we just want to quiet ourselves, still。
ourselves in your presence and be reminded you're here.。
Take a moment, if you would, and pray for yourself.。
Just ask, "God, would you speak to me?"。
As you talk to him, know that you don't speak to an empty and。
vaulted ceiling.。
You speak to a living and true God.。
And then if you would, would you pray for me?。
I need the Lord.。
I'm asking that his spirit would help me here.。
I have nothing good to give you.。
Only he has good to give.。
So would you pray for me and ask that he would speak through me。
to be helpful to you?。
Well, Father, we come with a really humble expectation。
tonight, knowing, God, that there's nothing within us that。
deserves anything from you, but believing, God, that it's in。
your heart to give to us because you love us and you gladly。
lavish, God, your favor upon those who seek you.。
We seek you tonight, and it is in your name we pray.。
Amen.。
Well, I'm not exactly the type to relive my football glory days。
from high school, but there is one moment that I think would。
make Hollywood very proud.。
Now, this moment is not the moment that you would likely。
expect.。
It wasn't in the pouring rain beneath Friday night lights。
against our crosstown rival en route to the state。
championship.。
It wasn't that kind of moment.。
It was actually in the moment that you would not expect.。
It was in the middle of offseason during conditioning.。
I do not remember why, but for whatever reason, on this day,。
our coaches collectively decided that we had not worked hard。
enough and we clearly needed to do a lot of conditioning.。
Now, the choice in conditioning for my coaches。
was always in a tune of up-downs.。
I don't know if you know what up-downs are.。
If you don't, consider yourself blessed.。
Up-downs are exactly as the name implies.。
You're up, and then you're down.。
And then you're up, and then you're down.。
You throw yourself to the ground,。
and then you pick yourself up back up off the ground.。
I'm convinced that if ever I get into a fist fight,。
all I need to do is throw that person to the earth。
and have them get up, and then throw them to the earth。
and have them get back up.。
Because it is exhausting.。
There's nothing quite like this form of conditioning.。
And the thing is, you do them until either your coach。
tells you to stop or you die.。
It's kind of the way that this sort of conditioning works.。
And for whatever reason, my coach was nowhere close。
to blowing the whistle in this moment.。
He just continued to whistle over and over and over。
and over and over again, calling us to continue。
in this form of conditioning until the sun had gone down,。
guys had lost their lunch, and I was convinced。
this is the place that the Lord was gonna call me home.。
All hope seemed lost.。
That is, until a guy standing one row in front of me,。
where the captain's always stood, decided to yell out,。
"We want more, coach!"。
I know you're captain, but that's not in fact true。
for the rest of us.。
"We're hungry, coach!"。
It is past dinner time, but I don't think。
that's what you mean.。
"We ain't tired!"。
If you're not looking around you,。
perhaps you've missed the fact that we are exhausted.。
That guy hasn't been up for the last 15 minutes.。
He's laid out flat.。
"We want more!"。
Dude, I think you think this looks cooler。
than it actually is, but it is not cool at all.。
At least that's what I thought, until the guys around me。
started agreeing with him, joining him,。
chanting alongside him, "More, more, more, more,"。
and I felt like a man on an island all by himself.。
Because I did not want more, but what I noticed。
in this moment, as we all collectively unified。
around this common cry for more, stirred about。
by a great movement within our heart,。
something moved within my coach's heart.。
I could see it in his face.。
I looked at him very specifically,。
and what I saw was a look of pride cast across his gaze,。
as we gave him exactly what he wanted.。
We played right into his hand.。
He was looking for his team to become united。
under the common bond of a unifying desire.。
Now, why do I tell you all of that?。
Because when it comes to revival,。
God often works through a people。
found not in the expected places,。
not in massive stadiums with packed out crowds。
and star-studded lineups and all the high drama。
of an amazing event.。
He can work in that space, yes,。
but where he most often works。
is he works in the unexpected places,。
the proverbial equivalent of off-season.。
He works in the ordinarity, the simplicity,。
the mediocrity of life, and it's in those places。
that he is looking for a very specific group of people.。
He's looking for a group of people。
that, like my teammates and I,。
were united by a common bond and cry for something more,。
which begs the question,。
"What more, Kylan, should I want for?"。
You should want for more of him.。
You see, God is looking for a people。
that are looking for him,。
that are hungry for his presence,。
that are longing for his power,。
that are seeking after his person.。
You see, the degree of our desire for God,。
not always, but often, determines his response to us.。
So how do we deepen our desire, our longing?。
How do we stir up our yearning for more of God?。
How do you cultivate hunger?。
That's what I wanna talk to you about tonight.。
And the way that we're gonna do it。
is we're gonna work through a few verses。
in Isaiah chapter 55.。
So if you have a Bible, you can grab it,。
you can turn with me to Isaiah 55.。
If you don't have a copy of the scripture, don't worry.。
It's all gonna be on the screens behind me.。
We're in the middle of a new series called Revive,。
where we're exploring all of the concepts。
that surround this idea of revival.。
I don't know if you're aware,。
we unpacked it a little bit last week,。
but we're standing in the middle。
of a really interesting and unique moment of history。
where there's a surge of spirituality。
that is spreading across not just our country,。
but really the globe.。
I won't unpack all of the data for you again,。
but what's being called the quiet revival。
has been distinguished by a particular rise。
in commitments to Christ, church attendance abroad,。
higher levels of satisfaction within those。
that claim Christ as opposed to those。
that do not claim Christ,。
lower levels of anxiety and depression,。
and young men outpacing women in their return to the faith,。
which is just wild.。
Ladies, take this as an encouragement.。
If you haven't met him yet, he might in fact be on his way.。
Gentlemen, take this as a word of warning.。
The competition's about to get stiff.。
So if you haven't made your move, they're coming.。
I don't know if you've seen, but the tide has turned。
and the men are on the return.。
You need to make your move, take your shot。
as soon as I speak.。
We are in the early phases of a new move of God.。
And here's the thing.。
I desperately do not want us to miss it.。
Now let me be very, very clear,。
because this was a great concern of mine。
as I knew we were going to kind of engage this topic.。
I am not angling for us to be the apex moment。
in awakening history,。
but I am aiming for us to be a part of awakening history.。
Like, I want God to do in here what he's doing out there.。
I'm asking the Lord, begging him still to actually move,。
not just in our day, but in this room and in your lives.。
I'm praying that God would give us greater intimacy。
with Jesus, that we would see conversions。
of the least likely, that he would release you。
into your destinies, that we would see generational sin。
broken on the anvil of what Christ has come to accomplish,。
that we would see his kingdom come here to Dallas。
and wherever it is you're tuning in, as it is in heaven.。
That's what I'm praying he would do.。
But here's the thing that we have to know.。
Though we would unapologetically want。
to see more of God move,。
the way he moves in meaningful change。
at a broader level comes through meaningful change。
at an inner level.。
You do not find revival by seeking revival.。
You find revival by seeking renewal.。
At least that's the way that Mark Sayers,。
who's been a great influence to me on this topic。
as I've been studying, puts it.。
I like the way that he actually writes this。
in his book, "Reappearing Church."。
He says, "Revival is when renewal occurs on a large scale,。
"bringing significant advancement, growth,。
"and kingdom fruit to a city, a people group,。
"a movement, region, or nations."。
He says, "Revival is renewal gone viral."。
If we want to see a widespread change,。
then there needs to be an individual change.。
Do you get that?。
And so what we're trying to walk through in this series。
is what do those steps look like?。
How do we produce personal renewal?。
How do we change what's happening in the inner man。
or inner woman so that way God might change。
what's happening in the outer world?。
We can't move his hand in terms of how it affects。
everyone here, but we can change what's happening in here.。
And the history books would agree with this philosophy.。
Like by and large, outpourings of the spirit。
or moments of awakening or revival or revolution。
or renewal, whatever you want to call it,。
whatever your preferred terminology is。
when it comes to this topic, all throughout history,。
they have been marked first and foremost,。
not by technique, not by charisma,。
they have been marked by two things, humility and hunger.。
Humility and hunger.。
In the Welsh Revival, which saw 90,000 people。
come to Christ in just one year,。
its origins can be traced back to a small prayer gathering。
of one coal mining preacher named Evan Roberts。
and 16 teenagers who wanted God.。
And the social impact was crazy.。
Like just to give you some perspective。
of what happened there in Wales,。
like crime rates plummeted to the point。
that there was no one for the magistrates to try.。
In court, police officers, they ran out of work to do,。
that they started creating singing quartets。
to perform in pubs.。
They found that alcohol sales dropped so dramatically。
as thousands gave up drinking.。
And in one instance, some of the coal miners。
who used pit ponies to resource their sort of materials。
in and out of the mines could not actually communicate。
with the horses because, well, the horses were so accustomed。
to really vile language.。
They were used to expletives and cursory language.。
And these coal miners had stopped speaking。
in such an inappropriate way。
that the animals couldn't even understand them.。
That's how massively God moved in the Welsh Revival.。
In the Ulster Revival, there were 100,000 people。
that came to faith.。
And guess where it originated?。
Within four Sunday school teachers。
that agreed to pray together in Ireland.。
It started in the humble place.。
The Hebrides Revival was an outpouring of the spirit。
that struck the Scottish Hebrides after two sisters,。
one 82-year-old named Peggy。
and one 84-year-old named Christine Smith。
started praying for God to move in their parish.。
They looked around their church。
and they saw no young people。
and they felt a deep need for God to move in。
and bring young people to their church.。
And what they found as they began to pray。
is that an awakening would come to the Hebrides,。
the likes of which people could not explain.。
There were spontaneous outpourings of the spirit。
where entire villages would awaken in the morning。
and men and women would be on their knees in repentance.。
You would drive down the road。
and the roadsides would be filled with people。
on their knees crying out to God in mercy.。
One famous story recalls a dance hall。
where a group of young adults like you and I。
were gathered together。
and yet they felt such conviction from the spirit。
that they all left the dance hall。
and they went to the church to pray instead.。
This was the Hebridean revival, the businessman's revival.。
10,000 to 30,000 people。
began attending regular prayer meetings in New York。
because one businessman organized。
weekly noontime prayer meetings。
for anyone that would want to attend.。
And this led to hundreds of thousands of converts。
in only one year's time as estimated by historians.。
The English revival was John Wesley famous, his companions.。
They prayed until the entire country。
was aroused by the gospel again.。
And the Moravian revival,。
which began as a 24/7 prayer movement by refugees,。
ultimately was moved so powerfully by the spirit of God。
that what was originally just a week long's worth of prayer,。
24/7 within a week's time,。
extended to 110 years nonstop 24/7.。
This is what God does。
when the humble and the hungry seek after him.。
Why would God use teenagers and old ladies。
and refugees and coal miners and business people。
to produce revival?。
Why would he do this?。
Because they want for him.。
We should want for him too.。
What do you think God might do in your spheres of influence。
if you actually want for him in a very similar way?。
God cares about the level of your longing.。
And so for the rest of our time,。
I want to talk to you about how you deepen it.。
There are three things that you need to know specifically.。
The first of which is we are creatures of desire.。
We are creatures of desire.。
That's at least how Isaiah begins to unpack it。
when he gets into verse one.。
He says this, talking about creatures of desire,。
"Come, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters.。
"And he who has no money, come buy and eat.。
"Come buy wine and milk without money and without price."。
Don't you hear it in the text?。
God is speaking to a people who hunger and who thirst,。
which are representative of a people。
that long for something, that want for something,。
that yearn for something, that are seeking after something.。
And the reason for that is intrinsic within the heart。
of all people is that quality which bases its decisions。
on an internal desire.。
Like every decision you make in life。
is rooted in what you desire most,。
not in what you've disciplined yourself for。
or what you feel called to be dutiful in.。
You may hear that and think, "Kylin, no,。
"I make plenty of decisions where discipline and duty。
"are the primary motivating forces。
"behind why I do what I do.。
"I don't wanna pay my bills."。
You think I desire to do that?。
"I don't wanna get up and go to the gym."。
No way.。
Blind date?。
That's not exactly fun when a friend wants to set me up.。
You think I wanna mow my grass?。
There are plenty of areas of your life。
where you may look and think, "I don't desire that thing.。
"I am disciplined for it and I feel a duty to it."。
And yet, though you may not desire the object itself,。
you desire what it produces.。
You may not wanna mow the grass,。
but you do want to avoid the watchful HOAI。
or that nosy neighbor living next door.。
You may not necessarily wanna go to the gym,。
but you really do desire the benefits that the gym produces,。
the kind of body that it actually creates.。
You may not wanna pay your bills,。
but you like the comfort that paying your bills produces.。
Blind dates are tough.。
You don't know who you're sitting across the table from,。
and yet we all wanna find love.。
You are driven by desire when you boil it down。
to its most essential place.。
You see, every decision we make,。
every action we take, every word we speak。
is all driven by your greatest desire in that moment.。
And it's the reason why.。
All throughout the Gospels,。
whenever Jesus engages with people,。
he does so on the basis of their desire.。
You ever notice this?。
It's fascinating, because when you study the Scripture,。
not every interaction,。
but any time someone approaches Jesus,。
most often he is engaging them。
with some sort of interaction that is testing their desire.。
If they come to him,。
he may confront them with a question about their desire,。
or he may commend them with some encouragement。
for their desire.。
In Mark 10, he talks to a guy named Blind Bartimaeus.。
Bartimaeus, being blind, wants what a blind man would want.。
Give me my sight, Jesus.。
And yet Jesus looks at Bartimaeus and says,。
"What do you want?"。
Jesus says, "Obvious."。
He wants to see.。
And yet Jesus wants to know what Bart desires.。
When Jesus encounters the first disciples。
in the first chapter of John,。
he looks at them and he asks them the question,。
"What are you seeking?"。
Do you hear it?。
That's a question testing desire.。
When James and John want to sit at the right hand of Jesus,。
he looks at them and he asks them,。
"What do you want me to do for you?"。
Another question of desire.。
When he finds Mary at the tomb following his resurrection,。
weeping, he comes to her and he asks, "Whom do you seek?"。
Well, it's obvious.。
She's at your tomb.。
He wants to know what it is she desires.。
Zacchaeus, that wee little man,。
he climbed up into a tree.。
Why?。
Because he sought to see him.。
He wanted to see Jesus, the Canaanite woman。
that wanted a few morsels of crumbs from Jesus's table.。
What did he do?。
He kind of dodged her for a minute until she pursued him.。
And then what he realized is her desire was so great。
that he had not seen a faith like hers.。
Whenever you get to the two men。
that were both blind seeking after Jesus,。
they cry out, "Son of David, have mercy."。
And yet Jesus, he dodges them as well。
because then they seek him more.。
And he realizes these men, they want,。
not just for the blessing, they want the blessed sir.。
The rich ruler, what did he do?。
He comes to Jesus and Jesus looks at him and says,。
"Hey, give everything away and follow me."。
Why?。
"I want to test the depth of your desire to be with me."。
Bleeding woman pushes through a crowd.。
Jesus could have moved on.。
He had given power plenty of times before.。
And yet in that moment, he engages with her.。
Why?。
To commend her faith.。
People that brought their paralytic friend to Jesus。
and they dug through the roof。
and they lowered him on a mat.。
Have you ever thought about that?。
Like Jesus, he says he saw their faith.。
What does that mean?。
They didn't show up with shovels。
and excavation tools at hand thinking,。
"You know what?。
We're gonna have to lower this guy through the roof."。
No, they showed up thinking,。
"We're gonna just bring him to Jesus."。
And yet they couldn't get to Jesus。
until they decided to hop up on the roof。
and start clawing their way through。
until they could get their friend down.。
They had a deep desire to get to Jesus.。
What is the point in all of those explanations?。
All of which are not actually cumulative.。
Jesus responds to the degree of our desire.。
And based on verse one,。
he gives us a really good reason to desire to be near to him.。
He gives you three incentives.。
As he unpacks it, he offers water, milk, and wine,。
which at first glance may not stand out.。
But those three things are very different。
from one another.。
And so too is that which they offer.。
If you think about it, water does what?。
Water provides refreshment.。
If you're thirsty, you don't want a tall glass of milk.。
Ron Bergen, he said so himself.。
Milk was a bad choice.。
You don't want milk, you want water.。
Why?。
Because it's refreshing.。
It's reviving.。
It's restoring to a person.。
Ever be outside on a really hot day,。
take a drink of cold water and feel it。
move from your mouth down your throat and into your stomach?。
It is the greatest feeling in the world.。
Try it sometime.。
But he doesn't just simply decry milk.。
He also says, no, milk serves a different purpose。
because where water serves for your refreshment,。
milk serves for your nourishment.。
Just last week, my wife and I,。
we took our newborn son, Cash, six months,。
and he had his six month checkup.。
What we found out from that meeting。
is that he's north of the 90th percentile。
in both weight and height,。
which just means he's a very big boy.。
Why is he so big?。
Because he's never missed a meal in his life.。
Some of you are not growing。
because you are spiritually malnourished.。
You are not feeding on that which will actually。
provide for your nourishment.。
Instead of taking in more of God's word,。
you're focused on taking in season three。
of the White Lotus.。
Not condemning your favorite show,。
but what I am saying is you are starving your spirituality。
when you mistake entertainment for nourishment.。
You have to take in the milk that he offers.。
And then the last one that he offers is wine.。
And he's certainly not talking about the cheap stuff。
that comes in a box.。
Water is for your refreshment.。
Milk is for your nourishment.。
Wine is for your enjoyment.。
Have you ever thought about this?。
Christianity is supposed to be fun.。
Like in the sense that it should free you。
from living a solitary life of pragmatism,。
stoicism, and chillness.。
Like you should actually feel a deep sense of delight。
in the world.。
Like it should free you to a childlike wonder。
where you adventure things the way that God intended。
for them to be experienced.。
Like it should catapult you to actually see in the world。
all the goodness that God has imbued。
within every single individual element.。
You're supposed to enjoy life。
in a godly way to be very clear.。
Friends, we are creatures of desire and Jesus knows it.。
And so he has given us every reason to desire him.。
As C.S. Lewis puts it,。
"If I find in myself a desire which no experience。
in the world can satisfy,。
the most probable explanation is that I was made。
for another world.。
If none of my earthly pleasures satisfy it,。
that does not prove that the universe is a fraud.。
Probably, earthly pleasures were never meant to satisfy it,。
but only to arouse it to suggest the real thing."。
You see, your desire points to a greater satisfier.。
And all of our satisfaction is found in Christ.。
If you want to cultivate your hunger for more of God,。
to see where it is,。
you have to see where it is you're wanting。
and realize he's the answer for it.。
So if you feel weary,。
like if you're looking into your life。
and you feel a deep sense of weariness。
over the fact that, man, you can't keep a job,。
or you're facing chronic illness,。
or you're stuck when everyone else seems to be racing ahead,。
you should know where you're weary.。
He has water.。
He can refresh you.。
Where you feel weak, tired of your singleness,。
wondering why God has left you。
in this specific relationship status。
when everyone else seems to be moving forward,。
overwhelmed by how behind you feel.。
If you feel weak, he has milk for you,。
that which will strengthen you.。
If you feel waned,。
just discouraged by where you're at in life,。
apathetic on your best day,。
coping nightly just to get through the week,。
he looks at you and he says, "Hey, I have wine for you.。
I have enjoyment for you.。
I can give you delight,。
the likes of which this world cannot provide you."。
This is the heart of Jesus towards you.。
He has everything you want and more.。
We're creatures of desire,。
and all of our desire should drive us deeper into God,。
and yet often, they do not drive us deeper into God,。
do they?。
Often, our desire leads us further from God。
rather than near to God.。
That's what Isaiah says.。
He moves into verse two, and he says,。
"Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread。
and your labor for that which does not satisfy?。
Listen diligently to me and eat what is good.。
Delight yourselves in rich food."。
I think this verse paints a really profound picture。
when you inspect it for what it's saying.。
Like what you see in this verse,。
it's not a picture of an angry judge banging a gavel。
and casting his verdict.。
You don't see someone that is muttering under his breath,。
disappointment, "Oh my gosh,。
when are they just gonna finally realize。
that I am the one that gives all satisfaction?"。
You don't see in this verse a picture of God。
clasping his hands and begging you to believe。
that he's the source of all your joy.。
That's not what you see.。
What you see is a picture of an inquirer.。
You see God ask a question.。
He just asks why.。
Like why is it that you spend your money。
on that which is not bread yet want to be filled?。
Why is it that you work, you labor。
in an area that does not produce your satisfaction?。
You see, he doesn't make an emotional appeal to you.。
He makes a logical appeal.。
He's looking at you and he's saying,。
"Hey, why are you doing that which is really unproductive?"。
Anybody in here hate getting to the end of your day。
and feeling like, "Man, this was just。
the most unproductive day."。
He's looking at you and he's saying,。
"Hey, come on in.。
Why don't you take a seat?。
Why don't we talk about what's been happening here?。
It seems like you're spinning your wheels。
and you're not making the kind of progress。
you want to be making when it comes to your satisfaction."。
I remember in my first job right out of college,。
there was a guy in the company,。
who he was a mid-level management.。
He'd been around for a really long time.。
He's kind of grandfathered in.。
That just sort of meandered around the office space。
every single day.。
Full of activity, but not a lot of productivity.。
Like to the point that everyone noticed。
and so we just started making wagers。
on what he was gonna do next.。
Like it sort of became this kind of spectator sport.。
So we'd look at him and we'd wonder.。
Maybe he's going to the kitchen。
to grab another cup of coffee.。
You know what, perhaps he's going by HR。
because he really likes the girl。
that works at the front desk.。
You know what, no, maybe he's gonna swing。
by product development because he just wants to test。
whatever the newest, latest, greatest thing is。
that they've been cooking up.。
We would always wager because this guy,。
he was really accustomed to being,。
he was full of movement,。
but he really wasn't going anywhere.。
He was full of activity, but not a lot of productivity.。
God is looking at you when it comes。
to your pursuit of desire and he's saying,。
hey, it looks like maybe you and he have something in common.。
There's a lot of busyness, but not a lot of traction.。
You seem like you're seeking satisfaction,。
but you're not really accomplishing it.。
You see, God is not making an emotional appeal。
in this moment because he doesn't need。
to make an emotional appeal.。
He's making a logical appeal.。
Why doesn't God need to make an emotional appeal?。
Because we don't need to be emotionally convinced。
that the things of this world will not satisfy。
because we feel that in our inner being.。
It doesn't matter if you believe in Jesus。
or you don't believe in Jesus.。
Go out with friends, black out drunk, you feel shame.。
You want to feel something nice,。
you look at porn, but it leaves you feeling empty.。
You want to find some success,。
measure up in the eyes of others,。
so you work really hard at the office。
and yet it leaves you feeling exhausted.。
You want desperately to be accepted by other people。
and so you'll go out and you'll do whatever it takes。
to be accepted by them,。
and yet it leaves you feeling compromised.。
You see what I'm saying here?。
Like we know that often when we try to seek satisfaction。
in the things of this world,。
it doesn't necessarily move us to a place。
where we feel great about it.。
But here's the thing, why then do we do it?。
Because although we don't feel great about it,。
we also don't feel bad enough about it.。
You see, in fact, oftentimes when we do this,。
when we satisfy ourselves through sin,。
it still feels good.。
Like if you think about it,。
sin wouldn't really be that useful of an obstacle。
from the enemy if it didn't evoke some pleasure,。
garner some satisfaction,。
leave you feeling some kind of way.。
You would just look at it and be like, I'm good, thanks.。
Satan doesn't come up to Eve。
in the very beginning of the Bible。
with a smoking vial of poison.。
Mm, doesn't this look yummy?。
That's not what he does.。
He approaches her with what?。
Fruit from the tree that was quote, a delight to the eyes.。
That which looked desirable probably was even enjoyable。
and yet ultimately was wasteful.。
You see, if you wanna cultivate a hunger for God,。
then you need to know that pursuing the wrong desire。
is wasteful.。
Pursuing the wrong desire is wasteful.。
That's why God is appealing to our logic here.。
Like he wants us to reason to the reality。
that while the things we often seek our happiness。
and feel good, they're not good.。
Like only in him is there that which is good。
and rich to the soul.。
That's how James, Jesus' brother,。
recalls it in his first chapter.。
He says, "Every good and perfect gift is from above,。
"coming down from the Father of lights。
"with whom there's no variation or shadow due to change."。
Now you may hear that and think to yourself,。
Kylan, I get it, man.。
But listen, I'm not openly sinful.。
Like yeah, man, I struggle with pride。
and I want the acceptance of others,。
but I'm not just like egregiously addicted to something.。
Like it's not like I'm sexually deviant.。
I'm doing pretty good.。
Like I'm not bottling out,。
I'm not bottoming out at the bottom of a bottle。
every single weekend.。
That's not who I am.。
And yet here's what I would say,。
though you think you're in the clear,。
you would be mistaken.。
Satan's greatest scheme isn't to get you。
focused on the worst thing.。
His greatest scheme is to get you。
focused off of the best thing.。
That's what he wants to do.。
He doesn't need you to。
get hooked on meth and sell kidneys on the black market.。
Like that's not his goal.。
His goal is to lead you to a place。
where you find more happiness in your job。
than you do in Jesus.。
Because then your focus will be more focused on your job。
and will be on Jesus.。
His goal is to get you to a place。
where you have deeper happiness in your relationship,。
that guy, that girl, than you do in Jesus.。
Because as you're more focused on them,。
you will be less focused on him.。
His goal is to get you so happy in your social status。
that your focus is fully set on your friends。
and your fans and your followers,。
more so than it is on Jesus.。
You see, this is the danger of Dallas, Texas.。
We are at risk of comfort, materialism, status,。
acceptance, approval.。
And it's not just in our city, it is for our generation.。
Satan would love to lull you to sleep。
with the meager pleasures of a nice life。
so that you never awake to the major pleasure。
of a godly life.。
He wants to keep you asleep.。
He doesn't need to drown you out.。
He just needs to quiet you down.。
John Piper said this in his book, "Hunger for God."。
"The greatest enemy of hunger for God。
"is not poison, but apple pie.。
"It is not the banquet of the wicked。
"that dulls our appetite for heaven,。
"but endless nibbling at the table of the world."。
That's not the X-rated video,。
but the prime time dribble of triviality。
that we drink in every night.。
The greatest adversary of love to God。
is not his enemies, but his gifts.。
And the most deadly appetites are not for the poison of evil。
but for the simple pleasures of earth.。
For when these replace an appetite for God himself,。
the idolatry is scarcely recognizable and almost incurable.。
That's why God is trying to reason with you here.。
He knows you're already well acquainted。
with the dissatisfaction this world actually has to offer.。
He just wants you to wake up to the realization。
that you deserve more than dissatisfaction,。
for he has come to give you more in Christ himself.。
That's why he continues as he moves into verse three.。
He says, "Incline your ear and come to me.。
"Hear that your soul may live,。
"and I will make with you an everlasting covenant,。
"my steadfast, sure love for David."。
Like notice throughout this passage。
that God doesn't dismiss our desire.。
He doesn't belittle the fact that we want for happiness,。
that we long for some kind of fulfillment,。
that we seek after satisfaction.。
He just tells us where those things are found.。
He says, "They're found in me,"。
which is why we have to cultivate a greater hunger for God。
because Jesus is the only one worthy of wanting.。
He's the only one worthy of wanting.。
Like it's interesting.。
After bringing us to a place where we've already answered。
why we seek after that which will not satisfy,。
he moves us to a place where he answers why。
or where we can seek that which will satisfy,。
which is in him.。
He says, "Seek me that your soul may live."。
Now to be abundantly clear,。
that's certainly talking about salvation,。
but it's also talking about so much more.。
Like the promise that your soul may live。
is not just so you can get eternal life one day,。
but so that you can have fullness of life right now.。
Like that's what he's trying to pull you into.。
And yet as I was thinking through that,。
I cannot help but wonder in a room this size,。
how many of us actually think we're already living?。
Like you got the great job,。
the fancy position.。
You've got someone that loves you.。
You've got a million followers that want to be like you.。
You're the object of all of your friends' envy.。
You've got time every single weekend to get out there。
and play golf with the boys.。
And you've really dialed in your swing.。
You've found the perfect place to live。
and the perfect people to live with.。
Like life according to you。
is everything that it should look like.。
You have actually found that,。
which will bring your soul to life.。
But if you actually drill down。
and you look deep within yourself。
into the inner recesses of who you are at a soul level,。
I would reckon, nay, I would actually wager。
that many of us are sitting here thinking to myself,。
is this all there is?。
Is this it?。
No, there's more.。
There is more on the table for you.。
Like the beauty of revival is this idea。
that Jesus has actually come to set you free。
to a life that is so much bigger than we often settle for.。
He's just trying to wake us up so we actually realize it.。
He wants to bring you to a place。
where you know there is one worthy of wanting。
that surpasses everything else I've ever wanted.。
Psalm 63, three says,。
"Because your steadfast love is better than life,。
"my lips will praise you."。
You see, there's one that you can have。
which will not cost you,。
one you can have which will never fail you,。
one you can have that will satisfy you forever.。
He has come that your soul can live.。
The question is, will you come to him。
so your soul might?。
Just a couple of weeks ago, not even two full weeks,。
2.1 million people gathered on Copacabana Beach。
in Rio de Janeiro for a Free Lady Gaga concert.。
Y'all heard about this?。
The pictures are insane to look at。
because it is a crowd the likes of which。
I could never imagine myself being numbered,。
not because I don't like her music,。
but because it is insanely crowded.。
Like, can you think about what it took。
to be a part of these photos?。
Massive inconvenience,。
people waking up at the crack of dawn to get a good seat,。
though the concert would not begin。
until 10 p.m. later that night.。
2.1 million people, twice the size of Dallas, Texas,。
showed up for this thing.。
One spectator recalling the event,。
remembered it as religious.。
What would compel people to do this,。
to suffer the inconvenience, to fight the massive crowd,。
to endure all the problems。
you know this had to have produced?。
They saw one worthy of wanting.。
As I was reading the article,。
trying to understand what could compel people to this place,。
what was remembered about this crowd。
is they cried together.。
She came, she came, she came,。
talking about Lady Gaga.。
You see, they came because she came.。
Friends, how convicting is it for us。
that we have one so much worthy of wanting。
that has in fact come,。
yet we will not come to him?。
Jesus is so worthy, so deserving of our desire.。
And the beauty of him。
is that he has produced no cost to come near.。
Like in fact, he has removed the cost。
by bearing it in himself,。
by dying your death upon the cross.。
Like there's no waiting to be done.。
You don't have to wake up and stay late.。
No, you can have him right now in this room,。
in this moment, here today.。
And there's no inconvenience to be his.。
That greatest inconvenience。
that stood in the way of you belonging to Jesus,。
he has removed.。
And to call it an inconvenience。
is to grossly underestimate what it was,。
because it was sin.。
It was a massive blasphemy against the God of the universe,。
a perfect, holy, and right God that said,。
"We don't want you, we want ourselves."。
And yet what he did is he removed that inconvenience。
from his presence by bearing the full weight of it。
in his own death,。
so that way you would never feel inconvenienced。
to be near to him.。
You can be near to him right now.。
Isn't that crazy?。
Golly, this is something that I just have been begging God.。
Like I want us to wake up to the reality。
that this is all real.。
Like that's why I yell at you every single Tuesday,。
because I just want you to get it.。
There is something realer than reality in this space,。
and it's God.。
He is not distant.。
He is not dormant.。
He is not dead.。
He is not a concept to study。
or something to intellectually fascinate about.。
He is not one to emotionally feel good over。
and solely feel good over.。
No, he is one to experience,。
to engage with, to encounter.。
And the way you find that is you hunger for more of him.。
You are a creature of desire.。
He is the fulfiller of your desire.。
We often desire that which is wasteful,。
but he desires that which is worthwhile。
to be with you forever.。
And we, my dear friends, are so unworthy of wanting,。
but he, the only one worthy of wanting,。
he wants you.。
Do you want him?。
Cultivate your hunger and have him beginning tonight.。
Let me pray for us.。
Father, we love you.。
We wanna be with you.。
I just, God, in my sincerity,。
as I was sitting in service earlier tonight,。
I'm just looking for you.。
I'm just wanting for you.。
I'm trusting God, the plan we've created.。
I'm believing God and the program we've crafted,。
but Lord, this whole room,。
all these people in what we do,。
now it is yours.。
We follow you.。
That means, God, we sing all night.。
We'll sing all night.。
That means we pray until we lose our voices.。
We will pray until we lose our voices.。
That means, God, we must confess that final 1%,。
the very thing that we have held on for so very long, God,。
that we will do it.。
We want to go where it is you are。
because it is you, Jesus, that we want.。
We don't want from you.。
We want more of you.。
We want more of you.。
And so we wanna sing to you now。
in an honest declaration that that is true.。
Some of us, we need to sing until we believe,。
and we gotta sing until we start singing.。
Some of us, we need to pray until we start praying.。
We've gotta get ourselves to a place where we believe,。
and often we have to believe。
until we start believing, God.。
We must labor.。
We must seek.。
We must strive.。
We must desire because you are worthy.。
And it's to you we pray right now.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
