(upbeat music)。
- Love it, like born identity, let's go.。
Tonight we're kicking off some new series called Amnesia,。
where we just explore what it looks like。
specifically for Christians who struggle。
with short-term memory loss like all of us do,。
and what it looks like to remember who we are in Christ,。
remember who God is, remember our purpose,。
and why you are on this planet in general.。
So for the next four weeks,。
really we're gonna explore those topics.。
So welcome friends in the room,。
welcome friends in Fort Worth, in Houston,。
and in the woodlands.。
I'm gonna start off with a question.。
Hey, who's Amazon Prime members in here?。
Anybody in Amazon Prime?。
There you go, all right, come on.。
Man, I may end up trying to convince the rest of you。
why you should be an Amazon Prime.。
I got an Amazon Prime membership not long ago。
as a gift at Christmas, Amazon Prime.。
I'll explain what it is in case you're like,。
what is he talking about right now?。
Man, you have no idea how exciting this night is for you.。
This is free.。
I was given this gift where it's a year-long membership.。
Pay 90 bucks, get this membership, Amazon Prime.。
At the time I'm going, man, I don't know how often。
we're gonna use this, but free two-day shipping,。
this is cool, I guess.。
Little did I know that I would be making an investment。
in Jeff Bezos' future, and in the future。
of lots of dollars that I would make,。
would end up going all to the Amazon incorporation。
as we would become the family。
that we buy everything on Amazon.。
It has changed the way that we shop,。
and if you know what I'm talking about,。
it's free two-day shipping,。
and it crushes every price you're out.。
You're out at the grocery, like, yeah,。
is this paper towels?。
Hold on, let me see.。
Yeah, I can get 30 cents lower.。
We'll buy it on Amazon.。
I can wait two days, it'll be fine.。
It's totally changed the way that we experience。
purchasing, Christmas gifts, everything we buy now。
on Amazon Prime, it's amazing.。
Not only did it have two-day shipping,。
but someone came along and began to say,。
hey, you know what else comes with that membership?。
And I had no idea.。
I was like, I thought it was just kind of a shipping。
relationship that I had with Amazon,。
and they said, no, there's all kinds of stuff。
that come with it.。
If you're an Amazon Prime member,。
you get Amazon Photos, which is unlimited online storage.。
It's like a Dropbox account, unlimited,。
so if you have a Prime, you have that.。
You have unlimited Amazon Music,。
which is like over a million songs, like Spotify.。
You have Prime Video, which is like its own version。
of Netflix, you have all these different things。
that come with Amazon.。
I'm just trying to get a sponsorship by Jeff Bezos.。
So Jeff, if you hear me, I'm open to it.。
Oh, this is awesome, Amazon Prime Now has come out.。
Anybody seen Prime Now?。
Look, this is crazy.。
All right, so you can buy things,。
and they are two-hour free shipping.。
You go online, download the Prime Now app,。
and if you want something, you can select it,。
and within two hours for free,。
you get stuff delivered to your door,。
all of which I had no idea about.。
I did not realize all that was coming。
with this gift that I had received.。
It's true, you can be buying, I see you right now。
buying stuff on there right now.。
Here's why I start with that story,。
and here's why I open up with that.。
Because in the same way that in that scenario,。
I had been given this gift, and I did not realize,。
oh man, all that came with it.。
There were all kinds of different things。
that were a part of this gift.。
I just thought it was shipping.。
I didn't realize the fullness of everything。
that came with it in the same way。
as it relates to the Christian faith.。
I think most of us in the room。
either fail to understand everything that comes,。
what you have received.。
If you're a Christian, I'm talking specifically to you。
tonight, what you have received。
when you put your faith in Jesus,。
when you became a Christian,。
what came with that, if you will?。
And they fail to remember or fail to understand。
all that they've received in Christ.。
In fact, tonight, if you're not a Christian,。
you'll get a window into, as we explore the words of Paul,。
really, if you ever were to become a Christian,。
what that entails, what comes along with that account。
or that membership, if you will,。
when you become placed in Jesus,。
you say, hey, I'm trusting Jesus。
and what he did on the cross for my sin.。
You become a Christian.。
Tonight, we're gonna explore all that you have in Christ,。
and here's why I think this is so crucial.。
As we open up this series, I don't think that。
most of you have a problem with learning.。
You need to learn more of what you have in Christ.。
It is a remembering or a realizing。
and fully understanding what Jesus has given to you。
when you trusted in him, and if you and I fail to realize。
or fully understand what you have received。
when you received Christ,。
which was not just a free ticket to heaven,。
you received so much more, and if you fail to realize that,。
you and I are in danger of spending the rest of our lives。
aimlessly wandering, not experiencing our purpose,。
not experiencing the abundant life that God has created。
and wired you and I for,。
the adventure that all of us, like inside, deep down,。
we all want to have, the relationship with God。
that all of us, when we go to bed at night,。
wanna have that peace with God,。
and if you and I are not quick to embrace。
the three things specifically here,。
then you'll end up spending the rest of your life。
searching for that peace,。
and specifically, if you don't embrace all three,。
then you'll end up spending an eternal life away from God.。
So tonight, we're gonna explore what you have in Christ.。
If you take notes, you can write out Amnesia, Part One,。
what you have in Christ.。
We're gonna be in 2 Corinthians, Chapter Five.。
2 Corinthians, Chapter Five, you have a Bible。
you can flip over to 2 Corinthians.。
Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, Romans, Corinthians,。
there's one of 'em, then you go to two,。
there we are, 2 Corinthians.。
Paul writes this letter to 2 Corinthians,。
we'll be in Chapter Five, and we'll pick up in Verse 14.。
Here's what's going on.。
The New Testament, 2 Corinthians is one of several。
different letters between the Apostle Paul。
and these different churches that he would either start。
or somebody else would start,。
and Paul was this big leader within the old church。
or within the ancient church,。
and so he would write them and be like,。
"Hey, this is how you live out your new Christian faith."。
So he's writing to the church in Corinth.。
Corinth is this city that is very pagan,。
so it is like Las Vegas.。
What happens in Corinth stays in Corinth.。
That's Corinth.。
True story, I mean, the term Corinthian in the first century。
was synonymous with a stripper or a call girl,。
so like, "I'm in love with a Corinthian."。
That was going on for the Corinthian church.。
That's what, when you saw, "Hey, she's a Corinthian, dude,"。
it's like, "Hey, my mama, I'm not messing with that.。
"She would not like it if I took that Corinthian home."。
That's what a Corinthian was.。
So this is a very pagan society.。
Temple of Aphrodite is there, all kinds of pagan worship.。
These people trust in Jesus.。
They're trying to figure this thing out.。
How do we live out this new life in Christ?。
Paul writes a couple letters to him that we have,。
and he begins to address,。
"This is what it looks like to live out the Christian faith,"。
and specifically where we are here,。
he begins to lay out,。
"Hey, this is the new life that you have.。
"This is the new things that you have now in Christ.。
"Whether or not you realized it when you trusted in him."。
So we're gonna pick it up in verse 14,。
and we will explore the new point of view。
that you and I have,。
the new permanent status,。
and that'll make more sense here in a second,。
that you and I have,。
and then the new purpose that you and I,。
when you trusted in Jesus, were given in Christ,。
the new purpose, the new point of view,。
new permanent status,。
and new purpose that you have in life.。
Paul, just to set up where he's,。
he's about to tell us the thing that drove his ministry.。
Paul, most influential missionary the world has ever seen.。
Time Magazine would even say,。
"One of the most influential people of all time."。
That's Paul.。
Artist formerly known as Saul,。
and he was a guy that went around killing Christians。
'til he met Jesus, and everything changed.。
And he's about to say,。
"Hey, you know what drove my ministry。
"that will go far beyond what any of us in this room。
"will ever accomplish?"。
In other words, in 2,000 years,。
they are not gonna be reading my letters。
or your letters to anybody,。
but Paul, that's what exactly we're doing.。
And he's about to tell us。
what drove the incredible ministry that he had.。
We'll begin in verse 14.。
For Christ's love compels us, or drives us,。
because we are convinced that one, that's Jesus,。
died for all, and therefore all died.。
That Jesus died so that everyone didn't have to.。
He died in our place.。
And he died for all, so that those who live,。
so that the new life,。
everyone who's a Christian, if you will,。
everyone who receives the new life in Christ,。
should no longer live for themselves,。
but for him who died for them, that's Jesus,。
and was raised again.。
So from now on, we regard no one。
with a worldly point of view.。
We see things from a different point of view.。
Though we once regarded Christ in this way,。
we do so no longer.。
So Paul points out our very first point from this text,。
that when you became a Christian,。
you were given, and now you have a new point of view,。
a new perspective on the life in the world around you,。
that it has become to influence your thinking。
and Paul said, hey, when you became a Christian,。
all of a sudden, everything changed.。
You may not have realized it,。
but your thinking, your perspective on the world around you,。
on yourself, on other people, all began to change.。
This is why for many of you, like you've experienced,。
you were hanging around the porch,。
you were coming for a while,。
you didn't know what you think about Jesus,。
what you thought about God,。
and you were kinda coming here,。
you had one foot in the church,。
one foot in the world,。
hanging here on Tuesday, in the club on Friday,。
here living this mixed life,。
and all of a sudden, you kept coming。
and at some point, you trusted in Jesus.。
And your point of view began to change.。
And all of a sudden, you have been,。
if you've experienced this change,。
you're not even as good at sinning as you used to be.。
It's not as fun anymore,。
you're not as good at picking up girls at the club,。
you're not as good with a pickup line,。
instead of being like, oh man, I'm so smooth,。
you're like, hey girl, do you go to church anywhere?。
And you're like, man, what is wrong。
with everything's beginning to change。
because your perspective, all of a sudden,。
you're going to the club and it's like。
these new goggles have been put on。
and you're like, man, the bar's not as fun。
as I used to think it was.。
Getting wasted every Friday night。
that I used to think was awesome,。
all of a sudden, I'm like, man,。
this is really boring and dumb.。
We do the same thing every Friday。
and I can never remember it.。
All of a sudden, you're able to see。
a new point of view on life, on yourself,。
on the world around you.。
And not only that,。
you're also given this new point of view,。
Paul says, as it relates to other believers,。
or I'm sorry, as it relates to other people in the world.。
Like you've been given this new ability。
to see people not as someone who's annoying。
or in your way or that crazy person。
who lives upstairs in your apartment complex。
or the person in the cubicle next to you。
who annoys you at work or the dorm room next to you。
or whatever the situation.。
All of a sudden, this begins to happen。
in the life of a Christian where they go from like,。
man, that's my crazy uncle at Thanksgiving。
to I wonder if he knows Jesus.。
I wonder if he has a faith.。
And all of a sudden, you go from thinking that way。
to beginning to dialogue with people。
because you no longer see people as like,。
man, they're either a problem, they're annoying,。
I don't know, I'm busy, gotta go.。
You all of a sudden begin to see people for who they are,。
someone with an eternal soul。
that will live forever somewhere.。
You begin to realize that, man,。
everyone lives forever somewhere.。
Like there are no mere mortals.。
Every person you've ever laid eyeball, eye to eye with,。
you've ever seen is someone who will live eternally with God。
or eternally away from Him。
based on what they do with Jesus.。
And all of a sudden, it's like you become awake.。
And this new point of view becomes a part of how you think.。
Everywhere that you go, you're like,。
man, that person behind the counter at the gas station,。
regardless of how they look,。
regardless of the color of their skin,。
the amount of money they make, all of them,。
every politician on a TV screen,。
every one of them is someone that Jesus,。
it's not just some talking head,。
it's someone Jesus, my Savior, died for.。
Someone with an eternal soul,。
someone who the salvation of that single person。
is worth more than anything I will accomplish in this life.。
Any job accomplishment, any success in a career,。
you begin to all of a sudden see,。
your mind becomes awake and you can see people.。
And you do see people with a new point of view.。
And Paul says that's because。
that's what you were given in Christ.。
All of a sudden, you can see people for who they are.。
I know that there's a lot of you that see it this way。
because I go out and engaging and communicating。
and talking with people in the city.。
I bump into people who have already bumped into you。
or bumped into people from here。
that I've already been talking about.。
A few weeks ago, I was getting my haircut at Great Clips,。
which is pretty 50/50 on the great part,。
but it is inexpensive.。
And I apologize, Great Clips, if you're in the room,。
I'm also open to a sponsorship.。
(audience laughing)。
That's so wrong.。
(audience laughing)。
(laughing)。
That's so wrong, I'm not looking for a sponsorship.。
(audience laughing)。
So I'm getting my haircut, I'm rolling the dice again,。
and I'm talking to a lady and I'm like,。
"Hey, do you have a faith?"。
And she goes, "You know, I was raised Catholic,。
"but I need to get baptized in a church。
"and I'm trying to figure out how we begin dialogue."。
Halfway through her answer, she stops me.。
She says, "But let me ask you a question.。
"Do you go to the porch?"。
(audience laughing)。
I said, "I do go to the porch."。
(audience laughing)。
And she said, and I said, "How do you know?"。
And she said, "Because the people from the porch,。
"they're always coming in here asking me about Jesus。
"and talking to me about Jesus,。
"and they're always coming in here."。
And I was like, "Man, you know why they do that?"。
Yeah, you can golf clap for that, sure.。
(audience laughing)。
You know why they're doing that?。
Stay with me.。
Because they see you differently.。
Like they don't just see, this is the haircut lady,。
they say this is a person with a name,。
with a soul, with an eternal destiny.。
And so I'm gonna engage with her。
because I've begun to be able to see clearly.。
I've been given a new point of view.。
Some of you, honestly, in the room right now。
are in the room because of someone who saw you differently。
and said, "Man, I wonder if they know。
"how much God loves them.。
"I wonder if they know that there's a God。
"who hasn't forgotten them, who cares about them.。
"I wonder if they know who hasn't given up on them.。
"There's a God out there who hadn't given up on them.。
"I'm gonna invite them, I'm gonna engage with them,。
"invite them to church, ask them what they believe。
"because I see them from a different point of view."。
And Paul says, "That's because you received it in Christ."。
He also says something else that you received in Christ.。
Here's what he says in verse 17, the next idea.。
"Therefore, if anyone is in Christ,。
"the new creation has come, a change has taken place.。
"The old has gone and this new thing is here."。
All of this, this new creation, this new relationship,。
this new status or standing the Bible uses,。
but we could use the word status。
as it relates to a relationship with God.。
All of this comes from one place.。
Where does it come from?。
God.。
All of this comes from God, this new relationship.。
If a person becomes a Christian, it doesn't happen。
'cause they're like, "You know what?。
"I'm just gonna decide this today."。
Whether they realize it or not, it all came from God.。
God was the initiator.。
And it was God who reconciled us to himself through Christ。
and he gave us the ministry of reconciliation.。
That God was reconciling the world to himself in Christ,。
not counting people's sins against them.。
That Paul just introduced this huge idea。
that when you trusted Jesus,。
when you put your faith in Christ,。
you were placed into Christ.。
And it was though as your life。
was placed into Jesus's life, if you will.。
The Bible also talks about, hey, Christ in you.。
That's not what we're talking about tonight.。
Theologically, which is just Paul's big academic,。
if you will, word here,。
or big explanation for what Paul's saying,。
he said when you became a believer,。
it's like you were placed into Jesus.。
And when God looks at you,。
he sees the exact same relationship he has with his son,。
Jesus, he sees with you.。
If you've put your faith in Jesus,。
you've trusted in what Christ did on the cross,。
his resurrection, and have accepted him。
as your Lord and Savior, you have been placed into Christ.。
Your life is now hidden in him.。
When God looks at you, he sees not your sin,。
he sees his son.。
Our second idea from the text tonight。
is that you, if you have trusted in Jesus,。
you have been given a permanent status before God.。
You have been given a permanent, unmovable,。
unchangeable status before God.。
That when you've trusted in him,。
you were placed as it were inside of Jesus.。
And the same righteousness of Jesus is your righteousness.。
Not because of anything that you did,。
not because of any way that you behaved,。
but because of a moment of faith,。
I believe Jesus, I'll never be able。
to earn my way into heaven,。
I accept what you did on the cross,。
that you died in my place and you rose again,。
and I can have new life because of that.。
In that moment, Paul says, the Bible teaches,。
God says, you are righteous, forever righteous.。
Permanently, that is your relationship status with God.。
Whether or not you feel righteous,。
whether or not you feel new,。
whether or not you feel worthy,。
all of those things, Paul would say,。
it's not about your feelings,。
it's not about your senses,。
it is about in a moment of trust,。
you accepted what God did for you,。
and you have a permanent relationship status.。
It will never change.。
You have the righteous, as righteous as Jesus is,。
even if you looked at pornography today,。
that's how righteous you are, as righteous as Christ.。
And you may not feel like it,。
you may be counting the days since you looked at porn.。
Even if you slept with your boyfriend last night,。
or slept with your homosexual boyfriend,。
your lesbian, whatever it is,。
that there is nothing that keeps someone outside。
of reconciliation with God.。
Sin is no longer the issue.。
That Jesus and God specifically, through Christ,。
decided to do something, and it says,。
I am setting sin, and I'm setting it aside.。
It will no longer stand in the way.。
That's what the verse says.。
Not counting people's sin against them.。
I'm introducing a new way。
that they will have a relationship with me.。
A permanent status of righteousness.。
That he's saying, the theological term is this new position。
that they have of in Christ, immovable, unchangeable,。
all of which is from God.。
In other words, your behavior didn't get you。
into the relationship,。
and it can't keep you out of the relationship.。
That's what the Bible teaches.。
But what about if someone sins?。
If somebody sins, there's earthly consequences。
and pain that they invite into their life,。
but the gospel of Jesus Christ。
is not whosoever behaves has eternal life.。
It is whosoever believes has eternal life.。
And Paul says, if you trusted in Jesus,。
you would be given a new status, a permanent new standing.。
It's not dissimilar, the clearest illustration,。
honestly, our team was brainstorming about,。
man, what is the illustration of a time where this happens?。
It's like a father to a child.。
It's probably the clearest。
where there's a permanent relationship established.。
Like my son will always be my son.。
For the rest of his life,。
he's gonna have a different girlfriend,。
only one, actually, he's never gonna have any,。
he's gonna have different teachers,。
he's gonna have different relationships。
to different people, different friends,。
will come and go and all that stuff will change.。
He will always be my son.。
He will always be, he has my DNA,。
he will always be my child.。
And I will always be his father.。
It cannot, for the rest of his life, it will not change.。
And in the same way, God has placed himself。
and placed you into this relationship。
for the rest of your life,。
just like a father is a part of bringing a child。
into the world, God is the active agent。
who brings Christians or brings that faith about。
and has placed you permanently.。
You will always be my child.。
You've been placed in Christ.。
And the righteousness of Jesus is now yours.。
When you run from God, it's yours.。
When you lie at work, when you cheat on an exam,。
when you do all the different things。
that you know better than,。
maybe some things that you don't,。
if you've trusted in Jesus,。
none of them change how he looks at you.。
You've been placed permanently。
and given a permit status in Christ.。
It almost sounds too good to be true.。
Like, wait a second, like I can just,。
I can run, I can do, like I can go smoke whatever I want,。
drink whatever I want, do anything,。
and none of that's gonna change how God feels about me?。
That just sounds crazy, it sounds too good to be true.。
It is, it's otherworldly,。
because it's not like anything in this world.。
It comes from a heavenly world,。
another world outside of this one.。
And that feeling of like, man, this is,。
oh my gosh, that's crazy, that's unbelievable.。
God decided to do something。
before anything could ever be done from me.。
I never did anything good,。
and God decided I'm gonna save you,。
despite everything bad that I've done.。
It almost feels like, man, it's too good to be true.。
That's why Paul goes where he goes next.。
It is too good to be true.。
It is unbelievably true, though.。
It comes from another world, it's beyond true.。
Here's what he says, or here's why he goes。
where he does next, like, yes, this is an amazing,。
that's why we call it good news.。
Verse 20, and he has committed to us。
the message of reconciliation,。
the message that God has done something,。
that God decided to act and to give his son。
so that the world wouldn't have to work their way。
towards God, which they could not,。
that God decided to sacrifice his son。
to allow every person who's ever lived,。
if they were willing to accept it,。
to have a relationship with him.。
And he gave us this message.。
So we are therefore Christ's ambassadors,。
as though God were making his appeal through us.。
Like, we gotta tell somebody about this amazing news,。
that's what we're here on this planet to do.。
We implore you on Christ's behalf, be reconciled to God.。
God made him, in other words, he just gives us,。
here's the message that we tell the world around us.。
Hey, be reconciled to God, or you can be reconciled to God,。
because God made, verse 21, him who knew no sin,。
that's Jesus, perfect righteousness,。
to become sin for you and for I,。
so that in him we might become the righteousness of God.。
Paul lays out, within the context。
of what he's talking about, a new purpose,。
our third idea, a new purpose for life.。
So you have this new point of view,。
what do you have in Christ?。
You have this new point of view,。
all of a sudden, you begin to see things differently.。
It's like sixth sense, man, I see dead people,。
I see things differently.。
First thing that we have in Christ,。
the second thing is that we have this permanent status.。
Like, nothing can ever change that.。
And then the third thing that we have in Christ。
is we've been given this new purpose in life.。
We can now begin to experience the reason。
you're in on the planet right now,。
the reason that you have breath in your lungs.。
Paul just laid out that you and I are now called,。
and we get to experience that purpose。
by going to call others around us in the world.。
Hey, you can be reconciled to God,。
that God has done something.。
Every other world religion is saying,。
hey, you better earn your way to heaven,。
you better do a bunch of stuff,。
and Christianity says, no, no, no,。
God didn't say, hey, you gotta do,。
it's about what God did on the cross.。
He doesn't want you to climb the mountain,。
he came down the mountain and died for you and I,。
and anyone who accepts that can have eternal life.。
That's the message of Christianity,。
and now we as ambassadors are called to go take that。
to every place and every space,。
and he says that's the purpose of your life.。
Don't buy the lie of Dallas of trying to get a nicer lease。
on the next Range Rover and a bigger house,。
and when am I gonna get married,。
and when am I gonna get done with exams,。
or whatever else, all the noise that's such a distraction,。
and miss out on your purpose.。
Like today, how did you do with your purpose。
of taking the message to the city around us,。
to every person that you saw today。
that will live forever somewhere, how did you do?。
Maybe just over the past week,。
and Paul says, man, let that unbelievably good news。
drive you to the place where you just are able to engage。
with people around you who are gonna spend eternity。
with God or eternity away from him,。
and say, hey, can I just tell you about what I believe,。
or hey, do you know what the Bible teaches,。
the central message of the Bible?。
Man, you don't, awesome, well, I can definitely tell。
you're an intelligent person, so let me tell you,。
because I'm sure you'll wanna know for the future。
whether or not you believe it.。
The Bible simply teaches that God loved, so God gave.。
God loved the world so much that he gave his son.。
He gave his son to pay for their sins.。
God loved and God gave, and now we, if we believe,。
we receive eternal life, central message of the Bible.。
God loved the world that was running from him so much,。
he said, I will kill my son so that you don't have to die.。
He will pay for you and pay for everything you've ever done,。
pay for the sins you're gonna commit tomorrow,。
and if you will accept that payment through belief,。
if you believe or we believe and we receive,。
you will have eternal life.。
That's the central message of the Bible,。
and now we take that message everywhere we go,。
that God has done something, 'cause here's the reality,。
most people that you run into,。
like they haven't, they're not anti-God.。
Like most people that you run into, that you work with,。
like here's the reality, the people that you work with,。
the people in your family next week at Thanksgiving,。
most people aren't anti-God, there's some,。
but it's a very small proportion of society.。
They're not atheists, the majority of people,。
they're just kinda like, ah, God's out there。
and I think I need to be a good person.。
I need to pay my taxes, I need to try to be nice。
and not kill anybody, and pretty much I think that'll,。
and they've bought this lie.。
71% of Americans, a recent study came out and said,。
71% of Americans believe that in order for you。
to have a relationship with God, you need to do good things.。
You need to make action, you need to be a part。
of your salvation and earning it.。
They've bought into this idea of like,。
hey, God helps those who help themselves.。
That is a lie.。
God helps those who say, I can't help myself, God.。
If I'm gonna get into eternal life。
or have a relationship with you,。
I will never, ever be good enough.。
And if you think you're good enough,。
you have bought the lie.。
You'll never get there.。
And God's not angry at that, he's in love with you,。
and so he decided from the beginning of time,。
I'm gonna give my son, because they'll never be able。
to make it, there's a gap between me and them。
and they'll never be able to cross it, I will give my son.。
That's the message of the gospel.。
And if you think, man, God helps those who help themselves,。
you have bought the lie.。
You think that good people go to heaven。
and bad people go to hell, you have bought the biggest lies。
that relates to God out there.。
It is forgiven people who go to heaven.。
That's it.。
And the only way to get forgiveness is through Jesus.。
And so now, as Christians, Paul says, that's what we have.。
We have this message of reconciliation.。
We take it to the world, we take it to the streets,。
we take it out there.。
I know inside of this room, there's really like two camps。
as it relates to the Christians that are here.。
There's world-changing Christians。
and then there's worldly Christians.。
Same thing in Fort Worth, same thing in Houston,。
same thing in Woodlands, there's world-changing,。
like hey, we're gonna take this message,。
this unique message the church has of reconciliation,。
which how crucial is that right now in culture?。
That we have, we're gonna take it to this world。
and change it.。
Or there's worldly Christians。
who are not changing the world,。
you're being changed by the world.。
I mean, let's just be honest.。
I mean, you were like, yeah, I'm here to be minister。
and if people talk about their faith,。
I don't wanna, I'm not too religious。
and just not too into it, but I wanna be kind。
to people at work and I'm gonna go to happy hour。
and hang out and kind of be on mission。
and now you're just getting buzzed at happy hour。
and you're going home buzzed。
and then all of a sudden you stop going home buzzed,。
you start going home with her or with him。
and you're not changing the world,。
you're being changed by it.。
And Christ, there's so much more for you,。
you're missing out on your purpose.。
What more tragic thing is there?。
At the end of your days, at the end of my days。
for me to say, man, I miss my purpose。
and Christ and Paul in this letter says,。
don't miss it, you've been placed here for a reason.。
That he's called all of us, if you're a Christian,。
I don't even know if such a thing as worldly Christians。
exist, to be honest, that as a Christian,。
you and I are called to be those who change this world.。
The message of, or the mission statement of the porch。
and I'm about to land the plane,。
we're about to close it out tonight,。
the mission statement of the porch,。
a few years ago our team sat down,。
we brainstormed, hey, what's the mission,。
what's the purpose for which we exist。
and what we came up with, JP threw out an idea。
for a sentence and essentially it may have gotten。
massaged a little bit but it was pretty much this,。
it was surrender to God, we are changing the world。
through the lives of young adults.。
What are we gonna do?。
Hey, what are we gonna do in Dallas and Fort Worth。
and Houston and Woodlands, every single place。
that we gather, we are gonna change the world。
through the lives of young adults.。
Surrender to God, we're gonna be dependent on you, God.。
Whatever you call us to do, we wanna be obedient to that.。
We need you, we cannot do this on our own.。
If we try to do, minister on our own,。
we make it about us, we know it will not succeed.。
We know that, and if it does succeed and it gets big,。
or numbers happen, but it's not for Jesus, what's the point?。
Surrender to God, will you help us, Lord,。
to change the world and we are changing the world。
through the lives of young adults.。
We grabbed onto that mission statement。
and honestly, it's been behind every single thing。
that we do.。
It's really the purpose that is to be behind everything。
that all Christians do.。
This is why this year, past Unashamed,。
we do this thing called Unashamed, which is this weekend,。
where we go out inside of the city of Dallas。
and what drives us is to change the world。
because the love of Christ is behind or compels us to do.。
So volunteers, hundreds of them this year.。
Man, if you are not, if you didn't go on Unashamed。
or you don't even get to experience living out your faith。
on a daily basis, you are missing out if you're a Christian.。
If you're like, man, I work too much,。
I work too many hours, you are missing out.。
Unashamed is this three-day in-town mission trip。
where we all come together.。
Hundreds of young adults went through it this week。
or through this past year.。
They come together, three days inside of the city of Dallas,。
they go around sharing their faith in restaurants,。
in streets, in South Dallas, all over the town.。
They go around, why?。
Because the love of Christ compels them.。
They believe that everyone lives forever somewhere.。
We've been given this message to reconcile the world.。
Can we go around, have you heard of Jesus?。
Do you have a faith?。
Do you have a relationship?。
This is why Awaken, once a month, a church or our church,。
does this event called Awaken, which is in Clyde Warren Park,。
which is in the center of Dallas.。
And we go downtown, we have a worship service.。
Shanes will be there from time to time,。
different worship leaders will come,。
and we'll just perform worship in Clyde Warren Park.。
We have to pay for it because Clyde Warren's like,。
this is too big of a group, we're gonna charge you for it.。
And we're like, we're just hanging out.。
And they're like, well, sorry, we'd like to make a buck.。
And so we have to pay, but the reason why we pay。
is because the love of Christ compels us.。
We're trying to get the message to the streets of Dallas。
that there is a God, and how many people inside us,。
if 70% of Americans have bought the idea。
that man, God wants me to work my way to him,。
we wanna make sure that we use any megaphone we have。
to get the word out in the streets of Dallas。
and in Fort Worth and in Houston, that God has made a way.。
And it's not through you earning and being a good person.。
He killed and murdered his son because he loves you,。
and he loves me.。
And he doesn't want you to spend the rest of your life。
trying to earn your way to him.。
So we take that message to the streets.。
This is why hundreds of volunteers in Fort Worth。
and in Dallas gather every single week.。
The porch is put on, the message and the music。
is a very small piece.。
There's hundreds of volunteers.。
They're the most gifted, incredible volunteers。
of any ministry at Watermark,。
and they put on the porch every single week.。
The things that they do are unbelievable.。
Why?。
Because the love of Christ compels them.。
The food trucks that are here every week, they call 'em.。
The events that are out there partying.。
I don't know any of the events that are going on.。
Neither does JP.。
We have no idea what's going on.。
We have amazing volunteers who said,。
"I'm gonna give my life to see Christ made more famous。
"inside of this city on every campus,。
"in every cubicle, in every classroom, at every place.。
"I wanna see people come to know Jesus."。
'Cause everyone lives forever somewhere.。
That's what the volunteers who do.。
In Fort Worth, they do the exact same thing。
where they've given up their time,。
they've given up their lives to say,。
"I wanna see Jesus made more famous."。
In the woodlands, you know how the woodlands started?。
The woodlands right now is being led by Chris.。
Chris is a guy who has another full-time job.。
Like he's not like, "Yeah, I'm just a young and old。
"church pastor."。
He's like, "Dude, I have a job,。
"but I'm gonna give my nights in order to see Jesus。
"made more famous in this city."。
Somebody's gotta reach the hundreds of thousands。
of people in the woodlands.。
And so Lord, maybe that's through us.。
Will you help us to know how we can best do that?。
And he's experiencing his purpose.。
Are you?。
The same thing in Houston where Josh。
and his incredible team of volunteers。
is giving their lives by vocational,。
which means they have a full-time job。
and they're like giving their life to serve.。
And be a full-time volunteer, if you will, down there.。
Why?。
Because they believe that God is alive,。
eternity matters, and people's eternal lives。
are hinging on the church who takes the message。
of reconciliation out to the world.。
And they've given themselves because the love。
of Christ compels you.。
Is it driving you?。
Is the love of Christ compelling you?。
Are you a part of the mission that God's got the church on?。
And if not, you are missing out.。
We were exchanging emails this week of just like,。
man, there's 600,000 young adults in Dallas.。
600,000 around 25 to 29, 600,000.。
And we were just praying, Lord, will you save 600,000。
young adults in this city through the ministry of the porch?。
And if you're going, man, this is all about numbers.。
One, yes, we are all about reaching。
as many people as possible.。
So if you're like, man, this is all about the numbers.。
Yes, we are.。
You know who else was?。
God and Jesus and Paul.。
They were all about the numbers.。
We don't care about them coming to the porch.。
We care about them experiencing eternal life.。
So if that rubs you the wrong way, honestly,。
I don't think it rubs God the wrong way.。
I don't think he's in heaven being like,。
you believe this guy, Jesus?。
He's saying he wants 600 people, 600,000 people saved.。
Unbelievable.。
I think he's going, David, use bigger numbers.。
I'm God.。
Are you kidding me?。
I can do anything.。
And we're not committed specifically to the porch.。
We're just saying, hey, whatever God's gonna do。
to reach people in this city for Christ,。
we're not committed to a Tuesday gathering.。
If there's a better way to reach people。
outside of these walls, we will shut down tomorrow。
and do that because we believe。
everyone lives forever somewhere.。
There's a purpose that he's created us for,。
and that's to extend the message to the world around us.。
We're not perfect.。
We are messed up, broken sinners.。
Me at the top of the list.。
If you knew the thoughts that I had today,。
you would not wanna be in here right now.。
And if I knew the thoughts that you had today,。
we would not let you in here right now.。
(congregation laughing)。
But we cling to Jesus and we point others to him.。
Are you gonna be a part of that, whether that's here。
or wherever you are plugged in into a local church?。
If you're a Christian and you're not, you are missing out.。
We are gonna take the college campuses。
that are represented in this room by storm.。
With every breath inside of us,。
we're gonna see whatever we can do.。
So if you are at DBU or UNT or you're at UTD。
or whatever school and campus you're on,。
we are gonna see to the best of our ability。
and pray that God will raise up men and women。
who will take that message all over that campus。
and infiltrate and flood it with the love of God。
because the love of Christ compels his people.。
I'll close right here,。
and the band can come up and finish.。
I know that just like with Amazon,。
there was, it's really like, if you're an Amazon Prime member。
there's three types of people in the room。
as it relates to Prime.。
There's those who are going, yeah, hey,。
I have Amazon Prime, it's unbelievable.。
Using the music, using the pictures, I know all the stuff.。
I'm using all that I have, all that I have access to,。
taking advantage of it.。
And then there's people who are like,。
oh, I just thought it was the shipping thing,。
kind of like I was.。
Oh, this is cool, so there's music, interesting.。
And then there's people who don't have that at all.。
And in that same way,。
as it relates to the relationship with Christ。
inside of the room, there's really those three categories.。
There's people who are going, look, I am all in.。
I know what I have in Christ.。
I experience the new point of view.。
I know that my position, my status with God。
will never change.。
There's nothing that I can do.。
There is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus。
because God has done what the law or my obedience。
could not do by sending his own son for me.。
And dying in my place, I have freedom in Christ.。
And when I blow it, I can freely confess that.。
I can freely walk in the light.。
But I don't have to wonder where I stand with God.。
There's that person.。
And then they're also experiencing their purpose,。
where they're living out their mission.。
They're not chasing a bunch of trinkets.。
That just like, remember when you were like。
in middle school and there was like gigapets。
or beanie babies and things that you like,。
spent your life, oh, these are so awesome.。
You look back and you're like, man, that was so weird.。
Gigapets, man, that was really,。
I lost like half of you on that thing.。
Beanie babies, whatever it was, you look back,。
pogs or Pokemon, before there was the Pokemon Go.。
Whenever you look back and you're like,。
man, why did I chase after that?。
That's so foolish.。
There's gonna come a day where you're gonna see。
from heaven's perspective, the heaven point of view。
that anything you've chased in this life was like that.。
And then there's the type of person in the room。
who's saying, I'm all in with Jesus.。
I'm experiencing my purpose.。
Then there's the type of person who's saying,。
I feel like I've trusted in Christ,。
but I'm not experiencing my purpose.。
I'm too busy, I've got too much going on.。
I just don't care that much.。
And you're missing out.。
You're not just missing out in the Amazon thing。
of saving 30 cents.。
You're missing out on the reason you exist,。
which is to know God and to make him known.。
And then there's the person who doesn't have。
just like the Amazon account doesn't have it at all.。
And tonight, God offers that, extends it to you freely。
if you will just accept it.。
Just like if I was like, hey, tonight,。
if you pull out your phones, I've got a promo code。
that I keep with me for Amazon Prime.。
Thanks, Jeff.。
I'm gonna give this to you, and if you don't have it,。
you can accept it for free tonight in the same way。
God has said.。
Regardless of what you've done,。
regardless of what you did today,。
regardless of what's in your past,。
whatever you're facing, whatever shame you feel,。
if you will accept it, my grace stands for you.。
Eternal life, you don't have to wonder anymore.。
You can have permanent status,。
permanent relationship with me,。
permanently dealt with on the cross.。
Every sin that you're going to commit,。
every sin that's been committed,。
all of them offered freely if you'll just accept it.。
And in doing that, you'll experience the freedom in Christ。
and step towards the purpose of your life.。
Let me pray that that would happen.。
Oh, Lord.。
Father, would you save our city?。
Father, would you save Fort Worth?。
Would you stretch out your hand?。
The God of Paul,。
the God who raised our Savior Jesus from the dead,。
the God over all things,。
the God who made us, fashioned us,。
the God who knows everything we're facing.。
Lord, will you stretch out your hand。
and will you save hundreds of thousands of young adults。
in this city, Lord?。
Would you strengthen your church, Father?。
Would you strengthen those in this room?。
Would you give them a vision for their lives?。
Would they dream dreams as big as you are, God?。
Would you do the same in my own heart and life?。
Father, thank you that you made a way。
that you don't require us to try harder and be better,。
but simply accept the free gift that you've given us,。
where you made Him, Jesus, our King,。
who knew no sin to become sin for me。
and for my friends in this room.。
Would you stretch out your hand now。
and press on the hearts of friends who don't know you?。
Would they come to know you tonight,。
that tonight is their night?。
Would you stretch out your hand。
and press on the hearts of men and women。
who have known you for a while,。
but they have not been experiencing their purpose, Lord?。
Would that change?。
Would the city of Houston change?。
Would the woodlands change?。
In every city where the church gathers, Lord,。
in Dallas, may it be as it is in heaven,。
and in Houston as it is in heaven,。
in the woodlands as it is in heaven,。
in every place where the church of Jesus Christ。
is in the full earth,。
Father, would you use us。
and do abundantly more than all we could ever ask and thank?。
Thank you that you use imperfect people。
who are broken and sinners like me。
and like my friends here.。
The question is just, will we surrender?。
Surrender and seek your purpose.。
We love you, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
