[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
What's going on, guys?。
[CHEERING]。
How are we doing?。
I love it.。
I love it.。
Hey, Dallas, good to be with you.。
Fort Worth, tuning in.。
Good to be with you guys.。
People in Houston, there's a gathering starting in Houston.。
Folks, tuning in from all over the world,。
we're so glad that you can be with us as we。
open God's word tonight and learn something.。
His spirit makes known to us the things of Him.。
And so I don't know when you became a Christian.。
I know there's probably hundreds of you here tonight that。
have yet to become a Christian.。
But when I had trusted in Christ after having been in church。
my entire life, when I was from a small town,。
and so when I moved to Dallas, I learned。
that I like shiny things, OK?。
Nice things.。
And so what this looked like in my life, I loved nice cars,。
and I loved--。
my other strong affection is kind of a silly one,。
but I really liked nice watches or timepieces, if you will.。
And so I was in the business world in corporate America,。
and my watch--。
my boss, rather, had this amazing watch.。
And so I would always look at it with just covetous eyes.。
I wanted that watch.。
And so I liked watches, but this one particular watch。
held my deep, deep affections.。
I'll show you this picture.。
It's a Breitling Bentley.。
And so it's made for Bentley Motors.。
And so the best of both worlds, right?。
Timepieces and cars combined, a very nice watch,。
a very nice car combined into one beautiful piece of jewelry。
that tells time.。
And so I wanted that watch badly.。
It's about $10,000, OK?。
So this is before ministry, by the way.。
Yeah, it cost-- well, some of you.。
That hit home.。
You're like, wow.。
Yeah, so $10,000, and I wanted it.。
And my love language is gifts.。
And so we're going to take up an offering.。
No, I'm kidding.。
And so my best friend at the time--。
he's still my best friend-- goes on vacation.。
And he comes back.。
And so because my love language is gifts--。
I had showered him on birthdays and those sorts of things.。
It definitely was not his love language.。
It was not reciprocated well.。
And so he comes back from this vacation.。
And he says, hey, man, I got you something.。
And he kind of makes this formal to-do about it,。
you know, sits me down.。
And I'm like, finally, you know, finally.。
And I'm sitting there.。
And he goes, yeah, you know, I know I've heard you say just。
some things that you like.。
And so he hands me this.。
And I take it, and I open it up.。
And he hooked a brother up, man.。
And I'm sitting there, and I'm like, I can't.。
Like, I can't-- what?。
And he says, yeah.。
He says, man, you've been a good buddy to me, good friend.。
You've been generous to me.。
And so I just want to give this to you.。
I know you love it.。
I know you love it.。
I thought about you when I saw it, and I got it for you.。
And I'm like, I don't know even if I can do that.。
I was a Christian at the time, a fairly new Christian.。
And I don't even know if that's like good stewardship.。
I don't think I can-- you know, I've。
got to give that to the poor or something.。
And so some homeless man in Dallas。
would be walking around with a Bentley, a Breitling.。
And he goes, he's just like, it's yours.。
And I'm like, but bro, I can't believe。
you spent that much on me.。
He's like, what are you talking about?。
He's like, I know what that watch costs.。
He's like, it's $50 in Chinatown.。
[LAUGHTER]。
He was like, oh, you thought it was real?。
[LAUGHTER]。
He's like, no, it's a replica, counterfeit, fake.。
Now, I don't know if you saw it, but it's made--。
I mean, this is masterfully made to the exact weight.。
All of the exact markings, the exact emblems,。
everything on the outside looks exactly like the real thing.。
You can't even tell that it's not the real thing。
until you open it up and you look inside.。
But it's fake.。
That's what being fake means, is everything on the outside。
looks like it's legit.。
It looks like it's the real thing.。
But the inside is not the same.。
The inside's not Swiss parts, not 21 jewel movements.。
The inside's not Breitling made for Bentley.。
No, the inside's cheap metal, cheap gears,。
pieces that will break down, pieces that won't last.。
And it's counterfeit.。
And so in the same way some of us have been in church。
and we say, hey, I have a faith.。
I know God.。
And we've learned this language.。
And we've learned some Bible verses.。
And we've learned to study the Bible.。
We've learned to take pictures and to share.。
What we're learning, and we've learned how to talk smart。
in circles so that others think that we're following God.。
But when we get all by ourselves,。
there's no relationship with God.。
Doesn't that define our faith, like who we are。
when we're by ourselves with God?。
Like when we're talking with him。
and there's actual relationship there.。
All that other stuff's done for men.。
That's fake Christianity.。
That's fake faith.。
So tonight I wanna talk about with you。
how to spot fake faith from counterfeit Christians.。
Because if you look at this, it's very, very difficult。
to tell that it's fake.。
You'd have to be trained in how to know that it's fake.。
How do you spot fake faith from counterfeit Christians?。
Now some of you, you're here and you're like,。
no, no, man, okay, well, the message is lost on me.。
I'm the real deal, I'm a Christian.。
I trusted in Christ.。
It was really, I believed in him in my heart.。
I confessed with my mouth, believed in my heart.。
And you know, I'd say, but even you,。
there's elements of your faith, I promise,。
that as we examine the scriptures。
of what Jesus is gonna tell us tonight in Matthew 6,。
there are parts of our faith。
that have drifted towards being fake,。
that have been for the approval of man.。
We've done to impress people,。
things we do to impress people.。
That's the only reason anyone has anything that's fake.。
Why does someone buy a fake Breitling?。
Why does someone buy a fake Tory Burch?。
Why does someone buy something that's fake?。
It's to impress people,。
to look like they have the real thing when they don't.。
And why does someone have a fake faith?。
To impress Christians, to impress people.。
And so we're in Summer on the Mount,。
which is just a series we're doing。
on the most famous sermon of all time,。
Jesus's Sermon on the Mount.。
If you went home and read it, I said this,。
it would take you about 15 minutes。
to read through the Sermon on the Mount.。
But in that 15 minutes, Jesus covers law,。
missions, adultery, lust, love, hate, judgment,。
marriage, divorce, enemies, the poor, prayer,。
anxiety, money, materialism, heaven and hell。
in 15 minutes if you read it.。
And so we're taking it,。
we're chopping it up in these little excerpts.。
We're gonna be in chapter six, verses one through 18,。
if you want to turn there.。
Last week, David talked about loving your enemies.。
And consistently in Jesus's Sermon on the Mount,。
he goes after the hearts of men.。
He goes after the inside.。
Because the religious people of this time。
did so much for the appearance of holiness.。
They did so much to appear holy.。
And can I just tell you something。
that kind of concerns me up front?。
Is I don't know that they knew they were fake.。
Like when somebody is a con。
and they live in that con for so long,。
I don't know that they actually know。
that they're conning people.。
Like I watched a movie just this weekend with my wife,。
Big Eyes, I don't know if you've seen it,。
it's about this guy who pretends to be an artist.。
And he lives in that for so long。
that he actually thinks he's an artist when he's not.。
And some of us, we've lived in Christianity for so long。
that we believe we're Christian,。
but when we get in our car by ourselves。
and no one else is looking, there's no relationship.。
And so the men of Jesus's day。
did so much to appear spiritual.。
Do we still do this?。
What's the number one reason people don't trust Christ?。
People aren't Christians.。
What's the biggest reason?。
Is it because they look at Jesus,。
they're like, "I didn't really like his teaching,。
"all this stuff about love your enemies,。
"that's just not my thing."。
I mean, is that what it is, they reject Jesus?。
They reject Jesus's teaching?。
Why do people reject Christianity?。
Because Christians are hypocrites.。
That's the number one reason I hear.。
You go to church, Christians are a bunch of hypocrites.。
They say one thing, they do another.。
They say, "Hey, this is how you should live,"。
but then they live however they want.。
They say, "Hey, the Bible is true,"。
but then they don't actually abide by it.。
They don't even read it.。
Christians are hypocrites.。
And so tonight, Jesus is going hard after hypocrites.。
Let's go.。
Verse one, "Be careful not to practice your righteousness。
"in front of others to be seen by them.。
"If you do, you will have no reward。
"from your Father in heaven."。
It's the summary of this entire message。
right there in verse one.。
Let me read it to you again, lean in.。
"Be careful not to practice your righteousness。
"in front of others to be seen by them.。
"If you do, you will have no reward。
"from your Father in heaven."。
So when you give, he's gonna give us three examples tonight,。
giving, praying, and fasting.。
We're gonna look at how fake faith gives,。
how fake faith prays, and how fake faith fasts.。
And he starts with the giving.。
"So when you give to the needy,。
"do not announce it with trumpets as the hypocrites do。
"in the synagogues and on the streets。
"to be honored by others.。
"Truly, I tell you, they have received their reward in full.。
"But when you give to the needy,。
"do not let your left hand know。
"what your right hand is doing。
"so that your giving may be in secret.。
"Then your Father, who sees what is done in secret,"。
'cause he's God and he knows all things,。
"then he will reward you.。
"Do not give or be generous to impress men."。
Anybody ever been in a church where they pass the plate?。
You ever done that?。
Like, where does your mind go when they do that?。
I grew up in a church that passes the offering plate.。
Actually, I grew up in one where they come by。
with the baskets, which is even worse。
'cause he's standing right there, you know,。
he has the basket.。
And my mind always, like, I think it's human nature,。
I'm thinking, man, who's watching me right now, okay?。
It's all I got, dude, a dollar, what are you talking,。
you know, who's eyes on me?。
Now, can you imagine if we pass the plate,。
if you're a guest with us tonight, we don't do that.。
We don't take up an offering here.。
We believe that the Lord loves a cheerful giver,。
as the scriptures say, and so you can give in the back.。
We don't pass a plate here.。
But if you've ever been in that environment。
and you're sitting there, you can imagine,。
like, if I'm out there and there's a plate passing。
and I'm watching you kind of, you know,。
dig in your pockets and I'm like, hurry up.。
And so I go in my wallet, right,。
and I'm going to see what kind of money I have。
and I realize I don't have the dollar bill。
that I usually give in the offering.。
All I have is the 10, the 20, and 100,。
and I'm like, oh, I guess I don't give tonight,。
'cause all I, and then I'm like, you know what?。
I'm going for it.。
I'm gonna be extra generous this evening.。
I'm gonna give this $10 bill.。
That's gonna happen, and so I see it coming to me。
and I'm just like, okay, you know, stop taking your time,。
let's get to me, and it gets me.。
The plate's right there, and I stand up.。
I stand up and I just grab this guy here.。
(congregation laughing)。
And I just.。
(horn blaring)。
Attention, please.。
May I have your attention, please?。
I love the way the Lord is moving in this establishment.。
(congregation laughing)。
And I see that you guys are asking for an offering,。
and I would like to generously give of myself。
the money that I saved on trumpet lessons.。
I would like to donate this here $10 bill。
for the cause of ministry in this establishment.。
You're welcome.。
Thank you, you're welcome.。
That's right, and feel free to name the building after me.。
Jesus, I love this.。
I love what he's doing here。
'cause this, Jesus is showing you his personality.。
He's using satire.。
He's using sarcasm.。
He says, hey, don't give like those who have the trumpets。
and they give to be noticed by men.。
I'm telling you, they've received their reward in full.。
Like, there's no history of people actually announcing。
what they give with trumpets.。
He's being funny.。
I love that.。
And so there's like a contradiction.。
Another reason people don't like the scriptures。
is they say, well, the Bible contradicts itself。
because in Matthew 5:16, it says in the same sermon,。
it says, in the same way, let your light shine before others。
that they may see your good deeds。
and glorify your Father in heaven.。
Is that a contradiction?。
Let your light shine before others?。
No, because you let your light shine before others。
for God's glory, but if you do it for your glory,。
it's disqualifying.。
You've received your reward in full.。
Now, if you give for God's glory。
or you do good deeds for God's glory。
or you're living to, for him alone, awesome.。
If you do it to impress anybody whose eyes are on you,。
it doesn't count.。
God doesn't receive it.。
So my first point this evening。
is fake faith gives to get noticed.。
Fake faith gives to get noticed.。
Giving lots for the wrong reasons。
is not giving, it's getting.。
If you give for the wrong reasons,。
you give to get noticed.。
That's not giving, that's getting.。
That's gaining something.。
You're not being generous.。
You're exchanging what you have for attention.。
That is not being generous.。
First Corinthians 13, verse three says,。
"If I give all I have to the poor。
"and give over my body to hardship that I may boast,。
"but do not have love, I gain nothing.。
"If I give everything for the wrong reasons,。
"I gain nothing."。
And so why you give matters more than what you give.。
Jesus is going out of his way to say。
if you give to impress people,。
there is no reward in that.。
Likewise, if you give because you are afraid。
of what it will look like if you don't give,。
you're giving out of the fear of man.。
And he says there's no reward in that.。
The church I grew up in, they had this,。
I don't know if you guys have ever seen this,。
it's like these baskets on a stick.。
And so when they would call for the offering,。
the offering men would come down the aisle。
and they'd gather, not offering men,。
I don't know what they were called,。
but there were these men that would take your money。
and they would come up here。
and then they'd spread out throughout the church。
and they'd walk down the aisles。
and they'd have this basket like this.。
And so before church this one day,。
one of the guys who was one of the offering men。
kind of got into this argument with another guy。
who was just attending church that morning.。
And so they kind of got into an argument。
and the guy that was just attending。
said something to him that wasn't very nice.。
And so when they go to the offering,。
he takes this basket and he gets to that guy。
who was like in the third row。
and he just puts this basket in front of him。
and he just sits there.。
And the whole church is watching,。
and it's not a big church,。
but the whole church is watching。
and he just sits there and the guy's like.。
And he just starts shaking it a little bit.。
And he just, he looks at the basket and he goes.。
And the guy, I've never seen him,。
he just turned bright red,。
like blood just rushed to his head.。
He sat there and he eventually goes for his wallet。
and he pulled something out and he gave,。
but he did so for the approval of man.。
And in the same way, I think so many of us do that.。
Like whenever we do anything benevolent or philanthropic,。
we do so because we know people are watching us。
or we celebrate it via social media or whatever.。
Look at me.。
That's right, blowing my trumpet.。
Yes, I am that guy.。
Yes, I did.。
Yes.。
And he says, there's no reward for you.。
You've received it in full.。
Second Corinthians chapter nine, verse seven says,。
each of you should give what you have decided。
in your hearts to give,。
not reluctantly or under compulsion,。
for God loves a cheerful giver.。
That's why we don't pass a plate here.。
I don't want you to be motivated by the person。
sitting next to you with their eyes on you.。
That's not a good reason to give.。
And so this is not saying。
that you can't have accountability around giving,。
it's saying don't give to impress people.。
And so what's that heart check?。
Have you ever guys helped somebody。
go on an international discipleship trip。
or you might call them a mission trip?。
And when you give online,。
there's always this box that you can check。
that says anonymous, but who wants to do that?。
I mean, if I give anonymously,。
I mean, they won't know that I gave to them.。
I mean, they won't say thank you or anything.。
Like that's not, how does that count if I give anonymously?。
You want a heart check?。
Give when no one's looking。
and give more than you're comfortable with.。
That will help you.。
That will help your heart.。
But it's not saying that you can't have accountability。
around this.。
It's saying the reason that you share。
should not be to impress people.。
I live in community,。
which means I just have this small group of guys。
we meet with weekly, couples actually.。
And they know all of my finances.。
I do not spend $100 without running it by those guys.。
If I'm gonna make a significant purchase,。
I run it by those men first。
just so they can help me check my heart。
so I'm not buying $10,000 watches.。
And we're going through our finances。
on this one particular year.。
And I'm talking to this, to my buddy,。
and I just see that $25,000 comes out of his account.。
Now to paint the picture,。
this guy makes much less than most of you.。
So he's just a normal guy, has a normal job.。
He's not a baller or anything.。
I mean, he's just like one of you guys.。
And I see this 25 grand come out of his account,。
and I'm like, "Hey, what is that?"。
And he's like, "Well, I don't know if I should tell you."。
And he references this.。
And I'm like, "No, I mean, tell us。
so we can celebrate appropriately."。
And he's like, "Well, we gave that."。
He's like, "We saved that to give."。
And I just said, "When?。
You know, when did you do that?"。
And he goes, "Well, I drove to the church。
all by myself.。
I walked down that quiet hallway."。
And he said, "It's deafening,。
the sound that a check makes。
when it hits the bottom of the offering,。
and no one's there to hear it,。
no one's there to see it.。
It's just you and God."。
He said, "We saved that to give."。
And you know what?。
I wasn't impressed by that.。
I was influenced by that.。
So we don't share to impress.。
We share to influence in the context of community.。
That's fine.。
But we don't share to impress people.。
We don't give to get noticed,。
or we don't give to impress.。
We give because we believe everything we have is God's.。
We have it on loan for his purposes.。
God, what I have is yours.。
It's not my money, it's yours.。
That savings account is yours.。
All that I have is yours.。
The cattle on a thousand hills are yours.。
And so verse five,。
"And when you pray,"。
he's going prayer now,。
"do not be like the hypocrites,。
for they love to pray standing in the synagogues。
and on the street corners to be seen by others.。
Truly I tell you,。
they have received their reward in full.。
But when you pray, go into your room,。
close the door and pray to your father who is unseen.。
Then your father, who sees what is done in secret,。
will reward you.。
And when you pray,。
do not keep on babbling like the pagans,。
for they think they will be heard。
because of their many words.。
Do not be like them,。
for your father knows what you need before you ask him."。
It's just interesting that Jesus is giving this sermon.。
He's like, "Hey, this is what's really important."。
And I don't know that we still heed these words today.。
He's like, "Hey, I want you to listen to me, guys.。
I only have so many words that I can give。
in the most famous sermon of all time.。
It's gonna be reserved for thousands of years。
so that people can read it and learn from it.。
And this is what I want you to know.。
Don't pray like the pagans。
who try to impress people with their many words."。
"This then is how you should pray.。
Our father in heaven, hallowed be your name.。
Your kingdom come, your will be done。
on earth as it is in heaven.。
Give us today our daily bread and forgive us our debts。
as we have forgiven our debtors.。
And lead us not into temptation,。
but deliver us from the evil one."。
And then he goes on, further heart surgery.。
"For if you forgive other people when they sin against you,。
your heavenly father will also forgive you.。
But if you do not forgive others their sins,。
your father will not forgive your sins."。
Do you know what Jesus is doing here?。
Jesus is intentionally praying an unimpressive prayer.。
It's a very similar prayer to Luke 11。
when he grabs his disciples and he says,。
"Hey, let me show you how to pray."。
Listen, not what to pray, but how to pray,。
which is different than what to pray.。
And he says, "Don't go on babbling the same things。
over and over like the pagans."。
What is that?。
And then what do we do?。
We take it, "Our father who art in heaven,。
hallowed be thy name.。
Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth。
as it is in heaven.。
Give us this day our daily bread.。
Hail Mary, full of grace.。
The Lord is with thee.。
Holy Spirit, glory be to the Father and to the Son。
and the Holy Spirit, as it was in the beginning,。
is now and ever.。
Angel of God, my guardian dear,。
to whom God's love and trust be here.。
Blessed is the Lord in these, I guess,。
which are about to receive,。
that I bow down to Christ, Lord, amen.。
Come, Lord Jesus, be our guest。
and let this food to us be blessed."。
God is great, God is good.。
What do we do?。
We babble these things and our hearts detest from our words.。
We're not thinking about what we're saying.。
Maybe you are.。
I didn't.。
Maybe you do.。
Maybe you say that, "Our father,"。
'cause you're my father.。
You're in heaven, I'm not in heaven.。
And maybe your heart's attached to the words, "Awesome."。
I'm not talking to you.。
But I think most of us, we go through this routine,。
the very thing Jesus is telling us not to do,。
and we pray the what, not the how.。
Bill Moyers was a former Baptist minister。
and special assistant to President Lyndon B. Johnson.。
And the president had invited Mr. Moyers over for dinner。
with his family there in the White House.。
And when he came in, President Lyndon B. Johnson said,。
"Would you say the prayer?。
Would you say grace before our meal?"。
And so when Bill Moyers began to pray before the meal,。
President Lyndon B. Johnson interrupted him and said,。
"Bill, Bill, speak up, I can't hear you."。
And he simply said, "Mr. President, I wasn't talking to you."。
And I love that because I think so often。
when we pray publicly,。
when we pray in the presence of others,。
and this is very true within the church as well,。
when we pray in the presence of others,。
we pray for them, not for their benefit,。
but to impress them.。
And so my second point this evening。
is fake faith performs prayers for people.。
Fake faith performs prayers for people.。
That's how you spot a fake faith,。
someone who performs prayers.。
Hey, I wanna pray, I want it to be special,。
I want they to hear me.。
And so if you're praying and thinking。
what others think about your prayer,。
you're not praying, you are performing.。
And likewise, if you're afraid to pray publicly,。
then you don't understand what prayer is.。
Because it has nothing to do with who else is there。
and who else is listening.。
Prayer is simply conversation with God, that's all it is.。
It doesn't matter who's listening,。
we're not thinking about who's listening,。
we're simply conversing with the creator of the universe.。
At my school, in high school,。
we had this deal called see you at the pole.。
Anybody have that?。
See you at the pole.。
You remember this day,。
like you were gonna gather around。
and pray around the flagpole,。
and so you get there and you're surprised who's there,。
you're like, really?。
You're like, you're a Christian?。
[congregation laughing]。
Man, I had no idea.。
And they're like, people are coming up to you,。
they're like, so you're a Christian?。
Yeah, man, I had no clue.。
Man, never knew that, wow.。
And you're sitting there and you grab hands,。
and like the rule in my school。
is they would go around a circle in order,。
which is always a little nerve-wracking.。
'Cause I mean, you see it coming like a train,。
and if you didn't wanna pray,。
you simply squeeze the person's hands next to you.。
That's just a pass, I pass.。
Not today, you know?。
And so, you're sitting there,。
and so what I'm thinking about。
as everybody else is praying,。
is I'm noticing who's passing.。
I'm not a Christian at this point, but I'm a faker.。
And so, I'm seeing who's passing,。
I'm like, oh, yeah, scared to pray in public, huh?。
You know, and so it's coming closer,。
and I'm like, this is my time, I'm coming out.。
Like, this is gonna be big, you know?。
These people are gonna know how much I love God。
by what I'm about to say.。
I mean, this is gonna be amazing.。
People are gonna trust in Christ,。
'cause this prayer that's about to happen.。
And it's coming closer, and I'm thinking,。
okay, like, how do I start this, you know?。
Okay, Father, God, Daddy, Jehovah, Jireh.。
(congregation laughing)。
And it gets closer, and then they did a double skip on me.。
So, skip, skip, and I'm just out there now.。
I'm like, did she just squeeze my hand?。
It's my turn.。
Two people passed, and now I'm,。
Heavenly Father, God in heaven,。
day by day, we pray by day.。
Lord, protect our country, amen, squeeze.。
(congregation laughing)。
And I'm like, what just happened?。
I can't feel my legs.。
What did I say?。
What did I, afterwards, I'm talking about,。
hey, did you, so did you hear my, like, what did I say?。
(congregation laughing)。
Like, something about day by day,。
in the country, I don't know.。
Have you ever noticed how some people pray。
so different than they talk?。
It doesn't seem like they're conversing with God.。
It seems like, in those times,。
we're trying to impress someone.。
Father God, Father God, Almighty Lord,。
Father God, Father God, Jesus, Father.。
My uncle says we're the we just church.。
I said, what does that mean?。
He says, you know, you're the church that says we just,。
we just, and Lord, we just wanna ask you,。
and we just, and we just.。
(congregation laughing)。
Could you imagine, like, if my daughters。
talked to me that way?。
Like, I got two little girls, they came up,。
and they're like, Father, Daddy, we just wanna ask you.。
(congregation laughing)。
I'd be like, just ask me.。
Why are you telling me you just wanna ask me?。
We just wanna ask you, if in your grace and mercy,。
you might grant us dessert this evening,。
for thy mercy and thy benefit, and glory and honor.。
I would just be like, what?。
You want ice cream?。
I mean, just tell, like, what are you saying right now?。
Why do we do that?。
Can I tell you why we do that?。
We learn that.。
Fake Christianity's contagious.。
When it's been modeled for you,。
you take it and you run with it.。
Why do we go, Father God?。
'Cause you heard Father God, that's why.。
Father God, we just wanna, what?。
You heard somebody say that,。
and so you repeat it over and over.。
And the reason I bring that to your attention,。
'cause I'm guilty as well,。
is because we wanna make sure。
our heart's connected to what we're saying.。
And we're praying to God, not to anyone else,。
not to who is listening to us.。
We're not trying to press anyone with our prayers.。
We're talking to God.。
Your prayers are not performances, they're conversations.。
Now, granted, they're conversations with the Creator。
who could kill you as you sit there,。
but they're conversations.。
And so Jesus says, pray like this.。
Acknowledge he is holy.。
He says, pray like this.。
He has desires and so seek to know them.。
He knows your needs, ask that he meets those needs.。
And he forgives, and so should you.。
And he strengthens you in temptation,。
and so in temptation, rely on him.。
Amen.。
And then he continues the heart surgery,。
and he says, if you can't forgive others,。
you don't understand the gospel.。
To which I'd encourage you。
to listen to David's talk last week.。
If you cannot forgive others,。
then you do not understand how the Father forgives you.。
And so bottom line, in prayer,。
don't perform to impress people.。
And so in the church, I really feel that temptation.。
I'm gonna end this message with a prayer,。
and all of you are gonna be listening.。
There will be thousands of people listening to that prayer,。
and so sometimes I start that prayer in my head,。
and I just say, Lord, there's a real temptation right now。
to wanna be liked.。
God, Galatians 1:10 says, am I now trying to win。
the approval of God or of men,。
for if I'm trying to please men,。
I'm not a bond servant of Jesus.。
And God, I just care too much。
what these people think about me.。
Would you heal my heart,。
and would you allow me to talk directly to you。
for our benefit and your glory, God?。
Help me.。
Help me not to perform with a bunch of words babbling。
that I've learned from fake Christians。
or fake Christianity, fake faith.。
Help me.。
Start your prayer with that.。
Verse 16, and when you fast,。
do not look somber as the hypocrites do,。
for they disfigure their faces。
to show others they are fasting.。
Truly, I tell you, they have received their reward in full.。
But when you fast, put oil on your head and wash your face。
so that it will not be obvious to others。
that you are fasting,。
but only to your Father who is unseen,。
and your Father who sees what is done in secret。
will reward you.。
Praise God for the scriptures,。
'cause I know that so many of you came in here this evening。
fasting and just not knowing what to do,。
you know, messing your hair all up。
and letting everybody here know you're fasting.。
I know that's been a real popular conversation this evening.。
You've turned to your neighbors and said,。
"Yes, I am fasting, not even Whole30."。
Nope, I'm fasting.。
I'm going without, no, the problem is we don't fast.。
And Jesus, God on the earth, Christ,。
we're Christians, little Jesuses, followers of Christ,。
says when you do this, he just assumes the close.。
He assumes that we do this,。
and the problem is we don't do this.。
And I think it's one of the most powerful。
spiritual disciplines out there。
that we don't frankly take advantage of,。
that we don't benefit from.。
And so my third and final point is fake faith sacrifices。
or goes without to appear spiritual.。
Fake faith sacrifices to appear spiritual.。
And so Jesus assumes we do this.。
I don't know if you knew this,。
Jesus talks more about fasting than baptism.。
I mean, there's some of you here that believes。
baptism is contingent on salvation.。
It's not, by the way, okay?。
But some of you here actually think that it is,。
and I'm telling you, Jesus had more to say about fasting。
than he did baptism.。
He says, hey, this is really important。
that you would do this.。
And we don't do it.。
We don't go without.。
We don't wanna be uncomfortable in that way.。
It just seems weird.。
And I'll tell you that if we did fast,。
if we did go without, we'd wanna tell everyone.。
Like I don't skip dessert without telling someone.。
I'm like, do you see that willpower, man?。
No, sir, no dessert for me.。
I'm like, get the trumpet, man.。
That's right, not even a Whole30, just self-discipline.。
Relying on the Spirit, that's what just happened.。
Bill Bright, who founded Campus Crusades, now called Crew,。
he fasted every year of his life for 40 days,。
from 1994 until he passed away in 2013, I think.。
2013, no, 2003.。
2003.。
Of malnutrition.。
No, no, I'm sorry.。
(congregation laughing)。
Father, forgive me.。
Ah, no, he's a godly man.。
A truly lot of people know Christ。
because of the work of this man.。
And so he went from 1994 to 2003。
and fasted every year of his life for 40 days。
like Jesus did.。
Jesus fasted as an example.。
Why would Jesus fast?。
As an example to us, that we would fast.。
Showing him that, hey, he went through challenges too,。
as a human, fully human, fully God.。
He was hungry.。
And so, Bill, so what do I mean by fasting?。
All he drank for 40 days was water and juice.。
That's it.。
Like, could you imagine being in a business meeting。
35 days in?。
You hadn't eaten for 35 days and not telling anybody.。
I'd be like, guys, before we start this meeting,。
I just gotta tell you something.。
(congregation laughing)。
And I need a trophy.。
And dessert, you know?。
I was like, somebody needs to hear this, okay?。
I've gone 35 days without eating.。
Like, there would be, it would be Instagram,。
Twitter, like Facebook, everything would be going crazy.。
I'd be like, yes, I did, 35 days.。
I made it, 40 days.。
I'd want everyone to know, but he did it.。
When he did this, it wasn't public knowledge.。
He didn't tell anyone.。
He wrote a book about it now, telling us how to do it.。
But it wasn't something that he did to impress people,。
but to influence people.。
And many have been influenced by his life.。
And I love that fasting is not just a reminder。
to depend on God.。
Some of you have probably heard that。
when you have hunger pains,。
then you can be reminded to go to God.。
Fasting is actually strengthening your resolve。
to overcome sin, why?。
Because it's going without what your body naturally desires.。
Your body naturally desires food.。
Everything inside of you naturally desires food.。
And so you resist that and you strengthen your resolve。
and your ability to resist that, just like sin.。
Your body naturally desires sex.。
Your body naturally desires attention from men.。
Your body naturally desires money or whatever that is.。
And so you strengthen your resolve to resist that temptation.。
That's what fasting is.。
And so fast, fast from things like social media.。
Okay, people come up to me all the time。
and ask about if something is a specific sin.。
They'll say, "Hey, is it a sin to drink alcohol?"。
And I'll say, "I don't know, fast from it and ask God."。
And then they'll be like, "Why don't you like,。
"go 40 days or six months without drinking。
"and ask God if it's a sin.。
"It may be a sin to you, I don't know."。
And they're like, "I don't wanna go six months。
"without drinking, well then it's probably a sin."。
(congregation laughing)。
I mean, the Bible says don't be enslaved by anything.。
Don't be in bondage to anything.。
So if people come up to me and say,。
"Well, is masturbation a sin?"。
I say, "Is it something that you participate in?"。
Yes, okay, well fast from it and ask God if it's a sin.。
To be clear, show my cards on that,。
I don't think drinking is a sin,。
I think getting drunk is a sin,。
I do think masturbation is a sin.。
But wherever you're at, like, and I will tell you,。
anything that you can't stop, you're in bondage to.。
And so if you're wondering if something is a sin,。
fast from it.。
Take six months and say, "I'm gonna go without that."。
Or 40 days, start there,。
"I'm gonna go without that thing completely."。
And ask the Lord to reveal to you, fast from food.。
That's what Jesus is specifically calling us to,。
especially when making big decisions.。
I'm telling you, I believe it's the most powerful。
spiritual discipline that the Lord uses.。
Don't use it like superstition,。
but just say, "God, I'm gonna do this to draw near to you。
"so that I can hear your voice clearly."。
Father, would you speak into this specific decision?。
But do not fast to appear spiritual.。
Do not fast to impress people.。
This is just a line the Lord gave me。
as I prepared for this message, and so,。
it's this, I want you to write it down.。
We are so focused on our need for affirmation,。
we've lost the practice of adoration.。
We are so focused on our need for affirmation,。
we've lost the practice of adoration.。
It's no fun to do something super spiritual。
if no one's gonna notice, right?。
Like what credit, I mean, what?。
I don't get any credit from people?。
That's what he's saying, he says,。
"You live for God's approval, and God's approval alone,。
"which you receive through Jesus,。
"but when you receive it, then you live as though。
"you have a relationship with the Creator,。
"that you know Him, and you talk to Him,。
"and you walk in obedience to Him."。
You talk to Him, and you walk in obedience to Him.。
But some of us, we live like,。
well, if no one's gonna notice, like,。
why would I do that?。
That's no fun.。
I saw this video this week,。
and it's just too relevant not to show,。
and so, you guys watch this for a minute.。
Are you a Christian girl that loves。
taking photos of her devotions?。
Do you spend hours framing the perfect picture。
without the payoff of people noticing。
how spiritual you are on the internet?。
Introducing Christian Girl Instagram.。
101 tips and tricks to get more likes。
on your devotional photos.。
Hi, I'm John Crist with Christian Girl Instagram.。
Do you struggle to get likes。
on those devotional Instagram photos?。
Hashtag the struggle is real.。
From the best-selling author of shameless workout selfies。
comes Christian Girl Instagram.。
I would always get totes stressed out。
trying to decide which Bible verse to show.。
Not anymore.。
Okay, you're always gonna wanna stay away。
from common verses like Jeremiah 29 11,。
or John 3 16.。
No matter what verse you choose,。
you always wanna make sure you highlight multiple verses。
with multiple colors.。
Because after all, what's the point of having devotions。
if no one knows about it?。
I used to spend five minutes reading the Bible,。
and then like 30 minutes trying to figure out a hashtag.。
Then I found Christian Girl Instagram.。
My book includes over a thousand hashtag suggestions,。
like coffee with colossians, bliss, serenity, much needed,。
and of course, hashtag blessed.。
Thanks to inspiration from Christian Girl Instagram,。
I took down my Marilyn Monroe poster。
and replaced it with footprints in the sand.。
Christian Girl Instagram now includes bonus tips,。
like if you're gonna include your hand in the photo,。
always wear a purity ring.。
And remember, anything leather bound。
is really gonna pop with that Valencia Instagram filter.。
Christian Girl Instagram is great.。
My devotions are now constantly being interrupted。
by people liking my post.。
(phone chimes)。
Buy now, and I'll also include my additional book,。
Announcing Your Social Media Fast,。
tips and tricks for effectively telling people you're fasting。
while ignoring all of Jesus' teachings。
about telling people you're fasting.。
Christian Girl Instagram can be yours today.。
This book and so much more available to you。
all for the cost of less than a pair of yoga pants.。
- I don't always do devotions,。
but when I do, I Instagram it.。
- So awkward.。
(audience laughs)。
It's funny 'cause it's true, we know it.。
That's the laughter of conviction.。
(audience laughs)。
You guys, if you do spiritual things。
for the approval of man,。
if you do things to impress man more。
than to relate or converse with God,。
you need to question your salvation.。
You need to ask yourself, is my faith real?。
Do I really believe this thing。
that I've always said that I believed,。
or at some point I've begun to say that I believe,。
or have I learned a way of living。
that appears from the outside like I'm a Christ follower。
when I'm by myself, I'm not following Christ?。
I'm doing what I wanna do.。
And so if you give for the approval of man,。
if you give to impress people,。
he says you have received your reward in full.。
If you pray in a performance for people,。
he says you have received your reward in full.。
These are things that you should do so that God knows.。
For your benefit of your relationship with God,。
he says when you fast or when you make sacrifices。
and you go through hardships,。
and you do so to impress people,。
to appear spiritually, he says,。
appear spiritual, he says you're not spiritual at all.。
This is what the scripture is saying,。
this is convicting, especially in DFW.。
He says your father sees everything you do.。
Do it in relationship with him,。
to have a relationship with him.。
I want you to imagine for just a second,。
use your imagination for this one.。
If you worked in a warehouse。
or on an assembly line in a warehouse,。
and so you connected, you put widgets together,。
all day, every day, there's this conveyor belt。
in front of you and you're just putting widgets together,。
that's what you're doing, right?。
And your boss comes to you and he says,。
hey, I'm going to be constantly inspecting your work.。
And so he has this office that you go up these stairs。
in this warehouse and there's his office up there,。
it's like this box in the warehouse and it has no windows.。
And so he'll go in there,。
and you don't know what he's doing in there,。
but every now and then he'll come out,。
and when he comes out, the door makes a chime.。
You guys following me?。
So the boss comes out to inspect what you're doing,。
he walks down those stairs,。
and whenever you hear he's coming,。
you're just like, game on, like you're doing your work,。
you're doing it, right?。
But then he goes back up those stairs。
and he goes into his office,。
and then you're like, hey, what's up, man,。
how you doing this weekend?。
I mean, no, nobody's watching, so let's catch up.。
Man, how was the weekend, what'd you do?。
Oh my goodness, oh yeah, tell me more about that,。
let's talk about that.。
And then you're just goofing off,。
and then that door chimes,。
and you know he's coming down those stairs,。
and then it's like, okay, hey, game on, he's coming.。
Boss man's coming, let's get after it.。
And one day he says, hey, come into my office.。
And you're excited 'cause you don't know what goes on there,。
you go up those flights of stairs,。
you go into his office, and you realize。
the only thing in there is a chair and a TV,。
and that TV is a feed, it's a camera feed。
right over that conveyor belt,。
he's watching you every second,。
that's all he's been doing up there is watching you.。
And it's the realization that he's seen everything,。
he's seen the inside.。
God has a camera into our hearts.。
He's constantly watching the feed。
and the activity of our hearts,。
the longing of our hearts, the doings of our hearts.。
And this is why Jesus has given this sermon,。
he said, hey, the Lord knows what you do in secret,。
and the Lord knows what you do for the approval of people.。
Live for him, an audience of one.。
So in closing, I'll tell you a story.。
Right after Monica and I got married,。
we'd been married, my wife and I'd been married。
for about 10 years, brand new Christians,。
we had just been in the faith about a year and a half。
at this point, and we went on this trip to New York City,。
and we did the whole New York City thing,。
we did it up big, right, and so we go to Wall Street。
and we see the Empire State Building。
and the Statue of Liberty and Times Square。
and all the things that you can see in New York City,。
and she wanted a bag, a purse,。
I guess I've been told to call it a bag.。
She was gonna get a coach bag at the time, okay?。
And so now it's Michael Kors or Tory Burch。
or Louis Vuitton or whatever,。
but then it was a coach bag。
and she was gonna get it in Chinatown.。
And so I don't know if you've ever done this,。
I know I'm in a room full of devoted followers of Christ,。
so you probably have no idea what I'm talking about,。
but ladies, let me just inform you,。
in Chinatown you can get fake purses, okay?。
And so we would go there in New York City。
and these guys stand on the side of the road。
and they're like, "Coach, a Gucci product,。
"coach, a Gucci product,"。
and I'm like, "How much?"。
And he's like, "Follow me."。
And so we follow this guy, which is not safe,。
and he takes us into this store,。
and you walk into the store。
and there's all these handbags,。
these purses all over the wall,。
but none of them are name brand,。
and then he says, "Follow me,"。
and he takes us into this back room.。
I'm serious, okay?。
The wall opens up, okay?。
So there's all these bags hanging on the wall。
and it opens up and it's like this magnetic lock on the door。
and the wall opens up。
and he takes us into this back closet。
and he shuts the door, okay?。
Keep in mind, a decade ago, new Christian,。
and we're in this room。
and there's all of these fake handbags on the wall.。
And so my wife, she finds the coach purse she wants。
and she gets it,。
and he's showing me watches and whatnot,。
and we leave with that bag.。
And she's excited.。
She got her purse, her coach purse, her fake coach purse,。
and her friend has the real one,。
and so when we get back to Dallas,。
they're comparing,。
"Oh, it looks just like,。
"look, all the symbols are the same,。
"the emblem is the same,。
"look, the strap is the same,。
"the leather's the same color,。
"the stitching is the same."。
I remember that conversation,。
"The stitching is the same color."。
You open it up, the inside looks the same.。
It's like exactly the same.。
I remember this conversation,。
"It's like the same purse,。
"but I only paid $20 for mine,。
"and you paid 400 for yours,。
"like, I win, you know, #winning."。
And-- (congregation laughing)。
And the problem is,。
she began to wear that purse.。
She began to use that purse,。
she put stuff in that purse,。
and she went through life with that purse,。
and you know what happened to her purse,。
her fake knockoff coach?。
The stitching began to unravel.。
The seams began to come undone,。
the leather began to peel.。
It didn't hold up.。
When life threw things at it,。
it just couldn't hold up.。
And in the same way,。
if you're here, and you have a fake faith,。
can I just tell you something?。
That what lies ahead of you are some real challenges.。
Life is difficult.。
There are lots of hardships out there.。
I get to see, in vocational ministry,。
up close, the hardships of individuals.。
Lots of really difficult things lie in store。
for each and every one of you,。
and it's not anything you need to fret about,。
or have anxiety about,。
because God's got you.。
And if you have faith, you have Him.。
And it's enough to carry you through breakups,。
it's enough to carry you through hardships,。
it's enough to carry you through illness。
and loss of loved ones,。
it's enough to carry you through seasons of life。
that seem unbearable, but a real faith holds up.。
I will tell you that a fake faith。
comes undone at the seams.。
I'm not talking about momentary doubts.。
I'm not talking about having to go back。
into the Scriptures and be reminded of truth.。
I'm talking about an unraveling。
of a faith that was inauthentic,。
it wasn't real.。
God sees what you do in secret.。
I am not trying to change your performance。
or to make you better at it.。
I'm trying to drive you back to that point。
where Christ, who prayed to God and God alone,。
who fasted for 40 days without the benefit。
of any of you there to be impressed by it,。
Christ who gave all that He could,。
His entire life to set you free.。
He said, "Because the things that you have done。
"to impress people, I will pour out my blood for.。
"It will cost me my heartbeat.。
"It will cost me my breathing.。
"It will cost me my life."。
And He didn't die to impress anyone.。
He died to reconcile you to the Father.。
And that's where real faith starts.。
So if you're here and you're like,。
"Man, I know that I've got a fake faith.。
"I know that I've been pretending.。
"My faith is as fake as that brightling."。
I would just encourage you to look at the cross。
'cause no one likes to find out down the road。
that what they have is fake。
when they thought it was real.。
And likewise, I don't want anyone here。
to one day find out that the faith。
that they said that they had was fake.。
Let me pray.。
(congregation murmuring)。
Father,。
you are in heaven。
and we are on earth.。
And so God, we ask that you would build your kingdom,。
that you would bring it here。
and that you would do that through us.。
(congregation murmuring)。
And Father, we pray that you would meet in this day。
our needs as we leave here,。
whatever it is we need to physically live,。
whatever it is we need to survive,。
that you would give that to us,。
that you would grant it to us in your sovereignty.。
And Father, when others sin against us。
in the same way that we've sinned against you,。
would we be as quick to forgive them。
as you have been to forgive us?。
And Lord, as we face temptation。
in a relationship, at work, on a computer,。
in the mall, out there in the porch cafe,。
wherever we would go, when we face temptation,。
God, would you please strengthen us。
by the power of your spirit at work inside of us.。
Deliver us from that evil, Lord, please.。
Yours is the kingdom.。
And yours is the power.。
And you and yours alone。
and only you and no one else。
is the glory and the honor forever and ever.。
(gentle music)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
