Here lies the old me. The kid my parents wanted me to be. All the ways the world hurt me.。
Goodbye to my fears and anxieties. The reason why my ex left me. Rest in peace。
to the old me.。
All right let's go let's go! Porch 2022 kicking off our new series RIP to the。
old me if we haven't met my name is JD it's a privilege to be here with you。
tonight and before we go any further if you don't know the porch doesn't just。
exist in Dallas like God has like blown our expectations and taken this thing。
beyond borders and we have what we call porch live locations all over the。
country in different locations and we want to just do a good job tonight they。
hear us they hear you in the room and so when you laugh they laugh when you clap。
they clap when you cry they probably cry and so tonight I need you guys to help。
me welcome them to kick off the year strong I'm gonna read the whole list and。
then I want us just to go crazy for our friends all over the country here we go。
welcome 2022 porch live North Houston porch live Austin Northwest Arkansas。
Tulsa Oklahoma porch live Cincinnati Scottsdale Boise Idaho Des Moines。
Greater Lafayette Indiana and a big welcome to our newest porch live。
location meeting for the second time tonight porch live Midland Texas and of。
course my friends tonight in Dallas just such an honor like I said to be here。
with you and so before we go into the series and what we're talking about。
tonight the topic when I was prepping for the kickoff to RIP to the old me I'm。
not gonna lie I got a little sentimental because as I was just thinking about。
all the things that you know the old JD since we met the last time in 2021 and。
the JD you see before you is a completely new man I don't know if y'all。
notice but I got some bling on my finger and the token singleness guy of the。
porch is dead and gone he is and I left him in 2021 happily left him and I got to。
marry the woman of my dreams miss Jenna Rogers it has been such a gift but I'm。
not gonna lie like guys like we say all the time it's not just lip service。
singleness is awesome and part of me I mean yesterday we celebrated our one。
month of marriage and I'm still mourning a little bit of who I was I'm not gonna。
lie and so last week we did the candle thing we bought up the things that we。
wanted to die do and I wanted to officially say RIP to the old JD and so。
if you would take a moment with me in memory rest in peace to normal guy how。
smells take that as you want and hello to walking in every day to five。
different scented candles burning at one time sending my scent of smell into all。
kinds of confusion different directions guys get ready rest in peace to my one。
favorite pillow that I washed two times in six years and hello to lots and lots。
and lots and lots of pillows on the couch pillows on the seats pillows on。
the bed pillows everywhere rest in peace to this one hits my house being set to。
64 degrees paired with a ceiling fan and a side table fan on turbo speed because。
my wife's always freezing always always and hello to a daily trip to the sauna I。
didn't know I needed all right it's really good for the toxins it's hot but。
I start there because I really am kind of like navigating this new me and it's。
amazing like marriage truly is amazing but I'm figuring out what it looks like。
to die to my old self and enter into this new relationship with Jenna which。
is definitely better and I want y'all to hear me say like I am loving marriage。
but I start there because just like I am transforming and as I've entered into。
this relationship and a new life is changing in me a lot of us when we get。
into a relationship with Jesus what we have to know is that when you enter into。
a relationship with Jesus everything about you should and will begin to。
change you introduce me to a person who has encountered and sooner the life to。
Jesus and you are showing me a changed person because when you step into a。
relationship with Christ the old like we've been saying passes away or you die。
to your old self and the new you is born the kind of theme verse of this series。
is 2nd Corinthians 5 17 it's what the series was birthed out of it says。
therefore if anyone is in Christ he is an old or he's a new creation the old。
has passed away and behold the new has come the new has come meaning that the。
invitation is for everyone everyone gets to come to God's family and you get to。
come exactly as you are no matter what your past present or your future will。
hold you get to come exactly as you are but hear me you come as you are but you。
do not stay as you are you get to come as you are but you do not stay as you。
are because the old you has passed away and the new you is coming it's forming。
it's changing and it's better it's better if you know what I'm talking。
about you know that when you go into this new relationship with Jesus。
everything about you begins to change you begin to talk different you begin to。
act different hang out different talk different dress different date different。
you get to spend your time and your money differently you have community and。
the right people speaking into your life holding you accountable you begin to no。
longer to want to look at porn or just have casual hookups or get drunk every。
weekend you actually have the Holy Spirit in you and he starts to convict。
you and those things aren't as appealing or appetizing and yeah you might can。
still do it and continue to do it but it's just not hitting like it used to。
why because you're new because if anyone is in Christ he's a new creation the old。
has passed away and the new has come those who are in a relationship with。
Jesus will begin to change and we're gonna see that throughout this entire。
series what it looks like to change we're gonna focus on different things。
that we need to say hey RIP to rest in peace to blank because I'm new in Jesus。
I have a new life with Jesus goodbye the old me hello to the new me in Christ and。
so tonight the old trait that we're dying to is victim mentality for my。
note-takers tonight the title of this message is RIP to victim mentality。
RIP to victim mentality and if you don't know what I'm talking about just a quick。
easy definition of victim mentality is when someone believes the idea that bad。
things will always always happen to them or you could include on to that a。
person with victim mentality is constantly blaming others constantly。
negative constantly woe is me mentality it's never their own fault I'll always。
be depressed well I grew up poor or because this happened to me I'm never。
gonna forgive my dad because he wronged me it's his fault I'm this way。
everyone's out to get me all I know is broken relationships this is just the。
way it is and if you let victim mentality rule your life it will。
paralyze you as we'll see tonight victim mentality will paralyze your life it。
will keep you back but a relationship with Jesus is meant to set you free and。
some of you tonight might be thinking well that's not me I've never had。
something crazy happen to me we all we all struggle with a victim mentality。
whether you realize it or not in some way because we have an enemy because。
Satan is out there prowling like a lion seeking someone to devour one of his。
biggest schemes is to convince you that you are a victim that you don't have。
what it takes that the Holy Spirit isn't enough that you can't defeat that sin。
that you can't make that change that you can't make that move that's how he。
attacks is treating you like a victim and so tonight we're saying no more。
we're leaving victim mentality in the past and I want to take a moment just to。
lean in because I know there is an audience and a specific person in the。
room tonight and you are a victim you actually have been victimized and I want。
you to hear me as kindly as I can say this I am sorry I'm sorry for whatever。
happened to you and that person was wrong whatever they did to you was wrong。
and I hate that because of the brokenness of this world and the。
depravity of man and the sin that is in man's heart we hurt one another and yeah。
you might be walking in here having been victimized but Jesus can rewrite your。
story yes you were a victim but you are not a victim you are a victor if you are。
in Christ I want to even challenge you tonight to begin to not let Satan tell。
you that what happened to you is who you are I want to begin to challenge you to。
think hey maybe I'm not a victim but more so because of Jesus I'm a survivor。
I've prevailed and because of Jesus I don't have to just survive and get by。
but I can thrive that I can forgive that I can be healed you're gonna see tonight。
that no matter what's happened to you you can be new you can be healed and so。
whether you face victim mentality whether you have been a victim what。
we're gonna see tonight is Jesus wants to heal that and so tonight we're gonna。
look at three ways to change your victim mentality to a victor mentality three。
ways to change your victim mentality to a victor mentality and we're gonna do it。
by zeroing in on the life of a man that Jesus encountered a paralyzed man and。
we're gonna look at how Jesus took his victim mentality and made him a victor。
and so if you would open up with me to John chapter 5 John chapter 5 if you。
don't have your Bibles with you we'll have the verses on the screen here you。
can read along John chapter 5 we're gonna read the whole thing and we're。
gonna break it down y'all ready already all right here we go verse 1 afterward。
Jesus returned to Jerusalem for one of the Jewish holy days inside the city。
near the Sheep Gate don't think too deeply about that literally a gate that。
sheep entered was the pool of Bethesda with five covered porches crowds of sick。
people blind lame or paralyzed lay on the porches one of the men lying there。
had been sick for 38 years when Jesus saw him and knew he had been ill for a。
long time he asked him would you like to get well I can't sir the sick man said。
for I have no one to put me in the pool when the water bubbles up what you need。
to know right there at the time there was like a Greek mythology there was a。
myth that they believed we know now it was like a natural spring that made the。
water bubble but they believe that an angel would come down and that they。
couldn't see and he would like stir the water and like the myth said that if you。
got in the first one to get in you would be healed so all these sick people would。
gather around this pool and wait for the bubbles to come up so that's what he's。
talking about right here no one will put me in the pool when the water bubbles up。
someone else always gets there ahead of me Jesus told him stand up pick up your。
mat and walk instantly the man was healed he rolled up his sleeping mat and began。
walking I want to go ahead just stop for a second and look at the first verse and。
just set the scene of how relevant this story is to you and I tonight I mean。
it's crazy I'm reading this translation and I'm looking and he's literally。
talking about how in the gates of Jerusalem there was this section where。
all the sick people the shamed people the diseased people those were that were。
paralyzed blind deaf if you had something wrong with you this is where。
you hung out and they all hung out together in a place called the pool of。
Bethesda Bethesda stay with me is like a Hebrew construct that basically means a。
house of mercy or a house of kindness a house of acceptance and love where all。
the sick people gathered on the porches y'all seeing it I'm like that's us the。
porch isn't anything special but Jesus is and we're all about Jesus so。
therefore we are wanting to be a house of kindness a house of mercy a house of。
love and acceptance for any person no matter their sickness no matter the。
disease no matter what they're walking in with they know they can be safe here。
because look around we're all sick we're all in desperate need of Jesus and we。
come here because we want him to heal us we come here because we want him to save。
us to redeem us we come here because we want his mercy and his kindness you and。
I we are the sick this is the pool of Bethesda so this story I mean no matter。
what you've gone through no matter if you're like man I'm not a victim you're。
sick this story is for you tonight let's continue on so we're gonna see here is。
the first way that we go from a victim mentality to a victim mentality it's in。
verse 3 crowds of sick people blind lame or paralyzed you and I lay on the。
porches one of the men lying there had been sick for 38 years sick and。
paralyzed for 38 years can you imagine I know he struggled with a victim。
mentality I know I would be and right here when I look at this a victim。
mentality says this is just the way it is 38 years I'm accepting it I'm like。
I'm paralyzed for the rest of my life this is just the way it is God I don't。
know why me I don't know why not them I don't know I mean but after 38 years I。
can't get in the dang pool everyone's got to go before me no one's for me I。
guess this is just the way it is I know I've been there I think a lot of us have。
been there and a lot of it is on us we self-victimize and we say things like。
well I guess I'm just gonna have to live with this addiction I guess I'm just。
gonna live and accept this porn addiction because it's been since eighth。
grade it's been for years I struggle with this and man I've gone to services。
like this and I've come down last week and I wrote porn on my card I wrote。
sexual morality on my card and I laid it and the next day I was tempted and I。
gave in I gave in again and again and again I guess I'm just gonna have to be。
paralyzed and crippled by my addiction I guess this is just the way it is some of。
us are like man where are all the Christian men every guy I date he ends。
up being not it he has no character he ain't about it and we sit there and go。
you know what my dad wasn't even about it so maybe this is what I deserve maybe。
this is who I am maybe I should just settle and lower my standards and just。
accept I'm never gonna find a Christian man and be unhappily married for the。
rest of my life I guess this is just the way it is some of us I guess I'll just。
keep letting the need for control and the perfect image rule my life and I。
know on the outside I look good but on the inside I'm spiraling and there's。
this hamster wheel constantly spinning that's forcing anxiety and stress and。
worry and I'm spiraling and spiraling and spiraling and I'm trying to hold it。
all together but I can't and I'm breaking but I guess this is just the。
way it is I guess stress is just a part of my life I guess worry is just a part。
of my life and you've just accepted it because you've fallen prey to victim。
mentality a victim mentality says this is just the way it is 38 years 38 years。
of being paralyzed lost hope hopeless accepted I guess I'm just paralyzed this。
is the way it is this is my lot but also there's another group that what has。
happened to you wasn't self-inflicted that you went through something really。
hard that was completely out of your control there are some of you here。
tonight that maybe you were born with an actual disability maybe you were born。
with an autoimmune system that constantly leaves you tired and fatigued。
and disappointed some of you maybe you have lost a loved one and your。
circumstance is really really hard you lost your mom to cancer way too soon。
some of you you have been cheated on or your parents did divorce or you saw bad。
relationships or you were abused and hurt but the problem is what victim。
mentality does what victim mentality will do is it will take that thing that。
is meant to describe your story and tell you it defines you it's meant to describe。
you but victim mentality makes it define you it says yeah this is the way it is。
this is who you are you are what happened to you you will not change you。
should just accept in these moments that were meant to simply describe you I lost。
my mom to cancer someone manipulated me I was born with a disability that's a。
part of my story not the point of my story it doesn't define me but a victim。
mentality will tell it that that is what defines you that is who you are and。
that's who you will always be but we know that Jesus is who defines us I know。
for me there was a time in my life where I fell prey to this kind of victim。
mentality a thing that described me as I've talked about here many times college。
boom best friend dad at 45 pastor friend all the things terminal cancer boom 10。
years later life without a dad why God why would you do this are you out to get。
me does the world against me he was a good man he was a preacher for crying。
out loud why him so young so healthy I bet if I had a dad I wouldn't be in such。
a financial struggle right now in college I bet if I had a dad I wouldn't。
have to seek affirmation in all the wrong places because my dad would affirm。
me my dad would compliment like me like he used to I bet if I had a dad then and。
so many of us we walk with life like that if I had this then if it wasn't。
this way then because we took that what was meant to describe us and we're we're。
saying that it defines us and the outcome is victimization but everything。
changed in my life everything when I learned the truth in this verse right。
here later on in this book of John in chapter 16 verse 33 it says I have told。
you all this so that you may have peace in me here on earth you will have many。
trials and sorrows but take heart because I meaning God I have overcome。
the world when I was walking in a victim mentality I was just stuck on the in the。
earth I will have many trials and sorrows but then God came into my life。
and he rewrote my perspective he rewrote my story and the but take heart。
transitioned me from a victim to a victor because I saw it wasn't up to me。
to overcome my circumstance it was up to God because he tells me he promises me。
that I don't have to follow my circumstance or pray victim to my。
circumstance I can have victory over my circumstance because he does and it's。
him who defines me and in that moment in that moment the thing that held me down。
that brought me the most pain God used to transform and it is now the force。
behind my greatest purpose God took what once victimized me and told me you can。
never because it's now what I get to stand up and tell thousands of people。
about and if you had told that guy who was laying alone on New Year's Eve。
shouting at God drunk in his room on midnight God I hate you I hate you I。
hate you if you would have told me that one day that victim mentality was gonna。
change to this I would have called you crazy but that's what God does he takes。
what describes you and he points it to himself and he transforms it and he uses。
it to point to his glory to his goodness that's what he does a victim。
mentality says this is just the way it is but a victim mentality says this may。
be the way it is this may be a part of your story but Jesus can use it Jesus。
wants to use it Jesus wants to use your greatest pain for his glory and purpose。
if he would let him but you have to take heart you have to make the active choice。
to go from victim to victor but take heart he has overcome the world he has。
overcome your circumstance everything changed when I began to shift my victim。
mentality from victim because of my circumstances to victor because of the。
King over my circumstances he did it for me he can do it for you he did it for。
this man let's keep reading verse 6 when Jesus saw him and knew he had been ill。
for a long time I don't want to move past that when Jesus saw him and he knew。
he had been ill for a long time this is the heart of your Jesus there was a。
whole crowd in that place many people sick many people struggling this man was。
nothing special to get the attention and catch the eye of Jesus but Jesus saw him。
even when he wasn't looking for Jesus Jesus was looking for him the same is。
for you tonight all of these people this is a big place but he's looking at you。
he sees you and just like this man he knows you've been ill for a long time he。
knows you're tired he knows that victim mentality has ruled your life and he。
wants peace to mark your life he looks at him knowing he was ill for a long。
time and he asked him would you like to get well I can't sir this sick man said。
for I have no one to put me in the pool when the water bubbles up and someone。
always gets there ahead of me do you see what's happening here his victim。
mentality is saying what it says to us hey I'm not the problem everyone and。
everything else is y'all know that kind of person I mean it's never me it's。
always them that person that you come home from work your roommate and they're。
just always like and then my boss did this and then my boss did this and then。
they did this and then they did that and then my co-worker if they would just。
show up on time and got it's never them it's exhausting but what's funny about。
this part of this moment is Jesus didn't want his whole life story I mean I bet。
you I mean Jesus is kind so he's kinder than me I would have been like I didn't。
ask you about this the pool and all that Jesus asked him a simple yes or no。
question boy you've been paralyzed for 38 years do you want to be healed or not。
that's what he asked him do you want to be healed and like him I think a lot of。
us but God this but God that but God this yes or no it's like if you had to。
drink water for a whole day and you're just parched I mean I'm parched right。
now low-key I would take I would take some water not cuz I but actually got。
throw me a water so it's like if this is perfect actually it's like if you hadn't。
drank and I mean you were just parched and someone's like do you want to drink。
and I'm like well it depends is it Osaka cuz I only drink drink Fiji or I only。
drink a cincher I don't this I'd be like then you don't get any of my water you're。
ungrateful looking no you take it instantly refreshed because I was so。
dang thirsty yes or no but after 38 years Jesus asked him do you want to be。
healed and instead of giving him an answer like us he gave him an excuse he。
gave him an excuse a victim mentality is the birthplace of excuses write it down。
if you are constantly making excuses trace it and see if it's being birthed。
out of a victim mentality see if you are falling prey to victimization here's the。
excuse I hear in this man's response to Jesus Jesus I can't because got it。
yada yada yada I can't Jesus because one I mean I don't know if you know I've。
been here for a long time - every time the water bubbles up no one's gonna pick。
me up and put me inside well guess what everyone else is sick - they ain't worried。
about you they're trying to get in and hey no one no one will pick me up every。
time that they do the person beats me in I'm like dang it I guess I have to wait。
till next time so then I'm waiting and I'm waiting and I'm waiting I'm so tired。
of waiting instead of giving me an answer he gives him an excuse and God is。
calling some of us tonight he's asking you do you want to be healed do you want。
to be free do you want to be changed and God's asking you to step out in radical。
faith or to give up something or to surrender something or to make a change。
make that move or to break up with that person or to join that church and your。
response is Jesus I can't because I'm too busy Jesus I can't because if he if。
I break up with him then who am I gonna have Jesus I can't make that move I。
don't know anyone I don't know anyone there and instead of saying yes he gives。
an excuse we give an excuse but what's so funny about this excuse is it's。
actually correct when you think about it hey do you want to be healed what's he。
say I can't bingo you got one thing right you can't you and I we cannot heal。
ourselves we're not capable we need Jesus we need Jesus and a victim。
mentality will tell you I can't but a victim mentality says but he can he can。
he can break every chain he can provide peace in the midst of hard circumstances。
he can rewrite that really hard thing that worked that happened to you he can。
you can't but he can but apart from him you're right you can't John 15 5 actually。
proves this when Jesus says I am the vine you are the branches those who。
remain in me and I in them will produce much fruit but apart from me you can do。
nothing you can't but then Matthew 19 26 says Jesus looked at them intently and。
he said humanly speaking left to yourself it is impossible but with God。
everything is impossible or everything is possible。
left to yourself you can do nothing but with God anything is possible your。
response to God says a lot about your view of him how you respond to him says。
a lot about how you view him when he calls you out when he calls you up when。
he calls you to be healed and made new how you respond says a lot about how you。
view him if you're afraid that he's gonna abandon you you'll show that in。
your response if you're afraid that he's gonna hurt you or bait-and-switch or not。
be good like he promises you'll show that in your response your response to。
God says a lot about how you viewed it you view him because can you imagine。
this man clearly didn't know who he was talking to you can see it in his response。
he had a wrong view of Jesus because when Jesus asked you like he's asking。
some of you tonight do you want to be healed your answer every time should be。
yes because I can't I've tried everything I thought the pool I thought。
the people I thought someone picking me up I thought all these different things。
was the solution to my problem but I can't I've run out of options you。
searched at the end of a bottle you search in a relationship you searched in。
success in self-help books and you can't seem to figure out the solution to your。
problem it's because it's standing right in front of you it only comes from one。
source and his name is Jesus his name is Jesus Christ and he's asking you tonight。
do you want to be healed and instead of giving him the answer yes I'm in you're。
bringing him excuses you don't actually want it I think you want to complain I。
think you want to talk about it but you don't want to be about it because I'm。
looking at your response to him and your response to him when he actually calls。
you to do something doesn't match what you say why because we want to be healed。
but we don't want to change we want God to bless us but we don't want to change。
we want God to restore us but we don't want to make moves so many of us claim。
to want to be healed but we don't want to change and that looks like this God。
I'm so tired of being in debt God okay stop spending start saving stop going。
out to eat oh and give generously and trust me with that and don't even look。
at them Golden Goose girls but God I want to be out of debt keep spending。
keep going out keep getting that other drink God would you bring me a spouse I'm。
sick and tired of being single okay you want a godly man start being a godly。
person start changing start changing who you are get up get with me God I'm so。
misunderstood I heard that one I know I said that one no one gets me hugs。
exhausting okay well tell them that trust people and let them in you want me。
to what God I hate my job give me a promotion bless me bring me prosperity。
and riches okay well you can start by at least showing up on time like and fix。
your hair God do something through me like you are clearly doing through them。
all right well how about you start just being with me read your Bible and pray。
every day before I do a work through you I want to be with you but you got to。
make some changes so many of us complain I want to be healed you come to the。
porch time and time again because I want to see change I'm so exhausted I'm so。
tired yet you walk out of here the same and I want to be clear about something。
you don't change to earn your salvation there is always a seat at the table of。
God and he is constantly inviting every single person here tonight to come and。
enjoy the feast with the family of God but he is not gonna pick you up and put。
you on your chair he wants you to pull up the chair and sit down and feast why。
because that's real love anything else would be forced on you it would be a。
robot it wouldn't be a relationship you got to get up pull up the chair and sit。
and dine with the family of God but so many of us like this man yeah I want to。
be healed I mean it shows me like if he's by the pool that's supposed to heal。
people if he's wanting people to pick him up and put him in every time it。
bubbles he's saying he wants to be healed but why is he still there after。
38 years I mean come on surely he could scoot or something he doesn't want to be。
healed so many of us we claim to want to be healed but if you want to be healed。
you got to be willing to change changing requires rearranging getting up making。
moves getting in the word getting in prayer getting with community you got to。
rechange the things in your life the old you has to pass away the new life in。
Christ has to be evident has to come a victim mentality will tell you that。
everyone else and everything else is the problem but you but a victor mentality。
says because Jesus is the solution to my problem I can face whatever lies ahead。
because Jesus is the solution to my problem I can face whatever lies ahead。
but the best part of this story as we're going to wrap up the best part of this。
story is that thankfully Jesus does not meet need this man to view him or。
respond to him rightly for Jesus to respond to him Jesus's response to him。
is not dictated on his response to Jesus because he says I can't yada yada yada。
and Jesus could have been like you know what I'm out on this no what's he do。
what does he say Jesus told him in verse 8 stand up pick up your mat and walk and。
instantly the man was healed he rolled up his sleeping mat and he began walking。
your victim mentality will say to you God can use anyone but me but I see。
right here that's not true if God can pick this random man who have been。
paralyzed and in a victim mentality state for 38 years what makes you think。
that he can't use you he's calling this man to stand up pick up his mat and go。
and to be free and he's calling you to do the same tonight but victim mentality。
is telling you that God could do that with anyone else but me man if you JD if。
you knew what I'd done hey if you knew what I'd done you wouldn't put me here。
but God changed my life he placed me here he picked me up he told me to stand。
up pick up my mat and go and some of you God calls you out and you're like yeah。
he's like do you want to be healed you say all these things you know yeah I。
want to be healed but he calls you to stand up and you're like wait what no no。
no God you can use anyone but but not me I'm I'm actually kind of comfortable。
here I'm kind of comfortable here and I want you to notice something Jesus says。
stand up pick up your mat why would Jesus tell him to pick up his mat people。
who were paralyzed had these mats that this is referring to he had no more he。
had no more use for it he didn't need a mat so why after 38 years of being。
paralyzed you would think that Jesus would say hey yeah forget about that。
leave it behind why did he tell him to pick up his mat and walk well later in。
this story we don't have time to read it but later in the story you're gonna see。
if you keep on reading I would encourage you all to go read it later there's this。
moment where this man is walking he's carrying his mat you know and he's like。
he's feeling himself you know he's free now his legs that all this super strength。
I can't imagine what it's like to be healed by Jesus like that so he's。
walking and these religious leaders known as the known as the Pharisees they。
come forth in like a Pharisee like you read time and time again boy they get on。
my nerves they say this guy was 38 years paralyzed and now he's walking and。
they're not like whoa my guy you're walking what do they say if you read it。
they just say hey why are you carrying your mat on the Sabbath the Sabbath of。
this time was a religious day of the week where in Jewish culture you could。
not work you could not lift anything clearly in the name of praising God but。
the Pharisees made it about religion and not relationship the Sabbath was。
intended to be more intimate with God but they made it about works about。
religion and so they condemned this guy and they shamed this guy they say why。
why are you carrying your mat on the Sabbath and in that moment if this man。
was living in a victim mentality going you're right God can't use me you're。
right I'll just go back I'll go back to my my old paralyzed self you're right。
this is more comfortable anyways this is who I've always been you're right。
I'm like well what do you want me to do like no listen victim mentality would。
have brought him back to the mat and said you're right let me drop it but。
Jesus said stand up pick up your mat and walk so that's what he did why because。
his life had been changed by Jesus he looked at the Pharisees and his response。
his response is not shame his response is not guilt or hiding no he says the。
man named Jesus who healed me told me to do this so I did and I don't really care。
what you have to say you might want to victimize me you want I might want to。
remind me of who I am but guess what I don't really care because the man who。
healed me changed my life and he told me to pick up my mat and walk the mat was。
once a reminder of his paralysis but now this mat is a reminder of God's。
goodness of God's transformation in his life he carries his mat to point people。
to his Savior and Jesus is asking you tonight to stand up be healed quit。
living in a victim mentality and to pick up your mat I don't know what your mat。
is but he's saying stand up pick up that addiction that you once were a slave to。
and go help other people be set free like you have stand up pick up that。
abuse and go help other abuse victims pick up your mat so when people walk by。
and go hey why are you carrying that why are you why are you talking about your。
sin that way why are you talking about these hard things that you've been。
through why are you so free why are you so joyful you say hey hey this mat is。
simply to start this conversation so I can tell you the reason why I could pick。
up this mat is not to say look at the mat but look at my Savior look at my。
healer look at my provider he changed everything I once was a lame man man I。
was laying here for 38 years I thought that was my life I was a victim to。
paralysis but because of Jesus I am Victor I have victory because Jesus the。
ultimate victory healed my life he changed my life and he did it for him he。
can do it for you a victim mentality says God can use anyone but me but a。
victim mentality says God can use anyone even me aka won't he do it he will he。
will he's calling you tonight to rise up take up your mat and walk he wants to。
heal you and he's asking you do you want to be healed and you have an。
opportunity tonight to respond or you can make an excuse and you can fall。
prey to victim mentality or you can say yes that's all it takes trust surrender。
and if you say yes if you're willing to go yes I'll listen and when Jesus says。
hey stand up take up your mat and walk be changed therefore if anyone is in。
Christ he is a new creation the old passes away behold the new has come and。
if you will stand up and pick up your mat and walk watch what he'll do watch。
what he'll do with that step of going I don't want to be a victim anymore I。
don't want to be a slave to my past I don't want to be prey to my。
circumstances I'm gonna live in the freedom that the victory of the blood of。
Jesus offers and he's saying good then stand up pick up your mat and walk and。
so before I ask you to do that I want to pick up my mat and I want to show you。
and tell you about a part of my story that held me down for so long it was。
sixth grade fifth grade going into sixth grade I was at a church event and we。
were playing some game as late at night and I was sexually abused by a guy in。
high school and after the encounter I was nervous and I pulled away and it was。
weird and he said hey do not tell anyone they'll think that you're weird they'll。
think that you're gay they will shame you don't think you're disgusting your。
parents will be so mad at you do not tell anyone right after that you know。
what happened I was bullied significantly bullied for liking clothes。
in a country town for liking to sing for liking to dance I was told hey you're。
gay you're all these different things then after that I was introduced to。
masturbation and pornography by a guy my age boom boom boom and I hit it being a。
pastor's kid in a small town I didn't believe that I was able to get up and。
take up my math if anyone knew if anyone knew what would my dad say what would my。
mom say what would people say everything everything will be ruined I will never。
come back from this and that's what victim mentality told me that God can。
use anyone but me until one day my freshman year of college I've been in。
spaces like this all my life but for whatever reason on that day out of the。
crowd like this Jesus chose me and he said hey do you want to be healed do you。
want to rise up and take up that mat of abuse and help people be set free and I。
was afraid but I said yes I said yes and I stood up and I picked up that mat and。
I began to tell one and then two and then groups and guess what guess how。
many people said me too me too me too and the thing that defined me for so。
long it went from defining me to simply describing me it was no longer the。
points of my life but just simply a part of my life that God used and he is using。
to not only heal me but to heal others because he he is where ultimate victory。
is found and the day that I said yes to him everything changed and he did it for。
me he can do it for you he did it for this man and he wants to do it for you。
he's asking you tonight do you want to be healed and your response is to say。
yes and he'll say to you then rise up pick up your mat no longer a victim but。
a victor because of what I have done on the cross because I have claimed victory。
over your sin and the abuse and the porn and the hookups and the drugs and the。
pride because I have claimed victory over that by defeating sin and rising。
from the grave you don't have to be a victim RIP to victim mentality and say。
yes to victory in Jesus and only Jesus if you want to be healed tonight rise up。
take up your mat and follow him let's pray。
God thank you Jesus thank you Jesus for rewriting stories for taking messy past。
and awful stories and circumstances and sins and secrets and covering them with。
your blood so that we can be new for the person tonight like I was who believed。
for so long that this is just the way it is this is who you are and no one can。
ever know and because of this God can use them but he can't use you for the。
person who is believing that lie fed from victim mentality would you break it。
tonight in Jesus name with the cross of Jesus Christ with the empty tomb rewrite。
their story but tonight be the night that they say yes and when they rise up。
take up that mat and make that courageous step to follow you would you。
give them the strength would they know right now that out of this crowd you see。
them you see them and you're asking them do you want to be healed and would you。
give them the strength to say yes not because I can but because he can because。
of you Jesus you make all things new maybe worship and live like that so your。
name that I pray amen。
