[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[APPLAUSE]。
Howdy, Porch.。
How we doing?。
[CHEERING]。
Hey, I love your state.。
I'm-- Florida's kind of like the Texas of the East.。
Amen.。
Hey, if you got your Bibles, I'm not going to do an intro.。
I want to leave enough time to respond rightly.。
So we're just going to dive in.。
Tyler, thank you so much.。
Tyler, thank you for the invitation.。
It's a huge honor.。
People all over the world know about what's。
happening in this place right here.。
So it is a huge honor to be here with you.。
I'm going to be in two places in the scriptures.。
Matthew chapter 17 is where we're going to start.。
And then we're going to jump over to Mark chapter 9.。
It's the same event, just from two different perspectives.。
And we're going to dive right in.。
If you're kind of in the gifted class,。
you'll be very familiar with these texts.。
This is the mountain of transfiguration。
is where we're going to start.。
Matthew chapter 17 starts out this way.。
And after six days, Jesus took with him Peter and James。
and John, his brother, and led them to a high mountain。
by themselves.。
Now, one of the things you're going to notice if you do Bible。
study is that Jesus always brings Peter, James, and John。
along with him.。
Like this little girl dies, and he。
goes to resurrect her from the dead.。
And he only lets three dudes in the room, Peter, James,。
and John.。
On the night that Jesus was crucified。
in the Garden of Gethsemane, he invites three dudes。
to come a little further and pray with him,。
Peter, James, and John.。
And I know the younger you are, the more likely。
you're going to feel like, well, that's not fair.。
So you might want to write this down.。
Fairness is not a biblical value.。
God does what he wants with who he wants when he wants.。
And so a lot of commentators will say,。
well, the reason that Jesus picks these three。
is because they're his favorite.。
Well, I disagree.。
I think these are the three that can't be trusted alone.。
That's what I think.。
I did student ministry for about 15 years,。
and there's just some students you can't leave alone.。
So I think what's going on is Jesus。
is about to go up on the mountain to transfigure himself。
before the Father.。
And he's like, all right, disciples,。
you guys stay down here and write a worship song。
or whatever you're going to do.。
Peter, James, John, get in the truck.。
They can't be left alone.。
Now, you may be thinking, well, I。
don't know if you know this, Pastor,。
but John was Jesus's favorite.。
John was the one that Jesus loved the most.。
And I'll give you that, but that only shows up。
in the gospel of John, written by John.。
So I don't think you get to give yourself your own nickname.。
Does that make sense?。
And so these three, which by the way, if you see this,。
this is good news for the rest of us, amen?。
That God can use a bunch of busted up, broken nobodies。
to turn the world upside down.。
And so he takes Peter, James, and John,。
and he leads them up on a high mountain, verse two,。
and he was transfigured before them.。
We don't even know what all this means.。
This is a metaphysical reality。
where Jesus is still recognizable, but he's different.。
That he is putting his glory on display.。
They know it's Jesus, but he looks different.。
My friend Chris Brown, a pastor in San Diego,。
he says it this way, that his divinity is bursting forth。
through his humanity, and that the true miracle。
is not that he displayed his glory on the mountain,。
but that he shrouded his glory with flesh。
for the last 33 years.。
And the Bible says that his face shone like the sun,。
and his clothes became as white as light.。
Luke is gonna say that his clothes were,。
and his face was as bright as lightning.。
What's interesting, Mark, Mark just says。
that his clothes became radiant, intensely white,。
as no one on earth could even bleach them.。
Now, Mark can be a little understated.。
And I don't know if this is how this works,。
but I imagine when Matthew and Luke and Mark,。
they all get to heaven, and they're like,。
"Hey, man, do you remember the mountain of transfiguration?"。
And they're like, "Oh, I totally remember that.。
"That was awesome."。
And they're talking about what they jotted down,。
and Luke's like, "Matthew, what did you say?"。
And Matthew's saying, "Listen, man,。
"I was just trying to think of the most intense,。
"brightest thing in the world,。
"and all I could think of is it was like,。
"it would be like if the sun was shining forth。
"right in our face.。
"What about you, Luke?"。
And Luke is like, "Man, have you ever been walking around。
"on a really dark night, and just out of nowhere,。
"a big flashlight, it makes your eyes hurt.。
"What about you, Mark?"。
Mark was like, "Tied with bleach."。
That's the best he could come up with.。
But what's happening here is Jesus。
is allowing his glory to shine through.。
He's transfigured himself.。
This is a really, really big deal.。
And then in verse three,。
"And behold, there appeared to them Moses。
"and Elijah talking with him."。
Now, because you're evangelical Texans in 2026,。
when I say that Moses and Elijah showed up,。
you're just like, "Oh, that's neat.。
"I've heard of them in Sunday school."。
But I don't think you understand.。
You see, these Jewish boys show up on the mountain,。
and I'm not sure how it works.。
The Bible doesn't exactly explain it,。
but like, I don't know, out of the ground,。
it's like, and then there's a guy with a beard。
and a staff and some tablets, and they're like, "Moses!"。
I mean, this is the one that wrote the law.。
This is a really, really big deal.。
He's been gone for 1,300 years,。
and out of nowhere, Moses just appears.。
And then next to him, just out of the ground,。
and they're like, "You know, it's a guy with a beard。
"and a staff and a name tag.。
"It says Elijah."。
I don't know, fire from heaven.。
And he is like the greatest of all the prophets.。
These would have been the superheroes of the first century.。
And the disciples have to be losing their mind,。
and what they don't understand。
that's actually going on here。
is the personification of the scriptures itself。
is playing itself out right in front of 'em.。
In Romans chapter three, the apostle Paul is gonna write,。
"And no one, by obedience to the law,。
"will be justified in the sight of God,。
"although the law and the prophets bear witness to it,。
"and the it is an alien righteousness。
"that's gonna come and do for us。
"what we cannot do for ourselves."。
Do you realize that's what's happening on the mountain?。
Moses, the writer of the law,。
and Elijah, the greatest of all the prophets,。
are bearing witness to the Christ。
who has come to take away our sin.。
That is the event.。
This is a really, really, really big deal.。
And in the midst of this incredible event。
where Moses has appeared and Elijah has appeared。
and Jesus' face is shining like the sun,。
who do you think's gonna speak up?。
You know who always talks most and who always talks first?。
Peter.。
Don't you love the apostle Peter?。
Here's what happens.。
Verse four, "And Peter said to Jesus,"。
dude, I love this so much.。
Can you get it in your mind?。
I don't feel like you got it in your mind.。
You're on the top of this mountain.。
Jesus' face is glowing like the sun.。
Elijah's on the scene.。
Moses is on the scene bearing witness to the Christ.。
And Peter goes, "This might be a good opportunity。
"for me to say a couple words."。
And then he sticks his dumb head in there and goes,。
"It is good that we are here."。
It is good that we are here.。
Fellas, you ever say something dumb?。
And as the dumb is leaving your head,。
you're like, "Oh, no.。
"I just said the quiet part.。
"I'll say it out loud.。
"I mean, everybody else in this class。
"or this meeting assumed I was an idiot,。
"and now I have confirmed their suspicions。
"by saying dumb stuff."。
You ever say it?。
'Cause words are like toothpaste, man.。
You can't get 'em back in the tube.。
Once they're out, they're out.。
And what do men always do?。
They go, "Oh, I know what will work for my dumb words.。
"More words."。
It never works.。
And so Peter says, "Lord, it is good that we are here.。
"And if you wish, I will make three tents here,。
"one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah."。
You see, 'cause Peter is wrapped up in the moment.。
Peter loves the moment.。
The way Mark describes this in Mark chapter nine,。
it says this, "Rabbi, it is good that we are here.。
"Let us make three tents, one for you, one for Moses,。
"and one for Elijah, for he did not know what to say,。
"for they were terrified."。
Hey, man, whether you believe in Jesus or not,。
this is just a good Bible tip for you.。
When you don't know what to say, just don't.。
Just don't say.。
But Peter is loving this moment.。
Peter is wrapped up in the mountaintop moment.。
And let me tell you, man, moments matter.。
Moments change everything.。
And Peter's like, "Dude, this is awesome.。
"I mean, boss, why don't we just stay up here forever?。
"I, what, why don't, I'll tell you what,。
"I'll start making tents.。
"I'll make one for you, one for Mo, one for Eli."。
I mean, he's like the Oprah of tents.。
He's like, "You get a tent, and you get a tent,。
"and you get a tent," because what he wants to do。
is he just wants to sit and soak。
in the mountaintop moment forever.。
And again, moments matter, dude.。
That's why you show up on Tuesday.。
Like, don't diminish what is happening in this moment.。
This is what the church fathers used to call。
the thin place where heaven meets earth,。
that when the people of God get together。
and make much of Jesus, he manifests himself。
in a different way.。
I know God is omnipresent, and he's everywhere at all times,。
but he shows up in a different place。
when his children show up to make much of him.。
But here's the problem.。
Jesus doesn't stay up on the mountaintop.。
You see, because most of the work。
is gonna happen down in the valley,。
and don't ever forget that.。
Tuesday nights at the porch matter.。
You need to meet face-to-face with Jesus.。
It matters, so that he can minister to you,。
so that when you leave this place,。
you are filled up, and then you can go。
and minister to the people who are hurting。
and in need of Jesus.。
Verse five, "And while he," that's Peter,。
"is still speaking," like he just can't stop.。
"And while he was still speaking,。
"then behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them,。
"and a voice in the cloud said,。
"This is my beloved son with whom I am well pleased.。
"Listen to him."。
By the way, that's Hebrew for, "Shut up."。
Listen, it's really hard to hear from the Lord。
when you're doing all the talking.。
You ever notice that?。
You ever have some thing in your life,。
you're like, "I just need to pray about it."。
And then you do all the talking?。
'Cause sometimes we pray like idiots.。
You ever know this?。
You just start informing God of all the details.。
"Hey, God, I don't know if you're aware of this,。
"the Dow Jones is down."。
He's like, "Yeah, I know."。
And we just talk and talk and talk and talk,。
and Peter just will not be quiet.。
And then God the Father shows up and he says,。
"Hey, man, listen to him."。
Verse six, "And when the disciples heard this,。
"they fell on their face and they were terrified."。
And if I had time to go through it,。
I would let you know that Matthew。
is writing to a Jewish audience.。
Matthew is trying to help his Jewish readers。
understand that Jesus is the greater Israel,。
Jesus is the greater Moses.。
And if you go back to Exodus 19 and 20,。
Moses goes up, he waits six days,。
he goes up on to Mount Sinai,。
three named people go up with him.。
But God said, "You gotta concentrate yourself.。
"And if you come up here on this mountain。
"where I'm gonna give the 10 commandments,。
"if you are not perfect or holy, I'm gonna kill you."。
And now Peter, James, and John are sitting there,。
Peter opens his dumb mouth,。
and then God the Father shows up,。
shuts down the transfiguration,。
and they're like, "Uh-oh, we're dead men."。
They fall on their face。
'cause they think they're going to die.。
Verse seven, "But Jesus came and touched them saying,。
"Rise and have no fear."。
You know what the most commanded thing is。
in all of the Bible?。
Fear not.。
In the King James version of the Bible,。
there's at least 366 times where there's some version of,。
"Do not fear, do not be afraid, fear not,。
"be anxious for nothing."。
Why?。
Because I don't know about you,。
but every single day of my life,。
including leap year, I need to hear from God Almighty,。
"Don't be afraid, I got you."。
But Jesus came and touched them saying,。
"Rise and have no fear."。
You see, the Bible says that this is love.。
Not that we first loved God,。
but God first loved us and sent his Son。
as the propitiation for our sin.。
Say propitiation.。
Say it one more time, propitiation.。
Propitiation is the theological term。
that means a payment that satisfies.。
Now, when I planted our church,。
I was told that your generation。
couldn't learn theological terminology,。
but I fully believe that if you can order。
a venti caramel macchiato, you can learn propitiation.。
Propitiation.。
Here's what it means, a payment that satisfies,。
which means this.。
Try to hang on to this for a second.。
See, some of you think God's mad at you,。
but if you put your faith in Jesus Christ,。
then you have received his righteousness.。
And if Jesus is the payment that satisfies,。
this means he cannot be dissatisfied in you.。
He's not mad at you.。
He poured out his full wrath on his Son on the cross.。
And when they lifted up their eyes,。
they saw no one but Jesus only.。
By the way, that's how you get over fear.。
You fix your eyes on Jesus.。
And then the things of this world grow strangely dim.。
And as they were coming down the mountain。
after this incredible moment, they heard the voice of God.。
They saw Jesus in a transfigured, glorified state.。
They saw Moses.。
They saw Elijah.。
This is a mountaintop moment.。
And as they were coming down the mountain,。
Jesus commanded them, tell no one the vision。
until the Son of Man has raised from the dead.。
For the rest of the chapter, he explains the gospel to 'em,。
and he basically says, keep this to yourself 'til Easter,。
and then after Easter, tell the world.。
Flip over to Mark chapter nine.。
And the only reason I wanna do this,。
the Bible doesn't have stories.。
The Bible records actual events,。
and Mark decides to share some different details。
about the events that happened.。
This is the same event.。
Mountain of Transfiguration.。
They're walking down the mountain.。
They're not meant to sit and soak up on the mountain。
because the ministry happens down in the valley.。
And when they get down in the valley,。
here's what they run into.。
If we'll pick it up in Mark nine, beginning in verse 14.。
It says, "And when they came to the disciples,。
"they saw a great crowd around them.。
"And scribes arguing with them.。
"And immediately, all the crowd, when they saw him,"。
that's Jesus, "they were greatly amazed,。
"and they ran up to him, and they greeted him.。
"And he," being Jesus, "asked them,。
"what are you arguing about with them?。
"And they don't answer, 'cause they know they're in trouble.。
"And someone from the crowd answered him,。
"Teacher, I brought my son to you,。
"for he has a spirit that makes him mute,。
"and whenever it seizes him, it throws him down,。
"and he foams, and he grinds his teeth,。
"and he becomes rigid, and so I ask your disciples。
"to cast it out.'。
"And they were not able."。
Now again, man, if you grew up in church,。
you already know the way this thing ends,。
but I don't want you to run to the end too quickly,。
and I don't want you to think about this as a story,。
'cause it's not a story.。
It's not, this is an actual event.。
Like this is a real dad, with a real name,。
and a permanent address, and he had a job,。
and he had a wife, and he's got a kid,。
and he's got some serious kid pain.。
And you just kind of have to trust me on this one.。
If you're a parent, you know what I'm talking about.。
But there ain't no pain like kid pain.。
There ain't no pain like kid pain.。
I don't know how to describe it,。
but the reason there's no pain like kid pain。
is 'cause there's no love like kid love.。
I'm just telling you, I've been married。
to Gretchen right here for 26 years.。
If you look at her and you look at me,。
you will know that James was right,。
and when he said, "The prayers of a righteous man。
"availeth much," by God.。
And so, that means she's way better looking to me, all right?。
And I love her so much, and if I tell her too much,。
I'll get all weepy-eyed, and my chin will shake,。
and whatever, and I love her.。
But when we found out we were having babies,。
oh my God, one of the happiest days of my whole life.。
We were pregnant, mostly her,。
but I would go to all the meetings, all right?。
(congregation laughing)。
And we go to this one, I can't remember。
how many weeks in it is, and all that stuff,。
but we go to the doctor where you find out。
the sex of the child, oof.。
And so, I go in there, and they lay her on the table,。
and they put that goopy stuff on the belly, man,。
and they got this little magic wand,。
and go, "Whoa," you know?。
And you're looking at a TV.。
And I'm in there just staring at that thing.。
She's like, "What do you see?"。
And I'm like, "Baby, it don't look good.。
"I think we're having E.T.。
"This don't look, it looks like a gummy bear.。
"It's terrible."。
And then, the little doctor, this little lady was a doctor,。
she was, you know, whatever, this lady,。
she's about this tall, and she goes,。
"Congratulations, Mr. Martin, it's a boy."。
And dude, I got so excited, I scooped her up.。
I picked her up off the ground.。
Gradually said, "Put her down."。
So I put her down.。
I was so pumped, man, to have a boy.。
I called my daddy, I said, "Daddy, I made a boy."。
That's what I said.。
You know what he said?。
"Son, I knew you had it in you."。
That's what he said back.。
(audience laughing)。
And then, it's the day of the delivery.。
It's not awesome.。
Don't let 'em lie to you.。
It's a little bit of a train wreck,。
but you're not ready for it, but whatever.。
So, when all that stuff was over,。
and they wrapped up that little thing, man.。
I named him, I named him after me.。
I'm the third, Joseph A. Martin III.。
My dad's junior.。
I was almost junior, junior.。
That happens where I'm from.。
And so, I named him the fourth.。
We're into me at my house, at least I am.。
And they wrap him up in that little burrito of love,。
and they hand you your little kid, man.。
And you look at him, and you think, "Oh, my goodness."。
I mean, it's actually a reflection。
of the character and nature of God,。
that God joined me and Gretchen together as one,。
and out of an overflow of our love for one another.。
We have image bearers.。
Like, this happened.。
And then, I just, I looked at him, and he had a skullet.。
You know what a skullet is?。
It's like, bald on top, mullet in the back.。
You can tell I'm from the country,。
and I was like, "You can take the boy out of the country,。
"but look at mine, son, look."。
(audience laughing)。
Four years later, we find out we're pregnant again.。
Again, mostly Gretchen, but I went to all the meetings.。
And we're back at the little doctor lady's office。
with the goopy stuff on there.。
Whoa, doing the thing, you know?。
And she said, "Congratulations, Mr. Martin, it's a girl."。
And I went, "All right."。
Gretchen said, "You gonna be okay?"。
I said, "I'm gonna be okay."。
Now, listen, there's no greater thing。
than being a girl dad, okay?。
Reagan Capri, my 16-year-old, is right there.。
There's nothing on the planet like it.。
But you just kinda got a cowboy up。
a little extra these days, all right?。
And, girls, not 'cause of you, 'cause of these stinky things。
sitting next to you, that's the problem, amen?。
So, I'm back in the room, I know what to expect,。
so I do not go south of the top of the bed.。
Occasionally, I drop in like Spider-Man,。
like, "How you doing, baby?。
"All right, I'll be back here."。
And then, finally, Reagan Capri's here.。
By the way, she was born, she was seven pounds on the nose.。
In the Bible, that's the number of perfection, praise God.。
And they wrap up little Reagan Capri.。
But here's the thing, here's the thing.。
Nobody tells you this, if you have more than one kid,。
you can't ask this out loud,。
'cause you'll sound like a terrible human being.。
But I begin to think, "Oh, no.。
"Am I gonna be able to love the second one。
"like I loved the first one?"。
Because I didn't dole out my love very equally.。
When we had our son, I just gave all that I had。
to give to him, am I gonna have anything left。
to give to the next one?。
And when they handed me little Reagan Capri, man,。
wrapped up in this little pink burrito of love,。
and I looked at her in the face,。
and I thought two things simultaneously.。
I would die for you, and I would make somebody die for you.。
(congregation laughing)。
And here's what I knew in that moment, man.。
That even though I gave all the love。
that I thought I had to give to my first son,。
when we had our daughter, I still had all the love to give,。
because God is love, and love is an inexhaustible resource.。
And that's how I feel about my kids.。
This dad is no different.。
This dad is no different.。
And he's utterly desperate.。
And he's heard rumors that this Jesus can walk on water,。
and calm the seas, and feed thousands。
with just a little lunchable, that he cast out demons.。
And now this dad is thinking, what if it's true?。
I mean, what if it's true?。
Just in case the rumors are true,。
then I'm gonna try to get my boy to this miracle worker,。
and maybe, just maybe, he can do something about it.。
And then the sad thing is, when he gets there,。
Jesus is on the mountain of transfiguration,。
but he's like, no problem, here are his disciples.。
Maybe they can help.。
But instead of helping the people in need,。
they're fighting over something.。
Which, sad to say, it is a picture of the modern-day church.。
A bunch of churches arguing with each other online。
about who's not doing it right, denominational battles.。
Meanwhile, the people in the greatest need。
are being left out, because church people。
are just fighting with each other。
about who's not doing it right.。
And Jesus is aggravated.。
And this man is absolutely desperate.。
And so he says, teacher, I brought my son to you.。
And your guys were no help at all.。
'Cause there's a demon that is torturing him.。
And Jesus answered them, oh, faithless generation.。
He's not mad at the dad, he's mad at his disciples.。
He says, how long am I to be with you?。
How long am I to bear with you?。
Bring him to me, telling the disciples,。
what is wrong with you, man?。
I'm one prayer away, all you have to do is reach out to me.。
What are you doing?。
And so he looks at the dad and says, bring your boy to me.。
And they brought the boy to him,。
and when the spirit saw him, immediately,。
it convulsed the boy, and he fell on the ground,。
and he rolled about, foaming at the mouth.。
By the way, one of the things you'll notice,。
if you pay attention in the gospels,。
is that the demonic are always the first。
to recognize Jesus for who he is,。
and the religious are the last.。
Pay very close attention to that.。
Because the demons see him for who he really is,。
and the religious can't, because Jesus does not fit。
in their religious construct.。
So you're not doing it right.。
And then Jesus asked his father,。
how long has this been happening to him?。
And the dad says, from childhood.。
Not birth, from childhood.。
There are Greek words for birth.。
So you know what this means?。
That, just like me and Gretchen,。
when they came home from giving birth to this kid,。
and they bring their kid home,。
and they've got hopes, and they've got dreams,。
and they've got plans, and they're just relishing。
in the blessing of God, and everything's going great。
for a while, and then at some point, something's off.。
Something begins to go wrong.。
And they're like, oh no, oh no.。
And then it gets worse, and it gets worse,。
and it gets worse, and then the dad gives this testimony.。
It is often cast him into the fire,。
and into the water, to destroy him.。
I don't know if you've ever been to Israel.。
I've been a bunch of times.。
And if you go up to the Sea of Galilee,。
guess what, there is everywhere.。
There's fire and there's water.。
They didn't have microwaves and convection ovens.。
There's open flame everywhere,。
and they're on the Sea of Galilee,。
and basically what the dad is saying is,。
the enemy is trying to take my boy's life。
every step of every day of his life.。
And then the dad's gonna make a request.。
I want you to do your best to try to put yourself。
in his seat for just a second.。
And here's what the dad says.。
But if you can do anything, have compassion on us.。
He didn't even say just have compassion on my son,。
because you know, if you ever had a loved one in need,。
you ever have a loved one with an addiction,。
ever have a loved one, somebody, a brother, a sister,。
a mom or a dad, a niece or a nephew。
that was just gripped by anxiety, it affects us.。
And he says, if you can do anything, have compassion on us.。
Now, notice what he does.。
He does not try to make a deal with Jesus.。
There's no quid pro quo here, you know what I mean?。
He doesn't say, all right, Jesus, all right, Rabbi,。
I'll make you a deal.。
How about I show up to church three weeks in a row,。
then will you give me what I'm asking for?。
He doesn't say, maybe if I figure out。
the right combination of prayer to ask and I get it right.。
Maybe if I leave a little extra in the giving basket.。
Maybe if I help somebody in need,。
maybe then you will hook me up, no, no, no.。
He simply asked Jesus for a favor.。
Jesus, will you just do something for me?。
Not because I deserve it, not because I earn it,。
but I'm just asking, verse 23.。
And Jesus said to him, if you can,。
all things are possible for the one who believes.。
All things are possible for the one who believes.。
And then pay very close attention。
to the exact words in the scripture.。
There's not one out of place.。
And immediately, the father of the child cried out.。
Jesus says, out of an overflow of the heart,。
the mouth speaks.。
So when he says, he says, Jesus, if you can, if you can,。
will you please help us?。
And Jesus says, if I can, all things are possible。
for the one who believes.。
And immediately, the dad cries out.。
This is not a little I have an unspoken prayer request。
in group, that's not what this is.。
That from his guts, from his heart, he cries out,。
I believe, help my unbelief.。
This might be the most honest prayer in all of the Bible.。
I believe, and I don't believe at the same time.。
And I need you to help me with that.。
I mean, I believe and I wanna believe,。
but if I'm being honest, my belief is like this big,。
and I got a big pile of circumstances over here,。
and they got all of my time and effort and energy,。
and I wanna believe, but I'm not sure if I do or not.。
I believe, help my unbelief.。
You ever been there?。
Now, I know this is church, this is no time to be honest.。
But have you ever been there?。
Like Jesus can handle whatever you wanna throw at him.。
Like, listen to me, porch, fake you's doing just fine.。
You'll leave her on Instagram, she looks great.。
But a real Jesus down on the real cross for the real you.。
And you trust him, and he can really change everything。
about everything about everything.。
You ever been there?。
I mean, I've been in ministry full time for 30, 40 years.。
I've been there.。
Gretchen's sister, my sister-in-law,。
they're pregnant with their first kid.。
And one day she didn't feel the baby moving,。
and she goes to the doctor and there's no heartbeat.。
It's like 35 weeks, 34 weeks, something like that.。
And then they had insult to injury.。
She has to birth her dead baby boy.。
And listen, man, I can give you the theological reasons。
about the fact that we live in a broken world。
and everything is cursed, and I get all that.。
But I'm like, Lord, come on now, what are you doing?。
I mean, I believe, I believe,。
but Maggie and Justin are just good godly people.。
They just wanna have a baby and raise a little disciple.。
God, I believe, but you gotta help me with my unbelief.。
We had a 15-year-old girl at our church.。
She got saved on a Sunday, and three weeks later,。
she's in the children's hospital with a rare brain disease.。
And she had all the cool points, man.。
She was the coolest kid in school and a cheerleader,。
and everybody followed her.。
She's bringing all her friends to church.。
She's been a Christian for four weeks.。
And I go to visit her, and I'm like, all right, Lord,。
I've got this figured out.。
You ever have it figured out?。
Give God your game plan?。
I'm like, how about this?。
This is what we ought to do, okay?。
I'm gonna walk in to Wilson's Children's Hospital.。
I got some anointing, 'cause that's what the Bible says do.。
I'm gonna pray for Mackenzie.。
I'm gonna pray that she comes up out of this coma,。
and then I'm gonna take her by the hand。
and walk by these 300 high school kids。
that are hanging out in the lobby,。
and everybody's gonna put their faith in you.。
That seems like it'll work.。
And she passed away two days later.。
You ever been there?。
Come on, Lord, what are you doing?。
I mean, I believe, but you gotta help me with this, man.。
I mean, you accidentally hear the lady one time in the Bible.。
I read it.。
You're just walking up in Capernaum,。
and you're like, all right, who touched me?。
If you go hear her accidentally,。
how about I do this one on purpose,。
and people will come to know you?。
Four years ago, I'm hunting with my best friend,。
who I led to Christ, baptized him on a mission trip.。
He spent all of his life building the campuses。
of the church that I planted.。
That's what he does.。
Oh, you think he was doing stuff with the kingdom?。
He literally built all the seats。
that the people will get saved in at our church.。
And we're in Scotland, chasing after Red Stag,。
and my boy Bradley goes down with a heart attack.。
He's like 55 years old.。
I said, I believe, but Lord,。
I need you to help me with my unbelief.。
I just don't understand it.。
God, what are you doing?。
When a godly person gets cancer,。
you ever think about that?。
You're like, Lord, what are you doing?。
Why do you give godly people cancer?。
If I was you, terrorists would get cancer.。
That's how that would work.。
It'd be easy.。
They'd be like, I got a plan,。
but that's how that would work every single time.。
And here's what's incredible.。
This man's prayer,。
he doesn't rip open his jacket。
and there's like a super F for faith right here。
with his cape blowing in the wind.。
He's like, I believe no matter what.。
That's not what he does.。
It's like, I believe.。
I need you to help my unbelief.。
And what Jesus does not say to the man,。
he doesn't say, depart from me, O faithless one,。
and when you get your faith level up to a miracle,。
then come back to see me。
and maybe I can do something for you.。
That's not what he does.。
He's gonna meet the man exactly where he is.。
The man says, I believe, help my unbelief.。
And when Jesus saw that a crowd came running together,。
he rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it,。
you mutant spirit, I command you,。
come out of him and never enter him again.。
And after crying out and convulsing him terribly,。
it came out and the boy was like a corpse。
so that most of them said, he's dead.。
But Jesus took him by the hand and lifted him up。
and he arose, by the way, that's a foreshadowing of Easter,。
what Jesus was gonna do.。
And when he had entered the house,。
the disciples asked him privately,。
why couldn't we cast it out?。
And Jesus said to them,。
this kind cannot be driven out by anything but prayer.。
So let me ask you something.。
For you, is prayer a first response or a last resort?。
Like that thing you're dealing with.。
And you're like, well, I mean, I prayed about it.。
Like, did you really?。
Did you just inform God what was going on。
or did like Peter instructs us,。
did you cast all of your cares upon him?。
And what that word, when Peter in 1 Peter 5 uses that,。
cast means like to throw hard.。
And too many of us cast our cares upon him。
like you cast a rotten reel.。
We come up to the altar, we kneel down,。
we throw it to him and then we reel it back up,。
put it in our pocket and take it back home with us.。
He says, this kind can only be cast out by prayer.。
Let me ask it to you this way.。
If the Holy Spirit left your house,。
how long would it take for you to notice?。
Like, have you been operating your life。
on good conservative American moral principles。
or have you been operating in the power of the spirit of God。
because you bring it to him in prayer?。
The whole prayer, the honest parts.。
You see, here's what I want you to understand.。
That God does not reveal himself to us in moments like this。
just so we can sit and soak it up on the mountaintop,。
but it is so that we can be sent to go and serve on mission。
wherever he sends us.。
So I'm believing, when I got asked to do this,。
I just started praying for you.。
Just started praying for you and God led me to this text.。
And I think there's some people in the room right now。
and you're like the dad.。
You believe, but you need some help with your unbelief.。
Like you did the right thing, man.。
You were in youth group and then you went to college,。
did the college ministry thing.。
You studied hard, you got a degree。
and now you're trying to get a job and you can't get a job.。
And you're like, what the heck, God?。
My dumb fraternity brothers have jobs。
and they just wrecked their whole life and I love you.。
I go to the porch on Tuesday night and I don't have a job.。
God, what are you doing?。
Or maybe you're single and lonely.。
And you're like, Lord, I know I keep telling you。
that I'm satisfied in you,。
but I sure would like to be with somebody else too.。
Maybe some of you have a health issue。
and you wanna believe, you wanna believe。
and you're trying to believe and you do some,。
but then you also, as you look over here, man,。
the next doctor visit and you're waiting on the next scan。
and these things are coming up and man, all of your time。
and your faith and your energy are going into the unbelief。
and you just not a lot of belief or maybe it's a loss。
of a loved one and you just wanna look at God。
and be like, what are you doing?。
This is a huge one in your generation.。
Some of you are gripped by fear and anxiety.。
It's an epidemic, man, that you can barely make a decision。
because there's like this thing that just has a grip on you.。
And preachers like me don't help。
'cause we just quote Philippians 4, 6 and 7 to you.。
The Bible says, be anxious for nothing.。
So you struggle with anxiety, be like, uh-huh, okay, don't.。
Like, well, that's not helpful.。
But you know what Paul goes on to say,。
but by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving,。
make your request unto God.。
That's just four ways in Greek, say pray, pray, pray, pray.。
Some of you are gripped by fear.。
Some of you have a besetting sin。
and you're like, why can't I shake this thing, man?。
I mean, Jesus, I love you and I don't wanna do this thing。
and I don't feel like I'm gonna do this thing。
and then sure enough, four days after the porch,。
I keep walking back down this road again.。
God, I believe, but I need you to help me with my unbelief.。
Some of you are brokenhearted 'cause of a broken。
relationship, it could be with a family member。
or somebody that you just knew was the one。
and now they ain't the one.。
Like, God, what are you doing?。
For some of you, you know cognitively。
that when you put your faith in Jesus,。
he forgives all of your sin.。
You just don't think it counts for that one。
that you can't let yourself on the mantle.。
Some of you are believing the lies of the enemy。
'cause he wants you to believe when you hear the gospel。
that that counts for those good church kids。
sitting next to you but not for you。
'cause he knows what you did。
and that he continuously tries to bring up。
the scars of your past.。
Like that affair, that abortion, that paid for abortion.。
And you wanna believe that when Jesus died on the cross。
and you put your faith in him, he was the propitiation。
for your sin, the payment that satisfies.。
You wanna believe it but you just don't。
'cause the enemy keeps trying to define you。
by the worst day of your life.。
And he says, that's just who you are.。
I got some really good news for you.。
Only Jesus gets to tell you who you are.。
Did you know that?。
Only Jesus gets to tell you who you are.。
And he says that you're a son of the most high king.。
He says that you're more than a conqueror.。
He says that you've been bought and paid for。
and that your slate has been wiped clean。
and you have been adopted into the family of God.。
You see, when the enemy tries to define you by your scars,。
you've got to remind him you're defined by scars。
but not yours.。
You're defined by the scars of Jesus Christ.。
I mean, think about this, man.。
The book of Revelation says that when we get to see him。
face-to-face, he will wipe away every tear.。
You know what that means?。
We're gonna come face-to-face with the resurrected,。
ascended, glorified Christ and when we get there,。
he is going to wipe away every tear.。
Everybody wipe away tears or fellas,。
remember when your mama would wipe away your tears?。
Every mama does it the same, right?。
Two thumbs up, palms to the face。
and they go into the inside.。
Then what do they do?。
They do the little windshield wiper, squeak, right?。
What is the thing you're gonna see from Jesus。
when he wipes away your tears?。
You're going to see his scars that gave him the right。
to tell you who you are, to forgive you of your sin。
and to wipe away those fears.。
Some of you believe, but you need help with your unbelief.。
Some of you are oppressed by the demonic.。
You suffer with an addiction。
and it feels like a chain around your neck.。
And I know, I know, save the emails.。
I'm not gonna read them anyway, but save the emails。
'cause every time somebody will say to me,。
"Pastor, you mean to tell me in 2026,。
"you believe in the demonic?"。
Mm-hmm, I do.。
You don't?。
What do you think the condition of our world is?。
Just poor decision-making and education?。
That's what you think it is?。
Have you ever met somebody, known somebody。
or are somebody that suffers with an addiction?。
Well, how would you describe that?。
There's this thing that you don't wanna do。
when you've promised, "I'm not gonna do that.。
"I'm not gonna drink it anymore。
"and I'm not gonna smoke it anymore。
"and I'm not gonna take it anymore.。
"I'm not gonna look at it anymore.。
"I'm not going down that road anymore."。
And you mean it and you believe it.。
And yet in that moment, there's like there's a force。
other than you forcing you down a path。
that you know is gonna lead to your death and destruction.。
What else you wanna call that?。
And you want those chains to break.。
Some of you are suffering with a depression。
and it's one of the hardest things for the Christian。
to admit out loud.。
'Cause you read the book of Philippians.。
The book of Philippians is the book of joy.。
Rejoice in the Lord always and again, I say rejoice.。
And if you look around at your circumstances,。
just based on your circumstances,。
there's plenty to be happy about,。
but when you wake up in the morning,。
you just can't turn happy on.。
Is that you?。
Then here's what we need to do.。
If you find yourself in the position of this dad,。
you have a need, you have a hurt, you have a hang up,。
you got the whispers of condemnation.。
You got a besetting sin that just is owning you right now.。
You got broken relationships, whatever that thing is。
that you believe that God could make right,。
but for whatever reason right now, it ain't going right.。
And you really wanna be like, Lord, I believe,。
but you gotta help me overcome my unbelief.。
Then we're just gonna do what he says do.。
This kind can only be cast out by prayer.。
And if you say, but I don't have a lot of faith,。
man, I got some really good news.。
The way Matthew ends this account。
is the disciples say back to Jesus,。
hey boss, why?。
He didn't say boss, I said boss.。
He says, why can we not cast it out?。
And Jesus said to them, because of your little faith,。
for truly I say to you,。
if you have faith like the grain of a mustard seed,。
you will say to this mountain, move from here,。
and it will move and nothing will be impossible for you.。
You know what this dad shows us?。
You know what Jesus confirms?。
It's not the amount of faith that you have,。
it's the object of your faith.。
That if you could take a tiny little itty bitty,。
you couldn't even see,。
if I had a mustard seed right here, you couldn't see it.。
It's like a little, it's like a grain of pepper.。
It's just tiny.。
You wouldn't even be able to see it.。
But if you take the tiniest little faith。
and you put it in the almighty, everlasting, all powerful,。
God that loves you and Jesus is the proof,。
it is exponentially more powerful。
than you take all of your trust。
and you put them in your current circumstances.。
And so tonight, I believe God.。
The same one that Matthew and Mark。
recorded these events about.。
Wants to hear from you.。
I think he wants to heal you.。
I think he wants chains of addiction to be broken.。
I think he wants unforgiveness to be let go of。
and reconciliation to happen.。
I think he wants fear to flee.。
I think he wants depression to be overtaken。
by the joy of Jesus.。
I think he wants the approval of man。
to be gone from your mind。
because you know that you have the approval of God almighty。
'cause God loves you and Jesus is the proof.。
And I think some of you want that too.。
And that's what he wants for you.。
And you say, okay, pastor, sign me up for that.。
How do I do that?。
Pray.。
I mean, come to Jesus and pray.。
We sang it, man.。
You come to the altar.。
There's no waste here.。
And just like Jesus meets this man exactly where he was。
and loved him enough to do something about it,。
he's gonna meet you exactly where you are.。
And trust me, man, if the tomb is empty,。
anything is possible.。
I mean, you think your broken relationship is impossible.。
Your broken relationship with your parents is impossible.。
If God can breathe new life into his dead son。
and he can walk out of the tomb,。
he can breathe new life into a dead relationship.。
You think sin has too big of a grip on you?。
Then when Jesus came out of the tomb,。
he put death to death.。
And that same resurrected Christ。
that healed this boy's son is present and is here。
and he wants you.。
You just have to come to him.。
And so I'm gonna invite you to stand up,。
every single one of you.。
And if you're like, that's what I need,。
it's already been mentioned before,。
but this little area down here is gonna be an altar.。
And it is the invitation of Jesus.。
And you don't have to wait until I'm done praying.。
If that's you and you got a bunch of, I believe,。
but God, I need you to help me with my unbelief in my life,。
I'm gonna invite you right now.。
You can just start making your way down here。
to cast all your cares upon him because he cares for you.。
And maybe you don't need to go along.。
Maybe you need to grab a brother,。
grab a sister with you and say,。
"Hey man, I need you to come pray for me."。
Or maybe there's somebody here with you。
and you know what they're going to,。
and they gotta borrow a little bit of your faith for tonight。
and you gotta put your arm around them and say,。
"Hey bro, I need to come and pray over you."。
But Jesus wants you and what you're gonna be met with。
is not condemnation, that's the voice of the enemy.。
You're gonna be met with grace and love。
and faith and resurrection power.。
So I'm gonna pray, and if you want to, you come on down.。
And the band's gonna come and close this out.。
Our good and gracious heavenly Father God,。
we love you more than anything was you first loved us.。
And Lord, I thank you.。
I thank you that when we come in need。
and when we come broken and when we don't understand,。
God, you could handle all of our questions。
and all of our pain and all of our tears.。
God, you just want us.。
And God, I thank you that a real Jesus。
came and died on a real cross for the real us.。
And you have given us the invitation to really come to you.。
And God, I thank you that when you push up。
on your nail-pierced feet on the cross。
and you yelled, "It is finished,"。
that an earthquake cracked right through。
the middle of Jerusalem, right through the middle。
of the Holy of Holies, and it tore the curtain。
of separation from the top to the bottom.。
As an invitation of God,。
the thing that separated God's people。
from God's presence is now no more.。
And through the person and work of Jesus,。
we can boldly enter your throne room。
like a child going to their dad,。
just saying, "Dad, I need your help."。
So Spirit of God, I pray.。
I pray against any spirit of fear.。
God, I pray for any kind of approval of man。
that would keep a young man or young woman。
in their seat right now.。
God, I pray for big, bold, audacious, honest prayers。
of, "I believe, help my unbelief."。
And Jesus, I pray for just mustard seed-sized faith.。
'Cause with that, you can change everything。
about everything about everything.。
We pray it in Jesus' name, amen.。
Won't you come?。
