[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
Porch, how we doing?。
We doing OK tonight?。
Come on, let's go.。
It's great to see you.。
The brave and the bold, man.。
You decided that you're not going。
to let any cold weather keep you back.。
You decided to make it here in the room tonight.。
So glad you did.。
Also, so glad that we've got some friends joining us。
online tonight.。
Special shout out to all of our Porch Live locations,。
Porch Live Indie, Porch Live Scottsdale, Porch Live Fresno.。
We love you guys.。
So glad that you're tuning in with us this evening.。
Well, chances are, if you're going to move cities,。
you're more than likely going to do so because of work。
at some point in your life.。
That's the case for some of you here.。
Like you're in Dallas, Texas because your job brought you。
here.。
You didn't necessarily choose to be here.。
Your job required you to be here.。
Or maybe you're tuning in and it's not that you live here.。
You live wherever it is you are.。
And it's because work just required it, man.。
You decided to make the move.。
This happened for me a little bit later in life。
than it did for many, many young adults.。
You see, I went to Texas A&M University.。
There you are.。
Can always count on you guys.。
And I actually lived in College Station。
for a little bit of time after I graduated.。
I decided to hang out, catch a little bit more of the scenery.。
But eventually, I did get an offer。
that took me away from the city and into Houston, Texas.。
I didn't know anything about Houston.。
Brooke and I, we're not from there.。
We were unfamiliar with the area.。
So all we know is that at some point,。
the Astros decided to cheat in pursuit。
of winning the World Series.。
That's all we knew.。
We didn't know much else.。
And so what we decided is we've got。
to get to know the landscape of the land a little bit.。
And we have to find an apartment as soon as possible。
because my transition was coming very, very quickly.。
So we took a weekend.。
We booked a bunch of reservations.。
We decided to go through a variety of apartments.。
And we landed on one that felt really good.。
You see, the apartment that we found,。
it was in a really good location, a nice pocket of town.。
It was near good restaurants, not far from my workplace.。
It was a first floor unit,。
which is great if you're carrying groceries.。
And so we were really excited about it,。
except there was one minor catch.。
And that catch is we weren't actually able to tour。
the unit that we were planning to lease,。
which I don't know if you've ever been in that spot,。
but that's a pretty uneasy feeling。
because you don't necessarily know what you're going to get.。
Sure, you can look around。
and you can assess some of the quality of the place,。
but you really want to step foot into the actual apartment。
that you're going to call your own.。
Our property manager understood our uneasiness.。
And so to assuage our fear,。
she decided to take us through a model unit,。
a unit that was identical to the one we'd be moving into.。
And so we walked in and it was nice.。
Like it was like freshly painted walls and cleaned floors。
and new light fixtures.。
And there was a fireplace in the living area.。
It felt great.。
So we decided, you know what, let's take the risk.。
We're going to sign the lease.。
So the weekend finally comes.。
We make our way from College Station.。
We drive down to Houston, Texas, and we're excited.。
Like this is a new chapter of life.。
Like this is a new adventure for Brooke and I.。
Like this is a new job, yes,。
but it's also a new city and it's new people.。
And this is a new home for us as well.。
And so we decide to get to the apartment。
and collect the keys and make our way to our unit.。
And as we go to unlock the door,。
we push it open and to our horror,。
it looked nothing like what we had been promised.。
We had been promised one thing,。
but we were given something else entirely.。
Like in place of the walls being freshly painted,。
they were freshly stained with, I still don't know what.。
It was gross to look at.。
Instead of the floors being perfectly cleaned,。
there were little hairballs floating around。
in the corners of the apartment.。
So much so that I can actually tell you the color。
of the previous tenants hair.。
Where we thought that we were gonna get an apartment。
that backed up to this running trail。
and this quaint little Creek。
that kind of cut through the woodland forest.。
Like what we found instead was a stinking smelling swamp.。
We were set into an apartment,。
the likes of which not only missed our expectations,。
but like mocked our expectations.。
Like we had been promised one thing,。
but we were given something else entirely.。
You ever been in that spot?。
Has that ever been your reality?。
Maybe it's not the place you live.。
Maybe it was instead a show that you loved.。
Like you watched every episode.。
Like you made sure to track with the characters.。
You felt like you grew up alongside of them.。
And then finally the final season shows up。
and you've been waiting for this moment.。
You can't wait for it to all drop.。
And you sit down and you're like,。
what the heck just happened?。
This show did not finish the way。
that it was supposed to finish.。
Maybe it wasn't that.。
Maybe it was instead you bought a piece of furniture.。
You know, the perfect final addition to your living space.。
It was at the perfect price.。
And sure it came from Ikea,。
but it said some assembly would already be completed.。
And yet it showed up on your doorstep。
and you realize no, no assembly has been completed.。
All assembly is in fact required.。
Maybe it's not something so trivial.。
Maybe it's actually something。
a little bit more material than that.。
Maybe it wasn't that you moved jobs。
or you moved to a new city because of a new job,。
but you actually earned a new promotion.。
It was like, oh my gosh,。
like this is everything that I've wanted.。
Like I'm in a new city, sure.。
I'm in a new department, great.。
But man, I'm finally getting to work in the position。
that I've longed for to a boss that I actually respect。
until you realize that boss is a real piece of work.。
And the job is not nearly as fulfilling as you thought.。
That's a material disappointment.。
Maybe it wasn't that.。
Maybe finally you got up the courage to ask her out.。
You've been reading the signs.。
You knew like the moment had arrived.。
And so you boldly walked across the room。
and you asked her if she had plans Friday night。
and you to your horror learned。
and she didn't have any interest in dating you.。
She only had interest in flirting with you.。
But what do you do when the disappointment。
goes even further than that?。
Like when the disappointment,。
it affects more than your life alone.。
It actually affects your soul too.。
Because the disappointment, it isn't just situational.。
Like it's not just out there in the world.。
It's actually spiritual.。
It's in here in a room like this。
amongst a people like us coming from a guy like me.。
What do you do when you face disappointment in the church?。
When you trusted that pastor,。
you felt safe with that leader,。
you thought your peers, the Christians around you。
were supposed to be innocent until they weren't.。
What do you do in that moment。
when you face that level of betrayal?。
Well, for many of you, you deconstruct.。
You do what we described as a week one.。
Like you went through a crisis of faith。
that led at least to a reevaluation of your Christianity。
and at most to a total abandonment of it.。
And honestly, like who can blame you?。
Like I won't bore you with the stats,。
but if you look at the trends in our culture,。
more young adults today are leaving the church,。
not because their devious atheistic professor。
finally got to them,。
but because a religious altruistic minister。
actually failed them.。
Many people are leaving as a result of that.。
Like whether it was perpetuating a system of abuse。
instead of calling out sin,。
defending some political power。
rather than loving their neighbors,。
frequenting massage parlors for secret sexual favors,。
controlling the headlines to hide some hypocrisy,。
or defending a leader as opposed to holding him accountable。
for his actions.。
Many in our generation, some of you included,。
you just can't get on board with this.。
Like if this is what's true of them,。
then why would I ever want that to be true of me?。
If that's you, I'm really glad you're here.。
Because though that may be true for the ethereal them,。
it's not at all true of him.。
It's not true of Jesus.。
Like yes, the church can hurt, but Christ can save.。
Christ can save, and so often he saves those。
that the church tries to hurt.。
You see it all throughout his life.。
Like he identified with Zacchaeus, that wee little man.。
Like he decided that despite everyone's ridicule,。
he actually wanted to go and be hosted at his house.。
Like he healed the bleeding woman,。
the very woman that the rest of society。
had decided to extort instead.。
He wanted to heal her.。
He touched the leper,。
that guy that nobody wanted anything to do with.。
Don't touch him, he'll make you unclean.。
Jesus said, "No, I won't only heal him.。
"I will actually touch him myself,。
"and I will identify with him personally."。
He pursued the demoniac,。
that guy that lived in a place no one went to,。
and he did some things that nobody wanted.。
Jesus decided to go for that guy all by himself.。
He defended Mary.。
Like when she sat in the seat of the disciple,。
at his feet, listening to his teaching,。
and the rest of his disciples ridiculed her,。
he actually defended her instead.。
He welcomes tax collectors, sinners, prostitutes.。
He breaks bread with them,。
though the rest of the religious。
would scrutinize him for it.。
You see, Jesus did for them。
what I think he wants to do for some of you tonight.。
So if you have a Bible, turn with me to Matthew 23.。
Matthew 23.。
Let me just say this too, from the outset,。
we've got some technical difficulties.。
The scripture will not be behind me tonight.。
My points will not be behind me tonight.。
Some of you look really disappointed in that reality.。
You had expectations, and they just didn't get met tonight.。
Here's what I would say.。
As we were fielding this issue a moment ago,。
I think the enemy really doesn't want this to happen.。
I think he's really terrified about the possibilities。
of what could take place in this room。
over the course of these next few moments together.。
So be patient with us.。
As we read, I'll go slow.。
Why Matthew chapter 23?。
Because we've been in a series called "Deconstructed."。
And the whole idea behind it。
is we wanna help you rebuild your reality.。
You see, we think there's a way。
to actually question your faith without losing it.。
Like, I think it's actually possible。
to contend with your confusion, to face your frustrations,。
and not just deconstruct parts of your belief,。
but actually reconstruct something strong instead.。
And if you were here two weeks ago,。
then what you know is that this is part two。
of a talk rooted in this specific passage。
that we're looking at tonight.。
In this passage, Jesus comes to the Pharisees。
and the scribes, and he calls them out.。
Pharisees and scribes。
are some of the religious leaders of his day.。
And so he decides to call them out,。
confront them through a series of woes.。
And what we know is that the context of this conversation。
is the last week of Jesus's life.。
It's actually a Tuesday in Holy Week.。
Jesus is repping Tuesdays, you know?。
And so he decides to call out these religious leaders。
the last week of his life.。
Now, if you had one week of life to live,。
what would you do with it?。
My guess, I could be wrong,。
but my guess is you're probably。
not exposing religious corruption.。
But that's what Jesus does.。
Like, you think you have an issue with Christian hypocrisy?。
Jesus has more.。
And what we see as he calls out the religious leaders。
is that he pronounces seven woes against them.。
A woe is a judgment.。
And so he calls them out for a variety of ways。
that they've led the people not closer to God,。
but further from God.。
And as he pronounces these woes,。
we know that we caught four of them。
the last time we were together.。
And those four, just to recap,。
to keep you up to speed in case you missed it,。
were that you should beware of those。
who stress aptitude over attitude.。
Beware those who stress aptitude over attitude.。
That was the first thing that Jesus warned us of.。
The second thing was beware those。
who convert to their cause rather than the kingdom.。
Beware of those who convert to their cause。
rather than the kingdom.。
The third of those woes was beware of those。
who leverage authority to escape accountability.。
Beware of those who leverage their authority。
to escape accountability.。
And then lastly, beware of those。
who emphasize small matters over big ones.。
Beware of those who emphasize small matters。
over big matters.。
Those were the first four woes.。
We talked about that two weeks ago.。
You can go catch the message。
if you wanna actually hear the explanation,。
interpretation of all of that.。
Tonight, we're gonna be looking at the last three.。
Here's what you need to know about these seven woes.。
These seven woes are warnings for us。
against the dangers of religiosity.。
But it's not just that it's gonna provide a warning,。
it's also going to provide a way in which we should walk。
as we move in faith.。
That's what we're gonna see.。
So the last three woes are what we're gonna find here。
tonight.。
Now, I should say this before I hop in.。
It is sobering for me to teach through Jesus's,。
Jesus's judgments against the religious leaders,。
knowing full well that I am no exception,。
that I myself stand in a seat where these same truths。
would apply to me very directly.。
It doesn't escape me the reality that that's the case.。
I'm grateful for the way that God has worked to refine me,。
even just in studying it.。
And so we're all subject to what this teaches tonight.。
This is a scripture of great consequence for me。
as it is for you.。
So let's get into it together, okay?。
Matthew chapter 23, if you have a Bible,。
we're gonna start in verse 25.。
It says this,。
woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites,。
for you clean the outside of the cup and the plate,。
but inside they are full of greed and self-indulgence.。
You blind Pharisee, first clean the inside of the cup。
and the plate that the outside may also be clean.。
The first thing that Jesus warns us tonight。
is that we should beware of those who prioritize image。
over innocence.。
Beware of those who prioritize image over innocence.。
Now, I don't know about you,。
but when I read a couple of verses like that,。
I love it whenever the Bible。
just kind of jumps into my reality.。
Like it engages me right where I am。
because I'm pretty particular when it comes to the dishes.。
You know what I mean?。
I'm not the guy that takes dishes with crumbs and food scum。
and just throws them in the dishwasher.。
I don't believe that that works very effectively.。
You may be like-minded to myself.。
You believe that it needs to be scrubbed。
very cleanly on the inside.。
Otherwise the dishwasher is not gonna get the job done.。
Jesus is kind of talking about that,。
but he's also talking about a little bit more.。
You see, what you need to know。
is there's a deeper layer of meaning。
to the analogy that Jesus is addressing here.。
He's targeting very directly the Pharisees。
because according to Jewish law,。
different rabbinical camps at this time,。
they argued when a cup or a plate。
was considered ritually clean.。
So one camp, they said that that cup was ritually clean。
whenever the outside of it was cleansed.。
The other camp said, no, no, no, that's not the case.。
This cup is ritually clean。
whenever the inside of it is ritually cleansed.。
Why does that matter?。
Because Jesus launches into that debate and he says,。
guys, it's not so much about the cup.。
This is much more about you.。
You clean yourself up on the outside,。
but you are filthy on the inside.。
You might look externally beautiful,。
but you are internally wicked.。
You see, Jesus wants us to know。
that true faith is about so much more than basic obedience.。
It's about so much more than just doing the right things。
and saying the right things and looking the right ways.。
It's about so much more than basic obedience.。
It's actually about innocence.。
Innocence, that you don't just do the right things,。
you mean them, like they come from a pure heart within.。
That it's not just what you do that matters,。
but it's how you do it that ultimately matters.。
So let me give you some perspective。
on what Jesus is trying to say here with this cup analogy.。
You've read about the Trojan War, in case you haven't.。
What you need to know is that the Greeks。
are squaring off against the city of Troy。
and they decide to leave a surprise gift。
for the city of Troy.。
They create a Trojan horse.。
It's an infamous gift because the city of Troy looks at it。
and says, "This is a peace offering,"。
because it was beautiful on the outside.。
And yet tucked away within,。
that Trojan horse was not something beautiful,。
but something very lethal.。
You see, it looked like it had all the trappings。
of innocence on the outside,。
but inside it was anything but innocent.。
It was filled with soldiers。
that could not penetrate the walls,。
lest they tricked the city of Troy into letting them inside。
and they raided the city from within.。
And Jesus is looking at the Pharisees and the scribes。
and he's saying, "Hey, that's kind of like you guys.。
"You look beautiful out here.。
"You look trustworthy,。
"but you're actually quite treacherous."。
That's why he calls them hypocrites.。
Like in the original language,。
when you read this in the Greek,。
well, that's not quite the original language.。
It's the earliest manuscript that we have.。
When you read it there, the word for hypocrite,。
it is the idea of an actor or a pretender.。
It's someone that looks like something on the outside,。
but is actually something very different on the inside.。
Like they have all the markings of good men,。
and yet they have none of the motives.。
Instead, they're motivated by what Jesus says is greed。
and self-indulgence.。
Like they have a lust for public recognition。
and they lack self-control.。
So much so that earlier in the chapter,。
Jesus warns the rest of the crowd,。
people like you and me,。
of what we should look out for。
when it comes to people like this.。
He says in Matthew 23, if you go back up to verse five,。
"They do all their deeds,"。
talking about the religious leaders,。
"to be seen by others.。
"For they make their phylacteries broad。
"and their fringes long."。
These are markings of piety.。
It's a way that you would demonstrate your holiness,。
a phylactery was a little leather box。
that they would wear on their forehead。
and they would wear on their arm.。
And it contained copies of the scripture within it.。
The tassels were signifying of their distinction。
as God's people.。
And they love the places of honor at feasts.。
They love the best seats in the synagogues。
and greetings in the marketplaces。
and being called rabbi by others.。
Jesus is looking at the crowds and he's saying,。
"Hey, beware of those that carefully curate。
"their religious image."。
You be aware of those that only associate。
with the influential, that love to sit in the seats of power,。
that want to be identified by very specific titles。
or professions that interact。
with a very exclusive group of people.。
You see, Jesus knows that, as it was true then,。
and so it is true today.。
People have always used God's platform to build their own.。
People have always used God's platform to build their own.。
So just to bring it all the way home for us,。
if the leaders in your life only ever sit。
in the green room backstage and they never traverse。
the halls where the rest of the people are,。
there's reason to be careful.。
If they only ever repost clips of themself。
where you view their grid and it's only pictures of them。
and no one else, you have reason to be careful.。
If they only interact with the socially significant。
other influencers, you have reason to be careful.。
You see, Jesus wants us to know that it's not so much。
the prosperity gospel of times past。
that we should be concerned with,。
instead it is the popularity gospel of times present。
that we should be more concerned with.。
It's the fact that people, they will actually follow God。
to promote themselves.。
And yet that's not what Jesus did.。
Jesus never did that in his own ministry.。
He never followed God to promote himself.。
He followed God to promote you,。
to move you from death to life.。
That's a pretty significant promotion.。
From enemy of God to child of God,。
that's a pretty significant promotion.。
From belittled to beloved, from lost to found,。
from slave to free.。
Like this was the heart of Jesus for you.。
He wanted to promote you out of your desolation。
and into exaltation.。
He wanted to bring you closer to God。
than you could ever do on your own.。
Now, let me be clear.。
There's nothing wrong with excellent production。
and really, really, really impressive worship。
or buildings, the likes of which you're pretty awestruck by.。
There's nothing wrong with those things.。
Unless they only make much of the man。
and they never make much of the king.。
Then there's an issue.。
So I remember I had a dear friend,。
he was a pastor of mine,。
that was the best at prioritizing his innocence。
rather than his image.。
And he would tell me, "Kylin, whenever you preach,。
"don't see the empty seats.。
"See the full seats instead."。
He would tell me, "Kylin, whenever you walk。
"through the halls, move very slowly.。
"If you're in a rush, people don't think。
"they can approach you, but if you go slow,。
"they might actually come close."。
And my favorite, he would tell me,。
"Kylin, collect uncommon badges of honor.。
"A little makeup dust on the shoulder。
"from hugging a widow is of much greater value to God。
"than any number of compliments。
"you could earn after a sermon."。
We should desire to live lives of innocence,。
not ones that promote our image.。
You see, what we need to know is what my friend knew,。
that what matters to God is less the magnitude。
of our ministry and more the magnitude of our hearts.。
Because man looks on the outward appearance,。
but God looks at the heart.。
He doesn't care simply that we do the right things,。
he cares that we do them from the right reasons.。
So what's the way that we should walk?。
We've heard the warning, the way you should walk。
is you should aim to be innocent at heart。
and not just impressive in life.。
You should aim to be innocent at heart。
and not just impressive in life.。
That's the first one.。
How we doing, we doing okay?。
Chalking with me, here we go.。
Verse 27, "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees,。
"you hypocrites, for you are whitewashed tombs,。
"which outwardly appear beautiful,。
"but within are full of dead people's bones。
"and all uncleanness.。
"So you outwardly appear righteous to others,。
"but within you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness."。
So here's the thing, at first glance, this woe,。
it feels very similar to the last one, does it not?。
They feel very similar in nature,。
and yet there is a major difference.。
It's subtle, but it is there.。
And here's the difference.。
The first woe that we read tonight,。
it's about doing the right things from the wrong heart.。
This one is about doing the right things。
from no heart at all.。
You see, Jesus is warning us to beware of those。
who teach dead religion over true grace.。
Beware of those who teach dead religion over true grace.。
Now, at the time that Jesus is speaking,。
contrary to popular belief, tombs were not whitewashed。
for the sole sake of beautifying them.。
You see, that was a side effect。
of why they actually whitewashed them.。
They would whitewash tombs。
because they wanted to make sure that as Israelites。
were traveling from foreign lands back to Jerusalem,。
they could make their way free of the danger。
of stepping on something that would make them unclean,。
namely a tomb or a gravesite.。
And so they would whitewash them.。
They would try to make sure, knowing full well。
that the consequence of being made unclean。
as someone's making their journey is so devastating。
that they could move towards Jerusalem。
and they could do so without fear。
of jeopardizing their journey.。
You see, if you actually stepped on a grave,。
if you actually engaged with a corpse,。
it would make you for seven days unclean.。
Now, for most other ritual impurities,。
they were pretty quick and easy ways。
to find yourself clean again.。
But corpus impurity was the one that,。
it was kind of the granddaddy of defilement, if you will.。
It was the one that was not so easily resolved.。
And so if you and your little family。
making a journey from wherever you live。
all the way to Jerusalem to celebrate Passover,。
happen to be leading your kids and one of them。
peeled off the path and decided to touch a grave,。
your entire journey would be fruitless.。
It'd be in vain.。
And so the Pharisees are like,。
"Man, we've got to whitewash these things.。
"We've got to paint them up in chalk.。
"We've got to make them look like。
"the ancient Near Eastern of skunks."。
Which may feel weird to you.。
Why a skunk?。
Well, think about it.。
What is a skunk?。
A skunk is a cute little animal。
with very stark colors that alert you。
to come nowhere near them.。
That's why they look black and they look white.。
Like they're alerting predators,。
"You don't want to mess with me.。
"I may be snuggly, but I will defile you."。
That is what a whitewashed tomb is.。
It looks beautiful,。
but you don't want to get anywhere close to it.。
There's a lot of whitewashing in the church today.。
Beautiful buildings, impressive programs,。
breathtaking visuals, massive ministries,。
but there's very little life change。
in those places at times.。
Like many in the church,。
they've grown to a place。
where they know a lot about ministry,。
but they know little about God。
because they've gotten really good。
at playing the Christian game,。
but they're actually not putting any points on the board.。
There's actually no difference in their work.。
And let me just say this.。
I'm highly aware of the fact that I am standing on a stage。
in a place that is big and is beautiful and is branded.。
And I am terrified by that reality.。
I'm so nervous by the fact。
that we could casually show up here on Tuesdays。
and see all of our friends,。
and we could share a message to the crowd,。
and we could sing some songs,。
and we could sell some merch,。
and no real difference could actually be made.。
That we could actually spend time in this room,。
and we can do all manner of other things,。
but we could miss the thing。
that actually matters the most, meeting with God.。
Like I am not interested in being the weekly entertainment.。
Like I don't want this to be a place of dead religion.。
I don't wanna spend our time。
professionalizing in our ministry.。
That would be a waste.。
Like what I want to be true in this room。
is a radical redemptive movement。
where we meet with God.。
He moves among us,。
and we feel like our lives are forever changed.。
Like we behold his beauty.。
We become more like him.。
We belong to his family,。
and we actually save the world.。
That's what I want here.。
And yet what we know is we can miss it。
if we get so swept up in dead religion.。
I don't wanna live a whitewashed life.。
I don't wanna lead a whitewashed ministry,。
and I don't want you to be whitewashed yourself.。
Yeah, here's the thing.。
We are so prone to doing it.。
We quote our Bibles, we pray our prayers,。
we confess our sins, we show up to group,。
we give our money,。
and we're casual about it the entire time.。
We think about our religious busyness,。
and yet what we feel is apathy and indifference.。
Let me just ask you.。
Do you think God is casual about you in any way?。
Do you think that Jesus looks at you and says,。
yeah, you know what, casual Christianity.。
That's actually something that I wanna reciprocate.。
No, like he doesn't have a casual bone in his body。
when it comes to you.。
He loves you.。
He's wild about you.。
Like he's not apathetic, man.。
Should I spend some time with him today?。
I'm not real sure.。
Yesterday was pretty tough.。
He doesn't approach you like that.。
He's not indifferent over whether or not。
you actually should spend some time。
and visit with one another.。
You know what, I spoke to him from the Word yesterday,。
but he didn't really listen to me later that afternoon.。
So should I do it again today?。
That's not his heart.。
He's not indifferent.。
He's not passively interested in you.。
He's not passively interested in you.。
He's passively interested in the circumstances of your life.。
He's not casual about you.。
He is enraptured by you.。
So much so that God would send his own son to save you.。
If you don't believe me, listen to Paul.。
He says in Titus 2,。
for the grace of God has appeared,。
bringing salvation for all people,。
training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions。
and to live self-control and upright and godly lives。
in the present age,。
waiting for our blessed hope,。
the appearing of the glory of our great God。
and Savior, Jesus Christ,。
who gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness。
and to purify himself a people for his own possession。
who are zealous for good works.。
Jesus is not casual about you.。
He is not casual about me.。
He is not casual about these moments.。
He cares deeply.。
He's not interested in dead religion.。
One pastor said it so well.。
What are the differences between cemeteries and hospitals?。
One is peaceful and quiet and calm because it's dead.。
But the other, it is messy and noisy and loud and chaotic.。
Why? Because people are fighting for life.。
That's what grace looks like.。
Grace looks messy.。
It looks wild at times.。
Like grace, it looks like wrestling through your doubts,。
confessing your sins, singing even if you're off key,。
dancing, though that might be a little bit undignified,。
speaking up at the risk of people thinking you're nuts.。
It's reading the Bible, even when you don't understand it.。
It's loving those that do not deserve it.。
And it's pursuing God,。
not seeking to be perfect for other people.。
That's what true Christianity sounds like.。
True Christianity, it does not sound flawless.。
It sounds faithful.。
It sounds faithful.。
God isn't interested in you being successful.。
He wants you to be faithful.。
He wants you to buy into the grace that he gives.。
He's warned you, man, don't worry about dead religion.。
Instead, the way you should walk。
is you should live by the grace I give,。
not die by the good you can do.。
Last one, verses 29 through 32.。
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites,。
for you build the tombs of the prophets。
and decorate the monuments of the righteous,。
saying if we had lived in the days of our fathers,。
we would not have taken part with them。
in shedding the blood of the prophets.。
But you witness against yourselves。
that you are the sons of those who murdered the prophets.。
Fill up then the measure of your fathers.。
The last thing that Jesus warns us。
is we should beware of those who cast judgment。
instead of give mercy.。
We should beware of those who cast judgment。
instead of give mercy.。
There's a lot of irony in this last woe。
because Jesus calls out the Pharisees。
for their dishonesty in this moment.。
Like they look at Jesus and they say,。
hey, we know what our fathers did.。
They killed the prophets, but we're not like them.。
Like, no, no, no, we're better, we're kinder, we're wiser.。
We wouldn't do what they did.。
And yet Jesus is looking at them and saying,。
hey, you will not only do what they did,。
you will do it in a matter of a week's time。
because you will kill God's greatest prophet.。
You will kill me.。
He calls him out.。
He lets him know.。
You think you give mercy, but in fact, you give judgment.。
When I was studying this, I remember thinking to myself,。
this is the hardest woe to identify within our regular world。
because we're not really interested in killing the prophets.。
Like that's not something we actually do today.。
But then I realized we do condemn one another.。
In a similar way, we kill each other all the same.。
We're quick to enthrone ourselves。
upon the opinions that we have formed。
rather than receive the mercy and extend it instead to people。
the way Jesus has given it to us.。
You find this issue across the spectrum of spirituality.。
You can find it amongst the most contemplative of camps.。
Leaders who, man, on the surface,。
they advocate compelling theological positions。
and a fidelity to God's word and a scriptural precision。
that is really, really interesting.。
And yet all the while, they passively scrutinize。
other people, they openly cast judgments。
upon those that disagree with their doctrinal distinctives.。
But it's not just in the most contemplative of camps.。
It's also in the most charismatic of camps.。
Like you can find people who, man,。
they motivate your morality.。
Like they stir up your spirit.。
They fan into flame.。
Like that spot fire of faith in your life.。
Like they're so good at it and yet they are willing to do so。
at great compromise to the scripture.。
Like they'll do what they can to emotionally motivate。
yet ultimately not bring about the kind of conviction。
God's spirit can do through his word and his word alone.。
They are seeking to serve their own agenda。
and they're willing to manipulate people to get it done.。
You can find it also in yourselves.。
You see, we're really quick to honor God with our lips.。
But in the same breath,。
we also tend to criticize, convict, and condemn one another.。
James, he says this himself.。
He says, "With the tongue, we praise our Lord and Father。
"and with it we curse human beings."。
We curse one another.。
"Those that have been made in God's likeness。
"out of the same mouth come praise and cursing.。
"My brothers, my sisters, this shouldn't be so.。
"I know this was a problem for me。
"for several years of my life."。
So I grew up in the church.。
And yet it wasn't until I got to college。
that I really began to read the Bible.。
Like I got some theological exposure.。
And with that, as is often true,。
I got some theological pride.。
I thought that I knew better.。
I was wiser.。
I had more discernment than the rest of those。
that I had grown up alongside.。
And so what I decided to do is I decided to part ways。
with that group.。
They were pretty conservative.。
They held fast to tradition.。
And yet what I realized is I studied the Bibles.。
Man, it feels like they're pretty inconclusively。
studying the scripture.。
And so I judged them and I joined instead。
a charismatic group.。
I spent time around that charismatic group。
and I was so motivated by the way they lived their lives.。
And yet over the course of time,。
I began to grow skeptical。
because they were more interested in the gifts。
of the spirit and not merely walking with Jesus.。
And so I judged them and I decided to join。
a gospel saturated group.。
A group that really revered the Bible,。
that spent time studying the scripture.。
And yet what I realized as I sat in Bible study。
and I read through the text is that this group of people,。
though they were really well-meaning,。
they were pretty theologically shallow.。
They hadn't read Luther and Calvin and Spurgeon。
and Edwards and Owen the way that I had.。
And so it was good for me to actually part ways with them,。
cast judgment, join instead a very intellectual group.。
And as I spent time amongst this intellectual group,。
what I realized is, man, you guys are stimulating.。
You guys are interesting,。
but you're actually pretty insular.。
You're not very missiological.。
You're not very interested in what's happening。
out in the world.。
And so wouldn't you believe it?。
I judged them and you get it at this point, right?。
Like this was my story for a lot of my life.。
This was my journey of faith。
during my early, early, early young adult years.。
And though it was largely unknown to me at the time,。
I was quick to criticize other people.。
I was quick to condemn them.。
And I was quick to cast them aside。
in the pursuit of God's truth.。
Some of you have experienced that same thing.。
Some of you were that same person.。
Others of you have sat on the other side。
of the table from that guy.。
And you were judged for something you did.。
You were silenced because that sin is just too much.。
You were belittled because you were a bit different.。
You didn't categorically fit。
into the regular Christian circles.。
And you had to become individually censored。
or else people would think you're divisive。
to the rest of the body.。
And you're here tonight.。
And all you can think is I'm done.。
I've had my fill.。
I've seen what the church offers.。
And I'm still wanting.。
I'm unimpressed.。
I'm disappointed.。
I'm even actually betrayed.。
If that's you, then listen to me.。
Jesus has not condemned you for your mistakes.。
So do not condemn him for the mistakes of his people.。
Like some of you have walked into places like this。
and your experience was like my experience。
when I walked into my apartment that day.。
All you saw were stains.。
All you smelt was foul.。
All you saw was broken.。
And all you felt was distrust.。
Jesus is not trying to sweep in and save you out of that.。
He wants to come in and he wants to clean the stain.。
He wants to purify the foulness.。
Like he wants to wash away the grime.。
He wants to mend your hurt.。
He wants to rebuild your trust。
because while Jesus himself was church hurt,。
he didn't respond by hurting the church.。
He responded by saving her.。
And the reason we know it is because Jesus,。
he never worried about his image in life.。
Instead, he worried about our innocence.。
So much so that he himself was religiously ridiculed.。
You feel religiously ridiculed?。
Jesus was religiously ridiculed for the sake of you.。
Jesus, he never taught dead religion.。
No, he taught about a living grace。
that reaches out to the spiritually wounded。
through his wounds himself.。
And Jesus, he never came to condemn.。
Instead, he was condemned in our place.。
Jesus wants to save his church.。
He wants to save you too if you'll let him.。
I don't know how deep the wounds may go,。
but you need only look to his wounds and realize he can.。
He can save you, he can do it,。
and he can bring you back home.。
Let me pray for us.。
God, we love you.。
Thankful for tonight, grateful for a chance。
just to sit under your word and to feel God the weight of it.。
Like I don't want us to shy away from the hard scriptures.。
I don't want us to just preach pleasant platitudes.。
God, I want us to look at those texts, those scriptures,。
which really weigh God, not just on our circumstance,。
but even our soul.。
We feel that tonight.。
God, there's some people in here。
that have been just deeply hurt by your church,。
by religious leaders, by the spiritually significant,。
and God, they are all but ready to give up.。
I pray they would know while you can relate,。
to their pain, you cannot relate to that choice.。
For you, Jesus, did not come to condemn your church,。
you came to save her.。
So what do you say at the end of this passage?。
You say, "Oh, Jerusalem, Jerusalem,"。
that you would know the things which make for peace today.。
I pray, Jesus, that we would lament the pain we've felt。
and the poor representation it is of you,。
but we would not give up, we would lean in.。
And then, Jesus, I know there are people in this room。
that are religious leaders, that do the work of ministry,。
that faithfully follow and seek to serve your flock.。
I pray that you would be near to them,。
that you would encourage them, that you would secure them,。
that they wouldn't look to the watching world。
to find their identity, but they would find it within you.。
You're a good King, and it's to you now。
that we sing, in Christ's name, amen.。
Hey, porch, let's stand together, if you will.。
Hey, we've got a team down to the left, down to the right,。
they would love to visit with you,。
if you need to process, if you need to pray,。
maybe you've never talked about this stuff with anybody.。
We'd love to begin the conversation with you tonight.。
Others of you used to sing, you'd be faithful,。
need not be flawless, but God wants to meet with you tonight.。
Let's not entertain empty religion,。
let's engage with what really matters,。
let's sing to Him now.。
(gentle music)。
