I get super hyped about the new year like we turn into the new year and I just get so。
excited for because there are things in my life that I want to turn a leaf on and I think。
there's a lot of people in that place if you're tuning in right now with us one it's probably。
good I've said their names but I should probably just make sure you know who's joining me here。
I've got Noah and Grace and Sam they're all part of the porch team and and we just we。
wanted to take some time right now just to kind of have a conversation at the beginning。
of the year kind of pertaining to the beginning of the Bible this this series we started on。
the book of Genesis to talk about man at a time of life here in the month of January。
so many of us are wanting to remake things about ourself and yet in the biblical equivalent。
of January the book of Genesis at a time when God is making everything we can learn something。
about who he is that informs who we are ourselves we were talking about a little bit earlier。
I think it's just like the coolest thing ever God may have made everything but he's still。
in the process of making things today like right now which Noah I know probably resonates。
with you because you're a creative resident creative on our team your job like literally。
your paycheck comes in because you make things when you think about like what we studied。
last week Genesis 1 God is creator yeah I don't know man like does that speak to you。
in some kind of way do you relate to God on a personal level because that's how he identifies。
himself and it's a big way in which not only you identify yourself but the world identifies。
you too yeah any thoughts no yeah absolutely like it's so funny because like for the longest。
time I totally missed that aspect of God like that's a whole dimension of God that like。
it's something you just hear all the time like yeah God is creator I'm created fantastic。
that's a great truth but it took me such a long time to actually understand the implications。
of what that means to be a created person and I think especially like just with my story。
and the way I grew up like I grew up in the church specifically in the Southern Baptist。
like denomination of it we're like even like dancing and stuff was a little bit frowned。
upon and I like I love DJing you know so I would like always kind of just feel that tension。
of like man are these things that I find myself so like loving like creating and making things。
like does God not care about these things at all yeah and so I constantly felt this。
like just honestly just feeling like really like undervalued and like I didn't have a。
place in God's kingdom to be honest which kind of put up this weird wedge between me。
and the church and me and Jesus were kind of always cool but like that aspect of God。
and creator when that finally clicked for me it totally changed the way I interacted。
with Christ I saw the New Testament I saw the Old Testament because I was able to look。
at it through this lens like man if God is if he created everything if he designed everything。
every single thing has intention and detail like their significance in it all and so the。
fact that the you know not even five words in the Genesis and we see that God is a creator。
like that's the first thing that's the first thing yeah literally in the beginning yeah。
God what mm-hmm created yep there's so much to learn about him but yeah you're right it's。
like and if God's the one writing the Bible which he is yeah it's one of the first things。
he wants us to know about himself yeah spot-on sorry I mean interrupt you but no I think。
you're spot I think you're right interrupt me anytime you want okay I'll take you up。
on that I might and like and then his first like after we find out okay I don't know exactly。
who this God is but I do know he is creator he's making things what is that he's making。
and then his first interaction with a human being is kind of this it's this like co-creation。
act right like he goes to Adam he's like hey like I have kind of a you know big assignment。
for I want you to name all the animals like that's a creative act and so like one of the。
first interactions we see with God and man is them co-creating together you know and。
I think there's a lot there all I will not get into it because it's something I could。
go very deep into I'm not gonna do that but what I will say is just the implications of。
what it means to be created ties back don't worry I'm gonna be using scripture for this。
thing no but like that that word created it like we see it pop up all throughout scripture。
but one of the things that brought me truly like this scripture that I'm gonna share brought。
me back to Christ and has been this foundational thing that I'm like find myself constantly。
going back to but it's Ephesians 2 we'll start in 8 this is Paul talking and he says for。
by grace you have been saved through faith this is not your own doing it is the gift。
of God not a result of work so that no one may boast for we are his workmanship other。
translations say craftsmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works which God prepared。
beforehand that we should walk in them so like right there shifts the whole paradigm。
because if we are created by God in Jesus Christ that word is very specific workmanship。
craft craftsmanship I'm not gonna get into the Greek Kylan can do that if he wants to。
but we're God's like artwork for like the most simplest way to say it and so when you。
think about art and you guys you can answer this but like art what even is it like it。
doesn't really serve this like function like it's not super useful it's just there it's。
just beautiful yeah right it doesn't like it's not about the something that it does。
yep and that for me as a person who like loves making things but also a very like performance。
driven person that shifted a lot for me to see like I'm created in Christ Jesus for who。
I am because he just loves me not for what I can do for him and I not to cut you off。
I think that reference though is perfect because what does it say it's we're his workmanship。
that's identity yeah and he has prepared what good works that's your activity yeah but identity。
precedes activity and it's funny like in the new year everyone gets that backwards like。
everyone is just thinking about what they want to do and God's like whoa whoa whoa。
like hold on before we start thinking about what you're gonna do let's start thinking。
about who you are that's how God made things we said it last week yeah but God created。
human beings not human doings but we think about January and we're like okay what am。
I gonna do and then we start to freak out at this time of the month because we're like。
oh shoot I didn't do it you know or I haven't been as consistent as I want to be and yet。
God is looking at you to know his point and he's saying it's not what you do it's who。
you are yeah who you are matters and thus because it does what you do as a result matters。
as well yeah that track yeah that's what you're saying yeah no absolutely it's just like so。
like I just feel like so much of my growing up I was like literally spending my life trying。
to not even really like prove to others like I was trying to prove to God God I'm not a。
waste of your time like I promise like I am I am useful you can use me I want and so I。
go and I learn all these things and I'm trying okay I'm not gonna take the college route。
I'm gonna learn music maybe that will give me some sense of significance I'm gonna learn。
how to create graphics maybe that will give me some sense of significance like if what。
I make can be good then I in turn can be good and what Paul is like writing in there he's。
like it has nothing to do with your works because it's not even in your works that you。
can boast it's in what Christ did for you and so it takes us out of the realm of being。
an object of usefulness and into the realm of treasured beauty yeah like that's what。
that that just like totally unlocked okay this is how Jesus sees me like when he sees。
me he doesn't see like the mess he sees his son yeah you know and golly that is just like。
I was literally it's I was driving up here through the ice and snow you know it's funny。
I'm saying that and I know all of our northern friends are like oh they're laughing at us。
you guys you know one of them yeah everything's bigger in Texas until the snow hits you know。
and then y'all shrivel up and you hide away I but I'm driving through the snow so I'm。
just I'm just talking to God I'm like God we're gonna have a conversation about this。
thing and Lord I just it's in my nature like it's in me like I want to perform and I want。
to do well and I want to achieve and I want to succeed and yet God helped me to remember。
I'm valued for who I am and then it was funny even in that moment I was like wait why but。
why am I valued for who I am because God chooses to value me for who I am okay but why would。
God choose he has no reason and that like was profound for me in the sense that there's。
no reason that I can present God for why he should choose me because then that would give。
me some some element of credit yeah no God chooses me yeah to value my life yeah because。
it is his own self-selection to do so and what that does is it just takes all the pressure。
off doesn't mean that I don't work hard doesn't mean that I don't try well because he's prepared。
good works like I should absolutely give myself I should work heartily as for the Lord and。
not for man of course that stuff matters but it just changes why I do it in the place from。
which I do it I get to do it from a place of rest yeah you know and I know sorry you。
got something no I was I was just thinking of how that ties back to even the Genesis。
story of God with Adam like he didn't need Adam to help him name the animals yeah he。
didn't need Adam yeah he just speaks and it's there it's like yeah no doubt you know okay。
so that thought mm-hmm of like man I've just God is the one who he get like he creates。
and he creates and he creates and he creates and creates and then what does he do he takes。
a day to rest Sam it made me think of you because in this room upon which we currently。
sit not the stage but somewhere out in the floor we as a team will gather and we'll pray。
and I've just noticed not to out your prayer life to the world but I've noticed that you've。
just been praying recently you're like God I'm so thankful because you have become my。
rest what does that even mean because that's Genesis one language like that's Garden of。
Eden that's a callback to the beginning of time and you've been saying it a lot here。
at the beginning of the year what does that even mean yeah I think it's a lot of I mean。
you guys have literally heard me over the last year and a half work through some of。
these things with God because I mean my tendency is like you're saying is to run really hard。
and really fast and to want to do everything for everyone and to earn and deserve and strive。
and like kill it at all the things nice I'm listening I just no you did great and so what's。
cool isn't in Genesis the promise is okay I'm like well first of all God models it and。
he rests and then he promises us hey ultimately a serpent crusher is gonna come and he is。
gonna give you rest in Exodus 33 God says my presence will go with you and my presence。
will be your rest and so it's this thing that as God has like worked out in me it's like。
both internally and externally hey you are both internally when you are at home in me。
safe you are and God is my refuge it's like man there's nowhere else I'd rather be like。
that's the safest place that I can be and yet at the same time externally we tend to。
see rest as optional yeah and we tend to be like ah the Sabbath no big deal as and see。
it as optional as well and I think Psalm 16 has just like really marked my life over the。
last year and a half of like verse 6 says the boundary lines have fallen in pleasant。
places and within them I have a beautiful inheritance and it's like in the verse right。
before that says that God is our chosen portion in our cup and he holds my lot and it's like。
okay when I'm like within the boundary lines that God has placed on my life I'm safe and。
I'm at home in him and I don't have to earn and deserve and strive because he's the one。
who's determined hey this is the boundary line that laid on your life what I noticed。
a couple of years ago is when I was coming up against these boundary lines with God what。
was ensuing was like anxiety insecurity imposter syndrome being just perpetually exhausted。
because I was just spinning my wheels at all times and so I thank God and that's why I've。
been praying that in this room is like my tendency even in being in a ministry job is。
to earn and deserve and strive and kill it for all intents and purposes Christians aren't。
exempt from this and that's right it totally hits us and that's right and so I think it's。
been cool as like my I mean my pace has slowed down the way that I think through things has。
slowed down like I want to model Jesus as I am slow and unhurried and those aren't our。
natural tendencies but it's been sweet to be like okay God like these are the boundary。
lines you've laid on my life and it is best for me to to be in with like within those。
boundaries instead of trying to like grasp for control outside of those boundaries if。
that makes sense so good so it's it's been really sweet I mean it's like and I think。
the world gets this wrong for sure it's like hey if you impact your outer world it'll affect。
your inner world yeah God is sitting here and he's saying the opposite he's like no。
if you take care of your inner world if you take care of who you are and who I've made。
you to be that will impact what you do and how you feel as you do it I think I said this。
last week I don't remember it was something on the lines of like what the world wants。
when they think of rest because there's a big distinction here which we probably should。
talk a little bit about but when they think of rest the world would think like oh rest。
is like relief from the sadness of existence you know and like but God is saying Christians。
would say in agreement no rest is rejoicing in the goodness of my existence like even。
though things may not be ideal there's still rest for me in it and seeing what you're saying。
and correct me if I'm wrong but what you're saying is my rest is found in God right which。
is amazing that's day seven type stuff you know Sam will you share more of just even。
like I think about Sabbath and sometimes it's overwhelming like what are the things I need。
to do to set up what my Sabbath looks like and here's the exact structure but will you。
talk about just even you know when Monday comes around like how do you feel rest during。
a work day or when you're heading home to your roommates like what does rest actually。
look like I mean there's like I mean there's a million and one practicals we could talk。
about and I think Kylan like we were we were talking with us the other day like God models。
this for us in Genesis when he says like God created each each day and he said it was good。
and then he rested and he enjoyed what he created and I think thinking specifically。
about Sunday like thinking about Sabbath like to get to delight in God and I think what's。
shifted for me is things like Psalm 27 or Psalm 84 that like the one thing that I desire。
or the one thing I seek after my flesh longs and faints to be with God and it's like that's。
out of a delight of just being his kid that's not out of earning or deserving or striving。
and I think I saw a lot of my relationship with God for a long time it's like oh I need。
to earn this thing with God and I need to like work really hard for it to like feel。
some type of way and now I know oh I'm at rest or I'm at peace or whatever and so I。
think what this has looked like day in day out is when I'm held safe and secure with。
God knowing that like he is the one who holds me fast that I could blow it that day or I。
could kill it that day and it doesn't matter like he's the one who holds me fast then as。
I go throughout my days it is so much more fun to be excellent and it's so much more。
fun to fall like be led by the spirit and to like step into conversations that I would。
rather not or like fill in the blank whatever it is doing this thing with God because it's。
out of being his kid and so I think that's been the shift for me especially like since。
coming onto the porch team of like man we get to like sit on that floor right there。
every Tuesday on our knees knowing that it has nothing to do with what we can offer and。
I think from a performance driven girl that is like I don't know I've just found a lot。
of freedom in that and I'm so I mean I'm just so grateful so that's kind of what that looks。
like.。
I think I mean and freedom is the word right like when I know like okay I'm safe I'm secure。
I'm accepted I'm approved apart from anything I do now that kind of lets you be like a fool。
to the glory of God you know like you can go for it like you can try hard you can make。
an absolute fool of yourself in the attempt to honor God and glorify him I think I know。
so many young adults that need that that just like the relief of man it's not what I do。
it's what God says that determines who I am and then that releases me that's the beauty。
of it it's not just relief it's release like you get released unleashed onto the world。
which is exactly what God does you know like we mentioned this briefly but we were talking。
about God being intentional not indifferent what you see is he takes wild and waste a。
world that is formless and void and what does he do he structures it and he fills it like。
he works to harness the chaos of the world and he tries to produce within it something。
that's beautiful and full of life and that's what we get to do that's an amazing purpose。
to live for yeah that like our life is one where man I'm not just like working to get。
to the end of this day to you know like clock out and cash the paycheck like no like I'm。
every day I'm trying to like harness chaos and I'm trying to bring about order yeah like。
that's the cultural mandate that we see in Genesis yeah but what's cool sorry to interrupt。
you know what's cool about that is like I mean I would have described myself before。
like actually really walking with God as someone like moved and moved what is that scripture。
you probably know it I don't know moved by every wind and wave like it was like no matter。
what the thing was like I was tossed in with my emotions and with the circumstance or whatever。
and there you go so there so like I'm gonna get checked in the comments that's wrong I'm。
pretty sure that's right I'm an imperfect human but I'm pretty sure that's it that's。
great and so with that it's like not only is God creating order in the world but he's。
creating order in us that like we actually can like lay our heads to rest at night not。
spiraling out of control with this that and the other or like not feeling like we have。
to manage our perception to other people or not having to climb the corporate ladder or。
like fill in the blank whatever it could be for any of us and so it's cool that God does。
that I mean I can feel it in my chest when when God's holding me secure yeah which is。
always and so I think that yeah not only is that in the world but it's in us too yeah。
I mean it's like you matter why because God made you you're significant why because God。
made you yeah you know you're approved why yeah because God made you yet so many people。
get that backwards no you were saying something before Sam yeah no I just like to add on to。
what you're saying because I'm like I think something that's been honestly hard for both。
me and and my wife like we so badly and I think there's a lot of like even young adults。
especially in a city like Dallas that feel this tension of like man I I have this like。
desire for God to be my rest like everything you just said I want to be true of my life。
and yet I just cannot get there there's this wall like I don't like being with God like。
there's a million other things that I would rather do like I would rather have a good。
coffee I'd rather get a good parking spot like I'd rather chill out and watch a movie。
like why doesn't God feel like the place of rest you know what I mean and that already。
brings my mind to a lot of like hey here's maybe why but like I think I've even in this。
new year coming into I felt that sense of apathy that sense of like well God I I want。
you but do I actually want you and we've talked about this a little bit the difference between。
wishing God and actually wanting God like if you want something that will drive you。
to action but I was thinking as as you're talking about hey this is the way that I delight。
in the Lord this is the way I abide in him how I rest in him if a person's not there。
or or like at that wall I'm just wondering like man what would be like the the thing。
that you know the practices or ways to like engage that you know heart that's in that。
place yeah y'all have any thoughts on that basically just to like as y'all think through。
a little bit like if someone doesn't feel like they are resting in God yeah how do they。
reach a place where they are resting in God is that kind of the thought of what you're。
saying yeah or it's even yeah I mean it even like I feel like for me a lot of times there。
has to be like the there can be this like well why does God actually have my best interest。
in mind like I'm just thinking to the person that's almost like feel let down by the Lord。
and just can't see him as that place of like rest yeah yeah I think practicals help me。
a lot here which I'm sure you guys have also just in like like I mean thinking strictly。
busy seasons we can talk about this but I think that what what it was for me because。
I was that I was like I I know the thing in my head I know intellectually that God is。
my rest I know that like I could have told you anything but my life didn't reflect that。
at all like I mean my friends would make fun of me for how fast I walked in a room I didn't。
even have anywhere to go I was just like speedwalking I still do that sometimes it's not great and。
so even that it's like I mean I was just moving too fast and I had yeah and I had every excuse。
in the world to be like oh I got a lot going on or whatever and I think I mean if we don't。
plan to rest and if we don't plan to be still one we're naturally just really impatient。
so those moments of like well I don't hear God so I'm gonna move on patience would be。
one of them but then two it's like I mean we just naturally move too fast and I think。
once I slowed down I mean looking even just at my schedule it was like girl sit down like。
for one yeah totally but also as I chose to Sabbath on Sundays like that change changed。
my life starting in college until now and so I mean there's you guys can probably speak。
more to like practicals there but moving too fast no I think that's so good I mean I don't。
know and Grace I'd love to hear what you have to have to say I think people mistake rest。
for relaxing and it's like okay how how restful is your relaxation you know like that show。
you're watching it's probably not very restful like it's probably not really helping your。
soul very much that music you listen to like I had a spot where I was like man at the gym。
I'm like listening to like workout music or whatever like nothing that's like that's bad。
or but just like it was just intense you know and I was like man like I just feel on edge。
after I leave the gym which defeats the purpose you know like I it serves me well I'm there。
but man I just kind of carry that with me it's I think a big part of it is learning。
like man be a student of yourself and learn what is the impact the net effect of these。
things that I'm doing as it pertains to my soul I feel on edge am I anxious do I just。
feel melancholic you know only you can really read that but I do think like man am I just。
walking fast like am I actually like am I actually like slowing myself am I taking time。
to consider what are my mornings look like we talked about that this last week a lot。
of people they wake up and they just go and it's like what is it like to wake up and kind。
of like you're easing into the deep end of a pool not many people love to just jump straight。
in a lot of them like to just kind of like make their way especially when it's your belly。
button I know yeah but yeah but it's like yeah you ease your way in and so like that's。
something to think about when it comes to rest but and I think this is another part。
of what you're asking is there some people where it's like dude just like the circumstance。
in my life won't let me rest yeah like I've just got so much going on too much chaos to。
kind of use that idea of what Genesis 1 is describing that yeah this may work for everybody。
else around me but like who I am or what I'm dealing with or what I've endured like that's。
just not gonna let me have what you're talking about Grace not to just kind of put you on。
the spot and in out your story it's your story to tell but you've told it so many times from。
our own stage and you've shared it with us obviously as your friends I think you probably。
have a good thought for that person that person who's like man my life's upside down yeah。
things are spiraling out of control that's nice for Sam I'm glad Noah figured it out。
but that kind of rest is impossible for me what would you say to someone like that yeah。
I have a lot of things to say because this has been just how I've come to know the Lord。
is just through suffering is what I would call it and it's my story it's my mom's story。
it's my family's story and I feel for the person right now that's saying exactly that。
like you're talking about beauty and what God can create and who God is and they're。
feeling like well I feel like God is not here like I'm asking the question where are you。
it feels like you've abandoned me or it's too much like I don't know how to do each。
day with this and so a large part of my story it's really how I came to know God was through。
cancer and my mom has walked through cancer for 17 years and that's constant like I would。
say it's constant chaos but I have watched God in the middle of what feels like chaos。
bring peace and so even as you're talking Sam and it's like well in all of this I can。
still find rest I can find peace I'm like I feel that way like when my circumstances。
are suffering when we're at doctor's appointments or when I know what medicine she has to take。
today like I know that God can only bring me that peace and we're looking at Genesis。
like I think about in this first chapter it says the earth was without form and void and。
darkness was over the face of the deep and the Spirit of God was hovering over the face。
of the waters like it's chaos it's unformed like God hasn't formed it but all of this。
is under his care like he cares deeply for what he's about to form and I've just watched。
God come into the mess of cancer where this is so broken like that's not God's desire。
for us to experience cancer but it is his desire for us to know him and meet him in。
the middle of it all and so I just want to speak to the person that feels like they're。
in the chaos and it feels like God has missed them and they've prayed all the prayers I。
just want to tell them that like God does see all of it and he has desires for them。
to know him in it and so my mom has done this extremely well like she's the one that's experiencing。
the physical pain I have pain for her but she's walking through the pain and I mean。
honestly I'd love to pull up this text she sent me this morning she had no idea we were。
doing this and she just she sends these long prayers I'm like I should probably make a。
book out of her prayers but she said she's I'll start reading here she says your word。
in Psalms 20 23 1 through 3 says the Lord is my shepherd I lack nothing he makes me。
lie down in green pastures he leads me beside quiet waters he refreshes my soul he guides。
me along the right path for his namesake thank you for your word that reminds me that you're。
always been there you've always made a way when my mind is filled with so much heaviness。
I can find peace with you that you will lead me through the most chaotic storms God I believe。
in you I believe in your promises and everywhere in your word where your promises are bless。
this day then I need to keep going in Jesus name amen and then she recites Psalm 23 that。
says surely your goodness and love will follow me all the days of my life and I will dwell。
in the house of the Lord forever and I was praying about this time in this conversation。
and she texts me that and she's literally saying in the middle of my chaos and my storm。
and suffering you are my comfort and so I just think that when it feels like chaos like。
this word is true God's promises are true that if you allow him to enter in he will。
be with you and he'll give you the peace when it makes no sense like honestly yesterday。
I had a really hard day with this like I felt like a mess I felt like it was chaos and we've。
been in like a very organizing season so I'm like let's or the last couple days with this。
snow storm like let's organize everything and I just had a moment where I'm like I need。
to slow down like Sam was talking about and I turned on goodness of God and I just let。
those lyrics play play over me and I felt God's presence and just reminder and so I。
just think it can feel like such chaos and suffering but the paradigm shift of that is。
like that's when God enters in when it doesn't make any sense I mean I one your mom is like。
an inspiration she's amazing and then two I'm just like what an amazing like I could。
sit here and I could just like tell you truth but to leverage your mom's story in the personal。
example of not only her life but then the life of David who's writing Psalm 23 even。
though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death you're with me and so I think it's。
important to know and this is kind of a call back to Genesis 1 it's cool to know the way。
your mom looks at her situation where you've looked at your situation the way that David。
in the Psalm is looking at his situation is to realize there is potential within the chaos。
which is what God does like he doesn't look at it and be like man that's bad no he looks。
and says from it I can make something good which we see him do seven times over he makes。
good good good good good he harnesses the potential of that chaos for good purposes。
which means nobody's pain is purposeless everyone's pain is actually loaded with potential God。
doesn't delight that you're there but he does delight in what could be true of you as a。
result of that place and I think of Genesis 50 where it says what the enemy means for。
you God is going to create for good and that's his promises Romans 828 like these aren't。
just promises that oh I'm gonna have relief from the suffering but their promises that。
he's going to make good out of the suffering you're walking through and it may not be in。
the way that you want or desire but he is going to make good out of out of it and we'll。
get to experience that at some point and I think that's a piece that's where the piece。
comes from because you know this isn't just a waste of suffering there's something in。
it and there's good and I've seen good in it and I know there's even more good to come。
from it 1000% yeah and I think it's just important to realize like everything God does in Genesis。
1 everything he does is what it's good like it's good God only does good and so if it's。
like man it all feels so bad you know it's like then maybe what you need is God because。
God's the one that does good right like James tells us that like he's the giver of every。
good and perfect gift it comes from him father of heavenly light it's like he's the one that。
produces good for us and so if you're in that spot maybe it's not taking issue with God。
but taking your issues to God because he's the one that can do good with it yeah I'm。
saying honest with him like he he's not surprised by any of the emotions he's not surprised。
by like what you want to say to him I'm like that's where a relationship grows is as you。
communicate and talk to him and I think that's where you you get to hash it out with him。
and then you get to be a witness you know like when I say God will make good out of。
it like I'm about to head to MD Anderson with my mom and I think about last time we were。
there a month ago we're in a waiting room and I hear her music start to play and it's。
like increasing increasing increasing and it's worship and the nurse tech was in there。
and she's like can you turn that up please and we all just got a she's got a finger on。
the dial she's like what is she rocking oh it's just on our phone yeah it's like a new。
one's got pretty good everybody on the floor needs to hear this and like Paul in prison。
you know just like to the glory of God I'm here for yeah and I'm just having a moment。
like watching this where she doesn't have to be listening to worship music but one that。
brings comfort to her to have God's Word played over her but also she's being a witness like。
how many people are playing worship in a dark place like that during the day and it's giving。
God glory and it's being a witness and so that's where again the encouragement is like。
let God use the suffering for good and to be a witness to others when it doesn't make。
sense it's it's cool how in a completely unplanned way this it all just works its way back to。
where we started because like in the midst of pain and suffering and hardship and like。
difficulty what we know is our rest isn't found in an alleviation from those things。
it's found in God and then because we find our rest in God it changes everything about。
what we do in this world the way that we engage life is informed not by our circumstance but。
by the God of our circumstance that he's the one who put me in the spot and he's the one。
that can pull me through the spot and so I just think it's amazing how much Genesis has。
in common with January because at a time of life when so many people are trying to remake。
things we actually are reminded of the God who made everything and he's still making。
to this day he's making us into the image of his son and he is accomplishing through。
us the purposes for which Christ himself came you know just kind of a wrap because I don't。
want to keep people and I don't want to keep us all night long but I do think it's just。
cool how when we couldn't do anything Christ did everything he stepped in and in doing。
everything we could not he bestowed upon us his own image and in giving us that what he。
also offered was a life of rest one where we we're not just we're we're not just unlocked。
from the troubles of the world but we're unleashed to attack the troubles of this world like。
we get to go from a place of rest not fighting to get to rest he did that for us like he。
he freed us from striving and straining after that which we could not achieve which was。
right relationship with God and he entered into not only our life he entered into all。
of our pain and all of our difficulty bearing it himself that which was deserved to us deserving。
of us he endured himself by taking on himself through the cross the very punishment that。
was intended for us and through his pain his stripes what happened healing of life flowed。
forth it's amazing to think yes God made things and really what we did we're going to get。
to it is we like unmade everything you know like we sort of just like we took God's good。
creation and we ripped it apart and Jesus stepped in and he's he's already done the。
remaking work so I don't know where you're at here at the end of January but you don't。
have to feel this need to remake some part of yourself in 2026 really what you can feel。
is the strong company of a God that is made and is remaking things including yourself。
he's making you into the image of a son if you've placed your faith in him and that changes。
everything about the kind of life you're going to live from here forth wrapping up any final。
thoughts from you guys like I don't want to just like kind of cut there I'm like if you've。
got a final thought I mean I gotta like get this thing out of me this is the moment otherwise。
I'll pray us down and we can get out of here yeah no I was just thinking like have you。
considered just by chance of doing like speaking or communication for a living yeah me yeah。
yeah man you know I'm giving it a try we'll see how long it's just I mean it's a natural。
it really does thanks man you know I thought that was like an intentional question I've。
gotta be so careful I felt myself being like I was starting to lean in well you know it's。
funny you say that because I'm just like no don't do it we're at the end of the day the。
timer's coming to an end like we need a wrap uh no but actually this is uh serious at Trader。
Joe's specifically if people in the Dallas area would just stop buying all of the orange。
chicken and just like if you see one bag just don't grab it just leave it I know we're in。
a crisis but please help your fellow neighbor out thanks orange chicken is like the pinnacle。
of everything it's why Trader Joe's exists it's like you love chicken and you love orange。
so it's like I never even made that connection that's pretty crazy all right leave some orange。
chicken on the shelf for our guy Noah ladies anything final from y'all I would just say。
God cares like it is similar what we talked about at the beginning I don't even know how。
to transition this after orange chicken you already did it you did it yeah okay you just。
gotta go yeah we're back we're going for it I think God cares like he cares about the。
situation you're in he cares about the way you're trying to find rest in him he cares。
about your creativity like he deeply cares because he created you in his image and I。
think once we understand that reality our lives are changed yeah that's right our attorneys。
are changed and we experience who God really is that's right Genesis one man God cares。
about the world yes but he cares about your world too yes yeah exactly everything we see。
true of him there is meant for you now like here in the present so friends thanks for。
hopping on again I mean I know some of you are just out and about I don't know you might。
be watching this tonight you might be watching this some point in the future but we know。
there's a lot of you because of just what's happened in terms of the winter weather that。
struck the nation that find yourself kind of like us upended in the unexpected and so。
you're just trying to figure out what to do with an evening and we hope that this has。
blessed you we're really grateful that you would give us some time to just sit in and。
be a part of the conversation I'd love to pray for all of us and and then we'll just。
get out of here is that cool let me pray God thanks for tonight thanks for for my friends。
here with me right now for for Noah and Grace and for Sam and then God for everyone that's。
tuning in whether they're watching this here tonight or whether they're watching this at。
some point in the future whether they're watching it and life feels good or whether they're。
watching it and life feels bad we're grateful God that the truths of what you did in the。
beginning have relevance God for us right now the beginning of the world is relevant。
for the beginning of this year what you made then is relevant to what you're making now。
God we pray everything you did then harnessing the potential of a crazy and chaotic world。
so that it could bring about flourishing in life God we pray you do that in us we pray。
that you would help us God to be made more into your image as we become more into the。
image of Christ and Lord what we ask is you'd lead us into deep rest one God where we don't。
just get to take a break from reality but God we get unleashed into it we get to step。
out and God we really get to pursue a purpose that is bigger than any purpose this world。
could offer it's the purpose that you God have come to give which is to do with you。
yourself have done which is to bring about abundant life God wherever it is we go we're。
grateful and God we just thank you thank you that God some crazy weather might have locked。
us up for a little bit of time that we could consider things such as these we love you。
and God we just pray won't you have your way in us please it's in Christ's name amen hey。
thank y'all for being a part of this thanks for tuning in we'll be back here next Tuesday。
live from Dallas Texas and continuing in our series Genesis until then go in peace to love。
and serve the Lord。
