(phone ringing)。
- You have seven unheard messages.。
- Hey, sorry I haven't texted.。
I'm just not really sure what I'm feeling right now.。
- Hey, yo Danny!。
Where you at, bro?。
I'll see you soon, all right?。
- Hey, so I have moved on,。
but I feel like the Lord keeps putting me back。
on my heart for a reason.。
So please call me back.。
- Hey, bro, hey, I know you're going through it right now,。
but listen, I found another girl at the farmer's market.。
Now, she's not a farmer, but she is on the market, okay?。
So hit me back, love you, bro.。
- No, I'm sure this is the right number,。
but last night was a mistake.。
I was just hoping we could keep that between us.。
- Hey, just wanted to say,。
I don't think I can make it tonight.。
Yeah, I've just been thinking about us a lot lately,。
and we need to talk.。
- All right, all right, Porch, how we doing tonight?。
Great to see you.。
If it's your first time, welcome in the room.。
We're really glad you're here.。
If you've been here before, welcome back.。
We never want to forget about you,。
and then we never want to forget about everybody。
that is tuning in online.。
Well, y'all do a great job of helping me say hello。
to everybody that is tuning in with us here tonight.。
Amazing.。
Special shout out to all of our Porch Live locations,。
particularly Porch Live Springfield,。
Porch Live Midland, and Porch Live Boise.。
Got some Midland homies in the front.。
Well, when I was in college,。
I was convinced that I wanted to be an accounting major,。
not because I loved a really good balance sheet,。
but because it's what everybody was doing.。
You see, in the school that I went to,。
we had a program where over the course of five years,。
you could pick up not only your bachelor's degree,。
but also your master's degree,。
which in my mind's eye seemed like a really great play。
to run because for me,。
it meant that I get to add a few more letters to my resume,。
and I also get to spend another year with the boys.。
And so I decided, you know what,。
this is what I'm going to do.。
I don't necessarily need to consider anything else.。
So I didn't think about what are my natural aptitudes?。
I didn't process, well, what are my career ambitions?。
Or what's the coursework actually look like?。
What are the degree tracks are there?。
I just blindly signed up and began to pursue the curriculum。
that was set for me.。
And so I went through my freshman year.。
I went through my sophomore year.。
I got through my junior year,。
and then the imperceivable happened.。
I didn't get into the program,。
which was devastating to me。
because I had been planning on this.。
Like I had been hoping with all of my future in mind。
that this is what I was going to get to do.。
And yet in a moment,。
all of my hopes and my dreams and my ambitions。
were dashed on the rocks of assets, equal liabilities,。
plus stockholders equity.。
You know, I'd been counting on this, no pun intended.。
And yet in a moment,。
it felt like all of my peers were racing forward.。
And yet instead for me, I was stuck behind.。
And so facing what felt like an existential crisis。
that was way too early in my young life,。
I went and I met with a school counselor.。
And as I sat with him,。
he said something that has stuck with me ever since.。
He said, "Kylin, don't worry.。
The conversation we're having, everybody's having.。
We're just having this conversation out loud.。
And then he proceeded to help me consider。
the things that I hadn't considered.。
He helped me to realize,。
"Hey man, you kind of suck at math.。
You know, you don't really love accounting。
and you have no business as a result。
ever balancing anybody's books.。
And why do I tell you that?。
Because tonight I want to have a conversation with you。
out loud that everybody, many young adults。
across the nation and many in this room as well。
are processing, but they're processing in silence.。
I want to talk to you about a question。
that many people ask themselves。
within their young adult years.。
I want to process with you, why am I still single?。
I want to help you, not me, some of you.。
And so I want to help you really consider。
what is it then that has put me in this situation?。
Like you're facing what I felt in a similar way,。
but probably so much greater.。
You're dealing with an existential crisis.。
You look at your life and you're like,。
"This isn't what I planned.。
I'm not supposed to still be here.。
Everyone else is racing forward。
and yet I am stuck someplace I never thought I would be.。
I don't understand why you're complicating my life.。
I'm a good person.。
That's a good thing to want.。
Why can't I have it?"。
So what I want to do is I want to help you understand。
a few practicals for why this may be a season。
in your life that you,。
why this may be a season you're stuck in。
that you don't want to be a part of.。
And yet before we talk about the practicals,。
what we need to do is we need to talk about。
the fundamentals.。
You need to understand that namely,。
that singleness is not a second rate state of being.。
It's not a second rate state of being.。
Several weeks ago, we actually preached here at Watermark.。
I preached here at Watermark through this idea。
of why singleness is worth embracing.。
I'd encourage you to go listen to it。
'cause it's going to help unpack。
the fundamental goodness of singleness.。
But just to catch you up really briefly,。
what you need to know is that in our culture,。
both within our church and in our world,。
we have a tendency to look at singleness。
and think it is inferior in comparison to marriage.。
That it's JV in comparison to the marriage varsity.。
That it's a second class sort of state.。
That it's the sort of situation。
where all the marriages are flying first class。
while all the singles are sitting in coach.。
But that's not what we understand from the scripture.。
What Paul actually unpacks for us。
in 1 Corinthians chapter seven,。
which is where we're going to be。
over the course of the evening,。
as well as a variety of different passages.。
So mostly, track with the screen.。
He says this, 1 Corinthians 7, six through nine.。
"Now as a concession and not a command, I say this.。
"I wish that all were as I myself am.。
"But each has his own gift from God,。
"one of one kind, one of another,。
"to the unmarried and the widows,。
"I say, hey, it's good for them to remain single as I am.。
"But if they cannot exercise self-control,。
"they should marry, for it is better to marry。
"than to burn with passion."。
Some of you only heard that last line。
because you squarely identify yourself。
within the burning for passion category.。
That's me, man, that's how I feel right now.。
I don't need anything else that you're going to say tonight.。
Well, before you write me off or you tune me out,。
just track with me because here's the reality.。
So many people were single at one time.。
So many people are single in this moment,。
but the truth is everybody will be single again。
at some point in the future.。
And so it's helpful for us to understand。
what are the reasons for it?。
What's the purpose behind it?。
And what we see is that Paul gives us two reasons。
for why God ordains the goodness of singleness.。
The first thing is he tells us,。
hey, singleness is desirable.。
He says, "I wish that all," meaning all,。
"were as I myself am."。
Well, Paul, how are you?。
He's talking about his singleness in this moment.。
Paul was a single, celibate, childless man.。
And he's saying, "I wish that all people were like me."。
You can go read back through more of 1 Corinthians 7,。
you can see why that is,。
but particularly it's because he could consume himself。
with the things of God.。
He could focus himself fully。
on that which mattered most in life,。
which is important for us to know。
because as Paul says this,。
hey, this is worthy of desiring,。
it is in stark contrast to so much of what our world,。
culture, and even the church would say.。
Because if you look out there,。
what you realize is often people are saying,。
hey, in order to live a fulfilling human experience,。
you need to be married, have sex,。
and probably should have a couple of kiddos.。
But Paul's saying you don't need those things.。
And to actually emphasize the point further,。
Paul, yes, was single, but so was Jesus.。
If you're in the room and you say,。
I'm a Christian, I follow that man named Christ,。
then what you need to understand。
is you follow a single man,。
a man that was fully single, and yet he was fully human,。
meaning he didn't need to be married,。
he didn't need to have sex,。
he didn't need to have biological children。
to have the fulfilling experience。
that the rest of the world is saying you must have.。
Singleness is desirable.。
He also goes on and he says, secondly, it's purposeful.。
Singleness is purposeful.。
That's what he means when he says it's a gift,。
which I know for many of you。
didn't necessarily make your wishlist.。
You kind of opened this thing up。
and you were like, thank you, God?。
You know, like it's not necessarily。
the gift you were hoping to get,。
but before you look for the receipt,。
let me just help you understand why it's a good thing.。
He tells us later on in verse 35,。
I say this, talking about singleness,。
for your own benefit, for your good,。
not to lay a restraint upon you,。
but to promote good order,。
meaning, hey, I want you to learn how to live。
and to secure your undivided devotion to the Lord.。
I want you to love God before you love anybody else.。
You see, Paul says this thing is good.。
It's a gift.。
So why do we need to know all this?。
Because fundamentally,。
before we even step into the rest of the talk,。
at the outset, we have to grasp a new perspective.。
We have to reframe our attitude around this subject,。
which so many of us are ready to punt on and push aside.。
We have to understand singleness is not a season to endure.。
It is a season to embrace.。
That's what Paul is describing.。
That's what the word of God is telling us here.。
He's saying it's good.。
And the reason we have to know this at the outset,。
before we talk about anything else, don't worry,。
I'm going to help you see some reasons。
for why you may still be single。
if you don't want to be.。
But what you have to understand。
is that this takes all of the anxiety out of the assessment.。
And as we look at a variety of reasons,。
it helps you to realize,。
I'm not stuck in some inferior state of being.。
No, I'm in a state that God would say is good.。
It's kind of like if you walked into a performance review,。
but you'd already received the company MVP award.。
How would you feel?。
You would walk in and you'd be like, man, okay,。
like I'm excited to learn some things.。
Sure, I'm gonna get some helpful feedback.。
I'm probably gonna grow a little bit,。
but I'm not stressed about this.。
I'm not worried.。
In fact, I'm wanting to learn。
because I already have something.。
I've received something that signifies favor.。
That's what Paul wants you to know.。
You have something that is good,。
but let me be very clear.。
As I say that,。
some of you think, man, this thing doesn't feel good.。
Like if someone tells me that singleness is a gift,。
one more time,。
I understand that that can feel like a trite Christian。
cliche.。
It's from the Bible.。
So let's not jettison it。
with the rest of our hard feelings towards this subject.。
Let's try to understand why is it good?。
You see, as we get into this,。
you need to know, yes, singleness is good,。
but that doesn't diminish the fact that it's also hard.。
It's hard.。
I don't want you to hear me say, as we go through this,。
that you should feel a diminishing of your longing。
for marriage, that this belittles the heartache you feel。
or the hurt you have,。
that in no way does this look at the sadness。
you face in your singleness and make it synonymous to sin.。
That's not what we're talking about here.。
But what we do have to understand。
is that God has no problem asking people to wait.。
All throughout the scripture,。
he never has an issue looking at his people and saying,。
hey, I know you have a longing,。
but I want you to wait for its fulfillment.。
You see, admittedly,。
the Bible doesn't particularly say a lot。
with respect to the question, why am I still single?。
But it does have a lot to say。
about why we wait for what we want.。
You see, in the beginning of the scripture,。
a man by the name of Abraham,。
who waited 25 years for that which he wanted,。
the son of promise, his son, Isaac.。
You move over from that and you get to Joseph,。
and Joseph, he waited 13 years to be freed from prison.。
You move from there,。
Moses waited 40 years in the wilderness。
before going to the promised land.。
David, right after then,。
he waited about 15 years from being anointed to become king。
before he finally actually took the throne.。
And Jesus, he waited 30 years。
before he began his public ministry.。
To top that off,。
the guy who is even writing to us understands this well。
because Paul waited 14 years。
before he began his first missionary journey,。
despite being commissioned so early on.。
You see, God has no problem asking us。
to wait for what we want.。
But it begs the question, why does he make us wait?。
What reasons does he have to give?。
For those of you that are wanting for more than singleness,。
what possible explanation does he have?。
Well, the first thing that he would say,。
the first reason he might give is you're not ready.。
You're not ready.。
Which some of you hear that and you think,。
"No, man, I'm pretty ready.。
"Have you seen my Pinterest board?。
"That thing was done years ago.。
"Colors for my wedding, they're picked out.。
"Me and the boys, we've already planned the bachelor party。
"and none of us are even in a relationship.。
"I'm pretty sure we're ready for this."。
I'm not belittling that that's true.。
And yet what you have to understand。
is that you're not alone in the sentiment.。
When you read through the scripture,。
you find the people of God felt the exact same way.。
You see, the nation of Israel,。
after they're delivered out of Egypt from slavery,。
they have their eyes set on that which was promised to them。
from their ancestral heritage.。
They're looking towards the promised land.。
And so as they stepped out of Egypt,。
they're waiting to go to that place。
which they have longed to be.。
And yet what we read in Exodus 13。
is God doesn't just take them immediately there.。
He says in Exodus 13, verse 17,。
"When Pharaoh let the people go,。
"God did not lead them on the road。
"to the Philistine country, though that was shorter.。
"For God said, if they face war,。
"they might change their minds and return to Egypt.。
"So God led the people around by the desert。
"toward the Red Sea."。
You see, rather than lead the Israelites to that place。
which they longed to be in the direction of north,。
which would have been fastest,。
God leads them south in the direction that was furthest.。
What?。
Why would God do that?。
That feels crazy.。
And some of you agree.。
You're like, that's exactly how I feel.。
I feel like I've been trying to get this direction。
and God just keeps moving me on a different path.。
What you have to understand is God is looking at the road。
they would have to take.。
And he's saying, you guys are not ready for this thing.。
Like the road that leads north,。
the quickest route to your happiness,。
where it takes you is through Philistine country.。
The Philistines, they were a militarized group of people.。
And the road itself was called the Viamaris.。
It was a fortified roadway that was set up for ambush.。
And so God is saying, hey, if you take this road,。
you're walking into a buzzsaw.。
Like you are not ready for this.。
You have been abused and beaten and enslaved for 400 years.。
You're doing well just to keep your sandals on your feet.。
You're not ready to face these guys.。
And so what he does is he takes them south.。
It's in his kindness, he takes them a different direction.。
Do you think they grumbled along the way?。
We know they did.。
They grumbled against him the entire time.。
And yet in God's kindness,。
he led them a different direction for their good.。
You see, the fastest route to your happiness。
is not always the wisest route.。
The fastest route to your happiness。
isn't always the wisest route.。
And yet so many people, they rush into marriage。
because they wanna feel loved and they wanna have sex。
and they wanna have a bunch of babies,。
which are all really good things.。
And yet, because they rush into it,。
they bring with them unresolved problems。
and unnecessary pain.。
It's interesting.。
When you look at the primary causes of divorce。
in the United States,。
reasons like lack of commitment, infidelity, and arguing,。
AKA selfishness, lust, and pride。
are the primary perpetrators.。
Let me ask, do you think those things。
just magically materialized in the altar?。
Like the minute they said, "I do,"。
and those wedding bells rang, it was like,。
"Oh my gosh, I hate your guts."。
Like, no, that's not where it happened.。
It happened as two people,。
one bride and one groom walked down that aisle.。
As they walked towards that altar,。
those preexisting issues came with them.。
Now, let me be abundantly clear.。
I am not telling you that you need to be perfect。
before you enter into marriage,。
but I am saying you need to be prepared.。
You see, contrary to what people often think,。
marriage does not minimize your problems,。
it magnifies your problems.。
Like having sex in marriage。
is not going to solve your lust issue.。
If you won't while you're dating,。
what makes you think you will when you're married?。
It's hard to honor the commitment I do。
when you never did.。
And so it's worth working that out now.。
Ladies, gentlemen, listen to me.。
You need to evaluate, how does your partner speak to you?。
Like guys, if she is always making a little thing。
out of a big, or making a big thing out of a little thing,。
or if she's constantly comparing your shortcomings。
to her best friend's husband's strengths,。
you don't wanna saddle up 'til death do you part with that.。
That's a hard way of life.。
Ladies, listen, if he's wrestling with pornography now,。
you're not going to solve that.。
You're not going to fix it.。
The day that you go on your honeymoon,。
it won't resolve the issue.。
It might slow the problem,。
it might not progress as quick at first,。
but it will eventually return.。
Marriage does not, it does not minimize your problems,。
it magnifies them.。
So it's really worth asking yourself,。
given the fact that if you don't deal with it today,。
others will have to deal with it tomorrow.。
Where are you struggling with sexual sin right now?。
Knowing that infidelity。
is one of the primary causes of divorce,。
it begs the question,。
where are you sexually struggling today?。
Like where are you making an allowance for it?。
Like is it in the shows you watch?。
Oh, but Colin, I skipped the nude scenes.。
Is it in the books you read?。
I didn't know that that was in there.。
Is it the thirst trap you follow?。
No comment.。
Is it the reels you watch?。
But listen, man, I can't help。
that the algorithm puts that in front of me.。
You might be making an allowance for it。
if you're coming up with excuses like that.。
Where's selfishness in your life?。
Like when things get really hard,。
like when things get really tough, what do you do?。
Like, do you stay committed?。
Do you lean in or do you opt out?。
Do you choose to cope in some other kind of way?。
Do you find yourself getting sketchy。
as opposed to sticking to your word?。
Are you reliable or are you unreliable?。
Selfish people, they think of themselves.。
That's why it's called selfishness.。
How about pride?。
Where's pride in your life?。
Like what does it look like。
for people to have conversation with you?。
Are you always the first one to speak up。
and the last one to listen?。
Are you the strongest voice in the room?。
Are you the kind of person that whenever conflict arises,。
your instinctual response is defensiveness?。
Do people fold like a lawn chair whenever conflict gets up。
because they're just like, man, it is not worth it with you.。
That could lead to anger.。
It's good for you to evaluate.。
Where, God, do I need to grow?。
Because I want to deal with this now。
so that they don't have to deal with it then.。
You see, perhaps your season of singleness。
isn't as miserable as it is merciful of God。
to give you a chance to work it out.。
You ever thought about that?。
Like it is his mercy that leaves you where you are。
so you can work out the kinks,。
you can figure out the difference.。
One of my favorite scriptures is Psalm 51, eight.。
David, on the heels of his very worst moment,。
he says, God, let the bones that you have broken rejoice.。
It's good, God, that you break me。
so that way I can become more like you.。
This is what God may be trying to do in your life.。
Now, let me just be really fair.。
Everything we've processed here,。
those are moral issues,。
but not every reason you may not be ready。
is necessarily moral.。
Sometimes it's situational.。
Sometimes the situation may simply say,。
you're not ready for it right now.。
It's not a good idea.。
If you don't have a job, you're not ready to date.。
You're certainly not ready for marriage.。
And that's not a shame-filled comment.。
I'm not criticizing anybody's situation.。
But what you have to understand is。
if dating leads to marriage,。
then ultimately you're gonna have to provide。
for someone else.。
So you probably should figure out what a check looks like。
before you jump into a relationship.。
Or maybe you're moving cities.。
You picked up a new job。
and you're actually gonna be leaving town.。
It's not a good idea to jump into a relationship now。
knowing that that relationship is not going to inevitably,。
but very quickly end.。
If your station is urgently expiring,。
then don't get into a relationship with someone.。
Don't emotionally entangle when it is unnecessary.。
And sometimes it's not moral or situational, it's personal.。
Like some of you, you're coming off of a breakup.。
And so what's good is for you to actually close the book。
on that chapter before you open up the book on the next。
and you start writing a new story.。
Others, you're processing some pain。
from someone that hurt you in the past.。
And so you should focus on that and find healing。
rather than divide your attention。
and make yourself vulnerable too soon.。
I don't know what it may be for you,。
but listen, it's worth investigating.。
Now to close this point, let me just let you know.。
Does this mean you're never going to be ready?。
Well, Kyla, that standard feels ridiculous.。
I don't know that I'm ever gonna actually amount。
to what I need to become。
so that when God will give me what I want.。
No, you will be ready.。
In God's timing, it will happen.。
What we know is that the nation of Israel,。
they eventually do go to the promised land.。
They finally journey north.。
And what they do is they not only kick the Philistines,。
but they conquer the entire territory.。
You see, God, He led them to a place。
where they could become prepared.。
Their frailty yesterday was replaced。
by formidability tomorrow,。
because they walked in the wilderness with God.。
Your season of singleness, it might be a wilderness.。
It might be the desert to your soul.。
And yet God's gonna use it to strengthen you,。
to build you up so He can lead you forth。
in His timing, according to His will.。
He doesn't owe it to you, but He's gracious to His people.。
That's the first reason.。
Second reason we gotta know is you may be single。
because you're waiting for the one.。
Ooh.。
You want love like Elizabeth Bennet and Mr. Darcy.。
Yeah, like Jim and Pam.。
Like Han Solo and Princess Leia.。
Like Troy and Gabriella.。
Like Neo and Trinity.。
Like Shrek and Fiona.。
You want to find your soulmate.。
I wasn't sure how relevant this actually was。
for our current society.。
It felt like a thing of the past,。
and so I just did a little bit of research.。
And what I found is that YouGov actually found。
of American adults, 60% agreed to believing。
that soulmates still exist,。
that there's someone who will complete me.。
Which is a really nice idea.。
I could get behind that,。
if not for the fact that it's wrong.。
And the reason we know that it's wrong。
is because God speaks about the purpose of marriage。
all throughout His scripture.。
And as He does, He tells us,。
hey, the purpose of marriage isn't to satisfy。
your every longing through another person.。
That's not what it exists for.。
He actually, in the book of Ephesians,。
through the author Paul,。
He tells us the most exalted view of marriage,。
and He gives us a two-fold functionality。
for why it exists.。
I would encourage you, go read all of Ephesians 5.。
But just to catch us up with a couple of verses,。
it says this, "Therefore, a man shall leave his father。
"and his mother and hold fast to his wife,。
"and the two shall become one flesh."。
Meaning there's an inward orientation.。
This mystery is profound.。
That mystery echoed, or that mystery spoken of。
in Genesis 2, it echoes here into the present,。
and yet Paul tells us the explanation。
that it refers to Christ and the church,。
which is an outward orientation.。
What's Paul saying?。
What's that two-fold functionality?。
First, marriage is a model.。
Marriage is a model.。
It is an example, a representation to the watching world。
and to you and your spouse.。
What it looks like to love one another。
is Christ loves the church.。
But then also, marriage is a mission,。
in that the mission of your marriage。
isn't just to stare longingly into each other's eyes,。
but to link arms and to run forward into the cause of Christ。
for he left his father and he came in search of us。
to redeem us, to bring us back to himself。
by way of living the perfect life,。
dying the perfect death, and rising forth from the grave,。
that we might have faith in him,。
should we place our trust and live with him forevermore.。
This is an incredibly profound perspective。
that the Bible gives on the topic of marriage.。
And it is wildly different。
than what the rest of the world is trying to tell you,。
because according to the soulmate myth,。
marriage does not exist。
so that way you can serve someone else。
or so that way you can serve the rest of the world.。
That's strange.。
No, the soulmate myth would say,。
marriage exists for someone to serve me.。
I want someone to step into my life。
and fill the emotional vacancies deep within。
to assuage all of my romantic restlessness.。
And while some of you hear that and you think to yourself,。
that is ridiculous, Kylan.。
I'm not a part of that 60%.。
I don't believe that this is actually true.。
You are nonetheless trained to hunt for the perfect person.。
And it's not your fault.。
Like we live in a culture today。
where we know relation shopping is at an all-time high.。
You can swipe through an endless pool of potential suitors.。
You can refine specific romantic search criteria,。
and you can filter your way。
to a preferred combination of specific attributes.。
Whatever your romantic shopping list,。
you can build it out and you can search the world。
for those perfect ingredients.。
That's why ladies, you wanted to be 6'2",。
hyper-masculine, but also hypersensitive.。
You wanted to be emotionally intelligent,。
but also the life of the party,。
capable of raising wonderful kids,。
but also capable of reading your mind。
because you're just tired of having to draw pence。
so that way he might know what you actually want.。
Let me just help you understand.。
That doesn't exist.。
That man is nowhere to be found.。
He is not in this room.。
He is not in that room.。
He is not in any room ever.。
You see, he didn't go to the coffee shop。
because he knew you'd be there.。
He didn't post that thing on Instagram。
because he knew you'd be looking.。
He doesn't have a girl brain.。
He has man brain.。
Man brain, simple.。
Woman brain, sophisticated.。
Just know that that's what you're crossing paths with.。
Gentlemen, so many of you,。
you're looking for a girl that likes her steak medium rare,。
not medium well.。
Can I get an amen?。
Is always down to hit balls at the range。
and never gives you grief if you want to go。
play a little twilight round at the end of the day.。
She loves hanging with the boys,。
would rather watch the game tonight。
than talk about that fight。
that she's having with her friends.。
You see, what you want to find。
is basically your friend, Rick.。
You know, like that's what you're trying to look for.。
The guy that's sitting right to your left。
or right to your right.。
That's the guy that you kind of want to put a band on。
and say, "Hey man, let's journey。
through the rest of life together."。
But praise God, that's not God's design。
because what you need, brother, is help.。
That's what we all need.。
God says so at the beginning.。
And so we know we've got to find someone different。
than ourselves.。
You see, we live in a culture。
that is wracked with unrealistic expectations。
and over emphasis on physical appearance,。
a deep sense of decision fatigue。
and this fear of missing out。
all because you're searching for the one。
or you're trying to be the one。
that someone is searching for.。
But hear me, what if instead of entrusting yourself。
to some romantic shopping list or algorithm online,。
you entrusted yourself to God instead?。
Because while there is no perfect match。
in a world filled with imperfect people,。
there is a perfect God who can satisfy you instead.。
Scriptures are loaded with this.。
Book of Psalms tells us in Psalm 90, 14,。
satisfy us in the morning with your steadfast love,。
your love, oh God, I don't want the love of anyone else.。
Your love will satisfy me that we may rejoice。
and be glad in all our days.。
Psalm 60, 35, my soul, you want a soulmate,。
will be satisfied in the Lord as with fat and rich food.。
Psalm 107, nine, for he,。
talking about God satisfies the longing soul.。
You longing for love, he's the one that satisfies it.。
In the hungry soul, he fills with good things.。
Psalm 65, four, blessed is the one that you choose。
and you bring near to dwell in your courts,。
to be in your house, to make your life alongside.。
We shall be satisfied with the goodness of your house。
and the holiness of your temple.。
You do not have to wait to find someone。
to satisfy the every longing of your soul。
because the only one who can has already found you.。
Jesus, the satisfier of your soul has sought you out.。
Therefore, you need not seek anyone else out.。
I'm not saying you shouldn't.。
I'm not saying marriage is bad,。
but I am saying if you load the pressure。
and expectation of someone solving all the deep complexities。
and intricacies of who you are, that will never happen.。
Christ in Christ alone can do that.。
Let me be clear.。
I am not telling you to stop looking.。
As I say this, I'm not saying,。
well, just fold your arms and cross your legs。
and tap your toe.。
Like that's not what I'm processing with you here.。
What you have to understand is that。
while you shouldn't look for the one,。
you also need to look for someone。
because the goal of your singleness。
is not to find the one who can satisfy you.。
It is to find someone who can glorify him.。
That's what you're looking for.。
Now, some of you, you're deeply content in your singleness.。
You might be called to it for a lifetime。
and that's a really good thing.。
But for others of you that are wanting for this,。
that's what you're looking for,。
which begs the question, what do they look like?。
Well, let me tell you, in the weeks to come,。
you'll have to come back 'cause I'm gonna make sure。
that you learn all of the details。
of what you need be looking for.。
But I'll give you a teaser.。
That person should love Christ more than they love you.。
That person should not be so concerned。
with grabbing hold of some guy or grabbing hold of some girl。
but instead grabbing hold of him。
because in their mind's eye,。
he is theirs before anyone else's.。
You want someone like that, that sees the things of God。
and says, I'm going for it, I'm racing for it.。
If you wanna come with me, then let's do it。
because this is a journey worthy going on.。
This is a cause worth giving our lives for.。
This is a purpose that transcends。
any other purpose in this world.。
But I'm going after him.。
I'm not coming after you.。
That's what you're looking for,。
someone whose allegiance is to Jesus.。
Now, the third reason why you may still be single。
if you don't wanna be is fear of commitment,。
fear of commitment.。
It's interesting, when I was researching for the series,。
I was just trying to catch up on the landscape of love,。
which kind of, it evolves.。
Every couple of years, you see that。
the romantic realm of our world,。
it just, it grows, it adapts, it adds to itself.。
And so what I knew was that in our culture,。
there's a large word bank of alternate relationship。
structures to help us define what's actually going on here.。
And yet, as I did the research, I realized。
I did not know nearly as much as I thought I would。
because what I found were a variety of terms。
that you and I may already know,。
things like situationships and open relationships。
and friends with benefits, all of that kind of stuff.。
But I also learned terms like polycules。
and hierarchical polyamory,。
and I learned about sex interviews and serial monogamy.。
I don't expect you to be familiar。
with all the varying fluid forms of relationship status,。
but what I do want us to know is they all exist。
for the same singular reason.。
People fear commitment.。
That's what they are.。
That's why they exist.。
They exist because they're trying to help you。
enjoy the benefits of a relationship。
without bearing any of the responsibilities。
of caring for another person.。
Paul knows we fear this so much so。
that in 1 Corinthians 7, he actually addresses the topic.。
He says, right after verse 35,。
where he defines the purpose for it,。
this in 36 and 37, that if anyone thinks。
that he is not behaving properly toward his betrothed,。
if his passions are strong, and it has to be,。
let him do as he wishes, let them marry.。
It's no sin.。
But whoever is firmly established in his heart。
being under no necessity,。
but having his desire under control,。
and he's determined this in his heart。
to keep her as his betrothed, he will do well.。
What's Paul saying?。
If you wanna be together, you can't stop talking.。
You can't stop texting.。
You can't stop thinking.。
You can't stop touching.。
Then be together, get married.。
Like that's what he's saying.。
He's like, hey, you don't necessarily need to do this。
in a sinful way where we're gonna make an accommodation。
for all of our unbridled passion.。
But what you need to do is you need to process。
that stuff out, you need to bring community into it.。
And then once it feels like it's been redeemed,。
you need to take a step, make a decision, and get married.。
And if you wanna be single,。
man, you just love this stage of life.。
God's really teaching you something right now.。
There's some things that you're trying to work out.。
Then be single.。
Like that's okay.。
His point is make a decision, commit one way or the other.。
That's what he means when he says be firmly established.。
That word in Greek, it is the derivative of a word。
that means to sit.。
So Paul is saying be firmly established.。
Hey, why don't you settle down, get sedentary?。
He wants you to adopt this picture。
of sitting and staying a while。
with whatever decision you decide.。
Like don't keep moving about with like this anxious energy。
of like, well, I think I wanna be single,。
but I think I wanna be dating.。
I kinda wanna live in both worlds.。
Don't do that.。
But so many singles in our world, they do this.。
I did this.。
This is a common practice.。
Like instead of making a decision。
and sitting where we say,。
what we instead do is we flirt.。
Like you text her late at night,。
the hour when really it's not appropriate for you to,。
but it's gonna get her mind going.。
You stop by his desk just to say hi and chat.。
And you know, you look good today。
and he needs to know it too.。
You make an effort in a public place。
where both of you are present to seek her out.。
Even though it's inconvenient,。
someplace maybe like the porch.。
You like his Insta story.。
You share something on direct message.。
You go out of your way to express interest.。
But I would never ever enter into a relationship。
with that person.。
That would ruin the friendship.。
I don't necessarily want anything serious.。
I'm just trying to have a little bit of fun right now.。
So many of us are not firmly established because we flirt.。
Others of us are not firmly established。
because we date casually.。
I'm not trying to load a bunch of pressure on dating.。
But what I do wanna say is if you're dating。
for the simple sake of fun, you might need to slow down。
because often what happens when we're in that pursuit。
is we build emotional bonds with people.。
We bend some physical boundaries.。
It feels good to be wanted.。
We break spiritual rules.。
Like, listen, man, I know I'm not supposed。
to date a non-believer, but it's nothing serious.。
We're just having fun.。
They're a nice guy, super moral.。
They might believe one day.。
And what happens is you express。
that you're not firmly established.。
Others are delaying their proposal.。
You've been dating more than two years.。
And so she starts to wonder, like, I wonder,。
what is this, you know?。
Like, this thing's gonna go the distance.。
We made it two years.。
Like, this thing looks really awesome.。
But then that slips into three years.。
And so she's kind of confused.。
Her family's peppering her with questions.。
And yet she's committed, you know, it's awesome.。
It's been three years, a little longer than I thought,。
but we're gonna make it.。
But then it slips into four years.。
And now she's frustrated,。
but she's deeply invested in this thing.。
Like, I'm aging.。
It's been four years.。
I think you are who I think you are,。
but this doesn't seem to make sense.。
And then it bleeds into five years.。
And what you find is that she's emotionally exhausted,。
waiting around for you to pop the question,。
to bend the knee.。
She is seeing that the market is currently flooded。
with new dating prospects.。
And she just doesn't have the stamina to get back out there.。
So she waits around for your sorry, bud.。
I wanna be really clear.。
This is a very cruel thing to do to someone.。
To string them along with the promise of forever,。
but never the intent of actually delivering.。
Don't do that.。
That's a cruel thing to do.。
It's not family established.。
And the last is the eternal engagement.。
Where you did put a ring on it,。
but we've moved in together and we're splitting the bills。
and we share the same groceries and we love to cook dinner。
and we're already having sex.。
And you know what?。
The formality of a big wedding, that crazy event,。
I don't know that I necessarily wanna invest in that.。
And so you push and you push and you push.。
You're not firmly established.。
Now, let me be really clear.。
I am not saying in any way that commitment is easy.。
Take it from somebody that loved his single years。
and all the option value that it brought.。
Commitment is hard.。
And some of you have very legitimate reasons。
for why commitment is hard.。
Like you never grew up in a home。
where you saw a healthy, loving, committed relationship.。
You were involved with someone。
and they took advantage of you.。
They took something from you that was not theirs to have,。
or you've put yourself out there.。
You've heard sermons like this。
about walking across the room.。
And so you've done the effort, you've made the move,。
and yet you've been rejected, you've been ghosted,。
you've been belittled.。
And so you just don't have what it takes any longer。
to keep putting yourself out there.。
I don't know what it is for you,。
but here's what you need to know.。
You will never heal from it if you only hide from it.。
You'll never heal from it if you only hide from it.。
You have to be willing to pull that out。
if you want to actually re-engage commitment.。
And the good news is, despite whatever hurt you have,。
or whatever it is you're ashamed of,。
or you're embarrassed about,。
Jesus was committed to you anyways.。
He looked at the worst of you,。
that which you did, that which you will do,。
that which was done, that which will be done.。
And he said, "I'm in for this.。
"I'm committed to you,。
"so much so that I will walk the road you cannot walk.。
"I will live the life you cannot live.。
"I will die the death that you deserve.。
"I will take my life back up in my own hand,。
"and I will rise forth from the grave。
"that if anyone wants to place their faith in me,。
"they can be with me forever.。
"That's how committed I am to you.。
"You want to know the depth of my commitment?。
"Look to Calvary,。
"because it declares in my mind's eye,。
"I am committed to this.。
"Not just today, not just tomorrow,。
"not just for this life.。
"I am committed to you, to us forever."。
That's what Jesus has done.。
And if you learn a commitment like his,。
then you can overcome whatever hardship you have.。
Now, let me be quick to finish here.。
Some of you are sitting in this room and you're thinking,。
"Kyle and I agree, but none of this is true for me."。
And that's not a prideful comment.。
I am ready.。
I know God's still teaching me things,。
but God's teaching everybody something.。
I walk with him daily.。
I read his word regularly.。
I make sure to pray,。
not because I've got to get my prayers in,。
but because I love to talk and process with the Lord.。
I'm ready.。
Or you're sitting here and you're thinking to yourself,。
"I'm not in search of the one.。
"I've already found him.。
"I found the one.。
"I know there's only one worthy of seeking,。
"and his name is Jesus."。
And you're thinking to yourself,。
like, "I'm not afraid of commitment.。
"I just have no one to commit to.。
"What other possible reason does God have for me?。
"Why would he leave me in this spot?。
"If he's so good, if this is desirable,。
"if it is purposeful, then why?"。
Because it's just not time.。
That's the fourth reason.。
And it is probably the hardest one to receive.。
In the book of Lamentations, which is a book of mourning,。
it's actually, it's five funeral poems right at the center。
of what I think is a scripture for you.。
It says this, Lamentations 3, starting in verse 24.。
"The Lord is my portion, says my soul.。
"Therefore I will hope in him.。
"The Lord is good to those who wait for him,。
"to the soul who seeks him.。
"It's good that one should wait quietly。
"for the salvation of the Lord.。
"It is good for a man that he bears the yoke of his youth."。
Twice in that passage, it says that it is good。
to wait for the Lord, which is surprising。
because it feels pretty bad, doesn't it?。
Like, our world is obsessed with convenience.。
No one's still riding horseback from one place to the next。
because it's not nearly as efficient as a motor vehicle.。
No one likes to wait five to seven business days。
to get anything on their doorstep。
because you can just prime it and have it here。
in less than two days instead.。
Like, we know that convenience is not something we opt for,。
and yet, why then is waiting good?。
Listen, because nothing worth having comes without waiting.。
Nothing, nothing worth having comes without waiting.。
If you think about it, you don't develop photos。
in the sunlight, you take them into a dark room,。
and yet, if you pull them out of that dark room。
and you expose them to light too soon,。
what happens to the photos?。
They're ruined.。
And yet, if you're patient, wait, give time,。
and let those photos develop in the dark,。
when they're ready, you pull them forth,。
and what you find is something beautiful in the end.。
God has left some of you for this reason alone。
in a season of singleness,。
which equates to a dark room experience。
because he is trying to make something beautiful of you。
that he may not make in any other way.。
He's developing you.。
He's preparing you, not just for marriage, but for himself.。
He's making of you, not just a wife, not just a husband,。
but one that looks like Christ.。
You see, we do not get the promise that we will be married,。
but what we do get is the promise。
of a wedding that is to come,。
one where we're united to not some random groom,。
but to the perfect groom whose name is Jesus.。
We see in him a groom that was always ready,。
never needed to get himself right,。
but was ready and willing to pursue us。
when we were unwilling of being pursued.。
We see in him the only perfect one。
that has always been waiting for us.。
And we see in Christ,。
someone that never second guessed his commitment,。
but said, "No, I am willing to express my commitment。
"in the grandest of ways.。
"I will live my life perfectly。
"because you cannot in your sin.。
"I'm gonna die, but not because I'm worthy.。
"You are instead.。
"And yet, because I lay down my life。
"and I take it up by my own accord,。
"I will rise forth from the grave。
"that any who believe in me,。
"they will have everlasting life.。
"Not just heaven to come, but heaven right now。
"because you get me."。
And what we see in Jesus。
is that he had to wait.。
He waited for at the right time,。
he died for the ungodly.。
He died for you and me.。
If you're ready to find love,。
and listen, you need wait no longer, friend,。
for love has found you.。
Let me pray for you.。
God, thank you for tonight.。
Every moment over the course of a Tuesday is yours.。
But God, this next moment, I pray you'd use.。
I pray you'd work within the hearts of the people here。
that you would stir within their souls to believe.。
I ask God that people who may have come here。
because they wanna learn some tips and tricks on dating。
would actually learn something so much better,。
so much richer, so much fuller instead,。
that you love them.。
And in you, they not only find all they need,。
they find all they want.。
God, we worship you now.。
And it is in your name we pray, amen.。
Hey, porch, let's stand together.。
Right now, I know we've gone a little long.。
Thanks for your patience.。
Some of you wanna respond in this moment.。
We've got a team down here to the right and to the left.。
They would love to do that.。
But this moment is a moment to process.。
It is a moment to respond to the God who loves you.。
Let's do that together.。
