(upbeat music)。
- All right, welcome to The Porch.。
Welcome friends in the room,。
friends in Houston and Fort Worth and downtown Dallas。
kicking off tonight at Gillies.。
Welcome friends for the first night down there.。
A few years ago, I guess it was a couple years ago,。
JP called me and said,。
"Hey, there's a vacation deal that I've got with,。
"somebody basically sent me and I have this vacation deal.。
"Would you and your wife wanna come with me and my wife?。
"We're gonna Mexico, hang out at a resort.。
"It'll be a vacation, won't bring kids.。
"It'll be awesome."。
And it's a crazy steal of a deal。
because the hotel was finishing up kind of construction.。
It was just finishing up.。
And so it was like a thousand dollars。
for two people for a week.。
It was an unbelievable deal.。
And I was like, "Yes, duh."。
So we loaded up, went to Mexico, got there, really excited.。
This is gonna be awesome.。
And all of us get to the hotel resort。
and begin to check in at the hotel.。
And there were two sides to the hotel resort.。
There was this family side where kids were everywhere。
and it was kind of different restaurants.。
And then there was this adults only side called heaven.。
And true story.。
And we were told that we would be on the family side.。
And so it was like, "This will be great.。
"And it'll be fun."。
Anyways, we go to check in and JP and Monica,。
they're put on the family side.。
And then they say, "You, David, and your wife, Callie,。
"are on the adults only side.。
"You're in heaven."。
And immediately I'm like,。
"Oh man, we're not gonna be with our friends.。
"But I think we're gonna have to head over to heaven。
"and leave these guys with the kids.。
"So I hate that for you guys.。
"You can come over and see us."。
So immediately we're like seeing visions of,。
"Oh, this is gonna be great.。
"We're gonna be hanging out with no kids running around.。
"They're over there in Chuck E. Cheese essentially.。
"And we're over here.。
"We've got young adult couple friends。
"that are gonna be making memories.。
"It's gonna be great.。
"We'll let them come over。
"and hang out at our place during the week.。
"But this is gonna be amazing."。
So they take us to the different rooms。
and we get on this golf cart。
and they begin to drive us over to heaven.。
And very quickly it begins the picture。
that I had in my mind about the people。
that would be on that side。
and what it would look like begins to dramatically change。
because it was like we checked in on the family side。
and everything as we went in the direction of heaven,。
all of a sudden got darker and darker.。
And it was like we entered into the construction zone.。
Everywhere that you look, there's construction,。
there's caution tape going on.。
We literally had to go underneath a painting tarp。
to get to our room.。
We're like, "This is not exactly。
"what I thought heaven was gonna look like.。
"This looks more like hell."。
And we're heading into our room。
and there's literally construction people everywhere.。
Like there's just individuals with hard hats.。
There was only one other couple that we saw over there.。
It was almost like all of the family side was full。
and they were like, "Well, we can send these guys。
"over there, they'll think it's great."。
And so we're getting over there.。
True story, we go inside of our room.。
The tub is not finished yet,。
so we don't have access to the tub or the shower.。
And as soon as it's like, it was like on cue,。
when we put our bags down, all of a sudden,。
(imitates jackhammer)。
there's a jackhammer right outside of our window.。
I look out, there's a guy in a hard hat jackhammering away.。
At like nine o'clock at night, I'm like,。
"Oh my gosh, where are we right now?。
"This is not what I expected heaven。
"to look like and there's construction people everywhere.。
"This is not what I thought, who I thought。
"would be amongst our friends over in heaven."。
Clearly we had been surprised.。
And the reason I start there is just like in that situation。
where when it came to what I had imagined。
or what I pictured in terms of who would be in heaven。
and what it would look like and what it would be like,。
tonight, we're gonna continue this series,。
Bad Advice and look at a equally as shocking。
for many people, someday we'll find out,。
the belief that they have about what heaven will be like。
and who is there is radically different。
than they think or they expect.。
Like in that same way that we didn't expect it。
to be filled with construction workers,。
but it filled with friends or soon to be friends and fun,。
that in the same way that we were surprised。
to figure out who was there, in the same way,。
someday people will come to see those who are in heaven。
and be surprised.。
Specifically, the bad advice that many people believe。
that is not in line with what is true about heaven。
is that good people are in heaven,。
that good people go to heaven.。
The bad advice that we're gonna talk about tonight。
is this idea and one of the most pervasive,。
widely held, most widely believed ideas。
and inside of this room, even many Christians。
have bought into this idea that's so common。
that good people go to heaven.。
That when you look at, hey, who are the people。
that are in heaven, it's good people.。
There is no single lie that is sending more people to hell。
on our planet than the idea that good people go to heaven,。
just be a good person.。
And maybe no idea as it relates to God。
more widely believed inside of our country,。
more tragically believed inside of our country。
than the idea that, yeah, good people go to heaven.。
I mean, God's up there and kind of to each his own。
and figured out and try to be a good person。
and just try to be a good, at the end of the day,。
we really don't know, so just try to be nice.。
And I think the reason why a lot of people。
grab onto that idea is at some level, it makes sense.。
Like at some level, it kind of like jives。
with our feeling of fairness.。
Like it just seems like, yeah, it seems kind of fair。
that if you're a good person, it's a good God。
and you'll go to a good heaven,。
so just kind of do your best.。
Nobody's perfect, so give it your best shot。
and as long as you're not Hitler,。
you'll probably end up in heaven.。
And then I think also it almost aligns。
with what every other world religion。
seems to kind of encourage.。
They all kind of encourage a good life,。
so try to be a good life.。
But it doesn't take long, if you think about it,。
to realize, man, there's some serious problems。
with the idea of good people going to heaven.。
One of them, namely the Bible,。
which we're gonna look at in a second,。
but even if you just like hit pause and you think about it,。
if good people go to heaven,。
you are immediately faced with the problem。
that we don't actually have the definition of what is good.。
You think about this?。
There's no universally accepted definition of what's good.。
Stay with me and we're gonna dive into what Paul says。
as it relates to this idea,。
but if good people go to heaven,。
then how do we know what is good?。
People disagree and we're Americans,。
so we think, no, everybody pretty much。
thinks the same thing.。
There are people all over the world。
who very much disagree about what is good.。
There are people who will say it is the ultimate good.。
You will go to the highest level of heaven。
if you put a suicide vest on you。
and go into a stadium and blow up little children.。
There are people who think that's not only good,。
that's the highest level of heaven good.。
Think about that.。
And then there's people who think。
that's one of the greatest,。
you will not spend eternity with God。
for doing something like that.。
That's one of the greatest evils you can commit.。
There isn't a universally accepted consensus of,。
hey, just be a good person.。
Not only do we not know what good is,。
there's not even a clear,。
you would think if that really system kinda worked,。
we would have some idea of like,。
hey, how much good you have to be or what's passing.。
Like how good is good enough, it's been said.。
Like what is kinda, is it 51%?。
You just kinda kinda tip the scale a little bit.。
Maybe it's 70%.。
Is that where the grading system came from?。
Like, hey, as long as you get a C,。
you're pretty much in the good to go.。
Is it grading on a curve?。
Is Mother Teresa, is she kinda got the 99。
and all of us, however close you can get to her。
is really how good you have to be。
will determine where you spend eternity.。
And I know that sounds silly, but think about it.。
If good people go to heaven, we're in a lot of trouble。
'cause we don't know what good is.。
And even if we did, we don't know what passing is.。
We don't know what, how many points we get。
for different good actions。
and how many to minus for bad actions.。
And finally, the biggest reason why is the Bible。
and what God's word or what the scriptures tell us。
about this idea of good people go to heaven.。
Because if you're gonna stand on the idea of,。
hey, good people go to heaven,。
you cannot stand on what God's word says.。
You won't find that idea in here.。
And Paul's gonna lay that out tonight,。
the biggest problems as it relates to this idea.。
So we're gonna be in Romans chapter three.。
If you have a Bible, you can flip open。
to Romans chapter three, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John,。
Acts, Romans, and it'll be up on the screens.。
If you don't have a Bible, if you don't have a Bible,。
we have some in Dallas in the Welcome Center。
that is a free gift to you.。
You can go by afterwards and get that.。
You can download an app on your phone too as well.。
But Romans chapter three, we're gonna start。
in verse 10 of chapter three.。
Romans was a letter written by the apostle Paul。
to the church in Rome around 57 AD.。
So 30 years after Jesus resurrects, goes to heaven,。
the church begins, the apostle Paul was the artist。
or the apostle formerly known as Saul,。
tried to kill Christians, converts,。
becomes a believer in Jesus, radically gives his life。
to see Jesus made known everywhere.。
He writes his longest work, Romans.。
Romans has been called the greatest book。
ever penned by a human.。
And the chapter that we're gonna look at tonight,。
specifically one of the paragraphs we're gonna read,。
has been called the greatest words ever written。
by a person of all time,。
the greatest paragraph in human existence.。
So tonight we're gonna start in verse 10。
and we'll track through what Paul says。
is the problem with the idea, the belief。
that good people go to heaven.。
Here's what he says, verse 10, second half.。
There is no one righteous, or no one who has。
a right standing, is that word righteous.。
Righteous is not a word we use a ton outside of church maybe。
but no one who has a right standing。
or an okay relationship with God.。
No one who stands and can stand before God perfectly.。
There's not even one.。
No one who understands, no one who seeks God.。
That Christianity doesn't teach that we find God,。
it really teaches that God finds you.。
That if you ever come to faith and I ever come to faith,。
it comes in a moment where God, apart from God,。
we don't seek him but he seeks out us.。
We're gonna keep going.。
All have turned away.。
Together they have become worthless.。
There is no one who does good, not even one.。
That Paul says by God's standard of righteousness。
or God's standard of what is good,。
that there is not a single person who has ever lived。
who is good, who's seeking after God,。
who is righteous, who acts righteously.。
That according to God's standard,。
which clearly must be a very different standard than ours。
and we'll talk about it in a second,。
that there is not a single person on the planet.。
The problem with being, hey, just good people go to heaven。
is Paul would say there are no good people.。
So if that's the standard, nobody gets in.。
Our first idea from the text is really。
that no one is good enough for heaven.。
No one is good enough for heaven,。
which I think just doesn't sit well with us as Americans。
because I read that and I go, man,。
I feel like I've seen some good people,。
people who do heroic actions, they do good things,。
they care for elderly people.。
You watch some Facebook video。
that people are sending around and you're like,。
gosh, I just am restored faith in humanity.。
This is beautiful.。
This guy stopped to go help this guy's tire.。
Paul would say that what makes someone good,。
or heaven's definition of goodness is very different。
than a human's definition of goodness.。
Like a human definition of goodness is,。
hey, they're good for the most part.。
You ever think about that?。
Like a human definition is like,。
ah, yeah, you know, they're pretty much good。
for the most part.。
They got a good heart, good guy.。
Heaven's definition is good in every part.。
The reason that no one is good enough,。
a reason heaven can say, hey, there is no one who's good.。
As good as you think you are,。
as good as your grandma thinks you are,。
you are not good by God's standard, by heaven's standard,。
because it's not just good for the most part,。
it's good in every part.。
It's not just similar to, I've been like gone,。
traveling for the past couple weeks and got back in town,。
and we had all this different food,。
and if you travel and you come back home,。
there's food, what happens to it?。
It begins to like rot and spoil, right?。
You go to get the milk and all of a sudden you're like,。
oh, this is expired, how bad is this?。
Pour it on the cereal.。
And here's what happens whenever like milk has gone bad,。
and it's like beginning to curdle.。
I never once am like,。
ah, let me get the drainer, strainer out here。
and just pour that out, get those things out of there,。
dump it out and then put it in this thing.。
No, nobody does that.。
Why, because they're not like,。
oh, but there's still some that's good,。
I can still use that.。
No, you go, the entire thing has been rotted, it's all bad.。
The entire thing has spoiled.。
In the same way, heaven says, look, it's not,。
hey, it's kind of good for the most part here,。
there's just a few curdles.。
Heaven says the entire thing, if it's not all good,。
it is not good.。
Heaven's definition or God's standard,。
God's definition of what is good is very different,。
even if that's not sitting right with you.。
Like, no, I think people are good.。
God would say that's because you have。
a warped human definition of goodness.。
You've never seen perfect goodness.。
And the problem with good people go to heaven。
is that no one is good.。
No one is good in every part, even the Bible.。
Let me just remove this.。
If it's your first time back in church, maybe in a while,。
or maybe you were raised and maybe you grew up。
in denomination or expression of faith,。
and you're just kind of like, isn't the Bible, though,。
about good people, kind of these different stories。
about good people who lived, and they lived these lives,。
and they lived good lives,。
and we should try to be like them?。
The Bible's not full of stories about good people.。
Like, and I mean that very literally.。
If you read inside of the stories, you're like,。
wait a second, it's not filled with stories of good guys?。
What about Abraham?。
Abraham pimped out his wife twice,。
which is at least two times too many.。
Can we all agree?。
[congregation laughing]。
I mean, literally, he was like afraid they're gonna kill me.。
Ah, she's not my wife, she's my sister.。
Peace out, see you in a little bit, okay.。
That's what Abraham did.。
And you know, all right, what about David?。
David kills one of his best friend。
after sleeping in and impregnating his wife.。
That he sleeps with one of his best friend's wife,。
gets her pregnant, and then to cover it up,。
he has his best friend or one of his best friends killed.。
I mean, we won't even let you serve at the porch。
if you do that kind of thing.。
David's writing the Bible.。
You think this is like filled with good stories,。
good people, Moses kills a guy with his bare hands.。
Paul spent his life, as the artist formerly known as Saul,。
trying to kill, or the first half of his life,。
trying to kill Christians,。
going around trying to stomp out Christianity.。
Peter, maybe like, well, Peter's kind of good guy.。
Peter betrays Jesus three times。
on his, in Jesus's worst hour of need.。
And then even after Jesus rises from the dead。
and Peter's go get him leader of the church,。
Peter gets called out very early in church history。
by Paul for being racist.。
You're gonna read it in Acts chapter 15.。
And these are not stories of men who are like,。
these are just incredible men,。
on and on through the list we could go.。
It's not a story of a bunch of good guys.。
It's a story of a bunch of bad guys and one good guy.。
And all the bad guys kill the one good guy.。
That's how bad all of humanity is.。
The one good guy named Jesus shows up。
and all the bad guys kill him.。
And that one good guy was God who came。
in the form of human flesh to die on a cross。
because there is no one good。
and no one good enough to heaven.。
And that God knew that and he sent himself。
or went into the world to die the death。
in our place that you and I deserved.。
I think that, man, it's so true.。
I think in like our, from a earth perspective,。
you go, man, it's hard to believe.。
I just don't understand.。
How can a God, perfect God, send people to hell?。
And I think that from heaven's perspective,。
maybe from the angel's perspective,。
that's not the question they wonder.。
It's how can a perfect God let any。
of these people into heaven?。
And Paul's gonna answer that question for us.。
He continues in verse 19.。
Now we know whatever the law says,。
as in the Old Testament,。
it says to those who are under the law.。
So he's talking about to Jewish people.。
So whatever the law of the Old Testament says,。
it says to those who are under the law,。
so that every mouth may be silenced。
and the whole world held accountable to God.。
What are you saying, Paul?。
Paul just said that, hey, in case you're thinking,。
well, the only reason that people break the law。
or Gentiles, which is non-Jews, break the law。
is they don't have the law.。
They drove over the speed limit。
because they don't know the speed limit.。
And Paul says that even people who had the law。
or who knew the speed limit,。
they still drive over the speed limit。
or they still broke the speed limit.。
Everyone is held accountable.。
Everyone before God has fallen short。
and has not kept the law or the laws of God.。
He continues and says it's clear as any verse。
that we're gonna look at or any verse。
that you could apply towards any world religion,。
any verse that will clear up the false idea。
that, hey, if you're good, if you do the good things。
and be obedient, then God will love you,。
you'll earn a relationship.。
Here's what he says.。
Therefore, verse 20, no one will be declared righteous。
in God's sight by observing the law.。
No one will be declared righteous with God。
by observing or by obeying what God's word,。
God's law says.。
Think about that.。
That there is no one who will be declared。
if they do enough things, they follow the law,。
they do the right things, that they will be,。
they'll earn a relationship with God.。
They'll be good enough.。
Rather, through the law, we become conscious of sin.。
He basically says what all of us have experienced.。
It's like the law isn't a reminder。
of how great we're doing.。
The law is really there only in a way。
that points out when we fail to meet it.。
In other words, I've never had a police officer,。
you never had a police officer that just pulls you over。
and is like, hey, I just wanna like clap it,。
slow clap for you for driving the speed limit.。
Like, that was awesome.。
They pull you over when you break the law.。
They're not like, IRS didn't show up and is like,。
man, I just feel like you've been doing so great。
at paying your taxes on time, way to go.。
This is awesome.。
No, they say, hey, you haven't been paying your taxes。
on time, you only see the expressions of the law。
when you break the law.。
Paul says that's because the law doesn't do anything。
to save you, it just points out where you fall short.。
And no one, by obeying the law,。
will earn the right to have a relationship with God.。
Paul brings us to our second idea, which is doing good。
will not make you good enough for heaven.。
That there is no one good, Paul says, no one who is good.。
And that doing good, you trying to be a good person,。
trying to live a good life,。
try to follow the good book, will not earn you the right。
to have a relationship with God in eternity.。
It will not allow you to enter heaven.。
That if you and I, or which is what every world religion。
teaches, Paul says, following the law does not earn。
the favor of God.。
No one will be made good or good enough by doing good.。
I mean, if you really think about it,。
here's what doesn't always make sense to me.。
I think that a lot of people behind the idea of like,。
hey, if you do a good person, just do enough good。
that outweighs the bad, as though there's a justice system。
somewhere on the planet where that would actually。
make sense.。
Like, hey, as long as you do enough good,。
it can make up for any bad that you do.。
I mean, think about that.。
In what universe would that actually work?。
What universe would a lawyer stand with his client。
and be like, yes, so he shot the guy in the leg,。
but he hasn't shot any other guys in the leg.。
Yeah, he defrauded the IRS, but look at all the years。
he hasn't defrauded the IRS.。
And what universe does like, oh, I've been pretty much。
doing meeting the standard most of the time,。
and that will make up for when I don't meet the standard.。
There's no justice system in our country。
that would say that's okay.。
No justice system that would say, if someone wrecked。
into your car and did a hit and run, and they found him,。
and they found him out, and he was like, look, time out,。
how about I just mow your lawn for the next six weeks?。
Would that, are we cooled in?。
Or whatever amount of time would be equal to it.。
No.。
That there has to be a consequence.。
The idea of doing good doesn't make up for bad.。
Even on this planet, let alone with a holy, perfect God。
and his standard.。
Jesus even said, in Jesus' first sermon。
in Matthew chapter five, so he did a sermon on the mount,。
and like 15 verses in, very early,。
some of the first words we hear of Jesus,。
he looks into this audience of people,。
and he looks over at this group of men called Pharisees.。
Pharisees were professional do-gooders.。
It's all that they did, literally.。
They didn't have jobs.。
They were professionals at keeping God's law.。
They had memorized the entire Old Testament in Hebrew.。
Most of you haven't read the Old Testament.。
They had memorized the entire thing.。
They were men who literally didn't have jobs.。
Hey, I would, but I'm serving God.。
I'm keeping every single one of these laws.。
I'm perfect.。
Or to the law, I am as good as they're gonna come.。
And Jesus looks over to these men who devoted everything.。
I mean, they didn't sleep, drink, chew, date girls who do.。
Anything like that.。
And Jesus looks at them and he says,。
unless you are a better person than these guys,。
you will not enter heaven.。
Think about that.。
I mean, for us, for normal people, we'd be like,。
oh my gosh, yep, I got no chance.。
These guys literally, that's all that they do,。
is do what God's word says.。
And Jesus says, unless you're even better than them,。
you will not enter into heaven.。
He says, you will not enter into heaven, is his point,。
by being a good person.。
There is only one way.。
And he's gonna tell us that inside of the next point。
where he lays out, but probably the clearest example。
that we have in scripture of not a person。
who spends their life obeying everything。
and Jesus saying, hey, that's not gonna work,。
but the opposite, a person who spends his life。
literally running from God.。
A person who ended up having to experience the death penalty。
because he was a criminal.。
A person who had done nothing right in his life.。
In other words, if they had done everything right,。
this guy had done nothing right.。
It happens, we're told the story in Luke chapter 23,。
which Luke is just one of the gospels.。
And in chapter 23, we're told of kind of the last hours。
that Jesus lived as he was being crucified.。
And it says, they took him out。
and they put him on this hill called the hill of the skull。
and they crucified Jesus.。
And it says, they put him between these two criminals.。
And a criminal in that day was not someone。
who was crucified just for like,。
oh, you kind of stole some pita bread。
from the marketplace down the road.。
It wasn't a person who did that.。
A person in order to be crucified。
had to be a level of criminality。
that would be equivalent with someone。
who would be on death row in our civilization。
or in our time.。
But it wasn't just kind of everybody's,。
in fact, the word for criminal。
is literally a word for traitor or pirates.。
This person was maybe a murderer,。
maybe someone who had committed rape.。
He'd done everything wrong.。
And he's hanging on a cross next to the son of God。
who had done everything right.。
And in between these two criminals,。
all of a sudden there begins to be an exchange, a dialogue.。
Jesus and the two criminals beginning to talk。
with one another and with Jesus.。
And one of them begins to hurl insults at Jesus.。
He says, you saved other people.。
You allowed blind people to see you.。
You allowed lame people to begin to walk.。
You raised people from the dead。
and you're being crucified?。
Save yourself and save us.。
And it says that the other criminal looked at Jesus。
and looked at the other criminal and he said,。
don't you know what you're saying?。
This man, Jesus, is not deserving of death.。
We're here because we deserve to be.。
This man is innocent.。
And it says, the Bible, Luke tells us,。
the criminal then begins to ask Jesus for a favor.。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
He says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he says, Jesus, will you remember me。
when you come into your kingdom?。
And he said, someone says, I trust that you,。
Jesus, on the cross, you paid for my sin.。
You paid for everything in my past.。
Everything that, even right now,。
is a part of my life.。
The sin that I hate,。
or maybe that I don't even hate.。
That's how broken I am.。
You paid for everything in my future。
that I don't even know.。
Paul says, in a moment where they put their trust,。
that Jesus, on the cross, finished it.。
It's paid for.。
They received the righteousness。
or right standing with God.。
He continues, it gets even better.。
There's no difference for all have sinned。
and fall short of the glory of God。
and are justified.。
The word justified。
is the same word for righteousness。
in the Greek language.。
It's the verb form of the word righteousness.。
Here's what that means.。
It's the word righteousified.。
Like, when we think justified,。
it's kind of like a judge sitting there。
and like, you know,。
you're pardoned, justified.。
The word is so much more than that.。
It's you are, in a moment where you trust。
what Jesus did on the cross,。
he paid for your sin,。
God looks at you and says,。
you're righteousified.。
You have the righteousness of Christ Jesus。
imputed or passed on to you.。
That in a moment where you believe,。
it's as though he says,。
you have been made declared forever。
the very righteousness of Christ.。
The right standing that Jesus has。
with the Father。
is all of a sudden passed on to you.。
This takes place。
freely, as in without cost,。
to the one who will。
accept it by his grace。
through the redemption。
or the purchase that is in Christ Jesus.。
That in a moment where you trust,。
you're righteousified.。
Here's further what that means.。
I think we think of righteous or justified。
and we think of, oh man, a clean slate.。
That's great.。
He's given me a clean slate.。
It's that, but it's so much more than that.。
That it's not just some sort of, ah,。
he lived a perfect life, and I think it was pretty easy。
for him because he's God, right?。
It wasn't just, hey, this perfect life is kind of。
passed on to you. It's not just that,。
but it is that in addition to。
what that righteousness led him to do,。
which was die on the cross,。
do the most heroic thing in all of human history.。
That he would give his life。
and all the glory and all the amazing。
and all the wonder that that righteousness。
led him to do as an expression。
of what, because of that righteousness he deserves,。
all of that's passed on to you.。
It's not just, hey, you're pardoned.。
It's like, hey, you get the medal of honor.。
But the righteousness。
that belongs only to Jesus,。
if you will accept it, is yours.。
And not only that,。
but he, redemption,。
purchased anyone。
who would trust in what he did on the cross.。
That's what the word redemption means,。
is purchased.。
God presented him, that's Jesus,。
as a sacrifice of atonement.。
To atone is to basically stand in someone's place.。
That, hey, you deserve,。
you are。
the person who is in trouble,。
but I will stand in your place, and I'll take。
the punishment of the consequence。
that you deserve.。
Through faith in his blood,。
God did this to demonstrate his justice。
because in his forbearance,。
he had left sins committed beforehand。
unpunished.。
Basically, Paul introduces。
a little bit of a complicated idea that basically,。
hey, God shows us how just he is。
because not only was Christ。
on the cross paying for the sins in the future,。
but all the sins that man had created。
ever since Adam and Eve,。
that God was holding back。
the punishment, and in Jesus,。
he was paying for all of them, that every sin will be paid for.。
He did it to demonstrate his justice at the present time。
so as to be the one who is just。
and justifies those who have faith。
in Christ Jesus, that God,。
unlike the idea that, hey, if you're a good person,。
you get to go to heaven where you。
kind of get the glory. Let's be honest.。
I mean, it's kind of like, no, you know, not me.。
You know, I'm kind of a good person, you know.。
But in the system。
that actually exists, God gets all of the glory.。
He's the one who saves.。
He's the one who died in your place.。
He's the one who lived the life you could not live.。
He's the one who allows those。
who accept his gift。
to have eternal life with him,。
that God gets all of the praise,。
that all the emphasis is on him.。
It brings us to our third idea。
from this text, which is only God。
can make you good. Only God can make。
us good. Only God can make us good,。
that no one will ever be able to reach heaven。
without God's help, that all of us,。
as the verse says, have fallen short of God's standard.。
It's not dissimilar to this,。
'cause here's where I think we get caught.。
I think we go, man, no one is good enough,。
but there really are some good people,。
and I think that they try, and they have a good heart,。
and they do good things,。
and they're not as bad as a lot of people。
that I see out there.。
The Bible presents us this idea of, like, there's just。
a standard that is too high,。
that no matter how good we are, we'll never be able。
to get there, no matter how much we try.。
It'd be like this.。
Let's say we had a swimming competition,。
and we're gonna have a swimming competition.。
Here's the distance you have to swim. You have to swim from New York。
to London or to Great Britain.。
All of a sudden,。
we may have swimmers inside of the room that are like,。
"Oh, man, yeah, I think I could do it. I swam in high school,。
and I'll be great." And then there's other people,。
and no matter who you have, like, you know,。
I may make it one mile. You may make it five.。
Michael Phelps may make it 50,。
but nobody's making it to London。
or Great Britain.。
That everyone will fall short,。
that the standard is just。
an impossible thing to meet.。
And the Scriptures tell us。
that everyone, no matter how good。
that we think that they are, has fallen short。
of God's standard. But what does God do?。
Does He just say, "Man, these guys are pathetic.。
They can't even swim more than 50 miles.。
It's unbelievable." What does He do? Does He look down。
at humanity and say, "Man, they just can't be good enough.。
I'm done with those people"? No.。
He displays His goodness。
by moving towards。
the badness of humanity。
and running after。
the human race。
that had rebelled against Him, that had。
run from Him, that doesn't even think。
a lot of times, for the majority, that they need Him.。
And what does He do?。
What does the heart of God do?。
It goes and takes on a cross and。
dies in their place?。
Inside of the goodness。
of God, we don't find some system of like,。
"We're trying to reach up and we just can't get there."。
We find a God who's reaching down。
and saying,。
"Cling on to Me. Will you trust in Me?。
And what I did on the cross,。
if you think that。
you're a good enough person to go to heaven,。
you're arrogant."。
I used to think that that was like,。
it was kind of humble to be like, "Yeah,。
I'm trying to be good.。
Will I go to heaven? I don't know.。
I guess we'll see. I'm trying to do the best that I can."。
I used to think, "Man, that's pretty humble."。
And then one day I realized,。
"That's arrogant."。
Because it assumes。
that I could actually。
be good enough,。
if I try hard enough and I'm disciplined。
enough, that I could actually be good。
enough to earn my right。
into heaven.。
And God says, "That arrogance。
will keep you out of heaven。
and send you to hell." It is the pride。
that sent Satan out of heaven.。
The pride that sent our parent,。
or Adam and Eve, out of Eden.。
And it is the most。
deadly force moving through our country right now。
where most people, and so many of you inside。
of this room,。
you think that you're a good person.。
Or you think that if you are,。
you're able to be a good person,。
that God will accept you. That's arrogant.。
And you're arrogant.。
And he will not accept you on that basis.。
There is only。
one way to have eternal life.。
And that's by。
accepting the perfect。
sacrifice that was made for you and for me。
by Jesus and his death。
on the cross, in our place.。
I think there's something。
skeptical about us, and maybe。
it's just human nature, where it's hard to...。
The idea that, like, "Hey, it's a free gift.。
Just accept it. You don't have to do。
anything to earn it." Christianity, unlike every other。
world religion, you can guarantee yourself。
heaven in your chair right now.。
Think about that.。
Just by accepting the free gift.。
And I think we're all skeptical of, like,。
"Free, it's too good to be true."。
I don't know if I can accept that. Like, in general,。
we're just skeptical of anything that's。
free. When people tell us, "Hey, this is。
a free opportunity, a free trip,。
or a free credit card,"。
we're all just kind of a little bit skeptical. In fact,。
one day, not long ago, if you were with us a couple。
years ago, you remember when we went, we bought an。
iPad, because we believed this was true. We bought。
an iPad. We went to North Park Mall, which is a mall。
here in Dallas, and we just went to go see.。
"Hey, if we put a sign that says, 'Ask me,'。
or, 'If you want a free iPad, ask me,'。
for one."。
And we went out there, and we stood in North Park Mall,。
and literally, we made a video of it. We're not gonna。
show it, but inside of that。
time where we just stood there with a sign。
saying, "Ask me about a free iPad,"。
not a single person asked.。
I mean, literally,。
the next day at the porch, we were like, "We have an iPad.。
We're just gonna give it away to somebody." And。
true story, it happened. But no one asked, because。
we're kind of all skeptical. In the same way, when it comes。
to the gospel, there's part。
of human religion。
and a lot of our thinking。
that's an obstacle that you, if you ever。
are gonna experience eternal life, will have to。
get over. That if you access。
heaven, it will not be because you earn。
it or you deserve it,。
but because God freely。
gives to anyone。
who will accept it, anyone who will just。
trust that He paid。
for their sin on the cross, that they。
cannot, they'll take their trust off themselves.。
"I can't be a good enough person.。
I'll never be。
there, but I'm accepting that。
you died in my place on the cross。
for me." He says, "Anyone who。
accepts that is forever。
righteousified."。
Stands with the perfect righteousness。
of Jesus, forever。
theirs, despite every,。
despite the abortion in your past,。
despite。
the ways that, like, man,。
you just dishonored God。
you know that you have with your body.。
Despite the times you've looked。
at pornography, despite。
the times you've stuck a finger down your throat, despite。
the times that you just, like,。
are riddled with anxiety。
and you really don't trust God,。
despite all of those things that He looks。
at you and says, "You are。
the righteousness of God。
in Christ Jesus."。
As righteous as Jesus,。
the Lamb who was slain,。
are you。
if you've accepted that, despite。
all of your baggage, despite everything that you've。
done wrong, despite everything that I've done wrong,。
that in the midst。
of, we're just broken sinners.。
And if you're here for the first time back。
in church, I hope that you hear, if nothing else,。
you have come into a place。
that is。
full of really broken, messed up, sinful people.。
And we're all finding healing。
and hope in Christ, and we're all。
waiting to be taken home.。
But there's no perfect pastor up here.。
The guy on the stage is probably just。
not even probably, is just。
if not more messed up than everybody out there.。
And the people around you are just as。
messed up as the person of you.。
As we've said before here, like, if you。
knew everything that I thought or did,。
you would not listen to me preach.。
And if we knew everything that you thought。
or did, we would not let you in here.。
And, uh,。
and you're just surrounded by people。
who are not。
perfect.。
But they have found。
a perfect Savior.。
And we don't think we're better than。
you, we think we're better off。
than we used to be.。
Because we have found the only way。
to eternal life. You know where the religion work?。
You know where the religion。
paints the picture of this God who is love,。
who comes in, who died。
in our place.。
I'll。
close here and land the plane. I, uh,。
the reality。
of good people going to heaven, or the lie,。
is bad advice.。
Good people don't go to heaven. Forgiving。
people go to heaven. And the only way to get。
forgiveness is by putting your faith。
or your trust in Jesus。
and what he did on the cross. I remember。
this whole message, honestly, this week,。
reminded me of a conversation。
that I had when I was in 10th grade,。
years and years ago,。
with a guy, I was a believer at the time,。
and I remember I was in IPC.。
You know, remember IPC, Integrated Physics。
and Chemistry class? So we're in there, I don't know。
if we're dissecting frogs, I don't know。
what we're doing inside of that class.。
Clearly didn't pay attention well enough. But,。
we're in that class and I had this friend whose name was Austin,。
he was Jewish, he was sitting next to me, I was a believer,。
I was Christian, and I remember just talking to him about。
faith all the time. And one day he hit。
me and he was like, "Dude, so what you're telling me。
is that if you are。
a Christian, no matter what。
you do, if you've put your faith in Jesus。
like you believe he paid for your sin。
on the cross, he died in your place, that。
God came down。
as a man in Christ and he died for your。
sin and he rose from the dead, and if you believe。
that, then you spend eternity。
with God, regardless of what you've done on this planet."。
And I said, "Yes."。
And if you don't believe that, regardless of。
what you've done on this planet, then you spend eternity。
away from God or in hell.。
And I said, "Yes."。
And he said, "Wait a second, so you're telling me that if Gandhi,。
Gandhi, I mean Gandhi was a great guy,。
Gandhi, remember he was the guy who like, I sleep with。
virgins just to show how disciplined。
that I am right now. Gandhi was the guy who did nothing。
wrong, I mean he's such a good guy, he's a guy all。
about peace. You're telling me that Gandhi, who never。
as far as we know, trusted in Jesus,。
if Gandhi never trusted in Jesus, that Gandhi。
would spend eternity with hell, or。
in hell? But if。
Hitler, at the end of his。
life, came to this place where he was like,。
"Man, I act, I repent of what I've done, I'm,。
I can't believe what I've done. God,。
I'm begging you, I ask that you would forgive。
me. I'm trusting not in what I've done, or。
what I haven't done, but in what you did on the cross。
dying in my place, that Hitler。
would go to heaven?"。
And I said,。
"Yes, that's what I'm saying."。
He said, "That's just so messed up."。
And we began to dialogue, we began to talk。
about, you know why that is? Because maybe inside of your room you're like,。
"Ew, I don't know if I know that. I don't know if I,。
I'm a little uncomfortable with that."。
Here's what the Bible teaches.。
From Gandhi。
to Hitler to Mother Teresa to you in your chair。
right now, you've all, and myself included,。
sinned against。
an eternal being, an eternal God,。
a God who is holy。
and perfect, and the punishment。
for that sin。
is eternal death.。
And you may be going, "Man, it's a little。
extreme, you know, like, we did just。
a couple bad things, boys will be boys, really?。
Eternal death?"。
I mean, we understand that the。
higher a person's status is,。
the higher an offense against them, the。
consequence will be. In other words, like, if you trespass。
on my lawn, there's not really gonna be anything。
that happens to you. If you trespass on the。
president's lawn, you get shot.。
And an offense。
against God Almighty,。
the wages of that sin。
is death, eternal。
death.。
And Hitler。
has sinned against God by will, by。
birth, and by choice. Gandhi has。
sinned against God.。
You have sinned against God.。
And there's an eternal death sentence.。
And that。
death sentence will only be paid, or an eternal debt。
must be paid or will be paid in one of two。
ways. Either a person。
will reject Christ。
or just spend their whole life thinking, "I can earn my。
way to God," and they will。
spend eternity。
paying for the offense of sinning。
against a perfect God,。
where they will have eternal。
death for all of eternity, or。
they will accept。
the eternal。
death。
of Christ,。
an eternal God。
who became a man。
and died. Either they will pay for。
eternity, what Christ,。
being an eternal God, did in a。
moment by dying in their place,。
or。
they will trust in Jesus。
and spend eternity with God forever in heaven.。
That's what the Bible teaches.。
That's why Hitler and Gandhi, they've all。
fallen short. We think there's。
such a huge gap. The gap isn't between。
Hitler and Gandhi. It's between humanity。
and God. But God made a way. He。
bridged the gap。
for anyone who would trust in Him.。
He's paid for that sin. He hasn't。
made it so, like, you have to climb and work your。
way to Him. Why。
would God even allow sin into this。
world? Why would He allow that to happen? God didn't。
create the world with sin.。
Man introduced。
sin into the world. God created the。
world perfect, and He will restore。
it. And every。
sin that's been created or committed。
will be paid for, either by the person。
who committed it, or was paid for。
on the cross.。
And the offer to all humanity。
is extended.。
That your sin has been paid for.。
Why would God even。
allow Adam and Eve, maybe you think,。
maybe you've wondered, why would He even allow。
Adam and Eve the chance。
to be disobedient? Like, why would you put the tree。
there? Just get rid of the tree.。
Because God。
created an environment that could allow。
them to have the thing。
that without free will you can't have.。
A relationship.。
Trust.。
Love.。
That He created an environment that allowed,。
man, hey, I don't want to just have。
robots. I want to have a place where。
there's a relationship with one another.。
Well, that was a pretty crazy。
and stupid thing that He would do, because now there's。
going to have tons of people going to hell. "I died in。
their place!"。
Is that some God who's distant off in this。
distant land, doesn't care about humanity?。
That He came down and died on a cross。
made of wood that He created from a tree。
that He gave life to by humans。
that He formed in their mother's womb?。
That the。
same humanity that He loved, mocked。
and spit on Him,。
killed and crucified Him?。
The same humanity that He was。
on the planet to pay for their sin?。
The same humanity。
that's in this room?。
The same humanity that's on this。
stage? That whatever your。
conception about God, whatever your。
conception about the God the Bible presents is not like。
any other God out there. He's the only。
one who is there. And there is no religious。
system that even comes close.。
There's not a reference to Allah。
being a love.。
There's no stories of any other gods。
who take on human flesh and die for mankind.。
This is a。
love that's beyond any other understanding。
of any other religious system, any other。
love the world has ever seen. God is not some。
distant force that doesn't care.。
What sort of a。
God would take on human flesh and die for you?。
Whatever you believe。
about God, you cannot actually believe。
that, that He doesn't care.。
He cares enough to die in your place。
because you can't。
be a good enough person. And if you think。
you can, you're arrogant. And may。
God have mercy on you and show you。
that you will spend eternity in hell。
if you do not trust, not in。
what you do, not in how good of a person。
you are, not despite the bad things。
that you've done, not the fact that you had an abortion。
and I'm scared that maybe God won't, but in。
Jesus and what。
He did on the cross,。
there is only one。
way.。
And those who will spend。
eternity with God in heaven will not be。
good people.。
They will be forgiven。
people. And the God who is there,。
man, Lord,。
is so amazing and。
extravagant in His love that He has。
stretched out His hands to die on a cross.。
I'm going to close. I'm landing the plane. I'm landing it right now.。
A love that for all of。
eternity, those who trust in Him will worship。
and see displayed on full form.。
And the。
offer extends to anyone inside of this room.。
If you've never trusted in what Christ did,。
tonight is your night.。
And if you have, here's what I know.。
Here's why this message is so applicable.。
Because you。
live and move and have。
your being around people。
at your job, in your apartment,。
next door in your house,。
in your family.。
They've bought the lie.。
They've bought the lie that good people go to。
heaven. Doesn't even make sense.。
But the greatest lie that Satan has sold,。
at least our country,。
is that if you're。
good,。
God will love you.。
But you're not good,。
and God does love you enough。
to die for you. If you'll accept。
what He's done, you'll spend eternity。
for heaven and everything. We pray that we would.。
Father, thank You.。
Man, Lord.。
Thank You feels like。
I don't even think it feels。
stupid and foolish to even say thank You。
for dying an eternal death。
in my place.。
The full extent of。
a sacrifice like that, I don't even。
have the ability to。
understand.。
But I can't walk away。
and think.。
That You're not crazy。
in love with humanity。
despite all of our flaws.。
Father, I pray for just。
friends inside of this room that every single。
week come and they don't have a confidence。
they'll spend eternity with God。
because they haven't put their。
faith in what You did on the cross in their place.。
That tonight would be their night, Lord.。
Would You stretch out Your hand,。
open eyes, do what only You can do。
which is allow them。
to put their faith。
off of themselves, to put their trust,。
put their confidence。
and take it off of what。
they've done or what they haven't done or what they。
did and。
put it on You.。
Put it on what You've done. It's finished.。
And when they do, they will become。
the righteousness of Christ,。
the righteousness of God.。
They will be righteous-ified。
forever, Lord.。
Father, we worship You. We thank You。
that You spilt Your blood.。
You died for us. May that never。
grow cold in our hearts.。
We worship You in song. Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
