[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
All right, Porch, how are we doing tonight?。
You doing OK?。
It's great to see you.。
Thanks for making the time to join us.。
I never take it for granted that you would step away。
from whatever else you could be doing。
and you would be in the room with us.。
I think God has something special in store for tonight,。
not just for the people in Dallas, Texas,。
though I think that's true.。
Also for all of you that are tuning in online。
all over the place, thanks so much。
for being a part of the Porch.。
Special shout out to Porch Live Midland and Springfield。
and Greater Lafayette.。
We love you guys.。
We think that God genuinely can meet with anybody。
at any time and in any place, and that includes you.。
So we're really grateful that you're here with us tonight.。
Well, a couple of years ago, Brooke and I。
took a cruise where one of the stops along the way。
was to the island of Belize.。
Anybody been to Belize before?。
OK, yeah.。
If you haven't been, which we had not,。
what you need to know is that in order to get to the island,。
you actually have to take a ferry from the ship。
to arrive at the port.。
You can't just dock the ship right against the shoreline.。
You have to catch a ferry.。
And so knowing that we were going。
to have to catch a ferry to get there,。
the recommended pathway is to know。
what you're going to do should you go to the island.。
And we didn't have any plans.。
And so we thought, OK, we need to figure it out.。
We don't want to necessarily miss out on an opportunity。
to experience a new country.。
And so let's go visit with the excursion guide.。
Let's figure out what they would recommend we can do。
and assess our options and pick something。
that could be really fun.。
So we go and we visit with the tour guide.。
And they tell us all the different things,。
the smattering of opportunity that。
exists within the cruise that you。
can participate on the shore.。
And yet, as we finish our conversation with them,。
they share with us one very critical rule。
to live by, which was do not go to shore unless you。
book an excursion through us.。
Don't go to shore unless you book an excursion through us.。
And so naturally, we chose to book an excursion。
through someone else entirely.。
No offense to the cruise line.。
It's just way cheaper to book through something like Expedia.。
And so we were excited.。
The day arrived.。
We had made this incredible plan of what we would。
do when we got to the shore.。
And so we get up, and the sun's shining,。
and the birds are singing, and the weather's perfect.。
And we go down, and we get on the ferry.。
We make our way to shore.。
And as we take a look around the town square of Belize。
for our reputable tour agency, they。
were nowhere to be found.。
Instead of a tour agency, there was one Captain Tom。
waiting for us with his quote, unquote,。
"company van," which was suspect, to say the least.。
You see, we had been duped.。
We had shown up expecting one thing, promised。
the experience of a lifetime.。
And yet, here we were in the middle of a foreign country。
about to journey into a random jungle with a total stranger。
that we knew nothing about.。
How do you think we felt in that moment?。
Betrayed would be a really good assessment of the situation,。
because that's what we felt.。
We were expecting one thing, but we'd。
received something else instead.。
And I'm not judging Tom.。
I don't know the guy.。
I want to believe the best about him.。
And yet, what I know is this is the stuff of 60 Minutes.。
You know, it's a young married man。
with his newly betrothed wife in the middle of a foreign country。
journeying into a jungle of unknown proportion。
in the back of a serial killer van with a stranger。
that we know nothing about.。
This is the kind of stuff that makes the headlines back home.。
So I was having no part of it.。
We were not going to take this trip.。
You ever been in a spot like that, where you thought。
you were going to get one thing, but you ended up。
getting something else?。
You were promised something, but you received something else。
instead?。
Maybe it was that product you ordered off of Timu.。
It showed up.。
And it was just a couple sizes too small。
whenever it finally arrived.。
Looked promising, but it just didn't deliver.。
Maybe it was the perfect car at the perfect price.。
And you've been searching for a long time,。
and you finally make your way, and you see it.。
And you start to look it over.。
They hand you the car fax, and you realize it's a lemon.。
It won't even crank up.。
Maybe it's not a product you bought.。
Maybe it's someone you matched with online,。
because that never happens.。
You show up expecting them to be one person,。
and yet they're a completely different person in real life.。
Maybe it's not that.。
Maybe it's a three-carat diamond ring。
that in your responsible adulting,。
you decided to go and get appraised only。
to learn that it's the highest quality CZ on the market.。
You see, we've all been there.。
And while the cost varies depending on the situation,。
the reality is it's costly nonetheless.。
But what if it isn't just something physical?。
What if it's something spiritual?。
What if it's something that you didn't just lose money on。
that you bought?。
What if it's some part of yourself you lost。
because of someone you believed in?。
What if you placed your trust in that pastor,。
or that religious leader, or that parent,。
or that student leader from your childhood,。
or some spiritual seeker that was giving you guidance,。
and what you realized is though you had placed your trust。
in them, they did not deliver what you expected.。
They betrayed that trust.。
If that's you, then this night's for you.。
See, last week we shared that we're in the middle。
of a new series called Deconstructed,。
where we're trying to rebuild your reality,。
because the truth of the matter is,。
many of us have had our reality totally wrecked。
by somebody at some place at some point in the past.。
And often it's most tragically done。
by those that should have been building our reality,。
boosting our belief, constructing our faith, Christians.。
And what do we do when we find ourselves。
in the midst of something like that?。
Well, according to Pew Research, just last year,。
they found that many people choose to。
unaffiliate with religiosity entirely.。
In their study, they found that 28%,。
meaning over a quarter of Americans。
religiously identified as nones,。
not N-U-N-S, but N-O-N-E-S.。
They were religiously unaffiliated.。
And what's surprising, it actually made them。
the largest religious group in America today.。
Bigger even than Protestants or Catholics.。
When asked why people had become irreligious,。
their responses ranged between one of two things.。
Either they didn't like the religious organization,。
or they had a bad experience with that religious group。
at some point in the past,。
meaning that we no longer live in a post-Christian age.。
We actually live in an anti-Christian age,。
where people are no longer just indifferent to Christians.。
They're actually antagonistic towards Christians.。
They've had some experience with us at some point。
where they look and say,。
"Man, I just don't know that this is worth it."。
And oftentimes, they have good reason.。
Many people have tried Christianity,。
and they've found antiquated answers for modern problems,。
and yet whenever they pushed it up against the real world,。
they found those answers were lacking.。
Others found that the religion they were ascribing to,。
it demanded their obedience,。
and in the process, it distorted their personality,。
and it damaged their mental health forever,。
and they're still working to this day。
to pick up the pieces.。
Others, they know that,。
man, someone that they trusted,。
they ended up getting betrayed by。
because they played the part of the hypocrite.。
They hid something in secret.。
They did something egregious.。
They abused someone innocent,。
and at the sight of all of that, once exposed,。
they said, "I have to get out of this。
"because this does not seem like something。
"I want to be a part of."。
Others, they just look at Christianity,。
and they think it is synonymous with political idolatry.。
They think that it's the stuff。
of hysterical conspiracy theory.。
In 2021, there was a survey conducted。
that found one in four Christians。
agreed with this statement.。
"The government, media, and financial worlds in the US。
"are controlled by a group of Satan-worshiping pedophiles。
"who run a global child sex trafficking operation."。
One in four Christians agreed with that statement.。
We hear stuff like that,。
and we don't know how to feel about it.。
Like, if that's what these people think,。
I don't know that I want to be a part of these people。
because it sounds like their way of thinking is too narrow.。
It's too violent.。
It's too imperialistic.。
It seems pretty toxic.。
It's probably homophobic.。
It's likely patriarchal in some sense,。
and I don't know that I actually find it believable.。
If that's you, and you're here tonight,。
and you've thought one of those things。
at some point in the past,。
and you would honestly identify。
that you're on the road to deconstruction。
at some level, maybe you're at the beginning,。
maybe you're in the middle,。
maybe you're at the final stop,。
what you need to know is you're in good company。
because nobody defended the religiously ridiculed。
and the spiritually traumatized like Jesus.。
You see, when you read the Gospels,。
what you find is Jesus, he stands up for those。
that the religious would beat down or push aside.。
He defends the woman caught in adultery。
as she's thrown at his feet.。
He kneels down beside her,。
and he tells the people to cast stones,。
yet none of them can because none of them are without sin.。
He defends her.。
We find that he protects the woman of the city。
as he's sitting at Simon the Pharisee's house.。
We know that the woman at the well,。
he takes time to actually listen to her story,。
which catches her so off guard。
because he's a religious leader,。
and typically her experience has proved。
that those people are harsh.。
Instead, we know that there was a series where,。
there was a scene where a man was brought to him。
and Jesus decided to heal him on the Sabbath,。
which violated one of the Old Testament observances,。
and yet Jesus raises the bar and actually identifies。
what that rule was always intended for.。
We see that he sits with sinners and tax collectors。
over dinner despite the fact。
that the religious ridiculed them,。
and what we know is Jesus himself。
was even religiously wounded by those。
that claimed to love the same God.。
He came to promote himself.。
Jesus knows a thing or two about church hurt,。
and so if you're here and that's your story,。
then you're in good company.。
I think he wants to meet you in yours.。
Like this is not a message of hype.。
This is not a series of hype.。
These are evenings of help.。
We just wanna read the scripture。
and we wanna see the heart of God。
and we wanna have him meet us in whatever it is。
we find ourselves in because many of us tonight,。
we are in the middle of church hurt,。
and my belief is that he wants to restore。
your relationship to the church.。
Like just because you've had bad doctors。
doesn't mean you give up。
on the idea of hospitals altogether,。
and yet before Jesus restores your relationship to the church。
he wants to restore your relationship to himself。
because he is the one that leads the church.。
He wants you to have a right relationship with the bride,。
but he wants to get a right relationship。
with the groom first and foremost,。
and to do it he's gonna talk to us。
through Matthew chapter 23.。
So if you have a Bible, turn with me to Matthew chapter 23.。
While you're turning there, we are catching up with Jesus。
on what's traditionally understood to be a Tuesday。
in the midst of the Holy Week.。
The Holy Week would have been the last week of his life,。
meaning that he's in the final two minute drill。
of his existence.。
Every play he makes, every conversation he has,。
everything he does, it matters a lot。
because there's still some work that needs to be done。
at this point in his life。
before he decides to die, rise,。
and ascend to the Father in heaven.。
And so we find him in the middle of a conversation。
with the religious leaders of his day.。
You've got issues with religious leaders in your day?。
Just wait till we read what we're gonna read tonight.。
Jesus takes a massive issue。
with the religious leaders of his day。
because in the conversation we find him,。
and he is going to confront all of them。
in the areas that they have failed miserably.。
And as we do, we're gonna see that he pronounces seven woes。
or seven judgments against them。
for the ways that they have misled the people,。
that they have taken the people farther。
from the heart of God。
and led them further into religiosity, empty religiosity.。
And as we do it, as we read these seven woes,。
here's what I think we're gonna try and pick up.。
I think we're going to find a series of warnings。
that we should pay attention to。
that will tell us what we should be on the lookout for,。
but not just warnings as well as ways。
that we should be looking for in ourself.。
So here's what it says, Matthew chapter 23,。
we're gonna take it verse by verse, starting in verse 13.。
It says, "But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees,。
"hypocrites, for you shut the kingdom of heaven。
"in people's faces, for you neither enter yourselves。
"nor allow those who would enter to go in."。
You see, the first thing that Jesus wants us to know。
is that we should beware of those。
who stress aptitude over attitude.。
We should beware of those。
who stress aptitude over attitude,。
which doesn't exactly raise any eyebrows。
until you realize who Jesus is speaking to in this moment.。
He is talking to the Pharisees and scribes.。
You see, what you need to know about the Pharisees。
and scribes is they are one of four religious sects。
in ancient Judaism that actually would have。
theologically aligned closest with Jesus,。
and most likely closest to all of us.。
They believe in things that we believe in,。
things that Jesus believes in.。
They believe in the resurrection from the dead,。
and they study the Old Testament scriptures,。
and they agree with the reality of a spiritual realm.。
They believe that God's gonna send a Messiah。
that's going to deliver the people of God,。
the nation of Israel, from their oppressors.。
They believe the same things we believe.。
They are theologically precise,。
so much so that they're the kind of friends。
you'd cheat off of in high school just to get a good grade.。
They knew better than you.。
They know better than all of us。
with respect to their religion,。
and yet what we know is that Jesus is judging them。
because they're shutting the door。
on the kingdom of heaven in people's faces.。
Why is he judging them?。
Because of that.。
Because while they know much about the study of God,。
they do not know much about the God of their study.。
While they know much about the doctrine of God,。
they don't know much about the God of their doctrine.。
Again, these are the spiritual leaders of the day.。
Like, these are the kind of people。
that you would've followed on social media.。
You would've gone to conferences to hear speak,。
reading their books at night.。
You would've tuned in to see。
what new insight they had to offer.。
You would've made sure to follow them on social media.。
Like, they had great things to say about who God is.。
They had great things to say about the word of God,。
and they had great things to say about the kingdom of God,。
and yet here's the thing we learn。
is though they knew who God was,。
they didn't recognize him when he stood face-to-face。
with them in the person of Christ.。
Though they studied the word carefully,。
they did not recognize the voice of God。
when he spoke to them from Jesus's own mouth.。
And though they anticipated the coming kingdom,。
they didn't receive it。
when Jesus actually came to bring it to them.。
They thought they knew so well,。
but what we realize is they didn't know anything at all.。
They had more of a relationship to religion。
than a relationship with God.。
And the consequence is they not only failed。
to enter the kingdom,。
but they kept others from entering the kingdom themselves.。
It's kind of like movie critics and famous films.。
You see, there are experts in the field of cinema。
that make great judgments on a variety of different options,。
and yet what you find is smattered。
throughout the history books are a variety of criticisms。
that are really pretty unjustified.。
You see, some famous critics,。
the experts in their industry,。
have looked at some of the most famous movies of all time,。
and they've given mixed reviews, if not scathing reviews.。
Movies like "Forrest Gump," "Star Wars, A New Hope,"。
"Casablanca," "The Wizard of Oz," and "The Sandlot."。
They look at these films。
and initially give really poor reviews upon their debut,。
and yet what we realize is the people。
that know everything about movies。
actually don't know anything。
about the most famous movies of all time.。
That's who the Pharisees are in this moment.。
You see, they misjudge Jesus completely.。
They write a scathing review.。
And sadly, because others listen to them,。
they cause them to miss out on the kingdom as well.。
Porch, it's not enough that church leaders,。
Christians in general, have theological proficiency.。
We want that, to be clear.。
We wanna be theologically precise.。
We wanna be accurate.。
We don't wanna have cheap grace in our services.。
We want to be theologically proficient,。
but that's just not enough.。
Theological proficiency is insufficient。
without relational proximity to God.。
It's one thing to love the teachings of God。
and the doctrine of God and the history of God。
and the study of God and the word of God,。
but not love the person of God himself in Jesus Christ.。
That makes no sense.。
But as Christians, we're called to look at the world。
and say, "Hey, I don't just have the appearance of religion.。
I actually demonstrate the reality of a relationship to God.。
You can look at me and you can see I've been marked.。
I've been changed.。
I've been transformed, not just informed,。
but transformed in my life."。
This is who Jesus is calling us to be.。
And yet so often Christians miss out on it.。
Dallas Willard said it like this。
in "Spirit of the Disciplines."。
He said, "How many people are radically and permanently。
repelled from the way by Christians。
who are unfeeling, stiff, unapproachable,。
boringly lifeless, obsessive, and dissatisfied?。
Yet such Christians are everywhere.。
And what they're missing is the wholesome liveliness。
that springs forth from a balanced vitality。
within the freedom of God's loving rule.。
Spirituality wrongly understood or pursued。
is a major source of human misery and rebellion against God.。
Some of you are miserable at the thought of God。
and rebelling against all his ways。
because you have been given a spirituality。
that is wrongly understood.。
So what does a spirituality。
that is rightly understood look like?"。
Well, Zachariah tells us.。
He says this.。
He says, "This is what the Lord of heaven's armies says.。
In those days, 10 men from different nations,"。
meaning people that do not know God,。
"they will clutch the sleeve of one Jew.。
And they will say, 'Please let us walk with you。
for we've heard that God is with you.'"。
Porch, let me ask you.。
Have people heard that God's with you?。
Or have they just heard about God from you?。
There's a massive difference in those two things.。
One is intellectually acquainted.。
One is intimately acquainted with Jesus.。
The world is wondering。
what is true of the Christian faith?。
What's characteristic of the church?。
And what they should see is not just knowledge,。
but genuine belief,。
not just learning, but life's meant to be lived.。
And thus give convincing.。
That's what they should see.。
Jesus tells us what to look out for.。
And then here in this moment, he's saying,。
"Hey, look, there's something you should look like.。
You should not merely look intellectually informed,。
but you should look intimately transformed."。
That's what should be true of my people.。
That's the first way that he intends us to look.。
The second is in verse 15.。
It says this, "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees,。
hypocrites, for you travel across sea and land。
to make a single proselyte.。
And when he becomes a proselyte,。
you make him twice as much a child of hell as yourselves."。
The second thing that Jesus warns us。
is that we should beware of those。
who convert to their cause before the kingdom.。
We should beware of those who convert to their cause。
before the kingdom, because according to Jesus,。
leaders can not only dissuade you。
from believing the right things,。
they can persuade you to believe the wrong things.。
That's what the Pharisees and scribes。
are doing in this moment.。
Like when Jesus says, when he uses the word proselyte,。
that's just another word for convert.。
It's to take somebody that believes one thing。
and lead them to believe something different.。
Instead, and this was actually a really important thing。
to the nation of Israel, because God had called them。
in the Old Testament to be a light to the nations.。
Like they were meant to present a convincing case。
to the watching world that God is true。
and he is worthy of walking with.。
And so the Pharisees and scribes,。
they're living into this command.。
They know this is what's meant to be true of us.。
And yet they give a different kind of light。
than the light that God intends us to give.。
You see, the kind of light we should give to the world。
is sort of like a space heater.。
What's a space heater do?。
When you see it, you move out from the cold。
and into the warmth.。
And as you spend time in the presence of that space heater,。
near that light, you feel good.。
It takes away the chill.。
It dusts off the cold and it comforts you in its company.。
That's what the people of God are meant to be like.。
And yet the Pharisees and scribes,。
they're not really a space heater.。
They're more of a bug zapper.。
They have a magnetizing effect.。
They're drawing people in.。
And yet the closer you get,。
like you get, you get not life, you get death.。
Like you get electrocuted.。
Like you find out this is not actually going to lead。
to my flourishing.。
This is going to lead to my perishing.。
That's what we find with these Pharisees.。
They have a similar magnetizing effect.。
And yet their light leads to death,。
not life like God intended.。
That's what Jesus is getting at in this verse.。
He's telling the Pharisees that rather than convert people。
to the kingdom, what they have chosen to do。
is they have chosen to convert them to their cause.。
So what's the cause that he's converting them to?。
The cause of the Pharisees and scribes。
are trying to convert people to。
was a set of oral tradition.。
They had developed over 1500 commands。
known as fence laws that surrounded God's own mosaic law。
to protect people from actually doing。
what they shouldn't do.。
It was a preventative measure.。
And yet it was so cumbersome.。
Like while the idea seemed to make a lot of sense,。
what we realize is it actually perpetuated。
something really damaging.。
It led people to think that they could actually。
make themselves righteous through manmade legalism.。
And if not that, it would dissuade people。
from going all in with Jesus and following after God。
and instead indulging whatever it is they wanted。
in their selfishness.。
It had a repulsive effect.。
And it damaged people in ways it never meant to happen.。
You see, we may not adhere to the oral traditions。
of the Pharisees, but many Christians nonetheless。
advocate personal projects or social causes。
that are similarly damaging.。
And some of you have lived through that.。
Like whether it's seeing your church compel people。
to vote a certain way or watching a religious system。
perpetuate poverty and racism or sexual abuse。
or seeing Christians tolerate brokenness and sin。
out of a desire to love other people。
or advocating social reform at the expense。
of biblical truth, religious people and leaders。
most of all frequently convert people to their cause。
and not to Christ's kingdom.。
We're not called to convince people。
of the merits of our passion points.。
We're meant to convince people。
of the passionate pursuit of Christ for them.。
That's what we're called to do.。
So many people are disillusioned with what we believe。
as the people of God because we have given them。
poor reason to follow him and a reason that God。
never intended to be offered in the first place.。
No, everything the world is looking for,。
everything many of you are looking for,。
freedom and fullness and purpose and love。
and acceptance and community and a deep sense。
of abiding joy, all of that is actually found in God.。
It's not found anywhere else.。
It's not going to be achieved through some other cause.。
It's going to be found in Christ.。
And the amazing thing is while none of us。
could actually receive that on our own,。
he came to bring that and give it to you as a gift.。
If you'd step into relationship with him。
and walk with him today, tomorrow and the rest of your life,。
this is what's available.。
There's a beauty to the character of God。
that affords for us all the luxury we want in life.。
Not material luxury, but intrinsic luxury,。
a luxury that's characteristic of heaven and not earth.。
That's what he comes to give.。
And yet many of us, we look to some sort of earthly。
social cause to achieve that end instead.。
Jesus comes to rescue us from that.。
You see, the second way he intends his people to look。
is he intends for us to look as a people。
passionate for the kingdom。
and not just passionate for our causes.。
But he doesn't stop there.。
He keeps going.。
He says this in verse 16, he says,。
"Woe to you, blind guides who say。
"if anyone swears by the temple, it is nothing.。
"But if anyone swears by the gold of the temple,。
"he's bound by his oath.。
"You blind fools, like for which is greater,。
"the gold or the temple that has made the gold sacred?。
"And you say, if anyone swears by the altar, it's nothing.。
"But if anyone swears by the gift that's on the altar,。
"he's bound by his oath.。
"You blind men, for which is greater,。
"the gift or the altar that makes the gift sacred?。
"So whoever swears by the altar,。
"swears by it and by everything on it.。
"And whoever swears by the temple,。
"swears by it and by him who dwells in it.。
"And whoever swears by heaven,。
"swears by the throne of God。
"and by him who sits upon it."。
The third thing that Jesus is warning us tonight。
is that we should beware of those。
who leverage authority to escape accountability.。
We should beware of those who leverage authority。
to escape accountability.。
Now at first, this woe can seem pretty confusing。
because things like swearing on the altar。
versus a swing on the gift on the altar,。
swearing on the temple versus。
swearing on the gold of the temple。
seems pretty irrelevant to our day and age.。
And yet it would have been totally commonplace。
for the people that Jesus is speaking to in this moment,。
not just the crowds,。
but particularly the Pharisees and the scribes.。
You see, what they would do。
is they would often make a binding oath.。
They would commit by way of their word,。
by swearing to something of special significance.。
It would intensify and legitimize the fact。
that they really meant what they were saying.。
We do this today in a similar modern equivalent。
when we're sworn in for testimony at court.。
What do you do?。
You place your hand on the Bible,。
something significant,。
and you swear to tell the whole truth。
or the truth, the whole truth,。
and nothing but the truth.。
So help you God, right?。
That's what we do today.。
We do something similar.。
We commit our way and we legitimize our word。
and our vow and our oath。
by swearing upon something significant.。
That's what they're doing.。
That's what Jesus is referencing in this moment.。
And yet what we realize is the Pharisees,。
they're not just giving their word.。
They're actually creating a loophole。
to get out of whatever their commitment may be.。
So the way it works is they would swear。
to something of significance.。
And yet if they decided that a better offer came。
or they wanted to get out of their binding oath,。
they would swear to something of even greater significance.。
And because it's more significant,。
this previous oath is invalidated.。
And now I have a new commitment.。
And yet Jesus is looking at him.。
He's saying, no, let your yes be yes.。
Let your no be no.。
Like God is faithful.。
And so we should be too.。
Like we don't have to base our integrity。
upon something of significance。
when all the significance we need is found。
in the fact that we're made in God's image.。
As he is, so we too should be.。
And yet what we know is just as the religious leaders。
of Jesus' day used their authority to escape accountability,。
Christians do this today.。
We've all seen it, particularly a lot in the last decade.。
Leaders covering up some kind of scandal,。
pushing away some sort of habitual sin,。
doing their best to control a narrative。
or blame shift some accusation。
that they don't have to take accountability for.。
And yet what we know is this is not the way of Jesus.。
Psalm 15, one, two, it says,。
oh Lord, who shall sojourn in your tent?。
Who shall dwell on your holy hill?。
Is he who walks blamelessly and does what is right。
and speaks truth in his heart.。
And then you jump to verse four,。
it says who swears to his own hurt and does not change,。
who gives his word, who gives her word.。
And even when the going gets tough。
and this becomes really inconvenient,。
they don't bend, they don't break, they don't flake.。
So I remember when I worked in college ministry,。
I would meet students all the time。
that were so excited to hop in。
with the things we were doing.。
Like they would learn about the ministry。
and the opportunities they're in,。
and they would apply and come to orientation。
and learn all of our expectations。
and be super geared up until a better offer would come.。
And then as they proceeded to try and flake out,。
there would be a series of conversations。
we would have with one another。
that always went one of two ways.。
They would come to me and they would say,。
Kylan, I've really been praying about it.。
And I just think God's calling me to this.。
Or they would come to me and say,。
Kylan, I've really been praying about it.。
I think God is telling me to do that.。
And I, with love in my heart and kindness in my eyes,。
would graciously tell them they're wrong.。
Because God will not say something now。
that disagrees with something he said then.。
He tells us when you make your commitment,。
you hold fast to it.。
When you say yes, you let it be yes.。
You keep your oath, even to your own hurt.。
We should be faithful, 'cause he's faithful.。
Like God has never not kept his word, has he?。
He's always kept his word.。
He's never covered up some kind of evil, has he?。
No, he exposes it.。
He's never kind of snuck out of a commitment。
that he had at some point in the past.。
No, he honors it, he keeps it.。
This is who our God is,。
and this is who the people of God should be.。
And yet so many of us, we become just disenchanted,。
disoriented, disappointed by the fact that,。
man, the Christians I know and the leaders。
of God's people don't look like this.。
They sneak around.。
They act more faithlessly than faithfully.。
They do what they know they should not,。
and yet they don't own up to it.。
They don't take accountability.。
Jesus is looking at us, he's saying,。
"Don't let this be true of you.。
"This is not the way of God, nor is it the way of my people."。
No, we're meant to walk in transparency.。
Like we don't hide aspects of who we are.。
We walk in the freedom that the gospel has afforded.。
Like we walk in transparency,。
but we also, we express authenticity.。
Like we say what we mean, and we mean what we say,。
but we don't just do that, we also embrace accountability.。
Like we bring people into our lives,。
and we give them permission to hold us accountable,。
to keep us to task, to make sure we're honest,。
to help us remain reliable.。
Like this is what we do.。
We try to walk in transparency, express authenticity,。
embrace accountability,。
because this is what Jesus intends for his people.。
He wants us to be knowable, not hidden.。
The last thing that he warns us is found in verse 23.。
It says, "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees,。
"hypocrites, for you tithe mint and dill and cumin,。
"and have neglected the weightier matters of the law,。
"justice and mercy and faithfulness.。
"These you ought to have done。
"without neglecting the others,。
"you blind guides, straining on a gnat,。
"and swallowing a camel."。
What the heck is he talking about?。
[congregation laughing]。
What's the last thing that he wants us to know?。
That we should be aware of those。
who emphasize small matters over big matters.。
Should be aware of those who emphasize small matters。
over big matters.。
You see, Jesus' criticism here is not。
that the Pharisees and scribes have tithe,。
dill, cumin, and mint.。
He's not getting onto them for doing that.。
He's not belittling their observance。
and obedience to the law.。
What he's doing is he's bemoaning the fact。
that they have honored the smallest of things,。
and yet they have dishonored the weightiest of things.。
They pay attention to the things。
that are so individually insignificant,。
and in light of doing that,。
they have missed out on what is。
eternally significant instead.。
He's not getting onto them because they're doing。
what the Old Testament requires.。
They're giving a tenth of what they have to God,。
even to the degree of measuring out。
the smallest garden crop possible.。
He's not getting onto them for that.。
He's getting onto them。
because they've forgotten the important things,。
things that today, here in our world,。
we too as Christians have forgotten ourselves.。
How much of our witness has the church lost。
because it's focused on immaterial,。
meaningless, and irrelevant matters。
while the world is burning around us?。
Like, I'm not trying to shame anybody here,。
and I am certainly not trying to make myself。
the moral example to follow.。
I have plenty of room to grow in this too,。
and yet it looks odd to the watching world。
when we disagree over doctrinal distinctions。
and denominational differences。
while there are refugee crises。
in places like Syria and Ukraine.。
It looks odd to the world when they watch us。
squabble over social causes of insignificant matter。
when they know we're called to love the widow。
and the orphan instead.。
It's odd to the world that we would follow God's allegiance。
less so than the allegiance we hold。
to some political party or social issue.。
It's confusing.。
It doesn't make sense.。
Now, to be clear, I'm not saying that we shouldn't wrestle。
for theological precision。
and advocate for objective morality in life。
or pursue kingdom values for our country.。
We should do all of those things, but here's the thing.。
When Christians lose their minds over small things,。
the world loses its faith over big things.。
When we lose our mind over small things,。
the world loses its faith over big things.。
Woe to us if we strain out the gnat。
and yet we swallow the camel.。
What's Jesus saying there?。
He's saying, "Woe to you, ugh,。
"if you choose to be clean in the smallest of matters。
"and yet you allow yourself to be unclean。
"in the areas of life that matter most,。
"which are justice, mercy, and faithfulness."。
The prophet Amos recounts it like this from God.。
It says, "I hate, I despise your feasts.。
"I can't stand the stench of your solemn assemblies.。
"Even if you offer me your burnt offerings。
"and grain offerings, I will not accept them.。
"I will have no regard for your fellowship offerings。
"of fattened cattle.。
"Take away from me the noise of your songs.。
"I will not listen to the music of your harps,。
"but let justice flow like water。
"and righteousness like an unfailing stream."。
What good is our religiosity。
if we forget God's priority porch?。
What good is it if we're so focused。
on the things that matter to us。
that we forget the things that matter most to God?。
What does God care most about?。
He cares most about people,。
that which will never perish,。
that which will go on for eternity.。
Everything in this room, all the material in your life,。
the things of this earth, they will fade and grow to dust,。
except for the people next to you.。
God cares about people.。
That's why he calls us to justice and mercy and faithfulness.。
Like he cares about justice,。
about righting the wrongs。
that have been afflicted against people.。
He cares about mercy,。
about lavishing love where those cry the loudest.。
He cares about faithfulness,。
about leading people to truth,。
that he wants a relationship with them。
so much so that he would have great compassion。
to race towards them wherever it is they are.。
This is what he cares about.。
And it's what we should care about too.。
We should be purposeful of what's important。
and not neglectful of it.。
The last thing that Jesus cares to see.。
You know, when Brooke and I were sitting。
in the middle of Belize,。
on the curbside, right next to Captain Tom。
in his suspect van,。
(congregation laughing)。
I was so convinced there was no way。
we were going on this ride.。
I thought the whole thing was a farce.。
I felt totally betrayed by the fact。
that we were showing up for one thing,。
but we got something else entirely.。
And I was out.。
I was ready to walk away.。
I was ready to swim back to the ship。
if that's what it took for me to get as far away。
from this situation as possible.。
That is until a fellow traveler walked up.。
Someone that had a similar credential。
from the same cruise that we had come from.。
And he looked at us in the midst。
of our uncertain situation,。
in the face of the distrust we were feeling.。
And he assured us, hey, this may all look pretty odd.。
It may even feel untrustworthy,。
but what you need to know is the journey's worth it.。
The adventure ahead is everything you hope.。
And you don't have to go there alone.。
I've been there before.。
You can trust me, even if you don't trust this,。
and we can go there together.。
So we did.。
And we had an amazing time.。
It was an experience we speak about to this day.。
Not because the circumstances around。
or the situation itself seemed trustworthy,。
but because someone showed up who we could trust in。
that had been where we were。
and had gone where we were going.。
If you're here and。
you feel religiously ridiculed, spiritually traumatized,。
then what you need to know is。
Jesus is not asking anything of you。
that he has not done so himself.。
You see, you may be here and you're like,。
man, I feel so betrayed.。
Like everyone I trusted,。
like they ruined everything for me.。
I thought this was one thing。
and it ended up being something else.。
And they showed up to be the most untrustworthy。
and unlikely of people.。
I feel betrayed and Jesus looks at you and goes,。
I get it.。
I was betrayed too.。
Not just by those I trusted,。
but by those who trusted in me.。
They were the ones that sold me out.。
They were the ones who changed my situation.。
They were the ones。
that left me broken.。
Some of you were here and you feel like,。
man, I'm so hurt.。
Like I was taken to places and brought to points。
that I never thought I would be at.。
And yet Jesus looks at you and goes,。
hey, I've been hurt too.。
I've been hurt by the religious,。
the spiritual, the leaders.。
I've been hurt, not just at some point in the past,。
I have been hurt even to the point of death.。
And some of you are here and all you see in your story。
are religious scars.。
And yet Jesus comes to you and he says,。
I have those too.。
For these scars,。
for the price of a people such as you.。
If you're here and you're religiously wounded,。
then know this,。
Jesus heals our religious wounds by his wounds himself.。
And he wants to do it with you tonight.。
So let me pray that he would.。
God, I'm grateful.。
When we've all but given up,。
when we feel totally betrayed and we're ready to walk away,。
you chase us down.。
When we feel hurt, you bring healing.。
When we feel wronged, you come to make it right.。
This is your heart, God.。
And it's a heart that God, we want to be reacquainted with。
if we have grown distant from it at any time in the past.。
So God, I pray that you would do it here tonight.。
I pray that you would do it right now in this moment.。
I thank God about the opportunity for healing in this place.。
And I'm asking you, God, please, would you do that?。
Would you provide a healing balm。
to the broken parts of our lives?。
Would you lead us, God, back to a place。
where we have restored relationship in you。
and a restored relationship to your people?。
We love you, God.。
And we want to deal with you now.。
It's in Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
Hey, porch, let's stand to our feet real fast.。
Hey, one thing that I realized。
as I was making my way through that sermon。
is there was no way we were gonna get through。
all seven woes, and so we took four tonight.。
We'll clean up the last three。
the next time we are all together.。
I think this is a topic。
that deserves a little bit more time anyways.。
Some of you are really wrestling。
with some of the ideas we've spoken about tonight,。
some things that resonated with you,。
and yet you're not real sure how to process them.。
What we wanna encourage you to do is,。
is to wrestle well,。
which often means you don't wrestle alone.。
Maybe a conversation, an internal dialogue。
has stirred up within that you need to get out.。
We've got a team down here to the front,。
my right and my left, that would love to process with you.。
You will not tell us something that we haven't heard before.。
You will not tell us anything that we haven't heard.。
Anything that catches us off guard.。
But this is an opportunity for healing,。
and so we wanna give you a place。
where you can do that at whatever pace。
feels most helpful as we sing together.。
So let's do that together now.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
