- Testing one, two, three, can you hear me?。
Well hey everyone, and welcome to The Porch.。
We're going to be diving into the question。
that's been on everyone's mind.。
Why in the world are women so hard to understand?。
- I think what you meant to say was,。
why in the world are men so confusing?。
- Okay, so it seems like both genders。
may have some difficulty understanding each other.。
- Which is why each week, we're spotlighting。
a different side of the room,。
to dig into issues we face within our own gender,。
while growing an understanding for the opposite sex.。
- One night, we're putting the guys under the microscope.。
- The next night is for the girls.。
But don't worry, everybody's invited every night.。
- Because here's the thing we figured out.。
- We're not actually short on opinions about men and women.。
- He's saying this.。
- She's saying that.。
- But what does God have to say about all of it?。
- Welcome to the debate that culture can't settle.。
- Welcome to what's actually true.。
About him.。
- And about her.。
- Welcome to your favorite Tuesday night series.。
- He said, she said.。
(audience cheering)。
- All right, well, Porch, how are we doing tonight?。
We doing okay?。
Great to see you.。
Full house, everybody is in the room.。
It's so great to have everybody here,。
as well as everybody that is tuning in from the chapel.。
Like, shout out to you guys.。
Can we give some love to the overflow tonight?。
(audience cheering)。
And then can we give some love。
to everybody tuning in everywhere?。
Like, wherever it is that they might be watching from,。
all across the country.。
We've got Porch Live locations that want to be a part。
of what God is doing here.。
Not just in this room and not just amongst these people,。
but amongst our generation.。
Like, it is a genuine honor to be a part of it.。
Like, to play a small role in a really big movement。
of what God is doing in the lives of young adults.。
Special shout out to Porch Live Scottsdale.。
Anybody from Scottsdale in the house?。
Got anybody from Arizona?。
Maybe one, maybe two.。
Fort Worth.。
(audience cheering)。
As always, some of you guys with us here.。
And then Porch Live Dayton.。
Give it up for Porch Live Dayton, everybody.。
Come on.。
Hey, it's amazing to be back.。
We started a brand new series last week.。
It looks like some of you might've been in the room.。
Others of you got the memo.。
Last week, the boys were on the chopping block.。
This week, it's the ladies' turn.。
(audience cheering)。
Let me start off by saying this.。
When I got married, it did not take me long。
before a profound realization struck me.。
And it was not that marriage takes work.。
It's not that communication is required.。
It's not that working between families,。
your family and her family, can be sanctifying.。
Really, what struck me was just how different。
men and women were.。
And it did not take me long to realize this.。
And I suspected this was the case through my single years。
and then into my dating experience.。
But it was within my first year of marriage。
that it began to really settle in on me。
just how different we were in fact.。
It didn't take long.。
Like before Brooke and I even said I do,。
she got the keys to our apartment.。
She moved in because she wanted to nest.。
And I didn't really necessarily know what that meant.。
In my mind, moving in and getting a house settled。
basically meant we needed a mattress。
and a television and some wifi.。
But then I showed up and it looked like。
we had an HGTV intervention.。
Because everything was everywhere.。
Like there were blankets thrown over every item。
or furniture piece that we had.。
There were curtains hung.。
I had never had curtains in my life.。
There were books in all of the shelves。
and they were ordered by color.。
Spines that I had never before seen。
but aesthetically looked very pleasing.。
There were candles burning。
and there were pictures on the walls。
and somehow there were plants still alive.。
I remember thinking to myself,。
are we actually supposed to live here?。
It looks like it looks way too nice。
for someone the likes of myself to move in.。
And then we moved on after that.。
And I saw that we were supposed to combine our furniture.。
At least that's what I thought.。
Because in reality, my furniture quietly thanked me。
for my years of service。
and it headed to the donation center.。
And then there were the decorative pillows.。
I don't know if anybody's ever talked to you。
about decorative pillows, guys.。
I did not know much about decorative pillows。
but apparently those are the pillows。
that they get moved off of the bed。
so the real pillows can come and they can work。
through the night shift.。
And then you take the real pillows and you put those away。
so you can put the decorative pillows back on the bed.。
That way you never have the opportunity。
or make the mistake of enjoying them.。
And then there came grocery shopping.。
I bought protein, like that was my experience.。
I bought chicken and rice and eggs and peanut butter.。
Like that was a good week's worth of groceries.。
But then whenever I got married,。
I realized our grocery list not only increased。
and our grocery budget also increased.。
I realized the items diversified.。
Like we had flowers in our home,。
which feels like the most meaningless purchase possible。
because you're just throwing cash away in that moment.。
That stuff's going to die.。
And then we had laundry beads.。
Like I knew that my clothes needed to be clean。
but I didn't know that they actually needed to smell good.。
And then we had hand soap that matched the seasons.。
I didn't even know that hand soap had seasons.。
And then don't get me started on kitchen utensils.。
I owned one spatula my entire time in college.。
And I flipped thousands of eggs with that spatula.。
It was basically family to me.。
But then we got married and we had lots of spatulas.。
We had lots of spoons.。
We had teaspoons and soup spoons。
and we had small spoons and big spoons.。
We had several different types of forks。
because some forks are for salad。
and other types of forks are for the entrees.。
And then we had loads and layers。
of different types of utensils.。
You see, my first year of marriage taught me。
in convincing fashion that men and women are different.。
Can I get an amen from anybody in the house?。
(congregation laughing)。
And while it was funny to me at first,。
learning all of these little nuances and differences,。
eventually it became pretty beautiful to me.。
And the reason for that is because I learned。
that where I was weak, Brooke was strong.。
And when Brooke was struggling, I could support.。
I realized that we in fact were better together.。
Our differences, they were not problematic to the two of us.。
They were actually purposeful.。
Meaning despite what culture says,。
we do not need to erase our distinctions.。
We talked about this last week with the fellows,。
but men don't need to quell their ambition.。
They don't need to scrap their strength。
and they don't need to apologize for being male。
for fear of being seen as some sort of gigachat.。
I said this last week, men, you need to hear me。
because this is the calling card every single week.。
We talk about your manhood.。
Your masculinity does not need to be suppressed.。
Your masculinity needs to be sanctified.。
It needs to be sanctified.。
(congregation applauding)。
But as we turn the corner and we talk to the women tonight,。
I want to tell you something similar.。
I want you to know that women。
don't need to devalue motherhood.。
They don't necessarily need to prioritize career achievement。
or reject physical modesty。
because that's giving total trad wife.。
You need to know the calling card on womanhood。
is that your femininity does not need to be erased.。
It needs to be embraced.。
It's fascinating.。
We live in a cultural moment where many people,。
particularly women, assume equality requires sameness,。
that men and women should be interchangeable.。
That's why toxic masculinity of the past,。
which was marked by things like promiscuity。
and hyper-independence and vulgarity and sexual entitlement。
have actually become the repackaged trademarks。
of female empowerment.。
The truth of the matter is。
I don't really need to stand here and prove it to you。
because our culture and mainstream media。
is doing an exceptional job of this instead.。
You need to only watch a single episode of "Live Island."。
You need to only go listen to a single episode。
of "Call Her Daddy."。
You need to only go surf around on Instagram。
and find a social media feminist,。
and what you will see is you will see。
everything that was formerly canceled。
now consequently embraced.。
You see, modesty has been displaced by assertiveness.。
Purity has been replaced by sexual liberation,。
and quiet confidence has been eclipsed by bravado,。
and this is the sad irony of the moment.。
Hear me on this, the world has not elevated femininity。
as it promised and said it has devalued it。
because what the world has done。
in the efforts to accept women。
is it has rejected what made you women to begin with.。
It has erased your distinctions.。
It has removed the very design that God gave you。
that has dignified you by Him and for us,。
and so here's my hope.。
Like, I hope to just establish there's a different way。
to process what is the purpose of womanhood,。
because what if the purpose of women。
isn't discovered by becoming less feminine,。
but it is by embracing the woman。
that God created you to be?。
That's exactly what I wanna talk about with you tonight,。
so if you've got a Bible,。
you can turn with me to Genesis chapter two.。
While you're doing that, I said this last week,。
but it's important to return to。
just because in a room like this,。
I want you to know why we're approaching。
the topics of manhood and womanhood the way we are,。
because it's very intentional.。
You see, typically, whenever you arrive at this discussion。
in Christian environments,。
the conversation leans towards roles。
or functions of men and women,。
and it's not difficult to understand why that would be.。
Like, if you read through the Bible,。
the Scripture has a lot to say about men。
as husbands and fathers,。
and the Scripture has a lot to say about women。
as wives and mothers,。
and yet here's the reason。
why I don't just want us to focus on role,。
because if we think about the roles of a man。
or the roles of a woman,。
it can give the impression that manhood and womanhood。
are life goals to achieve。
as opposed to gifts you've already received.。
As I say that, I know that a lot of you,。
you're aspiring to be a husband.。
You're aspiring to be a wifey.。
Like, it's a part of your 10-year plan.。
It's something that you intend to accomplish at some point,。
and you absolutely should.。
I am a husband, and I am a father.。
I recommend it.。
I think it is an incredible experience,。
and if you are of any like-minded interest,。
you should go for it,。
but I do not want to a room。
that is composed of people across a wide spectrum.。
Some of you are singles.。
Some of you may, in fact, be married.。
Others of you, you might be a single mom。
or a single dad in the room.。
I want you to know that God's manhood for you men。
and God's womanhood for you women。
is available to you regardless of what your role,。
your function, or your station in life is right now.。
I want you to know that you being a husband。
does not make you a man,。
and you being a wife does not make you a woman.。
I have seen plenty of husbands act like little boys。
because they know more about Formula One,。
and they know more about fantasy football。
than they do about pursuing their wives,。
discipling their children,。
and cultivating their homes to the glory of God。
and for Christ's kingdom.。
Your marital status does not make you a man,。
and it does not make you a woman,。
because it is not about your role in life.。
It is about your responsibility to God.。
It is not about your position in life.。
It is about your purpose from God.。
Last week, we talked about the purpose of men.。
And for fear of re-preaching that sermon,。
I'm just gonna look at you fellows,。
and I'm gonna tell you,。
you can go re-listen to it at any time you want.。
But tonight, it is the lady's turn.。
Tonight, we're gonna talk about the purpose of womanhood,。
which is probably worth me。
addressing the elephant in the room.。
I am not a woman.。
(congregation laughing)。
But I have carefully and very intentionally。
observed one for 12 years,。
in that I have been with my wife for over a decade now,。
and as I have observed her,。
I am confident of this, standing here before you tonight,。
I am more confused about women today。
than I was when this all, in fact, began.。
Which is why, though it might feel strange for me。
to stand here and talk to you about what your purpose is,。
my intent is not to in any way tell you what I think.。
I do not wanna tell you what I think your purpose is.。
I want to tell you what God says your purpose is.。
And so ladies, can I just be really honest with you?。
Here's my goal.。
I'm gonna be as faithful to the text as I can be.。
I promise, that is my commitment to you.。
And I'm asking you,。
would you be as gracious as possible to me?。
I'm gonna do my best,。
but ultimately, you don't need to hear from me,。
you need to hear from him,。
and he does have something that he wants to say to you。
tonight.。
Now, before we dive in,。
here's the very last thing I need you to know.。
To the men, you need to know why the heck。
you're even in here.。
You're not in here because I want you to understand。
what women want and how women think,。
so that way you can game the system.。
The truth of the matter is,。
you can't game the system when you ain't got no game, son.。
And you can't game the system。
if you're not even in the game.。
Some of you need to reconsider that prospect.。
The truth of the matter,。
you're in here for three very specific reasons.。
The very first reason is you are here to empathize.。
The ladies did this for you last week,。
this is your responsibility this week.。
You are here to empathize.。
Just recently, I read a book called "Girls" by Freya India,。
which detailed the challenges facing women today.。
Just to give you an idea,。
I wanna read you a quote from the book.。
Listen to me, fellas, this is for you.。
I think the women will resonate to it.。
It's a long quote.。
So I need you to lock into it, okay?。
Here's what it says.。
This is from Freya.。
She says, "My basic argument is simple.。
"Modern digital technology amplifies the age-old anxieties。
"adolescent girls have always felt.。
"The problem, though, is it's more sinister than that.。
"Not only does the modern world。
"magnify these age-old anxieties,。
"it ruthlessly exploits and it profits from them.。
"It is about an entire commercial ecosystem。
"that uses our emotions as raw material,。
"a beauty industry that thrives on our self-loathing,。
"a wellness industry that relies on our stress and anxiety,。
"a pharmaceutical industry。
"that needs our distress and diagnosis,。
"a dating industry that depends on our dissatisfaction。
"and continuous swiping,。
"a porn industry that profits from our objectification,。
"a consumer culture that cashes in。
"on our search for identity and belonging,。
"our despair and disempowerment are worth billions."。
She goes on and she says this.。
She says, "Women are both consumers and the consumed."。
Take away for you men in the spirit of becoming empathetic。
is you and I cannot fathom how difficult it is。
for our sisters in the room tonight,。
but we can make it easier。
for our sisters in the room tonight.。
You do not have to experience what she's experiencing。
to care about what she's carrying.。
So empathy is your first goal.。
That's the first reason you're here, gentlemen.。
The second reason you're here is to expect,。
like I want your expectations of women。
to be shaped by what God says about them.。
Meaning if you expect the ladies in this room。
to treat their bodies。
the way that God would have them treat their bodies,。
then you won't be able to actually objectify their bodies。
when they're not looking or online.。
If you expect them to know what God says about their worth,。
then you will be able to remind them of what God says。
whenever insecurity does strike them in the days ahead.。
And if you expect them to act as your God-given equal,。
then you will walk into rooms and you will face problems。
and you will dignify their voice to speak up。
to help you solve that which you cannot solve.。
You have a good partner in the sister sitting next to you.。
And so I want you to expect well of them.。
You cannot, we cannot,。
we cannot expect women to treat themselves。
as God would have them be treated。
if we are unwilling to treat them that way ourselves.。
Make sense?。
And then the third thing for the guys。
is I want you to encourage them.。
Not like in a weird, romantic, advantageous sort of way。
and not in the kind of way。
where you're trying to like emotionally entangle。
and kind of slide in close。
and be kind of sneaky about your intentions.。
I want you to encourage them。
the way that brothers should encourage sisters.。
I want you to look at them and say,。
"Hey, I value you and I respect you。
"and I appreciate the things you're going through。
"and the way you're handling them.。
"I thank God for the fact。
"that he has made you the way you are."。
Because as you say these things to them,。
what these ladies will understand。
is they actually have brothers that will back them up.。
So you empathize.。
You expect, you encourage.。
All right, with all that said, shall we?。
Genesis chapter two.。
Pick it up in verse 18.。
It says this.。
Then the Lord God said,。
"It is not good that the man should be alone.。
"I will make him a helper fit for him."。
Now, out of the ground,。
the Lord God had formed every beast of the field。
and every bird of the heavens。
and he brought them to the man。
to see what he would call them.。
And whatever the man called every living creature,。
that was its name.。
The man gave names to all the livestock。
and to the birds of the heavens。
and to every beast of the field.。
But for Adam, there was not found a helper fit for him.。
Now, let's just stop right here for a moment。
because I think this is too important to miss.。
Notice what God said.。
He notices that for Adam,。
there's not a helper fit for him.。
And so he says, "I will make him a helper fit for him."。
Meaning he already knows,。
like in advance of Adam doing this entire process。
of evaluating the animal kingdom,。
God, before it all, he looks at Adam。
and he knows there's not a helper fit for this guy.。
So why the heck does he have Adam go through the process。
of seeing every animal and naming them one by one?。
Why would he do that?。
Like, is he just cruel and manipulative?。
Is he just trying to spin Adam's wheels?。
What is he up to?。
I love this.。
God has Adam, though already knowing,。
there's not a suitable helper.。
Go through every available helper。
because he wants it to be clear。
that nothing else in all creation is as special as a woman.。
He wants Adam to have looked at it all。
and then come up for air and realized, "Help, God.。
Like, none of these things are sufficient.。
No other created being can meet my needs."。
And so he moves forward.。
And what he does is he does something incredible.。
Like, he has Adam evaluate all these animals,。
all these animals, where were they created?。
They were created the same place。
that Adam was, outside of the garden.。
And after they all come into the garden。
and they're evaluated as insufficient, God does this.。
21, "So the Lord God caused a deep sleep。
to fall upon the man.。
And while he slept, he took one of his ribs。
and he closed up its place with flesh.。
And the rib that the Lord had taken from the man,。
he made into a woman and he brought her to the man."。
This tells us two very important things about woman.。
Number one, it tells her that she was not made。
in the same place as the rest of creation.。
All of creation, all created beings。
that have received the breath of life,。
every animal and Adam himself,。
they were all made outside of the garden.。
They were made in the wild,。
but woman, she was made in the garden.。
She was made in paradise.。
Speaking intrinsically to how special she is.。
We also see that she is not made。
in the same way as the rest of creation。
because she is not made of dust.。
She is made of man.。
The only creature in all creation made this way.。
And by way of being made from man,。
it symbolizes her equality to him.。
You see, she is fundamentally equal to Adam in every way.。
Like Adam can never look at Eve。
and think she is inferior.。
She's not like the other animals.。
So it's critical for us to understand this。
because so much damage has been done。
under the guise that women are second rate,。
they are lesser than, and they are substandard to men.。
But fellas, that's not how God sees women.。
So can we just level with one another?。
You do not get to intimidate her with your size.。
You do not get to coerce her into sexual compromise.。
You do not get to belittle her with your words,。
and you do not get to guilt her for not serving you.。
She is equal to you.。
None of these things make sense according to God's design.。
And ladies, here's the thing.。
I am praying you would start believing that for yourself.。
Because the truth of the matter is so many women。
subject themselves to this kind of boyish,。
not manly behavior.。
Because there's an insecurity deep inside。
that they need the validation of anyone.。
And so anyone will do.。
You cannot experience intimacy without equality.。
And here's the thing that's crazy about this.。
Real men are not threatened by this reality.。
Like they actually look at the equality of women。
and they are not threatened, they're excited about it.。
Like you read on and you see Adam says this,。
he says, this is at last bone of my bones。
and flesh of my flesh.。
She shall be called woman because she was taken out of man.。
Like in your Bible, that's formatted as a stanza, right?。
Take you back to English class.。
It doesn't look like the rest of the words on the page.。
Like it's separated, it's indented, it's stacked multi-line.。
And the reason why is it is trying to communicate to him,。
communicate to us that Adam just burst into song.。
Like that's what seeing a woman will do to a man。
that actually agrees with her God-given equality.。
It will lead him to sing.。
Says therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother。
and he shall hold fast to his wife。
and they shall become one flesh。
and the man and his wife were both naked。
and they were not ashamed.。
Genesis one would summarize these ideas。
as we went from good to very good.。
That's the way the story ends.。
The culmination of creation as a woman comes into the scene。
is it levels everything up。
because she is distinctly special.。
Now with all of that said, what is the purpose of woman?。
The first purpose is this.。
We gotta know that women help through strength.。
They help through strength.。
This is what's meant by I will make a helper。
suitable for him.。
Now, let me be very clear.。
When it talks about a helper in this moment,。
this is not saying that women exist to serve men。
or cook dinner or play with babies or help at home,。
even though those are all really amazing things.。
The Hebrew here for suitable helper。
is two Hebrew words smashed together, etzer, connecto.。
And those words, they don't transliterate very well。
into English because we don't have a good parallel。
for what they're trying to communicate.。
They literally mean in English, she is a help against man,。
but not in a competitive kind of way,。
in a complimentary sort of way.。
She is equal, but she's distinct.。
And that actually plays to the benefit of the man.。
She's like Shaq to Kobe.。
How many championships did they win?。
You know, like Kobe needed Shaq.。
It's like Frodo and Samwise Gamgee.。
You know, like Frodo literally was carried by that brother。
all the way to Mount Doom.。
If you think about it,。
we've got 22 seasons of Grey's Anatomy.。
I don't know how much of that we should actually have。
or how much of that should really be credited。
to the friendship of Christina Yang and Meredith Grey.。
I wonder if in fact we ever would have seen。
Paulette Bonifante get her dog back, if not for Elle Woods.。
You know, like this is what it means to have。
a complimentary helper, someone that can step into。
your story and uplift your purpose。
and lead you to fulfill your responsibility.。
And this is big ladies, because I understand the word help。
or helper or help mate can feel offensive,。
but that word, etzer, throughout the Bible,。
it is most often used when speaking of God himself.。
So I'll just give you a few examples for the sake of time.。
The first is in Deuteronomy 33 verse seven.。
In this he said of Judah,。
"Hear O Lord the voice of Judah and bring him to his people。
"with your hands, contend for him and be a help."。
There it is, against his adversaries.。
Psalm 33 20 says, "Our soul waits for the Lord.。
"He is our help and our shield."。
Psalm 70 verse five says, "But I am poor and needy.。
"Hasten to me O God, you're my help.。
"You're my deliverer, you're my salvation."。
Is what he's trying to say, Oh Lord, do not delay.。
I could go on, but the point is really clear.。
According to God, helping has less to do。
with serving up sandwiches and more of serving up salvation.。
That's what the scripture is trying to communicate.。
I think this is imperative that you understand.。
Like when we read about help in the scripture,。
it is not communicating from a position of weakness。
because if it is speaking of God,。
he has never been weak once in his life.。
Instead, the helper in any situation,。
be it your landlord with a leaky faucet,。
be it your mom with that stain you can't get out,。
be it your friend processing whatever difficulty。
you're going through, be it your doctor。
that is stitching you up, whatever helper you have。
in your life is functioning from a position。
of strength and not weakness.。
They are moving towards that which is incapable。
and insufficient alone.。
And it is actually strengthening it。
to fulfill its God-given purpose.。
So let me ask you ladies in the room a few questions.。
Do you know your strengths?。
Because if you don't, you will not be able。
to make the kind of difference in life。
that God has actually designed you to make.。
So in my marriage, like just cards on the table,。
my wife is far more organized than I am.。
Like I'm an idealist, she is a realist.。
And so what that means is I often intend very well。
and yet she needs to help me ensure that I do very well.。
I might say like, "Yeah, baby, I'll get that done."。
But she knows if I don't write it down,。
I'm not gonna get that thing done.。
And so what she has done is she has created a task list.。
Now, listen, gentlemen, there is such a thing known。
as a honey-do list.。
Are you aware of what this is?。
You will be aware of it one day.。
The honey-do list is a list that I hate.。
But my wife is someone I love.。
And what she is doing by way of making this list。
is not detailing for me everything that I have to do。
in submission to her.。
What she's doing is she's trying to help set me up.。
She's saving me from abdicating my responsibility as a man。
to both provide and protect my family.。
She is preparing me to fulfill my role。
by way of her strength in the face of my weakness.。
And listen, this is just one example。
of how it happens in my marriage.。
There are also multiple examples。
of how this happens outside of my marriage。
because help, as we're talking about,。
is not constrained to a marital union.。
It can happen between brothers and sisters.。
And so in my life, as is true of many of yours,。
this sort of help is happening in ministry spaces,。
it's happening in work spaces,。
it's happening in neighborhoods,。
it is happening amongst your family members,。
it is happening in all realms of your life as well as mine.。
Because women who know their strengths。
can better others by way of them.。
So let me just say, ladies, you need to know your strengths.。
How do you know your strengths?。
Well, like, what just works whenever you do it?。
Like, what comes really easy to you?。
What is the thing that you do that your friends are like,。
"Girl, you are so good at that."。
What is it that your boss just consistently hands over to you。
because he knows if he gives you this task,。
it is only going to get done and it's only going to go well.。
These are the things that will help you to identify。
what your strengths actually are.。
But whatever your strength is, please listen to me,。
we need it, we need it.。
Just as God saved his people through his strength,。
so too will he save us through yours.。
The second question that I would ask you。
is do you know your limits?。
Do you know your limits?。
Because I hate to break it to you,。
you cannot help everybody.。
Like some of you, you're trying to help your man。
by leading him to Jesus.。
I call you guys the avenged daters.。
And the truth of the matter is you spend time around him.。
You think he's cute, you got some chemistry,。
he's gone to church with you,。
he actually has made some memories。
and he's cool with you being a Christian。
even though he has no interest in it of himself.。
But can I just level with you for a minute?。
No different than you can lead a horse to water,。
but you cannot make a drink.。
So too, can you take a man to church,。
but you cannot help him believe.。
That's on God.。
Some men,。
some men will not be helped。
because they will not receive your help.。
And so the best thing you can do。
if you were in that situation。
and this is going to feel cold,。
it might feel calculated,。
but I promise I mean it in the best way。
'cause I think it will not only help you,。
but it will help him.。
You have to end that relationship。
because as you end that relationship,。
what will happen is he will realize。
just how serious you are about your faith。
and that might be the beginning of him considering。
how serious he should be about his own.。
Some men will not be helped。
because they do not want to be helped,。
but the beauty of the story is Christ Jesus。
moved towards us when we did not want his help.。
And yet he offered to us the help。
we did not know we needed.。
And so by you vacating that seat,。
you will create space for Christ。
to do what only he can do.。
You let God be God, you be you.。
That's the first.。
The second group that I think I just need to talk to。
is a group of you that need to know。
some people are beyond your help.。
Some of you, out of a desire to be gracious。
and long-suffering,。
you have tolerated selfish and coercive。
and belittling behavior from boys。
that know nothing about sacrificial love and leadership.。
And the reason they don't know about sacrificial love。
and leadership is they do not know the God。
that has sacrificed himself out of his love。
and in his leadership for his people's sake.。
And yet you're sitting here and you're so concerned。
that if you're not the one to stay in his life,。
to shore up your commitment,。
he might never come to know Jesus.。
The truth of the matter is you are sacrificing yourself。
when Jesus has already sacrificed himself.。
You do not need to lay down your life。
for the sake of that man.。
They need to know about the man。
that has already laid down his life for the sake of them.。
And so you just need to give space to it.。
You need to back away from it.。
You need to preserve the fact that he is not,。
he is not taking the life you're wanting to receive.。
Instead, he is robbing you of the life。
that Christ has come to give.。
So move out of the way and let Christ do。
what Christ wants to do.。
He will actually move towards those that are beyond our help。
because no one is too far gone。
or is too difficult to find or too hard to reach for Christ.。
He can help anyone.。
For we all were at one time beyond help, beyond saving.。
And yet he stepped in and he saved the day.。
He helped us all.。
Last question.。
Do you know your situation?。
Because here's the thing,。
your purpose as a helper to offer your strength。
in service of someone's weakness。
does not just begin in marriage.。
So listen to me, ladies, what's your situation right now?。
Whatever your situation is right now,。
the opportunity to help through your strength is available.。
You do not need to be married, as I've already said,。
so you don't need to wait on a man any longer.。
Like just, there's so many examples.。
I could give you two quick examples.。
Like one is an example of a single friend。
that I knew when I worked in college ministry。
in College Station, Texas.。
She left an advertising agency in New York.。
She moved all the way to small town, Texas.。
And she took over a ministry that has blessed the lives。
of thousands of young women all across the city。
because she knew her moment was now.。
Another dear friend of mine, she's a single lady in Houston.。
At least she was a single lady。
at the time she's married today.。
But during her singleness,。
she realized there were so many other women,。
young, single adults in our city, in our ministry,。
that were trapped under all of these taboo topics。
that they had never spoken aloud。
until she organized an evening.。
Like she dreamt it, she developed it, she directed it.。
She did all of it.。
And the fruit that was felt from the freedom that was found。
is still being experienced today, years later.。
These are women that knew their situation,。
that knew their strengths,。
and they did not wait for some man to ask 'em out。
and take 'em to dinner and put a ring on.。
They just went for it.。
They were game.。
They were ready.。
They wanted to play ball.。
And the truth of the matter is,。
they have made a massive difference in the lives of people。
for the glory of God, because they said, yes.。
Won't you do the same?。
Won't you do the same?。
Numerous stories of redemption in the Bible。
begin with women because they decided to act.。
They decided to help Eve, Hagar, Leah, Shifra, Empua,。
Miriam, Samson's mother, Ruth, Hannah, Esther,。
Elizabeth, Mary, all of them helped。
while Israel was being oppressed by foolish or evil men.。
Women judged Israel, Deborah.。
They won military victories, Jael.。
Women saved their husbands, Abigail,。
their children, Jochebed, their city,。
the Tekoaite woman, and their nation, Esther.。
Women prophesied, Holda and Philip's daughters.。
They composed psalms and songs。
that appear in the scripture, Hannah and Mary.。
They explained the word of God to men, Priscilla.。
They hosted churches, Chloe.。
They ran businesses, Lydia.。
They served as deacons and patrons, Phoebe.。
They co-labored with Paul in the gospel, Euodia,。
and they are identified among the apostles, Junia.。
All of these women, they knew their situation.。
They knew how they could help.。
And they said, yes, do you know your situation,。
how you can help?。
And are you willing to say yes?。
Women have been making a difference for a very long time。
in the capacity of suitable helper.。
The question is, will you?。
Let me say one more thing before I move on.。
And the only reason why I'm saying。
is 'cause it's come up in conversation a couple of times.。
It came up in Q and A a couple of weeks ago,。
and I just wanna make sure it's abundantly clear.。
Sisters, you do not need to shrink yourself。
for fear of intimidating some man by way of your strength,。
your boldness, or your maturity.。
We don't need you to sit down.。
The church needs men to stand up.。
So please, do not shrink yourself。
in the place where men need to grow.。
And gentlemen, I'm not trying to low blow。
or throw unnecessary jabs.。
If this is frustrating or convicting or rude,。
resonating, the spirit might be speaking。
to a room full of women by way of a message on women,。
but he might actually be trying to talk to you.。
He might be inviting you into more of his purpose as well.。
Second purpose of woman.。
We see it in the next chapter.。
Flip over to chapter three.。
What we see in chapter three。
is right after mankind's rebellion,。
they sin against God, they eat of the forbidden fruit.。
We see God, he tells them the consequences of their actions。
and in their following, we read this.。
In verse 20, the man called his wife's name Eve。
because she was the mother of all living.。
And the Lord God made for Adam and for his wife,。
garments of skin, and he clothed them.。
Now, this is a really interesting moment。
in the story of Adam and Eve。
because this is right after they royally messed up。
and yet it is right before。
they have been kicked out of the garden,。
meaning they have broken everything。
and yet they have not been sent out into that brokenness.。
And what's crazy about this moment is in the middle of it,。
we see, while still in the garden, in the presence of God,。
we learn the second purpose of woman,。
which is this, to nurture and empower others.。
See, for the first time, Eve is actually named.。
We've known that her name is Eve。
just because we've grown up in Christian circles。
and yet this is the moment when she gets her name。
and her name means mother of all living.。
Yeah, what's interesting is she's not even a mom at this time。
like there are no kids in the picture.。
She is a mom.。
She is not yet a mother in reality。
and yet Adam chooses to give her this name.。
Anyways, why is that?。
It's a couple of reasons.。
Number one, she is a mother,。
biologically capable of being a mom by design.。
And then two, she will be a mother。
according to God's promise.。
So by design, the female body produces。
a large amount of oxytocin,。
promoting bonding and affiliation.。
And that ultimately enhances a woman's maternal instinct。
in a way that exceeds regular men.。
If you want to see this play out in reality,。
look at new moms and new dads.。
New moms receive their newborn.。
It's like they've been doing it their whole life.。
They just spring into action.。
They know already instinctively how to change diapers。
and they're prepared to wake up at all hours of the night。
and yet you hand a newborn to a man。
and some of you guys are nervously laughing。
'cause you know you're like, "Am I gonna drop this thing,。
"man, I've never been more uncomfortable in my life."。
It's because women have a more natural,。
biological maternal instinct.。
There's a natural instinct that is God given.。
I love the way Elizabeth Elliot wrote to her own daughter。
about the meaning of womanhood.。
She said this, she said, "Yours is the body of a woman.。
"What does it signify to you?。
"Is there invisible meaning in its invisible signs,。
"the softness, the smoothness,。
"the lighter bone and muscle structure, the breasts,。
"the womb?。
"Are they utterly unrelated to what you yourself are?。
"Isn't your identity intimately bound up。
"with these material forms?"。
See, women are biologically designed to nurture。
in that your bodies are crafted by God。
to incubate and sustain a child's life.。
But it's not just that.。
It's actually so much more.。
You're not just biologically designed to be a mother,。
you are spiritually destined to be a mother.。
Which is why the role of motherhood。
is not for women that have children alone.。
It is available to all women, regardless of your station.。
Because though children were the prize of a family。
in the Old Testament,。
the prize of a family in the New are disciples.。
And we see this, it's fascinating.。
As God promises to Eve that she will have a son,。
she has no children yet.。
That child is not just one that will be biologically。
from her womb, but will be spiritually for the world.。
Because he will be the son that will crush the head。
of the serpent, and as a result of that son,。
life will be given, where death was in fact found.。
So, what does this mean?。
Does this mean that you're destined。
to be a stay-at-home mom?。
Like, you're getting the news right now.。
You ain't got any kids, but guess what, girl?。
You're gonna be a sourdough batty.。
You know, like, you're gonna make the home。
and cook the meals, and you're gonna take care of the kids.。
For some of you, that sounds like your worst nightmare.。
For others of you, you're here, and your fingers are crossed,。
and your toes are crossed, 'cause you're praying。
that that would actually be true.。
That's not what I'm saying.。
Your ability to nurture others is not limited。
to being a biological mother.。
It transcends it by becoming a spiritual mother.。
Paul writes to Titus, and he says this in Titus 2.。
He says, "Likewise, teach the older women。
"to be reverent in the way they live,。
"not to be slanderers or addicted to much wine,。
"but to teach what is good.。
"Then they can urge the younger women,。
"not necessarily their daughters,。
"but they can urge younger women, teach younger women。
"to love their husbands and their children."。
Do you hear what this is saying?。
Like, you don't have to be a stay-at-home mom。
with a harem full of kids。
and the next television spot on TLC,。
nor do you have to be some sort of girl boss influencer。
that's running a Fortune 500。
to know your purpose is to nurture other people.。
It is the purpose of your life, ladies, across the board.。
Now, I have notes here to talk to each of you individually,。
those of you that wanna be stay-at-home moms,。
and those of you that wanna actually be a working woman。
for the rest of your life.。
For the sake of time, I am not going to get into it.。
Here's the simple and short of it.。
If you wanna be a stay-at-home mom,。
we do not need more housewives in DFW.。
We need more disciplers in DFW.。
And then if you wanna be a working woman,。
I implore you to know, you do not need to be a girl boss。
when you are already a daughter of the king.。
You go and you use all of your giftedness,。
all of your skill, all of your intelligence,。
all of your fearlessness to the glory of God.。
You work so long as it is expanding his kingdom.。
You go, girl.。
(congregation laughing)。
God has innately given women a stronger orientation。
towards relationships than men.。
It's the reason why ladies never go to the bathroom alone.。
That's why you grew up going to sleepovers。
and fellows never did.。
It's why you get your nails done together.。
It's why immediately following that date with that guy,。
you're texting your friends。
and letting them know how things go,。
if not while still at the date with that guy,。
texting your friends and letting them know how it's going,。
because you are nurturers by nature.。
Now, nurture us.。
We need you to.。
The way that Christ has nurtured us,。
so to follow in his example,。
the very way that he looked upon the death,。
the sting of death across the world,。
and he moved towards it with life-giving sacrifice.。
Won't you do the same thing?。
See, is the sting of death true in your neighborhood,。
true among your roommates,。
true in the mundanity of your workplace?。
Is it true amongst your family?。
Where do you sense the sting of death。
and move into those spaces to nurture。
for the good of other people and the glory of God,。
because that is your design?。
And then last one.。
And we're gonna move out of the creation account.。
We're gonna roll over to 1 Peter 3.。
So if you have a Bible, you can turn there with me.。
While we're doing this, let me just say,。
this passage is a passage to wives.。
I committed to you that I'm not gonna teach about roles.。
I'm not teaching about roles,。
but I do think this passage is explicitly teaching。
the third and final purpose of woman that you need to know.。
And so I want you to see it from the text.。
This is what it says, 1 Peter 3, one through four.。
Peter says this.。
He says, "Hey, wives, in the same way,。
"submit yourselves to your own husbands,。
"so that if any of them do not believe the word,。
"they may be won over without words。
"by the behavior of their wives.。
"When they see the purity and the reverence of your lives,。
"your beauty should not come from outward adornments,。
"such as elaborate hairstyles。
"and the wearing of gold jewelry or fine clothes.。
"Rather, it should be that of your inner self,。
"the unfading beauty of a gentle and a quiet spirit,。
"which is of great worth in God's sight."。
Now, before I tell you the final purpose of women,。
notice this text is not saying that external beauty is bad.。
That's not what it's saying.。
Often we'll read this and we'll read that.。
That's not what it's saying.。
It's not saying external beauty is bad.。
In fact, external beauty is good.。
It is given by God through his design.。
Like women have softer skin, more facial symmetry,。
a less imposing frame, and a gentler voice than men.。
In fact, women naturally retain more neotenous。
or baby-like features into adulthood.。
Here's what that means.。
If you were to look at pictures of myself and my wife today。
versus when we first met,。
you'd be like, "Bro, you haven't aged.。
"What happened?"。
And then you would look at her and be like,。
"You haven't aged a day.。
"You look the exact same now that you did back then."。
That is not just because my wife is a specimen.。
She is incredible.。
It is also because it is hardwired。
by God's design for women.。
Like evolutionary psychologists would agree。
that women have larger eyes, fuller lips, smaller noses,。
smaller chins than most males.。
And that as a result, they're more appealing than most men.。
But here's the truth of the matter.。
We don't need evolutionary psychologists to tell us。
that women are more appealing physically than men.。
And the truth of the matter is,。
we can just look at our lives.。
Gentlemen, you wake up, you pull on a shirt,。
you consider, is this thing wrinkled?。
Nah, not too bad.。
Whereas she has tried on multiple outfits.。
She has sent those outfits to multiple friends.。
She has decided to go forth with one of those outfits。
as voted upon by the rest of her group.。
And she has only later regretted the outfit。
she chose to wear.。
Gentlemen, you bathe with a bottle of Irish Spring,。
head, hair, face, and body.。
Well, she's got four products for her hair,。
three for her skin, and two for her face.。
And that is not including the bedtime routine.。
Growing up, gentlemen,。
you only had to master a stick of deodorant.。
Some of you still need to master that stick of deodorant.。
While ladies, they had to learn the nuances。
of eyeliner, mascara, and blush,。
and all the other things that I know nothing about.。
And then lastly, if we were to scroll on your Explore page,。
gentlemen, what are we gonna see?。
Women, and if we were to scroll。
on your Explore page, ladies, what would we see?。
Women, because women are just prettier than men.。
Like, it does not take hard science。
to understand this is true.。
Now, listen, this is important.。
It's not even part of the talk.。
I just need you to understand,。
because it is so worth mentioning.。
Why do women struggle with external beauty so much?。
Why do women wrestle with their God-given appearance?。
Why do they struggle under it so much?。
There is so much we can say,。
and we will, in fact, talk about it.。
Next week, we're talking about the problems that face men.。
The week following, we're gonna talk about。
the problems that face women.。
And as we get into that week,。
we will talk about comparison culture,。
and the sort of snare that that has set。
for so many of you ladies.。
But what you need to know。
is if you struggle with external beauty,。
it is because you don't recognize yourself as beautiful.。
And the reason for that is because no one has ever shown you。
that you are actually worth everything。
that God has said you are worth.。
Like some of you, you do not have a father。
that has actually cherished you.。
Others of you, you have had boyfriends in the past。
that have just taken you for granted.。
And still, some of you, you have other men in your life。
that have just taken advantage of you.。
And as a result of all of these things,。
you do not understand how much you're actually worth.。
And so you are looking to the world to validate to you。
that you are in fact beautiful,。
but God has already validated。
that you are in fact beautiful,。
that you are in fact worth it,。
that you are in fact cherishable。
because he has sent his son to the cross to die。
to make that point abundantly clear.。
But there's more on that in the coming weeks.。
God has made you with beauty and here's the thing,。
third and final, of course, he's made you for beauty。
because a woman is purposed to cultivate true beauty,。
cultivate true beauty.。
By and large, women instinctively desire。
to cultivate spaces that communicate life and beauty.。
And here's the thing, as I say that,。
I know some of you guys are like, you don't know me, bro.。
I clean up good, man, like I've decorated my room.。
I bet you have, here's the truth.。
If I were to take a sample。
of a group of guys and a group of girls,。
we were to take a guy's house and a girl's house。
and you liked your money and you were a betting man,。
I assure you, you would put your money down。
on that house of women smelling better,。
looking better and feeling better.。
And the reason for that is because women,。
they are by design innately moved to cultivate beauty。
in spaces and in people.。
Which raises an important question,。
why does beauty even matter?。
Like if this is a part of your purpose, why does it matter?。
Because the truth of the matter is,。
you could live the rest of your life。
and never decorate your room。
and yet that space would still be livable.。
You could live the rest of your life。
and you could never dress yourself up。
and you would still be presentable.。
You could live the rest of your life。
if we were to be so crazy and never bathe at all.。
And while you wouldn't be approachable,。
you would nonetheless still be a functional human being.。
So what then is the value of beauty?。
Because that's a part of your purpose.。
And here's the value of beauty.。
It is the visible expression or radiance of God's goodness.。
It's the visible expression or radiance of God's goodness.。
And it is distinctly, it's not exclusively,。
but it is distinctly characteristic of women.。
So I'll just say it like this,。
in my own life, with my own wife,。
what I know is I care a lot that my yard looks nice,。
I care a lot that our house is picked up,。
and I care a lot that the kitchen is clean,。
but Brooke, Brooke wants flowers in the flower bed.。
I don't care about that.。
That's work for me.。
Like, I don't wanna roll out there and put flowers in,。
but she cares because it beautifies the space.。
Our home, she cares that our home is not only picked up,。
but that our home is adorned with the artwork of our son。
and the pictures of our family.。
And she cares so much that our kitchen isn't just clean,。
but it smells of citrus.。
That way, you don't have to just perceive it to be clean,。
you can also just experience it upon arrival.。
You see, this is so important,。
and this actually goes back to creation.。
This is fundamentally true to men and women.。
Men, you're designed with the strength to form chaos.。
But women, you're designed with the beauty。
to fill it with life.。
Days one, two, three of creation,。
God puts the necessary structures in place。
for life to flourish.。
And then days four, five, and six, he fills them.。
To the earth, he puts animals.。
To the sea, he puts creatures.。
To the air, he puts birds.。
And to the land, he puts plants.。
And the beauty of it is,。
is creation is split in perfect half.。
One half, the strength to structure.。
The other half, the beauty to fill.。
And then he makes man, and he makes woman,。
both of which can image him together.。
This is your purpose, ladies.。
We are far over time.。
But I just wanna say this.。
When I was in college ministry,。
I remember we would do these evenings。
that we would commit to guys and girls exclusively,。
that we'd have guys night, bring in a guy speaker,。
he would speak to all of the men in the room,。
and then we'd have girls night, a girl speaker,。
and she would speak to all the women in the room.。
And I remember we would always come back together。
and we would share stories。
about what happened in those evenings.。
And the stories that came out of the girls nights。
were always better than the guys nights.。
Not because the Holy Spirit moved more over here。
than he did over here.。
It just seemed like there was something。
particularly, supernaturally, distinctly special happening.。
And so I remember I asked one of the ladies on our team,。
because I had never been to one of those women's nights,。
what is happening in that room?。
And I remember what she told me then.。
She said, "God the Father speaks more sweetly。
"to his daughters when they're the only ones listening."。
There's a bunch of dudes listening in tonight.。
But ladies, I think nonetheless,。
the Father is wanting to speak to you.。
I think he is wanting to prompt you。
with sweet and soft and sensitive words.。
Things that would not unnecessarily,。
carelessly or recklessly push you in ways。
that do not lead to your flourishing.。
He wants for your good.。
He wants to help.。
And so for you, whom are called to be suitable helpers,。
won't you realize Christ was your suitable help,。
that he did everything and more that we've talked about?。
That he helped from his strength。
in the face of our weakness.。
He nurtured and empowered us by dying our death。
and rising forth from the dead.。
And then he has cultivated true beauty,。
and that he has lit your life aflame,。
and he is sending you out to make his name known.。
So if you want to step into your purpose,。
to help in the way that God has made you to do,。
know this, you first have to come to his help。
and receive what he wants to give.。
Let me pray that you would.。
Lord, I acknowledge this evening,。
I felt heavy from the jump for me,。
from the minute I began to prep,。
to the moment now that I end,。
I just have sensed, God, the importance of these words.。
Not the importance of mine, but yours.。
The truth, God, of what you want。
our sisters in the room to know.。
God, I pray you would keep the enemy。
really far from this room,。
that, God, there'd be no space in this space。
for him to speak, and not a single person,。
not a guy nor a girl, God, would feel any shame here,。
because any such shame is the result。
of the voice of condemnation,。
but you, oh, voice of truth, you, oh, Christ, our King,。
won't you speak to us instead?。
Won't you draw us out?。
Won't you draw us up?。
Won't you draw us into you more?。
You just take a moment, and would you just consider,。
what is it that the Lord is asking you to do?。
What's the Holy Spirit speaking?。
What's the voice of God beckoning?。
Is it to confess, to walk out of here。
so very different than you arrived,。
coming in totally unknown,。
yet walking away completely known?。
Is it to lay down your life, to surrender your shame?。
Maybe you've known him, but you've picked up your old self,。
and he's asking you to take it off。
and put on the new instead.。
Maybe you've come, and you realize。
some things really need to change in your life,。
some habits really need to change in your life,。
some addictions, they really need to change in your life.。
Won't you let tonight be the night。
that Jesus can step in and heal what has felt so broken,。
mend what has felt so bent?。
Maybe tonight you're here because you haven't known him,。
but you've sensed over the course of the evening。
you want to know this.。
He wants to know you, too.。
All you need do is reach out the hand of faith。
and take the hand of Christ as your Lord,。
your Savior, and your King.。
We sing to you now, oh, Jesus, meet with us, please.。
I know this has gone longer than I expected,。
and yet, God, I think the enemy would have us rush away.。
So let us not rush, let us linger.。
The King is here, and he's wanting to work.。
Let's meet him in the middle.。
It's in Christ that we pray, amen.。
