(upbeat music)。
- I'm about to introduce you to an anomaly.。
Really a really weird thing today.。
And here's what I mean by that.。
Every now and then I read about forefather,。
the fathers of the faith that honestly I walk away from。
and I question my salvation.。
When I read quotes like from Martin Luther,。
you know, I have so much to do today,。
I'll spend the first four hours in prayer.。
I'm just like, am I really a believer?。
Like what is wrong with me?。
And so there are folks, there are few folks alive,。
honestly, very few human beings breathing today。
who delight in the word of God,。
like the person I'm about to introduce you to.。
The guy who is responsible,。
the guy who God used to bring me into relationship with him。
would tell you, and I agree with him,。
that Tommy Nelson is the best Bible teacher alive.。
One of the best Bible teachers ever to live.。
And so it is with great joy, it is a true delight。
that we get to sit at his teaching today。
and really share a Metroplex with him.。
And so would you guys please welcome with me Tommy Nelson.。
(audience applauding)。
- An anomaly.。
An anomaly, I've never been an anomaly.。
I'd like you to look at Hosea in chapter 12,。
and I know what you're thinking,。
I'm so tired of listening to teaching on Hosea.。
But it's there in the clean part of your Bible back there。
where you don't have a lot of notes.。
It is a delight to be here with you.。
You know, I saw a watermark when it was a gleam。
in Todd and Kirk McJunkin and Scott Polk。
and a bunch of those guys, just a gleam in their eye。
back about, oh gosh, 25 years ago.。
So this is a joy to come here.。
And you know, it's always tough。
when you take a group like yourself。
and you say, you know, I've got 35, maybe 40 minutes.。
What can I do that for the rest of their life。
will be something that will impact them from the scripture。
that will carry them to the end?。
And I know that I've got something.。
I hope that you'll receive it as such.。
But Hosea chapter 12, let me just give you a little,。
so you can hit this on the run.。
The writing, W-R-I-T-I-N-G,。
the writing prophets of the Old Testament。
are the guys that come。
toward the end of the Old Testament narrative。
whenever the nation of Israel。
is about to get sent into exile.。
That from Solomon。
and about 900 BC all the way till about 700 BC,。
about 200 years, the Northern kingdom of Israel。
and the Southern kingdom lived in sin, went after idols.。
And they were just a step away from going into exile。
into Assyria in the North and Babylon in the South.。
You're with me so far.。
And God raised up like Elijah and Elisha,。
the preaching prophets to call them back.。
And they didn't.。
He raised up a fellow named Jehu。
and he destroyed all of the Northern house.。
He was the terminator.。
He destroyed down among the Southern kings.。
Did he just wipe them out and it didn't turn them back.。
And his descendants, those kings fell into idolatry.。
And then God raised up the Syrians,。
a fellow named Hazael to come and torment the North.。
And that didn't turn them back.。
And so when God had been so patient, so loving kind,。
and now in about the seventh century BC,。
after 200 years from the end of Solomon's reign。
where he fell into idolatry,。
all the way through these kings,。
you've got 20 Northern kings and 20 Southern kings.。
All 20 Northern kings are idolaters.。
All but just about six, seven Southern kings are idolaters.。
That this was a nation that was in the land of Canaan。
and it flourished.。
And yet they turned their backs on the God。
that had brought them there.。
And so as the last line of defense,。
God raised up not the preaching prophets,。
but the writing prophets.。
And they're called the Amis.。
Up in the North, you have Amos, Hosea, A-H.。
Down in the South, Micah, Isaiah, Ah-mi, A-H-M-I.。
They came at the same time.。
Amos and Hosea in the North said,。
"Repent, Micah and Isaiah in the South."。
They didn't take the pleading up in the North.。
And in 722, the Assyrians are gonna wipe。
the generation that heard Hosea.。
They're gonna wipe them off the map.。
The Southern kingdom, they listened to Micah and Isaiah.。
They refused them.。
And then God raised up a guy named Joel,。
a guy named Zephaniah, a guy named Jeremiah,。
a guy named Habakkuk.。
And they didn't listen.。
And the Southern kingdom went into exile.。
And so these, I say that because these prophets,。
they're like, y'all know what the term a Dutch uncle means?。
When somebody talks to you like a Dutch uncle,。
it means they get real, not East and West,。
they get North and South.。
And they tell you what you're doing, what you need to do,。
and what's gonna happen if you don't.。
The prophets were Dutch uncles.。
You don't have to worry about interpretation.。
It's real straight.。
You don't have to take historical narrative。
and try to figure out what it means.。
You don't have to take pictures of the Old Testament worship。
and take the heavenly substance of which that is the shadow.。
No, it's just a straight port into your heart.。
And God speaks real straight.。
And that is what Hosea, Amos were to the North.。
And so this is the last word God gives。
before we will, and I quote,。
"Dash your children against the rocks."。
And so there's not a lot of East-West negotiation.。
God speaks straight.。
Chapter 12 of Hosea.。
Are you with me so far?。
Okay.。
In chapter 12, he begins, like a lot of chapters,。
with what you're doing that is stupid.。
Okay.。
And he just says, in chapter 12, verse one,。
God through Hosea says, "Ephraim,"。
that is a short term for the Northern Kingdom,。
"the largest of the tribes of the North。
"was the tribe of Ephraim, Joseph's blessed son.。
"Ephraim," and the Hebrew says that he shepherds the wind.。
Some of you have Bibles that say,。
"Ephraim feeds on the wind."。
The term feed and the term shepherd。
are really the same term.。
And so if you have a Ryrie study Bible,。
it will say, "Feed also shepherds the wind."。
I think the best translation。
is that Ephraim shepherds the wind.。
To shepherd something, we would take the term tinned,。
shepherd my sheep, tin my sheep.。
When you say tin the business,。
it means that you're very focused on that business。
and making it work.。
You're gonna take care of responsibilities.。
To shepherd something means that you're committed to it,。
like a shepherd, to raise it, protect it,。
nurture it, bring it to maturity.。
God says of Israel that they shepherd the wind.。
They are committed to something that is non-substantial.。
Something that is non-substantive,。
that is ephemeral, that's worldly,。
that is human, that comes and goes.。
Ephraim shepherds or labors at。
or is committed to the wind, nothing.。
And he says he pursues the east wind.。
In Israel, whenever you had wind come off the desert,。
it's a blast of hot air.。
God says you guys are committed to hot air。
of what has no substance.。
And specifically, he's talking in verse one about politics.。
Let me explain.。
He multiplies lies and violence.。
And here's what he means.。
He makes a covenant with Assyria。
and oil is carried to Egypt.。
Israel was always to find peace and security。
by being obedient to God.。
God would always take care of them.。
If they weren't obedient to God, they would get afraid.。
They would get afraid of what was above them,。
Assyria and the land of Babylon,。
and what was below them in the land of Egypt.。
Now on the Mediterranean,。
it's location, location, location.。
And the best place to have a nation。
is right there on the Mediterranean border,。
on the Mediterranean Sea.。
That's where Israel was stationed.。
Assyria wanted their property, Egypt wanted their property.。
How could Israel defend themselves?。
Being obedient to God.。
And you never had to worry.。
But if they weren't obedient to God,。
they were always having to keep a balance of power.。
They were always having to placate Assyria。
and make treaties with Egypt.。
And so without their being obedient to God,。
they were shepherding, hoping in, trusting in。
their ability at foreign relationships.。
And they were acting in lies and in violence.。
They would, and I quote, "Make a covenant with Assyria,。
"and then they would break it,。
"and they would carry oil into Egypt."。
As a matter of fact,。
whenever the Northern kingdom went into captivity,。
it's because the Northern king named Hoshea。
made a covenant with Assyria,。
and then broke it and went down to Egypt,。
and Assyria came to and destroyed them.。
In 722 BC.。
And so the blast of hot air is your trusting。
in the pagan world to give you meaning and happiness。
and significance and security.。
Can that still be true in the New Testament life?。
When you are conformed to this world.。
I asked one of the girls on my staff,。
and she, when I did Metro back years ago,。
back in the 90s, we had, it was over at Prestonwood,。
we had about two, 3000 singles that would come.。
And I asked her, I said,。
"You were a single in the Dallas community.。
"What was a Dallas single man like back there then?"。
This is back when single men were sinners in Dallas.。
All right.。
And she said, "The single men,。
"a lot of them at Metro were great men,。
"but a lot of them, if they weren't focused on God,。
"they were always waiting for their ship to come in.。
"They were always working the world。
"and working the finances,。
"and they were always just looking around the corner。
"for something to happen.。
"They were shepherding the wind.。
"All of their hopes were in the world."。
I said, "What were the girls like?"。
"They were looking for a guy。
"whose ship was gonna come in."。
All right.。
"They were gonna, we were," she said,。
and he's talking about herself.。
She said, "If a girl is not focused on God,。
"a lot of times she's looking for that white knight。
"to come and spirit her away to a castle in the hills,。
"and everything's gonna be great.。
"The guy's looking for this big business deal,。
"this big promotion, this big stock sale,。
"this big something or other that he's nursing,。
"and that girl's looking at him,。
"and all of their hopes are on very non-substantial things.。
"And so they, just like Israel,。
"you are shepherding the wind.。
"All of your hopes, your values, your priorities,。
"your time, your money, your energies, your thoughts。
"are in the things of this world,。
"on how men, humans, will fulfill your dreams.。
"Can that ever be a problem?。
"Looking to humans to make my life."。
Well, in verse two, he says, "Men are not your problem."。
In verse two, who does Israel have a problem with?。
Verse two, the Lord has a dispute with Judah.。
Literally, the Lord also.。
Your problem isn't Egypt, and it's not Assyria.。
It's not politics, it's not the economy.。
Your problem's not the military.。
Your problem, Judah, is me.。
I made a covenant with you at Sinai,。
that if you would have no other gods,。
make no image in the form of God,。
honor my name and me as creator,。
and remember the Sabbath,。
that if you would honor your father and mother,。
if you would not go after your brother's wife,。
or his life, or his money and possessions,。
or his reputation, if you would not covet。
the things of the world, and apologize often when you did,。
that I would bless you and your agriculture and your city,。
and the nations would be no fear to you.。
That was my promise.。
Y'all seen the movie, "The Ten Commandments"?。
That's what happens at Sinai.。
God says, "I swear to you, you honor me,。
"and I'll take care of you."。
But if you don't, if you go after other gods,。
you have breached the contract,。
the Old Testament covenant.。
And now, ultimately, I'm gonna turn off the spigot。
on the rains, I'm not gonna let your crops come up.。
If they do, the mildew's gonna eat 'em,。
the locust is gonna eat 'em,。
and then the bad guys are gonna come in。
and take you off my land, and they're gonna haul you off.。
And so God says, "Your problem is not Assyria,。
"and it's not Egypt.。
"Your problem is me.。
"You're alien to me.。
"You shepherd the wind, but you're not my sheep."。
In verse two, "And as a result,。
"he will punish Jacob according to his ways,。
"and repay him according to his deeds.。
"God said he would, and God will be faithful to his word."。
In verse three, he states that the nation,。
in contrast to verse one, instead of looking to the world,。
he says, "I wish you would go back to your old way of life.。
"I wish you would go back to a day。
"when you were faithful to me."。
And he says in verse three, "In the womb,"。
speaking of Jacob, "he took his brother by the heel,。
"and in his maturity, he contended with God.。
"He wrestled with the angel, and he prevailed.。
"He wept, and he sought his favor.。
"And Jacob found him at Bethel.。
"And there he spoke with us, even Yahweh, the Lord of hosts."。
Yahweh is his name.。
Return to your God.。
Observe justice and kindness, and wait for him continually.。
Well, let me tell you what this means about Jacob.。
When he says, "I wish you would go back。
"to the way of your forefather,"。
there's Abraham, there's Isaac, there's Jacob.。
Jacob has 12 sons, they form the 12 tribes.。
Jacob, in the book of Genesis, is given chapter 25。
through chapter, really, about chapter 49.。
He gets an enormous amount of material.。
He is Israel's root, their trunk, their forefather.。
He's the George Washington,。
the Abraham Lincoln of the nation.。
Well, he looks at the beginning of his life.。
He took his brother by the heel,。
and at the end of his life, he contended with God,。
and he prevailed.。
He looks at the whole of Jacob's life.。
Now, let me just tell you, lay this on you.。
What do you know about Jacob?。
Just stay with me here.。
Jacob was a guy that is named Ya'aqob,。
because he is the heel catcher.。
The brother Esau is born first.。
Jacob hangs on to his heel,。
and he's named the heel catcher.。
He's the guy that is going to take his brother's place.。
The brother is the firstborn.。
Jacob is the secondborn.。
Esau, Jacob.。
But Jacob is one that is desperately going to long。
to be the chosen child。
to whom the promises of Abraham will come due,。
the great spiritual blessings,。
and he desperately wants the blessing of God.。
And so God, when he is born, says,。
"Jacob I loved," the secondborn,。
"Esau I hated."。
That's a term that means to pass over,。
not to put my blessing upon.。
Of these two little sinners,。
I will not put the Abrahamic and the Isaiah。
or Isaac-like blessing on Esau.。
I'm gonna put him on the secondborn, on Jacob.。
He will be a Ya'aqob.。
He will be the one that will replace his brother。
and get the blessing.。
Now, what Isaac was supposed to do。
was to enact that with his sons.。
He was to say, "Esau, the blessing has come to Jacob."。
You may remember that Abraham had Isaac。
and what's the other son?。
Ishmael.。
He sends Ishmael away outside of the land。
and gives him gifts,。
but he puts his blessing on Isaac.。
He is obedient to God.。
Isaac should take Esau。
and send Esau outside the land to know God's blessing.。
And Jacob, the promises of the land of Canaan。
are going to be to you.。
The promises to you that God will make a great nation。
are gonna be from you.。
The promises that in your seed,。
the nations will be blessed,。
that of Messiah are going to come through you.。
But Isaac didn't do it because he liked Esau。
because Esau was a good chef.。
He was a good cook.。
And so Isaac was led by his nose。
instead of by the word of God.。
He was led by his flesh instead of by the word of God.。
Can that ever happen to us?。
That instead of following God, we go after our flesh.。
And so he put his blessing on Esau.。
And it made Jacob,。
a lot of times your father can put you in a place。
that you feel like you're having to go around him.。
What Jacob should have done was to say,。
"God, you made a promise.。
"Jacob, I have loved.。
"Therefore there is no way that promise can't take place."。
I'm gonna trust you.。
If you know your Old Testament,。
did Jacob initially trust God?。
He did not.。
First he used usury.。
Esau was hungry, came to Jacob.。
Can I have a little bit of that stew?。
In Israel, you never charge interest。
for what a need is.。
You give freely.。
He said to his brother,。
"I'll give you a pot of stew,。
"but it's gonna cost you interest."。
What's the interest?。
Your life.。
I'd like your birthright.。
I'd like the blessing.。
He tried to go around the promise of God。
and get it by usury.。
And his brother said,。
"If I die, what use is my birthright?"。
Sure, take it.。
You know what?。
He reneged though.。
And so later on in his life,。
Isaac, his father calls in Esau,。
"Let me put my blessing on you before I die."。
Did God say that the blessing would come to Jacob?。
Say yes.。
So why does he wanna put it on Esau?。
The father is disobedient。
and disobedient fathers can drive their sons。
to do crazy things.。
And so Jacob says,。
"Well, I better do what I gotta do to get the blessing."。
And so he and mama conspired.。
Mama says, "I'm gonna fix you up some food。
"like Esau would.。
"We'll feed it to your daddy.。
"He'll think that you're Esau,。
"the blessing will come to him.。
"First we use usury,。
"now we'll use deceit to get the blessing of God."。
In other words, I want the blessing of God, Jacob says,。
but I don't wanna trust God.。
I'm gonna use usury and deceit.。
And he says, "But Esau's a hairy man.。
"I'm a smooth man."。
They killed a kid, a little lamb,。
not a little bitty guy, all right?。
They killed a little lamb。
and they put it on his arm and he'll feel the hair.。
He'll put his clothes on,。
he'll smell like a guy been working in the field.。
And so tell me if this is not preaching material,。
the child of God to get the blessing of God。
is gonna imitate the world.。
He's gonna look like Jacob,。
feel like Jacob, smell like Jacob.。
The daddy says, "You know, it feels like Esau,。
"but it smells like Esau,。
"but it sounds like Jacob."。
"I know you're Jacob,。
"but dern if I can recognize you,。
"you sure look like a pagan looking for God's blessing."。
And he put his blessing on Jacob.。
So did Jacob through deceit get the blessing?。
Say yes.。
Yes, atta boy, Jacob.。
So now the blessing will be his.。
Remember what Esau said he's gonna do?。
He said, "I'm gonna kill you,。
"which is always a bad deal.。
"I am gonna kill you."。
And so the guy that had feathered his nest had to run away.。
He went all the way to Abraham's hometown, back to Haran.。
And on the way there,。
he laid down in an open field near the city of Ai,。
and he put a rock under his head.。
That's when you're uncomfortable.。
And he just said, "God, I've been kicked out of my house.。
"My big brother back here is wanting to kill me.。
"I thought I was gonna feather my nest, but it messed up."。
He that sows to the flesh shall from the flesh。
reap corruption.。
And so he laid down and he had a vision.。
And there was a ladder from heaven to earth,。
the angels of God coming and going.。
And he said, "God, you're here with me."。
And God stood at the top of the ladder and he said,。
"I'm gonna give your people the land.。
"I'm gonna give your people a great nation.。
"And from you will the nations be blessed.。
"I'm gonna put my blessing on you.。
"You're not gonna have to trust in usury or deception.。
"My blessing is upon you."。
He rises up and he takes that rock he slept on,。
he put it down, pulls oil on it like angels coming down.。
And he says, "God, if you'll take me there,。
"give me a wife, give me a family, give me a heritage,。
"give me a nest egg, when I come back, you'll be my God."。
He made a deal with God.。
He goes away.。
Are you with me so far?。
You're always watching Isaac shepherd the wind.。
He's trying his best to get God's blessing.。
He goes away to Haran and he meets a relative named Laban。
that has a PhD in deceit.。
He's a pro in deceit.。
And he takes Jacob.。
"Jacob, you just live with me, you're a relative."。
"Why, thank you."。
"Should you serve me for nothing?。
"Name your price and I'll give it."。
Because as soon as he names a price,。
he's no longer a relative, he's a worker.。
"I've got you now, name your price."。
Jacob's on to him, these two wheeler dealers.。
He says, "Yeah, here's the price.。
"I want your younger daughter for my wife."。
Boop.。
The father says, "Well, I'll see you won."。
Boop.。
"'Cause I'd just as well give her to you as anybody else."。
He doesn't say, "Yes, you can have her."。
He just said, "I'd rather give them to you。
"than anybody else."。
"Work for me seven years."。
"Will do."。
He's got this great looking woman, Rachel,。
just waiting for him.。
And Jacob's thinking, "I was a little bit."。
He said, "Name your wage, I named the daughter."。
"Ha, I beat him, I trumped him."。
He worked for seven years.。
It came for the honeymoon.。
Laban served him up a couple of Mad Dog 2020s.。
All right, son.。
(congregation laughing)。
(Jacob babbling)。
He went in for the honeymoon.。
They turned the lights out, he can't see nothing.。
He's feeling around and he's thinking,。
"Hot dang, it's Rachel."。
Well, it wasn't Rachel.。
Because Laban had an older daughter,。
he couldn't push off on nobody.。
I'm sorry, but that's the case.。
And so he grabbed Rachel and he grabbed Leah。
and he ran her in there and he said,。
"You go act like your sister."。
And she went in there and he made love to the wrong woman.。
Always a problem on your honeymoon.。
(congregation laughing)。
Turn on the lights.。
(congregation laughing)。
Well, I love it.。
Now, he wakes up in the morning。
and it's one of the great verses in the Bible.。
And the morning light came and behold, it was Leah.。
(congregation laughing)。
One commentator said, "Whenever we forget God。
"and try to get his blessings ourselves,。
"we think we've done it until the morning light.。
"And then behold, it's Leah."。
(Jacob screaming)。
Okay.。
And dig this, he comes to Laban and he said,。
"Hey, I made a deal for the second born,。
"you gave me the first born."。
And he says, "It's not our custom。
"to marry off the second before the first."。
When else did somebody swap children。
and in an absence of light,。
have the second born feel like the first born?。
That's what Jacob did to his daddy.。
And now God did it to him.。
And he says to him in so many words,。
"Now, how do you like deceit, Jacob?"。
"I don't like it so good."。
"No, neither did your daddy."。
So we force fed him.。
And he says, and the daddy says,。
"Hey, what, work for another 14 years。
"and then you can leave."。
So he gets now Leah and Rachel,。
but he's got to go another seven years.。
And in that seven years,。
he saw competition with these women,。
competition with their two maid servants.。
He ended up with 12 kids.。
And it was just, he saw competition like him。
and he saw it, he didn't like it.。
It got time to leave.。
And when he got time to leave, he had a vision.。
And in the vision, he saw that all of Laban's flock。
were bringing forth black and modeled and striped sheep.。
And God said, "I've seen what he's been doing to you.。
"From here on, all the sheep。
"are gonna be striped and modeled."。
He comes to Laban.。
He says, "I've worked 14 years for your daughters.。
"How about I get something for myself?"。
Laban says, "What do you want?"。
"Any flock animal that brings forth striped or modeled,。
"I'll take him.。
"Any black sheep, white sheep will be yours."。
He says, "Do it."。
Guess what?。
All the sheep brought forth were spotted。
and he took all of Laban's herd and took it to himself.。
In other words, he had to trust who?。
God.。
Is he learning?。
God is teaching him.。
Whom the Lord loves, he。
beats the snot out of.。
(audience laughing)。
God was instructing him.。
When I try to do something, it screws up.。
When I trust God, I get a ladder from heaven。
and I get striped and modeled sheep.。
God is good to his word.。
I mess it up.。
He worked for six years.。
Seven plus seven is 14 plus six is 20 years.。
That's the time of a bachelor's and a master's, you know?。
I worked that long and he had a great flock.。
You know what he did?。
Instead of saying, "I'm ready to go,"。
he took off on his own.。
His wife stole the household idols, Rachel,。
because she thought it would bring good luck.。
He gets chased down by Laban.。
"You got my idols.。
"I don't have your idols."。
You do.。
If anybody that has the idols,。
you check 'em and you can kill 'em.。
He just put his wife to death.。
Laban goes through all the stuff.。
He comes to Rachel and she won't stand up.。
She's sitting on a saddle.。
And she says, "I'm sorry, I can't stand up。
"because the custom of women is upon me."。
Trivia question.。
Where's the first time in the Bible。
the word idols occurs?。
It's right here.。
Normally, God carries his people.。
They had to carry the idols, put 'em on a donkey.。
Rachel is sitting on the idols.。
The idols are not a protection, they're a threat to her.。
They're gonna cost her her life in contrast to God.。
And she says, "I can't stand up。
"'cause the custom of women is upon me,"。
meaning I'm in my period.。
She's claiming to be in her period, sitting on the idols.。
That's Hebrew humor.。
It's funnier in the Hebrew, all right?。
(congregation laughing)。
There's nothing, in the Old Testament, Leviticus,。
if a woman's in her period,。
everything she touches is unclean.。
She's sitting on the idols, you dig?。
It's nasty as a mug, all right?。
(congregation laughing)。
And she says, "Daddy, I'm sorry I can't stand up。
"because the custom," and she uses a word,。
the custom of women.。
You know where the word occurs in Genesis?。
Whenever Laban says, "It's not our custom。
"to marry off the second before the first,"。
and now she turns around and says,。
"The custom is upon me."。
That is Hebrew humor.。
(laughing)。
All right.。
God carries you, you carry the idols.。
They're nasty, they're dirty, they'll get you killed,。
and God ends up whooping him。
simply by his sovereign grace.。
And so you're watching here.。
Jacob's trying to do it, God doing it.。
Laban trying to stop him, God taking care.。
The idols trying, the idols are a joke, God carries it.。
Are you with me?。
No need to shepherd the wind.。
God is great, amen?。
No need to do that song and dance.。
God can take care of you.。
Well, he got ready to go back,。
and here they come to him.。
I got a quarter after.。
Can I finish my Jacob story here?。
Okay, okay.。
Y'all want me to close right now?。
No, you wanna know how this story ends.。
It's in the Bible, it's full of lots of interesting facts。
and information if you'll read this.。
Okay.。
He's got all of his family together.。
He's got 12 kids, they got wives, they got kids.。
And Jacob gets ready to leave,。
and he said, "I gotta go back on the land."。
And one of his guys comes before him,。
that he sent before him, and he says,。
"Guess who's coming to meet you?。
"Esau, the guy you offended 20 years earlier."。
And he's coming with 300 soldiers.。
And Jacob said, "Oh, Lord."。
Now, can this guy kill Jacob after God has made a promise?。
Yes or no?。
No.。
Trust God.。
You know what he does?。
He takes all of his belongings,。
and he sends them in waves to placate Esau.。
He won't trust God.。
He's always gonna trust his ingenuity.。
The problem is Jacob is too smart for his own good.。
Well, they go, and he's left by himself on a riverbank.。
And you know what happened that night?。
In the womb, he took his brother by the heel.。
In his maturity, he contended with God,。
he wrestled with the angel.。
That night, he got attacked.。
Someone came into the camp to rob him.。
You know what they were gonna rob him of?。
He had sent everything ahead of him.。
He doesn't have anything.。
It was the angel of the Lord.。
All through the Old Testament,。
you see a person called the angel of the Lord.。
The Jews had a name for him.。
They called him Metroton.。
And it's the, always when the angel of the Lord appears,。
he claims deity, and yet he is distinct from deity.。
You see him all the way through the Old Testament.。
He appears first in Genesis 15.。
He occurs again in the book of Zechariah chapter 12.。
He's all the way through the Old Testament.。
He never occurs once the New Testament begins.。
Question is, who is the angel of the Lord?。
It is the pre-incarnate Son of God,。
who doesn't appear anymore as an appearance。
because now we have an incarnation of God,。
the highest form of revelation.。
And so the angel of the Lord attacks him.。
You know why?。
He's gonna rob him.。
Rob him of what?。
Rob him of the one thing God doesn't have from him.。
And that's him.。
I want you.。
And he wrestles with the angel.。
And Jacob recognizes who it is.。
But the external fight typifies the internal battle.。
I personally believe that God does not use a Christian。
until he hurts him.。
I think women, God can woo to himself by his love.。
I think most men, God has to hurt him.。
And he wrestled with Jacob all night long,。
which is the way Jacob was with God.。
I'm not gonna trust you.。
I'm gonna do it myself.。
And finally, the sun's about to come up。
and God says, "The battle is over."。
James Montgomery Boyce said this。
about the wrestling with the angel of the Lord.。
He said, "Remember, when you wrestle with God,。
"God always cheats."。
You remember what the angel of the Lord does?。
He takes his finger and he touches his hip.。
The strongest joint you got is in your hip.。
You got gluteus, you got quads,。
you got adductors, adductor, they all tie in there.。
I've only seen one guy in football dislocate,。
tear his hip out, and that was Bo Jackson.。
When he went down the sideline,。
he jammed his femur up and it shattered.。
The angel of the Lord reached out and touched him,。
just touched him, and his hip went (imitates cracking)。
And now he's not wrestling with the angel,。
he's hanging onto him.。
And he finally learns how to pray.。
It's a great prayer.。
It says, "I will not turn you loose。
"until you bless me."。
He finally, after 20 years,。
he wept and sought his favor.。
He cried because he was hurt,。
and he said, "God, help me."。
You know, my wife was at East Texas State University,。
and she lived by her own, this is her public testimony,。
she lived a life of rebellion and sin,。
and she came to know the Lord。
when she was a little Baptist kid。
at like eight, 12 years old in there.。
But she said, "All the time I was in East Texas。
"in commerce, I had a continual vision in the daytime.。
"I could see it of like a black sheet settling over me。
"as I would go on in rebellion."。
And she said, "The more that sheet would settle,。
"the smaller the little hole at the top would get."。
And she said, "I was convinced that when the hole closed up,。
"God was gonna kill me."。
And so she finally repented,。
and God brought into her life.。
(audience laughing)。
I could give you my own story.。
God heard him.。
I wanna say to you something as a man, girls and guys,。
if God is pleased to choose you,。
and if God is going to have you, God will get you.。
Now you say, "Ah, he ain't never met a debater like me."。
All he's gotta do is touch you.。
That's all, and it's all over.。
Well, he brought Jacob to his knees,。
and Jacob learned how to trust.。
And Jacob said, "I'm going now back home."。
And he met Esau, and you know what?。
Esau ran to meet him and hugged him and cried.。
As a matter of fact, the parable of the prodigal son。
is a takeoff on that verse.。
Esau was full of love.。
You tell me, had God gone ahead and prepared Esau's heart?。
Say yes.。
Amazing, he didn't have to go through all that hassle.。
And then Esau says, "Come home with me to Saer."。
You know what Jacob should have said?。
"I can't go home to Saer and the land of the Edomites.。
"I promised God I'd come to Bethel。
"whenever he showed himself to me."。
But he didn't.。
He says to Esau, "Yeah, you go ahead.。
"I'll be there later."。
And he takes a left and he leaves him and doesn't show up.。
You know why?。
Because he didn't go to Bethel where he said he would go.。
He stopped 15 miles short in a city called Shechem.。
It's in Genesis 35, and the name God is not mentioned.。
You know why he stopped 15 miles short?。
Because in Shechem, he could build booths,。
otherwise known as sukkoth.。
He put his animals there and there he could trade。
and make money.。
And so money caused him not to fulfill his vow.。
Isn't that something?。
Are we ever at the place that we can't do stupid stuff?。
Say no.。
Point to the guy next to you and say,。
"There is a stupid individual right there."。
(congregation laughing)。
He stopped 15 miles short.。
Now, okay, Jay.。
JP, he's got 12 sons.。
He's got a little daughter named Dinah.。
In Genesis 35, God isn't mentioned。
because he ain't trusting God.。
He's out to make some money.。
Can money ever carry good men off the path?。
Only living ones, all right.。
Yeah.。
He's got a little daughter though, named Dinah.。
JP, you remember what happens to Dinah。
in the town of Shechem?。
What happens to her?。
(congregation laughing)。
Yes, I do.。
She got raped.。
You know why she got raped?。
Because the daddy was someplace he shouldn't have been.。
Did God say Bethel?。
He didn't say Shechem.。
He stopped and he got hurt.。
And you know what else?。
He had two sons that got mad, Levi and Simeon,。
at this little daughter getting raped.。
And they went to these guys and said,。
"Hey, you wanna do business with us?"。
"Yes, we'll do business with it."。
"We can't do business with you unless you're Jews.。
"You're gonna have to get circumcised."。
Cha, all right?。
All right, yeah.。
Okay.。
(congregation laughing)。
They all got circumcised, all right?。
And when they're circumcised,。
they all come running in and they kill all the men.。
And now all the Canaanites around them hear about it.。
Now they're gonna kill Jacob and his 12 sons.。
And all of God's purposes in Israel。
are about to come to an end.。
And if Jacob dies and if Judah dies, who dies with him?。
Very famous guy born in Bethlehem, died on a cross, rose.。
He dies with him.。
And if Jesus dies, who goes to hell?。
You do.。
Thank you, Jacob.。
But you know what?。
God had mercy.。
And Jacob now gets up with his sons with a bounty on him,。
his daughter they got raped,。
a bunch of dead, smoking ruins in Shechem.。
And finally, he comes to Bethel.。
Took him 20 years and a lot of pain.。
And in chapter 12 in verse four,。
he found him at Bethel.。
There was a 20 year period of pain between there。
and God found him.。
And there, Hosea says, watch the end of verse four,。
"He spoke with," what's the last word。
that's the pronoun in verse four?。
Us.。
He didn't just speak to Jacob at Bethel,。
he spoke to the whole nation and said, trust me.。
And so Hosea says, you guys, you Jews,。
have a dispute with God.。
All of your hopes are up in Assyria and down in Egypt。
and all of your shenanigans。
and all of your moving and shaking.。
But you got a dispute with me.。
Go back to your roots.。
Go back to the old time religion.。
It was good for the Hebrew fathers。
and it's good enough for me.。
Trust God and his word.。
Don't be shepherding the wind.。
Amen.。
Let me tell you, I had to learn that.。
How to trust him.。
All of my life, all I wanted to be。
was a professional football player.。
I turned down the Cincinnati Reds to play college football。
'cause that was the quickest way to the top.。
Went to a team that threw the ball about 60 times a game.。
My freshman year, I got this hurt.。
My sophomore year, I broke this.。
Senior year, I blew this out and God brought me。
and broke me to the bottom.。
And I gave my heart to Christ.。
And I said, God, I have tried and I have failed.。
You come into my heart.。
You make me what you want me to be.。
Well, I came back for two a day workouts.。
I was phenomenal.。
And they moved me to safety.。
Me, safety.。
I was not about to hit anybody.。
But I was pretty good.。
I could read the plays real well.。
And I thought, well, I guess I'll be an all-American.。
Safety, you know, God has plans.。
This guy overthrows a tight end, there I am, JP.。
Picked it off, took off.。
I see the flag cut back across the grave.。
A guy comes at me from Richardson, Texas.。
I went around him, he never touched me.。
My right knee went boom.。
And I was done, missed my senior year.。
Then we got a guy named Hayden Fry to coach us.。
You ever heard of him?。
College Football Hall of Fame came to coach us.。
I came out for my fifth year.。
I was more than phenomenal.。
And he called me into his office.。
He said, Tommy, you're phenomenal.。
I said, what can I say?。
But you know, Tommy, we're going to lose this year.。
We're rebuilding and I can't lose。
the fifth year senior.。
We're going to have to let you go.。
I just got let go.。
I gave my heart to Christ.。
I got moved to safety, blew out my knee,。
and I just got cut.。
Well, I went ahead and finished my degree.。
I was student teaching down at Louisville, Texas.。
A coach came to me.。
As the team is now meeting,。
I can't meet 'cause I'm student teaching.。
I'm about to get my degree and be a football coach。
'cause that was my degree, so I guess I better be one.。
And the coach, this coach named Don Harvey,。
he said, you're a Christian?。
I'd given him a magazine.。
Yeah, can you come speak to my FCA group,。
Fellowship of Christianity?。
I said, yeah.。
And so I asked my Campus Crusade guy,。
I said, what do I do?。
He said, share the gospel.。
I can do that, yeah.。
He said, here, memorize this.。
It's called God's plan.。
So I got up with 16 of them.。
I said, hey, fellas, it's good to be here talking to you.。
(congregation laughing)。
And I shared my testimony.。
I shared the gospel.。
I got finished.。
I said, hey, I don't guess any of y'all。
want to get Christians to you.。
And eight of them said, yes, we do.。
We went and prayed, and those eight guys trusted Christ.。
Little bit later, a guy said,。
could you come talk to the whole school?。
Scared me to death.。
I said, let me pray about it.。
Maybe God didn't want me to share the gospel with 1,500.。
(congregation laughing)。
And I said, God, these guys are going to laugh at me.。
And God just seemed to say,。
when you gave your heart to me,。
you gave me your reputation.。
I'll do with you what I want to do with you.。
And I spoke, and God blessed it.。
Then I found out you could get paid for doing this.。
And here I am.。
(congregation laughing)。
Pray with me.。
Father in heaven, thank you for a time。
in your word this evening.。
And Lord, this is not the word we hear。
from our sponsor of trust, the God of creation,。
the God who chose Israel, the God of Abraham,。
Isaac, and Jacob, the God who has given man his word,。
the God who gave us his son,。
who died and rose from the dead,。
the priesthood of philosophy, the priesthood of education,。
the priesthood of science, the priesthood of religions.。
They all say different things,。
and they've all failed miserably.。
But you have given us your word and ethics and each other。
and hope and a meta narrative of history.。
We know where it's going.。
Why would we house the shaft and burn the grain?。
Oh, Jacob, you shepherd the wind.。
Come home.。
