(rock music)。
- Well good evening Dallas and Fort Worth and Houston。
and lots of other friends that are joining us。
around the country, whether you're dialed in。
on a computer or your phone, Portchat, online。
or wherever you might be.。
So glad that we're here together as we continue。
the series One Nation Under God.。
I'll start with a story.。
Nine months ago I got engaged to my best friend,。
three months ago married, and I find a reason。
to talk about that every time I'm here.。
And this time's no different.。
And so the day after we got engaged,。
we drove back from West Texas.。
There's a beautiful hole in the ground out there。
called Palo Duro Canyon, great engagement spot.。
And so we went there and as we drove back,。
the day after we had a little engagement party.。
Now I know what happens at engagement parties.。
For some reason, everyone is very friendly,。
most of the time, and then there's this very cruel moment。
where people demand an impromptu speech.。
And friends just turn on one another.。
It's nasty if you've seen this.。
And they start yelling speech and they demand it.。
And so I thought this is gonna happen, maybe.。
And so I wanna be ready.。
And so I started to think, what am I going to say?。
And I know it takes away from the impromptu,。
but I started thinking I wanted to be ready。
to say something that was meaningful.。
I figured I would say thank you,。
I figured I would say something hopefully honoring。
to the woman who is agreeing to, you know,。
and trust her life to me.。
And so I crafted this little speech.。
And I knew, I thought, what do I wanna say?。
And I came down to one little sentence。
that I knew I wanted to include, just one,。
that I knew I wanted to be a part of it.。
And so sure enough, we walk in and we didn't look for it,。
we didn't ask for it, but at some point, as they do,。
they start yelling for story。
and they start yelling for speech.。
And so she tells the story of how we got engaged.。
And then it was my turn to speak.。
And I said the one sentence that I had planned.。
I of course said, thank you guys for being here.。
Thank you for being a part of our relationship.。
We were packed into this little house。
where I was living at the time.。
And I said, thank you guys for being a part。
of our relationship.。
You supported us.。
You were 911 when we were in trouble。
and you were there when we needed you。
and you supported us and kept us accountable and all this.。
And so we got through that part.。
And then I got to the part where I wanted。
to say the sentence that I was gonna say.。
And I said it well, but it was just a little bit。
of a strange sentence.。
And so what I said was, I was trying to compliment,。
Gabby, I think I did successfully, by the way,。
you be the judge.。
And I said, I choose you, selected these words。
on purpose, believe it or not.。
I choose you to be the leader of my life.。
And they said, aw, but I think they were thinking,。
did he just say leader, lover?。
Isn't that a weird thing to say?。
I mean, what did he mean, leader of my life?。
Isn't that a weird thing to say?。
I mean, why wouldn't you say, you are so beautiful?。
Or why wouldn't you say, even thank you?。
Or why wouldn't you say something like,。
I choose you to be my best friend, my wife.。
I mean, even spouse would have been less awkward than leader.。
I mean, why would you say leader?。
It's like, calm down, this is not in the army now, okay?。
Why would you say, and plus, isn't leader,。
isn't that supposed to be like the guy thing in the Bible?。
Not sure about that, but why would you say leader?。
And here's the reason why I did.。
Because leading is influencing.。
Leading to lead someone is to influence them.。
And who would have more influence over me?。
And who will have more influence over you。
than someone who is around you most of the time?。
More than any other human, more than any other person.。
Who would have proximity to me,。
just by sheer closeness would have more influence over me。
over than any other person.。
And so that dawned on me, and at some point I realized,。
you know what I'm doing while I was dating her?。
You know what I'm doing?。
I am doing lots of things.。
One of them is choosing a leader.。
Not an office of leader, like I do what she says,。
the scripture says, serve one another through love.。
Not like the office of commander,。
but what I mean is influencer.。
Unavoidably, when you bring someone in close to you。
like that, they are just going to influence you.。
Leading is influencing.。
And when you get close to someone,。
they start to influence you,。
and you choose leaders more than you think.。
I'm gonna talk tonight about how to choose a leader.。
How to choose a leader, because I am convinced,。
and I hope you will be just shortly,。
that you choose more leaders than you think you do.。
You choose leaders more often than you think you do,。
and you're probably more influenceable。
than you think you are.。
And so tonight is called how to choose a leader.。
Granted, not how to choose a president,。
although we're gonna discuss that later in the evening.。
I am well aware of what's gonna happen in seven days.。
But what I wanna talk about tonight。
is how to choose a leader of any kind.。
And you choose more leaders than you think you do.。
Listen to this.。
Have you ever gotten out of a relationship。
and said these words?。
I just didn't like who I was when I was with him.。
Or I just didn't like who I was when I was with her.。
You ever heard a friend say that?。
It's not because they're an especially weak person,。
it's a means that they're a wise person.。
They have come to realize that the person。
that they were close to started to change them。
to be like them.。
The people that you get close to start to lead you.。
That means, if that's true,。
anytime you get into a relationship, you choose a leader.。
Not just a person to go on dates with,。
not just a person to share conversations with.。
You are choosing a leader,。
someone who is going to turn you into themself.。
You know that group of friends, here's another example.。
You ever had that group of friends。
where it's like every time I hang out with you guys,。
something bad is going to happen.。
I never plan on it, I don't want it to happen.。
I'm specifically planning against it。
and then I answer your phone call。
and then I got a hangover.。
I don't know how it goes that way.。
But that's just how it works.。
And so has it dawned on you?。
Think about this.。
Maybe you aren't choosing friends on Thursday night.。
You might be choosing leaders.。
You choose leaders more than you think you do.。
Every time, think about this.。
Every time you say yes to a job,。
are you not saying yes to another person's influence。
and direction?。
Are you not saying yes, for better or for worse,。
for someone to shape your life for 40 hours per week?。
You are saying yes to a leader.。
You are opening yourself to influence.。
Every time you come to church,。
when you choose a church,。
when you choose to come to the porch on Tuesday night,。
or when you choose to go to another gathering。
that claims the name of Jesus,。
or when you turn even on a podcast of your choosing,。
every time you do that,。
you are opening yourself to influence.。
And I believe that if you open yourself to influence,。
you're opening yourself to leadership.。
You're opening yourself to being led.。
When I was a kid, my parents were divorced.。
And some of the kids,。
three of the brothers and sisters had live conversations。
about whether we wanna live with mom。
or whether we wanted to live with dad.。
That's just another way of saying。
we want to choose our leader.。
You choose leaders all the time.。
When you chose your university,。
you said, "I would like for you to educate me."。
And to be educated by someone。
is to be influenced by them.。
And to be influenced by them is to be led by them.。
And so you choose leaders much more often。
than you think you do.。
And so what I wanna do is, especially in seven days,。
and so what I wanna do tonight。
is I wanna give you one question。
that you can take with you。
anytime you need to interview a leader,。
anytime you want to examine a leader,。
anytime you want to know。
whether a leader is worth following.。
I want you to have one question.。
From the scriptures, not my question.。
It's not the Democratic Party's question.。
It's not the Republican Party's question.。
It's nobody's question except the scriptures.。
And so what I want you to do。
is see a very scriptural question。
that you can take with you。
anytime you need to know if someone is worth following.。
That's my goal that you can take with you tonight.。
Not three points tonight,。
just one question that I hope you'll remember。
for a long time.。
And anytime it is time to choose a leader,。
much more often than once every four years, I hope.。
Anytime you choose a church,。
spouse, someone to go on a date with,。
church, I should say again,。
education, you got any of it.。
Microphone trouble?。
Microphone trouble, friends?。
(audience laughing)。
Now we got microphone trouble.。
How we doing, is that better?。
Okay, great, sorry about that.。
Let's start over, just kidding.。
(audience laughing)。
Somebody needs to lead this guy.。
All right.。
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna look。
at a human leader in the scripture,。
a human leader in the Bible.。
Can we pause one more time?。
I feel like I got like just a press conference in my face.。
And so Billy, can I take this off?。
Okay, that's good, I'll leave it back.。
Just talk amongst yourselves.。
I'm kidding, we'll call that good enough.。
Okay, we're gonna look in the scripture。
at a human leader from whom you can gather an example,。
an example of what not to do, okay?。
His name, well, I won't tell you his name yet.。
He was a governor at the time of Jesus.。
When Jesus was around,。
when Jesus was practicing his earthly ministry,。
when Jesus was practicing his life。
and his leadership on earth,。
it would be AD 30 to AD 33.。
And when he was practicing his ministry,。
there was a man who was a governor over that area.。
And that man goes by a name。
that has been remembered to history。
only because of his association with Jesus.。
And that man's name is Pontius Pilate.。
And Pontius Pilate was a human leader。
who did not do, who would fail the test of the question。
that I'm gonna ask you to remember and ask,。
not only in seven days,。
but anytime you choose to choose a leader.。
And so Pontius Pilate is in the latter chapters。
of the gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John,。
which are like the biographies of Jesus,。
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.。
And so you can go to John chapter 18,。
that's where we're gonna jump in this evening.。
And we're gonna listen in。
on a set of fascinating conversations,。
fascinating conversations between Pilate and Jesus,。
a famously bad leader。
and the most famous person who've ever lived.。
Whispered conversations between these two people。
that are known to history。
while the crowd outside is yelling for Jesus to die.。
So let's go to John chapter 18, verse 33.。
(audience laughing)。
It says, "So Pilate entered his headquarters again."。
And so think like Capitol of Texas building, okay?。
So he's the man, so he's got the palace.。
"Pilate entered his headquarters again and called Jesus。
"and said to him, 'Are you the King of the Jews?'"。
Now here's something you'd wanna know.。
That was the big question。
that was bothering the Jewish leaders around Jesus.。
And so the big claim of Jesus was that I am the Messiah,。
I am the King, I am the one that the Old Testament。
that we would call the Old Testament scriptures。
said was coming.。
I'm here and I am your King。
and the Jewish leaders wrongly rejected him.。
And so the question, are you the King of the Jews?。
Was the question at hand.。
And Pilate asked Jesus the question。
that everybody was asking,。
are you not claiming to be the King of the Jews?。
And Jesus answered, this is a very Jesus-like thing to do,。
answers a question with a question.。
It says, "Do you say this of your own accord?"。
Which means are you interested personally?。
"Or did others say it to you about me?"。
Meaning, are you looking for the truth?。
Like, is this a sincere investigation?。
Do you really wanna know if I'm the King of the Jews?。
Or are you just here。
because that's what the crowd told you to ask?。
And Pilate answered,。
he gives his answer away pretty clearly.。
Am I a Jew?。
In other words, I'm not even one of your people.。
What is this dispute to me?。
Your own nation and the chief priests。
have delivered you over to me.。
What have you done?。
Pilate is not on a sincere search.。
Pilate is not looking for the truth.。
Pilate wants this problem to go away.。
He wants this problem to disappear.。
He wants to shoo it under the rug.。
He wants this dissension to go away。
so that way Caesar and the government,。
the Roman government that was over him。
would not look poorly on him.。
And so he says, what have you done?。
I'm not Jewish, I don't care.。
And Jesus answered, Jesus, if you've ever wondered。
if Jesus takes the time to love people who don't know him,。
love leaders who don't know him,。
love people who are giving sarcasm right to his face,。
this is your answer.。
Jesus, with his own life on the line,。
because people outside are yelling for Jesus to die,。
takes time to love Pilate。
and reveal himself to him in this conversation.。
Verse 36, Jesus answered, my kingdom is not of this world.。
If it was, my servants would be fighting out here.。
That's like what people do when there's an earthly kingdom.。
The military defends the leader, that's just how it works.。
But my kingdom's not of this world.。
If it was, my servants would have been fighting。
so that I wouldn't be delivered over to you.。
But my kingdom is not from this world.。
And Pilate continues just to try to get to the bottom。
of the matter as a pragmatist.。
And he says, so you are a king.。
Just the harassed governor。
who wants to get this thing settled and over with.。
And Jesus said, you said it, you say that I am a king.。
For this purpose, I was born.。
And for this purpose, I have come into the world。
to bear witness to the truth.。
Now there's something that Pilate's not interested in.。
Pilate is interested in doing what the crowd says.。
Pilate is interested in moving on to what's next.。
And Jesus said, if you want, listen, Pilate,。
I know this is a tough one。
because there are people outside。
that are yelling for me to die right now.。
And they're threatening you if you don't do it.。
And so granted, you're in a little bit of a tough spot.。
But if you wanna be on the side of the truth,。
if you want reality,。
if you're here to actually give a statement。
and rather a discovery of what is real in this situation,。
what's authentic and true and virtuous and right。
and all of the things that a leader should look for,。
if you want to know, I am your ticket.。
Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice.。
And then Pilate said to him,。
the sarcastic three words。
that he's probably best known for.。
What is truth?。
What is truth?。
That's not a question that he wants answered.。
He doesn't care.。
What he's saying is I don't care what's real.。
I care what works.。
And I want this to go away。
because the people want you to go away.。
So what is truth?。
It's dangerous.。
So what Pilate does is he tries a happy medium.。
I won't walk all the way through the text.。
'Cause I want to keep this going tonight.。
But Pilate tries a happy medium.。
And so what he does is he decides。
I'm gonna have Jesus beaten.。
And then maybe that will be good enough.。
And so what he does is he has Jesus handed over。
to be beaten.。
And so this Jesus who claimed to be the King。
who indeed was, was hit and struck.。
The son of God in human form,。
struck and beaten and bloody.。
They mocked him, mocked, made fun of。
by putting a purple robe on him, the color of royalty.。
And by putting a crown on his head,。
but a crown not of respect,。
but a crown of pain and mockery.。
Crown of thorns to dig into his skull.。
And he was handed over to be beaten.。
And so Pilate having done that brings Jesus back out.。
And so imagine standing on the Capitol steps。
of some major city or maybe even the United States.。
Imagine the governor standing beside Jesus。
and saying, look at him now, behold the man.。
Your Bible says, behold the man.。
He's beaten, he's hurting.。
In other words, is this good enough for you guys?。
But the crowd just kept yelling, crucify him, crucify him.。
Which is to say, give him the worst form of execution。
that this world has ever known.。
And it says that Pilate was even more afraid.。
And he tries to get out of it one last time。
and rushes Jesus back into the headquarters。
for one last conversation.。
And here is where he reveals his most crucial mistake.。
He entered his headquarters again and said to Jesus,。
who now Jesus probably is bloody and dizzy and hurting。
and looking back at Pilate through black eyes.。
Where are you from?。
But Jesus would give him no answer.。
And then Pilate finally boils over and says,。
you won't even speak to me?。
Do you not know, listen to this.。
Do you not know that I have authority to crucify you?。
Do you not know that I have authority to release you。
and authority to crucify you?。
So slow down and see the irony of this.。
We've got Jesus here, who is the son of God.。
He knows all about authority.。
In fact, he specifically said just a few chapters earlier,。
no one takes my life from me, I lay it down。
and I have authority to pick it back up again.。
And so you've got Jesus in the flesh,。
in humility submitting himself to the leadership of God。
and the leadership of God through this painful event,。
but the one who has all of the authority and knows it.。
And then you've got a man。
who would not even be known to history。
if it weren't for his association。
with the beaten and bloody man.。
We wouldn't even know who he is.。
And he looks at Jesus, the one who was strong enough,。
not to flex his authority, but to lay it down.。
And he says, he has the audacity to say,。
I have authority over you.。
And Jesus takes the time to correct him.。
And he says, you would have no authority over me at all,。
unless it had been given you from above.。
Pilate looks right at Jesus and says,。
hey, I know you're going silent,。
but don't you know I'm in charge?。
And Jesus says, you are not in charge.。
That's what you forgot.。
You are not in control.。
You are not in control of this situation nor any other.。
You have earthly authority,。
but earthly authority has this funny characteristic.。
It's always borrowed from heaven, 100% of the time.。
And so Pilate has the nerve to look at Jesus and say,。
I'm in charge.。
And Jesus says, no, you're not.。
The only charge you have is been granted to you。
from above where I'm from.。
Pilate has no idea the insanity that he's doing.。
That's like borrowing money from the bank。
and then looking at the teller and saying,。
I have money over you.。
Do you?。
Really?。
That's what Pilate is doing.。
He has, and he doesn't even know it.。
See, Jesus knew the scripture that says,。
the heart of a ruler, the inner working of a ruler。
is like water in the hand of God.。
You know, water is like the most multiple thing we have.。
You put water in a cup, it's shaped like a cup.。
You put water in a bucket, it's shaped like a bucket.。
You put water on the ground, it has no shape。
because nothing is holding it up.。
And the scripture says, the heart of presidents。
and rulers and kings is like that in the hand of God.。
He turns them whichever way he wills.。
Jesus knows that.。
Jesus also knows Psalm 2, which was written。
a thousand years before his birth, that says,。
God laughs while the nations rage and plot in vain.。
'Cause that's the only way nations can plot against God.。
Jesus knows that.。
And he knew the scripture that would be written。
shortly thereafter this time that says,。
no authority is here except from God.。
There is no authority except from God.。
Jesus knew that and Pilate didn't.。
When I was a kid, I had a moment like this happen to me.。
Every year I had a tradition with my teachers.。
They didn't know it because I had。
a different teacher each year.。
Thankfully, progress is good.。
And so I had a different teacher each year,。
but I had a tradition with all of them。
that was just mine to know.。
And that was around the fourth or fifth week of school.。
They would take me out in the hall。
and attempt to get me to quiet down.。
And so I was a noisy kid.。
I don't know about you.。
I know there's some quiet, studious ones in here.。
You were like front row Joe and took a lot of notes.。
I was like back corner clown.。
That's kind of where I was living.。
And I don't know why, I just enjoyed a good ruckus.。
And so every year I just decided that it was my opportunity。
to run a little rebellion as long as。
the teacher would allow it.。
And so some teachers were third week,。
some teachers were sixth week.。
I think I had even one, poor dear soul,。
make it all the way until November.。
But I always ended up in the hallway。
getting a talk from my teacher.。
And so some of them were like, would bargain.。
So I learned all the tactics.。
Some of them would bargain and some of them would convince。
and some of them would threaten.。
And some of them even spanked.。
So I grew up in small town Texas.。
I got spanked by a teacher.。
Oh yeah, I made it, it's okay.。
And one teacher did it in a way that I will never forget.。
She said, I mean in a way that any fourth grader。
can understand, she said, "Garrett Rayburn."。
That's what my mama calls me.。
"Garrett Rayburn, you are a leader."。
Which I liked because that's playing to my ego.。
She said, "You are a leader, but you are not the leader."。
In other words, everything clicked in my mind.。
What she meant was, you do have little person,。
a little bit of influence on these other little people。
around you, but here's the deal.。
You are all very little and you can either lead。
those people around you as part of my good purposes。
and program for this little planet,。
or you can run a rebellion and it's gonna go bad。
for all of you, but here's the deal.。
Make no mistake about it.。
You might have a little bit of authority given to you,。
but you are on a leash, buddy.。
I am the leader.。
And Jesus has this conversation of taking Pilate。
into the hallway and explaining in no uncertain terms,。
you have a leader.。
You are not on your own authority.。
You do not operate.。
No matter what you may say, it doesn't matter。
what Roman God you've been worshiping。
or what Greek God you've been worshiping.。
Long before you ever had a worldview,。
there was a God who knew you and made you。
and chose to install you the end.。
You borrowed your authority from him.。
And Jesus has that moment with Pilate.。
And if I had to tell you one thing Pilate was following,。
I would say more than anything, it's debated among scholars,。
I would say, of which I'm not one,。
but I would say if Pilate was following anything,。
it was the crowd and himself.。
Whatever the crowd got loud and wanted.。
That's all of a sudden what Pilate wanted.。
Whatever he decided was expedient for him.。
Whatever he decided would help his sovereign,。
what a joke, purposes most.。
That's what he chose to do.。
Every leader, hang on to this,。
every leader who has ever lived is following something.。
Pilate was no different.。
Pilate had a leader, whether he believed it or not,。
and he was following something, whether he knew it or not.。
And he was following himself,。
he was following convenience,。
and he was following the demands of the crowd.。
That's what Pilate was following.。
And so if you want to know,。
if you want to know how to know。
where a leader is going to take you,。
I have one question I would love for you to hang on to.。
You can learn it straight from the negative example。
of Pontius Pilate a long time ago.。
You can ask this question.。
To find out whether someone is worth following.。
Who is the leader of this leader?。
Who is the leader of this leader?。
Where are they going?。
Who or what is influencing the person。
who is doing all the influencing?。
Is it a creed?。
Is it a motto?。
Is it a belief system, some body of truth, a religion?。
Is it Jesus?。
Is it themselves, a desire for power?。
What is driving them?。
Because every human leader has one thing in common.。
They are following something,。
whether they know it or not,。
and their authority is borrowed,。
whether they know it or not.。
And so the question for you is,。
anytime you choose anyone,。
anytime you even evaluate leadership。
from a parent to a president,。
you need to ask the question,。
who is leading the person who is doing the leading?。
Who is the leader of this leader?。
If you think back on some of the moments of your life。
that you regret most,。
you would probably find。
that something was doing the leading of you。
that should not have been doing the leading.。
When you think back on your least favorite family memories,。
which can be painful for some of you, for some of us,。
you're probably likely to find。
that one of the reasons those memories are so tough。
is because something that was not good。
was in charge of the person in charge.。
And when you think about a dating relationship gone wrong,。
it gets kind of dark and manipulative,。
and all of a sudden it feels like a game,。
something is influencing the person。
who is influencing you that is not good.。
And if you wanna evaluate。
whether someone's influence is okay。
for you to open yourself to,。
you need to ask this very simple question.。
It will not make you a good leader.。
It will help you spot and find good leaders.。
Who is the leader of this leader?。
And if you think of the best moments。
in the history of the United States,。
where names like Lincoln, Washington, King,。
and you think about what was leading them,。
they would have told you that they were divinely led。
and their lives actually matched.。
They weren't perfect.。
I don't like to deify the heroes of the past,。
but they followed the deity who founded this country.。
They were divinely led.。
Everyone is following something, everyone.。
And you can find out who is the leader of this leader。
as best you can.。
So let's spend a few minutes tonight。
talking about what's gonna happen in the next seven days.。
Because I understand that as I say,。
who is the leader of this leader?。
We've got some issues already, all right?。
And so I'm gonna make a clear turn away from John 18,。
and I'm gonna talk a little bit about。
how we can take this issue of the presidential election。
in a way that is biblical, in a way that's well-informed,。
in a way that gets heads nodding instead of dividing,。
and in a way that is honoring to the king。
who knew exactly who his leader was.。
And so one thing I won't do is I won't tell you how to vote.。
I won't tell you how to do that.。
But what I will do is try to say something。
that's constructive and helpful to give you a process.。
I don't think I can give you answers.。
I think I can give you, biblically, a process。
in the time that we have left tonight.。
And so you can try this on.。
If this doesn't work for you, then let's talk about it.。
If this does work for you, then go and do it.。
But I can't give you an answer, I can't force it to you,。
and I can't make you do what I think。
scripture would move us toward.。
But I promise you this, I will pull no punch。
for the next 10 minutes, and we can talk about it afterward.。
And I'm gonna be very honest with you.。
And I wanna try to give you a process and not an answer.。
So some of you during this message。
have probably been thinking this one little thought,。
and it's been in the back of my mind too,。
and so I'm gonna be really honest with you.。
One of the things I've been thinking is, hmm,。
and this is gonna be agreeing for many of you,。
and your head's gonna nod, and you're gonna wanna clap,。
and some of you are gonna be highly offended.。
And so here we go.。
The thought that I've been thinking this whole time is,。
wouldn't it be nice if we had。
a well-led leader in the election?。
Wouldn't it be nice?。
Okay, that was half and half, so half offended people.。
All right, so wouldn't it be nice,。
I'm not gonna turn this into the State of the Union,。
I promise, although that was encouraging.。
So I, if you are looking around。
at the leading two candidates。
for the Republican Party and the Democratic Party,。
you might conclude there is nobody who is led by God。
in a way that it clearly comes out of them when they speak.。
There is no one that is led by God。
that clearly comes out of them。
in the way that they form policy.。
There is no one that is well-led。
and knows that the authority that has been given to them。
has been given to them, and has been borrowed.。
And so I wanna agree with you.。
This is the easiest election of my lifetime。
to be bipartisan.。
I'm not in favor.。
I believe that both participants of each leading party。
are biblically disqualified.。
Both participants are biblically disqualified.。
Listen here, one for their person。
and one for their policy.。
One for their biblical personhood。
and personal qualities that do not match。
what a leader says in the scripture should be,。
and the other for policies which clearly,。
clearly undermine what God says is valuable.。
And so if you're thinking,。
"Hmm, who's the leader of this leader?。
"See you in 2020.。
"Can we get Obama on month to month。
"until we get some other candidates in here?"。
If you've been thinking that,。
if you've been thinking that,。
you clearly have a few friends, and I'm one of 'em.。
And so that's where I'm hanging out.。
And so here's the deal.。
I can't, I promise I'm not trying to make you laugh.。
And I, but the scripture says,。
"Refuse to call evil good."。
And friends, these people are not good.。
Okay, that's where we're at.。
(audience applauding)。
But there is still a political process。
that is unique to the world。
that you have a unique opportunity to participate in,。
and it's precious.。
And so what in the world do we do?。
I wanna give you three steps.。
They've been counseled on from among our team,。
built together from among our staff.。
These are steps.。
These are not who to vote for.。
These are ways that you can think。
and steps that you can take.。
All right, number one.。
Bring in your faith.。
Bring in your faith.。
What do I mean?。
I mean, if you claim to have a relationship。
with Jesus Christ of any kind,。
if you claim to be a follower of him,。
if you claim, "Hey, I like the person who is leading Jesus.。
"He said, 'I only do what the Father tells me.'"。
That seems like a good person to follow。
'cause he's being well-led.。
"I'll follow him."。
If you claim to be a follower of Jesus,。
you don't have an option other than to bring in。
your Christian faith informed by the Christian scriptures.。
That is the only option for you.。
Here's how I know that.。
Romans 14, 23 says, listen to this,。
"Anything that does not come from faith is sin."。
So that's clear.。
Anything, any vote is included in anything.。
And so it could easily be reread.。
I don't wanna toy with the Bible.。
It says anything, but votes are considered a thing.。
And so you could, with good conscience and integrity,。
say any vote, from a Christian at least,。
any vote that does not come from a Christian perspective,。
if that person is a believer in Jesus,。
they claim to be following Jesus,。
that vote is sin if their faith is not brought into it.。
Some versions may say anything that does not proceed。
from faith is sin.。
Anything that does not come from faith is sin.。
And so you better make sure something healthy。
is leading you.。
You better make sure that your life is moving in a way。
that follows the shepherd.。
He said, "I'm the good shepherd."。
Jesus did, "I'm the good shepherd.。
"The sheep hear my voice."。
It is a really good week to hear the voice of Jesus.。
And so first, bring in your faith.。
Bring in the body of truth that is the Christian scriptures。
and be guided by prayer, by the counsel of community,。
and by your Christian conscience。
as informed by the scripture.。
So that's step one, bring in your faith.。
Step two, bring in the facts.。
Bring in the facts, meaning make sure you have some semblance。
of an idea of what you're doing。
before you talk about this, please.。
One of your least favorite things, I already know this,。
one of your least favorite things。
about the political season is people talk。
and they know not what they say, all right?。
They are just sounding off and they are talking。
and it's like, it would be great if you had a clue.。
That would be amazing for all of us.。
And so what you will find in political season。
that we do not like is that when people answer。
before they hear.。
So if that bothers you, I have good news for you.。
It bothers the Bible.。
Proverbs 18, 13.。
If one, I'm so serious.。
If one gives an answer before he hears,。
it's his folly and shame.。
So if you're in the political arena sounding off。
before you know what you're talking about,。
the Bible is making fun of you.。
It is his folly and shame.。
We don't want folly and shame.。
And listen, if we go, if the United States of America。
goes to the polls and votes on these people。
without knowing what they speak on or what they vote on,。
it will be our folly and shame for a long time.。
Bring in your faith and bring in the facts,。
not the opinions, not even the ones I give you.。
You test everything I say with the scripture.。
You bring in the faith and then you bring in the facts.。
And then lastly, the hard one.。
Make your choice.。
Make your choice.。
Now here's what I'd like to do in this moment.。
Make your choice.。
I mean, how do you really make your choice, right?。
What do you do?。
And so what I wanna do for you is as an observer of culture。
and as a researcher, what I wanna do。
is I wanna observe two trends for you.。
I wanna observe and tell you,。
if you haven't researched yet, you're like,。
oh man, I didn't even know.。
How did I not know, right?。
And so if you have not gotten yourself to a point。
where you're bringing in your faith。
and you're bringing in the facts。
and you haven't really looked around to see what's going on,。
I would like to inform you as a researcher of trends。
what is happening in the Christian community, okay?。
And so I'm not talking about。
the entire United States of America.。
I'm talking about within the church。
of the United States of America.。
Very broadly speaking,。
I wanna inform you of what is developing.。
And so here are the two things.。
There are two ideologies, two mentalities,。
two strategies that Christians are being led into.。
I believe you can sincerely and defensively。
be led into either of them, okay?。
Two strategies, and Christian leaders。
are flocking to one of the two, all right?。
Here's the first one.。
You say, I cannot in good conscience。
vote for either of these people, okay?。
Donald Trump, because he is not sober-minded,。
slow to speak, well thought of by outsiders,。
or generally anything else that Titus I。
or 1 Timothy 3 say a leader should be.。
And so I cannot in good conscience。
possibly elect this man president.。
Or because of Hillary's secretary,。
I should say respectfully, Secretary Clinton's policies。
on the unborn are not biblically defensible.。
I cannot possibly, I cannot possibly install someone。
as president who authorizes and indeed encourages。
and removes restrictions toward and empowers。
the destruction of 1 million little lives per year.。
I can't do it.。
And so what lots of Christian leaders are doing,。
this is camp number one, is they're saying,。
I cannot vote for either of these leaders.。
And so what I'm gonna do is I'm going to write。
in someone else's name.。
Like David Marvin, I'm just kidding.。
(audience laughing)。
So I am going to write in someone else's name.。
I cannot support either of these leaders.。
So I am going to write in someone else's name.。
If this is in your camp, here are some of the things。
you're probably likely to say.。
You're probably gonna say, I view my vote as a statement.。
A statement, because after all,。
the third person is probably not gonna win.。
The name that you write down is probably not going to win.。
They don't have enough votes from the populace。
or the electoral college to be voted in as president.。
And so what I'm going to do is I am going to write in a vote。
for someone who's probably not going to be elected,。
but that is my statement to culture。
that Christians were here, people of the faith were here,。
we voted according to Christian conscience,。
and let it be said that so-and-so got my vote,。
because I, for one, want to keep my ability。
to vote on the basis of moral character in the future.。
And I wanna be able to say to my kids,。
I voted for righteousness.。
And I know until Jesus himself runs for office,。
we're always gonna vote for the lesser of two evils.。
But I voted for someone who was relatively righteous.。
And so if that's you, you would say,。
I can in good conscience vote for either of these people,。
and you would write in a third vote.。
That's what one group of Christian leaders。
and Christian people are doing.。
Here's the second one.。
You say, okay, wait, not so fast, guys.。
If you vote for someone who's not going to get elected,。
that makes it that much easier for the more dangerous。
of Trump and Clinton to be elected.。
You're taking yourself out of the hunt,。
and you're paving the way to the more dangerous person。
who would lead this country closer to disaster.。
And so while you may be really good on principle,。
you may be a little short on practical,。
because what you might do is you might open the door。
for someone to take control that will lead this country。
in a direction that will not lead to life.。
And so if you're in this camp,。
you might say, hey, guys that are writing in a third party,。
I love your resolve,。
but I wish you thought a little more practically.。
And if you were over here on the third party right end,。
you might say, hey, guys, I love your pragmatism,。
but are you sure you're not afraid?。
And thus goes the dialogue, all right?。
If you are here and you choose,。
what you are gonna choose to do。
is you're gonna choose to vote.。
Rather than writing a third party candidate,。
you are going to learn to try to live with。
one of the two alternatives。
just to prevent the worst alternative from seizing power.。
And so if this is you,。
you would say my vote's not an endorsement.。
I don't endorse this person,。
not personally, not politically.。
And I can't support every single thing。
that they're going to do,。
but what I'm trying to do is I'm trying to protect America.。
And if this is you, what you would probably say is,。
you would probably make note of the fact。
that the next president is going to appoint,。
likely, the next Supreme Court justices,。
which comprise the group of the nine most powerful,。
collectively, people in the United States.。
And you would say,。
those justices are going to long outlast this president,。
this next president.。
And so the influence of the next president。
is long going to outlast their presidency.。
And I'm going to protect America by taking my chances。
on Clinton or Trump。
because I can't bear the thought of the alternative.。
All right?。
So you can write in, these are the broad trends.。
You can write in a third party vote and say,。
a vote for righteousness is never a vote wasted.。
Or you could vote for either Trump or Clinton。
because you just cannot bear to see America entrusted。
to the alternative.。
That is what is happening as an observer.。
And I believe that Christians can be led there,。
intelligibly, defensively, and sincerely.。
What I am telling you to do tonight is get somewhere,。
intelligibly, sincerely, and defensively.。
Act, bring in the faith, bring in the facts,。
and make your choice.。
Now listen, I wrestled with this all the way up。
until 6.30 p.m., no lie,。
about whether I was just going to tell you。
who I am voting for.。
All right?。
And I just thought, maybe I'm just going to tell them,。
maybe I'm not, what's the ups, what's the downs?。
And so here's what we landed on.。
I don't want to tell you right now who I'm going to vote for。
because I'm afraid that that will keep you。
from doing the homework I just exhorted you to do.。
And so I believe that you may be tempted,。
if I tell you who I'm going to vote for,。
that you may be tempted to use my logic。
and my process as a substitute for your own.。
And so I'll tell you what, if you want to know,。
and it's important for you to know,。
and sincerely, if I can assist you this very evening,。
if you want to know how I voted,。
you can meet me right there as soon as the sermon's over,。
and I will tell you, no questions asked.。
And so you all have permission to know who I'm voting for,。
but I am not going to say it at this particular moment。
because I don't want you to think。
that you don't have to bring in your Christian conviction。
and that you don't have to do your work。
and your research and your thoughts。
and work this out with fear and trembling。
as the scripture says, to work out your salvation.。
Let me close with a story.。
In 1787, the United States was not in a great place。
because the United States,。
which was designed to have a small government,。
don't know if you know that,。
but America was designed to have a small central government,。
and it's not a jab at anybody,。
but America was designed to have a small central government.。
We aimed too small, and we crafted a document。
before the US Constitution that was not strong enough。
to lead, do you remember what it was called?。
Articles of Confederation, exactly.。
And so the Articles of Confederation。
were letting the United States fall apart.。
And so delegates from 13 states met at Independence Hall。
in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in a small room,。
a room that I've actually gotten a chance to visit,。
and they worked for 100 days to try to get。
a form of government that would be acceptable。
and appropriate for this new country。
who had just somehow won a war。
against the most impressive military power of the day,。
which would be England,。
and become their own country only to soon fall apart.。
And so they are inside this room,。
fighting for days and days that turned into weeks。
that turned into over three months.。
And imagine, if you're inside, it's quite a process.。
And so you've got all the founding fathers going at it.。
You got Ben Franklin standing up saying,。
"Guys, we need to pray."。
And we're like, "You don't even believe in God."。
And Ben Franklin even wants to pray.。
This must be really important.。
And so if you are inside the building,。
that's what you're seeing.。
But imagine if you're outside the building.。
The United States Constitution。
has never been written to your knowledge.。
There's never been a democratic,。
we the people government ever in the history of the world.。
And so you, not successfully.。
And so you do not have any idea。
what's gonna come out of that room.。
But you know that there are a few guys in there。
that are about to decide your fate。
when they decide who is leading.。
And they break after 100 days and walk outside.。
And one of these citizens。
who had to have been looking on with wonder,。
named Mrs. Powell, who we don't know for any other reason,。
except this one conversation,。
walked up to Benjamin Franklin, 81 years old at the time.。
And she asked the question that was on everybody's mind。
in these 13 United States.。
She said, "Dr. Franklin, what do we have?"。
A monarchy or a republic?。
Meaning, who's leading this place?。
And Ben Franklin looked back at her and he said,。
a republic madam, if you can keep it.。
A republican madam, if you can keep it.。
You, madam, have not a republican, not a democratic person,。
but you have a republic that you are responsible to keep.。
In other words, "Dr. Franklin, who is leading this place?"。
Answer, Mrs. Powell, you are.。
You are the leaders.。
For the first time in all of world history successfully,。
we are going to break, we being the people of power,。
are going to break out of the huddle of power。
and we are gonna hand the entire reins of leadership。
back to the people that no one knows.。
We are gonna let the American people be。
what we set out to be, which is self-led.。
And in seven days, we are going to be self-led again.。
Self-led, that means you are all leaders.。
If you get to choose the leader, that makes you the leader.。
If the leader is accountable to you,。
then that means you are the leader.。
And the decision is tough.。
I don't wanna be simplistic.。
I hope that wasn't simplistic.。
And I'll tell you this,。
it is hard to make a decision like that.。
You're like, "Oh man, we wanted to be self-led.。
"We didn't wanna make hard decisions in limited time。
"about imperfect people from a distance.。
"We just wanted to be self-led."。
Well, that is leadership.。
So welcome to leadership.。
That is your decision that you have to make.。
You are in charge.。
And I hope you are really, really well-led.。
Let me pray that you would be.。
Father, I pray that you would make these friends。
and these that are in Houston and Fort Worth。
and listening elsewhere, God,。
that you would make us well-led by you first.。
That we would not even put our hope in a government.。
That we'd be thankful for the freedoms。
that you have allowed us to exercise,。
that you haven't allowed us by your grace。
to prosper as a country for these 240 years.。
But I pray, God, that our hope would not be。
in red, white, and blue,。
but it would only be in your sovereign grace, God.。
Make us think as our forefathers thought, God.。
They felt like owners.。
They felt like participants.。
They felt like it depended on them because it does.。
And it did.。
And so, God, for whatever the future of the country。
depends on these votes,。
we know ultimately it only depends on your sovereign。
and good and gracious will.。
And so will you bring us, God,。
individually more into concert。
with what you would have us do,。
more in step with your will for our lives personally.。
Long before we vote,。
will we consider where we stand with you, God,。
and only you.。
And will you lead us.。
Will you teach us wisdom in the secret heart.。
Will you help us to exalt you, God, with our vote.。
I am confident, God, that you can lead us.。
I'm confident, God, that you don't need。
the speech or the words of man,。
but rather your power is made perfect in our weakness.。
And so weakly as a country and as a ministry,。
we bow ourselves before you and say, God, be our leader.。
Will you lead us well?。
Will you help us to know?。
How to choose a leader。
because we've seen your leadership.。
In Jesus name, amen.。
