I mean he's practically dating a model. She told me they went to Cabo and he。
paid for the whole thing. Dude she does his laundry and cooks. He proposed at the。
Eiffel Tower in Paris. Bro she plays in his fancy football league and knows more。
about the Cowboys that he does. She's got the husband, the house, she's got it all.。
What more could you ask for? What more could you ask for? Come on, relationship。
goals starts tonight. How we doing porch?。
So great to be back with you this evening. Hey do you guys remember back in。
school when you would have these projects like class projects and the。
teacher would begin to put you in partners? Anybody remember this? Like you。
got to find a partner. Anybody? Okay some of you remember this. I remember being in。
biology class very vividly and and hoping with everything the teachers。
going around saying hey you guys need to partner up what we're gonna do a project。
together and hoping that she was gonna partner me with Kelly. Okay but you guys。
know like you Kelly went to your school like head cheerleader gorgeous sat。
behind me in biology Kelly and so think Kelly Kapowski. Kelly we'll just call her。
that and so and so I'm like teachers like okay I want you two and you two and。
I'm just dear Lord please if you exist and and she says and Jonathan you and。
Kelly. And and it was awesome because I'm thinking this is my chance like this is。
gonna be amazing me and Kelly partnered up on this and so the problem then。
ensued because the teacher therefore outlined the project we were going to be。
doing which was dissecting a frog. Okay and I didn't know that Kelly didn't like。
to dissect frogs and so therefore there we are we kind of get put in this this。
bench we put our our cape what not cape what are those things called our coat we。
put our lab coat on and our goggles and we have our scapule there and then。
there's this poor defenseless dead animal in front of us and Kelly's like I。
ain't touching that and I'm like well how are we gonna and so I'm looking at。
the frog I'm looking at her I'm looking at the frog and then I'm realizing Kelly's。
not so smart. Now I changed the name to protect the beautiful and yeah and so。
but I'm thinking how am I going to do this project with her and as we got into。
it I started realizing I chose the wrong partner and the reason I chose the wrong。
partner is because I didn't understand the project that laid in front of us. I。
didn't know what we were going to be doing together and as I think about。
spending so much time with dozens scratch that hundreds of people that are。
about to start this adventure called marriage I'm realizing they don't。
understand the project that sits in front of them like everything that has。
defined their view of marriage has been Hollywood movies music TV magazines the。
people listen hear me out the people with the single highest divorce rate on。
the planet the folks who are so bad at it are telling you how to do it and so。
as we start this series relationship goals we've got to go back to the one。
who invented the institution called marriage the one who set out the project。
laid it out in front of us and tells us what it's for did you know that God says。
hey this is why you get married in the Bible and he lays out the specific。
reasons and so as we start this series this evening we're going to look at the。
relationship goal marriage the ultimate relationship goal and the reason we have。
to start there because before we can start with well how do I ask her out or。
how do I get asked out we have to start with why do you want to be asked out the。
reason you date is marriage this idea of dating for fun it's a very listen hear。
me out very new phenomenon it's only been around less than a hundred years。
less than a century to have people been dating for fun very Western idea it。
doesn't exist everywhere around the world and as dating has been become more。
and more fun marriage has become less and less fun so we're not doing it much。
anymore let me give you some statistics to outline this problem this problem in。
1960 seven out of ten people in their 20s were married compared with just two。
out of ten today in the 60s it was 70% today it's 20% we're going a direction。
we're trending we're not trending well for the first time in history the。
average American now spends more years single than married so we're not doing。
this we're doing this less and we're not good at it about 50% of marriages end in。
divorce so if I was to flip a coin right now and had you call out heads or tails。
that could determine your marriage fate or at least that's what the statistics。
would be like for you how I could draw a line right here most of you in the room。
will get married despite your biggest fears or in spite of your biggest fears。
and reality this whole entire half your marriage won't work out that is a really。
gloomy forecast let's change it the information hear me out the information。
I'm gonna give you tonight I've been married 11 years I I really wish someone。
would have told me what I'm about to tell you I really wish someone would have。
told me these things and so many people in marriage get there and say man I。
didn't know it's gonna be like this I wish someone would have told me what it。
was really for what the project was so that I could have chosen the right。
partner you cannot choose the right partner until you understand what the。
project is and so that's what we're looking at the inventor of marriages。
marriage tells us three reasons why we get married I'm gonna be in Genesis 2。
tonight if you want to turn there it's easy to find first book of the Bible。
second chapter we're gonna be in verses 7 and 8 and then 18 through 25 I'm also。
gonna be in Matthew at a moment and then maybe Ephesians if there's time and so。
marriage exists for different reasons than you think as you came in here this。
evening in Genesis 2 God is literally gonna say this is why we get married and。
Genesis 2 is an expounding on the creation story in Genesis 1 that we have。
the six days of creation in Genesis 2 you zoom in on the sixth day of creation。
so same creation story it just comes in and magnifies the sixth day you know。
what was created on the sixth day anybody man whoa man marriage was created。
on the sixth day marriage let's go verse 7 then the Lord God formed a man from。
the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life and the。
man became a living being God created a human now the Lord God had planted a。
garden in the east in Eden and there he put the man he had formed and so God。
creates a human being a man a male human being in paradise think the Arboretum。
meets the perfect zoo animals with no cages and they're nice meets the most。
amazing man cave you can think of and there's Adam like he's in perfection and。
he gives him some things to do and then he says this in Genesis 1 we see God。
made it and it was good God made it and it was good God made it it was good God。
made it was good God made it it was good God made man and woman and it was very。
very good God says everything is good there's no sin that's entered the world。
yet Adam is in perfection but then God says this crazy thing the Lord God said。
it is not good it is not good for the man to be alone I will make a helper。
suitable for him and so Creator God says there's something that's not good I need。
to make a helper for the man he could have made anything he could have made。
another man he could have made a centaur he could have made a robot he could have。
made anything he could have made some crazy talking cat with the head of a。
bull he could have made anything let me show you the mix for the perfect helper。
now the Lord God had formed out of the ground all the wild animals and all the。
birds in the sky he brought them to the man to see what he would name them and。
whatever the man called each living creature that was its name so the man。
gave names to all the livestock the birds in the sky and all the wild。
animals so man is responsible for like dog cat right so if a woman was。
responsible be with like cuddly little nugget that purrs but man was responsible。
dog cat but for Adam no suitable helper was found so the Lord God caused the man。
to fall into a deep sleep it seems like guys are often sleeping when。
relationships start it's like what we're dating what and and while he was。
sleeping while he was sleeping Adam sleeping God took one of his ribs and。
then closed up the place with flesh then the Lord God made a woman from the rib。
he had taken out of the man and he brought her to the man and the man said。
now these are the first words ever documented in the history of humanity。
that a human spoke this is now it's a it's a song it's poetry and a song he。
sings he sing woman for the first time I mean who could blame him I'd sing to。
this is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh she shall be called woman。
for she was taken out of man I know what you're thinking he should have went with。
boys to men but he didn't he went with that and so you can imagine if we're。
doing a wedding and I'm like hey you know say I do you may kiss the bride and。
the guys like she shall be called woman I mean this is what happened right here。
right but it is beautiful he's saying you were made of me from me for me woman。
you were made of me from me for me and that is why a man it says leaves his。
father and mother and is united to his wife this is why a person gets married。
your Bible might say for this reason that is why a man leaves his father and。
mother and is united to his wife and they become one flesh and then it says。
these profound words that Adam and his wife were both naked and they felt no。
shame that there's perfect intimacy between them can you imagine there is。
what that means is there is no thought of self that's the most amazing sex that。
you could ever imagine that two people would come together with no clothes on。
imperfection and there's not a single thought of self am I too big am I too。
little do I look good what does she think what does he think nothing no。
shame no insecurity just two people getting it on。
it's beautiful but wait a second it says this is why God interjects into this。
story trying to explain something to us he's telling us something that's not。
just for Adam and Eve because he says this is why a man leaves his father and。
mother Adam and Eve didn't have a father and mother this truth isn't for Adam and。
Eve this truth is for you and me this is why a person leaves their father and。
mother and is united to their spouse a man leaves his father and mother and is。
united to his wife and the two become one flesh they become one God is talking。
about a profound reality that we don't you you came in here you don't know what。
this means this is deep theology but it's so important in considering。
venturing down the project of marriage and choosing a partner we got to have a。
death grip on what this means it's a template for the reasons for marriage。
this text and think about Eve she has no other options is she compatible with。
Adam like I don't know man what if what if Adam is out of shape and drives a。
lame car I mean is this still cool what if he doesn't have a job there's Adam。
like if she swipes left there's no one left you know what is what is she gonna。
do right there they are all of these thoughts that we spend so much time。
thinking of in right here in the garden is just simple as a man as a woman be。
together be fruitful and multiply and so we're talking about the project of。
marriage the reasons for marriage and the first reason from Genesis 2 is to。
have help the reason you get married is to have help God says it's not good for。
man to be alone there's something that is not good the Lord God said is not。
good for man to be alone I will make a helper suitable for him man is made in。
the image of God God is an eternally relational being father son and spirit。
God didn't make man because he likes relationships he made man to be a part。
of his character his person three in one and Adams placed in Eden with this huge。
job that you would garden the whole earth and God says but you can't do it。
alone let me find someone to help you and none of these things I've created so。
far will help you I need to create something unique something like you but。
different from you something similar to you but a completely different being。
there's only man and woman he could have made a thousand different things this。
is his design the man gave names to all the livestock verse 20 and the birds of。
the heavens and to the birds of the heavens and to every beast of the field。
but for Adam there was not found a helper fit for him so none of the。
animals work like your Labrador retriever might be called your best。
friend but it's not the truth is man's best friend is a woman okay that's the。
reality is that animals are great companionship but they're not the。
ultimate companion that we were made for that that's someone that God made us。
for this kind of relationship the scripture says he finds a wife finds the。
good finds a good thing or finds what is good and receives favor from the Lord。
this word helper it's it's a sir in the Hebrew it's partner or help mate and。
some women think it's degrading to be called a helper I agree it's degrading。
it's degrading to men it says we need help it says we can't do it alone it's。
like God's like looking down there's like man you're gonna need some help bro。
let me let me give you someone to help you out someone a little better at。
things than you and he creates woman and this is a beautiful thing and if you're。
like well I don't want to be called a sir can I tell you something this is the。
word for God 16 times in the Old Testament that God is our helper that。
God is our a sir this is a tremendous compliment to be called this word I。
would wear it proud if I were you and so in searching for a helper you and I。
we're not looking for the one if you will we're looking for someone who knows。
God and is gonna help us become like God called sanctification I know that some。
of you guys are looking for the scholar theologian models on the weekend and who。
loves sex but is a virgin it's the laughter of familiar thought and the。
truth is you need to find someone who understands the project of marriage and。
is ready for it so then I get that game on I'm ready for that and we put so much。
investment in the things that fade the fastest and the help goes both ways it's。
not just that women are men men's helpers and Ephesians 5 actually。
presents the man is the helper and then it says this that as you submit to one。
another out of reverence for Christ that there's this mutual submission that's。
happening and this is a huge part of our sanctification that these people who are。
very different come together and they're opposite almost opposites in the way。
they feel in the different ways that God's wired them and created them and。
the only way that they're gonna work for a lifetime is through full fully。
surrendering to God's Holy Spirit that's sanctification that this would happen in。
marriage God would be making us like Christ and so the world says to marry to。
be happy but God says in his scripture in Ephesians 5 that marriage exists so。
that you would become holy so that you would be like God now there is joy in。
there marriage is a beautifully good great thing but if you're looking for。
someone to make you happy you are putting a responsibility on them that。
they will not be able to fulfill apart from Christ you need to know that。
marriage is good but it is work and it requires help it requires help my wife's。
amazing I see this in her all the time my wife's name is Monica if we don't。
know each other as I said we've married 11 years we have three kids and I mean。
just this we got home Sunday it's been a whirlwind so I haven't been here and。
just yesterday she was asked me she said do you want to unpack your suitcase or。
would you like me to help with that and I can read between the lines I just。
responded politely I don't know helper what do you think no I didn't say that。
she didn't like it I didn't say that but I think about the last two weeks I've。
taught 13 times in three different places in 14 days and what that looks。
like is preparing late at night and early in the morning and and and it。
looks like her carrying a lot of the weight and and sometimes I'm I was we。
were talking about this and I just said I you know what I take on what I can do。
it really depends on what your capacity is to do things without me and she just。
appropriately in a very sanctifying and loving way responded says I don't I。
don't know that it does babe she said I think it depends on your ability to go。
and do those things and then come home and be all in and have energy left for。
us and I was like burn okay Wow but but she's right like it's this constant。
dying to self and and asking hey how can I serve and and people ask me all the。
time they say you know this does Monica serve at the porch you know do you guys。
serve together and the reality is I could tell you I've been doing the porch。
for eight years Monica I bet has been to you know I could count on two hands how。
many porches she's been but she serves you guys every Tuesday tonight she's。
feeding our three little ones she's tucking them in alone she's praying to。
them I mean I can't do this without her help I couldn't do this you don't think。
about that in marriage this dividing and conquering that happens so often so that。
an effective ministry can and will happen and so one of the things you will。
need help doing is my second point this evening marriage exists for the reason。
for marriage to raise children according to God's plan to raise children。
according to God's plan that this is God's design that God made a man and。
then he made a woman to do things that a man can't do a man cannot bring forth。
life God's looking at a man and he's like hey what what do I need to do what。
wiring do I need to change within him so that life can be brought forth you know。
what I will create a separate being apart from him so that life can be。
brought forth by the two of them coming together in this act that I invented。
that I created that I am the master of no one knows how to do it better than。
God you want tips tricks and techniques read your Bible because he's the one who。
invented the act he's the one that that thought of the parts made him work the。
way they do the part you see in the parts you don't see that was God's。
genius design and so together man and woman as complimentary equals take on。
this task of the first Great Commission the second Great Commission we see in。
Matthew 28 go into the world go into the nations telling them the things that。
I've told you who I am Jesus says but the first Great Commission shows up here。
in Genesis where God says hey I want you to form and fill the earth be fruitful。
and multiply have lots of babies and tell them who I am some people say that。
the religion of Islam is growing faster than Christianity if you look at the。
data there are more converts in Christianity Islam if it is growing。
faster than Christianity it's only because of procreation reproduction。
they have more babies than Christians do why because Christians live in America。
where everybody wants two kids one boy and one girl you know I mean this is。
like simple worldview that we have we we think hey I know what I want my life to。
be like we say hey I'm gonna make those decisions according to my preference not。
according to God's Word not according to what he says how many babies do I want。
to have that's how many I'm gonna have God how many babies do you want me to。
have you ever thought about that does he say does he say anything about that does。
his word say anything about how many babies we should have in Psalm 127 it。
says that children are blessing from the Lord blessed is the man who has lots of。
them whose quiver is full of them it says and so if you begin to think about。
children as a burden you don't see children the way God sees children God。
says they're a blessing if you begin to think about children according to what。
Hollywood TV media radio magazines have told you about children or your。
non-believing friends have told you about children then you don't see。
children according to a biblical worldview as God says that children are。
let me just bring this really close to home Monica and I we had one child we。
had Presley she was born Presley Kate Presley who Presley did not stop crying。
for nine months okay she did not sleep for nine months I mean I'm hardly。
exaggerating it was I was just like there is no way it is this hard there is。
no way that everybody goes through this I mean we were like so done I'm thinking。
vasectomy if you don't know what that is we'll explain it later but but I'm。
thinking long-term birth control and then we have Finley and we both cried a。
lot how did this happen you know I can't keep my hands to myself and then and we。
were done though we were done and then we had Weston and now we're done for。
real except I started reading this I turned to Psalm 127 and I'm like do I。
see children as a blessing and I said babe I don't know if we should be done。
can we be done and we started this wrestling that that I just want to be。
really transparent with you I'm right in the middle of I hardly feel equipped to。
even instruct you in this way because I'm like man God can we be done like I。
always thought it was up to me and my preference and what I wanted and then I。
opened the word and you say these things that you have these desires and that you。
want Christians to fill the earth through procreation and should we even。
prevent that should we stop that these are all questions we're asking and I。
don't have the answers for you this evening but I do have this I'm certain。
of this you need to be asking these questions as you think about marriage if。
you want a family if you want children you you need to be thinking you know。
start with his word can I stop that prevent that should I throttle that are。
those things that I should even do I know this is strange so I'm asking the。
question what informs your decisions your preferences or God's Word and so。
let me just show you what a biblical worldview is I I'm committed to keeping。
this graph in front of you a lot and so this really paints a picture it's gonna。
pop up there in a minute magically this paints a picture of what worldview is。
and so worldview when you hear biblical worldview worldview answers the question。
what is real worldview sits underneath your beliefs your beliefs answer the。
question what is true the from your beliefs come your values or your goals。
if you will that asked the question what is good and out of that comes your。
behavior that's what everybody else sees that's what we do so you have worldview。
beliefs goals and behavior and so if you have a self-centered worldview around。
marriage this is what it looks like your self-centered worldview say what is real。
well my desires are real okay and then you think okay well well then what is。
true well here's what is true sex feels good kids are a burden and so then you。
ask the question what is good well pleasure is ultimately good anything。
that feels good anything that satisfies my desires and so then what do you do。
you date around and you get stuck there and it's from a cultural worldview a。
worldly worldview a self-centered worldview and so if you take this book。
and you put it in the middle there right then it's gonna change it's you're gonna。
get what's called a biblical worldview a biblical worldview ask the question what。
is real well God is real his kingdom is real his plans are real for you he。
created you he created you with the purpose it's your job to find God's。
purpose for your life this is very different than you're gonna hear in。
Dallas Fort Worth Houston downtown right this is different what is real God is。
real what is true well then God's Word is true God's Word needs to inform。
everything I do God's Word needs to inform the way I think about。
relationships what I do for the weekend the way that I date the way that I spend。
time with each other what is good God's Word says children are good marriage is。
a good thing regardless of what I've seen God's Word says marriage is good。
and children are good and so what do we do we marry and we make disciples or we。
honor God in our singleness and we make disciples we do everything we can for。
God's glory now that may feel like a huge life change from where you're at。
right now the way you get there is one step at a time you begin to ingest his。
word know what it says know that he informs these decisions and ask God what。
would you have for me having a great marriage starts there it starts when。
you're 18 17 16 it starts when you're 13 when you begin to learn the Word of God。
and you write it on your heart and you understand his desires for your life and。
so God made marriage and asks us to have babies and disciple them and the way。
that we do that is through sex to becoming one flesh and God made sex feel。
good but the pleasure in sex serves a purpose let me say that again so you。
understand the pleasure in sex serves a purpose think about if if sex felt like。
a root canal how long listen humor me how long would it take for the extinction。
of humanity right like this thing that brings forth humans really really hurts。
and nobody wants to do it it'd be like generation one done like nobody else。
left right but God made it feel good so that we would come together that we。
couldn't keep our hands to ourselves and that babies would be brought forth and。
what we do is we try to capture the set the pleasure of sex without the purpose。
of sex so that we can use it for our own selfish desires when in marriage it。
serves another purpose and that brings me to this my third and final point the。
reason for marriage to display the permanence of God's commitment now that。
sounds like Christian ease it sounds like theology is actually really。
important if you're considering marriage if marriage is something that you want。
to do you have to understand that marriage exists for a reason to display。
the permanence of God's commitment this is the profound mystery that Paul writes。
about in Ephesians 5 that he says hey marriage a man and a woman coming。
together it's actually about Jesus in his church that the church is called the。
bride and Jesus is the bridegroom and the bridegroom is going to come back for。
his bride and take us to be with him for how long forever and ever and ever and。
ever and ever and ever and God's commitment to you is forever and ever。
and ever and ever so marriage exists God created it to display to the watching。
world who does not know him the permanence of God's commitment to us。
Jesus actually gives us commentary on Genesis chapter 2 where we've been。
reading Jesus talks about it in Matthew chapter 19 it says this some Pharisees。
these religious people asked is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for。
any and every reason and Jesus responds haven't you read he replied that at the。
beginning the Creator by design made them male and female he he created these。
two beings for a purpose he gave them parts so that the parts would come。
together and life would be brought forth and said for this reason a man will。
leave his father and mother and be united to his wife and the two will。
become one flesh so they are no longer two but one flesh Jesus says therefore。
then this therefore what God has joined together let no one no judge no person。
nobody separate what does he mean there is that confusing I mean is there any。
other translation of that right there what God has brought together don't。
separate don't let it come apart that's what it means in the Greek there's a。
joke it's always good when you got to help people it's a joke last night I was。
watching TV and I was actually watching something that someone had sent to me。
and it was an interview of Cameron Diaz with Bill Maher and she just said this。
in this interview talking about marriage I have no problem with commitment when。
I'm with someone I am 1,000% committed to them she says and I build my life with。
that person as if it's a marriage but I would be divorced a few times by now if。
I did marry them okay let me explain to you the depthness of Cameron Diaz and。
what she's saying here she's saying when I'm with somebody I'm committed to them。
until I'm not and then I'm not and and what's funny about that or what's crazy。
or ironic about that I think that's how some of us view commitment that。
commitment is as long as it's mutual and we're together we're committed and then。
when it's mutual that we're apart then we're not committed anymore and that's。
just fine and what it is it's not training for marriage it's training for。
divorce serial dating is not training you for the commitment of marriage you。
date someone until you don't like them anymore and you break up with them you。
get in another relationship until you don't like them anymore and you break up。
with them instead of putting the first things first so that when you come into。
a relationship with them you know so much of what you're hoping to figure out。
in dating so that then you can just figure out those last and final things。
you say hey should we get married because we date for marriage as believers。
and the reason this is a big deal is because it's a picture of God's love for。
us so many of us we've been so brainwashed by Hollywood we're looking。
for a soulmate you're not looking for a soulmate you're looking for a soulmate。
an S O L E mate one mate a singular mate that is what you're looking for you're。
not looking for a soulmate star-crossed lovers you're looking for a soulmate one。
mate one person for a lifetime that is what you are searching for because。
that's a picture of God's love for us see I think that a lot of us think that。
God loves us like Cameron Diaz loves people that he loves us when things are。
going well and then when things are going bad he doesn't love us anymore。
that's a heresy it's wrong and you learned it from people who are。
instructing you about marriage God loves you and when you turn your back from him。
he still loves you and when you run from him he still loves you and when you look。
at porn he still loves you and when you have sex outside of marriage he's still。
loving and recklessly pursuing you and chasing you and running after you and。
calling you back to him that's how you love somebody in marriage that's what。
marriage looks like that's what it should look like that it is a picture of。
God's permanent commitment to us see the biggest theological problems of our day。
they're not that big they're not six-day creation or dinosaurs or crazy things。
like that predestination and dispensation on the transubstantiation。
all of these ten cent words what they are is simple it's God good and does he。
love me it's God good and does he love me and you've learned that he's not good。
and he doesn't love you and you learned it from marriage because you do not know。
an unbreakable marriage all you know the only reality you have the only worldview。
you know of marriage is breakable marriages let me explain the deep deep。
danger of this my kids we have this rope swing in the front yard hangs from this。
tree and they love it it's got this wooden kind of plate that they sit on。
and they swing and they push each other and it's it's fun for me as their father。
I sit in a rocking chair on the front porch and I just watch them playing and。
laughing giggle and swing each other and they have such a great time on this。
thing this gift the swing and one day the swing broke the wooden plate slipped。
off the rope and one of them fell and the others watched and from there on I。
couldn't get them to swing because as they looked at that thing that brought。
them life they just knew that it was breakable and they didn't want anything。
to do with it and I said no look I fixed it I repaired it look I it's not gonna。
fall off anymore and like no man what if we're way up there when it falls off I'm。
out on that you know and they only know the breakable version this is why。
marriage rates are declining because marriages are failing no-fault divorce。
enters the picture divorce goes rampant all you know is breakable marriage。
you're so impacted by this you don't even understand the consequences of the。
boiling waters around you as it relates to this you have to start with God's。
Word like you're on a deserted island and you have no idea what marriage is。
and you just say okay tell me what marriage is and you have nothing else to。
inform that not the experts of Hollywood。
to be united here the two becoming one flesh it literally means to be bonded。
together in a way that cannot be separated without deep consequences some。
of you have experienced this some of you have experienced this and you don't even。
realize that you've experienced that you're sitting in the deep consequences。
yesterday I saw this because this word is like glued together and there was a。
piece of foam glued to this board and as I ripped the foam apart parts of the。
foam stayed on the board and parts of the board went on the foam and it was。
just pieces left this is a picture of what happens when we give ourselves to。
someone to become one flesh and we separate it hurts we leave parts of us。
with them and parts of them with us and then we marry someone we have to explain。
that it's messy it was never intended to be that way and if that's your story。
it's my story there's certainly hope this is the beginning of the dating。
relationship series and so we're gonna spend time talking about that we'll。
spend an entire time talking about sex but I want to point out something to you。
have you noticed that I have not said that the reason for marriage is sex God。
is so pro-sex as I've said it's his idea it's his design it serves purposes for。
him the first command he gives a man is have lots of sex says be fruitful and。
multiply but that's what it means have lots of sex that's why I tell Monica it。
means anyways I'm like you don't use Hebrew let me explain it and then she's。
like you didn't go to seminary and I'm like oh no I forgot you knew that and so。
sex serves a purpose in marriage the enjoyment of it bonds two people。
together for a lifetime we're gonna talk about that bonding and messages ahead it。
also allows for life new life a new discipleship opportunity but can I tell。
you something marriage is not for sex sex is for marriage marriage is not for。
sex sex is a gift to marriage it serves a purpose in marriage and so many of you。
came into this room tonight and you thought that sex is ultimate and so much。
of what you think about marriage revolves around this idea of who you're。
gonna have sex with can I just give you some simple math if you have sex six。
times per month which is more than the average of once a week for 45 minutes。
per encounter which is generous I've been told。
that is listen that is point six to five percent of your marriage life it is not。
even 1% of the time that you spend in marriage so you better be great at a lot。
of other things you better be an amazing helper right you better understand the。
permanence of which God has created marriage for this sex it's a bonding。
agent it allows a physiological release that is the highest levels of dopamine。
that a person can experience apart from drugs it's God's creation and in a godly。
marriage you experience those high levels of dopamine without consequence。
without any consequence can you imagine being drunk with no hangover being coked。
out of your mind with no risk of a heart attack or a nosebleed being high with no。
risk of foggy brain being doing ecstasy with no worries of the depression that。
awaits or bleeding of the brain it's the highest levels of dopamine a person can。
naturally experience and in a godly marriage between two people committed to。
each other for a lifetime there's no downside it's a beautiful thing that God。
has given us as a gift but outside of marriage there are side effects so。
damaging that they shape our world our music our entertainment our culture our。
thoughts and they rewire us more on that weeks to come I will tell you lastly。
this bonding agent has implications for pornography for homosexuality for sexual。
abuse and for sex outside of marriage and we have to learn how to heal from。
this if this is your story we're gonna spend an entire week on how to heal and。
recovery from that which is necessary as you take on the project of marriage some。
of you tonight need to hear that marriage is good it's something that you。
don't want any part of and you need to hear no it's good God made it it's good。
some of you need to hear that marriage is hard you want it so bad you would。
risk venturing into that project with the wrong partner I need you to know in。
time it do not venture into that project with the wrong partner but everyone。
needs to hear what it's for to find a helper to raise children according to。
God's plan and to display the the permanence of God's commitment and so。
how do you know if you are up for this project marriage and your singleness you。
have a helper in Jesus in your singleness you're spending your time。
making disciples and in your singleness you display a commitment to Jesus Christ。
his commands and rules for your life you walk in obedience to him what are you。
looking for in someone else someone who has a helper in Jesus's Holy Spirit。
someone who is passionate about making disciples and someone who displays their。
commitment to Jesus Christ through God's Word becoming God's man or woman this。
Saturday I'm doing a wedding and right before I came down to give you this。
message I was sitting in my computer and the couple emailed me their vows they。
had written their own and I read them for the first time it's it's a wedding。
of a dear friend of mine Garrett who pastors out there shepherds out there in。
Fort Worth and I read his vows and I just thought I would read them to you。
because this is the project of marriage it paints a picture he says Garrett。
writes Gabrielle it's his wife I vow to love you as Christ loves the church in。
case you were confused I vow to love you as Christ loved the church to not be。
harsh with you but to love with you in an understanding way to love you as I。
love myself to sacrifice myself for you and to keep the Word of God in the。
highest regard in our home I vow to keep my eyes only for you my。
affections only for you my sincerest care only for you my deepest passions。
only for you I vow to fight against any threat to our marriage from inside or。
outside I Garrett take you Gabrielle to be my wife to have and to hold from this。
day forward for better for worse for richer for poorer in sickness and in。
health to love and to cherish as long as we both shall live so many people。
promise that so few mean it she writes Garrett I vow to be your best friend。
partner and biggest supporter to let you lead me and our future family and to。
follow you as you follow Christ I vow to give you my whole heart mind body and。
soul and to have eyes for you alone as your wife I vow to respect you and honor。
you always I vow to put you first in my life right underneath Jesus Christ and。
finally I vow to stay fully committed to Christ to seek him together in。
everything we do and to allow him to determine our steps I Gabrielle take you。
Garrett to be my husband to have and to hold from this day forward for better or。
for worse for richer and for poorer in sickness and in health to love and to。
cherish as long as we both shall live you want a picture of the project that's。
a picture of the project you find somebody to do that but guys listen。
they're not just empty words friends those are crazy promises that you might。
one day by the grace of God utter as him with as him as your witness with him as。
your witness that you would stand before him that you wouldn't take that lightly。
my goal for you is if you want to be married that you would be I'd love to。
help you get there and that out of this room would not come a single divorce。
that all of you would be married for a lifetime when it gets hard richer and。
lose your job poor you get sick cancer lose hair have to feed each other till。
death do you part as long as you both shall live and so God loves you he ain't。
turning his back on you friend that's how he loves you let me pray to that God。
father thank you for the ways that you display your incredible love for us to。
the cross of Jesus Christ that you gave you one and only son to die for。
pornography our fornication our promiscuity sexual addiction our angst。
of singleness our idolatry of marriage that you paid the price for that you no。
longer holding those sins against us if we've trusted in your son Jesus Christ。
as a payment for them father help us to control our urges help us to save。
ourselves for a spouse should you have one for us or for you on that wedding。
day as we go to be with you forever and ever and ever and ever father help us to。
yearn more for you than anything else in this world that we would long for you。
that our bodies our souls and our minds would wait for you we would hold fast。
for you God we thank you for your promises your goodness and grace。
