[MUSIC PLAYING]。
Hey, Porch, how we doing tonight?。
OK.。
Hey.。
If we haven't gotten a chance to meet, my name is Grace Ball.。
And on behalf of our staff team, we。
are so thankful that you've decided to trust us。
with your Tuesday night.。
I want to give a special shout out to our Porch Live locations.。
So shout out to Porch Live Tulsa, Porch Live Boise,。
and Porch Live Springfield.。
We are so thankful for you guys.。
Yeah, let's give it up for them.。
I love that.。
Hey, we're excited for tonight because we。
get to hear from a special guest, a friend of the Porch.。
And I have the joy of getting to introduce him.。
He is an illusionist, a pastor, a Bible teacher,。
and so much more.。
But what our team knows about him。
is he is someone who is faithful to know God's word, to teach it。
and to live it out.。
And so Porch, I need your help tonight, OK?。
I need you to help me in welcoming。
our good friend of the Porch, Drew Worsham, to the stage.。
[APPLAUSE]。
Well, Porch, how are we feeling tonight?。
We're good?。
Ah, you sound amazing.。
Well, like Grace said, my name is Drew.。
Man, I live in San Antonio, Texas with my amazing wife,。
Jane.。
And we've got two kiddos.。
I have a five-year-old little girl named Matilda。
that we call Tilly.。
And then I have a three-year-old son named Linden.。
And they might be tuning in, but I'm。
hoping they're asleep because it's bedtime.。
And it's a huge honor to get to be with you tonight.。
I love the Porch so much.。
And I love this church.。
And I love just Kylan's vision for the young adults of Dallas。
and just his heart.。
And so proud of him and Brooke and welcoming their son, Cash,。
into the world last week.。
And so it is a huge honor to get to just step into this space。
so that he can be home loving his family.。
Grateful for him.。
Love your pastor, TA, at Watermark, one of my closest。
friends in the world.。
And I just-- listen, I think I said this last time.。
Alex, I mean it.。
We have talked often about moving to this area。
just to be a part of the Porch and to be a part of Watermark.。
It's just the housing market, guys.。
It's crazy.。
So if any of you know someone who has a house for free,。
let me know.。
We'll be into it.。
Well, if you have a Bible tonight,。
I'd love for you to grab it and meet me in Colossians chapter。
1.。
Colossians chapter 1.。
Now, I know that in the spring semester。
and going into the summer, you guys did a walk through。
Colossians, Watermark, you guys as a church are going through.。
But as you guys have been in this space of looking out,。
what it looks like to be a disciple of Jesus,。
and just kind of, if you will, the secret sauce of it all,。
I don't know if there's a more potent few verses than。
from the Apostle Paul in Colossians.。
So if you just give me the permission, I want to go back.。
And I want us to look at just a really impactful verse.。
And my hope and my prayer for you。
tonight is however you walked into this space,。
wherever you are in the spiritual journey。
that Jesus would invite you into deeper waters,。
and maybe, just maybe, that because of his word。
and him speaking to you that you may walk out of this room。
and forever changed.。
And so as we look at Colossians chapter 1,。
I want you to see starting in verse 24,。
this is what Paul says.。
He says, "Now I rejoice in my sufferings for you,。
and I'm completing in my flesh what。
is lacking in Christ's afflictions for his body.。
That is the church."。
Now, pause real quick.。
At first glance, you may read that verse。
and think that what Paul is saying or trying to communicate。
is that what Jesus did was only half sufficient,。
that Jesus got the ball like two men in the 50-yard line,。
and now it's Paul's responsibility。
to get the rest of the way.。
And that is not what he's saying.。
What Paul is saying is that Jesus, his blood, and his death。
and resurrection, it's all sufficient.。
There's nothing that we could add to it.。
But what he's going to communicate。
is, though, even though Jesus died on a cross,。
went to a tomb, three days later walks out of the grave。
holding the receipts to sin and death,。
there were still people who had not yet heard this story,。
this life-changing story.。
And so the fact that he's in prison,。
that he's been suffering these afflictions。
has actually been a catalyst for more people。
to get to hear this story.。
And so in verse 25, he says, "I have become its servant,。
"according to God's commission that was given to me for you。
"to make the word of God fully known,。
"the mystery hidden for ages and generations,。
"but now revealed to his saints.。
"God wanted to make known among the Gentiles。
"the glorious wealth of this mystery,。
"which is Christ in you, the hope of glory.。
"We proclaim him warning and teaching everyone。
"with all wisdom so that we may present everyone。
"mature in Christ, a labor for this,。
"striving with his strength that works powerfully in me."。
Jesus, in these next few moments,。
I just pray that you would speak to us.。
That there's not a person in this space or this room。
that needs to hear anything that I have to say.。
They don't need my thoughts or my opinions,。
Jesus, we need you.。
And so Father, I pray that you would speak。
to every single one of us in a way that we can understand,。
that you would whisper directly to our hearts。
and that you would invite us into something unique,。
something special, something intimate.。
So Jesus, remove all the noise.。
And tonight, may we encounter you,。
and because of that encounter, leave forever changed.。
We love you and we trust you.。
And it's in your name we pray, amen.。
Well, in March of 2014, I was dating Jane,。
and we lived in Washington State。
where we both served on staff at a church.。
And Jane had never gotten to see this side of my life,。
like never got to see the touring performer side.。
And we were doing an event, a conference in Nashville.。
And so I invited Jane to like fly out。
and meet me in Nashville for this two-day conference.。
And so she gets there,。
we had lots of friends that live in Nashville.。
And so we're both there.。
We finished the conference Sunday morning,。
we head to the airport early in the morning.。
And I don't know if you've ever been to BNA,。
which is the Nashville airport.。
When you walk in, there's a huge sign,。
much like many airports with all the locations。
to where they're flying in that day.。
And so I look at Jane and I was like,。
"Hey, if you had, just for fun,。
"if you had to pick any city in the world。
"that you see up there that you would like to fly to,。
"which one would you pick?"。
And she's like, "Ah, my favorite city is New York City."。
And I was like, "Surprise,。
"we're not going home to Washington,。
"we're actually going to New York City。
"where we're going to have lunch."。
And she immediately starts to kind of tear up a little bit,。
which as a guy, it's just immediately like,。
"Chi-ching, we're on the right page."。
So we walk through security, we get on the plane,。
we sit down, we take off.。
And the moment we take off, I reach into my bag。
and I pull out an envelope。
that just has the number one written on it.。
And I hand it to her.。
She opens it and inside of it, there was a postcard.。
And what she didn't know is that every city。
that I had visited and toured or performed at or spoke at。
over the course of our dating relationship,。
I bought a postcard.。
And on the back of it, I would write a prayer,。
just like almost like a love letter。
of what I was processing and feeling。
about our relationship at that point in time.。
And I had about 30 of these in my bag.。
So every 15 minutes, I'd pull one out, I'd give it to her,。
she would open it up, she would read it,。
and then we just kind of talk about it.。
We land in New York City and have a car。
that's waiting on us that picks us up。
and takes us into Manhattan where we grab a slice of pizza.。
Second thing is, I know that Jane's favorite food。
in the world is pizza,。
and no one quite does it like New York City.。
And so we grab a slice of pizza。
and then we head to Central Park,。
right outside of Central Park.。
I had rented a, not rented, I guess, yeah,。
reserved, that's the right word,。
a hotel room right outside Central Park.。
Now, here's what's crazy.。
This is just so in case you go in,。
I wasn't trying to be shady.。
Here's the deal.。
We walk into the lobby and I was like,。
"Hey, the room's yours.。
I want you to go shower, get ready,。
because ladies, here's the deal.。
You know that when you wake up super early for a flight,。
you're not always photo ready, you know?。
You're rocking like sweats and a side pony."。
So I was like, "Hey, you go get ready, do your thing."。
So I stayed in the lobby and she makes her way up.。
She goes into the room and in the room,。
there's flowers waiting on her。
along with a lot of these postcards that I'd sent ahead.。
And so she's getting ready, reading these postcards.。
She comes down, got like all dressed up.。
And then we just walk through the city,。
grab coffee, whole time talking about our relationship.。
The whole time I'm just giving her these postcards.。
We find our way to Central Park。
and we sit down on a park bench.。
And I reach into my bag and I was like,。
"Hey, this is the last one."。
And I hand it to her.。
She opens it up and it's a postcard from Central Park.。
The picture taken from where we were seated,。
the bridge and kind of the ponds and overlooking the city.。
She flips it around and it says,。
"This one's from all over the world."。
I hand her my phone.。
And what I had done is I'd had all of our friends。
and family from across the globe。
send in just a video of just speaking blessing。
over our relationship and just like。
how what they saw God do with us together.。
When the video was done, I put the phone into my pocket。
and I pulled out a ring and I went down on one knee.。
And for the very first time in our relationship,。
I told Jane that I loved her.。
Those words meant something to me。
and I wasn't gonna say them。
till I could back them up with a promise.。
Ask her to spend the rest of her life with me.。
She obviously said yes。
or I wouldn't be telling that story.。
Thank you, thank you.。
(congregation applauding)。
(congregation cheering)。
True story, while we're in Central Park,。
when I go down on one knee,。
it immediately starts snowing in Central Park.。
Which at this point you're like,。
"Drew, I feel like I was tracking with you now,。
"I just feel like you're making all this up."。
(congregation laughing)。
The only reason I know that is some of our closest friends。
had flown to New York before us。
and were taking photos of the whole thing.。
And so I have a photo of it,。
it's like halfway snowing coming down。
while I'm on one knee.。
Now, why do I tell that story?。
One, it's an amazing story。
and I earned every bit of it, okay?。
And then two, fellas, just trying to raise the bar, okay?。
(congregation laughing)。
(congregation cheering)。
Ladies, you're welcome.。
Well, that moment, listen,。
we immediately began to kind of start。
to plan the wedding day.。
And then just a few months later,。
here in Dallas, Texas,。
I watched Jane walk down an aisle dressed in white,。
that she earned every bit of that.。
And we stood on an altar and we made promises。
that my life is no longer mine,。
like I will use every heartbeat to serve you,。
to support you and vice versa.。
And then we celebrated the night away。
with all of our closest friends and family.。
And at the very end of the night,。
like we ran through a hallway of sparklers。
that our friends were holding.。
And I wanna just pause and I want you to imagine。
that as we walked through those sparklers。
headed to the limousine,。
that once we got to the end of the sparklers,。
if I looked at Jane and I said,。
"You did amazing out there.。
"High five, good game, I'll see you next week."。
And I just walk away, get in my car。
and drive to my apartment.。
And she gets in her car and goes to her apartment.。
And then I just see her a couple of days later.。
Like immediately something in you is like,。
"Ugh, like no, like surely not, right?"。
Like that's not how I pictured my story going.。
Well, here's why, and I want you to not miss this.。
Because every single one of us in this space,。
and in this room, or tuning in live,。
like you know that no matter how amazing。
the engagement story is,。
no matter how beautiful the wedding is,。
neither of those are actually the point.。
The point is what you do after you say, "I do."。
And the life that you begin to build together。
and live out together.。
And my fear is that so many of us in this space。
that we have a tendency to do this exact same thing。
with Jesus.。
That we show up every Tuesday night。
and we have an amazing experience.。
And we sing the songs and we raise our hands。
at the appropriate time.。
And we sing the Christian karaoke and we take notes。
and we lean in and we walk out.。
We have this amazing feeling.。
And then it's like we walk out with Jesus。
and we're like, "You are amazing out there, Jesus.。
"Phenomenal, high five, I'll see you next Tuesday.。
"I'll see you next Sunday."。
Not realizing that this is beautiful.。
This is amazing.。
Just like the engagement or the wedding.。
But this is not the point.。
And if we make this the point,。
we may miss out on the beauty of the relationship。
that Jesus is inviting you and I into.。
And I love that at the porch,。
and that you guys have been walking through this series。
all about discipleship and really growing in the intimacy。
and relationship with Jesus.。
And so tonight, what I want to do。
is I want to share with you the one thing。
that has changed my entire journey and walk with Jesus.。
The thing that I wish desperately that I would have known。
when I was in your season and in your seat.。
And Paul here just walks us through it.。
And that he says this, just actually,。
I want you to see this again.。
Jump down to, we'll do verse 26.。
Paul is writing this letter to a people。
that honestly, if they were living today here in 2024,。
they would find themselves getting more of their theology。
from TikTok than Jesus.。
Glad none of us do that.。
For many of them, Jesus was just a supplement。
to their lives.。
So life is good, we just sprinkle a little Jesus。
and he makes it a little bit better.。
Almost like he was a genie.。
But they found themselves stagnant and confused。
in the spiritual journey,。
begging the question, is there more?。
So Paul in verse 26, he says this again.。
Oh, this is so good.。
I hope you don't miss it.。
He says the mystery, the mystery of all of this,。
this whole thing that's been hidden for ages。
and generations, but now revealed to his saints,。
that's you and I.。
Which listen, that just immediately,。
when we read that, that should beg the question,。
ooh, what's this mystery?。
Paul, please tell us more.。
And he says in verse 27,。
God wanted to make known among the Gentiles,。
which is the vast majority of us,。
especially if we're not Jewish,。
the glorious wealth of this mystery.。
Here it is.。
Which is Christ in you, the hope of glory.。
What Paul just said is that the secret to all of this,。
if you want to know what it really boils down to,。
the heartbeat of Jesus's message。
and throughout the rest of the New Testament,。
if you want to know what it all centers around,。
here it is, it's the fact that Christ is in you.。
That the God of the universe,。
the moment that you and I say yes to him,。
that for whatever reason,。
he chooses to take up residence inside of us.。
And what is so strange。
is that for many of us in the Western church,。
you hear me read that or say it or repeat it.。
And for many of us, our default setting is big deal.。
Like so many of us in this room。
could be underwhelmed by that fact.。
That you hear, you're like, yeah, Drew, big deal, we know.。
Listen, man, like this is not our first time。
at a church event.。
Like many of us, like we grew up in vacation Bible school.。
We know the songs, we even know the motions。
that Jesus deep, deep down in our heart, spell it.。
Like we know, bro.。
But porch, what I want you to hear tonight。
is that this is a really big deal.。
At the moment that you and I meet Jesus,。
at the moment that we surrender our lives to him,。
that the scripture says that the very God。
that spoke the world into existence。
for whatever reason now lives and dwells inside of you,。
that the very power that brought Jesus Christ。
out of the grave now courses through your veins.。
Let that just sink in.。
And just can we be real for a second?。
For so many of us, if I were to take the average person。
who claims to be following Jesus,。
claims to be a disciple of Jesus,。
and I were to hold them next to a person。
who's not yet a follower of Jesus,。
and I were to have us dissect and go,。
what's the difference between these two people?。
What's the difference between you and a coworker。
that doesn't claim to know Jesus?。
What many of us would find out is that,。
well, I cuss a little bit less.。
I party a little less hard.。
I watch a few less rated R movies.。
I wait to date two to really like make out hard.。
Like, and then I have this like boring committee meeting。
thing that I have to do on Sunday mornings。
and occasionally Tuesday nights.。
But other than that, that's about it.。
Are you kidding me?。
Is that all there is?。
That we're just a little bit more moral。
than the world around us?。
Or could it be true?。
That the mystery to this thing,。
the secret to this thing, the power in this thing,。
is that Christ actually lives and dwells inside of us。
and so few of us are actually tapping into that.。
So we just think for a second,。
to see the bigness of this.。
The entire Old Testament, if you wanna sum it up tonight,。
was marked by three different words.。
And three words were there, was this, God with us.。
You hear it repeated over and over again。
throughout the Old Testament.。
That God was with Adam and Eve。
in the cool of the day in the garden.。
That God was with Abraham.。
That God was with Moses.。
God was with the Israelites.。
Clyde by day, fire by night.。
God was with King David.。
God was with the prophets.。
That even, oh my gosh, we're getting closer to Christmas.。
That Jesus, God in the flesh,。
wraps himself in human flesh。
and when he shows up in Christmas time, we call him what?。
Anybody remember?。
Emmanuel, anybody know what that translates as?。
God with us.。
Yeah, but then he ascends into heaven。
and in this moment, everything shifts.。
From this moment forward,。
like our identity is no longer marked simply。
by God with us.。
But for us, Christ is in you.。
He's in me.。
He's in us.。
Like this is really big deal.。
And for those of you who maybe you're more。
of a visual learner, I have something for you, okay?。
To be helpful.。
It's not a magic trick.。
Don't get ahead of me, okay?。
You'll be disappointed at the end.。
So here's what we're gonna do.。
Tonight, what I want you to do is I want you。
to let the water here in this bottle。
represent the manifest presence of God, okay?。
And in the garden of Eden,。
listen, at the very beginning of the book,。
God speaks the world into existence.。
Everything that we know and the things that we don't know,。
God uses his words like a paintbrush。
and he creates all things.。
On the sixth day, God reaches into the dirt.。
It would be the very first thing。
that God would ever touch in the scriptures.。
He breathes life into humanity.。
Why?。
So that we could have a deep, intimate relationship。
with the God of the universe.。
So that his presence, that we could experience it。
in its fullness in the garden,。
like no distractions, no sin, no pain.。
We make it three chapters into the book。
before we screw it all up.。
And we looked at God and said,。
hey, kind of thank you, but no thanks.。
I wanna do this my own way.。
And we gave God kind of the proverbial middle finger。
and said, I wanna do this on my own.。
And in that moment, listen,。
humanity committed treason against the high King。
and it fractured the world as we know it.。
And so listen, we all feel that.。
Like you don't scroll very long before you're like,。
yeah, it's pretty jacked up.。
Or you're better yet, like maybe this is just me.。
Maybe you can't relate, but I have a three-year-old son.。
He hangs out with other three-year-olds.。
I don't hang out with them very long。
before I back up and go,。
whoa, those are the most evil creatures。
on planet earth right there.。
But what's interesting is we don't have to pull my son。
aside and go, hey, buddy, when you don't get your way,。
bite him, punch him in the throat,。
grab what you want, yell mine and run.。
Like we don't have to rehearse that.。
Like it's his default setting.。
Okay, you're tracking with me.。
Now, but here's the deal.。
That even in that brokenness,。
that God chooses to not give up on humanity.。
And he wants to be with his people.。
He wants the intimacy restored.。
And so you see in the scripture, God's presence, it shifts.。
And the first place that you really see the manifestation。
is that of the mountain.。
Mount Sinai, if you wanna like think about Moses,。
or he has the burning bush moment。
where he goes up there to the 10 commandments.。
Or even if you think about the woman who's caught。
in the well, or not caught in the well, she is caught,。
sorry, I've just merged two stories.。
The woman who's at the well,。
not the woman caught in adultery,。
the woman caught in the well, I'll just say it again.。
The woman at the well, she quizzes Jesus and she says,。
okay, like some people say that we worship on this mountain.。
You say we're on this mountain, like which one is it?。
It's all this idea that the presence of God。
was found at the mountaintop.。
Now, when the Israelites are released from captivity,。
and they begin to wander through the desert,。
God's presence, yes, cloud by day, fire by night,。
but he instructs the Israelites to build a tabernacle.。
And when the tabernacle is built,。
God's presence would descend into this place.。
And this is where the people of God could go。
and meet with him.。
When they make their way into the promised land,。
God gives Solomon the instructions。
to build a permanent tabernacle called the temple.。
And it moves from the tabernacle to the temple.。
Then, when you move from Malachi into Matthew,。
the Old Testament to the New Testament,。
something crazy happens.。
Because the very presence of God。
chooses to leave its throne room。
and wrap itself in human flesh。
in the person of Jesus.。
That Jesus walks on our planet for 33 perfect years,。
teaching you and I what it means。
to be fully human and fully alive.。
And then Jesus willingly lays his life down on a cross.。
And don't miss this, somehow I did.。
But that was not Jesus's cross.。
That was your cross.。
That was your death penalty。
for your treason against the king.。
And Jesus was willing to climb onto that cross。
and all, man, of the judgment。
due to the brokenness of the world,。
man, aimed at Jesus and he absorbed it like a sponge.。
And goes into the grave.。
And three days later, walks out of the grave。
holding the keys to both sin and death.。
Walks on earth for a couple of weeks。
with his closest friends。
and then he ascends back to heaven.。
Which begs the question,。
where is the manifest presence of God now?。
We don't have a temple.。
We don't have a tabernacle.。
We don't worship at the top of a mountain.。
So where is the presence of God now?。
It's here.。
It's in us.。
It's in us.。
This is why Paul would use language like we are the temple.。
That the presence of the living God。
chooses to live and dwell inside of you.。
That it courses through your veins.。
It's a really big deal.。
And I pray tonight that you begin to believe that。
and understand it and walk in it.。
So tonight,。
let me maybe put it this way.。
Whatever question that you walked into this room with,。
like whatever you were hoping for,。
and psychologists would say,。
there's really just a handful of questions,。
like seven questions that you probably are asking。
in every scenario that you step into.。
And here's the beauty of it.。
Christ answers all seven of those.。
And so tonight,。
if the question that drives you is the question,。
am I safe?。
Am I safe physically, emotionally?。
Maybe I have a temple.。
Maybe I have a tendency to let fear creep in,。
but the question of am I safe?。
Here's what I want you to see.。
That Christ in you means that you are never alone.。
That no matter the chaos around you,。
you're held securely by the one who's in complete control.。
And at the Lion of Judah, not only pads beside you,。
he dwells inside of you.。
Maybe your question is, am I secure?。
Maybe anxiety or worry are clouding your thoughts.。
Maybe it's fear of the future.。
Tonight, you can feel secure。
knowing that the God who owns a cattle on a thousand hills。
calls you son or daughter。
and that he is closer than your skin tonight.。
Or maybe, maybe you walk into this space。
and the question that you're constantly asking。
of every environment and every relationship is, am I loved?。
Am I truly loved?。
Am I worthy of love?。
Tonight, may you hear that God's love for you。
is not conditional.。
That Christ chose to live in you。
so you're loved deeply, fully, and unconditionally,。
even on your worst days.。
Maybe your question is, am I wanted?。
Then tonight you need to hear that you're,。
because of Christ in you, you are not tolerated.。
You are wanted.。
Christ in you is a constant reminder that you belong,。
that you are chosen before the foundations of the earth。
by God himself and that he wants to be near you。
in the most intimate way.。
Or maybe tonight your question is, am I successful?。
That you find yourself constantly trying to prove。
that you're enough in this, that you're successful.。
Then tonight you need to be reminded。
that you have nothing to prove.。
That God is already so proud of you。
because he finds you worthy enough to dwell inside of.。
Let that sink in.。
Who are you trying to prove what to?。
The God of the universe finds you worthy。
and says, that one's mine.。
I'll take residence inside of that one.。
Or maybe tonight you step into this space。
wondering, am I good enough?。
With Christ in you, you are complete.。
You don't have to prove your worth。
because he fills every gap and calls you worthy.。
You can stop performing for his approval。
and you can learn to just enjoy Christ in you.。
Or maybe your question is, do I have purpose?。
Christ in you gives your life meaning.。
He's guiding you to impact the lives of others。
and to live with purpose every single day.。
These truths remind you that with Christ in you,。
your worth, security and purpose are already established。
that you can live free.。
And Porch, this is huge and it changes everything.。
This isn't just, it's not like an app。
or it's not just something that you download.。
Like this is not an accessory or an update.。
No, this is a whole new operating system。
and it changes everything in us and around us.。
Here, can I just give you just a few tonight?。
Like think about it this way.。
So many of us, we think about prayer。
and prayer for those of us who recognize。
that Christ is in us, that he's in you.。
It moves from being us just talking to an imaginary friend。
and listing out all of our wants or needs or hopes。
that we say like it's some type of incantation。
and then like we just write to make God。
like do what we need or want.。
But it moves, prayer moves into a regular heartfelt practice。
that helps us cultivate deeper intimacy with Jesus。
by allowing us to share our deepest needs,。
to seek guidance and most importantly,。
just experience his presence.。
Your prayer life alone will shift and change。
if you really believe that Christ is in you。
or take scripture reading.。
Both of these things, prayer, scripture,。
many of us were like, oh, I know I should,。
I just don't want to.。
So scripture reading moves from being something。
that we check off our list, some spiritual to-do list。
or cramming for some spiritual pop quiz。
or making ourselves feel better。
because we're jumping through some religious hoop。
to engaging a 66 book love letter。
written to show us who we are, who he is。
and how we get to live life to the fullest.。
Dang, that'll get you up early in the morning。
or maybe it's obedience.。
When Christ is in you, obedience,。
it moves from somehow trying to earn God's approval。
to actually trusting Jesus and aligning our lives。
to his perfect will.。
Or maybe it's worship.。
I joked earlier, it moves from being。
this feel good Christian karaoke。
to actually deepening our connection。
and intimacy with Christ, helping us focus on his greatness。
and draw strength from his presence.。
Or maybe it's community.。
Community moves from an obligation。
or a solution to loneliness。
to stepping into relationship with others,。
brothers and sisters in the journey。
to offer and gain support, encouragement。
and reminders of who we really are when we get distracted。
and getting to experience Christ's power collectively.。
Or maybe, last one, it's how we view serving。
or even giving, that these things move from being a duty,。
something that we feel like we should do。
to an opportunity to let the love and power。
of Jesus Christ flow through your hands and feet。
in order to make places that we live, work and play。
look and feel more like heaven.。
This is a really big deal, church.。
And my hope and my prayer is that tonight。
that you feel the invitation to step towards Jesus.。
The number one question that I get。
when having this conversation is like,。
"Drew, this is cool."。
But like, "Okay, how do we tap into this?。
"How do we, what do we do?"。
And tonight I want you to hear, listen,。
if you know and love Jesus,。
like there's been this moment。
where you've pushed all the chips in,。
like Texas Holdemstall, your life is his.。
Then there's nothing you do.。
Christ is already in you.。
For example, 10 years ago, a little over 10 years ago,。
I stood on that altar with my wife and made huge promises.。
I am no more married today than I was 10 years ago.。
But I am more deeply in love with Jane。
than I was 10 years ago.。
I'm closer to her.。
She's legitimately become my best friend.。
I really feel like in many situations。
that I can tell exactly what she's thinking。
before she even says what's on her mind.。
How does that happen?。
Hear me, church, please.。
Not because of performance or pretending.。
It has everything to do with proximity and time.。
That's it.。
That's it.。
That's it.。
And so tonight,。
may you feel the invitation of Jesus。
to just be with him.。
And in his presence, you will become more and more aware。
of his presence in you.。
And that's what changes everything.。
So Jesus, tonight,。
Father, I pray that you have spoken clearly to your people.。
I pray that every single person in this room。
feels zero condemnation, but instead, Father,。
they feel your loving kindness,。
drawing them closer and closer to you.。
And Jesus, whatever you have spoken over your people,。
I pray that they would have the courage。
and the boldness to say yes.。
Believing that you really are trustworthy,。
that you really are good.。
And Jesus, may we live in this life-changing truth。
of Christ in us.。
We love you.。
And we are learning to trust you.。
That's the new way of praying.。
(gentle music)。
