(snaps)。
- Tess Patterson, Porch Stories, Anxiety, take one.。
- So I never went a day of my life。
where I didn't know who Jesus was,。
but huge difference between knowing who he is。
and living out a life with him.。
Growing up in a Christian home。
marked me with a lot of perfectionism.。
I thought I had to be a certain way。
in order to be loved and accepted.。
And that laced my life with a lot of anxiety。
and a lot of fear of not being enough。
and looking for the approval of man.。
Played competitive volleyball for 10 years。
and that just marked my life.。
I was constantly looking for approval from other people。
until I decided to hang up my competitive athletic gear。
and go to college and have a typical college experience。
and quickly lost my identity。
and so spiraled into an eating disorder。
and it really just riddled me with a lot more。
just like fear of not being enough.。
I had a friend who lived on the same floor as me。
who just loved the Lord.。
Her life marked something different。
that I was like, I want that.。
It was a sense of hope, it was a sense of peace。
that I had been searching for。
and so she invited me to a Bible study。
and I heard the gospel in a new way that night.。
Went home and just my life was just radically transformed.。
I just felt God just captivate my heart and say,。
"Hey Tess, I have more for you in your life。
"than how you're currently living."。
And it just provided me with that hope and that peace。
that there's just something more to my identity。
than what this world has to offer.。
And so my life, since giving my life to the Lord。
has just looked like there's a sense of peace。
and hope and assurity。
and something so much greater and so much more.。
And it's just so sweet to live on mission every single day。
saying, "God I know that you are using me。
"to bring glory to your name。
"and that I get to show more people。
"where true hope, true life,。
"and true just love and peace and security is found."。
And so every day we get to live more knowing。
that I am fully known and fully loved。
by the one who matters most.。
(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
(music fades)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
