(upbeat music)。
- What's up Dallas, how's it going?。
Hey, my name is Garrett.。
It's really nice to see you guys this evening.。
I'm normally hanging out at the Fort Worth campus。
on Tuesday nights.。
It's great to be your guest tonight.。
I wanna welcome everyone who's tuning in,。
not only in Fort Worth, but in Houston, El Paso,。
around the country, and even around the world.。
It's great to have you guys with us tonight.。
We're finishing up our series called The Remnant tonight.。
It's been a great ride,。
and we're gonna finish it tonight.。
I'm gonna start with a little story here.。
When I was in college, I worked at the rec center.。
Why?。
Because I could get a job there.。
That's why I worked at the rec center.。
It was pretty straightforward.。
I basically stood around in the weight room.。
That's what I did.。
That was my job.。
Got paid 8.50 an hour, it was fabulous.。
So I was standing around the weight room,。
and I started to notice this guy starts coming around.。
We were all college students.。
The staff was college students.。
The people coming, clients were college students,。
all that good stuff.。
So this guy is coming around,。
and he's noticeable because he's way too buff.。
He's one of these guys that got the one back here。
that normal people don't have.。
He's got muscles everywhere.。
It's kind of crazy.。
And it was kind of a boring job,。
so the rumor mill was the most exciting thing about the job.。
And so I heard that one of the girls on staff liked this dude.。
And so I went up, and I was like,。
"Hey, I heard somebody's got a little crush,"。
'cause I was mature like that.。
And she said, "Well, I did like him, but then he talked."。
(audience laughing)。
No offense against some of you buff dudes.。
I'm sure you're great conversationalists。
and very sophisticated,。
but this one of your brothers was not.。
She said, "Yeah, I did kind of like him,。
"but then he talked."。
I was like, "What do you mean?。
"I mean, it couldn't have been that bad."。
She was like, "Yeah, he was kind of obsessed with himself,。
"and he kind of talked about himself a lot,。
"and just kind of boring overall, honestly."。
So the relationship was kind of over before it started.。
She liked what she saw from afar,。
but she didn't like what he had to say.。
I know some of you had that experience.。
Like you saw somebody either across the room。
or maybe online, and you were like, "Yes."。
And then you talk to them, and you're like, "No, I'm out."。
(audience laughing)。
And I'm starting right there because as it relates to God,。
some people I think hear about God,。
and they think, "Oh, that's a great idea.。
"I could be in with God.。
"That would be amazing."。
And then they hear what he has to say,。
and they're like, "Oh, I don't know about that part.。
"I'm not sure."。
He says, "What about sex?"。
He said, "What about marriage?"。
He said, "What about purity?"。
He says, "What about alcohol?"。
He says, "What about modesty again?。
"Can you speak into my good ear?"。
No, I'm out completely.。
For lots of people, God sounds like a really good option,。
like a good idea.。
Maybe you guys could get along or hit it off,。
but then when you hear the reality。
of some of what he has to say, it's over.。
And you know, for a lot of us,。
I know that we have a conflicted relationship with the Bible.。
Maybe you've seen people actually use the Bible。
to control people.。
Maybe you've seen the Bible used for harm and not for good.。
Maybe you've seen it misused, abused, misquoted,。
taken out of context, used to subjugate a people group,。
maybe subjugate a gender,。
maybe especially ostracize a certain group of people。
who are attracted to the wrong gender.。
You might've seen the Bible misused。
in all kinds of crazy ways.。
And for you, for that reason,。
or maybe for some other reason。
that I'm not creative enough to come up with on my own。
ahead of time, for whatever reason, for you,。
maybe you heard that God talked about himself too much.。
But for whatever reason, for you,。
the relationship was over before it even started.。
Not because God didn't seem like a good idea,。
but because he didn't like what he had to say.。
Or maybe just because other people。
didn't rightly represent what he really had to say.。
And tonight, what I wanna tell you。
is that the remnant always takes God at his word.。
They don't misinterpret and target others with his word.。
What they do is they always take God at his word,。
and they hid the true meaning of a loving God's words.。
Tonight, I'm gonna talk to you about the Bible.。
Why the remnant, the people of God who remain on earth,。
that's what the remnant means,。
the people of God who remain on earth。
are always devoted to the Bible.。
Everywhere these people go,。
the Bible seems to follow along with them.。
The people of God have always been devoted。
to the words of God.。
There's no such thing for the people of God to say,。
"Oh, I'll take God, but I'll just not take the content。
"of what he has to say."。
That wouldn't work in a relationship with you,。
and it won't work in a relationship with God.。
So tonight, as we finish this series, The Remnant,。
I wanna give you an experience-tested warning。
that if you fail to take God at his word,。
you're gonna end up trying to come to God on your own terms,。
you're gonna end up critiquing God with your own agenda,。
and you might even dismantle or leave behind。
or tear apart your own faith.。
Now, I'm saying that as an experience-tested warning。
because for the first 20 years of my life,。
I didn't really try to apply the Bible.。
The first two decades of my life, basically,。
I didn't really want anything to do。
with actually volunteering to try to follow Jesus.。
I wasn't really into that.。
That wasn't me, and I know if it's your first time。
and you walk in here and you look around。
and everything is church and everything is Jesus,。
and it just seems like we're not missing a beat up here,。
and then the guy walks up with the Bible,。
and we don't know each other,。
and maybe you would just assume。
that I always tried to walk with God.。
I'm pointing to my Bible.。
If you can't see on the camera, I'm pointing to my Bible.。
You may not have guessed。
that I didn't walk with God for a long, long time.。
I wasn't off to a head start。
when I wanted to walk with Jesus for the first time.。
I was buried in sexual immorality and self-obsession.。
I was narcissistic.。
It was all about me all the time.。
I was addicted to pornography,。
and I was available for sexual misconduct,。
kind of however the party would make it available to me.。
That's where I was at.。
That's where I was living, and the Bible,。
I wanna tell you this.。
I'm giving you my bias up front.。
I'm a Bible person now because the Bible changed me。
from what I just described to something different.。
Not a perfect person, but a person who's on the right track.。
I'm telling you, I am a changed person。
because of the Bible.。
That happened in my life.。
What happened was I was at the start of college。
in the situation that I just described,。
and what happened, I picked a couple verses.。
I said, "Well, I got two problems here, it seems to me.。
"I wanna follow Jesus for the first time in my life,。
"but I'm buried in sexual sin, and I'm completely prideful,。
"and I think about myself more than I would ever wanna admit。
"or want anybody to know,"。
even though they probably already did.。
And I picked two verses to memorize。
and try to help my way through.。
I couldn't memorize the Bible.。
I couldn't memorize a chapter.。
Couldn't memorize a book.。
I could memorize two verses, so I went.。
I found 1 Corinthians 6, 18.。
It says, "Flee from sexual immorality.。
"All other sin a man commits are outside his body,。
"but whoever sins sexually sins against his own body."。
And I started to recall that to mind。
whenever I was tempted,。
which was often daily in the early days.。
And I would recall it to mind,。
and I committed that I was gonna recall it to mind。
every time I was tempted.。
Why?。
Because at the end of the day,。
I would only have two options.。
I could either conform my behavior to that verse,。
or I could quit repeating the verse.。
But as long as I held onto God's word,。
my life would eventually have no choice but to change.。
And God led me out step by step.。
My life changed because of that single verse,。
those two or three sentences.。
I went and found another verse on pride, Proverbs 16, 18.。
You might've heard it quoted before.。
It says, "Pride goes before destruction,。
"a haughty spirit before a fall."。
And it changed me.。
And when I was tempted to bring myself。
into the conversation。
and slightly give myself a little self-compliment。
or just think about myself too much,。
all of a sudden that verse allowed me to press that down。
and think about others.。
And I experienced some freedom and some joy.。
And for me, whenever I turned my life over the Bible,。
this sounds crazy to me.。
It's wild that I'm up here telling you this,。
but my testimony is that when I gave myself to the Bible,。
and when I stopped just going through the Bible。
and I let the Bible go through me,。
my life changed and I was more fulfilled, not less,。
which shocked me.。
The Bible says, "I will run in the way of your commandments。
"when you enlarge my heart."。
Not when you shrink my desire or make me boring.。
It says, "I will run in the way of your commandment。
"when you enlarge my heart."。
That happened to me.。
So I just wanna give you my bias up front.。
I'm not gonna try to sneak around。
and without you knowing it,。
get you to wanna read the Bible.。
I'm telling you up front, I want you to read the Bible.。
I believe it will change you the way that it has changed me.。
And I want you to see tonight a group of guys。
who go up to Jesus and they missed it.。
They just missed it.。
I don't want you to miss it.。
What they chose to do was they tried to come to God。
on their own terms.。
They got really choosy with the Bible。
and they critiqued God from their own agenda.。
And then eventually they dismantled。
or walked away from their own faith.。
Here we go.。
It's in Matthew chapter 22.。
Matthew is a biography of Jesus.。
It's written by an eyewitness of Jesus himself.。
His name was Matthew.。
He was a follower of Jesus.。
Jesus walked up to Matthew one day and said, "Follow me."。
That's earlier in this book.。
Jesus followed, or rather,。
Matthew followed Jesus for three years,。
before writing down the eyewitness account。
that we're about to see tonight.。
And this little exchange that's about to take place,。
you will see why the scripture is so important。
to the people of God in every age, always, always, always.。
So here comes Matthew chapter 22.。
That same day, here's a group of people。
you might not have met before.。
They're crucial to the story.。
That same day, the Sadducees,。
who say there is no resurrection,。
came to him with a question.。
Now, you need to know a little bit about the Sadducees.。
They are a group of the people of God.。
They're part of the remnant.。
The Sadducees are a part of the nation of Israel.。
So before God ever sent Jesus。
to bless the world and represent God,。
he sent a nation to represent God and bless the world,。
Israel.。
That was the history and the way God wanted this to unfold.。
And so at this point, the Sadducees are a legitimate part。
of the people of God, except only one problem.。
They don't believe what the people of God。
have always believed in.。
And this resurrection is not the resurrection of Jesus.。
That wouldn't happen until a few weeks later.。
This resurrection is the resurrection we call heaven.。
'Cause we're all agreed, no matter what your worldview is,。
we all have an earthly death.。
But the people of God believe that the people of faith。
will be raised again to eternal life, never to die again.。
And these people don't believe in heaven.。
So this is a contradiction.。
Here's what Matthew just said.。
He basically just said something like this.。
Then the Navy Seals, who don't believe in swimming,。
came to Jesus with a question.。
It doesn't work that way.。
So these guys are a walking contradiction.。
They got choosy with what they wanted to believe.。
I don't know why they didn't wanna believe。
in a literal heaven.。
I have no idea.。
To me, it would seem convenient to wanna believe。
in a literal heaven anyway,。
not to mention that it's reality.。
The Bible doesn't tell us why they didn't believe.。
Maybe it was considered unsophisticated.。
Maybe they would have been looked down on.。
They were a very academic crew.。
So maybe they would have been laughed at.。
Maybe it would have been considered unscientific.。
I have no idea.。
The Bible doesn't specify, but for whatever reason,。
these people got choosy with what they wanted to believe,。
and that's where it starts for them.。
You ever tried to get choosy with the Bible?。
What you wanted to believe, what you didn't wanna believe?。
You ever treat the Bible like a Chipotle line?。
(congregation laughing)。
Walking through, a little bit of that,。
none of that, ooh, that, yes, that.。
You ever done that?。
Sounds a little bit like this.。
God works all things together for the good.。
Yes, put that in my bowl.。
In this world, you will have trouble.。
Not my bowl, that's for the next guy.。
Don't need that.。
Eat, drink, and be merry.。
Yes, two times, one, two.。
Do not get drunk with wine.。
Pass, hard pass.。
Getting choosy with the Bible.。
These are Bible verses, I'm quoting them to you.。
They were naked and unashamed.。
(congregation laughing)。
Flee from sexual immorality.。
You don't want that one.。
God will give you the desires of your heart.。
Oh, that's me.。
Go to all nations.。
Ooh, that's somebody else.。
Maybe on vacation, I'll go to all nations.。
You know what I mean?。
(congregation laughing)。
And before you know it,。
we're just getting choosy with the Bible.。
We're going through like we get to pick what reality is.。
And it doesn't work that way.。
And when you do that,。
you're trying to come to God on your own terms.。
And you end up inconsistent anyway.。
Some of you this week, because you think this way,。
you looked at your calendar,。
you had this conversation in your head.。
What am I gonna do Tuesday?。
Porch.。
What am I gonna do Wednesday?。
Fourth of July.。
Maybe I'll be in a boat with some adult beverages, plural.。
All right, and some of you are literally intending。
to get hammered tomorrow within 24 hours.。
Like you plan to come in this room。
and then you plan to go to some party。
and act like everybody else who doesn't know God.。
You're getting choosy with your faith.。
You'll always end up inconsistent。
when you get choosy with the Bible.。
This happened to me one time, I'm pretty ashamed.。
In those early days of me walking with Christ。
or not doing it very well.。
I was at a party, I was 21.。
I'd been a believer for a little while。
and wasn't doing that good of a job of acting like one.。
So I was at a party.。
I was pretty much at that point uncomfortable in church。
because I would hear things like this.。
And then I was also uncomfortable in the party。
because I knew I didn't really belong there either.。
I was just half in, half out.。
I was kind of miserable.。
And so I was at the party doing my best to ignore God。
and act like I wasn't a believer and just get hammered.。
And one of the girls came up to me that was at the party.。
We went to college together.。
She came up to me and she said,。
"Hey, I thought you were one of the God guys."。
And she was for real.。
She wasn't making fun of me.。
She wasn't trying to jab at me.。
She was sincerely confused.。
She just came up.。
I think she actually said,。
"Boy, hey, I thought you were one of the God boys."。
Man, I don't even know where she is,。
but I hope that she is not still confused。
because of my behavior back then。
because I was acting like the Bible was a Chipotle line.。
And it never works out well for you,。
for your conscience, for your future,。
and certainly not for the reputation of God.。
What you do tomorrow night matters.。
What you do tonight matters.。
Can't get choosy with the Bible.。
Now watch what they do in this conversation.。
The conversation hasn't even started yet.。
Watch what they're about to do.。
They are about to do something completely off subject,。
random, it is gonna feel out of nowhere because it is.。
All right, listen to where they go next.。
Teacher, they said, "Moses told us,"。
Moses was 1,500 years before this conversation.。
Moses was an Old Testament author.。
"Moses told us that if a man dies without having kids,。
his brother must marry the widow。
and raise up offspring for him."。
What does that have to do with anything?。
"Now there were seven brothers among us."。
We make up a little fictional story here to come to Jesus.。
"There were seven brothers among us.。
The first one married and died.。
And since he had no children,。
he left his wife to his brother."。
This was Old Testament practice.。
"The same thing happened to the second and third brother,。
right on down to the seventh."。
So she keeps marrying all the brothers。
and they just keep dying.。
"Finally, the woman died, much to the family's delight."。
She's wiping out the whole clan.。
"Finally, the woman died.。
Now then, at the resurrection,"。
now then, at the resurrection, watch this, boys,。
"in the heaven we don't believe in,。
whose wife will she be?。
Since all of them were married to her."。
And you go, oh, I get it.。
I see what's going on here.。
You guys are trying to make Jesus look stupid.。
What they just came and said was,。
hey, you know, Jesus in the Bible,。
we don't really fully believe.。
Moses taught us that if your brother gets married。
and doesn't get around to having kids and he dies,。
then you should marry her.。
But the problem is you can't have multiple wives in heaven,。
wrong religion.。
So therefore, you're dumb.。
That's what they just set Jesus up for。
right there in public.。
They don't take God at his word.。
And now they take it a step further from getting choosy.。
Now they're gonna critique God with their own agenda.。
Now they're gonna ask questions that don't even matter.。
They're gonna waste their time asking questions。
that aren't even sincere.。
They don't want an answer.。
You see that?。
They don't really care.。
You ever met someone who did that?。
You ever been someone who did that?。
I see this happen all the time.。
And I promise you,。
the issue when someone is asking an insincere question,。
that's really a critique.。
It's not that they want the answer.。
They just don't wanna bow down to Jesus.。
This conversation happens all the time.。
Hey man, what about evolution?。
What about you bowing down to Jesus?。
What about tectonic plates?。
What about you bowing down to Jesus?。
What about Noah's Ark, man?。
How'd they get all those animals on there?。
What about you bowing down to Jesus today?。
Hey man, what about gay people?。
What about you, you bowing down to Jesus today?。
Are you asking sincerely?。
Hey man, what about science?。
What about dinosaurs?。
What about you bowing down to Jesus today?。
I don't want you to misunderstand.。
I'm not saying you shouldn't ask sincere questions。
and find great answers in the Bible.。
You should.。
There are answers to those questions in the Bible.。
You should find them.。
But you shouldn't ask those questions。
when you don't really wanna know,。
you're just throwing out smoke screens。
so you don't have to fall on your face。
and stop getting hammered.。
Fall down, bow down,。
and then ask your sincere questions from Jesus.。
And he will answer them for you.。
There are good questions to ask,。
there are good answers to find.。
But do it from a place of sincerity.。
'Cause if you're just throwing smoke screens at God,。
he's gonna make you look dumb at some point, I promise.。
Watch what happens next.。
Before I go there, let me share one story with you.。
Missing the point is a bit of a tragedy.。
My wife and I like to travel,。
and we've been married a couple years now,。
and everywhere we go,。
I've noticed as soon as we get into the hotel room,。
my wife likes to go to the window and look at the view.。
So that's like the first thing she likes to do.。
She likes to go over the window, taking the view.。
Sometimes it's great, sometimes it's not great,。
you know, budget.。
But sometimes, every time, she walks over to the window,。
and I've noticed that she does this.。
So it's our little informal tradition.。
She'll walk to the window,。
and I'll just stand back and take a picture.。
And so I've got pictures of her。
looking out all kinds of hotel room windows.。
So here's one, so this is, you might recognize that.。
So there's one in Dallas, here's one in Fort Worth.。
It's just spread out little weekends away。
or whatever we're doing throughout our marriages.。
Of course, anybody recognize that?。
San Antonio in the house, anybody?。
Here's Cincinnati, beautiful, wow, look at that.。
Minneapolis, no offense, Cincinnati, just kidding.。
There's Seattle.。
Now look, I want you to imagine something.。
She's clearly there, not because of the glass,。
but because of what's on the other side of the glass.。
Now I want you to understand,。
how big of a mistake would I be making。
if I walked up to her and I was like,。
what is it with you and glass?。
(congregation laughing)。
What's your deal?。
I don't even like this glass.。
I like the glass in this other hotel better.。
This glass is a little thicker,。
that glass is a little thinner,。
some's a little more opaque,。
some's a little more transparent,。
some has scratches, some doesn't have scratches,。
some's dirty, some just got cleaned.。
Who cares about the glass?。
She would say, the glass is not here。
so you can look at it,。
it is here so you can look through it.。
Christians read the Bible,。
not just because of what we see on the page,。
but because we see the God who put the words there for you.。
The Bible is there so that you can see,。
not just what is there,。
but the one who put it there for you to find。
so that you could not just find words,。
but you could find him.。
The Bible is God making himself visible to you.。
And if you get caught up in these surface level details,。
I'm not saying you shouldn't ask your questions,。
I'm saying if that's all you ever get to,。
you are going to miss the beautiful, glorious, perfect God。
who is staring you in the face。
while you look only at the glass.。
Don't miss the point, those guys missed it,。
I don't want you to miss it.。
Now listen to Jesus deal with this,。
this just makes me happy, this is just fun.。
Maybe you're not a Jesus follower,。
maybe you don't read the Bible a lot, this is just fun.。
Verse 29, Jesus replied, "You are in error."。
(congregation laughing)。
Because you do not know the Bible.。
Oh, here's the dirty little secret about these,。
here's the dirty little secret about these religious experts,。
they didn't know the Bible after all.。
And they also don't know the power of God.。
How many know that if you don't know God's word,。
you can't experience God's power?。
Will not happen, it's a channel for God's power,。
they're always connected.。
Verse 30, at the resurrection,。
he goes ahead and gives them an answer。
to their little insincere question.。
"In heaven, just so you know, people aren't married."。
Shocker, spoiler alert,。
"In heaven, people are not married," he says.。
Marriage was for people to have a metaphor。
for how God loves humanity.。
Marriage is a parable for earth, that's what he says.。
But about the resurrection anyway,。
have you not read what God said?。
You hear him talking about the Bible again,。
you hear him elevating scripture again。
when they're trying to press scripture down,。
haven't you read what God said?。
"I am the God," and then he quotes the Old Testament,。
"I am the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.。
"He's not the God of the dead, but of the living."。
Okay, what does he mean?。
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob。
lived 2,000 years before this conversation.。
And Jesus is saying, God says, "I am," not, "I was,"。
"I am the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob."。
So he tells the Sadducees,。
"You should have been reading so closely in your Bible。
"that you picked up the verb tense。
"so that you would know that Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob。
"are alive and with God today.。
"Dead believers are not dead, they are with God alive."。
And that's what Jesus explains to these guys.。
And when the crowds heard this, they were astonished.。
In fact, I love the last line of the chapter,。
it just says, "And no one was able to answer him a word,。
"nor from that day did anyone dare ask him。
"any more questions."。
(congregation laughing)。
And here's the last punchline about the Sadducees.。
They didn't just try to come to God on their own terms,。
and they didn't just stop at critiquing God。
with their own agenda.。
They disappeared because their faith was no longer distinct.。
Did you know that there is no First Sadducee Church today?。
There is no Sadducee denomination.。
There are no future Sadducees of America.。
You cannot Google a Sadducee meeting and show up.。
They don't exist, it's over.。
In fact, they didn't even make it another 100 years.。
Why?。
Because if you get away from the Bible,。
you're gonna get away from your biblical beliefs.。
And if you get away from your biblical beliefs,。
you're gonna get away from the power of God,。
like Jesus just said.。
And what do you call a person who isn't close to the Bible,。
to biblical belief, or to the power of God?。
A non-believer.。
Someone who is not connected to God in any way,。
someone who's not part of the remnant.。
Do you see that?。
Why does the remnant stay close to the Bible?。
Because without it, the remnant won't remain.。
It's over, this is how a church dies.。
This is how a denomination dies.。
This is how a faith group dies.。
What they do is they get away from the Bible first,。
they just put it on the shelf,。
maybe they don't even mean to,。
but they put it on the shelf, it gets dusty,。
and then all of a sudden they start getting creative。
and choosy with their beliefs,。
and they take a couple key parts out,。
you know, who really needs a virgin birth,。
you know, and maybe the sexual ethic of the Bible。
is a little too strict,。
and so we'll put that one on the shelf too.。
And then the miracles thing, ah, that's a little much.。
Maybe the resurrection wasn't totally literal,。
and then before you know it, you've got something。
that doesn't even resemble Christianity.。
And then that group disappears.。
That's why we stay close to the Bible.。
Without the Bible, the remnant's no longer the remnant.。
It's over over time.。
The Sadducees got away from their Bibles,。
their beliefs, the power of God,。
and eventually they were just absorbed into culture。
because they became everybody else.。
You've gotta stay close to the Bible。
if you wanna remain part of the remnant.。
I'm gonna give you a really brief how.。
I know some of you guys are super practical。
about reading the Bible.。
I got one agenda tonight.。
I want you to see God in the Scripture,。
and I want you to enjoy Him there.。
I want you to meet Him there.。
I want you to see Him there.。
And so I'll just tell you really briefly what I do.。
This is not the way.。
This is not the only way.。
This is not what you should do.。
This is not what to do.。
This is just what I do,。
and I'm just gonna share with you what I do.。
This is exactly what I do every day。
to try to meet God in the Bible.。
Sometimes it goes great.。
Sometimes it's a grind.。
I'll just be honest with you.。
But this is what I do every day to meet God in the Bible.。
I open it.。
(congregation laughing)。
And I'll have a book that I'm going through,。
usually one chapter at a time.。
Sometimes I'll do more.。
Sometimes I'll read a chapter or two at a time。
if I wanna go a little faster,。
if I feel like I'm skipping past stuff,。
and sometimes I'll slow down and I'll read a paragraph,。
and that's all I'll read that entire day.。
And I'll read it, and I won't stop。
until I've answered one of these questions.。
Here they are.。
What do I need to do more or less of。
in light of what I just read?。
Or what do I need to feel more or less of。
in light of what I just read?。
Or what do I need to think more or less of。
in light of what I just read?。
That's it.。
I read until I've got an answer to one of those questions.。
Sometimes I don't even have to ask those questions anymore.。
I can see it visibly when I just start to read.。
What do I need to do more or less of,。
think more or less of, or feel more or less of?。
If you will, I'm gonna make you a promise。
that I feel is based in the Scripture where God says,。
if you base yourself in the Scripture,。
you'll be better than the rest of the people.。
If you base yourself in the Scripture,。
you'll be blessed and you will blossom。
like a tree planted by streams of water。
that yields its fruit in its season, Psalm 1.。
So if you will do that, if you will just do that,。
and every day not close the Bible。
until you have an answer to one of those questions,。
what should I do, think, or feel more or less of,。
you will not recognize yourself in one year.。
It will be different.。
That's what I do in God's Word.。
That's it.。
And then I got this other little book.。
This is my journal.。
You have to do this.。
No, remember, this is just what I do.。
You don't have to do this at all.。
So in my journal, I just pray.。
Sometimes I just give thoughts.。
This is where I live my emotional life in front of God.。
I just write stuff down.。
It's stream of consciousness.。
It's not a sermon.。
It's not pretty.。
It's not good.。
And all my frustrations and desires and insecurities。
and fears are right here all poured out before God.。
So I hope the camera guy's not zooming in too close.。
(congregation laughing)。
This is what I do.。
After I read, I just go right here。
and I just start to write every day.。
And yes, I do black on the left, blue on the right。
'cause I've got a little OCD and it calms me down.。
So I do blue on the right, black on the left.。
That's what I enjoy.。
(congregation laughing)。
And I just live my emotional life honestly in front of God.。
That's what I do every day.。
Sometimes it takes 15 minutes.。
Sometimes it takes an hour.。
Sometimes I don't have an hour。
and it happens in 15 minutes anyway。
'cause that's what I got.。
I'm a human being trying to engage with God。
in the midst of a 21st century world just like you.。
That's how I do it.。
As you can tell, it doesn't have to be perfect.。
What you don't need is a technique.。
What you need is to see God past the glass.。
That will keep you in the Bible.。
What version should you read?。
The version you will read.。
That's the one you should go get.。
I'll finish here tonight.。
A couple of weeks ago,。
I guess it was a couple months ago now, sorry.。
I walked up to a guy that I'd never met before。
at the porch in Fort Worth.。
And I'll never forget our first interaction。
because it was a good one and he had an unusual name.。
His name is Misael.。
He's a friend of mine at this point.。
I'd never met him before.。
And I asked him if he had a faith and he said, yeah,。
I'm a Christian, I've been around the church.。
And we kind of parted ways and didn't interact much,。
just welcomed him to the porch。
and told him I was glad he was here.。
And he said he was having fun and I was glad for it.。
Well, a couple of months later, we ran back into each other.。
And he communicated that he wanted to start。
taking his next steps with God.。
And I said, okay, let's do that, man.。
Let's start to get together.。
And so what happened was we started to meet regularly,。
twice a month.。
And our first meeting, we walked through the gospel。
that God sent his son, Jesus Christ, to die on a cross。
so that you, by grace through faith,。
can receive the free gift of relationship with God.。
I said, do you believe all of that?。
He said, yes, I believe all that.。
And I said, okay, man, that's great.。
He got baptized.。
Then at our next meeting, he comes in and he was like,。
man, I'm discouraged already.。
I said, what happened, man?。
You just got baptized, man?。
You're on a high, everything's going great?。
He's like, man, not really.。
I'm just, I'm feeling kind of discouraged.。
I said, well, let me ask you this.。
Do you have a, do you read the Bible?。
Do you have like an ongoing relationship。
with God through the Bible?。
Is that peace in place for you at this point?。
And he said, no, man, I don't read that myself.。
You know, I listen to others preach it,。
but this, it's just not something I do.。
And I said, okay, well, I'll tell you what.。
Let's have you and I read it together every day.。
We'll read one chapter of the book of John per day,。
21 chapters.。
It's a biography of Jesus.。
It's a three-week challenge.。
You and I will read it every day,。
and we will text each other one takeaway,。
similar to what I said before.。
I said, would you be up for that?。
He said, yes, absolutely.。
Day 12, he texted me this.。
I'm gonna read it to you with permission.。
This was just between he and us.。
This wasn't for a sermon illustration.。
You got to understand, this is reality, all right?。
This is just a conversation between a friend and I.。
Two weeks in, he says, you have no clue。
what the book of John has done to me,。
three exclamation points, smiley face.。
It has opened up building blocks of stories。
for me to share with my daughter, exclamation mark.。
My family, exclamation mark.。
My friends, exclamation mark.。
To build my faith and believe,。
and this is just the beginning, five exclamation marks.。
This is a dude, people, all right?。
He is fired up, all right?。
I'm telling you.。
John chapter 20, three days ago, not for a sermon,。
just because he and I are reading together,。
and it's encouraging both of us.。
Three days ago, he texts me.。
It's my first time reading about Jesus's death.。
All my years in the church,。
never read it for myself until today.。
I've always heard the sermons,。
but reading it does more healing of the heart and spirit。
than hearing it from someone else.。
If you just read it for yourself, his words.。
I called him a couple hours ago,。
just asked him if I could share that.。
I didn't know I was gonna cry,。
so he's probably embarrassed in Fort Worth right now.。
(congregation laughing)。
I said, "Hey, man, can I share that?"。
And he said, "Yes."。
And I said, "Man, is there anything else you want me to say?"。
He said, "Yeah, just tell him don't do it alone.。
"Tell him to find somebody and help.。
"Tell him, find somebody and do what we're doing."。
I said, "All right, I'll tell him."。
When you open the Bible,。
you will find a new world that you didn't know existed.。
You will find yourself in the Bible。
worse than you thought you were.。
You'll find God in the Bible better than you thought he was.。
And it doesn't take you very long to read the Bible。
and realize the people there have problems.。
There are people in the Bible with addictions.。
The people in the Bible have regrets.。
The people in the Bible have trouble.。
The people in the Bible are like us.。
And the people who read it are like you,。
more than you thought.。
There's a God who's waiting to meet you.。
He's on the other side of the glass if you'll look for him.。
He wrote, "Reaching Out to You."。
It's why the Bible exists, so that he can relate to you,。
not just so that you can study geography。
and history and poetry, although if that's your thing,。
it'll be joyful to you in the Bible.。
But he didn't write it just so you could。
study it in that way.。
He wrote it so you could know him, connect with him,。
receive forgiveness, receive confidence。
that you always wanted, get rid of the insecurities。
that you never wanted.。
That's possible in the Bible.。
It's why it exists, it's for you.。
Let's pray together.。
(congregation murmuring)。
God, we believe you because we see you.。
God, thank you that you saw fit to write a perfect book。
through imperfect people, even.。
You gave us a text we can trust that tells us。
that you have a love that we can trust。
and a care that we can trust and a commitment to us。
that we can trust.。
God, I pray for my friends that are listening tonight。
that they would just connect with you in the Bible,。
not just learn more facts and be a smarter sinner,。
but they would actually connect with you。
and get a glimpse of you.。
And God, I pray that you'd remind them。
that Christians are not people who just commit。
to the Bible despite all criticism and doubt.。
Christians are people who happily hold the Bible。
because the view holds them happily.。
Because they can see you.。
We're held content in our commitment to the Bible。
because we can see your glory through it.。
Thank you that on the page of these scriptures,。
we see who we really are and who you really are.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
