(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
- How we doing?。
If you could go anywhere or do anything,。
where would you go and what would you do?。
I just want you to think on that for a second.。
If you could go anywhere in the world,。
anywhere on the planet,。
some of you super righteous people are like,。
heaven, no, not, anywhere on the planet,。
and you could do anything, what would you do?。
This is the question I ask guys。
when I begin to meet with them.。
So like discipleship on day one, I kind of go,。
as I've done this, I kind of do the same thing.。
And so day one, I always ask them,。
hey, if you could go anywhere and you could do anything,。
what would you do?。
And then the second question I ask them。
is the same question I'm about to ask you.。
If you've thought about that, if you have an answer,。
what is preventing you from doing that now?。
Why haven't you done that?。
Right, you got your life in front of you.。
Most of you are single.。
Why haven't you gone?。
And the reason I ask that question。
is because in two questions, as I get to know guys,。
it shows me their desires and it shows me their fears.。
Some of them, not exhaustively, but some of their desires,。
I get to know them a little bit,。
and it shows me some of their fears,。
the things that would hold them back.。
And as we were talking about this in sermon prep recently,。
my friend Garrett, who leads us out in Fort Worth,。
he said, you know, I just did it, I just went on that trip.。
And I was like, you did?。
I was like, well, tell me about it.。
And he goes, well, you know, I got a GoPro。
right before we went and I got some footage.。
Do you wanna see it?。
And I said, sure, yeah, yeah, sure.。
I'll watch your little amateur GoPro video, that's fine.。
And as I watched it, I was like, oh, man.。
Where was my invite, dog?。
Like, you don't wanna call a brother?。
And so anyway, I'll just show you what he showed me.。
Just watch this few minutes of his trip.。
This is where he did, this is where he went.。
I was like, man, are you serious?。
I mean, you didn't go to Sao Padre.。
I mean, you went on a trip, right?。
So 11 days, seven flights, five countries, right?。
Bali, Indonesia, Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong.。
And I'm like, bro, where was my invitation?。
I feel like I missed out on the adventure.。
And tonight we're talking about missing out。
on the adventure.。
Some of you think, man, if I become a Christian,。
I gotta forfeit my fun.。
I'm not gonna have fun anymore.。
I mean, I used to think that.。
I used to look at those really serious Christians.。
They didn't make, honestly, a lot of Christians,。
didn't make Christianity look all that much fun.。
I was like, I don't wanna do that.。
And some of you, you got one foot in the world,。
one foot in the church, and you're missing out on both.。
You haven't fully embraced both.。
You got these sins that you're carrying with you,。
and I don't mean like we're all sinners.。
I mean like things that are coming。
between you and Christ, real idols.。
Others of you are like, man, I've been in a church,。
my entire life, and I know what religion is.。
It's a bunch of rules, and I follow them,。
and I'm really good at keeping them.。
And you don't know Jesus.。
And you're missing out on the adventure。
that I see in this book that Christ calls us to.。
And I don't want you to.。
In fact, I'm real passionate about you jumping。
on the adventure with us.。
I'm telling you, Jesus has invited us on an adventure.。
So as we move through this series, missing out,。
we've talked about this idea of FOMO, right?。
This thing that our generation has created,。
the fear of missing out.。
Tonight we're talking about missing out on the adventure.。
And I've been very, very vocal.。
If you've hung out with us for a while,。
that sin robs you of creativity.。
As I look back on my life, I realize。
that I was doing the same things,。
taking the same shots of Patron,。
going to the same bars, the same clubs,。
sleeping with the same girl, doing the same drugs,。
and thinking that was life.。
What a joke.。
What, like a dog to his vomit.。
What a joke, I was deceived.。
And you know what, I thought Christians were deceived.。
And I was deceived.。
And I don't want you to be deceived.。
And so what does it look like if we went all in with Jesus?。
'Cause I'm telling you, man, if you're stuck。
in that routine of doing the same things,。
expecting different results, you're missing out。
on the adventure Christ is calling you to.。
In fact, idols in our lives cause us。
to miss out on real worship.。
And lukewarm, Americanized Christianity。
causes us to miss out on the adventure。
that Jesus has called us to.。
And I don't want that either.。
So let me ask you a question.。
Before we go any further in the message,。
I just want you to reflect on something.。
What if you believed God was real?。
There's a God, a creator God, the heavens and the earth,。
he controls everything, he loves you.。
What if you just, at a heart level,。
what would your life look like if you completely grasped。
that what if you believed God is real, the Bible is true,。
Jesus is the way, and there's a heaven and there's a hell。
and everybody goes somewhere?。
What if you believed that with all your heart,。
like you were, you like woke up and you're like,。
I know for a fact, God is real, the Bible is true,。
Jesus is the way, and there's heaven and hell,。
and we're all gonna spend eternity somewhere.。
What would your life look like?。
If you believed that with all your heart,。
what would you do, how would you live, where would you go?。
And what's holding you back right now from going all in?。
So tonight we're gonna look at possibly。
the most relevant passage in the scripture。
to Dallas and Fort Worth.。
It's a real life account of Jesus interacting with someone.。
It's not a parable, it's not a fictional story。
told for a purpose, this is a real account of Jesus。
interacting with someone that I would say,。
arguably, we all want to be.。
And it's interesting to me that we wanna be most,。
the person from the scripture that we wanna be the most。
is the person who did not follow Christ.。
And you're like, no, JB, I don't wanna be someone。
who didn't follow Christ, I wanna be someone。
who did follow Christ, but I would say the way。
that we live our lives, most of us tonight in this room,。
the way that we live our lives says that who we wanna be。
most like is the one who is young, who is wealthy,。
and who is powerful, known in the scriptures。
as the rich young ruler.。
And so that's where we'll be in Mark 10.。
And specifically, we're gonna talk about this adventure,。
what is not needed, what is needed to go on the adventure,。
and what you gain from the adventure in Mark chapter 10.。
This story, in fact, shows up in all the synoptic gospels.。
Synoptic just means the firsthand account.。
These people, Matthew, Mark, and Luke,。
they all wrote the gospels based on what they saw.。
Then John, not part of the synoptic gospels,。
but a part of the gospels, wrote his account much later,。
or later, I'll say.。
And so Matthew, Mark, Luke, they're just writing down。
what they see, the synoptic gospels.。
And so all three of them have this story in their account.。
And so we have lots of details from this story.。
We know this guy pretty well.。
We know that he was a ruler, that he was powerful,。
we know that he was young, he was a young adult,。
he beat here at the porch.。
We know that he had lots of money.。
All of these accounts tell us,。
we gather these details from these three accounts.。
In Mark chapter 10, he says this.。
Now, I love what the ESV says.。
It says, "Jesus was on a journey."。
Jesus was on an adventure.。
He sets out on an adventure.。
Here in the NIV, it says this.。
"As Jesus started on his way,。
"a man ran up to him and fell on his knees before him,"。
and says, "Good teacher."。
In Greek, it's perfect rabbi.。
He asked, "What must I do to inherit eternal life?"。
He asked the question you wanna know the answer to.。
What do I gotta do to get into heaven?。
And he asks sincerely, he falls on,。
Christ, good rabbi,。
what must I do to inherit eternal life?。
What must I do?。
He's looking to be affirmed.。
Jesus says, "Why do you call me good?"。
Jesus answered, "No one is good except God alone."。
Some of the cults would use this passage to say,。
see there, Jesus rejected this idea that he was God,。
but he didn't.。
We can see through the bigger breadth of the scriptures.。
Jesus is challenging this man's idea.。
It is very clear in the scriptures that Jesus is God.。
He received worship.。
He says, "I and the Father are one.。
"You, whoever has seen me, has seen the Father."。
But here, he's challenging this man's idea of good。
'cause this man says that humans,。
believing Jesus is human, can be perfectly good.。
And so he says, "Hey, you're good.。
"What must I do to be good。
"and enter into the kingdom of heaven?"。
And Jesus says, "Why do you call me good?。
"No one's good except God alone.。
"You know the commandments.。
"You shall not murder.。
"You shall not commit adultery.。
"You shall not steal.。
"You shall not give false testimony.。
"You shall not defraud.。
"Honor your father and mother."。
And so Jesus gives the second table of the 10 commandments,。
which are that section of the 10 commandments。
which are most easily measured.。
You can measure your performance in these commands from God.。
And the guy cuts him off.。
Says, "Teacher, rabbi," he declared,。
"all these things I've kept since I was a boy."。
He's looking to be a father.。
"Hey, I got good news.。
"I've done those things.。
"I've done those things."。
Ladies, as a side note,。
if there's a guy here, he's got a Bible,。
and he goes to church, and he's memorized some scriptures,。
it doesn't mean he knows Jesus.。
Hey, guys, as a side note,。
there's a lady here.。
She's got a Bible.。
She goes to church, even serves there in the nursery,。
memorized some passage.。
It does not mean she knows Jesus.。
This guy, this guy was a great rule follower.。
He was killing it.。
The Pharisees would have said,。
"Man, this guy, he needs to go start a church."。
Jesus says, "He doesn't know me."。
And so my first point this evening。
is performance is not your passport.。
Your performance is not your passport to this adventure.。
This guy wants the adventure of eternal life,。
and he's hoping he's good enough for it,。
and he comes up, and he says,。
"Hey, you're good.。
"I wanna be good.。
"Who's good enough to get into heaven?"。
But the scriptures say this really key fact,。
and you've gotta hear this.。
In fact, write this part down.。
No one's good enough to get into heaven.。
No one is good enough to get into heaven.。
Now, some of you are just like,。
"What, that's harrowing.。
"What are you talking about?"。
Ephesians 2, eight, nine says。
no one gets into heaven by what they do.。
In fact, in Isaiah, God says,。
"Your good works are like filthy rags to me."。
That's Isaiah 64, six.。
No one is good enough to get into heaven.。
The scripture said there is no one good, not even one.。
And this man says, "What must I do?"。
And then he says, "I've done these things."。
He's looking to himself, and this is why this is important.。
Every single week, almost without fail,。
I come up here and I meet with many of you.。
I love my Dallas and Fort Worth young adults.。
And I ask you, how certain are you that you go to heaven?。
And you give me an answer, and then I say,。
if God says, "Why should I let you in?。
"What would you say?"。
And every single week, without fail,。
someone answers that question.。
If God says, "Why should I let you into heaven?。
"What would you say?"。
And they say, "Well, because I."。
"Well, because I try hard.。
"And because I've done good things.。
"Because I go to church.。
"Because my parents are Christians.。
"Because I, because my."。
No, no, no, no, no.。
No one gets into heaven because I, because my.。
The only people who'll get into heaven,。
because Jesus died for my sins.。
Not 90% of my sins.。
Not 99% of my sins.。
100% of my sins, past, present, and future,。
he died for, and I trusted in that.。
His death and resurrection for the forgiveness of sins.。
And so because of what God has done, I will go.。
If I point to my resume, I've missed it.。
If I point to God's resume, I've got it.。
I'm not missing out.。
And so you might be here, and you might be like,。
"Oh, that's cool.。
"This guy's clearly trying to follow the rules."。
You may be here and be like,。
"Well, I'm not trying to follow the rules.。
"In fact, I'm living an adventure, JP.。
"In fact, I got some money.。
"I got a six-figure job, right?。
"And that trip Garrett and Phil。
"and Austin and Brian went on, easy, man.。
"I'll book it next week, no big deal.。
"Get on Travelzoo, make it happen."。
You're gonna be like, "Man, I got resources.。
"You're telling me I need to go on an adventure?。
"I'll make a habit, go on an adventure.。
"What, Bali, Indonesia?。
"Where, let's go, man, Fiji, Bora Bora, let's go."。
And you're still missing out on the adventure.。
It's not that the adventure's not the trip.。
That's not the adventure.。
The adventure's not the trip itself.。
In fact, you know that Garrett and those guys,。
when they were in the airport,。
they bumped into some guys。
that were on the almost exact same trip as them.。
And so they were talking, they had a great time catching up.。
And it was clear that these guys。
didn't have the Holy Spirit.。
In fact, they were like, "Man, when we go to Bangkok,。
"with a little bit of money, you can get anything."。
And as Garrett told me that,。
I responded in the same way that they did in that airport,。
as they shared Christ with these young men.。
Grieved.。
'Cause we know, man, that's not a passport.。
That's a prison.。
That's you being slave to something.。
There's real consequences to that,。
that I don't want for you, that God doesn't want for you.。
That may be temporary enjoyment for a moment,。
followed by a lifetime of covering up that temporary,。
trying to forget that temporary enjoyment.。
Right?。
So you won't get to heaven by keeping the rules.。
And you won't experience heaven here on earth。
by breaking them.。
It's just a temporary satisfaction。
that ends in a not satisfaction at all.。
It actually leads to slavery.。
Your performance is not your passport.。
What you do is not your passport.。
We were planning a summer vacation a few years ago,。
just before Weston was born,。
and so we had Presley and Finley.。
And they had never really traveled,。
they had never been on an airplane.。
And so we were thinking about where we would go,。
and we found this deal to this all-inclusive resort。
that we had been to before on our honeymoon.。
And this was kind of a sister company,。
and it had all of these things that you can do for kids,。
and splash pads, and everything.。
And so we're really excited, it was in Mexico,。
all-inclusive resort in Mexico,。
really excited to take the girls there.。
And so about six months out, we booked a travel.。
And I'm telling Presley and Finley。
kind of every night about this trip, man.。
And you're just like,。
they don't have a category for Mexico.。
In fact, Mexico to them was like heaven.。
It's just like this place, you can't imagine,。
it's so incredible.。
I would tell them, and they're like,。
daddy, and so they would ask me,。
and they'd be like, daddy, tell us about Mexico.。
And I'm like, all right.。
Well, what do you wanna know?。
And they'd be like, daddy, is there a swimming pool there?。
And I'm like, oh, girls, come on,。
is there a swimming pool there?。
Listen, you're going to see the largest swimming pool。
in the entire world, the biggest swimming pool。
that you could possibly imagine。
is going to be there in Mexico.。
Where is it gonna be, like we drive there?。
No, it's gonna be right outside your room.。
Our room, what do you mean?。
Like, we're gonna have a balcony, oh,。
and you can sit, hang over the swimming pool,。
and there's the swimming pool.。
And you know what's just past the swimming pool?。
Is the ocean, do y'all know what the ocean is?。
And they're like, no, tell us about it.。
And I'm like, you know, they're like, daddy,。
is there fish in the ocean?。
I'm like, is there fish in the ocean?。
Girls, listen, you know what we're gonna do?。
Do you know what we're gonna do?。
I said, first of all, right in front of the ocean。
is the biggest sandbox you could ever imagine.。
And we're gonna build sandcastles.。
Sandcastles so big we could sleep in 'em.。
And then, you know what we're gonna do?。
Now, I'm blowing their mind with this.。
We're gonna swim with dolphins.。
And they're like, what do you mean?。
(audience laughing)。
And I'm like, well, there's dolphins,。
and we're gonna swim with 'em.。
And you're like, we get to touch 'em?。
No, we get to touch 'em.。
You're gonna hold on to their fin。
as they pull you through the water,。
and they're like, (imitates explosion)。
What?。
Like, we're on an elevator, right,。
and Presley's just grinning ear to ear,。
and this guy's like, oh, you,。
this strange man's like, oh, you're really happy, huh?。
She's like, I'm going to Mexico.。
(audience laughing)。
And so the day comes.。
The day comes, we wake up early that morning.。
Early that morning, we're packed.。
The four of us are packed, you know?。
And so we wake up early before the sun comes up,。
and we drive to DFW Airport,。
and we park at Remote North Parking,。
and I get all of our bags.。
You know, Monica and I are carrying their bags.。
We get all their bags, and we go and wait for the shuttle,。
and the shuttle comes, and they get on the shuttle.。
And this is all very adventurous for them.。
This is all very fun.。
We get on the shuttle.。
It takes us to the terminal.。
We get off the terminal.。
We take the long escalator up with all of our bags,。
you know, to the desk, and we're checking in,。
and Monica checks in and gets her ticket.。
Presley checks in and gets her ticket,。
and I get up there, and she goes, oh, I'm sorry, sir.。
We can't take your passport.。
I'm like, (laughing)。
let's, you know, what, yeah, no, what do you mean?。
She's like, I'm sorry, sir,。
but, you know, your passport has clearly been washed。
or something, it's wrinkled.。
I was like, we can't accept it.。
I'm like, oh, yeah, yeah, I promise you can.。
You can, look, what, do you need an ID?。
What, do you need a credit card?。
Here's $100, you can take it, you know.。
What are you talking about?。
And she's like, no, sir, they won't let you in the country.。
And so you can't go.。
Well, what are you, no, no, I need to talk to your manager.。
I mean, there's gonna be dolphins there。
and big sandbox and swimming pool.。
Like, we gotta go to Mexico.。
You don't understand, I've been, six months,。
I've been telling 'em.。
I'm like, hey, you gotta tell 'em.。
I can't tell 'em, you tell 'em.。
I can't break this news to 'em.。
What do you mean I can't go?。
She's like, sir, I'm sorry, you can't go.。
And nothing I could say would change that.。
I didn't have what I needed for the adventure.。
And that's what I don't want for you.。
That's what's gotta change.。
That's what I'm begging the Spirit of God。
to change in the next few minutes.。
So we hang out together for just a few more minutes。
but the Spirit of God will come into your heart。
and give you what you need for the adventure。
and you would realize it's not your performance.。
But what he's done, 2015 years ago,。
God becoming a man, living a perfect life。
and dying a perfect death on your behalf。
so that you could live the adventure with him starting now.。
And so this guy says, all these things I've done,。
what's Jesus gonna say?。
What's he gonna say to me?。
Oh man, look at this guy, Mr. Self-righteous,。
he's done all these things.。
Oh, you've done, oh man, you've done all these things, huh?。
Does Jesus punk him?。
He's like, oh, who do you think you,。
oh, you think you're good, huh?。
Oh, you think you're so good.。
No, listen, sometimes I hear Jesus like that.。
In fact, in the past when I've read this passage,。
in Mark's account though, verse 21 is really key.。
Jesus looked at him and judged him.。
Nope, it's not what it says.。
Jesus looked at him and loved him.。
He had compassion on this guy.。
And he says, man, I want him to get it.。
So he goes after his idols.。
He says, one thing you lack,。
go and sell everything you have and give it to the poor。
and you will have treasure in heaven, then come follow me.。
And I read that, I'm like, oh, hold on.。
It's like Jesus doesn't even know the answer.。
That's not the right answer.。
What's he doing there?。
And he's answering very strategically。
'cause he sees this guy's heart。
and he goes after his idols.。
He says, hey, not to punk him, but to show him his heart,。
to show him his idols because he loves him,。
the scripture says.。
He says, I wanna show you the idols that you have。
that prevent you from knowing me。
and having a relationship with me.。
And so let me ask you a question.。
What are your idols?。
What are the idols in your life that come before Christ?。
Is it money, is it a relationship, is it a job?。
Is it performance?。
Is it anxiety?。
Is it stuff, is it status?。
What are your idols before Jesus?。
He tells him, go sell everything you have。
and give it to the poor and you will have treasure in heaven.。
And it says, at this, the man's face fell,。
literally, he just becomes sad, like,。
he knew he couldn't do that.。
And he went away sad because it says he had great wealth.。
And so Jesus is inviting him on the adventure of a lifetime。
and all he needs to start that adventure is, ready, need.。
That's what I think this passage is about.。
All you need is need, my second point this evening.。
All you need for this adventure, for this trip, is need.。
You have to have need.。
You have to realize your need for God, that you need him.。
To have a savior, you need to know。
that you need to be saved,。
that you're in a position where, man, I can't save myself.。
There's something outside of me that has to save me.。
That thing is Jesus.。
See, Jesus comes to him, he says,。
hey, there's just one thing you lack.。
He says, there's one thing you lack.。
Go, sell, give, come, follow.。
Five verbs.。
One thing you lack, go, sell, give, come, follow.。
Well, wait a minute, Jesus, that's five things.。
What's the one thing he lacks?。
Need.。
See, the stuff that you have, your money,。
your material possessions,。
those things are preventing you。
from having the thing that you need most, which is need.。
You have surrounded your life with comfort,。
and therefore, that comfort has prevented you。
from being in a place where you need need.。
I had a conversation recently with someone,。
they were just like, I don't enjoy God.。
I was like, well, that's because。
you don't think you need him.。
If you believe that he's the solution to your need,。
if he's the only thing that's gonna meet that need,。
you'll begin to enjoy him.。
See, this man's wealth was a deterrent。
to what he needed most.。
Because while his wealth brought comfort,。
what he needed was need.。
And Jesus is testing his need and attacking his idols,。
or testing his need by attacking his idols.。
Let me explain to you what I'm saying,。
just in case I'm losing you, okay?。
In all three accounts of the Gospels,。
Matthew, Mark, and Luke, where this story falls,。
it's right after another story.。
It's right after a story where Jesus says,。
let me tell you who gets into the kingdom of heaven.。
He answers this guy's question right before the story。
in all three Gospels.。
You know who gets into the kingdom of heaven?。
He says, anyone who comes to me like a child.。
Why is that in there?。
It's like God is shouting something at us.。
Why does he want us to hear that?。
It's kind of an obscure verse, right?。
Mark 10, verse 15.。
Truly I tell you, anyone who will not receive。
the kingdom of God like a little child。
will never enter it.。
Do you guys know anything about kids?。
I've had three.。
I mean, not personally,。
but I participated in someone having three.。
And we have a little son now, he's two and a half years old.。
And he is, let me just describe him to you.。
He is need surrounded by noise.。
That's who he is.。
Like he contributes to Team Pecluta, zero.。
He's never mowed the lawn.。
He's never cleaned the house.。
I mean, the other day,。
I thought he was gonna make himself breakfast。
and he poured the Cheerios all over the living room.。
I mean, that's what he does.。
He's need surrounded by noise.。
He's never paid for anything.。
He's never been like, daddy, I just wanna repay you。
for the way that you take care of me.。
And so dinner's on me tonight.。
I got it.。
He doesn't have a job.。
He doesn't financially contribute.。
He is need surrounded by noise.。
And Jesus says to you, you wanna know who gets me?。
People who come to me with dependence.。
People who need.。
See, some of you, what's gonna keep you。
out of the kingdom of heaven, which is no trite thing.。
I'm just very emotional as I was writing this message。
thinking about that.。
It's the fact you don't need God.。
You got you.。
You got stuff.。
I mean, you got a good job.。
You're gifted.。
Pretty.。
You don't need God.。
What do you need God for?。
You got Dallas.。
You got Fort Worth.。
Why do you need God?。
And that's what's gonna keep you out.。
I mean, this guy was in church every Sunday, man.。
That's who this guy is.。
But he didn't have need.。
Jesus said, I want you to come to me like one of these.。
This joker in Mark 10, Luke 18, Matthew 19,。
he doesn't even have a name.。
He's just an example of what not to do.。
And Jesus comes to him with a real invitation,。
a very rare invitation, okay,。
that we don't see a lot in the scripture, right?。
We see it with the disciples, the apostles.。
Jesus comes to Matthew, says,。
hey, leave your tax collector booth and follow me.。
He says to some other guys,。
hey, throw down your nets and follow me.。
And then he comes to this rich young ruler.。
He says, hey, I want you to sell everything you have,。
give it to the poor, then come and follow me.。
This guy could have been the 13th disciple, right?。
I mean, these are guys we name our kids after.。
These are arguably some of the most famous people。
in the history of history.。
Matthew, Mark, Luke, John.。
These are people whose books,。
their writings we teach from, we gather around。
and say, hey, will you just teach me what Matthew wrote?。
Let me name my friend Matthew.。
Now here's, I don't know, Bob,。
and we don't even know his name, right?。
'Cause all we know is his resume.。
We know he's rich, we know he's young,。
we know he's powerful, that's all we know.。
And we know he's the guy that didn't follow Jesus.。
Do you think he missed out on an adventure?。
Yeah, I think he missed out on an adventure.。
Why?。
Because it says he had great wealth.。
I love what Randy Alcorn said here this weekend。
as he visited, he said,。
things have mass and mass has gravity.。
Don't let things be the center of gravity for you.。
Said in another way, he says,。
don't let things that you can't let go of hold you back.。
Don't let anything in your life that you can't let go of。
hold you back.。
Is that a relationship?。
I don't know what that is for you,。
but is there any debate right now in your mind。
that we are the rich young rulers?。
Like, are you there, you're like,。
well, hey, I don't have any,。
I'm lost on this 'cause I'm not rich.。
Let me tell you something, you are unbelievably rich。
just because of where you are.。
Minimum wage in America, if you make minimum wage,。
you are in the top 10% richest people on the planet.。
The average wage is around $2 a day.。
In Indonesia, it's 39 cents an hour.。
Okay?。
If you make $50,000, you are deep within the top 1%。
of the wealthiest people on the planet.。
If you're wondering where I get this,。
it comes from globalrichlist.com.。
I had a friend who went to Russia for 10 years.。
He came back and we said, we asked him as a staff,。
as we kind of interviewed him and asked him questions,。
we said, hey, what was different?。
What changed about Dallas-Fort Worth?。
And he said, you want me to, you know,。
I have an answer to that.。
It's kind of a strange one.。
We said, what?。
He said, storage buildings.。
They're everywhere.。
He's like, you guys have built huge buildings。
to store your stuff because you have so much stuff,。
you can't even keep it on your own property.。
You had to get another property to keep your stuff on.。
You know the greatest health problem in America?。
Like you go somewhere else and it's like,。
well, clean water, right?。
Food to eat.。
In America, it's obesity.。
Like we're the first country in the history of the world,。
right, that our primary health problem is obesity.。
Like you look at any time in the past and it's like,。
what's their primary health problem?。
They're starving to death.。
Us, we've got so much food, we don't know where to keep it.。
We keep it on us.。
(congregation laughing)。
Just think about it for a moment.。
It'll blow your mind too.。
I mean, it's great.。
This is us, right?。
Because of where you live,。
you are among the wealthiest people on the planet.。
You're like, dude, I don't even have a job.。
You know what, I didn't have a job once.。
I was laid off.。
You know what I did?。
Because I woke up in America,。
I got up early that morning and I began to knock on doors。
and I said, you know what, I'm gonna make $100 today.。
And the first door I knocked on, I said,。
hey, can I rake your leaves?。
They said, sure.。
I said, what will you pay me?。
80 bucks.。
Awesome, you got it.。
Because of where I live, that opportunity is afforded to me.。
Why do I tell you that?。
Here's why.。
Because opportunities like that combat need.。
It's really, really hard to be needy when you have a lot.。
Like, do you realize that our brothers and sisters。
of the faith, 21 brothers and sisters of the faith。
lost their head a few days ago.。
They were beheaded like Paul.。
Like John the Baptist, their heads were cut off.。
And you know, if ISIS was here,。
my greatest fear would not be。
that they would take our heads off.。
It would be that they would have no reason to.。
Amen, hey, I got a Christian over here.。
You sure, you sure that's a Christian?。
No, he's not a Christian.。
I saw him on Lord Greenwood, that's not a Christian.。
No, leave their head on.。
No, I saw him with that girl the other day.。
I think he's clean, man.。
Let him go.。
He's one of us.。
I got a Christian over here.。
No, she's not, no, she's not.。
I've been watching her, she's not a Christian.。
She had no Christ.。
Let her go, keep her head on.。
Man, are you serious?。
The world we live in.。
I wanna be clear, I just wanna say it one more time。
in case you think I'm coming with workspace stuff.。
All you need is need.。
You gotta need him.。
You gotta need him.。
Money, money may not be your idol,。
but it funds them.。
You wanna know what your idol is?。
You look at your time and your money.。
Look at your calendar and your checkbook.。
Okay, let me just ask you a question.。
Let's just say you could break into this story。
right here, man.。
Let's say you could talk to this rich young ruler.。
Like Jesus is like, hey, go and sell everything you have.。
Give it to the poor and then come follow me.。
And he's like, he leaves sad.。
You could step in right there.。
You could talk to him.。
What do you say?。
No, no, no, no, no, no.。
Hey, buddy, listen, listen, listen.。
You don't understand, man.。
That is Jesus.。
That is God in the flesh.。
All that stuff you don't wanna sell,。
it's actually his stuff.。
No, he owns everything.。
The cattle on a thousand hills are his.。
You want to follow him.。
You're talking about eternal life.。
Eternal life is found in him alone.。
You wanna go with him.。
Listen, listen, trust me, trust me.。
Now, there's this book.。
It's in the Bible.。
It's 66 books.。
But I've read it.。
And here's the deal.。
You wanna go.。
No, we don't even know your name.。
We wanna know your name.。
Go with him.。
Go with him.。
What would you tell this guy?。
No, go all in.。
No, it all doesn't,。
all that stuff you think that matters, it doesn't matter.。
Go all in with him.。
Hey, tell yourself that.。
Remember that question I asked you on the front end?。
What's keeping you from going all in?。
You tell your heart, you speak to your heart right now,。
whatever you would tell this guy.。
No, no, no, no, listen, that relationship,。
no, no, no, it doesn't matter.。
Pornography, get rid of the computer.。
Anything that's holding you back and go all in.。
Go all in.。
And Jesus looked around and said to his disciples。
how hard it is for the rich to enter the kingdom of God.。
It's not about money.。
It's about idols.。
The disciples were amazed at his words,。
but Jesus said again, children,。
how hard it is to enter the kingdom of God.。
It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle。
than for someone who is rich to enter the kingdom of God.。
He's saying, hey, the kingdom of heaven is impossible。
for anyone who doesn't think they need it.。
Some of you may have heard that the camel。
and eye of the needle is a gate to Jerusalem.。
That's stupid.。
There's no historical evidence to support that.。
Dismiss it.。
It's a camel and a needle.。
That's what he's talking about.。
He's saying, hey, it's impossible.。
The disciples were even more amazed and said to each other,。
who then can be saved?。
Jesus looked at them and said,。
listen, with man this is impossible,。
but not with God.。
All things are possible with God.。
And then Peter spoke up and said, hey, Jesus, listen,。
we left everything to follow you.。
Do we get in?。
Like, we're getting in, right?。
'Cause we left it all.。
And Jesus says, you haven't left anything.。
Oh, you think you've been missing out, huh?。
Truly I tell you, Jesus replied,。
no one who has left home or brothers or sisters。
or mother or father or children or field for me。
and the gospel will fail to receive 100 times as much。
in this present age.。
Homes, brothers, sisters, mothers, children,。
and fields along with persecutions.。
And in the age to come, eternal life.。
But many who are first will be last,。
and the last will be first.。
And so what does it cost you?。
Everything, what do you gain?。
So much more.。
My third point is all you gain is everything.。
On this adventure, all that you gain,。
all you have to gain is everything.。
Let me try to make that practical, let me quantify it.。
If you think Christ's followers are missing out,。
you've missed the point.。
God is not seeking to take an adventure from you,。
he's seeking to give you one.。
Jesus says, I've come so that they might have life。
and have it to the full.。
Now, if you don't understand that,。
you probably grew up in some dead church。
where you're like, hey, those guys who follow Jesus,。
I don't wanna be anything like 'em.。
But we'll all kinda put on this dog and pony show。
and pretend like we know the one true God,。
and we'll pretend like he gives us joy,。
but really we're all miserable inside.。
All right?。
And that's not Christianity,。
and that's not what I'm talking about.。
Jesus is calling you to an adventure,。
and the adventure starts now.。
And what does it start with?。
Listen closely.。
It starts with belief.。
Your actions will follow your belief.。
If you believe in God,。
then you know you are not missing out.。
And what you believed here,。
not what you did here,。
will determine your eternity.。
Do you really believe that Jesus is the Son of God,。
and that God defeated death through him,。
that God has forgiven our sins through him?。
Because heaven and hell are both real outcomes。
of your belief here on earth.。
You have real eternal outcomes.。
You will really be somewhere someday,。
forever and ever and ever and ever.。
Your belief here will determine your adventure here。
and your reward there.。
Did you hear that?。
Your belief here will determine your adventure here。
and your reward there.。
Jesus says 100 times as much.。
C.S. Lewis said it like this.。
The only thing you will own in heaven。
will be things you gave away here.。
Wow.。
The only things you'll possess in heaven。
are the things that you had given away。
while you were on earth.。
Guys, listen, man.。
Imagine how much fun, and I said fun,。
this guy could have had.。
Jesus, they're talking, hey, here's what I want you to do.。
I want you to go and sell everything you have。
and give it to the poor and then follow me.。
We believe that.。
We hear that and we're like, dude,。
why couldn't he have just been like Peter。
and throw down your nets?。
Or one of the other apostles, rather,。
just, hey, throw down your nets and follow me, right?。
I mean, he's gotta sell everything.。
Like, he's gotta go on eBay and Craigslist.。
Okay, here's the deal.。
It's all up for sale, state sale, you know.。
How much fun would this have been?。
This is like my dream day.。
Craigslist, eBay, like, okay, here's the deal.。
I'm gonna liquidate all of this stuff.。
I'm gonna take this money.。
Oh, you want some?。
Here you go.。
Oh, you want some?。
Okay, here you go.。
Let me make your day, too.。
Oh, you can't afford that car payment?。
I just bought your car.。
It's your car now.。
There you go.。
Oh, you're behind on your house?。
No, it's your house.。
I just purchased it from the bank.。
Take it.。
How much fun would that,。
have you guys ever been generous like that?。
Like, that is a lot of fun.。
It is really, really fun.。
And like, 'cause it's all Jesus's.。
So he's like, "Hey, Jesus, I sold everything.。
"I gave it to the poor."。
It's really fun.。
Okay, now where are we going?。
Let's go, man.。
Let's rock.。
Where are we going, Bali?。
What?。
Where are we going?。
Where are we going, Jerusalem?。
Okay.。
Across?。
Oh, man, that doesn't sound fun.。
(congregation laughing)。
So what's next, if you read on?。
Jesus isn't asking you anything that he didn't do.。
He not give everything?。
He gave everything.。
Gave it all.。
For you, because he loves you.。
The greatest act of the law of the world is ever known.。
And instead, this guy returned to keeping the rules。
and counting his money.。
He was a slave.。
He wasn't free, he was a slave.。
He was a slave like some of us are slaves.。
See, what you can't give away, you don't own.。
It owns you.。
You're its slave.。
What you cannot give away, you do not own.。
It owns you.。
But whatever you give up for Christ, you will gain more.。
I'm not saying that if you give a dollar, you get 100.。
You might gain a correct understanding of money。
and no longer need the dollar.。
You might get 100.。
I don't know how God's going to do that,。
but I see here that whatever you give, you gain more.。
Not in a prosperity gospel kind of way,。
but you will be blessed.。
I know people who have been blessed.。
And this adventure that we're talking about,。
I love what Jim Elliot says.。
He says, "He is no fool who gives what he cannot keep。
"for that which he cannot lose."。
He is no fool who gives that which he cannot keep。
for that which he cannot lose.。
And this adventure that we're talking about,。
it starts right now.。
It's not heaven.。
Heaven's the after party.。
The adventure, it starts right here in Dallas,。
right there in Fort Worth.。
Heaven's the after party, man.。
That's where we get to go and celebrate。
the adventure that we had down here.。
Do you guys know what today is?。
Fat Tuesday, if you didn't know.。
And do you guys know what Fat Tuesday is?。
A lot of us, it's just like, well,。
it's just a day to get drunk and--。
- Get Mardi Gras.。
- Get these Mardi Gras.。
It is Mardi Gras.。
But do we know even what that is?。
Check this out.。
Why is it called Fat Tuesday?。
Let me tell you.。
Fat Tuesday, it has religious implications, actually.。
Fat Tuesday is the day before Ash Wednesday.。
Ash Wednesday is the day that starts Lent.。
Lent is fasting.。
So what do we do on Fat Tuesday?。
We gorge ourselves on good food。
so that then we can fast through Lent.。
That's where this comes from.。
And it's turned into debauchery, right?。
We turn it into Lower Greenville, Uptown.。
We're like, hey, we go and we get wasted.。
And we have girls trade their dignity for 50-cent beads.。
That's what we do on Fat Tuesday.。
But it's interesting.。
This is the origination of this is that we would go,。
and because we're gonna have to give something up for God,。
we go and we are gluttons.。
And I think some of you view Christianity this way.。
Hey, I'm gonna get right with Jesus one day,。
but right now I'm gonna have all the fun that I can。
before I go there, and you're missing out on real fun.。
And before you start to think, oh yeah, sure, Pastor Boyd,。
'cause maybe you're a guest, you don't know.。
You don't know, man.。
Like whatever you think fun is, I've done it on steroids.。
All right, cocaine, yeah, you got it.。
Ecstasy, you got it.。
The bar scene, you got it.。
Club scene was the ruler of it.。
The rich young ruler.。
Girls, oh yeah.。
The cars, you got it.。
The bikes, yes, sir.。
Penthouse condo, yes, sir, check.。
And so whatever you think, no, this is where life is.。
I'm telling you from experience.。
As someone who has found the one true God,。
he found me actually, changed my life.。
You're missing out.。
I'm sad for you.。
In fact, this weekend, we just moved,。
and so we have a bunch of boxes in our garage,。
and I was looking for something.。
I was actually looking for a motorcycle helmet。
and a shipwreck coin, but that's an illustration。
for another day, and what I found was a box of pictures,。
photographs, and so I opened the box,。
and I began to go through them,。
and a lot of Monica and I, when we were dating,。
it was Valentine's Day, so I was like,。
you know, this will be fun, we'll go,。
and we'll look at these pictures for Valentine's Day,。
but there was a stack of pictures, and I pulled it out,。
and you know what it was?。
It was Mardi Gras in New Orleans.。
See, I went big.。
And I was looking through them, and I was deeply grieved.。
I saw the look on my face, the glary stare,。
the drunkenness.。
I mean, as I went through it, I mean, it was pornography,。
is what it was, pornography that I participated in.。
And it was the party, and there I am,。
holding a hurricane in one hand,。
arm around a girl in another hand,。
you know, kind of a smile in the camera,。
and what's crazy, man, I remember that trip.。
I mean, I remember some of that trip,。
and I remember going up to the trip.。
I remember how excited we were for that trip.。
I remember after that trip, the stories we told.。
Remember, dude, you threw up, you threw up。
all over your pants, and then you wore them the next day,。
and it was like, that was fun?。
When you wore up the pants with throw up on 'em?。
Like, really?。
That's the story, that's what we walked away from.。
Like, that's our trophy.。
Remember the pants and the throw up, it was so gross, ha ha.。
Man, it sounds gross.。
Isn't that crazy?。
Do you see what the enemy does, how he tricks you?。
Sin robs you of creativity, you're doing the same thing.。
It's like, this is life.。
50 cent beads for my dignity, life.。
And God says, no, man, can I give you life?。
Trusted Christ, and became a Christian,。
and within two years was in the jungles of Africa,。
teaching the government, conflict reconciliation,。
and shortly thereafter was on a boat。
traveling through the Amazon jungle。
for days to get off in the villages and play soccer,。
and give hope to orphans.。
You talk about laughing 'til you cry.。
Shortly thereafter, when the earthquake hit Haiti,。
we went, met with organizations,。
and talked about how we can change a nation.。
All of a sudden, I felt like I was being used by God.。
I felt alive, had lots of fun, and came back to Dallas.。
Last year, we were able to give financially, generously,。
more than I've made in years past.。
And I don't say that to brag.。
And I don't say that because we have a lot of money,。
we don't, except for we're in America, and we all do.。
But we don't have a lot of money.。
I say that because our view of money changed,。
and I realize it's all God's.。
If I would run an account on the times。
that I've laughed the hardest,。
it wasn't on the back, it's not on the back of tailgates。
with Bud Lights in my hand, and I've laughed there.。
But the times I've laughed the hardest。
have been around fire pits with other brothers and sisters,。
reflecting on the goodness of God.。
In fact, top 10 times would be celebrating life。
with other followers of Jesus Christ.。
I've done things, I've got lots of regrets,。
but I found life in Jesus and in following him.。
And I tell you that because I know some of you。
are halfway in, which means you're not in at all.。
And he's calling you, he's looking you in the eyes right now。
and he has a real personal invitation to you,。
and you say, hey, I want you to come and follow me.。
And I'm telling you, both experientially。
and from the scriptures, from a God who loves you,。
that there's life there, life is found in Jesus alone.。
In summary, your personal effort is not your passport.。
All you need is need, and all you gain is everything.。
Garrett sent me this email.。
It was 'cause we were dialoguing about his trip.。
And it was real interesting what he said.。
He said, you know the best parts,。
and this will sound cliche, but he says,。
the best parts weren't the surfing,。
weren't the skydiving or the BMXing through the jungle.。
Like, the best parts were sharing the gospel with people.。
Just going through and talking about Jesus.。
And I said, well, what do you mean?。
And so he shot me this email and he said,。
just imagine this, when we were in Bali,。
we really wanted to surf Bali,。
because the surfing there is extraordinary.。
And so we were gonna go and we had a driver,。
we had hired a driver there,。
and he had already taken two guys right before us.。
And so he came back to pick up Brian and I,。
this is Garrett saying this.。
And so I'm leaning forward, I'm listening.。
And he says, JP, imagine this, we're driving down the road,。
the sun is shining, got my flip flops on。
and my swimming trunks and my tank top,。
and there's jungle on both sides.。
And we're driving along a white sandy beach,。
there's crystal blue water where we're about to surf.。
And our driver, we began to talk to him。
and we began to share the gospel to him.。
And he stops, he cuts us off and he says,。
oh man, the two guys before you。
have already told me about your God.。
But then we continued the conversation for 20 minutes.。
We talked about how Jesus is the only way,。
that there is no other way.。
We talked about how the Bible is different。
from other religious books.。
We talked about how much God loved him,。
that he gave his only son in Jesus Christ,。
that 2015 years ago, in an event that every atheist。
on the face of the planet acknowledges。
by the date they put on their checks,。
God became a man in the form of Jesus Christ.。
And then in the midst of that,。
in the 20 minutes of us talking Jesus with him,。
he took a phone call and Garrett said,。
he was riding shotgun, I turned back to Brian。
and I said, you know what?。
This is better than surfing, better than skydiving,。
better than anything we could experience here.。
To which Brian says, man, you're totally right.。
And Garrett doesn't need to go to Bali。
to live the adventure.。
I know, because I'm doing life with him,。
that Garrett's living the adventure。
right there in Fort Worth today.。
That those guys are on the adventure,。
they're all in with Jesus.。
They've lost their life for his sake.。
They hold it loosely, they've leveraged everything。
for the sake of the kingdom, so that one day。
they can enjoy all of those things forever and ever。
and ever and ever.。
And to some of you, that's just impractical.。
And we want to help you make that practical.。
We'd love to meet with you and pray with you。
and talk with you and see you go all in.。
I've stumbled into a church,。
I sat in the back row hungover,。
when I trusted in Jesus and I saw him devour my life。
and I want the same thing for you if he hasn't.。
Because here's the deal.。
We talked about heaven and hell.。
I wanna tell you about it.。
Do you know that there's no missing out in heaven?。
Heaven is the fullness of God,。
there's no missing out there.。
There's no FOMO in heaven.。
There's no FOMO.。
Do you know what hell is?。
Hell is eternal FOMO.。
Hell is being somewhere with the full realization。
of everything that you could have had。
that was freely available to you,。
that when Jesus said, "Follow me," you said, "No."。
And therefore you experience missing out。
for the rest of the rest of the rest.。
And I'm telling you that in heaven,。
you will not regret anything you gave up。
for the sake of the kingdom there.。
There will not be a single FOMO experience in heaven,。
a single regret experience in the kingdom.。
God said, "Hey, you go all in with me."。
I'm gonna pray now that you would.。
Lord, help us.。
Father, help us to realize that Jesus is better,。
that whatever we would hold on to here,。
that Christ is better.。
Better than riches or gold,。
better than pornography or trinkets that we might collect,。
better than watches, better than bags and purses,。
better than shoes and anything that we might collect。
on this planet, that it would be like sand in your kingdom,。
like asphalt.。
And Father, I pray that you would strip our lives。
of everything that distracts us from you,。
which is such a scary prayer.。
As we sing this song, Lord, I pray that each of my friends。
would plead with you, strip our lives of everything。
that comes between you and us.。
And Father, we praise, we want to declare,。
Jesus is better.。
It is in his name.。
