[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[HEART BEATING]。
[BREATHING HEAVILY]。
[BREATHING HEAVILY]。
All right.。
Well, we are back in Exhale.。
Dallas, it's so good to see you guys tonight.。
Hello, Fort Worth, Houston, and listening in。
from around the country.。
If we've never met before, my name is Garrett.。
And I normally spend my Tuesday nights。
at the porch in Fort Worth, just about 40 miles west.。
And so it's good to be your guest tonight.。
We're going to be back in the Psalms。
as well as we continue Exhale.。
And so what I'll do is I'll read a selection of Psalm 51,。
where we'll be.。
And then I'll pray one more time.。
And then we'll see what God's got for us in that Psalm。
together.。
So it says, "Have mercy on me, O God.。
According to your unfailing love,。
according to your great compassion,。
blot out my transgressions.。
Wash away all my iniquity and cleanse me from my sin.。
For I know my transgressions, and my sin。
is always before me.。
Against you, you only, have I sinned.。
Restore to me the joy of your salvation。
and grant me a willing spirit to sustain me.。
Then I will teach transgressors your ways,。
and sinners will turn back to you."。
Let's ask God for a little bit of help,。
and we'll go together.。
God, I pray that as we get into your scripture tonight,。
that you would speak so clearly from it.。
We know that you didn't write it in vain.。
You didn't write it so that we wouldn't read it.。
And you didn't write it so that we would read it。
and not understand it.。
You wrote it so that we would read it,。
we would understand it,。
and it would transform us from the inside out.。
And so I pray that that's exactly what would happen。
as we gather tonight.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
Well again, my name's Garrett,。
and I've been hanging out at Watermark。
for the last couple of years.。
And I wanna tell you,。
have you ever noticed how shame can be worse。
than a sin itself?。
Like the shame that comes from a failure。
can be worse than the actual failure itself.。
Let me tell you what I mean.。
When I was brand new here,。
I had just started what was called a residency program,。
I think internship 2.0 kind of thing.。
And I had begun that here at Watermark.。
And in the first month, I mean,。
you're coming into that kind of thing,。
and you got all kinds of hopes,。
you got all kinds of dreams,。
and you're looking for the next adventure ahead,。
and it's gonna be so great and all that.。
Well, about a month into that,。
I end up at one of our elders' homes.。
And so you're like, what's an elder?。
Someone older than you?。
No, like one of the leaders of the church,。
like one of the leaders of the church,。
like bosses, bosses, bosses, bosses, boss kind of person.。
And so I ended up over there.。
He wasn't there, in fact, we'd hardly met,。
but he had just allowed us to use his backyard。
and had a pool.。
It was a pretty nice backyard.。
And so I end up over there,。
and some things happened that should not have happened.。
And so like we climbed up on a brick pillar。
because we decided it would be a good idea。
to film like a trick basketball shot.。
Why would you do that in a home that you don't own。
when you have a new job and it's your boss's boss's boss?。
That's just not a good idea.。
But that's what we did.。
I turned my brain off and we decided to do that.。
And so then what do you know,。
a piece of that brick pillar fell onto the ground and broke.。
And when it did that,。
it was like almost a shatter kind of thing.。
It was pretty bad.。
And so we started to clean it up,。
and finally we did.。
And instead of like communicating。
that something had gone wrong, you know, like you do,。
instead of doing that,。
what we did was we just kind of put it back up there,。
like it was gonna be fine.。
And you mean you could just hardly tell,。
it was just like a little bit of a black eye, you know,。
I mean, it was just barely visible.。
Okay, who does that?。
Why would you do that?。
Extraordinarily not smart.。
And so a few days later, hours later, I should say,。
I get a phone call that he has discovered this。
and that he would like to meet with me.。
And we set a meeting for four days later.。
It was the worst four days of my life at Watermark,。
of my water life.。
It was the worst four days of my Watermark life.。
It was not good.。
And I was so, we got off the phone,。
and I was physically, I was sweating.。
I was terrified.。
I was so discouraged that I could not,。
I was ashamed of the fact that I hadn't told him.。
Not that I'd broken the brick, that I hadn't told him.。
I mean, who, what nine-year-old doesn't know,。
hey, if you break something, don't surprise people,。
let's communicate, you know, that kind of thing?。
And so I began four ashamed, miserable days.。
And I'm like seeing my future,。
instead of thinking possibility,。
I'm thinking survival.。
I'm thinking I'm about to get fired.。
Like my days are done.。
Like future conversation is,。
Garrett, how'd you get fired at Watermark?。
I broke the elder's house.。
That's, I'm gonna be the guy who got fired from Watermark。
because I broke the elder's house.。
That's gonna be the story here.。
And so for four days, I had like a stomach ache.。
I could barely eat and sleep.。
No exaggeration.。
You're like, Garrett, that sounds like a real shame problem.。
Caught me, that's what I'm telling you.。
It was a shame problem.。
And instead, I went into a meeting with him.。
And when I got there, he did not give me a swift firing,。
clearly.。
Instead, we had a conversation, not about failure,。
not about what had actually happened, see.。
But instead we had a conversation。
about how to respond after failure.。
Because isn't it understood。
that failure is just kind of part of life?。
I mean, you either just got out of a failure,。
you're in one now, or you got one around the corner.。
I mean, that's kind of the way human life works.。
I mean, if you're,。
this doesn't change when you become a Christian,。
by the way.。
I mean, this is like, it's just part of life.。
And what's needed most of the time,。
if you're type A, you're already leaning in.。
If you're a perfectionist,。
you're really dialed in already, right?。
Because what we need is we don't need failure avoidance.。
That's called perfectionism.。
You'll drive yourself crazy.。
I've tried it.。
What is needed typically, and for all of us at times,。
is a biblical response to failure,。
a biblical response to failure.。
Not where you look out the windshield。
and try to avoid the next failure,。
but where you look in the rear view mirror。
and see a failure。
and know how you're gonna respond on the inside.。
That's what's needed.。
And so what I'm gonna do tonight。
is I'm gonna talk about failure response.。
Not failure avoidance, but failure response.。
Sin response, mistake response, that kind of thing.。
But I'm gonna narrow it down.。
So before we go in any further,。
I am gonna talk about failure tonight,。
but I'm gonna talk about a particular kind.。
One little particular kind of sin,。
one little particular kind of failure。
that it just seems to be a little bit harder。
to rebound after.。
One particular kind of sin。
that you're probably less likely to bounce back fast after.。
One particular kind of shame。
that wants to just stick with you,。
that seems to hit you in a little bit of a deeper place.。
There's one particular kind of sin。
that Bible hero after Bible hero,。
some of you are named after them, fell into.。
And of this sin, which is no less forgivable。
than anything else,。
the scripture still says,。
"All other sins are outside the body.。
"But if you sin sexually,。
"you sin against your own body."。
It's in a unique class all its own。
and its ability to create shame inside you.。
That's the way sexual sin works.。
No less forgivable than anything else,。
by God or by other people.。
But all the same, uniquely powerful to create。
long-lasting, personality-changing,。
future-demolishing shame.。
Sexual sin can do that.。
Sexual failure can do that.。
So that's what I'm gonna talk about this evening.。
So if you're brand new, welcome to the porch.。
That's where we're going.。
(congregation laughing)。
And so that's a big claim, right?。
I mean, that sexual sin is uniquely powerful to create shame.。
Where do I get away with saying that?。
Well, first, 1 Corinthians 6, 18,。
which I just shared with you.。
Secondly, experience matches.。
And so I'm working in pastoral ministry.。
What happens is you spend a lot of time。
in conversations with peers,。
getting to know them and getting to know their walks。
with God and how they interact with the Bible。
and spiritual things and all of that.。
And so when you spend significant time。
in conversation with people,。
you start to notice some trends.。
Here's one trend.。
When someone says, "I've never told anyone this,。
"but I know what's gonna follow."。
Or when they look down and they're clearly ashamed。
and they say, "I've never really shared this with anyone。
"and I can't believe I'm even telling you,。
"but they're not about to tell me。
"that they stole grapes from the Walmart。
"when they were five.。
"They're about to tell me something。
"that they did sexually every time, and I'm no different."。
Every time someone says, "Hey, I gotta tell you something,。
"man, I'm gonna," and it's clear。
that shame is ruling the day.。
I know what's gonna follow every time.。
And it's that they've done something sexually。
that they're ashamed of,。
that's starting to mark their conscience.。
Shame from sexual sin can even make,。
are you ready for this?。
This is a huge claim.。
Sexual shame can even make a genuine believer in Christ。
so self-disappointed, so condemned,。
so guilty conscience-ridden。
that they abandon their own relationship。
with God altogether.。
So let me ask you a scary question。
before we get going and get into the scripture.。
Do you think it's possible。
for a genuine God-fearing, Jesus-following,。
Christ-exalting young adult in their 20s or 30s。
with high hopes for making their life all about God,。
is it possible for that person to sin sexually。
and become so discouraged by it。
that they spend the rest of their days on earth。
as a nominal Christian because they are plagued by self-doubt?。
Do you think that's possible?。
That a genuine Christ-following,。
how could that be, right?。
You wouldn't think so,。
but do you think it's possible。
for a genuine Christ-following, Jesus-loving,。
God-exalting person to sin sexually。
and become so self-condemned。
that they die as a nominal Christian。
with a Lexus and a lake house。
because that was second best?。
You bet that can happen.。
And I don't think it has to happen.。
I don't think it has to happen.。
I don't think the scripture wants it to happen.。
I don't think God wants it to happen.。
And I think Jesus died。
so that that doesn't have to happen to you.。
And so if you got a guilty conscience, okay,。
I wanna tell you, I'm talking to all the failures tonight,。
and I'm starting with me, and mine are many and ugly.。
So if you got a guilty conscience tonight,。
I'm not picking a fight with your sexual sin.。
I'm not doing that tonight.。
I'm not here to talk about your illicit sex。
or your recent porn browsing。
or the burning desire you have。
to take the clothes off the person you love.。
I'm not here to talk about the clothes off。
the person you're dating.。
I'm not here to talk about any of that.。
What I am here to talk about is how to respond。
to the fact that you're ashamed of those things.。
Because see what shame does。
is it takes that recent sexual encounter,。
and it takes that recent porn browsing,。
and it takes that desire。
that you wouldn't really wanna tell anybody about,。
and it takes that habit,。
you wouldn't wanna call it an addiction。
because after all, you could quit any time you want.。
But it takes that little habit that you have,。
and shame steps in and says, you see that?。
You'll never make a Christ follower out of yourself, ever.。
You think you're holy?。
You're filthy.。
That's what shame does.。
I'm gonna pick a fight with that.。
So here we go, Psalm 51.。
Psalm 51 is a song, and it's a prayer.。
And you wanna know who it's coming from, by the way.。
Anybody remember David?。
So if I said David and,。
you might finish the sentence with David and?。
Goliath, oh, I heard both of 'em.。
Okay, you might finish it with David and Goliath, right?。
And so that would be like the high moment.。
That'd be like the peak moment.。
That'd be like where David is the man,。
and everybody is cheering.。
But if I said David and, and you finished it again,。
you might say David and?。
Bathsheba, yeah, that'd be the valley.。
That'd be the low point.。
And so the Psalm tonight that we're gonna read。
is the way David prays after that event。
called David and Bathsheba.。
And so if you don't know what David and Bathsheba is,。
I wanna make sure we're all together tonight.。
David, it was, David is the king of Israel.。
He's like the most celebrated national hero。
in all of history, for the nation of Israel anyway.。
And he ascends to the highest of heights.。
He did kill Goliath when he was just a teenager,。
rendering him to be a massive hero。
in the eyes of the people.。
And then when he was actually ruling king,。
he slept with, and by slept with,。
I mean forcibly came onto a woman named Bathsheba。
who he did see bathing.。
It's not a play on words.。
But a woman who he did see bathing,。
who was named Bathsheba, forced himself upon her,。
called her to himself, had an affair with her,。
got her pregnant, tried to cover it up.。
And then when it couldn't be covered up,。
had her husband who was away at the battle lines。
fighting the battle that David should have been fighting,。
had him killed, okay?。
So we're talking about adultery and murder.。
That's what David committed.。
The golden boy, the man after God's own heart,。
that's what he did.。
And so let me just pause right there.。
And see, if you're not really a Bible person,。
and you're like, the Bible's boring,。
let me help you, the Bible's not boring.。
If you read this, the Bible's not boring.。
And so this is David at the pit。
and the bottom of his sexual sin, the worst.。
You know that guilty conscience thing that keeps happening?。
That's where he is, and that's what he prays out of.。
And so what we're gonna do is we're gonna see。
that he prays what is consistent with God's truth.。
Even in this moment,。
he prays what's consistent with God's truth.。
And so what I want us to do as we go through Psalm 51。
is to pick out three statements.。
They come in order that will allow us。
to form a better response to our own sexual sin.。
So here we go, Psalm 51, one.。
Have mercy on me, O God.。
According to your unfailing love,。
according to your great compassion,。
blot out my transgressions.。
Just means sin.。
Wash away all my iniquity.。
Same thing.。
Cleanse me from my sin.。
Nothing surprising here, right?。
Just begging forgiveness.。
And then he says, for I know my transgressions.。
I'll tell you why that's important in just a second.。
For I know my transgressions,。
and my sin is always before me.。
You hear him?。
He's got that low light reel going, you know?。
The moment that seems so enticing,。
the moment he imagined, the moment that he wanted,。
and then after it became a reality,。
it was the grossest thing in his mind。
and he couldn't shake it.。
My sin's always before me.。
But he says just before that, in verse three,。
he says, I know my transgressions.。
And when he says, I know my transgressions,。
he doesn't just mean that he's aware。
in a general sense of the fact that he's a sinner.。
He means that he knows exactly what he's done.。
And more than that,。
he knows that God knows exactly what he's done.。
This is a prayer, right?。
And so he knows that God knows exactly what he's done.。
Furthermore, the person who came to him,。
the way that he became convinced。
in his spirit about what he had just done。
is that a human being actually came to him,。
his name was Nathan, the prophet,。
came to him and convicted him of his sin,。
shared with him, hey, this isn't just known。
by you and God, buddy, sorry.。
The people know, we know.。
And so David, when he says, I know my transgressions,。
it's more than just, God, I'm a sinner.。
He's saying, God, I know what I've done,。
you know what I've done,。
and the people who are pertinent to this conversation,。
they know exactly what's happened here.。
And so what we need to do is not just say,。
I know I'm a sinner, we need to say, my sins are known.。
My sins are known.。
And so my first point tonight is that。
we need to acknowledge our sin fully.。
Phrase is the way you'll see it on the screen.。
Acknowledge your sin fully.。
You got a guilty conscience?。
You hurt by what you did or what,。
by what somebody did to you?。
Acknowledge the sin fully.。
I think that's so powerful。
because David's not being vague.。
And he's not in denial.。
Isn't that kind of a first fight or flight response。
whenever we're not happy with ourselves?。
David doesn't say, oh, this couldn't have been me.。
I was never gonna be this person.。
We're just gonna pretend like that's not part of my story.。
He doesn't do that.。
He's not in denial and he's not being vague.。
Which is more than I can say, and I'll be brave,。
that's more than I can say for most accountability。
amongst single Christians, honestly.。
That he is completely open, completely known,。
completely explicit and specific about what's going on.。
And he's open to that.。
Let me tell you why I say that.。
Isn't it true that we kind of,。
don't we hide behind our words when it's time to confess?。
Don't we like, we've created like this whole language。
around confession of sexual sin。
that doesn't even mean anything.。
Let me tell you what I mean.。
I fell.。
You're like, you fell down?。
What do you mean?。
[congregation laughing]。
You fell down?。
Like, where were you walking, man?。
Like, I don't wanna walk there.。
Oh, I slipped.。
You slipped?。
Like ice was on the ground?。
Like, what do you mean you slipped?。
I stumbled.。
Nobody can walk around here, this is weird.。
[congregation laughing]。
This is the clumsiest community group I have ever seen.。
Somebody needs to help these people.。
Okay.。
All right, I'm just gonna say this,。
you're all thinking it.。
Since when did I fell become code for I masturbated?。
That's not what that means.。
If that's what you need to say,。
that's what you should say.。
Right?。
Why would we hide behind our words?。
Like, why would we play games with each other?。
Why would we not acknowledge our sins fully?。
That's what we see in the scripture。
all over the place, right?。
Psalm 51's not enough.。
How about 1 John 1?。
If we walk in the light, it's he's in the light.。
He's faithful and just to forgive us.。
We have fellowship with one another.。
But if we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves.。
The truth's not in us.。
Acknowledge your sin fully, completely.。
Imagine for a second you needed to go to the doctor, okay?。
You had something wrong with you,。
something really clear.。
You know exactly what it is.。
It's bothering you.。
I mean, you don't go to the doctor on a whim.。
I mean, you gotta have something。
that you know is bothering you.。
And so you go to the doctor。
and you go through the whole rigmarole。
that's involved to actually get to see the guy.。
And you know, you go in, you make an appointment,。
you give the insurance information。
and every other thing about you。
that someone could possibly need to know.。
It's like, why am I filling out my dental records。
when I'm here at an, just, it's weird.。
And so there's so much information。
that needs to be handed to the doctor.。
And finally, you go through it。
and you go through three nurses.。
And finally, after 45 minutes, the doctor comes in。
and you know exactly what's wrong with you.。
And finally, he comes in and he says,。
"Hey, what's wrong?"。
And you say, "Well, I'm just not doing well."。
(congregation laughing)。
It's like, I gathered, you're in my office.。
Can you be a little more specific?。
"Well, you know, I'm just, I'm hurting."。
(congregation laughing)。
Okay, how about, can you like, can you show me where?。
"Well, I don't really wanna glorify it。
"by talking about it."。
(congregation laughing)。
I mean, so, do you, I mean, do you want help?。
I mean, do you, like, I'm here to help you.。
Do you really want help?。
The answer is, man, if you're talking like that, you don't.。
I promise you don't.。
Here's what you do when you're hurting and you want help.。
You walk in and you say, "Hey, I've got some lower back pain.。
"It's really aching me, and I've got some nerve pain。
"because of it that's going down my left leg,。
"so I'm having reduced mobility."。
And you can put any machine on me you want,。
X-ray, MRI, I'd rather not pay, but I know I got to。
'cause I need to get the care that I need.。
And so, I'll point, like, I'll show you the spot.。
I mean, the doctor's going like, "Whoa, whoa, whoa,。
"don't show yet."。
And so, you're like, "Hey, let me show you where it hurts."。
Okay?。
And so, if you want help, if you want help,。
then you're gonna have to point to where it hurts.。
And so, if you've got a bruised conscience,。
and I know that's the last thing.。
If you have a bruised conscience, I've walked through this.。
If you have a bruised conscience from sexual sin,。
from a sexual past, the last thing you want。
is to bring another person in and say, "Hey, look at that."。
Of course you don't wanna do that.。
It's not, not, not easy, but it's simple,。
and it's necessary, right?。
Acknowledge your sin fully.。
Let's go back to the text, verse four.。
"Against you, you only have I sinned。
"and done what is evil in your sight."。
Which is a little confusing, right?。
Against you only?。
It feels like you just had an affair with somebody。
and then killed her husband.。
That feels like you sinned against more people than God.。
And so, when he says, "You only,"。
he doesn't mean exclusively, right?。
He means especially.。
This is superlative language, hyperbole, if you will,。
not literal.。
"Against you, you only, especially you, God,。
"have I sinned and done what's evil in your sight."。
So you're right in your verdict,。
and you're justified when you judge.。
God, if you judge me, you're right.。
I don't just feel guilty, I am guilty, God.。
And then he starts to contrast himself with God.。
Do you hear that?。
"Surely I was sinful at birth."。
"Sinful from the time my mother conceived me,。
"yet you desired faithfulness even in the womb."。
You taught me wisdom in that secret place.。
Meaning, God, you've always been wise.。
I've always been prone to folly, always.。
You made a wisdom available to me from day one.。
I always chose ignorance.。
He's being honest, right?。
And he's contrasting himself with God,。
and he realizes there's a huge gap.。
And so he acknowledges it sinfully,。
and here comes a key transition.。
He starts now to make requests.。
Pay attention with me to what he actually asks for.。
He's gonna make six requests,。
and the sixth one's gonna be a summary。
of the previous five, verse seven.。
"Cleanse me with hyssop,"。
which is a branch they use to clean things.。
You can read about it in Leviticus if you want to,。
Leviticus 14.。
"Cleanse me with hyssop, and I will be clean.。
"Wash me, and I will be whiter than snow.。
"Let me hear joy and gladness.。
"Let the bones you have crushed rejoice.。
"Hide your face from my sins.。
"Blot out all my iniquity.。
"Create in me."。
Create in me a pure heart, God.。
Renew a steadfast spirit within me.。
"Do not cast me from your presence,。
"or take your Holy Spirit from me.。
"Restore to me."。
Here's your summary,。
so if you wanna circle the second statement tonight,。
underneath verse three is verse 12.。
"Restore to me the joy of your salvation.。
"Restore to me the joy of your salvation,。
"and grant me a willing spirit to sustain me."。
He says, "Restore to me the joy of your salvation."。
The word choice is important,。
and the word order is important.。
You know, let's think for a second。
about what he didn't pray for.。
He never prayed in any of those six petitions,。
those six requests, those six asks.。
He didn't pray ever for his behavior to be curbed.。
Not one time.。
He did not say,。
"God, will you please never help,。
"will you help me to never do that again, God, ever?"。
It's not a bad prayer, it's just not what he prayed.。
"God, will you please help the direction of my life,。
"help me not to walk that direction,。
"help me not to walk that direction."。
He doesn't pray anything behavioral at all.。
He prays about the internal person.。
Do you see that?。
He says, "Give me a clean heart,。
"give me joy and gladness.。
"Restore to me the joy of your salvation."。
That really matters,。
because if you spend your whole life with God。
trying to curb your own behavior。
and not ever dealing with the desire。
that's driving the behavior,。
you're gonna drive yourself crazy.。
And it doesn't work, by the way.。
And so David doesn't go to God and say,。
"God, will you please help me to not,。
"next time I see a woman bathing, God,。
"will you please help me not have an affair with her。
"and kill her husband?"。
Like, got it.。
That's not the kind of things that he's praying.。
He's saying, "God, will you make David,。
"will you make the man on the outside。
"match the man on the inside?。
"Will you make the man on the inside。
"match the man you want him to be?。
"Will you create in me, God, a delight?。
"Will you create in me a delight in your salvation?"。
And so he doesn't pray for his own behavior to be curbed,。
he prays that internally he would delight in God。
because delight is gonna determine direction.。
Belief is going to drive behavior.。
And so he doesn't focus on the latter or the outside,。
he focuses on the inside.。
"God, will you make me new on the inside?。
"Because I know the behavior will take care of itself。
"when you do that.。
"And when you make me new on the inside,。
"when you give me a right spirit,。
"when you create in me a clean heart, oh God,。
"what's gonna happen is I'll look at sin,。
"I'll look at sin like at it,。
"like it's the disgusting trap that it is.。
"I'll see it for what it is, I'll recognize it.。
"So create in me, God, a clean heart, a pure heart."。
So that's the first observation。
from asking for the joy of salvation。
is he's not asking for behavioral change,。
he's asking for internal change。
that will then overflow inevitably into behavior.。
And secondly, he doesn't say, look at verse 12,。
"It doesn't say, 'Restore to me salvation.'"。
It doesn't say, "God, make me your son again.。
"God, make me your follower again.。
"God, let me back into your family, please, please, please."。
It doesn't say that.。
He assumes that he still has salvation.。
You see that?。
He assumes that his relationship with God。
has not disappeared.。
He assumes that he is still beloved by God。
and that at some future date,。
God is gonna preserve him in such a way。
as to bring him through trial and through judgment。
and act favorably towards him,。
even at David's lowest, darkest moment,。
even after his worst moments。
that everybody would rather forget.。
He is 100% confident that God is still the savior。
and preserver of his life and always will be.。
"Surely goodness and mercy will follow me。
"all the days of my life,。
"and I'll dwell in the house of the Lord forever."。
The same guy wrote those words.。
And so he didn't freak out after sin。
and think that he's not saved.。
That's not what happened.。
Instead, he's confident in the grace of God.。
He's confident that he is trusting God。
and he knows that God will bring him through.。
So he says, "Instead, restore to me。
"the joy of your salvation,。
"not restore to me salvation."。
What's that mean?。
It means that after you've sinned sexually,。
here's a prayer you can take right out of your journal。
and throw it away and put it in the trash can。
and never pray it again.。
"God, will you let me be a Christian again?"。
You never have to pray that.。
If you're a believer in Christ already,。
you've trusted in Christ for the forgiveness of your sins,。
you know that there's a God in heaven。
who is really real, he really loves you,。
he really sent his son to die。
and pay for all of your sins,。
sexual and otherwise,。
and that by trusting in him, you can be secure forever.。
Like if you're there and you believe that。
and then you sin sexually, guess what?。
You didn't undo.。
You didn't undo what God's done.。
Salvation is God's work and you can't undo it.。
There's nothing you can do to make God love you anymore.。
Nothing you can do to make him love you any less.。
No behavior that you can take.。
If you have trusted in Christ。
for the forgiveness of your sins,。
there's not a single thing you can do。
to take yourself out of his hand.。
David knows that and he prays,。
therefore, out of a relationship with God,。
not for a relationship with God, out of one.。
That's a huge distinction.。
So the second point tonight,。
if you're looking for what to do after sexual sin。
is simply ask for the joy of salvation.。
Ask for the joy of salvation.。
Ask to be delighted.。
Ask God if he'll help you be delighted。
by the fact that he has never given up on you.。
Ask God to remind you of the fact that he's still for you.。
Ask God to remind you of the fact。
that you're still his child and Christ still died for you。
and that, by the way, when Christ died,。
all of your sins were still future。
and so your future sins aren't gonna mess。
with anything that he's done for you.。
And so why don't you ask him to remind you of those things。
and make you happy about it?。
There's a response.。
And this is where David's nerve gets unbelievable.。
I love this next verse.。
It's my favorite verse in the Psalm.。
I cannot believe the nerve。
that he comes with right out of this.。
He's just sinned.。
He acknowledges the sin fully.。
He asks for the delight in God and the salvation of God.。
And then in verse 13, he says these words.。
Then I will teach.。
Then I'll teach?。
Yeah, then I'll teach.。
It's like, wait, don't you mean then you'll humbly beg。
for the husband of the wife that you stole?。
Doesn't it mean you'll beg for his boys。
not to come kill you?。
I mean, doesn't it mean you'll lay low for a while?。
No, no, no, that's not what I mean.。
What I mean is then I'll teach, then I'll lead,。
then I'll talk, then I'll share,。
then I'll continue to do what God wanted me to do all along.。
Then I'll teach.。
Let's finish this sentence.。
Then I will teach transgressors your ways。
so that sinners will turn back to you.。
What a huge idea.。
Then I will teach transgressors your ways.。
You know, transgressors, the ones like me.。
Then I will teach them your ways so that sinners,。
this is gonna have an effect on other people.。
Do you see that?。
David is convinced that his story,。
including the last, most recent, embarrassing chapter。
is gonna be used by God。
and that it's gonna come through David's mouth.。
He believes that even the grossest of sins,。
even the most recent, even the most embarrassing,。
even the dirtiest, everything that's happened to this point,。
David is convinced that he is still going。
to have his story used by God.。
He knows it.。
That's why he says,。
"Then I'll teach transgressors your ways."。
And then he's confident of the effect of it.。
Other people are gonna be strengthened by it.。
Then other sinners will turn back to you.。
That's shocking.。
Imagine if a pastor was found out,。
that he was, think of a big name pastor, right?。
And it was found out that he was having。
an adulterous affair.。
And then in his press release, he said,。
"Yeah, and then in my sermon on Sunday,。
"I'm gonna talk about."。
It's like, hey, buddy,。
I don't think you need to be planning your next sermon.。
I think you need to be giving up platforms,。
not trying to hang onto one.。
But for David, he's so convinced of a relationship with God,。
so convinced of a relationship with God,。
that whether he's getting to speak to 80 or 8,000,。
he's gonna tell his story。
of the way God redeemed his life from the pit,。
even though there was sin to be acknowledged,。
God restored to him the joy of salvation,。
and now I'm gonna talk about that.。
David just does not believe the lies we believe after sin.。
That's what's happening here.。
David does not, you ever heard a lie。
in your own mind after you've sinned?。
Let me show you some of them.。
Here's some mourning after shame lies。
that come into our mind。
in a Psalm 51 truth to combat it.。
Okay, how about this lie?。
Number one, religious ritual will get me back to God.。
You ever felt that?。
Oh, I've sinned, you know, church three times,。
nine Hail Marys, I'll be all right.。
That's nowhere in Psalm 51.。
Instead, if I'm reading Psalm 51 right,。
it means God doesn't want sacrifices,。
he wants a humble and lowly spirit,。
as we'll see in just a moment.。
If you read down, that's what it says,。
he wants a humble and lowly spirit.。
He doesn't want sacrifices,。
he doesn't want you to religiously ritual。
your way back to God.。
How about this one?。
He's looking for perfection.。
No, he's not, he's looking for devotion.。
I'll go do church like nothing is wrong.。
There's a good idea.。
Don't go do church like nothing's wrong.。
Admit everything is wrong and then ask for help.。
Acknowledge, right?。
I need to make promises to God.。
You ever felt that way?。
You wake up, you're like, oh man, okay,。
what in the world can I tell God。
to make sure that we're on the same page again?。
Like he can't hear what you're thinking.。
Like you're gonna have a meeting with yourself。
and then you're gonna go back to God。
and y'all are gonna figure it out。
and you're really gonna give him the sales pitch。
on this one.。
That's not gonna happen.。
(laughing)。
I need a self-improved heart.。
I need to just go away for a while,。
I'll improve myself and then I'll come back to God.。
No, God wants a broken heart.。
That's what the Psalm says if you look down.。
How about this one?。
God's done with me.。
You ever heard that one?。
God's done with you.。
He's done.。
He's done with you.。
This is not the last time.。
The last time was the last time.。
You get no more last times.。
You're done, right?。
He's never gonna ease your guilty conscience.。
He's never gonna ease the earthly consequences of your sin.。
It's just your future's just out there waiting for you。
like a minefield and you're gonna have to walk through it。
and it's gonna blow up when you get there.。
God's done with you.。
You ever heard that?。
David's not convinced of that.。
That's not what Psalm 51 says.。
Instead, it says God's gonna use me.。
Then I'll teach transgressors.。
That's what that means.。
Restore to me the joy of your salvation.。
Then I'm gonna open my mouth from the rooftops。
and I'm gonna talk about what you've done for me, God.。
He's not buying the lie.。
I hate myself for what I did.。
You ever felt that way?。
You ever looked at something you didn't wanna look at?。
Touched something you didn't need to touch?。
And then afterward you feel like,。
I hate myself for what I did.。
I cannot believe what I just did.。
I don't even wanna look at me.。
No one else needs to look at me.。
I don't even wanna look at me.。
I hate myself.。
God loves you despite what you just did.。
There's a truth.。
God loves you despite what you just did,。
whether recent or a decade ago.。
I can't tell people about this.。
Gotta go hush.。
Gotta go quiet.。
I could never tell anybody about this.。
It's too embarrassing.。
It's too dark.。
It's too nasty.。
It's too bad.。
It's too, it's too, it's too.。
David doesn't do that.。
He doesn't think that.。
He assumes that after,。
and only after he's acknowledged sin for what it is,。
and only after God's upheld him with a willing spirit,。
then he'll open his mouth.。
He assumes that he's gonna tell.。
He assumes that.。
Amazing.。
And so what do you do?。
There's one, two, three, right?。
It wasn't given to us in one, two, three form.。
This is a poem, right?。
It's poetry.。
But there's a very clear one, two, three。
about what to do in response to a plagued conscience。
because of sexual sin.。
One, acknowledge your sin fully before yourself,。
before God, and before the appropriate other people.。
Two, ask for the joy of salvation.。
If you don't know what salvation is,。
if you haven't yet begun a relationship with Christ,。
what that means is, as I explained just a moment ago,。
it means that believing that there is a God,。
that he's real, that he loves you,。
that he sent his son to die,。
to take care of all of the sins in your place。
that you should have died for,。
instead dying the death you deserve,。
and that by faith in him, by faith in him,。
by trust in him alone, you can receive forgiveness。
and guaranteed salvation,。
that you can ask for joy in response to.。
Acknowledge your sin fully,。
then ask for the joy of salvation in your life.。
And then thirdly, allow God to use your story.。
Why wouldn't you allow God to use your story?。
I know what it's like to hate your story, by the way.。
I used to hate mine.。
And then I realized hating my own story。
is like looking down at my left hand。
and hating my own left hand,。
and thinking, man, I really wish God。
would've given me another one of those.。
That doesn't work, what a waste of time, right?。
Instead, David says, in this order,。
I'm gonna acknowledge sin,。
I'm gonna ask for the joy of salvation,。
and then I'm gonna act boldly.。
I'm gonna allow God to use my story.。
Now, if you skip one of those steps,。
you're gonna wind up in trouble.。
Why?。
Because if you skip to, oh, I'm just gonna talk,。
I'm gonna tell my story,。
and you do that before you acknowledge your sin fully,。
what's gonna happen is, you're gonna be fake。
and you're gonna be flippant.。
You're gonna be the person who commits serious sin,。
and then you wake up the next morning,。
and you go, oh, there's grace for that.。
Don't be that person, okay?。
If it's sin, call it sin.。
Look it in the face, right?。
And if you skip the second step,。
ask for the joy of salvation,。
what's gonna happen is,。
on the opposite end of the spectrum,。
if you skip the, God, will you restore。
a right spirit within me,。
what's gonna happen is,。
you're gonna be downtrodden and guilty,。
and you'll never get out。
if you don't ask God for the joy of salvation.。
And so then, and only then,。
to whatever people that God's given you to speak to,。
tell 'em, tell 'em what God did for you.。
Tell 'em what God saved you from,。
which, by the way, you can't do。
unless you talk about where you were.。
Tell it, share it, be strengthened.。
Do you know, it says,。
"Then I'll teach transgressors your ways,。
"and sinners will come back to you."。
Your story, whatever it is,。
it does not matter what it is,。
and I know the temptation here。
is to think that you're terminally unique.。
It's like, I'm the only one of my kind in this room.。
Let me help you.。
You're not the only one of your kind in this room.。
And God will use your story, just like the rest,。
to encourage the people to your left and to your right.。
And so, whoever God's given you an audience with,。
whoever God's given you an audience with, be ready.。
If you've been strengthened。
by the provision that he's made for you。
in the cross, in Christ,。
if you've been strengthened by that,。
and you're ready to acknowledge what he's done for you,。
which, by the way, entails you acknowledging。
where you were apart from him,。
if you're ready to do that,。
why don't you tell some people。
about what God's done for you。
so that he can get the praise for what he did?。
And sinners will come back to him.。
The people around you will respond.。
Let me close by sharing some ways that,。
one particular way, a key conversation in my life,。
where this actually happened to me.。
About a year, nearly a year,。
into working here at Watermark,。
I was still a resident at the time.。
I was traveling with JP, who,。
if it's your first night here tonight,。
he directs the porch, and I was traveling with him.。
He was speaking at a Christian camp.。
I was not speaking at the camp.。
I was carrying the bags and trying to tell a joke or two.。
And so, while we were there,。
we were just hanging out, and I woke up one morning,。
and I had what Psalm 51, one and two。
describe in the guilty conscience of a person。
who has just sinned terribly.。
So my own past was pornography, sex, drugs, and alcohol.。
I was exposed to all that before I was 16 years old.。
Went through a porn addiction when I was in college.。
Partied, all of it.。
Was creative about it.。
And I woke up one morning while we were at this,。
we were at this Christian camp,。
and I woke up one morning, and I looked out the window,。
and I thought, this is, what am I doing here?。
Like, why do I belong here?。
I don't belong here.。
This is a place where God's people。
come to do God's business.。
I'm not God's man.。
How did I sneak into this?。
And then JP, I wake up, and I see him over there,。
and I go, I'm thinking, this guy interviewed me。
and gave me a shot.。
Like, he gave me a chance.。
Like, he's gonna wonder, like,。
why I didn't share all this with him in detail,。
like, when he interviewed me.。
Like, I gotta tell him, like, where I've been,。
and I know I'm the only one of my,。
like, I'm convinced at that point,。
I'm the only one of my kind.。
I'm, like, scared for my job, I'm scared for everything.。
Like, God wants me to, like, tell people how to be pure.。
Like, I'm not pure.。
Never have been, right?。
And so I am scared, legitimately scared.。
I work on a church staff, and I got a terrible past.。
And so I walked up to JP,。
and I'm sure he saw shame from a mile away.。
I had my chin on my chest, and I was,。
it was very clear that I did not like being the guy。
with my story.。
I did not like being the guy who had been where I'd been.。
I said, JP, man, I wanna just share some stuff with you.。
And so I downloaded with him everything。
that I just downloaded with you in detail.。
And I got done, and I thought for sure。
that he was gonna look at me like I was from another planet.。
How in the world could I be so messed up?。
How in the world could I have deceived him?。
How in the world, how in the world?。
There's no disappointments coming.。
And instead, he said, hey, Garrett, listen,。
I wanna tell you something.。
Don't ever be anybody except the guy with that story.。
Don't ever try to be anybody except the guy with that story.。
In fact, I want you to tell it,。
and I'll tell you mine, I'll go first.。
I walked away from that meeting,。
and I felt like I was 10 feet tall.。
I knew that I would never pass on a chance。
to share my story in full.。
I knew that I was not gonna let shame ruin my life.。
I walked away for the first time,。
knowing that even though, fully for the first time,。
that even though there was sin to be acknowledged,。
and there was shame that had been had,。
and shame that had been walked through,。
that I could be confident for the first time。
in future grace and kindness toward me from God.。
And all it took for God to get that message to me。
was for another person with a past and a story。
to step in and go first.。
Then I will teach transgressors,。
and other sinners will come back to you.。
You see how that works?。
You see how when one person gets strong,。
you see how when one person is a brokenhearted sinner。
who's been made glad by the grace of God,。
when they step forward and allow God to use their story,。
you see what it does to a room of people?。
And so our vision here, okay,。
the reason we meet on Tuesday nights,。
the reason the church gathers,。
is not so that we can create a city full of people。
who don't have extramarital sex.。
Dear God, I hope our vision's bigger than that.。
And if we eliminated extramarital sex,。
believe me, life would go better,。
and there'd be less spiritual death in the city.。
There's no question about it.。
But that's not the key goal.。
The goal would be, instead, that we're a group of people。
that when they're brokenhearted over their own sin,。
they're bold about it.。
And when they're guilty, they're gutsy about it.。
And whenever they've got nowhere to turn,。
they turn to the grace of God and they plead.。
I am guilty.。
And they say, God, but you died for me,。
and I'm confident of your future action。
in favor of me, not against me.。
And so guess what?。
Because you've made me so secure,。
no group of people seeing me as I am。
could ever make me insecure.。
So guess what?。
What I'm gonna do is I'm gonna speak。
exactly what you've done for me.。
I'm gonna be bold when I'm brokenhearted.。
I'll be gutsy when I'm guilty.。
I'll let you use my story.。
I'm not gonna sit there with a secret。
in church ever again or in any other circle.。
That's over.。
Instead, I'm gonna talk about the way you gave me joy。
despite the sin that I needed still to acknowledge.。
I want you to imagine with me for a second。
that whenever we are done here tonight,。
that you walk out these doors,。
or you walk out of the Ridgely Theater。
if you're in Fort Worth,。
or you put down your iPhone。
if you're watching somewhere remotely,。
or you walk out if you're hanging out down there in Houston,。
and you walk out,。
and instead of being afraid of your own story。
and being plagued by sexual guilt。
that you didn't even know was there,。
what if instead of that,。
what if you acknowledged everything that you'd ever done。
before God and before some other trusted person?。
You begged God to give you the joy,。
this first certainty that he's for you in Christ,。
and the willingness and the wherewithal to trust him,。
and then the joy that should come with that.。
And then why don't you tell what he's done for you?。
When that happens, this will be a different place.。
This will be a different world.。
That's the truth.。
So that's what we're aiming at.。
And that's what's available to us.。
And if you are willing,。
if you're willing to go on that journey,。
and it's a scary one, believe me,。
if you're willing to go on that journey,。
you won't just exhale in your relationship with God,。
you'll talk about it.。
Let's pray that we'd be those people.。
Thank you, God, that you've acted for us。
and not against us in Christ.。
Thank you, God, that you didn't condemn us。
when we condemned ourselves.。
Thank you, God, that though there's nothing about us。
that's lovable, not a single thing about us。
that's lovable at times, you've bridged the gap.。
You came for us.。
There's no secret, there's no information。
in any of these rooms that you don't know, not one bit.。
Not the things we wanted, not the things we did.。
Not the fact that there's a section of us here tonight。
that never behaviorally did these things,。
and we sit there proud, thinking we're clean.。
It's not true either.。
God, will you humble us all before you,。
and then will you lift us up.。
We don't wanna lift ourselves up.。
We wanna allow you, God, to be the lifter of our head,。
to get our chin off of our chest,。
to be strengthened by your salvation and have joy in it.。
And then allow you to use our story.。
In Jesus' name.。
In Jesus' name.。
