You, my fellow Americans, ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country.。
[Music]。
Some of the band is going to stay up here because we're going to do something a little bit different tonight.。
But just as we were thinking through election day and preparing for, you know, kind of an unusual evening,。
there's a story that I was reminded of from God's Word.。
It's a story that's found in Joshua, chapter 3, and it's one of those stories that is such a reminder in Joshua and the people of God.。
I'll explain even kind of the context for the book of Joshua.。
One of those moments where they were reminded, when things feel out of control and chaotic, remember, remember who your God is.。
Remember that He's at work when you can't see it and you can't connect the dots.。
Remember, everything in this world full of brokenness is still in His hands.。
If you're familiar with the book of Joshua, Old Testament is about the nation of Israel and God's relationship with the nation of Israel.。
God shows up in the book of Genesis to a guy named Abraham.。
Father Abraham had many sons.。
God shows up, says, "I'm going to make a great nation out of you, the nation of Israel."。
Abraham has these 12 sons, and over and over -- or Abraham has one son.。
He has a son that has many, many sons.。
And God builds this incredible nation, and He grows this people group.。
They find themselves in Egypt, and they're enslaved for 400 years.。
And God had promised, "I'm going to build this great nation.。
You're going to have just this promised land that I'm going to give you."。
And 400 years go by, and a lot of the Jewish people are going, "Maybe God has forgotten us."。
I'm looking around, and all I know is slavery.。
All I know is being oppressed.。
It doesn't seem like we're the chosen people of God.。
And if we are, I'm not even sure I want to be the chosen people of God.。
And then a baby boy named Moses is born.。
Moses grows up, and God says, "You're going to leave my people out of bondage."。
Moses goes. You may have seen the movie, "The Prince of Egypt."。
He goes to Pharaoh and says, "Let my people go."。
Eventually, after a handful of plagues, the people of Israel are free.。
It's one thing to be free, but they don't have any place to go to.。
They're a nation of a wandering people group.。
They don't have a land.。
And because of decisions that they made in ways they didn't trust God,。
they wandered in the desert for 40 years, waiting to be brought into this promised destination.。
God said, "I have a place for the people of God."。
And Moses is like George Washington to the nation of Israel.。
I mean, he's the guy who set them free.。
He's the guy that founded the nation.。
He's the guy that gave them the law.。
And they get up to the edge of the promised land.。
They're about to enter in. They've been waiting years and years.。
Their great-great-great-great-great-grandparents have been waiting for this day.。
They get up to the promised land edge, and God says, "Moses, you're not going in.。
Your time is done."。
And Moses passes away.。
And God says, "Joshua, you are going to lead the people of God."。
Now, to us, we're like, "Oh, we get the story. Moses was cool and Joshua was cool."。
This would have been huge shoes to fill.。
You're filling in for the George Washington/Abraham Lincoln combo,。
the guy who would strike a--with his staff, a rock, and water would come out.。
He parted the ocean.。
God threw him, parted the ocean with his staff.。
I mean, those are big shoes to fill.。
If you're filling in for a guy who can tap rocks and make water come out, it's not an easy game.。
And Joshua is told that he's going to lead the people of Israel.。
And the nation is going, "Are we sure, God? We're almost in.。
Like, just let Moses take us in."。
And God says, "Joshua is going to take you into the Promised Land."。
And he gives him an order.。
He says, "Joshua, I want you to take the people,。
and I want you to walk up to the edge of this river that was separating them from going into the Promised Land."。
And the story that we're about to read, it reflects those moments of what you do.。
The reminder, Joshua is about to get in the people of Israel,。
God, that God is always in control.。
He's always at work.。
And every little turn in the story is meant to point us to him.。
So Joshua is told, "Hey, I've got to get two million people,。
and I want you to take them up to this river's edge called Jordan.。
And on the other side of the river is the Promised Land.。
You guys could march a long, long way around and not have to go through that,。
but I want you to walk right up to the river's edge,。
and I want you to look at the land that I'm about to give you."。
So Joshua goes, and he tells the people we're about to go to the river's edge,。
and then God gives him another command.。
And here's what he says in Joshua chapter 3, verse 8.。
"Give this command, Joshua, to the priests, those who carry the Ark of the Covenant."。
The Ark of the Covenant doesn't mean a lot to us.。
The Ark of the Covenant would have been the visible representation of God's presence to the nation of Israel.。
The most valuable thing they had.。
They held the Ten Commandments in there.。
The most valuable thing that they had, and it represented,。
"Hey, God who exists is on our side. He's with us. His presence is here."。
The most valuable thing we have.。
And God says, "I want you to tell the priests to take the Ark of the Covenant,"。
which is this big piece of wood or wooden box, if you will,。
"and when they reach the banks of the Jordan River,。
take a few steps into the river and stop there."。
Joshua gives this instruction, and the priests must have thought,。
"Wait a second. What? The new guy in charge is telling us to take the most valuable thing that we have。
and step into, as we're about to see, a rushing river with it?。
A river that we can't possibly swim across or even get across,。
and you want us to begin to walk out in the water?。
What in the world?"。
But Joshua gives them the command.。
This is what God said to do.。
Verse 14, "So the people left their camp to cross the Jordan River,。
and the priests who were carrying the Ark of the Covenant, they went ahead of them.。
It was harvest season."。
Your translation may say, "It was flood season."。
"And the Jordan was overflowing at its banks."。
The Jordan River. Here's a map of the Jordan River, just so you can kind of see what's going on.。
The people of God have been told, "Hey, we're going to cross over the Jordan River.。
At the very bottom of it is the Dead Sea, and there's somewhere right near the city of Jericho,。
and they're on this side."。
And God says, "All the land to the left of the Jordan River is going to be yours,。
and you're going to cross over it."。
But they come during the worst time of the year to come.。
God says, "You guys have been wandering for 40 years, and I want you right now。
to go prepare to cross over the Jordan River."。
Why do I say it's the worst time? Because it was during harvest season.。
What does the river look like during harvest season?。
Here's a picture of today, during the flood season or harvest season,。
where it is a rushing water, rushing more than 10 miles an hour.。
It swells from 50 feet wide to 150 feet wide.。
It's impossible to touch the ground.。
It just overflows during this one small window a year.。
And God, it's not like he needed to go during that time.。
They've been wandering 40 years, and God says, "Right now,。
I want you to bring the people and take a few steps into the water。
and tell the archer or tell the priest to move in to the Jordan River."。
And here's what happens.。
"As soon as the feet of the priests who are carrying the ark。
touch the water's edge,。
the water above that point began backing up。
a great distance away at a town called Adam."。
We can't find, side note, Adam on a map today.。
The only way we know it is because of the reference to the city it's by,。
which is near Zarethan.。
But the source of the water was coming from this town called Adam.。
"And as soon as the priest stepped in,。
it began to be dried up at the source of the water.。
At that point, the water that was below flowed on to the Dead Sea。
until it was just the riverbed."。
This was not like the dividing water of parting the Red Sea,。
if you're familiar with that, where Moses goes up and says, "Divide the water."。
This was a moment where it would be like similar to letting the water out of a bathtub,。
where just in a moment, priests step in.。
They begin to see, "I think some of the water is coming out."。
In other words, it stopped miles away.。
Some scholars estimate it would have taken two hours。
where the priests of the Ark of the Covenant are just standing there,。
thinking like they're holding something that would have looked almost like a coffin,。
or people bearing a coffin at his funeral.。
And they're standing there for two hours, and they watch the water.。
And Joshua's sitting there, newly elected leader, going,。
"Man, I hope this works.。
I really hope that was God talking.。
I don't know if that's the devil telling me to tell them to take the Ark of the Covenant。
into the riverbed."。
And slowly but surely, the water dissipates.。
Then all of the people, two million of them,。
crossed over near the town of Jericho.。
Meanwhile, the priests who were carrying the Ark of the Lord's Covenant。
stood on dry ground in the middle of the riverbed as the people passed by.。
They waited there until the whole nation of Israel had crossed by。
on the Jordan, on dry ground.。
So the nation, one by one, walk across。
and are able to cross the thing that was keeping them。
out of entering into God's promised destination for them.。
The barrier is stopped because the Ark, this wooden box,。
containing, symbolizing the presence of God,。
allows the barrier to be removed.。
And one by one, they walk over.。
And what happens next, we don't have time to go into,。
but it's such a beautiful story.。
In Joshua chapter 4, they all get over to the other side.。
They're about to be in the promised land.。
And God says, "I want you to remember。
what I've done for you this day and what I do in general.。
So here's what I want you to do.。
While the riverbed's still dry, I want you to take 12 big, strong guys,。
the guys you put on the football team, Joshua,。
take those guys, tell them to go get 12 huge stones。
out of the riverbed and pick them up.。
And on the side where the promised land you're about to enter is,。
I want you to build a 12-stone monument.。
And here's why I want you to build it."。
It's so fascinating.。
"I want you to put them and stack them up together。
so that every time you and your children,。
and your children's children, walk by those stones and they go,。
'That's kind of funny. Like, why are there 12 random rocks there?'。
You tell them of what I did for you this day.。
That your God provides, your God makes a way,。
your God is the one you trust in, not yourself,。
not your circumstances."。
And they build this memorial.。
And then after that, the nation goes and they begin to make camp.。
They begin to set up campfires and they're putting their tents out。
and you've got millions of people, as far as you can see.。
There's camels and there's horses and people,。
and they're setting up their kids and they're getting used to, like,。
this is going to be where we're eventually going to live.。
And Joshua is taking the whole thing in.。
He's still a little uncertain over what's going to happen next,。
so he decides, "Man, I'm going to go scout out the land.。
I just want to make sure there's no enemies nearby.。
I want to go see what's kind of around us."。
And we're told that he leaves the camp.。
In Joshua 5, verse 13, it says,。
"When Joshua was near the town of Jericho,。
he looked up and he saw a man standing right in front of him。
with his sword and hand drawn.。
Joshua went up to him and he demanded, 'Are you a friend or a foe?。
Are you with us or against us?'。
The man replied, 'Neither one.。
I am the commander of the Lord's army.'。
At this, Joshua fell on his face to the ground in reverence.。
'I am at your command,' Joshua said.。
'What do you want your servant to do?'。
The commander of the Lord's army replied, 'Take off your sandals,。
for the place that you're standing is holy.'。
Joshua did as he was told."。
The commander of the Lord's army,。
scholars have pointed out for years and years,。
that most likely is the pre-incarnate Christ.。
It's basically Jesus before Jesus came and lived on this planet.。
That it is the commander, it is the one, the ruler。
of the Lord's army in heaven。
and the ruler of this world.。
And Joshua is looking face to face。
with the angel of the Lord.。
The angel of the Lord says, "Take off your sandals."。
I mean, when you read that, you're like, "That's kind of a funny thing.。
He's on holy ground because he's in the presence of God."。
The angel, the commander, if you will, begins to explain,。
"Hey, here's what you're going to do.。
You're going to go," and he gives him basically the marching orders,。
"You're going to take down the city of Jericho.。
This is the land I've promised you.。
And you're going to go march around it."。
You're familiar with that story, you've heard,。
but they go out and they bring the marching band。
and they march around the city of Jericho。
and the wall's top of them.。
And Joshua was reminded in that moment, out, just him,。
looking at whatever that commander looked like.。
Joshua, you think you're in control,。
but there's ultimately one who is higher in authority than you.。
And you may be the commander of things down here,。
but there is a commander of all things under who you fall,。
under whose authority you live.。
He's the one who's over all authority at all times,。
in all places, and everywhere, and you can trust.。
And ultimately, he's in command of the circumstances。
and of the people and of the leaders in this world.。
And Joshua learned the lesson that day.。
He also learned that God has invited us in every circumstance。
that we are to trust in him,。
not to put our trust in our ability。
and what we hope could happen。
and what we and some other friends think could happen,。
but to put our trust in him,。
not in our giftings or our job or our health,。
to put our trust in him.。
Why would you tell them to come up to the riverbank,。
to come up to the Jordan River during the worst time possible?。
Other times you could possibly jump on top of a horse,。
you could swim across,。
you could do something to get the people across,。
and you tell them to come up to the riverbank's edge。
in the midst of the single time during the year。
where it would be impossible to cross,。
unless you're involved, God.。
Because what he wanted to communicate to Joshua。
and to the people of Israel, and to me, and to you,。
is he's inviting you to live this life,。
not trusting in your circumstances or yourself.。
That is a recipe for continually being disappointed,。
depressed, finding despair,。
but put your confidence in my ability to provide.。
Trust what I tell you to do,。
and you'll experience my provision, my protection,。
and the path towards the life that you want.。
But you've got to trust and you've got to surrender to me,。
and you've got to say, "God, if you say it,。
"what I'm going to do, I'm going to do it.。
"No matter when things look crazy around me,。
"I'm going to trust in what you say。
"and what you've done and who you are."。
And Joshua learned that day.。
This is why some people, when they walk through life,。
the more they grow in their faith and their trust in God,。
it's like the more, no matter what they face,。
they have this incredible peace that marks them.。
They can face the worst layoff of all time,。
and they trust God, and they're like, "God is good.。
"I don't like this, but he's in control,。
"and you know what, I trust him."。
And then there's other people。
facing the exact same thing and they're freaking out.。
I went this past Friday, and we went on a double date,。
my wife and I and some longtime close friends of ours,。
and we went to Six Flags.。
My wife's like, "Happy place is Six Flags."。
She is one of those funny people who is like。
so risk-averse in everything in life,。
except for like the worst of all times rollercoaster.。
She's like, "Yes, this is the greatest."。
And so we went to Six Flags, and it was Fright Fest,。
which if you're not from Dallas,。
even if you are from Dallas, it's a trip.。
And so we're there, we're at Six Flags.。
It's like a fog machine overdose,。
and we're getting ready to go on the rollercoaster rides,。
and my wife is just freaking out.。
She's like, "Yes, let's go on the Superman, the crazy one,。
"and then the Batman, Joker," and she just like loves it.。
And I'm with one of my close friends。
who is like the entire, totally opposite.。
Like he's like, "I don't know if we should do that.。
"I'm gonna go get like a funnel cake or something."。
And he's like looking at the ride, and he's like,。
"Look, there's like a 16-year-old kid。
"switching the button over here.。
"And look, they've been closed six months.。
"Who's done the maintenance on this stuff?。
"Why would I even wanna pay to be freaked out right now?。
"I could have a heart attack."。
And just the contrast between the two of them。
could not be any different where I'm like,。
"Yo, bro, I mean, there's like a five-year-old。
"in front of us in line.。
"I think you're gonna be okay."。
And he's like, "I just, you know, it's not my thing."。
And the entire time, even on the ride,。
where my wife is like, "It's so funny."。
And apparently this is like a thing, you know,。
I guess among people, but certainly among women。
wired like my wife where they're like,。
"No risk, but yes!"。
Freaking out, hands up in the air.。
And that was her, but on the same ride,。
he was like, "Oh, no, no, no!。
"I'm freaking out!"。
They were in the same circumstance.。
They were literally sitting two feet apart,。
experiencing the exact same rush,。
the exact same speed, exact same velocity,。
exact same turns, exact thing, everything.。
One of them is totally at peace,。
and one of them is freaking out.。
What's the difference?。
One of them trusts the roller coaster.。
One of them trusts those who are behind。
and those who put together。
and those who created the roller coaster.。
They trust the ride, and the other one doesn't.。
This is why people can walk through。
horrific circumstances.。
Many in this room that are representative,。
people walking through, and it's like,。
"I found out at 34 I've got breast cancer."。
Or somebody who finds out at 27,。
"Hey, I've got a now autoimmune disease。
"that's gonna impact me for the rest of my life,。
"or I just lost my job from COVID.。
"Everything that I've been saving up for is all gone."。
But in that place,。
despite the circumstances being terrible,。
they go, "God's got a plan, and I trust Him."。
"And He's gonna bring good about from this,。
"and I don't like it, and I wouldn't have chose this,。
"but I trust Him.。
"I really believe He exists.。
"He's real.。
"He's at work, and I trust Him."。
And then somebody in that exact same circumstance,。
and they're walking through,。
and things aren't going the way that they want,。
and they just collapse.。
Their faith falls apart.。
What's the difference between those two people?。
On the turns and flips of life,。
one of them trusts the one who's behind all the movements,。
and one of them doesn't.。
And Joshua's message that he received。
could not have been more clear.。
Joshua, look at me.。
I don't want you.。
I don't want the people.。
I don't want anyone to trust in you。
or to trust in Moses。
or to trust in anything that you can do.。
I want you to trust in me,。
not in your leader, not in your abilities,。
not in how well you can speak,。
not in how well things are going,。
or how terrible.。
I want, look at me, Joshua.。
Trust in me.。
And that message rang loudly to the nation that day.。
And we live in a world where we are constantly,。
even as Christians, being told to put our trust。
in something else.。
And the message over and over in Scripture is,。
hey, no matter what happens,。
you do not have to fear the terror of the night,。
as Psalm 91 says.。
You are to trust in me.。
Put your confidence.。
I got it.。
I'm in control.。
No matter what happens, no matter what you face,。
listen to me, I got you.。
You can trust me.。
Trust what I've said in my word.。
Do these things.。
I don't let you down.。
When you live obediently to me,。
you're going to see it was worth it.。
It was better.。
You can trust me.。
And no matter what happens in an election day,。
at a local level, at a state level,。
at a national level, any of those things,。
God is in control.。
No one sits in the White House who ordains。
or is over all things.。
That is a role uniquely taken by God.。
And there's a leader for every national leader,。
and Joshua that day looked him eye to eye.。
And let me be clear, one day,。
if you're a follower of Christ,。
you're going to see him eye to eye.。
You're going to see the ultimate leader,。
the King of Kings, the leader of leaders,。
whose name is Jesus, who in Revelation,。
you're going to see him eye to eye,。
and it says his eyes are like fire.。
And all people will see.。
There is only one name.。
There's only one leader.。
There's only one person worthy of your worship,。
of living obediently to,。
and following and trusting with your life,。
and his name is Jesus.。
Joshua, whose name, oddly enough, means Jesus.。
I mean, Yeshua is the Hebrew name for Jesus.。
Yeshua is the Hebrew name for Joshua.。
Joshua saw it that day.。
And we've been invited as a people of God,。
no matter what's going on,。
and I know no matter who wins an election tonight,。
there's going to be a lot of people upset,。
a lot of people hurt, a lot of people confused,。
or sad, or any of those things.。
God has said, "Don't put your confidence in man.。
Put it in me.。
You can trust me."。
The hope for Christians。
is ultimately in the one。
who's over command of every heart in a second.。
God could save, if Joe Biden wins,。
God can save and awaken,。
if he hasn't had a relationship with Jesus,。
in a moment, he can make every single senator,。
every single president, every single mayor,。
every single governor,。
all of them radically followers of Jesus.。
And shame on me,。
or shame on anyone who doesn't fully believe that。
and have faith that that can happen.。
In a moment, he could do the same thing with Donald Trump,。
he could make him, in a moment, say,。
"I'm going to radically capture your heart,。
and you're going to surrender to me,。
and you will not be a ruler of this land。
who's not ruled by me in your heart."。
And he can do that.。
And as people of God, we've been reminded,。
we have access to the one who's in command of all things,。
and we can rest there.。
I love that he didn't say, "I'm on your side."。
I mean, he's talking the nation of Israel.。
If anybody, Joshua, should be like,。
"Hey, are you on our side or are you on their side?"。
And he's like, "Look, I'm not on either side.。
You need to wonder if you're on my side."。
That's what he says.。
Tony Evans said such a great line,。
that, look, as a reflection of this,。
and this, you know, essentially being Jesus in the text,。
that, hey, Jesus didn't come to take sides,。
he came to take over, and he's going to take over.。
So you don't need to worry if he's on your side,。
if he's on the side of Republicans,。
if he's on the side of Democrats.。
You need to make sure you are on his side.。
And you think through the lens of what is God's side。
as it relates to policies and issues and all that stuff,。
all of which is important, but the question is not,。
he's not here to take a side, he is here to take over,。
and we as the people of God need to make sure,。
man, I want to be on his side.。
And what he cares about, I care about.。
Ultimately, the story of Joshua。
and the people crossing over the Jordan River。
doesn't just, in the text, point to, like,。
how God is the leader of leaders.。
It points to the text, how this story is about something。
so much bigger and so much more important,。
and I'm about to close down,。
and we're going to have a chance to pray.。
This story is about, almost like no other story。
in the Old Testament that I know,。
in every turn points to Jesus.。
It's shocking.。
And if you read back through it and you think about it,。
almost in every way imaginable, you see the fingerprints.。
This story, the entire time, it was all pointing to Jesus.。
It's all pointing to him.。
What do I mean by that?。
You have a leader named Yeshua,。
which is the Hebrew name for Jesus.。
If Joshua lived and Jesus lived in the Greek translation,。
it would have been Jesus.。
And this man shows up, and God says,。
I'm going to have you be the one through whom。
the people of God are able to enter into。
the promised destination that I have for them.。
Much like us being promised that through the leader of Jesus。
we could enter into eternity, Joshua,。
you're going to, through you, be the person。
who allows them to enter into the promised land of God.。
And how are you going to do it?。
Through a piece of wood.。
The separation from the people of God。
and the promised destination of God.。
The separating barrier will be overcome by a piece of wood,。
and that wood is going to stop that barrier。
all the way back to its source, Adam.。
Much like the people of God,。
by trusting in Jesus Christ and the work he did。
on a piece of wood called a cross,。
where he was crucified, and he was killed。
for your sin and my sin, and by trusting in that,。
the barrier of the separation from us and eternal life。
through that piece of wood is no longer。
something that keeps or has to keep。
anyone from having eternally。
the ability to spend life with God.。
And he's going to cut it off。
all the way back to its source, Adam.。
The Bible says it's sin, and everything sinful。
and broken in our world comes from the source。
of Adam and Eve and the garden, all of that sin.。
It's all been tracing.。
And Jesus shows up, and through the work that he did,。
through a piece of wood, stops all of it back。
all the way to the source.。
He pays for every sin everywhere,。
and he removes the barrier so the people of God。
don't have to be separated from him.。
And every turn, it points to Jesus.。
The one who told Joshua that day,。
"Take your sandals off. You stand on holy ground."。
And let me be abundantly clear.。
All of life points to Jesus,。
or it's Jesus' attempt, it's God's attempt,。
no matter what you're walking through,。
and as challenging as it is,。
for you to have his attention,。
or for God to get your attention,。
to look to him.。
Then no matter what you are walking through,。
trust in me.。
Trust in me.。
And in every page, in every turn,。
all throughout the story, it's clear to see,。
it was always pointing to him,。
the God who, through a piece of wood,。
and a leader named Yeshua, or Jesus,。
would make a way for the people of God。
to enter into the rest,。
and ultimately, to enter into eternity with him.。
Our confidence as Christians。
has nothing to do with 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue,。
which is where the White House is.。
Our hope and our confidence has everything to do。
with a cross and a crucifixion。
that happened right outside of the Jerusalem walls。
2,000 years ago,。
and then three days later,。
when the only election that mattered,。
when Jesus was called out of the grave,。
conquering death.。
And I love this country.。
I love America.。
I got American socks on right now.。
I love America.。
But America is not our hope.。
And our hope as Christians。
doesn't come from the stars and stripes。
on the American flag.。
It comes from the scars。
on the hands of our Savior,。
and the stripes on his back,。
that for all of eternity,。
show us the lengths to which God was willing to go。
for you and for me,。
and the reason why you can trust me,。
no matter what happens,。
and what's ahead.。
So what we're gonna do right now。
is take a chance to do something we've rarely done,。
and I just want to invite us to pray.。
I'm gonna ask you, if you're comfortable,。
in just a second,。
and you're okay,。
and there's no physical reason why you couldn't,。
or you're okay with doing so,。
we're just gonna hit our knees.。
We've got spread out, we've got spaces,。
and you can just turn, and we can hit our knees.。
And we're gonna pray specifically for a few things.。
This is a crazy, it's a crazy time.。
And I want you to pray for both presidents or candidates.。
I want you to pray for Joe Biden。
to have a deep, abiding relationship with Jesus.。
And if you just left the Trump rally,。
and you're like, "I hate that guy."。
If you don't want Joe Biden。
to spend eternity with Jesus,。
there is something deeply wrong with you.。
If you're on the opposite spectrum,。
and you're like, "No, I can't believe you would even say,。
"pray for Trump."。
If you don't want President Trump。
to spend eternity with Jesus,。
there is something deeply wrong with you.。
And neither, wherever they sit in this life,。
matters way less than where they will spend eternity.。
And so we're gonna pray for both of them,。
that God, you would save them.。
You answer prayers all the time.。
And we're gonna storm heaven and just say,。
"Would you save these men?"。
If they have a relationship with you,。
would you kindle it so that it would be。
the guiding force in their life,。
how they tweet, how they pass policy,。
how they do everything?。
And then I want you to pray for elected officials。
just across the board, mayors, senators.。
If you live in Fayetteville, those in Arkansas.。
If you live in Boise, Idaho, pray for those in Idaho.。
If you live in Houston, pray for those in Harris County.。
If you live in Philadelphia, pray for those in Pennsylvania.。
If you live in different locations that are tuning in,。
I just want you to pray for elected officials。
that God would have rulers who are ruled by him。
leading in our country.。
And then I want you to pray for the church,。
that in the midst of the chaos in this world,。
that we would be strong, we would be salt and light.。
There's a lot of hurting people.。
There's a lot of people that don't have work right now.。
There's a lot of people that can't afford to pay,。
pay their mortgage, they can't feed their kids.。
I'm not sure they'll ever have life。
the way that they thought life was supposed to look back.。
And the church and our opportunity to care for all people。
has never been greater.。
And listen to me very closely, policies matter.。
We should talk about the economy, that stuff matters.。
We should talk about race relations,。
that stuff matters, biblically, from a race.。
The most significant thing about a person。
is whether they're gonna spend eternity with Jesus or not.。
Economy, both if you are rich and if you're poor,。
you need Jesus, both alike.。
Policies matter.。
We should talk about COVID and getting a vaccine,。
but here's the reality, vaccine or not,。
everyone is going to die and spend eternity somewhere.。
And there is no vaccine that can save anyone。
from the disease of sin.。
But there is a cure.。
Jesus is extended, and so we're gonna pray。
as the church of Jesus Christ,。
that God, would the gospel go forward in our land,。
would revival break out, would you start in our hearts,。
and would you save people, and would the church be strong,。
because there is gonna be a huge opportunity。
to give the world the peace it's looking for,。
the hope it's looking for,。
the fighting for rights it's looking for.。
Those things don't just fall out of the sky。
and come from nowhere,。
but they're clearly represented in the Bible。
and the text and the Christian perspective on the world,。
so we're gonna pray that the church,。
like never before, would spread like wildfire.。
And then I'm gonna close this in prayer,。
we're gonna sing a couple more songs.。
But just right now, I wanna invite you,。
if you're comfortable, to storm the gates of heaven,。
a few thousand of us all around this campus,。
those listening elsewhere,。
if you would just be comfortable getting on your knees,。
spending time praying for presidents or candidates,。
other local leaders, and for the church.。
And then I'll pray and bring us out of it.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
