I mean, he's practically dating a model.。
She told me they went to Cabo and he paid for the whole thing.。
Dude, she does his laundry and cooks.。
He proposed at the Eiffel Tower. In Paris.。
Bro, she plays in his fantasy football league and knows more about the Cowboys than he does.。
She's got the husband, the house, she's got it all.。
What more could you ask for?。
Love it. Plays in his fantasy football league and everything.。
Let's go. What's up, friends in the room? What's up, friends in Fort Worth?。
And in Houston? And in the Woodlands?。
Yeah, get excited. A new Woodlands camp is kicked off next week.。
So hello, Woodlands friends. Miss Houston.。
It's my hood, man. Stomping grounds.。
We are continuing this relationship series.。
I'm going to start with a story that will kind of give us some traction for where we're going.。
Anybody, who's in college in the room right now?。
Yeah, okay, man. All right, represent. Let's go.。
All right, so here's what is about to happen to you in probably three or four years.。
If you're a senior, it's happening next year.。
You're going to lose something called spring break.。
And so, yeah, I know it's tragic.。
For some reason, they just don't give adults that anymore.。
And maybe, you know, maybe Bernie Sanders will bring it back if he runs in 2020.。
Anyways, that's not a political statement, people. Take it easy.。
All right, moving on.。
And so when I was in college, I'm going to start by a spring break story.。
That was my last spring break that I got to experience. It was senior year of college.。
I knew with my roommates this was going to be our last spring break.。
That we weren't going to have one of these going forward because you don't get them once you get out of college.。
So we were going to do it big. We had a plan.。
We were going to go to the beach, six of us, actually seven of us.。
We're going to go to the beach. We had this whole thing planned out, our last spring break together.。
Seven days, we were going to drive to Florida all together in one car.。
Spend seven days. It was going to be awesome.。
Not only that, we had arranged because we had a friend who wasn't coming on the trip.。
But he was a friend of ours who, his family owned a condo in Florida.。
So we were going to stay there for free.。
So this thing was only getting better, planned it all out.。
This is going to be amazing.。
So the day finally comes. We all load up in this 1998 Tahoe.。
We're getting in there, seven guys. Doesn't smell great by the end of the trip, but oh well.。
We drive through the night. We're crushing Red Bull to stay up.。
Because we're just going to drive from 8 o'clock all the way and get there that morning.。
So we can really get to experience the whole thing.。
So we're driving, driving, driving. Just keep moving forward.。
We're switching out cars. We're all exhausted. It's 3 a.m. in the morning.。
Finally, a few hours later, we show up and we arrive at the airport.。
Because we had to pick up the seventh person who had flown in from New York.。
Random side note.。
So we get him at the airport. Just keep moving forward.。
We're going to go to the condo. We'll be there soon.。
Soon we'll be on the beach. We're all exhausted, man.。
I can't wait to get to the beach. It's going to be great.。
Finally, we show up at the condo. Pull up to it.。
It looks awesome. Just like all the pictures that we had seen about it.。
I can see the pool. I can see the beach.。
It's this nice, fancy condo.。
Hey guys, wait here. I'm going to go inside and get the key.。
I had kind of arranged and organized the thing.。
So I go inside, show up. Hey, we're here to get our room and get our keys.。
We're staying in the McLaughlin home, which was none of our last names.。
It was just the family that owned the condo.。
So I begin to tell the lady, hey, we're staying in this room.。
She looks it up. Yes, you are. Okay, perfect.。
Here's some paperwork to fill out.。
Hands me the paperwork. I'm beginning to sign it.。
She says, the last thing I need you to sign is just something that confirms。
that you are a member of the McLaughlin family.。
Or that a McLaughlin is with you.。
I'm immediately thinking, oh no.。
We just drove 12 hours in the car.。
We don't have a McLaughlin anywhere around us.。
I have a couple of choices. I can either lie.。
I can just embrace a new last name, I guess.。
All of a sudden, it's flashed through my mind.。
I'm like, oh my gosh. Really? We can't stay here unless someone in the family is with us.。
Why didn't they tell us that before they came?。
Where are we going to go? You're going to make me get back into that car.。
All the hotels in town are booked.。
So we're going to end up at a La Quinta in Alabama or something.。
All of this is flashed through my head.。
Oh my gosh. I'm out of options. We just came so far.。
We've already invested so much time and energy into this.。
This guy who flew from New York. It can't be that this is happening.。
So literally, I can't believe this happened.。
Literally, she's like, yeah, I just need to confirm.。
I totally dodged the question.。
I'm like, oh my, those flowers are so pretty.。
Do I sign here? Is this where I sign?。
Perfect. I sign the thing, take the key from her, begin to walk out.。
Going, oh man, finally I made it. I guess I got the key.。
I get to the door and all of a sudden this wave of conviction hits me.。
I'm like, oh my gosh. I just lied to Phyllis behind the desk.。
Whatever. What am I doing?。
I can't keep moving forward with this.。
Despite the fact of how long we had been on this journey,。
I can't keep moving forward with this.。
And so I turn around and I head back towards the desk.。
And I'm going to pause the story and I'm going to come back to it.。
But the reason I start there is because I know, cliffhanger.。
In case you were thinking about leaving early.。
The reason that I start there is because just like in that scenario where,。
hey, we had gone on this journey, we'd invested so much time,。
we'd invested so much energy into this thing.。
Yes, we are just at the finish line, even if it doesn't exactly go how we kind of want to.。
Let's just lean our shoulder in and make it work together.。
We've already put so much energy. We may not have any other options out there.。
That scenario reflects very well what many of us experience when it comes to dating relationships.。
What many of us may be even in the room right now,。
we're in a relationship may be experiencing where all of a sudden we find ourselves in this place.。
We're wondering like, man, should I keep moving forward?。
It doesn't seem right, but should I keep just moving forward in it?。
I've already invested so much time. I've already invested so much energy.。
What if I end up not moving forward? What is everybody else going to think?。
I could be out of options if this happens.。
Like if I end it, what if they were the only one I have?。
And then all of a sudden I'm 60 and just the cat lady for the rest of my life.。
And like all of a sudden I've invested all this. Is this my last option?。
That same scenario is really reflective of how so many of us, what so many of us experience in dating.。
And so tonight we're going to talk about that idea of, hey, when to not move forward.。
When as a Christian or as a follower of Christ, it is not optional for us whether or not we decide,。
hey, we're going to continue moving forward on this journey or are we going to turn back?。
And so tonight we're going to lay out those specifically if you're a Christian in the room.。
If you're not a Christian in the room, man, there's not a ton on dating that really was going to be helpful for me.。
The thing that you need most is Jesus. And so we're glad you're here. Hang with us if we can serve you in any way.。
But if you're a Christian in the room, we're going to cover a list that is not optional for us.。
These are the times that as followers of Jesus, you and I do not have the choice of moving forward.。
We have to turn back. We have to end it.。
And so we're going to look at those tonight. Some of them may be review. Some of them may be new to you.。
And so we're going to cover really topically five different ideas, five times when to break the relationship,。
five different times when to break the relationship.。
So normally we'll pick a single passage and we will march through that.。
As you probably know, if you've been hanging with us, the subject of dating is not a topic that is talked about much in the Bible.。
It's not talked about at all for the same reason we go like, oh, that's interesting.。
Why did they not have dating in the Bible? Because there wasn't dating when the Bible was written.。
And the same reason they don't have online or social media or Facebook.。
It never talks about Facebook because there was no Facebook then. There was no dating then.。
The way that marriage took place was through an arrange.。
Now we live in a society where dating and getting to know one another, getting to know someone of the opposite sex is kind of a part of just life today.。
And so what we do as Christians in light of this new creation called dating is we take biblical principles and we use those.。
And those become the filter through which we navigate because it may not talk about dating,。
but it has a lot to say about evaluation of a potential spouse, about who to marry and how to marry.。
So we're going to look at the five different occasions the Bible would say hit the ejection seat now in the relationship.。
So the first one of when is an occasion for a Christian to break up is if one of you in the relationship is not following Jesus.。
If one of you in the relationship is not following in Jesus, this would include someone whose life is just,。
"Hey, I grew up as a Christian," or someone who says, "No, I'm not a Christian. I have a different faith."。
Here's what Paul says in 2 Corinthians 6, one of the letters that he wrote to the church in Corinth.。
He says this, "Do not be yoked or linked, or you may have partnered together with," in your Bible,。
"together with unbelievers. For what do righteousness and wickedness have in common?。
What fellowship can light have with darkness?"。
That Paul says you are to not partner together. He uses this illustration like, "What's a yoke?。
What does that have to do?" The only thing yoke we talk about anymore is dealing with breakfast.。
This is a very different type of yoke. A yoke would be placed on cattle or an oxen when they would work out in the field.。
You would take two oxen, and you would place this yoke over their necks.。
They would pull together in the same direction.。
If you had different sized animals, an oxen and a horse or a donkey, it wouldn't work,。
because they couldn't pull at the same degree.。
Or, they would pull in different directions.。
Paul says, "If you are a Christian, the thing that is most significant, most important in your life,。
or should be most important in your life, is your faith, your relationship with Christ."。
When it comes to choosing the most important human relationship that you're going to have,。
which is marriage, after you discover, "Hey, this is who my master is, Jesus.。
This is what my mission is, that's to make disciples."。
After you decide your master and your mission, the next thing to decide is who you're going to marry.。
Paul says that you and I, as Christians, are called to marry other Christians.。
We don't date. We don't marry non-Christians.。
We don't do missionary dating. I feel like this goes without saying.。
But, statistically, even today in society, they would back up what Paul is saying,。
where he says, "You don't want someone who doesn't share your perspective on the world around you,。
on eternity, on how to handle money, on just how to view the world.。
Your faith impacts everything.。
Why would you marry or date someone who doesn't share the same thing, the same faith that impacts everything?"。
It's kind of a no-brainer.。
But, even today, sociologists will say, "Hey, interfaith marriage is not a great idea.。
You have a 75% chance of getting a divorce if you marry someone of a different faith background."。
So, it just confirms what the Bible says.。
But, not only are we, as Christians, called to date other Christ-followers, or other Christians,。
but people who are following Jesus.。
In other words, and man, I think this is the huge one for people in Fort Worth, people in Houston,。
people in the room right now, people in the woodlands,。
for you to know that your responsibility is not just to look for someone who's like,。
"Oh, yeah, I'm a Christian. Hey, I was raised in church."。
Because we live in Texas, we live in Dallas,。
and so, if you just randomly pick someone, there's a statistical chance, a good chance,。
they're going to say, "Yeah, I'm a Christian."。
Meaning, "I'm not Muslim, I'm not atheist, and I'm an American.。
These colors don't run. I'm a Christian, good news."。
And that's what they're going to say.。
And so, as Christians, or as Christ-followers, our responsibility is not to find someone who says,。
"I'm a Christian. I was raised Catholic or Episcopalian."。
But, someone who says, "The priority in my life is Jesus.。
I love Jesus more than I will ever love you."。
That's the person that you want to marry.。
That's the person you want to date.。
The person whose focus, the epitome of their life, is, "I'm going to follow him."。
And out of the overflow of that, hey, you're going to make an amazing husband or amazing wife。
if that person says, "I love this first and foremost. My first love will be Christ."。
That's the person that you want to date.。
That's the person that will be the best love that you could experience inside of marriage.。
But as followers of Jesus, it's so huge.。
And even statistically, man, this was so discouraging or encouraging, I guess, in weird ways.。
Here's what sociology has discovered.。
That the divorce rate among Christians who are actively involved, like, "I'm all in. I am following Jesus."。
We've said it before, that, hey, there's never been a divorce between two fully devoted followers of Christ.。
But even if you just say, well, sociology would say, "Hey, people who are actively involved in their faith,。
their faith is a priority.。
Like, they are going to church, they're serving in church.。
They experience a 46% less rate of divorce than the rest of society."。
People who are nominal Christians.。
What do I mean by nominal?。
It means cultural Christians.。
It means a good amount of the people that you meet out there who are like, "Yeah, I'm a Christian.。
I go to church on Christmas and Easter, and I'm all for Jesus. That's great.。
And I'm an American."。
That type of person, sociology says, they have a 20% greater likelihood than two atheists of getting a divorce.。
That this watered-down version of Christianity that's everywhere in our country.。
The worst thing that you can do is to go marry someone who's lukewarm.。
Marry someone who doesn't at all.。
If you're like, "Oh, man, they say they're Christian."。
That is the worst thing you can do.。
You need to be all in with Jesus, and they need to be all in with Jesus.。
Or else, you are significantly impacting the future that you're going to have together.。
Even sociology is going to say that.。
Does that make sense?。
Significantly, you have a higher likelihood of getting a divorce if you're just nominal.。
Hey, the person who says, "Oh, yeah, I'm a Christian, but everything in moderation.。
I'm not too religious."。
That person, they would say, "Do not marry that person."。
And that's not a Christian.。
Because a normative Christian life is when he says, "I'm all in with my Savior.。
I'm going to seek Him first.。
And out of that, I'll love because of my first love, which is Him."。
So the first occasion in which we do not marry or we don't move forward in the relationship,。
we stop moving forward, we end it, is when they're not a Christian.。
The second occasion is when followers of Christ around us, our second point tonight out of the five,。
is when followers of Christ around us do not celebrate the relationship.。
When followers of Christ around us do not celebrate the relationship.。
We played with, "Hey, should this be like when our community group doesn't?。
Or should it be like when Christian family members?"。
And it's really just when the followers of Jesus, people who say, "Hey, I'm a follower of Christ,"。
they're following Him.。
When those people around us begin to say, "I don't think he's right for you.。
I don't think she's right for you.。
Here are the concerns that I see in your relationship."。
When those people around us are not over the top celebrating, like, "Man, yes, this is a good thing.。
Keep moving forward. This is awesome. I'm a fan of him. I'm a fan of her. I'm a fan of this."。
When that's not going on, you need to seriously question what's going on.。
Now, Song of Solomon is a book in the Old Testament, and it's essentially a love story.。
If you've never read the book of Song of Solomon, you can go read it this week.。
And it's an incredibly romantic love story.。
It's a story about this couple and their marriage.。
It's a story, if you think the Bible's boring, that was so sexualized that still today,。
Orthodox Jews can't read it until they're 30 years old if you're a boy.。
Think about that, or a man.。
30 years old.。
It's like, "Hey, we're going to hide this over here with HBO.。
You can't watch this."。
That's what's going on.。
True. True story today.。
And it has been inside of the Jewish community.。
All that to say, the story of Song of Solomon is this incredible story.。
Inside of there, it tells about the relationship that this couple, as they begin to move towards marriage,。
that their friends around them had with them.。
And it says that their friends, Song of Solomon chapter 1, verse 4, you can go read it later.。
It says it throughout the book.。
It essentially says their friends, when they would gather around, they would go, "Yes! Yes!。
Bob and Mary, we love it. This is amazing."。
It says they look on it and they celebrate their love more than wine.。
And when it came to the party, is why it says wine, when it came to the wedding celebration,。
it was like, "We celebrate. We love that there's an open bar over here,。
but we celebrate you guys way more than any party or any wedding reception that we'll ever get to be a part of."。
With the friends, the followers, the people of God around them looked on and said, "This is a good thing."。
And if you're in a dating relationship and the people in your life who love Jesus。
and are trying to follow Him are constantly raising concerns, you should be concerned.。
Sadly, one of the more common reactions to when people begin to raise concerns。
is that we just begin to rule them out of our life.。
Like over and over you see a person who's like, "Yeah, you think this is a bad idea,。
so I think you're a bad idea, so we're not going to be friends anymore."。
And they just push away from the Christian Christ-following people around them who are raising concerns.。
If your family members are sincere and they love Jesus and they're raising concerns,。
listen, process with community.。
One of the most foolish things you can do is be that couple who continues to isolate。
and just be like, "Hey, it's just us. We'll figure it out together."。
That couple, the Scripture would say, is a fool.。
If you're dating alone, you are acting foolishly at best and maybe too fools, most accurately said.。
Here's what Proverbs 18, verse 1 says, "The wisest man who ever lived said,。
'Hey, look, whoever isolates himself when he dates, when he does money, when he does anything,。
when he lives life, whoever isolates himself seeks his own desires.。
He seeks what he wants, he seeks what he thinks is best, and in doing so,。
he breaks out or fights against all sound judgment.'"。
Like all common sense, it would say.。
Whoever isolates himself and is like, "No, girls, it's just me and Bae. We got this thing."。
Whoever does that, the Proverbs would say, "That man is a fool.。
He will not have the gift of other people speaking in and asking good questions,。
helping hold accountable, helping walk alongside to lead them in the direction that they want。
and that God wants for their relationship."。
And the Proverbs would say, "That man is a fool."。
If you are here in the room tonight and you do not have a community。
or other Christ followers around you, the best application that you can apply,。
whether it's breaking up or not, is getting into a community group.。
We're gonna have an open community group tonight after the message.。
If you're a guy and a girl, mark that down.。
That's where you need to head tonight.。
It's the single best thing you can do, even better than a message that you're gonna hear on any week.。
So make sure that you're a part of that.。
In the community, we get to experience Christ followers looking on and celebrating.。
And if you don't have that, you should have cause for concern.。
Okay, third opportunity, a third occasion.。
So we've got, hey, if either one of you is not following Jesus,。
if they're not following Jesus with their life, end the relationship.。
Don't keep moving forward.。
If the Christ followers around you are constantly raising concerns,。
end the relationship.。
Don't keep moving forward.。
The fourth occasion is if you together are not relentlessly pursuing purity.。
If you're not relentlessly pursuing purity,。
we talked a little bit about this last week where Garrett just taught.。
Garrett's our Fort Worth director and leader and did an amazing job covering the subject of purity.。
And so if you missed it, make sure to go listen to that.。
What does it look like more specifically to pursue purity?。
But here's why purity's so important.。
And we covered some of this last week.。
But here's what the Bible says about sex.。
It's intoxicating.。
Like, what does something that's intoxicating do?。
It begins to blur your vision and you get intoxicated.。
The Bible, Proverbs 5, you can go read it later.。
If you have a Bible, you can read Proverbs written by Solomon。
where he writes about sex and he says,。
"Sex is like intoxicating."。
Like, it's so good and this is why it's for marriage.。
And he writes about it in saying,。
"Hey, you should be drunk in love with your wife."。
Read it later if you think the Bible's boring.。
So in Proverbs chapter 5, Solomon said,。
"Look, you should be drunk in love. It's amazing.。
"Sex is intoxicating and it should be in marriage."。
But that's why it's so dangerous outside of marriage.。
It's intoxicating.。
Like, it's so good you can't think straight.。
It all of a sudden begins to take down inhibitions.。
You're like, "Oh, man, you don't speak English,。
"but I love you."。
And all of a sudden, all the things,。
you're like, "Man, this is so great."。
That's what sex does.。
It leads you, it makes your mind, it's so good,。
it makes you not able to think straight.。
Song of Solomon tells us God gave that gift。
to be inside of the context and the safety of marriage.。
But the danger is when you take it outside of marriage。
and you introduce it into a dating,。
all of a sudden, you've got drunk goggles on。
everywhere that you're going.。
I mean, what decision in life is as important as marriage,。
and yet what would we do, or what decisions,。
what other big life decisions would we be like,。
"Yes, here's how I've decided to make big life decisions.。
"I get hammered."。
And then I'm like, "Should I buy this house。
"or should I rent?"。
That's what really has helped me make good decisions.。
I'm like, "Hey, where should I go to college?。
"Where should I start?"。
I just get wasted.。
And then I feel like I could really start to,。
that's the danger of sex in dating,。
is it's intoxicating.。
And if you're stepping into that,。
it is going to lead you to stay in the relationship。
longer than you should.。
It's gonna lead you to do things。
that you never thought you would.。
It'll lead you to date someone。
that God's word says you shouldn't be.。
And so if sex is a part,。
if you're not relentlessly pursuing purity,。
you're right now just going,。
"Hey, we're just having sex."。
You are being deceived by yourself,。
and it's like drunk driving.。
You're drunk buying a house.。
You are making a decision intoxicated.。
And you're gonna see it's gonna come back to bring pain.。
You're not thinking clearly.。
That's the power.。
That's why pursuing purity is so important.。
That we're relentless about pursuing purity relentlessly。
is the third reason.。
If you're not both, then it's time to break up.。
The scripture also would say things。
that include the idea of cohabitation,。
that you can't be pursuing purity relentlessly。
if you're not cohabitating.。
Here's what it says in Hebrews 13 about the marriage bed.。
It says, "Marriage should be honored by everyone."。
Everyone should honor marriage.。
It's a sacred thing.。
And the marriage bed, in other words,。
what happens in the bedroom,。
is not just between you and Sally.。
It's God is involved, and he says,。
"What happens there is to be kept sacred and pure."。
The marriage bed should be kept pure.。
That the author of Hebrews says,。
"Keep the bedroom for the bride and groom,"。
if you like rhymes.。
Keep the bedroom for the bride and groom.。
That's what belongs.。
And so if you are living together,。
I don't know how you can be relentlessly pursuing purity.。
And if you're living together, move out.。
And most likely, don't move forward.。
And move on.。
Begin to heal.。
Break up and get discipled.。
And man, the other thing that people will say。
when they're cohabitating,。
or living together, cohabitation,。
is they're like, "No, but you know, it's great.。
"We're not sleeping together anymore.。
"He sleeps on top of the sheet,。
"and then we pull the cover over,。
"and I'm under the sheet, and so it's all great."。
Man, I hope you hear me on this.。
If you live together in the room,。
and I'm not trying to pick on you,。
I'm just saying, please, please, please,。
don't live together.。
If you're living together, and you're like,。
"Yes, we don't have sex.。
"We live together, but we're not having sex."。
Here's why that's such a bad idea。
for your future marriage.。
You are training yourself every day,。
"We are gonna live together, and not have sex.。
"That's what we're gonna do.。
"Bring it on, okay."。
That's a horrible idea for your marriage.。
Think about that.。
You are literally training yourself.。
We have mastered the art of living together,。
and having no sexual chemistry,。
so it's like platonic.。
"They might as well be my sister.。
"I'm like great at this."。
That's a horrible idea.。
I mean, you're like, "Oh, that's gross."。
That's what you're doing if you're saying,。
"We're gonna live together, and not have sex."。
That's a horrible idea.。
You weren't made and wired to be that way.。
Move out, and if you can't move out,。
and you're like, "Man, I can't afford it."。
We will help you find affordable homes,。
or affordable living.。
We will cover you.。
If you're like, "Man, we just can't afford it."。
Come down here.。
We'd love to talk to you.。
We'd love to find other ways and avenues。
to open up doors for you to move out and move on,。
'cause usually it's a smoke screen.。
Let's be honest.。
You're like, "Yeah, I can't afford it.。
"I've got this Range Rover lease,。
"and I've got this iPhone,。
"and I just kinda like to shop at Neiman's."。
And so, you can afford it,。
and you're hiding behind it,。
and it's going to cause you harm.。
If you're living together, you're not pursuing purity,。
and you should be concerned.。
Significantly increased are your chances of divorce.。
This relationship you're in, if you're living together,。
it's not gonna last, and you should be afraid.。
Sociologists would say that.。
And even if they didn't,。
God's Word has made it clear.。
That is not God's design.。
You should end this relationship.。
If you are a Christian, it's not an option for you.。
I read a book this week,。
and it was talking about a pastor,。
how he will counsel people who are living together,。
and it's so good.。
He'll sit down with couples who are cohabitating,。
who are like, "No, we're not ready for marriage yet,。
"but we're taking a step in that direction."。
He's like, "Great.。
"Hey, because you're there,。
"you're not ready for marriage vows,。
"but you've really already taken vows,。
"whether or not you realize it,。
"so I'm just gonna make it formal.。
"Will you read these vows?"。
And he has his couple read these vows of cohabitation.。
I thought it was so perfectly summed up,。
what they've essentially communicated。
and committed to one another,。
whether or not they realize it.。
What you, if you're in the room,。
are communicating and committing if you're cohabitating.。
Here's the vows of cohabitation, if you will.。
I take you to be my cohabitant,。
to have sex with you,。
and hold you responsible for half the bills,。
to love and to take advantage of you。
for as long as our arrangement works out.。
I will be more or less faithful to you。
as long as my needs are met,。
and if nothing better comes along.。
If I should break up with you,。
it doesn't mean that this wasn't special to me,。
because I love you almost as much as I love myself.。
I commit to live with you for now,。
so help me, me.。
(audience laughing)。
In the name of sex, options, and selfishness, amen.。
(audience laughing)。
(audience applauding)。
It's comical, and sure, we can clap.。
And if you're in the room and you're living together,。
I'm not trying to pick on you,。
but you're communicating something to one another,。
and at least you need to hit pause and move out.。
And if you're thinking,。
yeah, but we're gonna get married soon,。
I'm not even sure you should date soon,。
because if the decisions that you're making reflect。
the way that you think about the world,。
which reflects, really, your faith。
and the status of your relationship with Christ right now.。
And my guess is you're not at a place。
where it would be a good idea to move forward。
making big life decisions with this.。
And so if that's where you are,。
this is a time at least to hit pause, move out,。
and likely not move on with the relationship.。
The fourth occasion when to move on is。
if you are in a relationship。
that is not moving towards marriage.。
Our fourth idea, so we have,。
if you're not following Jesus,。
if followers of Jesus around you are not celebrating this,。
going yes, yes, if you're sexually not pursuing purity,。
move out, move on.。
And the fourth occasion is。
if you are not moving towards marriage.。
That dating, dating is a path.。
Dating is a path that leads to a promise.。
You've heard us, if you've been with us for a while,。
you've heard us say this before, what is dating?。
It's not a status on Facebook.。
Dating is a path, it is something you are on。
that is moving towards a promise.。
What promise?。
That's called marriage.。
You in a tux, her white dress,。
you stand there after the path towards marriage,。
the promise, and then that leads to a lifelong pursuit.。
That's what dating is.。
That means that dating should be progressing towards marriage.。
It should be moving.。
It's like a journey that you're on.。
Just like in that road trip, when I went on it,。
each moment that we were on that journey,。
which is what dating is,。
you're trying to process along,。
is this person the person for me to marry?。
I'm not just gonna perpetually date you forever.。
We're gonna continue to move towards marriage,。
and if it's not moving towards marriage, I'm out,。
and you should be too, because it's a journey。
moving towards the destination.。
Just like on the road trip, where we were on a journey,。
and we were moving towards Florida。
with each rotation of the tire, with each passing hour,。
we were hopefully getting closer and closer.。
If we had just stopped in Louisiana for five years,。
you'd be like, oh, you're not on a road trip, dude.。
You just moved.。
That's what you did.。
If you've been dating for five years,。
you're not dating.。
I don't know what you're doing, but it is not dating.。
Dating is progressively moving towards marriage.。
Honestly, if you've been dating five years,。
unless you're Corrie and Topanga in here,。
(audience laughing)。
and what I mean by that is you started dating at 14,。
which I don't know how wise that was, but you did,。
and you're like, yeah, I'm a freshman.。
Great, I guess that's okay.。
I don't know what to think about it.。
You figure it out.。
But if you've been dating five years,。
what are you waiting for?。
What information are you lacking right now?。
Where you're like, I just wanna see。
how she does at Christmas.。
You've had five of 'em, okay?。
(audience laughing)。
Call it what it is.。
That's called being selfish.。
The most loving thing you can do is either move,。
stop deceiving yourself and the relationship,。
move towards marriage, or end the relationship.。
The Bible only recognizes, I mean, really,。
if we prolong dating, you're just like,。
I'm just gonna stay here forever.。
You're staying in a relationship。
that the Bible doesn't even recognize.。
You ever thought about this?。
This is what's weird about it.。
The Bible is it relates to men and women。
and their dynamics together.。
For men, women can either,。
they're in one of four categories.。
They're either a mother, they're either a sister,。
which you could say, hey, sisters in Christ。
would fall into that.。
These are the four categories as it relates to,。
hey, what is the relationship of women to men。
that the Bible recognizes?。
Mother, sister, or sister in Christ,。
wife, and prostitute.。
Those are the four.。
And so, if you're prolonging staying in this stage,。
I don't know which one of those you're gonna fall into.。
But my guess is that if the guy is saying,。
hey, I'm not willing to move forward,。
or if the girl is,。
there's a part of that relationship。
that certainly God doesn't recognize。
and where they're likely using the other person.。
Maybe both.。
So if you're not moving towards marriage,。
it is time to move on。
and to stop moving forward, but to end it.。
And the fifth time, so not following Christ,。
if Christ followers are not celebrating, end it.。
If you're not pursuing purity,。
and if you're not moving towards marriage,。
and the final time when to break up is。
before you get married.。
And I think in the room, everyone's like,。
yeah, that goes without saying, duh.。
You don't get married and then you break up.。
They don't even call it that.。
It's called divorce.。
What the Bible teaches。
is the reason why it's so crucial。
to end a relationship before you get into marriage。
is not because it's just not fun,。
but it is not possible。
to end a relationship once it moves towards marriage.。
It wasn't designed to be.。
It's a covenant.。
And Jesus' words, and we live in a world where today,。
every direction that you look, divorce is everywhere.。
Where we don't have a concept,。
it's hard for us to grip onto this idea。
that in the beginning, God created this institution,。
and he says, it will never dissolve.。
This relationship, when a man and a woman come together,。
and they're married, it's an eternal covenant,。
or it's a covenant that only ends in death.。
It only ends that way.。
And we live in a world where every direction you look,。
divorce, Kanye screaming, we want prenup, we want prenup.。
Today, Brad and Angelina, I know tragically,。
filed for divorce.。
Every direction that you look,。
people are looking and going,。
like, it's not that different from a breakup.。
And what the Bible teaches,。
and specifically what Jesus says。
when you read them in contrast。
to how society views it, is breathtaking.。
Because Jesus, who created it,。
because here's what we know about marriage, for sure.。
Like, we can make rules, we can add rules,。
we can pass laws, we can do all kinds of things.。
But here's what we know about Bible, or about marriage.。
God created it.。
And it's his.。
And what he says about marriage is astounding.。
We're gonna read in Mark chapter 10。
of what Jesus says as it relates to the topic。
of not breaking up in marriage,。
not erasing a relationship, it can't be.。
Here's what he says.。
Some Pharisees came and tested him and asked him,。
is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife?。
So they come up, they're like always trying to test Jesus.。
They're going, hey, Jesus, hey, is it okay?。
And is it permissible for a man to divorce his wife?。
Jesus responds, what did Moses command you?。
Moses represents really this figure in the Old Testament。
who gave the first five books of the Bible.。
So your Bible, the first five books that are in there,。
Moses wrote.。
And so he essentially says, hey,。
what did Moses write down about that?。
It contains the law.。
And they said, Moses permitted a man to write。
a certificate of divorce and to send her away.。
That Moses, inside of the law, said basically,。
hey, divorce is possible, but if it takes place,。
men have to write out and make it official。
that they can't just kick their wife out,。
which is what was happening, the nation of Israel,。
because women couldn't divorce, they didn't have rights.。
So men would be like, you know what?。
I am so tired of this woman.。
I'm done with you, get out of my house.。
And they'd be kicked out.。
And because they weren't divorced,。
they didn't have anywhere to go.。
It would look like they were just sleeping around。
on different couches.。
And so Moses, because of the hardness of heart,。
which is what Jesus says in the next verse,。
it was because of the hardness of your hearts,。
Moses wrote this law.。
Hardness of heart is synonymous or interchangeable with sin。
because you're sinful men.。
And in order to protect women,。
Moses wrote the divorce was possible.。
He wrote it in.。
And they quoted Deuteronomy.。
And Jesus says, no, not Deuteronomy,。
way before that, in Genesis.。
What did Moses write?。
Here's what he says.。
Jesus replied, at the beginning of creation,。
God made them male and female.。
And he quotes directly from Genesis chapter two.。
For this reason, a man will leave his father and mother。
and be united to his wife,。
and the two will become one flesh.。
So they are no longer two when they enter into marriage,。
but they are one flesh.。
Therefore, what God has joined together,。
let no one separate.。
Jesus, wait a second.。
Is it permissible to get a divorce?。
If you were gonna answer what Jesus said in a word,。
what would it be?。
No.。
But there is a question, is it even permissible?。
Jesus says, it's not even possible.。
And the disciples are all of a sudden like,。
no, he can't mean that.。
I mean, he's always saying these crazy things, parables.。
We don't know what they mean.。
So he can't mean that.。
And so the next verses, they're like, Jesus,。
time out, let's sidebar.。
What do you mean it's not even possible?。
Like the marriage would be over, they could remarry.。
And here's what they ask.。
When the disciples were in the house again,。
verse 10 of Mark chapter 10,。
they asked Jesus about this and he answered,。
anyone who divorces his wife。
and marries another woman。
commits adultery against her.。
And if she divorces her husband and marries another man,。
she commits adultery.。
You're thinking, wait a second, Jesus.。
What do you mean anyone who gets a divorce。
and then gets remarried is committing adultery?。
I'm not sure you understand what adultery is.。
Adultery is when two people,。
one of them who's married。
and then one of them who's not,。
their spouse and they have sex together.。
That's what adultery is, Jesus.。
If a person gets divorced and then gets remarried,。
that's not adultery, that's just a remarriage.。
And Jesus would say,。
that's because you don't understand marriage.。
A court may have recognized, oh, the divorce, it ended.。
But God hasn't.。
That there's something permanent。
where God has joined the two together。
and just getting a piece of paper and filing it,。
Jesus says, does not dissolve the relationship.。
As in if they get remarried, they're committing adultery.。
And the reason that we're hitting on this。
is because as you head towards the path。
and that promise,。
you need to know where you're heading into.。
That it doesn't just end the relationship。
and hey, you're free to do whatever you want.。
You may experience separation or divorce legally,。
but that does not necessarily, according to Jesus,。
mean that God has recognized that.。
And regardless, and there's some gray areas。
and if you're wrestling in the room,。
we did a message back in 2014 in Battle of the Sexes。
where we cover that very explicitly。
in case you're going, what about, what about, what about?。
Which I am too when I read that passage.。
In fact, the other section where Jesus teaches this。
in Matthew 19, it creates such confusion among the crowd。
that literally the response it says in there,。
Matthew 19, verse 10, it says,。
the audience was like, wait, we must not understand you。
because if this is what you're saying,。
then it's better to not get married.。
I mean, am I right?。
And Jesus literally, you would expect him to be like,。
no, marriage is amazing.。
God loves this thing.。
You've gotta do it.。
He essentially goes, man, well,。
some people can handle the truth, some people can't,。
and he walks off.。
(audience laughing)。
And that's it.。
But that's the response in the audience.。
So if that's the response in the room。
and you're like, no, maybe better not get married then,。
you probably are coming close to what Jesus says.。
It's permanent.。
And there may be some unclear parts,。
or you may wrestle.。
There's people who land a little bit differently。
on different areas because there's a couple passages。
that are tricky.。
And so if you're wondering about those,。
go listen to that message。
where we address abuse, abandonment, adultery.。
But go listen to that.。
Watermark stance as a whole for you to know。
is that the elders today have landed。
that if a person gets divorced,。
they are to pursue reconciliation with their spouse。
until they die or until they get married,。
the other spouse gets married.。
But if they're here and being shepherded,。
we would say, hey, continue to pursue reconciliation.。
If there's abuse, of course, move out.。
We don't want anyone being put in danger。
or children put in danger.。
But God's best would be for you to prayerfully。
continue to pursue reconciliation。
and wait until that person's death ends the marriage。
or they get remarried and they put a stake in the ground。
and permanently end it.。
But if you're asking us, we would say,。
you should not put the stake in the ground.。
And so that's our stance.。
There's godly men who disagree。
on small, different little ways。
'cause there's a little bit of gray.。
But we extend grace to them, and hopefully they do to us.。
But if you're married or you have been divorced in the room。
and it's a part of your story,。
you've gotta wrestle with that.。
Like, you need to be an expert on these passages.。
Because the idea that the common belief for most,。
even Christians, is like, yes,。
but if they cheat on you, it's done.。
And it's just not that clear.。
We would say that's not true。
because of the teachings that Jesus presents in the Bible.。
And so we don't have time to go into all of that,。
but if that is something where you have questions raised,。
we can talk afterwards,。
or you can go check out the Battle of the Sexes matches,。
when to break up and when not to,。
and find out more, or search on Watermark's website.。
It's the last time and occasion to not get a divorce。
is when it's marriage, or before you get married。
excuse me, the last occasion to not break up。
is before you get married.。
Or make sure that you break up before you get married,。
while it's still possible.。
So the application in the room,。
if that's a part of your story,。
is that if it is not a part of your story,。
the application for many of us may be。
that we need to break up.。
That you may be in a spot where you need to just re-evaluate,。
hey, is this, if any of those things are true,。
let me just put it this clearly,。
if any of the lists that we just covered,。
and you're a Christian,。
if they're true about your relationship,。
it's not optional.。
You gotta break up.。
Like this isn't like, hey, just feel it out,。
you know, whatever you think is best.。
It's what God's word has said.。
And how do you do that?。
Maybe tonight, that's you, you sit down,。
and you get together, and you say,。
hey, I think we need to break up.。
And here's the ways that you do that.。
You do that in person.。
You don't send a tweet, or a text,。
or a Snapchat after, and be like, it's over, bae.。
You don't say any of that.。
You sit down, and you say,。
hey, I don't think this in person.。
The first thing is in person.。
The second thing is you speak the truth in love.。
We're Christians.。
We don't lie.。
We're honest.。
And we're lovingly honest.。
Ephesians 4 says speak the truth in love.。
So you sit down, you say the truth,。
you don't blame it on God,。
you don't over-spiritualize it,。
you say, this is what's going on,。
this is why I don't think we should move forward.。
And then you stand firm.。
You cut off all communication.。
You can say, hey, I'm deleting your phone number,。
I think you should delete mine.。
You don't text the next day and be like,。
are we still going to that Jason Mraz concert?。
You don't do any of that.。
You stand firm, you move on.。
You don't just be like, man,。
I was in the radio, played our song,。
and I was just like, hey, how's she doing?。
It's been three days.。
You don't do that.。
You stand firm.。
But for all of us, I think the teaching。
that I need to be reminded of constantly。
is how permanent marriage is.。
And here's why.。
Because I think a lot of people are like,。
man, it's just so offensive, you guys are so intense.。
It's Jesus's words.。
Honestly, I'm as uncomfortable as you are。
if you're uncomfortable with him.。
But here's why God did such a big deal to God。
about marriage.。
Because marriage, ultimately, it's not about you。
and it's not about me.。
It's not even about man and woman, so to speak.。
What the Bible says about marriage。
is that in the beginning,。
even from the beginning of time,。
it has always been, human marriage has always been。
pointing to the marriage between Christ and his church.。
At every wedding that I do,。
I read Ephesians chapter five.。
In it, Paul says, look, for this reason,。
a man will leave his father and mother。
and be united to his wife,。
and two will become one flesh.。
This is a profound mystery.。
And you go, wow, man, that is profound.。
Two becoming one, wow.。
And Paul goes, but I am talking about Christ and the church.。
I'm not even talking about man and wife becoming one.。
Like, that's mysterious.。
But the profound one is that。
this has always been about Jesus.。
It has always been about his unending,。
unbreakable love for his bride, the church.。
And that's why marriage is such a big deal to God.。
'Cause he says it's an unending covenant。
between me and my bride.。
That's what marriage is.。
And it'll never break, it'll never stop.。
And human marriage is just a picture of that,。
where God has given us that permanent covenant.。
I think if you are in the room,。
and you're gonna break up,。
and I'll close right here, and we'll land the plane.。
I think the challenge, let me just close the story.。
I'll finish the story and then come back to it.。
So I go in, I'm at the door.。
I can see the Tahoe of a bunch of guys that are like,。
man, we gotta get out of this car.。
Please bring us the key back.。
And I'm hitting the door, and I, hit by conviction,。
I can't keep moving forward, I gotta go back.。
I go back to the desk.。
And all of a sudden, I'm playing in my mind,。
I'm like, oh my gosh,。
I wonder how many rooms at La Quinta we're gonna need,。
and what are we gonna do?。
And I can see the pool, oh,。
and we haven't showered in so long,。
and I don't wanna get back in that smelly Tahoe,。
please, lady.。
And all these things are flashing in my mind,。
like I know where this is going,。
I know what she's about to say,。
I know what's about to happen.。
I get there, and I tell the lady,。
I say, hey, look, you said,。
is someone family?。
And no one is.。
I'm not a member of the family,。
they're not a member of the family.。
And so I don't know what that means,。
but I do know that we were told by the family。
that we could stay here.。
And she says, oh, okay,。
well, let me contact the family,。
they have a contact number listed here,。
I'm gonna call 'em.。
She calls 'em,。
and which even that was a positive,。
I was like, man, awesome,。
I think we were just gonna say go away.。
And she begins to call 'em,。
and she gets a hold of 'em.。
And they confirm, like, oh yeah,。
we told 'em, it's totally fine.。
And so I go from like, oh no,。
where are we gonna go?。
She's like, they're great with it,。
here's the key, move on.。
And I was thinking about that,。
and everything that I thought,。
like I was like, I know where this is gonna go,。
I know what's gonna happen,。
I know what's behind that door.。
If I choose obedience here,。
if I choose to like go back。
and not move forward,。
man, I'm gonna end up at La Quinta in Alabama,。
which did not take place.。
I keep saying La Quinta,。
what is wrong with me?。
Sorry if you work for La Quinta,。
it's a great hotel.。
(audience laughing)。
Man, it is, it's great, I love it.。
Continental Breakfast.。
Okay, so I'm like seeing everything。
that's gonna happen,。
I can see it all,。
oh, this is all that's gonna happen.。
All of a sudden, it turns on its head,。
ends up being way better。
than I could have imagined.。
Like, had I chosen to move forward,。
like had I chosen to just go through that door。
and hey, I'm gonna deal with it。
and choose with it,。
all the consequences would have come。
as throughout that week,。
I would have been constantly。
looking over my shoulder being like,。
oh my gosh, do they know。
that we're not the McLaughlin family?。
Do they know, like I'm avoiding the front desk。
and being like, no one's here.。
It would have been all this moment。
of like, what if we get caught?。
What if they catch us?。
Essentially, it's like breaking and entering.。
Essentially, it's like saying。
we're someone we're not。
and we're living here.。
All these different thoughts。
going through my head,。
I wouldn't have been able to enjoy it.。
And what I thought would be。
walking through this door,。
I know what's gonna happen.。
It's gonna be terrible.。
It was not at all that way.。
It was way better than I could have imagined.。
When I chose to do, if you will,。
the right thing or to not move forward.。
And the reality is for most of us in the room,。
because here's what I know about you.。
If you're sitting in the room。
and you're like, man,。
I think I may be in need of a breakup,。
but I'm gonna be honest.。
I'm not gonna do that.。
That is not gonna happen.。
Yep, I hear all the reasons.。
Yeah, it's kind of fun.。
And yeah, I like the funny jokes,。
but yeah, we are not breaking up.。
It's just not practical.。
I mean, come on, dude.。
We got a song.。
I have a vacation planned.。
I mean, this is not realistic for us to break up.。
And the reason why that is for you。
is because as you're thinking about it,。
you're going, man, look,。
as bad as it is,。
as much as we're probably breaking。
one of those things we shouldn't be doing,。
here's what I know.。
If I walk through that door called breakup,。
I know what's on the other side.。
And you're convincing yourself。
that like on the other side,。
it's gonna be pain,。
it's gonna be heartbreak,。
it's gonna be less than best,。
it's gonna be not good.。
And hey, look,。
the relationship's not that good right now.。
We're not that close spiritually.。
It's not going as well as I'd like it to.。
Maybe we don't have all the things。
that God says we should,。
but I know what,。
if I traded in for what's。
on the other side of that door,。
it's gonna be worse.。
And you have fallen for a lie.。
Anytime that you choose。
to be obedient to what God says,。
always you're moving the direction。
of what is best for you,。
what is best according to God.。
And right now you're sitting,。
let's call it what it is.。
The reason why you're going,。
I'm not gonna break up。
is 'cause you're afraid.。
You don't trust God.。
If you're saying,。
look, I know that God's word says that,。
but I'm not gonna do it.。
You don't trust God.。
You don't trust that。
he really knows what's best.。
And maybe you should just stay。
in the relationship and say,。
look, I'm gonna keep this relationship。
because I don't trust God.。
We're gonna date 'cause I don't trust God.。
And the tragedy there。
is that God who loves you。
has invited you。
and has promised to you。
that if you will just take a step。
in his direction,。
it will always work for your good.。
It will always work to make him more famous。
or his glory and for your good.。
Because he's a God。
who's not here to rip you off.。
He's not here to take some relationship from you.。
He's here to give you life.。
He's way more concerned。
about your dating relationship,。
your love life than you are.。
He's way more passionate。
about you having an amazing marriage。
than you are.。
And he's way more in love with you。
than whoever you're dating is.。
How do I know that to be true?。
How could that be true, David?。
Have you not seen,。
have you not heard the story。
of the God who entered creation?。
Why? Because he loves you.。
Because he came。
to have a relationship with you.。
He entered the creation.。
He came, he died on a cross。
made out of wood that he created,。
that he by the word of his power。
held together in a moment。
to die for you because he loves you.。
How do you know,。
how do I know that you can trust him?。
I can trust him。
that anytime that we move。
in his direction, as he said,。
if you will trust me,。
it will work for your good.。
Because 2,000 years ago,。
on the day that love won,。
it was perfectly displayed.。
I'm a God who wants。
a relationship with you,。
who has invited you。
to the ultimate marriage.。
You can trust me。
with whatever little thing。
you're holding onto.。
And you choosing disobedience。
will only bring you pain.。
Please, I'm gonna land the plane.。
Please, if you were。
in one of these relationships。
and you were afraid of being single,。
you're afraid of being alone,。
man, or right now,。
you're being tempted to date someone。
who's outside of God's best,。
please listen to me.。
I see this every single week.。
Minister, you're filled。
with all these different。
ministerial conversations,。
all these different。
counseling sessions.。
Please, it is so much better。
for you to be single。
than for you to be poorly married.。
It is so much better,。
I promise you,。
and it's gonna be impossible。
for you to believe.。
It is so much better。
for you to be lonely right now。
for a little bit.。
As you wait for God's man。
and God's woman to come around,。
it is so much better。
for that loneliness,。
if you feel it right now,。
that is such a much better loneliness。
than the people。
who are lonely and married.。
And I see 'em every week,。
I see 'em.。
And who are you gonna trust?。
You're gonna really trust。
that you know what's best,。
you know how to date you。
and your boo,。
you know what's best,。
or are you gonna hand over。
your life to the God。
who created you,。
wired, created marriage,。
and loves you more。
than he ever will。
or she ever will?。
And honestly,。
even that you love yourself。
and is the only one。
who offers that contentment,。
offers the ability。
to have the relationship,。
the marriage, the perspective。
that all of us need,。
that you were made for,。
and that ultimately。
you all desire in this room,。
including myself,。
whether or not we know it.。
We pray that we would.。
Father, would you help。
my friends in the room,。
gosh, Lord,。
do what I can't do,。
do what no message could do,。
what no song could do,。
which is trust you.。
Your word is spoken clearly。
on so many different issues。
and so many different arenas。
and so many different scenarios。
that many of us。
are in right now, Lord,。
so I'm asking by your spirit。
for my friends。
who are Christians in the room,。
not the ones who just say,。
oh yeah, I go to church every once,。
but those who say,。
Jesus, you're the Lord of my life.。
Would your spirit now。
press on their heart,。
not because you're angry with them。
or you want to hurt them。
or you want them to experience pain,。
but because you want them。
to walk through a door。
that on the other side。
is better than they can。
even believe right now?。
Would you lead them。
to follow you in obedience。
towards what's always best?。
God, thank you that you proved。
your love for us.。
And in you, we get to experience。
and be a part of the ultimate marriage。
and will for all eternity.。
We worship you now in song.。
May we worship you。
in the way that we date, love, live,。
and have our being, amen.。
