(upbeat music)。
Love it.。
Let's go, new series, kicking off.。
(audience cheering)。
Very excited.。
Yes, we are kicking off a new series tonight,。
asking for a friend, welcome friends in the room,。
friends in Fort Worth, Houston, El Paso, Tulsa,。
Spring, Cedar Rapids, wherever you are joining us。
from tonight.。
I'm gonna start with a little bit of a story.。
I, six years ago, this past weekend,。
got engaged on 7/7/12.。
Me, Justin Bieber, have that in common now.。
And I know, I was like, dude, come on, man,。
get your own day.。
And anyway, so, hey, I'm gonna tell a little bit。
of the day and how that came.。
So my wife's birthday was on 7/7/12.。
It's every year on 7/7.。
And I decided, I came up with this plot.。
I thought that she would assume there's no way。
I'm gonna get engaged on her birthday。
'cause she'd be like, oh, that's so like plain.。
Of course he's not, so I was one step ahead of her.。
And of course I'm gonna get engaged on her birthday。
'cause that's when she would least expect it。
because reverse psychology of her reverse psychology.。
Anyway, so I put together this whole plan,。
this elaborate scheme, and began to plan out。
what we would do.。
And towards the evening part of kind of that。
birthday day celebration, I told her,。
hey, I'm gonna pick you up about five o'clock.。
We're gonna go to the Arboretum.。
Then we're gonna go to have dinner at this place。
after that for your birthday and celebrate it.。
I intentionally wove in a little misstep。
to throw her off the scent in case she was thinking。
we are going to get engaged at this time.。
So here's what I did.。
I told her we're gonna go to the Arboretum,。
but I knew it was Saturday night。
and the Arboretum is closed on Saturday night.。
So I'm like literally during the day calling to confirm,。
hey, I need you guys to for sure be not open tonight。
because we are gonna deviate and go to another location。
where people were going to meet us.。
And if we end up being able to get in the Arboretum,。
it's gonna create some problems.。
So confirm for sure you're closed.。
And so of course they're like,。
yeah, of course we're closed tonight.。
So we show up at the Arboretum,。
we go into there and it's like, oh no, it's closed.。
Guess we'll have to go somewhere else.。
I guess we'll kill some time in a park。
before our dinner reservations where I had it all planned out.。
Come to find out, weeks later,。
she was already anticipating going,。
we're for sure getting engaged.。
Oh my gosh, he didn't even check。
that the Arboretum was gonna be closed?。
My boyfriend has no sense of details.。
And but in the moment I'm like, oh, bummer.。
Okay, let's go over here.。
And we go to this park and where I had friends。
that were supposed to meet and like they were hiding。
in someone's yards, bushes to take pictures.。
And it starts pouring.。
And I'm like, oh no, we need to get over to this one area.。
And she's like, why don't we just do it another day?。
No, I really think we should try.。
And it's like soaking wet.。
The grass is like literally soaking mud.。
And to a point where I have to like piggyback ride her。
over to this place, kinda like,。
it's really, look at the ducks, they're beautiful.。
And she's going, what is wrong with,。
what is wrong with me for dating him?。
And the moment came and I dropped down to a knee。
and shared some nice things.。
And I asked her, Callie, will you marry me。
and spend the rest of your life with me?。
And she said, yes, yeah, get excited.。
And from there, yeah, thank you.。
And from there, something very interesting happened。
over the next kind of few days.。
So now we're engaged, all this anticipation.。
If you're dating in the room,。
maybe you're in like or in love, wherever you are.。
And you're in that moment where, man, you got engaged。
and I don't know what you anticipate happening.。
What happened to me was not what I anticipated.。
Over the next few days, I began to get filled。
with such doubt over, oh my gosh, what did I just do?。
Have I made the biggest mistake of my entire life?。
Is this the woman I'm supposed to marry?。
And all these different questions。
began to flood through my hand.。
I know, really romantic ladies, for those of you。
in the room.。
And I'm like, is this even right?。
Maybe this wasn't the right relationship for me.。
And it wasn't because of anything really clear.。
It just kind of was like these lingering questions.。
Maybe this relationship is not right, maybe it's wrong.。
And people say things like, you know, when you know,。
you know, and I'm like, and I don't know.。
So does that mean that I know that I don't know。
that I'll ever know?。
And what does that mean?。
And I just began to like freak out。
and have all kinds of doubts.。
I went to this on a trip that Watermark had taken to Haiti。
and had to lead this trip to Haiti.。
And the whole time, like I don't sleep at all。
while we're over there, 'cause I'm just thinking,。
what have I done?。
What have I done?。
What have I done?。
As I'm sitting in this international, you know,。
environment for that week.。
And I remember a process with community。
and eventually came to a place where thankfully,。
I didn't allow that to hold me back.。
And I'm gonna come back to that story。
and kind of why I start there here in a second.。
But the main reason I start there is because of this.。
In the same way that in a dating relationship,。
or for me in that moment,。
I was experiencing some level of doubt over,。
man, is this right?。
Is this the right girl for me?。
Is this the right relationship?。
Is the fact that I'm having doubts,。
does that mean that it's wrong?。
In the same way as often the experience。
that many people have is it relates to their Christian faith.。
Then they experience some level of doubt。
and they begin to wonder like,。
man, the fact that I'm not really sure about,。
I've just got some questions as it relates。
to what the Bible teaches,。
I still have some places where I just have doubt in my mind。
over some of the things the Bible says,。
does that mean that my faith is wrong?。
That my faith is not real?。
That maybe I'm not a true believer。
or maybe this thing is just made up?。
Are these doubts creeping in?。
What do I do with them?。
I don't know if you've experienced doubt。
in your journey of faith,。
but if you haven't, it is coming for you.。
Because it is really a common universal experience。
for anyone who wants to follow Jesus with your life.。
Maybe doubts for you look like,。
man, can we really trust the Bible?。
Maybe you've had doubts about like,。
is Christianity really the only way?。
Like, you know, is it just because I was born in America?。
If I was born in India, wouldn't I be a Hindu?。
Maybe this is just kind of our expression。
in the West of what faith in God looks like.。
How can I really know?。
Maybe that's the doubt that you've experienced.。
What about heaven and hell?。
Maybe you had lingering doubts over,。
man, I'm just trying to believe in God,。
I just, I really struggle with the idea of hell。
or Jesus being the only way to heaven.。
Maybe you've had doubts about just other religions。
and other belief systems.。
And maybe you've wondered if God can truly love you。
the way that the Bible says,。
the way that preachers stand up and say He loves you。
despite all the things that you know in your own life。
are jacked up, that are messed up.。
And you doubt, despite hearing it week after week,。
does God really love me in spite of me?。
In spite of me?。
And what do I do with those doubts?。
Because doubt is a little bit like fear or anxiety,。
if you think about it.。
It's not something that anyone plans。
or wants more of in their life.。
In other words, no one plans,。
today I'm gonna, I think I'm gonna be anxious。
between three and four o'clock.。
It just kind of shows up and grabs you.。
In the same way, doubt is one of those things。
that we don't even have to attempt to do it,。
it can just grab us in a moment.。
Just like a relationship, I can doubt,。
maybe this isn't the right person.。
And in the same thing can happen with our faith.。
Man, maybe Jesus isn't the right Savior.。
So tonight, we are gonna cover the subject of doubt。
of asking for a friend,。
of what do my doubts tell me about my faith?。
Does it tell me that my faith is not real?。
What do I do about my doubts?。
And we are gonna cover from three episodes。
in the life of Jesus, the three interactions that Jesus has。
as it relates to the subject of doubt。
and explore how you and I can experience。
further and further freedom from doubt。
and experience what really doubts tell us。
or what God intends us to do with those doubts.。
So the first episode, if you watch Netflix,。
we're gonna flip through one episode after the next,。
after the next, just kind of jumping all throughout。
the scripture, just like you would flip through。
and binge on a Netflix, Netflix, Netflix episode,。
and we'll jump from one to the next.。
The first episode we're gonna look at。
where Jesus interacts with a man。
who had experienced doubt or was experiencing doubt。
happens in Matthew chapter 11,。
and it involves John the Baptist.。
These verses will be up on the screen.。
You can flip there if you want to,。
but let me set up a little bit of John the Baptist.。
So John the Baptist, there's a couple of Johns。
inside of the New Testament.。
There's one who wrote the book of John.。
Then there's this other dude。
who was not one of the disciples.。
His name was John the Baptist.。
He had the nickname the Baptist。
because he was really the first guy we know of。
that was baptizing people.。
He showed up before Jesus.。
He was actually Jesus's cousin, interesting enough,。
and John the Baptist had this huge ministry。
where before Jesus really showed up on the scene。
and became the figure that he was,。
John was out in the countryside.。
This dude lived in the woods.。
He was known as kind of a man's man or wild man.。
Think Duck Dynasty.。
He's out in the woods by the river。
just baptizing dudes all the time.。
He has one message, really.。
Repent because the Messiah is coming.。
Repent because my cousin is the Messiah and he's coming.。
Repent because you don't wanna miss the Messiah。
once he's here.。
So this is what he would say,。
and we're told that thousands of people。
would go out and see him.。
He's actually included in other historical pieces。
of literature outside of the Bible from that day.。
I mean, this dude was known.。
He was a rockstar, if you will.。
A little bizarre 'cause he was, you know,。
Harry and Duck Dynasty out there eating locusts, we're told,。
but he was a rockstar.。
Even the king of that area would go out。
'cause they just wanted to hear him teach.。
And one day he's out baptizing people。
and he's saying, "Repent, the Messiah's coming."。
All of a sudden, his cousin, Jesus,。
his younger cousin Jesus shows up to the whole crowd.。
He says, "Look, behold, the Lamb of God。
"who takes away the sins of the earth,。
"the Lamb who takes away every person's sin。
"if they'll trust in him."。
He says in front of this whole crowd,。
"This is the one we've been waiting for.。
"I must decrease, he must increase."。
He says, "This is God's chosen one."。
You can read it in John chapter one.。
And John was just a bold dude.。
He didn't play around, he just drove right to the point.。
And that bold type of teaching that he exhibited。
or showed that day would end up being something。
that ultimately led to him being arrested。
and thrown in prison for his ministry.。
And John, sitting in a prison cell,。
begins to move from that bold declaration。
of who Jesus was to begin to question things。
because he found himself in a circumstance。
where things weren't going like he thought they would.。
Here's what happens in Matthew chapter 11, verse two.。
Now, when John was in prison。
and he heard about the deeds of the Messiah,。
that people were telling him, "Hey, your cousin Jesus,。
"he's healing the lame, he's raising people from the dead。
"like blind people couldn't see,。
"all of a sudden they can see.。
"Jesus is doing all these amazing things."。
He sent his disciples to ask him, that's Jesus,。
"Are you the one who is to come。
"or should we expect someone else?。
"What just happened there?"。
Well, I'll tell you what just happened.。
John is sitting in between maybe a couple other prisoners。
inside of a jail, so he's looking through bars。
and he begins to question.。
After a few days go by, maybe a few weeks go by,。
a few months go by, where is my cousin?。
I mean, I'm the guy who like made him what he is,。
I'm the guy who said, "Hey, he's the one, he's the Messiah,。
"he's the savior of the earth。
"and he's out there caring for everybody else.。
"Is he really the savior?。
"Why am I sitting in prison right now?"。
Maybe he's not, maybe I had it all wrong。
and John begins to question this man。
who just earlier in the story had said,。
"This is the lamb of God."。
The man who told everybody else,。
he's the one who is to come.。
Now gets his disciples and he's sitting in a prison,。
says, "You gotta go ask Jesus a question for me.。
"I need you to go ask him,。
"like is he the one that we thought he was or is he not?"。
Because John found himself in a place。
that he never thought he would be,。
found himself in circumstances that he was like,。
"Surely God would intervene here."。
And he began to doubt.。
So the disciples must be thinking,。
"John, how can we go ask that question to Jesus?。
"You're the one who told everybody he is the one,。
"but I guess we'll go ask him."。
So they go to Jesus and they ask,。
"Are you the one who is to come。
"or should we expect another?"。
And Jesus replied, "Go back and report to John。
"what you hear and what you see.。
"The blind receive sight, the lame walk,。
"those who have leprosy are cleansed,。
"the deaf hear, the dead are raised,。
"and the good news is proclaimed to the poor.。
"Blessed is anyone who does not stumble on account of me."。
I love Jesus 'cause the two disciples。
who came to visit him have gotta be thinking,。
"Are you the one who is to come and rather go back。
"and tell him the blind see, the lame hear,。
"the lame walk, the deaf hear."。
And they're going, great, check, check.。
"Are you the one who is to come。
"or should we expect another?"。
He's like, "Go tell him the blind see."。
That he just says, "Man, you can see for yourself.。
"The acts of the Messiah are clearly,。
"the acts of the Christ," which is what the word Messiah。
means, "are clearly being shown by Jesus.。
"And go back and tell him these works."。
And then he says that line of,。
"Blessed is anyone who does not fall away。
"on account of me."。
In other words, Jesus says, "Blessed is anyone。
"who does not fall away because I'm not acting。
"how they think that I should act,。
"how they think I should be acting.。
"Because I'm not doing the things that they assume。
"that, hey, if there was a God,。
"he would for sure act in this way.。
"Blessed is anyone."。
And then Jesus says something that's remarkable.。
In a few verses, he says this about John.。
"Truly I tell you, among those who are born of woman,"。
that's everybody, so everyone in this room。
is born of a woman, "among those who are born of woman,。
"there's never risen anyone greater than John the Baptist.。
"Yet whoever is least in the kingdom of heaven。
"is greater than he."。
That Jesus responds to his cousin who sits there。
and who had this overwhelming boldness,。
he's the one who's now finding himself。
in incredible doubt of, man, maybe he's not, I don't know.。
And he responds and he says,。
"John the Baptist is the greatest person who's ever lived."。
That even John, the greatest person in Jesus,。
I mean, Jesus just said, hey, this dude's the GOAT.。
And even the GOAT, greatest of all time,。
not Tom Brady, not Jordan, not David in the Old Testament,。
not the old prophets, he says,。
"There's never been anyone greater than my cousin John."。
Think about that.。
There's never been anybody greater.。
And even the greatest of all time。
struggled with doubt in his moment of need.。
Doubt does not disqualify a person's faith.。
Doubt is a part of any true faith。
that you're gonna experience.。
Doubt is normal, our first point,。
for even the greatest people of faith.。
And John the Baptist, who Jesus says,。
"There's never been anyone greater。
"when he found himself in a place。
"where he didn't like how God was not intervening,。
"where he didn't like the story。
"that was being written in his life,。
"he begins to doubt."。
And Jesus says, man, even the greatest。
experienced doubt in your life.。
If you struggle with doubt。
or if you've ever struggled with doubt,。
man, if you read the Bible,。
you will find good and great comfort and encouragement。
because all throughout it,。
there's people who struggle with doubt.。
Every single one of Jesus's followers struggled with doubt.。
Every single one of his 12 disciples struggled with doubt,。
from Peter to John to Andrew,。
all of them struggled to believe。
that, man, is this really true?。
Is Jesus really who he says he was?。
And they struggled after they saw him walk on water,。
after they saw him feed 5,000,。
after they saw him do all these miraculous things.。
In fact, dude, it's so comical.。
You read Matthew chapter 28,。
and we're even told that the disciples go to meet Jesus。
after he's risen from the dead。
and he's ascending into heaven.。
He's floating up in the sky and he says,。
"Go into all the earth and proclaim,"。
and he says, "The good commission."。
And the Bible says, Matthew 28,。
that when they saw him do this,。
out of the 11, some worshiped him.。
And some doubted.。
Think about that.。
They're sitting there and they're like,。
dude just came back from life,。
he's literally floating up into the sky,。
and they're like, ah, I don't know.。
I've got an uncle that does very similar stuff than this.。
(congregation laughing)。
I'm not totally convinced here.。
I mean, that's who the disciples, the 11, were.。
And if you've ever struggled with doubt,。
you find great comfort and encourage me。
because the scriptures are full of people。
who didn't have it perfectly,。
but on the journey as their faith continued to grow,。
they wrestled with doubt.。
Really, the Christian life, I mean, for anybody,。
if you've met people who are like,。
no, I've never struggled with doubt,。
I mean, you're just not telling the truth.。
I can tell you, you're working on a church staff,。
you experience still levels of doubt.。
The Christian life is like a roller coaster.。
There's moments where you're like,。
click, click, click, click, click.。
We're just going up, God's taking over the world.。
He's on the king, he's the throne, he's coming back.。
Nothing can stop us.。
The none go with me, I will follow.。
Click, click, click, ah, where are you, God?。
And you just find yourself on these ups and downs.。
I mean, and the truth is, the more your faith grows,。
the less, hopefully, of those roller coaster rides you find,。
but it's never this straight journey.。
And even the greatest of all time,。
Jesus said, struggled with doubt.。
I know in my own life.。
Dude, I read the same Bible you do.。
And there's things in there that I'm like,。
huh, interesting, wow.。
From Adam and Eve running around the garden naked。
talking to snakes, to Jonah in the belly of a whale。
for three days, to the sun standing still in one moment,。
to people living to be like 800 and 900 years old.。
I'm like, what is that?。
What do you even look like past age 100?。
Like, you just turn into Yoda?。
Is that something, or what happens?。
And I remember, especially when I first。
kind of got into ministry, and I remember being in seminary,。
and I remember feeling these kind of waves of doubt,。
because I was going all in on this Jesus thing.。
I was like, hey, I'm hedging myself here.。
I'm pot committed at this point.。
I've got a Bible degree, and I'm all in,。
and have I been misled here?。
I'm about to turn pro in Christianity,。
and I don't know if maybe these doubts。
are something I should listen to.。
And so in the next episode I wanna look at,。
we're gonna see, I think, a key to diffusing the doubt。
in your life, or what to do whenever you experience doubt.。
What to do when those doubts come in,。
because it's not just blind, turn off your mind,。
don't think about that stuff, it's the opposite.。
And we're gonna see it in the second episode。
we're gonna look at tonight.。
And this episode takes place in John chapter six.。
John chapter six, now let me set the scene.。
In John chapter six, Jesus does one of his greatest miracles.。
It's included in all four gospels.。
There's four different accounts of the life of Jesus.。
They include a lot of the same stuff.。
Very few incidences are in all four of them.。
This one is, it's the feeding of the 5,000 people.。
That they all were like, dude, that was amazing.。
Jesus was out, he was teaching thousands of people one day.。
He's teaching them, and it gets late in the day, we're told.。
And Jesus looks out and he says,。
"Hey, we gotta feed these people.。
"They've been here a long time.。
"And we don't have food trucks or food camels。
"or anything, so we need to figure out what to do."。
And he looks at his disciples and says,。
that's just unnecessary, I don't know what I'm doing with it.。
(congregation laughing)。
And he looks at his disciples and says,。
"Hey, give them something to eat."。
And they said, "Give them something to eat?。
"We couldn't feed 5,000, I mean, estimates say 5,000 men,。
"so that's probably around 15,000 women and children,。
"up to 20."。
And they're going, what are we supposed to do?。
And so Andrew sees this kid with a lunchbox,。
and he basically is like, "Hey, give me this,。
"I gotta give it to Jesus, Jesus wants it."。
And he brings this lunchbox to Jesus,。
and it says it has some fish and a few loaves in it.。
And Jesus spreads it and tears it up,。
and the bread just keeps going and going and going and going,。
and they feed 5,000 men or 15,000 people that day.。
And the crowd is like, oh, this is amazing.。
We got a bread factory, we gotta follow this guy everywhere.。
And that's what happened.。
The next day, it says that they showed up。
and they're looking for Jesus and they go find him.。
He like went on a boat across this lake,。
and they're like, "We're going with you."。
And they go find him over there, and he shows up,。
and they're like, "Man, where's the bread?"。
And, (laughs) it's true, it's in the Bible.。
And he says something that ends with them being like,。
"I don't know if I can do this, I'm not in on that."。
And he says, "Look, I don't have bread for you today,。
"but the bread that you need is not the bread。
"that's gonna satisfy you today.。
"You need the bread of eternal life,。
"and I am the bread that has come down from heaven,。
"and I am a provision that won't just give you。
"something to eat today.。
"It will be a provision for all of eternity。
"for you to have."。
And Jesus says, "I'm the bread who's come down from heaven."。
And the crowd begins to murmur, it tells us.。
Literally, in the story, it says that they're like,。
"Wait, didn't he marry a Joseph's son,。
"came down from heaven?"。
He's from like four blocks over there, down from heaven.。
And they begin to murmur and go,。
"I'm not sure he's who he says he is."。
And then he says something that was like,。
oh, that's a deal breaker.。
He says, "Unless you eat my flesh and drink of my blood,。
"you won't be a part of this covenant."。
And the crowd is going, "Okay, time out.。
"Cannibalism, really, are we going there?。
"I don't know if this is for me."。
And they kind of begin to mosey out of there.。
That's what happens in this story.。
They don't understand Jesus is using a metaphor saying,。
"Unless you partake in me, unless I am the source。
"and provision for your eternal life,。
"then you will grow hungry again.。
"You will not be a part of the everlasting covenant,"。
which is what Jesus said.。
Similar to how we would talk about communion.。
But the crowd doesn't understand that,。
and so they just kind of slowly begin to get up,。
and all of a sudden, people begin to just walk away.。
And people who are following Jesus decide,。
"It's not worth it anymore.。
"I'm not sure this is who he says he is,。
"and I don't understand what he's saying."。
And so here's where we pick up the story in verse 66.。
Of chapter six.。
"From this time, many of his disciples turn back。
"and no longer follow Jesus."。
They said, "Man, that is just too bizarre.。
"I don't understand it.。
"I'm out, out on that."。
And Jesus turns to his 12,。
kind of the 12 close disciples of the 12 apostles,。
and he asks them a question.。
"You do not want to leave, too, do you?"。
And Simon Peter answered,。
and his answer gives us an antidote。
for what I think all of us have to do。
when we are in the face of doubt.。
All of us have to consider。
whenever we find ourselves experiencing any doubt.。
Simon Peter answered and said,。
"Lord, to whom shall we go?。
"You have the words of eternal life,。
"and we have come to believe and know。
"that you are the Holy One of God."。
Peter basically says, "Yeah, I'm uncomfortable,。
"and I have no idea what you're talking about。
"with the cannibalism thing,。
"or really any of the teaching in the parables,。
"but who else are we gonna go to?。
"You alone have the words of eternal life.。
"Like, if not you, then who?。
"That if we walk away from you,。
"we're walking towards something,。
"and what is that something gonna be?。
"If not Jesus, then who?。
"If not Christianity, then what?"。
Peter understood that when it comes。
to surveying the world around us,。
when it comes to exploring the options。
with Jesus or with some other belief system,。
that even with my doubts, even with my confusion,。
I'm not sure what you said,。
Jesus is the best option I have.。
Even with your doubts,。
Jesus is the best option that you have,。
'cause here's what I really wanna explore。
for just a few minutes with you.。
Every single doubt, if you listen to a doubt,。
and you follow that doubt,。
and you allow it to be like,。
"Oh man, I'm not sure how people live that long,。
"or what they look like.。
"I guess this whole thing doesn't make sense anymore."。
You are not just leaving Christianity,。
you're going towards something.。
All of us, every single day, are gonna wake up,。
and you will live by faith in something,。
and you are living by faith today in something,。
and in someone, regardless of whether or not you know it.。
That to walk away from Jesus。
is not to walk away from getting,。
or walk away from certainty,。
or, let me say it like this,。
I can walk with Jesus with some uncertainty,。
I don't understand everything, I still have questions,。
or I can walk away from him and have complete uncertainty.。
The world doesn't make more sense apart from him,。
it makes less.。
And when doubts come in, you've gotta be like Peter,。
and I've gotta be like Peter,。
which is be willing to say,。
"Man, I'm gonna consider the options.。
"I'm looking at the options, and even with some doubt,。
"this is the best option I have, Jesus."。
The idea that you're gonna live by faith,。
and I'm gonna live by faith,。
regardless of your belief, is just everywhere.。
I mean, let's talk about some of the major world beliefs,。
or religions, maybe we'll just start with atheism.。
Maybe you've called yourself an agnostic,。
or you have friends and family。
who are agnostic and atheism.。
You have an enormous amount of faith to be an atheist.。
I mean, it's just true.。
To believe that the universe around us,。
atheism, there was no God, or maybe there isn't a God.。
To believe that the world, despite the fact that science,。
proving almost conclusively, according to Stephen Hawking,。
the universe had a beginning.。
The universe isn't eternal.。
And so if there was this big bang beginning。
to be an atheist, you have to say,。
"Well, nothing caused that big bang.。
"It wasn't a big God.。
"I don't know what caused it, it just kinda happened."。
You have to believe that something came from nothing.。
And I know this almost seems like elementary,。
that's what you have to accept at some level.。
I mean, even the leading thinkers within that camp,。
if you know of Richard Dawkins,。
who's one of the leading kind of thinkers in atheism,。
has proposed that we don't know what caused the big bang.。
And here's one of his leading explanations.。
You can go look it up.。
"Maybe aliens from another universe。
"that we've never seen before came and impregnated。
"our world, and then they just disappeared,。
"and that's how it all started."。
I'm not the smartest guy in the room.。
But I think it takes more faith to believe in aliens。
who we've never seen from another universe。
that we can't track or trace to impregnate,。
whatever that means, our world,。
than God creating it.。
So you gotta have faith if you're gonna walk towards that.。
Maybe you're thinking,。
well, what about the world religion of Hinduism?。
To believe without any evidence.。
I mean, at least Christianity has,。
all of our faith hinges on the resurrection,。
the life and death of Jesus.。
It's all about that.。
The Hindu faith hinges on really an evolution。
of these teachings that have occurred。
for the last few thousand years,。
and to believe that reincarnation。
is really a result of karma,。
so depending on how you live will determine。
whether you're coming back as a mouse or a cat or you,。
and so you probably were great in the past,。
but we don't know because you can't remember anything。
from your former life.。
That includes, that requires a certain amount of faith.。
To believe in Islam requires a certain amount of faith.。
To believe that this experience that was had by Muhammad。
in the 600s where he had some divine encounter。
that told him to go become a warlord。
that ended up going to cities and saying,。
"Convert or die is the one true way to God,"。
requires a certain amount of faith,。
and by the way, Muhammad didn't rise from the dead.。
Muhammad is buried somewhere.。
(congregation laughing)。
To be a, probably the most common thing。
that we see inside of our world。
is honestly the most ludicrous one。
out of all the ones that I've already mentioned,。
and that's just this modern age spirituality kind of idea.。
It's really the American made up God,。
which is like, hey, the God who's out there,。
he loves everybody, that's just my belief,。
aka my opinion, aka what I made up。
or what culture made up, and I'm accepting it,。
and God out there is love,。
and he really doesn't care how you live or what you do,。
and everybody's accepted except Hitler,。
and so everything will be fine.。
(congregation laughing)。
That's a made up God.。
That's probably the most common belief in our country,。
but that's a made up God.。
That is just the same.。
Listen to me, that's Zeus.。
You know that, right?。
The Greeks didn't have any literature for Zeus.。
They just kind of made him up.。
This is what he's like.。
I'm sure this is great.。
They made him in their image.。
That's what the American God,。
who's just like, he's love out there, that's what he is.。
They took the God of the Bible who says God is love,。
and they ripped the scripture。
and everything that they don't like。
about what the Bible says,。
and they just said, we'll just go with the God is love theory.。
That's a made up mythology,。
and that takes an enormous amount of faith to believe.。
You're gonna believe, and you will walk by faith。
whether you realize it,。
and I used to think the statement。
that's written in the Bible that,。
hey, you know, we walk by faith and not by sight.。
I kind of was like uncomfortable with that,。
'cause I was like, does that mean like Christians are like,。
nope, not me, I don't care about sight.。
I'm more of a faith guy.。
A lot of people see it to believe it.。
I'm more of a believe it, don't see it thing,。
and then I realized that everyone walks by faith.。
Every person that you've ever met,。
red, yellow, black, and white, they all walk by faith.。
Every person you work with, interact with,。
they're all walking by faith in something,。
and the Christian faith is the most rational。
of all the options.。
The Christian faith, even with your doubts,。
as Peter says, man, who else are we gonna go to?。
You're the best option we got.。
Even with your doubts is the best guy,。
because here's some big problems。
that to walk away from Jesus,。
you have to be able to explain.。
You gotta be able to reconcile inside of a world.。
How do we even know the story of Christianity?。
How did Christianity even make it out of the first century?。
You ever think about this?。
The fact that today, over two billion people。
all over the planet claim to have some relationship。
with God through Jesus of Nazareth.。
Where's Nazareth?。
It's in the armpit of the Roman Empire.。
You couldn't pick it out on a map,。
and no one would ever even know it existed。
had there not been this Jewish peasant。
who is the son of a carpenter,。
who, if you're gonna explore any other belief,。
you just believe, man, he was a lucky guy,。
and things just really took off for him.。
Things were going great.。
He was just a man.。
That's absurd.。
Not only that, the narrative that,。
man, he was just a really good guy and a good prophet,。
if you read the Bible,。
those aren't the words of a guy who's a really good guy。
and a good prophet and just keep the mission。
and movement alive, his teachings.。
His teachings, apart from him being God。
and rising from the dead, don't make much sense.。
They're not that profound.。
They're not that amazing,。
apart from him being who he said he was.。
In fact, they almost come off as a looney tune.。
No one would say the guy who claims to be God。
is the guy who, there's a good guy over there.。
Hey, I'm God.。
I love that guy.。
Good guy over there.。
No one would say that,。
and yet that's the claim for millions and millions of people.。
How do you explain that apart from Christianity,。
apart from the message of Jesus being true,。
apart from the resurrection?。
How do you explain the fact that all over our world,。
in different languages, on different continents,。
people claim to have had an encounter with Jesus。
in a real way, and it did something to their lives?。
They began to be transformed from the inside out,。
and when you get them together,。
they speak Mandarin Chinese and they speak Farsi。
and they speak English, and you compare their stories,。
and they're eerily similar.。
How do you explain the fact that this peasant movement。
that never should have made it out。
of the Middle East Palestine area,。
that the Roman Empire said, "We're going to stomp them out.。
"We're lighting them on torches."。
The Roman Empire persecuted the heck out of them,。
and eventually it exploded and spread and spread。
and exploded, not by the sword like Islam,。
but by love, and it toppled the empire,。
and today, Rome is not the place。
trying to kill Christianity for a billion Catholics.。
It's the epicenter of Christianity.。
How do you explain that?。
You read history books that try to tell you,。
"Man, it was just, those were really compelling Christians。
"that first century, and it's ludicrous。
"apart from the resurrection."。
How do you explain men and women,。
by the hundreds who went to their deaths,。
not for what they said they believed in.。
Here, listen to me.。
They didn't die for what they said they believed in.。
They died for what they said they saw.。
People die for what they believe in all the time.。
Terrorists fly planes into buildings。
because I believe in it.。
I believe in the movement.。
They didn't, Christ followers did not say,。
"You know what, I believe in the movement.。
"You should love your neighbor as yourself.。
"Kill me for that."。
They said, "I saw a man die, and he went into the ground.。
"He was buried, and I saw him rise again.。
"You can kill me, you can do whatever you want,。
"but I'm going with the guy who comes back from the dead,。
"because he said, if I trust in him,。
"I'm gonna come back from the dead,。
"and I will live for all of eternity."。
How do you explain that?。
This is a movement that every person on the planet today。
dated their calendar, their checkbook, their life,。
by the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ.。
2018 years from, how do you explain that?。
Said that he was just some good guy from the Middle East,。
and they're all the same.。
That is absurd.。
That requires an enormous amount of faith.。
It contradicts every world religion.。
It contradicts the one true God.。
And even with your doubts about,。
man, where were the dinosaurs?。
Christianity is the best, most rational option you got.。
When I struggled with my engagement with my wife,。
what did I do?。
I went and sought answers.。
If you're struggling with doubt in the room,。
the best thing I can encourage you to do。
is to seek out answers.。
What do I mean by I sought answers?。
I sat down with my community group.。
I'm like, man, I'm kinda having some nervous,。
I'm just filled with doubt.。
Is this wrong, is it right?。
Maybe I'm not supposed to marry her.。
You know what they did?。
They basically sat me down and were like,。
dude, you're having cold feet, you're freaking out, okay?。
Just calm down a little bit,。
and let's talk about why you're nervous.。
Is there some sin you've observed in her life。
that's making you concerned?。
No, none at all.。
Is there sin in your own life?。
You're not talking to people, no, not that I know of.。
Is there something outstanding,。
contradicting the Bible you see in her life?。
No, not that I know of.。
Then what is it?。
I'm not sure, I'm just kinda paralyzed with doubt right now.。
Maybe I'm making a mistake.。
Okay, we're gonna encourage you to continue。
to just work through that,。
because it doesn't seem like these are。
thoughts that are planted from God.。
Maybe they are, maybe we're wrong.。
I remember JP coming along and saying,。
hey, all right, dude, so you're kinda going back and forth.。
Here's what I want you to do.。
Let's pick a day.。
What day do you wanna pick?。
All right, next Wednesday, next Wednesday, okay?。
Next Wednesday, we are going to put to bed。
this doubt and this kinda like, I'm worried, I'm nervous,。
I'm unsure, we're just gonna put it to bed.。
And so by next Wednesday, we're either gonna say,。
hey, you know what, we're gonna hit pause officially。
for a little bit, or we're gonna say,。
you know what, I'm done with that.。
There's no reason why I need to continue living。
in this doubt right now.。
So next Wednesday, you freak out,。
worry all you want between now and then,。
but Wednesday is D-Day, so we'll make the decision.。
And that was like profoundly hopeful for me.。
It was kinda like, oh, we'll explore it,。
and I guess there isn't anything here.。
And for whatever reason, it was like,。
I'm putting that to bed, and I'm moving on.。
It wasn't that I was unwilling to acknowledge reason。
or to explore, to seek answers,。
but there wasn't anything outstanding.。
It just was some nerves in my own heart.。
Some of you, you need to seek answers。
and to continue to find clarity。
if there's parts of you that are doubting.。
There's a website called gotquestions.org,。
gotquestions.org, could not recommend it highly enough.。
You can type in almost any question you want.。
They've got millions and millions of questions。
that are there.。
And get biblical answers。
that will help answer some of those things.。
Maybe you have friends that may have questions,。
and that could be a resource too.。
But then there's this other group in the room.。
And this is probably what I think most people。
in our age demographic are in.。
And our doubts in this group are less like,。
man, I'm just not sure that it's true.。
And they're more in the category of,。
I'm not sure I want it to be true,。
at least not yet, if you will.。
I'm not sure that I want it to be true.。
Because if the Bible is really true,。
if Jesus really did rise,。
I might have to change some things.。
And I don't know that I'm wanting to do that.。
And so I'd rather kind of just live。
in ignorance as bliss right now,。
'cause if it's true,。
I might have to stop sleeping with my boyfriend.。
If it's true, I might have to break up with her.。
If it's true, man, I might be in an occupation。
that I'm not supposed to be in.。
If it's true, I may not be able to smoke weed。
the way that I've been smoking weed.。
If it's true, I may need to change some habits。
or change some of my people that I run with.。
I may have to like, it may mess my life up.。
I'm not sure I want it to be true,。
like at least not yet.。
You know, like someday, kind of once I'm past my 20s,。
then I for sure, you know, I'm gonna get in church。
and you know, we're gonna get a minivan。
and take the kids to church and it's gonna be great.。
But right now, I'm not sure that I even want it to be true.。
Let me tell you the danger in that.。
The best way I know to explain it would be this.。
Have you ever had that feeling or that experience where,。
and I'm asking for a friend here,。
you're like buying something and you're like,。
I don't know how much I have left。
in my bank account right now.。
I'm not even sure that I really wanna look this week。
or today or anytime soon.。
I'll just, it'll be fine, you know.。
I've got some credit in there, it'll be great.。
And you kind of like operate in this like,。
I'll look but not till next week。
'cause it's a little depressing every time I do.。
And you have that experience where you're like,。
I wanna know the truth, just not quite yet, right now.。
And the danger there is, man, as you do that,。
you're not making responsible decisions,。
you end up increasing the debt that you have.。
And it ends up costing you either way.。
In the same way, unlike a bank account。
where maybe you get a bonus。
or something you can pay it off easily,。
when you and I continue to reject the truth,。
not live with the truth, you're not racking up debt,。
you are racking up damage to your life.。
You're racking up dysfunctional habits。
that don't just go away.。
Alcohol, and when you continue to just abuse alcohol,。
that doesn't just go away, that becomes alcoholism.。
Pornography, if you continue to just indulge。
in pornography, that's not something that's going away.。
You are continuing to create a habit inside of your life.。
If you continue to live in a way。
that's outside of God's will, you're not racking up debt,。
you are damaging your life, you are missing out。
on experiencing your 20s, the life you wanna have,。
the life God wants you to experience.。
And you're hiding behind, let's be honest,。
just smoke screens, you're like,。
I just kinda wanna claim I don't know。
because I honestly don't even know that I want to know.。
And it's a smoke screen.。
And in the end, it's only gonna cost you.。
And it's only gonna bring damage to you。
in a way that no amount of when I get the next check,。
I can just pay it off, is gonna be able to take care of.。
In the meantime, the question all of us have to wrestle。
is if not Jesus, then who?。
If not Christianity, then what?。
Because you're gonna walk by faith。
and you're gonna live by faith,。
whether you realize it or not.。
The question is, will you be honest enough。
with yourself to admit it?。
And then the third episode that we see。
in this trilogy of interactions with Jesus,。
with people who struggle with doubt,。
comes in John chapter 20.。
And what I wanna just pull out from this text。
is the simple truth that Jesus can handle your doubt.。
Jesus can handle your doubt.。
The doubt is normal for even the greatest of faith,。
we said point one, even with doubts,。
Christ is your best option.。
And that Jesus, no matter what that doubt is,。
Jesus can handle your doubt.。
This story comes from John chapter 20.。
And this is one of the most famous interactions。
Jesus has with someone who experienced doubt.。
And this was a dude who ended up getting a nickname.。
His nickname was Doubting Thomas.。
That's right.。
Five of you know this story.。
So for the rest of you, here's what happened.。
Thomas was one of the 12 disciples.。
Thomas was one of Jesus's followers.。
And in John chapter 20, it's shortly after Jesus。
died on the cross, rose from the dead, came back alive,。
and he began showing up and appearing to people.。
And this is blowing people's mind。
'cause people don't come back from the dead very often,。
or ever.。
And so people are like, man, I saw Jesus.。
And Jesus is showing up to different people,。
shows up to Mary Magdalene, shows up to another Mary,。
his mother, shows up to 11 of the disciples.。
And Thomas is not home.。
Thomas had gone to the grocery store to get something。
and so Thomas was the only one of the disciples。
who was not home.。
And Jesus shows up and he's in the room。
and he allows the 11 disciples,。
hey, you can touch my hands, you can see me, look at me,。
it's me, I've risen from the dead, peace be with you.。
And Thomas comes back and they begin to tell him,。
man, we saw Jesus and here's what happens.。
John chapter 20, verse 24.。
Now Thomas, who was also known as Didymus,。
was one of the 12, was not with the disciples。
when Jesus came.。
So the other disciples told him, we have seen the Lord.。
But he said to them, unless I see the nail marks。
in his hands and I put my finger where the nails were。
and I put my hand in his side, I will not believe.。
Thomas gets a bad rap.。
Thomas feels like just an honest dude to me.。
I mean, if I'm in the room right now。
and I've never seen someone rise from the dead,。
I feel like that's pretty reasonable.。
You're like, yeah, hey man, when I see it,。
I will definitely believe it.。
I'm gonna take your word,。
but you guys are not the brightest group。
in the whole bunch here.。
So when I see it, I'll believe it.。
And here's what happens next.。
A week later, his disciples were in the house again。
and Thomas was with them this time.。
Though the doors were locked,。
Jesus came and stood among them,。
which is like a total gangster move.。
Just like, I'm gonna walk through the walls right here.。
I'm Jesus, how are you?。
And he said, peace be with you。
because they probably were terrified。
if somebody walks through a wall.。
That's a real deal right there.。
And he walks through the wall, he says,。
"Peace be with you, don't be afraid."。
And then he looked at Thomas。
and what would you expect him to say?。
"Thomas, you doubted me.。
"I'm done with you, bye Felicia.。
(congregation laughing)。
"It's over."。
That's not what he said.。
This is the message version.。
And...。
(congregation laughing)。
It's not true.。
And the message is great.。
Whatever Bible you'll read.。
"Thomas," he said,。
"put your finger here and see my hands.。
"Reach your hand out and put it in my side.。
"Stop doubting and believe."。
That's amazing to me.。
How much humility does it take。
for the God of the universe to say,。
man, he didn't believe, I'll prove myself to you.。
You wanna come here and you wanna touch the hands,。
touch the holes, Thomas.。
He didn't say, "Thomas, I'm done with you.。
"I can't believe you."。
Man, unbelievable.。
Who do you think you are?。
He said, "Thomas, come, you can come see for yourself.。
"It's me, it's Jesus.。
"I rose just like I said I would."。
Thomas said to him, "My Lord and my God."。
Over and over the Bible, side note,。
paints a picture that Jesus didn't claim to be a man,。
he claimed to be God.。
And everyone who believed him, died for him,。
followed him, believed that he was.。
Then Jesus told him,。
"Because you have seen me, you have believed,。
"but blessed are those who have not seen and yet believe."。
That's you if you're a follower of Jesus.。
What Jesus displays here is that he can handle your doubts.。
He didn't chastise Thomas, he allows him,。
"Hey, you want more evidence?。
"Come seek more evidence."。
He moves towards Thomas in compassion。
that Jesus can handle your doubts.。
If you're someone who has doubts,。
he's not disregarding you, he's not done with you。
that doesn't disqualify you.。
He moves in your direction like he did with Thomas.。
If you're someone who has sincere doubts in the room,。
I wanna invite you and I wanna ask,。
I wanna challenge you really to do something.。
If you're someone who's like,。
"Man, I'm just not, I'm trying as hard as I can,。
"but I'm just not there yet.。
"I'm not even sure God exists.。
"I'm not sure this whole Christianity thing is true.。
"I wanna be there, I just can't get there.。
"It works for everyone else, I just can't get there."。
I wanna encourage and challenge you to do something.。
I just want you to pray something this week。
for the next seven days.。
God, if you're real, will you show yourself to me?。
God, if you're real, I wanna know you,。
will you reveal yourself to me?。
God, if you're real, will you reveal yourself to me?。
You may be honestly too afraid to pray that prayer。
'cause you're afraid you might actually do it.。
But if you're sincere, if you want to know him,。
I wanna challenge you to pray that prayer.。
God, if you're real, will you reveal yourself to me?。
Because here's what I know about you,。
here's what I know about every single person in the room.。
You want to know God.。
Like if the God who's there is real, you wanna know him.。
You want to know him even more than you want answers。
to the questions you have.。
Think about that.。
Thomas wanted to know him more than he wanted to know。
answers to his questions.。
I mean, when Jesus shows up, Thomas is not like,。
"Oh man, yeah, I really have to explore here.。
"Let me see those hands, give me that thing.。
"Is it really Jesus?。
"Oh, I open up, ah."。
He goes, "He's the one,。
"I don't need to explore anything more."。
Thomas wanted to know him more than he wanted no answer.。
I know that's true for you.。
Here's how further I know it.。
If Jesus or God was to appear to you tonight。
inside of your room, if you're someone who's like,。
"I've just got questions, I've got doubts,。
"I'm kind of a skeptic by nature."。
If he showed up in your room tonight,。
here's what I'm confident would not happen.。
Jesus stands in front of you, "Hey, it's me, I'm Jesus.。
"It's true, I'm God."。
You wouldn't be like, "Hold on, let me get my list.。
"Okay, let's start from the top.。
"Noah, huh, how did he fit the animals on the ark?。
"That's what I wanna know."。
You'd be like, "Oh my gosh, it's real."。
Your questions would all kind of shrink to the side.。
You'd be like, "Ah, we'll figure that out.。
"You're real, it's true."。
Because you, every person in this room,。
you wanna know him more than you want answers。
to your question.。
And so if you are a person, you're wrestling with those,。
I just wanna challenge you to pray.。
God, if you're real, will you reveal yourself to me?。
I wanna know you, I want answers to my questions,。
but I wanna know you more than I want answers。
to my questions.。
Will you show yourself to me in an undeniable way?。
I believe that's a prayer that he will answer.。
And so this week, for the next seven days,。
you owe it to yourself, because if he's there,。
you want to know him even more than you want answers。
to your questions.。
The second thing I would challenge you to do。
is to seek answers.。
There's libraries written on the questions you may have,。
truly.。
My guess is maybe you are the one exception。
in the whole world history that's gonna come up。
with the one question that's like,。
"Ah, that's a stumper."。
Even God, not sure on that one.。
But for most of us, the questions that you have。
about like, you know, how old is the earth?。
All those different questions are great.。
Ask them, seek answers on them.。
Don't just live in the fog of doubt.。
In conclusion, what we see is that doubt happens。
even to the greatest of faith,。
that even with doubts, Christ is your best option,。
and that Jesus can handle your doubts,。
wherever you are in that journey.。
I'll close here.。
I was thinking today, and I was thinking about,。
man, had I allowed those doubts to rule my life,。
the doubts with my relationship with my wife,。
how much would I have missed out on?。
Like, how different would my life have been。
if I was not able to kind of get over doubts,。
that I wasn't able to move forward,。
and I just allowed those things to be in the driver's seat,。
and I can't move forward in this relationship?。
I probably wouldn't have been able to move forward。
in any single relationship.。
Had I allowed those doubts that really were just,。
that there weren't any really good reason for them,。
how I'd allowed those things to rule my life,。
how different would my life have been,。
how much would I have missed out on?。
Well, I can tell you.。
I would have missed out on the last six years,。
being married to one of the godliest people I know.。
I would have missed out on some of the best six years。
of my life.。
I would have missed out on seeing the birth of two children.。
They wouldn't exist.。
A two-and-a-half-year-old son,。
and a nine-day-old or something like that daughter.。
Yeah, I know, we're not sleeping.。
We can keep going.。
(audience applauding)。
(laughing)。
Thanks, golf clap for that.。
I would have missed out on all kinds of different things.。
It's clear, I know what I would have missed out on.。
Here's what you're gonna miss out on。
if you allow doubt to take you out.。
If you allow doubt to be something that you don't,。
that rules your life, rather than saying,。
man, Christ is gonna rule my life.。
If you allow your doubts, you don't seek out answers,。
you just hide behind the smoke screen,。
you hide behind, not yet, I don't wanna give this up yet,。
I'm not sure it's worth it to follow Jesus,。
I'm not sure I want it to be true yet.。
If you allow doubt to rule your life,。
you are gonna miss out on peace,。
you are gonna miss out on purpose and meaning.。
Those are things that are only found in knowing Jesus.。
You're gonna miss out on the only level of satisfaction。
you're gonna find inside of this life.。
You're gonna spend your life trying to fill a hole。
inside of you that no amount of money, pleasure,。
alcohol, sex, people, anything could fill。
because it was a hole that was put there by God,。
and it was put there so that you would reach out to know him.。
You're gonna miss out on knowing the one true God,。
you're gonna miss out on the peace that comes of knowing,。
I know where I'm gonna go when I die.。
You're gonna miss out on the only rational explanation。
for the world around us that I think that there is.。
And you can either choose to kind of live in the shadows。
of, you know, we can't really know and I'm an agnostic,。
but you're living by faith, friend,。
and your faith is not anchored in a person who came。
and died on a cross 2,000 years ago,。
who entered into history.。
It's not anchored in a book that has over and over again。
proven to be consistent with the world around us,。
with historical facts, it's not anchored in any of that stuff,。
it's anchored in your opinion.。
And you're a much, you're a much more arrogant person。
if you think that your own opinion of the world。
suffices to explain everything.。
The rest of us, man, we acknowledge that if there's a God。
who's there, he's probably even bigger than our own minds。
could ever comprehend or understand.。
And I'm gonna humbly, willingly accept the rational faith。
that is there or I'm gonna continue living。
behind the smoke screen, allow doubt to take me out.。
And if that happens, it's gonna cost you。
and you will miss out on the life you want,。
the life God wants for you, the abundant life。
you were created to experience, let me pray.。
Father, I pray for friends in this room right now。
who have sincere doubts, who are unsure。
about whether or not you're real,。
that you would move them to pray.。
God, if you're real, will you show yourself to me?。
And you would answer that prayer.。
Father, I pray for those who are living。
behind a smoke screen.。
They don't have sincere doubts, they just aren't a place。
where they don't wanna know, they don't wanna change,。
they're afraid of what it's gonna cost them,。
that you would grab a hold of their hearts,。
that they would come to a place where they believe。
you're not here to rip 'em off, you're God.。
You don't need anything from them,。
you desire something for them,。
and they would believe and accept that.。
Father, thank you for the fact that you're patient。
with our doubts, you can handle our doubts.。
We worship you now in song, amen.。
