What is joy, buddy?。
I don't know.。
It's a dream!。
[Music]。
All right, PORCH, how are we doing tonight?。
We doing okay?。
Tripping over my words.。
It's so good to be here.。
Glad that you're in the room with us this evening.。
Some of you, it's a regular occurrence for you to be here with us on a Tuesday night.。
Welcome back.。
Thanks for always giving us your time.。
But for others of you, you're here for the very first time.。
Maybe you knew you were coming to it.。
You're like, "Man, you know what? I've had this marked on my calendar. I was ready to come.。
I'm in town, and so I wanted to make a special appearance."。
Maybe your friend duped you into being here.。
I don't know what brought you into the room tonight, but we're really glad you're here.。
Not just those of you here in the room, but all of you tuning in online as well.。
Thanks for joining in, and not just with the PORCH, but with what God is doing in the lives of young adults here in this ministry,。
both in Dallas, Texas, and all over the nation.。
We believe that He can meet with anybody at any time and any place, and that includes you, wherever it is you are right now.。
A special shout-out to PORCH Live, Greater Lafayette, Fort Worth, and Scottsdale.。
We're really glad that you all are tuning in as well.。
PORCH, tonight we are continuing in our series, Joy, which has been a joy.。
We have loved this series. I don't know about you.。
It has been one of my favorites to work through by way of reading the text and then preaching it to you.。
I think God is teaching me as He teaches you, which is always the hope.。
And then along the way, what He's done is He's brought good friends into the mix of the conversation around this topic,。
one of which I am very excited for you to hear from tonight.。
Because tonight we have not a special guest, but a dear friend in that Tyler Moffitt is going to be preaching to you tonight.。
Here's why I say he's not a special guest.。
Because he's now a part of the PORCH family, folks.。
He is our new Director of Discipleship here at the PORCH.。
Would you put your hands together for Tyler Moffitt, please?。
And Tyler, you can go ahead and come on up.。
I wanted Tyler to stand up here with me as I said this to you all.。
Jesus says in John 13 that by this they will know you are my disciples, that if you have love for one another.。
Tyler is, in my estimation, the embodiment of that verse.。
He's an amazing communicator. You're going to see that in a minute.。
He is an amazing counselor in meeting one-on-one with people.。
But man, when you just see the way that he interacts with friends to strangers,。
he emits a love that is characteristically true of Christ himself.。
So brother, welcome to the PORCH family.。
We're so glad to have you here.。
Yes.。
Thank you.。
And here's what I want us to do.。
I would love for us to pray for Tyler and his family, his wife Jen, his three little kids as they make their journey here to Dallas in just a few weeks.。
And then we'll pray for what God's going to do over the course of the evening.。
Okay, well let me pray for it.。
God, we are so grateful for the Moffat family, for the fact, God, that you've brought them to us.。
Tyler and I were just visiting a moment ago, and I think, God, you gave these words because they're true.。
Here right now, God, we stand at the center of answered prayer in the beginning of something really special.。
It's not because of anything Tyler brings, nor I bring, God, it's because you're a part of it.。
And yet, God, what I have standing next to me is a very faithful man, a man, God, that wants to follow you, King Jesus, wherever it is you lead.。
And I praise you that he has followed you here.。
God, we pray that you would be with them as they make their way to Dallas.。
We pray, God, that you would go before them and behind them, hymn them in on every side, and help them, God, to find home here, not just in our city, but amongst these people.。
And then, God, I pray that you would speak through Tyler tonight to us.。
And, Porch, I want to give you a chance to pray for yourself where you're sitting.。
Would you pray and ask that God would speak to you tonight?。
And then, we want to humbly ask that you would pray for Tyler, that God would speak through him, and it would be God you hear.。
Lord, we love you, and we thank you for Tyler, for these people, and for what you're about to do.。
It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.。
Give it up for Tyler one more time.。
Man, well, I know we already did this, but you have to understand, for months I've been waiting to be here with you.。
And so, I just want to ask one more time, Porch, how are we doing tonight?。
Come on.。
Man, Kylan and I have just been dreaming and praying about this for a long time, and the fact that this is just a few weeks away is, I pinch myself crazy.。
And I was thinking, you know, but as we start, I've spoken here before a few months ago, but I wanted to introduce my family to you.。
They're still down in Houston where I'm coming from, and I was going to show a picture, but I thought the picture's just too cute and normal, and my family's not.。
And so, I was thinking, what could I show you?。
And I thought, oh, I know exactly what it is.。
So, a couple weeks ago, I'm driving home from work, and my family, so I've got a five-year-old, three-year-old, one-year-old, okay?。
And they're waiting outside to greet me, which is just the best, okay?。
And I'm driving in, and as I pull in, I roll down the window, and they start dancing.。
And I was like, cool, unprompted.。
So, I take out my phone.。
I start videoing it, and then this happened.。
Just watch this.。
[Video playing]。
What?。
I'm like, Jen, what are you teaching these kids, you know, when I'm gone?。
They're crazy.。
The reality is, man, we're excited, that crazy crew excited to be here among the family that's here.。
One big happy family in Dallas and around the country.。
We're excited to be here.。
And the reality is I've been praying for you.。
And even as I was driving up 45 today, just like, man, just thinking about, I know all of us we haven't met.。
I was just thinking, God, what is it that you want to do here and around the country through this ministry?。
And realizing that, you know, I think that the spark of something special is happening here.。
And so, hey, if you have a Bible, go ahead and turn in your Bible to James chapter 1.。
James chapter 1, we're continuing on in the series that we've been in over joy.。
And I don't know about you.。
I mean, people meet me and they go, man, you're just such a happy go lucky giddy kind of guy.。
But I'll be honest, sometimes when I walk into a church service and I see joy or happiness or whatever, some weeks I go, oh, great.。
It's awesome.。
I can't wait to talk about being happy because that's not the week that I've had.。
And I don't know if you've had that, but it's interesting as we're talking about joy today, you know, joy isn't just every circumstance being great.。
The Bible actually hits on joy being when the highs are high, but also when the lows are low.。
And so I don't know what you're walking in with tonight, but maybe you're there.。
And actually, as I was preparing for this, I thought about the last time that my family moved.。
So we live in Houston now.。
We used to live in Nashville, Tennessee.。
Do you guys live in Nashville?。
Okay, all right, a couple whoops.。
We moved from Nashville to Houston.。
And I remember my wife and I, we divvied up roles.。
You know, we're like, all right, I'm going to get the truck.。
You get the movers.。
We had a little moving stipend.。
I said, Jen, why don't you get the movers?。
And she's like, all right, I got it.。
So we ready, break.。
We come back and she's like, I found some great people.。
And I'm not going to tell you the name because I don't want to defame anyone, but it's got junk in the name.。
We'll just say that, okay?。
And she tells me, I got them and they're great, great price and everything.。
I'm like, really?。
You know, I don't know.。
Like, this is our stuff.。
And she goes, no, no, no, look at the reviews.。
Like, they actually move stuff, not just junk.。
And the reviews were good.。
And then the price was amazing.。
So I was like, all right, let's do it.。
So we hired these movers.。
I go get the Penske truck.。
I go bring it back.。
And these three guys go up and I'm trying so hard as I see them to not judge them.。
You know, I'm like, oh, man, I think you guys were just smoking something in the car, but whatever.。
And they come up and I'm talking to them.。
And then they start, you know, loading our stuff.。
And I'm dissembling, you know, high chairs and things and running errands.。
And I come back after running an errand and they say, hey, we finished, sort of.。
And a fourth of our stuff is still out on the front yard.。
And I'm like, oh, no, this is not good.。
And so I go and look at the truck and the truck is lengthwise filled, but it's only halfway up filled.。
And I go and look and it's literally, I am not kidding with you, stuff is thrown into this truck.。
And I know some of you go, oh, pastors, you always exaggerate.。
I have pictures, okay.。
This is what I saw in the back.。
Let's show that first one.。
Look at this.。
This is our stuff.。
Okay, I think we have another one.。
Look at that.。
I mean, this is amazing.。
This is my favorite picture, the next one.。
This is, I don't know if you can tell, that says fragile and it's upside down in between two other boxes.。
And then one more, we've got the leaning tower of pizza boxes, you know, there.。
And so I see all this and I go to the guys.。
I'm like, this isn't good, right?。
I mean, like something's off here.。
And they're like, I don't know, man, this is just what we do.。
And so I talked to him and I can't reason with him.。
I'm like, y'all are fired, okay.。
And I call up my dad who lives in Nashville.。
I call him up, I'm like, dad, this is really bad.。
And he just starts cracking up on the phone.。
And I'm like, dad, I'm serious, this is really bad.。
He's like, I'll be right over.。
He grabs this weightlifting belt, okay, and he comes to our house.。
And so it's me and him and he looks at, he surveys it and he goes, all right, I got good news and I got bad news.。
He said, the good news is we're gonna get all the stuff in this truck.。
The bad news is everything's gotta come out first.。
I'm like, ah.。
So we started taking everything out.。
We put everything that they placed in the truck out on the yard and we start the process of loading.。
And as we start to load the truck, we hear a rumble in the distance.。
We're like, you are kidding me.。
Look at the map, massive storm about to hit us.。
So we're like, all right, regroup.。
So we take everything from the front yard, move it to the garage, back up the Penske truck, go and recruit some neighbors.。
We're like, we're gonna need help.。
And we load until 10 that night.。
We load up the car and finally at the end, I think we have the final picture of what it looked like.。
We loaded this truck and look how much room is left, okay.。
This is me and my Arnold Schwarzenegger dad right there with this weightlifting belt.。
All right, why do I tell you that?。
Because here's the reality during while all that was going down.。
Now I was working in ministry at the time, but as we're loading this car, my dad's just cracking up the whole time.。
I am about to lose my mind.。
I'm just losing it.。
And the whole time I'm going, this is so dumb.。
This is so stupid.。
This is so, why did we let this happen?。
And I'm just, I'm just angry.。
And the reality is sometimes in life, if we're honest, we go through things that we just go, this is so meaningless.。
This is so stupid.。
This is so dumb.。
And maybe as you look at this week or the past month and you look at your life and you go, man, there's been times where, you know, annoying things have happened in my life.。
You know, maybe it's bickering between you and your roommates.。
You're like, it's just dumb.。
Just like they just load the dishwasher.。
Come on.。
Right.。
And it's just stupid.。
It's just meaningless.。
Maybe it's arguments with your, with your parents.。
Maybe it's things at work that aren't going well.。
Maybe it's a vacation that goes wrong.。
Maybe you hear through social media that Luca goes to LA too soon, too soon.。
Right.。
And you just go, this is so dumb.。
This is so stupid.。
Others of you though, it's deeper.。
It's not just dumb.。
It's not just stupid.。
It's not just annoying.。
It's incredibly painful.。
I mean, some of you this week that that person you thought you were going to go the distance with, you broke up and you're going, this is, this hurts so much.。
Maybe some of you are looking at your bank account.。
It's tax day.。
Heads up.。
It's tax deadline day.。
And you're going, oh, I have to pay the government.。
I don't even have money.。
Right.。
And I got to give it back.。
Others of you are looking around at, you know, at your health, at your body, and you hate the way that you look.。
You hate it.。
You just go, I just wish I could disappear.。
Others of you, it's arguments.。
It's like deep rooted things with your family.。
Diagnosis that you go through, whatever, depression, anxiety.。
Some of you, you cannot sleep at night and you're just staring at the ceiling going, this is so stupid.。
I just want to go to sleep.。
And here's the reality of all of that.。
And why we're talking about this and why we're in James is what James is going to tell us is he's going to say there is no aspect of your life, the highest of highs or the lowest of lows, that is in vain.。
None of it.。
And every moment that you experience in life is to be treated with joy.。
And we're going to unpack that.。
So look at James chapter one.。
We're going to start in verse one.。
Look at James.。
So it starts and he says, "James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the 12 tribes in the dispersion, greetings."。
So James starts and he identifies himself.。
He says, "I'm James," and he says, "I'm the servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ."。
Now, James was the half brother of Jesus who was skeptical of his brother's divinity early on, which if you have a brother is fair.。
If your brother was claiming to be God, some of you would go, "Yeah, no way.。
That's not the truth."。
But then he saw his brother die and then rise again on the third day, and he's like, "All right, I believe you now."。
And James actually becomes one of the leaders of the early church.。
But notice James doesn't go, "James, brother of the Lord," right?。
He says, "Servant of God and of my Lord Jesus Christ."。
I mean, you talk about an identity change.。
This man had it.。
And then he says, "Here's my audience."。
He says, "To the 12 tribes in the dispersion."。
Now, in Acts chapter 6, there was a guy named Stephen who got stoned to death because of his faith.。
And then persecution happened all in Jerusalem, and the people in Jerusalem, the believers, get scattered to Judea and Samaria.。
And so James is writing this letter to Christians, Jewish Christians who've been scattered, who have fled their home.。
And the craziest part is the last word of verse 1.。
He says, "Greetings."。
It's the Greek word kairo, which means rejoice, be glad.。
So he's writing to people who have had to flee their homes, and he says, "Be glad, be happy, rejoice."。
And then he's gonna tell them how.。
But I thought about, you know, in our society today, we live in a displaced time in society.。
We live in post-COVID, the world that we live in, and yet the world, our culture, is telling you, "Rejoice, kairo, be happy."。
And I just sat down this week and thought, "All right, what are the ways the world is trying to sell happiness to you?"。
And I came up with five things that conveniently start with P, but you could come up with your own list.。
But I'll go through these quickly.。
I think the world is selling happiness in one of these five ways.。
Number one is possessions, possessions.。
Possessions will fulfill you.。
I was just driving last week and saw an Amazon van, and on the van it said, "Warning, contents may cause happiness."。
Okay, and I thought, "Yeah, that's it."。
Like, that's what the world's trying to sell us right there, that possessions will make you happy.。
Number two, the second is positions, that positions will define you.。
If you're not happy with your role at work, you need a new role.。
You're not happy with your job, you need a new job.。
You're not happy in your singleness, you need to get married.。
Not happy in your marriage, you need a new marriage or no marriage, right?。
The third is prosperity.。
That prosperity will satisfy you.。
If you just had that nest egg, man, if the stock market can just bounce back, if my health was better, if this pain was removed,。
if I could just get a new car or a new phone or a new laptop or a new watch or new clothing, then I would be happy.。
The fourth is popularity, to validate you.。
Some of you are so hungry to have a platform.。
You're like, "Once I have a following on social media, then I'll arrive.。
Once I have a community that I can really just relax and be myself with, then I'll be happy.。
Once I'm a local, like I can walk into the coffee shop and people are like, 'Bro!'"。
Then I've arrived.。
And then the fifth one, number five, is pretending.。
Pretend to guard yourself.。
You can't even be happy, so I'm just gonna pretend.。
This is what a guy, ancient Greek philosopher named Epicurus, he had this philosophy that he called the four-part cure.。
This was back thousands of years ago.。
He said four things to happiness.。
Don't fear the gods because they're distant.。
Don't worry about death because it's just the absence of existence.。
Don't worry about obtaining too much good because just do the normal thing because it'll be easy.。
And number four, what is terrible is easy to endure.。
Pain is short and bearable, so just pretend.。
Everything's fine.。
So the culture says possessions, positions, prosperity, popularity, and pretending.。
You get happiness one of those ways, and James says no.。
It's none of those.。
James says the way to happiness is actually through perspective.。
It's not about what's happening out there that's going to change.。
It's what happens in here and my outlook at what's happening out there.。
And you go, James, that's great.。
How?。
Look at James chapter one.。
Look at verse two.。
He says, "Greetings, Cairo, be glad."。
Verse two, he says, "Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds."。
He says the way to rejoice in all seasons is to count.。
That means consider, to lead your mind to a conclusion when you meet trials of various kinds.。
He says no matter what you're experiencing in life, just think about this.。
This is why when people are like, oh, the Bible's such a boring, old, ancient book, I go, have you read it?。
James is saying, all right, you want to have joy?。
Look around at everything in your life and say, I receive this with joy.。
Now think about how often do we do that?。
I'm driving in traffic on the way here and this truck cuts me off and I'm like, ah, and then I thought about this message.。
I'm like, receive it all with joy.。
Really?。
This moment?。
And yet he's saying, yes, receive it all with joy.。
Why?。
Because joy is this.。
Joy, Theodore Epps says, joy doesn't mean we're laughing through trials,。
but that we have deep confidence that God knows what he's doing for his glory and for our good.。
That's good.。
Joy is not laughing, oh, everything's great.。
It's not pretending like things aren't existing.。
Instead, it's saying, God, in the midst of what's happening right now, I know that you're in control.。
I know it.。
And I trust that you're working a plan for my good.。
He says, count it all joy.。
Not if you experience trials, but when.。
When the trial comes upon you, rejoice.。
See, worldly happiness always goes down when circumstances are bad.。
Always.。
All those five things, if your circumstance decreases, your worldly happiness goes down.。
James is saying in Christianity, worldly, or your experiences, your environment, your circumstances can get worse.。
And your happiness can increase.。
How?。
Some of us are going through things that you go, there's no way.。
There's no possible way I could have joy.。
And he's gonna give three reasons why you can.。
In fact, it's not a suggestion.。
James is saying it's a command.。
If you are a believer, then everything in your life should be counted as joy.。
How?。
And he's gonna give three reasons.。
Here we go.。
We're gonna go through these quickly.。
Number one, three reasons to count it all joy.。
Everything in your life, number one, is that there's purpose in pain.。
There's purpose in pain.。
Look at James 1, verse 3.。
It says, count it all joy when you meet trials, verse 3, for you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness.。
He says, the first reason is you know that the testing of your faith is producing something.。
It's producing steadfastness.。
Just been camping out on those words, for you know.。
And I'm curious, do you know when Satan attacks you, the first thing he attacks is your mind.。
Think about the Garden of Eden.。
Garden of Eden, you got Adam and Eve, they're hanging out, right?。
And the snake slithers up in the midst of the garden.。
God has one command, don't eat from the tree of knowledge of good and evil.。
And the snake slithers up and says, did God really say?。
Now in that moment, Eve should have known.。
She should have said, no, I know.。
I know the truth and I believe God, not you.。
Get away from me, Satan.。
But instead she said, ah, and she began to argue with the snake.。
And then eventually convinced her and she took some, she saw the fruit was good, take it, took it,。
gave it to her husband who was chilling, watching his wife talk to a snake, okay?。
And then we know the rest of the story.。
And yet Satan does the same thing with you.。
When you're going through a hard time, when that breakup happens,。
when that person doesn't text you back, when that job situation fails,。
Satan starts and goes, come on, you knew, you knew you weren't good enough.。
You knew he never liked you.。
You knew you didn't add up as a person.。
You knew God's way wasn't good.。
Come on, give it up, give it up.。
And you better know in that moment truth to be able to fight back to Satan's lie.。
You better be able to say like Psalm 56 verse nine, this I know that God is for me.。
It's not true, Satan, it's not true.。
You better be able to say Lamentations 3 verse 21 when Jeremiah is writing.。
And he's writing in the midst of suffering and then he stops, he says,。
but this I call to mind and therefore I have hope.。
The steadfast love of the Lord never ceases.。
His mercies never come to an end.。
They are new every morning.。
Great is your faithfulness.。
The Lord is my portion, says my soul, therefore I will hope in him.。
I know the truth, and this isn't it.。
You better be able to say like Paul in Romans 8 when he said,。
for I am sure, I'm sure that neither death nor life nor angels nor rulers nor things present。
nor things to come nor power, height, depth, anything else in all creation。
will be able to separate you from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord.。
You better be able to say like I read this morning, Psalm 84 11,。
when it says, no good thing does he, God, withhold from those who walk uprightly.。
I know this circumstance is bad, but what I know even more is that, God,。
there's nothing you're trying to withhold from me.。
I know it, nothing.。
And James says here, I know that the testing of faith produces steadfastness.。
It's producing something.。
And Elizabeth Elliot said, God never wastes a wound.。
He never wastes it.。
So where is life hard right now for you?。
And I want to challenge you to move from asking the question, why me?。
God, why me?。
To asking the question, God, what are you doing in me?。
If it's true that you're producing something, then what are you doing in me?。
And shift your gaze to going, God, help me see.。
I know the truth.。
Help me see it.。
Lately, I've been fascinated with a guy named Arthur Brooks.。
Some of you have heard of Arthur Brooks.。
He's a Harvard business professor, and he teaches the most popular class,。
or one of the most popular classes at Harvard, called Leadership and Happiness.。
And he's a believer.。
And as I've been listening to him, I'm just fascinated by his approach to life。
and happiness.。
But one of the things that he does in his class is he has every one of his students。
come up with a journal.。
They have to keep a log of every failure and disappointment that they have in the。
course of the class.。
And under every failure and every disappointment, they have to put two lines.。
The first line, they write a month later something that they learned from this。
disappointment.。
And then the second line, they write three months later a good thing that came。
from this failure or from this hardship.。
And he said, as great as the class is, the number one takeaway for students is。
when they do that failure and disappointment log because they begin to see,。
oh, wait, this is producing something.。
And he has a line at the end.。
He says, never waste your suffering.。
It's an opportunity to learn.。
It's interesting, I got to go on the team leader retreat for porch leaders here a。
couple weeks ago.。
And Kylan had us, he went around, he said, everyone in the circle, go around and。
what was the time in your life when you felt closest to God?。
And so we just went around the circle and we had things like, oh, when I got。
baptized or when I was discipled.。
But then all of a sudden, the mood began to shift and someone said, yeah, it was。
actually when I was broken up with.。
And it was so hard, but I realized that was an idol and God met me there.。
And someone else said, you know, when my parent died and in the midst of that。
difficulty, God met me there.。
Another person was like, you'll never believe it, but it was when I was caught。
in the midst of hidden sin and brought that thing to the light and the community。
surrounded me and I felt so near God.。
And then I went, I'm like, yeah, I remember when my son was in the NICU, like,。
so difficult, but God met me there.。
It's often in the midst of our hardship that we're learning, we're growing, it's。
producing something.。
Last story here, there's a lady in our church that I met with last week who,。
over the past two years, has gone through incredible suffering.。
Her and her husband have been battling infertility for years.。
Then two years ago, she found out first that a bunch of loved ones died in。
succession.。
Then right after that, she got pregnant.。
She's like, wow, God, you're bringing beauty from ashes.。
Then her husband has pretty intense surgery and then she has a miscarriage.。
And then her husband has complications from the surgery.。
She has to drive him to the ER while miscarrying their baby.。
For the past two years, she said, Tyler, I've gone through incredible pain.。
So our church down in Houston has a prayer room.。
Every weekday, this woman would go from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m.。
to the prayer room and sit and cry and pray for two years with God, two years.。
She said, Tyler, as I've been pouring myself out before God, here's been my。
prayer.。
My prayer has been, God, override my heart and give me your desire.。
She said this, I want my guts to match yours.。
Who prays like that?。
You know who prays like that?。
It's somebody who's been through the fire.。
And even though wanting to throw in the towel and say, God, help, why me?。
Instead turns it to, God, what are you doing in me?。
What are you doing?。
And all of a sudden, you begin to pray like this book.。
Your life begins to look, and it doesn't mean life's easy.。
She hasn't had a baby.。
Life's not all perfect.。
But on Sunday, this past Sunday, she led, she helped to lead Palm Sunday。
gathering for women, and she sang and led worship about the goodness of God.。
I mean, you talk about, and she's telling me in tears a couple days ago,。
like, God is so good, Tyler.。
God is so good.。
I go, man, I want some of that.。
And you get that through the fire.。
Don't buy the lie that your suffering's meaningless.。
It's not.。
It's producing something in you if you will hold on.。
That's the first thing.。
James says, you want to be able to count it all joy?。
You need to see your suffering is producing something.。
There's purpose in the pain.。
Second thing, quickly, second thing, there's perfection in the process.。
There's perfection in the process.。
Let's keep reading.。
Look at verse 4.。
He says, "And let steadfastness have its full effect,。
that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing."。
Okay, this is a crazy verse.。
Think about that.。
Let's read it again.。
He says, "So count it all joy and suffering.。
It's producing steadfastness," verse 4,。
"and let steadfastness have its full effect,。
that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing."。
So he's saying, as you go through suffering。
and God is producing something in you,。
you're on the road to perfection.。
So you go, whoa, whoa, perfect?。
Nobody's perfect.。
This word in Greek for perfect is the word teleos,。
which means whole or mature.。
He's going, as you go through suffering,。
you're becoming a whole person.。
I love what Tim Mackey says.。
We have it on the screen.。
He says, "In biblical Hebrew and Greek,。
this word teleos refers to wholeness.。
It means living a completely integrated life。
where your actions are always consistent。
with the values and belief that you received from Jesus."。
He said, "Most of us actually live as fractured people。
with big inconsistencies in our character.。
We are all more compromised than we want to admit.。
However, God is on a mission to restore fractured people。
and make them whole."。
See, God is not just trying to get you through your trial.。
He's trying to grow you in the midst of it.。
And oftentimes, the great refining moment of our lives。
is when we go through a trial, why?。
Because adversity introduces you to yourself.。
What do I mean by that?。
Adversity introduces you to yourself.。
I was talking with someone last week,。
and I was kind of listening to him,。
and he was saying that we live in an age where he says,。
he calls it an hour of fragmentation.。
He said, "We live in a day and age。
where everybody is double-minded."。
I said, "What do you mean?"。
He said, "It's the idea of," this is a simple example,。
but it's like when you ask someone,。
"Hey, do you want to go to this thing?"。
And they say, "Oh, well, part of me does,。
and part of me doesn't."。
Right? Have you ever done that?。
Part of me does, but I don't know, part of me doesn't.。
That's the idea of living fragmented.。
And that's a simple example, we all do that.。
The problem is when you live your whole life,。
and every conversation is you're going,。
"Should I show up as this person。
or should I show up as this person?"。
And you begin to wonder, "Who am I really?"。
And in the moment of trial,。
adversity introduces you to yourself.。
You find out who you really are.。
And so I'm curious, where is your life fractured?。
Where are you living in such a way。
where you're showing up as different people。
in different environments?。
And where's God inviting you to be more whole?。
As I'm leaving the church down in Houston,。
I'm having a lot of conversations with people, close friends,。
as we say our goodbyes.。
And one of the things that I do with everybody who's close,。
I ask them at the end a really risky question, really risky.。
I say, "Hey, what is one thing that you are praying。
God grows in me over the next year?"。
It's a risky question,。
because people who love you will tell you the truth.。
And I've had a couple of people who've loved me。
and they've told me the truth, and it's hurt.。
And one of the things that I've heard now multiple times,。
I just heard it again last week,。
is one guy, I sat down, "Hey, what's one thing you want me to,。
you're praying God grows in me?"。
He goes, "Yeah, Tyler, I'm praying。
that you would become more vulnerable。
when you go up to Dallas,。
that you open up more to your community."。
And I'll be honest, when I hear that, it stings,。
because I so badly wanna be a vulnerable person.。
I don't wanna have anything hidden, I just wanna be real.。
And so I'm calling mentors,。
I'm meeting with them at their house,。
I'm texting different guys every day,。
I'm trying to get staff and people in my world。
to speak into my life.。
And yet, as I really sat with the Lord with that question,。
I realized, wow, I actually think part of it's true.。
And I remember talking to one guy and he said,。
"You know, one problem with you, Tyler,。
is you're such a good listener,。
you ask a bunch of good questions,。
but you never turn it back on yourself."。
And I realized, often for me,。
I'm thinking about that other person。
kind of because I care about them,。
but also kind of because I want them to like me,。
and I gotta show up, I gotta realize,。
who do I need to be in this conversation。
so that you like me back?。
And so whatever clues I'm getting,。
I'm just gonna use that in this conversation.。
And I very rarely go,。
"Can I just be super raw and real with you?"。
And so as I've been sitting with that,。
I realized we've been trying to sell our house。
down in Houston and find something up here,。
and there's been some adversity.。
And as the adversity has hit me,。
the real Tyler has come out, mostly in my home.。
And as the real Tyler has come out,。
it's just been this confrontation of like,。
"Oh, wow, there's so much work to do."。
I mean, even I've joked about getting cut off,。
but on the way up, cut off by a semi,。
and just everything in me wanted to be like,。
"What, boo!"。
You know, like, and just realizing,。
"Oh, okay, like, I don't think it's wrong to honk, okay?。
"We're Texans, but still, it's okay to honk.。
"But maybe the words you would say along with the honk。
"or the fingers, maybe not, but not me, you, not me."。
(congregation laughing)。
But we realize in that moment, God is giving you a gift。
because He's showing you in our hour of fragmentation。
who you really are.。
And it's only when you know。
and you're honest with God of here's where I am,。
then He can go, "I can deal with that.。
"I can deal with who you really are.。
"I can't deal with this fake mess that you're pulling off。
"with showing up this way and this way and this way.。
"You just gotta be real."。
Integrity means integer of one.。
Where you live your life, here's who I am.。
And adversity introduces you to yourself.。
Where in your life are you going through adversity right now。
that you're just so ready to get through?。
This is so stupid, I just wanna make it through.。
And maybe God's going, "Ah, I'm seeing who you really are。
"and I'm wanting to deal with it.。
"I'm not gonna move you out of this season。
"until I deal with this."。
And some of you don't just need to wait。
for the trial to come to you.。
Some of you need to go and ask the risky question。
that I've been asking to community that you trust.。
"Hey, what's one thing you're praying God grows in me?"。
And allow them to be honest and receive it when it comes.。
Suffering, there's purpose in pain.。
That's why we can have joy in suffering is there's purpose.。
Two, there's perfection in the process.。
And then number three, quickly, lastly,。
is there's a promise in the end.。
There's a promise in the end.。
Look at James chapter one, verse 12.。
Skip down to verse 12.。
I love this verse.。
If you underline in your Bible, I would underline this verse.。
James says, "Blessed," which means happy,。
"is the man who remains steadfast under trial.。
"For when he has stood the test,。
"he will receive the crown of life,。
"which God has promised to those who love him."。
I love this verse.。
James says, "Blessed, happy, spiritually rich,。
"successful in God's eyes,。
"is not the one who makes it through this life。
"with no suffering and no hardship,。
"and everything was great,。
"and then met the special someone,。
"and lived in the gated community,。
"and fell asleep, died in my sleep,。
"and just levitated to heaven, and everything was perfect."。
He goes, "Oh, what a blessed life.。
"You just did it."。
He goes, "No, in my eyes, that's not the blessed life."。
You know what the blessed life is, according to this verse?。
The one who's steadfast under trial.。
The one who had it hard, and you stood close with Jesus.。
You just abided with him.。
You didn't leave.。
You just said, "Jesus, you're all I have,。
"and you're all I want,。
"and so I'm just gonna hold fast to you。
"even though I don't have any answers."。
And he goes, "Man, that's the one。
"who's spiritually rich, in my eyes.。
"That's the one that's successful."。
And heaven goes, "Wow, #blessed for that person."。
I mean, isn't that crazy?。
I was thinking, even he says,。
"Not only are you blessed,。
"but you receive the crown of life."。
I've just been thinking, what is the crown of life?。
What must that be?。
And the reality is, it's not so much a ruler's crown.。
It's a victor's wreath.。
It's like in the Olympics,。
when they would finish the marathon or whatever,。
and they'd receive the wreath.。
That's the idea of this crown.。
It's this idea of eternal reward, eternal life.。
You made it, you did it.。
You stayed close to Jesus.。
And there's something about getting that wreath,。
getting that reward,。
that puts all the rest of your life in perspective.。
I mean, we just saw this on Sunday.。
For those of you who watched the Masters,。
I don't know how many of you watched it, okay?。
But if you're gonna watch a Masters,。
this was the one to watch, okay?。
You got Rory McIlroy, right?。
And he's amazing.。
He's won 'em all, except he can't win the Masters.。
In fact, he hasn't won a major in 11 years.。
The guy's cursed.。
He can't do it.。
He fails under pressure.。
Ah, right?。
But the first three days, he's doing great.。
He's killing it.。
The best match, but it's the final day.。
Oh boy, Rory, your lead is gonna go away.。
And he has to fight the mental battles, right?。
And he gets up and first shot, first hole, what happens?。
You get double bogey, okay?。
Just totally, ah, and everyone's like, we knew it.。
He's a failure, right?。
And then he starts to get back.。
And then on the 13th hole, he hits it in the water.。
And everyone's like, ah, see?。
Knew he was gonna blow it in the end.。
But then he makes his way back.。
18th hole, he hits this little putt。
that you and I could hit.。
And he misses it, okay?。
And everyone's like, ah, we knew it.。
And then it goes into the playoffs.。
And he has to play the same hole that he just blew it on.。
Except this time, first shot kills it.。
Second shot right in the money.。
And then the third, he just knocks it in.。
And what is the first thing that he does?。
For those of you who watch,。
first thing he did, fell on the ground。
and started sobbing after he got the Masters.。
And then they asked him after the match,。
what did you feel?。
And this is what he said.。
He said, this was the best day of my golfing life.。
Really?。
You hit it in the water.。
You double bogeyed on the beginning.。
You missed the shot that any of us could have made.。
Really, the best day of your golfing life?。
Why?。
'Cause he got the crown.。
He made it.。
He did it.。
And it put in perspective all the hardship。
to where he goes, it was all putting,。
it was painting this portrait that I can now see.。
And if I went back, would I do it different?。
Yeah, maybe, but I want this.。
This is what it's all about.。
And it puts everything in perspective.。
And the interesting thing is, as great as that story is,。
and whoop to Rory,。
but the reality is,。
look at it says who the crown of life is promised to.。
It doesn't say the crown of life is promised。
to the one who nails it, man.。
It doesn't even say the crown of life is promised。
to the one who endures to the end,。
who believes, who doesn't deny Jesus.。
It doesn't say any of that.。
It just says it's promised to the one who loves him.。
That's it.。
And I love the simplicity of that.。
What is James saying here?。
What's God saying here?。
It's like, look, the crown of life is not earned。
at the end by just suffering through it.。
Oh, I just bear it.。
It's this idea of God in the midst of everything.。
I just love you.。
I just love you.。
I've made the decision.。
I've crossed over the line.。
And now no matter what happens in life,。
I'm not leaving you.。
I'm not leaving.。
And some of you, you need to hear tonight。
in our joy series, where you're going,。
oh, I don't wanna see the sunflowers anymore, right?。
You're going, oh, and some of you,。
what you need to hear today is,。
you may not have strength to endure.。
You may not have hope inside you.。
Do you just have love in your heart。
for the man who has shown love for you first?。
And do you go, ah, it's just, I don't have any answers.。
I don't know anything else.。
I just love him.。
And everything else is secondary to that.。
See, the night before Jesus died,。
Jesus told his disciples something interesting.。
In John chapter 15, verse 11, he says,。
"These things," all of this, "that I've spoken to you,。
"these things I've spoken to you,。
"that my joy would be in you,。
"and that your joy would be full."。
See, Jesus, I've been thinking about this.。
Jesus is the, he's God, and he's the one who,。
the fruit of the Spirit comes from God,。
and one of the fruits of the Spirit is joy.。
So Jesus is, I think Jesus was the most joyful。
human being to ever live.。
And yet Jesus, it says in Isaiah 52,。
it says he was despised and rejected,。
a man of sorrows, acquainted with grief.。
The shortest verse in the whole Bible is John 11, 35.。
Some of you, it's the only verse you've ever memorized,。
okay, but good for you, you have one memorized.。
If not, you can memorize it tonight.。
It's what?。
Jesus wept, he wept.。
And on the way to the cross,。
so this is a man who was filled with joy。
and yet felt every emotion.。
On the way to the cross, in Hebrews chapter 12,。
it says that for the joy that was set before him,。
he endured the cross, despising its shame,。
and now he's seated in heaven.。
So God, you know, Jesus, not only did he feel。
all the emotion of being a human being。
and experience the fullness of having the joy that God has,。
but he looked at the cross and he was able。
to see the purpose and he was able to embrace。
the shame and enjoy.。
He said, "Father, out of love for you, I endure this."。
And I think some of you, Jesus is not only。
the means of your joy, but he's the primary,。
ultimate model of it.。
And when you're in the midst of the darkness。
looking to the man, this is holy week.。
This is when we celebrate what Jesus did。
and you go, "God, I've got nothing to give,。
"but I'm looking at the God-man on the tree。
"who for the joy set before him endured that cross,。
"despising the shame, to the glory of his Father。
"and to empower us, to fill us with his spirit。
"such that we can do the same."。
I wanna end with this last story before we worship again.。
I heard this story years ago and I've had this prayer。
up in my office for years and I've thought about it again.。
But back, there's a little bit of legend with this,。
but in the 1980s, around then, there was a man。
in Rwanda who loved Jesus.。
And the rest of his tribe came to him and they said,。
"You either deny Jesus or we will kill you."。
And the man said, "I will never deny Jesus.。
"Do with me what you will."。
And that very day, they killed him, done.。
Which crazy is, when they went back to his room。
and found the prayer that he had written.。
And every few months, I go back and read this prayer。
because on the day of trial, which is coming for all of us,。
some of us are in it, some of us are, it's coming.。
Where will you run to and what will you say?。
And I hope there's a level of what this prayer says。
that's in your vocabulary.。
And the prayer says this.。
He had written this the night before he died.。
He said, "I am a part of the fellowship of the unashamed."。
He said, "I have Holy Spirit power.。
"The die has been cast, I've stepped over the line,。
"the decision has been made, I am a disciple of his.。
"I won't look back, let up, slow down, back away,。
"or be still.。
"My past is redeemed.。
"My present makes sense.。
"My future is secure.。
"I'm finished and done with low living and sight walking。
"and small planning and smooth knees and colorless dreams。
"and tamed vision and worldly talking。
"and cheap giving and dwarf goals.。
"I no longer need preeminence, prosperity, position,。
"promotions, plaudity, or popularity.。
"I don't have to be right, first, tops, recognized,。
"praised, regarded, or rewarded.。
"I now live by faith, lean on his presence,。
"walk by patience, am uplifted by prayer,。
"and labor by power.。
"My pace is set, my gait is fast, my goal is heaven,。
"my road is narrow, my way is rough, my companions few,。
"my guide reliable, my mission is clear.。
"I cannot be bought, compromised, detoured, lured away,。
"turned back, deluded, or delayed.。
"I will not flinch in the face of sacrifice,。
"hesitate in the presence of the adversary,。
"negotiate at the table of the enemy,。
"pander at the pool of popularity,。
"or meander in the maze of mediocrity.。
"I won't give up, shut up, let up,。
"until I've stayed up, stored up, prayed up,。
"paid up, preached up for the cause of Christ.。
"I must go till he comes, give till I drop,。
"preach till all know, and work till he stops me.。
"And when he comes for his own,。
"he will have no problem recognizing me.。
"My banner will be clear.。
"I am a disciple of Jesus."。
I just think, and then the next day,。
died for the one that he loved.。
And some of us, the moment of stepping over the line。
has not really happened in your life.。
You've been meandering in the maze of mediocrity.。
You've been pandering in the pool of popularity.。
You've just been living in that。
and it's sucking all the joy out of you.。
You're trying to get it from all of these things.。
And Jesus is saying, "Listen, I'm here。
"and I wanna give you my joy."。
And it's through the road of suffering, not around it.。
But with me, you can make it through.。
And maybe for some of you, it's tonight going, "I'm in.。
"I've crossed over the line.。
"The decision has been made.。
"I'm a disciple of Jesus."。
And joy comes through knowing him.。
So here in a minute, I'm gonna pray.。
And then there's gonna be people up here。
and let's commune with God.。
Let's not make this just another throwaway moment。
of kind of transition.。
Let's actually talk to the one that we love.。
So would you close your eyes and let's pray.。
Father, it's our joy to be near you.。
You are the treasure on the field worth selling everything for.。
And so Father, I just pray in your name, God,。
that you would stir up in us。
a deep desire to know you no matter what it costs.。
And Father, I just believe there are young adults。
across Dallas and across this country。
who are sick of the lie of the enemy。
and the lie of our culture that says,。
"If you just had this, if you just had this,。
"then you would be happy."。
And some going, "No, no, no, I know better than that.。
"That thing, that person, that career will not satisfy me.。
"I need you."。
And yet I've never felt you enough, God,。
where you really supply that kind of deep-hearted trust。
and joy.。
And God, I just pray by the miracle of your spirit。
that for some of us, that would happen tonight.。
You would infuse us with such joy。
that all of our lives would be impacted,。
not with giddy laughing,。
but with a deep-seated trust that you are God, we are not.。
Now come Holy Spirit, invade this place。
and infuse our hearts with that kind of joy.。
We love you and we trust you, in Jesus' name, amen.。
Hey, take the time to pray.。
People are up here,。
and then we're gonna worship together.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
