Well Awaken, I am so honoured to be here tonight. How y'all doing?。
[Cheering]。
I couldn't wait to be with you, seriously.。
You know, young people from all over and you're always very tender to me.。
I have a daughter that's sort of just finished college and then I have another daughter that's in college in Paris, France.。
She's hilarious. I know, you all just looked up at me then.。
She's studying in Paris, she's doing comparative literature and I call her and she's like,。
"Mummy, I can't talk to you right now because I'm watching the sunset over Notre Dame eating a chocolate croissant."。
To which I responded, "Sweetheart, if you want to watch that same sunset next semester with your fees paid,。
you'll talk to your mother right now." That's actually what is going to be happening at this point.。
So my heart is so, so tender.。
I am here with the single most ravishing piece of masculine flesh on planet Earth.。
My husband of 30 years. How is that?。
[Cheering]。
And so he is amazing. My husband is number 14 of 15 children.。
[Audience murmurs]。
You all don't do that in America?。
Anyway, so that's like, there was no television in that part of Australia, like none.。
So his parents had nothing better going for them.。
[Laughter]。
But I'm glad his mother did not stop.。
And so together we've been married 30 years and doing a whole lot of mission and evangelism around the world.。
And you know, we do oversee 821.。
It's a ministry that we started about, well, truly nearly 20 years ago now.。
We have a big office here in Dallas, a freedom center for the survivors of human trafficking to come through and be restored.。
But we work at every, we reach the vulnerable, rescue the victims and restore survivors.。
And truly, it was about 20 years ago, I was, I had just had my second child, you know, the one that's in Paris now eating chocolate croissants, that one, and tells me that she studies.。
That child said, I had just popped her out.。
Now you're still so young, but let me just tell you, when you're a chick and 40 and you pop out a baby, I was not asking the Lord for a new ministry.。
I was like speaking at a women's conference in Greece, and I was at the point of, here I am, Lord, send everybody else.。
And so I wanted a vacation in Mykonos or, you know, Santorini.。
I was not thinking, but as I was standing at the baggage carousel, there's just one baggage carousel back then in Thessaloniki.。
And I saw these posters of these missing women and children.。
And because I just had my little baby girl, Sophia, I lent in to have a look at one of the photos.。
And Greek is my first language.。
Has anyone seen my Big Fat Greek Wedding?。
That is my Big Fat Greek life.。
So if you give me a word, any word, I will tell you the origin of that word is Greek.。
And we have Windex in every room of our house to this day.。
But anyway, so I can read Greek.。
And so this little girl, her name was Sophia.。
And it was like a knife in my heart, because I would say that is when the seed of A21 started.。
I went from looking at somebody else's missing child to seeing my own daughter.。
And you see, when you look, you can look away.。
But when you see, you can never, ever unsee.。
And it changed everything in that moment.。
And so we started A21.。
And I wouldn't have known then that 20 years later, by the grace of God, it would have had the impact that we've had.。
And together, we are very committed to abolishing slavery everywhere, forever.。
And you know why I'm committed?。
And you think, why are we even here in Dallas?。
I know we're from all over the country in this room.。
But the church is in Dallas, and we're here.。
Do you know, just less than a month ago, we had a four-year-old little girl rescued from trafficking right here in Dallas.。
And I could tell you story after story after story.。
This world is full of darkness.。
This world is full of injustice.。
This world is full of evil.。
And this is why we don't get to just sit in the grandstands and watch.。
This is the time for the Church of Jesus Christ to arise and shine the light of Christ, the hope of Christ, the love of Christ,。
the goodness of Christ into a lost and a broken world.。
And that's what we're all about.。
I'll tell you about that.。
I'm going to dive right into the text, and then my friends from SEU are going to come up.。
And together, we're going to see God do amazing things.。
He's already here.。
You're already awakened.。
I don't need to awaken you.。
On Sunday night, to have this many young people in a room.。
You know, I was at an appointment earlier this afternoon, and this chick, she goes to me,。
"Oh man, this is the last holiday.。
This is the Labor Day holiday."。
And because I'm Australian and not American, I didn't even really know.。
I go, "So what is a Labor Day holiday?"。
She goes, "Oh man, this is a time we can get drunk for the last time as we see out the summer."。
And I thought, "I don't think the summer's leaving Dallas, but anyway."。
All I could think about was, if this is, I don't know what Labor Day actually means,。
but apparently to this person, it's like, "I can get blind drunk tonight."。
And I thought, how awesome.。
I said to her, "Listen, if you want an alternative plan, I'm going somewhere tonight where maybe。
it might look like people are drunk, but listen, this is not that kind of drunk.。
We're going to be on another substance, and there's a whole other high.。
There's something entirely different."。
And so, you know, it is great.。
And you, your Holy Ghost hangover is much better than the hangover she's going to have.。
We're going to dive into the text.。
I love it.。
I've been involved in youth ministry before.。
I celebrate my 60th birthday in two weeks from now.。
How is that?。
I love it.。
I love telling people that I'm 60.。
You know, some chicks are like, "What are you talking about, your age?"。
I go, "Look, I could be dead.。
The alternative is I'm alive."。
I think that's like pretty awesome.。
I'm so fired up that I'm still here.。
And the fact is, I remember when I was young, I was 22 when I started in full-time vocational。
ministry in Australia.。
I was a youth leader, and people used to say this to me.。
They used to go, "Christine, you are just full on and passionate for God because you're。
just young, and you just do youth ministry, and you're single.。
Just wait till you get married.。
Then you'll settle down."。
And I thought, "Okay, that's interesting."。
So then Nick and I got married, and we went from like a, at the time I was having a statewide。
ministry, and then we went to a national ministry, and I got more passionate and more crazy.。
I was a little bit like David.。
Remember, Michael was looking out the window, and she goes, "Is this how the King of Israel。
should act?"。
He goes, "Chick, you have not even seen 'Undignified' yet.。
You just wait and see what's going on.。
You cannot encounter the resurrected Jesus and be normal.。
I just don't understand that."。
And people are like, "I'm passionate for Jesus.。
My big toe's moving in my foot, in my shoe."。
I'm like, "What are you going on about?"。
Anyway, we'll go on.。
And so, I'll save that for I see you a little bit later.。
And so then we had Catherine, who's sitting here next to her dad, and people said to me,。
"Well, Christine, you know, first when Nick and I got married, they said, 'Yeah, but you're。
still passionate because just wait till you have a child.。
Then you'll settle down.'"。
And then we had Catherine, and we went from like a national ministry to an international。
ministry, and they said, "Well, Christine, one child is just an accessory.。
You just wait till you have two, and then you'll settle down."。
You know, sometimes you don't even need the devil when you've got Christians.。
And so, it is so amazing how they will try to quench you.。
Tell me, what other religion on earth would want you to taper it down, to like get less。
passionate?。
I don't understand how you could be fixing your eyes on Jesus, and for me, it's almost。
four decades, and be less full of love, less full of passion, less full of joy, less full。
of goodness, less full of kindness.。
I don't understand it.。
I'm telling you.。
So, for me, I'm just getting crazier and crazier for Jesus.。
The greatest gift I can give your generation is not what we've built in the past, but to。
tell you that He is so worthy that you could give Him your all for all of your days.。
There is no one more worthy to live for, to lay it all down for, and at 60, it just gets。
better and better and better.。
I'm going to be super granny for Jesus.。
That's what I'm going to do.。
Super granny for Jesus.。
I keep telling them, "You have to run to keep up with me.。
You have to run to keep up.。
You cannot tell me after 40, it's like I meet these grumpy old people in their 50s and 60s.。
I don't hang around old people.。
That's why I'm here on a Sunday night with you.。
I don't like old people.。
This is when they're like, "Will you come to a youth?"。
"Yes, I'll be at a young adults meeting."。
"Yes, okay, I'll be there."。
Because I like you young people.。
You're still passionate for Jesus.。
And so, you know, they get around and they're like grumpy and they look like they've been。
sucking lemons and they're like, "I've been in the way for 50 years."。
I'm like, "Get out of the way."。
But anyway, so I just think like you need to be like really excited.。
Like take a spiritual enema, mate.。
You need a chill pill.。
But anyway, so you're, I do not know how you can tell me that you have encountered the。
resurrected King that you know is coming back again and you can look like you've been sucking lemons.。
I don't know what Bible you're reading, but it's not the same Bible as me.。
But let's go now.。
Turn to your neighbor and say, "This is going to be a crazy night.。
I can already tell.。
This is going to be a crazy night."。
It's your pastor's fault.。
He said to me, "I could have liberty."。
That's your fault, mate.。
That's your fault.。
He was saying, "Just be free."。
I thought, "You don't know what you're saying.。
You don't know what you're saying."。
We're going to go to the book of Joshua chapter 1, verse 1.。
This is the word of the Lord.。
It says, "After the death of Moses, the Lord's servant, the Lord spoke to Joshua, son of。
Nun."。
Which is always very humorous.。
I'm like, "When you put up your hand at school, who's your dad?。
Nun?。
Anyway, so son of Nun.。
Moses' assistant.。
'Moses, my servant, is dead.。
Now you and all the people, prepare to cross over the Jordan to the land I am giving the。
Israelites.。
I have given you every place where the sole of your foot treads, just as I promised Moses.。
Your territory will be from the wilderness and Lebanon to the great river, the Euphrates。
River, all the land of the Hittites and west to the Mediterranean Sea.。
No one will be able to stand against you as long as you live.。
As long as you live, I will be with you just as I was with Moses.。
I will not leave you or abandon you.。
Be strong and courageous, for you will distribute the land I swore to their fathers to give。
them as an inheritance.。
Above all, be strong and very courageous to observe carefully the whole instruction my。
servant Moses commanded you.。
Do not turn from it to the right or the left so that you will have success wherever you。
go.。
This book of instruction must not depart from your mouth.。
You are to meditate on it day and night so that you may carefully observe everything。
written in it.。
For then you will prosper and succeed in whatever you do.。
Haven't I commanded you, be strong and courageous?。
Do not be afraid or discouraged, for the Lord your God is with you wherever you go."。
I'll just pause there for a moment.。
And you know, Joshua is obviously such a pivotal, pivotal book in the Old Testament.。
The whole first five books have been leading up to this moment.。
Joshua is about to go and take the children of Israel into the Promised Land.。
Just imagine what this moment would feel like.。
The children of Israel had been enslaved in Egypt 430 years.。
And of course, because I run an anti-human trafficking organization and we have offices。
in 10 countries, I'm constantly in and out of conversations and dialogue with the victims。
of human trafficking.。
Let me tell you, slavery is so dehumanizing, so debilitating.。
So imagine, after 430 years, centuries, generations of it, what the mindset of the children of。
Israel would have been.。
And then they came out of slavery.。
And then a whole generation that was supposed to go into the Promised Land.。
The Lord had promised Abraham that I am giving you and to your descendants, this land is。
going to be your possession.。
The Lord said, I'm going to give it to you.。
But what happened was a whole generation died in the wilderness.。
A whole generation that should have gone into the Promised Land.。
The Lord had promised Canaan to everyone that had come out of Egypt.。
But because of the report of 10 leaders that caused an entire generation to see the promise。
of God through the wrong lens, and they're murmuring and they're grumbling and they're。
complaining and they're lack of faith and they're fear.。
Everyone that should have inherited the promise didn't except for two people, only two.。
And that was Joshua and Caleb were the only two that came out of slavery that went in。
to the Promised Land.。
I'm thinking as Joshua is standing right on the threshold of going into the Promised Land.。
This isn't his first time that he stood here.。
We're picking up the text and Joshua 38 years before this had been there.。
He'd been at this exact spot except there was a couple of million other different people.。
But now the Lord comes to him and says, "Moses, my servant is dead."。
You got to ask yourself the question, do you think Joshua didn't know?。
Was he kind of like, "Where's Moses been?。
I don't know.。
He hasn't been around for a while."。
I'm tending to think that Joshua was probably really aware that Moses was dead.。
Now if it was our generation and the guy ahead of us died, we'd probably be posting on TikTok。
or Instagram telling everyone, "#itsme.。
I'm the number one.。
Old guy's dead.。
Now I'm going to go in and I'm going to do what I think I should do."。
But Joshua apparently was a very humble man because he didn't get up.。
He didn't go in and say, "I'm now going to, I've come up with this great idea.。
I've got this great dream.。
This is what I'm going to do."。
He was obviously with the rest of the camp waiting to see what is going to happen.。
So the Lord had to come up to him and say, "Moses, my servant is dead."。
Now the reason I'm pausing here is the way that the Lord addressed him and said, "Moses,。
my servant."。
I just want you, now I know most of you have got digital Bibles, but for old school people。
like me, if you go back one page in your Bible to Deuteronomy chapter 34, I want you to hear。
this in verse 10 and 11.。
This is the very last couple of verses in Deuteronomy just before we turn the page to Joshua.。
This is what it says, "No prophet has arisen again in Israel like Moses, whom the Lord。
knew face to face.。
He was unparalleled."。
It's a huge word.。
"He was unparalleled for all the signs and wonders the Lord sent him to do against the。
land of Egypt, to Pharaoh, to all his officials and to all his land, and for all the mighty。
acts of power and terrifying deeds that Moses performed in the sight of all of Israel."。
So here the text says that Moses was unparalleled.。
I mean, not only did he share a particular intimacy with the Lord, unlike anybody else,。
I mean, he saw the Lord face to face.。
He spoke with the Lord face to face as a man speaks with their friend, but he saw signs,。
wonders, miracles, and the text tells us they were unparalleled.。
I mean, we know.。
He saw a Red Sea part.。
He was in there during all of the plagues.。
He saw, you know, manna fall from heaven.。
He struck a rock and water came out.。
He saw the quails.。
I mean, he saw signs and wonders and miracles, and you've got to ask, seeing all the signs,。
all the wonders, all the miracles, so much supernatural power unleashed on the earth,。
being used by God to lead a generation out of slavery into the wilderness.。
He was used mightily by God.。
He had great intimacy with God, and when it's all said and done, turn the page, "Moses,。
my servant."。
That's it.。
How high can I go, Christine?。
Servant.。
Christine, if I have the greatest ministry, the biggest business, if I see the greatest。
miracles, what's the greatest place I can attain to?。
Servant.。
Servant.。
When the Bible says he was unparalleled, are we contending?。
We're contending for a move of the Spirit.。
We're contending to encounter the presence of God, but the doorway to any of that is。
being willing to be a servant, and there is a direct correlation to effectiveness for。
God and willing to be nothing more than a servant of God.。
And what we do in our culture, we think, "Okay, I'm going to scroll and swipe, and I'm going。
to tell God what I want to do, whatever looks the best, whatever looks most spectacular."。
And yet at the end of the day, what the Lord is looking for is servants.。
This is why we are all invited into what I believe is going to be the greatest end-time。
harvest of anything we've ever experienced, but the degree to which we're willing to be。
nothing more than a servant is the degree to which God's going to be able to use us.。
God's not looking for co-stars, he's looking for co-laborers.。
He's looking for servants.。
People that say, "I don't care about my name," in the era and the spirit of our age of building。
brands, building names, you know, it's never gone well in history.。
When they built the Tower of Babel, they said, "Come, let us build a name for ourselves."。
How'd that go?。
Absalom, in 2 Samuel 18, 18, it says, "Absalom, because he had no sons to bear his name in。
remembrance, he built a monument to himself."。
And we have a generation wanting to build monuments to ourselves and we're wondering。
why we're not experiencing a move of God.。
We don't need brands, we don't need names, we need servants.。
Servants.。
He says, "Moses, my servant, is dead."。
What's interesting is that not only was Moses a servant, do you know Joshua, when Joshua。
graduated to servanthood status?。
Because this is what we hope.。
For a lot of us, it's, "Man, I want to achieve this and I want to achieve that and I want。
God to use me to do X, Y, and Z."。
But it wasn't until the very last chapter of Joshua.。
Joshua 24, verse 29, where after Joshua had done everything, led a generation into the。
promised land and they conquered the land.。
In verse 29, it says, "After these things, the Lord's servant Joshua, son of Nun, died."。
Took to the end of the book, chapter 24, verse 29, before he was also given the name that。
God gave the unparalleled one, Moses.。
You know, if we get to the other side and hear the Lord's servant, Christine, that's。
what I want to hear.。
Not, "What did you build?。
What did you do?"。
But there is no higher place we could go.。
If we would just understand this, we would stop trying to attain and we'd stop trying。
to climb and we would simply serve.。
We would simply serve.。
You know, there is no higher place you and I could climb to.。
You and I are already, as of this moment, seated at the right hand of the Father in。
Christ Jesus and we have access to every spiritual blessing that's ours in Christ Jesus.。
I don't know how much higher you could go than that.。
How much higher can you get than being seated in Christ at the right hand of the Father?。
So, for as high as we're ever going to get, there's only one place you can go from there。
and that's down into a lost and a broken world.。
To serve a lost and a broken humanity, to radiate the light of Christ, to be salt and。
light in a lost and a broken world.。
And you don't need superstars, you need servants to do that.。
If we could leave Awaken willing to be a servant, then we've done our job this weekend.。
Willing to be nothing else but a servant.。
You know, people often will say, "Chris, how did you get to do what you're doing?"。
You know, when I came to faith in Christ and I was in a church service like this, it was。
a Sunday night, 29th of January, 1989, who was not even alive then, all of you.。
And so, 29th of January, 1989, a friend invited me to a meeting like this.。
I was so broken.。
I came from a background where, you know, I was the victim of childhood sexual abuse。
for many, many years.。
I was so full of shame, so full of brokenness, so full of just unforgiveness and anger and bitterness.。
And as a result of that, I grew up in the poorest zip code in New South Wales, the state。
that I grew up in, in Sydney, Australia.。
I was the daughter of Greek immigrants, very marginalized because of my ethnicity, my gender,。
just growing up where we did in our neighborhood.。
And then add on top of that, the sexual abuse.。
So I made a whole lot of really poor decisions in life, relationally and just in every way,。
because I was so, so broken.。
And then two weeks before my 33rd birthday, I had gotten a phone call from my brother,。
George, because in case you don't know if you're Greek, all your brothers are George,。
Nico, Spiro, Con, you know, that's how it goes.。
So George called me and he said, Christine, I just got a letter from the government.。
And in Australia, this particular department is the Department of Community Services.。
He says, I just got a letter from DOCS and it says I've been adopted.。
Now, when he first said that to me, guys, I started laughing because, you know, when。
you're growing up, you always tell your siblings we're not related, like you're adopted from like Mars.。
Anyway, so.。
But then I said, George, tell them they've sent this to the wrong person.。
And then, you know, call me back and tell me what happened.。
I said, but make sure you call them.。
So he calls them and then he called me back about 10 minutes later.。
This time he's crying.。
He goes, Chris, it's true.。
They told me the name of my biological mother, my biological father, when I was born, when I was immunized.。
I have a whole file on my life.。
I was like in shock.。
And he said, I'm going to go home and confront mum.。
Now, my dad had died when I was 19.。
So my mum was home alone with this big family secret for 35 years.。
And I don't know if you know much about Greeks, but Greeks are crazy.。
And so I'm thinking if George goes home and confronts my mum, this thing could go south really quick.。
So I jump into my car and I drive to my mum's house.。
I walked into the living room right at the second that my brother was giving my mother。
this piece of paper from the government.。
And my mum took it.。
I saw the blood drain from her face.。
I felt like I was watching a movie.。
And she started crying.。
She said, George, I am so sorry.。
The adoption laws in Australia in the 1960s, they were all closed adoptions.。
And we never thought you would find out.。
And one of the last things I promised your dad was that I would never tell you.。
And I tore up all of the paperwork.。
And like you could imagine, I mean, you know, my mother was crying, my brother's crying,。
the dog's crying, you know, snot's flying.。
It's like it's a big fat Greek moment.。
I don't know what to do.。
But when you're Greek, food is the answer to life, the universe and everything.。
So I think I'm going to go to the kitchen and make some baklava.。
I don't know. I'm just going there.。
So I go to the kitchen and I start making food.。
About, I don't know, maybe 20 minutes later, my mother walks in after me.。
So my back is to her.。
She's speaking to me in Greek.。
And she says to me, "Christina, since we're telling the truth today, do you want to know the whole truth?"。
Now, I don't even know why I did this, but I turned around and I went, "I've been adopted too."。
And my mom was just bawling and nodding her head and said, "Yes."。
I was stunned.。
Two weeks before my life, it would have been right around now, 27 years ago when I found out.。
I mean, I didn't even say anything for a few minutes, which in and of itself is a miracle greater than the resurrection of Jesus.。
But anyway, so I didn't say anything.。
But, well, the very first thing I said, I went, "Am I still Greek?"。
Anyway, so I thought, I was called so many names at school, so I wanted to make sure there was a reason for that.。
But here's the very next thing that happened.。
Because a decade before that, I had come into a meeting, I told you, the 29th of January, 1989, and encountered the resurrected Jesus.。
I began a journey of discipleship, although I was saved immediately, obviously, heaven bound.。
I was still a mess, because I brought all my trauma into that altar call with me.。
And thank God for the Word of God, and thank God that I had someone discipling me that she would make me memorize Scripture.。
And even when I didn't believe it, she would make me memorize things and say things and say,。
"Christine, I want you to look in the mirror, put it on a little stick-it note.。
I am the righteousness of God in Christ Jesus."。
Because I never thought I was. I thought I'm used goods.。
After what's happened to me, not only what's happened to me, after the sins that I've committed of my own volition,。
what could God do with someone like me? I'm not righteous.。
And I had to really continue to, well, nowadays we have, you know, we know, we talk about neuroplasticity and rewiring our brains,。
but I'm old school. You had the Scripture that opened the conference.。
We just had to know from the old school days, "Do not be conformed to this world, but be ye transformed."。
How? By the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is the good, acceptable, and perfect will of God.。
I didn't realize I was rewiring my brain and replacing the lies of the abusers and the lies of the taunts of the kids at school。
with the truth of the Word of God.。
So I would look at things, and even for six months I remember I never believed it.。
I'm fearfully and wonderfully made.。
I just thought, "No." But I could tell you by doing it and doing it and doing it,。
and we would memorize back, this is old school days when you used to memorize things because you didn't have Google or GPT.。
So we would like memorize the whole book of Philippians. I couldn't do more than that.。
That's a little one. And so I would do that.。
Or we would do entire, but we would memorize passages of Scripture, and we would say them and declare them。
and speak over us what God has spoken in His Word over us.。
And I could just tell you, I remember the day I was looking in the mirror.。
I don't know what happened, but suddenly it went from here to here.。
Because all the other times I'd gone, "I am the righteousness of God," and I didn't really believe it,。
but I was so scared of the chick that was discipling me.。
I mean, God was merciful, but she wasn't.。
And so I did not, I don't know, God was great.。
And so I was so scared of turning up, and like I had to say that I did it.。
And so I would just do it. But then all of a sudden this one day I go,。
and my shoulders went back a little bit, my head lifted up, and I went, "I am the righteousness of God in Christ Jesus.。
I am fearfully and wonderfully made. I am."。
So I'm saying that to you. Fast forward now, 10 years later, I'm in my mother's kitchen.。
There's no S.E.U. band in the kitchen.。
There's four archangels did not come down and, you know, do a river dance on my duvet.。
There was nobody else there. It was just my mom's kitchen.。
But because I had been renewing my mind for that decade, what came out of me as my mom's weeping,。
imagine this traumatic moment, it's everything you're imagining and worse.。
My mother was just so broken, and I just jumped and I grabbed her and I went,。
"Mom, it's okay." This is what came out of me.。
I said, "Mom, it's okay, because before I was formed in my mother's womb."。
Whose ever womb that was. God knew me.。
He knitted together my innermost parts and he fashioned all of my days before as yet there was one of them.。
And guys, that day every fact that I thought to be true about my life changed.。
What my background was, what my name was, all of it changed.。
And to this night, I don't know the circumstances surrounding my conception.。
I don't know if I was a result of a one night stand, some ongoing adulterous affair,。
or even if I was a result of a rape.。
But although I don't know the facts, I do know there's a force on the planet much higher than the facts,。
and it's called the truth of the Word of God.。
And Ephesians chapter 2 verse 10 does not say that I am the workmanship of a rape.。
It doesn't say that I am the workmanship of an adulterous affair.。
It says that I am God's workmanship, recreated in Christ Jesus for good works that God prepared beforehand.。
That I should walk in them.。
And wouldn't it be just like God to take my birth certificate, doesn't have a name on it,。
it's a child's name, unnamed, number 2508 of 1966.。
Wouldn't it be just like God to take an unnamed, unwanted, abused, adopted chick。
from the back of Sydney, Australia, and say, "Not only am I going to rescue you,。
but I'm going to use you to open up the prison doors for those that are still bound in slavery。
and still bound in life."。
Wouldn't it be just like God?。
And let me tell you, every time we put a trafficker in jail,。
and every time we rescue a young woman or child,。
I think, "Devil, you could stick that in your pipe and smoke it."。
I bet you wish you left me alone.。
I feel like Joseph who looked at his brothers in Genesis chapter 50 verse 20,。
and he said, "You meant this evil against me, but God meant it for this very purpose,。
to save many people alive."。
So when I came to faith in Christ, as you can tell, I was broken.。
I was messed up, so all I could be was a servant.。
But it seems to me that that's what God uses.。
So this is my whole call to ministry.。
"Christine, how did you do it?。
I mean, did you build a brand? Here you go."。
There was no internet. I'm as old as when the dinosaurs roamed the earth, guys.。
So, no, I wasn't brand building.。
There was no internet.。
There was no social media. This is like old school.。
You had to trust God.。
So this is what happened.。
I went to the young adults meeting, and the young adults pastor said,。
"We're having a church cleanup day on Tuesday. I want you to hear this.。
This is exactly how it happened.。
We're having a church cleanup day."。
So because I had just gotten saved, I thought, "That's what you did."。
I didn't, in my day, there was no one for me to look at.。
There was no internet.。
I wasn't scrolling through everybody else's life.。
I was busy living my own life.。
See, what we do is scroll through everyone else's,。
and then we sit down and tell God what we like.。
"Oh, I'd like to do that for you. That looks awesome."。
But see, if you come with no agenda, this is what I've discovered God can use.。
So it was like, "Okay, I'm a Christian now. This is my church.。
I'm going to go to the church cleanup day. I just think this is what you do."。
Well, I was the only one from that young adults ministry that went.。
So I went to the church cleanup day, and I'm cleaning.。
And so the assistant youth pastor comes down and said,。
"You're Christine Kariofalos, aren't you?"。
Because Nick thinks he's rescued me, but I like my other name.。
"You're Christine Kariofalos, aren't you?"。
I said, "Yeah." He goes, "You're doing psychology at uni, aren't you?"。
And I was doing English and economic history,。
so basically I can read golden books and count to three.。
And so I was like, "You know, I've got a minor in psych, but it's not my major."。
He goes, "Well, anyway, I'm going on a missions trip with a senior pastor for six weeks,。
and we just got a grant for a youth center."。
To which I said, "What's a youth center?"。
He said, "I don't know, but we got a grant, and so do you want to help out?"。
Did I pray? No.。
Did I have a 40-day fasting and a water fast? No, no.。
Did I even know what youth ministry was? No.。
Did I know what a youth center was? No.。
But I had said, "Here I am."。
That's all I'd said. "Here I am."。
So it was like, "Okay, okay."。
Well, for the sake of time, I'll fast forward.。
That became, and to this day it still exists,。
one of the most largest and influential youth centers in Australia.。
Did I know then that God was actually training me?。
Today we run probably the largest anti-trafficking organization in the world,。
but where do you think I learned to deal with governments and to deal with councils。
and to deal with business peoples and the education department and the hospitals。
and to deal with churches and to deal with...。
Where do you think that learned?。
See, other people went, "Well, no, no. I'm called to do this."。
Now, thank God I didn't limit myself to what I thought I was called to do。
because I didn't know human trafficking existed in 1990。
when I was building the youth center that I'd never prayed for,。
but that's what we needed to serve at a church.。
People would say communication and speaking is definitely one of my primary gifts.。
I never even did this on any kind of platform for years.。
I'm not talking about for years because what was needed was。
who's got volunteers to go and work in the schools?。
But where do you think I learned to speak?。
Talking to you is easy. You're nice Christians.。
You should speak to 1,500 unsaved teenage boys in an Australian high school.。
That's where you learn to speak.。
When I'll be at Passion in a couple of months in that big baseball stadium,。
that's easy compared to 1,500 Catholic boys in an Australian high school.。
Did I know then that for nearly a decade God was training me?。
Anonymity, obscurity.。
But you see, here's the deal. I thought I'd arrive then.。
I didn't know there was anywhere else to go because I was in Christ,。
so I'd already arrived.。
And so then once you know you've already arrived,。
then it's how can I serve? Where's a need?。
People are like, "Well, find a need and meet it."。
So my youth pastor would say, "We need to do this."。
I never even asked, "Is this part of my gift mix?。
Is this my strength finder? Is this my Enneagram number?。
Is this my love language?"。
We write Christian books to excuse Christians from being Christians.。
There is only one love language, "Die to self."。
That's the Christian love language, seriously.。
And that's where God will use you.。
That's where God will use you.。
And then it went from that.。
And then when my pastor wanted someone to run our state youth movement,。
and these were big rallies in stadiums like you see at Passion Now.。
Well, I was in the back of high schools and I was doing the youth center.。
And then my pastor said, "Christine, I want you to do that."。
There was no way you could market yourself.。
So I was so busy in the prayer closet getting marked by God,。
I never needed to market myself.。
And if we had a generation that understood why do we have altars?。
Why do we say, "God, I'll go anywhere, I'll do anything,"。
without an agenda?。
But Lord, your agenda alone, because God marks you.。
And when God marks you, no amount of marketing can do what God can do.。
One marking from God.。
Listen, if God has assigned you, God will find you.。
God created you, He doesn't need to discover you.。
It doesn't matter how much you go, "Well, as if God doesn't know that I'm here."。
He knows exactly where you are.。
But the issue is that you being the servant that He's called you to be.。
Because He came and found Joshua exactly where Joshua was.。
Joshua wasn't out saying, "Moses is dead, now pick me."。
When Samuel was going to anoint a new king,。
the Lord came to Samuel and said, "I have chosen for myself a king."。
And sent him to the house of Jesse.。
Where was David? In the back of the field.。
We're so scared.。
So scared that God might miss us.。
That we're all so busy branding ourselves out there,。
marketing ourselves out there,。
and we're not on an altar on our face asking God to use us in anonymity, in obscurity.。
And then when God's ready to use us, He'll come and find us.。
Because He knows where we are.。
Moses was in the backside of the desert, tending his father-in-law's sheep,。
and a burning bush came.。
God came to him in a burning bush.。
God will find you wherever you are.。
But if you're out chasing something,。
the Lord's going to go to the place that He assigned you,。
not the place where you want to be.。
He came to David in the back of the field.。
He came to Joshua in this place.。
And so the issue is, He could say to, "Hey Joshua, get ready.。
It's time to go in."。
Why could He say to Joshua, "Get ready"?。
Because Joshua was already ready.。
Joshua was already ready.。
Why? He turns up on the pages of, look what it says,。
Joshua, Moses' assistant.。
Not out there trying to become the top.。
He was Moses' assistant for years.。
In Exodus 33, when Moses is in the tent of meeting with the Lord,。
Joshua, Exodus 33, 11, is lingering.。
Lingering.。
Can you imagine what he must have heard?。
The conversations with God he may have.。
Who knows? It's not in the text, but he may have overheard.。
But he was definitely in that proximity.。
He saw, because he accompanied Joshua,。
accompanied Moses before Moses went up Mount Sinai to get the Ten Commandments.。
Imagine the leadership lessons he learned.。
Being the assistant.。
But see, we all want to be the star.。
No one wants to be anyone's assistant anymore.。
Nobody wants to serve anymore.。
And then we're wondering how we're going to fulfill the purpose that God has for us.。
He appears in this text as Moses' assistant.。
Moses appears in the text as God's servant.。
What is the heart that we need to see the revival that we so long to see?。
A heart of servanthood?。
A willingness to be an assistant in anonymity and obscurity?。
So that when God says, "Get ready," you're ready.。
So I'm 10 years in a youth centre, so I was ready when my pastor said, "Now get ready."。
All those 20 years that led up to that before A21,。
were me getting ready for what God had already had ready for me.。
But we don't want to go step by step.。
The Scripture says the steps of a righteous person are ordered by the Lord.。
There is no elevator to the top.。
Steps, steps.。
So we start where we are,。
with a posture that says, "I just want to be a servant.。
I'm not coming to you with my agenda."。
Because we're so infiltrated with the Spirit of Babylon,。
the world that we're living in that says, "You build your best life now.。
You put yourself out there now.。
You tell God what you want to do now."。
And the Lord's going, "I'm just looking for some servants.。
That's all I'm looking for.。
With no agenda but my agenda.。
Not using me to build their brand.。
Not using me to build their career.。
Just no other agenda but my agenda."。
Oh, we'd see revival.。
We would.。
If we were willing to be servants.。
If we were willing to be assistants.。
As for me, I'm just glad I'm in the room.。
See, because I remember what it was like to not be in Christ。
and not be involved in the purpose of God.。
And I just thank God that I'm anywhere in His purpose.。
I just thank God that He would even include me in it。
rather than telling Him this is the only thing I want to do.。
We all want to be Christian influencers online。
and no one wants to be a Christian offline.。
And if we were willing to be the real deal,。
I don't think there's any limit to what God will do.。
You know, the fact is a whole generation missed it.。
And I think, this is just my opinion,。
I think we're at this pivotal moment on the Kingdom calendar。
when Joshua was about to go in.。
He'd already been at that point.。
I'm old enough now.。
I've been, this is four decades almost.。
And there are times when you think,。
"God, are you about to do something?"。
And a generation because of fear, doubt, unbelief, pride, arrogance,。
murmuring, grumbling, complaining, they missed Him.。
So now He's here again.。
And I think we're here again right now.。
And I thank God I'm alive,。
because I really believe it's going to happen through your generation.。
I'm like, "God, I can't believe You've let me live."。
I've been involved in student ministry for almost four decades.。
And I'm not one of the cynical ones, I'm one of the ones that's full of faith.。
I believe that if you are willing to die to self, to deny yourself,。
take up your cross, follow Him, be a servant,。
what God can do through you will be astounding,。
astounding in your generation.。
And we'll possess the spiritual promised land that God has for us.。
But you've got to take a step.。
For me to get free for some of you, your steps last night was very powerful.。
But the step, it's never up, it's down.。
It's down.。
Because we all want, 2026, man, everything on socials,。
it's just like, "How am I going to get to the top?"。
Man, I hope this post goes viral.。
I hope they share this.。
And we just want to go up.。
But in the Kingdom, it's the opposite.。
The steps, the degree to which you're willing to keep stepping down。
is the key to Him being exalted.。
And God doing exceedingly, abundantly, above and beyond anything you could ever ask, hope,。
or think, "I can't believe my own life."。
But there's a direct correlation between a willingness to die daily.。
I don't get a pass at 60.。
It doesn't say anywhere, not in my Scripture.。
Deny yourself, take up your cross and follow Me until you turn 60.。
Then you can indulge in the sin of selfishness and do whatever you want.。
I've got to fight the spirit of Babylon just like you do.。
Because they'd be telling my age, "You could just retire.。
You could just chill out.。
You don't have to be as passionate.。
You don't have to be as full on."。
It's so subtle.。
But if we say, "I'm going to continue to die daily.。
I'm just willing to be servant.。
That's the highest honour that I could ever have.。
Let me wrap it up."。
He says, "God, as I was with Moses, so I will be with You."。
You've got to catch this.。
God can only anoint you, not a fake version of you.。
Your perfectly curated online presence,。
if there's a disparity between that and your offline life,。
God can't anoint that.。
He can only anoint you, not a fake version of you,。
or you trying to be someone else.。
You are not your mentor.。
You are not somebody else.。
You are not the person that you're following, that you think,。
"Man, they're awesome.。
They've got the most followers.。
They're the most viral.。
They're the most famous."。
God cannot anoint that.。
He says, He didn't say, "I'm going to do with you what I did with Moses."。
He said, "As I was with Moses, so I will be with you."。
The issue isn't the task.。
You needed a special skill set and anointing。
that Moses had to bring the people out of Egypt.。
Joshua was something completely different。
to take a generation into the Promised Land.。
The issue isn't the task that you do.。
The issue is the God that is with you in the midst of that.。
You need the God that is with you.。
As I was with Moses, so I will be with you.。
I don't want you to emulate what I've done.。
I want you to want the God that is with me.。
I won't have done my job。
if you don't hunger and thirst after Him.。
Not what He can do through you,。
not what He can do for you, but just His presence.。
See, Joshua had already been in training,。
lingering at the tent of meeting.。
He longed for the presence of God.。
And the Lord says to him, "Hey, I'm not going to leave you。
as I was with Moses, so I will be with you."。
The greatest thing I can give you is not a book on 10 tips。
on how to build a successful life.。
The greatest thing I can leave you is,。
is a hunger for the same God that has been with me.。
That God, that God will do exceedingly,。
abundantly above and beyond what I could even imagine.。
Your eye hasn't seen, your ear hasn't heard,。
nor has it entered into your heart。
the things that God has for you,。
but it's God.。
It's God.。
He says, "Only be strong and very courageous。
because you're going to need that same God."。
Because they were going into Canaan,。
and the Canaanites, not any different to the world。
that you and I are living in in 2026.。
Such an evil, evil place,。
full of child sacrifice, injustice,。
perverse immorality.。
It's not new.。
It's what we're living in today.。
And it takes guts to be a Christian today.。
And that's why the Lord time and time again in Joshua 1,。
"Only be strong and very courageous.。
Only be strong and very courageous。
because you're going to need strength and courage。
to be salt and light."。
Jesus never told us to come out of this world.。
In fact, in John 17, He prayed, "I do not pray."。
This is the only time Jesus wanted us to know.。
"I'm not praying.。
I do not pray that you take them out of the world."。
But that you keep them from the evil one.。
I'm not praying that you come out of the world.。
I want you to go into your universities.。
I want you to go into your workplaces。
and to be salt and light.。
But you're going to need strength and courage,。
and you're going to need to be consecrated,。
and you're going to need the presence of God。
because it's the only thing that's going to separate you.。
It's the only thing that's going to keep you.。
It's the only thing that's going to protect you.。
You need the presence of God.。
So He said to them, "Be strong and very courageous,。
but you're going to be okay。
because as I was with Moses, I'm going to be with you."。
So this is what I'm asking,。
and we're going to go into a time of worship.。
My assignment in what the Lord's doing。
over these couple of days,。
and what I felt very strongly,。
is particularly in Joshua 1.1,。
"Moses, my servant, Moses, the servant of the Lord,。
Joshua, Moses' assistant."。
The key to be used mightily by God,。
be willing to be a servant,。
and be willing to be an assistant.。
They're probably two of the most counter-cultural things。
you'll find in 2026,。
when it's all about me.。
So you're going to have to die to self,。
and die to agenda.。
But I'm telling you 40 years down the road,。
I couldn't have imagined.。
Thank God I didn't limit Him to my imagination.。
That's why all this, like, "Dream your biggest dreams."。
I'm like, "Why?"。
Because God is able to do exceedingly,。
abundantly, above and beyond anything.。
So if I come with a posture of a servant。
that says, "I just want to be involved with what you're doing,"。
God will blow your mind,。
but it's for His glory and His purpose.。
So I'm asking,。
are you willing to be a servant?。
Are you willing to be an assistant?。
Are you willing to take that step that says,。
"No agenda, but yours."。
And if you are, I want you to stand to your feet.。
And if you're not, please don't,。
because you'll be tested on this.。
I'm not playing, you'll be tested.。
If we leave here awakened,。
you don't need much more than this for revival.。
Because God's sending revival out of him.。
He says, "Out of you will flow rivers of living water."。
If you just go with God's purpose, nobody else's,。
you don't have your agenda, you have His agenda.。
You're willing to be a co-laborer,。
not a co-star with Jesus, a co-laborer,。
in anonymity, in obscurity,。
where you'll be unapplauded, maybe underappreciated,。
maybe nobody else will notice.。
But God, He said,。
"Chris, do you want to work in a youth centre?"。
What's a youth centre?。
I don't know, but I said yes to Jesus.。
Couldn't have imagined standing here 40 years later.。
Couldn't have imagined.。
But I felt as fulfilled then as I do now.。
Because just because I might have more visibility now,。
do not ever confuse visibility with significance.。
Don't ever do that.。
I was so content in Christ then, and I'm content in Christ now.。
And I have to keep doing now what I did then,。
which is just saying yes to Jesus.。
I'm not a brand.。
I'm a servant of the Most High God.。
When I cross over,。
I want to hear, "Well done, good and faithful servant."。
Not, "Man, you're awesome. You had all those followers.。
You built all that anti-trafficking thing.。
You helped all these women."。
I want to hear, "Well done, good and faithful servant."。
So if you're willing to lay down your agenda to be a servant,。
it's a weird call, but that's it.。
I want you to step out of your seat,。
and I want you to come and feel this,。
and we are going to worship King Jesus。
and surrender our lives and surrender again。
and again and again.。
I'm taking that step.。
Whatever place your foot treads, that step, you can.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
