(upbeat music)。
- Welcome to The Porch!。
(audience cheering)。
How you guys doing?。
Come on, how was the break?。
I love it.。
Hey, if you're a first time with us, my name's JP.。
I get to serve with the young adults here。
as we seek to change this city.。
And so what did you guys do over the break?。
- Everything!。
- Everything, no you didn't.。
Work, I heard it, yep.。
Someone went to Haiti.。
Anybody here went to Haiti?。
(audience cheering)。
Yeah, it's fun, it's great times, man.。
Hey, if you're here for the first time,。
I hope, you know, people are still getting here.。
They're still circling the parking lot.。
And so get here early, we're glad you're here.。
We're glad you made it in.。
I, over the break, one thing that I did,。
lots of things, lots of fun.。
I got to go to Haiti with some of my friends.。
But one thing I did was I taught my girls,。
I've got two, Presley and Finley and little boy Weston,。
but I taught my girls how to ride a bike.。
Do you guys remember learning how to ride a bike?。
Probably not because you were like four, okay?。
And so my daughter's eight, which makes me a terrible dad.。
And so I tried four years ago, but it didn't go so well.。
And so, you know, let me kind of paint the picture.。
Four years ago, there's this big sidewalk by our house.。
We get her a brand new bike.。
She's excited.。
We do the Christmas thing in the video and she walks out.。
She wants a bike.。
She sees a bicycle.。
She sees it, she goes crazy.。
Let's go learn how to ride it.。
We go outside, you know,。
then I do what all the commercials tell you to do, right?。
I'm kind of running behind her, you know,。
holding her on the bike.。
She's pedaling, everything's going great.。
And I let her go, just like the commercial says,。
she falls over and then she just kind of has。
these big crocodile tears and kind of looks,。
she's like, you did this to me, you know?。
And I'm like, no, it's gonna be okay, you know?。
That wasn't supposed to happen.。
You're supposed to pedal and keep going.。
And so then I'm like, well, let's get back.。
No, never again.。
And so that was for the past four years.。
We've been kind of sitting in that.。
And I'll be like, hey, she'll be like,。
I really want to ride the bike.。
And I'm like, okay, well, let's go.。
And I'm gonna show you, no, never.。
Well, I'm like, well, you can't ride the bike。
unless I teach you how to ride the bike.。
And she's like, well, I just wanna ride the bike.。
I don't wanna learn how to ride the bike.。
I just wanna be on the bike.。
She has all the desire to do the skill,。
but she doesn't wanna put in the work.。
She has all the desire to be there,。
like all of her friends, everybody in the world,。
every eighth grader, I mean, every eight-year-old ever born。
can ride a bike, except for her.。
And it's just because her dad doesn't know how to teach her.。
And she's afraid to learn,。
and she doesn't wanna make that transition.。
And as I think about that,。
I think about my own transition into the real world.。
It was like high school, big man on campus, college,。
all of the freedom that the world offers,。
but none of the maturity to navigate that freedom.。
I mean, I'm hanging out with guys who grunt as a language。
and hanging out with girls who like guys。
who grunt as a language, right?。
And so, and it's like,。
these are who I'm supposed to learn how to be an adult with.。
And then transition into the real world。
and kind of get there and like, "Whoa, that sucks.。
(congregation laughing)。
"What is, that hurt.。
"I don't like, like I've gotta work for,。
"I've gotta set an alarm clock and get up and stuff.。
"No, thank you."。
And it's like, no one was there to kind of teach me。
and instruct me.。
And so then what happens is we go through our minds,。
it's like, "Well, I'm gonna go back and back to school,。
"take the GMAT and do that for a little bit longer.。
"I don't wanna push through this,。
"whatever this terrible, awful experience is.。
"I mean, I'll go back home and be with mom and dad。
"or some, I don't wanna keep going.。
"I don't wanna grow up before my time.。
"And I'm not gonna beat you guys up tonight。
"because you know what they're saying.。
"You know what they're saying about us,。
"this whole delayed adolescence thing.。
"It's not very nice."。
A New York Times just put out an article,。
I'll read this quote to you, it says,。
"Today's 25-year-olds compared。
"with their parents' generation at the same age。
"are twice as likely to still be students,。
"only half as likely to be married,。
"and 50% more likely to be receiving financial assistance。
"from their parents."。
And so just in case you missed those details,。
50% more likely to still be in school,。
50% less likely to be married,。
and 50% more likely to be on parents' payroll.。
And so some of you, when I read that,。
here's what just went through your mind,。
"Not me, dude.。
"I'm banking, bro, you don't even know.。
(congregation laughing)。
"Parents' payroll, I support them, dog.。
(congregation laughing)。
"Rich young ruler, man."。
And so here's the deal, yeah, maybe so, maybe so,。
but you've got areas of your life。
that you don't have the maturity。
to support yourself spiritually.。
See, this world is a little bit more。
than knowing how to tie a tie,。
how to go through an interview,。
how to pay your bills on time.。
That's great that you're responsible.。
And so I don't have any desire tonight。
to teach you tips and tricks。
of actually being just a responsible citizen.。
I wanna show you what it means to grow in the faith,。
the thing that really matters.。
And so we're moving through this series we call adulting,。
kicking it off, 2016, great to be with you guys.。
Miss you like crazy.。
Prayed for you like crazy.。
And so tonight, we're talking about training to adult。
from the scripture, believe it or not.。
It actually talks about this.。
And so training to adult.。
And so it begs the question, what makes someone an adult?。
And so I asked that question.。
I asked the Facebook world,。
and I asked all my Twitter friends, all seven of you,。
and I kind of got these crazy answers.。
All of a sudden, you have to establish your own bedtime.。
That makes you an adult.。
Or as soon as you enter the workforce,。
you're thinking about a 401(k),。
and so saving for retirement evidently makes you,。
paying taxes was one thing they said.。
Saving money for rings, a house, a wedding, food,。
graduating from that ramen noodles thing.。
One person said, I feel most like an adult。
when I check my mail.。
And I was like, I just feel sad when I check my mail.。
But one person said, just having their own cell phone bill,。
or cell phone account.。
And I was like, that's just irresponsible.。
The family share plan, come on, man, what are you thinking?。
It's crazy to have your own cell.。
That doesn't make you an adult,。
that makes you a poor steward of God's resources.。
[congregation laughing]。
Somebody said jury duty, others said making their own doctors。
and dentist appointments.。
One girl said, changing my oil,。
which was really impressive to me.。
So I was like, whoa, you change your own oils?。
Like, yeah.。
I was like, man, that's incredible.。
I said, how did you learn how to do that?。
'Cause I don't know, man, one time I just,。
driving down the road, pulled into the oil change place,。
and it happened.。
I was like, oh, oh, okay.。
That's what you mean by changing your oil.。
That's, I'm there, that's different, okay?。
And so why is this so hard?。
Like, becoming an adult is like becoming a unicorn.。
It's like, who knows how to figure out how to do this?。
Like, where do they teach this?。
And so,。
and so tonight, as we talk about training to adult,。
I wanna talk about what it means to grow up on truth,。
what it means to train for godliness.。
And what it means before you leave here this evening。
to be an adult.。
And so, Paul wrote this letter in 1 Timothy.。
If you're new to the Bible, you can get there,。
turn to the New Testament,。
that's that shorter section in the back.。
You'll go through the gospels,。
Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, Romans,。
1 and 2 Corinthians, Galatians,。
Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians,。
1 and 2 Thessalonians,。
1 and 2 Timothy, 1 Timothy, right there.。
And so, this is what's called the pastoral epistle.。
And the reason epistle just means letter,。
it's a letter to a pastor.。
Paul wrote it to Timothy.。
Paul is Timothy's spiritual father.。
Timothy had a father wound, he didn't have a good dad.。
We don't know much about his dad,。
but we know that his mom is accredited in the scriptures,。
and his grandmother,。
and so we don't know much about his father,。
but he probably had an absent father,。
and so Paul steps into the equation as his spiritual father,。
and he's gonna exhort him.。
And so, Timothy's about 25 to 35 years old。
when Paul writes this to him,。
and he's going to take over。
the largest church in the world, the church in Ephesus.。
So, this is kind of a big responsibility.。
He's graduating from, you know,。
the, I won't say childhood,。
but we'll say adolescence to adulthood,。
where he's going to lead leaders.。
And so, Paul writes this letter to him,。
and so that he might apply it to his life.。
And so, today, a couple thousand years later,。
we can apply it to our lives。
as we talk about training to adults.。
So, verse six, 1 Timothy chapter four, verse six.。
He says, "If you point these things out。
"to the brothers and sisters,。
"you will be a good minister of Christ Jesus."。
And so, what are these things?。
As we started at a weird spot, a weird place in the text,。
he's saying, "Hey, some are going to leave the faith."。
Tell me that ain't relevant to where you're at.。
Like, you didn't go to college.。
Like, all of a sudden, you're in vacation Bible school.。
Praise, he came from heaven to.。
And then you go to college,。
and there's keg stands, and fraternity parties,。
and looking for the next thing, and all.。
It's like, God, oh yeah, no, I'm a Christian,。
but there's no anything, any evidence.。
And so, you see people leaving the faith in droves.。
He says, "Hey, some are going to leave the faith."。
He says, "But if you point these things out。
"to the brothers and sisters,。
"you will be a good minister of Christ Jesus."。
And then he says this,。
"You will be nourished on the truths of the faith。
"and of the good teaching that you have followed,。
"have nothing to do with godless myths。
"and old wives' tales."。
So, there's two things.。
There's this kind of dichotomy in this text.。
There's the truths that you're to be nourished on,。
and then there's this false teaching。
these old wives' tales, okay, other ideas.。
So, truth and other ideas.。
And he's saying, "Hey, you need to hold fast to the truth."。
And so, that's my first point this evening.。
Grow up on truth.。
It says be nourished on truth.。
Feast on truth.。
Live on a diet of truth.。
Now, you're like, "Well, how's that relevant to me?"。
Because you don't know what's true.。
I didn't know what's true.。
Graduate from college, I mean, who defines your definition?。
Is it your anthropology teacher?。
Your biology teacher?。
Is it your boss that gets to define what's true?。
Is it your girlfriend, your boyfriend, your parents。
that gets to define what's true?。
No, God defines what's true.。
He created all truth.。
Absolutely.。
And so, if you process the decision。
with what's called a poor worldview,。
worldview is just what is real.。
It's the reality.。
Then you're not navigating this life。
as it was intended to be navigated.。
We have to find out, we have to play this game.。
Hey, what is true?。
We're not on a happiness journey.。
See, some of you are like,。
"Well, whatever makes you happy is true."。
False.。
We're not on a happiness journey.。
We're on a truth journey.。
We gotta find out what is absolutely true.。
And so, in verse six, he says, "Be nourished,"。
which is just a diet of, he's saying,。
"Feed yourself truth and good teaching."。
You can't grow in the faith。
unless you're feeding yourself truth and good teaching.。
He said that again.。
You cannot, it is an impossibility,。
grow in the faith unless you are feeding yourself。
truth and good teaching.。
I hope that's one of the reasons you're here,。
'cause we teach from the Scriptures.。
Why, even when we go topical,。
we start with a passage and begin to unpack。
what is in that passage。
so that you might learn the Scriptures,。
so that you can bring a Bible,。
so that you can take notes in there,。
and that you would know the Scripture.。
See, some of us, we redefine truth based on our experience.。
And that's a terrible practice,。
because no one wants to define truth.。
Or let me just say it like this.。
You shouldn't define truth when tragedy hits.。
You shouldn't be defining truth。
when you really, really, really, really want something.。
When you get in a situation where there's tragedy。
or a deep, deep, deep desire,。
you better already have a solid foundation of truth.。
Otherwise, your desires and your emotions。
are gonna direct you to a place。
that is full of deep despair.。
I see it all the time.。
Life is hard.。
The enemy, Satan, he's real, he's a liar.。
The world has this amazing PR department,。
and some of us are going through it, playing this game。
of what is the most convenient truth。
so that I can do whatever I want.。
But here he says, verse seven,。
"Have nothing to do with godless myths and old wise tales."。
What are the dumb lies that we believe?。
There's lots of them.。
I'll give you a few.。
We jotted down.。
Money will make you happy?。
No.。
There's a lot of suicidal billionaires,。
a lot of really depressed millionaires.。
A new job will make you happy?。
That's what you thought when you went into your last job.。
(congregation laughing)。
A new relationship will make you happy?。
I know new relationships that have made people。
really, really, really, really sad.。
The world says, "Hey, have sex whenever you're both ready."。
What does that even mean?。
I've been ready since the fifth grade.。
(congregation laughing)。
The world says, "All roads lead to God."。
Man, that does not have a happy ending.。
The world says, "Hey, pursue happily ever after."。
I don't think so.。
It says, "If it feels good, it must be right."。
No.。
It says, "If it's really difficult, it must be wrong."。
No, there's some things that are difficult。
that are worth pursuing.。
These are all lies that some of us believe。
and we get in a situation。
and we begin to process the outcome.。
And then we say, "Okay, what decision can I make。
"that will bring about the best outcome?"。
But sometimes God is saying,。
"No, you don't judge obedience by the outcome.。
"You judge obedience by my word.。
"The outcome might be death.。
"The outcome might be persecution.。
"The outcome might be pain, and it can still be right."。
You've got to judge obedience based on his word,。
not your perceived outcome.。
How will throw your critical thinking training in。
for a loop?。
We ask, "What is best for me?。
"Will it help me be a better me?"。
That's the wrong question.。
The right question is,。
"Will it help me be a better follower of Christ?。
"Will it help me be a better servant of God?"。
And so here's what I'm saying.。
Don't let popular opinion determine what is true.。
My friend Dave said it this way.。
"Something can be true even if no one knows it.。
"Something can be true even if no one admits it.。
"Something can be true even if no one agrees。
"with what it is.。
"Something can be true even if no one follows it.。
"And something can be true even if no one。
"but God grasps it fully."。
When I was coming back from Haiti,。
I was on the airplane, sat next to an individual,。
began to engage with him for the purpose of。
just finding out what he believes and sharing the gospel.。
And we had a great conversation about that.。
He was a man of some faith,。
but didn't quite have assurance of salvation,。
wasn't certain he was gonna be with God forever.。
And so we began to talk about that.。
And I asked him what he did.。
He self-identified as a functional doctor.。
He was indeed a doctor,。
but instead of prescribing traditional medicine,。
he would look at lifestyle, diet, and fitness,。
or exercise, if you will.。
And so we were talking about this,。
and he said he had seen many diseases。
that modern medicine said couldn't be cured.。
He saw them cured simply by people changing their lifestyle.。
And as we talked more about that,。
and we talked about some of the diseases。
that I was familiar with, he said,。
"Yes," he said, "the problem is we think we're so smart.。
"And so as our technology around food progresses,"。
he goes, "we actually have begun to poison ourselves."。
And he said this, 'cause he knew I was a believer。
of Christ at this time, he said,。
"We need to go back closer to the Garden of Eden."。
He said, "We're so far from Eden."。
I said, "What do you mean?"。
He said, "Well, think about it."。
He said, "What the movement that you're seeing,。
"this whole farm-to-table movement,。
"this whole organic movement, right,。
"is this whole gluten-free movement, if you will,。
"it's all going back to, hey,。
"eat stuff that's grown in the ground,。
"and cook it yourself.。
"Like, get away from processed food."。
He says, "We think we're moving forward.。
"We're actually moving back to where we started."。
And then he said this, and I wrote it down.。
He said, "As we've progressed in knowledge,。
"we've lost sight of truth."。
And I thought, what an incredible picture。
for where we're at.。
2016, we think we're getting so much smarter,。
but the statistics just don't say so.。
The numbers actually paint a grim picture.。
As we've progressed in knowledge,。
we've lost sight of truth.。
He said, "We're not healthy。
"because we are consuming unhealthy substances,。
"and isn't that true,。
"isn't that true for our spiritual journey?。
"We're not healthy because we're consuming ABC,。
"and CBS, and CNN, and not BIBLE."。
(congregation applauding)。
This is what's gonna make you healthy.。
Walk with God, a relationship,。
a pursuit of a relationship with a living deity,。
Jesus Christ.。
And so God determines what is true.。
How can we know what that is?。
Let's go back to the text, second part of verse seven.。
He says, "Rather than believing godless myths。
"and wives' tales,。
"I want you to train yourself to be godly."。
Train, circle that word.。
"Train yourself to be godly,。
"for physical training is of some value,。
"but godliness has value for all things,。
"holding promise for both the present life。
"and the life to come."。
What does that mean, holding promise。
for both the present life and the life to come?。
Here's what he's saying.。
He's saying, awesome, 24-hour fitness membership,。
way to go, it's not gonna matter in heaven.。
He's like, oh cool, man, CrossFit, yeah,。
join the box, do that thing, that's amazing, okay.。
But a billion years from now, that won't matter.。
You're not gonna walk up to St. Peter。
and be like, what's up, Pete?。
(congregation laughing)。
How you doing?。
(congregation laughing)。
You know, it's not gonna happen like that, okay?。
It won't, that won't matter.。
Be like, I worked out down there.。
He's like, so what?。
Did you study the Word?。
Because that matters up there.。
He's telling us that God, that training for godliness。
will matter a billion years from now.。
It will have some relevance in the kingdom of God.。
What we learn down here of eternal significance。
will matter up there.。
That's what this text is telling us.。
That is a trustworthy saying。
that deserves full acceptance, verse nine.。
"That is why we labor and strive,"。
circle labor and strive, "because we have put our hope。
"in the living God, who is Savior of all people,。
"and especially of those who believe,。
"command and teach these things."。
Now, look at these words.。
He's saying right here in this second part,。
he's saying, hey, this stuff really matters.。
Do you see what is of eternal significance?。
There's heaven, there's hell, there's people going to both,。
and you need to train yourself to be godly。
so that you can live a life of purpose。
and eternal significance and stop being duped。
by Dallas and Fort Worth and Houston。
and wherever you're at, you're being brainwashed.。
And you're partying off a cliff, man.。
And you think you're living a life that matters,。
and you're dead, and no one remembers you.。
And your life didn't matter.。
And no one came to Christ because of you.。
And no one became more godly because of you.。
And you didn't even become more godly because of you.。
And you get up there, you're like, CrossFit though.。
(congregation laughing)。
He's like, no, man.。
(congregation laughing)。
He's like, you missed it.。
My second point is train for godliness.。
Adulting is training for godliness.。
And so that word there for train is gymnazo.。
In the Greek, it's where we get the English word gymnasium。
and gymnastics, and what it means is to train。
or to exercise.。
It's a word that speaks of the rigorous。
and strenuous self-sacrificing training of athletes,。
pushing and persevering.。
Do you see what I'm saying?。
You gotta hear this, okay?。
Your salvation, like you getting to go to heaven,。
that's God's work.。
You getting to know God more, you play a part in that.。
The scripture is really, really, really clear.。
He's saying, strain, work hard at, discipline yourself.。
Now, it's his spirit working through you, okay?。
But there's a surrendering, there's a culpability,。
there's a responsibility on your part.。
And you can't be like, well, because it's difficult,。
it must not be right.。
No, he's saying it's difficult.。
He's saying it's hard.。
And the reason I'm telling you this is because some of us,。
listen, some of us work harder to look good。
than we do to look like God.。
Some of us work harder to look good。
than we do to look like God.。
We spend more time trying to look good,。
we spend more time thinking about looking good than we do.。
What does it mean to look like Jesus Christ。
and exemplify him?。
And friends, what I'm trying to tell you is,。
nobody's gonna wake up godly.。
Like, you don't just go to bed and be like,。
oh man, here it happened, look, here I am.。
I'm all godly and stuff, this is amazing.。
Like, what did I eat yesterday?。
No, it doesn't work that way.。
Like, the only way to become godly,。
now, I'm talking to believers now,。
if you're not a believer, if you're not a Christian,。
if you haven't trusted in Christ's death and resurrection。
for the forgiveness of your sins,。
if you don't know you're gonna be in heaven,。
I'm not talking about you right now,。
I'm really glad you're here,。
but I'm talking to my fellow brothers and sisters in Christ.。
You have to discipline yourself。
and work hard at knowing God's word.。
And here's why, because there's no cruise control。
in Christianity.。
Do you hear me?。
Like, the only way to move forward in Christianity。
is to feed the engine gas.。
If you let off the accelerator,。
you are decreasing in speed.。
You are declining in faith.。
You are slowing down.。
There's no cruise control in Christianity.。
In Christians, in the history of the world,。
there's never been someone that's like,。
man, I made it.。
I'm gonna stop reading the Bible,。
I'm gonna stop praying,。
I'm gonna stop living in community,。
I'm gonna stop being fed truth,。
but I'm gonna stay right where I'm at, me and God.。
It's never happened in the history of the world.。
And so the only way to progress in godliness for believers。
is to train yourself, to discipline yourself,。
to grow in this idea.。
And so for me, man, let me just be honest,。
I don't like to read.。
Like, some of you, man, you love to read.。
Praise God for you, we need you to teach our children.。
And then there's me, and I'm like dumb pastor guy.。
I'm like, I don't really like to read.。
Can I listen to something?。
Is there podcasters?。
Can somebody read it to me?。
And so if you're here and you don't like to read,。
I get it, but let me tell you something.。
I can't use that as an excuse.。
Every single day I read.。
That is a part of my daily discipline。
because it is one of the ways that God talks to us.。
And I don't have to like it,。
but I see fruit in my life because of it.。
I see ways that I benefit because of it,。
and the way that I treat my wife,。
and the way that I disciple my children because of it.。
And so I have to work hard at it.。
I was in Haiti with one of our elders,。
and as I introduced him,。
I was really thoughtful in my introduction.。
I wasn't just flippantly throwing out compliments,。
but I said this, and I want you to know what I said.。
I said, "I want you to meet the wisest man I've ever met."。
That's a big compliment, and I meant it.。
I thought about it before I said。
he's the wisest man I ever met.。
And I realized I had two plane flights there with him,。
and two plane flights back with him.。
And I'm like, he's got all this wisdom.。
I'm gonna figure out what makes him so wise.。
And as I was thinking about that,。
I was realized that before he would answer any question,。
he would never, ever, he never gives his opinion.。
He never says, "Well, I think," or, "Man, this one time,"。
or, "I've been in that situation before."。
He always says what God's Word says,。
what the Scripture says,。
what these ancient truths written by the Creator。
of the heavens and the earth say.。
He's disciplined himself before he just responds。
with his knee-jerk and his opinion。
to think about what Scriptures does he know。
that are applicable to the situation.。
Now, to do that, you gotta know a lot of Scriptures.。
And so I'm just like, well, of course,。
he probably likes to read,。
he probably memorized the Bible.。
That's what smart people do.。
And then when we're talking, he's like,。
"No, I don't like to read."。
I'm like, "Well, you just removed all my excuses."。
(congregation laughing)。
He's like, "No, I've had to discipline myself。
"to learn the Scriptures."。
And it was so good for me to hear that.。
In verse 10 here, he says,。
"We labor because we have hope."。
The reason we do this is because we have hope。
of a future glory,。
of an eternal kingdom.。
And there's people that don't know it.。
So in everything we can, we train ourselves。
so that they might know it.。
It's no secret, if you've been with us at all,。
I hate, with all my heart,。
physical exercise of any kind.。
(congregation laughing)。
I really don't like to get my heart rate up.。
I like to keep it at a nice resting pace.。
And so when your metabolism begins to slow down,。
you start to feel that a little bit.。
And so I went through this program called Well.。
It's a 12-week crossfit program。
with some spiritual implications as well.。
And I went through it.。
I hated just about every second of it.。
And lots of strenuous exercise in this.。
But I saw the clear fruit.。
I'd go places, people would be like,。
"Man, you lost weight."。
And I didn't, I actually gained weight,。
but just reshaped some weight.。
And people were like, "Man, you look good."。
And I'm like, "Thank you, really, you think so?"。
(congregation laughing)。
And what happened is this ended right about Thanksgiving.。
And so Thanksgiving came and went,。
and then you got Christmas.。
That's a lot of fun.。
And I didn't work out a lot in that time.。
And so just this week, I'm talking to Monica,。
and I'm just sad.。
And she's like, "Why are you so sad?"。
And I said, "Well, because I feel like I'm back。
"where I started before well."。
And it's just the realization。
that the body requires maintenance.。
You can't get to a place and just stay there.。
No one's ever worked out, got into bodybuilding shape,。
and then stopped working out and just stayed there.。
As soon as you stop, you start to go the other direction.。
As soon as you change your diet,。
as soon as you stop disciplining yourself,。
the spiritual life is the exact same way.。
It's the best metaphor I can think of.。
As soon as you stop training yourself to be godly,。
you are becoming ungodly.。
I'm not saying unsaved.。
I'm saying less like God, more selfish,。
less loving, less peaceful, more anxious.。
These are creeping in your life.。
Verse 12, we'll end with this verse.。
He says, "Don't let," Paul says to Timothy.。
He says, "Don't let anyone look down on you。
"because you are young."。
Man, I love, do y'all love that verse?。
Get off me, man.。
Can't look down on me because I'm young, man.。
Come on, don't let anyone look down on you。
because you're young.。
Yeah.。
Like the whole world needs to know.。
Don't let, don't look down on me because I'm,。
I'll be CEO of this joint.。
Don't look down on me because I'm young.。
I can do anything.。
Through Christ who's, get off me.。
That's what it does in me.。
I don't know if it does that in you,。
but that's how I feel.。
Don't look down on me because I'm young.。
Oh, there's a second part though.。
Oh, it's like he's saying,。
and here's how you do that, Timothy.。
Isn't that awesome if Timothy responded like,。
yeah, get off me.。
Anyways, he says, hey, here's how you do that, Timothy.。
Tim, come here.。
Don't let 'em look down on you because you're young.。
Here's what I want you to do so that that doesn't happen.。
I want you to set an example for believers in speech。
and in conduct and in the way you love。
and in faith and in purity.。
Hey, Timothy, here's how you don't let 'em look down on you。
because you're young.。
You be an adult.。
You be a woman.。
Timothy, no, you be a man.。
Here's how you do that.。
There's this, I don't know if you read the blog.。
We've had a lot of fun with this series, adulting,。
and so people have sent memes and all kinds of stuff,。
and one of 'em just said, it's that moment。
when you're looking for an adult。
and you look around everywhere。
only to find that you are one,。
and so then you begin to look for an adultier adult.。
And so we just took that and made the third point。
be the adultier adult.。
Like adulting is not about age.。
I know the government says it's 18 or whatever it says.。
Adult, being an adult is not about an age.。
So it begs the question, like what is it?。
And so I think for so many of us,。
it's that we want the freedom to be an adult。
our entire lives only to get to a place。
where really to find out being an adult。
is more about surrender than anything else.。
It's about being submissive。
to God, the creator of the universe.。
And so be the adultier adult by setting an example.。
He just says to Timothy, hey, you can't ask them。
to do anything that you're not willing to do.。
That's relevant to me.。
I can't say, hey, you guys need to pursue purity。
unless I'm pursuing purity.。
I can't say, you need to stop looking at porn, right,。
if I'm looking at porn every single day, right?。
And so you wouldn't listen to me.。
You guys need to be good stewards.。
If I'm spending money on whatever I want,。
that wouldn't be right, and so he just says that.。
Hey, you set an example, and I want you to set an example。
specifically in the way you talk.。
Number one, speech.。
He's just gonna give us four or five things here,。
five things here to set an example in.。
So first, speech.。
You know, that's gossip.。
That's exaggerations that are really lies.。
It's cussing.。
It's the way you talk.。
It's the way you're representing your God.。
Jesus really cares about this.。
He says it's not what goes into a man that defiles him,。
but it's what comes out, and I love that he says。
it's what comes out that defiles him,。
not what comes out that makes him defiled,。
or not what comes out that is evidence。
that something is corrupt.。
He says whatever comes out defiles him.。
That's different, and when I trusted Christ,。
like I may have cussed like a sailor, right,。
and lied for fun, and was just a terrible person,。
especially in regards to what came out.。
There was clearly something corrupt within,。
and when I trusted Christ,。
this was one of the first things he changed,。
one of the first things my friends noticed.。
It's like, man, I mean, like I would use F-bomb。
as a noun, verb, adjective, like anything,。
and they were just like, man,。
the way you talk changed.。
That's the Spirit of God.。
That's what he does.。
Set an example in the way you talk.。
Children say silly things.。
Be an adult to your adult in speech.。
Secondly, he says conduct.。
He says act right.。
We say a lot of times here,。
we're not about behavior modification.。
We don't wanna just change your behavior.。
We wanna change your belief.。
He's saying, hey, Timothy, if your belief has changed,。
if you know the one true God,。
then you've gotta represent that you know him。
through the way that you act,。
the way that you conduct yourself.。
And so some of us are here,。
and we've lived a life where we loved to cross the lines.。
The other day, I'm at my,。
I say the other day, it was a while ago.。
I'm at my kid's school, and there's this sign.。
And so there's a bunch of seven-year-olds running around,。
and there's this sign that says do not touch.。
And then there's this girl that goes up,。
and she kinda looks around, and she goes.。
[congregation laughing]。
And then she just begins to start like, ha ha ha.。
And then she starts to wave over.。
Look at me, look at what I'm doing.。
And I watched the whole thing go down.。
And I got really sad.。
Because I know that girl when she's 25.。
She's been in my office before.。
She continues to find identity in relationships with guys.。
She continues to push boundaries for fun.。
She calls it free thinking and creative and artistic,。
and really, it's just sin.。
She says, yeah, I don't like the rules.。
I don't like to be confined by being places on time。
and things like that.。
But in reality, she's just a poor representative。
of Jesus Christ.。
And so some of you have found identity。
in your ability and desire to break the rules.。
And what you need to hear from this text。
is it's not God honoring.。
It's not cute anymore.。
It's what children do.。
Be an adultier adult.。
It says love, the way that you love.。
It's not an emotion, but an action.。
I've got kids, like kids only think about themselves.。
My three-year-old Weston, man.。
He wakes up every morning.。
Dad, I want breakfast.。
Like he's never in the history of me knowing him。
for three years, woken up and be like,。
Daddy, I wanna share my toys with everyone.。
Daddy, what can I do today to just serve the world。
and make it a better place?。
He's just never done these things.。
He's like, he wakes up and he's like, that's my toy.。
Give me this, I want this.。
Like children are naturally narcissistic.。
They just want things.。
They don't think about, hey, how can I love everyone else?。
They think, how can everyone, the whole world love me?。
And some of us, when we think about love,。
that's what we think, how can I be loved?。
How can I make others love me?。
How can I experience the erotic and manic highs。
of how the world defines love,。
not how can I give it selflessly?。
How can I care for others?。
How can I make the world a better place?。
He says, set an example in faith.。
In the way that you trust God.。
He says, I want you to model for others。
what it looks like to trust God.。
Now, this is a really difficult one。
because your greatest opportunities。
to trust God are catastrophes.。
It's the chaos of life.。
These are your opportunities to trust God.。
And I remember, I remember walking into a church hungover.。
I remember sitting there, getting there early,。
just in search of hope.。
I remember living the Dallas life.。
I had the Jaguar in the penthouse condo。
and I had the job that I didn't really like。
and I just thought I'll do this the rest of my life.。
Like I'll just settle and I'll buy lots of things。
and I'll try to fill the void.。
And I went to church and I sat there。
and I was reading Matthew chapter six。
and it's the red letters of my Bible.。
It's the words of Jesus.。
And it's just like the Lord spoke to me.。
And I heard in a way that's not normative for me,。
the near audible voice of God.。
He says, hey bro, I got you.。
I said, I got you.。
It's like he asked me this question.。
Do you trust me?。
Do you trust me?。
Would you stop trying to drive this thing?。
Do you know what I've done for you in Jesus Christ?。
Do you know all that crazy stuff?。
You know how you abused my daughters?。
You know how you've been reckless with the things。
that I've entrusted to you?。
Son, I got you.。
Son, surrender to me.。
He says, I want you to set an example in purity.。
In purity.。
My kids love to play house, man.。
Get home from school, dress up.。
I'll be the mommy, you be the daddy,。
you be the baby, you be the poodle.。
And they love to play house.。
They've got props for playing house.。
They've got dishes, they've got a kitchen.。
I mean, they love to play house.。
And like so many of us, right, our entire lives,。
like we've just been playing adults.。
I remember pushing the fake lawnmower,。
you know, mowing the grass.。
Like all of our toys are really just adult props。
if you think about it.。
Growing up, like we've just been playing adult。
our whole life, and then all of a sudden。
you get to the other side of college。
and you're still playing adult.。
And for some of us, we're still playing house.。
And we just don't like, we know, like we think,。
we sense that maybe it's not God's best,。
but we've been traveling down this path。
and it feels too far to turn around.。
And we've just been feeding our desires like children do.。
And we're playing house.。
Then I just wanna beg you, stop playing house.。
Get married.。
Like I talked to somebody, I'm like,。
hey, you know, yeah, no, we've been engaged for four years.。
I'm like, what?。
What do you hope to find out?。
(congregation laughing)。
Like what do you not, son, come here.。
What do you not know about her that you hope to find out。
in the next six years or six months?。
What do you not know right now?。
Put a ring on it.。
Oh, you already did.。
Put a different ring on it.。
(congregation laughing)。
Okay?。
Like that's not a biblical worldview.。
Four year engagements and not,。
that's the symptom of a false truth.。
Go back to point one.。
Engagement sucks.。
It's like marriage without sex, right?。
I mean, it's not fun, right?。
And so for some of you, it's like,。
no, it's marriage with sex.。
Well, that's not gonna go well for you either.。
Okay, you're missing something.。
God says, I want you to set an example in purity,。
personal purity.。
When it's just you and your computer, you and your iPhone,。
how long are you gonna have that struggle, man?。
Since the fifth grade, like look up, you're 23.。
Until I get married, no, it only grows in marriage.。
Like when are you gonna say, no, enough already.。
Spirit of God, creator of the heavens and the earth,。
you are big enough to cast out the demons。
of the Gerasian demoniac.。
You are big enough to help me in this struggle.。
I'm gonna bring it in the light.。
I'm gonna confess it.。
I'm gonna have others pray for me.。
I'm gonna live in community.。
I'm gonna walk in purity.。
I'm tired of playing house.。
You got two options when it comes to purity,。
purity and marriage, no other options.。
Purity and marriage, period.。
Choose one.。
And if it's been chosen for you, then walk in it.。
Walk in it well as an example.。
In summary, grow up on truth.。
Train to be godly.。
And be an adult to your adult,。
which just means to set an example。
in your adulting, biblically, godly.。
It's that mission of hope.。
This is our partner in Haiti.。
It's a compound, if you will.。
And I'm driving through it and he's showing me the church.。
And this is all in this compound in Haiti.。
And there's this church and there's this school.。
And there's this food distribution。
where they give out 91,000 meals a day.。
I mean, incredible partner, Mission of Hope.。
And so we're driving around and they show me the orphanage.。
And so this is where the kids come up.。
I've been there four or five times,。
so I've seen all of this.。
And so we're driving through the property。
'cause my buddy had never been.。
And we're getting this tour in Haiti at Mission of Hope.。
And we're seeing these different establishments.。
And he pulls up to this building that I had never seen.。
It's there at the bottom of kind of the hill.。
And it's this new building.。
And I was like, what's that?。
And he's like, well, this is what I'm really excited about.。
This is our transition house.。
I was like, well, what's a transition house?。
And he goes, well, we've been around for a while.。
And so we've had orphans that have come up。
and they've turned 18, 19, 20.。
And so we have to send them into the real world.。
Well, we learned that they go into the real world。
and they just can't handle it.。
They don't know what to do.。
And so we had to build this transition house。
so that once they graduate from the orphanage,。
they can go and they can live there.。
And we can begin to teach them life skills。
so that they can adapt to the real world.。
Like, that's awesome.。
Where was my transition house?。
I needed a transition house.。
Like, I needed someone to come around me.。
And as I thought about that, like, and I even said that.。
And I wanna share with you something he said,。
I love this.。
And he's explaining it to me.。
He says, it's like our intern, Katie said,。
he's telling me what this transition house is.。
He says, it's like we're teaching them。
to ride a bike in a field。
instead of a concrete path.。
And that's what I did this over the break.。
Like I took the girls to my parents' house.。
There's a field there.。
I put 'em on the bike and I walked them through it。
so that when they fell off, you know,。
I was there and I picked 'em up and I said, listen.。
And I just showed 'em how they were gonna do that.。
And as I thought about that,。
I was like, we're a transition house.。
The porch is a transition house.。
Like, that's a part of what we wanna be about here.。
If you're not in a place right now。
where you feel beat up by the world,。
you're going to very, very soon.。
Okay, you're gonna get there.。
And I want you to return to the body of Christ.。
Not so that we can teach you tips and tricks on growing up,。
but so that we can remind you of the one。
who came to earth to die for your sins.。
He lived a perfect life.。
He rose from the grave and he gives you a hope,。
the hope that we strive and strain for,。
the hope that we discipline ourselves for godliness for,。
the hope that we're gonna be with God forever。
and ever and ever and ever.。
And so let me just tell you something, man.。
13 years ago, I stumbled into this church.。
I was at a bar and someone invited me.。
And I went in and I came in,。
I was wearing the clothes from the night before,。
I smelled like smoke, and I sat in the back。
and I was hungover, had this massive headache.。
And what my life looked like was。
I just wanted to be a millionaire before I was 30.。
I loved the party scene.。
Like, all I knew in college was partying,。
and so when I came out of college, I thought,。
more partying, this is just what we do.。
And my life was stuck in this really boring cycle。
that I called fun.。
And it looked like going to the bar,。
taking shots of Patron, drinking some Miller Lite,。
going home, throwing up, going back to the bar,。
shots of Patron, drinking Miller Lite,。
snorting a line maybe if that was there, that sounded fun,。
sleeping with a stranger, that's a lot of fun.。
And I was just stuck in that rut。
over and over and over and over.。
Someone came in my life。
and I believed upon the gospel。
that Christ had died for all the junk that I had done,。
and God raised him from the dead.。
And they began to help discipline me for godliness.。
They began to show me a way.。
They began to let me kind of experiment in this field。
called the body of Christ, where I would fall off。
and they'd come around me and help me get back on,。
and it was this beautiful picture.。
And I know as I share that right now,。
that thousands of you, thousands of you don't have that.。
I know you don't, 'cause I talk to you, I get your emails,。
we converse in the hallways,。
and I know so many of you don't have that.。
And so you cannot become an adult in the body of Christ。
or in the kingdom without that.。
You are in the right place.。
It's no accident that you're here tonight。
as we start this series.。
I'm so glad you're here.。
Let's run together.。
Let's do life together.。
Let us help you find that beautiful picture of the kingdom.。
Let me pray for us.。
Father, I love you and thank you for just an opportunity。
to start a new year here at the porch。
and just all that you've done through this place.。
I thank you for people listening in Houston。
and Fort Worth and all over the world.。
And thank you for the overflow tonight。
and traffic jams, God.。
Just that we would gather around your word.。
Would you continue to teach us as we leave this place?。
Would you continue to instruct our hearts?。
Would you help us to set an example in speech。
and in conduct and in faith and in love and in purity?。
And God, for my friends that are here tonight。
and they're wrestling and they just feel。
like they've been yelled at for an hour,。
would you convict their hearts as we sing this song。
to make them new?。
Would you show them the promise of eternal life。
through your son, Jesus Christ,。
and all that you've done for them,。
the hope that you give them in Jesus Christ?。
The freedom, the liberty that we have in Jesus Christ.。
For so many of us, God, that's what we want。
is we wanna be free and we don't realize。
that freedom comes from you and you alone.。
It's in the name of your son, Jesus, I pray, amen.。
The other day, my little girl Finley goes,。
Daddy, I can't wait 'til I'm a grown up.。
And I said, baby girl, why?。
I said, why, why can't you wait 'til you're,。
she goes, 'cause then I'm free to do whatever I want.。
And I even asked her, what would you do, sweetie?。
What would you do if you had the freedom to do whatever you want?。
She goes, I don't know, I just wouldn't have to like。
go to bed on time and stuff.。
That's true if you wanna be really tired at work.。
I think though, as I think about my own life。
and I reflect on just the pain that I feel for you。
in the room, it's like, that's what I actually thought.。
Like until very recently, like not very long ago,。
I just thought, man, I just wanna be free。
to do whatever I want.。
And like, being free to do whatever I want。
really meant freedom from integrity.。
It meant having the freedom to hurt people。
in ways I wasn't even aware of.。
And it meant having the freedom to run from God。
as fast and as hard as I could.。
But God who is rich in mercy reached down and grabbed my life。
and I'm not crazy to think that that's what he's doing。
to you right now.。
He's reaching down and grabbing your life and saying,。
hey, freedom comes through full submission to me.。
Freedom only comes, liberty only comes。
through complete and total surrender to my will。
because I created the world and everything in it。
and I have a plan for your life.。
I'm so excited to be with you guys through this series, man.。
We will hang out for the next six weeks。
in this series adulting and just continue。
through the scriptures to learn.。
And so thank you guys for being with us tonight.。
We have a porch late night out there.。
So hang around, there's gonna be a party outside。
and the voter registrations,。
voters registration guys are also here.。
So they have a booth set up.。
A part of adulting is voting.。
And so go and do your civic duty,。
register if you haven't done that.。
And so I love you guys.。
Go in peace to love and serve the Lord.。
