(upbeat music)。
- All right, how about that transition?。
Let's go.。
(audience laughing)。
Man, welcome to the porch.。
My name is David.。
We are so excited to finish off this series tonight。
and dive in it with you.。
Have you guys ever had something。
that ended up going away where you're like,。
man, that is not how I saw that thing going.。
Ever experienced this before?。
I'm gonna start off kind of tonight。
by telling a experience in a dramatic fashion。
that this took place.。
It was about a year ago.。
My wife was pregnant with our son.。
We were gonna give birth in December.。
The baby was gonna come as a little baby boy.。
We decided that we were going to buy。
a foreclosure property in October.。
That's right.。
And we were going to remodel it all。
in the two months that we had before the baby came.。
People will tell you, hey, don't ever buy a house。
and have a baby at the same time.。
We decided to buy a house and remodel it。
and have a baby at the same time。
and essentially gave that thing a middle finger.。
So that is where we were.。
We're waiting for this baby to come。
and getting everything ready.。
He's supposed to come December 16th.。
December 9th, I'm at work.。
I'm getting ready for the Christmas concert。
that we're gonna have here.。
Last year, my wife calls me.。
We're waiting, we're about a week out.。
The baby is still coming.。
The house is supposed to be done on December 11th.。
So we've got a very small window。
between the 11th and the 16th。
to get this house all in order.。
We're gonna move in, have a baby.。
It's gonna be great.。
My wife calls me on December 9th,。
a week before the baby is due,。
and she says, I'm leaving the doctor。
and I have to have an emergency C-section。
because this baby is humongous。
and has his father's head, which is humongous.。
And she's saying, we have to get the baby out.。
He's too big.。
And so I'm like, what does that even mean?。
She's like, it means we have an appointment tomorrow。
at 9 a.m. and you're gonna be a daddy.。
And I'm like, okay, great.。
I go home, go pack, get everything ready.。
We're talking through it.。
And really, this is not going how I saw this going.。
Even the fact that we have an appointment。
at 9 a.m. to get the baby out was not how I saw this.。
Guys, I think, have this fantasy。
where they're like, man, at least there's one time。
in my entire life where I can drive。
as fast as I want to to the hospital.。
And if the police officer comes,。
I'm like, we're having a baby, sir.。
We gotta keep moving.。
She's having a baby, she's in labor.。
And that's not at all what happens。
when you have a C-section 'cause it's like,。
yeah, we're here for the nine o'clock appointment.。
We'll check in.。
[audience laughing]。
And so we get there and it just was not how I saw it going.。
We go, we check in.。
They tell me, hey, we need you to put these scrubs on。
and we're gonna take her away。
and get her in the surgery room.。
And I'm like, scrubs, what does that mean?。
They give me these clothes.。
I put this on, got a little shower cap on,。
everything, wearing blue.。
They finally come get me after I'm sitting in this room。
for a while, they say, you can come in.。
My wife is in there laying back on a table on laughing gas.。
They put this sheet up in front of us.。
I'm like, dude, this is not how I saw。
this whole thing going down.。
And they put this sheet up and I'm sitting by my wife,。
her head up at the top of the table.。
She's laying down and the doctors are gonna cut an incision.。
That's what happens in a C-section, in the stomach.。
And they pull the baby out.。
And so I'm sitting there, I'm in the scrubs next to her.。
She's on laughing gas, a little out of it.。
And I asked the doctor, hey, can I watch this?。
Is this okay?。
And he's like, yeah, that's fine.。
So I stand up.。
Further, not how I saw this thing going.。
It is, I will save you the details,。
but let's just say it is a scarring experience.。
So I'm seeing this whole thing happen。
as they're cutting open and they're finally pulling the baby。
and I'm like, man, this is not how I thought。
this was gonna go down.。
The doctor brings the baby over.。
They finally, they get him out.。
His name's Crew.。
They bring him over, brings him in front of my wife and I,。
behind the sheet.。
And my first thought, I was like,。
oh, I don't know whose baby that is,。
but that does not look like my baby.。
That thing is dark.。
This guy is extra Caucasian.。
I'm not sure that that is my baby.。
And what happened was he's just like blue and purple。
'cause he oxygen and he's getting used to the air.。
And I'm like, oh, that's what's going on.。
Did not see that going that way.。
And then they take it.。
And for whatever reason, I thought like,。
oh, then they give it to you in your arms。
and you just hold the baby.。
No, they're like, all right,。
we gotta get this thing over here.。
They're cleaning up.。
They're slapping its back.。
They're trying to get all these different fluids out of it.。
They're like testing him for all these different bodily,。
either fluids or just different body tests。
that they have to do.。
And you're just kind of sitting there watching like,。
oh, I thought it was gonna, you know,。
get to hold the baby and let me take a selfie.。
And that's not what happens at all.。
They're kind of separated.。
And then finally you get to a point。
where you get to hold your son。
and you're taken away with your wife into your next room.。
And it was one of those experiences。
where just throughout every turn,。
it seemed like, man, that is not how I saw this thing going.。
And the reason I start there is because really,。
life is just like that experience.。
Where life, you could say, is a series of moments,。
a series of experiences in your life, in my life,。
in anyone's life, where you find yourself going,。
man, this is not how I saw this thing going.。
There were some plans.。
There was like a vision that I had。
for how my dating life was going to go,。
how my relationship life was going to go,。
when I would be married by,。
how many children that I would have,。
what type of job I would have,。
how fastly I would progress up the corporate ladder,。
if you will, how fast I would be able to buy a home.。
All these different successions in life。
where many times for most of us at some point,。
we discover that life is full of those moments of going,。
this is not how I saw this thing going.。
And a lot of people turn to different things。
in those moments where they realize like,。
oh man, I'm not gonna be married。
by the time I thought I was.。
I'm not gonna have two kids and a white picket house,。
white picket fence at a house by the time。
that I thought I was.。
I'm not going to drive that car that I thought,。
I didn't get into the college that I thought I would.。
I haven't graduated by the time I thought I would.。
And a lot of people turn to,。
I mean, really, it's no surprise.。
This leads all kinds of people to turn to alcohol,。
turn to substances, turn to just like freaking out,。
like man, life is falling apart,。
I'm gonna take the wheel, I'm freaking out.。
It turns to, I don't know how it expresses itself for you.。
Maybe for you it's anger.。
But what do you do in those moments。
where you find yourself going, man, maybe it's despair.。
That's probably one of the more common ones is,。
this is not how I saw this thing going.。
God, what are you doing?。
Further, it's relevant because we as a country。
find ourselves in a situation where I think most Americans。
and probably most of us in this room would say,。
man, in terms of this election and the next national leader,。
this is not how I saw this thing going.。
And yet here we are.。
And so what I wanna do for the next few minutes。
is really go to a story in the Old Testament。
that I think will give us the prescription。
or the remedy for God's people.。
If you're a follower of Christ in this room,。
that God says all of us have been invited into,。
that all of us are to do in those moments。
where we find ourselves going, God, where are you right now?。
What are you doing right now?。
This is not going how I thought it would be going.。
My parents are getting a divorce after 20 years.。
I just found out that someone close to me has cancer.。
God, where are you going with this?。
And what are we gonna do in those moments?。
And I think that the story we'll explore tonight。
will not only give you and I the individual answer,。
but the answer for the broader nation。
and specifically Christians everywhere。
on what we are to do in those moments of life。
where we find ourselves going,。
where are you going with this, God?。
So we're gonna be in the story of Joshua。
and specifically when Joshua crossed over the Jordan River.。
When he took the nation of Israel,。
this was a defining moment in Israel's history.。
So we're gonna be in Joshua chapters really one through five.。
I'm gonna summarize and really tell the story。
and you can go back and read it yourself。
as you get time this week。
if you wanna go through the story of Joshua.。
We're gonna explore this defining moment。
in the nation of Israel's history。
where they were in circumstances。
where the country was going,。
this is not how I saw this thing going.。
And coincidentally, it was also one of those moments。
where they had passed the baton。
from one leader of the nation, their president, if you will,。
to the next president in the midst of this defining moment.。
So here's what's going on.。
So I'll tell kind of the scene。
and then we'll dive in in chapter three。
and read some of the verses of what's going on.。
But the nation of Israel has been set up.。
The nation of Israel is really with the Old Testament,。
the first half of the Bible,。
all about the people of Israel,。
nation of Israel, God's people.。
God comes to a man named Abraham and Genesis says,。
I'm gonna make you a great nation。
and I'm gonna give you land.。
It's gonna be an awesome country.。
It's gonna be called the promised land.。
It's your inheritance.。
Your people are gonna inherit it for years and years.。
Abraham has some kids.。
His kids have kids.。
Time goes on.。
The nation of Israel exists.。
They're slaves in Egypt with no land.。
And they're going, God, where are you going with this?。
And 500 years go by and the nation of Israel。
experiences freedom from slavery during that time.。
Moses is leading the nation.。
They are waiting still and waiting and waiting。
and waiting and waiting for God。
to give them their inheritance, this promised land.。
And finally, God says, now is the time.。
I'm going to give you the inheritance.。
I'm moving you towards taking the promised land.。
You are going to receive,。
this people will receive the land from God.。
And he begins to move the people in that direction.。
And then all of a sudden,。
and then all of a sudden, something happens.。
Moses dies.。
And for you and I, we're like, man, Moses,。
that's kind of cool.。
I mean, I guess he's dying.。
You know, sorry, man, rest in peace.。
But for them, the nation of Israel,。
Moses is like George Washington.。
It's the only leader they've ever known.。
Moses not only was an incredible leader,。
he was someone that all the people had found comfort。
in knowing, hey, this man of God who gave us the law,。
he's our leader, this incredible person.。
Moses was the person who, with the staff,。
separated the Red Sea and the water parted.。
Moses was the person who not only that,。
who led the people and through him,。
God delivered manna or like food from heaven。
as the people wandered into Israel.。
Moses was the guy who hit a rock。
and water came bursting out of it。
when they were looking for water.。
That's a hard guy to follow.。
I don't care who you are.。
If the leader before you can hit a rock。
and make water come out of it, that's Moses.。
And Moses dies.。
And who's gonna come after Moses?。
Joshua.。
And as they head towards the promised land,。
God says, Moses, you are not gonna lead the people.。
Joshua, you will lead the people into the promised land.。
And Joshua is also, oddly enough, the name for Jesus。
or Yeshua, if you've heard that, if you're Jewish.。
Yeshua, Joshua, it's the same name.。
But when they translated the Bible,。
they were like, hey, there's only one Jesus, okay?。
So Joshua, we're gonna go with Joshua for you.。
But it's the same Hebrew name.。
And Joshua's appointed to lead the people。
and all the people are going, Joshua's gonna lead us in?。
He's gonna be the one that takes us to the promised land?。
And God says, yes.。
Joshua, take them to the Jordan River。
where they will cross the river.。
So Joshua begins to lead two million Jewish men and women。
towards this huge river.。
In fact, I think we have a map of it。
where he's gonna lead them into,。
passed over the Jordan River,。
where you can see right in the middle.。
So everyone in the nation of Israel,。
they're on the right side of this map,。
the Jordan River right down the middle,。
and they're gonna pass over it.。
And all the land on the left side of the map。
is gonna be theirs.。
And God says, Joshua, I want you to take the people。
up to the edge of the Jordan River.。
So all the people are going there,。
and that's really where our story's gonna pick up,。
where God begins to give instructions to Joshua。
to give the people.。
So we're gonna pick this up in chapter three, verse eight.。
As they're about to enter the promised land,。
they're on the edge of the Jordan River.。
They can see the land that was promised to them,。
the land that every person in their ancestry。
has ever longed to see, they can see it.。
And they're looking over this huge rushing river,。
and they can see it.。
But between them and their inheritance stands。
this one obstacle, this river.。
And so here's what Joshua says.。
Give this command to the priests。
who carry the Ark of the Covenant.。
So that's like the pastors of the day。
who carried the Ark of the Covenant.。
Let me explain what that is.。
Ark of the Covenant was Israel's special,。
it was like the most valuable thing in Israel.。
It was a box, this wooden box,。
that inside held these kind of symbolic parts。
of Israel's past, but essentially,。
all that it was was it was a visible representation。
of the presence of God.。
That it declared to the nation of Israel,。
hey, God is with this people.。
This box is the most important thing。
that we as a people possess.。
And as long as it is with us, God's presence,。
God has promised that this will symbolically declare。
and display my presence among the people.。
And so Joshua tells the priests,。
I want you to go stand in the water with this box.。
And the people have gotta be thinking,。
Joshua, are you kidding me?。
It's gonna float away, it's wood.。
It's literally gonna float away.。
This is the most valuable thing that we own.。
This is your first decision.。
We need to impeach this new leader.。
This is the first decision that you're gonna make。
to lead the people, and here's what happens.。
So the people left their camp to cross,。
this is verse 14 of chapter three,。
to cross the Jordan, and the priests。
who were carrying the Ark of the Covenant。
went ahead of them.。
It was harvest season, look at this.。
And the Jordan was overflowing in its banks.。
Wait a second.。
We're just told something very significant。
about what's going on when the people arrive。
at the banks of the shore of the Jordan River.。
But this wasn't any season of the year.。
It was harvest season, or you probably might say flood season.。
What is a flood season?。
Flood season is like this two-month period。
in the Jordan River, just this two months,。
couple months during the year,。
where the river expands like never before.。
It begins to overflow with water。
and begins to travel at a more rapid pace。
than the rest of the year.。
In fact, here's kind of a picture。
of the Jordan River today in parts of it。
where it's overflowing with water.。
Significantly different than non-flooding season.。
So God says, I want you to bring the people。
to the river's edge during the flooding season,。
when the river and the water is rushing over,。
impossible to pass.。
I mean, scholars tell us and studies tell us。
that the non-flooding season,。
the distance of the width of the river。
is like 50 feet wide during the flooding season。
where the water would come down from the Sea of Galilee,。
it would go as far as half a mile wide and 150 feet deep。
and move as fast a pace of 10 miles an hour as you just saw.。
And the people of Israel come up to the water's edge。
where God has told them, I mean, think about it.。
Why would God, why would you bring them here at this time?。
Even wandering in the desert 40 years,。
if you would have come a month later。
or a couple months earlier,。
you're gonna miss this whole flooding season, God.。
We could have easily passed.。
Why would you bring us in the worst of the worst times?。
Why would you command us, God, to come here?。
What is he doing?。
What is he trying to communicate?。
And so all of a sudden, the people are there,。
they're watching what's gonna happen,。
and the priests begin to approach the water.。
And you gotta think, Joshua's nervous 'cause he's like,。
man, I hope that was the Lord and not El Diablo.。
I don't know who gave me that command,。
but please, something happen as the priests begin to take。
the most valuable thing that they have,。
the presence of God, this wooden box that communicated,。
I'm with you, and put it in harm's way inside of the river.。
But here's what happens.。
But as soon as the feet of the priests, this is verse 15,。
who were carrying the ark touched the water。
at the river's edge, the water at that point began backing。
up a great distance away at a town called Adam,。
which is near Zarethan.。
We don't know where Adam is.。
This is the only mention of the town of Adam in the Bible.。
The reason we know where it is, I'm sorry,。
is because of Zarethan.。
But had it not been marked by, oh, it's the town by Zarethan,。
we wouldn't know, it's the only time it's mentioned.。
And the water below that point flowed on into the Dead Sea。
until the riverbed was dry.。
Here's what this means, that in this moment,。
Joshua says, hey, guys, slowly start to creep out。
into the water, take a few steps, and this doesn't,。
all of a sudden, something begins to happen to the water.。
And if you know this story, you may have heard。
that it's like the Red Sea, where Moses goes,。
all of a sudden, two walls of water.。
That's not what happens here.。
They take a step out, and it says 20 miles away,。
which is where Zarethan was.。
All of a sudden, the water stops.。
And so Joshua is sitting there with the people。
as they watch.。
I think the water's beginning to go down a little bit,。
because all of a sudden, it stopped 20 miles away,。
and so it's just gonna continue rushing away.。
And they watch as the waters flow,。
almost like letting a bathtub out of water,。
as it slowly begins to drain out,。
and slowly, they begin to see, oh, man,。
this water is going away.。
Scholars have estimated that it would have taken。
almost two hours to sit there as they watched。
the water go away, and they watched the power of God。
show up when this Ark of the Covenant was in their midst,。
was placed in the middle of this obstacle。
in the Jordan River.。
But even if you're Joshua, I mean, another occasion。
where you've gotta be thinking, man,。
this is not how I saw this thing going,。
but God was going to show up for his people.。
Here's what happens.。
Eventually, all of the water goes out。
until the waterbed is dry.。
Then all the people, two million people,。
cross over near the town of Jericho.。
Meanwhile, the priests, who were carrying the Ark。
of the Lord's Covenant, stood on dry ground。
in the middle of the riverbed.。
As the people passed by, they waited there。
until the whole nation had crossed over the Jordan。
on dry ground.。
Two million people walk past this Ark of the Covenant,。
these pastors standing in the middle of the water,。
holding this wooden box, and two million people。
walk past as the water ceases.。
The overflowing, rushing water, that was the Jordan River.。
As it ceases, it is completely dry in this one space,。
and the people pass over.。
As soon as they get to the other side,。
verse 18 of chapter four, it says this,。
that the priests carrying the Ark of the Lord's Covenant。
came up out of the riverbed, and as soon as their feet。
were on high ground, the water of the Jordan。
returned and overflowed its banks.。
Joshua, while they were walking through,。
the Bible tells us, I want you to pick up 12 stones,。
and I want each one, each person that had。
these different 12 tribes, he says, hey, look,。
I want everybody from each tribe to grab a stone,。
12 big stones, take the stones,。
take 'em outside of the river,。
and here's why I want you to do that,。
because there's gonna come a day,。
and I want you to stack 'em and make this memorial,。
because there's gonna come a day。
where people are gonna not remember this,。
and when your children ask, it tells us in chapter four,。
when your children ask you, why are those stones here?。
I want you to tell them of what God did here,。
where he separated the waters,。
where you saw the Jordan stopped,。
and I want you to tell them that God can be trusted.。
I want you to pass it on to your children。
and set up a memorial inside of there.。
But as soon as this wooden box,。
the presence of the Lord comes out of the water,。
the water all of a sudden comes rushing back in.。
During chapter five, Joshua, who's further being introduced。
as his first acts of leadership, man,。
the God who we worship, the God of this box,。
the God of this people, the God of the whole earth,。
can be trusted.。
He's now in the promised land with his people.。
They're stepping on the land that was promised。
to their ancestors for hundreds of years,。
and now Joshua goes out to scout some of the land,。
and while he's out scouting the land,。
he further encounters why and who he can trust。
as their God.。
Here's what happens.。
He's out walking around the town.。
This happens in chapter five, where Joshua says this.。
When Joshua was near the town of Jericho,。
he looked up, so Joshua, all the people, they make camp.。
They got all the camels, all the donkeys, all the tents,。
everything across the riverbed, they make camp.。
Joshua's gonna go out, kinda scout stuff up,。
and all of a sudden, he goes out scouting,。
and here's what he sees.。
He looked up, and he saw a man standing in front of him。
with his sword drawn in hand, and he went up to him,。
and he said, "Are you friend or are you foe?"。
So there's a man standing there with his sword drawn out,。
and he says, "Neither one.。
"I am the commander of the Lord's army."。
As I'm like, hey, you're asking whose side I'm on,。
your side or their side?。
I'm on neither side.。
I didn't come to take sides.。
I came to take over, and I'm the commander of your army.。
I'm the commander of all things.。
That's who I am, and he's introduced to God in the flesh.。
Many scholars, Martin Luther,。
there's lots of famous people who say,。
"This is actually Jesus, the later Yeshua,。
"the later Joshua, standing eyeball to eyeball。
"with Joshua, saying, 'I'm the one。
"'who's ultimately in charge of all of these people,。
"'of all things.。
"'That's who I am.。
"'You're asking me to take sides?。
"'I didn't come to take sides.。
"'I'm here to take over, because all things are mine.。
"'I'm the one ultimately in charge of these people,。
"'of all people.'"。
Why did I choose the story of Joshua?。
As we close out this series,。
what I think more than anything this story portrays。
is the idea that God can be trusted,。
that he can be trusted.。
I mean, think about it.。
Why would you bring them, God, to the water's edge。
in the worst of the worst time?。
I mean, it's flooding.。
There's water overflowing the banks.。
They can't get through.。
This is the worst time they could possibly come, God.。
Had they come during non-flooding season,。
they could have walked across.。
They could have at least tried to get the camels。
and the donkeys across.。
They could have waded through the water.。
You bring them when it's overflowing,。
when the water's rushing everywhere.。
This is not how they saw this thing going.。
Why would you bring them then?。
They're your people who you love,。
because he wanted to show the nation of Israel。
that God can be trusted.。
And I don't want you to put your trust, Israel, David, you,。
and Joshua, and Moses,。
and your own ability to cross over。
whatever is in front of you,。
whatever trouble you're facing,。
I do not want you to put your trust in yourself.。
I want you to put it in me, your God.。
I can be trusted.。
That's the one idea from this entire text。
is that God is a God who can be trusted.。
And in the midst of, the reason why he allows。
even crazy candidates to come to the surface。
is the same reason why he says,。
"I'm gonna bring you in the midst of the flood。
"to show you there is a God who is alive。
"and will work in the midst of my people。
"in incredible ways if they will trust him."。
And the message of Joshua,。
and the message that Israel was introduced to。
was that, man, our confidence was never in Moses.。
Our confidence was never in Joshua.。
Our confidence is never in a man.。
It's in you alone, God.。
You're our delivery.。
You're the one who saves.。
You're the one that can be trusted,。
the only one that can be trusted.。
In the same way it's true today,。
in the midst of crazy circumstances around you and me,。
he's inviting all of us that I can be trusted.。
I don't know what you're walking through in the room.。
I know that all of us are walking through。
like kind of a crazy political season,。
but here's what else I know.。
I know that inside of this room,。
there's a lot more than that going on.。
There's divorce going on.。
There's shame and pain from past sexual abuse going on.。
There's challenges at work.。
There's challenges of unemployment.。
There's challenges of dating relationships,。
challenges of just trying to figure out。
how I can make ends meet.。
And in the midst of all of that, God is saying,。
"Hey, I'm inviting you, if you are a follower of Jesus,。
"if you are a part of my people, that I can be trusted."。
As you look, do not be dismayed like the rest of the world。
as to what the election's gonna hold。
or to what the future of America's gonna hold.。
Look to me.。
I can be trusted.。
Remember that God can be trusted.。
It's easy to see when someone actually believes this,。
like there's something distinct about someone。
when they actually think, "Oh man, God,。
"no matter what comes my way,。
"I can actually trust God's in control."。
If this relationship ends, I know I can trust God.。
I know he's got something else going on.。
When you introduce to these people,。
when you meet these people and they're like,。
"Yeah, I lost my job, but you know what?。
"I trust God is at work.。
"I don't know what that's gonna mean,。
"and it may not mean that I have another job anytime soon.。
"It may mean that I have a worse job,。
"but I trust God and he's at work.。
"The dating relationship I thought was gonna go。
"another direction, it didn't end up going there,。
"but I trust God."。
And that's one experience, one type of person.。
Then there's an entirely other person。
walking through the exact same circumstances。
where all of a sudden we're like,。
"Oh my gosh, this relationship ended.。
"My life is over.。
"I'm gonna be the cat lady forever.。
"I cannot believe it.。
"We had a song, we had a cat,。
"and all of a sudden we're done,"。
and they begin freaking out.。
This job, I cannot believe it.。
I wanna ruin this employer.。
There's two different responses that come out。
of the person who trusts God。
despite the fact they're walking。
through the exact same circumstances.。
The one difference is one trusts that God's at work,。
and the other's not so sure.。
It's not dissimilar to like,。
there's really two types of people in this room。
as it relates to roller coasters.。
Anyone like roller coasters in here?。
There's two types of people.。
There's one type of person who's like,。
"Oh man, I hate roller coasters,。
"and there's no chance that I'm gonna trust。
"that 12-year-old kid flipping the switch over here。
"as I go up in the air."。
And then there's the other person who's like,。
"Oh man, it's awesome.。
"The engineering is great.。
"I love this.。
"Hands up in the air, woo, can't do anything.。
"It's not gonna hurt me, this is great.。
"Our team recently went to the fair,。
"and we have this tradition on our team。
"where we will go on the ship every year,。
"and I won't name names,。
"but there's one person on our team。
"who was terrified of the ship, Elena,。
"and Elena was, we're getting on the ship,。
"and all of a sudden we're gonna ride the ship,"。
and she's like, "No, there's no way."。
I'm like, "It's the most tame.。
"Look, there's a nine-year-old。
"in front of us on this thing."。
She's like, "No, oh my gosh, I can't.。
"I'm so terrified of what's gonna happen."。
Here's the difference between her。
and the person she's sitting next to on that ship。
or on that ride.。
One trusts the ride, and one doesn't.。
And because the person who loves the ride。
or not loves the ride, trusts the ride,。
they're able to go, "Man, I don't know。
"what's gonna happen next, but I trust it.。
"I'm okay," versus the person on the roller coaster。
who doesn't trust the engineer behind the ride,。
or doesn't trust it, and is grabbing on。
to anything that it can for control.。
In the same way, you see it reflected。
in behavior of people who go,。
"Man, I trust the person behind the ride.。
"I trust God's at work in this circumstance.。
"I trust him with what's going on right now,。
"right here, in this election, in my life,。
"with my roommate that just moved out,。
"with what's gonna happen next."。
And then there's the person who says,。
"No, I don't trust the ride."。
And they're grabbing on to anything they can。
to allow them to feel in control.。
And God's inviting, and he invited the nation of Israel,。
"I'm bringing you when the floodwaters are there.。
"Because my question for you is,。
"when you look into the water,。
"when you look into the floods as they rise,。
"who are you gonna trust in, Israel?。
"Me or yourself, and you're gonna turn back."。
And he's invited you, and he's invited me。
in the midst of every circumstance in life.。
That's the message he's trying to get to you,。
is that I can be trusted with what you're walking through.。
And I don't know about you,。
but especially in a season like this,。
that's the message my heart needs to hear.。
That's the message I think the church needs to hear,。
is that we, above all other people,。
in the midst of, man, uncertainty,。
political uncertainty, whatever's ahead,。
our God is in the heavens, and he is in control.。
Whoever is elected tonight has been placed there。
and appointed by God.。
Does that mean that they're like,。
they've won the most favor with God?。
No, it means that he said, "In my divine,。
"my sovereign, or my power, all-powerful purpose,。
"I'm putting this person there.。
"And I'm not surprised that I'm in control,。
"just like I was with the nation of Israel."。
And just like, ultimately, what Joshua found out。
from being introduced to God in the flesh, Jesus,。
as he stood there in chapter five,。
and he got down on one knee and bowed before him。
because he was told that,。
you're standing on holy ground, Moses.。
I'm sorry, Joshua.。
And I'm the one who's in command of this country.。
I'm the one who's in command of this army.。
I'm the one who's in command.。
In the same way, as it relates to the election of Rhine-West,。
not only can God be trusted,。
but he can be trusted because he's in control,。
and he's the one who's ultimately in command.。
And so because of that, what I'm gonna do。
is I'm gonna have the band come up,。
and we are going to pause, and we are going to,。
and I'm gonna ask you to stay seated,。
and stay here, and we are gonna do something。
we've never done at The Porch before.。
We are going to sit where we are。
and pray for the candidates and pray for our country,。
and we are gonna storm the gates of heaven。
with the prayers of the saints.。
We're gonna pray for Donald Trump,。
we're gonna pray for Hillary Clinton,。
and I'll lead us through that individually。
right where you are.。
By name, I'm asking,。
I want you to turn your attention to God and pray for them.。
The band will play softly behind,。
and we'll give a chance for 45 seconds,。
maybe a minute for each of you to pray for Hillary Clinton.。
Pray for her family, pray for her if she is our future leader.。
If half of the things that the media says are true,。
here's what I know about her.。
She is hurting, she is sad, and she needs the grace of God.。
And so now the church has an opportunity。
to do what it always does with any person on this planet,。
because all of us are broken, and turn and say,。
God, will you step in and save this woman?。
Will you do miraculous things in her life?。
I mean, if she becomes our next president。
or whatever she does, Lord, I know that she's passionate。
about advancing the stages in which you can do abortion,。
full-term abortion.。
She's like, yes, let's do it.。
God, will you make her,。
you are the God who can do all things.。
Will you make her the most passionate, outspoken advocate。
for shutting down abortion in our lifetime?。
Because you're the God who does those kinds of things.。
You're the God who takes Saul's and turns them into Paul's.。
Will you do that now?。
Will you stretch out your hand and will you save her?。
And if she's our next president, Lord,。
would she rule out of an overflow of being ruled by you?。
We're gonna pray now for Hillary,。
right where you are, for Hillary.。
And then in 45 seconds, I'm gonna come back。
and we'll move into Donald.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
All right, where we are.。
I'm gonna move and let's pray for Donald Trump.。
Pray that God would step into his life,。
that he would save him。
if he doesn't have a relationship with Jesus,。
that he would become the most passionate advocate。
of women and their rights that there ever has been.。
For the rest of his days, he would spend his life。
putting the name of Jesus on the towers。
of the hearts of men.。
That's what God does.。
He's done it every week here at the porch,。
or he does it every week.。
He does it in Houston.。
He does it in the woodlands.。
He does it in Fort Worth.。
He does it all over the place。
where the people of God, the saints say,。
he can be trusted.。
And we're gonna step out in faith.。
We're gonna trust you, God.。
So let's pray for Donald Trump.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
We're gonna have a chance to pray for our country.。
There's a lot of anger.。
There's gonna be a lot of division,。
regardless of what happens afterwards.。
And the church offers the best solution。
of unity, of love, of hope.。
So pray for our country,。
and specifically pray for the strength。
of the church in our country,。
that God would awaken dead churches,。
awaken the parts of this church member's heart。
that are dead and your heart that are dead.。
A friend on our staff said today。
that if the nation is led astray,。
it won't be because if it was ever elected today,。
it will be because the church ceases to be the church.。
So let's pray for the church in our country,。
for our country.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
Father, just like Joshua stood before you。
and he bowed before you,。
he bowed his head before you.。
He acknowledged that you're the God over all things.。
We come before you now,。
and we storm the gates of heaven,。
and we ask that you would save these two men and women。
if they do not know you,。
and if they do know you,。
would they have a deep, abiding,。
overflowing relationship with you。
that leads them to rule,。
marked with the characteristic of love。
that the ultimate ruler, Jesus, our Savior,。
rules with.。
Father, we pray for the church ahead.。
Would you strengthen the church?。
Pray for the future of the church,。
for the faces of the men and women in this room,。
in the room in Fort Worth,。
in the room in the Woodlands,。
in the room in Houston.。
God, would you strengthen your church。
through my friends here,。
through me here?。
Father, would the biggest and best ideas of the church。
be from this room,。
from those rooms,。
from the body of Christ?。
Would they courageously step out in faith and say,。
"We're gonna trust the God who is there.。
"He can be trusted.。
"He will make a way."。
Would you pour unbelievable amounts of resources。
into the hands of my friends here?。
And would they radically and generously。
steward them for your kingdom?。
Would they be bold in their faith。
and bold and courageous?。
And would you do the same in my heart, God?。
Forgive me, forgive my friends,。
for the parts of us。
that have not been disciplined in praying,。
for men and women who are slandered every day on TV,。
running for an office,。
who we do not know,。
who we've made judgments about.。
Father, would you,。
through the hounds of heaven,。
pursue and save these people?。
You saved Saul and you turned him into Paul.。
You saved Peter the coward。
and you turned him into Peter the courageous.。
Would you do this now?。
Father, help us to be strong.。
Whatever you have ahead,。
we love you and we trust you.。
We will not fear the terror of the night,。
as you say in Psalm 91,。
because you are our refuge and our fortress,。
the God in whom we trust.。
And we will dwell in the shelter of the Most High。
and abide in the shadow of the Almighty.。
Whatever's ahead, Lord,。
make us strong and courageous like you did with Joshua.。
May we trust in what you said。
and what you quoted in the book of Hebrews from Joshua.。
The fear not, for I will never leave you, my people.。
I will never forsake you.。
And I've already gone before you by that presence of God.。
I am with you in the middle of the flood。
through the presence of God.。
And I'm behind you in whatever flood we face.。
May you're with us in nearness.。
Amen.。
I'll close, and then we're gonna close in song.。
Ultimately, man, this story tells us why God can be trusted.。
Because it points in every detail to another story.。
Like, think about it.。
A man named Jesus shows up to the people of God。
and he takes the baton from Moses, the law,。
and he takes the people。
who are awaiting to go into the inheritance,。
but they cannot cross this barrier,。
and he takes the people of God,。
and what the law could not do with Moses,。
takes the baton and through a piece of wood,。
this wooden arc, he allows the people of God。
to enter into their inheritance,。
their promised inheritance from God.。
A man named Jesus shows up and through a piece of wood,。
that's an arc, similar to a man named Jesus。
who through a piece of wood,。
just like the arc of the covenant。
that displayed the covenant of God for his people.。
So the cross of the covenant。
that displayed the covenantal love of God for his people,。
a man named Jesus shows up through a piece of wood,。
allows the people of God to cross over the barrier。
they could not do without him through a piece of wood.。
And he cuts off the water。
all the way back to a town called Adam.。
He cuts off the problem,。
the barrier is cut all the way back。
to the place where it began, Adam.。
It's all over, every detail in the page,。
the story points to Jesus.。
It points to the ultimate reason。
why no matter what we're walking through,。
no matter what you're walking through,。
he can be trusted。
because it was perfectly displayed on that cross.。
What do I mean by that?。
The God who showed up and said, "Can you trust me?。
"I'm the God who loves you so much.。
"I will enter into my own creation and die for you."。
So that by a piece of wood,。
a man named Jesus could allow the people of God。
to enter into a place that without him,。
they could not enter.。
It points to him in every detail,。
even the town of Adam,。
even taking what the law could not do.。
And it points to the ultimate story of life,。
the ultimate reason that you're alive,。
the ultimate place that meaning is found in life,。
the ultimate reason why every circumstance。
that will exist on this planet,。
listen to me very clearly,。
everything you're gonna go through。
is God's screaming attempt to get you to look at Jesus.。
Right now, inside of our country,。
the craziness that is the election。
is God in his mercy saying,。
"I need you to look for a savior,。
"and I'm pretty sure you're not gonna look。
"to the White House.。
"Will you look at my son,。
"the one who made a way when there was no way。
"so that all people could cross over the barrier,"。
separating them from that promised land.。
And it points to him, to the God who can be trusted.。
And tonight, as much as any time,。
I don't know about you,。
but what I need more than anything。
is not to be concerned about looking at who's going what,。
I need to be concerned and look at Jesus.。
Would he capture more of our attention than ourselves?。
Would we be more focused on him than ourselves,。
more focused on him than whoever wins tonight?。
Because he's already won,。
and in Christ, we've already won.。
Let me pray that that would be the case,。
and we're gonna sing in song.。
Father, we thank you.。
You have already won.。
We worship you now in song.。
God, strengthen your church,。
and do so through my friends in this room.。
Thank you for Jesus, the ultimate Savior,。
who made a way when there was no way.。
We trust you, Jesus, with everything.。
We trust you.。
Would you help us to trust you more?。
Would you help that to be true?。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
