[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
Come on, Forbes.。
Let me hear from you.。
How are we doing?。
We doing OK?。
Hey, it's great to see you.。
Welcome back.。
So glad to have you in the room.。
Special shout out to everybody that's tuning in online.。
We love that you would be in the space with us.。
Portslive Midlands, Springfield, Greater Lafayette,。
we love you guys.。
Thanks for being a part of Tuesday nights.。
Man, I'm eager for tonight.。
I think God has something really good for us.。
I'm ready to jump into it.。
If you're here for the very first time, welcome.。
It's also fun to look across the room。
and see a bunch of familiar faces.。
So thanks for continuing to show up and be with us。
and be a part of what God is doing here.。
Well, early in my young adult years,。
I encountered what was one of the most frightening moments。
in my life to that time and quite possibly one。
of the most frightening moments that I've had since that time.。
You see, it was around Christmas.。
And I still lived in College Station, Texas.。
And what was characteristically true of a college town。
was during Christmas, most people would,。
they would evacuate, like they would leave,。
they would get out of town.。
And I wasn't married at the time,。
so I still had college roommates。
and all of them had done exactly that.。
They had all left the city.。
They had all gone home to be with their friends and family.。
I had one buddy that played for the football team.。
And so he was away on a bowl game.。
And so I'm at the house holding it down all by myself.。
And so I'm doing what normal people do,。
late into the evening.。
I'm just like, I'm doing laundry, I'm fixing food.。
I'm just trying to pass the time until I can go to sleep.。
And so one thing that I customarily did。
is I would start a load of laundry。
and then I would wake up and I would transition it.。
And so I was doing that.。
I was in the laundry room, I'm putting a load in.。
And as I'm doing that, just to my left, outside the window,。
I see some headlights kind of span across the window。
and then stop.。
So I walk over and I just like peek through the blinds。
and I look to see what I can find.。
And what I see there is a truck, a really nice truck,。
but a truck I'd never seen before, pulled up to my house.。
It wasn't pulled up like you would normally see someone。
if they were parking to come inside.。
Like it had pulled up and it was sitting at a diagonal.。
Like it was at a 45 degree angle, was not parked to stay.。
And yet as I was inspecting and trying to put together,。
man, what's actually happening here?。
I saw two guys hop out of the truck.。
And so they pile out and they walk to the back of the pickup。
and they grab out of the back a couple of big duffel bags.。
I'm like, man, this all surely has a plausible explanation。
until they cross through my yard。
and they make their way to my front door.。
Now I'm not one to normally panic,。
but in this moment, my heart began to race a little bit.。
And so I'm trying to make sense of who these guys are.。
Because like I said, I have four roommates,。
three of which are gone.。
One is already out of town.。
He's at a bowl game.。
And so no one should be dropping by our house,。
especially this late in the evening.。
And so I'm trying to do the mental math,。
put it all together when I begin to not only see。
them approach the front door,。
but I actually begin to hear murmuring inside of my house.。
And so I stopped doing my laundry.。
And I start processing what it is they're saying,。
though I can't hear them because again, I'm in the garage,。
they're in the front entryway.。
And yet I can track their voices。
as they move through my house.。
They go from the entry into the living area.。
They turn the corner and they come into our dining room.。
And I lost a foot in the kitchen,。
which is just a door away from where I stood.。
What do you think I did in that moment?。
Open the door and said, "Hey guys, what's up?"。
No, absolutely not.。
I decided to bail.。
I ran.。
I slid the garage door open and I ran for my car.。
I turned it on immediately.。
I hit the ignition and I got out of there。
because this was not a situation。
that I wanted to be a part of.。
Now, as I'm driving away, I do the only sensible thing.。
I think to myself, I've got to call the cops.。
Like I've got to get some help.。
I've got to report the fact that there are unknown strangers。
inside my house.。
So I call up a college station police department。
and the rest of the experience felt like something。
straight out of cops.。
Like I'm still on the phone with police dispatch,。
but I can also hear their correspondence。
with the responders that are showing up to my place.。
We can confirm we've arrived.。
Truck is pulled at a 45 degree angle, still running.。
House lights are all off,。
except the garage does have a light on.。
No kidding, I was in there.。
Making our way to the front door.。
Okay, we're gonna knock and announce.。
(knocking)。
Police, open up.。
No response.。
(knocking)。
Police, open up.。
No response.。
One more time.。
(knocking)。
Police, open up, we're coming in.。
And then immediately the door swings open。
and there trained on three assault rifles。
is my college roommate, Blaine,。
who had very unexpectedly made a return trip that day。
from the bowl game。
because the team decided to come home early.。
You see, I had a very limited perspective。
about what was happening in my roommate's life.。
I thought I knew one thing,。
but in reality something different。
was happening altogether.。
I had a limited perspective。
and that limited perspective。
was almost massively consequential.。
Now, don't worry, Blaine was fine.。
It was just a misunderstanding.。
But while it's one thing to misunderstand。
the facts about your roommate's travel plans,。
it's another thing to misunderstand。
the facts around your plans for eternity.。
Like it's possible to be put in a situation。
where you're operating with a limited perspective。
on reality rather than a complete picture of reality.。
And if that's the case,。
what you need is you need the truth.。
Why do you need the truth?。
Because there are consequences to being wrong in life.。
Like there are repercussions to operating in error.。
Like there is a massive issue。
if you give the wrong kind。
or the wrong amount of medicine to someone,。
that's not helpful, that's harmful.。
If you book the right flight,。
but board the wrong flight,。
you're not going to arrive at the right destination.。
You're gonna arrive at someplace you never intended to be.。
If you choose to forget that girl's name。
that happens to be best friends。
with the one you're interested in,。
that's not the quickest road to making a good impression.。
It's the quickest way to ruining one.。
Not operating in the truth leads to massive issues.。
If in fact you are errored,。
you're gonna find that you have trouble.。
The truth matters because it not only gives us。
a correct picture of reality,。
it gives us a complete picture of reality.。
So helpful illustration just to get your mind around。
what I'm talking about is last week I was sitting up。
and watching a show and yet somewhere along the way,。
like the wifi was bad and the show stopped buffering well,。
the resolution decreased.。
And while I could make out some of what was happening,。
get the broad strokes, could still see the colors,。
knew there were two figures walking through the woods,。
I couldn't make out the details。
of what was actually happening.。
I couldn't see their facial expressions.。
I couldn't understand what was happening。
in the background around them.。
There were certain details to the entire dynamic。
that were absent me that I needed to know。
to ultimately put the whole story together.。
Truth brings your reality into high definition clarity.。
That's what it does.。
And yet so many of us, we move through life。
with low resolution because we're operating。
on the basis of our perspective.。
Or some other error.。
Tonight I wanna help you get greater clarity.。
I want to help you know what is truth.。
And to do it, we're gonna be in Matthew,。
sorry, John chapter 18.。
We were in Matthew last week.。
John chapter 18.。
While you're turning there,。
we've been in a series called Deconstructed。
where we've been trying to help you rebuild your reality.。
We just acknowledge that in our modern day,。
there's a lot of good reason to question the faith,。
but there's not good reason to leave it.。
Like out of all the doubts you face。
and all the questions you have。
and all the concerns you feel,。
though they aren't inherently bad,。
in fact, they can be good。
should they motivate you to inspect further。
the things you believe.。
They can become bad if they ultimately lead you。
to deconstruct to a place where you remove what's weak,。
but you never put something strong in place instead.。
It's kind of like this.。
Like if you walked into your home。
and you realized you had a bad foundation,。
the right response in that moment。
is not to ignore the issue,。
nor is it to detonate the house.。
The right response is to call up a professional,。
it's to acknowledge the problem,。
it's to develop some solutions,。
and then it's to get to work.。
That's what we want you to do when it comes to your faith.。
Yes, it's actually good for you to identify,。
man, are there areas of doubt,。
questions I feel, concerns that I have。
that perhaps there are good answers for.。
If so, what are the answers as opposed to,。
you know what, this thing is all a hoax.。
I can't believe I ever thought this was true, I'm out.。
That's the wrong reply.。
And what we're talking about tonight。
is actually probably for many of us,。
the biggest, most awkward crack in our spiritual foundation,。
it's the idea of truth.。
And yet what you need to know。
is Jesus was obsessed with the idea of truth.。
He loved processing this with his people.。
And we're looking into a specific story。
where he is actually engaging this idea of truth。
more so than most.。
You see, over 80 different times,。
Jesus spoke the words, I tell you the truth,。
because he really cared about us。
having a very clear understanding of reality.。
And while the Bible may strike you as。
a stuck at some point in times past or antiquated even,。
what you need to know is that。
what they face in the Bible。
are very similar issues to what we face today.。
You shouldn't just write it off。
because it's culturally relevant to us right now.。
Like they face religious extremism and political corruption,。
institutional oppression,。
cross-cultural conflict and gender inequality.。
You think this has something。
that can actually speak into your world?。
I guarantee you it does.。
And so what we see in Matthew chapter 18,。
John chapter 18.。
John chapter 18.。
As we see this in verse 33,。
we're gonna read the entire section together。
and then we'll talk about it.。
So Pilate, who is the governor from Rome。
over the Judean province,。
entered his headquarters, the Praetorium again,。
and he called Jesus and said to him,。
are you the king of the Jews?。
And Jesus answered, do you say this of your own accord?。
Or did others say it to you about me?。
Pilate answered, am I a Jew?。
Your own nation and the chief priests。
have delivered you over to me.。
What have you done?。
And Jesus answered, my kingdom's not of this world.。
If my kingdom were of this world,。
my servants would have been fighting。
that I might not be delivered over to the Jews,。
but my kingdom is not from the world.。
Then Pilate said to him, so you are a king.。
And Jesus answered, you say that I'm a king.。
For this purpose I was born。
and for this purpose I have come into the world。
to bear witness to the truth.。
Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice.。
And Pilate said to him, what is truth?。
This is fascinatingly the last intimate conversation。
Jesus likely ever had.。
Because to give you contextual background,。
he is on the final day of his life.。
He is experiencing trial, six in specific,。
three religious, three Roman,。
that will lead to his condemnation.。
And as he has this conversation with Pilate,。
he begins to help him understand what truth actually is,。
what truth actually isn't,。
and how he and we fit into it all.。
So Jesus says, in response to Pilate's question,。
hey, are you the king of the Jews?。
He looks at me and says, are you asking me this。
or are others asking me this?。
Because he's trying to get to the center of Pilate's motive.。
He wants to know, are you genuinely, seriously,。
sincerely spiritually seeking,。
or are you just a puppet asking the questions of other men?。
You see, by this point, Jesus has been wrongly arrested,。
he's been falsely accused,。
and now he is ultimately condemned to death.。
And it's been done so by the religious leaders of his day,。
a group of guys known as the Sanhedrin,。
who were threatened by him.。
You see, they were threatened by Jesus。
because he had exposed their corruption,。
he had undermined all of their authority,。
and he had endangered their political power.。
And so what they want to do is they want to get rid of him.。
They don't want him around any longer,。
and so they brought Pilate into the scenario。
to ultimately bring about Roman execution。
because they cannot kill one of their own.。
And so what they decide is to use Pilate.。
Pilate asks the question, are you a king?。
And Jesus sniffs it out.。
He realizes, you're not asking me。
because you're really wondering,。
you're asking because they are actually trying。
to figure out if I will admit to being king or not.。
The truth of the matter is Jesus is king.。
He's king of the Jews.。
Like technically speaking, he is the Messiah,。
he's the anointed one, he's the long-awaited king of Israel.。
And yet in this moment, he doesn't fess up to it immediately。
because he wants to have this conversation,。
and he wants to accomplish,。
he wants to accomplish a message on truth.。
You see, Jesus, though he is the true king,。
he knows some people don't really want the truth.。
They just want to protect their way of life.。
But here's the thing, first point,。
the truth does not exist to serve our agenda.。
The truth does not exist to serve our agenda,。
at least that's what Jesus wants us to know,。
and yet in our postmodern age,。
that's often what we think the truth exists for.。
Like we want a truth that accommodates our comforts。
and it appeals to our preferences,。
and indulges our individuality,。
which leads us to treat the truth。
like shampoo at the grocery store.。
Hey man, what do you need?。
You got fizzy hair, you got oily hair,。
you got dry hair, you got damaged hair,。
whatever kind of shampoo you need,。
just pull it off the shelf,。
whatever truth you need to accommodate your way of life,。
just grab it for yourself, whatever you want.。
It's out there, it's available,。
and the way we see this play out in our culture。
is through different philosophies we should consider。
and worldviews that we should follow.。
You know them, you've heard of these.。
So many people advocate for relativism,。
that there's no such thing as one truth,。
that we can all have our own truth,。
unless your truth disagrees with my relative truth,。
then we're gonna have a problem.。
Or skepticism, another philosophy that's wildly popular,。
that truth actually isn't knowable.。
In fact, anything we think we can know,。
we probably should doubt instead.。
We should question, we should wonder if it's actually valid.。
It's not knowable, which is ironic,。
because the guy that came up with skepticism。
clearly thought there was a truth to know。
to develop that idea.。
Or postmodernism, like truth is just an illusion.。
It can't actually be affirmed.。
Well, tell that to the people。
that affirm postmodernism is true.。
Or pluralism, like all truths are equally valid.。
Like you can believe your truth,。
and you can believe your truth,。
and you can believe your truth,。
and I'll believe my truth, and they're all legit,。
they're all valid.。
That is, unless your truth contradicts my truth,。
and that doesn't make any sense.。
Or logical positivism,。
the idea that man, absolute truth does exist,。
but it must be scientifically verifiable,。
even though there are some scientific concepts。
that are not verifiable in and of themselves.。
You see, our world is convinced。
that rather than conform the truth,。
our lives to the truth,。
we will conform the truth to our lives.。
We will bend it, we will distort it,。
we will manipulate it to accommodate。
whatever sort of life we want。
as opposed to obstruct whatever sort of life。
God wants instead.。
That's what the religious leaders are doing in this story.。
Like rather than listen to Jesus, the voice of truth,。
they're indulging deceit,。
not only in their own lives, but the lives of others,。
listening to the voice of deception。
just to protect the kind of lifestyle they wanna have.。
And we do this ourselves.。
And we don't like what God has to say about our sexuality.。
And so we claim he's not loving because of it.。
We don't like the fact that Christians say。
masturbation is wrong,。
even though the Bible doesn't explicitly say。
that we shouldn't do it.。
And so you know what,。
I'm just gonna make an exception for that one instead.。
Or we don't like the fact that God says drunkenness is wrong。
but truthfully God, like what is drunk?。
I don't know, is it this, is it that?。
Is it getting buzzed?。
Is it having a few too many?。
Or is it just kicking some back with the boys?。
I'm not real sure, so you know what?。
I'll toe the line as opposed to stay away from it.。
And we don't like the fact that God feels。
like a narrow-minded bigot.。
Like how are you going to tell me what to do with my body?。
My body is mine.。
I can do with it what I want.。
Or maybe it's not that.。
Maybe instead it's the fact that the Bible,。
when you read through it,。
feels so patriarchal or so chauvinistic。
and you don't wanna follow a backwoods God。
that would subscribe these sorts of truths。
to the lives of his people.。
Listen to me, I'm not saying。
that you don't have legitimate questions。
about some of this stuff,。
but I am saying there are legitimate answers to all of it.。
You may not know them yet, but they are available.。
So recently I saw this story of a guy。
who has semi-made it his life mission。
to convince flat earthers that the world is round.。
And so he gathers up a crew of them。
and he takes them down to Antarctica。
because it's there that you can see the sun revolve。
in a circle, proving the fact that the earth is round.。
It doesn't rise in the east and set in the west.。
And so he takes a guy and he leads him to Antarctica.。
He is fully convinced the world is flat.。
And yet as he stands there and he watches the sun。
circulate over his head for 24 hours,。
he says these words.。
He says, "Well, sometimes you're wrong in life."。
I was pretty sure I wasn't, but it's a fact.。
The sun does circle you in the south,。
but that's not even the best part.。
Best part of this story is that the guy,。
though he was proven,。
though he was proven to have believed something wrong,。
he actually thanked the guy for being kind enough。
to lead him to the Southern continent。
to teach him the truth.。
It can feel arrogant for Christians to claim。
that they have the right view and everyone else is wrong.。
And admittedly, some Christians are extremely arrogant。
with the truth.。
But here's what I want you to know.。
If a follower of Jesus not only claims to know the truth,。
but actually shares it with someone, that's not arrogance.。
That's kindness.。
It's kindness to give the truth of God to other people.。
And that's what Jesus is advising we do here.。
The truth, it doesn't exist to serve your agenda.。
It exists to make sense of your reality.。
So then what is that reality?。
Well, Jesus is going to continue on.。
He says in 35 and 36, he says,。
"But Pilate answered, 'Am I a Jew?。
"Your own nation, your chief priests,。
"they've delivered you over to me.。
"What have you done?'。
"Jesus answered, 'My kingdom is not of this world.。
"If my kingdom were of this world,。
"my servants would have been fighting。
"that I might not be delivered over to the Jews,。
"but my kingdom is not from the world.'"。
It's funny, when you read through this dialogue。
between Pilate and Jesus,。
Jesus is very specific, strategic。
about the things that he says.。
And yet there is some element of comedy。
because he never answers Pilate's question straight on.。
Like Pilate's asking, "Are you the king of the Jews?"。
Are you asking or someone else?。
"Well, what have you done?"。
"My kingdom is not of this world."。
So you are a king.。
You say I'm a king.。
Like Jesus consistently avoids the question.。
But in this moment, we should connect his answer。
to the first question.。
Pilate originally asked him, "So you're a king?"。
Jesus looks at him and now says,。
"My kingdom is not of this world."。
He addresses to Pilate that, "Yes, I am a king,。
"but I'm not the kind of king you expect,。
"nor am I the kind of king that you should be worried about.。
"I'm not a threat to Caesar.。
"Like I'm not worried about Roman sovereignty.。
"I don't have military might at my disposal.。
"I'm not exercising political power。
"because I am not here to conflict as an earthly king。
"with the religious leaders.。
"Instead, I am here as a heavenly king。
"to conflict with the evil spirits of this world.。
"I have come to save my people,。
"not just establish an earthly realm."。
You see, he answers in a way。
that exceeds Pilate's personal vantage point.。
Because the truth transcends our own perspectives.。
The truth transcends our own perspectives.。
That's the second thing you need to know.。
Like we live in a really complicated。
cultural dynamic right now.。
I'm not sure if you've noticed,。
but our world is more globalized than ever.。
Like through immigration and international travel。
and the internet, we are more connected to other people。
than we have ever been.。
And because of that, we're connected to a variety。
of religious backgrounds and cultural upbringings。
and ethnic diversities that really provide our world。
with a beautiful level of difference between people.。
It's a globalized society,。
but it's not just a globalized society.。
It's a secularized society.。
Like if you look into the culture,。
you can see at the center of so many conversations。
or issues about sexual identity or gender equality。
or social responsibility or human rights,。
this is the world we live in right now.。
You and I, because of it,。
have been exposed to a broader audience of people。
and as a result, a broader array of perspectives.。
But here's the thing that we need to understand.。
Perspective is not synonymous with truth.。
Perspective is not synonymous with truth.。
So just take my story from the beginning of the night,。
for example.。
My perspective actually aligned with truth.。
I could make sense of some of the stuff that was happening,。
unknown figures making their way into my house,。
they moved through certain corridors。
until they arrived at a spot that terrified me.。
I could make sense by way of my perspective of some things,。
but I could not make sense of all things。
because of my perspective.。
There was a greater truth at play.。
And what happened is it led me to think I was being robbed.。
It ultimately almost arrested my roommate。
and it put us in a position。
where none of the above should have happened.。
Your perspective is not synonymous with truth.。
You see, the truth always transcends our own perspective,。
which when you think about it,。
can be a pretty hard thing to come to grips with.。
Since really all you and I have is our perspective.。
Like your perspective is informed。
by way of the story you have,。
the people you know, the family that's formed you,。
the pain of your past, the things you've endured.。
Your perspective is yours.。
It's been cultivated over the course of time。
and it's led you to a spot where you look at the world。
a very specific way.。
And so to learn that my perspective is insufficient。
to make sense of true reality。
means that I need to draw on something outside of myself。
to make better sense of what's happening in the world.。
Now you can draw on a variety of different things,。
admittedly, there are some things。
that are better than others.。
Like, listen, if you're expecting that guy。
to make sense of your reality,。
he is going to sorely disappoint you.。
Like, have you watched him?。
It's like food and video games.。
You know, you think that's gonna solve。
all of the truth questions that you have in life?。
No, it's not gonna be your job.。
Like your employer has not brought you on。
because they wanna help you solve the big questions。
in life.。
No, they have brought you on。
because they care about the bottom line。
and the bottom line only.。
Those are not places to look to make sense。
of what's happening in the world。
and what should be true as you survey it.。
This is actually why religion matters.。
Like religion offers a truth claim about reality.。
And I'm not even just talking about Christianity right now,。
I'm just saying religion in general.。
Like that's what it does.。
That's what it serves the purpose for。
is it provides us some semblance of understanding。
what's happening in the world.。
It gives us a truth claim to consider.。
Jesus, he says it like this in John eight,。
he says, "Hey, if you hold to my teaching,。
"you're really my disciples.。
"Then you will know the truth。
"and the truth will set you free."。
Like Jesus is making a claim。
that it's not gonna be his disciples perspective alone。
that leads them to truth,。
that it's gonna be his teaching,。
something outside of themselves。
that's going to help them find the real truth,。
the truth that will ultimately set them free.。
So it begs the question for us,。
what teaching do you choose?。
Like what path do you follow?。
Like don't all religions lead to heaven?。
Don't they all teach the same thing?。
Aren't there multiple routes up the mountain?。
No, there are not.。
Despite how compelling that idea is.。
And listen, I get it.。
The thought of standing here and telling you。
that religion is actually not inclusive in nature。
is a hard thing to say。
because I would love for us to all just link arms。
and sing Kumbaya and get along and no one be judgmental.。
Everybody is welcomed here.。
And yet the reality is that's just not how truth works.。
Like religions, they don't even claim that that is the case.。
Like they're not interested in social harmony。
at the expense of their individual theology.。
So while it might be convenient for us to say。
that all religious paths lead to heaven,。
they provide eternal life,。
that some method of morality,。
whatever it is you prefer,。
will ultimately get you to the pearly gates,。
it's true, it's just not.。
I remember reading a story that Abraham Lincoln。
once had an interaction with a group of people。
on the topic of truth.。
They were highly interested, enthusiastic.。
And so he looked at them and he posed them a famous question.。
He said, how many legs would a sheep have。
if you called its tail a leg?。
They very quickly answered five.。
Then the president looked at them and said, no,。
it would only have four legs.。
Calling a tail a leg doesn't make it one.。
Just because you think it's true doesn't mean it is.。
And just because you think all religions get to heaven。
doesn't mean they do.。
And the reality of the matter is。
any orthodox religion will look at you and say,。
we don't believe that either.。
Like I love the way John Tyson, he said it this way,。
all religions make general claims about reality,。
but very specific claims about salvation.。
Why does salvation matter?。
Because salvation leads to eternal life.。
And so all religions have differing positions。
on what it looks like to get to eternal life.。
And those specific claims, they not only differ,。
they matter.。
Like Muslims, they identify good deeds as the goal.。
That's what will achieve everlasting life.。
Buddhists, they focus on self-actualization.。
Christian scientists see salvation as a mental process。
of overcoming material beliefs.。
Hindus achieve salvation by way of one of three things,。
way of works, ways of knowledge, and ways of devotion.。
New-agers, they believe in becoming one with the universe,。
whether through psychedelics or reincarnation.。
And Christians, we believe that salvation。
is found in Christ alone.。
To say that you believe all these things。
lead to eternal life is to actually claim。
that you don't believe any one of them。
leads to eternal life.。
Because if you know them as they are put forward,。
none of them agree with the others.。
Like they take offense to the fact。
that you think all of them could work in harmony。
because they don't.。
Truth is narrow.。
Like truth is a door that unlocks。
according to one key and one key only.。
That's what Jesus said.。
He said this in Matthew 7, he said,。
"Enter by the narrow gate.。
"For the gate is wide, and the way is easy。
"that leads to destruction.。
"And those who enter by it are many.。
"For the gate is narrow, and the way is hard。
"that leads to life, and those who find it are few."。
There's only one path that leads to everlasting life.。
There's only one key that unlocks that door.。
So then what is it?。
Like that should be the question boiling up inside.。
Like, okay, Kylan, if everything you're saying is true,。
like if everything you're saying makes sense,。
if this line of logic actually is plausible,。
then what is it?。
What is the truth?。
Well, you were asking the same question Pilot himself has.。
And Jesus gives the answer.。
He says to Pilot's question, "So you're a king?。
"You say that I'm a king.。
"For this purpose, I was born,。
"and for this purpose, I have come into the world。
"to bear witness to the truth.。
"Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice."。
And then Pilot asks, "What is truth?"。
So just try to think through what Jesus actually said.。
Like it could be easy to just casually move through it。
and just kind of continue on.。
That's another claim of Christ, no big deal.。
What did Jesus actually just say?。
Because it's really radical in nature.。
Like Jesus just made this extravagant claim,。
and yet it's also an extraordinary claim.。
Like he's saying that his voice is the voice。
which equates to truth.。
That if you're looking for truth, it is found in him.。
And yet that's not the only radical claim Jesus makes.。
Like that voice which speaks truth is a voice。
that makes consistently climactic claims。
over the course of his ministry.。
Claims that say things like he claimed to be equal with God.。
He claimed to be the Messiah sent from God.。
He claimed to be the son of man.。
He claimed to give eternal life.。
He claimed to save the world.。
He claimed to forgive sins.。
He claimed to know the father.。
He claimed to fulfill the law.。
He claimed to give rest to the weary and the wandering soul.。
He claimed to have the words of eternal life.。
Those were the words which fell from his lips.。
He claimed to be the future judge,。
the one that we would one day stand before.。
And he claimed to be the great I am.。
And most importantly for this talk,。
he claimed to be the way, the truth, and the life.。
Like no one comes to the father except through him.。
He goes on to say in John 14, verse seven,。
right after that statement, that if you had known me,。
you would have known my father also.。
Why?。
Because from now on, you do know him and you've seen him。
because you've seen me.。
Now, it's really possible to read these claims。
and just think like, okay, man,。
it's just more religious jargon.。
It's just more claims from Christ.。
And yet when we hear things as audacious。
and ridiculous as this, it should cause us to stop。
because people don't speak this way.。
And when people speak this way, we should judge them.。
Kanye West said, "God chose me.。
He made a path for me.。
I am God's vessel, but my greatest pain in life。
is that I will never be able to see myself perform live."。
That is a ridiculous claim and it deserves to be judged.。
Cristiano Ronaldo, "People whistle me。
because I am good looking, rich, and a great footballer.。
They're jealous of me."。
Zlatan Ibrahimovic, when asked what he got his ex-fiance。
for an engagement gift, said, "What do you mean present?。
She got Zlatan."。
Infamously, Drake said, "Last name ever,。
first name greatest."。
That deserves to be judged.。
Like I didn't particularly pick out hip hop artists。
and footballers for that demonstration.。
And yet you just make whatever conclusions you want of it.。
They seem to be the most arrogant of us, you know?。
But when we hear laudy and audacious,。
ridiculous claims like that,。
what it means is we should actually lean in。
and investigate what are you saying and is it true?。
Jesus is making an even greater claim.。
And the reality of it is he's not stroking his own ego.。
He's not beating his chest.。
He's not trying to acquire followers.。
Jesus is not someone that is interested。
in popularity at all.。
He's interested in the truth.。
That's what Jesus wants.。
He wants it so badly that he would say things that are,。
man, they're wild, but they're wonderful。
because they accord with truth.。
You see, he is addressing himself。
as the answer to life's biggest questions.。
He tells us that he is the source of purpose.。
Like if you're here and you're wanting for purpose,。
if you're looking for meaning,。
if you want fulfillment in life, he's like, "Hey, it's me.。
Like I'm the source of your purpose.。
It's not found anywhere else.。
It's found in me."。
But it's not just that he's giving you the answer。
to where do I find purpose in life?。
He's also looking and saying, "Hey, I actually have。
the solution for your problem in life."。
Like, maybe you don't know,。
your biggest issues are not at work.。
It's not your relationship status.。
Your biggest problem is not the fact。
that your family has some disagreement,。
though those things are legitimate.。
Your biggest problem is that you are lost in sin.。
And yet Jesus is saying, "I'm the solution.。
Yeah, source of your purpose,。
but I'm also the solution for your problem.。
Like I'm the one that could step in the gap。
between you and God, and I can take the hit.。
I can absorb the wrath.。
I can die your death.。
That way you don't have to.。
But I'm not only that, I'm the substitute you need."。
Because the reality is if you reject me,。
you're not enough on your own.。
The truth is you're going to have to pay。
the penalty for your wrong,。
and you're not gonna wanna pay it。
because it's not just today, it's not just tomorrow,。
it's forever and always.。
But I can be the substitute that you're today。
and your tomorrow and your forever and always。
can be different.。
That it's not a life of eternal condemnation,。
it's a life of everlasting bliss.。
But I'm not only that, I'm also your salvation forever.。
Like I'm the one that doesn't just lead you to heaven,。
that doesn't just give you everlasting life.。
I'm the one that gives you God.。
Do you want Him?。
Do you want a connection to your creator?。
A relationship to your maker?。
It's available.。
And it's available through me.。
That's what Jesus has claimed to you is.。
He is the truth.。
He wants us to know.。
Like there is an objective truth,。
and its name is Jesus.。
Here's the thing, declarations like that。
they demand a decision from us.。
You cannot hear those things。
and then just indifferently pass by.。
It's confronting, it's conflicting,。
it is a moment of consequence.。
C.S. Lewis said it like this in his book,。
Mere Christianity, he said,。
"I am trying here to prevent anyone from saying。
"the really foolish thing that people often say about Him,"。
I'm talking about Jesus.。
"I'm ready to accept Jesus as a great moral teacher,。
"but I don't accept His claim to be God.。
"That is the one thing we must not say.。
"A man who is merely a man and said the sort of things。
"Jesus said would not be a great moral teacher.。
"He would either be a lunatic on a level with the man。
"who says he's a poached egg,。
"or else he would be the devil of hell.。
"You must make your choice.。
"Either this man was and is the son of God,。
"or else a madman or something worse."。
You can shut him up, call him a fool,。
spit at him and kill him as a demon,。
or you can fall at his feet。
and you can call him Lord and God.。
But let us not come up with any patronizing nonsense。
about him being a great human teacher.。
He has not left that open to us.。
He did not intend to.。
This is the sort of man that Pilate is facing。
in this passage.。
I don't think he knew it。
when he first began the conversation,。
but by the end of it,。
when he asks the question, what is truth,。
staring back at him is the face of it himself.。
And yet what we see is Pilate in the subsequent chapters,。
chooses not to accord his life with objective truth.。
Instead, he bends it to accommodate his preferences。
and appeal to the approval of others.。
Pilate sacrifices truth。
on the altar of momentary satisfaction.。
And yet the reality is,。
here tonight we are still face to face with that same man,。
because that man, though condemned to die。
and buried for three days, rose forth from the grave.。
And he looks at you this evening。
the way he looked at Pilate,。
and he asks, do you want to know what truth is?。
It's me.。
You're looking at it.。
Yes, you can move through this world,。
and you can accommodate your comforts.。
You can appeal to your preferences.。
You can choose to indulge whatever desire you have。
and whatever truth allows for it.。
But there's really only one truth,。
and it's the truth I come to give.。
It's the truth that I offer to all.。
Do you want to believe in me?。
Now you may hear something like that and think to yourself,。
why should I listen to you?。
Christianity is such an exclusive religion.。
Like it's such a restrictive philosophy.。
Like it's such an impossible path to believe.。
Why would I choose to follow this?。
Here's what I would tell you,。
that although Christianity may seem exclusive,。
Jesus is wildly inclusive.。
Like he does not exclude anyone。
on the basis of their social status or their intelligence,。
their gender, their race, their nationality,。
or anything else.。
He invites all people to be a part of his family,。
to follow him where it is he's going.。
The only thing that Jesus excludes。
is on the basis of sin,。
which he's come to take away forever,。
if only you would repent and believe.。
You might look at Christianity and say it's so restrictive,。
yet Jesus has come to set us free.。
Like he does not seek to restrict us。
with outward rules and regulations.。
He only restricts us from vainly reconciling ourselves。
to God according to whatever works we can muster up.。
He's like, you're not enough, you can't do it.。
And yet what I will do is I will give you liberty in life,。
abundant joy, great forgiveness,。
by living the life you can and dying the death you deserve.。
And although Christianity may seem impossible to believe,。
Jesus has made it possible to believe.。
Like, yes, these are impossible claims,。
like never ending life, abounding joy,。
unfailing purposes, forgiving grace.。
Like you're telling me that stuff is available.。
That seems too wild.。
That seems too crazy.。
That doesn't seem possible.。
And yet Jesus is looking at you saying, oh, it's possible。
because that's what I come to give.。
That's the truth I seek to speak.。
That's the kind of life I'm willing to offer。
if you will take it up and follow me.。
And yet they are only impossible to believe。
for those that do not believe in him.。
Porch, this world is filled with alternative truths。
that will fail you in this life.。
But there's one objective truth,。
the person of Jesus that will never fail you.。
If you're looking for truth, why look any longer?。
He's standing here up front you tonight。
and he's calling you to believe.。
Let me pray for us.。
God, thanks for tonight.。
Thanks for these people.。
Thanks for your word and the sufficiency therein.。
I'm grateful, God, that you have given us truth, man.。
I just think, Lord, like what would my life be like。
if I didn't know truth?。
There was a time when I didn't.。
And what I know, God, is in those days,。
as I look back in reflection, I was so very lost,。
so very alone, desperately trying to find my hope。
and home and things that promised yet never delivered.。
And yet when I met you, Christ, I find all of that and more.。
I pray you would come and give that tonight.。
I pray that God, friends here in the room,。
would receive it.。
I don't know, God.。
I have no doubt that people have been through so much。
when it comes to their religious past,。
their experiences in spirituality,。
the impact of Christians in their life。
that would lead them, God, to be hesitant。
to embrace the claims of Christ。
and accept his truth, the truth, for themselves.。
And yet, God, I pray you would soften them here,。
gently warm their hearts,。
quickly attune their ears to hear your voice,。
which calls them out of death。
and into life.。
What is truth?。
The truth is you, Jesus,。
that only by your blood are all men saved.。
We love you and we sing to you now.。
It is in Christ's name we pray, amen.。
