[MUSIC]。
>> Dude, that is amazing.。
That is the best bumper we've ever made.。
Hey, welcome friends in the room,。
friends in Fort Worth and in Plano,。
and those tuning in and joining us around.。
I'm gonna read the passage that we're gonna be in tonight。
as we continue the series,。
Thou Shalt and Look at the Ten Commandments.。
So we're gonna be Exodus chapter 20.。
If you have a Bible, you can flip open.。
If not, it'll be on the screens。
and on these large screens here.。
And I'm gonna start in verse 12 of chapter 20,。
and we will read through verse 17.。
So it says this,。
honor your father and your mother。
so that you may live long in the land。
the Lord your God is giving you.。
You shall not murder, you shall not commit adultery,。
you shall not steal,。
you shall not give false testimony against your neighbor,。
you shall not covet your neighbor's house,。
you shall not covet your neighbor's wife。
or his male or female servant or his ox or his donkey。
or anything that belongs to him.。
Let me pray and then we'll dive in.。
Father, we pray that you would instruct our hearts。
and teach us from your ancient scriptures。
and that these words that were given long ago。
to the nation of Israel,。
that were given to lead them to life,。
would do so tonight in the hearts of your people.。
Would you teach us, strengthen us, help us to see Jesus.。
Pray all this in his name, amen.。
Well, in my house,。
we've been talking a lot about discipline lately。
because my wife and I have a son。
who is kind of around the age of two。
and he's at this weird age where we're trying to figure out,。
you know, will spanking work?。
'Cause up to this point,。
anytime he gets spanked, he doesn't totally understand it.。
So he thinks it's a game.。
So he'll either just laugh or he'll hit you back。
and be like, hey, two can play this one.。
And he just doesn't totally get it.。
And we can't do timeout yet because he's two.。
So timeout, he'll like just start tearing down the dresser。
and break something or break him.。
And so we're kind of caught in this middle stage.。
And I don't know where you grew up,。
but when I grew up, when I grew up,。
the spanking thing, especially at an early age,。
was not something that, hey, we kind of thought about.。
We believed in laying on of hands in my family.。
And you got spanked if you misbehaved,。
and especially early on.。
Now, as you got older and, you know,。
your size and you get bigger,。
all of a sudden you kind of transition。
to the grounding phase and you leave out the spanking thing.。
But it was always worse, or if you remember,。
that experience of whenever you switched over。
to no longer being spanked, and yes,。
I can't believe I'm opening with this right now.。
But whenever that happened, you always longed for like,。
oh man, I just wish that I could go back to the spanking,。
not be grounded and have to miss out。
on the party on Friday night.。
You seriously have to be home by the streetlights.。
Come on, can't we just go back to kind of the old system。
that you punished there?。
And because it only lasted a moment。
and went nearly as bad as being grounded。
or restricted from leaving the home,。
cut off from all your friends.。
And as I thought about that this week,。
really, when you think about discipline,。
like the worst disciplines that people normally give。
or worst punishments that people give。
in all these different contexts have to do。
with being cut off or being separated。
from other people or relationships.。
Like think about it inside of your home。
where you get grounded, hey, you can't go out。
with your friends.。
At school, if you were part of the public school system,。
if you misbehaved or someone you knew misbehaved,。
they got in a fight in class or something happened,。
they would be set aside or cut off。
from the rest of the class in detention.。
And then if they continued to misbehave,。
continued to act out, they would be cut off。
where they'd say, hey, you can't come here。
for the next few days, you are suspended.。
And then if it got really bad, they would be what?。
Expelled.。
And they would be, hey, you can no longer come here。
ever again, good luck out there, get your GED.。
And they would totally remove you.。
And not only does it happen in the education system,。
think about the prison or the criminal system.。
Like the justice system is built on prison。
is essentially the government saying,。
hey, you broke society's law,。
we're gonna give you a time out.。
And you're gonna be set aside for a year, two years,。
six months life at some amount of time.。
Where the punishment given there is,。
hey, we're gonna cut you off from society,。
from relationships.。
And then further, if you think about it,。
if you break the prison's law,。
there's an even worse punishment,。
the worst living punishment that we have。
comes for those who can't abide by。
or keep the prison's law,。
something called solitary confinement,。
which is total removal of any relationships。
or any other humans inside of your life.。
I mean, literally, it is the worst punishment。
that we have in our system,。
the worst living punishment that we have in our system.。
And it's simply this,。
we're gonna cut you off entirely。
from any sort of human interaction。
in any sort of human life.。
I mean, it's such a, it does such damage。
in a lot of the people who have solitary confinement。
that it's constantly being evaluated of like,。
man, is this a violation of human rights?。
Think about that, like that's crazy.。
Because there's something inside of all of us。
where what we discover is when someone。
is put in solitary confinement,。
like they psychologically begin to break down.。
They begin to come like less than human.。
Like there's something inside of you。
and something inside of me that can't function。
if we're totally cut off from other people.。
We weren't made to be cut off from other people.。
And the reason I start there。
is because in the same way that you and I share。
this deep need to have human relationships。
with other people,。
we also share this thing inside of us called sin nature。
or something broken where we,。
though we have a need to have human relationships,。
constantly sabotage our relationships。
by our own sin or our own decisions,。
our own, you know, the ways that we fail to,。
you know, follow God's law。
or just do what the right thing is,。
fail to tell the truth, you know,。
keep our word, fail to care for people.。
It's the reason why 50% of marriages end in divorce。
because though people have a desperate need。
for relationship, we all have that.。
It's clear to see people also have something inside of them。
that makes it hard for them。
to function in those relationships.。
And this isn't a modern day problem exclusively.。
It's a problem that has existed for a long time.。
It's a problem that when God looked down。
at the nation of Israel, he said,。
"Look, I don't want you to live in solitary confinement,。
"isolated from one another,。
"not because of a prison cell,。
"but in your own mind,。
"you have created solitary confinement。
"because the decisions you made have cut you off。
"from being able to have healthy relationships。
"with other people."。
So he looked down at the nation, he said,。
"I'm gonna give you rules to follow。
"so that you don't, because of your sin nature,。
"cut yourself off from other people.。
"And I'm gonna give you laws。
"that will tell you how to live amongst one another."。
So tonight, we're gonna look at commands five through 10。
of the 10 commandments where God essentially says。
to the nation, "Hey, I wanna give you instructions。
"on how you are to relate to one another,。
"how you are to treat one another,。
"how you can live in society together,。
"'cause I'm a God who loves you.。
"I don't want you to be cut off.。
"I don't want you to go through life,。
"and because of the broken part of you,。
"experience separation in your relationships."。
And so we're gonna pick it up。
in the fifth command tonight as we explore。
just these commands that have really everything to do。
with relationships with one another.。
In other words, Jesus was asked one day,。
"Hey, sum up the entire law and the commands."。
And Jesus was like, "All right, you want me to do it。
"in like tweetable form?。
"Here's how I would tweet the 10 commandments.。
"Love God, love people."。
And so inside the 10 commandments,。
first four are about loving God,。
and the last six are about loving people.。
We're gonna look at those six。
and dive in to God's instructions to the nation of Israel,。
how they are to relate to one another.。
If you're just catching up with us,。
10 commandments were these laws given to the people。
of this nation of Israel that were given to this people。
who had just essentially gotten on their feet as a nation.。
They didn't know how to live.。
God, through Moses, says, "Hey, I'm gonna have you。
"instruct the people and tell them。
"how I can lead them to life."。
Or if they follow these laws, it will lead them to life,。
and this is how they are to govern one another.。
If you've missed the last couple weeks,。
you can go find all the messages that we have on this。
on the PORCH app, as always, or on the podcast,。
and we can go from there.。
So we're gonna pick it up in verse 12。
as we explore these six ideas.。
Normally, we do three kinda breakdowns in the text.。
We're gonna look at six tonight of these six instructions。
God gives to the people in the nation of Israel.。
Here's what he says.。
"Honor your father and your mother."。
The word honor is essentially ascribe importance。
or value to, treat as important or valuable。
your father and your mother,。
"so that you may live long in the land your Lord,。
"the Lord your God has given you."。
If you read this and you're like me, you think,。
man, God, you're giving insight of your Big Ten, really?。
Number five is gonna be how you treat your parents?。
We're really gonna waste time on this?。
And you're gonna put it above murder and adultery。
and all that stuff?。
Really, you're gonna tell us。
how to interact with our parents?。
And God, over and over inside of the scriptures,。
says honor to me is a big deal.。
Our first idea that's right from the text。
is that you and I, if we were to have healthy。
or functioning relationships,。
God would say you have to honor your parents.。
You have to live in a way that treats your parents。
with the importance that their position,。
not their behavior, gives them.。
I am commanding and calling my people,。
they are to treat their parents with importance.。
You are to honor your parents.。
Paul picked up on this verse and said that you and I。
are to honor, in Ephesians chapter six, verse two and three,。
he says, "You and I honor your father and your mother."。
So in case you're like, isn't that the Old Testament?。
What about the New?。
Paul says, "You are to honor your father and your mother,"。
which is the first commandment with a promise,。
so that it may go well with you。
and you may enjoy long life on the earth.。
So he connects the idea that the only command we're told。
with that promise is the fifth one, where God says,。
hey, I want you to honor your father and your mother。
so much so that if you don't, you are not going to live long。
in the land that your God is giving you,。
that I take it very, very seriously.。
I want you to honor.。
Honor all throughout the Bible is a big deal to God.。
I mean, he cares about honoring older people.。
We see that in another place, Leviticus chapter 20,。
where God says, hey, when you're around people。
who are your elders, they enter the room,。
you should stand up.。
Think about that.。
Honor, he talks about honoring the government。
or honoring the emperor.。
God is all about honor, which I think is hard as Americans。
for us to really get our arms around。
'cause we're kind of this individualistic,。
hey, I don't need to honor anybody, we're all equal.。
Hey, I don't need to stand for anything,。
and there's part of that that overflows。
from a freedom that we have, but there's part of it。
that sets us up to not be able to follow what God says.。
You and I are called to honor your parents,。
not because of their behavior,。
whether or not you think they earned it.。
But because you're commanded to.。
In other words, honor is something that's given, not earned.。
And I know this is hard for all of us, myself included,。
'cause there's this thing where we think like,。
man, I would honor someone if they deserve it.。
I mean, you can look around。
and look at any social media or news.。
It's not hard to see that in the political climate。
that we're in, there's just blatant disrespect。
and dishonor that goes to the government.。
If you're a Christian, that is wrong.。
And let me play all my cards.。
There's a lot of things.。
I disagree with President Trump.。
But if you're a follower of Christ,。
you and I are called to honor the government。
or the emperor, Paul says in Romans 13.。
And you may be like, yeah, but you know how bad Trump is.。
He was talking about Nero,。
who was literally having Christians killed and beheaded.。
And he says, honor that guy.。
He's a little, he's all kinds, he's cuckoo for Cocoa Puffs,。
which is what Nero was.。
He's crazy, but we honor him.。
God would say, hey, you're supposed to honor.。
Honor's a big deal to God.。
And when it comes to your parents, he says,。
you and I are called to honor our parents,。
whether or not we think that they've earned it.。
Honor's not earned, it's given.。
Inside of a room like this, you may share stories like mine,。
where hey, my family, I come from a broken home,。
or my father, I would say, did not earn,。
or I don't feel like, oh man, he definitely earned honor.。
It doesn't matter.。
In my interactions with him, God would say,。
you're to honor your father and your mother,。
just like with you.。
This week at Thanksgiving, you are called,。
when you sit around the table with your parents,。
and all the ways that they have, as every parent does。
and will, failed to be God's best as a father and a mother,。
you are called to honor your father and mother.。
What does it look like to honor your parents?。
It doesn't mean that you just don't have boundaries,。
or you continue to let your parents just hurt you。
and drive your life.。
It doesn't mean you have to worship。
the same God that they do.。
It doesn't mean that you just take abuse and you accept it,。
but it does mean that you're respectful.。
That when you interact this week,。
when you enter back in, maybe you're coming back,。
you're coming to your home for Thanksgiving,。
and you're about to step back into where you grew up,。
or where your parents lived.。
When you step back into that home,。
you honor, you're respectful of your parents.。
When you engage in the conversation,。
you don't just blow up at your parents.。
That you honor and speak respectfully,。
act respectfully to your parents.。
God would say, out of the 10 commands I could give any,。
and one of them, number five, I want you to know,。
it is important that you honor your parents.。
If they were mean and terrible for me, to me,。
or mean and terrible to you,。
do I still have to honor them?。
Yes, I mean, if for no other reason。
than the very fact that you're here, they played a role in.。
And so there's at least something at the end of the day。
you can be thankful for.。
I'm alive, and God would say,。
honor your father and your mother.。
Side note in dating.。
If you are dating someone, man,。
one of the crucial thing that you wanna make sure you see。
is how they treat their parents.。
If you are dating a girl who dishonors her mom,。
dishonors her father in the way that she interacts with him,。
talks to them, speaks about them, any of those things,。
you should be concerned.。
Because the relationships that exist inside of the home,。
there are gonna exist inside of your home.。
Same thing with a guy.。
That you should have red flags。
if the guy you're dating dishonors his parents,。
or doesn't speak with respect,。
or talk about his parents with respect.。
This is also the reason why this principle。
of honoring your parents is why we encourage,。
if you're dating someone as a guy,。
one of the ways you can lead well in that relationship。
is by, when it's appropriate,。
getting time with the father or the mother。
of the girl that you're dating.。
And sitting him down, telling him,。
hey, this is who I am, these are my intentions,。
this is where I see the relationship going,。
I'm not wasting her time,。
I'm interested in pursuing this towards marriage.。
If that doesn't happen, I'm committed to leaving her better。
than I found him, her, and him or her, I guess,。
and whatever I need to do to communicate well with you,。
I want to do that, I wanna honor possibly。
my future father and mother-in-law.。
So God says, honor your parents, first thing.。
Number two, as it relates to living in a way。
that won't have society cut off。
and dysfunctional relationally, he says this.。
You shall not, verse 13, murder.。
So God commanded, you shall not take the life。
of another person.。
Second idea, we don't murder.。
I think most of us in the room are like,。
all right, check, we can move on, I haven't done this one.。
Until, and if not, never mind.。
And, but until you get to the words of Jesus。
in Matthew chapter five, when Jesus shows up。
and in Sermon on the Mount,。
Jesus' most famous sermon ever,。
Matthew chapter five, verse 28,。
looks out in this crowd and he gives。
all these different instructions,。
and one of them is, hey, you've heard it said,。
you shall not murder, and I tell you。
that if you hold anger in your heart,。
that you, I'll just read it so I don't butcher it,。
that you shall not murder,。
and anyone who murders is subject to judgment,。
but I tell you that anyone who is angry。
with a brother or a sister will be subject to judgment.。
It's the same punishment, the same sin.。
You've heard it said, don't murder and you're fine.。
I tell you that if you harbor anger。
towards someone inside of your heart,。
it's the same sin.。
You're a murderer, he says.。
In our country today, there's not only a lot of people。
who are harboring anger, and Jesus would say,。
you've got to deal with that.。
There are people you need to go forgive,。
ask forgiveness from.。
The verse right after that says,。
you need to leave your gift at the altar,。
stop worshiping God, and go be reconciled with that person.。
There's not only a lot of people。
who are harboring anger in their heart,。
and Jesus would say, that's murderous to you and to me,。
but we as a country and a society continue。
to still allow and accept murder,。
the taking of a human life, which God says is not okay.。
Every life out there was made in the image of God himself,。
unlike anything else in creation.。
Human life is distinct, he says,。
and the way that primarily,。
or one of the chief ways that this happens,。
not the only way this happens, is through abortion.。
Since 1973 in Roe versus Wade,。
60 million lives have been lost.。
I mean, that is 20% of the population.。
That's a fifth of our country gone.。
And the world around us that continues,。
I mean, the good news is scientifically,。
as we continue to see more and more。
of what's inside of the womb,。
many people are coming to the conclusion。
that, hey, that is a life.。
I can see its eyes, I hear its heartbeat,。
I can see all the different parts that make it up,。
and more and more people, and what I mean by that。
is like the generation that we're a part of。
is more pro-life than the generation in front of us.。
Like people are beginning to go,。
hey, I think this is wrong.。
It's becoming more clear, and the generation after us。
is more conservative than any of the generations。
in front of us, other than the Great Depression generation.。
Think about that.。
So the good news is there's hope for those of us。
who hope to see and believe that we will see。
in our lifetime abortion ended in our generation.。
And so there's hope there, and if it's a part of your story,。
where at some point in the past, you made the decision,。
to do something that others may have encouraged,。
or maybe you've never even talked about,。
here's what you need to know.。
There's not just hope for our country,。
there's grace for you.。
The same guy, Moses, who was helping。
write down the Ten Commandments said,。
I'm a murderer, that's Moses.。
And yet God looked at him and said,。
you're gonna be the one who leads my people.。
Whatever's a part of your past is not a problem for God.。
And he doesn't change how he feels about you,。
his love for you, and his grace that's offered。
to anyone who will freely accept it.。
And he'll take that part of your past。
and use it as a platform to tell other people。
about him and his goodness.。
But it is still a problem in our country.。
So he says, you shall not take human life, murder.。
The third one is, you shall not commit adultery.。
You shall not commit adultery,。
that you're not to have sex outside of marriage.。
And if you're like, man, but technically,。
adultery involves someone who's married,。
again, that would work until we get to Jesus,。
who in Matthew chapter five, looked out into this crowd。
and he said, hey, you've heard,。
you shall not commit adultery.。
So as long as you don't sleep with a married woman,。
or as long as no one is married and involved,。
then that's fine.。
And he says, look, if you even lust at someone,。
you have committed adultery with them in your heart.。
And then Paul, who says, look, any sex。
that takes place outside of marriage is sexual immorality.。
I mean, so very quickly, everyone in the room goes,。
yep, okay, guilty.。
Sexual immorality or adultery, Jesus would say.。
If you think that you have to sleep with someone。
to be an adulterer, you're wrong.。
And he looks out in this crowd and says,。
man, the standard is way higher.。
And Moses tells the people of God,。
you are not to allow, you are to keep sex sacred,。
if you will, or keep sex for the context of marriage.。
Don't have sex outside of marriage。
was the third point that I wrote down from that.。
Which is a huge, it's crazy.。
When you think about it in Jesus's terms,。
think about the amount of just adultery。
that it's really almost acceptable in our culture today.。
If lust counts, which is what Jesus says。
in Matthew chapter five, I mean, truly,。
we're all adulterers.。
And in our country today, I mean, it's almost encouraged.。
It's an industry that's exploding。
and making billions of dollars every year.。
The erotic romance novel business alone,。
think about this, is over a billion dollars a year。
with Fifty Shades of Grey and all the different books。
that come out of that.。
The pornography industry makes more money。
than all of NBA, MLB, NFL all combined.。
It accounts for 43% of internet activity。
where Jesus would say that's adultery.。
And if that's a part of your story,。
man, we have all kinds of,。
if that's going on in your present,。
which candidly, I know it is inside a room like this.。
70% statistically of men have been involved。
in pornography in the recent past,。
last month to six weeks.。
And one in three users are women.。
And if that's a part, we've got all kinds of resources.。
We would encourage you, you can't fight that alone.。
You can go to the Porch blog, you can go to our website,。
you can find all kinds of stuff。
and learn and we'll meet with you, talk with you,。
pray with you, share from our own experience。
of how pornography has come in。
and you see it in a moment,。
but it takes a lifetime to get rid of seeing it。
and how you can experience freedom from that.。
But Jesus would say, and Moses said,。
and God said to my people, you shall not commit adultery.。
Keep sex sacred.。
Do not defile the marriage bed。
or keep sex in the context of marriage and marriage alone.。
And the reason why this was such a big deal to God。
and he hits on it over and over and over again, here's why,。
is because God knows that anytime you play with sex,。
we've talked about this a lot,。
but outside of the context of marriage,。
it's only hurting the people involved.。
Like it's not just, hey, it's two consenting adults,。
it's no big deal, it's hurting and it's gonna create scars。
anytime sex is introduced outside of the context of marriage.。
Homosexual sex, oral sex, any type of sex,。
it only creates scars in the people that are a part of it.。
I was reading a book last week, or a couple weeks ago,。
and inside of the book, it was talking about,。
this is gonna feel like a really sharp left turn。
from defining adultery, it was talking about sharks.。
And-- (congregation laughing)。
And the mating patterns of sharks.。
And the book was basically saying that, hey,。
the way that you identify if a female shark。
has mated or procreated is that they have scars。
on their body, that there's mating scars that come up,。
that the way that they mate is the male shark。
will come on up and he will bite onto the female shark。
in order to secure or hold himself as the shark mates on.。
I know, your minds are running a ton of different places.。
Bite the tattoo on the shark's shoulder.。
And that will be how you can tell.。
Like in other words, if you're studying sharks,。
you can be like, oh, those are mating scars,。
they're scars, scars mean sex in the shark world.。
In the human world.。
Sex means scars.。
But none of us, it's impossible,。
outside of the context of marriage,。
you cannot escape the fact that if you introduce sex。
in any relationship, any part of your past,。
that it's going to bring scars, what kind of scars?。
It's gonna bring dysfunction into a relationship,。
but even think about this, I mean,。
the scars that will come in five years from now。
when you're married and your spouse is wondering。
how you're comparing them to other people。
that they've slept with.。
I mean, it'll bring scars in just the ways。
that it breaks apart relationships,。
it keeps relationships together longer。
than they ever should have been。
because of kind of the euphoria,。
and it's like electricity when we touch。
because of just amazing sex together,。
and they never should have been a relationship that stayed,。
and finally it breaks apart,。
causes all kinds of pain and heartache there.。
That just like in the shark world,。
where sex means scars are there,。
in the human world, outside of the context of marriage,。
sex means scars, and God, who looks down。
at the nation of Israel, says,。
I don't want you to take this incredible gift。
outside of marriage, or it will bring scars.。
Do not commit adultery, nation of Israel.。
He then goes into stealing.。
He says this, verse 15, you shall not steal.。
And again, I think this is one where we think,。
man, I haven't stolen, I don't steal,。
it's not a big problem for me,。
not something I need a lot of accountability on.。
I think the most common theft that has taken place,。
maybe in general, but at least inside of this room,。
is stealing from our employer.。
Salary.com did a study where they found。
that the average employee, out of an eight-hour day,。
does not work for two hours of that day,。
or does not do things that are associated。
with their company and their organization,。
that they will spend it either surfing the internet,。
was 43% of the reason why people did it,。
to on social media, to socializing,。
to just doing kind of personal things,。
and taking care of personal business,。
or bills, or different things, but two hours,。
think about that, that's stealing from your employer.。
As Christians, we're told in Titus chapter two。
that we're to do everything at our jobs,。
or at work, in a way that makes the teachings。
of our Savior, Titus chapter two,。
that makes the teachings of our Savior more attractive.。
And then it says this right after,。
and do not steal.。
That it's, as followers of Christ, inside of our workplace,。
we should be the hardest workers,。
not the ones who are gonna, if we can,。
get away with not working the way that we say we should.。
The way that we say that we're working for.。
And I think Jesus and Moses would say that stealing,。
you're taking what's not yours.。
He then says this, you shall not give false testimony。
against your neighbor, that you shall not lie,。
that you and I are to speak the truth.。
How do we have healthy relationships among God's people?。
That we speak the truth, the whole truth,。
and nothing but the truth.。
That we don't lie on our resume,。
we don't lie about our past, you know,。
sport abilities to make ourselves look better,。
about you should have seen me in high school,。
would have made it pro, but you know, my knee.。
And we don't lie about anything like that.。
We don't lie about, you know, our job experience.。
We don't lie.。
That we speak the truth to one another.。
We don't spread slander or false testimony about people.。
We don't gossip.。
And you may be being like, look, I gossip,。
but I only tell the truth.。
I've got great sources.。
Gossip is also a sin.。
And so it's not like a loophole there.。
But the way that we use our words,。
we speak the truth to one another.。
We don't shrink back from telling the truth.。
When someone wants an honest answer,。
we do it and speak the truth in love.。
That's what Christians do.。
And God says, in order to have healthy relationships。
among my people, you've got to speak the truth。
to each other, honesty.。
And then he gets to the sixth or the final command,。
which I think is the most profound out of all of them,。
or in reading it, it seemed profound to me。
and ministered to me, where he says this,。
talking about covet, you shall not covet,。
which just means, hey, strongly desire or be jealous for。
your neighbor's house or your neighbor's wife。
or his female and male servant or his ox or his donkey,。
which would be like the SUV he drives。
or the car that he drives,。
or anything else that belongs to your neighbor.。
Now, covet, as we said, covet is to strongly desire。
or almost lust after.。
You can tell that you're coveting if you are unhappy。
because of what you have or don't have that others do.。
You can tell that you're coveting, I mean,。
honestly, Instagram should just be changed to covet.com.。
That's essentially what so much of it is,。
where you're just like, oh my gosh,。
I can't believe it again, and why is she always posting。
about her wedding dress and how she can't find it yet,。
and you're just seeing and scrolling through.。
It's crazy how Instagram or social media in general。
has fueled this inside of our country.。
And what's so unique about this law is,。
think about it with me for a second.。
That's the only law on there that you can't police.。
Every other law, you can make up a policing system,。
you can catch someone a lie, they had adultery,。
you caught 'em there, he murdered,。
hey, we can chase this down, detective, I found it.。
This is the only unenforceable law that exists on there.。
In other words, no one's ever gonna call the police。
and be like, yes, officer, I need to report something.。
There's a guy outside my house,。
and I think he's gone from admiring to coveting,。
and someone needs to get over here, man.。
Nobody would ever even attempt to enforce it.。
There's no nation on Earth that has a law like this,。
because it has nothing to do with the outside,。
it's all about the inside.。
And God, through this law, says to the nation of Israel。
that I'm a God who cares about the heart.。
I don't just care about the hands。
and what you do on the outside, I care about your heart.。
I don't want you to be ruled.。
I don't want your emotions to be ruled。
by what you have or you don't have,。
and why everyone else seems to get married,。
and how your friends are all in the next phase。
of life with their toddler at the mall。
in Lululemon clothes, and you're just depressed about it.。
I don't want you to be ruled by that,。
or how much money you make,。
or any of those different things.。
Any of the things that, candidly, it's so easy.。
I think if there's one sin on here。
that is very acceptable in Dallas, it's this one.。
Honestly, I don't even think,。
nobody ever feels even guilty about this one.。
Think about it.。
Like, I've never had someone come down front。
after any message and be like, hey, I just need to,。
I just need to tell someone, can we get a little private?。
I've been coveting, and I just, I'm overwhelmed with guilt.。
Like, no one, you coveted today,。
and you don't feel guilty about it,。
and God says, I care about the heart.。
I care about it.。
It may not be policeable.。
Others may not see it.。
I care about you not being ruled by what you don't have.。
The sixth thing is don't covet.。
Nation of Israel, I do not want you to be ruled。
by what you have or what you don't have.。
As we've said before, comparison is the thief of joy.。
And it is no surprise why depression is up。
and linked to social media, as we are exposed,。
not just to what our friends have,。
it used to be kind of like, hey, if I want to be,。
if I want to covet what you have,。
I gotta come over to your house and kind of see things.。
Now, it's all online, and I can see it all.。
I can see what celebrities, what total strangers have。
to be discontent about my life, and God says,。
I don't want you to be ruled.。
Maybe the healthiest thing some of us in the room。
tonight need to do is you gotta get off Instagram.。
You gotta put the Pinterest away.。
You gotta get off Facebook or whatever is feeding that。
inside of you, and you know at the end of the day,。
like, it's impacting your emotions, your anxiety,。
your happiness, and God says, I don't want you。
to be ruled by anything other than me.。
As you look at the commands, and I'll really close here,。
I mean, you go through the list, and you're like,。
oh man, as it relates to interacting with other people,。
I've fallen short of this standard.。
I mean, especially when Jesus shows up。
and he raises everything and says, hey, look,。
you think murder is the only thing you need。
to be worried about?。
If you have anger, you're a murderer,。
and Jesus shows up and he says, you're an adulterer,。
and so if you recap the commandments,。
you sit in this room right now, many of us,。
most of us, probably all of us, if we're all of us,。
if we're honest, and if not, you broke the other,。
or you broke the lying command, would say,。
according to the Bible or Jesus, I'm a murderer.。
I'm an adulterer.。
I'm a liar, I'm a thief, I covet,。
and I have fallen short of what God's requirements。
or the standards of the 10 commandments and the law.。
That whatever, if that's the standard,。
I've fallen way short of it, and Jesus himself。
is gonna show up and say, you have fallen。
even farther from it than you think,。
and in that same Sermon on the Mount,。
he looked out in the crowd, and here's what he said.。
It was crazy.。
You must be perfect.。
Wait, Jesus, you know, like the whole,。
you know, like, give me a hug, you're my homeboy,。
Jesus, you know, we're tight, and you're awesome,。
and you're loving and accepting.。
He looked out in the crowd and he said,。
you must be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect.。
That's the standard.。
If you wanna get in on your own,。
you wanna do it through your obedience,。
you must be perfect.。
And unless your righteousness, he says,。
exceeds that of this really religious group。
called the Pharisees, he says,。
unless your righteousness exceeds that of the Pharisees,。
you will not enter the kingdom of heaven.。
What, Jesus, are you saying?。
That you are not enough.。
And on your own, you will never get there.。
You will never behave your way into a relationship。
with a God who's there and died and loves you.。
How do I know that even the 10 commandments。
point to this idea?。
What happens after the 10 commandments?。
You know what happens in the very next verses。
after the 10 commandments?。
And this, like, ministered me so much this week.。
It was so crazy.。
Two verses later, what happens in the 10 commandments?。
It doesn't get a lot of playtime.。
Like, the verse is kinda right after the 10.。
It's not like, oh, that's my favorite。
memory verse right there.。
That doesn't get a lot of playtime,。
but what happens?。
Let's read it.。
Then the Lord said, in verse 22 of chapter 20 to Moses,。
tell the Israelites this, you have seen for yourselves。
that I have spoken to you from heaven.。
Don't make any other gods alongside of me。
and don't bring or don't make yourself gods。
of silver or gold.。
Here's what I want you to do.。
The first proactive command,。
you are to make yourself an altar.。
Make yourself an altar of earth for me。
and sacrifice on it.。
And bring your burnt offerings, which is for sin,。
and your fellowship offerings,。
which is to have a relationship with me,。
your sheep and your goats and your cattle,。
that you are to make sacrifices.。
I want you to build an altar.。
And wherever I cause my name to be honored,。
I will come to you and bless you.。
What is the very first thing?。
God finishes the list, and then what does he say?。
I want you to build me an altar.。
Because you're not gonna be able to keep this list.。
And I want you to take sacrifices and animals.。
And every time that you sin, I want you to kill animals。
because I want you to associate。
that a sacrifice needs to be paid if there is sin.。
And I'm not a God who's saying,。
hey, I expect you to keep it.。
It's as though, I mean, think about it.。
It's the next verses.。
Here's the commands, you won't keep 'em,。
so bank an altar because sacrifices need to be paid.。
And every single page, he's pointing to the fact。
that if there's sin, it requires a sacrifice.。
It's almost as though he's saying,。
I know that you will not be able to keep the law,。
and I'm going to provide a way.。
And this sacrificial system will ultimately point,。
not to a sacrifice of a blood or a goat or anything,。
but to what Jesus would do on the cross.。
From every page in the scripture,。
we see that it's always been pointing to Jesus.。
I mean, think about it, two verses.。
Here's the list, you can't keep 'em.。
You need a sacrificial system.。
And this system right now is just gonna be temporary。
because it's gonna point like everything else in the Bible。
to a Savior who will be the one。
who will bridge the gap for you,。
for all the ways that you and I have failed。
to meet the standard and failed more than we even realize.。
And he says it's always been pointing to this one.。
In every passage of the New Testament,。
it's all about him, it's all pointing to him.。
It's all about Jesus, and what that means。
is that nobody gets to stand up here,。
we don't worship anybody because of the way。
that they were able to keep the law.。
In other words, we don't sit here and be like,。
oh, praise the name of it.。
That guy Bob, we'll praise his name, he's awesome.。
That all of it goes to Jesus.。
And it's all about him, and he would look。
to the nation of Israel and say, I'm gonna give you laws,。
and I know you won't be able to keep 'em.。
But would your inability and the fact。
that every time there is sin, there will be sacrifice,。
point you to the fact that one day。
I will put an end to the altars,。
and I will put an end to the sacrifice。
because I will become a man, Jesus,。
God, become a man to die on a cross,。
to pay for the penalty of every sin,。
of every infraction against the holy,。
eternal God, and pay for your sin.。
And I don't even wanna put too many paragraphs。
between these commands and the requirement。
of a system that would point you to a savior.。
It's all about him.。
It's always been about him, it will always be about Jesus.。
Let me pray.。
Father, thank you that 3,000 years ago,。
4,000, that you not only just gave the law。
and you spoke to your people,。
you said that there will come a day,。
a day that no more sacrifices will be required。
because you, perfect, holy, righteous one,。
will become the sacrifice on our behalf.。
I pray for friends in the room。
that are filled with the idea that,。
man, I'll never be good enough,。
that they would come to the realization。
that they will never be good enough,。
but there's a God who loves them so much。
that he was willing to die for them,。
and from very early on, he said and spoke the message。
through the 10 Commandments, he will never be good enough,。
and sacrifice will be required,。
but I will pay that sacrifice.。
Thank you that every page of Scripture,。
every system that was given to us。
points to our savior in Jesus,。
and we worship him in song, amen.。
