(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
- All right, Porch, welcome.。
How y'all doing, Dallas?。
How you doing, Fort Worth?。
It's awesome to be here.。
Thank you for letting me be with you all tonight.。
I am thrilled to kick off a series we're gonna be doing。
for the next 10 to 11 weeks,。
depending on how much we cover each week.。
It's called Summer on the Mount.。
It's gonna come right out of Matthew 5, 6, and 7.。
It's the very first words that we have God speaking。
after 400 years of silence.。
Now, I want you to think for just a moment。
as we set this entire thing up.。
I want you to think about what God would say to you。
if he showed up after nobody had given you any training,。
any correction, any reproof, for 400 years.。
Let's just say this.。
How about nobody had ever once rebuked you,。
or you had never experienced any consequence。
to anything that you had done from the time。
you were 16 to 20?。
20 to 24?。
24 to 28?。
I mean, you'd heard enough, not for 400 years,。
but for four years, you just ran riot in your heart.。
You thought there was no God.。
You thought there was no sense of accountability,。
and God all of a sudden showed up。
in probably your most rebellious, wretched,。
self-absorbed, self-indulgent, wicked state.。
I want you to think just for a moment。
about the moment in your life that you are most ashamed of.。
I want you to think about the time that you go,。
man, if there is a God, I hope somehow。
he's sneezing right now and misses this moment.。
Just pick one of the 30 or so。
that you might have to refer to.。
We've all got 'em, right?。
Stuff that when we get all naked and authentic。
and tell some folks about stuff that we are。
bringing to the Lord, we're like,。
I ain't never telling anybody about this one.。
And I want you to imagine the light's coming on.。
I want you to imagine the door opening up,。
and God himself is going, hey there.。
And there you are.。
What do you think he's gonna say?。
I'm gonna answer that for you tonight.。
Because the way you answer that question。
is gonna determine the way you live your life,。
because there is nothing more important in your life。
than what you think of when you think of God.。
And the fact is, when most of us think of God,。
we think about the God that is gonna come。
with a billy club that's gonna make。
the most abusive cop look like he's got silly string.。
We think of God as up there with thunderbolts。
and lightning and full of vengeance and wrath,。
a beat cop with an attitude.。
And because of that, we're not really looking。
to cuddle up next to him, and we're hoping。
that maybe it's all a myth,。
invented by men to control others.。
I'm gonna ask you a little riddle as we get started,。
because it's been well said, and I do believe。
that what you think about when you think about God。
is quite possibly the most important thing about you.。
So here's a little riddle.。
I want you to listen to it all the way through.。
If you've heard it before, please don't shout out the answer.。
Many of you have, some of you haven't.。
But I want you to think, and you gotta listen。
to this thing all the way through.。
It is said that about 80% or more of those。
that graduate from levels of higher education。
cannot answer this riddle.。
I'll tell you in a second who might be able to.。
But here's the question.。
What is greater?。
Than God.。
What is more evil than the devil?。
The rich need it, the poor have it,。
and if you eat it, you will die.。
I want you to think about that.。
What is the answer to that riddle?。
What is greater than God, more evil than the devil,。
the rich need it, the poor have it,。
and if you eat it, you will die.。
Now is anybody here, raise your hand。
if you've never heard that before.。
Put your hand up good and high.。
All right?。
Is anybody whose hand just went up,。
go I know the answer right away.。
Raise your hand again if you think you know the answer.。
Very few of you, okay.。
But some of you do.。
Now here's the deal.。
They said that over 80% of individuals。
who have graduated from institutions of higher learning。
don't know the answer to that riddle,。
and yet a large percentage of children。
will get it immediately.。
And the reason is, is because we think in very complex,。
the more educated we are, we think in very complex systems,。
and we also do not know the answer to the first question,。
which by the way, because it's a riddle,。
is the answer to the last question.。
And so let's just take these one at a time.。
What, if you eat it, will you die?。
We're gonna work our way backwards,。
and you might go, well there's a lot of things。
that you might eat and you would die.。
So you might have thought immediately。
and focused in on that one, 'cause I encourage you。
to work yourself all the way to the end.。
So you thought about arsenic.。
You thought about McDonald's, all right?。
(audience laughing)。
You thought about a lot of rancid food。
or maybe things that are poisonous,。
so you really worked that last one.。
What do you die if you eat?。
Okay, how about this one?。
The rich need it.。
The poor have it.。
Now that one was kind of crazy,。
because they go together and you go,。
wait, wait a minute, wait, wait, I thought,。
the rich are the ones that have everything,。
and the poor are the ones that don't,。
and there is the beginning of the answer to the riddle,。
so watch this.。
The rich have it.。
What do the rich, what do the poor have?。
What do the poor have?。
You go, man, the poor ain't got nothing.。
What do the rich need?。
Well, the rich don't need nothing, man.。
They got it made.。
Hey, what's more evil than the devil?。
Nothing.。
What, if you eat it, will cause you to die?。
If you eat nothing, start the clock.。
Five, seven days, unless you're preparing。
for a photo shoot for Abs of Steel.。
Then you can make it seven.。
Do a few crunches, get your picture taken,。
and lie to everybody about what that stupid。
little ab roller that a Navy SEAL invented。
will do for you, all right?。
But listen to the very first question I asked you.。
What is greater than God?。
Well, if you've got a biblical view,。
if you have listened to the sermon on the Mount。
that we're gonna talk about this summer,。
you would have gotten this riddle right,。
'cause the answer is nothing.。
There's nothing greater than God.。
He is abounding in loving kindness.。
He is slow to anger.。
He is rich in mercy, and he loves you.。
I'm gonna tell you what God would do。
if he kicked the door open on the four years of silence。
where your little teenage, hormone-enhanced,。
rebellious life had gone, where there was no reproof,。
no correction, no training in righteousness,。
in that darkest moment you've lived in,。
or worse yet, that darkest moment of fantasy。
or temptation that came into your mind。
that you thought, I wonder if that would be the way to go,。
if that became an actual reality and God showed up,。
I'm gonna tell you what he would say to you,。
because tonight, you're about to hear。
the very first words of God after 400 years of nothing.。
Even more, let me tell you the last words he left you with.。
The way the Old Testament ended。
is in Malachi chapter four, verses five and six.。
And he said, "Listen, behold, you wretches.。
"I am going to send you Elijah the prophet,。
"'cause you need a prophet.。
"A prophet is going to speak to you。
"about the things of God, and he is gonna come to you。
"before the coming and the great。
"and the terrible day of the Lord.。
"And he's gonna let you know what God is like, man.。
"He's gonna tell you to get right.。
"And he's gonna tell you,。
"you better restore yourself to righteousness.。
"You better get your act together,。
"'cause one of these days,。
"your worst nightmare is gonna happen.。
"That door's gonna fly open, the light's gonna be on,。
"and he's gonna be watching you,。
"and he's gonna catch you red-handed.。
"And dude, if the prophet didn't get you turned around,。
"you look out."。
See, this is the way we think of God.。
He says in verse six of Malachi,。
this is the very last verse of your Old Testament.。
He says, "Behold, what I'm gonna do。
"is restore the hearts of fathers to children,。
"and children to the hearts to that of their fathers,。
"and watch this, so that I will not come。
"and smite the land with a curse."。
Let me tell you what most of us think God would say。
if he came barging in at that particular moment。
that we are most embarrassed as a part of our story.。
Are you ready?。
I want you to listen.。
You're sitting there, I want you to think。
about a SWAT team, boom, boom.。
And this is what he's gonna do.。
Hey.。
Hey.。
And I love you.。
And I know guilt and shame is all over you right now.。
And I know you can't believe that your life。
got to this place where you would do this,。
and that others might know that that's who you really are,。
but I know that's who you really are.。
And I know you're not happy.。
I know you want from this room to another room,。
from darkness to greater darkness still.。
I know you don't want anybody to know what's going on.。
I know you try and numb yourself sometimes.。
There's tracts in your arm, there's pills in your stomach.。
There's alcohol on your breath.。
There's men on your left, men on your right.。
There's women on top of you.。
Trying to cover up all the sadness that's in your life.。
I'm not mad at you.。
You're my little girl.。
You're my son that was destined to be a king.。
You wanna be happy?。
You want your life to be something you're proud of?。
I'm not here to kick your tail.。
I'm here to give you exceeding blessing.。
Can you imagine if what I just said was true?。
Can you imagine if that's who God was?。
And Matthew 5 is that story.。
Because into the middle of a humanity。
that had run far away from him,。
that did not believe that he was good,。
that did not look to his word for instruction,。
that believed the lie, that his word was not true,。
that disobeying him was not that big a deal,。
that God is not where you can find life,。
he finally showed up and the worst fears of man。
were realized, where into the darkness came a great light.。
And he wasn't here to curse you.。
He's here to tell you that he loves you.。
Now make no mistake, this God who loves you。
is a God of righteousness and holiness.。
And there is a wage for sin,。
but he is here to make provision for that。
which has distanced you from God,。
which has distanced you from good,。
that has left you in darkness and great guilt and shame.。
And he is here to tell you that if you'll just listen。
and come out of the darkness and walk towards him,。
through the door that he's going to create,。
that there is blessing.。
Let me ask you a trivia question.。
What is the largest number of people,。
according to the Guinness Book of World Records,。
that have ever danced, one danced,。
in a synchronized way at one time?。
I'll give you a little hint.。
It happened in 1996 at Yankee Stadium.。
So I want you to go back,。
I know if you could just do the math,。
if I could do the math, that makes it 19 today。
if you were born then.。
Let's just say that there's a few folks。
that were seven years old when that world record was set,。
if the average age in this room is 26.。
I know some of you all are like,。
well dude, I ain't quite even born yet,。
I was 97 right here, all right?。
Snuck in a little early tonight.。
But there's others of you,。
there's others of you that at least were seven。
and you heard the song and you have done the dance。
that 50,000 people did together in 1996.。
Anybody want to take a venture?。
Hey!。
Macarena, baby, all right?。
All right, come on, let's give it a little bit.。
(mumbles)。
Hey!。
There we go, baby.。
All right, now look, I'm gonna tell you something.。
The reason that that ministers to me。
is because I know what Macarena means.。
Macarena is Spanish, any Spanish speakers here?。
Raise your hand, you got some Spanish speakers right here?。
All right, very good.。
Anybody want to tell me what Macarena, it's a name.。
Anybody know what that name means?。
(mumbles)。
It means mother of God.。
It's like the name Maria,。
it's got the same root word as the name Maria or Mary.。
It means beautiful one, it means mother of God.。
There was a flamenco dancer,。
not a flamingo who danced, all right?。
But go read your little Spanish literature books.。
A flamenco dancer, think tambourines and beautiful dresses。
and hey Macarena, all right?。
And this dancer, okay, was so beautiful。
that there were a couple of guys。
that are famous pop flamenco singers,。
they were part of called Los Del Rio, okay?。
That went down there and they saw Diana Patricia dancing。
and they go, that is the most beautiful woman。
they've ever seen and so they wrote a song about her。
and in the song, they called her this beautiful woman,。
she is so beautiful, she's like the mother of God.。
And that song is about a bunch of people。
celebrating the beauty that must be the mother of God.。
Now let me just let you in on a little secret.。
There is no mother of God.。
God always was and always will be.。
Now we do know that Mary was the earthly mother of Jesus。
that the Holy Spirit made great with child。
and brought into the world。
in order that he might identify with us。
in our guilt and shame and sin and death。
and the darkness that was in the world。
and yet his father was not a man,。
his father was the heavenly father。
that put the seed of life inside Mary。
so that he was not just fully man but fully God。
and because he was not just fully man。
but because he was fully God,。
he was not only able not to sin,。
he was not able to sin because he was God himself。
but he was able as a man to be fully tempted。
in every ways you and I have been。
but because he was fully God,。
he was tempted in every ways you and I have been。
and yet without sin so that when we come to him。
in the midst of that which draws us to darkness。
and sin and shame, he will not in any way spurn us。
but he goes, I get it man, I've been there,。
I know what it's like to be tempted。
but because I didn't sin, I was able to pay a debt。
that you had to sin so that you, blessed one,。
can be happy and so you don't have to shrink back。
in guilt and shame but so that you might dance.。
Now what would you do if I told you。
that the God of the universe who is righteous。
and holy altogether who knew about you and your sin,。
when he kicked the door open, boom,。
the light came in, was on his knees and he said,。
hey, hey, I love you.。
I'm not here to smite you and curse you, come here.。
You wanna be happy, I mean really happy,。
I'm not talking about just a high,。
I'm not talking about PCPC, I'm not talking about an orgasm.。
I'm not talking about a codependent relationship,。
man, I'm talking about, do you want life?。
Come here.。
That is Matthew five, bro, that is the sermon on the mat.。
Now let me just make a few things clear to you here。
and I'm gonna tell you why I take you to what it says。
in Hey Macarena because the word right there。
in Matthew chapter five, verse three,。
when Jesus starts talking, the very first time。
God speaks after 400 years of silence,。
the very first words out of his mouth。
in the language of your New Testament is Macarias.。
Ever heard anything that sound like that before?。
The word Macarias in the Greek,。
it means supreme blessedness, exalted happiness.。
You guys ever heard speakers like me,。
they get up here and they go,。
God doesn't want you to be happy.。
Happy's root word is happenings and it's conditional.。
God wants you to be joyful, not happy.。
You ever heard that?。
Can I just tell y'all something?。
I've said that before too 'cause there's times。
it's convenient and it helps me make a point。
but let me just say this to you.。
God wants you to be happy.。
It's the very first words that he speaks.。
It's like Pharaoh Williams is incarnate all over again。
and he says, hey man, let's do the happy song。
and it's over here with me.。
Let's go.。
And what he's saying is, hey man,。
you know that circumstance you're in called sin and death,。
the one that you followed the liar who came to steal,。
kill and destroy and he's stolen your sense of dignity。
and he's killed your sense of hope。
and he's destroyed your self-respect?。
I am here to stomp on his head and set you free.。
Now that, folks, ought to make you dance.。
And that's why heaven's a party.。
It's not because we met some beautiful flamenco dancer。
in Venezuela, it's because we've met the God of the universe。
and we're singing for who he really is.。
And his first words are, hey, Macarena, man,。
you wanna dance, you wanna be happy?。
You wanna be filled with supreme blessedness,。
exalted happiness?。
I love that that's what the name Mary means.。
You must be supremely blessed among women。
if God chose to use your womb to bring forth。
the hope of the world.。
And that's why Mary means that.。
It's where the root word comes from.。
Let me just walk you through this real quick.。
We're gonna study the Sermon on the Mount this summer。
and this is what's gonna go on.。
This is an amazing thing.。
It's just 107 verses.。
You could read the whole thing through in 15 to 20 minutes.。
2,416 words is all it is.。
It covers everything from blessedness to morality。
to righteousness to responsibility to anxiety。
to materialism to discernment to humility,。
judgmentalism, how to pray, who false prophets are,。
what to do when you're stuck in dead religion,。
what generosity really looks like, what purity really is,。
how relationships work, what the golden rule of life is。
and where the ultimate source of life can be found。
in 107 verses.。
It is probably one of the most famous messages ever given。
and we're gonna look at it for 10 to 11 weeks.。
And man, you don't wanna miss it。
because at the center of this is a God。
who's kicking the door open after all kinds of silence.。
And some of you guys are still locked up in darkness。
and guilt and shame and I hope God kicks in your heart。
tonight and you hear me say to you, man, come here.。
I'm not mad, I didn't come to curse you.。
I'm gonna curse sin.。
But let me tell you something.。
I'm gonna pay the debt for sin。
and if you want sinner to be set free,。
I'm your daddy, man, and I'm not mad at you.。
I've just been looking for you.。
And those guys that said they love you,。
you know they don't love you。
'cause they're gone into another room。
finding some other girl to numb their pain.。
This is your daddy, come here.。
Let me make you whole.。
Come here, princess.。
Make you like a virgin.。
Come here, lost son who eats the slop of pigs.。
I'll make you a king again, come here.。
Now folks, if that was true,。
would we not just break out in song?。
Would we not go, hey, blessed happiness?。
(congregation laughing)。
Yes, we would.。
And that's what he's doing.。
All right, when you think Mount,。
okay, we're an American, we think Mount,。
we think Pikes Peak, we think Everest.。
Don't think that.。
This is a little hill.。
Fort Worth, think Tandy Hill.。
If you're in Fort Worth。
and you don't know where Tandy Hill is,。
go two miles to the east of your city.。
You can see most of Fort Worth from there.。
It's a beautiful view and a very rugged part of that city.。
If you're in Dallas, think Flagpole Hill.。
That's where he's hanging out.。
That's roughly what it is.。
Maybe a little bit bigger than Flagpole Hill,。
but that's basically what the mountains。
around the Sea of Galilee are.。
And that's where we're sitting, right there.。
And Jesus has been doing all kinds of things.。
And he had been presenting himself as powerful,。
able to do things that no mere man can do.。
And folks now are starting to go,。
hey, let's hear more about who this guy is.。
And he's about to open his mouth。
to folks who wanna learn more from him。
for the very first time.。
And what do you think he's gonna say?。
Better get cleaned up, Jack.。
You better stop that.。
No.。
You just wanna be happy?。
Well, I'm here.。
'Cause I know your life ain't happening right now.。
I know you're trying to numb yourself.。
Still, some of you guys are new to Dallas.。
It's summer, man.。
And you think that the stockyards in lower Greenville。
is where you can find Macarius.。
And some of you guys have hung out there。
for a while already, and you know it isn't Macarius.。
It's a mess.。
But you think you're so messed up。
that there's no way that you could ever have。
a relationship with a God who is holy.。
And I'm here to bust down that door tonight。
and tell you you're wrong.。
What this little thing does,。
this little sermon on the map,。
this little story we're gonna look at tonight,。
it's gonna walk you through.。
It's gonna be very simple.。
What he's gonna do, he's gonna tell you。
how you can have a relationship with God.。
He's gonna tell you what a relationship with God looks like.。
He's gonna tell you, you wanna live。
in the place of blessedness,。
because if God's got a land, and he is king of that land,。
how would you describe that land?。
You would say it is a supremely blessed place。
of exalted happiness.。
And that's what Jesus is saying here.。
He's coming alongside of you, and he's saying, here we go.。
And so what you're gonna find out,。
if you wanna map this thing out,。
I hope you guys bring your Bibles here,。
and you can learn something.。
Let me just bring you a Bible.。
And you can learn something.。
Let me just break this out for you,。
this first little, really, verses from Matthew 5:3。
down through Matthew 5:12.。
You're gonna basically get this.。
Who is saved?。
Who can actually have a friendship with the Father?。
He's gonna answer that in verses three, four, five, and six.。
This is the kind of person。
that is going to be a friend of God.。
So if you ever wanted to know, in all your wretchedness,。
in all your rebellion, how to become a friend of God,。
I'm gonna show you in four short verses。
how that can happen.。
And then, after that, I'm gonna tell you。
what you will look like if you are, in fact,。
those four things that he talks about.。
And so, who is saved?。
What they look like?。
And then you're gonna get to verse nine,。
and you're gonna find out what they do.。
And then you're gonna find out, in verse nine,。
or verse 10, what you should expect。
as you endure certain things.。
And then you're gonna find out。
what you should expect ultimately.。
So here we go, you ready?。
Let's take a look.。
Macarius, man.。
Hey, blessedness.。
Blessed are the poor in spirit,。
for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.。
The very first words out of his mouth is,。
you wanna know how you can have a relationship with God.。
And here's the thing.。
This is a shattering verse.。
Because when you were thought of in that day and age。
of being somebody that was rightly related to God,。
you always thought prosperity,。
just like false teachers today will tell you,。
that people who are right with God。
are gonna be filled with health, wealth, and prosperity.。
And that's why there's certain guys。
that they trumpet their wealth,。
they exploit their people,。
and they tell 'em, you give money to God,。
and he's likely to bless you.。
And the more money that's given,。
the more their pockets are feathered,。
the nicer the cars they drive in,。
the bigger the land they live in,。
and they can go, see, I'm God's man,。
look at all the blessing I've got.。
If you keep doing God's work。
by giving to God's man in ministry,。
you'll be blessed too.。
And there's always somebody that their life turns around,。
and they'll drag them up on stage,。
and as P.T. Barnum and Bailey said,。
there's a sucker born every minute.。
And you think, well, maybe I'm the next one.。
Maybe I'm the one that can just give。
a little pledge gift of this much.。
Because if I do this, maybe God's gonna set me up。
with riches here on earth.。
That's not the idea.。
And the Pharisees were individuals。
that trumpeted their wealth,。
that trumpeted their high position,。
that trumpeted their righteousness,。
and they were rich in spirit.。
They were filled with dignity and education.。
And they thought it was a sign。
that they were favorably related to God.。
And Jesus is gonna come,。
and he's gonna flip the entire thing on its head,。
and he's gonna say, that's not the people。
that you need to be,。
if in fact you're rightly related to me.。
And in fact, in verse 20 of this very first chapter。
on the Sermon on the Mount,。
Jesus says this, I'm gonna tell you something.。
Unless your righteousness is more than the Pharisees,。
you will not enter the kingdom of heaven.。
Now, if you hear that, you're like, are you kidding me?。
Unless I'm more righteous than Mother Teresa。
and Billy Graham's love child,。
I don't have a chance?。
Well, then I'm just gonna check out。
and figure out something else that I can do.。
It's why every single religion of the world。
always has a system for you to jump into,。
because that's what makes sense to us,。
is if God is holy, we gotta be at least holier。
than more people, so that maybe,。
'cause he can't send all of us to hell,。
so I just gotta at least beat the curve,。
and so I gotta not be an individual that is a wretch,。
and at least I gotta be better than that guy,。
and that is why when you ask natural man。
if he thinks he's gonna go to heaven,。
he'll always say, well, I mean, I don't know, I hope so.。
I mean, I'm not Hitler.。
Which I'm like, way to go, way to set your bar。
really high there, champ.。
But that's what we do, we always look at somebody else。
who's not as good as us, and we think,。
well, I don't know, but Hitler's not,。
and I'm better than him, so maybe I got a chance,。
and we always compare our righteousness to others,。
and we don't see ourself as in great need。
against the standard.。
He says, unless your righteousness surpasses。
that of the Pharisees, man, you're not gonna make it.。
And then if that's not enough, 28 verses later,。
he says this, hey, here's the deal,。
you should be perfect like your heavenly father is perfect.。
And that's when you're like, okay, what the heck?。
I am gone.。
Jesus says, no, no, no, no, no, listen to me.。
I'm gonna tell you who is saved.。
And what's amazing is that Jesus doesn't tell you。
what you have to do with your hands to build a resume.。
He says, this is what you've gotta do with your heart。
to be righteous.。
Did you catch that?。
Jesus is gonna say what makes you righteous is your heart.。
In fact, a little bit later, when he gets to Mark,。
chapter seven, he says, I'll tell you。
what makes a man filthy.。
It's not his adulteries and his idolatries。
and his immoralities.。
All those things are evidence from what is within.。
What makes a man sick is his heart.。
His heart is desperately sick and deceitful of all else,。
to quote a prophet from the Old Testament.。
And so what Jesus is trying to do is set your heart straight.。
Let me just give you a little story.。
It comes in Luke, chapter 18.。
See, now look, I wanna show you this.。
This is not just the Jews who are always trying。
to follow the law, always trying to be obedient。
to the commandments.。
This happens all the way around in Hinduism.。
If you're not born to the right caste system,。
if you're not part of the Brahmins,。
then, man, you ain't got a chance.。
You gotta figure out a way to work your way up through karma,。
live your life good enough now so that in the next life,。
you can be born up.。
If you're a Dalit, you gotta become a Sudra.。
If you're a Sudra, you gotta become a Vashia.。
If you're a Vashia, you gotta become a Shatryas.。
If you're a Shatryas, you gotta become a Brahmin。
and work your way up.。
And so in this life, if you didn't do so well,。
let's go to the next life and then the next life。
and the next life, and eventually,。
maybe your life will be good enough.。
You'll be one of the highly exalted priests,。
one of the highly exalted ones,。
and you can just clap yourself right up to be a god.。
That's Hinduism or Sikhism.。
How about Buddhism?。
Hey, here's the eightfold path of enlightenment.。
How about Islam?。
Hey, here's the five pillars of Islam.。
Hey, how about this?。
Here's the seven sacraments that'll make you holy.。
And here's the New Testament.。
For by grace,。
you are saved.。
It's a gift from God through faith,。
and that's not of your own,。
not even as a result of works。
so that no man should boast you,。
not as a result of works.。
I thought it was all about my resume.。
And Jesus is saying, "It's all about your heart."。
And he's just saying to you,。
"Do you know what your heart is?。
"Your heart is wicked.。
"Your heart has left me.。
"Your heart doesn't believe that I'm good."。
When you're asked the question,。
what is greater than God,。
you don't stop right there,。
you don't need to say anything else.。
I've already got the answer to the riddle.。
Nothing's greater than God.。
God alone is good.。
I'm not greater than God.。
There's a way that seems right to me,。
but every time I go my own way,。
the way it happens for me,。
it leads to death.。
See, this is our problem.。
When I ask you this riddle,。
what is greater than God,。
you start thinking, "Well, I don't know, sex.。
"I don't know, a really good new movie。
"with my friends and buttered popcorn。
"and two hours of distraction.。
"Well, I don't know, a great job.。
"I don't know, a cute girlfriend.。
"I don't know, an awesome wedding."。
And I'm going, "No, man,。
"I'll tell you what's greater than God.。
"Nothing."。
And so if I can know him, man,。
that alone, if I can be intimate with God,。
my life will be Macarius.。
I'll be blessed.。
But here's the thing, my heart is desperately sick。
and deceitful above all else.。
Look at Luke 18.。
It says, "Jesus told this parable to some people。
"who trusted in themselves,。
"who weren't poor in spirit.。
"They were rich in their own righteousness,。
"that they were righteous,。
"and they viewed others with contempt.。
"Two men went up to the temple to pray,。
"one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector.。
"Tax collectors were thieves.。
"They were traitors."。
It says, "The Pharisee stood and was praying this。
"to himself, 'God, I thank you that I am not。
"'like other people, swindlers, unjust,。
"'adulterers, lower Greenville idiots.'"。
Folks that are down at the stockyards,。
drinking it up, doing more than two-stepping.。
"God, I thank you I'm not like them.。
"I'm a churchman.。
"I fast twice a week, I pay tithes of all that I got."。
But watch this.。
"But the tax collector,。
"standing some distance away," watch this,。
"was unwilling to even lift up his eyes.。
"He was beating his breast,。
"saying, 'God, be merciful on me, a sinner.'"。
See, one guy thought when God kicked the door open,。
he'd find him there, going back over his taxes。
and counting up all that he gave this year to the temple.。
Writing a book report about all the good deeds he had done.。
And the other guy knows when that light comes on。
and that door was kicked open,。
that there was a lot there that shouldn't be.。
And see, the Pharisee was comparing himself。
to the tax collector, because they were in the same room。
called humanity and earth.。
But what the Pharisee didn't realize。
is what he was to compare himself to。
was not the tax collector, but to the holiness of God.。
And the truth is, is that both of them。
needed to put their head in shame.。
And say, "I got no resume at the standard of perfection,。
"'cause I'm a sinner.。
"'I'm filled with pride, hatred for my fellow man,。
"'self-exaltation, and self-righteousness.。
"'And those are not things consistent。
"'with the character and nature of God.。
"'Blessed are the poor in spirit.'"。
And what's he telling you here?。
He's telling you, "These are people。
"that can be rightly related to me,。
"people that know that they are bankrupt,。
"that there is no eightfold path,。
"there is no karma they can build up,。
"there is no five pillars,。
"there is no sacrament that they can accomplish,。
"there is no resume, man."。
'Cause their resume is this, "I'm a sinner.。
"And the wages of sin is death, that's all I got."。
Now listen, some of you guys in your room。
in your worst moment, you weren't a pedophile.。
Some of y'all weren't pornographers.。
Some of y'all weren't murdering children.。
But I've never been anywhere in a room。
where I said, "Is there anybody in this room。
"that thinks they're without sin?"。
That somebody went, (whistles)。
"I'm a sinner."。
Never been there.。
In fact, you know what's amazing about Jesus?。
Jesus, at one time, in the face of his enemies,。
a little bit later in the story,。
they were accusing him of blaspheming.。
And he says, "Hey man, if you don't believe my words,。
"why don't you just look at what I do?。
"In fact, has anybody here ever seen me do anything wrong?"。
(laughs)。
And because he wasn't just born of the beautiful one Mary,。
because he was born of God, guess what they all did?。
They were silent.。
Nobody could say he had done anything wrong.。
He'd been tempted in every way as you and I have been,。
yet he's without sin.。
(exhales)。
That's your God.。
You wanna be saved?。
This is how you're saved.。
You know that you're morally and spiritually bankrupt.。
You got nothing.。
Blessed are those who mourn.。
In fact, you're so bankrupt that all you do。
is you put your head down and you weep and go,。
"God, if you kick in that door。
"and you shine your light on what I've done,。
"not only do I have a resume that's not righteous,。
"I got a resume that is wretched."。
And man, I get it, I deserve judgment.。
(laughs)。
But the people that are brokenhearted。
and just saying, "God, if you're there, if you're good,。
"if there's any way you can restore your little girl。
"that's left you and spurned your ways,。
"man, Dad, if you're really a king and I'm a prince,。
"if there's anything you can do to come in。
"and restore the glory that I have lost, man,。
"but I mourn at what I've done to your name。
"and what I've done to your relationship."。
Blessed are the gentle, for they shall inherit the earth.。
That word right there, humble and meek,。
is the word for gentle, it's the same word.。
It's a word that so many people misunderstand。
because when you hear the word meek,。
blessed are the meek, you kind of think of Mr. Rogers,。
right, it's a beautiful day in the neighborhood.。
Or you think, maybe you think of the wrong view of Jesus,。
like he puts a little lamb around his neck,。
he picks flowers, he quotes poetry.。
Hey man, you need to get another view of Jesus.。
This is no weak, meek man, this is a man。
among men, this is a guy who's taken on。
the greatest authority in the world.。
He's not flinching when they tell him。
that they think that they can save him。
because he knows exactly who he is.。
What he is though, is he is a man that knows God,。
and he is strong, and when he is reviled,。
he doesn't need to revile in return。
because he knows there's one who judges rightly。
and he's got his back.。
And so when Pilate says, "Don't you know who I am?。
"Don't you know I can save you?"。
He leans up in his beaten state,。
he goes, "Let me tell you who I am, bro.。
"You've got no power over me.。
"You've got no power except my Father in Heaven。
"gave it to you, and he gave it to you。
"that you might in your deluded state,。
"in your cowardly state, who wants to be popular。
"and protected by the opinions of men,。
"be in a position where you can throw me on a cross,。
"but let me just tell you something,。
"you're not gonna put me on a cross, that's my cross.。
"I'm gonna lay my life down, and three days later,。
"I'm gonna take it back up again."。
Now you carry on, Pilate.。
That's your man.。
Can I tell you something beautiful?。
One of my favorite gifts I got,。
I turned 50 a couple years ago,。
and I got a lot of gifts for my 50th anniversary,。
but this is probably my favorite one of them.。
It's a children's book.。
I'm gonna read it to you tonight,。
'cause it's a right view of what it means to be gentle,。
and I want you to get a glimpse of this.。
It's not just 'cause it's a children's book,。
but because a guy wrote this in the front of it.。
He said, "Matthew 5:5, 'Blessed are the meek,。
"'for they will inherit the earth.'。
"And what do you give a man for his 50th birthday。
"when he has done so much for you?"。
A children's book, of course.。
This is a story, it's my story,。
of which you play a most important role.。
On January 19th, 2003,。
22 minutes and 10 seconds into your message,。
you told an abbreviated version of this book,。
and my heart held onto it at the Lord's beckoning.。
And then, just a few years later,。
as God continued through your words and others。
to work in my life, my life radically changed.。
You invited me, in fact, three years later,。
because of my radical transformation,。
to jump up and start to share parts of my story.。
You believed in me when you shouldn't have.。
Frankly, the Lord blessed me。
through your faithfulness and obedience.。
From you, I've learned the important lessons。
of trusting and obeying,。
that the Lord always knows, even if no one else does,。
that Pharaoh never misses his Joseph,。
that humility looks good on everyone.。
Don't go somewhere, be sent by someone,。
and we are not truly free。
until we are fully submissive to our masters,。
and so much more.。
Thank you for introducing me to my master.。
Watch this.。
Thank you for making me meek.。
This guy went on to write this.。
I'm gonna read you this story,。
and I'm gonna tell you who wrote that note.。
The story's called "Thunderhoof."。
Here's a picture of Thunderhoof right there, man.。
Look at him.。
Are you ready?。
Way out west, one great horse still ran wild.。
His name was Thunderhoof.。
(audience laughing)。
Cowboys tried to catch him, but he ran too fast for them.。
They got a rope around his neck, man.。
He shook it off.。
This was his stud, this was his stallion.。
It's Thunderhoof.。
Nobody will ever catch me, said Thunderhoof,。
and he went on running across the open range.。
Every night he slept under the blue sky.。
One day when Thunderhoof woke up, he found the rivers dry.。
There was no water to left to drink.。
He got so weak he could not run.。
He got so weak he could hardly walk.。
When a rope landed on his neck, he could not shake it off.。
You ever been there, man?。
When all your pride, you're running where you run,。
you can shake it off, but all of a sudden you're weak,。
and you're captive to something。
you never thought would catch you.。
Come with us, said some cowboys.。
They took Thunderhoof back to the ranch.。
They gave him water, man.。
They gave him hay.。
They brushed him.。
They rubbed his nose.。
They took the burrs out of his mane.。
And they said, "Nice horse.。
"Nice little fella."。
They put a saddle on Thunderhoof.。
They tried to ride him.。
Uh-uh, uh-uh, uh-uh.。
Off went one cowboy.。
Now, you can put a carrot in my mouth.。
You can give me a sugar cube,。
but don't you saddle up, cowboy.。
Off went another cowboy.。
Nobody could ever stay on Thunderhoof very long.。
"It's no use keeping that horse," said the ranch owner.。
"We might as well turn him loose.。
"We're not gonna make him stay."。
They took the saddle off Thunderhoof,。
and they let him go, opened the gate, man.。
We're not gonna beat him.。
If Thunderhoof doesn't wanna get what we've got to give him,。
let him go.。
Thunderhoof went back to the open range.。
Once more, he ran wild.。
What do you think's gonna happen?。
Once more, he slept under the blue sky.。
He's free again.。
He's strong again.。
He been nursed back to health.。
But it rained.。
There was water to drink.。
But Thunderhoof was not happy.。
He missed having someone brush him,。
rub his nose, take the burrs out of his mane,。
and say, "Nice horse.。
"Nice old fellow."。
Thunderhoof went back to the ranch.。
He let them put that saddle on him.。
This time, he let the cowboy ride him.。
"I think I'll stay here," said Thunderhoof.。
"I think I'll stay right here for good."。
And he did.。
And what he was created for, this source of strength。
and glory to something greater than him,。
where his beauty was fully known。
and his strength was fully deployed,。
became evident to all, and he was cared for。
and loved and nursed to health and protected。
and provided for in every way that he was created to be.。
That's meekness, man.。
You're still a stallion.。
You don't stop being what God intended you to be,。
but now all of a sudden, you're in relationship。
with the one that can bring forward your glory.。
And guess what?。
He can take care of the burrs.。
He can take care of that impoverished, cold,。
empty, lonely way in the wind.。
That's a little book that JP gave me on my 50th birthday.。
And he said, "That's my story."。
'Cause I thought I was a stallion on lower Greenville.。
I thought I was a stallion down there in the stockyards.。
I wasn't a stallion.。
I was cold.。
I had lots of burrs in my heart.。
And I heard you talk about who God was and I believed you.。
And he has set me free.。
So when you think of what it means to be gentle,。
I want you to think of the strength of this man。
that God's using along with others that know God。
to be a blessing in this city。
and not destruction to some little girl's heart.。
And it's a beautiful thing, amen?。
Blessed are those who are gentle,。
for they shall inherit the earth.。
You wanna tell you, what do you think, man?。
JP 2003 is doing something in Dallas or JP 2015?。
Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness,。
for they shall be satisfied.。
Let me just say about this, man.。
This is who is, this is what they look like, okay?。
This is, who is saved are those who are poor in spirit。
and know they're not righteous,。
that weep over their sinful state。
and that then just submit themselves to God.。
That's who's saved.。
Notice, I didn't talk a bit about what you had to do.。
It's who you are.。
You know that you are a sinner in the hand of an angry God。
and you are finding out tonight。
that what God is, is tender towards you.。
And the door's kicked open, the light's coming in right now.。
The first time he comes, he goes,。
hey man, you wanna be happy?。
Come here, man, saddle up.。
Here's a little sugar.。
Come here, shh, here's some water.。
Let me refresh you.。
He starts to show you his love.。
If you wanna run away from him again,。
if you wanna taste of his goodness and run back out,。
he'll let you do it, Thunder Hook.。
But there's gonna be a time when you just,。
you just gently just lay yourself down in humility。
and you just say, okay, Jesus,。
I'm not gonna lean on my own understanding anymore,。
but in all your way, all my ways,。
I'm gonna acknowledge you.。
That's the heart of somebody who's saved.。
When somebody asks them a riddle,。
what's greater than God?。
You go, stop right there, nothing.。
(congregation laughing)。
So this is what they look like, man.。
They hunger and thirst for righteousness.。
And here's the amazing thing, they will be satisfied.。
I wanna ask you this, man,。
do you wanna know if you're saved?。
Do you have a spiritual appetite?。
Do you long for the pure milk of the word?。
Did you come here 'cause you're hoping to meet some chick?。
Some guy?。
Hook up with some friends, have a good memory,。
be numb from your pain, you T-boat your favorite show,。
you'll get to go back and watch it,。
but for a while you run with the crowd,。
but you're not really looking to find life here,。
you're looking to just continue running your program.。
No, are you hunger and thirst for righteousness?。
Are you longing to get in biblical community?。
Do you want somebody to teach you more of your master?。
Do you want, not like a horse with a bitten bridle,。
but somebody who's just willingly listening。
to the gentle coaxing of a master。
to run where he tells you to run。
and the meadows he tells you to run with。
because you know that God is good。
and every word you're just sitting there like,。
speak to me, I wanna know more of you。
because I know your kind.。
That's what people who have wept over their sin。
who are broken hearted about their sin。
and impoverished without God, they know they are,。
and who just say, not my will but your will be done.。
That's who's saved.。
And people who say that, they go, now tell me more.。
You've told me how to get saved, now tell me how to live.。
Tell me now how to pursue righteousness,。
faith, love, and peace.。
Show me others who pursue God from a pure heart.。
That's what they look like.。
That's what people who look like say.。
Now notice what it says, they will be satisfied.。
They will be satisfied.。
Let me just do this to you real quickly.。
Because here's the thing.。
Sometimes we look at all the Thunderhursts。
that are out there, man,。
they're running around all these cities。
and they're everywhere.。
And we fret because of evil doers.。
We are envious towards wrongdoers。
'cause they're out there, they're getting after it.。
They're breeding with every, you know,。
mare on the range.。
And the bigger stallion they are,。
the more they bite the smaller ones。
and they're just, and they're getting out of there.。
And they're just, there's a stampede of sin。
and rebellion and victory.。
And you're like, that looks, I don't know, man.。
But watch this, here's the thing.。
Is it says when they run out there。
and they're getting after it,。
it says they will wither quickly like the grass.。
You just keep watching Thunderhoof.。
You watch how long Greenville satisfies them.。
It doesn't, man.。
They got to move on to darker and darker places.。
They go to Deep Ellum.。
All right.。
And then they go to Lodebar, you know.。
And then they just go to just real darkness。
and they go, I can never get out of here.。
(congregation laughing)。
And they start piercing themselves and spacing themselves。
and numbing themselves and tracking themselves。
and tatting themselves and cutting themselves.。
Just watch Thunderhoof, man.。
You watch it.。
But it says those who hunger and thirst after righteousness,。
they'll be satisfied.。
This is the amazing, this is Psalm 37.。
It says, delight yourself in the Lord。
and he will give you the desires of your heart.。
In other words, nothing else will.。
It doesn't mean if you seek God,。
you're gonna get your car, you're gonna get your lady,。
you're gonna get your job, you're gonna get your house.。
No, it means you're gonna get the one thing。
that the human heart really wants.。
A loving master who whispers word of redemption。
and life to you, who can heal you, who heals your diseases,。
who renews your years like the eagle,。
who redeems your life from the pit.。
Bro.。
But isn't this amazing?。
This is the very first words that God speaks。
when he comes crashing onto earth and we see God fully.。
We've always heard about God.。
We imagine what God was like, but now God is here.。
He says, you wanna know what God is like?。
Look at me.。
You wanna hear God speak?。
Listen to me speak.。
I want you to be blessed.。
Sin will not bless you.。
Sin always leads to death.。
I know you haven't felt the full sting of death yet,。
Thunderhoof, but that's where you're headed, man.。
To a desert.。
Come here.。
When it says, if you hunger and thirst after righteousness,。
in other words, righteousness is what you were designed for.。
It's why people who start to dabble in stuff。
that's not righteous, when they try and meet。
a God-given need in a God-forbidden way。
or a legitimate need in an illegitimate way,。
are never satisfied.。
They always need more.。
That's why sin always gets darker。
and our imaginations run riot.。
Psalm 106 says that God gives, Thunderhoof,。
the desires of their heart,。
but he sends leanness to their soul。
because that food that they're eating。
is not going to satisfy them.。
Riddle, guess what happens if you eat sin?。
It ain't nothing.。
You die.。
And because the hearts of men among them。
see people eat sin and not die immediately,。
they go, I guess it wasn't that bad, give me the apple.。
But make no mistake, man.。
You know, God, you were in a hunger for righteousness.。
Do you want more of that?。
That's the evidence, man.。
If you're not seeing that, you're not saved。
because you want righteous things.。
The evidence that you've now got a different view of God。
is that you run towards him.。
Give me more of him.。
Watch this, this is what else they do.。
Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy.。
They're being changed, okay?。
They have been forgiven much, and so they love much.。
Jesus tells this story in Luke chapter seven, verse 36.。
He was at a table with a Pharisee。
and they're having a conversation.。
And all of a sudden, some woman come crashing in.。
And this woman saw Jesus reclining at the table.。
She brought an alabaster vial full of perfume.。
Standing between him and his feet, she starts weeping.。
She began to wet his feet with her tears.。
And she kept wiping them with her hair of her head,。
the scripture says, kissing his feet.。
I mean, how awkward is this scene, okay?。
The way they used to eat, they'd be laying down like this.。
There's Jesus, he took his shoes off。
'cause he's a nice guest.。
He left them at the door.。
And in comes this woman, it says an immoral woman。
whose heart was hardened and her life was defined by sin.。
But she was bankrupt.。
And she was mourning.。
And she wanted a new master,。
not the men that rode her all around town,。
but she wanted somebody that was tender towards her.。
And she heard about this guy who loves women like her.。
And she came in weeping.。
And this is Jesus.。
Can you imagine that?。
He's carrying on a conversation。
while some woman is kissing his feet。
and wetting his feet with tears.。
He's going, "Hey, Simon, let me ask you a question."。
I mean, this is funny to me, okay?。
In one sense, tragic, but I don't know how,。
you know, it would have tickled or something.。
(laughing)。
Simon, I can't stop laughing.。
Right?。
But no, I mean, it's a tender moment.。
What is going on right here, it says,。
he looks at Simon, he said,。
"Hey, man, Simon, let me ask you a question, bro."。
'Cause Simon was looking at him and going,。
"You're no prophet.。
"If you were a prophet, you'd know who that was。
"at your feet."。
He goes, "Well, you're right, I'm more than a prophet.。
"I'm God.。
"And this is how I feel towards sinners。
"when they are poor in spirit and mourning。
"and looking for a new master。
"that won't ride 'em for some tithe, Pharisee,。
"or some pleasure, heathen."。
He said, "Let me ask you a question.。
"When I came in, did you even wash my feet?。
"Did you even have any one of your servants。
"tend to my feet?。
"No, but this woman, she came in here with her tears。
"and with her life savings, and she broke it over me.。
"Let me ask you a question.。
"If one guy owed 500 days wages to a guy,。
"another guy owed 50 days wages to a guy,。
"and he was forgiven both of those people,。
"which one of those two would appreciate him more?"。
He goes, "Well, I guess the guy with 500."。
He goes, "Way to go, Einstein, Pharisee.。
"Nice job, well done.。
"It's that one.。
"She knows how much she's been forgiven.。
"But here's the thing, you're in debt to me, too.。
"But you just keep comparing yourself to Manson.。
"But bro, you owe me everything.。
"I'm gonna throw your little tail into sinner's prison。
"unless you start to figure out the reason she's like that。
"is she's been forgiven much, and so she loves me much.。
"You haven't been forgiven a lick.。
"That's why I couldn't even get a bowl of water from you.。
"You better lower your head, beat your chest,。
"and cry for mercy."。
See that?。
This is what people that are saved like,。
are you a merciful person?。
Are you like some people, I'll never forgive you.。
I'm like, oh, oh, don't say that.。
Jesus, in the Sermon on the Mount a little bit later,。
is gonna have you come across this little amazing thing。
called the Lord's Prayer.。
He teaches you how to pray in this little message.。
And in that message, he's gonna say,。
"Father, teach us to forgive our trespasses。
"as we forgive those who trespass against us."。
In other words, if you're not forgiving other people,。
he goes, "I'll forgive you the way you don't forgive people.。
"I won't forgive you."。
Why?。
Because I want you to be like me.。
And I want me to help you love like I love.。
Thunder Hoof, you gonna let me, Thunder Hoof, shepherd you?。
This is what they look like, man.。
They hunger and thirst for righteousness,。
they're merciful, and they're pure in heart,。
for they shall see God.。
Look at what this means.。
You wanna see life, okay?。
It doesn't mean they're sinless.。
It means that their heart is directed more and more。
towards righteousness.。
And what is happening here is they're not being conformed。
to the world, but their heart is now being directed。
towards God because the Holy Spirit lives in you.。
All right, that's what happens when all of a sudden。
you start to see God correctly.。
That is a work of the Spirit.。
So you see God for who he is.。
The Spirit exalts God, the Spirit celebrates God,。
the Spirit is God, the Spirit wants you to know more of God.。
And so your heart will begin to follow him.。
And if you're not following him,。
it's because you're not born in spirit,。
you haven't mourned over your sin,。
and you're not asking God to lead you.。
Because if God is lead, if you're saved on those conditions,。
then you will be somebody who is merciful.。
You will hunger and thirst for more of this God。
that you know is good.。
And you will have your heart consistently be pure.。
And this is the deal, listen to this.。
You won't be conformed to the world,。
but you'll be transformed by the renewing of your mind.。
And then you will, it says in Romans 12 too,。
it says, and then you will prove the will of God.。
In other words, it doesn't mean that your life。
is going to become this glorious thing.。
It means that you will prove out that the will of God。
is good and acceptable and perfect.。
It's what Thunderhoof experienced.。
And he goes, hey man, you know what?。
With that cowboy, the cowboy, the king and creator。
of the world, that was the good life.。
And you're gonna experience that.。
And the more you seek God, the more you're going。
to experience what God is.。
That's Romans 12 too.。
Not conformed to the world, but being transformed。
by the renewing of your mind, because your mind listens。
to the spirit, so that you can experience in your own life,。
prove out that God's way is good, it's acceptable,。
it's perfect.。
That's why you see those of us who have come。
to know Christ here, saying come and see, man.。
Come to the porch, I want you to meet Jesus.。
Because we're saying, it's so much better。
than what you think you're finding out there。
in the open range.。
Quickly, not only do we have who is saved,。
not only do we know what they look like,。
but this is what they do, they are peacemakers.。
Why, because you're a son of God, and what is God?。
God is a peacemaker.。
He came in order to reconcile you to God,。
and so if you are related to God, if you are a person。
that really knows the goodness of God,。
you are gonna be telling other people,。
let me tell you about God, man.。
He's not looking for you to build a resume.。
He has built a cross, and he hung himself on it,。
that you might be saved.。
Let me make peace with you and God,。
by telling you about the gospel of peace.。
That's what people who are related to God do,。
and you're very happy, because all of a sudden,。
your life matters, and it's not about the next car,。
or the next girlfriend, or the next sexual experience,。
or the next big football game.。
It's about changing somebody's forever.。
And you go, man, this is the good life.。
And I can't imagine anything else like it.。
And I'm a peacemaker.。
Let me ask you a question, gang.。
How are your relationships defined?。
If your relationships are not defined by peace,。
in other words, if you leave a wreckage of sin,。
separation, anxiety, and hate, and insecurity,。
if you are not into low-impact dating,。
where your trash and your footprints。
are where they shouldn't be,。
and your handprints are where it shouldn't be,。
whew,。
now watch this, you're not saved,。
because you don't screw up somebody's campground,。
you don't screw up somebody's campground,。
because you're saved.。
And if every relationship you've got,。
or the ones you get into, are not defined by peace,。
man, that should concern you.。
It's what they do, man, they're peacemakers.。
And listen, this is what they should endure.。
They're gonna endure some persecution。
for the sake of righteousness.。
Now notice this, you're gonna be persecuted。
for Jesus' sake, not because you're an idiot,。
not because you're a sister birthed or better than you,。
not because you walk around and go,。
well, that's a bad sin, I never did that sin.。
Okay, those kind of people are self-righteous.。
But listen, if you call good good in today's day and age,。
and if you call evil evil in today's day and age,。
the world's gonna hate you.。
You're gonna be a minority people in a majority world。
that loves darkness and hates the light.。
But if you start to say, no, I'm not gonna fudge。
on who the cowboy is that can ride and roll your life,。
the cowboy is Christ, and the cowboy is loving,。
and his standard is true, and his words are infallible。
and inerrant, and they should illumine your heart,。
they're gonna say, don't you dare tell me that.。
I'm gonna tell you that my God says it's okay,。
and I'm gonna tell them that the God。
that you say you worship is not a holy God,。
because he doesn't contradict himself.。
And they're gonna say, you intolerant bigot.。
You don't know me, and you don't know right,。
and they're gonna hate you.。
Can I just tell you something, man?。
Truth sounds like hate to those who hate the truth.。
And Jesus says, if they hate you, don't be surprised.。
Man, they hated me.。
You're just my disciple, and you just keep loving them.。
He's gonna tell you in this little story。
how to relate to the world.。
And he's gonna say, love them.。
And when reviled, don't revile in return, man.。
Don't be Westboro Baptist.。
The world rightly hates them.。
They're not hating Jesus when they hate them.。
But you love people with truth.。
This is what else you should expect.。
You should expect that people will insult you。
and persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil。
against you because of Jesus.。
But rejoice and be glad, 'cause he's gonna make。
this personal right now for you.。
You will experience reward that is great.。
Because they didn't put me down and keep me down,。
but I was resurrected to life,。
and you will follow me in that.。
And I am who I said I was,。
and all who know me will follow me.。
Hey, guys, can I just tell you something, man?。
I mean, listen, I got nothing to gain.。
I'm not selling anything.。
Except I'm gonna tell you, my room was dark,。
and God kicked it in.。
The light came flushing in, and I wanted to be embarrassed。
and hide in guilt and shame, but I listened to him,。
and what he said is, hey, Todd,。
I wanna make you the man I designed you to be.。
Come here, come here, come here.。
Hey, Thunderhoof, come here.。
Hey, Stud, hey, Stallion, shh, shh.。
I mean, you wanna throw down,。
I'm gonna throw down eventually.。
But for now, I'm gonna just, I'm gonna welcome you out.。
I'm gonna woo you out.。
I'm gonna be a sin whisperer.。
Come here, shh.。
There's life out here.。
About the time I was your age, I started following Jesus.。
Today, I got an email from a little girl。
who has been raised in my home.。
She happens to be 4,000 miles away from me.。
She said, Dad, pray for me, I'm having a hard day.。
And then she wrote me this note in the middle。
of her hard day.。
Dad, it's day 10 here in Spain.。
Time's moving fast and really slow all at the same time.。
There are moments when I can't believe。
I've been here this long, and then moments。
where I can't believe that I only have been here。
for 10 days, I miss you a lot, more than I thought I would.。
Probably because I know I live with a family。
that is really different from ours.。
In other words, she's living now。
in an immersion Spanish program over in Spain.。
She goes, the family I'm living with over here。
is not like my family.。
It has made me so thankful for the countless blessings。
that God has given our family.。
It's made me want to fight for my relationships。
with you and Mom and my five brothers and sisters even more.。
Mom and Dad, thank you for the way。
that you have chosen to love God, each other and us.。
I am so thankful for your investment and your shepherding.。
Thank you for introducing us to Christ,。
for modeling how to be strong and obedient men。
and women of faith.。
I cannot imagine how different my life would be without you,。
and especially without the Lord.。
I have met so many kids and so many friends。
who are over here in the same experience that I'm in,。
with all kinds of backgrounds,。
none of them really loving, none of them coming。
from a family like ours, or a relationship with the God。
that you have shown me.。
I am so blessed to know Jesus.。
There are a lot of hurting people out there, Dad,。
and I'm so thankful to God for how he's chosen each of us。
and given us life.。
God is so good.。
It's very humbling to remember that I had nothing to do。
with being born in this family,。
and to be given the many gifts that I have,。
a few things that I'm thankful for today.。
We love each other unconditionally.。
We love to spend time together.。
We cherish family time.。
We communicate, we know each other.。
We care about each other's lives.。
We support and invest in each other.。
I love that you guys know me as well as my friends do,。
that you all love me and you consider me your friend.。
We encourage each other.。
We seek to make each other better.。
We serve each other.。
We have fun together.。
I know that we struggle sometimes,。
but we have it so good, better than we know.。
I am praying that we take more advantage。
of the incredible blessing with which we have been given.。
God has been so good to us.。
Hey, Macarena.。
I mean, that's the letter I got today.。
Can I tell you something?。
I wanted to cheat on her, Mom.。
Can I tell you something?。
I wanted to be abusive to my kids and exasperate them。
and tell them to shut up.。
I wanted to live my own way.。
I wanted to give my heart away to porn.。
I wanted to numb myself.。
That's who I wanted to be.。
That's who I still want to be,。
except I have listened to the God whisperers.。
Todd, you can go that way if you want, bro.。
You can have all the riotous weekends you want in Vegas, man.。
You can make that your destiny,。
or you can just follow me and I'm gonna saddle you up.。
And here's the deal, Todd.。
Todd, listen to me.。
If you ride with me, man, this is your legacy.。
This is the way that kings, glorious men live.。
Their little girls say that.。
So I've never had an affair.。
I've never given myself away to wanton pleasures.。
I've lived my life the way that my Savior told me to live.。
And can I tell you something?。
I'm 30 years ahead of you.。
This is the good life, baby.。
And when Jesus showed up and said,。
psst, hey, man, you want to be blessed?。
Let's go.。
I'm not rich.。
I'm richer than most.。
I'm richer than I should be.。
But man, I am rich.。
God is good.。
And he's gonna tell you about the good life。
these next 10 weeks, amen?。
If you don't know him, would you just go,。
bro, I tell you, you don't know how dark my room is.。
I don't care how dark your room is.。
The door's gonna open up.。
He's inviting you to come out of the darkness。
into his marvelous light.。
And I'm here to tell you, man, it's marvelous.。
Temptation is still very real to me.。
I watch lots of stallions my age。
still riotously living, and I wonder.。
And then I get letters like that, and I don't wonder at all.。
Men hate me because I stand for righteousness.。
I'm not included in certain parties and weekends。
and invitations, just like Jesus.。
And I am blessed.。
Let me pray with you.。
(congregation applauding)。
Father, I pray that my friends in this room。
would listen to the words of Jesus。
and that somehow my words have illumined them for them,。
that what you're saying is, hey, man,。
you wanna be happy?。
Come here.。
I'm the God of happiness.。
I'm the God of the blessed way.。
Father, that you went the way of the curse.。
You went and hung on a tree that you would make your son,。
who knew no sin, to become sin on my behalf,。
that I might become the righteousness of God in him,。
and so that guilt and shame wouldn't defy me,。
that the wages of my sin wouldn't lead to death,。
but the wages of your righteousness for my sin。
would lead me to life.。
And I pray that this morning, this afternoon, this evening,。
there'd be somebody in this room tonight,。
in Fort Worth tonight,。
somebody listening by podcast tonight。
that would decide that they're sick and tired。
of being sick and tired.。
And they would hear that you're kicking in。
the room of their heart tonight。
and you're coming in with light and love.。
There's gonna be a day you're gonna kick it in。
and you're gonna come to make, you know,。
SEAL Team Six look like a bunch of kindergartners,。
but today's the day of salvation.。
And you woo 'em out through the door that is Jesus Christ.。
And I pray that they would listen to me as I testify。
that his is the blessed way.。
That they would believe that the blessed man。
does not walk in the counsel of the wicked。
or stand in the path of sinners。
or sit in the seat of scoffers,。
but his delight is in the law of the Lord。
and on that law he meditates day and night.。
Father, would you bring your children,。
would you let those that are of your fold hear your voice?。
May they look at you tonight and say,。
"Hey, Jesus, saddle up.。
"Ride me in all your glory and grace and strength.。
"Make me whole."。
Father, I pray for those of us that have already trusted you。
as the cowboy king, that we would be more eager,。
hunger more, thirst more for you to lead us than ever。
because we have been reminded tonight that your way is good.。
Remind us now through song that your way is good。
and your word is true.。
The word is true.。
