- James is made up of 108 verses.。
54 of them are imperatives.。
An imperative is a command.。
(dramatic music)。
That Jesus was not just his half brother, he was his Lord.。
- Well, hello, poor, guys, sorry about that.。
I'm like still putting my things down.。
Hi, friends, my name is Josh Thames,。
and like you heard, I get to be part of our team。
over in Fort Worth, so welcome to everybody in the room.。
Welcome to all of our friends online。
in Scottsdale, Arizona, Boise, Idaho,。
and especially you in Fort Worth, friends.。
Hey, here's what I wanna do.。
I'm gonna pray for us, and then we'll jump in.。
Sound good?。
Y'all bow with me.。
Father, thank you for the opportunity tonight。
to gather around your word,。
and thank you for the fact that it is living and active。
and that it changes hearts.。
It is a sweet thing to be in a room full of people。
that want to learn about you, know more about you,。
and Father, I pray that if there is anyone。
in the room tonight that doesn't know you。
as their Lord and Savior, would tonight be the night。
that you miraculously show them just like,。
man, how desperately they need you。
and how great you love them?。
Father, I pray that as we jump into James,。
would you, man, get me out of the way.。
Would nothing that I say that comes just from me,。
Father, be heard tonight,。
but would you just speak through me?。
Father, would you clear just my head。
and all the insecurities that it's easy to have here,。
Father, and may, yeah, again, your word speak through me.。
It's your name we pray, amen.。
Okay, friends, I'm really excited to be in the room tonight.。
It's been a while since I've got to be here,。
and here's where I'd like to start.。
I'd like to tell you guys a little bit about myself, okay?。
So a little bit about me is I grew up in the Midwest。
on a farm.。
We didn't actually farm it.。
We just lived on the farm, okay?。
And then I was one of those kids,。
I was kind of like geared towards, I don't know,。
adventurous or maybe you might call reckless things.。
I just loved to do things that were crazy, right?。
So I had a little like XR70 dirt bike,。
and I would just jump everything, okay?。
It's kind of wired that way.。
And after some time,。
I was introduced to the wonderful sport of rodeo, okay?。
Specifically bull riding.。
Wow, okay, thank you.。
Yeah, yes, yeah, it's really amazing.。
It's one of your better career choices.。
And so this is what I did.。
Jumped into high school rodeo, okay?。
Jumped into high school rodeo.。
And then one day, one of my like high school buddies。
was like, "Bro, we should go down the road.。
There's a pro rodeo."。
At this point, I'm only 17, right?。
I'm not supposed to be there.。
Like, we'll just lie to them, tell them we're 18,。
we'll get in.。
So I was like, I'm in, I'm in.。
And so we go, go to the first pro rodeo of my life.。
And that night I ended up winning that thing.。
So in a matter,。
if you guys don't know how bull riding works,。
you like strap yourself to a really wild animal。
and then you just like make a funny face。
for as long as possible and try not to fall off, okay?。
That's what you do.。
And I did that twice in a row.。
So 16 seconds later, and I made $8,000.。
Right, that's what I thought.。
I was like, I cracked the code.。
I know exactly what I'm gonna do.。
Like, this is gonna be awesome, you know?。
And yeah, throw those pictures back up there.。
I know sometimes I no longer like look or dress。
like I rode bulls anymore.。
So I really, I was trying to like show,。
I really did do this thing.。
It's really fun.。
So that, what I did is I went home to mom and dad。
and I was like, "Mom, dad, it's been great.。
High school was awesome."。
Two weeks into junior year, said, "I'm out."。
I did the math.。
I'm like, I make way more, you know, 16 seconds,。
eight grand than all of my friends who graduated college.。
You know?。
And so I said no to high school, bought a minivan,。
turned a little miniature motor home,。
threw my pit bull named cowboy in there。
and off we went, you know?。
My dad, of course, had the like,。
"Doesn't the Bible say something about testing the Lord。
and isn't this kind of dangerous?"。
Like, "Ah, we'll figure it out," you know?。
And so that is what I did.。
And here's why, here's what happened.。
In 16 seconds, my life, I was like,。
"I just made so much money.。
And this is like, this is seriously going to be epic.。
Like I can make all this money, I can do whatever I want.。
I can be totally free."。
Here's the thing about bull riding is like,。
no one's in charge of me.。
I don't have a coach.。
I got to go wherever I wanted to go.。
And then I made $8,000 this night。
and then I did it again and I did it again.。
And I truly was like, "Man, I'm going to do this."。
And no matter what person you meet,。
no matter what cowboy or how cowboy they are,。
here's the deal.。
If someone wasn't paying me,。
if there wasn't money involved in riding bulls,。
the only people I do are like your drunk cousins,。
like, "Bro, check this out."。
You know, like no one would actually do this.。
But because of this love of and pursuit of both money。
and the significance that I found in it,。
I dove like head first.。
And it really is like comical to think that like,。
I like willingly was strapping myself,。
literally tying myself to 1500 pounds of wild animal。
in the hopes that I would get a paycheck.。
And so the reason I start there is because James,。
tonight is going to show us that our money talks.。
You can write that down.。
Our money talks.。
Your money says something about you.。
Most of you are thinking, "Yes, my money mostly says goodbye,"。
which I understand.。
Here's why this is so important though,。
is because money determines a lot, a lot in your life,。
whether you have it or you don't.。
It determines like where you live, what you do for fun,。
like which college you went to,。
and even like what major you picked,。
what clothes you wear, if you have clothes to wear.。
Money is how we acquire food.。
It's how we acquire shelter.。
It's also how we acquire value for our skills。
and the work that we do is in exchange for money.。
And here's what that means.。
It's like money just hits different.。
Like it has a unique role in our lives.。
Like it is like truly,。
like there is something like really deep down,。
even all the way to survival,。
like God in his kindness designed money。
to be something that we needed,。
that we couldn't be dependent.。
And you see, that's what makes money so dangerous,。
is that because if you get enough of it,。
because it is how you can exchange it for like,。
not only for like clothes and food,。
but how you can begin to like have fun with it.。
And people begin to like look at you different。
if you have a lot of it.。
Money, you gain enough money,。
begins to make you feel like,。
maybe I don't need God.。
Like maybe I can be independent.。
Maybe I can be autonomous.。
And so what was meant to remind us of our dependence。
and need soon becomes why we forget,。
because we have a lot of it.。
'Cause I'm going, I can take care of myself now.。
I've got money, God, I don't need you.。
You just kind of stay in that place。
and I'll just do whatever I want.。
Here's what I want you to know.。
This isn't a message where we're trying to get your money。
and also God doesn't want your money.。
He owns it all.。
He doesn't want your money to get you.。
And so James is gonna dive into this this evening.。
And here's the thing.。
Some of you, some of you aren't just putting like。
eight seconds of your life on the line for money.。
Some of you, it's like eight years or 80 years,。
or maybe the entirety of your life。
all centered around the one goal of acquiring more money.。
So as we said already, we are in the book of James。
and James is really cool.。
This is just for free.。
James, I think is like the greatest to me.。
I'm going like, hey, this is how I know Jesus is real.。
Because James, this dude's brother says he was God.。
And I don't know if you guys have siblings,。
but I don't know what I would have to do.。
One of my siblings is here.。
And what I would have to do to convince him I was God.。
Right?。
And I'm going like, hey, James,。
James is like one of the greatest proofs。
that Jesus was really real.。
And so James, he's the half brother of Jesus.。
And at this time, as he's writing this letter,。
he's the leader of the church in Jerusalem,。
really just the first church that started.。
And he's writing this letter to all the Christians。
that are scattered throughout Palestine.。
Okay.。
And I promise you all this context matters.。
And then a major theme of this book。
is that Christians are to be doers of the word,。
not just hearers.。
That our faith isn't just a simply a matter of the heart,。
but it is something that compels us to action。
and it changes how we live.。
And it's also written in a time。
where there wasn't really a middle class.。
You had rich and you had poor。
and nothing really in between.。
And so this like little section, James 5,。
one through six, get your Bibles, you can turn there,。
is written to, I believe like all Christians。
or all people who are rich, not just rich Christians,。
but everyone who is rich.。
So if you guys are anything like me,。
you're like, hey, thank goodness,。
this guy's talking about being rich.。
I'm out.。
Like, this is not me.。
I'm not gonna listen to him.。
I don't have to worry about what's coming next.。
I can just enjoy the good vibes of good worship。
and then leave here.。
Here's what I want you to do.。
And I really want you to do this.。
And everybody listen online, I want you to do the same thing.。
I want you to pull out your phone for me.。
I want you to pull out your phone.。
I want you to type in, in your browser, howrichami.org.。
Howrichami.org.。
And as you guys are doing that,。
I want you to then type in your salary,。
type in what you make and then hit calculate.。
You guys are laughing 'cause you're nervous and I get it.。
It was convicting.。
Here's the deal.。
Here's what I found out.。
If you make $33,500 a year,。
you are in the top 5% of the world.。
I'm gonna say it again, world.。
So I'm not talking like just underdeveloped places,。
but like I'm talking the whole even developed world.。
You're in the top 5% of the world.。
And you might be in your mind, like, I got so much debt.。
I'm still like, man, I'm living off things, you know,。
but here's the deal.。
You might be thinking, it's still not for me.。
I would bet that everyone or close to,。
maybe everyone in the room is gonna leave here tonight。
and you're gonna go home。
and there's gonna be this little like thing on the wall。
that if you're like,。
I think I want it two degrees warmer, you know,。
you can hit that.。
Why do I do that?。
I do that because James,。
this little text really applies to us in the Western world.。
And so tonight we are going to see how you view money,。
how you make money and how you use money reveals。
where you find your security,。
significance and satisfaction.。
Ultimately it reveals who you are living for.。
So jump in with me.。
It's James 5, one through six.。
Says, "Come now, you rich,。
weep and howl for the miseries that are coming upon you.。
Your riches have rotted and your garments are moth eaten.。
Your gold and silver have corroded。
and their corrosion will be evidence against you。
and will eat your flesh like fire.。
You have laid up treasure in the last days.。
Behold, the wages of the laborers who mowed your fields,。
which you kept back by fraud are crying out against you.。
And the cries of the harvesters have reached the ears。
of the Lord of hosts.。
You have lived on earth in luxury and in self-indulgence.。
You have fattened your hearts in a day of slaughter.。
You have condemned and murdered the righteous person.。
He does not resist you."。
You're gonna be like, bro, James, you hit hard, man.。
Like why you gotta be so like straightforward with this?。
But I think it's really amazing.。
We see inside of here, there's four indictments.。
There's four indictments of the rich people。
that James is talking to.。
First one is this, hoarding riches,。
stealing or withholding wages,。
living in luxury and oppressing the righteous.。
And overall, here's what James is talking about.。
He is talking about the misuse of money。
and what misusing money says about you。
and then what it will bring you.。
So my first point this evening is how you view money。
says something about you.。
How do you view money says something about you.。
I'm just gonna read verses one through three again.。
"Come now you rich, weep and howl for the miseries。
that are coming upon you.。
Your riches have rotted and your garments are moth eaten.。
Your gold and silver have corroded。
and their corrosion will be evidence against you。
and will eat your flesh like fire.。
You have laid up treasures in the last day."。
So what are these guys doing?。
Here's the indictment against them.。
At this point, all of these rich people,。
they're taking all of their stuff。
and they're just hoarding it.。
They're keeping it for themselves.。
There's people in need.。
Like I said, there was rich people。
and there was poor people.。
And even the rich Christians are just going like,。
hey, no, I'm gonna keep all this to myself.。
To the point that they've hoarded the riches enough。
that it is starting to go to waste.。
Like it's truly just going to waste.。
Like they've decided, hey, I'm gonna keep this.。
And I think there's probably a lot of reasons。
why we would hoard or why they would even hoard riches.。
You know, just maybe it's just like。
plain selfishness or greed.。
But the one I wanna highlight tonight。
is the fact that when you and I have a lot of riches,。
it makes us feel secure.。
Makes us feel secure.。
What they're looking for。
and what they're finding inside of money is their security.。
And what's interesting is that James describes。
the rich people here very differently。
than I think you and I naturally would.。
He's talking about that, man, they should be weeping。
and howling because of the miseries that are coming.。
Like that's very different than how I would describe。
like my friend that's just driving his new Jeep Rubicon。
down to the lake house.。
And like, no matter what happens, like life is set for him.。
I probably am not thinking,。
man, that just looks like a miserable life.。
What's James saying?。
Like, why is he saying that?。
Why is he saying like, here's what the rich have。
and here's what they have coming.。
And what he's talking about here is really the last days.。
When he says, hey, you've stored up treasures。
in the last days, he's talking about when Jesus。
is going to come back and there's a judgment day.。
Where there's gonna be time where he looks at you。
and I and everyone and we will either know him。
or we will not.。
And this is what James is saying.。
Because if you know Jesus, the rest of eternity with him.。
If you don't know Jesus, you spend the rest of eternity。
in the lake of fire.。
And he literally is saying, hey, their riches。
are going to be evidence against them。
and it will lick their flesh like fire.。
'Cause he's going, it will tell me how they have used。
or viewed their riches will tell me。
where their allegiance lies.。
Like who it is that they really love.。
And so they had found security here.。
There's really two things that are happening here.。
They found security one in things that don't last.。
So he's just going like, hey, you like these rich people。
you're putting all of the security。
and things that just are, they're going to rot.。
They're going to go away.。
Like your clothes get eaten, the food will rot.。
It won't ever last.。
They've bought a lie.。
And like, even in the life that we live now,。
like we all know that like it's temporary.。
Like things don't last forever.。
I brought this for you guys for you to see.。
This was a really big deal to me back in the day.。
I don't know if you guys know what this is.。
This is a, it was on the battery dies quick now.。
Yeah, yeah.。
It kind of turns on anyways.。
This thing was a really big deal to me.。
Like I saved up for this thing.。
Like I was pumped about it.。
Like a couple of hundred dollars.。
It's the big one, 160 gigs, you know?。
Yeah, bro.。
And I used to watch movies.。
Hey, don't do this.。
While I was driving on this little thing,。
kind of like one of these, you know?。
Anyways, this is a really big deal to me.。
I mean, I spent, I like was careful with it.。
I was like, didn't made sure,。
like I didn't leave anywhere someone could steal it.。
I didn't like leave it out in the sun。
where it would get hot, you know?。
Do you know what it does today?。
It sits in a drawer or like,。
it's like sits in like just an extra bag that I have.。
Like, I don't, I don't know.。
There's like an old like electronics。
and it just like sits there.。
Why?。
Things on this earth don't last.。
Friends, we are eternal beings。
and temporary things are never gonna satisfy you。
for the rest of eternity.。
So these, these temporary things。
will never provide the security for the eternal.。
And these people that James was talking to had done this.。
They had put their security in things that don't last.。
And the second thing is that they had a wrong view.。
Their wrong view of money was evidence against them.。
And as I said earlier, Jesus is coming back。
and the big, the determiner on whether or not。
you spend the rest of your life with him。
or the rest of your life or the rest of eternity,。
not your life, the rest of eternity.。
And a lake of fire is whether or not you know Jesus.。
And when he says it's how they have viewed their money。
is going to be evidence.。
It's going to tell me whether or not they know me.。
So I'm gonna say something really, really provocative here.。
Listen, if your relationship with Jesus。
never gets to a place where it moves your money,。
then I would maybe suggest that you maybe don't know Jesus。
like you think you do.。
So what James is saying, he's telling us this,。
he goes, how you view your money will be evidence。
on whether or not you know Jesus.。
Now hear me clearly, money's not bad.。
It's a good thing, God designed it.。
But, and God isn't out to get your money.。
He doesn't want your money to get you.。
And that's what James is saying.。
He's going like, hey, you need to be really careful。
and you need to watch and see what these guys did。
so that you don't make the same mistakes.。
And so these guys had hoard of the riches,。
they were stockpiling their clothes and their metals。
and their valuables.。
That's what they did.。
What do we do?。
How do we do this?。
Well, the way that we stockpile this。
is we put our money in like stocks or Bitcoin,。
bless y'all in that like Bitcoin thing.。
It feels like that's like a whole like secret club。
and y'all have only one goal, tell everybody about Bitcoin.。
(congregation laughing)。
You know, and to acquire as much as possible,。
even if others are in need.。
And why?。
Because it gives us security.。
Because I feel safe when that number。
of my bank account is higher,。
then I feel like I'm good.。
I'm taken care of.。
And here's what's really the ironic thing.。
This was funny, I was trying to get an $100 bill。
and they only had 50.。
So here we go.。
Here's what, you know,。
do you know what it says on all of our bills?。
In God we trust.。
The irony friends.。
No, really the irony and both like the genius,。
but like it's going, hey, in God we trust.。
And we say that, but yet so many of us trust。
in how many of these we have or we don't have.。
James would plead with you to evaluate。
and if need be change your view on money.。
Matthew 6, 19 through 21 says this,。
this is Jesus talking.。
And he says, "Do not lay up for yourselves。
"treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy。
"and where thieves break in and steal,。
"but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven。
"where neither moth nor rust destroys。
"and where thieves do not break in and steal.。
"For where your treasure is,。
"there your heart will be also."。
So what's the solution here?。
What's the solution if you see,。
if you're just honest with yourself,。
be like, I think that I look to money to be my security.。
If you have trusted in Christ, you are secure.。
I just wrote down a few passages here.。
John 1, 12 says this, "I'm a child of God,。
"I'm God's child."。
Romans 8, 1, "I'm free forever from condemnation."。
Romans 8, 28, "I am assured that in all things。
"God will work for my good."。
Romans 8, 35, "I cannot be separated。
"from the love of Christ."。
Don't buy the lie that acquiring money。
will give you security, because it's a lie.。
That's only found in Jesus.。
And so if you find in your heart,。
I think that's what I'm doing.。
I think that I'm looking to money to be my security.。
I would look to Jesus, tell, hey, I think it's broken.。
I think my view of money is broken.。
God, will you show me how I can be secure in you?。
Not just in this lifetime, but for the rest of eternity.。
So it's a transition, a wrong view of money。
often leads to wrong actions for money.。
A wrong view of money often leads。
to wrong actions for money.。
This is verse four, "Behold, the wages of the laborers。
"who mowed your fields, which you kept back by fraud,。
"are crying out against you.。
"And the cries of the harvesters have reached the ears。
"of the Lord of hosts."。
My second point this evening is this,。
how you make money says something about you.。
So what were these guys doing?。
These guys were withholding wages from their workers。
to make, in order to make more for themselves.。
Here was the goal, money was the goal,。
whatever means necessary.。
So that's what these guys were doing.。
And I think there's a lot of reasons。
as to why they, or you and I,。
would make money for unjust reasons.。
But the one I wanted to like highlight this evening。
is because we often find in money our significance.。
Like I'm able to go like, I feel significant。
when I have a lot of it.。
So that's what we're gonna talk about,。
it's just like how we make money。
sometimes makes us feel like we are significant.。
We like having, or we like what money,。
having money says about us.。
Look, here's the deal, we all know the four to four。
works just as good and as functional as the G-Wagon.。
Yeah, okay.。
But why do we want the G-Wagon?。
Because it says something about us, right?。
Because when I pull up and think,。
hey, it's a status symbol, right?。
I'm going, hey, I'm driving this.。
Why do I want the G-Wagon over the Explorer?。
Look, and every single one of us。
could go buy a pair of like white sneakers,。
scuff them up, put a little star on them, right?。
Y'all know where I'm going.。
Y'all already know where we're going.。
But instead, what are we doing?。
What are we doing?。
We could buy any hoodie with a smiley face on it,。
but instead, what are we buying?。
We're buying Drew house hoodie, right?。
Why?。
Because it says something about us.。
Instead of any functional leather purse,。
we buy the Birkin bag.。
Why?。
Because they make you feel significant.。
Like when you have things,。
when you have things that money buy you,。
it's easy to begin to go like, hey, I'm significant here.。
And here's what's really broken.。
Here's what this like, this grieves me.。
When we have a lot of money,。
it begins not just to like, I feel significant,。
but I also begin to think。
that I am more significant than you。
based off of how much money I do or don't make,。
or how much money you do or don't make.。
And we do this, it's like, it's crazy how naturally we do.。
So if someone walks in the room。
that we know is really wealthy,。
the way that you treat them versus someone who's maybe not.。
Here's the deal.。
You're not alone in that.。
Like in those pictures, and this is,。
I found this, I like remember this.。
In those pictures that I showed you guys。
of me riding bulls, those boots that I was wearing。
were $400 and that hat I was wearing was $600.。
So things that are literally gonna end up in bull crap。
were things that I paid $1,000 for.。
$1,000 because there was like,。
kind of like the name brand one,。
like it was a special company that made it custom fit。
to my head and to my feet, you know, it's lizard skin.。
That's cool.。
We all get here because we like the way。
that money makes us feel and the significance we find in it.。
Now, here's what happens when we do this though,。
is that now we need money just to keep up this image。
that we've built.。
'Cause all those times you've just like。
swiped that credit card, you know,。
you don't own much of anything.。
And really you're just a slave to payments.。
And so what does this do?。
This makes you and I more susceptible,。
more susceptible to make money any way that you can,。
even if it hurts others in the process.。
God cares about how you make money.。
So if they were holding back wages from their workers,。
what do we do?。
It looks like for us,。
like running over people to make more money,。
that might look like for you,。
maybe you gossiped about a coworker in front of your boss。
so that maybe you would get the promotion.。
Or maybe instead of faithfully working all eight hours,。
you spend about an hour and a half on Instagram at work,。
but you're kind of like, hey, you know, it's all right.。
Or maybe you justify leaving like a really terrible tip.。
I mean, it did take them five minutes。
to get your sweet tea, you know.。
This is how we do it.。
We begin to go like, no, no, I'm gonna like hold onto this.。
I want more of it.。
I don't wanna have to like give it away.。
So even if that means I'm putting someone else like down,。
or even if that means I'm hurting someone else,。
I'm willing to do so.。
And James is saying that the money acquired。
in an unjust way is crying out to the Lord and he hears it.。
And man, I get this temptation.。
I get this.。
Like one of the things that I kind of do as like a side gig。
is I like sell gym equipment.。
I know that's random, but I do that.。
And so there was one day I found like a Concept2 rower.。
It was $600.。
I'm like, yes, I'm in, bought that thing.。
And then someone's like, hey, I'll pay you 9.50 for it.。
I was like, boom, done.。
You come pick it up tomorrow.。
And then someone else got ahold of me and they're like,。
hey, I'll pay you 1,200 for it and I'll show up tonight.。
And I was like, I'm in bro.。
I'm not kidding.。
I was like, yeah, I'm in.。
I'd committed to this person。
that I was gonna sell them this rower for $950.。
And then I like sat in that.。
Like my heart got, like I was, I like felt sick。
and I just had to get ahold of him and said,。
hey, I like can't do it because I'd said to someone else,。
I'd committed that I was going to sell them this rower。
for a different price.。
And we are all tempted to do this.。
Friends, how you make money says something about you.。
What's the solution here?。
How do we do this?。
If we begin to go like, yes, the way that I make money。
or how much money I make begins to how I view myself。
or what I think of myself。
or even the significance that I find, here's the solution.。
Treasure Christ and not worldly status or significance.。
Like treasure Christ, 2 Corinthians 8, 9 says this,。
for you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ。
that though he was rich, yet for your sake became poor。
so that you by his poverty might become rich.。
Friends, like keep an eternal perspective.。
Like just don't buy the lie.。
Like really truly like there's riches found in Jesus.。
He who had everything who was rich became poor。
so that you and I, if we trust in him,。
we can have ultimate riches.。
Like the greatest riches, the riches that last forever.。
Or this time, because of Christ, I am significant.。
Matthew 5, 14, I'm the light of the world.。
2 Corinthians 6, 1, I'm God's fellow worker.。
1 Corinthians 3, 16, I am God's temple in Christ.。
In Christ is where you find your true significance.。
In the transition, James moves on from how we view money,。
how we make money, and then how we use money.。
Verses five and six, you have lived on earth in luxury。
and in self-indulgence.。
You have fattened your hearts in a day of slaughter.。
You have condemned and murdered the righteous person.。
He does not resist you.。
The third point this evening is this,。
how you use money says something about you.。
So what were these guys doing?。
Hey, they were living in luxury and in self-indulgence,。
which just led to murdering the righteous person.。
And what James is speaking of here,。
it's not that they were walking around with swords。
and just like killing people.。
No, he's talking about like a judicial injustice。
where like, hey, they had the money to pay。
for the high-powered lawyers,。
and they can begin to oppress and take from the poor。
whatever they wanted,。
because the poor, and the poor person。
couldn't do anything about it。
'cause they couldn't pay for the lawyers.。
They couldn't represent themselves.。
They couldn't work the system。
like someone with a lot of money did.。
And so because he was taking their stuff。
and their means of life, food and water and shelter,。
this is how they were murdering the poor.。
They were living in luxury and using their money。
to get what they want.。
There's like a really interesting,。
the like last half of five is interesting here.。
What James says, says,。
"You have fattened your hearts in a day of slaughter."。
Like what?。
Feels a little confusing, you know?。
What's he talking about here?。
The image that James is using is that of a cow。
that is like indulging itself and making itself fatter,。
which in turn is making it more likely。
to be the one that gets slaughtered.。
Get it?。
Yeah, that's what's happening.。
He's going like, hey, as they are doing this,。
you have, you've done the same thing。
in the way that you are making money,。
the way that you are using money,。
all it's doing is being evidence against you.。
You are just making it more and more obvious。
that when the day of judgment comes,。
whose side you're on.。
You've either worshiped God or you've worshiped money.。
So there are a lot of ways to use your money,。
but I want to highlight the way that we use it。
to find our satisfaction.。
See, there's a great difference。
between enjoying what God has given you。
and living extravagantly and selfishly.。
And hear me loud and clear, friends.。
Like God wants you to enjoy life.。
Like it's okay, like if you want both scoops of Rocky Road,。
go for it, you know?。
Like God isn't trying to like rob you of fun,。
but there is a difference between enjoying。
what God has given you and then living in a place。
of luxury and indulgence.。
And here's the thing, it's not actually your money.。
Like God owns all of it.。
Like we're just stewards of it.。
Like God's got it to us on loan.。
He's going like, "Hey, I'm entrusting this to you。
"so that you can use it."。
And then how we use it is going to like be evidence。
of where our allegiance lies.。
It's God's money.。
And here's the thing, luxury is interesting.。
Luxury has a way of ruining character.。
The proverb says that the rich man answers roughly.。
Why does the rich man answer roughly?。
Because he thinks he's more important.。
He's kind of like, "Hey, you're just this person。
"because I have more than you.。
"I can treat you in a certain way."。
See, living in luxury, it like tends to make you。
fat and selfish and soft and entitled.。
Here's the thing, if you match self-indulgence with wealth,。
the result is sin.。
If you match self-indulgence,。
I'm sorry, if you, wow,。
if you match self-indulgence with wealth,。
the result is sin.。
But if you match character with wealth,。
you can produce much, much good.。
How you use money says something about you.。
Let me just ask you this.。
What'd you do when you got your stimulus check?。
Where'd the stimmy go?。
You know, where you guys like, "This is awesome.。
"That debt I've been paying,。
"that debt I've been needing to pay off, here we go.。
"I'll put it to that."。
Or, "Hey, I know someone who's really been impacted。
"by this pandemic, I bet they really need this money."。
Or, "Did you get the new pair of Jordans。
"that you won't like kneel down and crease?"。
Like, where'd that go?。
How are you using it?。
When you think about it, it's not your money.。
I just think, hear me on this.。
I don't think it's very often that when we look。
at getting more money that we go,。
"Hey, this should make me be cautious.。
"Like I should be aware this is a dangerous thing."。
This is what James is telling us.。
Hey, it's a really dangerous thing.。
Like just having more money isn't always a good thing,。
or at least you need to be aware。
of when you make more money.。
It's kind of like, we got a fireplace at my house。
and man, fire is a good thing.。
It's amazing warmth, you know, like ambiance and light.。
It's like a really, really good thing.。
But if I just decided, you know what?。
More fire is always better.。
And I was like, "Hey, I got this eight foot log.。
"Come on, baby, throw that thing on."。
You know, what would happen?。
What would happen?。
Very shortly, I would no longer have a house, right?。
Right, so fire has the ability。
to both be a really amazing thing,。
but then also take everything.。
And money's really interesting.。
I think that, man, I would just implore you.。
As you think about just getting more money,。
are you aware of the danger of it?。
Are you going like, "Hey God,。
"what would you have me do with this。
"so that it doesn't begin to pull on my heart?"。
So these guys were living in luxury,。
it was leading them to murder the righteous.。
And what does that mean though for us?。
How does this apply to us?。
And here's just what I wrote down.。
It's like, is your first thought。
of how can you use your money for your own enjoyment。
and your own fun and your own vacation?。
Or is your thought like,。
"How can I use this to provide or bless for others?"。
And here's the thing, your bank statement is a gift to you.。
Like truly, it is a gift to you.。
No one else can see it,。
but you can go back there and go like,。
if you wanna know where your heart is at,。
if you wanna know what it is, the things you're valuing,。
if you wanna know how you're using your money。
or who you're using your money on,。
go look at your bank statement.。
Like, is it like dinner at HG,。
you know, and then it's the Dillards and Nike,。
and then that manicure, that coffee shop.。
What's it saying about you?。
It really is a gift to you, think about that.。
Think about like, like he's saying, it's evidence.。
How you spend your money is evidence.。
Look, are you looking at your bank statement going like,。
"God, how do I view my money?。
How am I making it?。
How am I using it?"。
We often use money as a means to our own satisfaction,。
and it reveals where our heart is.。
The solution to this is to run to God to be satisfied.。
Look, friends, he's the one who made you.。
Look at me for a second.。
God made you on purpose and with a purpose.。
He knows exactly how you work.。
And he is the only one that can truly provide you。
satisfaction forever.。
And anything other than God is a fake, it's a phony.。
It will only give you satisfaction for a moment.。
Don't buy the lie.。
Don't buy it.。
Run to God, Psalm 16, 11 says this,。
"You make known to me the path of life.。
In your presence, there is fullness of joy.。
At your right hand are pleasures forevermore."。
Forever, did you hear that?。
In your presence, God, in your presence alone。
is where I am fully satisfied,。
where there's pleasures forevermore.。
Money's never going to do it.。
So in review, if you view your money as your security,。
if you make money for significance,。
and if you use your money for your own satisfaction,。
here's the reality.。
In the end, it will come back painfully,。
painfully empty.。
And when Jesus comes back,。
it will also be evidence on who it is that you served.。
Matthew 6, 24 says this,。
"No one can serve two masters,。
for either he will hate the one and love the other,。
or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other.。
You cannot serve God and money."。
Do y'all hear me on that?。
Like, you just can't do it.。
Like, it's impossible if you're like,。
"Yeah, I live for God,。
but I also like live for money over here."。
You either live for one or the other,。
and he's just saying like how you view your money,。
how you make your money,。
and how you use it is going to tell you。
who is it you're living for, who's your master.。
Here's where I wanna close,。
is the Bible says that our hearts are desperately sick。
and intent on evil,。
and that we are in desperate need of a savior.。
Here's how this worked for me.。
So for seven years of my life, I did that.。
I ran off, rode bulls, and I like made it.。
I was like making the money.。
I had the girlfriend, you know, people knew my name.。
And then God, in his kindness,。
on a fall day, Prescott, Arizona,。
instead of on top of a bull, I ended up underneath a bull.。
And I took both of his hooves to my chest,。
one here, one here,。
collapsed both of my lungs,。
broke all but two of my ribs,。
cut my liver in half,。
and rearranged all the like major organs, okay?。
And that sent me to the ICU for the next week.。
And here's what's amazing.。
God, in his kindness, he broke me in one fatal swoop.。
He broke me physically, financially, and spiritually.。
All that money that I had made, guess where it went?。
Yeah, 200 grand of hospital bills.。
Yeah, that's where that went.。
But I began to realize something,。
I'm not big enough to be God.。
Like I've made myself God.。
I've made looking for significance, security,。
and satisfaction in things that aren't God,。
like I need to think about what I'm doing。
because I realized in that moment, I'm like,。
God, if you were to come back right now,。
or if I'm not gonna wake up tomorrow morning,。
I know exactly where I'd go.。
I was at least honest enough with myself。
and I'd been taught really well by my father.。
I knew, I knew that if Jesus came back that moment,。
he would look at me and say, I never knew you.。
(soft music)。
Here's the deal, like you, if you're going,。
I think I might have a broken view of money.。
You are unable to save yourself.。
Like you just can't do it.。
Like you're unable, like if your heart is sick,。
like you in and of yourself can't do it,。
it's going to take God in your life.。
And God, look at me, he already did.。
He came down as a man in the form of Jesus。
who lived perfectly.。
And then he died on the cross, like he forever,。
the greatest injustice ever done in all of life,。
the greatest, like most ugly thing,。
also the most beautiful thing to ever happen,。
God did for you and for me,。
so that he could free us of the way。
that we search for things outside of him.。
And that someday, oh, like glorious day that it will be。
when he comes back down, that you could be someone。
that he would look at you and go,。
hey, you've done my will, you're with me.。
And I want that for you.。
I want that for you.。
I don't want you to hear I never knew you.。
But friends, a major barrier to that。
is you and your relationship with money.。
Pray for us.。
Father, thank you for who you are。
and just your kindness。
in the way that despite us, despite us, God,。
you moved towards us, said while we were your enemies,。
you died for us.。
And I just like confess in my heart,。
it is so easy for me to start making money, my God,。
for me to have false gods, for me to reject you,。
to live for myself.。
Father, may we be people who understand。
that there is riches forevermore.。
By your side.。
Thank you for this.。
Group of people, everybody listening here and online,。
man, Father, would you, in only ways that you can,。
would you move in the hearts that still need you。
to regenerate them, to show them that you alone,。
you alone can satisfy.。
I love you a lot.。
It's your name I pray, amen.。
