[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
All right.。
Welcome, everybody, to the porch.。
How you doing?。
Good.。
Good.。
Sounds like a lot of new people here tonight.。
That's exciting.。
Introduce myself.。
My name is JP.。
I'm Jonathan Picluda.。
Glad to be here with you guys.。
Glad you could finally make it.。
I'm kidding.。
My name's Adam.。
I get to lead the college ministry here。
at Watermark.。
Any college students here tonight?。
All right.。
Couple of Aggies doing their whoop thing, whatever.。
All right.。
That's awesome.。
Well, I'm excited you guys are here.。
Here's what we're doing at the porch this summer.。
We're doing this thing called Summer on the Mount,。
where we're going through the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus'。
most famous sermon.。
It's recorded in Matthew chapter 5, chapter 6, and chapter 7.。
And so I'm here tonight, and we are going to pick this up.。
Where we left off last week, tonight。
is the fifth week with all of this.。
And so that's where we're going to go tonight.。
So before I get started, I got a story I want to start with.。
How many people in here, just by show of hands real quick,。
rent an apartment right now?。
How many of you guys are renters?。
Large majority.。
God bless you.。
OK.。
How many of you, though, rent a house?。
How many of you rent a house?。
That is the way to go.。
All right.。
I want to tell you a story about a time。
when my wife and I were renting a house.。
It was 2010.。
It was late summer of 2010.。
We were renting a house up in Richardson,。
just a little couple miles north here of Watermark.。
We had this great house in a great neighborhood.。
We loved it.。
And at this time, we had two kids in our life.。
We had-- our oldest was like a little over two,。
and our youngest had just been born.。
Jake and Joshua had just been born.。
Joshua had just been born at that point.。
And so our lease was coming up.。
We were about two months away from the lease being up.。
We had been in this house for about a year.。
And so the landlord gives me a call.。
And he was a friend of ours, and we。
were renting just from an individual owner.。
And he gives me a call, says, hey, Adam,。
your lease is coming up in about 60 days.。
And if you're going to move out, I need to have 60 days notice.。
And so I don't know if you and your wife。
have talked about it or not, but I。
need to know if you guys are going to sign the lease again.。
And I just right there on the phone。
was like, I'm going to sign the lease again.。
We love this house.。
We love the location.。
We love the neighborhood.。
We love the cost.。
We love all of it.。
We will sign the lease.。
We want to stay here another year.。
He says, great.。
So here's what I'm going to do.。
I'm going to drop off a new lease.。
I'll drop it off in your mailbox.。
When your rent's due in a couple of weeks,。
you just go ahead and sign that lease.。
You and your wife sign the lease,。
include that with your rent check, and we'll be fine.。
I said, great.。
That's what we'll do.。
A couple of days later, the lease shows up.。
A couple of days after that, we get a phone call.。
And to make a long story short, the contents。
of this phone call really changed our life.。
We got a phone call, and basically my wife and I。
had an opportunity to buy a house.。
Up to this point, we'd been married about seven years.。
We had just been renting, and we had this amazing opportunity,。
something you couldn't plan for, something。
we weren't planning for.。
Everything kind of aligned, and we had an opportunity。
to buy the house.。
And so Jackie's like, this is amazing.。
Like, we're going to have an opportunity to buy a house.。
Aren't you excited?。
And I'm like, yeah, I'm excited, but I don't know。
what we're going to do, because I just told the landlord。
that we're going to sign the lease.。
And she sits there and goes, well, hold on.。
Did you actually sign it?。
I said, no, we haven't signed it.。
It's sitting right over there on the table.。
She goes, well, if you haven't signed it,。
then we're not bound.。
Here's one thing you need to know about my wife.。
When she used to be a lawyer.。
[LAUGHTER]。
So in these areas, I tend to trust her.。
I tend to go, hey, you're the expert.。
And so she put that little lawyer hat on,。
and she's looking at this going, no, no, no, no.。
If you just told somebody you're going to sign it,。
that doesn't obligate you.。
It obligates you when you sign it.。
That's when you're obligated.。
And I said, that sounds amazing.。
Let's go with that, because you're an attorney.。
And so here's what I did.。
I wrote out a letter.。
I wrote a letter to the landlord.。
I said, hey, I know I told you I would sign it,。
but we had this awesome opportunity that popped up,。
and now we're going to go try to buy this house.。
And so I'm not signing the lease.。
Love, Adam.。
And I put that, and I wrote this letter.。
I signed it.。
I folded it up.。
I put it in an envelope.。
I took the lease, unsigned, put that in the envelope.。
I took my rent check, put that in the envelope,。
put all three of them in the envelope,。
get in my car to go drive over to his house to pay the rent,。
because that's the way we did it.。
I would drive over and drop it in his mailbox.。
And guys, I'm telling you, I will never forget.。
I pull up in front of his house, and he is out front.。
Now, he was on the phone, and so I was like,。
all right, all right, that's good.。
But when I saw him, I was like, my heart sunk.。
I was like, oh no.。
And so he's on the phone, and he's like getting in his car,。
and I kind of get out of my car,。
and I'm like waving this little envelope,。
like, hey, I got your rent check, you know?。
And I'll never forget, he goes like this.。
He's on the phone, and he goes, hold on.。
And he looks at me, and he goes, is the lease in there?。
And guys, I panicked.。
I looked at him, I go, yeah, it's in there.。
'Cause technically it was.。
I mean, it was in there.。
So again, legally, I was fine.。
I was not lying.。
I mean, it was there.。
And so technically it was in there.。
I knew what he was asking.。
What he was asking is, is the signed lease in there?。
But I just was like playing the technicality,。
and I said, yeah, the lease is in there.。
So I drop it off to him, and he goes,。
great, I'll call you later.。
And I'm like, I know you will.。
And so I get back in my car, and I go on,。
and then a couple hours later, the phone rings,。
and I look, and it's the landlord, and I pick it up,。
and I'm like, hello.。
And he goes, you told me you were gonna sign the lease.。
And I'm like, yeah, but these circumstances changed.。
I mean, I couldn't plan for this.。
And he's like, but you said you were going to sign the lease.。
This is confusing to me.。
This is frustrating to me.。
I don't understand why you said you were gonna do something,。
and now you're not doing it.。
He kept saying that over and over and over again.。
And I'm thinking probably what you're thinking.。
I'm like, man, that's kind of harsh.。
Like, how about a, hey, congratulations?。
Or hey, maybe I'll get you a housewarming gift。
or something like that.。
Like, aren't you excited that my wife and I。
don't have to rent anymore,。
that we're gonna get a chance to buy a house?。
He was not excited.。
He was frustrated.。
He was confused.。
And he kept saying over and over and over again,。
you told me you were gonna sign the lease,。
and he was right.。
And my wife and I learned something,。
and it was, when I say learned something,。
I mean, really, we were reminded of something。
that we had learned over and over and over again。
in our life, but yet we were seeing it anew。
with that situation.。
I mean, that whole situation was not one of。
my finest moments or my wife's finest moments.。
We look at that.。
In fact, I even told her that I was gonna open。
with that kind of story, or with this story,。
we were gonna talk about this,。
and she kind of had that cringe look.。
And both of us, when we think about that situation。
and what we did with that landlord,。
we both, we kind of, we just cringe sometimes。
'cause we know that was not one of the best moments。
in our life.。
And we learned something again that night,。
and what we learned is that our word matters.。
When we say we're going to do something that matters,。
and the reason why it matters is because when we say。
we're gonna do something, we're making a commitment.。
And the way that we handle our commitment。
reveals our character.。
And I start with all that tonight because that's,。
that's what we're gonna talk about tonight.。
The subject matter of our discussion tonight is commitments.。
And all the commitments that you and I make。
as we go on about interacting in our lives。
and in our daily lives,。
we're always and often making commitments,。
and we're gonna look specifically at what Jesus has to say。
about the commitments that we make in our life.。
And there's two reasons why this is so vitally important。
for every single one of us in the room tonight,。
and here's the first reason.。
The first reason this message is so important for us。
and what Jesus has to say about commitments。
is so important for us is because this,。
by and large, one of the reputations。
that 20 and 30-somethings have out there,。
one of the reputations that people in their 20s and 30s has。
is that they are flaky.。
You're flaky.。
Life, you're just flying by the seat of your pants.。
You're just doing whatever it is that you wanna do.。
You wanna keep all of your options open。
to make sure you don't miss out on anything.。
Like FOMO is not just a funny hashtag。
or something that you say before you go do something crazy.。
FOMO is a way of life for so many people。
in their 20s and 30s, which is basically,。
I wanna do what I wanna do,。
and I wanna keep all of my options open。
because I wanna make sure that I don't miss out on anything.。
I mean, let's be real honest.。
There's a lot of you in the room tonight。
because nobody else called you today.。
There's a lot of you that would not be in the room tonight。
had he called or had she called。
or had any other human being called you。
to ask you to do something tonight.。
You wouldn't be here tonight.。
So by and large, the reputation that's out there,。
20s and 30-somethings, is that they're flaky,。
and here's what we're gonna see tonight, guys.。
Jesus is not okay with that.。
He's not okay with that.。
The second reason why this is such an important message。
for all of us in the room tonight。
is because with every single commitment that we make,。
with every interaction that we have with people,。
what's at stake is not just our calendars.。
What's at stake is our character.。
Every interaction that we have,。
every commitment that we make,。
every time we tell somebody, "I'm going to do that,"。
or, "I'm gonna be there then," or, "I will call you,"。
or, "I will do that," every single commitment that we make,。
we are doing one of two things with our character.。
We are either building trust or we are eroding trust.。
We are either gaining credibility。
or we're losing credibility.。
We are either strengthening our reputation。
or we're weakening our reputation.。
Every one of those interactions reveals something。
about our character, and here's what's so scary。
about being flaky, is that if you're flaky。
or if I'm flaky, we're the last ones to know.。
Everybody else knows that we struggle with being flaky.。
Everybody else knows that we struggle keeping our word.。
Everybody, it's blatantly obvious to everybody in our life,。
and we are often the last one to know.。
That's what makes all of this so scary。
and why all of this is so important for us tonight.。
And so tonight, what we're gonna do。
is we're gonna hear what Jesus has to say。
about the commitments that we make.。
And so here's the message tonight.。
It's got three points as we look at this next section。
in the Sermon on the Mount,。
Matthew chapter five, verses 33 through 37.。
We're gonna draw three points out of this tonight.。
Number one, what we're gonna see。
is that every single one of us。
struggles with keeping commitments.。
Number two, we're gonna see。
that we come up with solutions sometimes.。
We come up with these soft commitments,。
and when we come up with these soft commitments,。
they don't help us, they actually condemn us.。
That's what we're gonna see second.。
And then the third thing that we're gonna see。
is that Jesus, Jesus has a solution,。
and his solution is for you and I to simply commit.。
And so let's open up our Bibles tonight。
and let's read Matthew chapter five, verses 33 through 37.。
And so this section of the Sermon on the Mount,。
what Jesus is doing is he is going through,。
it started a couple weeks ago。
when JP talked about anger and conflict。
and what happens when we get into conflict with one another。
and we need to reconcile with one another.。
That started this section in the Sermon on the Mount。
where what Jesus is doing is he is taking popular things。
that the Pharisees,。
the Pharisees are these religious professionals of the day.。
These were the ones who were leading。
the religious community.。
They were the ones responsible for teaching Jesus's,。
or excuse me, responsible for teaching God's word.。
The Pharisees had been teaching things,。
and they had been living a certain way,。
and it was not necessarily lining up。
with the original intent of Scripture.。
And so Jesus in this section in Matthew chapter five。
starts saying, "Hey, you've heard that it was said,。
"but I say, you heard that it was said, but I say,。
"you heard that it was said, but I say."。
And last week we looked at what David,。
when he was here, looked at the commitment of marriage。
and ended in verse 35, or excuse me, verse 32,。
and here's where we go in verse 33.。
Here's what Jesus says,。
"Again, you've heard that it was said。
"to the people long ago,。
"do not break your oath, but fulfill to the Lord。
"the vows you have made.。
"But I tell you, do not swear an oath at all,。
"either by heaven, for it's God's throne,。
"or by earth, for it's his footstool,。
"or by Jerusalem, for it's the city of the great king.。
"And do not swear by your head,。
"for you cannot even make one hair white or black."。
All you need to say is simply yes or no.。
Anything beyond this comes from the evil one.。
So point number one tonight is that we all struggle。
with commitment, we all struggle with commitment.。
I find it really, you know, it's interesting。
that right after Jesus talked about the commitment。
of marriage, that he goes in and he reminds the audience。
of what God's word says about keeping our word.。
And so when he starts off here in verse 33,。
"Again, you've heard that it was said。
"to the people long ago,。
"do not break your oath,。
"but fulfill to the Lord the vows you have made."。
I mean, this is not a specific quotation。
from any one verse in the Old Testament.。
But it is absolutely a theme that runs all throughout。
the Old Testament, in fact, Jesus here is most likely。
summarizing a verse that you can find in Leviticus,。
in Deuteronomy, and Numbers.。
All of which saying the same thing.。
God wants you and I to keep our word.。
He wants us to keep our commitments.。
And so why would Jesus start this section with that?。
Why would God include in his commands。
that he wants you and I to keep our word?。
Why is it there?。
The reason that it's there is so simple.。
The reason that it's there is because every single。
one of us struggles with this.。
Everybody in the room tonight, at some point in our life,。
we are guilty of breaking our word.。
We told somebody we were going to do something。
and we did not do it.。
We told somebody we were gonna be somewhere。
and we did not show up.。
What do you call somebody who says they're going。
to do something and they don't do it?。
What do you call somebody who breaks their commitment?。
That person is what?。
A liar.。
A liar.。
And Jesus is saying, hey, that's not okay.。
That is not okay to be a liar.。
And so we know that we all do this.。
It's not anything that our parents taught us.。
Like I'm sure your parents never sat you down and said,。
hey, here's just like a little tip for life.。
If something's not going your way,。
or if you get caught doing something,。
just say the opposite of what's true.。
Just do that, you know, just tell a lie.。
Like nobody's parents sat down and taught them。
how to do this.。
It's just something that just came with all of us.。
It's just there.。
It's like the clock app on your iPhone.。
It just comes with the phone.。
You didn't have to load it.。
It's just there.。
And that this ability and this tendency for us to lie,。
it's just there, it's just in us.。
And we know that it's there.。
And so what we try to do sometimes,。
we try to work around it.。
We try to come up with these solutions.。
And so we try to come up with all these like,。
quasi commitments, like kind of committing,。
but not really committing.。
I mean, who hasn't had a conversation,。
something like this.。
So let's imagine this text message conversation.。
So let's imagine that I'm texting with my friend Daniel.。
And so I text him, I said, "Hey man, you know, Ant-Man,。
"next Friday, 9.30 at North Park, you in?"。
Daniel texts, "Ooh, probs."。
(audience laughing)。
Anybody, yeah, that means probably.。
These text speak stuff.。
Okay, so anyway.。
So then I text him back, "Sweet, I'm on Fandango right now.。
"You want me to buy two tix and you can pay me back?"。
Wait for him to text back and he texts back,。
"Yeah, most likely, fist bump."。
(audience laughing)。
Right back, okay.。
So should I buy two?。
I should buy two or I shouldn't?。
Wait.。
I think you could probably get two.。
(audience laughing)。
Write him back.。
"Help me out, bro, is that a yes or a no?。
"'Cause I'm not getting all your little speak here。
"right now, okay?"。
So I sit there, text that, and then what happens?。
(audience laughing)。
All right, he's thinking about it.。
Then what happens?。
Ah.。
(audience laughing)。
But then what happens?。
It comes back, all right, maybe.。
(audience laughing)。
But then what happens?。
Ah.。
And I gotta go to Ant-Man by myself.。
It's just weird to go and do that.。
I mean, we all do this, man.。
We know we've got this problem.。
We know we've got this problem,。
and so we come up with these solutions.。
We try to soften our commitments.。
And what Jesus is reminding us is,。
hey, when you say you're gonna do something,。
do it, be clear.。
If you don't keep your commitments, you're a liar.。
If you don't keep your commitments,。
you're damaging your reputation.。
You're not building it, you're not strengthening it,。
you're eroding it.。
Our solution, it's insufficient.。
So point one, we all struggle with this.。
And then look where he goes next, point two.。
These soft commitments that we make, they condemn us.。
And so what we know about the Pharisees,。
these religious professionals,。
is that there seems to be this indication。
that they knew too that they were lying.。
They knew too that they were liars.。
They knew that they struggled to keep their commitments.。
But they also knew that there were times。
where they really were telling the truth.。
And so for those times where they were telling the truth,。
what they decided to do was,。
hey, when we're really telling the truth,。
we need to somehow call on some sort of outside source。
to bring some validation to our words.。
And so what the Pharisees had done is they developed。
what they thought was this great system,。
this great solution where they created this complex system。
of oaths and swearing.。
And swearing not like cuss words,。
like swearing like I swear to God,。
I'm really gonna do that, or I swear to God,。
I'm telling the truth right now.。
But they also understood that if they swore to God。
and then didn't follow through,。
that not only would that look bad on their character,。
it'd also look bad on God's character.。
And so they seemed to understand this,。
and so they developed this complex system。
and their calling on all of these things,。
but they decided, hey, let's leave God out of it.。
So when we're really telling the truth,。
let's do something like, let's swear to heaven,。
or let's swear to earth,。
or let's swear to the city of Jerusalem,。
or I know that if we wanna leave all of those things out,。
let's just swear by the hairs on our head.。
And Jesus is going, no, listen, that system does not work.。
That's not the solution.。
Look at what he says here, verse 34.。
"But I tell you, do not swear an oath at all."。
Don't try to call on these things from outside。
to bring validity to your statements.。
Either by heaven, because that's God's throne,。
or by earth, 'cause that's his footstool,。
or by Jerusalem, for it's the city of the great king,。
and don't swear by your head,。
for you can't even make one hair white or black.。
What the Pharisees thought they could do。
is if they kept God out of it,。
if they swore by all these other things,。
that maybe, maybe they were hiding their words from God.。
And Jesus is going, that's ridiculous.。
Heaven?。
Like, that's God's throne, he's there.。
Earth?。
That's his footstool, he's there.。
Jerusalem?。
That's the city of the great king, he's there.。
Oh, you think you own your head?。
You can't even change the color of your hair.。
What makes you think that somehow that is hiding from God?。
And there's this part of me that looks at this。
that wants to like cross my arms。
and just kind of shake my head at those Pharisees。
and go, man, they're so ridiculous.。
Did they really think, did they really think。
that they were gonna be able to hide from God?。
Did they really think if they developed a system of oaths。
to try to bring some validation to their statements。
that somehow people were gonna start to believe them。
because of that?。
I wanna sit there and I wanna point a finger。
and I wanna shake a head at them。
and then I just realize, you know what?。
We do the exact same thing.。
I mean, tell me, how many of us in this room tonight。
haven't heard these words or used these words。
at some point in our interactions with others?。
We too, we've developed this complex system of oaths。
where we, or swearing, where we try to call。
on outside sources to bring validity to our statements。
when we're really telling the truth.。
I mean, who hasn't said something like this。
or started a sentence like this?。
No lie.。
No lie.。
Tony Romo, he was at BuzzBrues last night, I saw him.。
No lie.。
You sit there and you hear that and you go, no lie?。
Like, that's not helping, dude.。
Does that mean everything else you say is a lie?。
But right now is no lie?。
So I can trust about 19% of what you say。
is what you're saying.。
You always gotta have that no lie.。
Or says this, who puts this out there?。
Seriously.。
Seriously, the best meal I've ever had right there.。
Seriously.。
Or who has this one?。
In this one we say very deliberately,。
I am not even kidding.。
If she posts another picture of her dog。
on Instagram, I'm not only unfollowing her on Instagram,。
I'm unfollowing her in life.。
Like, that's it, I'm done.。
If I see another picture of Bojangles the Chihuahua。
out there, I'm done with all of this.。
Or this one.。
I promise.。
Promise, my roommate.。
They eat Chipotle every day, I promise.。
Every day, they're gonna turn into one.。
Or this one, this is one of my favorite ones.。
Maybe this one when we cross the arms.。
Like, let me be honest with you.。
Like, as a dude, you use too many emoticons when you text.。
All right, I just wanna be honest with you.。
It's weird.。
It's weird.。
Just learn how to use, like, letters, okay?。
And here's my favorite one.。
My favorite one.。
This is the one, like, that we use the most。
where we're calling on this to try to bring。
some validity to our statement.。
You know what it is?。
Literally.。
Or maybe if there's, like, a lot of emphasis,。
it's literally.。
Like, there's, like, a chuh in there.。
Literally.。
And then that, which is clue for what is about。
to be said next is a wild exaggeration.。
Literally, that is the cutest outfit in the world.。
I know all outfits and I know everybody in the world。
and you've got it.。
That is the cutest one.。
Just yesterday.。
Yesterday, I was driving around listening to these guys。
on Sports Talk and they were talking back and forth。
about the Fourth of July.。
And one of the guys, they were saying, you know,。
hey, do you like going to the fireworks?。
And one of the guys was like,。
this may be the most un-American thing I've ever said.。
No, I don't like going to fireworks.。
Which, by the way, side point, I concur, I agree.。
I think they're way overrated.。
But anyway, so.。
But I cheered for US in World Cup soccer, all right?。
So does that make up for it?。
Okay, anyway, so.。
He sat there and he was like,。
so you don't like going to see fireworks?。
Like, why?。
Why don't you like to see fireworks?。
And this grown man, he said this, he goes,。
I don't like going to fireworks because they're so loud。
and when it gets loud, it literally scares。
the crap out of me.。
And I'm like, dude, like, so you're at the fireworks.。
Boom!。
Ooh.。
I gotta go, man, I gotta go.。
Man, we do this.。
Our solutions, our solutions.。
Like, we understand that because we all know。
that we're guilty of lying,。
we all know that we're guilty of not keeping our word,。
but we all know there's times。
where we really are being serious.。
And we've done the exact same thing the Pharisees have done.。
We're calling on these outside sources。
to try to bring validity.。
And it's not a solution.。
It's not a solution.。
It doesn't build our reputation, it damages it.。
And so we all struggle.。
Our solutions and these soft commitments,。
they don't help us, they condemn us.。
And this third point is this.。
Jesus has a solution.。
He's got something to say about this。
and he's got a solution and it's not complicated.。
It's incredibly simple.。
It's not easy, but it's incredibly simple.。
And so here's what he says in verse 37.。
All, all you need to say,。
all you need to say is simply yes or no.。
That's it.。
Anything else, anything beyond this,。
if you try to add anything else to your statements,。
that's not helping you, that's condemning you.。
That doesn't show that you're a person that can be trusted.。
That shows that you're a person who struggles。
with keeping your commitments.。
Anything beyond this comes from the evil one.。
And so Jesus is basically saying,。
hey, if you want, if you want to build credibility,。
if you want to have a reputation。
of being somebody who's trustworthy, don't lie.。
Keep your commitment.。
When you say you're gonna do something, just do it.。
If you said you're gonna call them back,。
you call them back.。
If you said you're gonna go to the birthday party,。
you go to the birthday party.。
If you told somebody you're gonna turn in the assignment。
at 8 a.m. on Friday, you turn it in at 8 a.m. on Friday.。
When you tell a story, you tell it accurately.。
If you said you were gonna do something, you do it.。
That's Jesus' solution.。
Jesus would say, don't call on all these things。
to try to bring validation to your statements.。
Let your reputation be all the validation you need.。
That's the solution.。
And so before we close, I wanna share with you guys。
three ways that I think that you and I tonight,。
like we can start to apply these things,。
three ways that we can take these principles。
from this passage and apply it to our life。
right now and in the way that we interact with others。
so that you and I can grow to be people。
who are trustworthy, people who keep our word.。
And so there's three of 'em.。
I'm gonna put 'em up here on the screen.。
The first one is this, is that we need to be clear。
with our intentions, be clear with our intentions.。
Because here's one thing I've noticed,。
is that a lot of us, I think we get ourselves into trouble。
when we just start just kinda talking.。
We start dreaming, we start talking about the future,。
we start talking about what we're gonna do,。
and what we end up doing is inadvertently,。
we end up making commitments for ourself。
that we never intended to make.。
And so for example, growing up in my household,。
we have what we call in my family,。
my dad and the Disney World incident.。
And so from like as far as I can remember,。
as far back as I can remember, when I was real little,。
my dad just started promising。
that he was gonna take us to Disney World.。
I'm gonna take you to Disney World,。
take you to Disney World.。
My brother, sister and I, maybe this year,。
I'm gonna take you guys to Disney World,。
take you to Disney World.。
I'm gonna take you to Disney World.。
Years go by, we're not going to Disney World.。
My dad finally took us to Disney World.。
You know how old I was?。
17.。
(audience laughing)。
It's like the most uncool age to go to Disney World.。
But he made good on it, and actually it was a lot of fun.。
But what we ended up, what really happened is that my dad,。
it really damaged his credibility in our family.。
Because when he would make other promises,。
we would say, oh, is this like a Disney World。
you're gonna take us to ice cream,。
or a real you're gonna take us to ice cream?。
Like, what is this?。
And all my dad needed to do,。
all he needed to do is he just needed。
to be clear with his intention.。
And just go, hey guys, I would love,。
I'd love to take you guys to Disney World one day,。
if I could.。
I don't know if we'll be able to,。
I don't know if we're gonna have the money to do it,。
but just know in my heart, I would love.。
I think that would be a lot of fun.。
I'd love to do that.。
He would've just been clear with his intentions.。
Now let me just talk to the guys in the room for a second,。
because if there's something that maybe。
one of the genders struggles with a little bit more,。
I think us guys, we struggle with this one。
a little bit more than the ladies do.。
Because we're just like, we're out there,。
we're dreamers, we're leaders,。
and we're just talking about what we're gonna conquer。
and what we're gonna do.。
And we, a lot of times, we are the ones。
who will get ourselves into a situation。
committed to something that we never intended。
to get ourselves committed to.。
And we'll say things that we have no intention。
of ever backing up or ever doing,。
and things that we really can't back up.。
And so guys, you in particular need to be。
very, very careful with this,。
because here's how this is gonna go down.。
You're gonna be dating someone。
for like five or six weeks in a row.。
(congregation laughing)。
And you're gonna have all kinds of these。
emotional ooey-gooey feelings going on,。
and you're gonna be like, this is so different.。
(congregation laughing)。
Never met anybody like her.。
And one night, you're gonna go out on a date,。
you're gonna take her to her door,。
and you're gonna be so nervous,。
not because it's like, are you gonna kiss her or not,。
'cause you're still in the handshake,。
side hug stage of the relationship,。
so you're good with that.。
But you really wanna communicate to her。
what you're feeling.。
So you're gonna look at her,。
and you're gonna get all this gumption up,。
and you're gonna look at her,。
and you're gonna go, baby,。
I love you.。
And I am never, ever, ever, ever, ever gonna hurt you.。
She's gonna look at you and just be like, oh my God.。
(congregation laughing)。
I cannot wait to journal about this tonight.。
(congregation laughing)。
This lady in waiting is almost done.。
(congregation laughing)。
Then like two weeks later, she's gonna start annoying you.。
(congregation laughing)。
And you're gonna go, and at the end of the day,。
you're gonna be like, you're so,。
just talking to the guys in my community group, and,。
(congregation laughing)。
I think you're becoming an idol for me.。
(congregation laughing)。
I don't even really know what that means,。
but I think that's what you're doing, and so like,。
so I think you're becoming, I mean, it's more me than you.。
I mean, it's a little bit you, but it's a lot of me,。
and so like, we're breaking up.。
We're done.。
She's gonna look at you, and she's gonna go.。
So this is love?。
This, this is love?。
You taking your hand and ripping my heart out,。
and squeezing it, and then putting it in a vice,。
and turning it, and then putting it in a blender,。
and pulsing it, and then pouring it down the drain,。
and putting the garbage disposal, like this is love?。
I don't know about you, but this hurts,。
and you said you were never gonna hurt me.。
You're a liar, and she'd be right.。
You can't back those words up, man.。
You cannot back those up.。
You've got to be careful what you get yourself into,。
all of us, guys and girls.。
We gotta be clear with our intentions.。
We gotta telegraph all of that, and so number two,。
number two practical thing, and how we can do this,。
and how we can live this out, number, it's this,。
is that if we've made a commitment,。
if we've made a commitment, and then something happens,。
and let's be honest, always,。
there's often something that happens.。
I mean, James is very clear in James chapter one,。
that when we, we don't know what tomorrow is going to bring,。
and so if you make a commitment for the future,。
there's things that happen,。
circumstances change that are legitimate,。
that will cause us that if we've made a commitment,。
and something happens,。
that we need to get out of that commitment,。
but even in that situation, when we've made a commitment,。
and we're gonna have trouble keeping it,。
there's still a way to get out of that,。
that's not gonna erode your credibility.。
There's a way to do that, that will do the opposite,。
it'll build your credibility,。
and I'll illustrate what you do this way.。
Let's say for your birthday, I bought you a watch,。
and I gave you a watch,。
and then let's say something happens in my life,。
a circumstance changes in my life,。
where I need that watch back,。
say my iPhone breaks, and I have no clue what time it is,。
and I need that watch back, all right?。
How do I get that watch back, what do I have to do?。
If I want that watch back, what I have to do,。
is I have to ask you for the watch back.。
I don't break into your apartment,。
and just find out where it is, and just take it back,。
I don't wanna see you shake your hand,。
and be like, oh, that watch, yeah,。
and just take it off your wrist,。
and be like, my phone broke, what are you talking about?。
I need this back.。
We don't demand it back, what you have to do,。
is you have to ask for it back.。
And so when we break our,。
when there is a commitment that we've made,。
and we need to break it, this is what we need to do,。
and this is going to be profound, listen to this,。
this is gonna be profound, and if you do this,。
it's gonna change your life, literally.。
(congregation laughing)。
Here's what you do, if you've made a commitment to somebody,。
and you need to break it,。
you handle it the exact same way with that watch analogy,。
what do you do?。
You don't demand for it, you have to ask to be released,。
and the reason you have to ask for it,。
is because what you gave, when you made that commitment,。
you gave somebody a gift, and what you gave them,。
is you gave them the gift of your time,。
and if you're breaking that commitment,。
you have to ask for that gift back.。
You call 'em up, you go down the office,。
you go to your apartment, you go wherever it is,。
you talk to them, and you go, hey listen,。
I told you that would be done at 8 a.m. on Friday,。
you give them the legitimate reason。
why it's not gonna get done,。
you don't make up an excuse, like something came up,。
and you say, I am not gonna be able to meet that commitment,。
can I have that time back?。
You say, hey, I know I told you Saturday,。
I was gonna drive you to the airport,。
but my sister is sick, and she needs me to watch her kids,。
can I please have that commitment back?。
You ask for it back, you don't demand it back.。
If we need to break our commitments,。
there's a way to do it, where we're building our credibility。
and I'm telling you what guys,。
you get in enough of those conversations,。
where you have to ask for that back,。
enough of those awkward conversations,。
you get in enough of those,。
what you're gonna start to do,。
is you're gonna go back to practical idea number one,。
you're gonna start to really be careful。
about what you actually commit to,。
but there's a way that you can do that,。
where you're not gonna be losing credibility,。
you're gaining it, and so if you've made a commitment,。
and you need to break it, you just ask for the time back,。
and the third is this,。
let's say you've made a commitment and you just broke it,。
and you didn't ask for it back,。
there's still a way, there's still a way to handle that,。
that's building credibility, not losing credibility,。
and what you do, is you talk to the person,。
and you ask them to forgive you,。
you call them, you go see them,。
you say, hey, I know I told you,。
I told you I was gonna be at your party Friday,。
and here's what happened, I got out of work late,。
this crazy deadline popped up, I got out of work late,。
I was hungry, by the time I got food, it was 9.30,。
I knew that your party started at eight,。
I thought it was gonna be over, I was exhausted,。
and so I just chose to go to sleep,。
and I know I told you that I would be there,。
and I didn't show up, will you forgive me?。
So you're careful, be clear with your intentions,。
if you made a commitment, you need to be released,。
you ask to be released from that commitment,。
and if you've made a commitment and you broke it,。
you ask to be forgiven, that's building credibility,。
that's strengthening our reputation,。
that's honoring God,。
that's living by our word.。
So that landlord, he called me that night,。
and was just saying, hey, you told me,。
you told me you were gonna sign the lease,。
you told me you were gonna sign the lease,。
you told me you were gonna sign the lease,。
and I was finally like, you know what, you're right, I did,。
let me talk to my wife about it,。
and let me call you tomorrow,。
and so I hung up the phone and sat down with Jackie,。
and I was like, hey, I told him,。
I told him that we would do this,。
and I know that we're legally covered right now,。
but being legally covered doesn't feel like good enough,。
being legally covered right now doesn't feel like。
that's the most God-honoring thing to do in this situation,。
and so we both talked about it, we both agreed,。
we both felt conviction。
over the way we had handled that situation,。
and we said, here's what we need to do,。
we need to sign the lease,。
and we need to make it very clear to the landlord,。
for the next 12 months, we are obligated to make sure。
that you are paid your fair rent for the next 12 months,。
so we signed the lease, and we told him,。
said, hey, I know that the way we've handled this。
has not been, or has been confusing,。
it's been frustrating to you, it's hurt you,。
thank you for telling us this,。
thank you for letting us know how confusing this has been,。
will you forgive us, and he was kind, and he forgave us,。
I said, we're on the line, he said, great,。
after that transaction was settled,。
then I went back to him, and I said, now, here's the deal,。
can we, I'm not gonna demand it, I'm asking,。
is there something we can work out?。
If we go find somebody, or if we put a sign in the yard,。
and we do the showings, like, if it's okay,。
if we go find you another tenant,。
will you be okay with that,。
if you go find me another tenant, I'll be okay with that,。
and we talked to a couple friends,。
we had some friends that were looking to move,。
and our friends moved in there,。
and they stayed there two years,。
and they found some friends to move in there,。
and stay two years, and it all, it ended up,。
financially, it ended up all working out,。
but relationally, relationally, it hurt.。
And handling that situation,。
I mean, even though we were okay legally,。
it still didn't feel like the right thing to do,。
just to leave him out there when we had given him our word,。
and so, what Jackie and I decided to do was,。
hey, let's handle this the right way.。
And it cost us something, it cost us a lot of stress,。
it cost us a lot of late night conversations,。
it cost us money, but in the end,。
in the end, our reputation was worth it,。
and it was worth it to do the right thing.。
And here's why, guys, I'm so excited about this.。
The reason I'm so excited about this,。
and what Jesus is saying tonight,。
in this section of the sermon on the cross,。
in the sermon on the mount we're looking at,。
is that if you and I do this, if we do this,。
if we become people of our word,。
if we say we're gonna do something and we do it,。
it's going to change the city,。
and here's why it's gonna change the city,。
because at the foundation of our faith,。
at the foundation of our faith is the God of the universe,。
and one of the prevailing characteristics。
of the God of the universe is that he is faithful,。
that he is trustworthy,。
that he is a God who keeps commitments,。
and this God of the universe, this faithful God,。
this God that never backs down on his word。
has given every single one of us who follow him a job,。
and that job is to go and to be salt and light。
in this city, and here's what we know to be true.。
There's a bunch of people in this city。
that do not trust God,。
and one of the primary reasons that they do not trust God。
is because they've met Christians and they don't trust them.。
They see Christians that just say a bunch of stuff。
and Christians that say they're gonna do one thing。
and then they don't do it,。
Christians that are out there just living for themselves。
and selfishly and not keeping their commitments,。
and they're sitting there and it just looks just like them。
and all their other friends,。
and they're going, yeah, yeah, like,。
really, like, you want me to trust you。
who can't be trusted for anything?。
Like, you want me to trust you。
about this God of the universe that loves me?。
Sure, you look just like me.。
And the other thing we know is this, guys,。
is that we know is that when people do trust God,。
they often trust a Christian first before they trust Christ.。
I mean, all of us in here, I bet that's part of our story.。
If we came to know Jesus,。
it was because we trusted somebody else first,。
then we trusted the claims of Christ.。
And so we have this unbelievable opportunity。
to go out there and to be salt and light。
and to implore people to trust God.。
And it's gonna be really, really difficult for us。
to be salt and light if we cannot be people。
who are trustworthy.。
So we get to go out there。
and we have this unbelievable opportunity。
to represent this God who keeps commitments.。
And when we do this, when we do this,。
they will see a genuineness, a trustworthiness,。
an authenticity in our lives that will point not to us,。
but point to our Savior.。
Your word matters.。
It matters.。
Let's pray.。
God, we thank you.。
We thank you, Lord, that you have kept your word with us.。
That you have not left us alone,。
that you have seen the predicament that we're in。
and that the actions that we have engaged in。
that has caused separation between us.。
And you promised way back in the garden,。
you promised that you were gonna do something。
about this issue of sin and you followed through。
and you sent your son Jesus and we are grateful.。
God, we don't wanna be flaky people.。
We don't wanna be people who are,。
quite honestly, just normal.。
We understand that it's not just our reputation。
that's at stake with being people of your word.。
What's at stake is ultimately your reputation.。
The Pharisee's got that right, Lord.。
So Lord, we come to you tonight and we beg you for help.。
Will you help all of us to be people of our word?。
That our yes will be yes and our no will be no.。
Will you help us?。
And we ask this in Jesus' name, amen.。
Amen.。
- Yeah. - Cool.。
