(upbeat music)。
- All right, let's go.。
Hey, welcome friends in the room,。
friends in Fort Worth, Houston, El Paso, Phoenix,。
Northwest Arkansas, Tulsa, wherever you are joining us from,。
Cedar Rapids, we are excited to continue this series.。
Anyone been on vacation here recently?。
Nice, just got back from vacation, it was awesome.。
But I'll tell you about the first day on our way。
to that vacation, give us some tracks for where we're going.。
It was last Saturday, had planned a vacation with my wife,。
first time, no kids in a long time,。
we're going on vacation, going to Mexico,。
it's gonna be great, just her and I,。
go get some sun, get to hang, just the two of us,。
so excited, months in advance, thinking about this,。
talking about this, it's gonna be great, just so stoked.。
The day comes, Saturday morning, we load up the kids,。
take them to grandma's house,。
and whenever you have little kids,。
there's like all kinds of just a million different things。
that you've gotta get grandma all equipped for,。
so we're bringing over pack and plays,。
which essentially like a movable crib,。
and a bunch of other toys, we're getting her all set,。
got all the things done, and it ends up taking us。
a little longer than we thought to tell grandma.。
So now we're running a little bit late,。
we get in the car, that's okay,。
we're going on to Mexico, it's gonna be awesome.。
Get in the car, we're driving, we're headed to the airport,。
and we're kinda make up time,。
or trying to make up time, it's Saturday morning,。
and as we approach the airport, DFW,。
what begins to go through my mind is my wife is driving,。
and I begin to think, man, there's an exit up here,。
and if you don't see the sign,。
it's really easy to miss the exit, to go over here,。
but I'm sure she won't do that,。
and she's much smarter than I am, so I'm sure we'll be fine.。
We're getting close to the exit,。
we're getting close to taking it,。
the sign's right there, I see it happen,。
and my wife just continues driving.。
And so we're now, we've completely missed it,。
and what's going through my head。
is actually a very proud moment,。
'cause normally, gentlemen,。
let me give you a little free advice,。
the time to criticize your wife when you're driving。
is not while you're sitting in the car together.。
It never goes well.。
So thankfully, for whatever reason,。
what went through my head of, oh my gosh,。
you can't believe it, I saw that coming a mile away,。
and literally miles away, and we missed it,。
but what went through my head is after she said,。
oh no, I missed it, I was like,。
oh, it's okay, it's easy to miss,。
and it was the biggest moment in marriage history for me.。
I just gotta get that off my chest.。
(audience laughing)。
(laughing)。
Don't clap at that.。
Yes, that's it.。
So tonight, I wanna just teach you my ways,。
and no, that's not it at all, it has nothing to do.。
Anyway, so we keep going,。
and we missed, in missing the sign,。
or to hurt him, missed the sign,。
we missed the exit to the airport.。
So of course, and we scramble,。
we try to find the next one,。
and we try to find out to get off。
and get back as quickly as we can,。
'cause we're already running late,。
but because we missed the sign,。
we missed the exit to our destination,。
or we missed getting off at the right time.。
What does that have to do with what we're talking about?。
Well, tonight, we're continuing the series,。
Before There Were Kings,。
where we're looking at the book of Judges,。
and these different men and women。
in the nation of Israel's history,。
and their stories, and how they connect,。
really, God's principles through them。
connect to our lives today.。
And tonight, we're gonna look at the story。
of the most famous of all the judges, without question.。
And he was a guy that,。
though he was incredibly strong on the outside,。
he had a weakness for the ladies.。
And he had a couple relationships。
that he, in going along the journey,。
he missed the signs that,。
"Hey, buddy, you need to exit right now.。
"This relationship needs to end.。
"There's a sign, you need to exit, you need to get off.。
"This shouldn't keep going.。
"It should never have begun," in one of the cases.。
And we're gonna look, because some of the principles,。
or some of the things that he failed to identify。
that would have told him, had he seen those signs,。
or had he known, this is a sign that means,。
"I need to exit the relationship, I need to break it off,"。
it would have prevented all kinds of pain in his life。
and the lives around him.。
And tonight, we're gonna talk, as it relates to you,。
and to me, inside of our dating relationships,。
some of the exit signs。
that you need to exit this relationship right now.。
So if you are dating in the room,。
if you hope to date in the room,。
if you are engaged in the room,。
wherever you are at in terms of relational status,。
this is applicable to you,。
because God, who cares about you,。
wants to make sure。
that you don't wind up at the wrong destination.。
He wants to make sure that you exit when you see the sign.。
And there are some very clear ones that would indicate,。
"Hey, this is a relationship that should end."。
And so before I go there, let me just acknowledge this.。
Dating is hard, and you may be sitting there being like,。
"What do you know?。
"You've been married,。
"and you don't know how hard it is in general."。
There's some things,。
even though I've been out of the dating game for a while,。
I still know that there are some challenges that come。
as it relates to dating.。
In fact, I had a friend that sent me。
a couple of these memes this week。
that show the foreverness of dating.。
Here was one of them that came as it relates to,。
"Here's what dating is.。
"Welcome to dating.。
"These are your two options.。
"Stay together forever or break up.。
"No pressure."。
(audience laughing)。
It's like, "Thank you."。
I mean, it is.。
It's like, "Oh man, this is such a big deal."。
And it is a big deal in life.。
Here's one that I don't have as much territorial,。
or I'm not familiar with the territory,。
(audience laughing)。
related to not seeing the exit signs,。
that I'm gonna hold on and make this thing work。
and try to avoid seeing the sign。
'cause I don't wanna get off yet.。
Or here's probably the most 21st century one。
as it relates to bumble.。
For any bumblebee ladies in the room,。
"Hey, my roommate went on a bumble date."。
(audience laughing)。
(laughing)。
What I love about this,。
you gotta know that she's saying her roommate.。
It's definitely Sid who did that.。
And she is saying, "My roommate."。
But dating is hard.。
And it is a thing where it is easy enough。
to miss the signs that you should exit.。
But the good news is God has given some clear instructions.。
And so what I wanna do tonight is as best I can。
remove some of the signs that,。
hey, you may blindfold yourself and you may still miss it,。
but to whatever degree I can say,。
"Hey, these are some clear indicators。
"from God who loves you.。
"He's crazy about you.。
"He cares about you.。
"He cares about your marriage.。
"He wants you to experience a marriage。
"that's beyond anything like you could believe,。
"better than you could hope for yourself."。
That's what he wants for you to experience in marriage.。
And he's given some clear exit signs.。
It's time for you to get out.。
So we're gonna look at two relationships。
from the story of Samson.。
You may know some things about Samson.。
You probably know the most famous of his relationships,。
a girl by the name of Delilah.。
Man, live in infamy.。
Delilah, and he also had a broken engagement.。
Samson was engaged, had a fiance,。
and we're gonna look at both of these relationships.。
Quick recap, in case you're joining us for the first time.。
Before there were kings,。
why are we calling the series that?。
The series is looking at the book of Judges.。
What is a judge?。
A judge was someone that didn't look like Judge Judy。
and have a gown and gavel.。
It was someone that God raised up.。
Essentially, it's the word deliverer in Hebrew.。
Someone that God raised up,。
and the nation of Israel would sin and rebel against God.。
They'd find themselves basically enslaved,。
and God would raise up a deliverer。
to go and set them free.。
Now, this deliverer is by far the most infamous。
of all of them,。
and is the only one with supernatural power.。
He is the Old Testament version of the Hulk.。
So he has supernatural strength.。
Samson, from a very young age, you probably know that.。
You probably know Delilah.。
What you may not know,。
and this is relevant to what we're gonna look at today,。
is that Samson had been set apart in a unique way。
by God from his birth.。
In other words, God shows up,。
an angel comes to his parents.。
His parents were having trouble getting pregnant.。
Angel shows up, says,。
"Hey, you're gonna have a baby boy.。
"This baby boy is gonna be different。
"than all other baby boys."。
He has three to-do lists for the rest of his life。
that God has placed on him,。
or three to-dos, three things not to do, really,。
that God wants him to do.。
And he gives them a Nazaritic vow.。
What's that?。
It's just basically God saying,。
"Hey, this is a child who is special, unlike others,。
"so I have some special things I want him to do."。
Three requirements, Samson.。
They were, hey, you can't cut your hair.。
So likely he had dreads,。
most unusual of all of the things, probably.。
Hey, you can't have alcohol, so no.。
Mambo taxis, margaritas, corona, none of that for Samson.。
And then the final one was,。
hey, you can't touch dead people.。
In that time, it just basically would defile.。
But God said, "Hey, you're special, you're set apart.。
"These are three things that I want you to not do."。
And so his parents told him,。
"Hey, these are three things that are off-limits for you."。
And we're gonna look at Samson and his life,。
and particularly these two relationships,。
and extract some of the principles from God。
as it relates to finding the right person,。
or exit signs that if this applies to you,。
you should exit now.。
And we're gonna, really, what I'm gonna do。
is I'm gonna play the movie of his first fiance,。
pull two takeaways,。
and then we're gonna look at that famous girl Delilah,。
and pull a third takeaway as it relates。
to when you and I should exit the dating relationship.。
So this will be from Judges 6, 14, I'm sorry.。
And we will pick it up on Samson's story.。
If you don't have a Bible, it will be up on the screens.。
No worries.。
And I'll start in verse one of chapter 14.。
One day, when Samson was in Temna, it's just a town,。
there was a Philistine woman,。
Philistine is like the villains in the story,。
they're the enemies of God.。
A Philistine woman caught his eye.。
When he returned home to his mother and his father,。
he said, "A young Philistine woman in Temna。
"has caught my eye.。
"I wanna marry her, go and get her for me."。
So Samson, right to the point kind of guy.。
His father and his mother objected.。
"Isn't there even one woman in our tribe。
"and among all of the Israelites that you could marry?"。
They asked, "Why must you go to the pagan,"。
that just means people who don't have a relationship。
with God, "the pagan Philistines to find a wife?。
"But Samson told his father, 'Go get her for me.。
"'She looks good to me.'"。
So literally it translates, hey, she looks hot.。
I like the way that she looks, she's the one,。
she's the one that I wanna marry, go get her for me.。
Samson believed in the modern form of tender dating.。
Swipe right, she's for me.。
So Samson's parents, they go get her。
or they begin to go set up the conversation.。
Samson, we're told, is on his way to go meet her。
for the very first time and he knows nothing about her。
other than she looks good in jeans and I like that.。
And so he's on her way to meet her。
and he don't wear jeans at that point,。
whatever they were wearing, he liked it.。
On his way to meet him and all of a sudden we're told。
that Samson's attacked, he's with his parents。
and a lion comes out of nowhere.。
And Samson is supernaturally strong.。
The text tells us that he grabs the lion。
and he tears it apart.。
I love this next part of the verse.。
As one would tear apart a young goat.。
It's like, that's so many questions.。
Who is tearing apart all these young goats?。
What does that even mean?。
But it says he tears them apart and he continues to go。
as he meets the girl and he says that he again,。
uses the same phrase, she looked really good to him.。
Now he's going and his family goes to make preparations。
for the wedding and the reason the lion thing is important。
is because he walks along the road。
and he sees the carcass of the lion,。
a little time goes by, he's going to be a part。
of the wedding week comes and on his way there,。
he sees the carcass of the lion, he killed.。
And inside of the carcass of the lion,。
a beehive had formed and had created honey。
and there were bees swarming around.。
Samson goes up to it, sees the beehive and is like,。
man, the honey, that looks great.。
He reaches in, begins to eat some of the honey.。
It's gross, but the author includes it。
because he's pointing out Samson early in the game。
is already breaking part of his vow.。
One of his vows, you were not supposed to touch dead things.。
Samson takes the food, he eats,。
says he brings some to his parents,。
doesn't tell him where it's exactly from。
and he continues to the wedding week.。
He gets to the wedding week and we're told。
he breaks the second part of his vow.。
We're told he throws a machete, which is the Hebrew word,。
he throws a party, it's basically a drinking party,。
is the same word that's used.。
So he gets his guys together, it's the wedding week,。
they got seven days, he's given kind of 30 companions。
or groomsmen from her hometown, her relatives。
and all those guys, gets them together,。
decides to throw a kegger.。
And he's hanging out with his guys, they're drinking。
and they do what guys do when they drink.。
Now guys are, we can be stupid in general.。
When you introduce alcohol, it doesn't get any better.。
And so he's hanging out with these guys。
and he begins to go, you know what, I got an idea.。
I just met these 30 groomsmen, we're gonna bond over this.。
I got a riddle for you.。
And here's what the riddle was.。
And he gives them a riddle and says,。
here's what's at stake.。
Samson said, let me tell you a riddle.。
And if you solve my riddle during these seven days,。
so the seven pregame days of the celebration,。
I will give you 30 fine linen robes。
and 30 sets of festive clothing.。
Clothing's a big deal in that time.。
Basically, hey, I'll give you 30 men, 30 sets.。
But if you can't solve it, my riddle,。
then you must give me 30 fine linen robes。
and 30 sets of festive clothing.。
All right, they agreed, let's hear your riddle.。
So Samson says, out of the one who eats,。
came something to eat.。
Out of the strong, came something sweet.。
These guys got seven days,。
their clothes are on the line, literally.。
And they're thinking over, you know,。
what could this possibly be?。
Day four comes, they go to his fiance and they're like,。
hey, if you don't tell us what the answer is,。
we're gonna kill you.。
It's like that escalated really quickly.。
And so she begins to nag or told Samson and say,。
hey, tell me the answer.。
You haven't told me, I'm your fiance,。
you won't even tell me the answer.。
He says, no, this happens day after day。
until the seventh day, she so persists。
that he gives her the answer.。
She goes and tells the men this was the answer。
and they come to Samson and say,。
hey man, out of the one who eats,。
the lion came something to eat.。
And they basically say, hey, it's a lion and honey。
that you're talking about.。
Samson realizes what has happened and he responds。
with not a great example of how to talk about your fiance.。
Here's what he says.。
If you hadn't plowed with my heifer,。
you would not have solved my riddle.。
There are so many takeaways, men.。
That's the moral of the story.。
Do not call your fiance a heifer。
or let other men, I'm not even gonna go there.。
So he basically says, if you hadn't used my fiance,。
you wouldn't have answered it.。
So he's now really angry at her and at the men。
who were told that he goes and enraged.。
It's not what God's saying to do.。
He's saying this guy was messed up.。
He goes and he kills 30 men and he takes their clothes。
and he brings it back to the guys.。
Again, the author is showing us he broke his vow.。
How do you get clothes off of a dead body?。
You're touching dead corpses.。
Now Samson, time and time again, was unfaithful。
to the things that God said, this is who you are.。
You're to be set apart and different。
in the way that you behave.。
He's so angry that he skips his wedding with the woman。
and he goes home to his parents and he's like,。
I'm done with this and his fiance ends up being given away。
to the best man in the wedding.。
Yeah, and it's a tragedy.。
He never should have been in the relationship。
with her at all.。
It never should have begun.。
It never should have gone where it did.。
And yet one of the first missteps that is so common。
that Samson took that is still so common and prevalent today。
is the first exit sign that he should have exited。
before this thing ever began.。
And you, if you were in this situation, need to exit.。
Immediately.。
That if you are in a relationship with someone。
and they are not following God, you need to exit.。
It was true for Samson.。
His fiance was a Philistine, which basically,。
she worshiped a different God.。
God told the people of Israel, you are not to marry。
any other nations because they worship other gods。
and they will lead your heart astray.。
And so Samson, it was very clear, Deuteronomy 7 tells us。
that you are not to marry outside of that.。
But it wasn't just applicable to Samson。
that you are not to marry someone.。
I'm gonna talk more specifically what I mean。
by following God.。
And if they're not, you need to exit.。
The same principle applies to Christians today.。
The Apostle Paul, 1,000 years after Samson。
would write this in 2 Corinthians 6, verses 14.。
"Do not be yoked," I'll explain what that means,。
"together with unbelievers.。
"For what a righteousness and wickedness have in common?。
"What fellowship can light have with darkness?。
"What harmony is there between Christ and Belial?。
"Which is essentially a false god.。
"What does a believer have in common with an unbeliever?。
"Do not be yoked together with an unbeliever."。
What are you saying?。
Yoke, you're talking about eggs,。
you're talking about, what does that even mean, a yoke?。
Basically at this time, a yoke was something。
that you would put on cattle, you would put on oxen.。
There'd be two oxen or two cattle right next to each other.。
You would put a harness or a yoke on them。
to allow them to pull the carriage,。
to help plow the field, to pull something forward.。
And if something was unequally yoked,。
it meant one of two things.。
It meant, or if ox were unequally yoked,。
it meant one was able to pull much faster,。
farther, and stronger than the other.。
One was much weaker than the other.。
Or it meant that they were pulling in different directions.。
And Paul, the apostle Paul says,。
if you're a Christian, as it relates to your relationships,。
partnerships, and specifically,。
at least more clearly, your marriages,。
you should not be unequally yoked together。
or partnered together with people。
who are not on the same page spiritually。
or who are headed in different directions。
in terms of faith, in terms of what they believe.。
If you are dating someone and they are not following God,。
if they are in a season where they're wrestling。
and they're still not exactly sure what they believe。
and they're figuring it out,。
or if they're of another belief,。
you are not to date them。
and you need to exit the relationship now.。
That if you don't have the same trajectory of faith,。
you are headed in two different directions.。
Here's the deal.。
If you marry someone who doesn't share your faith,。
you are guaranteed three things.。
Listen to me really closely.。
And I want you to hear this.。
Because one thing I'm doing ministry for the past 10 years,。
the most painful part of my job。
is seeing some of the stories of broken relationships。
of people who never should have been together,。
but they fell in love.。
One person in the relationship thought,。
"Oh man, I'll help and I'll work with them。
"and they'll get there。
"and I'm gonna be the light in their life."。
And with tears in their eyes,。
as their heart is ripped apart,。
because they never shared the same faith,。
which meant they didn't share the same values,。
which meant they didn't see the world the same way.。
And if you are dating someone who is not a believer。
or not following God with their life,。
not just that they say they're Christian or non-Christian,。
not following God,。
you are headed to one of three destinations.。
The first is you are guaranteeing。
that you'll be one of these places.。
You will either cap your intimacy with Christ.。
You are guaranteeing that you're gonna cap your intimacy。
because you're gonna be constantly around somebody。
who's not prioritizing God.。
He's not spending time in God's word。
or she's not spending time in God's word.。
She's not spending time in prayer.。
She doesn't value things that are biblically minded.。
She doesn't think like it's important。
to be a part of living for Christ inside of our city,。
having a home be a place where they're inviting neighbors in。
and caring for the lost around them.。
You are guaranteeing。
you're gonna cap your intimacy with Christ。
or you're gonna live out all those different things。
and you're gonna cap your intimacy with your spouse。
because you're marrying someone who's like,。
they're doing all this stuff.。
I don't know why they're doing that.。
That's silly.。
And the intimacy and the unity。
that God wants you to experience in marriage,。
you're capping what you can.。
Or the third one would be。
that you're ultimately headed to a place。
where the relationship can't last and it won't last。
because you're committing a covenant。
or you're getting into a covenant relationship。
with someone who doesn't first。
have a covenant relationship with God.。
If anyone has anyone or anything。
as their first love other than God,。
you are stepping into dangerous territory。
and you should exit now.。
Is it a bad idea just to date?。
Like maybe we're just kind of dating and who knows,。
maybe I'll be a step in his journey.。
Yes, it is a bad idea to date.。
Here's why.。
Is it possible for you to fall in love。
with someone who doesn't love God?。
If you love God,。
is it possible that you could fall in love。
with someone who doesn't love God?。
Yes, absolutely.。
And so you're gonna yoke your heart.。
You are setting yourself up for tremendous heartache。
for a future that doesn't involve。
being a part of a marriage。
where the values are the same。
and our commitments are the same.。
We're gonna raise kids the same way.。
We see the world the same way.。
You are setting yourself up for tremendous heartbreak。
and as painful as it can be,。
or you can imagine, man,。
all the relational equity I've already put into this。
and I've already pot committed,。
you should get out now.。
And you should not even date and step in that direction。
because your heart can fall in love。
with someone who doesn't love God.。
And if you're going, man, but I love him,。
you clearly love him more than you love God.。
If you are willing to say,。
I will live in direct rebellion to you, God,。
to get what I want, what I love,。
and the God who's there, who's not mad at you,。
he's mad about you.。
He's crazy about you.。
He doesn't want you to experience that.。
And he wants you to experience a relationship。
that's not marked with being on different pages。
as it relates to the most important part of your life,。
which if you're a believer is Jesus。
and your relationship with him.。
Second danger just to be aware of inside of this。
is it is also not,。
I'm not saying, hey,。
date someone who says that they're a Christian.。
There are a lot of people who say they're Christians.。
I mean, by and large, people are like,。
if you're not Buddhist, Muslim, Hindu,。
or like avid atheist,。
you're gonna get a lot of people that say they're Christian。
and they're not following Jesus.。
The direction of their life is not moving towards Jesus。
as it relates to how they date, how they live,。
how they handle work, how they see the world.。
They're not actually following Jesus.。
They just say that they're a Christian.。
And you need to make sure that you don't just,。
I mean, in this room, I wouldn't be like,。
I met him at the porch, he's for sure a great guy,。
or I met her at the porch,。
I'm sure that she's a follower of Christ.。
She may not be.。
And so it's not enough to just say like,。
oh man, I'm a Christian.。
What did that mean in their life?。
What do they mean by that word?。
'Cause they may be meaning something that is different。
than what the Bible says a Christian is.。
They may be meaning something that's different。
than someone who is following Jesus.。
So knowing not just are they a Christian,。
but what do they mean by that?。
Like here's an example.。
You could say something and it means one thing to me,。
it means something very different to you.。
Like if I was to say, hey, look,。
what are the, maybe the greatest artist of this generation,。
y'all know who I'm talking about, Justin.。
I mean, he's an amazing dancer.。
The dude has vocals like you wouldn't believe.。
He's got shoe game, seems to be happily married,。
got a lot going for him, really talented guy.。
One of the most talented musicians,。
maybe in a once in a generation kind of talent.。
And by far, he was the best member of NSYNC, am I right?。
Now half the room is going, ah, you're talking about JT.。
I thought you were talking about JB.。
All the believers in the room.。
Because when I said the word Justin,。
you thought something different.。
In the same way, it is possible for you to say,。
oh yeah, I'm a Christian.。
It is not just saying the word, it is what does that mean?。
That you don't wanna be on a different page。
of oh, they were, oh, I thought this is what they meant.。
You need to make sure that they're just not a Christian。
in name, but they are following Jesus with their life.。
The direction of their life is moving towards Jesus。
and following him.。
As it relates to all the different areas。
and arenas of their life.。
Just because their dating profile,。
man, it's more relevant than ever, candidly.。
'Cause their dating profile's like, oh, they're a Christian,。
this seems like a great guy.。
And you will begin to convince yourself,。
I think that they're a Christian,。
they're serious about God, please.。
And you are headed towards dangerous territory.。
The trajectory of their life is not moving towards Jesus.。
As Christians, as we've said a ton of times before,。
hey, we don't believe in the one.。
We believe that if you're a Christian,。
there are a bunch of ones that you could marry.。
If you're a Christian guy who's following Jesus,。
who are those ones for you?。
A Christian girl who's following Jesus.。
That's pretty much it.。
If you're a Christian girl, it's the same is true for you.。
That there's not a bunch of ones,。
you're not there looking for like star-crossed lovers。
and who could they be?。
Maybe they're in India and you're not looking for that.。
It's like, man, there's a bunch of ones that God says。
inside of his word, here's the ones that could fit,。
here's the ones that I could yoke with,。
and here's the ones that I could not.。
Are they following God or not?。
And Samson made the decision,。
hey, despite the fact that she's outside of my people,。
that God says, this is wrong, I don't care.。
And he makes or misses the first exit sign.。
The second exit sign really is related to it。
and very similar.。
And it's that he decides, hey, what's the primary criteria。
that I'm gonna decide whether or not。
to have a relationship with?。
It's how she looks.。
If she looks a certain way, if she's hot,。
it's like, man, it's a lot.。
I mean, we still do this today,。
where we're like, hey, look, you know,。
she's, I don't know where she is spiritually,。
but she's hot.。
And it's a lot easier to become a Christian。
than become hot, am I right?。
And it's how we think.。
Which is not true, I don't know if it is true, but.。
It's still misguided thinking.。
And it ended tragically for Samson.。
I mean, that's what he does.。
He looks, and the Hebrew word is basically,。
hey, she looks really hot.。
So I'm kinda gonna work with her。
on anything and everything else.。
And the defining characteristic and criteria for him。
is unbelievably shallow.。
And when you date for the purpose,。
or you marry with purposes driven。
that are unbelievably shallow,。
it will end in regret and pain every single time.。
The second exit sign is if all the criteria,。
all the things that are attractive to you,。
to that person, are shallow, you should exit now.。
The second exit sign, and so stay with me,。
'cause you're like, yeah, I know, duh, I wouldn't do that.。
This is so relevant.。
I want you to, if you're dating someone in the room,。
if everything that you are attracted to in that person。
is shallow, you should exit that relationship.。
What do I mean by shallow?。
I mean, the things that attract you to her。
or attract you to him are how they look on the outside,。
how tall they are, how they dress,。
how much money they make, any of those things.。
If those are the criteria, the primary,。
the driving criteria, this is why I'm attracted。
to this person, you should exit the relationship now.。
Because those are the things that are gonna be。
the fastest things to go away.。
That if the criteria that's driving your relationship。
to keeping you together is sex, how sexy they are,。
how much money they make, how they look,。
all of those things are bad criteria。
to stay in a relationship if they are shallow,。
you should hit the exit button or approach the exit fast.。
And I want you to think, like truly, if you're dating,。
what are you attracted to in them?。
Like truly, if you're dating someone in the room,。
you're like, hey, what are you attracted?。
And begin to think through it.。
And if you like the list, well, I like the way that he looks。
and I like how tall he is and I like that, you know,。
he always picks me up on time and drives a nice car。
and I like that he comes from a wealthy family。
or I like the way that she looks in that dress。
or she's really hot, she looks like a model.。
If those are the criteria, if you can't come up。
with anything that is not fleeting。
or anything that is not just shallow,。
if the things inside of you are not like,。
man, I like her character, like I see the way。
that he cares for people when no one else is watching.。
Like there's something about him,。
like clearly the spirit of God is at work in his life。
'cause he's not focused on like himself。
and making much of himself,。
he's focused on other people all the time.。
It's unlike anything I've ever seen.。
If the criteria, if you can't think of anything。
that you are attracted to that is not superficial。
or shallow about the person that you are dating,。
you should be concerned because all of that other stuff。
is going away.。
I mean, truly, like everything you're like,。
man, they're just so hot.。
Dude, all of those things are leaving。
and what you are gonna be left with is the character,。
the integrity, the spirit of that person.。
What are you attracted to in them?。
Like guys, let me try to drive this home.。
You're gonna marry someone, Lord willing, you have kids,。
their body is gonna change.。
It's happening and your body's gonna change。
and your hair is gonna disappear here,。
start showing up here and it's gonna transform。
and their body's gonna change。
and you're gonna have children and stretch marks。
and you're gonna have thing curves will not stay the same,。
I can guarantee it.。
And so if you are committed to curves or characteristics。
rather than their character, you should hit the exit button.。
You're not healthy enough to date。
and you're not ready to date.。
If the only things that if like, hey, if something happened,。
they were marred by a fire and you're like, man,。
their personality, their character,。
I'm kind of repulsed by, you should break up。
because physical characteristics are going away.。
Botox, there's only so much Botox a person can do.。
And then they start looking like they were made。
in a plastic factory.。
And truly, I mean it, I'm grieved,。
I can think of names and friends。
who married the hottest girls, guys would say of all time。
and they're miserable.。
Because the problem is not they were pretty on the outside,。
it's that they had no character on the inside.。
And ultimately what matters most,。
ultimately the thing that will last。
is not what you see on the outside,。
it is what is seen on the inside.。
And looks can be deceiving.。
And if you don't take into account what is on the inside。
because you're just focused on the outside,。
it's gonna cost you.。
It's like this, what's your name?。
Yeah, both of you.。
(congregation laughing)。
Solomon, Solomon and?。
Logan, Logan, I got two bags here.。
There's something, there's a treat for each of you。
inside of these two bags.。
These bags represent your future wife.。
So inside of there, their name is actually written.。
We're gonna do the ceremony, no, it's not a troll.。
Which bag, Logan, would you like to pick?。
Tom Thumb.。
Logan would like to bring Tom Thumb,。
a marginally overpriced grocery store,。
to wed with his life.。
Okay, inside of that one,。
and this leaves our leftover Nordstrom bag.。
We're inside of the Nordstrom bag, we've got something,。
and inside of the Tom Thumb bag, we've got something.。
Inside of the Tom Thumb bag, Logan, you picked correctly.。
I think you knew where this was headed.。
You have just won $100 just for sitting in that seat, Logan.。
(congregation applauding)。
You're gonna clap it up.。
Maybe if you're dating someone,。
you can take them out on a nice date with this.。
Solomon, you picked a nicer bag,。
or were given a nicer bag,。
a very pretty bag on the outside, Nordstrom's,。
great retail store,。
and you've won three cans of sardines also for a date.。
(congregation laughing)。
Because unfortunately, though,。
this bag was much nicer on the outside,。
what mattered more, or was of more value,。
was clearly what's on the inside.。
And in the same way, if you take into account,。
or you fail to take into account,。
yeah, good luck, guys.。
(congregation laughing)。
Like you to report back how you used that $100, Logan.。
What her name is, where you take her,。
open the door, please.。
Hey, if you fail in selecting,。
oh, that's precious.。
If you fail (congregation laughing)。
in selecting your spouse to take account what is inside,。
you lose, because that is the thing that will last.。
And I feel like no matter how hard I hit this,。
most of you, or many of you, are not gonna believe me.。
Marriage is challenging,。
but even as challenging as marriage, life is hard, man.。
And you're gonna walk through life,。
and it's gonna be painful,。
and you're gonna have friends,。
or you're gonna experience infertility, cancer,。
death of family members,。
little kids that will drive you nuts,。
and their greatest thing ever,。
but it's also like the yelling, I can't take it.。
And if you don't have a relationship。
that is yoked together,。
or you don't have someone you're walking through。
that has character, that's gonna be an amazing mom,。
or an amazing dad that can come alongside of you.。
My wife and I don't have a perfect marriage,。
but we have a marriage,。
and I'm so lucky and so fortunate。
that my wife, I married someone of character.。
So we had conflict last night,。
and she is someone, generally,。
almost all the conflict is because of me.。
Truly, that's not me just saying that.。
It's like, she is the closest to Jesus person in our family.。
(congregation laughing)。
And yet, it is her character。
that allows us to walk through that,。
to come alongside, to call me,。
to, hey, I'm not going to allow you。
to lead in that way and call me for it,。
to be a better husband.。
You wanna marry someone that has character,。
and as much as all the different world around us is saying,。
hey, what really matters is how hot they are,。
if you don't take into account what's on the inside,。
you will lose, and you can take it to the bank.。
And so if you are only dating them,。
or if the sum total, really the primary total,。
and you know it's true,。
you can't think of like, man, their character。
is what attracts me to them.。
You should exit the relationship now.。
The preference is, this is just,。
ladies, if you catch a guy with your body,。
you're gonna lose him for your body.。
You know, there's a study done not long ago。
that showed that the attraction ages。
of men and women are so various,。
that for women, it basically,。
there's a kind of continuum of the age。
that they find attractive.。
In fact, you can just throw that slide up there,。
where they basically found that, hey,。
if you're a woman, the ideal age of attraction,。
they did survey thousands of women,。
they basically found out, hey,。
based on the age that you are,。
here's the age that you're ideally attracted to,。
lots of pictures of men,。
and here was, if you were 21,。
you were attracted to 23-year-old,。
30, you're attracted to 30,。
women, if you're 42, 39,。
they basically went, like,。
here's kind of the age of attraction,。
the women are on the left.。
Then they surveyed the men,。
and the men, they found that if you're 20,。
you like a 20-year-old,。
and if you're 49, you like a 20-year-old.。
Now, this is not all men,。
and it's definitely not godly men。
that are saying, hey, ultimately,。
this is what I'm looking for in life,。
but it is a lot of men,。
and if you date someone,。
if you marry someone,。
or if you're in a relationship with someone。
who really wants you for your body,。
like, I heard, had someone tell me not long ago。
that when they were getting engaged or married,。
their now husband was like, hey, here's the deal,。
if you gain this much weight, I'm out.。
She should have said, I'm out.。
And if you are dating someone,。
or using your body to get a date with someone,。
you should hit the exit sign now,。
because just like you got him 'cause you're 22,。
you are gonna lose him to a 22-year-old,。
because that's the type,。
I've already said, this is what values,。
this is what I value most in life.。
And so if someone that you're dating,。
the person you're dating,。
doesn't see character,。
or you don't find character to be the quality。
that is driving and attracting,。
you should exit the relationship now.。
So Samson finds out his fiancee marries another man,。
and really, things kinda go downhill from there.。
He ends up sleeping with a prostitute.。
He gets kind of in this big feud with the Philistines.。
At one point, he takes a donkey bone,。
kills a thousand other guys.。
I mean, Samson was savage, if nothing else.。
But his relational life just doesn't get much better,。
and eventually, he falls in love with the most famous。
of maybe all women inside of the Old Testament, Delilah.。
And here's what happens in verse four of chapter 16.。
"Sometime later, Samson fell in love。
"with a woman named Delilah,。
"who lived in the valley of Sorek."。
So the Hulk loves a valley girl.。
Tale as old as time.。
"The rulers of the Philistines went,。
"and they said to her, 'Entice Samson。
"'to tell you what makes him so strong。
"'so he can be overpowered and tied up securely,。
"'and each of us will give you 1,100 pieces of silver.'"。
1,100 pieces of silver, basically,。
this was the equivalent to between 15 and $20 million.。
So basically, like, hey, we will give you enough to retire。
if you will find out what makes this guy so strong.。
So she is the definition of gold digger, silver digger.。
"So Delilah said to Samson,。
"'Please tell me what makes you so strong,。
"'what it would take to tie you up securely.'。
"Samson replied, 'If I were tied up。
"'with seven new bow strings that have not yet been dried,。
"'I would become as weak as anybody else.'"。
So really, the same thing begins to happen over and over.。
So seven bow strings, she goes, she gets 'em,。
he sleeps, she ties 'em up, then she says,。
"Samson, the Philistines are upon you, they're here."。
He wakes up, snaps the bow strings,。
and she's like, "You lied to me, you lied to me,。
"I can't believe you lied to me,。
"why won't you tell me the truth?"。
And really, the same thing happens over and over again.。
He says, "Oh, I was kidding,。
"if you tie me up with brand new ropes。
"that have never been used,。
"I'll become as weak as anyone else."。
He goes back, takes another nap,。
she ties him up with new bow strings.。
"Samson, the Philistines are here."。
He wakes up, snaps the strings.。
At this point, if I'm Samson,。
you gotta be a little concerned,。
where you're like, "This woman keeps tying me up."。
(audience laughing)。
Goes back to sleep, and again, or I'm sorry,。
she basically says again, "Hey, why you keep lying to me,。
"why won't you tell me what it was?"。
And he says, "Man, if you weave my hair into a loom,。
"it will make me weaker than any other man,。
"as weak as any other man."。
He goes to sleep, she does it again,。
and she says, "The Philistines are upon you, Samson,。
"wake up."。
He wakes up, snaps his hair out of the loom.。
Again, you got so many questions,。
where you're like, "Sam, this brother loves some naps.。
"This guy, three naps in a row, man."。
And she finally says, "Samson, you hate me,。
"you don't love me."。
And she begins nagging, nagging, nagging.。
She says, "How can you say I love you。
"and not tell me this?"。
Verse 15.。
And it says that he finally shared after she nagged him.。
My hair has never been cut, he confessed.。
I was dedicated to God as a Nazarite from birth.。
If my head were shaved, my strength would leave me,。
and I would become as weak as any other man.。
Delilah lulled him to sleep with his head in her lap.。
She called in a man to shave off the seven locks of his hair.。
In this way, she began to bring him down,。
and his strength left him.。
Then she cried out, "Samson, the Philistines。
"have come to capture you."。
When he woke up, he thought, "I will do as before,。
"shake myself free."。
But he didn't realize that the Lord had left him.。
So the Philistines captured him,。
and they gouged out his eyes.。
And they took him to Gaza,。
where he was bound with bronze chains,。
and he was forced to grind grain in the prison.。
And it was tragic.。
And you're sitting there, you read the story,。
and it's like, "Samson, how could you be so foolish?。
"How did you not see this coming?"。
Four different times, she's like,。
"Hey, tell me your strength.。
"You clearly have gotta believe."。
And she does it one after the next after the next.。
"What did you think was gonna happen?。
"How could you be so stupid?。
"How could you make such a stupid, poor decision?"。
The reason was because Samson was unhealthy.。
He was spiritually unhealthy.。
He had been for a really long time.。
It was clear that his commitment was not to God at first.。
I mean, think about the story and progression in his life.。
He didn't get there overnight, in other words.。
He wasn't like, "You know what?。
"Today I'm just gonna tell the world my kryptonite。
"is Superman, and I'm gonna give the power over that."。
He got there slowly.。
He was unhealthy, and unhealthy people。
make unhealthy decisions.。
Dysfunctional people make dysfunctional decisions.。
Samson got there one step after the next.。
Think about the different ways that all along the story,。
he rejects the vow of God.。
He touches dead bodies.。
He's throwing an alcohol kegger party for his friends.。
He goes and kills 30 men.。
He touches dead bodies again.。
He sleeps with a prostitute earlier in this chapter.。
Just one decision after the next, after the next.。
Samson was not in a good place,。
and the whole point of the story shows us that.。
The whole point of the story was to show。
what happens when you walk away from God.。
The third idea, the third exit sign,。
the third time that you should exit,。
and candidly, this is gonna be the most relevant。
to, I think, most of the room,。
is when you are not healthy,。
you should exit the relationship.。
If you're in a place where, like Samson, you're unhealthy,。
'cause here's the truth, dysfunctional people。
date dysfunctional people.。
Dysfunctional people date dysfunctional people,。
and they do so dysfunctionally.。
So if you're in a dysfunctional relationship,。
things should probably be a little bit more clear now。
that dysfunctional people are gonna date dysfunctional.。
I mean, that's what happened to Samson.。
Of course, like his aim was off.。
He's like, here's the kind of girl that I want in life.。
And inside of the room, the reason I say。
it's the most relevant is many of you,。
the thing that you need to do more than anything。
is not look for a spouse。
or get on another online dating profile,。
is you need to get healthy.。
Like, you need to spend this season,。
right now, God has given you this season。
and wants you to experience this season of singleness.。
He may be calling you to break up。
so that you can get healthy。
for the sake of your future marriage,。
for the sake of the children。
that you're gonna lead someday,。
for the sake of the parent that he wants you to become,。
and you'll never get there if you don't begin to get healthy.。
What do I mean by begin to get healthy?。
I mean, you need to get in community。
and walk authentically in relationship with other believers.。
If you're not in community,。
if you don't have a group of men around you,。
if you're a guy, a group of women around you,。
if you're a girl that you can be authentic with,。
that you're being open with your struggles,。
you're confessing sin with,。
you are not going to get healthy.。
The Bible says that confession is a part of the process。
by which God brings healing.。
You're not gonna get healthy.。
And unhealthy people make unhealthy decisions。
and unhealthy dating decisions.。
And they begin to think, man, the best that I can do,。
I'm kind of damaged goods,。
and so of course I need to settle for this person.。
If you think that way, you're not healthy.。
And you're not thinking like God thinks.。
Some of you may need to go to Regen on Monday nights.。
I couldn't encourage it more highly.。
I've been going through Regen,。
which is a 12-step discipleship process。
that we have on Monday nights for the last 10 months.。
And it just is a chance for you。
to kind of go through the journey of your soul and heart。
in ways that, man, people you need to forgive,。
amends that you need to make,。
sexual baggage that you need to confess and deal with.。
And this is the time,。
before you ever get into that serious relationship,。
you need to begin healing.。
Am I saying that you have to break up。
or you can't heal at all?。
No, but I'm saying there's a lot of you in the room。
that you are not going to heal and you will not get healthy。
if you're staying in that relationship。
and you need to break up.。
This is your exit sign and get healthy.。
And all the equity you've built。
and you've spent these three months together,。
and we got a song and it's amazing.。
If you are unhealthy,。
the best chance you got, man, is exit now.。
Because you're gonna date in an unhealthy way。
and you likely date unhealthy people.。
Your relationship will be as healthy。
as the least healthy person in it.。
How do you know if you're unhealthy?。
Like, here's some of the ways.。
If you're having casual sex, you're unhealthy.。
If in the last relationship that you had,。
words by the other person。
or maybe by your friends around you。
or maybe by yourself, the word codependent came out,。
you're probably unhealthy.。
If you're looking at pornography, you're unhealthy.。
If you're abusing medication or alcohol, you're unhealthy.。
And the God who's there is not angry at you.。
He's not done with you,。
but he wants you to use this season to get healthy.。
And he's saying, man, will you allow me,。
if you will come to me, trust in me, trust in the process。
by which I've given that you can take steps to get healthy.。
He's not promising you a marriage at the end of that,。
but he is promising that you will be in a place。
to step towards, if God has it for you,。
a marriage in a healthy state.。
And you'll be more likely to date someone healthy.。
If you're owned by anxiety, you're unhealthy,。
especially if you're walking through it alone.。
If you have an eating disorder and you're hiding it,。
you're binging and you're purging,。
you're unhealthy.。
If you're in a perpetual dating relationship。
where you guys, I mean, some of you guys。
have been dating for like 17 years, that's not healthy.。
You need to break up or get married.。
If you are not in community。
or you're not a part of a local church,。
you're not connected to a church。
and you claim to be a Christian, you're not healthy.。
And you're not connected in the way that,。
or you're at least prideful, let me say that,。
which is kind of unhealthy.。
And the God who's there, he's not angry,。
he wants you to experience, and this is the best thing。
that you can do with these years right now,。
is you put yourself in a position where,。
when it comes to who you're gonna decide to date,。
you're not gonna fall for Delilah。
'cause you're like, you crazy?。
Samson ended up going there one step at a time,。
all of a sudden it's just like, aim got off。
and who he was looking for was off。
because he wasn't healthy, 'cause he was off.。
And if you could come forward in time。
and confident, what he would say to you。
is don't fall for the Delilah.。
Don't be one, don't fall for one, get healthy.。
And don't be a Samson.。
And the exit time is now to exit, break up and find healing.。
It's not dissimilar to this.。
Like I have a friend, a few, not long ago,。
we went out to his ranch and we were,。
there was a shooting range at his ranch.。
And because we believe in the Second Amendment,。
we were out there shooting.。
(congregation applauding)。
So let's not get lost there, that's great.。
And we're out there shooting, like he had these hand held,。
we had pistols and we were just like shooting in the ranch.。
All that to say, we're hanging out and shooting.。
And I begin to realize that the sights on one of them,。
I'm like, is this right?。
And so I'm aiming, shoot, boom.。
I'm not like quick draw or anything very impressive,。
but I at least know like, I don't think this is shooting。
where I want it to go.。
I'd aim it, shoot, and then it would go in a direction。
that's like, that's clearly something is off here.。
And so I'd even get closer and closer and closer。
to be like, no, I thought it was me from far away,。
now I can tell, like there's something off here.。
Come to find out the sights on the end of the gun,。
the thing that you look through, it was all off.。
And so even though I thought like,。
hey, I'm aiming at the right thing,。
it was bent in the wrong direction.。
So the shot was not going where I thought it would go,。
it was off.。
And the only way to fix that is you gotta fix that sight.。
You gotta make sure that you align with reality,。
the sights, which is the thing at the end of the gun.。
You gotta make sure that your aim is not off.。
Or even in your best attempts that,。
hey, I wanna be married someday and have some great things.。
If your aim is off, if you are not healthy,。
you are not gonna hit the target that you wanna hit.。
You're not gonna select and choose the person。
that you wanna date.。
And the best decision that you can take right now。
is to align yourself with what God says,。
this is who I'm gonna look for in a spouse.。
I'm not gonna fall for the lies of the world around you。
and Hollywood as though they knew anything。
about what they were talking about as it relates to marriage.。
Because I'm gonna trust in what God,。
the one who created marriage,。
who ultimately marriage is all about,。
what he says matters most.。
And I want this so bad for you.。
Will you heal right now?。
God is not done with you.。
Whatever your story is, if you're sitting in the room。
and you're like a godly woman, godly guy。
that never would like me, you bought a lie.。
But the truth is you've got to take time to heal.。
There's no limit to what God could do with you.。
And Samson, in the pages in the story,。
the tragedy of Samson is that if you just continue。
walking down that road to unhealth,。
it will end up only costing you。
and hurting all those around you。
and hurting that relationship.。
And the God who's there is crazy about you。
and he doesn't want that for you.。
And the decision is you gotta exit.。
No one can make that choice for you.。
And this is the time and as painful as it can be,。
it is so much better to be lonely in your 20s。
or in your 30s than to be lonely,。
to be lonely and single in your 20s or in your 30s。
than to be lonely and married in your 40s。
and your 50s and your 60s.。
And if you don't set yourself up。
and you don't partner with the right person,。
that is where you're headed.。
When we were driving along the road, we had to decide,。
we gotta get off of here.。
When I was headed towards the airport。
and we missed the exit and we keep going the wrong way,。
we gotta get off of here as soon as possible。
and turn around.。
We're not headed in the right direction。
towards the right destination.。
We gotta exit as soon as we can.。
And so we looked, drove, we looked for the exit,。
got off and we turned around.。
There's a word in the Bible that actually signifies。
get off and turn around.。
It's called repent.。
What so many of you need to do。
is you need to relationally begin to repent and say,。
God, I'm not gonna do it my way anymore.。
I'm not trusting in my way what I think is right,。
how I think I should date.。
This is kind of my opinion.。
Yeah, that's good for you.。
But really, I think that's a little narrow-minded.。
You gotta repent and decide, I'm gonna turn around.。
God, I really am gonna trust you.。
You invented marriage.。
You're all about sex in the context of marriage.。
You're all about relationships, being healthy,。
being oneness, being intimate.。
And you've given kind of a model and a mandate。
for what that's to look like.。
And I'm choosing, I'm gonna trust in your way,。
not in my way, not in the bachelor's way,。
not what society around me says,。
not what my work buddies say marriage is all about,。
but in your way.。
And you need to exit.。
And when you do and if you do,。
there's no limit to what God will do and can do。
through you and in whatever future marriage。
maybe he has for you.。
But he's not gonna force your car off the road.。
You gotta choose to exit.。
Let me pray.。
Father, I pray for all the relationships。
inside of this room。
that need to end.。
The relationships of friends that are listening。
that need to end.。
Would you right now just in the stillness。
and the quietness as we bow our heads,。
just as we pray, as we listen to you,。
to direct us, God,。
would you help us, I just pray for,。
there's nothing, there are things,。
but breakups are horribly painful.。
And so in the midst of that,。
if that is where you lead us, God,。
would you surround us with your people?。
Would we tangibly feel your love。
and awareness of you would be present。
in our minds and our hearts?。
Would you help us walk through breakups?。
And help us to not walk through divorce?。
Would we exit now before exiting in a way。
or just seeing a total collision take place?。
I pray that you would heal all the areas。
of our hearts in this room。
where we need you to heal us, God.。
We'd be a part of experiencing that through confession.。
And we would begin to live and date。
and marry in a way that brings honor to you,。
that showcases to the world,。
we know what marriage is about。
'cause we know the one who created it, Jesus.。
And would you form relationships in this room。
that have not yet even formed。
between godly men and godly women?。
Would we be your people?。
We love you, we worship you in song, amen.。
Hey guys, thanks so much for listening.。
Hopefully that message was encouraging.。
If you're interested in staying up to date。
with all the messages, content, sermons。
that we're putting out,。
then you wanna make sure to subscribe below。
and hit the notification bell。
so you're updated every time something comes up.。
If you're interested in finding more about our ministry,。
go follow us on Instagram @theporch.。
If you have questions,。
whether it's about the message you just heard,。
our ministry in general, any way that we can serve you,。
email us please at info@theporch.live.。
Thanks again for listening.。
