Oh yeah, I don't know if you've seen that. That is the ad campaign for Mac.。
Just this whole idea, I'm a Mac, you're a PC. Right? And so I don't know, as you。
watch that, you probably have a favorite. Some of you are like, yeah, I just don't。
get the Mac, the finger commands. It doesn't really work for me. I really like。
my PC. Maybe for you it carries over to the the iPhone or the Google Android or。
whatever that is. But here's what I want to point out to you up front. Is that。
both of these machines, right, I've got the Mac, I've got the Dell or the PC, if。
you will, they're both given value by their manufacturer. Right? If you want a。
computer, you don't just want a computer, you want a Mac or you want a Dell or you。
have some specific computer in mind. They're both the same value. You can。
get either one for $11.99 at Best Buy. Okay? And the difference between the two。
is both a difference of hardware, the outside, and a difference of software, the。
inside. Right? And it's interesting because I bought this hard drive online.。
I wanted to go ahead and take all these pictures I've been taking with my iPhone。
of the kids and all of these videos. And I thought I'd get an external hard。
drive. And I'm a Mac guy, so that's the camp that I'm in. Right? And I'm gonna。
put them on my computer and I get it. And I'm in community with a bunch of。
software engineers and they're like, and I'm trying to do it. I'm like, "Hey man, it。
won't work. You know, I know I'm stupid. Come over and help me." And they're like,。
"No, no, no. This is incompatible with your Mac. No, we're going to have to do some。
things to it to make it compatible. We're gonna have to reprogram it, right, if you。
will, so that it can be compatible for your Mac." It's interesting that the two。
machines, they do very, very similar things, but in ways, in lots of ways,。
they're really, really incompatible. And isn't that true of man and woman? That。
God made man and God made woman. And they exist for a really, really similar。
purpose, but in so many ways, they're incompatible. And they have different。
hardware, that's the external, right? And then different software, that's the。
internal. They think different and feel different and emote different. They are。
altogether different. And you can only even look at the physical, the hardware,。
if you will, and realize that these two were made to be compatible. But something。
has gone wrong. Something has gone tragically wrong. We're not getting。
better at this idea of relationships. I don't know if you realize this. We are。
getting a whole lot worse with the progression of time. We're getting so。
much worse at this, almost arrogantly, almost arrogantly, like, "No, we can we can。
do whatever we want, and we've got it all figured out." And no, no, the divorce rate。
skyrocketing at over half. That's crazy that people would plan their entire life。
to spend the rest of their lives with one person, and over half of them would。
get it wrong. It's actually much more than half, because the marriage。
satisfaction rate is tragically low, as the majority, the vast majority of。
marriages fail miserably, either by divorce or undivorced, right? Just。
roommates or open marriages. And so there it seems as though we're incompatible.。
And so tonight we're talking about sex by design, really sexes by design. Just。
this fact that we have a manufacturer, one who made us, and he has a desire. And。
to know how we work the best, we have to return to the manufacturer and say, "Hey,。
how did you make us? What is your purpose?" Because those who live according to how。
He created them to be get it right, all right? Whether they're believers or not,。
those who live according to the way that He created us, those who understand His。
intentions or unknowingly they live according to His intentions, those are。
the ones who get it right. And tonight I want that to be you. And so it's。
no confusing issue that we get this wrong. I mean, it's just the。
reality. Think about your breakups and heartbreak and really every relationship。
you have ever been in that you're not in anymore because it ended. Something went。
wrong. And there's this idea right now that gender doesn't matter that's being。
populated by our culture. And I think the church kind of raises up and says, "Yes it。
does!" But I don't really know why. Now I think it really matters, but I'm not sure。
how to explain that. And so we seem not only incompatible, we seem to be getting。
less and less compatible. And so we're starting this series tonight, just this。
battle of the sexes, which is the designers plan for man, woman, sex, dating,。
and relationships. And so to preview tonight, we're going to look at God's。
design in the beginning, what went wrong and the implications of what went wrong,。
and what we should do now as you leave here and as you consider interacting。
with the opposite sex. What should we do now? What was God's original intention。
for us? We're going to be in Genesis, which just is a book that means。
"the beginning." So we're gonna be in Genesis 1, 2, and 3. So pray for clarity。
and brevity tonight as we go through Genesis chapters 1, 2, and 3. And we just。
go back to this book of origin, if you will, that says where we come from and。
why we were created. We'll start in Genesis chapter 1, verse 26. "Then God。
said, 'Let us," that's the Trinity, "make mankind in our," Trinity, "image, in our。
likeness, so that they may rule over the fish in the sea and the birds in the sky,。
over the livestock and all the wild animals, and over all the。
creatures that move along the ground.' So God created mankind," that's us, "in His。
own image. In the image of God He created them, male and female He created them. God。
blessed them and said to them, 'Be fruitful and increase in number. Fill the。
earth and subdue it. Rule over the fish in the sea and the birds in the sky and。
over every living creature that moves on the ground.'" My first point this evening is。
that we were created opposites to complete. That we were made male and。
female to complete. That God could have made all men, He could have made all。
women, He could have done this deal however He wanted to. He could have。
stopped at dogs, okay? He could have stopped at rhinoceroses or whatever or。
not made anything, but by design, very intentionally, He made them male and。
female in the beginning. That we were created opposites to complete. And that。
there's this profound reality in this text that we are made in God's image.。
This is the imago Dei. What does it mean that we were made in God's image? Here's。
what it means simply put. That you have value. That you have value. That you were。
made by God for God. Okay, this thing has value because it's Apple. Has value。
because it's Dell. You have value because you're God's. What's your brand? God's. Do。
you have less value because you were hurt in that relationship? Do you have。
less value because what happened to you? Do you have less value because you, I。
don't care if you live in the projects or the park cities, your value is the。
same because you were made by God. He made you intentionally. He has this plan。
and this purpose for you. And so we were made not only by God, but to represent。
God. And so God is represented as masculine, of course. We know that God is。
referred to as He. And so we know, we see the metaphors in the scripture to。
describe Him as husband and father and king and warrior. But God is also。
represented as feminine in the scripture. As a mother giving birth. As a nursing。
mother caring for her infant. As a hen with chicks under her wings caring for。
and protecting them. And so your value doesn't come from your Facebook status,。
single or married. Your value comes because you are an image bearer of the。
creator of the universe. You were made, like I don't know if you've known your。
purpose your entire life, but you were made to represent Him. And when you do so。
you are fully alive. And when you miss it, you are missing the calling on your life.。
We see in this text the first Great Commission. You've heard that term。
probably there in Matthew. But here we have the first Great Commission. He says。
"Be fruitful and increase in number. Fill the earth and subdue it. Rule over the。
fish in the sea and the birds in the sky and over every living creature that。
moves on the ground." What does it mean to be an image bearer of God? It means that。
you were created to rule. That you were created as ruler over the earth. This is。
so important that God made little gods to rule over the earth. Or better said。
image bearers of the one true God to rule over the earth. And so we're created。
as opposites, male and female, to work together to bring order in this place.。
That's important, to bring order into this place. Not made to war against each。
other but to work together. Together we are made like God, for God, by God, to。
represent God in filling and forming the earth. Together we are made like God, for。
God, by God, to represent God in filling and forming, shaping, making in the earth.。
This is your purpose. Made distinctly male and female. Different. Are we。
different, male and female? Are we different? I can tell you from a young。
age you can observe these differences. I have two daughters and my son.。
My daughters, they have this pink wand with a big star on it that。
lights up and makes this little twinkling noise. They kind of walk。
around and they're like, you know, they're doing this. "Oh, I can turn on the。
candles. Look, Daddy, it's magic." They're kind of using this one. My。
17-month-old son gets it and it becomes a weapon of mass destruction.。
He's like, "Wham! Wham!" He's just sitting there like banging the couch like。
it's a hammer or a broadsword swinging it at him. I'm ducking and he's swinging it at。
my head. They're just different. I mean, even at that really, really, really。
early age. That's one silly example but I see their differences in so many。
ways. How are they different? Genesis 2 now, verse 15. "The Lord God took the man。
and put him in the Garden of Eden to work it and take care of it." So。
Genesis 2 is really an expounding of the parenthetical Genesis 1. So Genesis 1,。
we have this summary and then Genesis 2 says, "Hey, let me show you how it all。
went down." "And the Lord God commanded the man, 'You are free to。
eat from any tree in the Garden, but you must not eat from the tree of the。
knowledge of good and evil, for when you eat from it you will certainly die.'"。
The Lord God said. And so all up into this point, he's like, "He made it. It was good.。
He made it. It was good. He made it. It was good. He said it. He said it. It was and。
it was good. He said it. It was and it was good." This is the rhythm we see. "He said it.。
It was and it was good." And he's God. And so you think everything's perfect in the。
Garden of Eden. It is paradise, right? There's nothing wrong. And then God,。
Creator of the heavens and the earth, says, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. There's something wrong." He says this.。
It's really odd. He says, "It is not good." Now, "It is not good for the man to be。
alone. I will make a helper suitable for him." Now the Lord God had formed out of。
the ground all the wild animals and all the birds in the sky. He brought them to。
the man. This is just kind of a parenthetical statement showing you。
everything that's happened up to this point. He brought them to the man to see。
what he would name them and whatever the man called each living creature, that was。
its name. So the man gave names to all the livestock, the birds in the sky, and。
the wild animals. We see the man bringing order to this place. God says, "Hey, you are。
there. You are a ruler made in my image to rule. Bring order to this place." This is。
the biblical definition of masculinity.。
To bench press 300 pounds? Nope. To love football? Nope. To be ripped up? Nope. To fight? Nope.。
To spit? Nope. The biblical definition of masculinity is to bring order。
through work and care. That is what it means to be fully a man, to bring order。
through work and care. Man, I hope you hear that. So did Adam like football or。
play the harp? We don't know. We know he didn't like football, let's be honest.。
It doesn't matter to bring order through work and care. But for Adam, no suitable,。
circle that word suitable, helper, circle that word helper, was formed. So the Lord。
God caused the man to fall into a deep sleep, and while he was sleeping, he took。
one of his ribs, one of the man's ribs, and then closed up the place with flesh.。
Then the Lord made a woman from the rib he had taken out of the man. He brought。
her to the man. This is not figurative. It's not poetry. This is actually how it。
went down. Picture Adam. He's sleeping. God, the Creator, grabs his rib and makes。
woman from him. This literally happened in the garden. It says that Eve is。
a suitable. What does that word suitable mean? It doesn't translate well in。
English. It means as the opposite of. Eve was made as the opposite of. You ever。
heard opposites attract? It's biblical. It's biblical. Opposites do indeed. I've。
done many, many weddings, and usually they are very, very different people that come。
together. I'm like, "Oh, you guys are gonna be sanctified. They're getting along, okay?"。
Opposites attract. They also later attack. Opposites attract, and later they attack.。
True story. Eve is made according to the opposite of Adam. Then that。
other word is, she's not just suitable, she's a helper. That's the word azer.。
Helper. The biblical definition of femininity is this, ability to。
come alongside and help. Listen to this part. A necessary compliment.。
Ability to come alongside and help. A necessary compliment. Anybody upset by。
that? If I read it and I was a woman, I'm like, "Helper? What am I, an assistant?"。
Stay with me. There's a couple ways to think about helper.。
We've got to clarify this. This is important. You could think like。
Santa's little helper. Like there's Santa, and he needs all these helpers.。
Little helpers. Now, if you will, picture for me a little car。
stuck in some mud, and it needs help. It needs a big monster truck to come and。
pull him out of that. Helper. Helper can both be demeaning, if you will,。
but it can also be a huge compliment. I think personally it's funny. It says that。
us men, we need help. Amen? Try to hold down the applause.。
It says men, we need help. You know who is called helper in the。
Old Testament? The same word? God. This same word is used most often to describe。
two things, 21 times in the Old Testament, to describe warrior and to describe God.。
His relationship with Israel. He was there. "I lift my eyes to the hills.。
Where does my azer come from? Where does my help come from? God, I need you."。
The Holy Spirit is our helper. This is the word that is given to the women.。
Women, you are a helper. It's beautiful. It's really beautiful.。
Femininity is the ability to come alongside and help a necessary compliment.。
It says that Eve is made from Adam's side. I love this from Matthew Henry's commentary.。
I just want to read it to you. "Not made out of his head to top him, not。
made out of his feet to be trampled upon by him, but out of his side to be equal with。
him under his arm to be protected and near his heart to be beloved."。
Women, let me tell you this. You are a complete mystery to us.。
You just are, man. We don't understand you.。
We think we do. Right when we're like, "I get women."。
I've had some men tell me that. "I really understand women."。
I'm like, "That's cute, buddy. That's really cute."。
You're a mystery to us. I can just tell you that most of the men in。
the room remember that time when that girl they were attracted to came up and just said,。
"Hey, can I help you with that?" "No. Yes. Maybe. No. Sure."。
I remember when I met Monica, she just was like, you know, I just was like, "Whoa."。
She would start to come over and we would start to hang out.。
She would come over sometimes when I wasn't there and my roommates would let her in.。
My room was like a tornado. It was just like, you know, it needed that。
yellow tape around it. It was really bad.。
There was stuff growing in there. She would tell you that.。
It's true. She would just go in there and she would bring。
order to it. She would put stuff where it goes.。
I would walk in and I was like, "I didn't even know that had a place to go.。
You created a place for that to go. I didn't even know that was possible."。
It was just like I saw how necessary it was for us to spend time together so I would have。
a better understanding of who I was created to be as a man to bring order and needing。
help with that. Needing help.。
Not someone to do it for me. Not just someone to do it for me.。
Someone to show me how necessary it was. I want you to watch what happens next.。
The man said, ready, in quotes, "This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh.。
She shall be called woman for she was taken out of man."。
This is in quotes. In the Hebrew, this is actually a song.。
So you can just see Adam, like he wakes up from this dream and he looks and he's like,。
"Her eyes, her eyes." I mean he's just Bruno Mars, right?。
He's going off on it. He's like, "Oh, this is good. You did good,。
God. Well done." His first words are song.。
There they are. They're getting along.。
Man and woman. That is why man leaves his father.。
That is why man leaves his father and mother and is united to his wife and they indeed。
become one flesh. Adam and his wife were both naked.。
Why would God put this in the scripture? Listen.。
Why would he go to such great lengths to preserve this one little line?。
Adam and his wife were both naked and they felt no shame.。
They felt no shame. They were made to complete, not compete.。
And there they are and there's no shame. They were naked and unashamed.。
No insecurities. No, "Do I look fat in these jeans?"。
No jeans, you know. Just there.。
They were safe. Like some of you, that's the longing of your。
heart. "I just want to be in a relationship and I。
just want to be safe." There's a safety in the Garden of Eden right。
now that is incomprehensible to us. We can't even imagine it in our wildest dreams。
that they coexisted and just realized their completion of each other.。
How much they are both necessary. Just this reality and they're there and there's。
no shame. They're unashamed.。
And so Eve is not leveraging her sex appeal for power over Adam.。
Adam's not domineering over Eve. They're just there and they're just safe.。
And so men were created to bring order through work and care.。
Women created to help in that purpose as a necessary complement.。
Together they fill and form the earth. They are unashamed and loving and trusting。
each other in right relationship with each other and more importantly in right relationship。
with God. They walk with God.。
They're in the Garden and they get to walk with the Creator.。
The heavens and the earth, they get to talk with Him and commune with Him.。
So what went wrong? Number two, we become opponents who compete.。
We become opponents who compete. The serpent comes up to Eve.。
This is how this goes down. And says, "Hey, you can eat from the tree。
that God told you not to eat from. If you eat from it, you will be like God."。
That's confusing because she was already like God.。
She was made in God's image to be like God, by God, for God, to be like God.。
The serpent is offering her a shortcut to be like God without God.。
That is still the lie of the world. That you can be like God without God.。
It will never, ever, ever work. See, when you walk with God, you become like。
God. When you spend time with God, you become like。
God. They were walking with God, but the serpent。
says, "Hey, you don't need to walk with God. Just eat from this.。
Just disobey God, and you will be like Him." Then the eyes of both of them were opened,。
and they realized they were naked, so they sewed fig leaves together and made coverings。
for themselves. All of the sudden, with this one fracture in。
existence in the universe, everything is undone in a moment.。
And now all relationships are broken. The no shame, that no shame part, it's undone.。
And now women feel insecure, and then they overcompensate by using their bodies and flaunting。
their bodies as a tool. Men do the same thing now.。
Then the man and his wife heard the sound of the Lord as he was walking in the garden。
in the cool of the day, and they hid from the Lord God among the trees of the garden.。
But the Lord God called to the man, "Where are you?"。
Their relationship with God is fractured. Here's what that means.。
They don't trust Him. In one moment, the one who created them and。
was good to them, they don't trust Him. You want better relationships?。
You can have 100% better relationships simply by trusting God.。
What was undone in the fall is that we no longer trust God.。
He answered, Adam answers, "I heard you in the garden.。
I was afraid because I was naked, so I hid." And he said, "Who told you you were naked?。
Have you eaten from the tree that I commanded you not to eat from?"。
The man said, "The woman you put here with me, she gave me some fruit from the tree,。
and I ate it." Then the Lord God said to the woman, "What。
is this you have done?" The woman said, "The serpent deceived me,。
and I ate it." What's happening?。
Blame shifting. And it still happens.。
This still happens today. No, no, I'm like this because of what happened。
to me. I'll meet with someone who got a divorce,。
and they're like, "Yeah, you wouldn't believe. My scumbag husband cheated on me."。
I'm like, "The man that you chose out of all men on the face of the planet that you said,。
'This is the one I want to spend the rest of my life with,' that man cheated on you?"。
And I'm not trying to be merciless right now. I know that sometimes maybe it's a true surprise.。
Maybe his heart changed. I get it. That girl, you wouldn't believe what she。
did. The girl you chose, of all the girls, you。
chose crazy, you got crazy. You said, "Hey, I want crazy."。
And then you're surprised, "I can't believe she was crazy."。
Everybody would say, "She's crazy. That girl's crazy."。
Check this out. We're always pointing, "This is why I'm the。
way I am." And I want to say this to some of you, and。
I really want you to hear me, and this is important.。
If you're angry right now, I want you to hear this.。
Some of you, some things have happened to you that were beyond you.。
Abuse, rape, physical, verbal, bad things happened to you.。
A guy was just really, really good at pretending, and then he got bad things.。
And you're moving through life, and you're blaming, and you're saying, "Hey, that's the。
reason I am." And I want you to know that evil wins in。
that. I changed her.。
The wicked one says, "Yeah, see, she's damaged goods."。
And you're not. And so the question is, if I've been raped,。
if I've been abused, is there any chance that I would have a healthy marriage or a healthy。
sexual relationship? And the answer is a resounding, loud, "Yes."。
My God is so big. But there's a big asterisk to it.。
You have to start healing. And not going through life, finding identity。
in that, "I'm damaged. I hate men. I can't trust.。
I just don't trust anyone." But actually starting to say, "God, I trust。
you, and I want to be led by your spirit, and I want to begin to heal from that which。
happened to me. God, I trust you.。
You have to begin to heal." To the woman, he said, "I will make your pains。
in childbearing very severe." I read that, and wow.。
"With painful labor, you will give birth to children.。
Your desire will be for your husband." And so femininity in a moment is compromised.。
Fulfilling the earth just became difficult. Helping the man just became difficult.。
Where do I get helping the man? It says, "Your desire will be for your husband."。
I read that, and I'm like, "That's good news." Praise God for the fall.。
Now Monica's going to desire a husband. That's not what it means.。
Desire there in the Hebrew is actually translated "desire to control."。
Desire to master. We only see this word three times in the Old。
Testament. It's a strange word, and we see it just one。
chapter later in Genesis 4, verse 7. It says, "Sin is crouching at your door."。
God speaking to Cain. "It desires," same word, "to have you.。
It desires to master you, but you must rule over it."。
When it says, "Her desire will be for her husband," the result of the fall is now Eve。
desires to control her husband. This is the effect of the fall.。
Any women here struggle with control? Don't raise your hand.。
Yes. Yes.。
We sure do. You sure do.。
I shouldn't say we. They sure do.。
But there's some implications in this for single women.。
This is an illustration. I'm just hot.。
There's some implications in here for single women.。
This is why you like the guy that doesn't pay you attention.。
Because of the fall, this is why games work. I'm not telling you to play games.。
Romans 12 says, "Love must be sincere." You should not play games.。
It is not Christ-like to play games. But I'm telling you, because of the fall,。
games work. You begin to like the guy who doesn't pay。
attention to you because you want to master the situation.。
You want to control it. And the guy that loves you and cares for。
you and buys you all the wonderful things and chocolates and flowers on Valentine's。
Day, you're like, "Yeah, I know. He's kind of always there, but I don't know.。
We're just friends." Right?。
And it's so frustrating. Right?。
Amen, guys? That's because of the fall.。
That's because of sin. Okay?。
That's all I'm saying. And so some of you, you're like, yeah, you're。
going around and you've just kind of got this chip on your shoulder and you're like, you。
know, like, "Help her. Like, whatever. Hey, listen, I don't need a man. Right?。
I can do whatever I want, and I don't need somebody to come around me and to help me.。
I'm going to help some. He can help me." Right?。
You know, that's cool. You don't win.。
That attitude is going to keep you single. I'm just, I'm trying to love you here.。
Okay? That attitude is going to keep you single.。
Or there's two results. I've seen them.。
Or you marry a very, very, very passive man. Those are the two results.。
You stay single or you marry a very, very, very passive man.。
And you're like, "I can do anything. Anything he can do, I can."。
You might be right. Maybe you can, but should you?。
Or should you understand God's role for you? His intended purpose for you? Right?。
That He has this design for you.。
And He says, "And He," that's the man, "will rule over you."。
What that is saying now is that masculinity is compromised.。
He doesn't bring order through care. He is domineering.。
That rule over you is not loving leadership. It's harsh domination.。
Okay? This is really broken now in us men.。
This reality that we just became very incompatible.。
Just imagine, the woman wants to control the man,。
and the man wants to dominate the woman. That doesn't work.。
52% divorce rate. It doesn't work.。
Unless we conform to the image and character of Jesus, right?。
Unless we pursue an understanding of how our manufacturer made us.。
It doesn't work.。
So think of every relationship you've been in.。
Think of your parents' relationships, your friends' relationships.。
Think about the way that sitcoms play this out.。
It's broken because of the fall.。
To Adam he said, "Because you listened to your wife。
and ate the fruit of the tree about which I commanded you,。
you must not eat from it. Cursed is the ground because of you.。
Through painful toil you will eat food from it all the days of your life.。
It will produce thorns and thistles for you,。
and you will eat from the plants of the field.。
By the sweat of your brow you will eat your food。
until you return to the ground, since from it you were taken,。
for dust you are, and to dust you will return."。
And so man finds identity now in futile labor that never ceases to exist.。
The man continues to find his identity in what he does for a living,。
and it never goes away.。
And he spends his entire life in that. We see this.。
This is profound results of the fall that happened in the garden。
that still exists today in all of us, both man and woman.。
And so Adam named his wife Eve because she would become the mother of all the living.。
And so now making disciples through procreation,。
that first great commission, is now complicated.。
And as a father of three kids, trust me, it's complicated.。
At the fall all relationships were fractured.。
Relationships with each other, male and female,。
and relationships with God. We desperately need a Savior.。
We need someone to come and save us and mend these relationships。
and bridge these relationships.。
And as we trust in Him and Him alone, right, are these relationships mended。
as we understand how we were designed, how we were manufactured to coexist.。
And so my third and final point is that servants complete。
while the selfish compete.。
The selfish continue to compete with each other,。
but those who serve and only those who serve are able to complete each other.。
And so who is selfish? Who's selfish out there?。
People with an agenda. Men wanting sex.。
Men wanting to abuse women and use their bodies.。
They have a selfish agenda. They will always compete.。
Women who want men, and I don't mean want men like, you know,。
wanting a husband in general. I mean want to find identity in men.。
They need a man in their life. They're not comfortable alone.。
They desperately need the attention of a man.。
They are selfish. People who are desperately wanting to domineer。
or lead or control are selfish.。
People wanting to push their gender agenda, right, it's selfish.。
Do nothing out of selfish ambition.。
But Jesus, our Savior, Jesus Christ was selfless.。
He modeled this perfectly. We see this in Philippians 2.。
Write these down. I want you to read them on your own.。
Philippians 2, Mark chapter 10, Ephesians 5,。
the husband is the head of the wife.。
And we're like, oh yeah, the husband is the leader.。
I don't know if you read that verse. It says,。
"As Christ is the head of the church and gave himself for her,。
serving her ultimately with his all."。
That this idea that the man should be the chief servant. Servant.。
Monica and I went into premarital counseling.。
We were a mess. We were new Christians.。
And we met with this guy.。
And we were happy. We were getting married.。
That was cool.。
He was sitting there giving us advice.。
And I was just kind of over it.。
I remember he said this thing.。
He just said, "Hey, you guys, stop pursuing each other。
and start pursuing the Lord together."。
I was like, well, that's cute, man.。
Did you read that preacher handbook?。
That's really neat. Let me get this straight.。
He said, "Stop pursuing each other。
and start pursuing God together."。
Okay.。
And I look back on our relationship,。
which was a disaster.。
If you've been around here long,。
you know we were facing divorce year two.。
And now we've been together over a decade.。
And I'm like, that was totally prophetic.。
Like that's exactly what happened.。
When we stopped pursuing each other。
and we started pursuing God together,。
he changed everything.。
Here's what it looked like.。
I would constantly try to make Monica like me.。
Monica would constantly try to make me like her.。
But as we understood that we were Christians,。
that we had trusted in Christ。
and the Holy Spirit had come in our lives,。
what I mean by that is that we had trusted in Christ。
for the forgiveness of our sins,。
that we were gonna be with God forever.。
We knew that.。
And the Holy Spirit, God's Spirit,。
came to live in our lives.。
I didn't need to change her anymore.。
God was changing her.。
He was changing her to make her like him.。
And she saw his work in my life too,。
that she didn't need to change me anymore,。
that God was changing me.。
God was changing me to be like him.。
And as we began to trust that,。
instead of competing with each other,。
but completing each other,。
it became a really beautiful thing.。
It became a really, really incredible thing in our marriage.。
It saved our marriage, that advice.。
And so let me give it to you again.。
Stop pursuing each other。
and start pursuing the Lord together.。
Start serving God, the creator, together.。
See, we were created, male and female,。
to walk with God together in the garden.。
And when you walk with God, you learn his desires,。
his desires for us and how we love and respect each other.。
This is what is playing out,。
as we were male and female, distinct.。
And so the culture is coming at you right now。
with another agenda, saying that gender doesn't matter,。
that you should be what you feel.。
And so let me tell you this.。
I can take this computer and I can change the software.。
I can take this computer and I can change the software on it。
but it's still a Mac 'cause it was made a Mac.。
And so what is on it, what's inside,。
doesn't change its identity.。
And this is the progression of transgender.。
If you're here and you heard that word,。
I've been asking people, do you know what transgender means?。
People don't know what that means.。
I've heard homosexual, I've heard hermaphrodite.。
Transgender simply means that you feel。
different than you are.。
That's all it means.。
It has nothing to do with your sexual orientation.。
It doesn't have anything to do。
with whether you like men or women.。
It just says, I'm created a man, I have all man parts,。
but I identify more as a woman.。
And so what's happening in places like Philadelphia。
is there's transgender restrooms。
and they're comparing this to civil rights。
and say, well, if you feel like a woman,。
even though you're a man and you may be attracted to women,。
you should be able to go to the women's restroom.。
And this is happening in kindergarten.。
Kindergarteners are told, hey, boys,。
you can go in the girls' restroom if you feel like it.。
And it's important that we educate ourself on this。
so that we can come with love as we address these issues。
that we're educated and know what is going on around us.。
You were born male or female.。
There was a guy that said, am I a man。
just because I have a penis?。
Simply put, yes.。
Yes.。
Yes, you are.。
And so the message of culture is to be。
whoever you feel like,。
that your emotions define your sex.。
We're so rebellious that we reject。
the very way we were created.。
And so what I want you to do tonight。
is understand who the Lord made you to be, right?。
And stop placing blame on your past。
and what has happened to you。
and begin to heal through those experiences。
so that you can live as God made you to be,。
understanding who he's intended you to be.。
And I understand that the world hates change,。
but to grow up means to change.。
To mature spiritually means to change.。
Sanctification means change.。
And so we can stop saying, like,。
oh, I don't want to change.。
Like, change is bad.。
Change is not bad.。
Change is synonymous with maturity.。
It means change.。
And so I want to talk to you for a second.。
I want to talk to you for a second.。
I don't want to tell you that if you're here。
and you're single,。
and you're waking up at two in the morning,。
and you hate the fact that you're single。
and you wish you had some outlet of release,。
but you're waging war with that desire。
because you believe God calls you to,。
I want you to know I'm so proud of you.。
I'm so proud of you.。
And if you're here and you're a girl,。
and you refuse to get a guy with your body,。
knowing that that's a shortcut,。
and knowing that you can get his attention with your body,。
but you say, I won't because I know it offends my creator,。
I'm so proud of you.。
And if you're here and you're a man,。
and you realize that your natural urge。
is to dominate and to be forceful,。
but you're yielding to his spirit at work inside you。
to make you quick to listen and slow to speak。
and slow to become angry,。
and conforming to the image and the character of Jesus。
to be soft and gentle and compassionate,。
I'm so proud of you.。
And if you're here and you've been hurt,。
like something awful and unspeakable has happened to you,。
or maybe you did something,。
and just a moment of naivety,。
you thought, hey, this is the only way,。
and so you pursue a solution that is outside。
of God's design, and you know that it has impacted。
your life, but you are seeking healing,。
and you want to be restored,。
I'm so proud of you.。
I'm so proud of you.。
And you're here, and you struggle。
with same-sex attraction, you identify as gay,。
and the world is saying, it's okay,。
it's not a struggle, it's offensive。
that he said that's a struggle.。
And you say, but I think that's not God's best for me.。
And so I will pursue healing in that,。
or I will pursue celibacy in that.。
I'm so proud of you.。
And if you're here, and you're a man,。
and you identify as a woman,。
or you're a woman, and you identify as a man,。
but you think, you know what, I don't know。
that this is God's best for me,。
so I want to understand a biblical idea。
of masculinity or femininity, a biblical idea,。
and you begin to educate yourself to that,。
and yield to his spirit at work in your life,。
so that you would grow towards that.。
I'm so proud of you, I'm so glad you're here.。
I'm so glad we are worshiping。
the creator of the universe together.。
I'm so proud of you.。
And if you're here, and you've just missed it,。
you just missed it, I want you to know I did too.。
Man, I missed it.。
There's a wake of destruction behind me relationally.。
10 years of marriage, I'm still comforting。
and consoling my wife from terrible things。
and terrible ways I've treated her.。
I'm looking at past relationships,。
and realizing there's lots of baggage there。
in my life and in dozens of girls。
that I've spent time with.。
I'm healing, but I've found freedom。
in a savior Jesus Christ,。
who came to this earth to die for my sins.。
He went in the grave, and he came out,。
he resurrected to new life, so that I can walk in that.。
And he's restoring me by his power at work in me,。
he's making me new.。
And that right now is available to you for free.。
Friends, porch goers, Dallas,。
you're created with a purpose, you have a purpose.。
And we work together, male and female.。
Even if we're not married, we serve the king together.。
What is the application for you?。
To be fully man, what does it mean to be fully a man?。
It means to serve in the church, in his body,。
to bring order and form that which is around you.。
What does it mean to be fully a woman?。
To partner with the men around you。
in serving in the body of Christ,。
forming and filling the earth through discipleship,。
using the gifts and the talents。
that the Lord has entrusted to you。
as an incredible woman who he made to serve him.。
When the fall happened, it's like we got a virus.。
It's like we got a virus.。
And something went really wrong。
and we just started fighting.。
We couldn't get along and our brain。
and our hearts were clouded and we didn't understand。
what it was like to give and to serve,。
we just wanted to take and to take and to take。
and to feel good and to seek pleasure.。
And when your machine gets a virus,。
what you gotta do is you gotta strip everything out of it.。
You gotta reprogram it.。
You gotta reprogram it.。
You gotta go back in there。
and install the original software.。
And so what we must do is educate ourselves。
to the creator, the manufacturer's original design。
so that we can understand fully how we can coexist,。
God willing, with one of the opposite sex。
for the rest of the rest of the rest.。
Isn't that a beautiful thing?。
That's a beautiful thing, man.。
That's my hope for you.。
That is my hope for you.。
Let me pray for us.。
Lord, thank you just for the beginning。
of the battle of the sexes.。
Father, as we can consider what is your desire。
for us as man and woman.。
Father, I pray for my friends here。
who are wrestling with some of what they heard tonight.。
It's very different than what their parents。
are telling them or their friends are telling them。
or their coworkers are telling them.。
And Lord, I pray that you would just give us the wisdom。
to return to your word and that your spirit。
would meet us there and make known to us the things of you.。
And Father, would you increase our ability。
to love those different than us?。
Father, would you increase our ability。
to love those different than us?。
And Lord, I pray that you would use this series,。
just the rest of our gathering together,。
to continue to give us a vision。
of what it looks like today,。
continue to answer the biggest questions。
that we have around relationships with the opposite sex.。
Lord, we do love you and we sing love songs to you now.。
I think one of my fears is,。
I was just thinking about reflecting on this term,。
God's best.。
And I think some of us, we don't want God's best。
because we settle for good enough.。
Look at what is good enough.。
Or God's best is so like big and lofty.。
We're like, I don't know how to get God's best.。
So good enough is fine.。
I was preparing for this message yesterday at a restaurant。
and this girl, kind of across the restaurant,。
I guess, I'm on one wall, she's on the other wall,。
and she gets on her phone and she's very loud。
and very angry.。
And she's like, you won't believe what he did.。
Like, no, he comes in the room。
and shuts the door behind him and he's like,。
ooh, girl, you look good in that bathing suit.。
And I'm like, what?。
You can't say that to me.。
And I know 'cause I know he was with her the other day too.。
And he's been saying the same stuff to her。
and I just can't believe it.。
That went on for 25 minutes.。
I timed it.。
25 minutes.。
And just like, I can't, you know, I'm so angry.。
And so she hung up, I got up,。
pulled up a chair to her table,。
said, hey, I know, this is weird.。
(congregation laughing)。
I said, I said, I really didn't want to eavesdrop.。
She's like, but you did.。
And I was like, I was like, no, you were just loud, okay?。
(congregation laughing)。
And I said, here's the deal, man,。
we're starting this thing tomorrow.。
I don't know if you've heard of the porch, you know,。
we're starting this deal, Battle of the Sexes.。
Frankly, we're talking about everything。
that you were just talking about.。
And it's a great, it's a gathering for 20s and 30s.。
She's like, well, how do you know I'm not 18?。
I'm like, you just told your friend you were 23.。
I heard you.。
The whole restaurant heard you, you know?。
And I was like, I'd love for you to come.。
I said, do you have a faith?。
She's like, yeah, I was raised in the church.。
And I said, cool, do you know Jesus?。
You know he loves you.。
You know he's gone to great lengths。
to adopt you as his daughter.。
You know he has something better for you。
than that joker you were just talking about.。
She was like, yeah, I was mad.。
I was like, I could tell.。
(congregation laughing)。
I could tell.。
And he wants to restore you.。
So just pray for my friend, okay?。
I don't know if she's here, but pray for her.。
And let me just tell you, something's gone wrong,。
and God's best is better than you're good enough.。
And God's best is available to you.。
Tonight, as someone who has had。
much, much less than God's best,。
I can tell you from experience, it's available to you.。
Amen.。
(congregation applauding)。
(silence)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
