Hello, friends.。
How are we doing?。
The porch.。
Yeah, it's great to be here.。
Hello to all our friends watching online and over at different porch live locations.。
We are glad to be together.。
We are making our way through Song of Solomon.。
And this is a classic story, a love story between this shepherd king, this glorious。
noble one, and this woman that he loved.。
And he gave her beauty, and he gave her significance and meaning and joy.。
And there was all kinds of energy between the two of them.。
We have been working our way through principles that we've seen in this love story, this song。
of songs, from just what should attract you to how you should begin to court one another,。
to what intimacy looks like in a God-ordained relationship.。
But you're going to find out this isn't just a love story.。
This is a real story.。
And so in the midst of every real story, every real relationship, you're going to find out。
that it's not all a honeymoon.。
There's a great story about a little girl that had a mom that was occupied, busily working。
in the house and trying to clean the house and get ready for different things.。
So his parents were prone to do, had the little girl sit down and watch a little movie.。
It happened to be Snow White, right?。
And so the little girl watched it, and it was over.。
She kind of came running in afterwards and said, "Mom, Mom, Mom, you're not going to。
believe it.。
It was an amazing story."。
And the mom goes, "Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.。
I've seen it.。
I've seen it."。
And she goes, "No, no, no, Mom.。
It was awesome."。
She goes, "Well, what happened?"。
So the little girl starts to tell the story about Snow White and all that went on, how。
she ate the apple and the wicked witch put her to sleep.。
And she was kind of there.。
And this gorgeous young man came up and kissed her.。
And then, and the little girl said, "You know what happened next?"。
And the mom said, "Yeah, they lived happily ever after."。
She goes, "No, they got married."。
Like those two things are not the same.。
Right?。
Disney doesn't show you what happens after the kiss.。
Because Disney is just a fairy tale.。
It's just a story.。
But this isn't a fairy tale.。
And so this love story is a real story.。
People have said for a long time, every wedding is happy.。
It's the living together afterwards that causes the trouble.。
Right?。
One guy walked up and said, "Hey, I wanted the ideal.。
I got an ordeal.。
And now I want a new deal."。
Right?。
There's the engagement ring, the wedding ring, and the suffering.。
I mean, these things are all over the place.。
And so people are like, "Hey, what's going on?"。
What I'm going to show you is this book that God gives us that talks about the basis of。
relationships, what should be ultimately the source of your attraction, how you go about。
evaluating the potential life mate that you might have, what God delights in, in the context。
of a healthy relationship where we freely give ourselves to one another.。
Sex is God's idea.。
He is kind.。
And he's just telling you how to use this amazing gift.。
He's now going to tell you what to do when you get involved in a relationship and it's。
not all about the honeymoon.。
But let's just go back just for a second to the honeymoon.。
I'd encourage you to go back and catch those last three weeks if you're just diving in。
with us.。
But before we dive into this next section, which by the way, this should tell you something.。
You get one chapter on attraction, you get one chapter on courtship or dating, and you。
get about a chapter and a half on sex, but you get two chapters on conflict.。
About 25% of this book deals with relational discord.。
Why is that?。
Because life is filled with conflict.。
I'm going to tell you, conflict is an opportunity.。
It's an opportunity to glorify God, to serve others, and to grow yourself.。
It's an amazing gift to be able to work through conflict.。
In fact, if you look at people who study marriages and human relationships, they will tell you。
that the number one predictor of marital failure is the habitual avoidance of conflict.。
Some of you guys, when you get in conflict, you are what I would call peace fakers.。
You do all that you can.。
You kind of withdraw, and you just kind of make peace, and you don't deal with the real。
issues that are there before you.。
That's not the way that God calls you to go.。
Some are peace breakers.。
You know, you come at me, I'm going to come back at you twice as hard.。
You're peace breakers.。
You escalate.。
You don't withdraw.。
In fact, we tell couples all the time, "Listen, there are four basic things that people do。
in the midst of conflict."。
What we kind of do to help ourselves remember is we say, "Don't be a weenie.。
Deal with conflict biblically."。
What do most folks do?。
They withdraw.。
They're peace fakers.。
They escalate.。
They're peace breakers.。
They negatively interpret that the reason that there's a problem is because they've been。
so convinced and so battered and bruised throughout a lot of relationships, they're going to always。
look for trouble that's coming.。
And so they're going to negatively interpret every action and every even movement maybe。
towards reconciliation, or they're just going to invalidate another person's feelings.。
Those are things you don't want to do in conflict.。
I'm going to show you what to do in conflict from Song of Solomon.。
And God has your best interest in mind.。
And so he's given us a record of this amazing love story, but real love is real.。
It's not pretend.。
Love is reality.。
Lust is confusion.。
Only in the midst of passion is there any confusion.。
Some of you guys are convinced that you love somebody because you're moving towards intimacy.。
In fact, you're not having a real relationship where you're getting to know one another because。
you're distracted by the strong pull of sexual intimacy.。
And just like when somebody gets addicted to alcohol or certain chemicals, abuses, and。
they stop maturing, that's just a fact, right?。
But if somebody gets addicted in their teen years and the way they deal with life's hurts。
and hangups and problems is by escaping into a false reality, you're going to see that。
they don't mature.。
And when they finally sober up around 28 or 30, or when they are between binges, you're。
going to find they're just like a child.。
They throw tantrums.。
They're a 28-year-old chronologically, but they're still a 16-year-old in the way that。
they go through human relationships because they didn't face those relationships with。
the natural maturing process that God uses as we go through various trials.。
When you escape with them with a false enablement, when you numb yourself to pain, instead of。
dealing with it, you don't grow to the full measure of a man or woman you should be.。
Sex is like that in a relationship.。
It's just a fact.。
If you live in the context of a honeymoon without commitment and covenant, you're going。
to have one or two things happen.。
Premarital sex will keep you in a bad relationship longer than you should be in there, or it's。
going to be a source of guilt and shame, and it's going to drive you out of what could。
have been a potentially great relationship before its time.。
Love is reality, man.。
Lust is confusion.。
Lust is illusion.。
And only in the midst of any kind of passion is there any confusion about what it is.。
I'm going to talk to you about the primary problem with premarital sex tonight in the。
context of talking about conflict.。
Before we get there, though, I just want to remind you of the kindness of God.。
We're not selling anything with you here, okay?。
We don't get any commission for your conversion.。
What we're trying to do is share with you, though, the kindness of God.。
We are one beggar who has found bread, and we're telling other beggars where they might。
find the satisfaction that we have found.。
And so we're just letting you know about the goodness of God.。
It's the blessing of the Lord that makes rich.。
And watch this.。
He adds no sorrow to it.。
What the enemy always wants you to do is to focus not on the result of your sin, but on。
the initial sweetness of it.。
But the Lord's not like that.。
It's the blessing of the Lord that makes your life full of what you want your life to be。
full of, and he adds no sorrow to it.。
There's no aftertaste, no bitterness.。
Watch this.。
Let me just compare and contrast God's version of sex and maybe the version of sex that way。
too many of you guys have already experienced.。
Look at this.。
We ended the honeymoon last week in Song of Solomon in chapter 5, verse 1.。
This is what it says.。
At the very end of this coming together, you have the lover, the male, say, "I've come。
into my garden, my sister, my bride.。
I've gathered my myrrh along with my balsam.。
I've eaten my honeycomb and my honey."。
That's a very intimate description of a rather in-depth pleasuring with a woman.。
"I have drunk my wine and my milk."。
And then there is this little injection right here, and there's a lot of debate amongst。
scholars about who it might be, but I believe the easiest and best explanation of this is。
the Creator God who's been observing this covenant love expressed in the context of。
oneness between a man and a woman.。
I think it's God, and he just says, "Eat, friends.。
Drink and imbibe deeply."。
I mean, the word "drink" there means drink for pleasure.。
"Imbibe" means take it all the way in.。
And there's a lot of delights in that.。
I do this thing called Real Truth Real Quick, and one of the questions I asked one week。
because it had been emailed in, which is where we get our questions, is somebody just said,。
"Man, will we have sex in heaven?。
Will we have sex in heaven?"。
And I don't want to just be a buzzkill to you, okay, but there's no indication that。
the answer is yes.。
Let me give you a little taste of why.。
By the way, you're like, "What?"。
Right?。
Like, "What?。
Let's go.。
Let's figure it out."。
Right?。
I can remember when I was single, all right, and by the grace of God, all right, I hung。
on.。
I came to know Christ late in my teen years, and I came to believe that God's way was the。
right and the good way, and he and his kindness preserved me.。
But I can remember there were some times in my early 20s.。
I got married when I was 28, and I can remember there were some times I was thinking, "Man,。
you know, there's always these crazy people that are putting a date on the return of Jesus,"。
right?。
And so I was like, "All right, man.。
You know, like, if the Lord's coming back, like, next Thursday, and they're as sure as。
that as they say they are, I'm just going to marry, you know, the closest thing I can。
to pretty, because I'm not going to heaven where there may not be sex without tasting。
that."。
And you know what?。
It's kind of so funny.。
Here's the way I would say it to you.。
It's kind of like the thing I would tell you about that idea is I don't expect you or。
I, I mean, we see the scriptures as right now through a mirror dimly.。
Like we can't imagine, like, when you ask a pagan, "Hey, what's heaven like?"。
They'll say, "I don't know.。
It's like you get 70 virgins."。
Ever heard anybody say that?。
If you serve Allawel, then your reward will be you'll get 70 chicks that have never been。
with another guy, and they're like yours forever.。
Or you ever heard somebody say this?。
Like, you'll be a god, and you'll get to populate a planet with multiple wives.。
Pagan ideology and theology.。
And when you have to place something that is outside of the very nature and the goodness。
of God into your heaven, what you're really doing is exposing that your god isn't all。
that a true god should be, which is all satisfying.。
There is nothing that God gives you that you need to give you complete satisfaction and。
joy besides him.。
That's why the psalmist gets a real good glimpse of who God is.。
He says, "There is nothing in heaven on all of earth that I desire besides you.。
In fact, all things become shadows in the light of you."。
But right now, we're just children, right?。
We're living in an age where we see dimly.。
We can't even imagine the goodness of God.。
We get glimpses of him.。
We preach about him.。
We hear people preach about him.。
We sing songs about him.。
Like, he's a miracle way maker and he's kind and he's all these things.。
But I'm like, "I don't know.。
I don't know sex."。
And it's kind of like when you ask your five-year-old self, right?。
What would be the biggest blessing that your little five-year-old self would ever have?。
You'd be like, "Oh, I don't know.。
I mean, like I'd wake up and I'd get Skittles for breakfast and ice cream for lunch and。
whipped cream for dinner.。
And I'd get to go to Toys R Us and get whatever I wanted."。
Right?。
Now, isn't that what like a five-year-old would say?。
I mean, I get it, but how about if when you were 25, I stuck you with what you wanted。
when you were five years old and you get Skittles for breakfast and tomorrow you get ice cream。
for lunch and we'll give you whipped cream for dinner and you can go into Toys R Us,。
which is bankrupt, and get anything you want.。
And I'm just telling you, your view of God is bankrupt if you're like, "Man, I don't。
want nothing to do with God if I don't get sex in heaven."。
All right, so go listen to that real truth real quick.。
I developed that more in five or six minutes, okay?。
But I'm just going to tell you, God's not going to rip you off.。
Okay?。
And so when we finish the honeymoon right here in Romans, I mean Song of Solomon chapter。
five, we hear God saying, "Hey, have it all."。
By the way, the closest thing that we have to the picture of who God is on earth, right,。
when people describe, "What's God like?"。
We don't really know.。
But people do crazy stuff when they're trying to describe the Trinity.。
They go, "I don't know.。
It's kind of like water, you know, like H2O, two parts hydrogen and one part's oxygen.。
It's kind of like water is sometimes a liquid at room temperature, sometimes below freezing。
it's a solid, it's ice, and sometimes when it's really hot, like below boiling, you know,。
it's steam."。
And God's kind of like that.。
That's called modalism.。
It's heresy.。
God doesn't morph into the Father, Son, or Holy Spirit depending on the climate.。
He is eternally dwelt in the person of the Son and the Father and the Spirit.。
And God says, "You want to know, he's the closest thing to what I'm like.。
It's when a man and woman without sin become one."。
And there is still, watch this, there's still distinction.。
In other words, man never stops being man and woman never stops being woman.。
There's equality.。
Okay, man is made in the image of God.。
Woman is made in the image of God.。
And there's also subordination.。
There's headship and there's subjection.。
But watch this.。
Pay careful attention, gals.。
The headship is headship that does nothing from selfishness or empty conceit with humility。
of mind considers the woman is more important than itself.。
It doesn't really look out for its own personal interests, but especially lifts up that other。
one and has in itself the same attitude as Jesus who said, "Not my will, but the Father's。
be done."。
The Father said, "This is my Son.。
Listen to him.。
There's no other name in heaven on earth that's going to be more exalted than Jesus."。
And the Spirit says that he's going to remind you of Christ and exalt Christ.。
And Jesus says, "When I leave, it's going to be better for you because the Spirit's。
going to come."。
And what you get inside the Trinity is this mutually submissive, exalting, equal in dignity。
relationship.。
Girls, the guy you dream of is not like you.。
And he doesn't even just like you.。
He loves you and he puts aside his interest to cherish you, to honor you, to protect you,。
to provide you, provide for you and care for you.。
That's the kind of guy you dream of, not some passive, submissive guy that you can control。
and jerk around.。
And you certainly don't dream of a jerk who whenever he's around you does whatever he。
wants to do for his own delight.。
No, what you're dreaming of is the kind of relationship, and this is what God says, "Ah,。
there's no perfect picture of who I am on earth, but the closest is when you get two。
distinct individuals that are equal in glory and dignity and have different strengths and。
values and abilities and roles, but they are mutually submissive to one another in love.。
And when they come together, there is more delight than any other fleeting thing on earth."。
Listen, doesn't it make a little sense to you if God is God, that intimacy with him。
is better than just an orgasm, than a moment?。
Man, he better be, or your God's too small.。
And I get it, he's not mad at you that right now you can't imagine 25-year-old life if。
you're a five-year-old without ice cream, but I'm telling you there's something better,。
something's coming.。
God's told us that.。
So you're not getting ripped off when you think about what may not be in heaven because。
what's in heaven is God, and you will fully know him as you're fully known.。
Now watch this.。
As you think about God, though, giving you delight in the context of the kind of relationship。
that he intends for a man informed by the love of God, you're going to see the man in。
this relationship that we just celebrated last week at the very end of all through chapter。
four, in the very one verse in chapter five, is a man informed by a love that should make。
you think of Jesus, should make you think of God the Father.。
And you're going to see that worked out beautifully in this focus on conflict that we're going。
to be on this week, but when you get a man who is spirit-filled and God-surrendered and。
who is spiritually appraised and a woman who is spirit-filled and loves and wisely chooses。
to yoke herself to somebody who knows the kindness and love of God, who has himself。
been forgiven so he forgives, who has self-received grace so he extends grace, and that woman。
understands that to be subject to God's order is not going to cause sorrow but a blessing,。
and they come together in mutual submission and selflessness and recklessness and service,。
it ends in, "Oh, man!"。
And God delights in that.。
But let me just show you human sex.。
I mean, earthly sex, right?。
And so to do that, I'm going to take you just very quickly to Proverbs 7.。
So I'm going to contrast where we ended last week with what the world is offering you.。
This is another man that comes with a woman to a place of great intimacy, and in Proverbs。
7, verse 21, it says this woman, "With her many persuasions, she entices him.。
With her flattering lips, she seduces him."。
Suddenly, though, watch this, "You're not going to find next.。
Drink deeply.。
There's nothing but warning."。
Careful, careful, don't be seduced by the promise of fleeting pleasure because it's。
not the pleasure I designed.。
Don't try and get a God-given pleasure in a God-forbidden way.。
Don't meet a legitimate need in an illegitimate way because it's going to lead to death.。
I'm going to just insert right here before I just read what happens next, this illustration。
which is just so powerful to me.。
It's how Eskimos would deal with wolves that would come in and would be predatory to the。
region.。
What they would do is they would take a knife, a sharp blade, and they would have killed。
some livestock, and they will take that blade and they'll dip it in blood, and they will。
take that blade dipped in blood, and they will put it outside where it's cold, and that。
will freeze.。
Then they'll re-dip it in blood, and they'll let it freeze, and they'll re-dip it in blood,。
and let it freeze, and they'll re-dip it in blood, and let it freeze.。
Eventually, you've got this blood popsicle outside the blade, and then they will dip。
it in blood one more time.。
These wolves that have been marauding their dogs, and their children, and their provision,。
they'll dip it in blood, and they'll stick that knife blood popsicle into the ice, and。
they'll go to bed.。
Now wolves will smell the scent of that blood, and they will come in, and they will move。
towards it.。
Now what do you think will happen when the warm tongue of that wolf starts to lick on。
that blood that's there, that's dripping down?。
What happens is the warmth of their tongue, it melts the next layer of blood, and so there's。
more blood.。
The more they lick, and the more they get excited, the more there's this frenzy on top。
of this popsicle.。
What happens is while their warm tongue is melting the cold ice, the cold ice is numbing。
their tongue, until eventually this source of great delight becomes a source of death.。
What happens is now they're licking the blade, but there's now fresher blood than there's。
ever been, and more of it, and they don't know that it's theirs.。
Whenever I tell that story, I kind of always go like, "Yeah, it hurts."。
But this part of the scripture says that we've got to remind each other that it's the blessing。
of the Lord that makes the gifts that God intends for us to have gifts where there's。
no sorrow attached to them.。
Satan always wants you to focus on the reward of sin and not the result of sin, and the。
reward is so fleeting.。
You don't get enough licks of that blood popsicle to justify the blade.。
This is Proverbs 7.。
I'm going to tell you, when you read the whole thing, it's very seductive.。
It almost reads like a pornographic literature, and we are at the climax of it in verse 21.。
She has seduced him.。
Her many persuasions have enticed him.。
Her flattering lips bring him in.。
Suddenly though, here's the reality.。
He follows her as an ox goes to slaughter, as one in fetters to the discipline of a fool,。
until an arrow pierces through his liver as a bird hastens to the snare, so he does not。
know that this intimacy is not one to imbibe in.。
It's going to cost him his life.。
That same God that was there in Song of Solomon chapter 5 verse 1 is here for you in Proverbs。
chapter 7 verse 24.。
"Now, my son, my daughters, listen to me.。
Pay attention to the words of my mouth.。
Don't let your heart turn aside to the ways of the enemy, who wants you to focus on a。
fleeting reward and not the ultimate results.。
Don't stray into her paths, for many are the victims she has cast down.。
Numerous are her slain."。
Some of you guys have died that death, haven't you?。
He just says her house, the way of the adulterous way.。
It leads to Sheol, which is just the resting place of the dead.。
It descends to the chambers of death.。
How many of us have had just the scent of there must be life over there and we move。
toward in our flesh without listening to a wise God who says, "I know it looks good.。
I know you think it'll feed you.。
I know you don't think it hurts.。
I'm just promising you, you don't understand."。
That's why you got to read Song of Solomon 1 and 2 and the first part of 3 before you。
move to that honeymoon, because God loves you.。
He wants to go well with you.。
He's not trying to rip you off.。
He's trying to save you from the way that descends to death, the unwanted pregnancy,。
the unwanted used up and discarded night.。
No, you are to be cherished and loved and valued by a lover that loves with the love。
of God.。
I'm going to tell you, you're going to need it, because this is earth and none of us are。
perfect lovers.。
That's why God, when he tells us when we're going to yoke ourselves with somebody, he。
just says, "Listen."。
In fact, if I could say it in a very crass way, I'd say this, "Don't marry somebody who's。
not already well married."。
What I mean by that is it says in the scripture, "For this cause, a man shall leave his father。
and mother and shall cleave to his wife and the two shall become as one flesh."。
We know that in the New Testament, Paul takes that verse from Genesis and he says, "This。
mystery is great, but when I speak that way, I speak of the love of Christ for the church."。
When a man comes to understand, when a woman comes to understand who God is, we do the。
exact same thing.。
We leave our mother and father and our earthly ways and we no longer pursue the earth ways.。
We begin to cleave to something else.。
We set our mind on the things above, not on the things that are on the earth, and we become。
one with God.。
We don't lean on our own understanding, but in all our ways, we acknowledge Him.。
When you become that person who forsakes and adjusts every relationship because you've。
met your lover, God, the kindness of God, and you give yourself to Him, and you no longer。
cleave to the world or run to the world, but you evaluate every new idea, every new opportunity。
by saying, "Will this bring me closer to my beloved or will this pull me away from Him。
so I can be one with Him?"。
When you find somebody who has found the love of God, who has left and forsaken the ways。
of the world and is cleaving to Him, Jesus is saying, "That's the one you want to go。
to bed with.。
That's the one you want a covenant with."。
Because they will know what forgiveness and grace and mercy, and they'll know what love。
really looks like.。
They won't be lustful people who are confused.。
They will be lovers who've been redeemed by a cross where a sovereign shepherd king has。
redeemed them.。
This woman in the story of Song of Solomon was a migrant worker.。
The man was a noble king, and he brings her home.。
And he says, "You're no longer going to live in the fields slaving to bring forth fruit。
from a cursed earth, come into the palace of relationship with me."。
Wow.。
That's what God's done with Todd Wagner.。
He's redeemed my life from the pit.。
I was a migrant worker who was being abused by a greedy slave master who had me toiling。
to find a nugget of rest under the beating heat of sin, and he redeemed my life from。
the pit.。
And I'm inviting you to know my lover.。
He's a shepherd king.。
He's the king of peace.。
Now this, you're going to see a picture of me in the Shulamite woman.。
You're going to see a picture of me in my forgetting the kindness of God and the conflict。
that I create with this God that I said I'll leave and forsake all things, I'll cleave。
only to you.。
Sometimes I get indifferent to God, even to this day.。
It's unbelievable, but I do.。
And he's still so tender towards me.。
But watch this.。
Verse three.。
What you're going to have here is the woman, and she's going to have a dream.。
And you can really look at it one of two ways.。
It either really happened or it happened as a dream.。
Why do I say that?。
Because it says right here in Song of Solomon chapter five, verse three, I have taken off。
my dress.。
How can I put it on again?。
Oh, actually, excuse me.。
I read verse three.。
Let's go to verse two.。
I'm in the wrong spot.。
Let's try that again.。
Reset.。
The woman says in verse two, I was asleep, but my heart was awake.。
So there's two ways to read that.。
Number one is I was asleep, but you know when you're sleeping, your heart is awake or you're。
dreaming, you're living in a world that's not real.。
But there's a picture here in a dream.。
I think it's just as easy to interpret this that what she's saying poetically is I was。
asleep, but my beloved was not.。
He was out working.。
He was in the fields.。
He was doing what men do sometimes, is they work long and late hours.。
And so whether this is a dream and it really happened or whether it actually was him at。
work, you're going to see the same idea.。
Okay.。
I believe that she was asleep, but her heart, her beloved, the man of her dreams, if you。
will, was awake.。
And then she was startled.。
A voice.。
My beloved was knocking.。
Open to me, my sister.。
Listen to this.。
My darling, my dove, my perfect one.。
For my head is drenched with dew, my locks with the damp of the night.。
What he's saying is I've been working all night.。
I've been working dusk till dawn.。
I've been beaten down.。
And what do you think the guy wants when he knocks on the door late at night?。
And he goes, darling, my dove, are you asleep?。
What you wearing?。
Right.。
That's what I see implied in the text.。
All right.。
And so without reading, right, without reading verse three, what do you think she's going。
to say?。
All right.。
You think she's going to go, Oh baby, I'm so glad you're home.。
I don't mind that you woke me up.。
Let's go.。
Right.。
Now let's read it.。
You're like, what?。
Who's knocking?。
You got to realize there's a gap between the honeymoon.。
Now we're into the marriage.。
Okay.。
And it's not just, you know, we had the ideal.。
Now we're in the ordeal and the guy's like, baby.。
And she's like, what?。
All right.。
Got curlers in her hair.。
Slobber on her pillow.。
She's like, I'm so glad you're home.。
I don't mind that you woke me up.。
Let's go.。
And she's like, I don't mind that you woke me up.。
I don't mind that you woke me up.。
I don't mind that you woke me up.。
I don't mind that you woke me up.。
I don't mind that you woke me up.。
And she's like, what?。
All right.。
Got curlers in her hair.。
Slobber on her pillow.。
She's not wearing that nightie anymore.。
Right?。
Those girls long ago put that sucker away.。
They can't even find it.。
They're back in that flannel nightgown their grandmother gave them.。
Something old, something new, something borrowed, something blue.。
And every woman borrows throughout the rest of their marriage.。
Did your great grandmother wear that to bed?。
And she's kind of sitting there and she's like, look, dude, I'm taking off my dress.。
How can I put it on again?。
I've washed my feet.。
It's a long way.。
It's like 20 feet to the door.。
You don't want to get my feet dirty again.。
In Hebrew, what this actually says is I've got a headache.。
All right.。
That's what it says in Hebrew.。
All right.。
I just let me be.。
All right, now without reading, what do you think this guy's going to do?。
Hey, what?。
I've been out working all night.。
Hey, you're a migrant worker sleeping on silk.。
Do you forget who I am?。
Do you know who you are?。
Do you know what I've done for you?。
Open the door, brush your teeth and let's go.。
Right?。
Is that what you expect?。
No, watch this.。
This is beautiful.。
Verse four.。
She's talking.。
No, what I have is my beloved.。
He extended his hand through the opening.。
So the bolt, the door, I mean, think of the best way I can describe it to you is like,。
you know, those little locks with a little chain on it that kind of comes open.。
You kind of get your hand through there.。
There's something, his hands coming through the door and maybe almost after he knocked,。
he kind of looked maybe through there, saw she wasn't asleep and she saw his hand and。
maybe he just went.。
All right.。
No yelling.。
Like, oh, I thought it was, I thought it was dawn enough that you might be up.。
Right?。
So sorry.。
Watch what he does.。
And it's, he says, my feelings were aroused for him.。
Now that's not the word like sexual arousal.。
It's like compassion.。
Like, oh my gosh, you know, you know how I get it when we're startled sometimes in our。
sleep it says in the, in the Proverbs, he awakens a friend with a loud voice in the。
morning and shall be reckoned to a curse like him.。
And he's excited to get home.。
I mean, the guy's a newlywed and we don't know how long they've been married, but he's。
like, baby, baby, dad.。
Okay.。
Now watch.。
What do you think she's going to do?。
You think she's going to go good and don't do it again.。
How much money did you make?。
Go make more and let me sleep.。
You think that's what she's going to say?。
No, it says at this moment, what happened is she kind of came to her senses.。
She says, my feelings were aroused.。
I felt some compassion.。
And she says, I arose to open to my beloved.。
And when she went to the door, it says, my hands drip with myrrh and my fingers with。
liquid myrrh on the handles of the bolt.。
In other words, what was tradition at the times, if you would go and visit somebody。
and they weren't home is you would leave perfume on the door.。
You would, you would, you would anoint the door because a friend is like a pleasant aroma.。
Like I love you.。
And, and almost like you would have a, um, like a, a family perfume.。
Oh man, the Wagner's were here.。
So pleasant when they come by.。
Right.。
I mean, that's what, that was a tradition of the day.。
And he didn't just go and get angry.。
He's like, and he, and he anointed, he just said, I love you.。
I want you when you think of me, I want you to know I love you.。
And, and you know, I mean, uh, it's just, he just drenched it.。
Now he doesn't come at her.。
He doesn't do this.。
Um, this thing that maybe so much of us would do, which is to kind of just drop some truth。
on her.。
Right.。
So in first Corinthians chapter seven, verse three, okay.。
There's this verse that says, Hey, you know, like the husband must fulfill his duty to。
his wife and the wife must fulfill his duty to her husband.。
The wife doesn't have authority over her own body, but the husband does.。
And likewise also, he's going to have authority over his, so the wife doesn't have authority。
over her body.。
Wake up.。
Right.。
He doesn't do that.。
Right.。
Guys, it's not what you should do.。
First Corinthians seven, three through five.。
Now that you've discovered that verses in your Bible, don't go, dude, I'm underlining。
that.。
And when I get married, like that's going to be in our vows.。
Like I'm going to just say, babe, I don't care.。
Just memorize this one verse, right?。
We'll get to everything else.。
Just know that verse.。
Okay.。
I'm just going to tell you that verse is not in the Bible for you to quote to your。
wife.。
That's a verse for your wife to obey.。
The verse for you to obey is to love her as Christ loved the church.。
Right?。
So there's just a reference here, right?。
In revelation chapter three, verse 20, Jesus says this, behold, I stand at the door and。
knock.。
If anyone hears my voice and opens the door and comes into me, I will dine with him and。
he with me.。
But I'm not going to kick the door open.。
I'm not going to rush in and go, do you know who I am?。
You better give your heart to me.。
No, he's just gently going.。
I'd love you to come in.。
I've been working so you can rest.。
In fact, it's finished out here.。
Are you ready to come here?。
Jesus is inviting you into that and he does it with kindness.。
That's exactly what the scripture says.。
It says you think lightly of the kindness and tolerance and patience of God, not knowing。
it's his kindness that, that, that myrrh of grace and forgiveness and provision and his,。
his head is drenched with the dew of the morning.。
It's drenched with the blood of judgment.。
And he's just trying to wake you from your stupor and your sleep.。
Now what the scripture says is that what we're called to do is to be individuals that when。
we move towards somebody, we don't, we don't go, I'm going to change you.。
No, in the scripture, you never change your mate.。
You never change your mate.。
What you do is you love your mate.。
Let God deal with them.。
Let God change them.。
You love your wife.。
You love your husband.。
Your job is to love, not change.。
This is the biggest mistake most fake, most people make in the context of marital relationships,。
right?。
And by the way, this is what always happens.。
Girls always marry guys thinking they'll change them and guys marry girls thinking they'll。
never change.。
And they change, right?。
They don't look like they look when you marry them.。
After they've had a couple of kids, nursed a few babies, gravity has had its way, right?。
Hey, this is that a surprise to you, right?。
Really?。
No.。
Bodies deteriorate, but character and persons develop.。
That's why charm is deceitful.。
Beauty is vain.。
Guys marry a girl like babe.。
Think I'm going to never change.。
They change.。
And girls marry guys go out.。
I'll change it.。
Let me just tell you, man, when that guy, he is never going to be more motivated to。
be kind and gracious and deferring to you than when he's trying to close the deal.。
Right?。
And so if that guy isn't doing well before the deal's closed, I mean, just brace yourself.。
You're not going to change him.。
What the scriptures are saying right here is that the way you deal with conflict, I'm。
going to use Solomon, okay?。
I'm going to use Solomon as an example of what we should do because Solomon is a type。
of Christ.。
The male lover in this story is a type of Christ.。
The bride, we're called the bride of Christ, she's a type of me.。
Indifference has crept in.。
And there's conflict in the relationship.。
But watch what the beloved does.。
And it says she kind of came and she put her fingers on the door and the handles of the。
bolt.。
And this is what the scripture says.。
You never pay back evil for evil to anyone.。
That's just not what you should do.。
You bless those who persecute you.。
You bless and do not curse.。
So this is now like from Romans 12.。
And it's going to quote from Proverbs.。
This is in verse 19.。
Never take your own revenge.。
Never.。
Take your own revenge, Romans 12, 19.。
But beloved, leave room for the wrath of God.。
I'll deal with them.。
I'll take care.。
I'll let God deal with them.。
You just love them.。
For it's written, vengeance is mine.。
I will repay, says the Lord.。
I'll get their attention.。
Your job is not to get their attention.。
Your job is to love them.。
Because this is what most people do in conflict, right?。
They manipulate back.。
Like you're going to hurt me, I'm going to hurt you worse.。
You're going to learn not to hurt me.。
I'm going to cut you off sexually.。
I'm not going to respect you.。
I'm going to limit finances to you.。
You're going to learn.。
You don't jack with me.。
All right.。
Does that work?。
Right?。
What do you do when a cold wind blows?。
Man, you just curl up, right?。
You pull the hat down.。
You curl up.。
You're like, no, man.。
It doesn't work.。
Harassment, anger, guilt, criticism, manipulation doesn't work.。
You know what makes the flower unfold is love.。
That's why the scripture says, "If your enemy is hungry," Romans 12, 20.。
This is quoting from Proverbs 25.。
"If your enemy is hungry, feed him.。
If he's thirsty, give him a drink.。
For in doing so, you will keep burning coals in their head."。
In other words, you'll put conviction, a sense of guilt.。
They'll get them.。
You know what happens all the time?。
And this is a fact.。
When I see people that are in a problem in a marriage, what some people want to do, especially。
as they move towards divorce, is they try and get that other person to respond to them。
in anger because it's a whole lot easier to leave somebody who's angry at them and saying。
horrible things to them.。
Go, "See?。
That's why I'm leaving them.。
That right there."。
And it makes them feel better about themselves.。
But when you have been wronged and you love and you don't take into account a wrong suffered,。
you don't act unbecomingly, you're not provoked, you don't seek your own, but you bear all。
things and hope all things and endure all things.。
I'm not talking about staying in the midst of physical abuse.。
I'm not talking about enabling sinful behavior, but I'm talking about moving towards somebody。
in love with wisdom.。
I'm going to tell you what God will do.。
God will bring judgment on them, right?。
Your job is to love them.。
Let God deal with them.。
I tell people all the time, "You know what you should do?。
You want to live your life in such a way that everybody that knows that other person who。
left you, that they will know them to be a fool.。
You clothe yourself in dignity and kindness and love and grace.。
You extend to them what you have received."。
Now when you do that, right?。
And I can tell you my relationship with my wife so many times, I just know, I know when。
I'm being a jerk.。
I know what I'm doing.。
And I just watch her move back to me in love.。
This is what it says in Proverbs 15, "A gentle answer turns away wrath."。
And I just see her just kind of move towards me in love.。
And by the way, you know what God does with guys who just continue to be abusive towards。
women?。
The Bible tells us what he does.。
In 1 Peter chapter 3, it says this.。
It says, "You husbands, in the same way you should live with your wives in an understanding。
way as with someone who is weaker because she's a woman."。
Women, you're physically weaker.。
Also, I mean, your emotions are tangled.。
You can't bifurcate your life decisions as much.。
Women are made differently than men.。
We're not the same, but we are equal, right?。
If you didn't ever believe that, just look at the transgender craziness now when guys。
who even take hormone blockers and testosterone reducing drugs, they still compete as a woman.。
They dominate.。
There's just a difference in the sexes.。
It's embedded.。
And when you got guys who use what God's given them and he's blessed you to be a blessing。
and when you use that to be abusive, let me just show you what God's going to do with。
that.。
It says, "You show her honor as the fellow grace of life," watch this, "so that your。
prayers will not be hindered."。
What God basically does to abusive guys, he goes, "You know what?。
You want to use your power to not be kind to that woman when she cries out to you in。
need?。
I'll just show you what that's like.。
Pray all you want, but I'm going to tell you something.。
Your prayers are going to hit the ceiling.。
They're not going anywhere.。
I'll show you what it's like to have a sovereign over you who doesn't pay attention to you.。
Your job is not to change, your job is to love.。
Your job is to extend to others what you have freely received.。
That doesn't mean you get abused, right?。
A loving wife and a loving husband, one of the things you do when somebody is caught。
in sin is you approach them, you talk about that, but then if they don't respond, you。
widen the circle because you love them.。
I told my wife, someone asked me one time, "Todd, what's the best thing you do to lead。
your wife in marriage?"。
I go, "That's easy.。
I give her permission to tell on me."。
Because I told her, "I want to be God's man.。
I want to love you as Christ loved the church, but I'm also lazy.。
I'm also indifferent.。
This is still earth, so I'm not glorified yet.。
I'm not everything God wants me to be.。
So when I come back at you and I verbally dominate you or I even physically intimidate。
you, or I withdraw from you, don't let me do that because I'm marrying you to complete。
me to help me be the man that God wants me to be."。
In fact, I'll tell you a great story about my wife.。
She went to dinner with a bunch of other wives early in our marriage, maybe three, four years。
in the marriage.。
And so we kind of came back.。
I was working.。
I came in late at night.。
I had dew in my hair.。
It was early morning, dusk to dawn.。
She was still there in the night.。
It was amazing.。
It was gorgeous.。
No, I'm just kidding.。
I came home and we started talking and I just said to her, "Hey, babe, how was your day?"。
And she's, "Oh, it was good."。
I go, "What'd you do?"。
She goes, "I went to lunch with so-and-so, so-and-so, so-and-so."。
And I go, "Oh."。
I said, "Was it a good time?"。
She goes, "It was a good lunch.。
It was okay, actually."。
You know, one of the things that started to happen is everybody was just kind of telling。
stories about their husbands and the things that annoy them.。
And I went, "Oh, really?"。
And then she said this.。
She goes, "You want to know what I said?"。
I went, "Yeah."。
She goes, "I didn't say anything about you."。
I mentioned to the girls, "Hey, guys, I mean, this is all funny, but listen.。
I know you.。
I know you love your husbands, but, man, this is not going to be, I know."。
And she did as intently as I could.。
I just said, "Hey, we're not going to make sport of how awesome we are because we put。
up with the Neanderthals that we said I do to."。
And she did.。
She just said, "We just redirected the lunch."。
She said, "But you know what I said?"。
She goes, "Nothing about you.。
And the reason isn't because there's not stuff about you that annoys me.。
It's because I realized I hadn't told you what those things were yet."。
What do you think I did when I heard that?。
And I turned to her.。
I said, "Man, baby."。
I said, "Tell me what those things are because I don't want a woman that would honor me and。
respect me like that and would not make me sport for her to laugh, friends to laugh and。
be popular because she's the noblest of all women that lives with Todd."。
Right?。
You ever heard that?。
"Oh, your wife's a saint."。
You know, guys say that to one another all the time.。
But it doesn't ever...。
Guys don't ever come and go, "Dude, man, your wife was throwing you under the bus.。
She's a saint."。
That never encourages a guy.。
And I just looked at her and I said, "Babe, what..."。
I said, "Tell me what those things are."。
And she said, "Okay."。
And we just sat down and she just said, "Look, will you forgive me for not mentioning this。
earlier, but here's just a few things.。
And I know who you are and I believe in who you want to be.。
And here's some things that you can do to love me better."。
So we talked, we prayed, and I said, "Thank you."。
I also told her, "If I don't respond to that, what you do is you widen that circle.。
You get the mighty men that are part of my wedding procession will come around me and。
say, 'Hey, guys, can you encourage Todd?。
I've already told him this.。
He knows I'm calling you, but he's struggling.。
And I know who this man is.。
I know who he wants to be.'"。
Man, watch this.。
It says, "She opened to her beloved, but my beloved had turned away and had gone."。
So this is what the woman's going to do in response to this kind of love.。
"My heart went out to him as he spoke.。
I searched for him, but I didn't find him.。
I called him, but he didn't answer me."。
Now watch what happens.。
Here comes that sense of judgment.。
She realizes, "What was I doing?。
I wasn't with my beloved."。
So she just goes out to random worlds, to random guys, not her beloved.。
"They watched me to make the rounds in the city.。
They found me.。
They struck me and wounded me."。
Now, I want to make a case here that this is how you know it's a dream, because she。
didn't move towards him in her dreams.。
She was indifferent to him.。
She was thinking, "Ah, he's kind of a bother.。
I want to get my sleep."。
And then she realized, "No, before this guy, the random guy, he was abusive towards me.。
He wasn't like my beloved.。
Watch."。
And then she just goes on in this, "They struck me and wounded me.。
The guards with the walls, they took away my shawl from me.。
I was cold."。
Instead of finding peace with her man, she found harsh treatment.。
"There's no life here.。
I wish I had run to him and clung to my beloved."。
She's come to her senses.。
"Isn't that you after sin, right?。
Isn't that what you do every time?。
You're like, 'What am I doing?。
I'm beaten again.。
It's cold.。
God, why'd you leave me?'"。
"I didn't leave you.。
I was like, 'Come, come.。
Come off those silk sheets, the false promise.。
Come here.。
Let me embrace you.'"。
"Nah."。
You start to feel like that, don't you?。
Watch.。
Watch what happens.。
And so she goes out.。
She's saying, "I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, if you find my beloved as to what。
you will tell him, for I am lovesick.。
I miss him.。
I want to be reunited."。
"What kind of beloved?" they say.。
"He's your beloved, O most beautiful among women."。
This is exactly what we need to do.。
We need to remind each other.。
That's why we get together corporately and sing, and we just say, "Hey, listen, I got。
to remind you who God is.。
He is a way maker, man.。
He is the way of peace.。
He's a way maker.。
He's a way maker of restoration and forgiveness and wholeness and dignity and beauty.。
What kind of beloved is your beloved?"。
And then she just starts to rehearse.。
All right?。
I love Psalm 101 where it says, "I will sing of your loving kindness and justice.。
To you, O Lord, I will sing praises."。
In other words, what a wise person does is they wake up and they just go, when you wake。
up and you're in your bed, the first thing you ought to do when you're startled awake。
by your alarm, may your first thought be of your beloved, just, "Oh, God, you're the God。
of grace and mercy who redeemed my life from the pit, who loves me, who makes me whole。
again.。
Oh, let me run to you.。
Let me wake and not be indifferent to you this day."。
This is what she says, "My beloved is dazzling and ready, outstanding among 10,000.。
His head is like gold, pure gold.。
His locks are like clusters of dates and black as a raven.。
His eyes are like the doves beside streams of water bathed in milk."。
I mean, do you get that?。
There is no little, you don't need no visine.。
This guy's pop.。
I mean, girls, can you see this guy?。
He's tall, dark, and handsome.。
"His cheeks like beds of balsam, banks of sweet-scented herbs.。
His lips are like lilies dripping with liquid myrrh.。
His hands are rods of gold set with beryl.。
His abdomen is carved ivory inlaid with sapphires.。
His legs, she's going from his head to his feet, and she is reminding herself, 'My beloved。
is altogether wonderful.'"。
Do you do that?。
In the midst of your indifference to God, maybe indifference to one another, you remind。
yourself, "No, I know who you are.。
You're a child of God, and your desire is to be who God wants you to be.。
I'm going to move back towards who you are in Him, but specifically, even in sin, I'm。
going to use this even more, not so much in a marital relationship, but I'm going to use。
this towards you and your relationship with God."。
Do you remind yourself who He is?。
Those songs?。
"From head to toe, God is splendid.。
His mouth is full of sweetness.。
He is wholly desirable.。
This is my beloved.。
This is my friend.。
Oh, daughters of Jerusalem."。
And they're like, "Are you serious?。
That's who He is?。
That's who you were indifferent towards in your bed?"。
The girls say, "Where has they gone, O most beautiful among women?。
Where has your beloved turned?。
Let's go.。
Maybe he's got a brother."。
Right?。
Maybe he's got a single friend.。
Are you...。
Listen, this is the way we talk about...。
This is what my wife did with her girlfriends.。
Let me tell you, shouldn't it be a badge of honor, girls, when you talk about the way。
your husband loves you and seeks you and serves you, is kind towards you?。
When my wife said, "Hey, Todd annoys me."。
And you guys know Todd.。
They were all my friends at the table with her.。
But I haven't told him yet some of the things, so I'm not going to laugh about them with。
you.。
They're like, "Dang."。
And I know he'll listen when I tell him.。
"Dang."。
And I bet your husbands will listen too because I know them.。
"Dang."。
Right?。
And how about when your friends are like, "Man, come on.。
Why are you leaving?。
How come you don't want to party with us like you used to?"。
Do you know enough of your God to start from the head of who He is to His feet?。
And people are going to lean in and go like, "Can I know that guy?。
This is who he is.。
Watch this."。
She says, again, I'll tell you where he is.。
She's confident.。
"My beloved has gone down to his garden, to the beds of balsam, to pasture his flock in。
the gardens and gather lilies."。
He's right where he should be.。
He hadn't moved on.。
He isn't looking for some woman who's going to treat him right.。
He's my ... He went back to work because he saw I needed some more rest.。
I am secure in His love and you ought to be secure in God's love for you.。
Look at verse three.。
She says, "I am my beloved's and my beloved is mine."。
She goes, "There is commitment here."。
Right?。
When I become one with my wife, I'm one with my wife.。
And so when things are not going well with my wife, I don't discard her.。
When my knee hurts, I don't amputate myself with a thigh.。
When I jam my finger, I don't put it in a kitchen drawer, you know, with a knife and。
go, "Off with that."。
No.。
When my wife is hurting, the Bible says, "You go to her because you're one."。
And I'm just going to tell you, it's a fact.。
My life is not doing well when my wife isn't doing well.。
But when my wife, it's a George Strait song, when she looks so good in love, when I stole。
some stars from the sky and gave them to her and put in her eye, I'm like, "Man, she looks。
good in love and it's good with me."。
And there's no way I can love her unless I give her the love that I've received.。
Because I have met the shepherd king who reminds me, "Hey, no matter what she does to you,。
big boy, whatever indifference or moodiness or meanness, it is nothing compared to your。
moodiness, indifference, and meanness to me.。
And I love you."。
So you go give her that love.。
Watch this.。
She is secure.。
There's a covenant commitment here.。
This is not just a fleeting, there's no back door if you want to use a phrase.。
They're not just living together when things get hard, go, "I'm moving on, babe."。
No, there's a covenant commitment here.。
Watch this.。
She was sure about his covenant love and she was sure about his kindness.。
My beloved, he is the one who pastors his flock among the lilies.。
He's gentle.。
I know I wronged him, but he is gentle and he will love me.。
Watch this.。
So she finds him.。
And this is now the beloved.。
This is God towards you in your sin.。
When you come back and you're reminded, you come to your senses.。
You been there?。
And you come to your senses.。
You are as beautiful as Terza, my darling.。
That's a mountain city.。
He's like Aspen in the fall.。
Just beautiful, crisp, clear air.。
High blue skies.。
He says, "That's who you are to me, darling.。
You're invigorating.。
You're as lovely as Jerusalem.。
That's the holy city.。
You're still holy to me.。
I said I loved you.。
Your beauty comes from my attributing it to you.。
You're as awesome as an army with banners.。
I mean, you're just worthy of awe.。
Can you imagine you've been indifferent and complacent and you got away from God?。
And what's the enemy say?。
Most people say, "Ah, you screwed that up, you migrant worker.。
You think he's going to love you again?"。
If he's God's man, he will.。
If it's God's woman, she will.。
But you don't continue to sin so grace can abound.。
You just come to your senses quickly.。
You see one sleeping with six guys in her bed.。
She had a moment where her flesh was indifferent to the wonders and the mercies of love.。
And it ought to concern you if you hope he doesn't come knocking in the morning so you。
can just run a few other lovers through your bed until you're convicted.。
I mean, there's a quick coming to your senses.。
And you come to your senses when you remind who you are.。
But she responds to him.。
And watch what he says.。
"Turn your eyes away from me, for they have confused me."。
And what he's saying right there is, "Baby, you're coming at me right now, hard, and your。
eyes," if you remember back earlier in the love chapter where he looks at her eyes and。
he just melts, he's like, "Okay, man, I'm going to melt into those eyes and we are going。
to be one."。
And he's saying, "Baby, I'm so, this is who you are to me, but let there be no mistake."。
What he's really saying right here, "My love is real.。
It wasn't manipulative love, so don't come to me like you want me now because I wasn't。
kind to you so you would come pursue me and give yourself to me.。
I just love you."。
And then he says this, watch this, "I don't want sex.。
I'm not looking for makeup sex."。
Okay, which by the way, in your relationships, there should be makeup sex because there should。
be sex in the first place.。
Let me just insert this right here, okay, are you ready?。
This is the biggest problem with premarital sex.。
I already told you, it'll keep you in a bad relationship longer than you should and it'll。
push you out of a good one before it's time, but here's the biggest problem with premarital。
sex.。
Like some guys will say, "Man, I can't even control myself, baby.。
You're so fine."。
Right?。
I mean, surely God wouldn't want me to not do this.。
He made me this way, okay?。
If you think, and this is just a fact, if you think it's hard to control your sexual。
urges before you're married, wait till you see how hard it is to control your tongue。
after you're married.。
It is easier to keep your pants zipped than your lip.。
Read James 3.。
This thing sets the world on fire.。
It destroys relationships.。
And by the way, you marry a guy and you're not going to want him to be abusive and manipulative。
and critical and remind you that you're just a migrant worker and you're lucky and you。
... Right?。
A guy that doesn't control his flesh before marriage and a guy that doesn't want to honor。
God before marriage, why are you going to be surprised after he puts a ring on it that。
all of a sudden he's going to go, "Hey, I know I've never done what God wanted.。
I just did what my flesh wanted to do."。
Why are you going to be surprised?。
I'm not even talking sexually, but you ought to think about that.。
Right?。
The thing you caught him with, this is the thing you're going to lose him for.。
But I'm going to tell you, even if he's not unfaithful, he is going to be unfaithful because。
he's already showed you, "I don't roll the way God wants me to roll.。
So don't be surprised when there's conflict when I don't roll the way Solomon rolled.。
I awoke in love before it's time because I love me some me.。
And over here, when you're bothering me, I'm going to love me some me and I'm going to。
let you know you don't do that.。
And don't come to me surprised."。
The biggest problem with premarital sex is it's a tell.。
It's showing you that this guy doesn't care about you and doesn't care about a loving。
God who has your best interest in mind.。
He cares about him.。
And so he is not going to execute the playbook of restoration, reconciliation, kindness,。
and covenant commitment over here.。
He's told you that.。
So the problem is that there is a huge red flag and declaration here that you are not。
yoking yourself to somebody who knows the goodness of God, and then you're going to。
want the goodness of God to show up with that guy over here.。
Watch what he does.。
You marry that guy, he's not trying to manipulate you back into kindness.。
He just wants you to know, "I love you, baby.。
Don't confuse me.。
Don't even be confused by my love.。
I don't want something from you.。
I just want you to know I love you."。
And so here's the thing.。
Song of Solomon 6, verse 5, is the same as Song of Solomon 4, verse 2, which is at the。
height of the honeymoon.。
This is what restoration and reconciliation look like.。
Your hair is like a flock of goats that are descended from Gilead.。
Your teeth are like a flock of ewes which have come up from their washing, all of which。
bear twins.。
Now one of them has lost her young.。
This is Song of Solomon verse 4, verse 3.。
There's a reason.。
What God's doing right here is he's showing you that this is what real conflict resolution。
looks like.。
It is a reconciliation.。
You're right back where you were at the height of your love because you're married to somebody。
who never stops loving you.。
This is a picture of how godly people relate, and this is a picture of how God relates.。
Are you all tracking with me?。
Have you ever felt that?。
Right?。
Like, "Oh, man, I can't go back again, Todd."。
Yes, you can.。
He says, this is where God speaks.。
Again, he says in verse 8, this is where the lover speaks.。
There are 60 queens, Eddie Conway, but I can go lots of places.。
They're made without number.。
But my dove, my perfect one, my one and only, the one I covenanted with, that's you.。
You're unique.。
I don't just run to some other woman because it's hard, because you're on your period,。
because you've been mean.。
I'm the guy you hope for because he's the God I hope for, and his love lives in me.。
Ladies, does your heart go aflutter when I talk like this?。
Men, do you want to be that kind of guy who can do that?。
You're the pure child.。
The maidens saw her color blessed.。
Of course they do, because who is this woman who loves like this?。
Who is this that grows like the dawn, as beautiful as the full moon, as pure as the sun?。
The very end, it starts in verse 12.。
It just says, "Before I was aware, my soul set me over the chariots of my noble people."。
My beloved took me back and put me right where I was before.。
He put me back in a place of honor, a chariot over all the people.。
The women yelled at her, "Come back, come back, oh Shulamite.。
Come back, come back, that we may gaze at you."。
The word Shulamite is ... The word in Hebrew for Solomon is Shulamah.。
So Shulamite is like, "You who are one with the king, who is glorious in all you do."。
The king looks back, "Why are you surprised that she's here with me?"。
Because of the dance of two companies.。
What he's saying right there is like, when a couple's first fall in love, there's two。
companies that come together, the bridal company and the groom's company.。
They come together and it's a glorious thing when there's a new family that's there.。
What he's saying is, "Yeah, there was conflict.。
Yeah, there was trouble.。
Why are you surprised like two companies are coming together?。
We were never not one.。
This is my beloved.。
Yes, we had a moment.。
It's earth.。
But there is gentleness and kindness and reconciliation and there is covenant commitment.。
Don't be surprised."。
Gang, you're going to have conflict, but you want somebody who moves in conflict the way。
the God of grace moved towards you in your indifference to him.。
I don't know who you think you are, but let me just close by telling you, you little migrant。
worker like me who is toiling with bloody fingers picking cotton, with just a slave。
master over you and there's no freedom that you have been redeemed and you have been brought。
into a relationship or can be brought into a relationship with the king.。
The Lord stands at the door tonight and knocks and just says, "Come here.。
Come on.。
I can redeem you.。
I'm the king.。
That's not the one that's power.。
I can take care of him.。
Just tell me you want out.。
Come to me, all you who are weary and heavy laden.。
I'm not choosing you because you're beautiful.。
I'm going to make you beautiful.。
I'm the king and I'll make you mine."。
And then when he makes you yours, there's going to be moments when you don't walk perfectly,。
but he's just going to say, "Remind yourself of who I am.。
Surround yourself with others who say, 'Rehearse to me again who the one you loved is.。
I know you just moved away and said, 'But come back home.'"。
Don't run lovers through your bed.。
You might have a moment of indifference.。
We all do.。
But if you've gone to deep, dark places, read the book of Hosea.。
He's still there.。
But it should concern you if you're taking advantage of that.。
So if you've never come home, come home.。
If you've been discouraged because you've left him briefly, come home.。
If you know his love, don't yoke yourself to somebody who doesn't.。
Be a person of commitment.。
Listen, some of you guys are in relationships you need to not reconcile with because you're。
in a relationship with somebody who hasn't been reconciled to God.。
Let them alone define God.。
You keep walking with him.。
When you found him, use the keys that he has given you in your relationship with you to。
make your relationship with one another work.。
He adds no sorrow to those relationships, even though it's tough.。
Father, I pray for my friends.。
That they would see all the wisdom and the goodness of your way that we see in this story,。
not just a picture of beautiful love.。
We see a picture of the most beautiful of loves.。
That you are the noble shepherd king.。
That you've redeemed our lives from the pit.。
That you want us to delight in every gift you've given us, but you don't want us to。
find those gifts in a way that there's an aftertaste where we're chasing after things。
that look life-giving, but they lead to death.。
No, Lord, save us from that.。
Redeem us from the one who lies to us and wants us to focus on the reward and not the。
ultimate result of death that so many of us have tasted.。
Oh, bring people to you, Father, as we have rehearsed the kindness of who you are, as。
we do it again now through song.。
Would you bring some lovers home to you?。
And for those of us that have grown a little indifferent, thank you that we're here again。
together tonight.。
That we can awake from our stupor, be reminded of who you are so that others say, "Hey, do。
you think that God that you're so secure with, you think he could love me?"。
And that we can say, "Oh, yes."。
And then, Father, help us to be wise.。
Help us to only yoke with those that are devoted to this kind of love.。
And work through conflict the way you worked through it with us.。
Awaken our indifference.。
Save us in our sin.。
yourself in our love. In Jesus' name.。
