(drum roll)。
- Howdy!。
- Howdy!。
- Okay, all right.。
(audience cheering)。
Good to see you guys.。
If you have a Bible, we are in Mark chapter four,。
and I want to read a couple verses there from you.。
If you don't have a Bible, don't stress.。
I think they're going to put it on one of these screens.。
Mark chapter four, but while some people are turning there,。
I'm going to say this, we're going to read。
kind of a big chunk of scripture.。
Don't let that scare you.。
We're going to read it all out front。
to kind of load it into your brain,。
and then we'll pray, and then that'll let us。
just sort of talk through it together。
with all of us sort of familiarized to it.。
So Mark chapter four, I'm going to start in verse 35.。
We'll read through it, pray, and then jump in.。
And while you're turning there, let me say, too,。
I was here last week and taught some on the gospel of Mark,。
and then this week we'll do a little bit, too,。
we're going to stop because I'll be gone,。
so there's a lot of the life of Jesus。
that won't happen today.。
So if you're like, oh my gosh,。
what happens in the rest of Mark?。
Well, don't be afraid, you have a Bible you can read.。
There's a guy by the name of Tim Keller。
wrote a great book about the gospel of Mark.。
I think it's called King's Cross or something like that,。
but his thoughts were really helpful to my own.。
And there's a guy named Darrell Bach。
who wrote a book called Jesus According to Scriptures.。
If you're like, I just want to know Jesus better,。
that's a really accessible book.。
Darrell Bach will help you do that.。
And so just throw those out there。
for those of you that are like, I want more Jesus.。
Good, and here's two books that could help you with that.。
Or just keep coming to the porch。
'cause this place is awesome.。
So anyway, Mark, chapter four, beginning in verse 35.。
And it says this.。
On that day when evening had come,。
he said to them, let us go across to the other side.。
And leaving the crowd, they took him with them in the boat。
just as he was, and other boats were with him.。
And a great windstorm arose,。
and the waves were breaking into the boat。
so that the boat was already filling,。
but he was in the stern asleep on a cushion.。
And they woke him and said to him,。
teacher, do you not care that we're perishing?。
And he awoke and rebuked the wind。
and said to the sea, peace, be still.。
And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm.。
And he said to them, why are you so afraid?。
Have you still no faith?。
And they were filled with great fear。
and said to one another, who then is this。
that even the wind and the sea obey him?。
And they came to the other side of the sea,。
to the country of the Gerasenes,。
and when Jesus had stepped out of the boat,。
immediately there met him out of the tombs,。
a man with an unclean spirit.。
He lived among the tombs,。
and no one could bind him anymore,。
not even with a chain, for he had often been bound。
with shackles and chains, but he wrenched the chains apart。
and broke the shackles in pieces,。
and no one had the strength to subdue him.。
And night and day among the tombs and on the mountains,。
he was always crying out and cutting himself with stones.。
And when he saw Jesus from afar,。
he ran and fell down before him.。
And crying out with a loud voice, he said,。
what have you to do with me, Jesus,。
son of the most high God?。
I adjure you by God, do not torment me.。
For he was saying to him,。
come out of the man, you unclean spirit.。
And Jesus asked him, what is your name?。
And he replied, my name is Legion, for we are many.。
And he begged him earnestly。
not to send them out of the country.。
Now a great herd of pigs was sitting there on the hillside,。
and they begged him, saying, send us into the pigs,。
let us enter them, so he gave them permission.。
And the unclean spirits came out, entered the pigs,。
and the herd, numbering about 2,000,。
rushed down the steep bank into the sea,。
and drowned in the sea.。
And the herdsmen fled, told it in the city,。
and in the country, and people came to see。
what it was that had happened.。
And they came to Jesus and saw the demon-possessed man,。
the one who had had the Legion sitting there,。
clothed and in his right mind, and they were afraid.。
And those who had seen it described to them。
what had happened to the demon-possessed man and to the pigs.。
And they began to beg Jesus to depart from their region.。
And as he was getting into the boat,。
the man who had been possessed with demons。
begged him that he might be with him,。
but he did not permit him.。
But he said to him, "Go home to your friends.。
"Tell them how much the Lord has done for you,。
"and how he's had mercy on you."。
And he went away and began to proclaim in the Decapolis。
how much Jesus had done for him, and everyone marveled.。
And when Jesus had crossed in the boat again。
to the other side, a great crowd gathered about him,。
and he was beside the sea.。
And there came one of the rulers of the synagogue,。
Jairus by name, and seeing him, he fell at his feet,。
and implored him earnestly, saying,。
"My little daughter is at the point of death.。
"Come and lay your hands on her。
"so that she may be made well and live."。
And he went with him.。
And a great crowd followed him and thronged about him.。
And there was a woman who had had a discharge of blood。
for 12 years, and who had suffered under many physicians,。
and had spent all that she had,。
and was no better, but rather grew worse.。
And she'd heard the reports about Jesus,。
and came up behind him in the crowd and touched his garment,。
for she had said, "If I touch even his garments,。
"I'll be made well."。
And immediately, the flow of blood dried up.。
She felt in her body that she was healed of her disease.。
And Jesus, perceiving in himself。
that power had gone out from him,。
immediately turned around in the crowd and said,。
"Who touched my garments?"。
And his disciples said to him,。
"You see the crowd pressing around you,。
"and yet you say, 'Who touched me?'"。
And he looked around to see who had done it.。
But the woman, knowing what had happened to her,。
came in fear and trembling, and fell down before him,。
and told him the whole truth.。
And he said to her, "Daughter,。
"your faith has made you well.。
"Go in peace, be healed of your disease."。
And while he was still speaking,。
there came from the ruler's house,。
someone who said, "Your daughter's dead.。
"Why trouble the teacher any further?"。
But overhearing what they said,。
Jesus said to the ruler of the synagogue,。
"Do not fear, only believe."。
And he allowed no one to follow him,。
except Peter and James, and John, the brother of James.。
And they came into the house of the ruler of the synagogue,。
and Jesus saw a commotion,。
people weeping and wailing loudly.。
And when he had entered, he said to them,。
"Why are you making a commotion and weeping?。
"The child's not dead, but sleeping."。
And they laughed at him.。
But he put them all outside,。
and took the child's father and mother,。
and those who were with him,。
and went into where the child was.。
And taking her by the hand, he said,。
"Talitha kumi," which means,。
"Little girl, I say to you, arise."。
And immediately, the girl got up and began walking,。
for she was 12 years of age,。
and they were immediately overcome with amazement.。
And he strictly charged them that no one should know this,。
and he told them to give her something to eat.。
Let me pray for us.。
Father, we're coming from a lot of different places in life,。
coming with a lot of different baggage.。
I pray right now that you would help us see Jesus.。
See who he is, see what he's about,。
and see why that matters for us,。
living here right now in Dallas.。
God, I believe you wanna change lives forever tonight,。
the course of some human lives in here.。
And I don't say that to try to hype up this meeting.。
I don't think Watermark can pull that off.。
I don't think The Porch can.。
I don't think, certainly, Ben can.。
But you can, God, and you've given us a moment。
to think about you together.。
And I just wanna ask, Lord,。
help us see you and be changed.。
Help us see us differently.。
And I wanna ask you guys, if you're willing,。
take a minute, just real quick, and you ask him.。
If you mean it, talk to God and say,。
please teach me something right now.。
And then if you would, please pray for me,。
that the Lord will use me and I'll be helpful to you.。
Well, Father, we love you and we trust you.。
Use this time, and we pray that in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
Well, where I grew up, we played a lot of kickball.。
I lived at the end of a cul-de-sac,。
and all the kids would go down there and play all the time.。
But I'll never forget one particular day。
when a stranger arrived in our midst.。
He was, I think, the son of a repairman,。
'cause there was a repair truck in somebody's yard,。
and the kid was just sitting on the back of this truck。
watching us play kickball.。
And some of us felt bad for him.。
We were like, we should go ask this kid。
if he wants to play with us, right?。
So we went over there,。
and there was some resistance to asking him,。
'cause just to be honest with you,。
he was not an impressive specimen physically, all right?。
But we moved towards him, and we asked him.。
And so, of course, we asked the natural question。
you would ask at that moment.。
How far can you kick a kickball?。
I remember he looked at us,。
and then he went over those trees.。
And we went, ow!。
You know, I was like, are you joking?。
The furthest anyone had ever kicked a kickball。
was to the end of the street.。
And this kid's saying, "Pass the end of the street,。
"over the trees that are taller than the houses?"。
Like, there wasn't a single one of us that was like,。
"Really, that's amazing."。
We were all like, "Oh, he's a nut!"。
Like, we asked a psycho to play kickball,。
and everyone's mad at me,。
'cause I'm the guy that had extended myself socially。
to invite this crazy person into our game.。
And so they're like, "Well, congratulations.。
"He's on your team."。
And so I'm like, "That's wonderful."。
So I look at him, and I go, "Well, you're up, hero.。
"Let's see what you can do."。
And I'll never forget, he stepped up there,。
and he kicked that ball.。
And it not only went over the trees,。
it went sailing over the houses。
and into the neighbor's backyard.。
And as we watched that ball sail into the distance,。
our lives were changed that day.。
(audience laughing)。
And kickball was never the same!。
And I remember, as we watched him。
just kind of waddle around the bases,。
we were like, "Who is this man。
"that can do that to a kickball?"。
And I'll tell you what happened to us.。
We weren't laughing at him anymore.。
And when he spoke, we took him a lot more seriously.。
Now, I tell you this, for this reason.。
We were talking about Jesus last week,。
and we were talking about how Jesus came on the scene。
and was telling people, "There's a new kingdom here。
"because I'm here.。
"I'm a king, I'm a ruler, I'm your authority."。
And he starts saying stuff like that,。
and he gets a following around him。
'cause he's doing some wild stuff,。
but then we skip the section where he starts teaching,。
and he's like, "I'm the king,。
"I'm God's representative on the earth,。
"but it's not gonna look anything like you expect.。
"It's not like a military coup.。
"It's like a little mustard seed,。
"and my kingdom's really small,。
"and one day it'll get big."。
And he's saying stuff that the people。
who were following him were like, "What?"。
And the more they're into Jesus,。
the more they're getting confused。
by some of the things he's saying,。
and he's calling for their allegiance,。
but he's not what they expected,。
and it's confusing to them.。
And so in the section before this,。
it says he taught them like this。
as long as they were able to handle it.。
Like he hit a point where they were like,。
"I just don't know if we can process any more of this.。
"Like you want my life,。
"but you're going in directions I'm not expecting.。
"Like you're calling for my allegiance,。
"but I don't get where you're going."。
And they're just kinda confused by what kinda guy this is.。
And then when we approach our text tonight,。
we're in the midst of that confusion.。
Are we hitching our wagon to the right guy?。
Should we even be on this Jesus thing?。
And then Jesus gets to step up and kick the ball,。
and we're gonna watch him go to work,。
and we're gonna see the power of Jesus,。
and we're gonna see the purpose of Jesus,。
and then we're gonna see the priority of Jesus.。
That's where we're going,。
and I know we read a lot of text.。
Normal people would just cover one of those at a time,。
but I read 'em all because I don't know if you caught this.。
There's a theme in it,。
and all of it happens in one crazy boat ride with Jesus.。
And so we're gonna go on a ride with him。
and see his power and his purpose and his priorities.。
And he saw his power in that first moment.。
It says, "On that day," the day he'd been teaching,。
"when evening had come, he said to them,。
"let's go across to the other side of the sea."。
Sermon's over, he says, "Let's get in the boat and take off."。
And it says, "When they did it, a great windstorm arose,。
"and the waves were breaking into the boat,。
"and the boat was filling."。
Windstorms were coming on that sea,。
and yet this one's called a great windstorm。
at night, and it's so bad it's starting to swamp the boat.。
And it's getting to a moment where even the veteran sailors。
are starting to get spooked.。
It's scaring the pros.。
So they run and grab Jesus, and he saw,。
it said he was asleep in the stern on a cushion。
'cause he had been teaching all day, and that's exhausting.。
But they come to him, and you see it says,。
they came to him and they said,。
"Teacher, do you not care that we're perishing?"。
They get to a moment where even the veteran sailors。
are like, "This is out of our control.。
"This situation is one we can't handle."。
And they panic, so they grab Jesus,。
and notice what's the constant and what's up for debate.。
We are perishing.。
The only question in this moment is if you care,。
or if you have the power to do anything about that.。
And they sound a lot like us, right?。
When our circumstances get out of our control,。
when we realize I can't run my life, we go,。
"God, do you care at all?。
"Or are you gonna do anything about it?。
"What's your deal?"。
And they come to Jesus and say, "We're perishing.。
"Do you care about that?。
"Does that interest you?"。
And Jesus hops up, and I think they're looking。
for him to pitch in, like grab a bucket or something.。
But in verse 39 it says, "And he awoke and rebuked the wind。
"and said to the sea, 'Peace, be still.'"。
Now what's interesting about that is,。
in Greek there's two words,。
and they're both the words for be quiet.。
One of them's in the present tense, which means right now.。
One's in the perfect tense, which means a continuous state.。
And so literally Jesus stands up。
and looks at the wind and says,。
"Hey, be quiet, stay quiet."。
And that's weird.。
I don't think that's what they were looking for,。
for him to rebuke nature like it's a baby.。
What's weirder is that it obeys.。
And Mark tells us that the sea was completely calm.。
It's not just like the rain stopped,。
and he's like, "I get credit."。
He says it's an eerie calm.。
That suddenly the boat is swamping,。
they think they're gonna die.。
They're like, "This is out of control, this is nuts.。
"Jesus, do you care?"。
And he goes, "Stop!"。
The weather stops, eerie calm.。
And all they hear is him look at them and go,。
"Don't you guys know be quiet now?"。
And he goes back to sleep.。
(audience laughing)。
And the moment ends where they says,。
and they are afraid, filled with great fear,。
and they say to one another,。
"Who then is this that even the winds and waves obey him?"。
Who talks like that?。
Who does this?。
And it's a great question.。
And the funny thing about Mark。
is Mark doesn't answer it in the gospel.。
He's like, "Who does that, that the wind and waves obey him?"。
The next verse is like, "So they had a sandwich."。
And you're like, "No, wait, well, who does that?"。
And if you know your Bible, you know who does that.。
The Old Testament's really clear.。
In places like Psalm 89, where it says,。
"O Yahweh, the God of hosts, who is mightier than you are?。
"You rule the raging of the sea,。
"and when its waves rise, you still them."。
The sea's the most out of control place you can be。
as a human being.。
Only one person can command it like a child.。
That's God.。
In 2 Maccabees, an evil ruler over the Jews,。
Antiochus Epiphanes claimed to rule the sea,。
and the Jews revolted against him.。
They said, "That's blasphemy,。
"'cause only God controls the sea."。
And here Jesus is calling the sea what to do.。
Why?。
Because he's God.。
He's the Son of God.。
Who does this?。
Not a moral teacher, not a prophet.。
Your Lord and your hero and your King, Jesus.。
And did you notice, he doesn't conjure.。
He doesn't pray, he doesn't cast a spell,。
he doesn't need to call in any other powers,。
he doesn't pull a wand out and go,。
"Expelliarmus!" and anything like that.。
(audience laughing)。
It's out of his own power,。
he rules the most chaotic situation you can be in.。
And do you know what that does for us?。
That eliminates the possibility of us in this room。
listening to the words of Jesus,。
and then trying to figure out。
whether or not we wanna take his advice.。
When this guy rules reality,。
and he tells you this is how the world works,。
that's not just some advice,。
you go, "Well, maybe it is, maybe it isn't in 2014."。
No, he's telling you how the world is.。
And part of how it is, is he is the Lord.。
He is your authority, whether you like it or not.。
And did you see what happened to the disciples?。
How does that make them feel to hear that?。
How does it make them feel to see that?。
Did they get encouraged?。
Did it say they went, "That Jesus."。
(audience laughing)。
When Jesus is in the boat, he makes everything okay.。
Did you guys see that?。
We were going crazy and he just took the wheel.。
♪ He took it from my hands ♪。
Like, is that what they said?。
(audience laughing)。
No, what does it say?。
It says they were afraid of the storm,。
and then after Jesus calmed it,。
it said they were greatly afraid.。
They're even more afraid,。
'cause there's only one thing scarier。
than a storm that can kill you,。
and that's a guy that can control storms that can kill you.。
(audience laughing)。
And they look at him and they're terrified.。
Because like many of us, let's be honest,。
when you hit situations that are out of control,。
you get sick, a friend gets sick,。
something goes down in your life。
and you realize, "I can't control this, I can't fix this.。
"All my gifts, abilities, money, influence,。
"I can't handle this, that's scary."。
But then when you have somebody else。
that does have that power over your life,。
that can pull the strings in your life,。
that's a scary person.。
And what you see here is they're terrified of him。
because in the most out of control places in my life,。
he is in complete control.。
He rules me.。
He's your authority, whether you like it or not.。
And I say this, and some of you maybe were here last week。
when I was hammering that and you go,。
"God, I just don't like that.。
"Like I don't like you saying that.。
"Like Jesus is your authority, he runs your life,。
"whether you like it or not.。
"Like I don't like to hear that."。
And let me just say why I think some of us。
don't like to hear that.。
And I don't know that I'm talking to everybody,。
but I think for a lot of people in here,。
the reason why the idea of somebody else ruling your life。
is really scary to you is because somebody had authority。
in your life at some point and they abused it.。
And they abused you.。
And some of you in here, let's be honest,。
maybe it was your parents and your dad。
just wasn't a great dad.。
He took that role and he didn't fill it right.。
And you can spend your whole life bitter at him,。
you need to forgive him, but at the end of the day,。
you can just assess it and go,。
"My parents failed me in some key areas."。
Or maybe it was some teachers,。
or maybe it was someone that was just physically bigger。
than you or somebody, some guy, some person。
had authority in your life, had power in your life,。
and they took that power and they hurt you with it.。
And they abused you with it.。
And so I'm sitting here talking about。
how Jesus is your authority, Jesus has power over you。
right now, whether you submit to it or not.。
He runs your life, and you don't like that。
because you're scared, because you go,。
"Someone else had power over me once and they hurt me,。
"and I never wanna be out of control again."。
And can I just affirm something to you?。
Power alone is terrifying, it is.。
But power in the service of love。
is a deeply comforting thing.。
So I grew up in Houston, Texas,。
and we used to go to the Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo.。
And part of that, we used to go to the Chili Cook-Off。
before the rodeo because my dad's friend had a booth there.。
And I don't know if you've ever been to that,。
anybody from Houston ever heard of a rodeo?。
Or are you sitting there?。
Okay, all right, so all right.。
We used to go to the Chili Cook-Off,。
and when I was a kid, it was guys that would go out there。
and make their best chili from all over Texas,。
and people would try it and kind of rake it,。
and you'd get a little ribbon if you had the best chili,。
you know, it was just real sweet, family fun kind of deal.。
And so we used to go as kids,。
and we would go to my dad's friend's booth and eat chili,。
and on we would go.。
But then as time went on,。
there was kind of this progression。
of people would go to eat chili, chili is hot,。
you need something to cool off your mouth,。
beer is a great option.。
And then as time went on, it became more about the beer,。
less about the chili,。
and then it was increasingly about the beer。
and about higher quantities of beer.。
And so over the years, as I grew up,。
I just watched the Chili Cook-Off。
get a little bit crazier and crazier.。
So when I was a kid,。
it used to be just a couple dudes out there.。
Now it was like thousands of people,。
and they began to put fences around their cooking areas。
to keep the crazies out.。
And then I remember I showed up in high school,。
and my dad's friend has his barricade out,。
and a massive bouncer standing in front of it.。
And I remember walking up and I'm like,。
oh, like, we're not getting in.。
This guy does not look happy to see me and my brother.。
And so we're like, oh, I swear I know that guy.。
And like someone in there sees us and goes,。
no, they're cool, and lets us in.。
And we're like, okay, thanks, all right.。
Just trying to get around this guy.。
So my brother and I go in there, we get our chili,。
we sit down, and right as we start eating,。
this shadow comes over us, and it's him, right?。
And I remember he said, can I sit there?。
And we were like, I think you can do whatever you want.。
It's how I picture you dealing with the world.。
So he sits down and starts visiting with us,。
and starts asking what we do.。
We tell him we play football, he's like, so do my kids,。
and he shows us pictures of kids,。
and we're like, look at that fine looking boy.。
On we go, and so after a while we visit,。
it's actually cool, and at the end of it,。
I remember he just kind of claps me on the arm,。
and he's like, I like you.。
And I remember I was like, I'm so glad.。
(audience laughing)。
Good, right?。
And he leaves, and after a while we're there,。
and my brother's there, and some of his buddies are there,。
and some of his friends decide to leave。
the safety of our little compound.。
And so they go out, and I'm waiting for them to come back,。
I'm not seeing them, and so after a while,。
I decide to venture forth to see if I can find them.。
And literally, as soon as I walk out of the safety。
of this controlled environment,。
out into the streets of this area,。
they come running back up, my brother's buddies,。
and their clothes are all ripped,。
and one of them's face is covered in blood.。
And what I can pick up in all the screaming。
is that a fight broke out that didn't necessarily。
go well for them.。
(audience laughing)。
But they're gearing up for round two,。
'cause it's coming, right?。
And so they're there yelling, and everyone's crazy,。
and I step out into the crazy,。
and these guys are coming, and these guys are here,。
and I realize, for the first time in my life,。
I'm like, I'm in that moment that every guy thinks is coming。
and you're like, okay, how am I gonna do?。
Like, here we go, been in a fight, let's do this, all right?。
And I'm just kinda waiting for it,。
but I never get to find out!。
'Cause as soon as all craziness breaks loose,。
I just see this arm slide around me。
and lift me up off my feet.。
(audience laughing)。
And it's the bouncer.。
And no kidding, he's got me tucked in one arm like this,。
and he's got the other one out like this,。
and he's doing this.。
(audience laughing)。
And he says, are you okay, little man?。
(audience laughing)。
And I looked and I was like, yeah.。
(audience laughing)。
Yeah, I think I'm good.。
Because power alone is a terrifying thing.。
It totally is.。
But power in the service of love。
is a deeply comforting thing.。
And some of you, I keep talking about。
how you don't run your life,。
whether you like to think you do or not,。
Jesus does, the Son of God rules when you live or die。
or however your life is gonna work out.。
He's your authority.。
You go, I don't like that.。
Well, before you just push him away, he is power,。
but let me show you the purposes。
he puts that power behind, and that's the second point.。
And you see it in that second moment.。
It says they came to the other side of the sea,。
so they're in this crazy boat ride,。
and they come to the country of the Gerasenes,。
and when Jesus stepped out of the boat,。
immediately there met him out of the tombs,。
a man with an unclean spirit.。
So he catches, they're in this boat ride。
where they almost die, which,。
if you're one of his disciples, that's the story.。
You know, like when you get home with your buddies later,。
like, dude, we're on this boat ride,。
we thought we were all gonna die, it's crazy.。
Like, that's the story.。
And yet they get done with the boat。
and they're on the shore, like, this is nuts,。
and it's as soon as they land on the shore,。
a guy filled with demons is running at them.。
And the other gospels tell us he's naked,。
and so they're literally like, oh, we almost died.。
Just, ah, you know, and like,。
here comes this naked demon man coming at 'em。
because a life with Jesus is never boring.。
And he's coming, and the way it's set up,。
it sounds like it's gonna be another story。
about the power of Jesus, right?。
Jesus has the Holy Spirit, this guy has an unholy spirit,。
it's about to be like a spiritual throwdown。
and that kind of deal, but it doesn't play like that at all.。
There's no lightsabers come out, there's no fight.。
As soon as the guy gets to Jesus, what does he do?。
He just falls in his face at his feet.。
There's no debate, can Jesus win。
against the dark things in the world?。
It's no contest.。
He rules this place.。
You can't mess with him.。
And he falls at his feet, and what you see in this story。
is the story's not really about the power of Jesus.。
Mark zooms in on the estate of this man。
that Jesus is dealing with,。
and as he explains his estate,。
it's made me think about a lot of us in some ways,。
because that word unclean spirit,。
this guy's got an unclean spirit,。
that word means to be violated.。
It means to be defiled.。
If something got into his life that violated him。
and defiled him, and he is not clean anymore.。
And then Mark just begins to describe him.。
He says he lives among the tombs.。
He's among dead things.。
There's not a vibrancy to his life anymore.。
And then it says, and no one could bind him anymore.。
That means they used to be able to.。
That means that this guy got into some stuff。
that he thought he could control,。
and it ended up controlling him.。
That he started to dabble in some things,。
and he says, no, I got a handle on this,。
but as time went on, it had a handle on him,。
and now he can't get out, he can't control it.。
It's running his life, and by the time you reach him,。
it says that night and day,。
he's on the tombs and the mountains, and he's crying.。
There's sadness in his life, there's torment in his life,。
there's no peace in his life, there's chaos in his life.。
And it says, and he's cutting himself.。
He's become self-destructive, lifeless, hopeless,。
chaotic, self-destructive life.。
That's where this man is.。
And he's a real guy, but he's a picture to us。
of all of us, apart from God.。
The Bible says that we're all children of the devil,。
held captive to do his will.。
All of us are so far from what we're meant to be under God,。
but just reading this, I think some of us really feel this,。
because just to be honest, I think there's a lot of us。
in this room that we've gotten into some things。
that we thought would be life-enhancing,。
and they've become life-taking.。
That you thought, I'm gonna dabble in some things.。
I wanna experience some things.。
I wanna know about some things.。
I wanna be a part of some circles,。
and I'm gonna get into some stuff。
that I think will be good for me, and I can control it.。
And it's got you.。
And you've started playing with some substances.。
You've started playing with a scene.。
You've got into some relationships with a guy, with a girl.。
You got into some things online。
that you started playing in some worlds。
that even if you're sitting in here and saying,。
I'm a Christian, everything we're singing about in here。
and all that is not what dominates your reality。
on a day-to-day basis.。
What dominates your reality on a day-to-day basis。
is there's some things in your life,。
some deep brokenness in you that you feed,。
and it's ugly, and it's defiling, and it's unclean,。
and you cry in the night 'cause you deal with it alone.。
And the question is, what does Jesus do with people like us?。
Does he destroy this guy?。
No.。
How does Jesus use his power when he comes in contact。
with the defiled among us?。
He uses his power to set us free.。
That's what he does.。
It's power in the service of love.。
And my prayer as I was coming up here to Dallas。
for many of you is I was just praying。
that hope would rise in your heart,。
that there's some things that have held you captive。
and made you feel dirty, made you feel ashamed,。
made you feel violated, and has stolen life from you,。
and to be honest, stolen you from us.。
We don't get all of you 'cause there's some shame。
that has just got you locked up,。
and I'm prayer tonight is that you'll begin to believe。
that Jesus is as strong as he says he was,。
and he uses that power in the service of his love。
to set you free.。
And he takes this man that was tormented and ruined,。
and by the end of it, it says he's seated, he's at peace.。
He's closed, no more shame, and he's in his right mind.。
He's got clarity again.。
And my prayer is some of you will understand。
power alone is terrifying, but power in the service of love。
is a liberating thing.。
So back when we played kickball,。
I remember we were out there and there was one day。
we were playing kickball like we always do,。
and I went inside to go get like a drink or something,。
and I came back out and everybody had stopped。
playing kickball, and they were sitting in my front yard,。
and I'm like, what are y'all doing?。
Like, what's going on here?。
And they had run up to my front door。
like breathless waiting for me.。
I'm like, what's going on with y'all?。
And they started telling me, you know,。
we were playing kickball like normal,。
and then they said, Ben, he came out.。
And I knew who they were talking about.。
It was this guy at the end of the street。
that he was a grown man, but he was a bully.。
He just used to like to pick on little kids.。
It was weird, and he was bigger than us.。
He's an adult, so he'd make fun of us and embarrass us。
and shame us and humiliate us,。
and that was kind of his thing.。
And they said, Ben, he had come out。
and he wanted to play like volleyball down there。
with some friends, and so he just starts。
making fun of us, whatever, and they're like,。
and then, Ben, he grabbed our ball。
and just threw it in his trunk and locked the trunk.。
And he's just mocking us, and we're powerless。
in front of a guy like that.。
We got no resources, and it's just,。
we're powerless, that's us.。
And that's a common story.。
We lived that story, and they said, Ben,。
that was happening, and they said,。
but something happened today.。
They said, your dad drove up, and he saw him.。
And he said, Ben, your dad got out of the car,。
and he just started to walk towards that man.。
They said, and Ben, veins started to pop out on him。
that I've never seen, and they said,。
and your dad, my dad's not a screamer.。
Like, he didn't scream, but your dad just came up。
on this guy, and it was something like,。
don't mess with these kids, you know, kind of deal.。
And they said, Ben, this guy that had dominated us。
and humiliated us and owned us just started。
folding like a lawn chair under the power of your dad.。
And they said, he was against the hood going,。
I'm so sorry, I'm sorry, kids, here's your ball.。
Here's some money, I love you guys.。
They're like, Ben, it was amazing.。
Like, this guy that had owned us and ruled us。
that any time he stepped in, had control over us,。
was powerless and nothing in comparison。
with the power of your dad.。
And they're telling the story, and I'm just like,。
this is unbelievable.。
They hear the story, like, this is my dad.。
Like, the guy that knows me and loves me。
has that kind of power over the thing。
that tried to dominate and humiliate and violate me.。
And for the rest of my childhood, it was the funniest thing。
because guys would periodically break into that conversation。
about whose dad could beat up somebody else's dad.。
They would really do that.。
And I never entered that conversation once.。
They would all be like, look, we all know Ben's dad。
could beat up all of our dads.。
(audience laughing)。
My dad's number two for the following reasons.。
And that's how the conversation would go.。
(audience laughing)。
And look, I just,。
just try to imagine how that feels as a kid,。
of going, the man who's committed to me,。
bound to me, and loves me,。
has power over the scariest thing in my life,。
and he uses it to care about me.。
How would that make you feel?。
Jesus Christ is the son of God, and he has power.。
And some of you, you've been locked up by some things,。
and it's just time, man.。
It's time to stop.。
It's time to stop living out your story。
where you're just completely dominated。
by some broken and sad things.。
And it's time to bring it to him and say,。
I wanna believe again that you really are more powerful。
than this thing that has dominated my life.。
And I've seen it over and over again in ministry,。
people that have just had enough.。
I had kids that would just, when I was a youth pastor,。
would just get beaten up by voices of condemnation。
in their head and depression,。
that they were just medicating。
and trying to sleep to make go away.。
And I'll never forget sitting as a youth pastor。
in a room full of students,。
and just finally having some of them said,。
I've had enough.。
I've got these terribly depressing,。
discouraging thoughts in my mind。
that assail me,。
and I can't even get out of bed and function sometimes.。
And I remember a kid saying that,。
and this other kid looking at him and saying, I do too.。
And just saying that didn't fix it,。
but they began to enter in。
to the way you enter into Jesus now.。
He's not physically here, but the body of Christ is here.。
That's what the church is called.。
They began to come in around us。
and let us pray with them and support them.。
And I'll never forget the last couple of years。
for me at this church, I was a youth pastor out there.。
One of the guys would always come with me。
to the early service and he would slip out early.。
And he would always slip out and kind of smile back at me。
because he knew that I knew where he was going.。
That this kid that used to be just so dominated。
by negativity in his life。
was slipping out of the early service。
so he could drive around and pick up all his friends。
from theater and drive them to the second service.。
And he'd smile at me because he knew that I knew。
he drives a little bitty car。
and he'd pile like 20 of them in there.。
And he knew that stressed me out.。
And I'm like, I don't even wanna know how you're doing it.。
You know, there's like a little clown car of thespians。
just kind of like rolling out.。
And I'm like, I don't wanna even think。
about the safety concerns of that.。
But what was awesome to me was seeing this kid。
that his story was defeat and it wasn't anymore.。
And some of you, to be honest, I mean,。
and I know you've talked about it here。
and I love that JP's open about it too.。
But I mean, sexuality is just thrown at us。
in the craziest ways in this culture.。
And for some of you, you've gotten into。
some dark things online and you thought,。
I just wanna know this knowledge.。
I wanna see that, I wanna experience that.。
And you've gotten hooked onto some pornography。
or some things that you thought you could control it。
and it controls you and it's stolen you from us.。
That's the tragedy of it.。
The tragedy of it is it's stolen you from us.。
We don't get all of you.。
And you don't feel free to sing in here。
and you don't feel free to engage in us。
'cause there's this thing on you and it's just time, man.。
It's time to say no more, no more of this.。
And some of you have some relational dysfunctions。
that come from real wounds from your family。
and it's tragic and you need to cry about it.。
But in constructive ways that move forward,。
it's not just gonna go away, but it's time to say,。
you know what, I'm gonna believe that Jesus really is bigger。
than some of these broken things in my story.。
And I don't have time to unpack all of mine,。
but I just am telling you that's true.。
I don't know what it is that dominates you.。
I don't know what legion lives in your bedroom,。
but he's bigger than that.。
And he uses his power and service of his love。
to set you free.。
And you believe that, you know that.。
There are things I've seen in my life and others。
that I thought would be a part of my life forever。
that aren't anymore because of him, because of him.。
But some of you say, well, Ben, I've tried that.。
I mean, I've asked, okay, Jesus,。
take all these problems away, go.。
And he doesn't do it.。
So you're telling me that, bring your problems to Jesus.。
Well, I pray, why is he waiting so long?。
Well, you gotta look at the priorities of Jesus.。
And that's this last piece, and we won't go in detail。
in all of it 'cause we gotta go.。
But he gets back in the boat, goes to the other side,。
different guy comes running up.。
Not a naked Gentile, but a well-to-do, well-dressed leader。
in the religious movement of the day.。
And he falls at the feet of Jesus.。
Everybody has to at some point.。
And he says probably the most depressing,。
terrifying sentence I can imagine.。
My little girl is at the point of death.。
And Jesus says, I'll come heal her.。
And so Jesus is on his way to heal this guy's little girl,。
and they're on the way there, and what happens?。
It says a crowd mobs him.。
Jesus was famous at that point, crowds mobbing into him.。
And you sense this is the tension of the story。
is that Jesus offered to heal her,。
and the text says she's literally at the point of death.。
And suddenly Jesus is mobbed, he's trying to get through.。
It's like 635 freeway on the way here,。
and it's just like, this is insane, am I gonna make it?。
And Jesus is trying to move through it,。
and you think, this is the tension of the story.。
Is Jesus gonna make it on time?。
Oh my gosh, people move, we gotta healing needs to happen.。
Get out of the way, and you're trying to get there.。
And then all of a sudden, Mark starts giving you。
the medical history of some random lady in that crowd.。
And he just goes on and on about it.。
He's like, she was bleeding.。
And it was like well over a year, or 10 years.。
And she had gone to like a number of doctors。
and spent a ton of money, and it hadn't gotten better.。
It actually gotten worse.。
And you're like, why are we doing this?。
There's a little girl dying,。
like why are we unpacking her story?。
I don't care.。
And then it says she just thought, if I can touch him,。
it'll fix it.。
And you go, fine, great, okay, then just touch him,。
but do it from behind and move.。
Like stay out of his way.。
He's trying to do something, and let him get there。
because she's at the point of death.。
And it says, so she comes up and touches his garment,。
and she's healed.。
You're like, great, story over, you're done.。
But then it says, but Jesus stops.。
And Jesus goes, whoa, whoa, somebody touch me.。
And his disciples are like, are you serious?。
Like we're thrown by a crowd of people,。
and you're like, somebody touch me?。
And Jesus won't let it go.。
Jesus is like, no, no, no, no.。
Somebody touch me, and we're not going anywhere。
until we figure it out, somebody touch me.。
And Jesus is making it a thing.。
And he's making it this thing, and he's not stopping.。
How are you feeling if you're Jarius right now,。
and your daughter's dying?。
You're like, are you serious?。
Like you're fine.。
They didn't, it's not like your wallet's gone.。
Like you're fine.。
She's not fine.。
Why are you prolonging this?。
And Jesus keeps looking around.。
Finally, the lady realizes he's not gonna let this go.。
She comes forward and starts telling him。
the whole medical story.。
You gotta sit through that again?。
(audience laughing)。
And if you're Jarius, how do you feel?。
I mean, honestly, think about that.。
Your daughter's dying, and this woman's had a disease。
that, oh my gosh, it's tragic,。
but it's been going on for over 10 years.。
It'll wait a day.。
I mean, really.。
She's at the point of death.。
You've been living here.。
Let's handle that, then get to this.。
Why is he doing this?。
And some of you, you go, man, I tried to trust God,。
and I wanted him to fix it this way, and he didn't do it,。
and I don't get why he does it。
so you keep your whole God thing,。
because I tried it and it didn't work for me。
'cause I don't understand his ways.。
How do you feel if you're Jarius?。
Why are you doing this?。
Why are you making this go on so long?。
Like, this is almost wrong.。
If I run into the emergency room with my little daughter,。
and they tell me to have a seat, and she's dying。
'cause they're fixing some kid's scraped knee,。
I'd be furious.。
How dare you?。
Jarius just has to sit there like, this is crazy.。
And nobody wants this moment.。
Jarius doesn't want it.。
This woman doesn't want it.。
She just wanted to touch him and leave.。
Only Jesus wants this moment.。
Why does he do that?。
Why does he do things ways that we don't understand?。
Well, he grabs this woman, and she tells this story,。
and he leans down and he says,。
"Your faith has healed you."。
He said, "You're looking for a quick fix。
"to your little problem.。
"You need more than that.。
"You need to understand that the fix you need is me.。
"Not some mystical little charm to get you done bleeding.。
"What you need is a face-to-face encounter。
"with the Son of God.。
"He gives her more than she was looking for,。
"but exactly what she needed, faith in me."。
They come to Jarius and say,。
"Don't bother him anymore, your daughter's dead."。
And what does Jesus say?。
"Don't be afraid when I'm here.。
"Believe."。
What's the priority of Jesus?。
"You trust me."。
And he goes to Jarius' house,。
and this woman just wanted a problem fixed.。
What she got was a face-to-face encounter with God.。
He wanted Jesus to heal a sick person.。
He's done a lot of that.。
What he gets is a miracle Jesus had not done yet,。
in his ministry.。
He gets to stand there and watch Jesus say,。
"Talitha kumi," little girl, "rise."。
And to step into what looks like the most hopeless moment。
and breathe life back into it.。
And so I don't know where you are tonight,。
but can I just sum it up this way and say,。
"Jesus is the Son of God,。
"he's the authority in our life, he has power.。
"Power bigger than any of your problems.。
"And he harnesses it in the service of his love,。
"'cause that's what he's like.。
"But as you come to him with your problems,。
"his ways may not be what you expect.。
"Some of you wanna just secretly sit in your chair。
"and confess your sin and just say, 'Fix it now.'。
"That's not how he works.。
"He will make you stop in front of a public and confess it.。
"Some of you, the dark things you're caught up into,。
"you won't get out of without a very public moment。
"with Jesus."。
That doesn't mean in a room like this,。
but it might mean in a room of three or four Christians。
who love you and love God, and you tell it all to him.。
Tell it all.。
Some of you, you're trying to dictate to Jesus。
how he's gonna fix it, and it doesn't work that way.。
But he's strong enough to handle the storms in your life.。
He's compassionate enough to set you free.。
And he's wise enough to do it in the best way.。
So trust him.。
Let me pray for us.。
Lord, I wanna thank you。
that you don't just give us what we want。
because we don't know what we want.。
I mean, honestly, I mean,。
maybe we want a little help with this problem。
or fix this insecurity in us or stop this nagging habit,。
but you're not looking for just a little fix-up problem.。
You're looking for a renovation.。
You're looking to take people who are dead among the tombs。
and make us the children of God.。
You're looking for something else entirely.。
You don't want a little quick fix.。
You want a face-to-face encounter with the son of God。
who heals and sets free.。
And so God, I don't know why everybody's here.。
I would guess some are here 'cause they just know。
they need a little religion to make 'em a little better,。
and I just pray they would hear。
that's not what you're selling,。
that you came, God, because we are much worse。
than we sometimes wanna admit,。
but the solution is much greater。
than we would dare conceive.。
The son of God came for us, lived a perfect life for us,。
died on the cross to take our shame and sin and guilt away,。
that the defiled can be made clean,。
that the violated can be made whole,。
that those of us who have been locked up。
in some dark things can be brought out into the light。
and be seated and clothed and given a right mind。
and spend the rest of our day celebrating in the city。
a Lord Jesus who will set us free, and we mean it.。
God, I pray for us that though we don't understand your ways。
even now we could throw up in empty hands。
and say, "But take my life."。
And some of you in here, maybe you're not a Christian,。
but maybe tonight is that night.。
You go, "Okay, if it's about faith,。
"if that's his priority, then I trust Jesus。
"with my life, with my sin, with my shame,。
"with all of me, then I wanna do that."。
And you cry out to him now and tell him that,。
and then tell the person who brought you,。
tell a pastor here, say, "Hey, I think I wanna belong。
"to this Jesus, I think I wanna submit to him,。
"I think I wanna join up with him,。
"I want my life linked to his life,。
"I want the jersey on, put me on the team,。
"I wanna belong to him, I wanna be a Christian."。
And if that's you, you cry that out to him tonight。
and you tell one of us.。
And then God, for those of us who know you,。
I just pray we wouldn't believe the lie anymore。
that whatever dark thing has a grip on us,。
that that's gonna dominate our story.。
There's no tragic heroes in the kingdom.。
There's no power bigger than you.。
There's nothing in our lives。
that you can't break us loose from.。
So I just pray there'd be some people in here tonight。
that believe that, that you really are。
as strong as you say you are,。
and you really are as committed to us as you say you are.。
And I just pray, Lord, that some of us in here。
need to right now confess, say, "This is it,。
"this is the thing that's got me."。
And I'm believing tonight that it doesn't have。
to hold me anymore.。
It doesn't have to dominate my family.。
It doesn't have to dominate my future.。
It doesn't have to ruin me.。
Nothing in my past has to control my future.。
When Jesus enters the equation, he changes everything.。
And I pray there'd be many of us in this room。
that would throw up an empty hands。
and say, "You do it your way.。
"If your way means public confession,。
"I'm gonna find some people."。
And I pray that some in here, Lord,。
would find a small group to plug into.。
If it means waiting longer than I wanna wait,。
I trust you.。
But God, I pray across this room now,。
there would be men and women rising up and saying,。
"You are the Lord and you love me.。
"You are strong and you are compassionate,。
"bigger than my storms, bigger than my shame,。
"and wise enough to care for me and lead me home.。
"We are yours, King Jesus.。
"May we rest in you tonight.。
"You're the King and you're good and we're yours."。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
