[Music]。
>> Porsch, how we doing?。
We doing okay?。
Hey, it's so good to see you.。
As always, welcome.。
Thanks for entrusting us with your evening.。
We're glad that you would be in this room.。
Real quick, we want to do a special shout out to some friends we have in the room.。
Some friends that may have gone to launch retreat with us.。
Did you go to launch?。
If you're at launch, let me hear from you.。
Man, how great was launch?。
It was awesome, right?。
It was amazing.。
If you weren't there, it was an amazing weekend.。
But listen, you're not missing out because we brought a little bit of that launch love home to share with you.。
We're really excited for where God is taking us this evening.。
I also want to just recognize a few Porsch Live locations that are tuning in with us from all over the nation.。
Special shout out to Porsch Live Fort Worth, Porsch Live Midland, and Porsch Live Scottsdale.。
Would you all say hello, Porsch Live, with me, please?。
Hey, we have got a very special guest in the room with us this evening.。
He's a minister up at Harris Creek.。
He's a co-host of the Becoming Something podcast.。
And he's a dear friend of ours.。
I'm really excited to welcome Mr. Nate Hilgenkamp back to the stage.。
Would you all help me with that right now?。
Love you, bro.。
So good to be here.。
Well, I am originally from Minneapolis, Minnesota.。
Wow, let's go.。
We've got Christians from Minnesota.。
It's a miracle.。
And a few weeks back I went to visit my parents with my wife and my two daughters.。
I've got two girls, a 3-year-old and an 11-month-old.。
And we were there.。
We woke up one morning.。
We had a few hours until we needed to be at the next place where we were going.。
And whenever you have two young kids, you learn that playgrounds are the best place to waste time.。
So we started thinking, hey, where can we go?。
And we realized that my elementary school was, like, within walking distance.。
And I was like, hey, let's just get in the stroller and let's take them to the playground.。
Now, thankfully, I hadn't been there in about 20 years.。
So I show up at this playground.。
And I'm just, like, hit with so much of what I remember 20 years ago.。
But then I look at another part of the playground, and it's totally different.。
Like this playground is just cut in half.。
And half of it is what I grew up with.。
And the other half is completely brand new.。
And they looked so different.。
In fact, let me show you a picture that I took of the playground that I grew up playing on.。
Here's what it looks like.。
Yeah.。
And I had to, like, do some Photoshop up there because there was another kid in it.。
So, anyway, be impressed.。
So I just remember looking at this thing going, I cannot believe this is what I played on.。
Like, looking at it, I can just remember my fingers getting stuck in those wheels over and over again.。
Like, I cannot believe I still have 10 of them.。
You can't even really see it, but as you go down the slide, there's just this, like, chain hanging there.。
Like, it's a perfect place for you to just choke on right before you go down the slide.。
Elsewhere, like, there's not bars in the right places.。
Like, it is a playground if you're trying to build it in a way in which kids are going to get hurt.。
But back then in the '90s, they're like, whatever.。
Getting hurt is good for them.。
And looking over at the other half of the playground, and I didn't take a picture of it because I just felt creepy taking pictures of a playground with kids around.。
So you're just going to have to take my word for it.。
It looked very different in that it looked incredibly safe.。
It's like they had thought through all the what ifs.。
Like, what if the kid falls that way?。
What if the kid falls this way?。
Like, what if he can't do this?。
What if she can't do that?。
It's like they had thought through everything so that whenever a kid would enter that playground, you would know that they're not getting hurt.。
Which as a parent, I really appreciate that.。
Because I don't want my kids getting hurt.。
But as I looked at these two different playgrounds, I just think it was a picture for where we've been over these last 25 or so years.。
Because as culture has grown over these past 25 years, we've grown in our desire for safety.。
Which is great when it comes to building a playground.。
It's not great when it comes to building a life.。
And here's what I've realized doing young adult ministry.。
I've got to be with young adults for a while now.。
Here's what I've realized.。
You guys are really anxious about this time of your life.。
Because this time in your life is so important.。
This time of your life launches you, if you will, into the next season of your life.。
So you want to make sure that everything in your life goes according to plan in this season.。
You want to make sure that your life feels safe now.。
But because of that, you're just paralyzed by what ifs.。
Like I've heard what ifs like, "What if I never get married?"。
Or, "What if I get married, but I get married to the wrong person?"。
Or, "What if I really want to move to a different city, but I never have the guts to move to a different city?"。
Or, "What if I do move to a different city, and I move there and it's the wrong decision?"。
Or, "What if I take a different job and it is the wrong job?"。
Or, "What if I stay in this job and hate this job?"。
Or, "What if" - this is what I just heard a couple weeks ago -。
"What if my friends invite me to hang out a few weeks in a row, and I say no to them because I've got stuff going on?"。
And then, "What if they just stop asking me to hang out?"。
And I'm like, "You guys! You're exhausting!"。
Because you're crippled by all these what ifs, because you're trying to make sure that your life is exactly how you want it.。
You're trying to make sure that your life is safe.。
Here's what I want you to know. Safety is a facade.。
Like, the only thing you can plan for in life is that sometimes you're going to get hurt.。
Sometimes life is going to feel unsteady.。
So tonight, rather than putting forth an effort to make sure you have a safe life,。
I want to propose a better option as putting forth an effort to have a courageously faithful life.。
Your goal is not a safe life, but a courageously faithful life.。
And sometimes it won't feel safe.。
Sometimes it will feel like you're climbing the monkey bars, and you're looking down going,。
"If I fall, it's going to really hurt."。
But getting up and climbing is better than not climbing at all,。
because we're not after safe, we're after courageous faithfulness.。
So tonight, how do we move away from a life of safe and into a life of courageous faithfulness?。
We're going to look at a random part of Scripture. I mean, random, random.。
Like, I'm going to mention this guy's name, and I bet, I bet, probably none of you have even really heard of him before.。
I've never heard a message preached on this.。
I've never really noticed him in Scripture before until a few weeks ago when I was reading the book of 2 Samuel,。
and something about his life just gripped me.。
Because we're going to look at about a guy named Ahimaz. Ahimaz.。
Can you say his name with me? One, two, three. Ahimaz.。
Yeah, and we see him in 2 Samuel 15 and 18.。
So if you have a Bible, open up to 2 Samuel 15, and then we're going to jump over to 18 in just a minute.。
And to give you some set up on where we're at in Scripture,。
at this point in Israel's history, there have been two kings.。
Israel originally had no king, but they said, "God, we want to be like the rest of the people around us, so give us a king."。
So God selected a man named Saul, and he was anointed as king over Israel.。
But as he became king, and as he was king, his heart drifted from God,。
so God anointed another man by the name of David.。
And Saul became jealous of David. He began to fight David, to try to kill David.。
And eventually there's this moment in Scripture where Saul's armies are fighting against David's armies,。
and David's armies win. Saul is defeated, and then David becomes the king over Israel.。
Now, he rules largely with wisdom. He largely does a great job leading God's people.。
But then he gets old, and he has a son named Absalom.。
And Absalom was an evil son, and he started to think, "You know, I think I could do a better job ruling these people than my father is."。
So he starts to slowly but slyly convince the people of Israel that he would be a better king than his father.。
He would go around telling people, "Hey, he's gotten old. We need someone who's strong. We need someone who's courageous.。
We need to move forward, and he's just taking us backwards, so you need to start following me."。
And one by one, it says that the hearts of the people turn from David to Absalom.。
And then in a moment, there's a coup, where David and his army are driven out of Jerusalem,。
and Absalom and his army begin to take over.。
They come into the city and begin to act like they're truly in charge.。
Now, as David and his army are running away from the city, he actually taps on a few people, a few of his followers, and tells them to stay.。
He says, "I need you here. I need you to stay in Jerusalem underneath this false king to spy on them.。
I need you to tell me everything that's going on so that I can come back."。
And he has convinced a few people to stay, and we're going to pick up and read in 2 Samuel 15, verse 35,。
when he's specifically speaking to a man named Hushai, and he's trying to convince him to stay.。
He's already convinced two other people, Zadok and Abiathar, and he says this, 2 Samuel 15, verse 35.。
"Won't the priests Zadok and Abiathar be there with you?。
Tell them anything you hear in the king's palace, and their two sons, Ahamaz," that's our guy, "son of Zadok and Jonathan, son of Abiathar, are there with them.。
Send them to me with anything you hear."。
So Hushai, David's confidant, arrived at Jerusalem as Absalom was entering the city.。
Okay, what can we learn about Ahamaz from this text?。
Well, first, he lived in a land that has been overthrown by an enemy.。
The true king has been driven out.。
The good king has been exiled, and this false and evil king just rolls into town and starts to take over.。
Now think about how terrifying that would be if you were one of David's followers.。
The best description I can think of is, imagine you're in Europe in the 1940s, and you just see Hitler and his Nazi regime overtake your city.。
Meanwhile, you're going, "This isn't their land. He is not the king, and yet he does have the power.。
He's not supposed to be here," and it would be terrifying.。
And this is what is going on in Jerusalem in this time.。
For David's followers, he's going, "You're not supposed to be here.。
The good king should be in charge, but evil has come into the city and is now in charge."。
And in the midst of this, it would be tremendous terror.。
Ahamaz would be absolutely terrified about what was going on.。
He would want to run from the city because evil was now in charge.。
But in the middle of that, he gets a message.。
He gets a message from the true king, and David says, "Hey, Ahamaz, I need you to stay.。
I know you want to run, but don't go anywhere because I've got a job for you.。
I need you to stay here. I need you to spy on this false king.。
I need you to learn everything about this false regime, and then I need you to run as fast as you can to where I am.。
And I need you to tell me everything that you've learned, and I need you to go back, learn all you can, and do it over again.。
And I need you to do that because although it looks like there is a man who has taken my power and my position, he won't have it long.。
Although it looks like the true king is dead, the true king is just planning his comeback.。
Now, here's why I've grown to love this passage.。
That right there is where we are because we find ourselves in a very similar position in our world today.。
It can seem like the true king has been overthrown.。
It can seem like evil is winning, but this is actually how the New Testament describes the world that we live in today.。
Take a look at 2 Corinthians 4.4.。
Satan, who is the god of this world, little g, god of this world, has blinded the minds of those who don't believe.。
They are unable to see the glorious light of the good news.。
They don't understand this message about the glory of Christ, who is the exact likeness of God.。
Now, Satan here is called the god of this world.。
That doesn't mean he's the king over this world, but he does have tremendous power in this world.。
Why? Because just like Absalom, he has slyly deceived the majority of people in this world.。
He's convinced them to follow a false king.。
And if he's the god of this world, that means he has tremendous influence on the ideals, opinions, goals, hopes, and views of the majority of people.。
And if that's the case, evil will feel like it's winning.。
But in the midst of that, here's what you've got to know as a follower of Jesus.。
Jesus has tapped you on the shoulder and said, "Although sometimes it's uncomfortable living here, I need you to stay.。
I need you to be here.。
You can't run because I've got a mission for you.。
I need you to learn all you possibly can about this world, and I need you to go to me, and we're going to talk about it,。
and I'm going to send you back with a new mission because here's what you need to know.。
Although it seems like someone has taken my position and power, he won't have it for long.。
Because while it may seem like the true king is dead, he's just planning his comeback.。
And this is where we are if we're following Jesus today.。
So if you want to live a life of courageous faithfulness, you have to start with this.。
This is true of Ahamas. This is true of us.。
Number one, the king has given us a job within enemy territory.。
This has a couple of implications on your life.。
The first is this.。
Imagine how the purpose of Ahamas' life has just shifted.。
Now, evil has come in to reign over his city, and his response, along with everyone else who followed the true king, was to run.。
He was going to have to abandon all he ever knew and run away from it.。
But the king says, "Hey, I need you to be a spy on my behalf."。
It just changes everything for him.。
It means when he goes to the market, he's on mission.。
That means when he goes to his job, he's on mission.。
That means when he's talking with his neighbors, he's on mission,。
because the king has given him a job to do within enemy territory.。
He's learning all he can about this land so he can participate in the overthrow of this land.。
Now, the same is true for you.。
When you've been tapped on the king to work for him, like when you heard him say, "Follow me," the purpose of your life shifts.。
Like, you're not just at work to get money.。
You are there as a spy and an overthrower.。
You are not just randomly in the city of Dallas.。
You are here to overthrow this city.。
You are not just randomly placed with roommates.。
You are there as an ambassador of the king, as a person of light in the midst of darkness.。
Your purpose has changed because you've been given a job by the king.。
Secondly, I just want you to imagine what it would be like for Ahamas to carry a message to the king.。
Like, he and those other few people who stayed in Jerusalem would gather intelligence,。
and then he, under the cover of night, would run as fast as he possibly can to where King David would be.。
Imagine what it would feel like to be in the king's presence.。
After spending all day in enemy territory, after spending all day on guard,。
finally you're with the king and it would be like, "Oh my goodness, what a relief. I'm where I want to be."。
Is that what it's like for you when you're with your king?。
Because this is how it should feel like for us.。
We should be eager to run into his presence.。
We should, throughout our day, make space to sit with him because。
in the presence of the king is the only place in which we're truly safe.。
All throughout our day, we're in the midst of enemy territory.。
We've got an enemy who's prowling around us like a roaring lion, trying to take you out.。
And then you get to be with the king and it's like, "Oh, I'm safe."。
Now, I know we've learned to call these times quiet times.。
You know, spend a quiet time. Like, go sit in time out. Just go be quiet.。
Think about what it would be like for Ahamas to spend time with the king.。
Like, he would run as fast as he can. He'd get to the king.。
And then I just imagine him unloading everything going on in his life.。
And then he'd sit back and then he'd listen to the king.。
Like, there wouldn't be a whole lot of quiet about it. It would be a very loud time.。
He'd be communicating to the king and then he'd receive communication from the king.。
And this is what it should be like when you're spending time with the king.。
You're not just sitting there quietly, but you are speaking to him and then you're receiving orders from him。
so that you can go out and do the mission that he's called you to do.。
And those times are not a burden. Those are the times in which you live for.。
So, let me ask you this. Do you live like you've been called?。
Do you live like you've been put on mission or are you just trying to get by,。
hoping it'll be Friday already so you can party, get drunk, have sex and do it all over again?。
I just want to tell you this. There's a better way to live than that.。
There's a more exciting way to live than that.。
Because point number one, the king has given us a job within enemy territory.。
Now, the next time we see Ahamaz is in 2 Samuel chapter 18.。
He's faithfully been doing his job, running back and forth from Jerusalem to King David.。
But eventually there's a major battle between Absalom, the false king, and his army,。
and David, the true king, and his army.。
And whoever would win this battle would have the power.。
So David's army ultimately wins and kills Absalom.。
Now, for David's safety, David actually wasn't there. He wasn't at the battle.。
So, once the battle is completed, someone has to go tell David the news,。
which would be Ahamaz's job.。
So, Ahamaz goes to Joab, who is the commander of David's army, and he says this.。
Verse 19.。
"Now Ahamaz, son of Zadok, said, 'Let me run and take the news to the king。
that the Lord has vindicated him by delivering him from the hands of his enemies.'。
'You are not the one to take the news today,' Joab told him.。
'You may take the news another time, but you must not do so today,。
because the king's son is dead.'。
Then Joab said to a Cushite, 'Go tell the king what you have seen.'。
The Cushite bowed down before Joab and ran off."。
So, just to bring clarity to what's happening here,。
Ahamaz goes to the commanding officer and says, "I've got a job to do.。
My job is to communicate to the king. I need to run to the king."。
But then Joab, the commanding officer, says,。
"No, you're not the one to take the news today."。
Now, why would he do that?。
That doesn't make a whole lot of sense. This is Ahamaz's job.。
Why would you not send him?。
Well, he's not sending him because he really likes Ahamaz.。
And the last time a king died under David's watch,。
something happened to the messenger.。
In 2 Kings 1, as I said earlier,。
there was a battle between Saul's army and David's army.。
And when David's army won, the person that killed Saul。
ran from that battle and ran to David and said,。
"David, I've got good news. I've killed the king.。
You are now in charge."。
And David's response was,。
"How dare you put your hand on the Lord's anointed?"。
And he killed the messenger.。
It feels extremely harsh, but that's what happened.。
So now, once again, another time a king has been put to death,。
Joab's going, "Ahamaz, you ain't going this time.。
I don't want you to die. This mission's incredibly dangerous.。
I don't know how David's going to respond.。
I don't want you risking your life, so stay here,。
and I'll send someone else," which is kind of Joab.。
The only issue was the king told Ahamaz he had a job to do,。
and Joab was trying to tell him not to do it.。
And this is the second thing we can learn from this passage.。
Point number two, there will be excuses not to do your job.。
There will be excuses not to do your job.。
Here, Joab is truly being a friend to Ahamaz.。
He's saying, "Hey, I know the king gave you a job to do,。
but it's too dangerous to do, so don't run.。
Let someone else do it."。
But what seems kind is actually an opportunity to abandon the king's call.。
What you need to know in your life is that you've been called by God。
to run hard and fast.。
He's offered you an opportunity to partner with him。
in a supernatural mission of overthrowing this world.。
There will be many, many opportunities for you to step aside from your job.。
Good-meaning people will tell you, "Oh, don't run today."。
Life circumstances will tell you, "I probably shouldn't run in this season."。
Your own thoughts and your feelings and emotions should say,。
"Ah, maybe I shouldn't run today."。
There will be very, very good excuses for you not to do the job the king has given you。
because life is hard, and this mission is hard.。
I think that this is sometimes what it can look like.。
In honor of the Olympics, I brought my pink balance beam here today.。
Admittedly, I've seen this illustration done before.。
But let's just imagine this.。
You start following Jesus, and you're like, "I'm going to be brave and courageous,。
and I'm just going to do whatever it takes to follow him.。
So I'm going to get up here, and I'm going to do this amazing routine。
that's going to impress God, and it's going to be awesome."。
So you take a step forward in faith.。
And just to give some illustrations from my life, like early on when I started following Jesus,。
I'm like, "I'm going to be courageously faithful.。
I'm going to share the gospel."。
So I find a friend who doesn't know Jesus, and I share the gospel with him,。
and that really just totally broke our relationship.。
He said, "Absolutely not. What you said is hateful and hurtful,。
and I've really gone years without talking to him."。
And in that moment, I'm like, "That didn't feel very safe.。
I didn't like that very much.。
So I'm just going to get a little bit more safe."。
So you lean down a little bit.。
And then later on, I still do go into ministry。
and start working at a church in Waco, Texas, doing college ministry.。
And I'm believing again. I'm like, "God, you're going to do big things.。
Let's do big things for the kingdom."。
So we rent out an event space in Waco, and we're going to do a worship night.。
And I'm like, "Lord, you're going to save all of Baylor University.。
You're going to bring them here. We're going to have revival."。
And we do the worship night, and there's about 13 people that show up.。
It could hold like 300.。
And I just remember laying in bed that night going,。
"He didn't make me to do this job. I can't do this.。
Somebody else would have gotten more people there.。
This doesn't feel very safe.。
I just want to get a little bit more safe."。
So you stop stepping out as much, and then you're still kind of trying to follow God.。
But then a couple weeks ago, I preached a message at Harris Creek, my church in Waco.。
And I'm trying to help people follow God.。
But then I opened up my email on Monday, and it says, "Yesterday's message."。
And I'm like, "Oh, this is going to be awesome."。
Like, I just saved this guy.。
[laughter]。
And it's a long email.。
I didn't save him.。
In fact, he thought I was deceiving other people.。
And I was like, "Man, I'm just trying to do this mission that God gave me,。
but this doesn't feel very safe, so I'm just going to stop stepping out at all."。
And then eventually your life just looks like this.。
You're like, "I just want to hang on and make sure I don't do anything that's going to hurt me."。
And then you just get to this spot where you're like, "Okay, what's the safest thing I could possibly do?。
Okay, I'm going to get married, and we're going to have 2.5 kids,。
and we're going to have a house with a yard,。
and my kids are going to wear helmets all the time because life is really, really dangerous.。
And we're still going to go to church, and we're going to give to the church.。
We're going to give like 3%, so I feel good, but I don't even notice the money's gone.。
And we're going to pray for missionaries.。
We won't live like missionaries because that's dangerous.。
That could hurt us, but we're just going to live the safest life possible."。
And then life goes on, and you're like, "Okay, God, my one hope in life。
is that I would grow to be really old and then just die in my sleep."。
Like, "I don't want to feel any pain. I don't want it to be hard.。
I don't want to have to go to a hospital. I don't like hospitals.。
So can it just please be like this?"。
I just lay down, and then all of a sudden, just slowly wake up in glory and go like this.。
[laughter]。
Yeah. Yeah.。
[applause]。
You shouldn't be clapping because that's a horrible routine.。
Imagine if a couple weeks ago you turn on the Olympics, and Simone Biles gets up here,。
and she just goes like this, lays there for a minute, gets off, and goes like this.。
What would the judge do with a routine like that?。
She'd get a zero because she did nothing.。
Here's what you need to know. That's the routine the majority of Christians are living.。
What's the judge supposed to do with a safe life like that?。
He's going, "I made you for more. You have the support of the king.。
You have a mission from the king. Let's go! Who cares if you fall off?。
I made you for more."。
[applause]。
Maybe you're thinking, "God is not a judge. I've heard that a thousand times. God's not a judge."。
[laughter]。
2 Corinthians 5.10, "For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ。
so that each of us may receive what is due us for the things we have done while in the body,。
whether good or bad."。
I want to be so clear. Salvation is a free gift of grace by faith in Jesus Christ.。
But Scripture does say that once you are saved, there is another judgment in heaven。
because he's given you a mission.。
For that to be your life, how is he going to respond?。
You might get to him and say, "But Jesus, I was afraid of falling off.。
But Jesus, other people said I looked kind of silly.。
But Jesus, I was afraid of getting hurt."。
And he'd say, "But I gave you talents and you hid them in the sand.。
What am I supposed to do with that?。
I gave you a job and you didn't do it because you wanted to be safe.。
You had my back the whole time. Why don't you trust me?"。
So, here's what you need to know. There will be good reason not to run.。
You just have to decide now, am I going to listen to the call of the king or the excuses of this world?。
So, if you want to be courageously faithful, you've got to know this.。
Point number two, there will be excuses not to do your job.。
So, let's see what happens next. Getting back in the text, Joab says,。
"Hey, don't run today, Ahamas. It's not safe. It's too dangerous."。
And this happens next, verse 22.。
"Ahamas, son of Zadok, again said to Joab, 'Come what may, please let me run behind the Cushite.'。
But Joab replied, 'My son, why do you want to go?。
You don't have any news that will bring you a reward.'。
He said, 'Come what may, I want to run.'。
So, Joab said, 'Run.'。
Then Ahamas ran by way of the plain and outran the Cushite."。
Now, this is the part of the story that just stopped me in my tracks.。
This is the part of the story that just lodged in my heart.。
"Come what may, I want to run.。
Sure, it's dangerous, but I want to run.。
I hear what you say, Joab, but I want to run.。
I might not even get there first, but I want to run."。
And then Joab says, though, "But you don't even have news that will bring you a reward."。
And Ahamas has got to be thinking, "You're crazy.。
I don't run to get a reward.。
I run as the reward.。
Working for the king is the reward.。
Faithfulness to the king is the reward.。
And man cannot convince me out of what God has called me."。
So, point number three, third thing you need to learn if you want to live a courageously faithful life,。
the courageously faithful run in the midst of opposition.。
And I love this moment from Ahamas because he throws all the what-ifs to the side.。
He isn't stuck thinking, "Well, what if I run to the king, and he's mad at the news I bring,。
but what if I don't run to the king, and he's mad that I didn't run to him,。
but what if I run and Joab gets mad at me because he told me not to run?。
Like, what if, what if, what if?"。
He just throws that all to the side, and he says, "No, I've got extreme clarity with what I'm supposed to do with my life.。
The king has called me to run, so I'm going to run."。
And this is what I want my life's motto to be.。
"Come what may, I want to run.。
Sure, I may get tired, but I want to run.。
Other people may not understand, but I want to run.。
I may not have the strength to make it there, but I want to run.。
I may not have any news that brings me a reward, but I want to run."。
Now, why can this be our response?。
Why can we so courageously run to the king?。
It's because the king has so compassionately ran to us.。
You see, there's a story in Scripture where Jesus tells a parable in Luke chapter 15.。
There were two sons. He's a rich dad.。
This one son, the younger son, goes to his dad and says, "Dad, I really wish you were dead.。
I want your money. I want your stuff more than I want you."。
And this dad says, "Sure. Take what I got."。
So he takes what he gave him.。
And this son runs as far away as he can.。
He spends it on drinking, on partying, on gambling, on sex, thinking it would fill his heart.。
It did not fill his heart.。
And after he had spent everything his father had given him, he found himself in the midst of the pigs.。
He was hired to work with the pigs, eating the pigs' food.。
And as he's eating the pigs' food, he thinks, "I need to go back to my dad.。
I'm going to go back to him and say, 'Dad, if you'd just accept me as a slave, I'd be better off than where I am now.'"。
And as he's on his journey back, we read this, Luke chapter 15.。
So he got up, went to his father.。
But while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and was filled with compassion for him.。
He ran to his son, threw his arms around him, and kissed him.。
"If this is true, you cannot keep me from running to him because my sins did not keep him from running to me."。
You see, while I was still a long way off, while I had taken everything that he had given me and spent it all,。
while I threw myself into a pit, he saw me in that state, he saw you in that state,。
and Jesus so loved you that he ran from heaven to enter into earth to live 33 perfect years,。
and then he died brutally on a cross, and then three days later, he rose again.。
And he ran to you so that you can run to him.。
Hebrews 12 says this, "Therefore, since we are surrounded by such a great cloud of witnesses,。
let us throw off everything that hinders and the sin that so easily entangles,。
and let us run with perseverance, the race marked out for us,。
fixing our eyes on Jesus, the pioneer and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy set before him,。
he endured the cross, scorning its shame, and sat down at the right hand of the throne of God."。
Ports, I think we've got three people in the room tonight, three different types of people.。
The first group of people is the people who are running hard.。
You're just running hard in the wrong direction.。
You're running hard after things you think will satisfy.。
You're running hard after pornography, relationships, alcohol, drugs, money, status, success,。
a certain type of body.。
You're running hard after things that will not satisfy.。
And I just implore you tonight, turn around and start running the other way.。
You're going to see your father's already been running after you.。
Second group of people in the room tonight, you are believers in Jesus,。
and you are really content with just that.。
Like you're a believer, you're not a follower.。
You're not moving in a direction.。
You are comfortably seated in your seat, just kind of allowing the life to go on,。
hoping you don't get hurt.。
I want to implore you, get up and follow your king because he's moving.。
And then the third group of people in this room tonight,。
you're the people who are courageously, faithfully following after Jesus.。
And I just want to tell you, it's going to be worth it.。
It's going to be worth it.。
[Applause]。
Like you're going to enter into glory and he's going to say,。
"Man, I gave you five talents and you gave me ten in return.。
Here's more.。
Come and share in your father's happiness.。
If you're tired now, if you're exhausted now, if you're feeling hurt now,。
it's all going to be worth it because you were made to run."。
So, in summary, if you want to be courageously faithful,。
you've got to know these three things.。
Point number one, you've been called by the king to run.。
Point number two, there will be legitimate excuses not to run.。
And point number three, the courageously faithful run in the midst of opposition.。
I want to close with something that ironically I actually learned。
while writing this message.。
Have you guys ever heard about a guy named Alex Arnold?。
Alex Arnold.。
Anyone see the documentary Free Solo?。
Yeah, this guy's crazy.。
I think we've got a picture of him.。
So he's a free climber, which means he climbs massive mountains。
with no harness, with no rope.。
It's unbelievable.。
Free Solo is all about him climbing like Half Dome in Yosemite.。
It's this massive rock formation that you stand at the bottom and you're like,。
"I can't ever possibly imagine climbing this with a rope,。
let alone without a rope," and yet this is what he does.。
He's known for doing this all over the place.。
If you look at this picture, one misstep and he'd die.。
It's crazy.。
So scientists are like, "We've got to study this guy."。
Like, how in the world is he able to do these things?。
So they put him under some machine.。
If you're a doctor, you'd know what it is.。
But it's some machine that, like, measures your brain.。
And they showed him a bunch of different things,。
and your brain is supposed to light up in different areas.。
And after they ran this machine with him underneath it,。
everything began to make sense because as they looked at his test results,。
they realized that his amygdala just flat out doesn't work.。
Why does that matter?。
Because the amygdala is the fear center of your brain.。
Whenever you're doing something dangerous,。
whenever something scary is happening,。
your amygdala is lighting up, telling the rest of your body,。
"You need to get out of here."。
For Alex, it's telling him nothing.。
Like, he can do all those things because he has no fear.。
As followers of Jesus, this is who we are.。
1 John 4:18, "There is no fear in love,。
but perfect love drives out fear."。
Because fear has to do with punishment.。
The one who fears is not made perfect in love.。
As Christians, our fear centers don't work anymore。
because perfect love has driven it out.。
The enemy is going to tell you things like,。
"What if you don't get married?"。
"It's okay. I'm headed to the best wedding ever,。
the wedding feast of the Lamb. I'm going to be okay."。
The enemy is going to tell you,。
"What if you're in Dallas by mistake?。
What if you're in Boise by mistake?"。
"Oh, no, I've been placed here.。
The king has placed me here."。
"What if you're going to be all alone。
for the rest of your life?。
What if you're in this city and have no community?"。
"Oh, I'm not alone.。
I know my God is with me and for me wherever I go."。
"What if you don't make enough money at your job?"。
"Oh, I'm not about money."。
"What if you don't like your job?"。
"Oh, this is just what I do on the side."。
"Yeah, my true job is an ambassador。
of the kingdom of heaven.。
This is just my second job."。
Listen, there's nothing the enemy can tell you。
that should drive fear to your heart.。
Because perfect love has driven out fear.。
Because Jesus is alive and with you and for you.。
And he's tapped you on the shoulder and he said,。
"You've got a call from the king.。
You've got the support of the king.。
Now run, do your job."。
And as followers of Jesus, we get to partner with him。
in the overthrow of this land.。
From the kingdom of darkness to the kingdom of light.。
This is what we've been called to.。
There may be a little g God of this world。
who seems like he's got a position and power now.。
He won't have it for long.。
It may feel like the true king is dead.。
He ain't dead.。
He's just planning his comeback.。
So as followers of Jesus,。
may we have the courage of Ahamas to say,。
"Come what may, I've got a job to do.。
So I'm gonna do it."。
Let me pray that we would.。
Heavenly father, I just pray that you drive fear。
out of this room tonight.。
I know that so many young adults in this room。
are watching online.。
They're just paralyzed with all these what ifs.。
What if this doesn't happen?。
What if this does happen?。
What if this goes wrong?。
What if this never goes right?。
Father, I pray that they would know。
that they don't have to wonder about all the what ifs。
because they know even if the tomb is still empty,。
even if Jesus is still alive,。
even if those things never happen,。
I know where I'm going。
because I know who I am and whose I am.。
So father, I pray that we'd leave this room tonight。
sent out running with a mission。
and a purpose from the king.。
And father, I pray that we'd run hard and fast after you.。
Not confident in our own abilities or our gifts,。
but just confident in the fact that we can run hard and fast。
in the job that you've given us。
because you first ran hard and fast after us.。
And father, would you use us for your name and your glory.。
And as people see us running hard after you,。
may they follow in our footsteps,。
running hard after their king.。
And God, we do pray as we are in the midst of a land。
that is under the influence of an enemy,。
that is under the influence of an evil king,。
I pray that you'd overthrow it,。
that Jesus, you'd come and you'd come quickly。
and we could see your return,。
that we could see the true king coming back.。
And God, we're confident in the fact。
that even though this is not home,。
one day we will get to experience home。
where you will be the king,。
where you will be the one we get to gaze upon。
all the days of our life.。
And God, I pray that we do that even now。
because of the fact that Jesus is alive and with us and for us.。
It's in his name we pray, amen.。
(gentle music)。
