(soft music)。
Love it.。
Hello friends in the room, hello friends in Fort Worth。
and in Houston, I'm gonna start with a story。
that'll kind of give us traction for where we're going.。
A couple weeks ago on a Tuesday,。
we had our staff play day, Watermark, as a staff,。
once a year does like a play day where we go out。
and do some sort of game or team bonding,。
staff-wide competition together.。
And on that day we had a great day,。
we did this like bow and arrow, Hunger Games,。
essentially thing as a staff, and had a ton of fun.。
It was a great Tuesday.。
We then had the porch that night.。
The porch was awesome, it was Adam and Eve,。
JP kicked it off talking about,。
or kicked off the BC series talking about Adam and Eve。
and it was just an awesome night.。
Finished the porch, head home at like 10.30,。
end up getting ready for bed,。
kissing my wife, we're going to bed, it's 11.15。
and I get a text message from our senior pastor,。
Todd Wagner, and it says, "Hey, are you up?。
"If so, call me."。
And immediately I'm thinking like,。
oh my God, well, I'm up now, okay?。
And this would be like your CEO, your boss's boss,。
texting you late at night, be like,。
hey, can we talk right now?。
At 11.15, so this is very unusual,。
never happened before, unusual,。
and I'm like, oh my gosh, what could be possibly going on?。
Do I, what do I do now?。
Do I act like, oh, I'm asleep, or do I respond?。
And I've started the dots, so he knows that I'm awake.。
And so I call him and I'm like, hey man, what's going on?。
And I'm waiting to see like,。
what could this possibly be about?。
It's 11.15 at night.。
And he begins to like start small talk,。
he's like, hey, how was the porch tonight?。
And I'm like, it was great, I'm sure this is not。
why you wanna talk on the phone right now.。
It was great, it was an awesome night,。
and tell him what went down, and he goes,。
oh, that's great, man.。
Hey, tell me, how old are you when your parents split up?。
And I'm thinking, what, where is this going right now?。
What are you asking me about?。
Am I delusional right now?。
And I answer, well, and he refers to part of my story。
is my parents divorced when I was 12.。
And I said, well, that's kind of hard to answer,。
'cause they divorced officially when I was 12 years old,。
and they split up a little bit back and forth before then,。
and literally true story, this is what happens next.。
All the while, I'm thinking like,。
where could this possibly be going?。
You just wanted a bio late at night?。
What is going on?。
And next thing that happens, he goes, oh, huh, that's great.。
Hey, somebody just walked in the house.。
Can I call you back in 30 minutes?。
(laughing)。
Oh man, I can't believe this happened, I love it.。
And I'm like, yeah, I'm not going to sleep now.。
I have no idea where this is going.。
Literally what's going through my head。
is where could he possibly be going?。
Why does he want, what are we even talking about?。
Did he like see some father wound today。
on that bow and arrow court that he's like,。
hey, we just need to talk about this right now.。
Or did he, I don't know if he like wants to adopt me.。
I don't know what is going on,。
and what he could possibly be asking me these questions for.。
And so eventually, you know, we end up talking later,。
and he basically says, hey, I wanted you to teach。
this Sunday, and it was related to Mother's Day。
and part of my story growing up.。
And I'm like, oh my gosh, why didn't you just lead with that?。
Because I'm like, where could we possibly be going。
with this at this moment in time?。
And the reason I start there is because,。
let me say this, what happened there,。
I think parallels this, or tells me something。
about the relationship that I have with Todd.。
Although I was trying to connect the dots,。
which I don't know if you've ever been there before.。
I feel like we're constantly there trying。
to connect the dots on like at work or with a relationship,。
or when someone says something,。
where are you going with this?。
In that moment, I'm trying to connect the dots with Todd.。
Where could he possibly be going with this?。
But all the scenarios that I thought of。
of where he could be going,。
none of them were like off the deep end, horrible.。
I knew he wasn't calling me to say,。
hey, just wanted to let you know I hate you.。
Or hey, you're fired from your job,。
or we're sending you to Mongolia.。
And congratulations.。
I knew, just based on our relationship, I love it.。
Just based on our relationship,。
courtesy laugh, my man, that's what I'm talking about.。
Just based on our relationship of trust,。
that wherever he was going,。
it wasn't going to be somewhere like that.。
I still wondered, where are we going with this?。
But because of just the trust I know Todd,。
have a relationship with him,。
I knew that it wasn't going somewhere bad.。
And really, any relationship that's marked by trust,。
all relationships at the heart of a healthy relationship。
is required trust.。
Like for any relationship in your life or my life,。
I cannot have a healthy relationship。
without this idea of trust.。
That thing that fills in the gap when you're like,。
I don't know where this is going, but I trust this person.。
Some of you guys have had relational issues in the past.。
You even call them.。
You're like, hey, I haven't had healthy relationships。
because I'm a person who has relationship problems,。
and you call them trust problems.。
Trust is at the epicenter of every healthy relationship.。
And the reason I start there is because。
when it comes to the pages of scripture,。
really the Bible teaches that God has invited all of us。
through Jesus into a relationship with him.。
And a relationship that at the heart of it。
is to be marked by trust, a trust in God.。
That if we're to have a healthy relationship,。
trust is at the epicenter of this.。
And so tonight, as it relates to this relationship。
that God's called us into, a relationship that,。
although at times, just like with Todd, with God,。
we won't always know, hey, where is this going, God?。
Where are you taking this?。
Where, my circumstances, my job,。
what are you doing with this relationship。
that I was, my dating world,。
I thought it was going in one direction。
and it totally changed.。
What are you up to, God?。
Where are you going with this?。
In the same way, when we ask that question,。
we are to then experience this level of trust。
that defines our really existence.。
We can go, hey, I don't know where this is going,。
but I trust you, Lord.。
And so tonight, we're gonna discover from a man。
who was called the father of trust, or the father of faith.。
Other places call him the man of faith,。
the man of trust, a guy who like,。
if anybody got this thing right,。
he got an A in how to trust God.。
A man by the name of Abraham.。
That's right, there you go, come on.。
Father Abraham had many sons.。
I'm one of them and,。
boom, man, this crowd does not go to vacation Bible school。
when they were kids, that is unbelievable.。
What is wrong with you people?。
We're gonna look at Abraham.。
If you don't know who Abraham is,。
Abraham is one of the most influential figures in history.。
The three biggest religions, Christianity, Judaism,。
and Islam all trace back to this one man.。
Abraham is at the center of really the Christian faith。
and one of the most important people.。
And he was a man who models for us.。
We're gonna look at his story, look at his story,。
and discover how we can, in the midst of wondering,。
where are you going with this, God?。
I can trust you and learn from his example。
and learn from some of his mistakes.。
So we're gonna trace through his story.。
This will be in Genesis 12 through 22.。
Yeah, buckle up.。
12 through 22, we're not gonna look at all of it.。
I'm gonna fly through some of his story。
and we're gonna look at three parts of Abraham,。
this man of trust story.。
So we'll start in chapter 12.。
All the verses will be on the screen.。
And we'll kind of walk through each section by section。
and look what we can learn from this man。
who modeled what it looks like to have faith,。
have trust, and how we can get there.。
So we'll start in Genesis 12, verse one.。
And I'll read the first four verses.。
We'll talk about it for a little bit.。
Where is God taking us?。
Here we go, so verse one of chapter 12.。
The Lord said to Abram,。
this was before he has a name change,。
which will make sense in a couple chapters.。
He doesn't have the H and the A yet,。
but Abram will become Abraham.。
The Lord said to Abram, "Go from your country,。
"from your people, your father's house,。
"to the land I will show you.。
"I will make you a great nation.。
"I will bless you.。
"I will make your name great and you will be a blessing.。
"I will bless those who bless you。
"and curse whoever curses you.。
"And all peoples of earth will be blessed through you."。
So Abraham went.。
As the Lord had told him, and Lot, his nephew,。
went with him.。
Abraham was 75 years old when he set off from Haran.。
So here's what just happened.。
God shows up to Abe.。
Abraham hanging on the scene.。
He's 75, like he wants to be playing golf in Malibu,。
retired.。
God shows up and says, "Hey, I have different plans for you.。
"I want you to go, Abraham.。
"I'm gonna do something with you through your family,。
"through your descendants, and through your line.。
"And I'm gonna do something that'll bless the whole world.。
"But the first thing I need you to do is I need you to go.。
"Go where, God?"。
God literally says, "Hey, just go。
"and I will tell you when you will be there.。
"I'll tell you when to stop.。
"Should I stop in Canaan?。
"I'll tell you.。
"I just want you to go and trust me with the destinations."。
Our first idea, really, from the story of Abraham's life。
is this idea of what it looks like to trust God。
means trusting him with the destinations in our life.。
Trusting him with where he's leading.。
For us, for Abraham, that just meant。
his next stopping ground for all of us。
were in this series of destinations through life.。
Destination of who you're gonna marry,。
where you're gonna work, where you're gonna live,。
who you are gonna exist in a relationship,。
where you're gonna go to church,。
what job you're gonna work at,。
the amount that you're gonna make.。
All these different, the length of days that you will have,。
God says, "I want you to trust me with the destinations.。
"I just want you to focus on going.。
"I want you to walk in total dependence on me, Abraham.。
"And he may not send you from Dallas,。
"but he has invited you to live in this moment-by-moment。
"trust relationship with God.。
"That I want you to trust me。
"with the destinations of your life."。
And God shows up to Abraham,。
and Abraham, the first thing he shows us is,。
"Hey, I'm gonna trust you, Lord, wherever you take me."。
Which, honestly, is so hard for me。
because there's part of me,。
and I think it's really all of us,。
but maybe I'll just talk about me。
so that I'm not sharing the guilt.。
It's all of us, though, right?。
That I just wanna know more of the plan.。
Like, God, hey, I just want you to tell me,。
just fill in the gaps.。
Like, I wish from a very early age,。
everything that we played as little kids,。
whether it's "MASH" with the little paper thing。
you fold out and like,。
"Oh, you're gonna live in an apartment, Mary D. Sally."。
Or you're gonna play with the magic eight ball,。
and you're like, "Lord, am I supposed to work here?。
"No, maybe, okay, it's broken."。
I wanna know what the plan are.。
God, will you just tell me, we fill in the gaps.。
I don't wanna trust you with the destination.。
Will you just tell me my future?。
And I think Abraham models really something。
that's true for all of us,。
that God is less concerned about you and I。
knowing the future,。
and more concerned with us knowing him.。
Like, I wanna know, specifically,。
even today I was joking with our team,。
like, I often wanna know, like,。
how many years am I gonna live?。
What, 31 years, 35, 51, 75?。
'Cause that may impact how I plan things out down here, Lord.。
And I think God just says,。
"I want you to trust me."。
Day by day, moment by moment, dependence.。
He's inviting all of us into this relationship。
where day by day, I'm gonna trust you, Lord.。
Whatever you call me to today,。
I'm gonna be faithful in that.。
Am I supposed to work at this job?。
I don't know.。
I do know how I'm supposed to work at this job.。
Hard, faithfully, to be the best employee here.。
Am I supposed to marry Sally?。
Not me, 'cause I'm already married to Callie.。
But you, whoever it is.。
(audience laughing)。
That one's pretty clear.。
The Lord has spoken.。
(audience laughing)。
Am I supposed to marry this person?。
Maybe.。
I know how you're supposed to pursue them,。
how you're supposed to go about dating them。
if they are to be there.。
And God's more concerned with this moment by moment,。
daily trust, will you trust me?。
And he invites Abraham into this,。
and Abraham walks obediently with it.。
That's not all that happens.。
Here's what happens next.。
That just so reflects us and the trust issue.。
This happens in verse one of chapter 15.。
After this, so Abraham goes,。
God eventually says, "Stop right here."。
And then the Lord shows up later in his life,。
and this is what happens.。
After this, the word of the Lord came to Abram in a vision.。
And he said, "Do not be afraid, Abram.。
"I am your shield, your very great reward."。
Lord shows up and says, "Hey, I'm your shield.。
"I'm gonna protect you, Abram.。
"I am your reward.。
"You get me.。
"I just want you to know you're getting God.。
"You're getting the greatest thing。
"that could ever be given to you.。
"That's your reward at the end of the day."。
And I love his response because it's so us.。
Like God says, "Hey, you're gonna get me.。
"You're gonna get the best thing you could ever get, God."。
And here's what Abraham says.。
This is so us.。
But Abraham said, "What can you give me。
"since I remain childless, Lord?。
"And who will inherit my estate。
"besides Eleazar of Damascus?"。
Abraham said, "You've given me no children,。
"so a servant in my household will be my heir."。
That Abraham does what we do when we're told, like God,。
"Hey, you get to spend eternity with God。
"forever and ever and ever.。
"You're gonna be fully and finally satisfied.。
"This life is a vapor.。
"God, you get the greatest thing。
"that will ever be experienced for all of eternity."。
And we're like, "God, hey, I'm still single, God.。
"Could you please show up and do something down here?。
"That's gonna be really great up there.。
"I'm married to you forever,。
"but I'd still like to have some kids down here."。
I mean, it's like totally us.。
We just lose perspective.。
That's what Abraham does.。
And God responds despite that.。
And says this, "Then the word of the Lord came to him.。
"And he said, 'This man, Eleazar," poor Eleazar,。
"'This man, Eleazar, will not be your heir,'" verse four,。
"but a son who is your own flesh and blood。
"will be your heir.。
"Then God took him outside," 75-year-old Abraham, no kids.。
God says, "You're gonna have a kid.。
"Not only that, his kids and his kids。
"are gonna be more numerous than even the stars,"。
he says next.。
He took him outside and says,。
"Look up at the sky and count the stars,。
"if indeed you can count them."。
Then he said to him, "So show your offspring."。
Where he takes him outside.。
And like if you have ever been camping。
in either West Texas, Colorado, wherever you go camping,。
not in Dallas when you look at the stars.。
Dallas, you see like three.。
And you're like, "Oh, that's a plane."。
Oh, that's two.。
And this, Abraham, from horizon to horizon,。
sees stars as far as the eye can see.。
And God says, "Try to count them.。
"This will be the number of descendants。
"that come from you, Abraham,。
"even though you have no child right now.。
"This is the future that I have for you.。
"Trust me with the destinations on the journey."。
And then a verse that really, this verse next,。
what Abraham does next is the foundation of Christianity.。
It's the foundation of faith.。
It's the foundation of a relationship with God,。
if you'll ever have one.。
Here's what Abraham does.。
Abraham believed the Lord, and it was credited,。
or counted, or declared to him as righteousness.。
What did that just mean?。
Abraham looked at the sky, and he said,。
"I believe you, Lord.。
"If you say this will be, I trust you.。
"I trust your promise."。
And in that moment of faith, all of a sudden,。
Abraham was given perfect righteousness with God.。
Not because of what he had done, or how he had acted,。
or did he behave, but because he believed.。
This is what Christianity is all about.。
If you're here, back in church for the first time。
in a long time, or maybe the first time ever,。
and you've ever wondered, what is the Bible about?。
What is Christianity about?。
The whole message of the Bible could be summed up。
in two words, God's invitation to man, saying, "Trust me.。
"I want you to trust me."。
That all of Christianity is about,。
not can you believe, or can you behave,。
but who do you believe in?。
Who have you put your trust in?。
The message of world religions is, can you behave?。
Have you behaved?。
That's what every other major world religion,。
I really wanna make sure we get this before we move on,。
every other major world religion teaches。
that the issue is, when it comes to God。
and man's relationship together, can you behave?。
Can you do enough good things?。
That's what all of them teach.。
And the message of Christianity is not, can you behave?。
It is, do you believe?。
Who have you trusted in?。
And Abraham believed, and in a moment,。
not based on how he behaved, but in who he believed.。
Everything changed.。
The father of our faith, he was declared righteous.。
You, in a moment of faith tonight,。
if you put your faith not in how good of a person you are,。
and I'm sure you're a nice person,。
but in Jesus's work on the cross to pay for your sin,。
because the reality is,。
you're not as nice as you think you are.。
You're not as good as you think you are, and neither am I.。
That's why we need a savior.。
And in a moment of belief, everything changed for Abraham.。
This verse, three times in the New Testament,。
the New Testament authors say,。
it's always been about, can you believe?。
It's never been about, can you behave?。
And Abraham believed, and perfect righteousness was his.。
So Abraham models this faith for us,。
but really, sadly for him,。
and really encouraging in a weird way for us,。
or giving us hope, he's just like many of us in the room,。
that at times, we express this incredible faith,。
but we have these waves of just, over time,。
as we look at our circumstances, and we're going,。
God, when are you gonna show up?。
And he has these moments of lapses in his life,。
and I'm gonna tell you about a couple of 'em。
where Abraham doesn't perfectly express faith,。
that although he said, God,。
I'm gonna trust you with the destinations,。
he found himself saying,。
I don't know if I can trust you in this situation.。
If you're in the room tonight,。
and you have something in your life,。
where you're like, I don't know if I trust。
what God is up to here,。
with what's going on in my work,。
with where, I don't even wanna live in this city, Dallas.。
I don't wanna be single.。
I don't wanna be, all my other friends have gotten married,。
they're having kids, everything's moving on.。
I don't like what the situation is in front of me.。
Abraham found himself in very similar circumstances.。
And sadly, he didn't walk by the faith。
that marked his original relationship,。
and beginning relationship with God.。
And so, we're gonna talk about some of those,。
about what it looks like to trust him in your situation.。
Our second idea, this comes from Genesis 16.。
I'm gonna summarize the story,。
so that we can keep moving through.。
But basically, what happens,。
Abraham continues to wait for a child.。
God says, hey, I'm gonna bring you a little baby boy.。
That's what's coming for you, Abe.。
You and your girl, Sarah, you're about to have a kid.。
Just get excited, make up the nursery.。
And Abraham's waiting and waiting and waiting.。
10 years go by, there's no kid.。
He looks over at his wife, Sarah, who's 75,。
and he's going, gosh, this woman is not having a baby.。
She is not the baby mama.。
This cannot work out.。
The biological clock is not ticking anymore.。
The clock fell off the wall,。
and Sarah's not having this baby.。
And Sarah's going, I'm not having that baby.。
I mean, think about it, 75.。
Who do you know who's 75?。
And if you're like, yeah,。
but biblical ages are different, aren't they?。
The Bible says about Abraham and Sarah,。
they were as good as dead, how old they were.。
That's how it describes it.。
So Abraham's looking, Sarah's going,。
it's not coming for me.。
And they look, and one day, they see this servant。
that was a part of their household named Hagar.。
And they say, hey, why don't you go sleep with Hagar。
and Abraham, and maybe she can bring the child.。
Maybe that's what God wants to do,。
that Abraham begins to take things into his own hands.。
And he takes things into his own hands,。
and they go sleep with Hagar, and what do you know?。
God brings into the world a little baby boy,。
but God shows up and says,。
this is not the child of the promise.。
This child, I will bless,。
and he will have nations come from him,。
but this will not be the child。
that I choose to bless the whole world through.。
His name was Ishmael.。
Ishmael, if you know the story of Ishmael,。
there was all kinds of conflict。
because Abraham said,。
I'm gonna just take things into my own hands.。
I don't know if God's way is really gonna work out,。
so I'm just gonna kind of make things work.。
Because of that decision,。
all kinds of chaos was brought into Abraham's family.。
Conflict began to mark their family.。
There was a feud, and eventually,。
Ishmael and his mom were separated。
from the rest of the family,。
and to this day, a conflict exists。
between the two sons of Abraham.。
Because Ishmael, and Ishmael,。
and if you know the story of the Arab nations,。
they trace their line to Ishmael.。
Is there a conflict today。
between the Arab nations and the Jews?。
Yes.。
This will be on CNN.。
Click it on, you'll see something about the Middle East.。
That's what we call that.。
That's what the conflict between the Arab nation。
and the Jew, all of which started here,。
and his desire to take things into his own hands.。
He brought consequences, not just for him and his family,。
consequences we still see the effects of today.。
This is the person who brings things into their own hands。
'cause they don't trust God,。
and they bring chaos into the world as well.。
Like, this is the person, truly,。
this is the girl who says, like,。
look, I know, I'm dating this guy,。
and he's really not a believer,。
but I'm working with him, we're gonna get there.。
I feel like I'm a light in his world.。
I feel like I'm a good example for him.。
I've seen Fixer Upper.。
I know how this thing works.。
He's my little Fixer Upper.。
We're gonna make it work.。
And this is the person who ends up。
pursuing that relationship, thinking like,。
hey, I need to be the vessel which God uses to save him.。
Ends up going farther in that relationship,。
sometimes even gets married,。
and brings all kinds of pain into their life,。
the pain that comes from marrying someone。
who doesn't share the same faith as you.。
This is the person who says, like,。
look, I'm gonna take things into my own hands.。
I'm in an unhappy marriage.。
I'm getting a divorce.。
I mean, God wants me to be happy, right?。
That's what God wants for us.。
And they say, I'm just gonna get a divorce,。
and all kinds of pain is brought into their life.。
The person, tragically, who takes。
and taking things into their own hands,。
rather than trusting God with whatever situation。
is in front of them, ends up taking the life of a child.。
Ends up saying, hey, I'm going to abort this child。
because, man, God would not want this child。
to be raised in a home like this.。
Could be crazy.。
And if you're in the room, and that's part of your story,。
any of those things, man, there is so much grace.。
God can redeem, restore any story, any story.。
One of my closest friends, partners in ministry,。
is a girl named Allie, who that's a part of her story.。
And she is a testimony to just how God can redeem。
and work no matter how bleak.。
But at the same time, she would acknowledge。
there's incredible pain.。
When we grab and take things into our own hands,。
and take them out of God's.。
And so Abraham modeled this,。
and not only did he have a lapse of faith there,。
there's another time where God shows up,。
and basically, shortly after this, he says,。
look, I'm going to give you a child.。
And Abraham's response, he literally laughs。
in the face of God.。
I'm gonna read it, and it's almost comical.。
This is what happens a little bit later.。
God shows up, and he says, hey, Abraham,。
I know you still don't have a child,。
and it's been 25 years.。
Think about that.。
God promises you something,。
you're expecting something from him, 25 years.。
If we don't get a prayer request that we pray on Thursday,。
answered by like Sunday, we're like,。
where are you, God, where are you?。
Abraham, 25 years.。
He's still waiting, and God shows up,。
and gosh, I love this part, because it's so like crazy.。
He says this, verse five of chapter 17, next chapter.。
No longer, Abraham, God shows up,。
hey, does he show up with a little child?。
No, I'm showing up with a name change.。
I want you to change your name.。
What am I gonna go by, God?。
You will be called Abraham,。
for I have made you the father of many nations.。
I will make you very fruitful.。
I will make nations and kings come from you.。
Wait a second, God, I don't even have one king,。
or one child, let alone a nation.。
Can I just get one?。
Not only do I want you to change your name,。
we're gonna change Sarai's name, your wife.。
She's gonna be the mother of many nations.。
And as for Sarai, you are no longer to call her Sarai.。
Her name will be Sarah.。
I will bless her and give her a son by you.。
I will bless her so she will be the mother of nations.。
Like, imagine this conversation。
when he gets home to his wife.。
So God showed up today, and apparently,。
I'm supposed to stop going by Abraham,。
and start going by father of many nations.。
I'm Big Papa, and you are Big Mama from now on.。
(audience laughing)。
And think about it, I mean, he doesn't have a kid,。
he's gotta go around the neighborhood。
when people are like, hey, Abe,。
you mind if I borrow, you know, camel?。
I don't know what they borrow.。
Hey, Abe, you mind if I borrow?。
And he's like, actually, you call me father of many nations.。
Okay, Abe, you don't even have a kid.。
It's father of many nations, first off.。
Like, think about this, for an entire year,。
change your name to father of nations.。
That is crazy.。
And God, in the midst of this, says,。
hey, I'm inviting you because I've said it.。
You can take it to the bank.。
It's as good as done.。
You are a father of many nations。
because it's going to happen.。
That's how sure of a thing that it is,。
and I want you to call yourself that.。
Here's what Abraham does.。
In the midst of being told this would happen,。
he doesn't do what I think a lot of us look at the Bible。
and we're like, man, what a faithful patriarch。
who must have said, yes, Lord, you have spoken,。
and so it shall be.。
Here's what he does.。
Abraham fell on his face and laughed.。
He laughed at God, saying,。
will a son be born to a man 100 years old?。
Will Sarah bear a child at age 90?。
And Abraham said to God,。
if only Ishmael could have your blessing,。
then God said, yes, but your wife, Sarah,。
will bear you a son.。
You will call him Isaac.。
I have made my covenant with him.。
I will establish it with him。
as an everlasting covenant for his descendants.。
Time goes by, and God, despite Abraham laughing in his face,。
despite the waves of not trusting him in his situation,。
despite his faithlessness, God is faithful to the promise,。
and a little baby boy shows up.。
Sarah gets a bump in her stomach,。
and nine months later, Isaac gets brought into the world.。
And I wanna pause really quickly here。
before we go to the last part of the story.。
I think this was the pivot point in Abraham's life.。
I think this was the moment when he began to go,。
oh my gosh, God, whatever you say is going to happen.。
I trust you.。
I think because we're told later on。
that Abraham's faith grew, that on the journey with God,。
he grew strong in his faith as he saw God continue to work.。
And I think, and why do I think that?。
Mainly because what would you do if you were Abraham。
and you saw a 90-year-old woman give birth to a baby?。
For us, we're like, oh man, that's crazy.。
That's so biblical crazy.。
Think about your grandma.。
My grandma's 93.。
Girl ain't having no babies anytime soon.。
You got any grandmas around?。
No children coming through that.。
Abraham watches.。
(congregation laughing)。
I apologize.。
And by that, I mean a woman, her.。
(congregation laughing)。
We're gonna just move on.。
(laughing)。
We're just closing prayer after that, Lord.。
It's true.。
It's true.。
(congregation laughing)。
Oh man, okay.。
Oh man.。
So anyway, all right.。
So Abraham sees this, but it did happen there.。
Abraham sees it happen in his own life.。
He sees God show up.。
He sees God deliver and keep his promise.。
And let me bring us back.。
I think it was in this moment that he began,。
his faith grew strong.。
No matter what God says will happen,。
if he says it, it's true.。
It's going to happen.。
And I say that not only because of how amazing it would be。
if we saw it firsthand,。
but because of what happens next in Abraham's life.。
And this man who both expressed faith at times。
and then had these moments and waves。
where he didn't trust God,。
all of a sudden does what I think is unimaginable。
in terms of faith.。
Shows an amount of faith,。
I don't even know how to get my arms around fully.。
And God comes to him and says one more thing.。
So the baby is here.。
Isaac is here.。
God's kept his promise.。
Abraham's been waiting 25 years.。
Finally, a little baby boy is here.。
Finally, a child that God has promised will live,。
that God has promised Isaac will be the one。
that my covenant never ends through.。
Isaac will be the one, this little baby boy,。
he's going to be the one who will bring about。
really the savior of the world.。
Jesus would come through Isaac.。
So Abraham's sleeping well knowing,。
"Hey, I know God has promised."。
And just like he promised and it was fulfilled。
in a 90-year-old woman, this child will live.。
This child will bring into the world the savior.。
Until all of a sudden one day, God shows up to Abraham。
and he begins to test Abraham's faith.。
His final exam, if you will, of faith。
in their relationship.。
And here's what God invites all of us to.。
He's about to show how he calls Abraham。
to a place I think he calls and wants all of us to live at.。
But it's a place of trusting God,。
this is our third point, with no reservation.。
That he's gonna trust God.。
"I'm not holding anything back, God.。
"I'm gonna trust you with anything and everything."。
And here's what happens next in Abraham's story.。
So the little boy begins to grow。
and this is what happens.。
Sometime later, this is chapter 22,。
God tested Abraham.。
And he said, "Abraham," and Abraham said, "Here I am."。
And then God said, "Take your son,。
"your only son whom you love,"。
or your one and only son you may have, Isaac,。
"and go to the region of Moriah, go to Mount Moriah,。
"and sacrifice him there as a burnt offering。
"on a mountain that I will show you."。
Child sacrifice?。
Like God, what is it?。
You want me to sacrifice the child?。
What are you asking me to do?。
I mean, I've been waiting years and years and years。
for this child and finally he's here。
and you're saying, "Go and I want you to sacrifice him."。
What are you asking me to do?。
But Abraham, I think this is why I believe。
that his faith had grown strong,。
that he knew no matter what God's asking me to,。
I can trust him.。
I know that he's a good, loving father.。
He wouldn't call me to do something。
that went against his will, his good and perfect will,。
so I'm gonna trust him.。
We're told later in the book of Hebrews。
that Abraham in this moment believed and trusted。
that even if he sacrificed his son,。
God could raise him from the dead.。
He knew that this child must live。
and so even if God's asking me to kill this child。
and just wait for it,。
'cause you can feel the tension of the story,。
even if God's asking me。
that he can even raise him from the dead,。
there's nothing impossible for him, so I'm gonna go。
and I don't know what he's gonna do,。
but I'm not holding back.。
I'm gonna trust him without reservation.。
Whatever he calls me to, I'm putting it in your hands, God.。
And Abraham goes and he goes to Mount Moriah。
early the next morning and I just,。
the mixture of emotions he must have felt。
as he gets on a donkey with his son who he's going to kill.。
Early the next morning, Abraham got up。
and loaded the donkey.。
He took two of his servants and his son Isaac。
and when he had cut the wood for the burnt offering,。
they set out for the place God had told him about.。
On the third day, Abraham looked up。
and saw the place in the distance.。
Three days, three nights,。
camping underneath the same stars that God said,。
this son, Isaac, will be the one。
through whom more than the stars you could count will come.。
Where could God be going with this?。
And he said to the servants when they arrived at the mountain。
stay here with the donkey.。
So God says, I want you to go to this mountain。
and build an altar, sacrifice him here.。
At the bottom of the mountain, Abraham says,。
hey, servants, you guys stay here.。
I love what he says next.。
While I and the boy go over there,。
we will worship and then we will come back to you.。
I don't know what's about to happen.。
I don't know what's gonna happen up on that altar,。
but I know this, at the end of the day, I can trust God.。
I know even if he has to raise my son from the dead,。
we will come back to you.。
This is the child of the promise。
and I can't fully understand how God could be asking me。
to do this right now, but I know I can trust him.。
I'm gonna continue to walk with him.。
Abraham took the wood for the burnt offering.。
He placed it on his son, Isaac.。
He carried the fire, the torch, and the knife.。
As the two of them went on together, Isaac said,。
father, yes, my son, the fire and the wood are here,。
but where's the lamb for the burnt offering?。
Abraham answered, I love this.。
God himself will provide the lamb。
for the burnt offering, my son.。
And the two of them went on together.。
When they reached the place that God had told them about,。
Abraham built the altar there.。
He arranged the wood on it.。
He bound his son, Isaac, and he laid him on the altar。
on top of the wood, and there he reached his hand。
and took the knife to slay his son.。
But the angel of the Lord called out from heaven,。
Abraham, Abraham, here I am, he replied.。
Do not lay a hand on the boy.。
Do not do anything to him.。
Now I know that you fear God.。
You have not withheld your only son from me.。
Abraham looked up, and there in the thicket,。
Abraham's sitting there, he was about to sacrifice his son,。
and God says, don't touch the child.。
I'll provide a sacrifice.。
And he looks up, and he doesn't see a lamb.。
He sees a ram caught in the thicket inside of the wood.。
Miraculously, all of a sudden, an animal has appeared。
right before them to be the sacrifice God provided.。
He went over and he took the ram。
and he sacrificed it as a burnt offering instead of his son.。
So God called that place, or Abraham called that place,。
the Lord will provide.。
To this day, it is said, on the mountain of the Lord,。
it will be provided.。
That Abraham, despite waiting years and years,。
said, I'm going to trust you.。
I'm going to even place the life of my son.。
And this is what I mean by, I don't know。
that I have enough faith to do what Abraham did.。
I think there's things in my life I know that there are,。
my son included, where I would go,。
God, I cannot give you this.。
I mean, there's parts of my own life,。
when I think about like job and future,。
and even like ministry, and Annie's here,。
and music, make it spiritual.。
And I think of just like, what are you doing, God?。
Where I'm going, I don't know if I'll let you touch this.。
I don't want you to touch my wife's health.。
And Abraham models for us where he just says,。
look, I'm not holding anything back, God.。
I'm putting all of it in your hands.。
I trust you.。
I trust you with whatever you do, God.。
And I think the crazy thing for me on the things。
that all of us, and I know you're in the room,。
they're holding onto things tight.。
When it comes down to like your singleness,。
you gotta, hey, take anything.。
I'm not gonna be single for the rest of my life.。
I will do whatever,。
I will get on 19 different eHarmony accounts.。
I am not being single, God.。
Do not take that from me.。
And I think all of us have this reluctance to God,。
I'm not giving you this.。
And I think the crazy thing is like,。
Abraham said, hey, I'm gonna put even my son's life。
in your hands, as if it's not there already.。
You're the only thing keeping him alive.。
You're the only thing that holds any chance。
for whatever future you have in this room.。
There's nothing that you're holding onto。
that God's not already holding onto.。
It's not already in his hands.。
And the best shot we have is to place it。
and surrender to him.。
I love the story of Isaac,。
and I'll close here, we'll land the plane.。
Because Abraham, not only did he get to see God show up。
in miraculous ways, he got to see something else.。
He got to see what the story of Isaac。
and really Abraham is all about.。
And so if you've been tuning out,。
tune back in right here.。
If you're counting these little wood things,。
come everybody right back here.。
We're gonna just look at the very purpose。
of the entire story of Abraham and Isaac.。
It was never just about the sacrifice of this son.。
It was about the sacrifice of a son。
that would come years and years later.。
I mean, see the parallels in the story.。
Take your son, your one and only son who you love.。
And all of us in that moment are going,。
God, what the heck?。
How can you ask him to kill his son?。
I'm not gonna have him kill his son。
because I'm killing mine.。
On behalf of him and Isaac and all of the human race.。
He's the one that will be delivered up.。
I mean, see the parallels on the same mountain,。
Mount Moriah.。
You know what we call Mount Moriah today?。
Mount Calvary.。
It's the exact same dirt.。
I'm not saying like, oh yeah,。
it's kind of like the same picture.。
Literally the same place.。
2000 years before Jesus, God on that mountain says,。
don't kill the son.。
I'm gonna kill mine.。
The whole story, Isaac carrying the wood。
up that mountain years later,。
Jesus would carry not wood for an altar,。
but wooden cross on his back.。
Because the story points to the God。
who steps into the world.。
And we ask, where are you going with this?。
Jesus, that's where the whole thing's been going to.。
That's really what the whole Old Testament,。
BC before Christ, it all points to Christ.。
Everything, last week we talked about Noah,。
the week before Adam and Eve,。
all of them, they're pictures of Jesus.。
Jesus said this in Luke 24,。
where he basically says, look,。
everything in the Old Testament,。
first half, all about me.。
This is the sequel to all of them.。
Jesus, they all point to him.。
Adam, who failed his test in the garden,。
Jesus passed his in the garden.。
Noah, a piece of wood lifted up and raised,。
much like a wooden cross raised,。
and all who trust in it will be saved.。
Isaac, the son who was spared, the one and only son.。
It's all been pointing to Jesus.。
Your life, everything that you're going through,。
everything in your life,。
God right now is trying to use to point you to Jesus,。
to allow you to look at Jesus.。
Abraham, Jesus says about Abraham,。
and I love this part, and I promise you,。
I'm laying in the plane, we are landing this plane.。
Abraham, Jesus said, Abraham saw my day coming.。
He looked forward to my day coming.。
John 8, 56, Jesus says, he's talking to these Jews,。
he says, you're sons of Abraham, right?。
Abraham looked forward to my day coming.。
And then it says this, and he saw it, and he was glad.。
Not just, hey, he was looking forward,。
he was excited this would one day come,。
you know, he didn't exactly understand.。
Abraham, distinct from the others, Abraham saw it coming.。
Not only when he looked up from the thicket and saw the ram,。
he saw the Lamb of God coming.。
He saw what this was all about.。
He saw what all of life is about,。
that all of meaning on this planet,。
you cannot experience meaning without knowing Jesus.。
Life finds its meaning in Jesus.。
Everything you're going through,。
everything you being here tonight,。
listen to me, please, you here tonight,。
if you do not know Jesus, are in this room。
because the God of the universe has woven your story。
to land you here right now,。
trying to point you to the King of Kings,。
the Savior, who God said, spare Isaac and spare you.。
I'm going to kill my son so that they can live.。
That's what God is doing.。
That's what everything in your life you're going through。
is meant to point you to look at Jesus.。
If you are a believer,。
it's meant to make you look more like Jesus.。
It's all about him.。
It's always been about him and will always be about him.。
And if you don't know him,。
he sends the invitation to you, will you trust me?。
Not just in a moment by moment basis on the cross。
with arms spread out wide, trust in me,。
not in what you do.。
That's the message of the gospel.。
Trust in me.。
Trust that I paid for your sin.。
Trust that I'm enough.。
You're not a good enough person to get in.。
You never will be.。
But I'm giving you a free ticket.。
Will you trust me?。
The son who was slain, the lamb God provided,。
and everything is meant to look towards him。
or make you, if you know him, look more like him.。
I'm gonna pray that would be the case and we'll close.。
Father, thank you for the story of Abraham and Isaac。
and the story of faith.。
Just the example of a man who trusted you in the midst。
of just incredible asks, go.。
I'll tell you when to stop.。
Trust me with even your son.。
Lord, thank you that despite just his failures,。
despite my failures, my moments,。
I just don't trust you.。
Everyday moments, you still love us.。
You're patient with us.。
You still died for us.。
You still allow us to have a relationship with you。
defined by faith.。
That it's not about can you behave,。
but do you believe that Jesus paid for it?。
Father, we worship you now through song.。
We thank you that all of life finds meaning。
in knowing Jesus and seeing Jesus.。
Thank you for this scandal of grace we're about to sing。
where you died for us, you died in our place.。
We sing and worship you through song now, amen.。
