(drum roll)。
- Kira mentioned that we have something exciting。
coming up next week.。
I'm gonna tell you what that is.。
The launch retreat is here, it's back.。
Registration next week.。
Has anyone been to launch in this crowd before?。
Anyone in Fort Worth been to launch before?。
Here's why I tell you that,。
because you are going to want to make sure。
you are here next Tuesday night,。
or if you can't be here, that you register online.。
If you don't know what the launch retreat is,。
ask someone who raised their hand and was excited.。
You're not going to want to miss out.。
It's like the single funnest three days。
by a lake that we do.。
We go out to Sky Ranch, it's a blast.。
There's only a thousand spots,。
and it's gonna sell out in two to three days, maybe more.。
In the last couple years,。
it's sold out in three to four days.。
So we're telling you now,。
so that if you have never been,。
or if you don't know whether to be here next week,。
you're going to want to be here next week.。
Or make sure you're online, seven o'clock,。
you can register online.。
One of my favorite launch graphics we've ever had,。
every year we have like a theme,。
and then we have graphics and speakers。
and all kinds of stuff that come with it.。
And one of my favorite graphics we ever had。
was actually this one from 2010,。
which I think they're going,。
there it is right there, launch.。
And here's why it was both my favorite and not favorite,。
maybe just the most memorable one I had,。
is because it has on it a magic eye.。
There it is.。
You guys see this?。
Remember magic eye, reading "Rainbow Days," magic eye?。
So inside of that picture,。
I don't know if you're like me,。
but I have never in my life been able to see。
whatever is in that picture.。
It's like everyone's, there's a conspiracy going on,。
'cause all I see is specks.。
Can anyone see it right now?。
Anyone?。
No, nobody can?。
Okay, we got a couple in there.。
What kind of picture is this back there, tech team?。
It is birds.。
Here's what I love about it,。
is that if you're like the kind of person like me,。
is anyone like me where you can't?。
Am I alone here?。
I can't ever see the graphic that's up there?。
If you're that person, everyone who can see it,。
like our friends down here, is like,。
here's what you need to do.。
You just need to blur your eyes and cross it a little bit。
and look through it, but don't, but just relax,。
but let it come into focus.。
And you're like, is this a joke right now?。
Are you messing with me?。
And then it feels like you're left out,。
'cause they're like, oh my gosh,。
this is unbelievable in there.。
It's a secret code.。
And now you're not able to see it,。
and you feel left out.。
Because you, for whatever reason,。
don't possess whatever it takes.。
I mean, literally, for as long as I can remember,。
I've never been able to like see whatever's in these things.。
It's as though my like brain or something,。
I don't have the gene that allows me to see it.。
I don't have what it takes to see whatever is there.。
And the reason I set up with that story。
is because tonight, we are going to discuss a topic。
about what the Bible says you must have。
in order to see heaven.。
In other words, we're gonna talk about the quality。
that you must possess and I must possess。
if you don't want to be left out of seeing heaven.。
Because I know one thing about all of us in the room,。
even if you're like, I don't know what I believe,。
if there is a heaven and a hell,。
we would like to possess whatever it takes to go to heaven.。
No one's like, oh, I'm kind of 50/50.。
Everyone's very confident that they would like to possess。
whatever that is.。
And so tonight, we're really gonna discuss。
what that is because here's,。
I'm gonna give you the punchline。
and then we're gonna explore it.。
What the Bible says you and I must have。
in order for us to see heaven is we must be born again.。
And before I lose you and you're going, born again,。
what does that mean?。
Culture, there's a lot of terms.。
You've probably heard that phrase, born again.。
Tonight, we're gonna discuss what the Bible says。
as it relates to this topic.。
And it may not be what you think,。
but it does tell us if you do not meet the prerequisites,。
if you don't have this one thing, you will not see heaven.。
What do I mean by that?。
You will not see Jesus, you will go to hell.。
That's the plainest way that I can say it.。
If you do not have this thing that we're talking about.。
So tonight, we're gonna discuss。
what it means to be born again.。
Does it look a certain way?。
Does it mean you're a Republican?。
Does it mean that you live in a certain area?。
What does it mean to be born again?。
And we're really gonna find the meaning of this。
in one of everyone's favorite stories in the Bible,。
the story of Nicodemus.。
Okay, no one's favorite story,。
but in the story of Nicodemus,。
we're gonna be in John chapter three.。
If you have a Bible, you can flip open there now.。
Here's what we're doing for the next two weeks.。
We're really taking a break。
before we launch into our series this summer,。
which is gonna be called Summer on the Mount.。
Or for the next 10 weeks, starting in June,。
we will go through the greatest sermon ever told by Jesus.。
And for the next two weeks, we're gonna do two one-offs.。
And as I was looking, along with a team and JP,。
we were just praying through what to teach tonight,。
I couldn't think of a more important message。
for our audience than to discuss a criteria。
that we know not everyone in the room has,。
large numbers of you don't have,。
which is you are not able to see。
and you will not see heaven.。
And so tonight, we're gonna discuss and explore。
how that relates to the subject of being born again。
and what it means to be born again.。
A question asked by our man, Nicodemus.。
We're gonna be in John chapter three.。
If you have a Bible, you can open there。
and we're really gonna look at John chapter three。
and we're also gonna trace his story。
throughout the rest of the book of John.。
So we're gonna start in verse one and I will read it。
and then kind of summarize.。
You guys there, everyone there?。
All right, if not, it's on the screen.。
Now there was a Pharisee, a man named Nicodemus,。
who was also a member of the Jewish ruling council.。
He came to Jesus at night and said,。
"Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher。
"who has come from God,。
"for no one could perform the signs that you were doing。
"if God was not with him."。
Jesus replied, "Very truly, I tell you,。
"no one can see the kingdom of God。
"unless they are born again."。
"How can someone be born when they are old?"。
Nicodemus asked.。
"Surely they cannot enter a second time。
"into their mother's womb to be born."。
Jesus answered, "Very truly, I tell you,。
"no one can enter the kingdom of God。
"unless they are born of water and of spirit.。
"Flesh gives birth to flesh。
"and spirit gives birth to spirit."。
So here's what just happened.。
So Nicodemus, this is early on in Jesus's ministry.。
So very early on, Jesus was doing ministry。
essentially for three years on the planet.。
Early in the game, he's doing miracles,。
he's getting a lot of people behind him,。
he's becoming increasingly popular.。
And Nicodemus, who's a Pharisee,。
Nicodemus is on Jerusalem's who's who list,。
that's who he is.。
He's not only a religious,。
at the top of the religious chart,。
which in those days, it was like,。
if we have baseball cards for famous people,。
they have like religious cards for people。
because the Pharisees were like,。
"Oh man, that's what I wanna be when I grow up."。
And so Nicodemus is not only that guy,。
but he is a member of the ruling council。
in terms of he's a part of the Senate that rules the city.。
So he's very influential politically and religiously.。
He's a guy that everywhere he went,。
he has an entourage with him.。
And Nicodemus hears of this man, Jesus, and he's curious.。
So he goes to him at night,。
maybe so that no one else would see,。
no one on this Sanhedrin, that's the ruling council,。
would see that he goes to this man,。
this new rabbi on the scene,。
and he goes to him and he's sitting around。
a campfire with Jesus.。
And he begins to kind of like,。
walk through introductions.。
"Hey, I'm Nicodemus, me and my associates,。
"here, we know that you are clearly a good man from God,。
"we're men of God, we thought we could be friends."。
And Jesus, mid-sentence, cuts him off.。
And it's as though Jesus is like,。
"Let's get right to the point.。
"No one can see the kingdom of God。
"unless they are born again."。
And Nicodemus doesn't get it at all.。
Like he's going, "What, what are you talking about?。
"Born again, born again?。
"I'm supposed to crawl into my mother's womb?。
"That's a little graphic, Jesus.。
"Can't think about that too long.。
"What do you mean that I'm supposed to be born again?。
"And how can I be born again when I'm old?"。
Clearly he's not understanding.。
And we hear that and we're like,。
"Come on, come on, Nicodemus, it's a metaphor, buddy.。
"Get with the picture."。
But Nicodemus has never heard this before.。
So he's going, "Wait, why are you talking about my mama。
"and what am I supposed to do to enter the kingdom of God?"。
And Jesus responds, "Very truly, I tell you, no one can,"。
so let me explain what I mean.。
"Enter the kingdom of God unless they're born of water,。
"physical birth, and born of the Spirit.。
"Flesh gives birth to flesh."。
In other words, camels give birth to camels,。
dogs, dogs, humans to humans,。
but the Spirit gives birth to the Spirit,。
which brings us to our first point.。
You and I are blind without a new birth.。
You and I are blind without a new birth.。
You will not see and I will not see the kingdom of God.。
And he says to Nicodemus, "You will not,。
"if you do not experience a new birth."。
And it's not a birth unlike your first birth,。
though it doesn't involve your mother,。
in the same way that your original birth took place,。
where flesh caused the birth of flesh,。
Spirit caused the birth of Spirit.。
Here's what I mean by that.。
In the same way that you were not really responsible。
for any part of you coming into this world,。
and I wasn't responsible for it,。
our parents brought us into this world.。
If you've ever seen "Pregnancy,"。
we have close friends right now that are pregnant,。
and pregnancy is such a terrible season of life for people,。
like morning sickness and nausea.。
There should be like five Mother's Days a year,。
because what women go through。
to bring children into this world,。
and so many, preach!。
(congregation laughing)。
And so all along, the moms changing what they eat,。
and they're trying to figure out。
what I can eat and can't eat,。
and they're getting sleep adjustments,。
and they're trying to make all these different sacrifices。
to bring the kid in, and you know who does nothing。
to bring themselves into the world,。
or nothing in the process?。
The child.。
The dad barely does more,。
and he does the one thing that he enjoys,。
and so the child does very little to bring in himself,。
or nothing to bring himself into the world.。
That's what birth is.。
Jesus just said, "The Spirit gives birth to the Spirit."。
In other words, you, just like you weren't a part。
of your mom bringing you in, Nicodemus,。
here's how you have to be born again,。
and it's not a birth that you can control.。
The way you get born again is not by you trying to do more,。
it's not by some work.。
The only way you'll see the kingdom of God。
is by birth, not work, which raises the question,。
like how can a person be born again?。
And Nicodemus is taken back,。
because here's what I know, and I'm confident,。
Nicodemus is the guy.。
If there's a religious leader who's like,。
"Yeah, people come to me, and they ask questions."。
When you get done with the born again,。
I'll share you my opinion too, Jesus.。
Nicodemus is the guy who's like,。
"If anyone is getting into heaven, it's me."。
I mean, look at my resume.。
I am the leader of God's chosen people, the Jews.。
If anyone is leading up the charge about like,。
"Hey, we're God's chosen people, the Jews,。
"give me a J, give me an E, give me a W,"。
that's who we are, and I'm the one leading。
the pep rally from the front, Jesus.。
How dare you tell me that despite being in church。
every Sunday, reading my Bible,。
knowing a lot of Bible verses, being a good kid,。
that I'm not getting in, that I lack?。
And how, and what does it look like to even be born again?。
And Jesus is gonna answer that, verse seven.。
"You should not be surprised," Jesus speaking,。
"at my saying, you must be born again.。
"The wind blows wherever it pleases.。
"You hear the sound, but you cannot tell。
"where it comes from or where it is going.。
"So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit.。
"How can this be?" Nicodemus asked.。
"You were Israel's teacher," said Jesus,。
"and you do not understand these things?。
"Very truly, I tell you, we speak of what we know,。
"and we testify of what we have seen,。
"but still you people do not accept our testimony.。
"I have spoken to you of earthly things,。
"and you do not believe.。
"How then will you believe if I speak to you。
"of heavenly things?。
"No one has ever gone into heaven,。
"except the one who has come from heaven, the Son of Man."。
Let's stop there.。
So what Jesus just said is basically,。
hey, just like, let me explain how you can know。
that you've been born again.。
Just like when there's a, we're sitting in front of a fire,。
and the fire all of a sudden,。
remember if you've ever been to a campfire。
any time recently, and you're like sitting around。
with your little chairs around the fire,。
and the wind will change directions,。
and all of a sudden you're like not in the smoke,。
and then all of a sudden you're like,。
okay, everyone shift over, and then it's again,。
and you're like, okay, shift back,。
and you don't know where it's gonna go next.。
Jesus just said, in the same way,。
that's what it's like in someone's life.。
Like you can't see the wind, but you can tell it's there.。
You can see the evidence of it, and he says,。
in the same way, you can't see the rebirth take place,。
but there is evidence that it's there,。
and he's about to give us what that is.。
Verse 14, "Just as Moses lifted up the snake。
"in the wilderness,"。
so what he just referenced, gosh, this is such a cool story.。
Who should have more time?。
So what he just referenced is a story that you and I。
are like, that's not my favorite story,。
but Nicodemus would have been well acquainted with.。
"Just as Moses lifted up the snake in the wilderness,"。
what are you talking about, Jesus?。
"In the book of Numbers," which is in the Old Testament,。
"it tells the story of the nation of Israel。
"traveling through the wilderness."。
And in one of those chapters, chapter 21,。
it lays out this one that seems like random story。
in the Old Testament, and here's what happened.。
Moses leads the people out of slavery,。
and they're all making camp outside in the wilderness,。
and everyone's set up, and they find a place。
they're gonna make camp, and they've got campfires going,。
and s'mores, and their tents all set up,。
and then all of a sudden, there's not s'mores,。
and then all of a sudden,。
all these snakes start coming out,。
and they're biting all the people.。
This is like "Game of Thrones" stuff.。
All the people, thousands, if not millions of people,。
are in these tents, and all of a sudden,。
all of these serpents come out and begin to bite the people,。
and the people are dying in droves.。
Moses runs to God, and he goes into this tent,。
and he goes, "God, what am I supposed to do?。
"Everyone's dying, there's serpents everywhere."。
And God says, "Here's what I want you to do.。
"I want you to take a pole with a crossbeam,。
"and I want you to put a serpent on it."。
Don't get bit.。
"And I want you to put a serpent on the crossbeam."。
And it's like, what, that feels really random.。
"Then I want you to run to the center of the camp,。
"and I want you to raise up the serpent。
"and place it in the center of the camp.。
"And everyone who looks at the serpent will be healed."。
Everyone, if you could drag your family member over there,。
and you could just point them in the direction,。
if they look at that, they will be healed.。
And Jesus just said, "Just like that,。
"so everyone," verse 15, "so the Son of Man。
"must be lifted up, that everyone who,"。
what does it look like to be born again?。
What's the evidence?。
"Believes may have eternal life."。
That Jesus just said that the evidence。
of a person being born again is that they believe,。
which brings us to our second point.。
New birth comes from new belief.。
What does it look like to be born again?。
How can I be a born again, or a person who knows。
that I have been born again?。
Which, if that's the only way to enter eternal life,。
I think all of us would say, "I think I'd take that door."。
All of us would take that, and Jesus just said,。
"The only way that you can be born again,。
"or how you can know, is if you believe,。
"so that everyone who believes in the Son。
"may have eternal life."。
This is how you can know you have the new birth,。
that Jesus, and really, the entire Gospels。
introduced this idea.。
The issue is not whosoever behaves.。
It is whosoever believes.。
The issue of sin is not the problem。
in keeping someone from experiencing eternal life.。
This is so huge.。
If you're back in church for the first time in a long time,。
I hope you don't miss, tune out,。
and count the ceiling tiles,。
if you miss everything else after this.。
The issue of you and your life,。
and whether or not you can have right standing with God,。
does not depend on sin.。
The issue is, do you believe?。
The issue is, who are you trusting in?。
Because if you go, "No, but I'm too bad of a person."。
That is you trusting in yourself,。
in what you have done.。
And Jesus says, "Whoever believes."。
The issue is, do you believe?。
Or do you trust?。
Who are you trusting in?。
Jesus said, "Whoever puts their trust in me,。
"the Son of Man, lifted up."。
That person will have eternal life.。
The issue is, do you believe?。
And John really punctuates this by giving us。
maybe the most famous verse in the Bible,。
a verse regardless of your religious background,。
you've probably heard before.。
Thanks to Tim Tebow and Austin 316,。
where it says this,。
"For God so loved,"。
Austin 316, haven't heard that name in a while.。
"For God so loved the world,。
"that he gave his one and only Son,。
"that whoever believes in him,。
"shall not perish, but have eternal life."。
What is the evidence of a person being born again。
that they believe?。
How do you know that the Spirit。
gives birth to spirit inside of you?。
Do you believe that Jesus on the cross。
paid for your sin?。
That whosoever believes,。
shall not perish, but have eternal life?。
The Bible teaches,。
it is not good people who go to heaven,。
and bad people who go to hell.。
It's forgiven people who go to heaven.。
Forgiven from who?。
From God.。
And the only way you can have forgiveness。
is if you will accept it.。
And he's offered it in the free gift。
that Jesus gave us when he died on a cross,。
and whoever puts their trust,。
God says, "I've given my Son,。
"and whoever trusts in him,。
"will have eternal life."。
They've been born again.。
They've been changed.。
And Nicodemus is having all of his categories blown,。
and he's going, "What?。
"How dare you even talk to me。
"like this rabbi random guy?。
"I'm the Jewish leader,。
"the teacher of Israel.。
"You're telling me that I don't have。
"what it takes?"。
And he goes back to his other Sanhedrin buddies,。
and they're like, "How'd it go?"。
And he was like, "He wasn't home."。
And they go on in life,。
and Nicodemus continues to watch Jesus from afar.。
And the story really only gets better from there,。
and here's what happened next.。
So that's John three,。
and kind of the next few chapters.。
Jesus's ministry continues to grow,。
and to grow, and to grow.。
And the Pharisees,。
which is Nick and all his boys,。
they see Jesus and his crowd continuing,。
all of his fans and followers continuing to grow,。
and they're like, "We gotta put a stop to this."。
And then Jesus heals a man on the Sabbath.。
He tells this man who had been lame for 38 years,。
"I want you to get up, and I want you to walk."。
And the Pharisees are going,。
he did not just move his mat on the Sabbath.。
This is a game changer.。
We gotta get Jesus right now.。
So here's what they do.。
They get the temple guards together,。
and the temple guards were not like the Roman centurions.。
Temple guards were like the mall cops,。
or campus police, you know?。
Where you're like, "Can you arrest me?。
"Where would you take me?。
"Do you have a gun?。
"Is that a taser?"。
They're the guys who you're like,。
"I don't know if I'm off the campus.。
"Do you have authority out here?"。
That's the temple guards.。
They're the temple guards, but they have like spears.。
And so here's what happens.。
The Pharisees and the Sanhedrin are like,。
"I want you to go get Jesus.。
"He's gonna be at the Feast of Booths."。
The Feast of Booths, this is in John 7.。
So he was the man, and then this huge event。
called the Feast of Booths,。
which was a really cool event in Jewish history,。
or in Jewish celebrations.。
Here's what it was.。
The Feast of Booths was like Woodstock.。
It sincerely was.。
Everyone would get Feast of Booths or Feast of Tents,。
where everyone, it was a celebration, seven days,。
and it was the harvest, so they're drinking wine,。
and they're all hanging out in their tents。
outside the city.。
That's literally what the festival was.。
So everyone comes together.。
It was literally the biggest festival。
because everyone came from everywhere to be a part of it.。
They're like, "I am not missing that one.。
"I'm okay with missing the other ones,。
"but that one I'm gonna be a part of."。
So Woodstock is going on, so they know Jesus will be there.。
Jesus is gonna show up。
because there's more people in Jerusalem than ever.。
He's gonna show up and wanna teach.。
And so temple guards, we want you to go arrest him.。
We want you to go find him and go arrest him.。
And so here's what happens.。
The festival goes on, Jesus does show up, he's teaching,。
and the Pharisees in Sanhedrin are waiting,。
and they're going, "When is this guy。
"getting back with Jesus?"。
And then they see the guards starting to walk down the hill。
or walk towards the temple where they're waiting,。
and they say this, "Finally, the temple,"。
this is verse 45 of chapter seven,。
"Finally, the temple guards went back。
"to the chief priests and Pharisees,。
"who asked them, 'Why didn't you bring him in?'"。
So the temple guards come back and they don't have Jesus.。
And they say, "Why didn't you bring him in?"。
And they go, I love this,。
"No one has ever spoke the way this man does,"。
the guards replied.。
And the priests are going, "What, you listened to a message?。
"You sat there in the audience and you listened to a message?。
"We told you to arrest him."。
Yeah, but he was in the middle of an illustration.。
We didn't wanna interrupt.。
Literally, that's what happened.。
And they're going, "Oh my gosh, Barney Fife, you guys,。
"okay, we're gonna have to come up with another plan.。
"You mean he deceived you too?"。
Verse 47, "The Pharisees retorted,。
"Have any of the rulers of the Pharisees believed in him?。
"No, but this mob knows nothing of the law.。
"There's a curse on them."。
And here's our boy again.。
"Nicodemus, who had gone to Jesus earlier。
"and who was one of their number, asked,。
"'Does our law condemn a man without first hearing him。
"'to find out what he has been doing?'。
"And the Sanhedrin replied to him,。
"'Are you from Galilee too?'。
"Then Nicodemus appears again."。
And he's not totally without providing a little defense,。
but he's still timid and going,。
"Look, guys, clearly it's wrong for you to arrest him,。
"but maybe it's okay."。
And they say, "Are you from Galilee too?"。
And he's like, "I was just kidding."。
And so we continue, and here's what happens next.。
So the next couple chapters, Jesus,。
and this is really over a picture of the book of John.。
Jesus continues and his ministry keeps growing.。
And then he heals this man who had been blind.。
His whole life he'd been born blind, John 9.。
And he continues to insult or continues to buy him。
and his ministry growing insult these religious leaders.。
And then the last straw is broken in John 11。
with Lazarus, this man who died.。
Jesus shows up and he says,。
"Take the stone away from the tomb."。
And they said, "Jesus, he's been dead for four days.。
"It's gonna smell terrible.。
"Just tell him goodbye from here."。
And Jesus says, "Take the stone away.。
"Lazarus, come forward."。
And Lazarus walks out of the tomb alive.。
And now Jesus is like a celebrity。
like they've never seen before.。
And it literally says from that day on,。
they plotted we're gonna kill Lazarus and Jesus.。
So they get the temple guards together,。
and they decide, "Hey, we're gonna give you。
"one more shot, mall cop.。
"You're gonna go, we're gonna tell you exactly where he is.。
"We have an insider, his name is Judas.。
"He sold his master.。
"We're gonna tell you exactly where to go.。
"Judas is going to point out exactly who to arrest.。
"We want you to bring him back here.。
"This needs to be put to an end."。
And so that's exactly what happens.。
They go, Judas betrays him,。
and they arrest Jesus in the garden at night.。
And they bring him back.。
The temple guards bring him to the temple.。
And they have this trial, this illegal trial.。
Where Jesus is brought before the Sanhedrin,。
and he's brought, and they accuse him of blasphemy,。
saying, "You claim to be the son of God."。
And they slap him in the face, the scripture tells us.。
And they say, "Take it back."。
And Jesus says, "You've spoken it."。
And they rip their clothes,。
and they say, "This man deserves to die."。
But here's like the kicker.。
Jews couldn't crucify or couldn't execute someone.。
So they go, "Well, what are we gonna do?"。
"We're gonna take him to Pilate."。
Pilate's the governor, he's a Roman,。
he doesn't have any religion, he'll do it for us.。
And so we'll bring him to Pilate.。
So they bring him to Pilate,。
and they gather outside Pilate's house,。
and they say, "This man is a criminal。
"who needs to be executed."。
And Pilate's always seeing the Jews stirring stuff up,。
going, "What has he done?"。
And they say, "You can ask him."。
So Pilate brings him to not upset them,。
and he brings him inside, and he begins to interview him.。
And they say, "He claimed to be the king of the Jews.。
"He's not our king."。
And Pilate sits there, and he goes,。
"What have you done to make these people so angry?。
"Are you the king of the Jews?"。
And Jesus says, "My kingdom's not of this world."。
And Pilate's going, "So you are a king," is what he says.。
And Pilate's going, "Look, this guy's not deserving of death.。
"He may be a little woo-woo,。
"but he's not deserving of death."。
So he brings him back outside,。
and by this time, there's a crowd gathering。
outside Pilate's house.。
There's a crowd that's sitting there,。
and he says, "Look, I'm not gonna kill this guy.。
"Finally, he's a criminal.。
"You guys have a thing every year。
"where you release one criminal on Passover,。
"so I'm gonna let him go.。
"He'll be your guy."。
And they begin to shout in the crowd,。
"No, give us Barabbas.。
"Give us Barabbas, the rebel, the murderer.。
"Give us Barabbas."。
And Pilate's going, "Give you Barabbas?。
"This man hasn't done anything.。
"What should I do with him?"。
And then someone begins to yell, "Crucify him!。
"Crucify him!"。
And the chant begins to go,。
and Pilate takes him away, saying,。
"I'm not gonna crucify.。
"That's like giving lethal injection。
"for a speeding ticket, guys.。
"You don't do that.。
"I'm not gonna crucify."。
Crucifixion was only for the worst of the worst.。
Come on, Jesus.。
And he takes him back inside,。
and Pilate says, "You know what I'll do?。
"I'll just have him flogged.。
"I'll have his back and his body permanently disfigured,。
"which is what flogging was,。
"this whip that would go around you with knives and glass."。
And he says, "I'll just beat this man。
"into an inch of his life being taken,。
"and then they'll be happy and they'll be fine."。
So Jesus is whipped,。
and while the Roman centurions are whipping him,。
they go, "His charge is he's the king?。
"Well, let's make him a crown."。
And they form this thorn, or this crown of thorns,。
and they put a robe, a purple robe over him.。
And Jesus, covered in his own blood,。
stumbles out, blood coming from his forehead,。
and Pilate says, "Take your king away."。
And the chant continues.。
"Crucify him, he's not our king.。
"Crucify him."。
And then someone in the crowd says this,。
"You are no friend of Caesar's if you don't kill this king.。
"Anyone who claims to be a king is no friend of Caesar's,。
"and if you're a friend of Jesus,。
"you are no friend of Caesar's."。
And Pilate knows that's game over,。
because if I support and allow this man to go free,。
they're gonna say, "I'm not a friend of Caesar.。
"That's the only friend that I have."。
And so he says, "Take him away, crucify him."。
The disciples flee, they don't go see the crucifixion.。
Only John.。
And then John records something really。
you wouldn't have thought.。
That happens next.。
Jesus is brought there and he's crucified.。
And he's nailed to a cross,。
and then a few hours later he dies.。
And this is what's recorded about his burial.。
Later, Joseph of Arimathea,。
who was a member of the Sanhedrin,。
Luke and all the other gospels tell us,。
asked Pilate for the body of Jesus,。
which was really unusual.。
Crucified men were not buried.。
They were left on the cross for birds to pick at them,。
and Joseph, this Sanhedrin member,。
did it because here's why.。
Joseph was a disciple of Jesus,。
but secretly, because he feared the Jewish leaders,。
with Pilate's permission,。
he came and he took the body away,。
but he wasn't alone.。
He was accompanied by Nicodemus.。
The man who would come and visited Jesus at night.。
Nicodemus brought a mixture of myrrh and aloes,。
about 75 pounds.。
That was a very enormous amount.。
Nicodemus gave him a burial like a king.。
Nicodemus comes with this man,。
and they take the body.。
Taking Jesus' body, the two of them wrapped it。
with spices and in strips of linen.。
This was in accordance with Jewish buriable customs.。
Nicodemus and Joseph, who were members of the Sanhedrin,。
they come and they see the body。
of this man who was murdered.。
A man who'd done nothing wrong, but healed the sick,。
give sight to the blind,。
allow lame people to walk, heal lepers,。
and they see him murdered.。
And Nicodemus and Joseph of Arimathea,。
a change takes place,。
and they decide we're leaving the Sanhedrin.。
We know that we risk dying for taking this man's body。
and burying him.。
We're gonna go take him, and we're gonna bury him.。
Men did not bury.。
Women were the ones who would bury bodies.。
But they say, it's fine with me.。
I'm leaving this.。
Nicodemus came to believe,。
and he decided I can no longer be Nick at night.。
I'm now becoming Nick during the day,。
during any time of life.。
I'm gonna become Nick, who comes,。
and my Lord and Savior died on that cross,。
and just with Joseph, I'm gonna take this body,。
and I'm gonna bury it.。
And they take the body down from the cross,。
and they pull the nails out.。
And they carry his body,。
and they get the blood of Jesus on them.。
And they wrap it, and they put it in a tomb.。
And we know by almost all accounts,。
Nicodemus lost everything for doing so.。
He would have been removed from the Sanhedrin.。
He would have been made unclean.。
He couldn't celebrate Passover that weekend.。
Everything had changed for him,。
and Nicodemus didn't care because he said, I'm going.。
I believe this man is who he said he was.。
Some point between then, it changed.。
Nicodemus changed.。
And Nick at night was no longer the same.。
And here's what happened.。
I love this.。
Nicodemus standing there with Joseph,。
and who knows how many others,。
Jesus' own disciples weren't there as he's dying.。
And he sees this man。
who had done only helpful,。
only set people free, only restored life.。
And he sees him raised up on a cross.。
And all of a sudden it clicked,。
just as the serpent was raised up on that cross。
that whoever looks at him would be saved.。
So the Son of Man must be raised up。
that whoever trusts in him shall not perish,。
but have eternal life.。
And everything clicked.。
Nick realized it's always been about Jesus.。
The whole story of the Old Testament,。
including the serpent, it's always been about Jesus.。
And all of a sudden in his mind, everything changed.。
And he knew that even though believing and following Jesus。
would cost me in this life, it'll cost me a job,。
it'll cost me my home, it'll cost me my income,。
not following Jesus will cost me far more。
in this life and the next.。
And whatever it costs me, I'm going to follow this man.。
Just as the Son of Man raised up,。
and everything changed.。
And he became a believer.。
This brings us to the third point of our new behavior,。
his birth, excuse me, from new belief.。
New behavior, his birth from his new belief.。
And standing on a hillside,。
this man who knew every text in the Old Testament。
about the God and the Messiah who would one day come。
and be pierced for our transgressions,。
crushed for our iniquity,。
all of a sudden they all came into focus.。
It's always been about Jesus.。
It will always be about Jesus.。
It's all about Jesus.。
And he went from skeptic to believer.。
I think, really what he did is,。
I was out walking not long ago,。
and I was walking with my dog.。
Another dog story, here we go.。
(congregation laughing)。
And I see this stray dog, and of course,。
and of course I'm like, oh man.。
And I think it's my neighbor's dog.。
I think I'm like almost positive.。
Oh, that's my neighbor's dog.。
I need to go return it, okay?。
So I go over, give the dog.。
I'm like, great, let's go.。
We're gonna take you home to Bobby.。
And I get over to Bobby's house in his backyard,。
and his dog's looking back at me.。
And I'm like, who are you?。
And it wasn't his dog.。
And so I bend down, and I look,。
and I'm like, oh, okay, I have a number,。
and I'm gonna call him.。
And I begin to call his owner.。
And all of a sudden, we live in like Old Lake Highlands.。
I'm walking back home, calling the owner.。
Hey, I think I found your dog.。
A storm like I've never seen before in my life,。
including last night, in the last 30 days.。
(congregation laughing)。
A storm like I've never seen in my entire life。
all of a sudden comes out of nowhere,。
and there's wind blowing.。
Trees are snapping.。
Power lines are coming down.。
Boxes of trash, I promise you,。
it's gonna sound like, you're a preacher.。
You're exaggerating.。
I promise I'm not.。
There's boxes flying everywhere.。
And I'm with my dog, and I'm like, oh my gosh,。
we gotta go, every dog for himself.。
So we take off, and we go run back to my house.。
And we're running to the house.。
All the power's out everywhere.。
It's at night, and I finally, I run into the door,。
and I'm waiting, and my dog comes in behind me,。
and I slam the door shut.。
And all of a sudden, I hear this collar.。
That's not mine.。
And it's the other dog in the house.。
And I'm like, how did you get here?。
And he's like, hey buddy, holla at your boy.。
I'm coming with you.。
And he's in, I promise, it sounds like my wife,。
I've told this story before, my wife's like,。
are you embellishing?。
I promise, that's what happened.。
And so looking at this dog, and it really,。
here's what happened.。
Like that dog essentially was like, look, I'm no fool.。
I'm going with you, bro.。
You're the only chance of protection I have.。
You're the only chance of life and safety I have.。
I'm not staying out here on my own.。
I'm not gonna make it on my own, and I'm coming with you.。
Nicodemus essentially realized what all of us will realize。
in this life or the next.。
Jesus is the only chance of protection that you and I have.。
All of us have sinned, the Bible said,。
and by sin, it's both mistakes and more than that.。
All of us have made decisions in our past,。
in our present, and will in our future,。
where we go, that was wrong.。
I don't think that's right.。
All of us have fallen short, the Bible says,。
and it says the only chance of protection。
that you and I have is found at the same shadow。
of that cross that Nicodemus went to and found protection.。
The only chance of life that you and I share。
is found there.。
Ironically, the story of Pilate,。
like how great of a tragedy is this?。
He's standing eyeball to eyeball。
with the God of the universe,。
and he was wondering, and it takes him several times,。
he goes back into that house,。
and he knows there's something unique about this man,。
but he never left from wonderer.。
He never left from I'm intrigued, he stayed there,。
unlike Nicodemus, who went from wonderer to believer.。
He went from the man who said, no, I'm a good person,。
do I need someone to pay for my sin?。
When that cross came lifted up, he looked at his Savior,。
and everything changed.。
And my fear for some of you in this room。
is that you're gonna stay a wanderer,。
you're gonna stay like the tragedy that Pilate was.。
Maybe because you don't think you're a good enough person,。
maybe because you think that God can't love you。
based on your path, all of which。
are examples of trusting in yourself.。
And he says, will you come and trust in me?。
Come, I paid for it.。
Will you come to the only one who can give you protection。
and life, the one that whoever believes in。
will not perish, but have eternal life?。
And you can have that tonight.。
You can know that no matter what comes your way,。
you will spend eternity with your maker.。
You will spend eternity in paradise.。
And he offers that to you.。
If you'll just trust and just believe.。
I love the story of Nicodemus,。
and here's why, and I'll close with this.。
Because I'm so much like Nicodemus.。
Like I have a background of being like the church kid。
and religious rules, and when I read the New Testament,。
sometimes I see like the Pharisee, the religious,。
gets such a bad rap that I wonder, can God love me?。
Which you may go, that's crazy.。
But the story of Nicodemus reminds me that God says,。
no matter who you are, no matter what you've done,。
no matter how bad you are, how good you think you are,。
I can save.。
If you come to me, experience the new birth。
that starts with a new belief。
and a new trust that I've paid for it.。
Will you come to me and find the only source of protection。
and the only source of life that any of us have,。
and you'll see that in this life。
on a day where it's too soon.。
I'm gonna pray that you would come tonight.。
In fact, I wanna invite you,。
if you're in the room during this last song。
and you're not sure where you stand with God,。
don't blow me off right now.。
I wanna invite you to pray where you are.。
You don't have to raise a hand,。
you don't have to come down front and tell us.。
I want you to invite you to pray where you are, God.。
I am a great sinner.。
I'm trusting that I have a great savior in your son.。
If it's true that there's a gift of eternal life。
totally for free, God, I'm trusting that that。
will have to be enough,。
that the payment you made on the cross is enough.。
And during this last song, if you'll just begin to pray that。
and it's the best decision you can make。
and you can leave here if you trust that,。
not by saying some magic words,。
but if you trust and believe that Jesus paid for it,。
you can leave here knowing。
that you have the only source of protection。
from the penalty of sin, the only source of life,。
and this one and the next there will ever be.。
I'm gonna pray that we do that.。
Father, we love you.。
Thank you for the story of Nicodemus.。
Thank you that you don't give up on us。
no matter what our story is,。
that you offer a new life to all of us。
no matter what we've done,。
no matter who we think we are, that you love us.。
I pray now for my friends in the room。
who don't know you, Lord,。
who aren't born again。
and they're gonna spend eternity away from you.。
And you've already proved you love them.。
You gave your son who changed the world,。
who reset the calendar,。
who offers eternal life, so just trust him.。
Would you by the Spirit give birth to the Spirit now。
inside of my friends who don't have that spiritual rebirth?。
We love you, amen.。
