[MUSIC]。
[MUSIC]。
[MUSIC]。
Amazing, amazing.。
We're continuing this series Skeptical where we just explore some of the big topics of the faith.。
Anyone a hypochondriac in the room are willing to admit that a little bit?。
Afraid of the Ebola thing right now?。
A little?。
I am like totally a hypochondriac and my team gives me a hard time about it all the time.。
About two months ago, I was with Adam Tarnow who works on staff at Watermark and we were catching up and he explained how the day before he had been to the dermatologist and I'm going, "You go to the dermatologist?。
What do you do there?"。
And he begins to explain that he at one point had some sort of cancerous mole that was on his leg and he had to have it removed and I'm going, "Oh my gosh, how did you know?"。
And he said, "Well, I go regularly.。
You don't go regularly?"。
And I'm going, "What?。
Am I supposed to go regularly?。
What?。
Which doctors am I supposed to make sure that I go to every year?"。
He said, "Yeah, you should go once a year and you're fair skin and so you probably got something."。
And so all of a sudden, yeah, which is encouraging.。
And so I am now thinking in my head, "I've never been to a dermatologist.。
Maybe I need to go to a dermatologist."。
And then you go home and you're like looking everywhere and you're like, "This doesn't look normal at all."。
And so I make an appointment and I go and I'm going, "What if I do have something?。
I don't even know if I want to know if I have something."。
And so I get the appointment set.。
I go in there, which is a really uncomfortable experience if you've ever gone to the dermatologist where you have to like shed everything and they're like closely examining you.。
Anyways, so I'm in there and the lady begins to explain and she finds something and she says, "Oh no.。
Oh no."。
And she says, "I think you have a diaplastic mole."。
And I'm going, "Diaplastic?。
That doesn't sound good.。
It's got the word 'die' in it.。
What is a diaplastic mole?"。
And she says, "I don't think it's anything.。
It could be cancerous, but really I'm not sure.。
Why don't we have it removed?"。
And I'm going, "Let's just take a 50/50 guess.。
Give me your best estimate.。
What do you think that it could be cancerous?"。
And she says, "Well, I really can't tell.。
Anything that I would guess wouldn't be accurate.。
Let's have it removed and then we'll send you the results."。
And of course, the results take like weeks to get.。
And so you're like, "This diaplastic mole, am I going to die?。
What's going to happen here?"。
And I remember thinking, "I don't even know if I want to know the truth here."。
And which is crazy that I wouldn't want to know that because at the end of the day, the truth is the only thing that can provide the cure.。
And the reason I tell that story and it ended up being totally diaplastic and totally non-cancerous at all,。
just to close that loop in case you're going, "What happened?"。
Is because when it comes to the topic of science and truth and faith,。
there's this emotional thing inside of Christians at times that feels like, "I don't even want to know the truth.。
I mean, my professor says this is true.。
It says Christianity is crazy, but I believe the Bible and I believe Jesus.。
And so I don't even want to know.。
I mean, blessed are the naive is one of the parables, right?。
And so it's not in there, but ignorance is bliss.。
I just want to hold on to my faith blindly.。
And the reason that's a tragedy is because truth is never something we as followers of Christ have to be afraid of.。
Science can't disprove God.。
God created science.。
Science is the study of the world around us in an exploration of how God did it.。
The science can't disprove God any more than studying the ingredients of a cake to disprove a cook.。
And yet all through growing up and really all in the education system around us,。
you and I are fed this idea that God has been removed and evolution and science have proved that God is not there.。
We don't need him anymore.。
And it's just not the case as we're going to explore tonight based on the scientific findings.。
And you may have never heard that.。
And for years, Christians have been bullied in the education public square.。
Hitler said, if you can control textbooks, you can control a nation.。
And it has been happening for years and God is not afraid of truth.。
He's not afraid of science and we don't have to be afraid of science.。
He doesn't need to be defended.。
He is no more in need of a defense than a lion who is caged needs to be defended.。
Just unlock the cage.。
And so tonight we're going to explore what I think are the three critical arenas or big questions that science and Christianity seek to answer and how they are not in contradiction.。
In other words, what Christianity tells us about the world around us, about creation, about you and me and about purpose are not inconsistent with the discoveries of science around us.。
And you may never have heard this before.。
And so we're going to explore these three big topics.。
So tonight we're going to talk about how did everything begin?。
So creation beginning, what does science say about that?。
What does the Bible say?。
And are they in contradiction?。
How did we get here?。
Where did we humans come from life?。
Where did it all come from?。
And what is science told us and telling us?。
What is the evidence present?。
And what is the Bible tell us?。
And are they contradictory?。
And then what is our purpose?。
What is science tell us about our purpose?。
And what does the Bible tell us about our purpose?。
So we're going to start with where did it all begin?。
How did the universe begin?。
Where did it all come from?。
Here's what we know about the universe.。
All scientists.。
It's a universal belief now that the universe had a beginning.。
The Big Bang was a theory that was proven around the 70s and 80s and it was proposed by this priest.。
You may not know that you may think, hey, the Big Bang is anti-Christian.。
It was proposed by a priest who came up with the idea, scientifically tested.。
And here's why the Big Bang is significant.。
It tells us the universe had a beginning.。
Not the TV show Big Bang.。
The Big Bang theory.。
It tells us there was something that began.。
Here's what Stephen Hawking, who's not a believer, says.。
Virtually everyone, he's a Cambridge, Oxford, very well-known scientist and respected scientist.。
Virtually everyone believes the universe had a beginning.。
Many people do not like the idea that time has had a beginning, probably because it smacks of divine intervention.。
Here's why that was such a huge, the discovery and the proven theory.。
It was proved of the Big Bang was so big for Christians.。
Because it proved the universe was not eternal.。
There was a beginning.。
Which implied, according to Hawking's, there must have been a beginner.。
That there must have been something that created the explosion.。
That created the world that we see around us.。
And you can try to explain it all away.。
But even, I mean, when you look at what atheists who believe the Big Bang, because it's almost universally accepted.。
What atheists will try to do to attempt to explain the Big Bang without a God behind it.。
It just seems silly.。
Richard Dawkins, who you may have heard of, who's like the big-time atheist, the prophet of atheism.。
When pinned into a corner and asked, "What do you think it could have been?"。
He said, "I think it may have been aliens from another universe that came and impregnated our universe with a seed that exploded into the world around us."。
Now, I'm not the smartest guy in the room and I'm a simple man.。
But the fact that a man who is constantly beruging Christians and saying, "You crazy faith people."。
"The amount of faith it takes to believe that aliens who show no traces of existence showed up and somehow impregnated our universe."。
I'm not even sure what that means.。
"And created it."。
Seems like an extraordinary leap of faith.。
And this is not just any atheist.。
This is the leading scientific atheist.。
Who says, "Hey, look, it doesn't have to be God. It could have been the aliens. We can't find them, but it could have been them."。
And virtually all across the board, science is pointing to the idea that if there was a beginning, there's implied, there must have been a beginner.。
That's not only what science has recently discovered.。
This came from a book by MIT, professors of astrology and biophysics on the creation and beginning of the world.。
It's a book called, "The First Three Minutes."。
You can look it up afterwards.。
Basically, what they discovered is that not only did the universe had a beginning, but the very first thing that we saw or that happened was this explosion of light and energy.。
Now, what does that sound like?。
I mean, that's not at all contradictory.。
In fact, let's look at what the Christian understanding of the beginning is.。
Genesis 1.。
"In the beginning,"。
"a beginning,"。
"God created the heavens and the earth."。
"And the earth was without form and void."。
"And darkness was over the face of the deep."。
"And the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters."。
"And the very first thing He creates in the beginning,"。
Verse 3, "and He said, 'Let there be light.'"。
And there was light.。
That science, when it comes to the question of a beginning and how did this all begin, lines up exactly with what we would expect to find in Scripture.。
That there was a beginning.。
And not only that, that at the beginning there was an explosion of energy and light according to MIT professors and the God of the Bible.。
Not only that, we're also discovering that there's this order in the universe around us that was created a part of it that lines up really well with Colossians 1, 16 and 17.。
We're talking about Jesus.。
In Him, all things were created.。
So it wasn't just light and exploded.。
That God, in Jesus, all things were created.。
Things in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or powers or rulers, and all things have been created through Him and for Him.。
He is before all things and in Him all things hold together.。
That Jesus is holding the unchanging God, the universe together in a way that gives it order.。
That gravity is not changing here today and tomorrow, but it is being held by God together and gives us the laws of nature around us.。
I mean, the very idea, my team and I were discussing earlier today, people think even the Big Bang is like, well, you either believe in God or the Big Bang.。
The Big Bang was an explanation by a priest about how a big God created a big universe around us.。
It had never been an atheistic belief.。
And it's been stolen and taken maybe by the TV show or who knows.。
But that belief was never introduced to Trump.。
God, it doesn't.。
It just says the universe had a beginning and points to Him.。
There is no contradiction when it comes to creation, a beginning, and what science says and what the Bible says.。
Here's what the leading professor of geophysics at Yale says.。
He was the leading scientist for NASA for years.。
He says this, "For the scientists in light of these discoveries about the world and it being exploded and light being a part of it," he says this,。
"For the scientist who has lived by faith in the power of reason," and he's not a believer or Christian, "the story ends like a bad dream.。
He has scaled the mountain of ignorance.。
He's about to conquer the highest peak.。
And as he pulls himself over the final rock, he is greeted by a band of theologians who have been sitting there for centuries saying, 'In the beginning, God created,'"。
and he said, "Let there be light," and there was, "and let there be life," and there was.。
And there was no contradiction.。
And if you search out the evidence, that's what you will discover.。
It may not have been what your professor or eighth grade history teacher who's there to coach football really told you, but it's what's out there.。
So the second idea of where did we come from?。
Okay, so maybe creation and that is actually lining up with what the Bible says according to intellectuals across the board in all scientific arenas.。
What about where we came from?。
We came from monkeys, right?。
And there was like this pool of energy and it kind of evolved into everything that we see around us.。
I mean, maybe you saw this tree image growing up like I was introduced to, the evolutionary tree.。
Well, yeah, at the beginning, there was a protist.。
We're not even really sure what those are, but they were in the beginning.。
And then sometime after, mollusks came and brachiopods and everything that we see.。
Great-grandfather was a brachiopod.。
And this is, I mean, I was taught that this is just proven fact.。
And that's not the case.。
And what I'm about to tell you, if you are skeptical, you're going to think, oh, great.。
The crazy church Baptist people are trying to tell us it's not the case.。
I'm about to give you some information that comes from the leading paleontologist at Harvard University.。
That may seem really heady, but the reason we're going to go there is because the leading scientists in paleontology, which is the study of like fossils and those things,。
are all coming and saying, we're still looking for the links.。
And the greatest hoax that has been produced by great con men is that evolution is a fact.。
And what I mean by evolution is not micro evolution or the adaptation, minor adaptations of a species, like a bird getting longer wings, but a bird becoming a dog somewhere along the tree.。
So funny to people, hurt a lot of scientists feelings right now is what you just did.。
So here's what he says as it relates to the problem that we still can't find 150 years after Darwin.。
We landed men on the moon.。
We got iPhones created.。
We're doing incredible things.。
We're digging everywhere we can.。
And despite all of our advancements in life and technology, we still can't find them.。
Like maybe they're not there.。
Here's what he says.。
The extreme rarity, this is the head.。
He's an agnostic and the head of the paleontology department at Harvard.。
The extreme rarity of transitional forms in the fossil record persists as the trade secret of paleontology.。
As though the paleontologists know we can't find them.。
The evolutionary trees.。
This is the Harvard head of paleontology.。
The evolutionary trees that adorn our textbooks, much like the one we just saw, have data only at the tips and nodes of their branches.。
The rest is inference.。
However reasonable, not the evidence of fossils.。
Darwin wagered his entire theory on the denial of this literal record that he thought it would be there.。
We'd eventually find it.。
Darwin's argument persists today as the favored escape of most paleontologists from the embarrassment of a record that shows little of evolution directly.。
Paleontologists, him being one, have paid an exorbitant price for Darwin's argument to keep it alive.。
What's he saying?。
He's saying the evidence is not there.。
This idea of the evolution taking place and what we believe that we would eventually find, we just can't seem to find.。
In fact, this is going to be really complicated.。
I'm going to try to make it as clear as I can.。
What science is discovering in life and geology and the fossil record is that there was this explosion of life.。
You may have heard of it called the Cambrian explosion.。
And in that explosion, they would expect, they saw all these different life forms.。
When they dug up, oh my gosh, all these different life forms and fossils, we would expect that underneath them would be their ancestors.。
But they weren't underneath them.。
We couldn't find fossils underneath them.。
And they came up with another theory.。
They must have just disintegrated.。
That must be what happened.。
Or they never existed.。
The evidence we have today does nothing to contradict how you and I got here, despite what you may have heard.。
And go search it out if you don't believe me.。
Christians give us this explanation.。
Genesis 1, 26 and 27.。
Then God said, let us make man in our own image after our likeness.。
So the Trinity very early on.。
And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea and the birds of the heavens and over all livestock and over all the earth and every creeping thing.。
So God created man in his image and the image of God.。
He created the male and female.。
That what God said is I created distinct humans or distinctly humans apart from everything else in creation.。
That what humans will be for the next thousands of years that they're around is they will be the ones who rule over the fish of the sea, the land and everything else that we see in creation because they are made distinctly in my image, unlike nothing else in the world around us.。
And that's very evident.。
In what we see around us that we're not competing with like the monkeys who keep getting out of line and we got to back them into the wherever they are kept.。
We're not competing with any other species that man is unique among all creation.。
God says.。
Has been made in his image in the scientific record and you have been fed so much in schools and in lies.。
Is just not there.。
And if you do your research, you will see what the head of institutions well respected like Harvard, Yale, Cambridge, Oxford are saying this is the best kept secret out there.。
They just don't exist.。
And God.。
Want you to know.。
We have been praying for that all week.。
I'm kidding.。
I'm totally kidding.。
It's just someone with a bowling ball rolling around.。
And it's raining outside.。
But the evidence again, it brings no conflict.。
Let's close in prayer.。
But there.。
How do we recover?。
Here is the last thing I'll say on this point.。
The evidence, the actual evidence is in no way conflicting with what the Bible tells us.。
It doesn't tell us the full extent of everything.。
It does say that God breathed life into man and made him unique with a soul.。
The ability to rule the ability to understand good and evil or morality.。
This inner sense Romans 2 tells us that God put in every heart.。
And the scientific evidence that is out there doesn't conflict with what we see in Genesis and in the Bible.。
There is no conflict.。
There is a conflict with this agenda that is going out in our culture that is trying to silence the voices of anyone who would suggest intelligent design.。
Last night I watched this movie and it was kind of like movie night for my wife and I.。
And we, I knew I was going to teach on this today.。
And so we were going to watch the movie Expelled.。
And man, it is really coming down out there.。
We're going to watch this movie Expelled.。
And if you haven't heard of Expelled, it's like this documentary on science and intelligent design.。
And how intelligent design is being suppressed in major universities all over our country.。
And so Ben Stein, who's not a Christian, goes around interviewing men and women who've lost their jobs.。
Because, and they in the interview say, I'm not even saying intelligent design is correct.。
I'm just saying the evidence points to something more than just evolution.。
And this agenda is taking place all over our country where if you are a professor, you cannot get tenure in many major universities if you do not believe that evolution alone is king.。
Or if you believe in intelligent design or teach it.。
Last week, you may have heard about this, in the University of California, a paleontologist who is a professor at the University of California was fired because his discovery of a triceratops, which is just a dinosaur, had soft tissue on it.。
There was soft tissue on what he had found.。
And he suggested, this is one of the more amazing discoveries we've ever found.。
This means it can't be older than 4,000 years, he suggested.。
Which you may agree with, may not, who knows.。
But the fact that he would even suggest such a thing, they fired him immediately.。
Because it didn't fit in to their agenda.。
And the only conflict in the world around us is from a group that is trying to silence the idea that there might be something more.。
And present Christianity as a crutch, and it is no crutch.。
It is a cure for a world that is dying and needs it.。
And it is the story, invitation, and explanation of the God who is, who created all that we see, who became a man and died for us, came back to life, holds all life together, and offers new life for anyone who will accept it.。
It is no crutch, but it is a cure.。
And that's being silenced.。
The third question that Christianity and science attempt to answer is just this, what is our purpose?。
And even here we have no conflict between science and Christianity.。
Because science as a worldview, an all encompassing worldview, says there is no purpose.。
You don't have one.。
Might as well just put a shotgun in your mouth and end it all.。
There's nothing to live for.。
Human race can just try to keep living, but there's no purpose around us.。
And it can't even begin to explain why there's this inner sense of something that's, there's got to be more.。
I know everything happens for a reason.。
In fact, not only can it not explain purpose, it can't explain so many undeniable realities that we all seem to feel.。
It can't explain why we think there's something as beauty.。
Like you can't measure it in a test tube and it can't explain this feeling you get in front of the Grand Canyon or the ocean.。
Or when you look at the night sky.。
It can't explain this idea of like even love or connection between two humans.。
It can't explain emotions.。
I mean, how could men who weep come from inanimate organisms who feel nothing?。
It can't explain morality.。
I mean, this has been the linchpin for so many intellectual Christians is the subject of morality without God.。
Because the problem of good and evil is a much bigger problem for a world without God than a world with him.。
Because in a world without God, there is no such thing as good and evil.。
There is no absolute truth.。
But there's something inside of me that thinks genocide is wrong.。
Rape is evil.。
Those emotions don't exist in the animal kingdom.。
A primate that takes another primate back to mate with her.。
There's no emotional discontent from the others in his tribe or whatever he's a part of.。
In a world without God or science being all-encompassing can't explain even why there's this sense of good and evil apart from God.。
It can't even explain like little things, like silly things.。
It can't, you know, like yawning.。
They still can't figure out why we yawn.。
Nothing shows the limits of science.。
The fact that we, and you may have heard, oh yeah, it's because the brain needs oxygen.。
Nope, that's not even the leading theory about why.。
Look it up.。
I mean, here's like a crazy thing about science and the data and how it's just often, sometimes off.。
Did you know it's a scientific impossibility to hit a 90 mile an hour fastball?。
And God loves baseball.。
It's a scientific, and you're going, no, no, no, I see it all the time.。
Look it up.。
Yale physics in the last few years produced a report that said it's physically impossible based on the amount of time that you would have for the ball to reach home。
and for you to decide whether or not you want to hit it, for someone to hit a 90 mile an hour fastball, it is scientifically impossible.。
And it's an undeniable reality.。
And no one would go, I'm going with science on this one.。
I don't think we can explain that one.。
Nope, can't be possible.。
There's things everywhere you look.。
But Christianity can answer the question of purpose.。
To know that you were created, and this is going to be really big, I'm going to try to really explain this.。
To know God.。
You.。
In other words, to have knowledge of God.。
And here's why that's so important and why science is not a threat, but our friend.。
Because science, real science, introduces us to the creator.。
I mean, think about it.。
Astrology. Astrology studies the stars of the God who hung them in place.。
Geology studies the God who breathed life into creation.。
And when we look closer into creation, we see the handprints of the divine everywhere that we look.。
Geology studies the world around us, the rocks, the formations of the earth that he created in an explosion.。
In an instant.。
And science allows us to know the creator behind it.。
And knowledge and science are our friend.。
And your purpose is to know him.。
Make him known.。
Christianity can also answer the questions of beauty.。
Because you and I were designed and created by a God who loves beauty, is beauty, creates beauty, of love.。
It answers the question of the sense of love.。
And why we feel that?。
Because we're made in the image of a loving God who perfectly displayed that love on a cross.。
It answers the question of morality.。
Of a God who put and wired into men who were made in his image.。
You cannot, if you were made in my image, escape this sense of right and wrong.。
Christianity is not afraid of the truth, it offers the truth to a world that is leaning on a crutch of science that is pointing back to a creator.。
And we don't have anything to be afraid of.。
And anything to fear.。
And tonight, really like this whole series, we want you, if you're a follower of Jesus, we just want you to know you're not crazy.。
Do the research.。
You don't have anything to be afraid of when it comes to science.。
All science is God's science, created by him.。
And if you're skeptical, you have everything to be afraid of.。
And you can't be too careful.。
Because every day, leading scientists are saying, "Evolution as a worldview is bankrupt."。
And I put my whole life on it, and it's bankrupt.。
And you can't be too careful, because everywhere you look, you see the hand and fingerprints of a divine creator who made the world around you.。
So you have everything to fear, and nothing to hope in.。
And you have way more faith than you realize, if you don't believe there's a God.。
You may think, and I think part of me at times wonders, "Yeah, but what are those clues? Where are the fingerprints that we can see them?"。
And I wish we could go on and on into different arenas, but I want to show you just one that won't prove inconclusively anything.。
But it does display a powerful display of a God who loves you, wants to know you, and gave his life for you.。
I first heard another pastor actually talk about this subject.。
And he said, he was telling a story basically, and he said, "I had just given a message, and it was on how big God is, and just the greatness of God, and how large the God of the universe is."。
The pastor was telling the story, he says, "I just gave that."。
And after the talk, this molecular biologist comes up, and I'm like, "Oh no, great, fact check."。
And so the guy comes up, and he begins to say, "Hey, great message, but I know that your next message is going to be on just the greatness of God in the human body."。
And he says, "I want to tell you something and show you something."。
And he begins to explain, "I want to tell you about laminin."。
And he says, "You have to tell your people about laminin."。
And laminin, what you are feeling right now is probably what he felt, and I know what I felt when I just heard, "Yeah, what's laminin?"。
Laminin, inside of the human body, and really all animals and living, anything that breathes, there's something called laminin.。
And laminin is the cell adhesion molecule, this is going to be really molecular and biological.。
It's the thing that holds all your cells together.。
Inside of your body, there's thousands and thousands and thousands of cells.。
We can't even count, we don't know how many that there are, and they're all held together by this one molecule called laminin.。
He said, "It's like the rebar of the human body, like the bars that you put in when you put cement on a foundation of a house, it's the thing that holds it all together.。
It's holding your skin right now together. It's holding your insides together. It's laminin."。
And what you're feeling is what I was feeling when I first heard it, because I was going, "Yeah, so what is the big deal?"。
And he said, "No, no, no, it's the thing that's holding you together."。
And he said, "You've got to see a picture of it."。
And here was the picture.。
That the very molecule that's holding you together right now, in all of your cells, in everything, and that's not from like, oh, Christianity.org, that is from the National Academy of Sciences.。
What's holding you together is a molecule in the same shape of the instrument that God, who came to earth, died on for you and for me.。
I mean, that's crazy.。
I mean, here's a microscopic image of what it looks like inside of your body.。
Inside of your body, there's thousands of these. Everything that you are is being held together by a symbol that billions in the world recognize to reflect the love of a God who created.。
And yeah, you can clap all you want. That is unbelievable.。
And you may go, "Oh, but that didn't really prove anything."。
Here's all that I'm saying. His invisible attributes and divine nature are clearly seen in the world around us.。
And you can go with the alien idea and have no sense of purpose or life.。
Or you can embrace the reality of a God who loves you and has made himself known in all creation around us.。
I'm going to pray and we'll close out.。
Father, we thank you that you have left signatures of yourself everywhere that we look.。
And that you are not only the one who created all things, as we read earlier, and hold all things together.。
And everything is for you. And even the cells in our body seem to tell the story of a God who loves us.。
I pray for my friends in the room who don't know that, that they would.。
That you would make yourself revealed to them.。
We thank you for the rain and just even the humbling that comes from the roar of thunder.。
And the power of a God who sits behind it all.。
We love you. Thank you most of all for Jesus.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
