[ Music ]。
[ Singing ]。
[ Singing ]。
[ Singing ]。
[ Singing ]。
[ Singing ]。
[ Applause ]。
>> Guys, what did they say though?。
They said Jesus, we're too thankful for words.。
A lot of times.。
Jesus, we're too thankful for words.。
Words are important though.。
Those are friends of ours, Portugalers just like you.。
I recognize some of them as they walk off the stage,。
friends who stumbled into this place.。
Some of them came from Christian backgrounds.。
Some of them were raised in the church.。
Others of them couldn't stop getting high.。
Others of them couldn't stop sleeping with their boyfriends.。
And all of them came to this place and heard a call to get on a plane。
and go overseas, specifically Ethiopia.。
And they did so.。
And the Lord used the trip to grab their hearts and put a song in their hearts.。
That's what the scripture says Jesus does is he put a song in our hearts.。
And so they shared that song with you.。
I'd love to just start by talking about -- they started that way because we're。
talking about reaching the ends of the earth tonight with the gospel as we move。
through the series and wrap up tonight in our Unashamed series.。
And so I'll start with just some kind of strange pictures.。
This first one is particularly strange.。
I'll have to explain.。
This is a pink dolphin of the Amazon.。
And we got to swim with the pink dolphins.。
They are pink because the water is so dark there.。
And they're freshwater dolphin.。
And it was just fun to get in the water with them and get to hang out there on。
the Amazon River near Manaus, Brazil.。
And so this next one, this is a leopard skin.。
Yes, a leopard skin.。
Also in Brazil.。
Someone had just killed it a couple weeks before we got there and wanted to。
share that with us.。
Actually offered us its skull.。
What a prize.。
They said, "Here, go home.。
Go back with this leopard skull."。
And I was like, I remember talking to Tim, like, "How are we going to get this。
thing on the plane?"。
And I think it's illegal.。
And then this next one, this is an alligator that we caught on an alligator。
hunt with one of the missionaries there in Brazil.。
He took us out and we were looking for crocodiles of the Amazon.。
And we didn't want to catch his father, but we did catch him.。
And then now jumping continents, this is Africa.。
Here, this is the Maasai warriors, the Maasai Mara near an area of Kenya in。
the African jungle.。
You always hear about the African Bushmen.。
What happens to the African Bushmen who never hears the gospel?。
This is the African Bushmen right here with his piercings.。
And that's an earring.。
That's quite an earring, actually.。
That is indeed a Maasai warrior.。
And then here, that was his lion club that he had made, and I traded him a。
Swiss army knife for it.。
And he made the trade, and I brought that back.。
I still have it today, keeping me safe.。
This is a mass grave there in Rwanda.。
When over a million people died or nearly a million people died in the。
genocide, the government built this mass grave for them.。
And as we visited that, that was one of the things that we saw.。
And then we also saw this.。
This is the king of the jungle.。
There is no fence between me and him.。
This guy was just out roaming around hunting.。
Probably that.。
That's an elephant.。
Four to be precise.。
And now again, jumping continents now to an island nation of Haiti, one of the。
most beautiful beaches I've ever seen in the world there on the island nation of。
Haiti.。
Also the most beautiful sunsets at our partner, Mission of Hope.。
We got to see that sunset every single night.。
And then there's the Haitian waterfall with me and my port shirt, praising God。
and the glory of his creation on the island nation of Haiti.。
And here's why I show you all of that.。
Because I believe with all my heart that I can compel you tonight to get on a。
plane and to go overseas.。
And I believe with all my heart on the way back, you will thank me that I did。
so.。
You will be very, very glad that you used a week's vacation to do so.。
But I do not want you to get on a plane to see a pink dolphin, a waterfall, a。
sunset, a very beautiful beach, a Maasai warrior, a lion, or anything of the。
like.。
In fact, the most amazing things of all of those trips, if I didn't see any of。
those things, the most beautiful, incredible things of all of those trips。
that I went on were the people and we intentionally left them out apart from。
the Maasai warrior.。
But the most amazing thing, and you must believe me because I would not lie to。
you right up top of the message, the most memorable experiences I had, be it in。
the Amazon, be it in Africa, be it in Haiti or anywhere else I've ever been,。
were the people, God's creation, those he made in his image.。
And the most amazing experience that I had in all of those places, we get to。
tell them this amazing news that they don't have to go to hell.。
That they can be with God forever in his kingdom.。
That God loved them so much that he took all the crazy stuff, the genocide, the。
fact that you killed your brother's wife.。
Jesus died for that and you don't have to go to hell, you can be with him。
forever.。
That's good news.。
And to get to sit on a soccer field after playing a soccer game with a bunch of。
kids and ask them with an EvangelCube, "Do you want to trust in this Jesus?"。
"For your salvation?"。
And for them to say in their broken English or through an interpreter, "Yes, I。
do."。
"Can I do that now?"。
And to know that those people today as we gather in this room, maybe they're。
sleeping, maybe they're not, maybe they're playing soccer, maybe they're eating。
dinner or breakfast.。
But to know that we will be with them again.。
That one day we will be in the fullness of the presence of God and his glory.。
Face to face with them again.。
Remember when we played soccer?。
Remember when you prayed to trust in Jesus?。
Man, that was awesome.。
Now the pink dolphins, that was cool too.。
But when you prayed, when you understood the hope that you have in Christ, man,。
it was amazing.。
And what I can't do, or I'm sorry, what I hope God does in spite of me tonight,。
is not to give you an excitement about jaguars, dolphins, elephants, lions,。
tigers and bears, oh my.。
But to give you a heart for his people all over the world.。
People that if you don't go and see, and if you don't go and share, we won't get。
to see them again.。
Because there are so many people on this planet right now as we gather in this。
room who have not heard the name of Jesus and have not had the opportunity to。
trust him.。
I'm not talking about unsaved people.。
I'm talking about unreached people.。
And there's a difference.。
An unsaved person is someone who has heard the gospel and rejected it.。
An unreached person is someone who won't or who hasn't had the opportunity to。
hear the gospel.。
Do those people exist today?。
Indeed they do.。
There's 4,083 unreached people groups in the world.。
This is groups of people who have not had the opportunity to hear the gospel,。
nor do they have the Bible maybe in their language or available to them.。
There are 2,998,119,000 unreached people living today, alive today, destined for。
hell, having not heard the saving message of Jesus Christ under the condemnation。
of their sin.。
2,670 people groups, or roughly 204 million individuals in the world, have no。
scriptures or audio recordings available in their primary language.。
339 of the 550 people groups in China do not even have Bible portions available。
in their primary language.。
35 of the 78 people groups in Afghanistan do not even have Bible portions。
available in their primary language.。
And I talk a lot about our generation.。
Some have told me that I'm hard on our generation, millennials, Generation Y,。
those born between 1980 and 2000.。
I talk a lot about how it is very, very possible that our nation is lost due to。
us not taking our faith seriously.。
But I want you to know there is really good news in the midst of that, that there。
is a purification of Christianity happening.。
There are people who are nominal believers who are falling off, but there are。
people who are real believers, those indwelled by the Holy Spirit who are。
taking that message and leveraging their life like the apostles did for the sake。
of the spreading of the gospel and the building of his kingdom.。
And plainly put, in layman's terms, those who will live their lives for the sake。
of telling others the story of Jesus Christ so that they can be with him。
forever.。
And that's happening in your generation.。
It is very, very possible that in your generation the entire world is reached。
for the sake of the gospel.。
It was not possible prior to today, but due to the world wide web, a literal。
string of wires that stretches and bonds every single continent on the planet,。
and due to satellite imaging, for the first time we can see any place on the。
planet.。
Not only can you see it, but it sits in your pocket on your phone.。
I can call someone halfway around the world right now and see them.。
For the first time in history, it is very possible that we all see the return of。
Christ at once, and moreover, we can pave a way for him coming by preaching the。
gospel to every nation, as Matthew 24 says, must happen before he returns.。
And so that is what we can do, and that is what I hope we will do, and I hope the。
Lord uses the rest of our evening tonight.。
As we talk about to the ends of the earth, taking this light to the ends of the。
earth, we're in a series called Unashamed.。
Week one, we talked about our Jerusalem.。
These are the places that you go on an everyday basis.。
Your Jerusalem is your Starbucks, your grocery store, the place where you work,。
your school, your neighborhood, your apartment community.。
This is your Jerusalem.。
What is your responsibility to your Jerusalem?。
It is to be a light there, that wherever you are, the Holy Spirit indwells you.。
If you are a Christian, that is, if you've trusted in Jesus Christ, death and。
resurrection for the forgiveness of your sins, then you have the Holy Spirit,。
you're going to be with God forever, and your responsibility is to be a light。
wherever you are, to push back darkness wherever you go.。
Okay?。
Then week two, we talked about our Judea and Samaria.。
This is Dallas, Fort Worth.。
This is DFW, the area that is entrusted to us, that there are those in need around。
us that we should go to and shine a light there.。
There are those who do not have food today, that do not have money today,。
that do not have a place to live today, and moreover, all of those things do not。
have the saving good news of Jesus Christ today in our area that we are。
responsible for, and so we take it to them, and we shine a light in those places.。
Week three, tonight, we're talking about taking the gospel to the ends of the。
earth, specifically the path that we'll walk down is the method of salvation,。
why it's necessary to share it, and then before you leave here this evening,。
how we measure success in missions, how we measure our success as we take this。
saving message to the ends of the earth.。
We're going to be in Paul's letter to the church in Rome, chapter 10, Romans。
chapter 10, so you have the gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, and the New。
Testament, the second half of your Bible.。
Then you have Acts, then you have Romans, if you would turn there, turn to chapter。
10, I'll start in verse 8.。
Paul writes, "What does it say?。
The word is near you, it is in your mouth and in your heart, that is the message,"。
so what is the word?。
"The message concerning faith that we proclaim.。
If you declare with your mouth, 'Jesus is Lord,' and believe in your heart that。
God raised him from the dead, you will be saved."。
You might be here, and you might say, "Hey, how am I saved?。
Saved from what?。
Saved from sin, the consequences of sin, saved from hell, saved to God, saved to。
heaven.。
How does it happen?"。
It says right here, plainly in Romans 10, 9, "If you declare with your mouth that。
Jesus Christ is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead,。
then you will be saved, not you might be saved, not you'll probably be saved, you。
will be saved.。
For it is with your mouth that you believe and are justified, and it is with your。
heart that you believe and are justified, and it is with your mouth that you profess。
your faith and are saved."。
The word "justified" there just means to be declared righteous.。
Here's why that's important, because if you're here and you're a Christian, every。
now and then someone will say, "How did you become a Christian?"。
They'll say, "Well, I've always been a Christian."。
That's not a true statement.。
You have not always been a Christian.。
There was a point of justification.。
There was one moment in your life when you were headed toward hell, and then there。
was another moment where you've trusted in Christ, his finished work on the cross。
for the forgiveness of your sins, and you were in that moment declared righteous,。
meaning that God is no longer counting your sins against you.。
You don't have to pay for them.。
Jesus paid for them, and you trusted that.。
Therefore, you are justified or declared righteous.。
As Scripture says, "Anyone who believes in him will never be put to shame, for there。
is no difference between Jew and Gentile.。
The same Lord is Lord of all and richly blesses all who call on him.。
For everyone who calls in the name of the Lord will be saved."。
"Call" there means to pray in faith for salvation.。
Simply put, I need someone to save me.。
I need a Savior.。
God provided a Savior in Jesus Christ.。
There's a moment in your life where you realize you are drowning in your sin, and you need。
someone to save you from your sin.。
That Savior, that lifeguard, if you will, is Christ Jesus.。
That is the gospel.。
My first point this evening is the method of our salvation is a message.。
This is important.。
The method of our salvation is a message.。
How is someone saved?。
How does someone cross over from death to life, hell to heaven?。
It doesn't just happen.。
It's a message.。
The power comes through words that are shared.。
A message.。
This is very simple.。
Let me explain it like this.。
Growing up, we wouldn't ever really travel overseas.。
I'd never been on an airplane until the eighth grade.。
Our vacations looked like tubing the river.。
There was this one particular time we went and tubed the river in this area in far east Texas.。
It wasn't green.。
Maybe that's what you know of, tubing the river.。
Maybe you've been on green with an inner tube and a bud light.。
That's not what I'm talking about here.。
This is a different kind of tubing the river.。
This is one with Mom and Dad present, and I was eight.。
We're there, and the guy is telling us, "Maybe you've went whitewater rafting."。
You can picture this.。
We're about to tube the river, and the guy is very concerned about this fork in the river where he says,。
"If you go left, there is a drop-off."。
He keeps telling us, "You do not want to go left.。
You do not want to go left.。
You will see signs that tell you not to go left.。
Make sure you stay to the right."。
As we were tubing the river, we began to pass those signs.。
"Hey, the fork in the river is coming.。
Make sure you stay to the left."。
Or, "Make sure you stay to the right."。
"Make sure you stay to the right."。
Then we got to this one big sign that simply said, "If you go left, you will die," which I appreciated.。
I appreciated that.。
We went right, and we were safe, and we enjoyed our river tubing trip.。
But that is what you are.。
Friends, you are simply a sign carrying a message that if you continue in your ways,。
you will die.。
But I have good news.。
You do not have to die, for there is one who died on your behalf.。
His name is Jesus Christ.。
If you believe that he died on your behalf, if you believe that he paid the price for your sins,。
then you will live with God forever.。
That is indeed the gospel, which simply translates "good news."。
You are a sign.。
You are a fork in the road.。
In fact, Jim Elliott said it like this.。
This was his prayer.。
Jim Elliott was a missionary.。
He prayed, "Father, make me a crisis man.。
Bring those I contact to a decision.。
Let me not be a milepost on a single road.。
Make me a fork that men must turn one way or another on facing Christ in me."。
Lord, make me a fork that when someone comes to me, and they come in contact with Christ in me,。
they have to go right or left, but they cannot continue in their ways.。
They have to deliberately choose to reject your message or to accept your message and be with you forever.。
But make me a fork.。
We have a message.。
God uses messengers to carry it forward.。
Who are the messengers?。
It is simply, guys, those who have believed upon the message.。
Anyone who has believed upon the saving good news of the gospel, that they have trusted Christ,。
and they then carry that selflessly forward.。
Why? Because it was selflessly shared with them.。
And that is how Christianity works.。
It is the last part of the gospel.。
The last part of the gospel is not simply the resurrected Jesus.。
In fact, the last thing the resurrected Jesus said was to go and to share this good news to all the ends of the earth.。
That you would take it forward.。
Christianity is like the largest multi-level marketing program the world has ever seen.。
If you are not familiar with the term, maybe you have heard it called network marketing,。
or maybe you have heard it called pyramid scheme.。
It has a negative connotation in many circles.。
Think Amway, if you are familiar with that, or something else that you are involved in,。
or your cousin or aunt are involved in.。
The simple way that this works is you buy their product,。
and then you become a seller of their product, who then gets the product at a discount.。
But some people, they join up with that just so they can simply consume the product.。
That is not Christianity.。
We benefit from the product, if you will, and then we share the product with others.。
Why? Because we believe upon it.。
The best network marketers are always those who believe in the product.。
And if you do not believe in the product, you will not share it.。
And it is that simple.。
Why does not someone share it? They do not believe in the product.。
That is it.。
There is only one reason.。
You either hate people or you do not believe it.。
The only thing necessary to share the gospel is to believe the gospel.。
I am not sure why we do not. I know there is an enemy.。
David reminded me of this story this week.。
We were in Mexico once.。
We were there on vacation, but wherever we are, we are also on mission,。
because we are Christians and that is what Christians do.。
They are always on mission, regardless of their business, pleasure or mission.。
We are there on mission.。
We were eating dinner and the server came forward.。
The waitress came up and we had engaged with her.。
Remember, engage, share, invite.。
We had engaged with her.。
"Hey, how long have you been here? How long have you lived here?。
How long have you worked here?"。
We were talking. "Can we share some good news with you?。
Can we share this truth with you about Jesus Christ?。
What do you think you have to do to get into heaven?"。
She said, "You have to believe in God and you have to do these things."。
I said, "Do you think that is what the Bible teaches?"。
She said, "I do not know."。
I said, "Let me show you what the Bible teaches."。
Ephesians 2.8.9, 1 John 5, 11-13.。
We walked through the scriptures.。
I said, "Did you know that Jesus Christ did everything on your behalf?。
That what your job is, your part is, you believe.。
Right now, you can go and you can believe upon this truth and be with God forever."。
This was her response. I want you to listen closely.。
This is what she said.。
"Wow. That is good news."。
That is what she said.。
The reason that she said it was good news is because it is unbelievably good news.。
I am not sure when we, porch goers, Christian friends, stopped believing that it was good news.。
People do not have to go to hell. They can be with God forever.。
It is great news, man.。
It is amazing news.。
Everyone that you share it with one day will realize that in sharing it with them, you were loving them.。
Many of them will thank you in the kingdom.。
Some of them will wish they had listened.。
Everyone will be glad that you shared that truth with them.。
As the scripture says, "Apart from Christ, man is under condemnation of God."。
That is Romans 5.。
"Apart from Christ, man is a slave to sin and in the snare of the devil."。
That is John 8, verse 34.。
2 Timothy 2, verse 26.。
"Apart from Christ, we are object of God's wrath."。
Ephesians 2, verse 3.。
"Apart from Christ, man is cut off."。
Colossians 1, verse 21.。
"Destined to die forever in the fires of hell."。
Mark 9.。
"In torment forever."。
Luke 16.。
"Ongoing destruction."。
2 Thessalonians 1.。
"The smoke of sinners' torment goes up forever and ever without rest."。
Revelation 14.。
So how would we not share it?。
Verse 14, he says,。
"How then can they call on the one they have not believed in?。
And how can they believe in the one of whom they have not heard?。
And how can they hear without someone preaching to them?。
And how can anyone preach unless they are sent as it is written,。
'How beautiful are the feet of those who bring the good news!'"。
My second point is a simple one.。
They won't hear it unless you share it.。
They will not hear it unless you share it.。
I've heard it asked many times when we wrestle with Christianity and theological truths.。
"What about those who never hear the gospel?"。
I've heard many pastors and myself have before.。
We go to Romans 1 and we say, "Hey, we show how the world declares God and awareness of God,。
and everyone knows their God, and if they see God, if they truly see God, they will find Him."。
And we go to all of these places.。
I don't anymore.。
Somebody says, "What about those who have never heard the gospel?"。
I simply say, "What about those who have and don't share it with those who haven't?"。
What does that mean?。
How does that happen?。
How do we sit under this umbrella of question, "Well, what about those who never hear?"。
Well, what about the thousands, hundreds of thousands, billions who have heard。
and feel no burden whatsoever to go share it with the two billion who haven't heard?。
Well, what about--that's a better question.。
What about those people?。
Christianity is like a good infection.。
A disease, if you will, a good disease, if you will.。
How do you know if someone has a disease?。
You see the symptoms of that disease pouring from their life.。
Whether it's a fever or boils or whatever, the symptoms of that disease,。
as you clearly see, they have it because they have the physical symptoms of it.。
Just like Christianity, when someone becomes a Christianity,。
the good infection of Christianity, the fruit of the Spirit,。
that which indwells them, a disease, you have something in you working that is showing symptoms.。
Likewise, Christianity, you have something in you, holy and good and perfect,。
that is working to show symptoms.。
The fruit of the Spirit bleed from your life.。
Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, gentleness, faithfulness, self-control bleed from your life.。
Oh, you got that disease. But also, like a disease, Christianity is contagious.。
Like a contagious infection.。
How do you know if someone has a contagious infection?。
Simply put, it spreads.。
How do you know if someone has the good infection of Christianity?。
Simply put, it spreads.。
It is very, very, very contagious.。
If you are contagious, in fact, by being near a Christian, you will catch it.。
And this is where the metaphor breaks down, because I believe the church has begun to treat it like a disease.。
In fact, we're like, "Oh, man, he caught that Christianity thing."。
Make sure we quarantine them in the church.。
Now, bring them in the church, make them park cars and get in a community group and pray in the corner。
and read their Bibles over here, but don't let them out there.。
They might do something crazy.。
Might start telling everyone about Jesus.。
Keep them here in the church. Quarantine them nice and close here.。
May it never be, man.。
May it never be.。
Speaking of diseases, I heard that some are afraid to go overseas with Ebola breakout。
and ISIS.。
My friends, these are reasons we go, not reasons we stay.。
These are reasons we go.。
This is what Christians have done since day one.。
I will tell you that to do, I've heard it said, to do death-defying mission work,。
you must believe in the sovereignty of God, that is, that He's in control。
and that you will not die one moment before the Lord has ordained.。
And I will simply tell you that until God is done with you, you are immortal.。
And if you're going to die, which I hate to break it to you, you are.。
What better way to die than in obedience?。
And answering a call to Him, I was with our senior pastor the other day,。
and this is what pastors talk about when they're at lunch.。
He said, "What would you do if ISIS captured you and put a knife to your throat。
and said, 'We're going to cut off your head.'"。
And the rest of us stopped and thought for a second.。
My pastor responded like he had thought about it and said,。
"I would take off my shirt and I would hand it to them."。
And I said, "You need to take this before it gets bloody,。
for the winter is coming and the nights are cold here.。
In the name of Jesus, this is yours."。
And I heard that and I'm like, "I think that's what Jesus would do."。
I think you've got the question right.。
And I was thinking jujitsu in my mind, but you win.。
Jim Elliot said this, "When it comes time to die,。
make sure all you have to do is die."。
Maybe you don't know who Jim Elliot is.。
In his 20s, he had heard of a tribe, the Wahodani tribe in Ecuador,。
who were an unreached people group.。
And he began to use all of his brain power and all of his gifts。
and all of his talents to make his life mission to be sure。
that the Wahodani tribe heard about Jesus before he died.。
And he studied here and then eventually got on a boat,。
traveled to Ecuador, lived in an area for a year。
as he learned the language, then moved to a tribe closer。
to where he learned some specific phrases of the Wahodani tribe.。
Just to tell you a little bit about this tribe,。
they were a very interesting group.。
There was an oil rig near there.。
They had killed all the oil workers and so the oil well was abandoned.。
There was another tribe around them that had trusted in Christ。
and began to share the gospel with them.。
They killed every single one of them.。
Anyone who came into their territory, they speared to death.。
And so Jim Elliot and four of his friends made it their life mission。
to make sure they heard about Jesus.。
And so they got a plane and they figured out how to lower gifts。
down to the Wahodani people.。
And so they would lower food down to them in this bucket from this plane.。
And they were very successful.。
In fact, eventually the Wahodani began to give them gifts back in the bucket.。
And when they did that, they thought, "Okay, it's time. We can go."。
And so they found a place to land the plane near the Wahodani people on a beach.。
And they got there and the plane went and told the tribal people。
that they were there, "Please go see them."。
A man and two women went and saw them.。
They had dinner together. It went very well.。
They were very excited that this tribe was going to hear about Jesus.。
Three days later, they saw two other women on the shore.。
They quickly went to them.。
As they got closer, they realized that the women were not friendly.。
In fact, when they turned around, they saw that they were surrounded。
by Wahodani warriors holding spears in the air.。
Jim Elliot had a revolver on him.。
He went to reach for it and then realizing that they had committed。
not to kill anyone who had not heard about Jesus.。
For they were sure where they would go, but they had not heard about Christ.。
Jim Elliot was unsuccessful.。
He died in that moment by spear with four of his friends.。
His wife, Elizabeth Elliot, waited for the call that weekend.。
Never got it. Weeks went by.。
They got concerned. It became a nationwide issue.。
The United States of America sent people to recover their bodies.。
They buried their bodies on the beach there.。
Elizabeth Elliot then studied here for a year, got on a plane,。
and returned to the Wahodani people.。
In the name of Jesus Christ, she told them that they had killed her husband。
and that she was here to make sure they knew about Jesus.。
The entire tribe converted.。
It's one of the greatest missionary stories ever known to man.。
Apart from the apostle Paul, Jim Elliot is potentially one of the greatest missionaries。
apart from the apostles.。
Thousands have been spurred on by his story.。
Thousands tonight are spurred on by his story.。
More than 50 years later, some of you are like, "Yeah, but he died."。
No, Jim Elliot lived more than any of us ever will.。
He lived out his mission. He lived out his calling on his life.。
God's calling on his life.。
It's important to say now, just to make sure your theology is accurate,。
that the Lord does not need you.。
No, God can make the rocks cry out indeed.。
He does not need you, but if he made the rocks cry out,。
it would only be because of our disobedience.。
It would only be because of our apathy.。
It would only be because we were not faithful.。
In fact, there are 4,083 unreached people groups as a result of our unfaithfulness,。
and as a result of our disobedience.。
Verse 16, "But not all the Israelites accepted the good news,。
for Isaiah says, 'Lord, who has believed our message?'。
Consequently, faith comes from hearing the message,。
and the message is heard through the word about Christ."。
Literally, the message concerning Christ in the Greek.。
"But I ask, did they not hear?"。
Of course they did.。
"Their voice has gone out into all the earth,。
their words to the ends of the world."。
What's happening here is Paul is addressing an objection。
that the Israelites, or God's people, the Jews, have not heard the gospel.。
Paul is saying, "No, they have heard it because we shared it."。
They have heard it.。
"We were a fork in the road.。
Those who have rejected it have rejected it upon hearing it,。
but they have heard it."。
My third and final point this evening is simply that success in missions。
is measured by sharing.。
Success in missions is measured by sharing.。
What do I mean by that?。
Success in missions is measured by sharing,。
not converting, but sharing,。
that you would share the gospel.。
See, God is in charge of who accepts it.。
You're in charge of sharing it.。
God's in charge of saving.。
In fact, I'll illustrate it like this.。
If there were two mission trips, two international--。
we call them short-term discipleship trips because everything we do is missions.。
If there were two trips, people go overseas,。
the first trip, they share the gospel 50 times and 40 trust in Christ,。
we would celebrate that.。
If in the second trip they shared the gospel 400 times。
and four trusted in Christ,。
I'm telling you that the second trip was more successful。
because our responsibility is sharing the gospel.。
God is in charge of saving people.。
Your responsibility is sharing.。
God's responsibility is saving,。
and he's really, really, really good at it.。
He's really, really good at doing his part,。
and this means that you cannot get frustrated。
at your unbelieving father or your unbelieving boss,。
that instead of frustrations, you pray,。
you pray like their eternity depended on it because it does.。
But tonight is not just about sharing the gospel。
but about taking it to people who haven't heard it,。
all the ends of the earth.。
The gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John,。
the first books of the New Testament,。
are written about Jesus' life.。
That's why we call them the gospels,。
and they all end the same way,。
not with the resurrected Christ,。
but with the resurrected Christ calling the people closest to him。
who have believed upon him to go and share this story to the ends of the earth.。
That's how the gospels end.。
In fact, in Matthew 28, we see what's called the great commission,。
and I love that we use the word mission。
like we're soldiers on a mission,。
like this is the mission, and not just the mission,。
but the commission that someone else is going with us,。
our captain, God Almighty, he goes with us,。
he's with us, this is what the great commission says.。
"Then the 11 disciples went to Galilee,。
"to the mountain where Jesus had told them to go.。
"When they saw him, they worshipped him, but some doubted.。
"Then Jesus came to them and said, 'All authority in heaven and on earth。
"'has been given to me.'"。
What an amazing statement.。
"Therefore go and make disciples of all nations,。
"baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,。
"and teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you,。
"and surely I am with you always,。
"to the very end of the age that God goes with you.。
"As you share his truth, he is with you.。
"Giving you the words, he is with you.。
"You always choose your last words carefully.。
"Jesus is no exception.。
"He used his last words to send the disciples out into the world。
"on the greatest mission this world has ever known.。
"And because of their obedience, you sit here tonight."。
Christianity has exploded and spread throughout the world,。
spreading west, eventually reaching the Americas.。
It's this infectious disease that has reached itself。
to your ears tonight.。
Maybe you're hearing it for the first time this evening,。
but this is what has happened as a result of these 12 guys,。
11 of which died horrific deaths,。
one of which was tortured before he died,。
all for the sake that you might know who Christ is.。
This is our example that we might go and do the same.。
The gospel has spread.。
And let me say this.。
Let me speak to my nominal believers in the room,。
those of you that simply attend church on Sunday,。
or maybe you don't,。
or maybe even the non-believers in the room,。
those that have yet to trust in Christ,。
his death and resurrection for the forgiveness of your sins.。
If you don't know my story,。
if we're meeting each other for the first time this evening,。
I've not always been a Christian,。
though I was raised in the church.。
College was rebellious for me,。
and I will tell you,。
from experience, the sin robs you of creativity.。
It was like the same thing over and over and over.。
Every weekend, every Monday, I would live for Thursday,。
so that I would get drunk on Thursday,。
cruise Thursday night into Friday,。
get extremely drunk on Friday.。
That would carry me through Saturday,。
so that I might wake up on Sunday。
with a hangover beside some stranger, typically.。
And the greatest trip, the greatest journey,。
as a non-Christian, it came every year,。
was to Sal Padre on spring break.。
That we would go down to Sal Padre,。
we would sit next to some muddy water,。
kind of called a beach,。
and we would drink a lot of beer out of a funnel。
next to a bunch of coeds around our age.。
And that was what life was.。
I thought it was awesome.。
I thought that was the epitome。
of pleasure and satisfaction, sin of life.。
Sin robs you of creativity, like what a joke.。
Nearly two years after becoming Christian,。
I found myself not in Sal Padre, but South Africa.。
Sitting with a Maasai warrior,。
as he showed me his house,。
and I told him about Jesus.。
And what I'm telling you, frankly,。
non-believing friends, is you're getting ripped off.。
You have not yet found life.。
And I'm telling you that boldly,。
as someone who's snorted lines from a mirror,。
and bonged beers, or whatever you think life is,。
you are getting ripped off.。
'Cause you haven't found it yet.。
And I'd love to share it with you tonight.。
If you have not heard it yet,。
if it has not hit your heart yet, let's talk.。
Jesus is clearly, as clearly as he can,。
telling us to go, and to find the people。
who do not know him, and tell him.。
And I'm asking you, can you think of a greater mission?。
Our question tonight is, why haven't we gone?。
Why haven't we gone?。
There's gonna be some opportunities for you。
as soon as the message wraps up.。
I know Fort Worth, Garrett's gonna circle you up。
and talk to you about an opportunity in Haiti。
at Mission of Hope, and here in Dallas,。
there in the loft, we're gonna talk about Ethiopia and Haiti.。
If you have any interest in even gaining information,。
I would urge you to go there.。
There's a simple application tonight,。
I wanna make sure everyone hears it.。
It is to get on a plane and go somewhere,。
and if for any reason you can't,。
it is to give to those who can.。
That's it, that you would go somewhere。
and share the gospel with someone who needs to hear it.。
Okay, certainly, asterisk,。
certainly with your neighbor first.。
Okay, and as you're faithful,。
sharing the gospel with your neighbor,。
and in your supermarket, and in your Starbucks,。
and at work, that you would get on a plane。
and you would go somewhere,。
and you would share it with someone who hasn't heard it.。
And if you hear that and you're like,。
I don't have vacation days,。
or I can't do that for some reason,。
or for whatever it is,。
that you would give to those who can。
and make it possible for them to do that.。
And we're not taking up an offering,。
that's not us, man, that's for you to find the need。
and for you to meet the need on your own.。
Okay, that's the simple application this evening.。
Have you guys seen,。
there's this thing that's been repeated in movies.。
It's, like, I think, "Act of Valor."。
Have you seen "Act of Valor?"。
Does that connect with anyone?。
The SEAL Team Six has just kind of been, like,。
thwarted in the cinema lately, right?。
And so, we see these Navy SEALs.。
You've seen this scene,。
whether you've seen "Act of Valor" or not.。
It looks like this.。
There's these soldiers and they're on a base,。
and they're kind of doing ordinary things.。
What I mean by that is they're jogging in sweats,。
or they're working out, or they're playing chess,。
or they're giving each other a hard time。
about each other's girlfriends,。
and they're just kind of talking smack,。
and they're just doing ordinary things, right?。
That's one scene.。
You see the soldiers, they're in sweats,。
they're just kind of doing ordinary things.。
Scene two, the captain brings everyone together in a room,。
and there's a whiteboard, typically,。
or some sort of slide or projector or something,。
and he begins to give the mission.。
"Okay, guys, hey, you ready?。
"This is what we've been training for.。
"We're gonna go now.。
"I found the bad guy.。
"We're gonna go get the bad guy.。
"You ready on mission?"。
And then scene three, usually it cuts to this scene。
where these same superhuman, almost, dudes。
are walking around in camo, carrying AR-15s with helmets,。
and their face shield is down,。
and they're usually crawling up the back of some helicopter,。
ready to do work.。
You seen it?。
You guys nod your heads if you've seen this,。
or if you fell asleep, like, elbow your neighbor or something.。
You guys seen this?。
You guys seen it?。
Can you imagine with me for just one moment?。
Okay, same scene, dudes in sweats,。
running, jogging, playing chess, hanging out.。
Captain says, "Hey, come together.。
"Hey, we're gonna go get the bad guy.。
"We're gonna go on mission."。
Scene three, back in sweats, jogging, hanging out,。
playing chess.。
Captain comes, "Hey, what are we doing?。
"Did you not hear the mission?。
"Did you not hear what we're going to do?。
"Did you not hear?。
"This is what we've been training for."。
"Cool, Captain, I'm good, man.。
"Go work on my bench press, okay, I'm good.。
"Like, y'all have fun."。
"And this is what we've done."。
Jesus said, "Gather soldiers,。
"for there is a mission."。
Simply put, it is I want you to go into the world。
and teaching them the very things that I've taught you,。
baptizing them in the name of the Father。
and the Son and the Holy Spirit,。
and lo, I will be with you always to the very end of the age.。
You guys ready?。
Ready, break.。
Get suited up, grab your AR-15s, and let's do work.。
Ah, Jesus, we're good.。
We're good, man.。
I'm just gonna wait for your return.。
Somebody else will do that.。
Man, I'm gonna be in Dallas,。
I'm gonna be in Fort Worth or Houston。
or somewhere else around America,。
just getting comfortable,。
building my kingdom, but we're good, Jesus.。
No, I'll read my Bible every now and then, I'll pray,。
even go to church on Sunday, we're good.。
Just leave me alone, don't ask much of me.。
That ain't the gospel, friends.。
That ain't the gospel.。
Let me pray specifically that we would hear。
and understand the gospel.。
Father, we cannot without you.。
Lord, we come to you in the name of Jesus.。
Yeshua, Isa, Jezis,。
Yeshu, Disas, Jezus, Jesus,。
Isas, Jezus, Isus, Disus,。
Isa, Lisao, Sai,。
Jesus, Jesus, Jesus,。
Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, Jesus.。
Father, may his name be preached in every language,。
in every tongue, to every nation.。
Would you use this group in that way, God?。
Help us to reach them.。
Amen.。
It's our time.。
We must rise up and no longer disparage.。
It's our time, church, to honor our heritage.。
We have a Savior. He gave it all on the cross.。
We stand beside martyrs who counted nothing as loss.。
They took God's mysteries, opened them up for us.。
Stephen, John the Baptist, Bonhoeffer, Jan Hus.。
Surrounded by a cloud of witnesses above,。
it's now our turn to model his unending love.。
Our mission is one we cannot confuse,。
nor muddy up with some trite excuse.。
You say you're not well-versed, ready, or able.。
I think Moses even tried to use that fable.。
The time we have, it's now more urgent.。
If we should hear, "Well done, faithful servant."。
Yeah, church, it's our time.。
It's our time to confess the ways we're mangled,。
the sins and selfishness that have us entangled.。
Lust, greed, and pride, their path leads to the grave.。
Yet we return to our sins as if we're a slave.。
Can we survive in this putrid, dead sea?。
I quote Paul, "May it never be."。
So let's cast aside our individual leprosy。
and begin to leave a biblical legacy.。
There's a glorious prize awaiting to be won,。
and the way to win is to start to run.。
Let's lace them up and fight the good fight,。
become to the world both salt and light.。
Our life on earth is merely a vapor.。
Our chapter must move from pen to paper.。
So church, let's get to writing because it's our time.。
It's our time, church.。
We have what it takes to help the world from its slumber awake.。
To Jesus we are his beautiful bride.。
Whom shall we fear with him on our side?。
We have each other. We are not alone.。
It's iron to iron in the combat zone.。
There's a promise of life full of adventure.。
As long as we give both talents and treasure,。
the workers are few, the harvest is plenty,。
with so many lives running on empty.。
Scores of people trying to cope.。
They've come to the end of their proverbial rope.。
Young eyes are wandering, looking for direction.。
Make sure we point them to his resurrection.。
The clock's ticking. We're on our dime.。
Hey, church, rise up!。
It's our time!。
It's our time.。
To Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and to all the ends of the earth,。
I just need you to get it.。
All right?。
The only people who share it are those who believe it,。
and those who believe it share it. They can't not.。
It's infectious.。
It's infectious.。
It's infectious.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
