[Music]。
All right, let's do it.。
How we doing, PORCH?。
Night two, week two of our James series.。
As we are looking at the book of James going verse by verse.。
Studying through a book of the Bible together.。
Last week we talked all about trials and how God uses trials。
to test our faith.。
To create more maturity in the believer.。
To depend on him more.。
And tonight we are hopping into temptation.。
But before we do that, a quick welcome to some really important。
friends tuning in with us live.。
Please give a warm welcome to our PORCH live, CINCI, PORCH。
live Tulsa and friends in the room.。
Help us welcome for the first time a new PORCH live location,。
PORCH Des Moines, Iowa.。
Iowa.。
I love it.。
Two PORCH live locations in Iowa.。
It's crazy, who knew.。
And so of course my friends here tonight also in Dallas, what's。
up, so glad we are here.。
Just want to say right off the bat, I have been talking really。
weird today.。
I have no idea what is about to come out of this mouth.。
Moses had a stutter, God used him pretty well.。
We'll see what happens.。
But before we get going any further, we are committed to。
taking you guys verse by verse through this.。
I want to start by reading the text we are going to study。
tonight.。
If you would open up your word to James 1.。
James 1, like I said last week, trials and testing of our faith.。
How God puts testing moments in our lives.。
And God does that for a greater purpose to bring us to him in。
our suffering.。
But tonight we are talking about the idea of temptation.。
Something given to us not by God.。
Testing is used to develop us.。
But temptation is used to defeat us.。
And the source of our temptation is not God, it's something else.。
And that's what we are going to learn tonight from the book of。
James.。
James 1, verse 13.。
Let's read.。
You there?。
Everyone there?。
We good?。
Sweet.。
It's on the screens if you don't have your Bible.。
When tempted, no one should say God is tempting me.。
For God cannot be tempted by evil.。
Nor does he tempt anyone.。
But each person is tempted when they are dragged away by their。
own evil desire and enticed.。
Then after desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin.。
And sin, when it is full grown, gives birth to death.。
Don't be deceived, my dear brothers and sisters.。
Every good and perfect gift is from above coming down from the。
father of the heavenly lights who does not change like shifting。
shadows.。
He chose to give us birth through the word of truth that we。
might be a kind of first fruits of all he created.。
Lots there.。
But tonight tackling temptation.。
And it is really important that you track with me tonight.。
If you have questions, raise your hand.。
I'm just kidding.。
But temptation is really important to cover.。
When I was thinking about the process of learning how to fight。
temptation, I was thinking about our spiritual journey as。
followers of Jesus.。
And a lot of times the correlation between one's。
spiritual journey often aligns with the correlation of one's。
physical journey.。
There is a lot of times in the Bible where our physical journey。
and how we train our bodies and treat our bodies and use our。
bodies for the glory of God and health and fitness and different。
things.。
And we are all on our spiritual journey.。
And for me, I think like a lot of us, I found myself 2021, this。
was my year to get fit.。
That's what I was like, okay, this is my year.。
I will start a physical journey and have that summer bod like we。
all want and it's coming up quicker than I thought.。
And working out.。
And all of those different things.。
And then people that are really in the gym a lot, like the。
majority of people, 90% of getting fit is in the kitchen.。
And I am like, no, not for me, not for this guy.。
That's not true.。
I can get it all up in the gym and working on my fitness, he's。
my witness.。
And so after time, working out double hard, I work out double。
hard in the gym so I don't have to do the whole kitchen thing,。
the dieting thing.。
It didn't work.。
And I was like, I have to start the diet and be a disciplined。
person in my life.。
And so in my physical journey, destination summer bod over。
there.。
I'm walking, working out, denying different candies and。
snacks at parties and gatherings.。
And then there's this one thing, one thing that every single time。
tends to just get me off track.。
And it's these.。
Chocolate chip cookies, my favorite dessert.。
I don't need pie, I don't need cake, I don't need anything。
else.。
I just need a good chocolate chip cookie.。
And as I'm on my journey of getting, you know, dieting and。
all those different things, you know, our sweet co-worker Ramsey。
Pittman over here, she brings things like this into the office.。
And here's where temptation in my physical journey tends to look。
like.。
I tend to do one of these, you know, and I'm like looking at it。
and I'm like, what up, girl.。
Because these cookies, man, they're not just any cookies.。
They have the perfect sea salt on top.。
The perfect not too chocolatey.。
You know what I'm talking about?。
The perfect combination of batter and chocolate chip.。
When you bite it, it's not too gooey, not too crunchy.。
It's the perfect sweet spot.。
She has it down to a T.。
Fellas, these cookies could be yours every week by asking Ramsey。
Pittman out on a date.。
Just kidding.。
But really, you could.。
Not today.。
But then I start to think about it and I'm like, oh, just one.。
And we all know that one cookie is never enough.。
Maybe one more.。
Maybe another after dinner if I'm feeling a little something.。
Yeah.。
And I find myself caving every now and then.。
And after a few cookies, because I've been trying not to eat。
sweets, even though I have a major sweet tooth, I find myself。
sick because I gave in.。
And I start there because I think a lot of times temptation。
can look the same.。
It's not cookies.。
But in our spiritual journey we have a destination to look more。
like God, to do more things for the Lord, to be honoring and use。
our lives to steward for the glory of God and to live for him.。
And like how I'm walking towards my destination and these cookies。
seem to always get me off track.。
In the same way, sin wants to get me off track from my pursuit of。
God.。
And that begins in the form of temptation.。
So before we go any further of what James has to say about。
temptation, I just want to define it really clearly for us.。
Here is a definition of temptation.。
Temptation is the moment when you mentally acknowledge the。
option to choose sin or to choose God.。
Okay.。
One more time.。
It's really important you understand this.。
Temptation is the moment when you mentally acknowledge the。
option to choose sin or to choose God.。
It's the moment when you are deciding, you are weighing the。
implications of do I go after what the world is calling out for。
me to do, what sin, my flesh, what Satan is calling for me to。
do or do I choose to trust God with the results of my life.。
It's when you find yourself at the crossroad of choosing。
yourself to be Lord of your own life or choosing God.。
And in that crossroad, a lot of us I think talk about what it。
looks like to be in an abiding relationship with God and a lot。
of us talk about what it looks like to how you go back to God。
after your sin.。
But I think a lot of times the reason why a lot of us go back。
to our sin is because we don't talk about this fork in the road。
right here that's called temptation.。
We talk about what it looks like to come to God after we sin.。
But what if there was something that we could be trained on。
tonight that helps us how to say no to sin and to come to God。
without having to go through all of that unnecessary pain.。
Because here's the reality.。
Because a lot of you tonight, your parents never learned about。
temptation.。
And because of that, they chose to indulge in sin and not to。
abide with God and you're still experiencing the repercussions。
and the consequences of their actions because they never。
understood temptation.。
A lot of you have found yourself, I mean, me too, like,。
as I'm studying this, guys, like, I'm getting new to this。
whole sermon prep thing and like taking three verses and like。
diving deep and as I'm like learning more about temptation,。
I'm like, like, everyone's tempted.。
We're all tempted.。
I'm tempted all the time.。
Like we're all sinning.。
Everyone's a sinner.。
What's wrong with us?。
We're all being deceived and I'm freaking out.。
And I'm like, wait, okay, that's not new.。
I knew we were all sinners.。
Like -- but I think a lot of us don't talk about temptation。
enough.。
We talk about the don'ts and the sins.。
But what if we could get out ahead of it?。
And so tonight when you're tempted to gossip, when you're。
going through that temptation to buy those shoes even though。
you're in credit card debt.。
Been there.。
When you're tempted to have that one night stand or when you're。
tempted to look at porn, when you're tempted to scroll on。
Instagram on that one girl's account and just let jealousy。
fester in you.。
When you're tempted to Snapchat that picture that's just a。
little bit too revealing to get a response.。
When you're tempted to drink that drink.。
When you know it's crossing the line and you're taking something。
that was meant for good and you're turning it into evil.。
We're talking about that part of your life.。
The ability to understand temptation can help one's walk。
with Christ significantly.。
Listen, who you are right now, who I am right now and who I。
want to be with the Lord.。
Who you want to be one day with the Lord which I hope is in a。
thriving relationship with Him.。
In between that, who you're going to be one day, in between。
that is a lot of temptation that can have major consequences on。
your life.。
And if you don't know how to fight it, you could suffer the。
consequences in your 30s and your 40s and your 50s and you。
think giving into it right now and feeding your sin a little。
bit here and there in your 20s is kind of what your 20s are all。
about and it is impacting your future and the future people。
behind you and the people all around you.。
That's why James takes a moment tonight to talk about and inform。
us how to fight temptation to the believer.。
He's going to do that.。
Tonight we're going to talk to you about where temptation comes。
from, what temptation leads to and how temptation is defeated.。
Point 1, where temptation comes from.。
Because that's the reality.。
Most of us, we don't know, every day there's kind of this thing。
that we talk about when being a Christian that you have entered。
into a war, light versus darkness.。
Angels versus demon.。
God versus Satan.。
You are in the light now and there's a raging war around you.。
We use that terminology about being in a spiritual war.。
But if you don't know where the arrows and the bullets are。
coming from, you don't know who to fight.。
And you could be fighting the wrong person.。
And so James really clearly lays out where temptation comes from。
starting in verse 13.。
He says in verse 13, when tempted, so when you find。
yourself at that fork, okay, when you find yourself at that。
opportunity, let's say you're at the office and you know some。
information about a girl and what she did last weekend and。
some coworkers start talking about that girl and you're like。
right now I could gossip about that girl and talk about her and。
elevate myself by putting her down.。
And you're like should these words come out of your mouth。
because ooh, it will feel so sweet.。
Because she did that one thing that ticked me off last week and。
I'm like, I'm not going to do that right now.。
And you find yourself at this opportunity, this temptation to。
gossip.。
When that moment comes, in moments like that, James would。
say when tempted no one should say God is tempting me.。
For God cannot be tempted by evil nor does he tempt anyone.。
It's like I mentioned earlier.。
Last week we talked about how God allows testing through。
trials in our life.。
And it can be really easy to get confused, testing and tempting.。
And so what James is making sure that you understand very。
clearly is temptation comes from a few sources but one of them。
is not God.。
Testing and tempting are not the same things.。
Why?。
Because temptation is an invitation to disobey God.。
And he wouldn't want that.。
Temptation is an invitation to follow down a path that pulls。
you further and further away from God.。
Last time I checked a good father does not want to be away。
from his children.。
He wants to be near them.。
And last time I checked God is perfect.。
He's perfect in the midst of sin.。
And James is saying, hey, it seems obvious but it's quite。
profound.。
Your God doesn't make mistakes.。
Because if he could make mistakes or if he could sin or if he。
could be tempted by sin, that makes him an illegitimate God.。
He's just like everyone else.。
But he's perfect in every way.。
That's what makes him a trustworthy father in every way.。
And so let me remind you that when you're tempted, do not say。
that God is tempting me.。
Because number one, God cannot be tempted.。
God cannot be in the presence of sin.。
Because it would taint his holiness.。
God is perfect.。
He cannot be in the presence of sin.。
Although he is radically in love with the sinner, he hates the。
sin.。
And so then he goes on to say, because God does not tempt。
anyone.。
So not only can he not be tempted but nor does he tempt anyone。
because he doesn't want anyone to participate in sin.。
Because if you're in sin, then you can't be with him because。
he's holy.。
And so there's this moment where James is just saying, hey, God。
does not want to like put sin in front of you and say, choose。
this.。
That is not God.。
And so to think that God is the problem behind your temptation。
is crazy because God wants to be with you.。
God is a father who longs to be with his children.。
I think a lot of times this looks like -- I mean, people。
are like, yeah, I'm blaming God all the time for temptation.。
I know it's like from Satan or whatever.。
But I think a lot of us more than we realize have blamed God。
for what we think is our problem.。
Well, God, if you didn't give me these sexual urges, then I。
wouldn't have like Snapchatted her at 2 a.m.。
And asked her to come watch a movie and happened to slip my。
hand up her shirt and all these different things.。
It's because you gave me these desires, God.。
And I'm like, if I'm not doing this for my wife, my wifey for。
lifey, then I could be doing sex the right way.。
And God, this is kind of your fault.。
And the point is, I'm tired of being single.。
God, this is you.。
And that's what we do, we kind of blame God and make him the。
object of our problem.。
But James is saying here, hey, God is not the source of your。
temptation.。
God might test you.。
God might bring trials into your life to allow you to be closer。
to him.。
But God does not want you to sin.。
He does not want you to partake in sin.。
And so if it's not God, who is it, James?。
And James would say in verse 14, but each person is tempted when。
they are dragged away by their own evil desire and enticed.。
Each person is tempted when they are dragged away by their own。
evil desire and enticed.。
I read that and I'm like, wait a second, you mean I'm tempting。
you?。
There is something in me, I go in the mirror and I'm like, what。
is wrong with you, man.。
I'm reading this and I'm like, man, it's your fault.。
And there is something, what does that mean?。
That it's my own desires.。
If that only results in harm, what is it in me that would lead。
me to temptation?。
And it's what we talk about here called a sin nature.。
And yes, James parks in on the fact that it's you who wants to。
sin and give in to those evil desires.。
And if you read the Bible in books like Ephesians 2 and。
Colossians and different places throughout the New Testament and。
the Bible, there are often repeated three sources of。
temptation.。
Write these down.。
Three sources of temptation.。
Because you want to know where the temptation is coming from.。
Here's where they are coming from.。
One, Satan.。
The prince of the air, the Bible would say in Ephesians 2.。
Satan.。
The prince of the air, the Bible would say in Ephesians 2.。
Satan.。
The second one, the world.。
The system.。
Culture.。
Society.。
We have chosen our sin time and time again.。
Therefore taking the world and what God originally designed,。
we have perverted it in such a way that now the world is。
constantly sending you things to tempt you and take you -- it。
says, hey, meet your own desires.。
Give yourself care.。
Do what you want when you want and don't let anyone else tell。
you any different.。
It's your truth and nothing but your truth.。
Do you boo.。
That's what the world says.。
But the problem with doing you is the third source of temptation.。
You.。
You.。
You are the problem.。
James says, you are dragged away and lured away and tempted by。
your own evil desires.。
Who tempts you?。
Say you.。
Who tempts you?。
I guess you should say me.。
Who tempts me?。
Me.。
I'm like, I ain't tempting all y'all.。
And it's so true.。
Like I don't care if we're in church right now.。
Can we all be real?。
There is a reason why we sin.。
There's a reason why you and I sin.。
Because it's F-U-N, it's fun.。
There's a reason why we think we're supposed to live it up in。
our 20s.。
There's a reason why we go and hook up time and time again with。
people, different people occasionally on occasion every。
other week.。
There are reasons why we go out and get drunk and get high and。
live for the high highs and low lows.。
Because there's something intoxicating about it.。
There's something amazing about the way it makes you feel, the。
endorphins that are released.。
All the different things that go on in that, sin is fun.。
But we know ultimately we're about to see here in the next。
week, that sin ultimately does not end where it begins.。
That's the problem.。
Yourself, Satan, and the world are giving you something fake.。
They're making you believe that it's worth giving your life to,。
but it only results in death.。
Which James would say in point two, what temptation leads to.。
Verse 14.。
But each person is tempted when they are dragged away by their。
own evil desire and enticed.。
And then after desire has conceived, it gives birth to。
sin.。
And sin, when it is full grown, gives birth to death.。
I read this and I was like, oh, Lord, I'm about to have to give。
the whole bees talk thing, the conception and birth and all of。
that.。
Like everyone here knows what conception is, right?。
Well, don't assume anything.。
When a mom and a dad love each other very much, they make you.。
And so A plus B equals C.。
That's conception.。
That's what you need to know.。
And James is using this illustration here and it's the。
perfect illustration to give us an idea into what temptation is。
and what it leads to.。
What does temptation lead to?。
It leads to sin.。
Which ultimately it says here when full grown leads to death.。
So if A plus B equals sin, C, here's what that looks like.。
It is sin, you'll see.。
You plus choosing evil desire equals sin.。
Okay?。
So when you get to that fork in the road that I've been talking。
about and you're sitting here, here's what this looks like.。
What's an example?。
When you're in bed and you've been feeling super lonely lately.。
Your phone is in your nightstand.。
You've brushed your teeth.。
Floss, I hope.。
I don't floss.。
You're laying in bed and right before you fall asleep you're。
tired.。
Feeling a little more lonely than usual.。
All of your friends went off with their significant others and。
you're back at home.。
And all of a sudden you hear that noise.。
It's the Snapchat notification because you have Snapchat on your。
phone.。
You need to delete Snapchat off your phone, it's nothing but。
trouble.。
But you have Snapchat and it goes off and you look and it's that。
name.。
It's the name of the person that doesn't want commitment with you。
but they want pleasure from you.。
And they want to first butter you up and convince you that you。
should come over and watch a movie and cuddle.。
And you know it's always going to lead somewhere else and you're。
like, you know, I hate the way I feel the next day.。
But for now it could feel good for a moment.。
And the guilt and shame and the way I feel, how low I feel about。
myself and the low self-esteem and the worth issues that are。
soon to follow this night.。
You know, for just a moment, this short moment to give in to。
this would be worth it.。
All those thoughts, that's called temptation.。
And you've got to get ahead of it.。
You've got to start being proactive, not reactive.。
Because if you are not being proactive and you're being。
reactive, if you're in a moment of weakness not ready to embrace。
temptation because it's coming for every single one of us,。
you're going to lose the fight against temptation.。
Because you're going to lose the fight against temptation.。
Because you're going to lose the fight against temptation.。
Because you're going to lose the fight against temptation.。
Because you're going to lose the fight against temptation.。
Because you're going to lose the fight against temptation.。
Because you're going to lose the fight against temptation.。
Because you're going to lose the fight against temptation.。
Because you're going to lose the fight against temptation.。
Because you're going to lose the fight against temptation.。
Because you're going to lose the fight against temptation.。
Because you're going to lose the fight against temptation.。
Because you're going to lose the fight against temptation.。
Because you're going to lose the fight against temptation.。
Because you're going to lose the fight against temptation.。
Because you're going to lose the fight against temptation.。
Because you're going to lose the fight against temptation.。
Because you're going to lose the fight against temptation.。
And so when you get that Snapchat.。
And you say, you know what, I'm worth more than that.。
Because I am a daughter or a son of the Father God.。
I don't need this.。
You say thank you, but no thank you.。
And you call it a night and you go to bed.。
You have fought temptation.。
But I'm afraid, I know myself.。
And I know for a lot of us here.。
It's usually, that's not the end of the story.。
You're out with your friends and you're like, I'm not going to drink tonight.。
And everyone is drinking.。
And you're like, okay, one ranch water I guess, low calorie, the diet thing.。
You drink.。
You drink another.。
You start to feel something.。
And you're like, if I drink one more.。
If I drink one more, I know that I'm crossing the line.。
And I know that on the other end of that line, on the other end of this temptation.。
I'm going to be led to sin.。
I'm going to be led to text that person or do that thing or mess up in some way.。
And it's going to take me further and further and further.。
And that is what produces sin.。
But the temptation, the thought you have, is not the sin.。
It's the result of the brokenness of the world and that you are broken.。
So because you choose, because you and I choose to sin.。
Because in that moment we don't choose often God.。
Or we don't choose, you know, like fellas, I think a reoccurring one for us.。
And this is the reason why pornography, and ladies too.。
I got to stop saying that.。
Like ladies too.。
I think one of the reasons why pornography is on just the way that it is in today's society.。
Is one, because it's just temptations everywhere.。
In marketing, in commercials, on billboards.。
And we don't know how to fight that.。
We don't know how to get in a fight.。
And like I said, we're reacting.。
Temptation hits us, billboard or person walking by or that.。
And we're reacting to it.。
And we don't get in front of it and we fall and we lead.。
And we're saying, I don't know how to fight it.。
But you have to know that if you were to give in to that, where does it lead to?。
What does it say in James?。
That once you give birth to sin and you continue to feed it, it's going to lead to death.。
You have to see the end.。
Because that's what sin does.。
It tempts you.。
Temptation convinces you that sin is going to be amazing for as long as you want it to.。
But the reality is that sin rarely ever ends where it starts.。
Sin rarely ever ends where it begins.。
What do I mean by that?。
Yeah, like I said, like in your 20s, you're single.。
You can go live it up.。
But like the reality is, is when you go and you go get wasted.。
Or when you go get high, it usually results in a lot of anxiety and stress or that hangover the next day.。
Like last time I checked, no one is just getting their hair held back and like, this is awesome.。
You know, they're puking everywhere.。
But like you know it's coming.。
Because sin, when given birth, it leads to so much consequence.。
Or wondering, man, all this hooking up.。
Like statistics are crazy about STDs.。
And none of us are talking about it.。
Like, what are we doing?。
And we're being deceived.。
Like, man, yeah, this is awesome.。
Hookup culture is awesome.。
And yet everyone had to go get tests constantly wondering, do I have an STD?。
Like on the other end of that, it's no good.。
It doesn't end where it began.。
What started so fun and carefree and passionate ended in just like embarrassment and guilt and shame.。
The pornography.。
It's just me.。
It's not affecting anyone else.。
It's just me saying I'm a single.。
It will change when I get in a relationship.。
And then when you get in that relationship, you start comparing them because you're used to being addicted to a variety that you see on the screen.。
And then that person isn't entertaining you in the way that those women did on that screen or those men did on that screen.。
And now it's just leading to more and more death.。
And it didn't end how it began.。
So James is saying here, hey, wake up.。
Sin is robbing you.。
Temptation is lying to you.。
And the more you feed it, like over here, if I go over here and I just -- if I were to like right now grab one cookie and eat it, it's like, sure.。
Diet's not ruined.。
Not the end of the world.。
There's always tomorrow.。
But like more than likely I'm like, well, today is already a new day.。
Tomorrow is a new day.。
Let's send it.。
Let's eat a few.。
And then like I eat a few cookies and then I'm like people want to go eat, I don't know, like salada or something.。
And I'm like, no, thanks.。
And I'm like looking in the mirror and I'm just miserable.。
And what just started off as one cookie, like eating more and more and more, I feel sick.。
And in the same way, like what started off as just one small thing, you kept feeding it, like James says, more and more and more and it grew bigger and bigger and bigger and it got more and more of an appetite.。
And now it's devouring you.。
And you're addicted.。
You're ashamed.。
You don't know what it's like to be free.。
That's never what should mark the life of a Christian in a relationship with the Lord.。
He wants freedom for you.。
He wants good things for you.。
Which is why James ends the way he does with temptation.。
How temptation is defeated.。
1 16.。
Don't be deceived, my dear brothers and sisters.。
Every good and perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of the heavenly lights, who does not change like shifting shadows, who he chose to give us birth through the word of truth, that we might be a kind of first fruits of all he created.。
So I'm about to just walk us through as I wrap up three steps.。
Three steps on how temptation is defeated.。
And I'm just going to take it through sentence by sentence of what James says here.。
And what he says is, hey, remember what's true.。
When faced with temptation, when faced with that opportunity to choose God or to choose sin, remember what's true.。
Wake up.。
You're being poured lies by Satan or by the world, what culture is saying, what your self is saying.。
Your heart, the Bible says, is wicked and deceitful above all else.。
Don't listen to yourself.。
You're going to choose you every single time.。
And that only ends, like he said earlier, in death.。
And so don't be deceived.。
And so in the moment of temptation, how you can defeat it is to remember what's true.。
He says in 16, don't be deceived, my dear brothers and sisters.。
So how?。
One, know who you're fighting.。
Point one.。
Know where the source of temptation is coming from.。
And then two, understand that your temptation is lying to you.。
Everything we've covered.。
That's how you remain in remembering truth, constantly being reminded, speaking it out.。
I remember the time in my life where I started actually bringing accountability into my life.。
And by accountability, I just mean brothers and sisters who are willing to call you out and call you higher as you pursue the Lord.。
Accountability changed everything in my life.。
If I'm struggling with lust, I can say, hey, guys, I'm struggling with lust.。
I'm struggling with wondering thoughts.。
I want to give in.。
I want to cross boundaries.。
I want to do these things.。
Will you hold me accountable?。
Because no soldier goes into the war zone alone.。
You need other brothers and sisters to remind you of truth, that when you're being deceived, they can say, hey, wake up.。
You're being lied to.。
There's no life there.。
It's leading you to death.。
Wake up.。
Because sometimes we can't see it ourself.。
And so practically remember the truth and let people remind you, be around people who will constantly remind you of truth.。
Never forget the power of confessing.。
Like the truth behind confession, that we confess our sins to one another.。
We pray for one another so that we will experience healing.。
The reason why we confess is not just to be better sinners or to like, man, glorify our sin.。
We confess so that people can remind us of what's true.。
Because your temptation is constantly deceiving us.。
First Corinthians 10.13 says, no temptation has overtaken you except what is common to mankind.。
And God is faithful.。
He will not let you be tempted beyond what you can bear.。
But when you are tempted, he will also provide a way out so that you can endure it.。
This fired me up when I read this text and I was thinking about temptation.。
Temptation at times can feel so heavy.。
When you're driving home and you're like, I know exactly what's waiting for me.。
That computer is waiting for me when I get home and I'm alone.。
Or I know when I get to the house with me and my girlfriend or significant other or that person, I know what's coming.。
And I know tonight when I go out, I'm going to drink and drink or I'm going to hit this or do that.。
Whatever it might be.。
Temptation can feel so heavy and it's like there's no way I'm breaking free from this.。
I'm sending it tonight.。
I'm doing this.。
If you are a son or daughter of God, we have been given a way out according to this verse.。
This is a powerful verse.。
The key to being proactive and not be deceived is to constantly remind yourself of this verse.。
That God is faithful and he will not let you be tempted beyond what you can bear.。
When Satan and the world and yourself are convincing you that you have to give in.。
That this is the only way to fix your loneliness.。
That this is the only way to bring you satisfaction.。
That this is better than God.。
That this is better than God.。
When it's screaming that at you, you can shout this verse back at it.。
Because if God is allowing you to be tempted, it's because he's already predetermined that you can withstand that temptation.。
That's what this verse is telling me.。
If God is allowing us to be tempted, it's because he knows he can withstand it.。
He can choose me.。
Because I will give him the strength.。
That's what that says.。
That you can not withstand that God allows in your life.。
That's powerful.。
So the next time that you feel like all you have to do is cave in, remember, man, if this is in front of me, if God is tempting me with this, there is power in being a son and daughter of God.。
And I can resist.。
And I can choose him.。
Which leads me to step two.。
You choose him because you remember who your father is.。
You choose him because you don't forget who he has been and who he is in your life.。
We can't forget, you guys.。
We can't forget who God really is.。
In verse 17 it says, every good and perfect gift is from above, coming down from the father of the heavenly lights.。
Who does not change like shifting shadows?。
We have to have the right view of who God is.。
A God that's a father.。
A God that's a father.。
And I'm going to tell you, guys, this is a big deal for so many of us.。
So many of us want to run to ourselves or run to the world or run to any solution other than God because we do not remember who God actually is.。
You've let culture dictate who God is.。
You've let media dictate who God is.。
You've let circumstances or your upbringing or that church that you hated or did that really wrong thing to you or that person dictate who God is.。
You've let God dictate who God is.。
God is a dictator.。
God is a cosmic kill joy.。
He doesn't want me to have vacation or fun.。
He wants me to do all of these rules and yes and no's.。
That's not who God is.。
That's not my God.。
That's not the God in the Bible.。
That's not who God is saying or who James is saying God is here.。
James is saying on the contrary, every good thing you have, whether you follow God or not, he's the creator of everything you have.。
It's not from you.。
And if you think it's from you, you are being deceived.。
Every good and perfect gift has come from above.。
But there is a father of lies.。
A father of lies and his name is Satan and he wants to convince you that he has something better for you than the father of lights.。
That's what James is referring to as the father of lights.。
The God that illuminates and allows you to see clearly in the midst of all the temptation creates.。
You can see that God is not trying to rob from you.。
He's not trying to rip you off.。
He's trying to set you free.。
You think that following temptation and going to sin is going to give you freedom.。
Yeah, night on the town.。
Yeah, I can drink when I want.。
The men I want do what I want when I want.。
And you are enslaved.。
You're a slave to sin.。
And it's deceiving you to believe that you're free, but you're bound.。
Only in the Lord can one be free.。
But your sin is going to do everything to convince you that that's not true.。
It's going to do everything it can to distort and allow you to forget who God is.。
And so in the face of the temptation, the way you defeat it is to remember that he's a good father who loves to give every good and perfect gift to his children, which is step three.。
Remember what your father's done.。
How do you defeat temptation?。
Remember what your father's done.。
Verse 18, he chose to give us birth through the word of truth that we might be a kind of first fruits of all he created.。
It's really cool here, James uses another birthing analogy.。
But this time it's not us plus a choice or temptation or a desire that gives birth to sin.。
This time, because us plus sin is going to continually keep us separated from God, God knew that.。
So he gave us ultimately the perfect gift through his son.。
When James says here the word of truth, he's talking about Jesus, his brother.。
And so he's really saying right here, look at what God has done.。
He chose, despite when you get to that fork in the road and you choose sin over him and he saw what you would do, that while you were a sinner, he chose to allow you an opportunity to be reborn,。
to die to your old self that craves sin and wants to be Lord of your own life and to be reborn in Jesus.。
God gave us the word of truth, also known as Jesus, so that we can be reborn, that we can be new,。
so that we can have the strength through Jesus to defeat and conquer temptation because he conquered sin once and for all on the cross.。
Jesus.。
Looking to Jesus.。
Remembering what the Father has done for you in giving his one and only son is how you withstand temptation.。
Remembering that at one point that all had sinned.。
Today, every one of us come in here with sins that create a separation between us and God.。
And God did not want that separation.。
He did not want that distance.。
He didn't want to keep things from you.。
He wanted a thriving relationship with his children.。
And so in order to make that a way, he sent his one and only child.。
So we could be children of God.。
And that child named Jesus came down to earth.。
And instead of giving in to temptation, he was literally tempted.。
There's a part in the Bible where Jesus is literally tempted by Satan himself, like right there in front of him,。
in the midst of a wilderness, a desert, for 40 days had not eaten.。
Satan is holding out a platter of bread and is trying to get Jesus to eat it and is tempting him and tempting him.。
And Jesus does not fall.。
Jesus remained perfect through it all, making him the perfect sacrifice in a way that you and I never could.。
And so he took himself, and he who knew no sin became sin on the cross.。
And he died our death that we deserved for all the times that when we came to the fork in the road and chose our sin over God,。
he hung there on that cross and he became sin.。
Why?。
Because God knew that when the temptation would come, yeah, we would want to choose God,。
but at times because we are broken people, we were going to choose our sin.。
So he came and made his son sin on our behalf.。
And he died.。
He died the death that was in our place.。
And then they buried him.。
And three days later, he defeated death.。
He conquered sin.。
He rose from the grave.。
We are about to celebrate one of the greatest days in history when Jesus rose from the grave,。
declaring victory over sin and death once and for all this weekend.。
I hope you come and join us.。
If you don't have a church home, come join us.。
Good Friday, Saturday, Sunday, as we celebrate the resurrection of Jesus and what it meant for you and I on behalf of our sin.。
That in the midst of temptation, when it seems that there's nothing that we can do to defeat it,。
we have Jesus to look to.。
It is crazy to think that God chose, James says, he chose to give us birth,。
to give us the opportunity to be reborn through his son's death and burial and resurrection on our behalf.。
And that we may have life.。
God wants to use young adults to change the world.。
God wants to use young adults like you and I to declare to the world of his goodness and to bring glory to him.。
But the reality is, is temptation will be in the way trying to get you to stop that from happening.。
And Satan is on a mission to do everything he can to stop you from seeing the potential that God wants to use you for,。
to bring his name glory and to use your life in ways that you could never imagine.。
And so get ready to fight.。
And look to Jesus.。
Because Jesus chose you, because Jesus chose you and died on the cross,。
you now, when faced with the decision to choose your sin or to choose God,。
have the power to choose God, to say no to sin and yes to God.。
And when you don't, you have Jesus.。
Jesus who said, "I'll take it for him."。
So when you're faced to follow temptation, choose Jesus, because he chose you.。
Let's pray.。
Father, thank you that in the midst of our sin and our suffering,。
you made a way through Jesus that you did not leave us alone.。
That you did not leave us here to fight on our own.。
That you made a way through Jesus that despite our victory, our failures,。
we can look to Jesus who took our sin and who will take those times that we,。
even tonight, when we're faced with temptation and we come at the crossroads。
to choose you or to choose sin and we choose sin,。
may tonight we not use that to run further from you.。
May we run to you because of Jesus, because he ran to us,。
because he ran down to earth for us.。
And God, because of that, may we not choose you instead of sin out of some obligation,。
because out of an awe that you would love us that much.。
Because Jesus chose sin on our behalf, may we choose him instead of our sin.。
In that we pray, amen.。
Let's respond in worship.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
