[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
Well, all right. We're going to do tonight's message in the dark.。
My name is David Marvin. I'm excited to be back with you guys.。
I will start off this evening with kind of a story that will shape where we're going.。
When I was in college, when I was 20 years old, some friends and I planned a summer month。
that we were going to take and go work in an orphanage in Africa, specifically Uganda.。
And so we decided, hey, we're going to go do this. It's going to be amazing.。
And so we spent the better part of our sophomore year at that time planning out this trip。
where we found a place to go, a place to stay. We bought tickets.。
We had everything arranged and thought. We had thought through everything really by March.。
And the trip was in July. And so March comes and this is awesome. Everything's planned and ready.。
And I realized I'd forgot one critical component, a passport.。
That I didn't have a passport. I know it's funny, but I just hadn't been out of the country or to Mexico,。
or other than Mexico. And so I needed to get a passport. So I look online.。
It says take six to 12 weeks, which is great because I got four months. I got 16 weeks.。
So this is perfect. I fill everything out and I send it off to get a passport.。
And so I go that summer and I go work at a camp in Missouri and I'm from Houston.。
And so I go up and I'm calling every now and then to see, hey, when is the passport?。
Has the passport come? Has it arrived yet? And so six weeks go by, nothing.。
12 weeks go by, nothing. And all of a sudden I'm a month out and I'm going,。
oh my gosh, what am I going to do about this passport?。
So I'm now calling the bureau, which is an amazing experience, to get my passport。
and trying to get a hold of someone who could tell me where it is. And they're saying it's in transit.。
And I'm asking, can I overnight it? And they're saying, we don't really know where it is.。
I'm like, go USA. So I am trying to get a hold of these things.。
And all of a sudden we're three weeks out and two weeks out and I'm calling, where is it?。
One week out and it still has not arrived. And so five days from the trip, I decide。
I'm going to drive to Houston because at that time it was the closest one day passport place you could go to.。
So I'm going to go, I drive down on a Thursday. My flight is on Monday.。
And so they're only open Monday to Friday. So I've got one day, Friday.。
And so I wake up that morning, I go to the passport bureau, I get my picture taken。
and I get there at 7.15, it opens at 8. And by the time I get there, there's already a line。
outside of the building and wrapping around it. And so I'm going, oh my gosh, I'm in trouble.。
And if you don't get it, if you don't finish the process by the end of the day,。
I would have to wait until Monday. And so I wait and six hours later, I get my passport,。
which was awesome. And so big relief. And I go home and the next morning I wake up。
and I start to pack and the mailman shows up with my other passport.。
So now I've got two and I'm like, this is awesome. Jason Bourne.。
I've got two of these things and they're different numbers on the passport.。
And they're totally different. Like they're different pictures.。
They're different numbers, like a passport number. I would think we'd have the same one.。
They're totally different. And so I'm like, this is great. And then it hits me.。
What if one of these doesn't work? What if only one of them works?。
What if neither of them work? I mean, I can't really go to the airport and have them scan it in.。
And if it doesn't work on that one, be like, here, just try this one.。
I'm not a spy, I promise. Or going through security and holding my passport。
and they see another one in my bag. That can't look good.。
And so I'm going, what am I going to do? And friends are telling me competing ideas about,。
hey, both of them will work or just pick one of them, either of them will work.。
And I'm looking on the internet and reading stories about people caught with two passports。
and they confiscate both of them. And I'm going, oh my gosh, what am I going to do?。
Which one of these will work and get me to my destination?。
And I tell you that story because in a lot of ways, that's the story as it relates to religion.。
In our culture, in our world, as people wondering, hey, which one of these will get me to my destination?。
Will both of them, will all roads lead to God? Does only one of them lead to God?。
Do none of them lead to God? What is the thing that will get me to the destination I want to go?。
And so tonight, as we continue this series called Skeptical,。
where we're diving into the tough questions facing Christianity or questions that people have。
as it relates to Christianity, we're going to explore what makes Christianity distinct。
from every other world religion. And the Apostle Paul and the book of Acts,。
we're going to explore, is going to lay out what I think is the foundation,。
not only for the Christian faith, but it is the essential thing to understand。
what you're rejecting if you want to reject Christianity or if you have rejected Christianity。
and what sets it apart and in a different category from every other worldview and every other faith.。
So we're going to be in the book of Acts. If you have a Bible, you can put there,。
Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, and we're going to be in chapter 17, and we're going to start in verse 16.。
The Apostle Paul is in Athens, the same Athens you can go visit today, and you can go see all the sites today.。
And he is waiting for a couple of friends, and while he waits for these friends,。
he begins to engage and lay out what makes Christianity so different than their worldview.。
And Athens was a very pluralistic, very polytheistic, very believe in this.。
We're not really sure you have your own God. We have our own God.。
And he lays out what makes Christianity so different.。
Verse 16, while the Apostle Paul was waiting for them in Athens,。
he was greatly distressed to see that the city was full of idols.。
So Paul walks into the city of Athens, this huge cultural hub,。
and this Palestinian Jew who's way far from home steps into a different world,。
and everywhere he looks, he sees all these different idols, shrines, statues to represent these different gods.。
Here's what happens. So he reasoned in the synagogue with both Jews and God-fearing Greeks,。
as well as in the marketplace day by day with those who happen to be there.。
So Paul begins engaging. Hey, I see all these religious icons.。
I want to discuss a religious expression that I have.。
A group, verse 18, of Epicurean, which is a group that just believed,。
hey, do whatever you want, life is short, and nothing happens when you die.。
And Stoic, who believed life is all about discipline, philosophers begin to debate him.。
Some of them asked, what is this babbler trying to say?。
And others remarked, he seems to be advocating foreign gods.。
They said this because Paul was preaching the good news about Jesus and the resurrection.。
So they think Paul is telling them about foreign deities,。
and he's coming in advocating for why these aren't the gods, but there's these foreign gods.。
He continues, as he's telling them about Jesus and his resurrection,。
that God sent his son into the world, who died on a cross and came back to life.。
He continues, then they took him and brought him to the meeting of the Areopagus.。
So Paul creates such a stir in the marketplace, which was the center of Athens.。
There was no news, no internet. This is where you went to buy things.。
It's where you went to go get food. It's where you went to go hear news and hear teaching.。
And so Paul creates such a stir that they take him to the Areopagus.。
Areopagus means nothing to us, but the Areopagus, if you study philosophy, is a really famous place.。
It's the place where Plato taught, where Socrates taught, where Aristotle taught.。
It was the hub, within the hub, of the philosophical world.。
It was the birthplace of philosophy, was the Areopagus.。
And so Paul is brought before the council of the Areopagus,。
where they want to hear what he's proclaiming. Here's what he says.。
"Where they said to him, 'May we know what this new teaching is that you are presenting.'"。
Verse 20. "You are bringing some strange ideas to our ears, and we would like to know what they mean."。
Because they were not used to a monotheistic, God loves the world, God sent his son, there's one God.。
They were used to all kinds of different gods, and Paul's proposing an entirely different worldview.。
"All the Athenians," I love that this is in here, verse 21.。
"All the Athenians and foreigners who live there spent their time doing nothing but talking and listening about the latest ideas."。
Verse 22. "Paul then stood up in the meeting of the Areopagus, and he said, 'People of Athens,。
I see that in every way you are very religious. For as I walked around the city, I looked carefully at your objects of worship.。
Everywhere I looked, I saw shrines, temples that still exist today, altars of these gods that they would worship.。
And I even found an altar with this inscription, 'To an unknown God.'"。
So Paul says, "Look, everywhere I looked, I saw all these different gods. In fact, I even saw one that said, 'To an unknown God.'"。
And what we know about history tells us about this unknown God statue,。
was it basically, it was the way the Athenians covered all their bases.。
That we think there's a God for this, and we think there's a God for this, and there's probably a God over here,。
and there's Zeus, and Thor, and Triton, and all these different things.。
But just in case we miss one, we're going to have one to the unknown God, in case that God ever shows up,。
and it's like, "Hey, I'm Bob. Where's my temple?"。
And they're like, "Bob, we got yours. It was right, we didn't know your name, Bob. It's right here. This is your temple."。
And they could say, "Hey, this is the unknown God."。
And so what that tells us is, and this is so important, especially for our day and age,。
is the Athenians were very, very religious.。
They were aware there's a God out there, but they were not very certain.。
They didn't know exactly how all of this worked.。
They didn't know exactly how God would be pleased, and Paul's about to lay it out for them.。
"So you are ignorant of the very thing you worship, and this is what I'm going to proclaim to you."。
So Paul says, "There's uncertainty, there's a gap, and I want to talk about that.。
You are doing a bunch of religious things, wondering what God wants from you,。
wondering if you and God or the gods can be okay,。
wondering if you've done enough, wondering if you've done too much,。
wondering who's out there."。
And he says, "I want to proclaim to you, because God who is there wants to be known," he says.。
And some of us, this idea of being ignorant of the thing that we worship,。
is really not that far from our culture today,。
where some of us in this room are ignorant of the thing or things that we worship.。
70% of Americans believe that all roads lead to God,。
that many faiths can lead to God, according to a 2011 Gallup poll.。
And this is so crazy, because there's such contradictory claims, and you may not realize this.。
There's contradictory claims that are inherent to each of them,。
and yet everyone would say they basically all teach the same thing,。
which is an expression of ignorance.。
Here's what we know.。
Here's what Islam says, as it relates to exclusively Islam or Muslims.。
It's from the Quran.。
"Whoever prefers a religion other than Islam, it shall definitely not be accepted from him,。
and in the hereafter, he shall be among the losers."。
I'm not totally sure what that means, but it doesn't sound good.。
Hinduism. "Those who are without faith in my teaching cannot attain Krishna, enlightenment.。
I permeate all the universe in my unmanifest form.。
All beings exist within me.。
If you do not accept this view, you will never achieve Hindu salvation."。
Buddhism. "This is the only path.。
There is no other for the purification of insight.。
Walking upon this path, you will make an end of suffering."。
In the Jewish tradition, exclusivity manifests itself in the concept of God's chosen people.。
So every major world religion, every way that you look, all of them make exclusive claims.。
That's one thing that's not different about Christianity,。
and the idea that all of them basically teach the same thing。
is to really express you're ignorant of what all of them teach.。
And I mean that as kindly as I can, because all of them make exclusive claims.。
But there's something different and distinct about the Christian message.。
Paul's about to lay it out for us.。
In the past, verse 30. Oh, I'm sorry.。
Here we go. Verse 24.。
"The God who made the world and everything in it is the Lord of heaven and earth,。
and he does not live in temples built by human hands."。
So he said, lesson number one, God is bigger than all of your temples.。
God is bigger than your religion. He continues.。
"And he is not served by human hands as if he needed anything.。
Rather, he himself gives life and breath and everything else."。
And Paul says, here's the problem with your religion.。
Here's the problem with all religions.。
It puts God in a box.。
It infers that God needs to be served. God needs us to do things.。
And Paul says, the God who made all that is is not served by human hands.。
He's not served by good deeds.。
He's not served in a way that makes you right with him by sacraments.。
He's not served by praying five times, by visiting Mecca.。
He says, your God, you Athenians have made him too small.。
The God who is there is bigger than your religion.。
He's bigger than your temple. He's bigger than all your religious expressions.。
And he's not served by human hands.。
Rather, he has stepped into the world and has become a servant for all.。
The God who exists and who is unknown to you has made himself known。
and desires for all people to know him. And he's going to lay out how.。
"From one man," verse 26,。
"he made all the nations that they should inhabit the whole earth,。
and he marked out their appointed times and history and the boundaries of their land."。
So God ordained everything.。
"God did this so that they would seek him and perhaps reach out for him and find them."。
I love this.。
"Though he is not far from any of them," any of us,。
that God did this, that's what religion is, isn't it?。
Where you seek out and you reach out and you try to reach God,。
you try to approach God, and he says,。
"All over the world, people have been seeking and reaching."。
And here's the reality, they're reaching in the wrong direction.。
They're reaching in the wrong way because God is not far from any of them.。
He's not beyond their reach.。
But he has reached into our world, as he's going to lay out, through a person.。
Verse 28, "For in him we live and move and have our being,。
as some of your own poets have said, 'We are his offspring.'"。
So he quotes these two Greek poets.。
It'd be like quoting Eminem today, where it's like, "Vomit on his sweater already."。
It would not be like quoting Eminem in this crowd, apparently.。
But it'd be like quoting someone that everyone knew, and he says,。
"Look, you guys know this. You know that the God who's out there is not served by human hands.。
In fact, you know that the God who's out there is not these little statues.。
He's not that statue. He's not this shrine.。
Because here's what you know. You've heard this before.。
Your own poets say, 'The God who's out there made us. We are his offspring.'"。
Is it really that crazy?。
Or isn't it a little crazy to think that if we're God's offspring,。
we can make and fashion our own God, as he says in the next verse?。
"Therefore, since we are God's offspring, we should not think that the divine being。
is like gold or silver or stone or an image made by human design or skill."。
And he's pointing to all these different images.。
And to us, this seems silly today, that someone would make a God,。
and they would think that is their God, and they would worship that God,。
and they would believe in that God.。
But this happens all the time.。
This is one of the most popular beliefs in our country.。
Here's what I mean.。
People all the time, one of the most common answers that I hear。
is the idea that all faiths lead to God because God is loving.。
And I always ask, where does that belief come from?。
You may have heard this before. You may have a family member.。
I probably guarantee you have a family member that would say,。
"Yeah, all faiths. I believe God's love, and so he accepts everyone.。
All faiths ultimately lead to him."。
Where does that idea come from?。
Think about that.。
God is loving, so he accepts everyone.。
Where does that come from?。
Islam doesn't teach that.。
Hinduism doesn't teach that.。
Buddhism doesn't teach that. It doesn't teach there is a God.。
That comes from the Bible.。
What else does the Bible say?。
That the God who is loving has provided the way for anyone on earth。
and anyone who's ever lived to have eternal life by trusting in Jesus alone.。
Well, I don't believe in the Bible.。
Then you've made up your God of love.。
And I don't have enough faith to believe in a God of love。
that I just made up with no basis.。
And I just hope I have fashioned by human design and intellect.。
It's everywhere.。
God's that have been made up.。
In the past, as in something new has happened,。
verse 30, "God overlooked such ignorance,。
but now he commands all people everywhere to repent."。
And repent is kind of a hard word, because in church we think,。
"Stop the evil deeds!"。
But it's really the word that means, "Change your minds."。
That God has stepped on to human history。
and stepped into our world in such a way,。
and now he's done something new, and in light of it,。
he commands everyone everywhere to change their minds。
about how they see and relate to him or think of him.。
"For he has set a day," I love this, and this is the thing,。
"where he will judge the world with justice."。
In other words, everyone is accountable.。
"By the man he has appointed," talking about Jesus, we're going to see,。
"and he has given proof of this to everyone。
by raising him from the dead."。
So Paul says, "Hey, look, the Athenians, the good news is。
you're trying, you're reaching out, you're religious,。
you are aware that there's something out there.。
The bad news is you're not exactly sure how this works,。
and here's what I want you to know.。
The unknown God to you has desired to make himself known。
in an undeniable way, and he did it by sending his son。
into the world so that no one would have to live。
with the question of where do I stand with God,。
with uncertainty about where am I in my relationship with God.。
Have I done enough good things that we know will never get us。
towards the mountain of God if he is perfect?"。
And he says, "The good news is, Athenians, God has done something,。
and he's reached into human history, and he's risen from the dead.。
He came, he died on a cross to pay for anyone's sin,。
and he came back to life to prove it."。
And I love this idea because it's so easy, church world,。
it's so easy to just get religious and to get like pews。
and steeples and open up and there's the peoples。
and all the different things that--。
You guys, more of you knew that than I thought would.。
And all the different things that we can just clutter.。
But when Christianity was born, and maybe you've never heard this,。
and so if you miss everything else,。
when Christianity was launched,。
when the movement began, it wasn't about religion.。
It wasn't about rituals.。
It was about the God who is there, who desired to make himself known,。
and he reached down into human history, and he came,。
and he died on a cross, and he came back to life,。
and everywhere his followers went,。
they didn't say, "You should love your neighbor as you love yourself."。
They said, "We saw a man die, and he came back to life.。
He claimed to be God, and he said anyone who places their trust。
for their sins, for their mistakes, past and future,。
on him, and not on themselves,。
not on their ability to do good things, will have eternal life,。
will be extended forgiveness."。
That it wasn't good people who go to heaven,。
and bad people who go to hell, but forgiven people.。
And forgiveness always heals a relationship.。
You know that in your own relationships when they break.。
You have to have forgiveness to heal it,。
and God has said through the person of Jesus,。
the only means by which you can experience a healed relationship。
is not by trying to do good things as if those serve me,。
but by accepting the free gift I'm offering to anyone who's willing。
to say, "I can't be good enough.。
I'm trusting in the only one who was good.。
I don't need a second chance to keep more rules or a redo.。
I need a savior."。
And this was the thing that launched Christianity。
out of the first century, and you have to do something with it.。
Because here's what's undeniable.。
2,000 years ago, something happened.。
It's undeniable.。
What's undeniable is that a man named Jesus,。
who was born and lived in Galilee,。
who was a Jewish peasant raised by a carpenter,。
a man we never should have heard about,。
a man who said crazy, insane asylum things like,。
"I am God," before the world existed.。
"I am."。
And he also said, "I am the only way to eternal life."。
And he said, "I will die on a cross for the sins of all humanity。
because every religion cannot meet the righteous requirement God requires."。
But God is not far and has stepped into human history。
to provide the only means of having a relationship with him.。
What's undeniable is that hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of people。
went to their death, his followers,。
not for what they said they believed in,。
not for, "Hey, we believe that you should go with a man a mile。
if he asks you to go a mile," and turn the other cheek.。
They went to their death for what they believed they saw.。
I saw a man die and he came back to life.。
People go to their death all the time for what they believe.。
Terrorists fly into buildings with planes because of what they believe.。
They went to their deaths for what they said they saw.。
What's undeniable is that a man you never should have heard about,。
a place that you can't point on the map,。
has somehow caught the attention and the belief in 2 billion people。
in a religion that is exploding Christianity all over this world,。
believe he's the son of God,。
the only means by which we can have right standing with God.。
What's undeniable is that the God who did not want to be unknown。
but wanted to be known,。
stepped onto history and today you dated your calendar。
on his birth of the undeniable mark of the God who wanted to be known.。
This is the thing that sets it apart from every other world religion。
because it's not about what you do, Jesus says.。
It's about trusting in what I have done.。
This is one of the biggest obstacles.。
When people come down up front afterwards and our team will discuss,。
what people don't understand what the good news is, was,。
and always has been intended to be.。
Religion, here's how I wrote in my notes.。
Religion, every religion, says what is God。
or what is the force of the universe want from us?。
Christianity says, look at what God has done for us.。
Religion says, what kind of sacrifice does God want?。
Christianity says, look at the sacrifice God has given us.。
It's not about who is right, it's about who is Jesus.。
And when you date your calendar tomorrow,。
that's the only question that matters.。
But something happened and you can't wish it away,。
you got to deal with it.。
I think it's so easy from my own heart to see Christianity。
and to see God as just another religion,。
that there's some God out there who wants me to do certain things。
and then he'll be finally happy with me or some future version of me.。
Not that he loves me now, forever, perfectly,。
and you and all of our sin and all of our brokenness.。
Now, right where you are.。
That he's not a God who wants you to work your way to him,。
he has come to you and shown his love。
in a way that is distinct from any other worldview.。
Now, I'm going to read a verse and I just want you to think about these verses.。
You've probably read these verses or heard them hundreds of times.。
But I just want you to think about the world in which these words were written。
and in which the readers and hearers of them first heard.。
In the Greek world, the Roman and the Jewish world,。
a world where the gods, men would play things to the gods.。
They didn't care about them at all.。
John 3, 16 and 17.。
For God so loved the world that he was moved in love,。
not for just a group of people, but for the entire world,。
for all people, everywhere.。
This is why the message of Jesus at his birth was proclaimed.。
This is good news of great joy for all people of every race,。
of every place and every tribe.。
That it wasn't just when Jesus left the earth,。
he didn't get his followers to get in and go,。
"Hey, let's just go to the Jews. I'm a Jew. You're a Jew.。
Give me a J, give me an E, give me a W. We'll go to the Jews."。
He said, "This is for all people. Go to the ends of the earth."。
Because my father has sent me out of his expression of love.。
And out of that expression, he gave his one and only son。
that whoever believes or puts their trust in him。
will not perish, but have eternal life.。
For God did not send his son into the world to condemn it,。
but to save it.。
I'm gonna fall short of what I'm gonna try to do.。
The amount that God loves you。
and was willing to sacrifice for all people。
because he knew a religious system, a philosophy, a teaching。
could not bridge the gap.。
The amount that he was willing to give up,。
I can't even begin to put into words,。
largely because I'm not sure that I fully even understand it。
and comprehend it, of a perfect God and a perfect son。
and a father who would give away his only child.。
You watch this video.。
(birds chirping)。
(birds chirping)。
(speaking in Czech)。
(speaking in Czech)。
(phone ringing)。
(speaking in Czech)。
(birds chirping)。
(train rumbling)。
(water splashing)。
(train rumbling)。
(birds chirping)。
(train rumbling)。
(soft music)。
(speaking in Czech)。
(train rumbling)。
(train rumbling)。
(phone ringing)。
(speaking in Czech)。
(birds chirping)。
(speaking in Czech)。
(speaking in Czech)。
(soft music)。
(speaking in Czech)。
(train rumbling)。
(train rumbling)。
(train rumbling)。
(speaking in Czech)。
(train rumbling)。
(train rumbling)。
(speaking in Czech)。
(train rumbling)。
(speaking in Czech)。
(train rumbling)。
(train rumbling)。
(train rumbling)。
(soft music)。
(train rumbling)。
(train rumbling)。
(soft music)。
(train rumbling)。
(soft music)。
(train rumbling)。
(soft music)。
(train rumbling)。
(train rumbling)。
(soft music)。
(train rumbling)。
(soft music)。
(train rumbling)。
(soft music)。
(train rumbling)。
(soft music)。
(train rumbling)。
(soft music)。
(train rumbling)。
(soft music)。
(train rumbling)。
(soft music)。
(train rumbling)。
(soft music)。
(train rumbling)。
(soft music)。
(train rumbling)。
(soft music)。
(train rumbling)。
(soft music)。
(train rumbling)。
(soft music)。
- I've seen that movie like three times today,。
and I feel like every time, it's still like,。
it turned my eyes away.。
But that's what makes it distinct.。
And that video breaks down,。
and it doesn't even show perfectly。
how much the Father loves and sacrificed。
for not a train, but a world full of people。
who wouldn't receive Him,。
who didn't accept Him.。
And what makes Christianity different。
is that it tells the story of a God who loved the world,。
who was there, who changed the calendar,。
who stepped into that world。
and died for all of your junk,。
all of my sin,。
all of the times I choose me above Him.。
And you can spend the rest of your life。
trying to work towards Him,。
but He's already said that the only way。
to deal with sin is through Him.。
Good things don't do away with bad deeds,。
we know that.。
And for anyone who will take their trust。
off of themself and put it onto Him,。
they'll receive forgiveness。
and right relationship with God。
who doesn't want to be unknown。
and has undeniably made His mark known。
for you and I to know Him.。
I'm gonna pray that we would。
and that we would share it.。
Father, I can't even begin to understand。
how much you love me。
and you gave and you give。
and you love my friends in the room。
more than they'll ever know.。
We thank you for the cross,。
we thank you for your son who died for our sins,。
who died for every person。
who was refused and rejected。
and that you love us right now。
just where we are in all of our mess.。
You offer us a new life, an eternal life.。
I pray that we would walk in that。
and that we would accept that if we haven't, amen.。
Amen.。
(music)。
(music)。
(music)。
(music)。
(music)。
(music)。
(music)。
(music)。
(music)。
(music)。
(music)。
(music)。
