(upbeat music)。
- All right, how's everybody doing tonight?。
All right, good, good.。
Well, glad to be here, Dallas.。
Say hello to Houston and anybody watching online tonight.。
Those of you guys watching online,。
just know we have been talking about you。
behind your back all night.。
I think David even said that we trim the fat。
with you guys staying at home watching tonight.。
So you can take that up with him.。
That is David Marvin, David@watermark.org.。
Any, all that stuff.。
All right, so I'm Adam.。
I lead the college ministry here.。
I'm excited to be with you guys tonight。
as we take a little one week break from Romans 8.。
So here's what I wanna start with.。
I wanna ask a question.。
How many of you guys out here in the audience tonight。
like to play cards, card games?。
How many card game players?。
All right, how many play spades?。
Play spades, that's your game of choice.。
Rummy, anybody rummy?。
Poker?。
All right, this is not a Baptist place.。
I love it, all right.。
Got some poker players out there.。
How about hearts?。
Let's feel like that spades like stepbrother,。
whatever, anybody.。
All right, how about a game red dot?。
Nobody, yeah, which is good。
'cause my brother made that game up.。
So it makes sense that none of you guys would play it.。
So I've got a younger brother。
who's about six years younger than me.。
And so he was probably five or six years old。
and he made up this game called red dot.。
And this was the worst game ever made。
because he always won and we never knew the rules.。
Never, ever, and he never knew the rules.。
He was just making it up.。
And so my mom liked to play a lot of solitaire,。
like old school solitaire with cards, not like on the phone.。
So we always had some cards like laying around.。
And so my brother, five, six years old,。
he just picks up these cards and he's like,。
"Hey, who wants to come play red dot?"。
And he'd hand the cards out。
and we didn't know if it was gonna be one card。
or 12 cards or no cards or whatever.。
It always went the same way, him just kind of going, "I win."。
And so I have a younger sister as well.。
So after a while, my sister and I, we wised up to this。
and we were like, "No way, we're not playing red dot anymore."。
And so after a while, my brother would try to get people。
to play red dot and he could not find anybody.。
And the only person he could find was my dad.。
And so I just have these memories of my dad and my brother。
sitting in the kitchen playing red dot。
and my dad just laughing hysterically。
at how the rules would always change.。
And me and my mom and my sister, the wise ones,。
we were over watching TV or doing something else.。
And so I start with that tonight。
because tonight we're gonna talk about a game.。
And this game is similar to red dot.。
And the way that it's similar to red dot。
is this, is it is a game also that nobody else ever wins.。
So this game that we're gonna talk about tonight。
is very similar to red dot.。
And it's a game that if you play it and when you play it,。
there are no winners.。
There's never a winner in this game.。
But this game is different than red dot。
where red dot has only been played by a handful of people.。
The game that we're gonna talk about tonight。
has been played by everyone.。
Every single person in the room tonight。
has played the game that we're gonna talk about.。
Some of you started playing this game。
really early in your life.。
You maybe started playing it in elementary school.。
You played it with classmates, you played it with friends,。
you played it maybe with some people in your family.。
When you maybe graduated and went on to high school,。
you maybe started playing it a lot in high school.。
Or then if you went to college,。
you started playing it in college.。
Or when you got out of college or if you're working now,。
you got a full-time job,。
you probably played this game with coworkers.。
You play this game with friends.。
You play this game with people that you know in the church,。
people that you know outside of the church.。
In fact, I'm willing to bet。
that a lot of you guys played this game today.。
In fact, I'm willing to go a little bit farther.。
I'm willing to bet that some of you guys,。
many of you in this room,。
have been playing this game tonight。
since we've been in this room.。
And this game that everybody plays, but nobody ever wins,。
this game is comparison.。
Comparison is the game that everybody plays,。
but nobody ever wins.。
There is never any win in comparison.。
My brother is undefeated in Red Dot,。
and comparison is undefeated.。
It always wins.。
Nobody has ever played that game and won.。
And we all do it.。
We all take the circumstances and the situations。
and the things that are going on in our life,。
and we compare it to people around us,。
or we compare it to coworkers,。
or we compare it to people that we know at church,。
or we compare it to our friends that we had growing up,。
or we compare our lives to people in our family.。
We all do this.。
Every single one of us has played this game。
or is playing it right now,。
but nobody has ever, ever, ever won this game.。
We are all losers in this game of comparison.。
And so here's what we're gonna do tonight.。
Tonight, as we take this break,。
just one week from Romans 8,。
what we're gonna do is we're gonna look。
at two kings.。
We're gonna look at two kings,。
and one of these kings that we're gonna see。
that we're gonna look at first,。
we're gonna see a reason or a reminder to us。
of what are the consequences。
if you and I continue to play the comparison game.。
If we continue to take the circumstances in our life。
and compare them to other people, where does that end?。
We're gonna be reminded again of what we know。
from experience, that nobody ever wins that game.。
And so one king is gonna remind us。
of the consequences of playing the comparison game.。
And this king is also gonna remind us。
of why we play this game.。
And then we're gonna look at a second king.。
And the second king that we're gonna look at。
is completely different than this first one.。
And what we're gonna see as we look at the second king。
is we're gonna see a way that you and I,。
like really, really practical ways。
that you and I can avoid playing this game。
so that we don't have to go around。
continuing to play this game。
that absolutely nobody ever wins.。
And so if you got your Bibles tonight,。
let's open up to 1 Samuel 18.。
That's where we're gonna be, 1 Samuel 18.。
And so let me just set up a little bit。
where we're going in this first king.。
So the first king that we're gonna look at。
is this guy named Saul.。
He was actually the first king of the nation of Israel.。
And so we're gonna be in the Old Testament.。
And whenever you hear about the nation of Israel。
in the Old Testament, what that is,。
that's the people of God.。
That's the people of God.。
And so here it is, it's the people of God.。
They've been slaves in Egypt for 400 years,。
and then they were set free by Moses,。
and they went through the Red Sea,。
and they were going into this land。
that God had promised for them.。
And they're starting to settle in this land.。
They're starting to develop as a nation.。
And for years and years and years,。
God had been leading his people.。
And the way he had been leading them。
was he had just been, he had been kind of their king,。
and he was just leading through faithful men.。
And that was his preference.。
That's the way he wanted to continue。
to lead this nation of Israel.。
He wanted to be their king,。
and he just wanted to lead through a faithful man.。
And so here it is, this nation, they're getting established,。
and they're starting to look around。
at some of the other nations that are around them.。
And they realize these other nations around them。
have a different form of government.。
They have an actual king.。
And so the nation of Israel。
goes to their spiritual leader at the time,。
this guy named Samuel, and they're like, we want a king.。
We wanna be like everybody else.。
And Samuel tries to talk him out of it and go,。
listen, I don't think you wanna be like everybody else.。
I don't think you want a king.。
And they're sitting there going, no, no, no,。
we want a king, we want a king, we want a king.。
And so Samuel finally says, all right, fine,。
I'll go get you a king.。
And so he prays and he seeks the Lord's guidance,。
and God directs him to a man,。
and it's this man named Saul.。
It's really interesting as you read here。
in the early part of 1 Samuel, the description of Saul,。
what it basically says about Saul,。
if you laid your eyes on Saul,。
here's what you would have noticed,。
is that Saul was tall and he was handsome.。
He was tall and handsome,。
like he would have been the perfect bachelor.。
Right, like one of the tall, handsome guys.。
I just imagine a little, maybe a little Italian accent.。
Maybe wear shorts that are a little too short,。
but we'd be like, oh, he's European, you know,。
we'll cut him some break, you know, get him a little slack.。
He's really good looking or whatever.。
And so I imagine maybe, or like,。
he's one of these Disney princes, not princesses.。
He's a prince or whatever.。
Like he's the hero in a Disney movie.。
That's the way this king was described.。
And so you would think that tall and handsome,。
that his legacy would have been awesome,。
that he would have started to govern the land。
and he would have been fantastic。
and he would have gone down in history。
of being one of the greatest kings ever.。
And there would have forever been a model。
to say every other leader from here on out。
needs to be tall and needs to be handsome.。
And you would think that that's what his story is,。
that he should be a hero, but that's not his story.。
That's not the legacy that Saul left.。
The legacy that he left was not one of like a Disney hero.。
The legacy he left actually is more like a villain.。
He left this legacy of being somebody。
who was controlled by jealousy, somebody who was envious,。
somebody who was neurotic, narcissistic,。
and really lived a completely miserable life.。
And the reason why that's Saul's legacy。
is because Saul played the game.。
Saul played the comparison game.。
Shortly after he became king,。
there was this other guy that started to come on the scene。
and his name was David.。
And then David did something that was kind of a big deal。
for the nation of Israel,。
that he took down one of their enemies.。
He took down the giant, like he took down Goliath.。
And after he took down Goliath,。
David's notoriety and his fame started to rise。
and all the people of Israel started to say,。
hey, we like that guy.。
We wanna follow after that guy.。
And so Saul made this choice to play the game。
and to forever compare his life to David.。
Let's pick this up in 1 Samuel 18, look at verse six.。
Here's what he says,。
they're coming back after David had killed Goliath.。
And here's what it says.。
"When the men were returning home。
"after David had killed the Philistine,。
"the women came out from all the towns。
"of Israel to meet King Saul with singing and dancing,。
"with joyful songs, with timbrels and lyres.。
"And they danced, or as they danced, here's what they sang.。
"Saul has slayed his thousands。
"and David, his tens of thousands."。
It goes on in verse eight, Saul was very angry.。
This refrain, it displeased him greatly.。
"They have credited David with tens of thousands,。
"he thought, but me with only thousands.。
"What more can he get but the kingdom?"。
And then look at what it says here in verse nine.。
This is him playing the game.。
"From that time on, Saul kept a close eye on David."。
Skip on down to verse 12, look at what he says here.。
"Saul was afraid of David,。
"because the Lord was with David and had departed from Saul.。
"So he sent David away from him。
"and gave him command over a thousand men.。
"And David led the troops in their campaigns."。
You can see what Saul was doing.。
He was comparing himself to David.。
He wanted David dead.。
So here's what I'm gonna do, David.。
You're now gonna lead these armies.。
You're gonna go off into battle,。
hoping that David would die.。
But that's not what happened.。
His fame continued to rise.。
In verse 14, "In everything he did,。
"he had great success because of the Lord was with him.。
"And when Saul saw how successful he was,。
"he was afraid of him.。
"But all of Israel and Judah loved David。
"because he led them in their campaigns."。
And what's so sad is you read the rest of 1 Samuel,。
from chapter 18 all the way to the end in chapter 31,。
it is just this tragic story of a man。
who is just controlled by jealousy。
and playing this comparison game.。
This man who feels like he's constantly falling short。
of this hero.。
And he's just neurotic and he's narcissistic。
and he's mean to David and he tries to kill David.。
And for the rest of that book,。
the legacy that Saul leaves all of us。
is just running after David,。
constantly frustrated by David.。
And then the end of the book,。
Saul dies rather uneventfully on the battlefield。
and his life is over.。
And so we can sit here tonight and we can look at Saul。
and we can cross our arms and we can read,。
go home tonight and read 1 Samuel.。
And we can sit there and pick on him and go,。
I can't believe he did that.。
I don't understand why he would go and do that.。
Doesn't he understand that David was gonna be。
the one that God wanted to lead.。
And we can sit here and we can nitpick all of that.。
But here's what we need to remember about Saul,。
that he stands as a reminder to all of us。
of what happens when we play the game.。
Our lives don't get healthier。
when we constantly play the game of comparison.。
Our lives get to be like Saul.。
But the other thing that Saul can remind us of is this,。
is that the reason you and I,。
the reason we play the comparison game。
is the exact same reason Saul played the comparison game.。
We are no different than Saul.。
The reason Saul played that game。
is the same reason we played that game.。
And the reason we all play that game is simply this,。
we do not trust God.。
That's it.。
I mean, every single one of us has faced。
a very similar situation to what Saul faced.。
I mean, Saul was not being chosen.。
He was not chosen.。
And we've all been through that.。
I mean, as David's fame started to rise,。
people were choosing David.。
They wanted to follow David.。
They wanted to be like him.。
And so they were choosing David。
and not choosing to follow after him or to celebrate him.。
And every single, we've all been through。
something like that.。
We can all think of circumstances in our life,。
whether it started in elementary school,。
at recess with kickball, and you were the last one chosen,。
or it moved on into high school or middle school。
or college with dating,。
you felt like you were never the one chosen。
to go to date functions or never the one chosen.。
Now, maybe today, maybe it went on to applying to colleges。
and you didn't get into the school。
that you wanted to get into, you were not chosen.。
Or maybe there were organizations you wanted to join。
at certain points in your life。
and you were not chosen to join those organizations.。
Maybe you didn't get the job that you wanted,。
or maybe in the job that you're in right now,。
you didn't get the promotion.。
And so every single one of us can identify。
with Saul's situation and go,。
we all have situations in our life。
where we were not chosen and it hurts.。
It hurts.。
I remember for me very specifically,。
one of the times in my life where I was not chosen,。
and there have been a lot, but one that stung.。
And it was in the winter of 1988, I was in eighth grade.。
And it was the winter ball.。
And the winter ball, it was a big deal.。
It was on a Friday night in eighth grade.。
And I just remember everybody went to it.。
And it was not a date function and that was okay.。
Everybody just showed up kind of stag to this thing.。
And that was really good for me in my circumstances。
because three weeks before the winter ball,。
I broke up with Jessica Vollmerhausen.。
So Jessica Vollmerhausen and I,。
we talked a little bit on the phone the summer。
before the class started or before school started.。
You know how that goes.。
You talk to somebody on the phone and you connect。
and you're like, I think I like her.。
And so third day of school,。
I asked Jessica Vollmerhausen to go with me.。
And she said, yes, she chose me.。
And we were like going together in eighth grade.。
And so we did things like we held hands this way,。
walking through the hallways like real lovers do, right?。
Like interlocked fingers.。
And we would hug sometimes, not side hugs。
'cause not following Jesus,。
full frontal hugs and all that, okay?。
And so we were dating or we were going together.。
I never took her on a date, right?。
So we were going together.。
And then for some reason we broke up.。
And so it was the time for the winter ball.。
And I got all dressed up.。
I got a picture of it.。
You guys wanna see it?。
This is what I looked like that night of the winter ball.。
Is it up?。
(congregation laughing)。
Very tall and handsome, very tall.。
There's tight rolled pants there.。
This is 1988.。
It's a gray turtleneck because that's a staple。
in everybody's wardrobe.。
Cardigan.。
Calculator watch.。
(congregation laughing)。
But I had like a smile that was like a 1920s picture。
for some reason, I don't know why.。
Like they never smiled back then and I was upset.。
And so anyway, I show up, I'm looking great.。
I show up to the winter ball.。
And I'm like, man, this is gonna be fun.。
I'm gonna be out there with all my friends.。
And so you know how that goes.。
You walk into the school and you walk through the hallway。
and you go into the multi-purpose room。
that you were just eating lunch in a few hours earlier.。
And those tables that fold in flat with the round seats,。
they're pushed over on the side.。
And so I walk into that room。
and then there's chairs all around and there's music blaring。
but nobody's dancing 'cause Salt-N-Pepa。
hasn't been played yet.。
And we're waiting for George Michael's father figure。
so we could start to slow dance and all that kind of stuff.。
And there's my friends.。
They're all sitting there, nobody's dancing.。
There's my friends.。
And I walk over and there's Jessica.。
She's got her dress on and a little corsage.。
And there's Miles.。
(congregation laughing)。
With his arm around her.。
'Cause now they're going together.。
And like my heart broke。
and I did what any eighth grade boy would do.。
I just went out in the hallway。
and I cried the rest of the night.。
Way more symphony than I deserve on that.。
All right, so I went out there。
and like my heart was broken.。
I was not chosen.。
And it was just the Lord preparing me。
for a lot of heartbreak for the rest of my life.。
But we've all been through situations like that。
where we have not been chosen for something。
and it stings every time.。
And I did what anybody would do.。
You know, as I'm sitting there and I'm trying to think like,。
hey, why did she choose him and not me?。
Was it the hair?。
Is it that I don't skateboard?。
Is it that he plays baseball better?。
Like, what is it?。
And you just start comparing your life to somebody else。
or the one who was chosen.。
And you just start trying to think of all of this stuff。
that you need to change and you just, you lose.。
You play the game and you lose.。
And we've all been through that.。
Saul went through that and that's why we go through it.。
And in that, it's not trusting God.。
So we've been through situations like that。
where we haven't been chosen.。
And then there's other situations like what Saul was facing。
where we just think maybe something's better out there.。
Like maybe something is better.。
Like maybe that person's better。
and so I need to maybe try to be。
a little bit more like them.。
Or maybe there's something around the corner.。
Or if I dated that person or if I did that job。
or if I had that title or if I went over to that company,。
then that would be better.。
And you start comparing and getting your eyes。
looking everywhere and it just starts to drive you。
crazy 'cause you just think something。
might be better out there.。
And so you can't enjoy anything that's going on right now.。
I saw a great example of this.。
I've got a seven year old and a five year old little boy.。
And a seven year old boy a couple of weeks ago named Jake.。
It was spring break and got to spend most of a day with him.。
And so we did a couple of things that were fun that day.。
And one of the things we were gonna do at the end of the day。
is I was gonna take him to Target and we were gonna get,。
I was gonna buy him some baseball cards。
and some Pokemon cards 'cause that's what he's into.。
And I was just gonna do it, not because he deserved it.。
And I was just gonna bless him.。
He's my son and I was spending time with him.。
And I just wanted to bless him with something。
that would make him happy.。
And so we're walking into Target and I'm like,。
"Hey Jake, here's the deal.。
"I'll buy you maybe two packs of that or one pack of that.。
"I got about $10 that I'll spend on you.。
"That's what I wanna do."。
And he's like, "Okay."。
And he's like, "All right, so what racks?"。
And he starts looking at that rack and those cards.。
And then he's over there.。
And then his eyes dropped from what I told him。
I would buy him and then it went to the lower shelf.。
And his eyes moved from the $4 packs。
and it started to move to the $25 shiny box.。
He's like, "Hey, can I get this?"。
And I'm like, "No, bud, that's 25 bucks.。
"I wanna spend about 10.。
"Can you get something else?"。
And he sees this other box and he's like,。
"Hey, can I get this?"。
And, "No, man, that one's 35.。
"I wanna bless you.。
"I just wanna spend about 10, okay?"。
And he's going over here and he's like, "How about that?"。
"No, that one's 50."。
Which, that's cardboard.。
All right, $50.。
And so maybe that and we're back and forth and fine.。
He could not make up his mind.。
He literally could not look at those other cards.。
His eyes were just drawn to the better ones.。
And finally, I just had to get down on one knee。
and I'm looking at him, I'm like,。
"Jake, I think we need to go.。
"I brought you here and I did this。
"and I wanted just to bless you。
"'cause I wanted to give you something.。
"And it seems like you're just,。
"you're so focused on what you're not gonna get。
"that you can't enjoy what I'm willing to freely give you."。
And so he sat there and he took the cards。
and he just kind of begrudgingly,。
we went through the line and I paid for him。
and he opened them up。
and now I'm sure he can't even find them.。
And it just, it completely robbed。
any of that joy that he had.。
He was so focused on the better,。
so focused on that might be better,。
what's in that box might be better,。
that he didn't trust me。
and he couldn't even enjoy any of it.。
And so every single one of us,。
we've been through situations just like Saul.。
We've been through situations in our life。
where we were not chosen for something。
or we've been through situations in our life。
where we think that there's something better out there.。
And guys, when we face those situations,。
we have two choices to make, that's it.。
There's only two things we can do.。
There's not three, not four, not five.。
There are two things we can do.。
Option number one is we can end those situations。
when we're not chosen。
or we think there may be something better.。
Option number one is trust God, trust him.。
And look at these circumstances,。
not as things that we need to fix。
or something that maybe God is trying to hold back from us,。
but look at that and remind ourselves。
of what David says in Psalm 115, verse three,。
that our God is in heaven。
and he does whatever he pleases.。
And remind ourselves of what David's son Solomon。
ultimately said here in Proverbs 16, nine,。
"In their hearts, humans plan their course,。
"but the Lord, the Lord is the one。
"who establishes their steps."。
Remind ourselves of what Paul wrote。
and that you guys studied last week in Romans 8, 28.。
And we know that in all things,。
God works for the good of those who love him。
and who have been called according to his purposes.。
These situations that we face。
where somebody else is being chosen。
or we think there's someone。
or something else out there that's better,。
these are situations where we can trust God.。
That's what we can do.。
We can trust him and just recognize that he's in heaven.。
He's the one controlling all of these circumstances.。
That's one option.。
Well, the other option is play the game.。
That's it.。
Trust him or play the comparison game.。
And if you choose not to trust him in those situations,。
if you choose to play the comparison game,。
and here's what's gonna happen.。
And here's what's gonna happen.。
Things are not gonna get better.。
You're gonna become more controlling.。
You're gonna become more manipulative.。
You're gonna become more discontent.。
You're gonna become filled with jealousy。
and filled with envy.。
You're gonna become more neurotic.。
You're gonna become more narcissistic.。
You're gonna just become this like,。
just totally and completely focused on yourself.。
You'll be miserable and you won't win。
'cause nobody ever, ever, ever wins the comparison game.。
You trust him or you play.。
I mean, here's the fact of the matter, guys.。
If there's ever a time in our life。
where we feel like we're winning,。
where we feel like things are going our way,。
where we feel like, hey, the relationships are going well,。
the job's going well, the bank account's going well,。
I feel like I'm winning right now.。
What we need to remember,。
we need to remember in those situations in life。
when you and I, when we feel like we're winning,。
we generally take a lot more credit。
for those times in our life than we deserve.。
We generally take a lot more credit than we deserve.。
I think again about my brother.。
When I was growing up in Manassas, Virginia。
is where I spent my elementary school years.。
In Manassas, Virginia, one of my favorite restaurants。
or my parents' favorite restaurants。
that we went to all the time was this place called El Taco,。
which is Spanish for the taco.。
(congregation laughing)。
All right, so this was like this one Mexican restaurant。
in Manassas, Virginia,。
nowhere close to being as good as what we have。
up here in North Texas, praise the Lord.。
But this is what we had, all right?。
This is what we had in Manassas, Virginia.。
It was cheap and the kids kind of liked it。
and they were always friends there.。
And so we went to El Taco a lot.。
And so we showed up to El Taco。
and El Taco was in this strip center.。
And so there was no playground there.。
And so my little brother, my little brother,。
we'd walk into El Taco and my parents were like,。
"What do we do with a five-year-old?"。
And so my dad came up with this brilliant idea.。
He knew that there was an original Pac-Man machine。
and we didn't know it was original at that time.。
It was just Pac-Man.。
And so there was a Pac-Man machine right there, video game.。
And my dad would get one of those chairs。
and he would turn it around。
and he'd put it right in front of that Pac-Man machine.。
He'd pick my brother up and he'd say, "Play."。
And he'd walk away,。
would not put a quarter in the machine, all right?。
(congregation laughing)。
Would just tell my brother to play.。
And 'cause my dad, brilliant,。
he knew that like the computer would play。
the simulated game and he knew my brother。
was not at that time very smart.。
And so he would sit there and he'd be like, "Oh, yeah, yeah."。
And then my dad, he knows,。
eating burritos or whatever and come over。
and he'd be like, "How you doing?"。
"Doing better than last week, keep it up," right?。
And my brother would walk out of there going like,。
"I'm the man, I can play Pac-Man better than anybody."。
He was never playing the game, ever.。
He was taking way more credit。
than he deserved for all of that.。
And isn't that true?。
Isn't that what we do?。
When things in life, when it feels like we're winning,。
when the circumstances are working out,。
we generally, we're not winning.。
Like if those things are going like that,。
that's not, these are not rewards for being awesome.。
These are opportunities to be faithful,。
opportunities to steward.。
What God in His grace and His mercy and His sovereignty,。
as He's in heaven doing whatever He pleases,。
has decided to bring into our life.。
That's what's going on when it feels like we're winning,。
which means the opposite is true.。
If we feel like we're losing,。
if we feel like the circumstances in life。
are not comparing to our friends。
and it's just not adding up。
and we're starting to feel bad and sorry for ourselves,。
we're not losing in those situations.。
Most of the time,。
when those circumstances are not working out,。
we take way more blame on ourselves than we really deserve.。
'Cause here's the deal,。
if we start to compare and we start to think,。
oh, if I just changed the way I look,。
if I just looked this way,。
or if I just got that job,。
or if I just got this money,。
or I could just get into this relationship,。
or if this one would just work out,。
like if all of that stuff changed,。
that's not gonna make us more content.。
Those aren't circumstances that need to be manipulated。
and that need to be changed.。
Those are circumstances where we need to just trust.。
We need to trust.。
So this first King Saul,。
he reminds us that the reason you and I play this game。
that nobody wins。
is the exact same reason he played the game.。
And we play the game because we do not trust God.。
And Saul also stands as this tragic reminder。
of the consequences of playing that game.。
It does not go well.。
It ends up poorly for all of us。
because there is no win in the game of comparison.。
So let's look at the second King here.。
Let's look at David.。
So Saul, the end of chapter 31 in 1 Samuel,。
Saul died, David became the king.。
And it's really interesting.。
I mean, Saul's legacy was one of jealousy。
and being neurotic and narcissistic。
and being jealous and running after David.。
So that's Saul's legacy.。
What's really interesting。
is that's like the complete opposite of David's legacy.。
David became king.。
And what is the legacy that we know about David?。
We know that he was one of the greatest。
kings ever for the nation of Israel.。
It's not the greatest king ever for the nation of Israel.。
And the other thing we know about David。
is that his reputation was that he was a man。
after God's own heart.。
We know David was not perfect,。
but we know that even in his imperfection,。
he handled it in a way that still for us today is a model.。
And David left us this amazing gift.。
He left us the Psalms, his writings.。
It's almost like reading his journal,。
reading his innermost thoughts.。
And what you see is you can see。
his innermost thoughts.。
And what you see as you read through David's writings,。
as you read through the Psalms,。
you just get this glimpse into his heart。
and the way that he viewed the world.。
And you just get this sense。
that David had just decided and resolved in his heart。
that he was gonna do whatever he possibly could do。
to make sure that his eyes stayed on God.。
That his heart and his eyes and his affections。
were gonna remain as steadfast as possible on the Lord.。
And because he was so focused on God,。
and growing in his relationship with him and trusting him,。
because he was so focused on him,。
the thought of playing the comparison game。
never even seemed to cross his mind.。
So one of these stories is David was chasing after Saul.。
Excuse me, Saul was chasing after David.。
He was trying to kill him and David didn't wanna die.。
And so in 1 Samuel chapter 21,。
David flees where Saul is, flees the geographic area。
and goes to this town where he's a stranger,。
he's a foreigner, it's this town called Gath.。
And he shows up there and he's frustrated and he's upset.。
And he knows that Saul is coming after him.。
And you can imagine like if that was us,。
if somebody was coming after us,。
if we were innocent and somebody was coming after us。
and driving us and we knew that somebody was jealous of us。
and envious of us,。
and we were sitting there in the same situation。
that David was, that we would be sitting there。
and just go, you know what?。
I'm gonna play this game.。
I'm gonna fight.。
If he's gonna compete against me,。
then I'm gonna compete against him.。
If he's gonna come after me, then I'm gonna go after him.。
I'm not gonna let him ruin my life.。
If it's me, that's the way I would react.。
But that's not the way David reacted.。
So David gave us this gift in Psalm 56.。
And in here guys, in here,。
I think David gives us this indication。
like these really, really practical things。
that you and I can do to avoid playing that comparison game.。
So here he is, he's sitting in this town。
where he's a foreigner.。
He's got somebody coming after me。
and look at what he does here.。
First, Psalm 56, the first thing he does。
is he just confesses reality to God.。
Just confesses reality to God.。
He says, "God, be merciful."。
Verse one, "Be merciful to me, my God.。
"For my enemies are in hot pursuit.。
"All day long, they press their attack.。
"My adversaries pursue me all day long.。
"In their pride, many are attacking me."。
And so he started off just going,。
listen, God, they're coming after me.。
You know it, but I'm just confessing what reality is.。
My enemies are pressing in on me right now.。
And then skip on down to verse five.。
Look at what he does now.。
Now he just admits the way he feels about that.。
He doesn't hide it, he doesn't suppress it.。
He just says, "Hey, here's the reality, God.。
"I'm kind of afraid of this.。
"I'm not happy about the situation that I'm in right now."。
And so here's verse five.。
"All day long, they twist my words.。
"All their schemes are for my ruin.。
"They conspire, they lurk, they watch my steps,。
"hoping to take my life.。
"Because of their wickedness, do not let them escape.。
"In your anger, God, bring the nations down."。
Look at this in verse eight.。
"Record my misery."。
He's just pleading with God.。
God, you know I'm miserable over this, record it.。
Do you see what's going on?。
Record my misery.。
List my tears, Lord, on your scroll.。
Are they not in your record?。
So he confesses reality.。
He just admits what he's feeling with all this,。
but then look at what he does here.。
Now he starts to remind himself of the truth.。
He starts to speak the truth.。
Look at here in verse nine.。
"Then my enemies will turn back when I call for help.。
"By this, I will know that God is for me.。
"By this, I will know that God is for me.。
"In God, whose word I praise.。
"In the Lord, whose word I praise.。
"In God, I trust.。
"And am not afraid."。
And then look at this question.。
Look at how honest, like here's truth.。
What can man do to me?。
He's, God, I'm confessing the situation is not what I like.。
And God, I'm not feeling great about this,。
but God, I trust you.。
What can these guys, what can they do to me?。
And then look at how he wraps this off.。
He doesn't stop there, which is speaking the truth.。
And then he just reminds himself and he's grateful.。
He's thankful.。
Verse 12.。
"And I am under vows to you, my God,。
"and I will present my thank offerings to you,。
"for you've delivered me from death。
"and my feet from stumbling,。
"that I may walk before God in the light of life."。
And so here's what David has reminded us of,。
is that in those situations,。
in those situations when we are tempted to compare,。
what we need to be able to do is we need to be sure。
that we are casting our eyes on God.。
Casting our eyes on God and confessing the reality。
of what we're feeling,。
admitting what's going on, that we're not okay with it.。
Like emotionally, we're afraid or we're scared。
or we're frustrated by that.。
But then we speak the truth and remind ourself。
of who God is.。
And we're grateful, we're thankful.。
So it's God, hey, God, I did not get that promotion.。
They chose somebody else.。
God, my roommate from college is now having。
their second child and I am still single.。
I'm not okay with that.。
God, it seems like they're the ones always having fun.。
It seems like things are just going better。
for them right now.。
And I just wanna confess this reality to you.。
And I just wanna admit,。
I just wanna admit I'm not okay with it.。
Like this hurts, this stings, this is frustrating.。
I'm afraid.。
I'm afraid I'm never gonna get that promotion.。
I'm afraid that I'm always gonna be。
in this relational situation.。
I'm afraid that there's something wrong with me.。
And that's why other people are always being asked。
to go places and I'm not.。
I'm afraid of all of this.。
But God, I'm gonna remind myself of truth right now.。
I'm gonna remind myself, God, that you're good.。
That when I ask for bread, you don't give a stone.。
That you are a good father and you only know。
how to give good gifts.。
That you are in heaven and I am not.。
And you are in heaven and you are the one。
who does whatever you please.。
And I've got plans in my heart right now,。
but I want you to be the one to direct my steps.。
I wanna be reminded of your truth, Lord.。
And I wanna be thankful.。
Thankful that you hear me.。
Thankful that I'm not alone right now.。
And thankful that I can come to you.。
And thankful that I don't have to play that game。
that I'm so tempted to play right now.。
And I know, 'cause I know that's gonna make me miserable.。
And so Saul, he stood as this reminder。
of what happens if we play the comparison game.。
And he stood as this reminder to us。
as to why we play that game.。
And David is this reminder to us of how we can avoid it.。
And here's the deal, guys.。
When we are tempted to compare,。
then what we need to do is we need to be very careful。
where we start to stare.。
We need to do whatever we can to cast our eyes on God,。
to stay focused on Him.。
Because if we play that game,。
if our eyes start going down and start focusing。
on all the things that we don't have,。
if we do that, if we play that game, we will not win.。
Nobody ever wins that game.。
And so I'll close with this tonight。
and just talk a little bit about。
how this kind of invades some of my life right now,。
how I can be tempted to compare.。
And I'll talk about a coworker of mine.。
So it's a coworker of mine that I have here at Watermark。
and that you guys all know, and this coworker is JP.。
And so if I compare my life to JP,。
there's a lot on the surface that would look like。
things are different between he and I.。
Just kind of personally, between me and JP,。
he's a lot taller, a little better looking,。
dresses a little different, better hair product, right?。
Drives a cooler truck, I don't even have a truck, right?。
So there's some personal things there。
that on the surface would look like,。
hey, things are a little bit different.。
They're professionally, professionally in our world,。
you know, as pastors, you kind of sometimes。
will judge success by stages that you can stand on。
and how often you get to put on a microphone。
and the size of the crowd that you get to speak to。
or the size of the ministry that you get to lead.。
And JP leads one of the largest ministries。
here at Watermark on a weekly basis.。
He gets to stand in front of thousands。
and thousands of people.。
His inbox is full of people who want his time,。
want his thoughts, want his counsel.。
There's often requests coming in,。
because people wanna hear JP teach the Bible.。
They wanna be inspired by him as he stewards。
and uses his gifts that God has given him。
to stand on platforms with microphones。
and to encourage and challenge and equip the church.。
And his inbox gets a lot more of those requests。
than I tend to get.。
I lead the college ministry here at Watermark。
and sometimes I get to stand on stage with a microphone,。
but numbers wise, he stands in front of 3,500.。
I stand in front of 70 on a regular basis.。
(congregation laughing)。
And so you would look at all of that。
and you would say, "Hey, you know,。
"it doesn't really seem like it compares."。
And then on top of all of that,。
JP isn't just my coworker, he's actually my boss.。
And then on top of all of that,。
he's five and a half years younger than me.。
When I was a freshman in college, he was in eighth grade.。
And people would maybe look at that。
or there would be this temptation。
or the world would just go, "Hey, on the surface, Adam,。
"it looks like he's winning and you're not."。
And there would be this temptation to try to, you know,。
look at his life and compare myself to his life,。
but I don't compare my life to his life.。
And the number one reason I don't compare my life。
to his life is because I love that guy.。
He's been one of the greatest friends that I've had。
since I've been here on staff.。
He has been such a help to me and to my family.。
And he is one of the most amazing bosses。
that I probably will ever have.。
I know that guy loves me.。
I know that he is for me.。
And I just know the affections that he has for me。
and I love him.。
And so I do not want to compare my life to him.。
So that's one reason why I'm not gonna play that game。
when it comes to JP.。
But the other reason I'm not gonna play that game。
is because he's not winning and I'm not losing.。
Because you don't win and lose by stages that you stand on。
or people that are asking for your attention。
or crowds that you get to speak to.。
That's not winning or losing.。
You know what?。
He and I actually have the exact same job.。
Every morning he has the exact same job that I have.。
And the job that he has and the job that I have。
is the exact same job every single one of us。
has in this room.。
And that is to wake up every single morning。
and be faithful with whatever it is。
that God has put in front of you.。
If you wake up every morning and you're faithful。
with whatever circumstances that God who is in heaven。
doing what he pleases, whatever relational circumstances,。
whatever financial circumstances,。
whatever job circumstances, whatever your title is,。
if you wake up every single morning。
and you don't play the comparison game,。
you just go, Lord, you are in heaven.。
You do as you please and you are good.。
And I'm gonna be faithful。
with what's right here in front of me.。
You do that, I'm telling you guys, you don't lose.。
When JP wakes up every morning, he's gotta be faithful.。
And when I wake up every morning, I've gotta be faithful.。
We all have things that we need to steward。
and be faithful with every single day.。
And when you do that, you don't lose。
because you don't play the game。
'cause nobody ever, ever wins that game.。
And so we trust him.。
We keep our eyes on him.。
We pursue after him and we be faithful.。
That's how you avoid the game, amen?。
Amen, let me pray for us.。
God, thank you so much for just your word.。
Thank you for our friend JP, Lord,。
just what a blessing he is to all of us in this room.。
I know I'm not the only coworker on this staff。
that would just celebrate him and thank you for him。
and what he does in our life.。
And I'm just grateful for him, God.。
I'm grateful, Lord, that for David and his message to us,。
that we can confess reality,。
that we can be honest and truthful, Lord,。
with what we're feeling.。
But you've given us a lot of truth to speak to ourselves。
and to share with others.。
And God, we can be grateful.。
And so here's the deal, God, we don't wanna play the game.。
We don't wanna compare.。
We don't wanna be like Saul.。
We wanna be like David.。
And we can't do it on our own, Lord.。
We need you to help us to keep our eyes focused on you.。
We wanna be grateful for all the amazing things。
you as our father have given us.。
We don't wanna start looking around。
at what you haven't given us。
and start becoming discontent with that.。
And we need your help.。
And so God, will you help us to trust you,。
to keep our eyes on you and to be faithful?。
And that's what we pray in the name of Jesus, amen.。
- All of one more truth。
as we've been talking about this tonight, Ephesians 1.。
Let's look at what Paul says.。
He reminds us here, he says this, he says,。
"For he," talking about God, "chose us.。
"For God chose us in him before the creation of the world.。
"Before we were a thought in our parents' mind,。
"the sovereign God of the universe, he chose us.。
"He set his affections on us.。
"And he chose us to be holy and blameless in his sight.。
"And he did this, he did this in love.。
"In love, he predestined us for adoption of sonship。
"through Jesus Christ,。
"in accordance with the pleasure of his will."。
So maybe for some of us in here tonight,。
just what we need to be reminded of as we walk out of here。
is just remembering,。
just remembering that maybe in our past,。
we weren't chosen by the guy in high school.。
We weren't chosen by the girl in college.。
We weren't chosen by the employer.。
We still feel like we're not being chosen now.。
There's all these people that have not chosen us.。
And may we never forget。
that the sovereign God of the universe,。
the creator of all of it, he chose us.。
And he set his affections on us,。
and he showed us his love。
in sending Jesus to die on the cross for us.。
And if we know that, if you're in here and you know that,。
you've placed your faith in Jesus, you walk out of here,。
never, ever, ever happen to play the comparison game again,。
because the only one who matters, he chose you,。
and he loves you.。
And there's some of you in a room,。
I'm sure with this many people in the room,。
that don't know who this Jesus is.。
You don't know who God is.。
And if that's you, if you would like to hear more。
about this God of the universe who chooses people,。
this God of the universe that sets his affections on people,。
this God of the universe that sent his son to die。
so that he could be in a relationship with you,。
we would love to tell you more about that.。
There'll be some people up here.。
I'll be up here.。
David will be up here afterwards.。
We'd love to talk to you and tell you more。
about this amazing God that we sing to and that we worship.。
If you're here and you're just trying to get connected。
and you want some opportunities maybe to meet。
some other guys or some other girls,。
guys, if you wanna meet some other guys,。
they'll be right out here in the South Community Room.。
You can meet some other guys and girls right out there。
in that North Community Room.。
You can go out there and meet some others.。
A bunch of people will be hanging out afterwards。
here tonight as well.。
We thank you guys for coming and trusting us。
with some of your time tonight,。
and we will be back next week.。
You guys have an awesome week.。
Take care.。
