(congregation applauding)。
(upbeat music)。
- All right, PORCH, how we doing tonight?。
(congregation cheering)。
If we haven't met, like you said, my name is JD.。
I serve here every Tuesday night。
as the creative director of our young adult ministry.。
We call it The PORCH.。
I just wanna welcome my friends tuning in。
on our live locations.。
We got PORCH Live Scottsdale,。
PORCH Live Northwest Arkansas,。
where my newly fiance resides right now.。
(congregation cheering)。
And last but not least,。
give a warm welcome to PORCH Live Cincy tuning in tonight.。
And of course, last but not least,。
my friends in the room in Dallas, Texas.。
So excited, so pumped.。
We are heading into night three of our summer series,。
Hot Takes Summer.。
We're just going all in,。
talking about some controversial topics, some hot takes.。
You might like them, you might not.。
It's been getting spicy.。
We are in night three tonight.。
And what David kinda did,。
he kinda set this like thing in motion.。
We didn't even really plan it,。
but the speaker now is supposed to get up。
and just start off the message。
with just giving off some personal hot takes.。
And so take them or leave them.。
Here is JD's hot takes.。
Spent some time on these, so hope you like them.。
Hot take number one,。
girls slide into guys' DMs。
way more than guys slide into girls' DMs.。
I'm just saying, especially Christian girls.。
Y'all can't wait for him to post that story。
so you can reply.。
That's sliding into DMs, all right?。
Hot take number two,。
there is no one in this room。
that could beat me in Nintendo 64,。
not Nintendo Switch, get that out of here, I'm a millennial.。
Nintendo 64, Mario Kart, or Super Smash Bros,。
you can't beat me.。
Challenge me, bro, all right?。
Come at me.。
You think you got, okay.。
I'll meet you outside after, all right?。
With Kirby, all right, with Kirby.。
Hot take number three,。
LaCroix, it's trash.。
(audience cheering)。
The first time I ever tried it,。
I said, this tastes like someone got。
one of them little coffee styrofoam cups,。
dropped some Skittles in it,。
and left it outside for a day.。
That's what it tastes like.。
Waterloo is where it's at.。
If you've had Waterloo, get some Waterloo, try it out.。
That's where it's at.。
Hot take number four, last but not least,。
you should never, ever, ever, ever, ever,。
under any circumstance,。
listen to Christmas music before December 1st.。
(audience cheering)。
Never, never.。
And when you do, when it finally gets to December 1st,。
your first song must be Mariah Carey's classic,。
♪ All I want for Christmas is you ♪。
That's that, right, front row got it.。
But that's not what we're talking about tonight.。
Tonight's porch hot take summer number three is this.。
Sin is really, really fun until it's not.。
Sin is really, really fun until it's not.。
And I think some of you right now are like,。
oh Lord, here goes the church guy。
talking about how I shouldn't sin.。
And the reality is,。
is I don't even wanna start off by assuming。
that some of you even understand what I mean。
when I say the word sin.。
And so let me just define it really quick.。
Here's the definition, a quick definition of sin.。
Sin is anything, anything that you think,。
say, or do that dishonors God.。
Sin is anything that you think, say, or do。
that dishonors God.。
And the reason why we would say this is a hot take。
is because it's so normal to think。
that when you come into church, like places like tonight,。
it's so like classic to hear people say,。
hey, don't sin, don't sin, don't sin.。
And you might be looking about like,。
hey, like of course, like the young Christian guy saying,。
hey, you shouldn't sin, do better.。
But the reality is, is like sin,。
the reason why we do it is because deep down,。
we know it's fun.。
And my problem is, is I'm not out here like,。
hey, don't sin.。
My problem is, is I know deep down, like I want sin.。
Like I actually think sin is too fun.。
Like there was a time in college。
where sin really marks my life.。
Like I've always been a sinner, like we all have.。
Romans 3, 23, for all have sinned。
and fallen short of the glory of God.。
But there was this time in college。
where sin really just marks my life.。
I followed it and not God.。
And I was always jealous of those guys。
that could like go to the club.。
Like my vice is partying.。
It's my, that's just me, okay.。
I like to go out.。
I know a lot of you probably aren't surprised.。
I like to go out, have a good time, have some drinks,。
hang out with people, work the room.。
Honestly, I'll do that sober.。
But after I get a few drinks in me,。
I was always just those guys that could like drink。
with like the beer.。
I don't like beer, I'll say it.。
I'm like a margarita guy.。
And they have the beers,。
they're just chilling the whole night on the side,。
like watching everyone else。
and like just talking, looking all cool.。
I was never that guy.。
Like I was totally the guy that got a few drinks in me,。
tabletop, like get in there.。
Yeah, yeah, yeah.。
Like that was me.。
Like I was that guy every single night of the week.。
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday,。
recoup on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday.。
Like that's what marked my life。
and what was so fun at first.。
Like, I mean, it was truly fun.。
Quickly, like that pattern of living my life,。
'cause I was following God before that,。
but then I kind of went on my own way for a season.。
And like my life suddenly started to get more predictable。
and more boring deep down。
and more lonely and more stressful.。
And I could tell you what I was gonna do。
every single night of the week.。
And I looked around and I'm like, we're all miserable.。
Like we're all like fooling ourself。
and we're like doing it in the name of fun.。
And some of you are like, no, trust me, bro.。
Like I'm still having fun,。
but I'm telling you tonight, sin is really fun。
until it's not.。
And you wanna make sure that you take care of sin。
before it takes care of you.。
You wanna get out of ahead of it.。
And I think some of us tonight, you're like,。
well, I'm not like really that deep.。
And this talk is for everyone,。
whether you're like deep in it,。
whether you're like thinking about it,。
whether you're toying with it,。
this message is for everyone。
because we all have something in us that wants sin.。
And the reality is if sin is actually fun,。
why doesn't it stay fun?。
Like if we're going out chasing the high,。
why do we have to keep striving to get higher。
and higher and higher?。
And why is every single high accompanied by a low?。
Like if it was truly just for a good time,。
why doesn't it stay a good time?。
Like if you think about your life,。
I bet if right now I sat down with each one of you。
and pinpointed the most painful thing。
that's ever happened to you,。
I bet in some way I could trace it back to its origin.。
And the beginning of that result。
began with what the Bible would define as a sinful action.。
Like so much that is hurting us in the world。
is because of sin, divorce, STDs,。
school shootings,。
it's because sin became fun for a short while for someone,。
but then it grew and grew and grew。
and that sin was fun until it wasn't.。
And I just wanna address something like this talk tonight,。
like David got the sex talk, I got the sin talk.。
Great, like, thank you, David.。
But the reality is,。
is like this is gonna be a very sobering message.。
But I also wanna go ahead。
and give you some hope and relief right up top.。
Like, if you will sit in the weight of your sin,。
you then get to sit in the beauty of the cross.。
And that's where we're heading tonight.。
But we gotta get there.。
We gotta sit in the weight first of what sin is。
and what it means for us,。
that it's fun until it's not.。
We say this quote around here a lot.。
It says this,。
"Sin will take you further than you ever wanted to go,。
"keep you longer than you ever wanted to stay,。
"and cost you more than you ever wanted to pay."。
Let's say that one more time.。
"Sin will take you further than you ever wanted to go,。
"keep you longer than you ever wanted to stay,。
"and cost you more than you ever wanted to pay."。
And tonight I wanna explain,。
I wanna just like do a deep dive on this quote。
and rip it apart into three different sections.。
And I wanna talk about the reality of sin in our lives。
and the effects it can have to us and on us.。
And just talk about what we can do to get ahead of it.。
And so here we go.。
"Sin is really fun until it, one,。
"takes you further than you ever wanted to go."。
What do I mean by that?。
When I was thinking about how this point,。
I was thinking about this time in college。
where I was walking out of this basketball game.。
It was like nine o'clock and my three college roommates,。
they knew that I was kind of in a pity party.。
They were like, "JD needs to pick me up."。
So they drive up and they're like,。
"Hey, get in the car, we're gonna go eat。
"some jalapeno tree down the road, get some fajitas."。
And I'm like, "That sounds good."。
So I get in the car, they start driving, they're chilling.。
And I look over and I'm like,。
"Hey guys, we just passed the jalapeno tree."。
And they look at me and they'd have this like。
sly smile on their face.。
They hit the lock button.。
And then they did the weirdest thing.。
They crank up that song, what's it called?。
It's like,。
♪ Coming out of my cage and I'll be doing just fine ♪。
What's it called?。
Mr. Brightside, thank you.。
They start playing Mr. Brightside as loud。
as the car will get and they just put it on repeat.。
So they just keep driving and it's like jealousy.。
And I'm like, "Where are we going?"。
And they just keep driving and keep driving.。
They won't answer me.。
Next thing I know, we start in Texas and we're passing,。
"Welcome to Louisiana."。
They just keep driving and driving and driving.。
And they pretty much just kept driving through the night。
until we ran out of gas.。
And they thought it was fun.。
They're like, "Wasn't this awesome?。
"Wasn't this an adventure?"。
I'm like, "Get me back home.。
"I have class tomorrow."。
So we have some fun in Louisiana.。
We head back, we come back.。
We get back at like 4.30 in the morning.。
I thought I was getting in the car to go to Jalapeno Tree。
and eat some fajitas for two.。
They had another plan.。
They trapped me against my will and take me further。
than I ever wanted to go.。
To Louisiana of all places in the name of fun.。
And I say that because I think that Satan。
does the same to us.。
He convinces us, "Hey, hop in the car.。
"We're just gonna go on a little joy ride."。
And he takes you further than you ever thought you'd go.。
That's what he does with sin.。
He convinced you that it's just for a quick little ride.。
You'll be back tonight.。
Just come in, try this out, try out this sin.。
Just take a little joy ride.。
We'll come right back.。
The reality is, is his main goal is to take you。
and let that sin produce something in you。
where you want more and more and more.。
And you go further and further and further。
than you ever thought you were.。
Like, think about like you,。
like you might need a pick me up every now and then。
and you go searching.。
And then Satan says, "Hey, go out tonight.。
"Go out with your friends, hop in the car.。
"Come enjoy just a little ride around town."。
And so you're like, "Yeah, I can just go out。
"and I'll just control, I'll just have one drink."。
And then your friends are like, "Get another。
"and get another."。
And they're like, "How about we go over here?"。
Go to another place.。
Some girls join, like, "How about we go over here?"。
You're at a house, you're drinking more the whole time。
because people are like, "Let's just keep going,。
"let's just keep going."。
As you're sitting there and you're drunk in state,。
you're like, "Hmm, what should I do?。
"I guess, redownload Snapchat."。
You get on Snapchat, you start snapping that girl。
that you only use.。
You go over there, you hook up。
after you said you were done with that.。
And you're laying there the next morning。
and you're like, "I thought I was just going out.。
"Like, how did I get here?"。
And it's because your sin took you further。
than you ever wanted to go.。
Like, so for some of you ladies,。
I know that body image can be a really big struggle.。
You got, like, hot girl summer coming up,。
you got vacations coming up,。
you got all this pressure to look good in a swimsuit。
for the 'gram.。
You get on Instagram, you see workouts,。
you do one workout, you do two workouts.。
Oh, what do you know, vacation's getting here。
before you know it.。
I'll skip one meal, I'll skip just two meals.。
I'll pick it back up when I get to vacation.。
And you're starving yourself so you can look a certain way。
and feel a certain way about yourself.。
And you're experiencing such a low quality of life,。
you don't actually feel comfortable and confident。
in your skin.。
And you're just sitting there bound in this eating disorder。
and you're like, "How did I get here?。
"How did I get here?"。
And what started as just like,。
"Man, I wanna make sure I just feel good in a swimsuit,"。
led you further and further and further。
because that's what sin does,。
is it convinces you that you're getting in the car。
for just a short while,。
but it keeps driving and driving and driving.。
And the reason why is because sin's ultimate destination。
is separation.。
Sin's destination is ultimate separation.。
Sin's main priority, the father of sin,。
the creator of sin, Satan,。
his job is to convince you it's just fun。
to get some happiness for just a little bit,。
but he has a plan.。
And you're going in with no plan,。
but he has a plan, it's to ruin your life.。
John chapter 10 talks about how his only objective。
is to steal, kill, and destroy.。
He wants to rob you of life and life to the full,。
the life that God wants to offer you.。
He wants to trap you in the ride。
and take you further than you ever wanted to go.。
Think about this.。
When that now alcoholic got offered that first drink。
in a moment of weakness at the age of 16,。
they didn't take that drink and think,。
I'm gonna one day be an alcoholic。
and not be able to find love because I'm so obsessed。
and I need alcohol so bad.。
Like that person that looked at Playboy for that first time。
when they were 10, 11, 12,。
like they didn't think, I'm gonna look at this.。
So one day in college,。
when my friends invite me to go out for the weekend,。
I'm gonna tell them I'm too tired。
so I can plan my weekend around watching enough porn.。
Like sin does not tell you its destination for you.。
It just tells you to get in the car for a quick ride.。
But the reality is, I mean, it's sobering.。
It wants to take you so much further.。
I taught in the James series,。
this verse in James chapter one, verse 14, it says,。
"Temptation comes from our own desires,。
which entice us and drag us away.。
These desires give birth to sinful actions.。
And when sin is allowed to grow, it gives birth to death."。
What James is basically saying here is that,。
hey, sin never ends where it begins.。
It never ends where it begins.。
Yeah, sure, it just starts as a momentary thought,。
but then that thought gives into your own evil desires.。
It entices you, it calls you out,。
and you try that thing, and then that sin, you try it again,。
and you keep going back to it and back to it。
for momentary fixes, but you have to keep searching。
and searching and reaching for the next high.。
And then eventually that sin leads you down death,。
to a path of death.。
Because sin's destination is ultimate separation.。
That's always been its destination。
since the very beginning of sin.。
You guys know when sin was created,。
it happened in Genesis chapter three,。
the third chapter in the Bible.。
We see this moment where Adam and Eve。
were placed in the garden with the creator God himself.。
He gave them so much fruit to enjoy,。
and he asked one thing out of trust and faith.。
He said one thing, "Don't eat of that fruit.。
Would you trust me?"。
But then the father of sin, the serpent comes in,。
and what does he tell them?。
Hey, hey, hey, don't trust God.。
God isn't good.。
You know what he's doing?。
He's withholding from you.。
He's holding you back.。
He knows that if you eat that fruit,。
you're gonna be like him.。
And it says, "When Eve saw that the fruit。
seemed good to the eyes,。
and they had the ability to make one wise,。
she took of it and she ate,。
then she gave it to Adam and he ate."。
And then boom, separation.。
There was a separation between a holy God。
that once got to dwell with his creation,。
and now because his creation rebelled against him,。
there was a separation.。
And then death was implemented into our world。
because of sin.。
Look what it says in Genesis chapter three, verse 19.。
"God comes down after this action,。
and he looks at the serpent, he curses it.。
He looks at the man, he curses,。
or the woman, he curses her,。
and then he looks at the man, and this is what he says.。
"By the sweat of your brow will you have food to eat。
until you return to the ground from which you were made,。
for you were made from dust, and to dust you will return."。
Satan said to Eve, "Hey, get in, get in.。
The destination, we're gonna go be like God.。
We're gonna have a lot of better things。
than we have right now, get in."。
But the reality was, is he took Adam and Eve。
so much further than they ever thought。
that they were gonna go.。
He took them to separation from their creator,。
a God that loved them, and he wants to do the same to you.。
He will do anything he can to convince you。
that sin is worth it, and that sin is fun,。
and that sin is your solution,。
but the only solution is God.。
And if tonight you are someone。
that has been in the car with Satan,。
and you've gone so much further。
than you've ever wanted to go, I've got good news.。
God wants you back.。
Like you haven't gone too far.。
God wants you back.。
He wants you to turn around and come back to him,。
and he's made a way for that.。
We're gonna get there.。
But the reality is, is most people keep riding in the car,。
and we keep going further and further,。
believing that we're trapped,。
believing that sin is better,。
and since we feel trapped,。
we think that we have to stay trapped,。
which leads me to point number two.。
Sin is fun until it keeps you longer。
than you ever wanted to stay.。
What do I mean by that?。
Sin keeps you longer than you ever wanted to stay.。
A lot of times when you first start interacting。
with a certain sin, what it does is that it convinces you。
that you have the freedom to interact。
and come and go with that sin as you please, as you see fit.。
Like that sin tells you, hey, if you wanna get high,。
you get to pick and choose when you get high.。
If you wanna get high tonight, get high.。
If you don't, don't.。
Come and go as you please.。
You're a free man.。
This is what sin promises you.。
It says that you get freedom,。
but it's lying to you.。
Just like in the first point, sin said, get in the car.。
We're just going for a quick joy ride,。
and it took you further than you ever wanted to go.。
This one says, hey, come and go as you please,。
and you believe that you're free, but really you're trapped.。
Like the reason why we all love our house,。
I don't know about y'all,。
but I love the comfort of my home.。
Like I get to come and go as I please.。
I get to walk in, I get to cook when I want,。
do laundry when I want, walk around how I want,。
wearing what I want.。
I get to...。
(laughing)。
Anyways.。
And the reason why I feel like I can do that,。
because it's my home.。
It's my house.。
Y'all parents ever say to you growing up,。
my house, my rules.。
Y'all ever got that?。
Or hey, house rules, playing ping pong.。
Rules that don't even make sense.。
But the reality is, is if it's your house,。
you think my house, my rules.。
And that's what sin convinces you.。
It's like, come and stay, your house, your rules.。
Interact with sin how you want,。
but that's never what happens.。
It tells you you're a free man,。
but really you're a slave if you're obeying sin.。
Paul articulates that better than I do.。
In Romans chapter six, verse 16, he says,。
"Don't you realize that you become the slave。
of whatever you choose to obey?。
You can be a slave to sin, which leads to death,。
or you can choose to obey God,。
which leads to righteous living."。
Paul's saying here that, hey,。
you must see that if you choose to obey sin。
and it's desires for you to go and chase it。
whenever you want, however you want,。
you're actually a slave to it.。
You're a slave to the master that is sin.。
I was thinking about when I was writing this talk,。
and I was thinking about just like the idea of searching。
and staying with my sin and going further with my sin,。
I thought of the song "Amazing Grace."。
We all know it.。
Like we heard it at funerals, we've heard it at church.。
And there's a line in there that says,。
"Amazing grace, how sweet the sound。
that saved a wretch like me.。
I once was lost, but now I'm found,。
was blind, but now I see."。
And I was thinking about what sin wants to do,。
because what Jesus does,。
Jesus is in the business of taking lost people。
and making them found people,。
taking deaf people and making them hearing people,。
taking blind people and making them seeing people,。
but sin will do whatever it can to get in the way。
of the second half of those phrases.。
He wants to find people and go,。
"I once was lost and I stayed lost.。
I once was blind and I stay blind."。
Sin doesn't want you to experience Jesus.。
Sin doesn't want you to experience freedom.。
It wants you to think you're having fun,。
but really you're a slave.。
And then when I was thinking about,。
okay, this is how I write my talks.。
It's like, I once was lost, but now I'm found.。
Hey, remember lost and founds?。
That was like the best day of the year。
when all the people who didn't come。
get their lost and found stuff,。
you got to go get whatever you wanted.。
Lost and found, hey, that'd make for a good illustration.。
Because here's the purpose of the lost and found.。
The lost and found, as you know,。
its intention is, hey, if someone loses something,。
like we have something in us that wants it。
to go back to where it belongs.。
That's why we create things like lost and founds.。
And so if I lost my watch,。
hopefully someone would not be like,。
"Hey, sweet watch."。
They would take it and go somewhere.。
We have a section over there in the other offices。
and go, "Hey, I need to return this to the lost and found."。
And they put the watch inside the lost and found。
because the reason that this exists。
is to restore things back to their original owner。
so they can fulfill their original purpose.。
That's the goal of a lost and found.。
But here's what Satan does.。
This is how he convinces you to stay longer。
than you ever wanted to.。
When something in your life comes,。
a trial comes in your life,。
say someone unexpectedly dies or that breakup comes,。
all of a sudden your heart is broken.。
You feel so lost.。
You feel so confused.。
You don't know if God is actually good.。
And you're out here wondering,。
and God wants you to come to Him,。
but sin, its job is to present itself in front of you。
right in the midst of the hardest times of your life.。
When you feel most lost, you need to watch out。
'cause that's when you're most susceptible to fall to sin.。
And so sin comes and it's like,。
"Hey, you're looking for some life?。
You're looking for some answers?。
You're looking for some solutions to your problems?。
I've got answers.。
You wanna be found?。
I can find you some happiness.。
I can find you some pleasure.。
I can find you some affirmation.。
Come over here."。
And it convinces you that you're in the lost and found。
and that you'll find answers.。
But the reality is, is you're actually lost and bound.。
That's what sin wants to do.。
It wants to convince you that you found the answer,。
but really you found nothing.。
You're actually just really bound。
because you've come over and it's like this.。
This is Hannah, okay?。
Hannah's come over here because she has lost her sense。
of self-worth and she feels super lonely.。
She feels so lonely and she's looking for anything.。
And so sin has brought her over.。
He said, "Hey, I've found an answer to your loneliness.。
Tinder."。
And so Hannah downloads Tinder.。
The reason why I named Hannah Hannah。
is because I Googled number one name on Tinder.。
(audience laughing)。
And so she's looking on Instagram.。
She sees more engagements.。
Sorry, Hannah.。
She sees more weddings, more relationships.。
And then she sees Jessica out having fun。
and she didn't invite her.。
It's always Jessica.。
(audience laughing)。
And so Hannah X's out of Instagram and she does it.。
She hits Tinder.。
And she gets on Tinder and she starts to swipe right,。
swipe right, before you know it.。
She thinks all hope is lost.。
She's brushing her teeth.。
Someone swipes right on her.。
So she's like, hmm.。
She looks, his profile is full of red flags.。
He's like, definitely not a Christian.。
But she's like, could he fix my loneliness tonight?。
I think so.。
The reality is, is Hannah thought she was lost and found,。
but her actions show me that she's been deceived。
and she's lost and bound.。
And if she continues this,。
Hannah is gonna find herself going to all the wrong sources。
to fix her loneliness.。
And it's actually gonna make her more and more and more。
of a slave to sin.。
Let's try Jake.。
Nice Jake.。
We all know a Jake.。
Jake's broken some of your hearts.。
Jake never got the atta boy from his father.。
And every guy was like, hmm.。
And so Jake has been searching for significance。
his whole life.。
And so he's searching and searching and searching.。
And he thinks, oh, significance maybe could lie within,。
I'm a young adult now, I've graduated from college.。
I've got my master's in business.。
And so I'll work really hard.。
And so Jake starts working 80 hours a week.。
And he thinks, okay, it's just for a quick moment.。
It's just for now, when I get married, I'll chill out.。
Because he hasn't felt significant in a long time,。
he keeps going and then he gets married.。
And then he has kids.。
Those kids, they cost a lot of money.。
And so he keeps going and they want more things.。
So he's buying more things.。
He keeps getting bigger homes, nicer cars.。
He keeps everything he can to maintain this image。
of significance and that, hey, look at me, I matter.。
He keeps going and going and going.。
And what started off with just, hey, I can keep doing it.。
I can keep working hard.。
I can keep, you know, he's like,。
oh, every time I get that paycheck,。
every time I start that new thing,。
every time I make that new purchase and my kids are happy,。
my wife is happy, I feel like I've found the answer.。
But the problem was, is that his kids aren't actually happy。
because he's never around.。
His wife isn't actually happy.。
She's faking it for her friends because he's never around.。
Why is he never around?。
Because he hasn't found the answer to significance.。
He's bound.。
He's a workaholic.。
And sin convinces you in your most lonely times,。
in your darkest times, hey, come with me.。
I'll find your answer.。
And it drops you off.。
It leaves you bound.。
It closes the lid.。
You find yourself trapped and still searching.。
You've been there longer than you ever wanted to。
because sin keeps us longer than we ever wanted to stay.。
And we give just about anything to get out.。
We seem like we've lost everything.。
We don't have enough to give, which is my third point.。
Sin cost us more than we ever wanted to pay.。
Sin cost us more than we ever wanted to pay.。
When I was writing this point,。
I couldn't help but think about a story in the Bible。
that we've all heard, we're very familiar with,。
especially if you've been coming here,。
it's called the story of the prodigal son。
or the runaway child.。
It's in Luke chapter 15.。
And what happens is there's this young adult,。
just like you and I,。
his story has so many parallels to our life。
where he had everything that he could ever want,。
a loving father, affirmation, gifts, a house, money,。
all these different things, but it wasn't enough.。
He wanted to go his own way.。
He wanted to do his own thing.。
So he comes to his dad and says,。
I don't want to wait any more for my inheritance.。
Give me all my money now.。
I'm going to go make a living for myself.。
I'm going to go have fun.。
I'm going to go spend my young adult years。
how I want to do it.。
Forget what you say, dad, I'm out.。
And this is what happens as a result of that.。
In verse 13,。
a few days later, this younger son。
packed all of his belongings and moved to a distant land.。
And there he wasted all his money in wild living.。
About the time his money ran out,。
a great famine swept over the land and he began to starve.。
And he persuaded a local farmer to hire him.。
And the man sent him into his fields to feed the pigs.。
The young man became so hungry that even the pods。
he was feeding the pigs looked good to him,。
but no one gave him anything.。
This is the definition of someone who gave into their sin。
and it took them further than they ever wanted to go.。
It was keeping them longer than they ever wanted to stay.。
And then lastly, it was costing them more。
than they ever could pay.。
He lost everything.。
He had nothing.。
He did not even have enough money to buy his own food.。
He lost his family.。
He lost people who loved him.。
He lost his job.。
He lost his health.。
And he went searching for life.。
And on the end of wild living,。
going out and living for the high,。
and it got him nowhere.。
And he spent everything he had and now he had nothing.。
That's what sin does.。
Sin is a master at revealing pleasure,。
but concealing consequence.。
Sin reveals pleasure, but it conceals consequence.。
Another way of saying that is sin convinces you。
that you can have a lot of fun for free.。
Y'all like, you see my bar tab?。
I don't think so.。
That's what sin does.。
It convinces you that you can have so much pleasure。
and it will cost you nothing.。
And that's wrong.。
That's not true.。
I can testify.。
Sin leads to so much unnecessary pain.。
It might be fun for a short while, but it hurts forever.。
Like there are people in this room。
that could raise their hand and say,。
I'm still experiencing the consequences。
of my decisions and my choices.。
But sin doesn't show you that before you commit it.。
It only reveals the pleasure.。
It conceals the consequence.。
That's what it did to this guy.。
And this story, it convinced him,。
hey, look at all the world out there.。
It's your oyster, go.。
If he knew what was on the end of this story,。
that in just a short time of famine would come。
and he'd be laying with pigs,。
not even to get to eat what they're eating,。
I don't think he would have done it.。
But sin only revealed pleasure.。
It's like this.。
Anyone else ever been trapped by a seven-day free trial?。
This is so embarrassing.。
One time I was on YouTube and those ads,。
they're getting heavy with them ads, I'll say it.。
When an ad pops up in the middle of my videos,。
I'm like, who do you think you are?。
But I was sitting there。
and they have like five seconds to grab you.。
You know, the whole hook,。
they got five seconds because you can click the skip ad。
in five seconds.。
And that guy, that guy that so many of you know,。
I think they said his name was V Shred or something.。
You know what I'm talking about if you know.。
He's sitting there shirtless.。
He just got done having a workout.。
And he's like, want these?。
And I'm like, yeah, I'm hooked.。
He's like, you can get these things really quick。
with just one simple thing.。
And the whole time you can eat cheeseburgers and pizza.。
And I'm like, tell me everything.。
I'm here.。
I'm at your mercy V Shred.。
And he starts talking.。
And next thing I know, I'm seven minutes deep,。
learning about this new supplement.。
And he's like, you don't believe me?。
That's okay.。
I got a quick free trial for you.。
Just click this button, type in your email,。
bada bing, bada boom.。
We'll send a sample to your whatever, yada, yada, yada.。
And I'm like, I'm in, I'm about to be looking better.。
The best of my life, new year, new me.。
I'm typing in my email, click.。
I talked to like one fitness friend after,。
and he's like, tell me you didn't do it.。
Like, tell me you didn't listen to that guy.。
And some of you are like, what do you mean?。
I've been listening to him, but no.。
And I'm like, what do you mean?。
He starts informing me about all those different things.。
And he's like, it's just not gonna work.。
Like the way you decided.。
And I'm like, oh no.。
And I forget, like I forget I even did it.。
I try to push that away as fast as I can.。
And then the eighth day comes.。
I look at my bank account and I'm like, oh, just a number.。
What in the?。
And it took out the whole year's worth of,。
as if I'm buying the supplement.。
And I am like, these shred, I am about to.。
So I go and I'm like, oh, well,。
if I just subscribe by clicking a button,。
like I can just go and click the button, unsubscribe.。
They make it such a pain to go and rewrite your story.。
I go on there and like, there's this small print。
that's like to unsubscribe, call our help desk。
at blah, blah, blah.。
And I'm like, oh, so I can just click a button to subscribe,。
but to unsubscribe, I got to call somebody.。
Okay, don't think I will.。
And so then I go and I call and they're like,。
while you're waiting a quick questionnaire。
as to why you're leaving us.。
And I'm like, just get me to the operator.。
They give me the operator and they're like, please hold.。
And I'm holding, I'm holding, I'm holding.。
And finally I talked to somebody.。
They take me through this strenuous process。
to finally unsubscribe.。
And they're like, but hey, I don't know if you saw the clause。
but you got to pay for at least six months.。
Like there's not, you can't have the money back.。
And I'm like, just take it.。
I don't want it anymore.。
Like just have my money.。
I just don't, I just don't want the pills。
and I'm just done, I'm embarrassed.。
(congregation laughing)。
And I'm going to get so many emails.。
Hey guys, like man, if you want to really try。
and get serious with Jim, like.。
(congregation laughing)。
You can save it, pal.。
I've been trying forever.。
(congregation laughing)。
But here's the thing.。
Sin is the same way.。
Sin convinces you to hop in the car for the joy ride.。
Sin convinces you to come over here and find life。
and come into the house, but you're really in a prison.。
And sin convinces you, it's just like a day free trial.。
It's a seven day free trial and it snatches you。
and it costs you more than you ever wanted to pay.。
And when I see those emails,。
I still haven't subscribed from the newsletter things.。
When I see them, it reminds me of that moment。
in the same way, like your sin will remind you of itself。
and heap guilt and shame and consequences on your life.。
And you thought you were just signing up for a free trial。
and it's cost you so much more.。
It might've cost you your mental health.。
It might've cost you a virginity。
and someone that just used you.。
I'm so sorry.。
Like, I don't know what your sin has cost you,。
but there is something that can fix that.。
But I want you to think about something.。
I was thinking about this,。
like what if we got ahead of sin?。
Like picture if Satan was a car salesman, okay?。
And he brings out sin before you.。
And instead of lying to you by only revealing the pleasure。
and concealing the consequence,。
he has to tell you everything you're paying for it.。
It would look something like this.。
Like, I thought this was so insane.。
I was, it's like, hey,。
for just the price of a future divorce,。
you can have all the hot steamy sex you want in your 20s.。
Sign up now.。
Hey, for just the price of your mental health,。
you can go try to climb the corporate ladder of success。
and sure you'll get more anxious every day。
and you'll have to keep climbing and climbing。
and climbing and striving and it'll never be enough,。
but come on, money.。
He's like, hey, for just the price of being chained to debt。
for the rest of your life, right now,。
you can get that new outfit.。
You can swipe the credit card.。
You can get the new car.。
You can live in downtown Dallas.。
You can do all these things.。
Like, what if Satan had to reveal the consequence?。
Would you do it?。
Think about that.。
Because sin is never free.。
Pleasure is never free.。
Doing things Satan's way and not God's way。
always comes at a price.。
So ask yourself, am I willing to pay what my sin cost me?。
Wrapping up, the beauty of this whole message,。
like this just, I was sitting alone in my room。
and just, I got chills when I was thinking about this.。
One of my favorite verses in the Bible,。
like, 'cause it really helps someone who has sat。
and chosen to follow sin over God time and time again.。
One of my favorite verses, it's a simple verse,。
but it's so profound.。
It's everything we believe here at The Porch.。
This isn't a place to come and make you feel shameful。
and guilty for your decisions.。
This is a place where we desire。
to let the Holy Spirit set people free.。
In Romans 5:8, it blows my mind every single time I read it.。
It says, "But God showed His great love for us。
by sending Christ, His one and only Son,。
to die for us while we were still sinners."。
While we were still in the car,。
letting Satan control our life,。
going further and further and further。
and choosing sin and not Him,。
while we were trapped in the prison。
of our own addiction and shame and guilt,。
while we were going and spending everything that we had。
for our own ability to have control and significance。
in everything the world had to offer except for God,。
that is when Jesus came.。
The Bible says that the blood of Jesus。
pays for every sin we commit,。
no matter how far you've gone,。
no matter how long you've been staying in it,。
no matter how much you've spent,。
every single sin, past, present, and future,。
He has wiped as far as the East is from the West.。
And as I was thinking about this message,。
I'm like, man, God, this is such a downer.。
Like this sin is just like, it's not fun.。
It's not fun to talk about sin.。
And this is what He said to me.。
Hey, JD, when you let your sin take you further。
than you ever wanted to go,。
that is when Jesus said yes to leaving heaven,。
leaving perfection, leaving His Father,。
leaving the throne, seated at the right hand of God,。
He chose to go further than He ever had to go.。
And He left heaven and He came down to earth.。
And He walked like you and talked like you。
and lived like a man.。
He was fully God and fully man.。
The only difference is He didn't sin.。
He didn't choose fun。
because He knew that you and I would choose fun over faith.。
So He didn't choose fun.。
He chose faith in God.。
And that faith, because He saw that, JD,。
you would stay in your sin。
longer than you ever thought you would.。
I'm gonna stay on this earth.。
He could have came down in a roaring fire,。
done everything He wanted to accomplish just like that,。
but He stayed on earth.。
And He said, I wanna feel everything you're gonna feel.。
I wanna be tempted in every way.。
Guys, He was tempted, the Bible says, by Satan himself.。
Yet He remained perfect for you and I.。
And He stayed on earth。
because He knew He'd stay in our sin.。
Not only did He stay on earth, but because He was perfect,。
that took Him and they led Him and they beat Him。
and they mocked Him and they spat on Him.。
And then they hung Him on the cross.。
The Bible says like a sheep led to a slaughter.。
He hung there on the cross and He stayed there.。
Wow, we stayed in our sin.。
He stayed on the cross.。
But the beauty is, is He stayed on the cross,。
but He didn't stay in the grave.。
He didn't stay in the grave.。
Three days later, He rose up。
because He knew that He had a mission。
and that mission was set to take lost and found people。
and make them lost and found people.。
He wanted to say, come and find life in me,。
experience life with me.。
I don't care how far you've gone.。
I don't care how long you stayed.。
The worst thing that you have done, I will pay for it all.。
Because He knew that our sin would take us so far。
and that we would give everything we can to have it,。
that we would have nothing to pay Him back.。
Because the Bible says in Romans 6,。
that the wages of our sin is death.。
But the gift of God is eternal life through the death,。
burial and resurrection of Jesus Christ, our Lord.。
So now He says, I know you spent it all for your sin,。
but I paid it all for your sin.。
When I rose from the grave, Jesus paid it all.。
So now that lost people can be found people,。
blind people can be seeing people.。
There's nothing that you've done,。
the blood of Jesus has not paid for.。
There's no twisted thought you've had.。
There's no action you've committed.。
Anything that's been done to you that you're so ashamed of,。
Jesus has paid for it all.。
Your sin might've cost you everything,。
but sin cost Him everything, His very life.。
And He did it gladly.。
He said, I didn't, you can't take my life.。
I'm gladly laying it down.。
And He died and He rose again。
so that we didn't have to keep going。
and listening to our sin.。
We didn't have to keep searching for the next high.。
We didn't have to keep living。
for the momentary pleasures of this world.。
We could find all that we need in Jesus.。
But you gotta stop searching for fun。
and start living for faith.。
And some of you, the most faithful thing。
that you can do tonight is believe what I'm telling you,。
that your sin, sure, it might be fun right now,。
but one day it won't be.。
You're anxious, you're tired, you're exhausted.。
It's time to give it up.。
And I'm telling you, He's ready.。
He paid it all so you could come tonight。
and you could stop being a slave to sin。
and a son and a daughter of the King of Kings。
who's obsessed with you.。
And you could come down tonight。
and forsake fun and start living in faith。
and begin a relationship with this Jesus.。
Some of you, you don't need to come。
to the porch next Tuesday.。
You need to come to those doors next Monday。
and be a part of what we call regeneration。
here at Watermark.。
It's a 12-month program designed to help people。
be discipled to experience freedom in Christ,。
not just people that experience with drugs and alcohol。
and addictions and all those things.。
But I mean, if you struggle with searching。
for your identity and things other than Christ,。
if you struggle with pride, lying, gossip,。
this place is designated to help you find freedom.。
You can walk in any Monday and they are ready for you。
right here at Watermark.。
Some of you need to take the step。
of going up to First Step tonight up in the loft。
and saying yes to going deeper in your faith。
and no more doing life on your own and living for yourself,。
but going all in with people who don't wanna live。
for the fun and the highs, but live in faith with Jesus。
and lock arms with other brothers and sisters in Christ。
and become a member here and join our family。
in what God is doing here.。
Some of you may be like, I don't even know,。
I'm so deep in this stuff, man.。
Like I don't even know what to do.。
And I would say this to you,。
God is enough and he wants you tonight.。
You just have to simply start and start simply,。
whatever that looks like.。
We're about to sing a song that just beautifully。
just is like a prayer and a conversation。
of the reality of someone who's been saved by grace。
through faith in Jesus.。
And you might just need to simply start。
by opening up your hands tonight and saying,。
Jesus, I don't want my sin anymore, I want you.。
I don't know what it is for you,。
but what I do know is that sin might be fun,。
but it's not worth it.。
But a life with Jesus, it'll change everything.。
He's worth it.。
You can trust him.。
Let's pray.。
God, thank you that you loved us so much。
that while we were still sinners,。
you came and you died for us.。
You rescued us from the grip of sin in our life.。
Thank you for being a God who can rewrite stories,。
who can take pain and evilness and bad decisions。
and take our mess and make it a message。
because of the blood of Jesus.。
Thank you, Jesus, for going further。
than you ever had to go,。
for staying on the cross longer than you ever had to stay。
and paying more than you ever had to pay。
so that we could be free,。
so that we could come here tonight。
being children of God, not slaves to sin.。
For the person tonight that needs you,。
would you meet them?。
Would you show them that you're not afraid of them。
and their sin, that you love them?。
Thank you for coming to us exactly as we are.。
Nothing more, nothing less.。
May we respond accordingly in light of that.。
In your name that I pray, amen.。
