I'm great. If y'all just sit down wherever you are, you go back to your seats. Here's what I know。
I'm coming in ruined. I'm coming in heavy。
for the last。
24 hours, I will say that I have I haven't been able to really talk to eat. I feel I feel。
Trembly at what I believe God wants to do tonight in this room。
And I I just take it seriously that。
It feels like we're living in urgent times。
and。
this urgency that has。
consumed me is。
only growing and。
When you have urgency in your bones, like I have urgency in my bones right now。
You just I don't have it in me to come up with a little funny talk。
Starter opener thing and so we're just diving right in. Are y'all are y'all good with it? Yeah, I。
Think we've gotten lukewarm。
And。
The time is calling us。
To be red-hot and if that is the case the scripture says。
That I will spit you out of my mouth。
The scripture I read earlier in Revelation would go on and say I will remove my lampstand from you church。
my witness。
My spirit my glory. I will remove the light from within you。
if。
You remain in love with anything more than me。
I。
Fear。
That I may become like the preachers of old。
that talk about hell and。
brimstone why。
because 5.5 billion people currently are perishing that we know of and。
The weight of。
Glory is something I'm akin to I have been in the rooms. I have felt the glory of God present。
I was in Asbury. I was in SCU when the Spirit of God and an outpouring happened there。
I've been in probably 30 to 40 rooms that I would term。
Revival different than other rooms that I have seen God move in a mighty way. I。
Have seen the glory of God。
I have felt the weight of glory and what I am convicted of as of late is。
That I have not felt the weight of my own sin. I。
Have preached a cheap grace because I have believed I am better than I am。
And so here we stand。
Here we stand aware of where this will go which is going to be to end with the grace the great grace of God。
But before we can experience the glory we have to understand what it cost。
And that I stand before you truly as。
The worst of sinners and what I mean by that is I am self-obsessed I。
Still care what people think of me. I。
Do not want a life where people don't respect me。
I care that you know my name and you'd probably don't I haven't even introduced myself。
And。
In 1994 the Hubble telescope。
The most powerful telescope at that point would zoom into the darkest place in space。
I。
Talked to an astronaut yesterday and he gave me this very penny and he said Jenny I want you to understand that。
that that telescope went。
To what would be equivalent to a penny in the world。
To the eyeball of Abraham Lincoln on the penny and to the place where it looked like there was nothing。
and。
So the telescope would take all of the universe。
zoom into a penny and。
There would be even a smaller portion than that that it would see and。
When it zooms in to the littlest speck of universe。
There were lights so many they couldn't count them。
There。
Were lights so many they couldn't count them and they weren't stars。
Every light that they saw in a speck of the universe was a galaxy。
And。
I want to be someone and I want to matter and I want to be something。
Who am I?。
Before God like that。
We soberly sit。
tonight。
without a doubt in。
the presence of the God who formed galaxies in。
Nuber and we find ourself in one of the galaxies in。
One of the solar systems in one of the planets in a little room in。
Dallas, Texas。
Taking for granted that a God who formed galaxies would meet with us。
And so I tremble。
And。
I believe that the work we do here if the presence of God would come。
to the smallest little dot in his galaxy to commune with us I。
Suggest we take it seriously. I。
Don't know you。
You've come from all over some of you are porch people. I know you it's my home church。
This is where I get to do life Kylan is a friend。
But what I do know is I just watched you worship and my sense is you've come to meet with God。
And。
I want you I know what I'm up against because I assume that many of you are here。
From this church or from another church, and you know the things of God this book for you is very familiar。
This book for you is very familiar. Yes talk back to me team。
If it isn't familiar。
You're gonna love it and。
Your friend might have tricked you。
Made you come with them。
But you're gonna love this book and you're gonna love the God we preach about。
But for tonight what I want you to do is I want you to imagine you've never heard any of it。
All you've done is observed creation。
All you've done is observed creation。
All you've you've done is you've observed humans that you know, and you've never heard of this God that built it all。
Okay。
You with me?。
And I want you to imagine that what we're about to talk about。
What I'm about to read with you what I'm about to work through with you is the only thing you knew of this God。
Can you imagine with me we're gonna be in Luke 15。
Luke 15 verse 11。
And。
Jesus continued in his sharing and。
He shares this story。
He says there was a man who had two sons and the younger one said to the father father。
Give me my share of the estate。
So he divided his property between them and not long after that the younger son got together all he had and he set off for a。
far country a distant country and then。
Squandered his wealth in wild living so I want you to picture。
two boys。
one of them spits in his father's face and。
Says I want I want it to be as if you are dead and I want you to give me what is already。
Will be mine will already be mine and I'm gonna take it with me and I'm out peace。
and so he gets his inheritance and。
He heads to a far country。
Now。
I want you to think about this as。
someone。
Who also at some point in your life。
likely today has also。
traveled to a far country。
And what do you do? Okay, so so we're going to the far country. We're going to the land away from our father。
We are going to the land. What are we doing? Why are we going? What why would we be going?。
Why would we be leaving the estate of a rich father that wants to take care of us that loves us?。
Why would we go?。
Freedom freedom good. What else pleasure? What else?。
Independence control great answers keep going what why do we leave it?。
We think there's something better out there。
What else?。
curiosity。
convenience rebellion。
pride ego escape。
New。
We are。
We are obsessed with。
Running away from God。
We don't even care。
What is that the country that we are on our way to?。
We just want our freedom。
We don't want the burden we want to do what we want to do we want to have what we want to have。
and。
so the boy。
Ran away to a far country. Now. The funny thing is about this distant country this far-off country is。
We don't exactly know。
its name。
We don't know what he thought he would find。
We don't know what he thought would be good about it。
But he thought it was gonna be better than what he had and so he goes and he runs。
And he runs after many many things so many things that whatever inheritance。
that he had he squandered it and。
the scripture says。
That after he had spent everything there was a famine in the country and。
He began to be in need and so he went and hired himself out to a citizen of that country。
Who sent him to his fields to feed pigs?。
He no longer。
He longed so badly to fill his stomach。
That basically he ate out of the pigsty。
He ate what the pigs were eating because no one would give him anything。
So father where we are like this son。
We ask you that you convict us。
Where we have have turned。
Toward toward another place that offers other things that we think are better than you God would you convict our hearts?。
Okay, so。
Here's what I've found. I've been on college campuses. I have been in prisons. I have been in churches。
I have been all over the world literally in different countries and I have seen。
everything and I。
somehow have found one of the roles in my life to be somewhat John the Baptist and I am。
Doing repentance in all these places. So what I have is a very good pulse on。
What we as a generation are struggling with I have heard it all you cannot believe the things I have heard。
From every age in every setting. I have heard it all and。
Here's what is interesting。
At the end of all of the best things the world has to offer。
Everyone is desperately empty。
They are longing they are sick they are。
starving。
For something bigger and better than the far-off country. They have run to。
and they want。
To believe that they're loved and they want to believe that God is real。
There have been times in history。
That it feels like the morality of a place has kept it。
From turning to Jesus。
That is not today。
There is a desperation in almost every room that I go to。
Because they have gotten to the end of everything they thought they wanted and it isn't enough。
Here's the thing。
Revival is spreading. It is not a doubt. I just read an article and。
You know what? I thought to myself you called the wrong people I can give you ten names。
We are watching it happen in rooms like you cannot believe。
Because they're saying like yeah, the numbers aren't really shifting first of all。
The numbers are shifting and the Spirit of God is moving and people are going from darkness to light and I'm watching it all the time。
Unlike it was ten years ago and。
I deeply believe it is only the beginning。
I deeply believe that we are heading not into just a season of revival for our country。
But I believe that we are in the beginning the precipice of a great awakening。
And I believe and this is wild stuff and I you can quit me。
But I'll be just like the Apostles in doing so that I believe it could be the final great awakening。
Preparing the way for Jesus to come back。
It just wouldn't be crazy if。
He came back in our lifetime. So what if he is what if it is imminent? What if what if it is near?。
What are we wasting our lives with? What are we wasting our time with?。
What are we giving our lives to?。
And so I've seen it on college campus. I've seen everything and I'm gonna tell you right now。
There is a cost to pay for revival。
Like if if we want it, and I don't know what you want. Like what do you want? I don't know why you came。
You came to me. I came to you. I came to you. I came to you。
Like if if we want it, and I don't know what you want. Like what do you want? I don't know why you came。
You may have come。
For something other than God, but if you came for God like did you come for God?。
Did you come are you praying? Do you believe like would you love to see revival?。
Would you love to experience God in such a way that it absolutely changes you forever?。
There is a cost to that I've seen it paid。
I've seen it paid all over the earth。
And I'll tell you what it is。
Its repentance。
I've seen it in。
Every room that there has been revival. I have seen a wailing over sin. I。
Have seen a genuine guttural。
Depression sadness angst over sin。
This year I was at Southeastern University and。
My sweet friend well, is it a secret that they're coming? Okay. Well, I just told him。
I see you worships coming tomorrow. So those are my those are my brothers and sisters because we saw God come down。
Okay together. I'm。
preaching and and。
I lead a moment of repentance and and it's we're in a Christian college and and people are yelling out their sin and。
They would go on to worship God for the next ten days and nights。
They wouldn't stop they wouldn't leave they were they were wrecked they were ruined it was over。
But I'll tell you the thing that happened like when the room broke。
Everyone would tell you you can ask him when they come when did the room break?。
Everyone I've asked would say the room broke open the outpouring of the Spirit of God fell on that place。
When a woman in the very back。
Who I would hear later。
Was on her knees on her face weeping。
and。
She didn't confess right away。
It would be minutes after we had started confessing。
But my friend who was charging his phone in the back said Jenny I saw her go from her face。
To stand up and。
yell in this Christian College as。
Loudly as she could from the back the entire room heard it。
And then she crumbled to the ground weeping。
What does it cost。
Your reputation。
What does it cost?。
The thing that you have loved more than God, what does it cost the secret you have been keeping?。
What does it cost to see God fall if my people will humble themselves and pray?。
if。
they will。
Name their sins and turn from their wicked ways. I。
Will pour out my spirit scripture says and I will heal their land。
You。
We're a dot in a galaxy。
Among infinite galaxies。
And the spirit of the Living God is saying that created all of the world and everything in it and every galaxy is saying。
I。
will。
Come to you. I。
Will heal you I will be with you if you humble yourself and you turn from your wicked ways。
And so the far-off country。
That we think is better。
What do we do?。
How do we come back to God what does it look like to humble ourselves and turn from our wicked ways。
It's called repentance in the Bible。
When he came to his senses verse 17 says。
He's eating the crud of the world and he comes to his senses。
That。
Is what I am praying for this room that is what I cannot do for this room。
That we as a people and individuals would come to our senses and see。
that we have been going the wrong way and。
Some of you you're like girl, I'm already saved I have walked with God for a long time like I know。
and。
some of you。
Have been walking with God for a long time and you are literally walking in the wrong direction。
All the while。
With your arms raised singing to him。
All the while serving him in ministry。
all the while。
Saying your sin, but never turning from it。
Go into that country acting like you're walking toward God。
Even believing yourself that you're walking toward God and。
You wonder why you're anxious and isolated and distant。
He came to his senses。
He said what the heck am I doing I。
Have a good father and。
He treats his animals better than I am living right now。
so maybe in。
My wretchedness for how horrible I have wished he was dead. I have hated him and I have lived my own way。
Whatever I wanted。
maybe he would let me come back as a slave and。
In that moment he does more than say I should go back to my father he turns and。
He heads back to his father。
He leaves the country he has given his life and wealth and time and thought and money。
And body and everything - he leaves it and he says I'm going back home。
To be a slave ah to be a slave in my father's house would be better。
Are y'all with me?。
It's the only thing you've ever heard about this God. Okay, you're about to you're about to just die you ready。
Oh。
It's so good。
And。
while。
He was a long way off。
His father saw him。
His father saw and he was filled with compassion for him and he leaves his house and he runs。
to his son and he threw his arms around him and he kissed him and。
This son said to him father. I have sinned I have sinned and I've sinned against heaven and I've sinned against you。
And I'm not even worthy to be called your son anymore。
Who am I? I?。
Have sinned。
Like he didn't know。
and。
the son said to him father I。
Have sinned against all of this and I'm no longer worthy to be your son。
But the father said to his servants quick bring the best robe and put it on him put a ring on his。
Finger and sandals on his feet bring the fattened calf and kill it。
Let's have a feast and celebrate for the son of mine who was dead is alive again。
He was lost and he is found so we will celebrate。
This is our God。
This is our God。
This is our God。
Here's the thing we think。
We think it's better。
We think it's better in the far-off country。
And so we're scared to leave it。
And yet there is a God。
That it is clear in this scripture he's looking for you like he's waiting for you。
His eyes are peeled for you like he's sitting there and his son from a far-off distance。
Appears like a speck and he takes off he waits for us to come back。
We have a father who's。
Who is ready to give us everything our souls are craving and we're staying in the pigsty。
So what shifts。
How does it shift。
We。
Gotta want to go home。
Like do you。
Have you gotten to the end of it yet like how bad has it gotten for you。
How much。
Pain have you felt。
My counselor he says this he says people don't usually change until it hurts bad enough。
Does it hurt bad enough。
Here's what I believe is happening I。
Believe that God's Spirit is moving in a unique way right now。
So。
That the people that will bring in and usher the revival are ready and。
Some of you are like I'm so far from that。
That's not exactly where I am today like I just came to find a girl like I I'm not I'm just not there。
Why。
Have the things of God。
Grown。
Small to you。
Because the book isn't a myth it's not pretend like this is happening. This is real like we are。
We are living in history。
God is coming and there is enormous work to do that will shape eternity。
Are you in。
But if you're in you got to weigh the cost。
And it almost doesn't feel fair in this space。
I know a lot of you probably are sitting with people that you love and know where's the section that like came alone。
I thought are y'all sitting together。
Y'all are so cool like I can't believe you did that so okay apart from this section most of you are sitting with someone you know。
lucky you。
Because here's what I want to do。
What I want to do is I want to call this room to repentance。
What God wants to happen is he wants this room to be convicted and not just convicted to name something。
but be convicted to turn and leave it and。
For us to turn and leave it we will need community。
We will need a church. We will need to know this book. We will need to fight and。
To believe that God can shift us from the inside。
We've got to believe that tomorrow。
Tuesday when we wake up。
That that addiction is not stronger than the Holy Spirit that lives inside of us and that that love of sin is not。
Stronger than the love of the Father that is waiting for us running towards us。
Wrapping us up giving us everything we need we have to believe some things and then we have to do some things。
It's both。
Okay。
So we're gonna believe some things that we're gonna do some things tonight。
And I want to just start we're just gonna start like this。
I want you to turn to the people that you prayed with and I want it to be the same gender and I want you。
To go. Okay. I know what I have gone to the other country to get I。
Have gone to the other country because I want a spouse。
More than I want God。
What if he doesn't have that for you?。
It's a good desire。
But are you willing to say God even if you don't have that for me? I'm not gonna live here. I'm coming back to you. I。
Want to speak specifically to some things like porn alcohol drugs。
Sexual addiction I want to speak to those things and here's why because let me be so clear。
God is not sitting there going. I cannot believe the humans are looking at porn。
He is just y'all he is not surprised he made sex he created it。
But what he cannot believe is。
that 65% of。
men are。
Addicted to porn outside of the church and the believers only 64%。
There's only 1% separating the believers that are men and I know women it's one in three。
So it's not like this isn't what he cannot believe。
Is that the church doesn't know that he's better than porn?。
We get God。
We get God and we settle for things that feel good in a moment。
That I see there are no toddlers here。
We are not toddlers。
We are more than conquerors。
Not filled with a spirit of fear but of power of love and self-discipline church。
and if life is only about this country。
We could stay here and enjoy all these things。
Without the thought of a father, but you cannot live in the far-off country and at home。
You're in one or the other。
You're with God or you're in sin like there's not really。
Place and I'm not saying that at home。
We don't struggle with temptation. We don't struggle with needed to confess regularly, but I'm saying are we home?。
Are we with God because if we're with God we want to be about the work of turning every single day。
This isn't a big step。
It's an impossible step apart from God。
Because everything in us wants to stay where it is comfortable, even though it will kill us。
Rather than go home。
But here's the thing when we go home。
Doesn't feel like shame it feels like a party。
It's。
It's like the best day of this guy's life。
And so I don't know if this is hard for you。
I imagine it is and the reason I imagine it is is because I have to turn every day and it feels。
hard。
Until I do it and then probably like this pretend kid in the story。
I'm like, why didn't I come home sooner?。
So we're gonna do this right now. I want you to turn to。
Someone of the same gender and I just want you to say like here it is。
Like this is the thing and I want you to say the hard thing。
I don't want you to say the easy thing. I want you to say the heavy thing。
I want you to say the thing that you don't want to say whether it's。
addiction of some kind。
Or self-obsession. I want you to say what you need to say。
To。
Your neighbor are you in。
Amen go I give you one minute do it fast。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
