(upbeat music)。
(soft music)。
- I love it.。
My family and I just got back from Disney World.。
If we're Instagram buddies, you knew that.。
I heard I over posted, I apologize.。
And so we had an amazing time.。
I've only been to Disney once before,。
and that was with, I think I was 13 years old。
with a church youth group, believe it or not.。
I don't know how that fits in my story for you,。
but I did go with church youth group once.。
And Disney's an amazing place.。
I mean, it's known for its excellence.。
I mean, Walt was a genius.。
It's 62,000 employees.。
It makes us the largest employer in one location in America.。
It's 40 square miles.。
It's the size of San Francisco.。
Disney World is.。
And there's this entire world that you've never seen。
that makes it all possible.。
It has these underground tunnels.。
It has a tunnel system under the magical kingdom.。
And because it was built on swamp lands,。
these tunnels were built first,。
and then the magical kingdom was built on top of them.。
And this is where the employees go to and from.。
In fact, in the tunnels,。
this is where their wardrobe is.。
This is where they change.。
You'll never see two of the same cast members。
above ground at the same location.。
It will never happen.。
Even though they have 162 Mickey costumes,。
only one will be above ground at one time.。
I think I have a picture of the tunnels.。
I don't know if you guys got that yet.。
Yeah, there you go.。
That's the tunnel system there at the magical kingdom,。
and you can kind of see it.。
And I want to tell you something crazy.。
You want to hear this?。
I've been in there.。
And I don't mean because pastor privileges。
or anything crazy like that.。
Let me tell you how it happened.。
I was 13 years old,。
and this is why I don't remember much of Disney.。
We took a bus there,。
and I remember I had been waiting in line.。
It was hot, and I was at this restaurant at Disney。
in the parks, and I got this stomach cramp.。
And guys, I mean, it was like a stomach cramp。
like from Satan, okay?。
Like I bent over, and I couldn't stand up.。
It hurt so bad.。
My stomach tightened up, and I'm with a buddy,。
and I'm like, "You gotta go get help."。
And it was because I was dehydrated and a wuss, evidently.。
And so here's what happened.。
Here's what happened.。
I'm sitting there, I'm in this restaurant.。
I'm crying, okay?。
I'm embarrassed to tell you.。
And I'm hurting, and all of the sudden,。
these people come out of the woodworks like Disney ninjas.。
I mean, just show up.。
I'm talking, they like walk out of walls and stuff.。
They're like, "Hey, do you need help?"。
And it was just like,。
it was like people who I thought were tourists。
who were actually employees of Disney came to render aid,。
and they grabbed me, and they put me on a stretcher, okay?。
And they take me, and they take me down underground。
into Disney's infirmary.。
You can laugh.。
That's a true story, and I'm there,。
and I spent like a day and a half。
in the infirmary in Disney World,。
and I have very little memory。
of anything magical about the kingdom.。
But this underground world exists,。
and it's what makes the kingdom magical.。
Like, you're talking 62,000 employees coming together,。
working together for a common vision。
so that you can walk around。
and hardly ever even see a piece of litter on the ground。
and be impressed at every turn。
at how amazing the place is.。
It's world-renowned for the excellence that it strives for.。
And in the same way, God is building a kingdom,。
and we are the employees of that kingdom.。
And when we stop working for that level of excellence。
that honors him, like Greg said, and motivates his people,。
the kingdom withers.。
And can I tell you something?。
We've lost the kingdom.。
And when I say we, I mean we, our generation,。
our peers on our time.。
We just lost an entire country to pagan worship.。
Like, for the first time in the history of America,。
it is no longer a Christian nation.。
For the first time in the history of our country,。
we have diminished to less than half of the people。
who claim to be Protestant Christians.。
There's an article in CNN today that said these things.。
I'll read to you some of the statistics.。
46%, that's down from 50% just a decade ago.。
40% Christian.。
23% of our peers say they are spiritual but not religious,。
known as the nones.。
This is our generation.。
It's millennials and Gen Y that this has happened.。
It didn't happen in our parents' generation.。
It didn't happen in our grandparents' generation.。
It happened on our time.。
Why?。
Why, I told you before, I think we are poised。
for a great awakening or a revival,。
or we are about to slip off the cliff.。
And you just have a choice.。
It's like the Lord is looking at us,。
and I mean us, I mean the 2,000, 3,000 of us。
in the room right now, and he's saying,。
"Hey, do you wanna get after it?。
"Like do you wanna start living on mission?。
"Or do you wanna raise your children。
"in a very different country than you grew up in?。
"And the choice is yours."。
Disney's an incredible place.。
Here's what I've realized about Disney.。
They have capitalized on the gospel.。
Jimmy mentioned it in his spoken word.。
What's the story that Disney tells over and over and over?。
There's a person, there's a curse。
that comes to the land because of evil,。
and then there's the prince that goes into the land。
to lift the curse.。
And our princes, our princesses are sleeping.。
And our princes are fine with the princess sleeping,。
the beauty sleeping.。
Our princes are fine with Snow White。
being stuck with the seven dwarves.。
Our princes are fine with Cinderella。
under the curse of her wicked stepmother.。
Our princes are fine with Rapunzel stuck in the tower.。
We don't wanna climb, we don't wanna fight.。
We don't wanna do work.。
We wanna rest, man.。
Let us enjoy the kingdom.。
Another party, let's have fun.。
Let's enjoy life, make it about us.。
And we've lost the magical kingdom.。
It happened in our generation,。
unless we do something.。
And I wanna show you tonight from Colossians chapter four。
that I believe God is calling us to do something.。
That Paul is challenging you tonight。
through the word of God,。
that we are to live our life on mission.。
Paul wrote the letter of Colossians。
to the church in Colossae, it was modern day Turkey,。
while he was in prison in Rome in about 62 AD.。
And he writes this to address a heresy that has crept in.。
It's the gospel plus something else。
the Colossians began to believe in.。
It's the same thing that your peers and your coworkers。
and your neighbors have begun to believe.。
Yeah, Jesus is cool, but something else.。
You know, all ways lead to God.。
There's something else out there.。
This is the same problem that is going on here。
in the Colossian church,。
and why this book that we're in is so relevant to us.。
And so why have we lost our country to pagan worship?。
Because for faith, for many of us,。
it's just a personal, private idea。
that has been reduced to simply focusing on。
meeting our individual needs.。
And the church, a once very powerful movement,。
other-focused movement, is now full of consumers asking,。
"What's in it for me?。
"How can I have a better life?。
"What can God do for me?。
"What is he going to do for me?"。
So what's the solution?。
I think we need to understand the mission that is before us。
to do this kingdom work that God has for us,。
not for salvation, but from it.。
Not to earn his favor, but because we have his favor.。
We are the people underground,。
working as undercover agents, making it happen.。
So that others see a kingdom that they're drawn to,。
and they wanna be part of that mission.。
Tonight I'm gonna cover three things。
that people on mission have.。
Three things that people who understand their purpose,。
living life on mission, three things they have.。
Colossians 4, verse two.。
Paul writes, "Devote yourselves to prayer."。
Oh man, let's just stop there for a minute.。
Devote yourselves.。
Let me ask you a question, what are you devoted to?。
Like I met you, or I know you,。
like we live in the same proximity,。
I get to see your life,。
and I'm writing down the things that you,。
and I'm like, "Oh yeah, she really loves CrossFit,。
"and she likes North Park a lot, and she likes boys,。
"and he really likes to work out,。
"and oh, you know what, he loves his job, okay?。
"And he wants to be a millionaire before he's 30."。
What are you devoted to?。
Because can I just tell you something,。
none of those things have eternal significance.。
Not one of them will matter 100 years from now,。
not one of them, not a single one of them.。
And Paul says, "Hey, you devote your life to prayer,。
"to talking to the one who controls all things,。
"being watchful and thankful."。
There's a lot of debate around。
why this word watchful is here,。
and theologians kind of land in two places.。
One is because it's something。
they call spiritual drowsiness,。
being watchful against spiritual drowsiness,。
that you would be swept up in the world,。
that you would begin to live your life。
so focused on Dallas or Fort Worth,。
or wherever it is that you live,。
that you would forget the mission that you're on.。
And so he says, "Be devoted to prayer, being watchful,。
"so that you would understand。
"there's real kingdom work to be done."。
Don't get swept up and so caught up。
in the culture around you that you wanna be part of it,。
and you begin to invest your time, energy, emotions,。
and soul, and your mind into things。
that have no eternal significance whatsoever.。
You've got to renew your mind around what matters.。
And the other one is being watchful,。
because there's an enemy that hates you,。
and he's powerful.。
He's not all powerful.。
He's not nearly as powerful as God.。
It's not dualism.。
It's not these two forces that are opposing。
and of equal force.。
No, no, no, there's God, and then there's the enemy.。
But the enemy will jack with you, and he hates you.。
And he wants to turn your life into something。
of no eternal significance whatsoever.。
Like he wants you to get so caught up。
in money, and relationships, and pleasure,。
a temporary pleasure that is,。
that you do nothing with your life,。
that at the end of this,。
you don't hear mission accomplished.。
You hear, "You know, you didn't even really。
"start the mission.。
"I mean, you know, okay, but you never really engaged.。
"You kind of got caught up in Fort Worth.。
"You kind of got caught up in Dallas.。
"And you never really lived your purpose."。
Who wants to hear that?。
Now, don't say that to like put shame on you.。
Listen, we are saved by grace through faith。
in Jesus Christ, his work alone, not ours.。
But I'm afraid that our generation has forsaken。
the work that we have to do。
because of what he's done for us.。
That we can lose our life for his sake.。
Being watchful and thankful.。
And thankfulness is always in prayers.。
You see that over, and over, and over.。
And pray for us too that God may open a door。
for our message, this is Paul saying,。
so that we may proclaim the mystery of Christ。
for which I am in chains.。
Now, this is interesting.。
Paul says, "And pray for us too that God may open。
"a door to this prison so that I can escape."。
That's not what he said.。
He said, "Hey, and pray for us too that God。
"would change our circumstances."。
No, no, that's not what he said.。
He said, "And pray for us too that we would be。
"faithful in our circumstances, that God would open。
"a door for his message to move forward."。
Oh, wow.。
Like Paul's concerned about things of eternal significance.。
He's not like, "Hey, Lord, can you help me eat。
"and help me get out of prison?"。
He's like, "Father, use my life, pour it out。
"like a drink offering that the gospel may move forward."。
Gets it.。
And pray that I may proclaim it clearly as I should.。
Paul says a couple things here.。
He says, "Give your life to prayer.。
"Don't get swept away by the world or the enemy."。
He says, "Pray that doors open, not the prison door,。
"but doors so that the gospel would advance."。
He says, "Pray that we would share the gospel with clarity."。
And so what Paul is doing here is he's showing us。
that people on mission have needs that matter.。
That's my first point tonight, in fact.。
What do people on mission have?。
People who get it, people who are building the kingdom.。
People on mission have needs that matter,。
which is good news because we worship the one。
who can meet all our needs.。
We worship an all-powerful God who looks at you right now。
and is not upset with you.。
He's not even disappointed in you.。
He is thrilled in you.。
He delights in you, and he wants to do an incredible work。
through you, not by your effort, but his effort through you.。
And he's like, "I love you so much.。
"I've sent my son to die for you,。
"and I'm ready to wreck shop with you.。
"Let's go.。
"Let's lock arms and let's get after.。
"Don't be distracted.。
"Let's go."。
See, if we understood what our needs actually are。
and who can meet those needs,。
then I think we would be devoted in prayer.。
We'd pray more.。
Like, how can you believe in a God。
you don't actively talk to?。
How can you say, like, "Well, yeah, I believe in God.。
"I mean, I talked to him last week sometime."。
How can you believe in an all-powerful God。
that he's given you complete access to?。
He's torn the veil through Jesus Christ.。
The mediator has come between you so that you can talk to him。
and have a personal relationship with him,。
and you say, "Yeah, I believe all of that.。
"I just don't talk to him."。
See, needs that matter lead to prayers that matter,。
and that's what Paul is showing us here.。
Needs that matter lead to prayer that matter.。
Disney is expensive, man.。
I don't know if you know that.。
We stayed for a long time to go there,。
and there's a lot of planning that takes place to get there.。
Like, you pretty much have to graduate college。
with a degree in Disney to get in the park.。
It's just a lot of stuff you've gotta know,。
and so I get there, and we get to the resort,。
and we're there in the first night,。
and it's like Monica and our three children。
are in this room, and I wake up at 2 a.m. to Weston crying,。
and then Monica goes and gets up, 'cause I was sleeping,。
and she gets up to care for him,。
and then she comes in and wakes me up and says,。
"Hey, he has a fever," to which I'm like, "What, a fever?。
"This is night one of Disney.。
"No way."。
I get up, check it, 103 temperature, night one.。
I'm like, "Oh, no."。
Weston's our 2 1/2 year old, if you didn't know,。
and I'm thinking, I'm like mad at God,。
if I'm honest with you.。
I'm like, "How could you do, like,。
"do you not know what I paid for this trip?。
"Like, I mean, I didn't eat for a week, so that we could."。
No, and so here's the deal.。
I prayed.。
I'm like, "God, would you heal him?"。
I'm like, "Lord, would you heal him?"。
And he did.。
True story, like, he woke up the next morning, he was fine,。
like, no fever, he wasn't even tired, he wasn't grumpy.。
Like, it was amazing.。
But let me tell you how my wife prayed.。
Now, she's the much more spiritually mature。
one of the two of us.。
She said, "Yeah, God, heal him if you want,。
"and please don't let this distract us。
"from our mission that you have us here.。
"And God, when we're on the bus,。
"and when we're in lines,。
"and we're walking through the park,。
"will you please not let our selfishness distract us。
"from the people that you have around us。
"that you want us to love?"。
(laughs)。
I just have a hunch that God's like,。
"Hey, JP, good prayer.。
"Hey, Monica, uh,。
(congregation laughs)。
"let's talk some more, you know?"。
Like, I just think he probably, like, lent his ear,。
like, "Oh, yeah, okay, I'll do that."。
Right?。
Like, her heart is just a little more aligned。
with his character and what he's doing。
and what he wants to do.。
She's praying from needs that matter,。
eternal needs.。
See, I think too often we look at prayer like room service.。
Like, I like to go to a resort and pick up the phone,。
like, "Hey, JP, New York-style cheesecake,。
"yeah, okay, I'll take one, you know,。
"and a burger, and in the morning,。
"omelets and some coffee if you could,。
"like, at this time, 'cause we like to sleep in,。
"you know, and I'm all about my comfort,。
"and I'm asking for those things。
"because I know that they can do that."。
And so I think we look at prayer like, you know,。
"Will you please let him ask me out?"。
And, "Lord, I pray that she's not pregnant.。
"Lord, I pray that I'm not pregnant.。
"God, would you please help me to get promoted?。
"Would you please help me to buy that car?。
"Would you please help me to get that apartment?"。
And I think prayer is much more like。
a walkie-talkie in a battle.。
Like, you're talking to the commanding officer,。
like, "All right, I'm going in.。
"Hey, what are you gonna have me do?。
"Okay, who is it?。
"Oh, you want me to share with him?。
"Okay, okay, who is it?。
"Okay, let's go, okay, so you love that one,。
"and that one, oh, okay, so you love them all.。
"All right, I'll share with them all, okay."。
And so you're like going back and forth, like,。
"Okay, I wanna be about your work,。
"align my heart with what it is you're doing。
"because life is short,。
"and I'm not gonna be here very long.。
"And in just a few decades,。
"I'm gonna be up there with you,。
"and I'm gonna be looking back,。
"and none of that other stuff's gonna matter,。
"and the only thing that matters。
"is the war that I did down here on your behalf.。
"And you made me me, and you gave me the gifts。
"and the talents, and the story that you gave me.。
"Like, how can I share faithfully?"。
Then I don't say that。
'cause I know there's introverts in the room like,。
"Oh my goodness, I can't feel my legs."。
No, no. (congregation laughing)。
Listen, listen, it's God doing it.。
God's like, "Hey, I got you, man.。
"No, I got you.。
"I'm just asking you to invite me into it.。
"Like, invite me into the war that you're already in.。
"Like, you're in a place where the kingdom is withered.。
"Let's bring it back, okay?"。
While we were there, we were at this kind of play fort thing。
and I'm there with the kids and there's this tunnel,。
and it's a little tunnel.。
And Weston, he's my two and a half year old,。
he crawls in there, and I'm like, "Go on, buddy, go on."。
And 'cause I see where it comes out,。
it just kind of goes around the corner and it comes out.。
And I'm like, "Go on, buddy, go on through."。
And he kind of crawls, puts one knee in front of the other,。
one hand in front of the other, and he looks back and goes,。
"Can you go with me, Daddy?"。
Yeah, oh, I'm six, seven, 250 pounds, and it's a small,。
and I'm like, "Well, you know,。
"hopefully those Disney ninjas are close,。
"'cause I'm about to get stuck in a tunnel."。
But here's the deal, that's what we're saying.。
"Hey, can you go with me, Daddy?"。
Now, I'm gonna go in there, but can you go with me, Daddy?。
Like, you're inviting God into the work that you're doing.。
And if you're scared, just turn back.。
"Hey, can you go with me, Daddy?。
"Can we do this together?。
"Can we get happy?。
"Do you wanna bring the kingdom more than I do?。
"Will you go with me, Daddy?"。
I've heard it said that when life gets difficult to stand,。
when life gets too difficult to stand, kneel.。
When life gets too difficult to stand, kneel.。
Can I tell you something?。
Life is always too difficult to stand.。
Like, life is freaking hard.。
And you may not realize that, but yeah, there's an enemy.。
He's after you, he wants to kill you.。
He wants to make you irrelevant.。
He wants to turn your life into something。
that has no impact whatsoever 200 years from now,。
that you'd be forgotten, to dust you'd return.。
And life's hard, man.。
And there's a lot of worries in this world.。
If you focus on this world too long,。
I mean, the worries can just overwhelm you.。
You could be given to anxiety, to a really dark place.。
And a God who holds it all in the palm of his hand says,。
"Hey, I got you, you're mine, I love you, and I'm for you.。
"And there's nothing you're gonna face。
"that I don't control.。
"Let's partner."。
First Timothy, I'm sorry, 1 Peter 5, 8 says,。
"Be alert, be watchful.。
"Your enemy, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion,。
"looking for someone to devour."。
But you don't need to worry.。
You pray and let God worry.。
All right, pray and let God worry.。
Paul says, "Pray that we would proclaim it clearly."。
Why, because prayer is the groundwork of evangelism.。
In fact, I would tell you, don't share the gospel。
with anyone you haven't prayed for.。
And I mean that.。
Like, if you're on an elevator with someone。
and you're about to engage with them。
around spiritual things, pray for them first.。
Like, make sure the Lord is in it.。
Make sure he's giving you the words。
that you're not doing so by your own strength,。
by your own power.。
Prayer is the groundwork of evangelism.。
In fact, evangelism without prayer,。
it's like a car with no engine.。
It's like words with no power.。
We have to, prayer and evangelism,。
they go hand in hand.。
Prayer and sharing your faith goes hand in hand.。
We must invite the divine to awaken the dead.。
Because you can't.。
We must invite the divine to awaken the dead。
because saving is the work of God.。
Early on, I was going to Watermark.。
We met in Lake Highlands in the auditorium there.。
And I had trusted Christ.。
I was a new Christian.。
But I was like straight out of the bars.。
In fact, I still smelt like the club.。
I would still show up in kind of my smokey clothes。
from the night before.。
And when I moved to Dallas, I worked at Abercrombie.。
That's actually why I moved to Dallas,。
to work at Abercrombie and North Park Mall.。
I know what you're all thinking.。
Yes, I was the guy in front of the store with my shirt.。
No, I wasn't, I'm just teasing.。
Nobody would come in the store if that was true.。
And so, no, but I was there and I worked with this dude.。
And I see him in the parking lot of Watermark.。
And he comes up, he's like, "JP, what are you doing here?"。
Which was a fair question。
'cause he's like, "JP, party guy, what are you doing here?"。
And I was like, "Well, I go to church here now."。
And he's like, "You do?"。
He was like, "Wow, I didn't even know you're a Christian."。
He's like, "Well, I wasn't, but I'm a Christian now."。
And I was like, "Dude, that's amazing."。
He goes, "Man, when we worked together,。
"I prayed for you every day that the Lord would save you.。
"I prayed that you would go to church here."。
And you think, if you're here and you're a Christian,。
a follower of Christ,。
like you're the result of somebody else's prayer.。
Like you've been prayed into the kingdom.。
Like someone else prayed for you and now you're Christian.。
I don't know if that was your mom or your dad。
or a friend or a pastor,。
but someone prayed you into the kingdom.。
I mean, God saved you, nobody else saved you.。
And you being with God for eternity。
is the result of someone else's prayer.。
I love that Paul is in chains。
and he doesn't ask that his situation be changed,。
but rather that he would be faithful in it.。
Is it okay to pray for what you want?。
Absolutely.。
It absolutely is.。
But make sure you're seeking what he wants。
because selfish prayers make selfish Christians.。
Selfish prayers make selfish Christians.。
And so if you just look back on your prayers today。
and if they were all answered,。
like would you just have a better job。
and more money and a faster car?。
Or would there be dozens and dozens,。
maybe hundreds of people who are Christians。
because of the ways you prayed for them?。
And I'll tell you, one has incredible eternal significance。
and one doesn't.。
You've never seen a good person on mission。
who's not constantly in communication。
with the control center or their commander.。
And that's what Paul is calling us to here.。
And he says, "Be wise in the way you act toward outsiders.。
"Make the most of every opportunity.。
"Be wise in the way you act toward outsiders," verse five,。
"Make the most of every opportunity."。
And so what do people on mission have?。
People on mission have opportunities that matter.。
That's my second point this evening,。
opportunities that matter.。
This part here where it says,。
"Be wise, make the most of every opportunity,"。
in the Greek, it's actually an accounting term.。
He's saying, hey, you only have so much time,。
make sure that you exchange that time。
for things that actually matter.。
You wanna make the most of every opportunity.。
Don't exchange that time for things that don't matter.。
That's really bad investing.。
He's saying, hey, make sure you invest your time wisely.。
That's what Paul is saying here.。
Invest your time wisely towards things。
that have eternal significance.。
And he's saying, "Be very aware of when you are around。
"non-believers," those he calls outside,。
those outside the church.。
"These are indeed your opportunities."。
And he says, "Be wise in the way you act."。
He's talking about your conduct.。
In fact, 1 Peter 2, verse 11, says it like this.。
"Dear friends, I urge you as foreigners and exiles。
"to abstain from sinful desires。
"which wage war against your soul.。
"Live such good lives among the pagans。
"that though they accuse you of doing wrong,。
"they may see your good deeds and glorify God。
"on the day he visits us."。
I can remember wrestling with this with my old friends。
who are not Christians.。
And whenever I was going to hang out with them,。
I would ask the question,。
am I going to be able to influence them。
or am I going to be influenced by them?。
And when you're wondering,。
hey, should I hang out with those old friends?。
You ask that question.。
Am I going to be influenced by them。
or are they going to give me opportunities。
to influence them towards the gospel?。
'Cause I think a lot of people are like,。
yeah, well, I'm evangelizing in the bar.。
It's like, no, you're not, you're drinking in the bar.。
That's not evangelism.。
What are you, evangelism, evangelizing for Sky Vodka?。
I mean, what are you evangelizing for, right?。
And so if you're living under that mantra,。
like, hey, I'm doing kingdom work there,。
then make sure you are doing kingdom work there.。
Make sure you're making investments that matter.。
And so what are the best opportunities。
for you to make the most of?。
Let me be abundantly clear with you.。
We go to Haiti, we go to Africa.。
If earthquakes hit Nepal, like, we'll probably go there.。
I mean, we go where the Lord needs us, where he calls us.。
Like, we'll go, we'll load you up on a bus or plane。
or whatever that looks like, a boat, and we'll go.。
And I hope you go with us.。
But the ones we take on mission there。
are the ones who live on mission here, right?。
That's the best investment of our kingdom resources.。
We take the ones on mission there。
who are already on mission here.。
And so what are the opportunities around you?。
It's where you work, it's your neighborhood,。
it's those you engage with.。
I've been very clear, I believe the darkest mission field。
I've ever seen is corporate America.。
Now, that's saying something,。
'cause I've been into the jungles of Africa,。
I've been into the jungles of the Amazon and Brazil,。
I've been to Haiti, I've gone to other places。
on trips to Mexico and other parts of our world.。
And I'll tell you from experience,。
the darkest mission field I've ever seen。
was right here in downtown Dallas.。
And there are parts of the world。
that are unbelievably difficult to get to,。
the Congo or parts of the Middle East,。
but it's very possible.。
But you know where I can't get to today?。
The ninth floor of the building I worked in。
every single day of my life.。
Had a security badge,。
walked through two security checkpoints,。
I had a cube with six people around me。
that I engaged with every single day.。
And no matter how badly I wanted to go there today,。
I couldn't do it, I don't have,。
I don't work there, they wouldn't let me up there.。
That's where God has opportunities for you.。
What are your opportunities?。
It's whenever you're around outsiders.。
These are the opportunities you're to make the most of。
and be wise in.。
Acts 17 says that God has determined where you live。
and when you live, strategically,。
because he wants to build a kingdom through you.。
That's why you have breath in your lungs.。
That's why your heart beats in your chest.。
I know in all of you,。
there's something deep inside of you that cries out,。
there has to be something more to life than this.。
And can I tell you the truth?。
There is.。
There is, it's his work.。
There is.。
Titus 2, verses nine and 10 says,。
this teach slaves, what Greg taught us as employees,。
to be subject to their masters or employers in everything,。
to try to please them, not to talk back to them。
and not to steal from them,。
but to show that they can be fully trusted.。
And here's why, you ready?。
I want you to hear the why.。
Work diligently and here's why.。
So that in every way,。
they will make the teaching about God, our Savior,。
attractive.。
Why do you work hard?。
For a promotion?。
No, for more money?。
No, to make the teaching of your Savior attractive.。
That's your mission at work.。
Your job exists so that others。
will be attracted to your Savior.。
That's us, we work here on earth,。
but we seek to do the Father's will as his chosen people.。
I, about two and a half days into Disney,。
I saw something really peculiar.。
I was sitting there in a line for a ride with my family。
and I looked in the bushes and I saw a cup.。
It was litter.。
And the reason it was peculiar。
is because for two and a half days, I had seen none.。
In a park of tens of thousands of people,。
maybe hundreds of thousands, I don't know,。
but thousands and thousands and thousands。
and thousands of people,。
I didn't see a single piece of litter。
for two and a half days.。
Why?。
Because of the 62,000 employees,。
they've trained all of them。
to constantly be about kingdom work.。
Even the princesses, they go through a class。
to learn how to pick up trash.。
It's called the swoop.。
Graceful.。
And throw it away.。
Without anyone noticing.。
You guys didn't even know.。
Here's what just happened.。
I just bent down and picked up a piece of trash.。
You didn't even see that.。
Okay?。
And they're trained to do that.。
Why?。
Because every employer there is making the kingdom magical.。
That's what we're doing.。
We work for a real magical kingdom,。
not some phony Disney Channel magical kingdom。
of princes and princesses.。
A real one.。
That is God's, and we're building it here。
in Dallas and Fort Worth and Plano。
and surrounding areas.。
We're doing that work here.。
I went to this biblical worldview class,。
and I remember sitting in the class。
and they kept saying biblical worldview,。
biblical worldview, biblical worldview.。
And I'm like, what, is somebody gonna define that?。
Because am I the only one in the class。
that doesn't know what that is?。
And then it hit me.。
Halfway through the course, I'm like, oh.。
Like it's just seeing the world。
as God intended it to be seen.。
Or it's making the world as God intended it.。
It's leaving every place I go better than I found it.。
Every relationship I'm in better than I found it.。
Could you imagine if you dated like that?。
Like could you imagine if your ex-girlfriend。
was a better wife because you dated her,。
because you're her ex-boyfriend?。
Could you imagine?。
Every place we go, that we would leave it better。
than we found it by the way that we engage with people,。
by the way we make the most of every opportunity.。
And so look back on your life,。
and what have been your greatest opportunities?。
And did you see them as mission?。
Did you see them as kingdom work?。
Did you see them as God's work?。
He says, verse six, let your conversations。
be always full of grace, seasoned with salt,。
so that you may know how to answer everyone.。
Let your conversation be always full of grace,。
seasoned with salt, so that you may know。
how to answer everyone.。
So what do people on mission have?。
People on mission have conversations that matter.。
People on mission have conversations。
that have eternal significance.。
This is our greatest tool to complete our mission,。
is conversation.。
So who should we talk to?。
Anyone we can.。
See to complete our mission work,。
we talk to God about people, and to people about God.。
What is our mission?。
It's to talk to God about people,。
and to people about God.。
This is how we live our lives.。
The tool that we use is conversation.。
The other day I was having appetizers with a friend,。
and we were just talking about,。
he's a pastor of ministry, my friend John Elmore,。
some of you know him, and we were getting up,。
and my buddy, John's an introvert, okay,。
and so he just, this story, I'm gonna read you。
the script of what happened, and it removes every excuse.。
And so he gets up, and there's this guy,。
the bus boy comes over to bus the table,。
and he's cleaning the table, and John says,。
hey, what's your name?。
And he says, Alfonso, and John says, where are you from?。
And he answers, and John says, cool,。
well, we work at a church, and I'd like to invite you there.。
And he looks at him, and he goes, I will come.。
And he goes, cool, it's 9, 11, and 5.30 this Sunday.。
And he goes, I will bring my family.。
And John goes, okay, well, I'll tell you where it is.。
And he goes, I don't care where it is,。
this will be my church.。
This is word for word, and I'm sitting there.。
(congregation laughing)。
And John's like, all right.。
And so we walk to the car, and I'm like,。
dude, that was insulting, that guy was patronizing you.。
And John's like, oh, you don't think he'll come?。
I'm like, dude, there's no way he's gonna come.。
He said, bro, let me read it back to you,。
I don't care where it is, this will be my church.。
He's not coming.。
So we just go on about our day.。
I'm like, okay, John texts me the next day.。
He's like, hey, Alfonso just called, wanted directions.。
I'm like, dude, he's messing with you, bro.。
He's messing with you.。
I'm up here, I get here, it's Baptism Sunday,。
and I'm up there, and I bump into John,。
and he's like, hey, he's in here.。
And he shows me the text message,。
and the guy's like, hey, I'm listening。
to Laura's testimony right now, can we meet outside?。
I'm like, what?。
That guy, he doesn't go to church.。
John says, hey, do you wanna go?。
He goes, I will go.。
I will be there with my family.。
Who does that?。
Who says?。
John's like, hey, let's have conversations that matter.。
Like, let me have, like, this is fun。
been talking to you, okay, but here's the deal.。
I wanna have conversations that matter.。
Like, that story removes any excuse。
you could possibly come up with。
to engage someone about spiritual things.。
That dude, I mean, that's just the work of God.。
Is that not God just flexing?。
Is that not God just showing off?。
God's just like, hey, dude, do you want me。
to remind you that this is me and not you?。
Like, open your mouth and let me do work.。
Okay, God.。
So our conversations are always full of grace,。
full of encouragement, explaining the hope we have.。
I've got two little girls.。
Every day on our way to school, we go over this verse。
because they struggle with this.。
You know, sometimes they potty talk,。
and sometimes they hurt each other with their words,。
and so we just say, hey, what's Ephesians 4, 29?。
It says, "Do not let any unwholesome talk。
"come out of your mouths, but only what is helpful。
"for building others up so that it may benefit。
"those who listen."。
And I say, hey, who is going to benefit。
from the words that come out of your mouth today?。
Because here's the deal, words are powerful.。
Words break hearts.。
Words give hope.。
Words encourage.。
Words tear down.。
Words have power.。
They persuade men, and so once you understand。
that you've been saved by grace through faith in Jesus Christ。
you use your words to persuade men, Paul says,。
so that they would be a part of the kingdom。
that you are a part of.。
Do you want a good reason?。
Let me give you a really good reason not to slander,。
not to gossip, not to talk poorly, not to cuss,。
not to joke coarsely.。
There's no time.。
People are dying.。
People are going to hell.。
You want to waste your words on gossip?。
Ain't nobody got time for that.。
You're about to die.。
They're about to die.。
You're about to stand before God.。
You want to waste your words talking about stuff。
that doesn't matter?。
Who's got time for that?。
You've got a measly couple decades left, maybe.。
If there's a kingdom wilting around us。
we've got to lift the curse.。
We've got to do work.。
We've got to build it.。
He says, know how to answer everyone.。
Man, Jesus.。
You know how Jesus answered everyone?。
It would be kind of frustrating to me.。
He answered everyone with questions.。
23 times people asked him questions in the gospel。
and he responds with a question.。
In fact, I read a book called "Questioning Evangelism"。
that taught this evangelism method with questions.。
I find it to be really powerful。
that you can just kind of, people say,。
hey, I'm a Christian, I'm a Christian evangelist.。
You know, that you can just kind of,。
people say, hey, how are you doing today?。
And you just be like, hey, do you have a faith?。
Good, do you have a faith?。
You know, it's like,。
now we're talking about spiritual things.。
What a powerful question, do you have a faith?。
Do you have a belief, a spirituality?。
Do you attend church somewhere?。
Are you into church?。
Is that part of your life?。
Hey, what's your story?。
I'd love to hear your story.。
How long have you lived in Dallas?。
Now we're talking.。
Do you have a faith?。
Now we're talking about eternally significant things.。
Now we're living on mission.。
This is what Jesus did.。
People are like, well, what about dinosaurs in the Bible?。
What do you think about dinosaurs in the Bible?。
Do you think they're in there?。
Do you think that the Bible references dinosaurs?。
Have you ever read anything good on that?。
If I gave you something good on that to read,。
would you read it?。
Well, what about dispensationalism and transubstantiation?。
Dude, I don't know.。
I don't even know what those words are.。
(congregation laughing)。
But let me ask you a question.。
If I found out what those words are。
and how they're relevant to this conversation,。
could we have lunch and talk about it?。
(congregation laughing)。
Now we're talking about eternally significant things.。
Nothing intimidating about that.。
Well, how do you know that Jesus is true?。
How do you know he's not?。
How do you know the Bible can be trusted?。
Why don't you think the Bible can be trusted?。
We're just talking.。
No big deal.。
This is what it looks like to live on mission.。
Disney was a mission trip for us, for our family.。
I hope it was.。
I hope the trip was not just a vacation.。
I hope it had eternal significance.。
I'll tell you just about a glimpse of it.。
Not at all to brag or, that's not my heart,。
but just to show you how these conversations。
can be much easier than you think.。
We wake up, this is just the way back to Dallas.。
We woke up yesterday, I got back yesterday.。
We woke up yesterday in Orlando,。
called a cab early in the morning to the airport,。
get in the cab, there's a cab driver's name is Muhammad.。
Hey, Muhammad, where are you from?。
Bangladesh, amazing.。
Are you Muslim?。
What'd you say?。
Are you of the Islamic faith?。
Oh, yes, I am, cool.。
Sunni or Shiite?。
I'm Sunni.。
Oh, man, amazing.。
Bangladesh is 90% Sunni Muslim, right?。
Yeah, yeah, well, how'd you know that?。
Man, I'm a teacher.。
What do you teach?。
I teach religion.。
Awesome.。
Have you ever looked into Christianity?。
Ah, you know, I don't know much about it,。
but can I tell you about it?。
There's a God, he's building a magical kingdom.。
He did so through his son, Jesus Christ,。
who died for everything wrong you've done.。
We're talking about spiritually,。
eternally significant things.。
Man, how great is that?。
Get to the airport, we get on the plane.。
American, man.。
Woo.。
Had sorted my family, okay, five of us,。
three kids, a two and a half year old,。
all throughout the plane sporadically.。
That's really bad strategy for American.。
And so my two and a half year old sitting next to this guy,。
he realizes that's a really bad idea,。
'cause he's smart.。
He gets up, he says, "Hey," to my wife,。
he says, "Monica, why don't you sit beside him?。
"We're grateful."。
I thanked him, I'm like, "Hey, I'm so grateful for you.。
"Hey, thank you so much for that.。
"Hey, what's your story?"。
Well, I work for 7-Eleven,。
I'm moving to Dallas from Orlando.。
That's amazing, man, I work in Dallas too.。
Can I ask you a question, do you have a faith?。
Well, it's funny you should ask that.。
I was raised Catholic, I married a Mormon.。
We settled on a Methodist church.。
I'm like, wow, that's interesting.。
(audience laughing)。
It is funny I should ask.。
I was raised Catholic, I married a girl。
who was Church of Christian Science.。
Very similar story to yours.。
We settled on a non-denominational Bible teaching church.。
Would you like to come?。
He said, "I will be there."。
No, he didn't say that.。
(audience laughing)。
He didn't say that.。
But he did say, "Here's my card, text me the address."。
And so, yeah, I'm sorry.。
And then we get off the plane and my kids are hungry。
and there's a papacitas in the airport。
as we're waiting for our bag check.。
And I said, "We will eat."。
And we sit down, because I'm a caveman, evidently.。
We sit down and our server comes up.。
His name is Benjamin.。
I said, "Hey, do you have 11 brothers?"。
(audience laughing)。
He said, "No."。
I said, "Do you know why I asked that?"。
He said, "No."。
And I said, he goes, "That's a weird question."。
I said, "I'm a weird dude."。
And I said, "Do you know where your name comes from?"。
And he goes, "Oh, wait, wait, wait,。
"I'm a son of Abraham, right?"。
I said, "Close."。
And we started talking about spiritual things.。
I said, "Are you in a church?"。
He said, "Yes, I'm a Christian."。
And then up in the conversation, it was very apparent,。
Benjamin was not a Christian.。
I said, "Would you like to be one?"。
And we're just talking about spiritual things.。
That's being on a mission.。
And that's how we're going to build the kingdom here.。
We've lost it.。
And there's enough people in the room right now。
and listening live throughout our country。
and our world and in Fort Worth。
that have everything it takes to bring the kingdom back.。
If we just did the kingdom work,。
if we just refocused on the things of God.。
(pages rustling)。
I want you to look back on your life。
and the conversations you've had.。
If it's been 452 gossips and 247 curse words。
and 692 sarcastic remarks and 300 lies。
and four times you shared your faith,。
I wanna love you enough to know,。
to let you know you wasted a lot of conversation.。
There's very little eternally significant words shared.。
And you don't have to feel shame for that.。
Let's just change that right now.。
Let's just leave this place and change that.。
Just be different.。
I don't know if you know what a knock is.。
Anybody know what a knock is?。
(congregation laughing)。
This illustration's gonna kill.。
No, I'm just kidding.。
A knock is a non-official cover agent.。
A non-official cover agent.。
I learned this through a Navy SEAL friend of mine.。
I was actually looking for an illustration one day.。
What a non-official cover agent is,。
if you've ever seen the first "Mission Impossible,"。
you'll recall he had to recover a knock list,。
which is a non-official cover agent list.。
A knock is someone who is actually working,。
but they actually work for the CIA,。
they work for the government,。
but they're employed by a company。
like the company that you work for.。
And so what this looks like is,。
is somebody employed by the CIA。
would actually go to like,。
let's just say Richardson Independent School District,。
and they would interview for a job,。
and they would get the job,。
but while they're working there。
at Independent School District,。
they actually work for the CIA.。
They're reporting to their central command center,。
their constant communication.。
They're making the most of every opportunity,。
being wise in the way they act toward outsiders。
so that they don't get caught.。
And they are having conversations winsomely。
and purposefully to gather information.。
And can I tell you something?。
You're all knock agents.。
You are all sent by God as non-official cover agents.。
That's who we are.。
All right, that's what we're doing.。
And just to give it to you, another acronym,。
you on mission have needs that matter,。
opportunities that matter,。
and conversations that matter.。
N-O-C, you are a knock.。
I'm a knock, a non-official cover agent.。
And you can imagine how tragic it would be。
if someone who worked for the CIA,。
let's just say at the Richardson Independent School District。
got so caught up in being a teacher。
that they forgot they worked for the CIA.。
And they just thought that their only job there。
was to teach the students.。
And they stopped talking to the Central Command Center.。
They lost sight of the mission.。
They stopped being winsome in the way。
that they engaged people.。
They stopped making the most of every opportunity.。
And all they did was got swept up。
in the job that was in front of them.。
That the job that actually mattered got lost in that.。
Some of us have lived that.。
Some of us have lived that right now.。
You think that all you are is an account manager。
or barista or a teacher.。
You think that all you are is an engineer or an artist.。
You think that all you are is a sales rep.。
And God says, no, you're an agent of mine。
building a kingdom in a foreign land.。
I have you on mission there.。
Don't get so caught up in the world。
that you forsake the mission that I have you on。
and the things that I wanna do through you.。
You're my agent.。
When we were at Disney,。
I don't know if you've been,。
you can go and get autographs from like the princesses。
and stuff and like Mickey and the characters and whatnot.。
And it's really a magical kingdom for the kids.。
And so you like gotta stand in line for this,。
like Elsa and Anna.。
Do you guys know who those are, Elsa and Anna?。
Of course you do, okay.。
Do you wanna build a snowman?。
And so Elsa and Anna, the princesses,。
you can meet 'em if you wanna wait two and a half hours。
in 90 degree weather.。
And you can get their signature.。
And in the line is full of giddy six year olds。
and seven year olds and eight year olds.。
And every now and then, you would see a 34 year old。
by themselves.。
And in fact, there was one guy,。
he sketched himself with all of the characters.。
This dude was 29 years old, I think.。
He sketched himself with all the characters。
and then he went throughout the park。
and had them sign autographs.。
And he was just besides himself.。
He's like, I got Cinderella's autograph.。
And even my eight year old's like,。
you know it's not really Cinderella, you know.。
(congregation laughing)。
And you just see these kinda weird creeper dudes.。
Like there was this other guy,。
that there's like this sorcerer game。
and there's this six year old playing this game。
and you have this wand and you go。
and you're trying to get this magic ball。
and do this kinda magic potion。
and go and get the fairy dust.。
And this 45 year old goes to the six year old kid。
and says, hey, you're doing it all wrong.。
Like you wanna go and get the star of magic first。
and then go back and then get the green globe。
because that's where the sorcerer's magic is.。
And I'm like, dude, you're weird.。
(congregation laughing)。
He's like, no, this is what he said.。
He said, I'm here every day I play this game.。
And I'm like, bro, that's sad.。
(congregation laughing)。
Like your parents brought you when you were 13。
and you never left, man.。
(congregation laughing)。
Like this is just a place to go on vacation.。
Like it's not a place to live.。
And you don't wanna get real caught up。
in the stuff that doesn't matter.。
And just like we see that and we laugh at it。
because it's kind of funny.。
Some of us we're gonna stand before God。
and we're gonna realize we were chasing princesses。
and princes and sorcerer's wands。
and weird stuff that didn't trinkets and treasures。
and promotions and cars and houses。
and stuff that doesn't matter.。
And one day we're gonna look back。
and we're gonna see everything that actually mattered.。
And I just wanna make sure you invested in what mattered.。
I pray that we would invest in what matters.。
Let me pray.。
Father, would you help us do that?。
Show us what is of you, what is not of you.。
Show us the work you're doing that we might take part in it。
and partner with you in it.。
And Father, I pray that you would come in our world。
like a hurricane and tear down the walls。
and the kingdoms that we built that aren't your kingdom.。
The things that we've held onto that don't matter,。
they have no eternal significance whatsoever.。
Father, would you destroy them by your power。
and fix our hearts and our minds of you.。
What a terrifying prayer。
if we're gripping the world so tightly.。
Father, help us loosen that grip.。
Help us lose that grip for your glory and your honor.。
Father, help us to live sold out for you。
as agents on mission, being devoted to prayer,。
making the most of every opportunity。
and having conversations that are full of grace,。
seasoned with salt so that you might save some.。
In the name of Jesus, amen.。
