[MUSIC]。
[MUSIC]。
>> Porch, so great to be with you, man.。
Feels good to be at home.。
I've been running a bunch of different directions and。
just a breath of fresh air to worship with you.。
I was actually worshiping in that last song.。
I was like, man, worship is so good.。
Man, I wonder what the speaker's gonna say.。
And then I was like, wait, hold on.。
Wonder what the message is gonna be.。
That's what I was thinking.。
But man, so fantastic to be with you.。
If you're tuning in anywhere around the world, Fort Worth, greetings.。
Dallas, greetings.。
Houston, there's a gathering in Houston tonight.。
Glad you guys are gathering around the word with us as well.。
And if you're driving in your car or live streaming somewhere else,。
you need to know the Porch is a movement of young adults seeking to change the world。
for the cause of Christ.。
And if you don't know him and you're here tonight, welcome home.。
We're so glad you're here.。
Welcome into our home.。
We'd love for you to make it your home.。
And we'd love to talk to you more about the one whose name we gather in.。
And so we're continuing this series, Summer on the Mount, as we wind down。
the greatest sermon ever told, Jesus's Sermon on the Mount.。
And as I thought about where we were headed tonight, something happened this week.。
I had a guys retreat, community guys retreat in Dallas.。
We stayed in Dallas, went and ate barbecue, ate way too much barbecue。
down in the Bishop Arts District.。
And so that's just kind of the cool, really cool area of Dallas.。
Anybody here live in Bishop Arts?。
Yeah, you're so much cooler than me.。
I know that already about you.。
That's true.。
And so we went down there with my guys and we kind of ended the night by going to this。
place, Dude Sweet Chocolate.。
And so they have this just like this place where they make chocolate.。
And we're walking through there, me and my buddies, and we're tasting stuff.。
And I taste this truffle that they have there.。
I'm just like, that's amazing.。
Okay, so that's what heaven will taste like.。
And so I'm like, I'll take some of that.。
And then we come up on this thing and I'm like, what's this?。
And she's like, oh, that's this chocolate bar that we make with this Japanese pepper.。
We have it imported from Japan.。
And like, have you heard of ghost pepper?。
She's like, oh, it's hotter than that.。
You know, and it's infused into this.。
And so we're just a bunch of guys.。
Of course, we're going to get that, you know, I mean, we're not going to eat it, but we'll。
get it, you know, and so, and then we'll like dare each other or something.。
So I'm like, oh, I'll take one of those.。
And so then I go home and I put the bag on the counter and I wake up the next day and。
I've got two little girls, right?。
Presley, who's eight and Finley.。
And they see the bag and they're like, daddy, what's in the bag?。
And I just, I don't even think I'm like, oh, it's, it's some chocolate I bought.。
And they're like, oh, daddy, can we have some, can we have some?。
And I'm like, sure, sure.。
And so I go, you know, and so I just pull it out.。
Right.。
And, and I go, you know, for the truffle and I just, I open it up and I'm like, you know,。
good dad.。
Oh, I'll open the other side.。
And I'm like, good dad.。
And, um, and so let me, yeah, let me, let me get you, you know, it's just,。
it's just a little piece of chocolate.。
And so I grab it for him and I get a little knife and I cut it up.。
Right.。
And I'm like, you know, you guys can each, each have a piece.。
It's, it's wonderful.。
It's wonderful.。
And Finley, my, my middle little girl, she goes, I want that.。
And I go, no, you don't want that.。
I was here.。
Have this.。
It's wonderful.。
You're going to love it.。
She's no daddy.。
I don't even like dark, dark chocolate.。
Ugh.。
I don't know.。
I don't want that.。
I want that.。
And I go, no, family bear, listen, I promise you, you don't want that.。
Have a bite of this one.。
And Presley, see Presley, she's eight.。
She's been with me eight whole years and she has learned this experiment.。
She knows she's, this is just going to be a sermon illustration of some sort, you know,。
she knows.。
And so she says, she goes, she goes, daddy, which one do you think I should eat?。
And I'm like, baby girl, I'm telling you, you have to have a pie.。
It's, it's going to be wonderful.。
And she doesn't have, you know, she asked me, she pops in her mouth.。
She's like, oh daddy, that is good.。
Wow.。
And Finley's still there.。
She's like, daddy, I want that one.。
I want that.。
I want the, I want the bar.。
I'm a baby girl.。
Listen.。
Okay.。
Here we go.。
The choice is yours.。
Okay.。
But I'm telling you, you don't want that bar.。
You want to eat the piece.。
I'm trying to give you.。
And she takes it and she opens up, rips into it and she takes a bite.。
And at first, you know, it's milk chocolate, sweet.。
She's, she just kind of looks at me like, it looks at Presley, like we little bitty piece。
got my chocolate bar, you know?。
And then she goes, and she runs, I'm not kidding.。
I'm not making this up.。
She runs to the sink, turns on the sink and she's like trying to drink from the faucet.。
She's like, it's just running.。
She's washing.。
She's like, it's just so hot.。
Listen, man, I'm a good dad.。
I desire to give you good things.。
You can try.。
And so what's going on there, right?。
All of her perception, she sees something she doesn't want.。
She sees something she does want.。
She sees something bigger.。
All of, all of her senses, all of her being, all of her perception is saying, no, I want。
that.。
And I'm just sitting there.。
I'm like, no, I know that, that it looks like you do, but you don't.。
It looks like you do, but you don't.。
And then the same way, right?。
We go through life and we see in the scripture that God is called a loving father and that。
we're to go to him and we're to ask him, even when it doesn't make sense to us, God, what。
would you have us do?。
God, this doesn't seem good.。
Is that what you would have me do?。
God, this seems good.。
Is this the right one?。
You're saying it's not, but it seems like it is.。
And some of us, in fact, I've met with many of you who have turned your back on God and。
gone away from him because you feel like he's given you something not good when he's given。
others something that is good.。
And you feel like you've been sliding.。
And you question the goodness of God.。
And so tonight I just want to talk about praying to a good father.。
Praying to a good father, say, I think the most unloving thing that you can do to God。
is question his goodness.。
Said otherwise, I think the most unloving thing that you can do to God is question his。
love for you.。
He's gone to great lengths to show his love for you.。
Likewise, I've got three kids and I will tell you as a father, I would rather hear them。
say, I hate you, dad, than hear them say, I don't think you love me, dad.。
If I had to choose between those two awful expressions, I would choose the one that。
expresses disdain for me rather than the one that questions my love for them.。
And so the reality is God is a good father.。
He seeks to give you good things.。
And if you have something, be it singleness, a breakup, a disease.。
Something unwanted like a pregnancy.。
Something you brought up on your about yourself or something that happened to you.。
I would say, trust him.。
And steward that suffering, knowing that he's a good father and desires to give good。
things to his children.。
And so when others have left God because they say they don't like what they have in。
their life, I appreciate their view of his sovereignty.。
But I question their view of his goodness.。
And so as we move through this section, we're going to be in Matthew chapter seven.。
If you want to turn there, starting in verse seven, like I said, it's Jesus's sermon on。
the Mount, where if you read it, the whole entire sermon would take you about 15 minutes.。
But in those 15 minutes, Jesus covers law, grace, missions, adultery, lust, love, hate,。
judgment, marriage, divorce, enemies, the poor prayer, anxiety, money, materialism,。
heaven and hell in 15 minutes if you read it.。
And so tonight in this little section, verses seven through 12 in chapter seven, we're going。
to look at how we pray, who we pray to and how God might use you to answer prayers.。
Let's go.。
Jesus says in the sermon, ask he's preaching on this hillside.。
His disciples are there.。
There's people gathering and listening to him as he teaches.。
Ask and it will be given to you.。
Seek and you will find.。
Knock and the door will be open to you for everyone who asks, receive.。
And the one who seeks finds into the one who knocks the door will be opened.。
And so my first point this evening from this text is pray with persistence.。
Pray continually.。
Pray consistently.。
Pray ongoing.。
He's saying, ask, don't just ask, but seek and don't just seek, knock and knock persistently.。
And you say, well, wait a minute.。
JP, does it say not persistently?。
This is repeated in Luke chapter 11, the same.。
Passage in right before it, he says this, he, he commentates on this passage.。
He says with a parable, he says, suppose you have a friend verse five in Luke chapter 11.。
Suppose you have a friend and you go to him at midnight and say, friend, lend me three。
loaves of bread.。
A friend of mine on a journey has come to me and I have no food to offer him.。
And suppose the one inside answers, don't bother me.。
The door is already locked to my children and I are in bed.。
I can't get up and give you anything.。
I tell you, even though he will not get up and give you the bread because of friendship,。
yet because of your shameless audacity, he will surely get up and give you as much as。
you need because you have the audacity to go to him at midnight and knock repeatedly。
on his door.。
And you express a desire that's not your own selfish desire, but a desire to care for those。
around you.。
He will meet that need.。
He will come to the door and he will answer it.。
Jesus is saying something really important about God.。
He hears your prayers and he answers them and he wants you to ask him.。
Now, as he's saying, there's some magic number of times you need to ask and ask him and keep。
asking him until you wear him down until he's so tired of you asking, he's a fine already.。
No, no, that that is not what he's saying.。
He's saying that when you ask and you believe that he can meet your needs and you can come。
to him anytime with anything, he hears your prayers and answers them.。
I'll illustrate this with a historical story about Alexander, the great.。
Alexander, the great, the great conqueror, the great ruler of a people, very wealthy。
man had a general who was one of his primary generals and his this general's daughter was。
getting married.。
He comes to Alexander, the great and says, sir, would you please be so kind to pay for。
my daughter's wedding?。
I do not have enough money to pay for her wedding.。
Would you pay for it?。
I have been faithful to you in battle.。
I have led led your army in many battles.。
Would you please pay for my daughter's wedding?。
And Alexander, the great responds, yes, go and talk to my treasurer and tell him how。
much you need.。
This general goes to the treasurer and expresses an exorbitant amount to him.。
The more amount than he had ever seen spent on any wedding.。
And the treasurer is appalled and insulted by the notion.。
In fact, he says, hey, you wait right here.。
And he goes to Alexander, the great and says, you will not believe how much money he asked。
for.。
Look at this amount.。
Do you want me to go and punish him?。
Should I throw him in prison?。
And Alexander, the great says, no, do you not realize this man has done me a great honor。
for he realizes that I am not only wealthy, but I am also generous given what he asked。
for.。
And likewise, God is not only wealthy, the cattle on a thousand hills are his.。
Everything is his.。
He's not only wealthy.。
He's not only powerful.。
He's not only sovereign.。
He's also very generous and he loves you and he's kind to you and he listens to your prayers。
and he desperately wants a relationship with you.。
Let me say that again.。
And the reason I want to say that again is because anytime a preacher says God is desperate,。
I would question them.。
And I said, God is desperate for something.。
He's desperate for a relationship with you.。
Not a one time conversation and ongoing relationship with you.。
I know he's desperate because he's gone to desperate measures to get it.。
Sacrificing his only son, which I have a son, I can't even imagine.。
To have a relationship with you.。
And so I will tell you before we go any further, that there is no such thing as a low maintenance。
relationship.。
I've sometimes young adults, sometimes you guys tell me like, oh yeah, it's when this。
relationship is so great, it's low maintenance.。
She's low maintenance.。
No, no, there's no such thing.。
That is a relationship that is ending.。
Okay, there's no, there's no such thing as a low maintenance relationship.。
All relationships require maintenance.。
If you're like, oh yeah, we're such great friends.。
We never see each other and we never talk to each other.。
I would say you're not great friends.。
You're delusional.。
Okay, that you're not great friends because relationships, all relationships by definition。
require maintenance and your relationship with God is no difference.。
What I'm saying is there is no cruise control in Christianity.。
Let me say that again.。
There is no cruise control in Christianity.。
You know what I'm saying?。
I think we all want to get to this place where we're like, okay, I've got faith.。
I know God, God, you and me are good.。
Let me shift over into cruise control, hang a foot out the window and just, just cruise.。
Right.。
And he's like, no, no, no, no, no, no.。
I want to continue to talk to you.。
I want you to continue to build in this relationship.。
I want you to continue to ask, continue to seek, continue to knock.。
There's no cruise control in Christianity.。
And so God answers prayers.。
Yes, he does.。
He will always say yes, no, or not now.。
And regardless of what he says, you can trust that it is for your good.。
And so seek for the answers, look for the answers.。
Why might God not give me this?。
Why might a loving father give me this?。
It doesn't seem like a loving father would give me this.。
And so I think we play these weird superstitious games, right?。
Well, if I ask according to his will, that's what first John 5, 14 says.。
If I ask according to his will, I will give it.。
He will give it to me.。
What does that even mean?。
Like, cause it seems to me at like a face value, it seems like, well, if I asked for。
what God was already going to do, then I'll have it.。
What?。
And if you didn't ask, you'd also have it cause he was already going to do it.。
So what are you saying?。
Here's what I think that means.。
Let me break that down.。
If you ask seeking what it is that he wants, but okay, let me say this again.。
If you ask looking for what God wants, but it doesn't mean that you don't ask for what。
you want.。
That's what I see in this text that you ask God for what you want.。
You want to know what I pray for.。
Let me tell you right now what I pray for every day.。
What I pray for anything I want.。
That's what I pray for every single thing that I want.。
Now your prosperity gospel radar might be going off, but let me just, I'm just shooting。
you straight.。
Anything I want, I pray for all while seeking what God wants.。
God, that's what I want.。
What do you want?。
Father, this is what I want.。
Father, this is what I would like that car.。
I would like that house.。
God, I would like that situation.。
What do you want for me?。
I want to know what you want.。
Will you align my heart?。
I want to be a man after your own heart.。
That is a man that desires what you desire.。
Would you do that in me as I come to you and we converse?。
Because I think we've played this weird game where it's like, okay, well I'm, I really。
want a, you know, a high rise in uptown.。
Yeah.。
I'm going to ask God for a high rise in uptown.。
Yeah, but there's also like starving children in Africa.。
I better pray for that first.。
Okay.。
So, um, and then we feel more spiritual.。
Like God doesn't know you want a high rise in uptown, but you're playing some crazy superstitious。
game with him.。
And like, he doesn't see your heart and know exactly what you want.。
And I think what he's saying is, why didn't you just be honest with me?。
Thank you for praying for children that you don't know, or even really care about that。
much.。
And why didn't you just ask me for the high rise in uptown?。
So that I might change your heart to desire what it is that I desire.。
Can we, can we be real?。
Can we stop playing games with each other?。
You and me, I want an honest relationship with you.。
Can you ask me for what it is that you desire?。
That's what I'm asking you to do this as clearly as I possibly can.。
And so in college, when I was dating a girl, we'll call her Melissa, because that was her。
name.。
When I was dating Melissa, I think God wanted me to beg her not to break up with me because。
that was my greatest desire that she wouldn't.。
And so I think he legitimately wanted me to beg him, God, please don't let her break up。
with me all while showing me that the relationship was not holy.。
It was not godly that if she was an idol in my life and that if she broke up with me,。
it wasn't going to be that big of a deal.。
And frankly, probably one of the greatest things that could ever happen to me is for。
her to end that relationship.。
So I think that God wanted me to beg him, Lord, please don't let Melissa break my heart。
all while he would come and say, Hey, can I show you what I desire for you?。
Why would he want me to ask him that?。
Because it was honest.。
Because it was how I feel.。
Because it was what I wanted.。
Verse nine, which of you, if your son asked for bread, will give him a stone or if he。
asked for fish, will give him a snake.。
If you then, though you are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much。
more will your father, how much more will your father in heaven give good gifts to those。
who ask him?。
Oh, man.。
So my second point is pray to a perfect father.。
Pray to a perfect father.。
This passage is talking about God and it's talking about me.。
And what it says about God is he's a good dad.。
And what it says about me is I'm an evil dad.。
Do you see that?。
It says, if you, though you are evil, it just assumes.。
If you and your role, your role is evil.。
Your role is evil.。
If you know how to give good gifts to your children, then how much better are the gifts。
that come from a perfect, loving, good father?。
If you give good gifts to your children, even though you're evil.。
I love to give my kids good things.。
I love to.。
I delight in it.。
You know, we spayed, we, we saved thousands and thousands of dollars over a long period。
of time so that we could take the three of them to the blistering heat of Orlando and。
gather around a weird place that worships a mouse.。
And so that we could sit in lines that were way too long and deal with their whininess。
and senses of entitlement.。
You know why I did it?。
You think I wanted to go if I could choose anywhere in the world, that's where I wanted。
to go.。
I did it so I could hear them giggle because I delight in that.。
I paid for their smiles and to make some memories with them because I love them that much.。
And I'm an evil dad.。
How much better is he than me?。
And so some of you are like, man, my dad never took me to Disney world.。
In fact, he did terrible things.。
He wasn't even there.。
And I would say, don't throw God out with your father.。
God is not the reflection of your earthly father.。
He's the perfection of him.。
God's not like your earthly dad.。
He's like the, your perfect dad, like a perfect dad.。
And you know what this passage says?。
He doesn't give snakes and stones.。
He doesn't know how.。
It's not what he does.。
It's not his character.。
He can't not give you good.。
God will answer your prayer every single time with something good.。
Is that crazy?。
What I just said, God's going to answer your prayer every single time with something good.。
Now you, here's the only catch I got for you.。
It might take time and perspective to learn that it was good.。
You might not fully see that it was good until you are with him in his kingdom.。
Looking back, it's like, Oh, now I see what you were doing.。
Okay.。
But how do I know?。
If it was a good thing that Melissa broke up with me when it felt like the most painful。
thing in the world, how do I know cancer is not the same?。
Did you hear me?。
You hear what I'm saying?。
How do I know that something terrible right here is not equally as good as that time when。
Melissa broke my heart?。
You say, JP, how can cancer be good?。
Listen, it's a broken world.。
We live in a fallen world, a world that we ushered sin into.。
And now there's all these sorts of terrible things.。
But the scripture says, God is at work in the terrible things, working out good for。
those who love him.。
And you can roll your eyes and you can shun that and you can think it's not true.。
But I will tell you that if God gave me cancer right now, and I suffered through chemo right。
now in the midst of health, and I'm sure I'd question him and I may have momentary。
doubts, but in the midst of a healthy mind and clear theology, I'd assume he was doing。
good in it.。
And I could trust him and you can trust the same thing.。
You can do the same thing.。
It may take time.。
And it will certainly take perspective.。
Are you saying that cancer is good?。
Are you saying that my son dying is good?。
I'm saying that your son dying on an instrument of torture in the midst of public。
humiliation, being stabbed in the side, nails in his hands and feet, crown of thorns on。
his head is good.。
You think God doesn't know suffering?。
I'm saying that if you want to know that God loves you, you need to look no further。
than what he did for you, to purchase you, to adopt you, to know you, to converse with。
you, to have a relationship with you.。
So that you might ask, seek, and knock, and trust.。
The gospel is how you know God is good.。
Let's have some real talk real quick.。
Right now, there's got to be questions coming in your mind.。
I've got a friend, his name is Daniel.。
He and his wife, Kelly, got pregnant.。
Anytime somebody's pregnant, we celebrate.。
He's on staff with me.。
Pregnant, celebration, yay, cue the streamers.。
Daniel's pregnant, awesome, baby's coming.。
Daniel goes and gets the sonogram.。
Doctor says, "Hey, your baby has a chromosomal disorder called trisomy 18."。
What?。
"It's not compatible with life."。
What does that mean?。
It means your baby's going to die in the womb or just outside the womb.。
What?。
That feels like a stone.。
That feels like a snake.。
How, God, how can you do that?。
I can't see how that's a loaf or a fish.。
It certainly feels like a stone or a snake.。
God, how is that good?。
I met with Daniel and I asked him, I said, "Hey, I just want to ask you a question, buddy."。
I said, "Do you feel the freedom to ask God to present Abel to you?"。
That's his son's name.。
He's healthy, made perfectly in his image, free from any chromosomal disorder.。
Do you feel the freedom to go to God and beg him to give you a healthy son?。
Now, we're right in the middle of this.。
This isn't something that's going to happen.。
This is right now.。
He answered me really honestly.。
He said, "Kind of."。
I said, "What do you mean by kind of?"。
He said, "Well, if I ask according to his will."。
That's just not what I see here.。
That's not what I see here.。
What I see here is you go to God and you beg him.。
If you pound the pavement, you beg him consistently every waking hour, "Lord, please, I want to。
meet you.。
I want to meet you."。
Every waking hour, "Lord, please, I want to meet Abel.。
I want to meet my son.。
I want to hold him.。
I want to throw baseball with him.。
I want to see him graduate, God.。
I want to meet my son.。
God, would you please give me a healthy son?。
That's what I want."。
Lord, whatever you do, not as an asterisk or some superstitious add-on, whatever you。
do, I will steward to the best of my ability for your glory and your honor.。
But if you want to know what I want, I want a son.。
That's what I want.。
I think the scripture gives you the freedom to say that.。
Daniel sent this email to the staff.。
Here's an excerpt from his email from a book he was reading.。
"In my prayer times, there seemed to be two options available to me as a believer, each。
justified in the scripture, but polar opposites.。
I could accept this tragedy as my lot in life, passing through the hand of the only one able。
to change things.。
That's God.。
For it is he who is in control of all things, sovereign and at work and in the midst of。
every good gift and terrible occurrence.。
I could resign myself to an inevitable outcome, and my prayer would be that he be near to。
us, not to overwhelm us and to fulfill us with his claims in our time of need."。
That's a great prayer.。
"And I prayed that."。
That's a great prayer.。
"Yet despite how plausible and appropriate such a prayer seemed, I was unable not to。
append a cry for more.。
And so I did.。
My life of faith in Christ told me to believe against rational leanings otherwise, that。
God was able and that he actually requested me to ask him the impossible, all with the。
believing heart of a child.。
He would have to tell me no, and it would not be for lack of asking if he refused the。
answers that I sought.。
I would beg for healing or misdiagnosis.。
Any miracle would suffice.。
I asked that the nursery be needed, prayers lasting for long stretches but containing。
very few words.。
Please let us know this child.。
It is my logic, my simple mind that tells me the Lord does not want us to have a baby。
with trisomy 18.。
But beyond my logic, I asked maybe why.。
And I could conceive of a situation where he would be trying to spare that child of。
something, some hardship in life or something that lays ahead or and or that he would entrust。
to this couple, a suffering to steward for his glory.。
In fact, that article I just read comes from someone in the exact same situation who put。
out a YouTube video where 5 million people saw and heard the gospel.。
Because of this child's life.。
And so as Daniel read that, he was motivated to pray differently.。
And I tell it to you so that you might pray differently, because I know so many people。
that say, hey, that was the hardest thing I ever went through, but I wouldn't change。
a thing.。
I know a man that was born with no arms and no legs that became the greatest blessing。
in his life that he had no arms and no legs outside of knowing Christ.。
I know another dear friend of mine whose son was born with Down syndrome, and he would。
say the greatest blessing in his life outside of knowing Jesus was his son Noah with Down。
syndrome.。
When it looked like a snake and a stone, God said, no, it's a loaf and a fish.。
Give it time.。
Tim Keller says, God either gives us what we ask for.。
Or gives us what we would have asked if we knew everything he knows.。
Verse 12, so in everything due to others, what you would have them do to you for this。
sums up the law and the prophets.。
That's a big two letters right up front.。
It says so.。
So as, as you know this about God, your father in everything, because so therefore in everything。
due to others, what you would have them do to you for this sums up the law and the prophets.。
My third and final point is that God often answers prayers through people that you might。
be the answer to someone else's prayers, or at least have the means to answer someone。
else's prayers by the way you do good to them.。
That God may have you where you are.。
Let me say that differently.。
God certainly has you where you are when you are there for a reason and purpose to use。
you.。
And so if your father gives good to those who ask him, then what would his children。
do?。
They ought to do the same.。
If your father in heaven, your perfect father.。
Gives good to those who ask him, then his children, his reflection should do the same。
thing.。
So you might be the answer to someone else's prayer.。
George Mueller was a well-known Christian in the 1800s.。
Well-known because of two reasons, his kindness to orphans and his prayer life.。
Notably, he cared for over 10,000 orphans in his lifetime.。
He was not a wealthy man, but known for his kindness and his prayer life.。
There are lots of stories about like similar to the one I'm about to tell you.。
On particular day, he sets the table for a mealtime for dinner and there's no food in。
the cupboard.。
There's no food in the pantry.。
They're empty, right?。
And his kids are sitting there at the table.。
And so he goes to pray to God for the food that they are about to receive, yet they have。
no food.。
And he says, Lord, we thank you for the food we are about to receive.。
And as he says, amen, there's a knock at the door and it's a baker from a nearby bakery。
who says, last night I had a dream that the Lord wanted me to come and provide this food。
for you.。
And he gives them enough bread and baked goods for everyone there until their bellies。
are full.。
And that's not all.。
At that same time, a milk truck goes by and breaks down and he then comes to the door。
and says, my truck is broken down.。
Do you have need for all of this milk?。
As George Mueller with empty cupboards, prayed to God for the food that he was about to receive.。
This is the faith that marked his life, the prayer life that marks life.。
And you know what?。
As you think of that, it's like, well, that's true.。
In the 1800s, cool one man.。
No, I hear those stories all the time.。
I mean, whether it's like there's one particular one, I didn't have enough money to go to。
college.。
I needed this exact amount.。
And, you know, these guys come around me and said, hey, we felt compelled to give you this.。
Another one said, hey, I was going to go on this international trip.。
I needed exactly $1,700.。
We got in a room, we prayed.。
Everyone said they would give this amount.。
And when I added it up, it was exactly $1,700.。
People who wanted to go to launch, but I couldn't afford a ticket.。
And then someone lo and behold, just says, hey, the Lord put it on my heart to provide。
for you a way to go.。
Because their prayers were answered through people.。
Do you see that?。
Anywhere you see the golden rule, it's in a negative form.。
Do not do unto others as you would not want them to do to you.。
But God says, no, no, let's focus on what you should do.。
Meet the needs of others.。
Care for others.。
These are from some of my favorite stories of just being here.。
People all around you have prayers they need answered.。
And you might be the agent that God uses to display his goodness and his love to them.。
And so in summary, in summary, pray with persistence.。
Pray to a perfect father.。
And be a person who God uses to answer the prayers of others.。
The reason that I felt compelled to meet with my friend Daniel。
was because I had been in that situation.。
And shortly after Monica and I were married, some of our closest friends called us.。
We had just recently celebrated their pregnancy, and they said they were just leaving the doctor。
and their child had been diagnosed with trisomy 18.。
She had cysts on her brain, holes in her heart, dilated kidneys, and clubbed feet.。
They then brought in a specialist that looked at this information, trisomy 18 specialist,。
and he said, "Yes, this is the situation, but here's the deal.。
We can take the child, and you guys can try again."。
And they said, "No, we cannot abort this baby because of our faith.。
We don't know, you know, but we believe in a God.。
We can't do this."。
And they said, it was terrible bedside manner.。
They said, "You don't wanna carry a baby for nine months that you won't get to hold。
or play with.。
Don't do this."。
And they said, "No, we will."。
And their community gathered around them, and we prayed.。
We begged God.。
We pleaded with Him.。
"Lord, we wanna meet Rayleigh.。
Father, we wanna know Rayleigh.。
God, why wouldn't you want us to know Rayleigh?。
Lord, we will steward whatever suffering you have."。
Do you guys know what I mean by steward?。
"We will make the most of, we will use it to your glory and honor and your benefit.。
We will trust you in the suffering that you're at work.。
We will steward it as best as we can."。
That's all you can do with suffering is steward it to the best of your ability.。
"Lord, if you take this child, we will steward our suffering.。
But Father, we wanna meet her.。
We wanna play with her.。
We wanna know her.。
We wanna hold her, laugh with her."。
And Rayleigh was born.。
Here's a picture.。
We didn't know what that would be.。
And they said, "Oh, lo and behold, the holes in the heart healed themselves and the cysts。
on the brain are gone and the kidneys seem fine.。
She's just born with club feet."。
And they sent my friend, Mike and Erica, to Scottish Rite Hospital to a specialist with。
club feet.。
And she got there and he said, "What are you doing here?。
Go home.。
Your baby doesn't have club feet."。
And here's a picture of Rayleigh today.。
[Applause]。
Hey, can I just tell you something?。
If God takes Rayleigh to night in her sleep, he's still good.。
If God takes her into his kingdom tonight, welcomes her in, I mean, how selfish am I。
gotta be to say that's the worst thing that could happen to Rayleigh?。
God, I trust you in that.。
I'm sad.。
I'm mourning.。
It hurts so bad.。
But Lord, I trust you.。
You're a good God.。
I got a little bit of life on this earth and I'm gonna live it for you.。
I trust you.。
I know the Lord has given you some, some of you, some terrible things to steward.。
And you haven't stewarded them in your sadness.。
You stayed there in a state of grieving and anger.。
And he says, "Man, I want to show you that it's a loaf or a fish, something that you。
can use to feed others in their time of need.。
Will you let me show you that?。
Will you let me show you that?。
And if you think I can't empathize in your suffering, will you look to the cross where。
he watched his son die slowly and painfully?"。
In an effort to simply show you that he loves you and he forgives you.。
I'm not delusional.。
I'm not just pretending it's okay when it's not.。
I'm not looking at bad situations and calling them great when they feel bad and awful and。
I really think they're awful.。
I'm just saying I trust God is good.。
Let me say that differently.。
I know God is good.。
He can't give snakes.。
He can't give stones.。
And so if I have something that's a snake or a stone, I'm just gonna assume I need some。
time to gain perspective and trust him.。
Let me pray.。
Father, you're a good father.。
You're a good father.。
You give good to us.。
Lord, help us to believe that.。
Help us to look to your son, Jesus Christ, who died on the cross for our sins, not by。
accident, but by your plan, according to your will, so that you might break him out of the。
grave to display an empty tomb and the hope that we have that we can know that we're gonna。
be with you forever and ever and ever in your kingdom.。
Lord, help us believe you're a good father, a perfect father who desires to give good。
to his children.。
And help us to know you.。
Even now.。
God, I pray for Daniel and Kelly and Abel.。
God, I pray that you would heal that child inside of her womb, that it would be a misdiagnosis.。
Any miracle, anything that you choose to do will be fine.。
God, we want to meet Abel.。
We want to know him.。
We want to laugh with him and hold him and play with him.。
Lord, would you do that?。
That is what we want.。
Please do that.。
And father, this is not an asterisk.。
This is not an and but or this is listen, we'll steward whatever you choose to give。
us, trusting that it's not a snake, trusting that it's not a stone, trusting it is a fish。
or a low, something that we can use for your glory and honor, something that we can delight。
in somehow, some way with perspective.。
We will steward that Lord, but we beg you God, sovereign Lord, we plead with you.。
Please give us a healthy baby boy.。
You're a good father.。
Just help us to know that.。
The phrase echoing in my head is is an interesting one from the Texas and though you're wicked。
and I just think about how much I love my kids.。
I mean, if you tried to give my kid a poisonous serpent, I would wrap it around your neck。
and choke you out.。
I mean, I love him.。
I'm crazy about him.。
And like, I don't even I don't after reading the text, I don't know that God, you know,。
the way that I let Finley eat that hot chocolate thing.。
I don't even think God would do that.。
I don't think you could do that.。
He's like, no, you just I'm not going to let you do that.。
Like, I want to give you good.。
And let me redeem the brokenness in the world in the way that you steward that which you。
think that you don't want.。
Let me show you that you can trust me.。
He answers those prayers.。
He hears them and he answers them.。
And he wants you to ask what you want while you seek what he wants, seeking what he wants.。
But be honest with him.。
He desires a relationship with you only.。
A relationship with you, not this check the box thing, but like a daily conversation,。
ongoing conversing with you, a relationship, one that's that requires maintenance.。
I remember being in this room and there was like a section of people just like right here.。
That's all that showed up on Tuesday nights.。
And can we turn the lights up and turn the lights on?。
And and I remember with this little section of people, I was like, I'm going to go to。
and I remember with this little section right here, I said, here's what I want you guys。
to do.。
Okay.。
And I said, and I had everyone turn around and because everything else was empty, all。
of that, there were no people up there and there and there.。
And in fact, can we just do that?。
Just just you guys right here.。
If you're on the floor, can you just turn around and look that way?。
And you could keep looking that way.。
And I just want to tell you something that that you keep looking that way, because I'm。
going to talk to you for just a minute as you do.。
Did you know?。
Did you know that that, you know, college students, you know, they sneak in here during。
the summer.。
We know that you do if you're listening and and they're about to go back to school.。
And they're about to make room.。
And so here's what happened when when this little group of people turned around.。
I said, can we just pray?。
Can you find a seat up there that's empty?。
And you pray that one of your pagan friends, you know, that that you one of your old drinking。
buddies or whoever they are that don't know God.。
Would you just pray that they would fill a specific seat?。
I said, look at a seat and pray that they would be sitting in it.。
And we did.。
And is that not an answer prayer?。
I'm not saying all you guys up there are pagans or anything.。
Let's thank God for that answered prayer.。
And I tell you that because he may make space again as some friends return to universities。
around this country for you to go to a coworker and say, hey, will you come and see not the。
porch, but my Jesus learn from the scriptures here with the Lord might want to say to you.。
And so our friends gathered in Houston, they just text us this photo.。
That's them in Houston.。
Pretty awesome.。
If you know someone in Houston.。
Yeah, praise God.。
They're going to gather every Tuesday night.。
And so, listen, if you're here and you don't have other brothers and sisters who can pray。
for you, other brothers and sisters who can meet your needs, other people who are Christians.。
If you're a guy, we do have open community group.。
You can go down this corridor right here in a room and there'll be guys that would love。
to get to know you.。
If you're a girl, you can walk down this hallway and there's a room there of girls that would。
love to get to know you.。
But everyone has a profession.。
I say that most of you, most everyone here tonight has some job that they will return。
to tomorrow.。
And we want to help you be on mission in that place, whether you're a teacher or an engineer,。
a scientist, or whatever you do.。
Okay.。
I don't know what you do, but a barista, I don't know what you do.。
You're an artist.。
Okay.。
Of sorts, a graphic designer, a software engineer, you work in computers, technology, a consultant.。
Okay.。
We're going to gather, do this deal tonight called affinity groups.。
And so that you can go and sit with other people that do your exact profession and hear。
them talk about how they live on mission.。
And so here's a kind of map that's going to be up on all of the TVs.。
You can go and look at it and find out where you to go.。
But I would just invite you to hang out for a few more minutes with us and gather with。
other people who do the same thing that you do.。
And if you heard something tonight where you're like, Hey, I don't think God is good.。
I'm telling you, it's the most unloving thing that you can think.。
And we would love to try and convince you.。
Otherwise, please come and talk to someone in a red shirt.。
Love you guys.。
Have a great week of worship.。
