(upbeat music)。
- We recently moved into a rent house。
about a mile north of here, my family and I.。
And it's always interesting getting to know。
a new neighborhood, getting to know new neighbors。
and whatnot.。
And so as I would take the trash out。
through the garage in the back,。
there's a house across the alley。
and there's a large eight foot fence there。
and it's a newer home or a larger home.。
And every time I go back there,。
no matter what time it is, it's like,。
(imitates thumping)。
And so like I went down out at 9 a.m.。
I'm like taking the trash,。
the, what do you call it, the dumpster kind of back there.。
And it's like, (imitates thumping)。
And then I went back out at 11.30 p.m.。
(imitates thumping)。
And like these guys are partying all the time, man.。
And so I didn't really say anything.。
I didn't think much of it.。
And then a couple of weeks go by。
and Monica's like, "Hey, have you ever noticed。
"that the house behind us is like constantly partying?。
"Like they have a nonstop party going on back there."。
And I was like, "I know it.。
"I thought the exact same thing."。
And so every single day I would go out there。
and there's just, (imitates thumping)。
And there's this party.。
And so I can, there's a fence,。
but I can see what's happening.。
Like there's people splashing around.。
I'll hear a conversation.。
They evidently have some sort of swing set.。
And so I see like my mind, yeah, 'cause that's fun.。
My mind is like painting the picture.。
I see the margarita machine.。
You know, I see the people.。
They're kind of walking around.。
Everybody's partying.。
And then I hear that they have a teenage daughter.。
And I'm like, "Oh man, they need to reign that girl in.。
"Like she is like nonstop pool party in the backyard."。
And so we kind of continue to joke about this.。
Like, "Hey, what's up with the party?"。
Like it's like this kind of running joke in our house。
that they have this nonstop party going on。
from sunup to sundown all the time.。
We're kind of sad we didn't get invited and whatnot.。
And so Monica walks out to the back one day。
through the garage.。
And the guy who owns the house, the dad is out.。
And he goes, "Hey, you must be the new neighbors."。
And she said, "Yeah, we moved in a little over a month ago."。
And he's like, "Oh, it's so great to meet you."。
And he goes, "Let me just start by apologizing。
"for the loud music."。
And she goes, "Oh, you know, it's cool.。
"You know, we like music.。
"It's all good."。
(congregation laughing)。
And he said, "My 15-year-old daughter has Down syndrome.。
"And she sits out back all day and it soothes her."。
And in a moment, the scene changed.。
Like what was actually happening behind the fence changed.。
I couldn't see past the fence.。
I couldn't see over there.。
And so what I did is I stayed over there,。
over here in my safe little place,。
in my little community, in my house.。
And I made judgment calls about what was happening。
on the other side of the fence.。
And I painted a reality there that was not a reality at all.。
In fact, there was a very, very different reality。
that was happening back there.。
And I think on the topic of homosexuality,。
this has happened by both parties.。
Those in the homosexual lifestyle,。
in homosexual communities, look at the church。
and make judgment calls of what's happening.。
And moreover, those in the church,。
look at those in that lifestyle.。
And though they can't see past the fence,。
though they won't engage into their world,。
they make judgment calls。
of what's actually happening back there.。
And so tonight, what I hope to do,。
what I hope the Holy Spirit does here。
as we bring down the fence,。
I hope we can see how the Lord wants us to love。
people not like us.。
And I hope that they would see our efforts。
and desire to love as Jesus would call us to love.。
As we move through the scriptures,。
I want you to know something up front.。
You're going to hear things。
that you will certainly agree with.。
And most of you here tonight will hear things。
that you certainly don't agree with.。
I'm gonna ask you for something.。
I've noticed that we come to this topic。
with preconceived notions and preconceived ideas。
and agendas, and I just want a disarmament。
to happen right here.。
Would you set down your weapon?。
Would you set down your weapon and would you listen?。
And would you let the Holy Spirit instruct your heart?。
I pray that anything that I say that is not of God,。
you don't even hear.。
But anything that I say that is consistent。
with God's character and the scriptures,。
that it moves in your heart and it does indeed change us.。
And if you're here and you identify as gay,。
I imagine that as you hear this,。
you're like, dude, you don't even understand,。
to which I want to say, I am sure that I don't.。
But I wanna make a commitment to you.。
If you will listen to me for the next few minutes,。
if you will hang out, if you will not get up。
and leave, if you will not assume how it ends,。
if you will, I know that you have a message of love as well,。
if you will give me that love and respect,。
then I will take as long as it takes。
to meet with every single one of you。
until you help me understand.。
I, let me say that again, I will sit down with each of you.。
And I will listen with no agenda other than to listen to you。
so that you might help me understand,。
so that I might grow an understanding of where you're at,。
how you feel, how the church has potentially hurt you,。
or whatever it is that you would like to share, deal?。
The other day I shared the gospel with a friend,。
someone that the Lord had placed in my life,。
and he responded in a way that I did not anticipate,。
I didn't see it coming, he said, I believe in Jesus,。
I just don't believe that gay people are going to hell.。
And I said, well, I don't believe gay people。
are going to hell either.。
And he said, to hell you don't.。
I said, oh, well, tell me more of what I believe, bro,。
like that's interesting, like clearly you're a prophet.。
What is it exactly that I believe?。
And he goes, I know that the church believes。
that gay people are going to hell,。
and I said, well, it's interesting, I work at a church,。
and I believe that everyone's going to hell,。
except for those that have acknowledged the payment。
so that they can be with God forever,。
those who have acknowledged that God sent。
his only son, Jesus Christ, to die for their sins。
so that they can be given new life,。
life with him forever and ever in eternity.。
That's the gospel, that's the very gospel。
I just shared with you, now how do you hear in that gospel。
that homosexuals are going to hell, how did you hear that。
in what I just shared with you?。
And we began to talk, but I understand how the church。
has been misunderstood and even misspoke,。
not just misunderstood, but miscommunicated on this topic.。
We have cliches that are stupid, and we say things like,。
you know, God made Adam and Eve, not Adam and Steve,。
and that's not helpful.。
We say, hey, love the sinner, but hate the sin.。
But if you go out there, there's all kinds of instruction。
on how to hate the sin, but very little instruction。
on how to love the sinner.。
And so what are we doing tonight to love。
and to move past these ideas?。
There's a real tension for me tonight。
as I feel a burden to shepherd the church。
toward caring for those who identify as homosexual,。
as well as to care and to love for the person。
who identifies as homosexual.。
There's a tension there, it's very, very difficult to do.。
And so I understand why this is the topic。
that has torn the church apart, that's what they say.。
They say, hey, this is the topic that is going to cause。
the church to lose its voice, and I believe they're right.。
That probably is how this will play out,。
unless we figure this tension out,。
unless we figure how to navigate through this。
carefully and cautiously.。
So would you pray for me?。
Would you pray that the Lord would speak through me?。
And would you pray that Dallas is shaped。
through this message?。
We're in a series called Lyrics and Lies,。
we're looking at Macklemore's "Same Love" tonight,。
and I'll read to you the first part of the song.。
When I was in the third grade, I thought I was gay。
'cause I could draw, my uncle was,。
and I kept my room straight.。
I told my mom, tears rushing down my face,。
she's like, Ben, you've loved girls since before pre-K.。
Yeah, I guess she had a point, didn't she?。
Bunch of stereotypes all in my head,。
I remember doing the math, like, yeah,。
I'm good at Little League, a preconceived idea。
of what it all meant for those that liked the same sex.。
Had the characteristics, the right-wing conservatives。
thinks it's a decision, and you can be cured。
with some treatment and religion.。
Man-made rewiring of a predisposition playing God,。
oh, no, here we go.。
America the brave still fears what we don't know,。
and God loves all his children is somehow forgotten,。
but we paraphrase a book written 3,500 years ago,。
I don't know.。
And I will tell you that Macklemore as a heterosexual。
does an incredible job of bringing down the fence。
and allowing us as the church to see into this struggle.。
He gives us a mirror as the church,。
and he says, hey, this is what you're doing.。
He does an incredible job of allowing us。
to look past the fence, that's what he does well.。
And so tonight what I hope to cover。
is what the Bible actually does say about this topic,。
where we as Christians have missed it,。
and then before you leave here tonight,。
the change that is necessary.。
One that might surprise you, one that might not.。
And so we'll start with what does the Bible actually say,。
and what does it mean?。
This is gonna carry throughout the message,。
it won't be contained in this point。
as we'll continue to cover。
what the scripture says on the topic.。
But I will tell you that if the Bible。
is not authoritative in your life,。
you at least wanna listen to be educated,。
you can at least build your case。
against what the scripture says.。
Even if you don't trust it, even if you don't believe it,。
it is important that we all understand what the Bible says.。
This is a topic where you have to know where you stand,。
because if you don't know where you stand,。
you will be misrepresented by both sides.。
That is why this message is so important.。
And so we know that if you have studied the scriptures,。
that early in Genesis 19,。
you see a condemnation of homosexuality。
in what's going on in Sodom,。
where we actually get the word sodomy.。
This is before the law came out.。
This is the Old Testament.。
And so we see that, some say,。
well, the sin of Sodom was actually。
that they didn't care for the poor.。
That's true, that's one of the sins of Sodom,。
but the sin that Sodom is most known for。
is actually this act of homosexuality,。
otherwise known as sodomy,。
where we get that name from the very town.。
And so then the Old Testament law comes in Leviticus 18.。
And so bear with me, 'cause I'm going Old Testament on you.。
Leviticus 18, verse 22, it says,。
"You shall not lie with a male as with a woman.。
"It is an abomination."。
And then again, in Leviticus 20, verse 13, it says,。
"If a man lies with a male as with a woman,。
"both of them have committed an abomination.。
"They shall surely be put to death.。
"And when they be put to death, their blood is upon them."。
And the argument against this looks something like this.。
Well, if you believe in the Old Testament law,。
then why do you eat shellfish?。
Why do you eat pork?。
And why do you get a bald fade。
like the one I'm representing right now?。
Why do you shave the side of your heads?。
Because all of that is Old Testament law,。
and they're absolutely right.。
We do not obey the Old Testament law anymore.。
Jesus came and he abolished the law.。
That's what the scripture tells us.。
It's a really sound argument, or at least half of it,。
where it comes from, the argument that it makes is true.。
Romans 10, verse four, it says,。
"Christ is the culmination or end of,"。
that's what that word means,。
"Christ is the end of the law,。
"so that there may be righteousness。
"for everyone who believes."。
Now, there is the moral law that shows up。
in the New Testament, which the Spirit guides us through.。
The moral law is things like don't kill, don't steal,。
don't marry your father and mother,。
don't commit adultery, things around sexuality.。
This law reappears throughout the New Testament.。
This is what marks the follower of Jesus Christ,。
that his Spirit, the law that is now written on our hearts,。
that he would live that law out in our lives.。
And so homosexuality actually shows up。
in the New Testament in Romans one,。
in 1 Timothy one, verses nine through 11,。
and in 1 Corinthians six,。
be for the rest of our time this evening.。
But I want you to see a verse, it's John one, verse 17.。
It says, "For the law was given through Moses.。
"Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ."。
The law, that which we looked at in Leviticus,。
which we certainly do not obey,。
we're not putting people to death,。
and we're not saying, "Hey, you can't go eat at Red Lobster."。
Not sure why you'd want to, but you shouldn't.。
(congregation laughing)。
You can if you want to.。
"For the law was given through Moses.。
"Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ."。
If we have missed this, if you have missed this,。
let me make this personal, if I have missed this,。
if I have missed out on the topic of homosexuality,。
if I have misled, if I have mistaught,。
if I have misinterpreted,。
it has been in one of these two areas, grace or truth.。
Jesus came and brought grace and truth.。
And some of you are here, and you're like,。
"Truth, man, I love truth."。
And you're preaching truth, and some of you are here,。
and you hear grace, and you're like,。
"Oh yeah, grace," and you're preaching grace,。
but both of them are absolutely necessary.。
Grace and truth, full of grace, full of truth,。
that those two would be complete and exist together.。
Not one or the other, but both of them coexisting.。
And so what we've done is we've taken grace,。
and we've changed the definition。
to something called tolerance.。
We've taken grace, and we've moved it to tolerance.。
Saying, "Well, if I'm to be full of grace,。
"then I'm to tolerate sin.。
"I'm to love everyone and ask no one to change,。
"because that would be unloving."。
And we've taken truth,。
and we've redefined it to judgment.。
And we say, "Well, the Bible says that I'm to speak truth,。
"and so that allows me to bring judgment to everyone.。
"I can just go around and kind of determine。
"the fruit in people's life, and I can judge them,。
"and I can call out their sin, but there's no grace."。
It has to be both full of grace and full of truth.。
It's not tolerance for sin in the name of love,。
which is not love, and call that grace.。
Not judgment of sin outside the church,。
and losing your voice.。
We're not called to judge sin outside the church.。
We're called to judge sin inside the church.。
We're called to treat those outside the church。
by sharing the truth of the gospel.。
And so we point those outside the church。
to the grace of the gospel,。
and we point those inside the church。
to the truth of the Bible.。
Let me say that again.。
We point those outside the church。
to the grace of the gospel.。
That's the truth that we share。
with those outside the church.。
Did you know that Jesus loves you so much。
that he gave his entire life。
for everything wrong you've done。
so that you can be with God forever?。
And we take those inside the church,。
those who have trusted in Christ's death and resurrection,。
we say, "Hey, do you know what the scripture says。
"and how you might live your life,。
"that the Holy Spirit would conform your life。
"according to the scripture?"。
Macklemore says, "But we paraphrase a book。
"written 3,500 years ago."。
And so Macklemore is not just asking you。
to accept homosexuality.。
He's building a case against the Bible.。
He is essentially saying it's old and you can't trust it.。
And this is where I take issue with what Macklemore says.。
You cannot trust the Bible.。
And so Macklemore has forsaken books written 1,900 years ago,。
LBN 1, 1 Corinthians 6, verses nine through 11.。
To set this up, homosexuality was more normal。
than monogamous heterosexuality in this culture.。
The culture that this was written into,。
homosexuality was the absolute norm.。
In fact, 14 out of the first 15 emperors of Rome。
all had homosexual relationships.。
Let me say that again.。
14 of the first 15 emperors of Rome,。
all of them, 14 out of 15, had homosexual relationships.。
That is the culture that this is being written into.。
But as we look at this text, I want you to find your sin.。
There's a list of sins here.。
I want you to find yours.。
Do you not know that wrongdoers, that's all of us,。
everyone here has done wrong,。
wrongdoers will not inherit the kingdom of God.。
That's really bad news。
'cause we wanna inherit the kingdom of God。
and we've all done wrong.。
So he must be trying to make a point here。
that's bigger than what it says right here.。
Do you not know that wrongdoers。
will not inherit the kingdom of God?。
Do not be deceived.。
Neither the sexually immoral, that's absolutely me,。
I've been sexually immoral.。
Okay, there's lots of sexual immorality in my past.。
There are days still today where I struggle with lust,。
which is sexual immorality, according to Jesus.。
Nor idolaters, that's the sin that I would circle for myself.。
I am very quick to bring idols before God.。
I am very quick to have something that I love in my life。
more than God in moments of my life.。
I'm an idolater.。
I struggle with idolatry.。
Nor adulterers, nor men who have sex with men.。
Now there's two words here。
that the NIV 2011 has interpreted。
as men who have sex with men.。
There's a lot of debate around these two words,。
two words in the Greek.。
One of them, it is a, if you are one sex,。
but you identify more as the other sex.。
So if you're like an effeminate male,。
that would be the first word.。
And the second word translates men who penetrate men.。
I know that's graphic,。
but that is how the word is translated。
as it is used in ancient Greek.。
So you have effeminate male and men who penetrate men.。
These are the two words.。
The second one is absolutely bulletproof.。
There's no redefining it.。
There's no misunderstanding it.。
That's what it means in every ancient Greek text。
that we look at.。
That's what it means.。
It is a word that encompasses all of homosexuality.。
In fact, both passive homosexuality。
and active homosexuality.。
Both the feeling and the action, if you will.。
They're both represented here in these two words.。
And then it goes on to say,。
nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards,。
nor slanderers, nor swindlers。
will inherit the kingdom of God.。
It's bad news.。
If you stop there, it's really easy to understand。
how the church has missed it,。
saying stupid things like if you're gay,。
you're going to hell.。
That's not true.。
And it's a bad interpretation of this text.。
It is a misunderstanding of this text.。
The context of this text is all throughout,。
prior to that chapter in 1 Corinthians 6.。
And in 1 Corinthians chapter five,。
at the end of that chapter, verse 12,。
it tells us really clearly,。
what business is it of mine, Paul writes,。
to judge those outside the church?。
Are you not to judge those inside?。
Paul says, the context of this passage。
is those who are within the church。
should judge those within the church.。
But those who are within the church。
should not judge those who are outside the church.。
If they do not ascribe to, hey, the Bible is absolute truth。
and authoritative in my life,。
then why would they ever say,。
I'm going to live according to it?。
Some of you get so frustrated with those in your life。
that you work with that sin,。
but they haven't signed up to not sin。
or to follow the Holy Spirit。
because they don't have the Holy Spirit.。
And that's foolish, that is a waste of frustration.。
And so the truth, again, as we cover what the Bible says,。
is that homosexuality is a sin,。
but it is a sin just like yours,。
just like my idolatry.。
In fact, if you're here。
and you're sleeping with someone outside of marriage,。
you are just as much in an offense to God。
as the one who struggles with homosexuality。
or the one who has given themselves to homosexuality.。
Do you understand that?。
You're just as much in offense to God as that one.。
And so the church must stop treating this sin。
like it's a special kind of sin,。
like it's some sort of unique sin,。
and understand that it is just like。
all of the sins of heterosexuality,。
just like the sins that I said that I struggled with.。
And so what Jesus did is he took the law。
and he raised the bar.。
The law said, don't kill.。
I say, if you treat someone poorly, you've committed murder.。
The law said, do not commit sexual immorality.。
I say, if you look at someone lustfully,。
you're not married to, you've committed adultery.。
Do you see how Jesus takes the bar and he raises it?。
And he's saying, hey, you can't keep the law.。
Why would God give us the law if we can't keep the law?。
The law does three things.。
I'll just say a few things, okay?。
The one thing that the law does。
is it shows our deep, incredible need for a savior.。
God, I can't even do right.。
I need someone to save me from my sin.。
See, also Jesus Christ, the law protects us。
from that which would bring harm to us.。
God says, I love you, I've created you,。
and if you follow this law, it will lead to life,。
life in me, and it shows us a way that we should live.。
And so we share the truth that it is a sin,。
but we share that out of love, not out of law,。
not from the law, but from love.。
And because the moral law is consistent。
with the character of God, when we break it,。
we bring harm to ourselves.。
That's the way God created the world.。
That's the way that he wired the world.。
And so I am well aware of, like when I sit here。
and I've gotten lots of angry emails。
and lots of angry phone calls from guys。
whose girlfriend broke up with them,。
'cause I'm sitting up here and I'm like,。
hey, you shouldn't be having sex.。
You know, we're sitting next to each other。
and it's super awkward, and I see the elbows sometimes。
and the tears sometimes from up here.。
I mean, you should see the view from up here.。
And so I get those emails,。
because whenever you start removing someone's idol,。
and they say, well, you don't understand how I feel.。
You don't know, I really, really wanna be。
in this relationship, but I talk to a girl。
who's in a physical relationship, and I say,。
hey, y'all need to break up,。
you need to give each other some space,。
and you both need to pursue Jesus separately,。
and he might bring you back together, he might not.。
And I see the tears, and I say, oh, man.。
I mean, I have gotten hate letters in that.。
When you start bringing down someone idols,。
but God has given us instruction,。
and that instruction is meant to lead us to life。
because God loves us.。
And so when we don't listen, it goes poorly.。
And so how does this apply to the issue of homosexuality?。
I'm gonna read to you some statistics.。
I want you to pay close attention to where they're from.。
These are not from Christianity Today,。
or watermark.org, or the porchdallas.com.。
These are from the American Public Health Association,。
from the CDC, from the Oxford Journal of Epidemiology.。
I will read them.。
Those who identify as homosexuals are 150% more likely。
to deal with depression, anxiety, and alcohol,。
or substance abuse.。
That comes from the American Public Health Association。
in 2013.。
The homosexual lifestyle includes。
a 200% higher rate of suicide.。
That comes from the American Public Health Association。
in 2013.。
And so the argument there is, well, that's because。
we live in a world that doesn't accept us.。
And so therefore, we wanna leave that world,。
and we're more prone to depression.。
And so they did a study.。
That study was done in the Netherlands,。
where the gay lifestyle is completely accepted,。
just as it was the heterosexual lifestyle.。
And what they have found is that there are higher rates。
of depression, bipolar, panic disorder, OCD,。
psychiatric disorders, among those who identify themselves。
as homosexual in the Netherlands.。
And so let's talk about disease for a minute.。
I wanna remind you right now that I'm sharing this。
out of love.。
My heart, my motive is love.。
And showing the danger of a specific activity。
as it relates to homosexuality.。
Disease, the 2005 Oxford Journal of Epidemiology found。
that 78% of homosexuals have at least one STD.。
The US Center for Disease Control in 2013 found,。
while only 3% of USA, America's population identifies。
as being homosexual, this group is responsible for,。
so this group of 3% is responsible for 50% of cases。
of syphilis, 60% of cases of gonorrhea,。
90% of homosexual men report chronic。
or recurrent viral infections.。
Over 75% of all HIV cases, so 3/4 of all HIV cases。
in the last five years are among the homosexual community.。
Why?。
Because we weren't created to do that.。
And whenever we go against God's law,。
there are consequences.。
Whenever we pursue feelings over that which he has commanded。
it is harmful to us.。
Did you know that AIDS, when it came out in 1982,。
was called GRID, Gay-Related Immune Deficiency Syndrome?。
That was the initial name for AIDS。
because they found the disease only existed,。
to the best of their research at the time,。
in these clusters of community。
that identified as homosexual.。
Later, the name, in the '80s, the name was changed to AIDS.。
Now, life expectancy.。
According to the 2005 Oxford Journal of Epidemiology。
and the American Obituary Report,。
in homosexual, the age expectancy is 20 years shorter。
than their heterosexual counterparts.。
Only 1% of homosexual men die from old age.。
And some of this is because the rampant promiscuity。
in the homosexual lifestyle.。
Swedish gay male couple, David and Andrew Madison,。
did a study in the Journal of Sex Research.。
They studied 2,583 couples.。
Not a single couple sustained a monogamous relationship。
despite being openly married.。
Average number of partners was between 101 and 500.。
Male couples who identify as gay。
are 50% more likely to divorce,。
and couples who identify as lesbians。
are 167% more likely to divorce.。
And so you understand why there is a truth。
that we share because we love our brother and sister,。
not because we think they're weird,。
not because we think they're crazy,。
but because we love them and we desire life for them.。
And God says, "Hey, this is where life is found."。
Now, I wanna ask you a question.。
If you have a friend, someone you love very, very much,。
and they say, "Hey, I wanna take this pill.。
"I wanna swallow this pill."。
And you say, "Well, what will the pill do for you?"。
And they say, "Well, once I take it,。
"I'll be more likely to be anxious,。
"more likely to be depressed,。
"more likely to commit suicide,。
"more likely to get sick more often,。
"more likely to be promiscuous, more likely to divorce,。
"and I'm going to take two decades, 20 years off my life."。
(congregation murmurs)。
What is the loving response?。
I would tell you it depends.。
It depends if they're inside the church,。
you show them to the truth of the Scriptures.。
This is what the Bible says.。
If they're outside the church,。
you show them to the truth of the Bible,。
and you say, "You know what?。
"If you trust in this, you can live forever.。
"You don't have to cut off 20 years of your life.。
"If you trust that Jesus Christ has paid。
"for all the things you've done,。
"there's no shame in the kingdom.。
"You can live with God forever and ever and ever,。
"and 200, 2,000, 2 billion years from now,。
"you'll still be with him.。
"I'll be with you too.。
"We'll be together up there forever."。
There is forgiveness, man.。
You point those inside the church。
to the truth of the Scripture.。
You point those outside the church。
to the grace of the gospel.。
And you do it consistently.。
Over and over and over, you do that.。
I had a friend tell me,。
he says, you know, he's not a believer, he's an atheist.。
He said, "I love people just the way they are.。
"I don't want anyone to change.。
"And what happens when they're unhappy。
"is I don't know what to do."。
And so he was like sending people to me to meet with.。
And I said, "Why are you sending these people to me。
"to meet with them?"。
"Because you love them enough to call them to more.。
"I can only love them right where they're at.。
"You know, this is the way I'm wired.。
"I just want everybody to be happy.。
"I don't really want any awkward conversations.。
"But you love them enough to show them what could be.。
"You love them better than I do."。
Jesus took all the laws, over 600 of them,。
and he summarized them into two commands,。
love God and love people.。
He says, "In these, all of the laws are encompassed.。
"And so the compassion in you might say right now,。
"but JP, I'm born that way.。
"They're born that way."。
Among the scientific community,。
there is no supported evidence that people are born gay.。
I don't know if you knew that.。
But I would tell you that I have a strong inclination。
to think that there probably are born。
with a predisposition to be gay,。
or the possibility for it anyways.。
Rick Warren was in a recent interview,。
or it was in an interview,。
I don't know how recent it was,。
and the angry reporter said,。
"Would you believe that homosexuality is still a sin。
"if they found the gay gene,。
"if they found that people were born gay?"。
To which Rick Warren said, "Absolutely.。
"I would still say that it's a sin."。
And she said, she was really upset,。
and she said, "Why?。
"How can you say that?"。
And he looks at her and he goes,。
"Because I want to have sex。
"with every beautiful woman I meet."。
But no one would argue that that's what's best for society.。
But that is what I want.。
That is my strong inclination.。
That is my strong feelings.。
That is my desire.。
But no one would argue that that's。
what is best for everyone.。
And so I think that we're born on a gender spectrum.。
Some of us are born more masculine males than others.。
Some of us are born more feminine females than others,。
and there's a spectrum.。
And I believe that amongst that spectrum,。
as we kind of move across it, there is confusion.。
I believe that there are things that can happen to you。
at an early age, early exposure to sex。
that can cause further confusion.。
I believe that men, you know,。
might be more attracted to men than women.。
And as they move through adolescence,。
and as their body starts to produce hormones。
at 600%, the normal rate,。
and that is when we actually bond.。
Because nobody's attracted to anybody, you know,。
when they're in the second grade.。
Like right now, I've got little ones,。
and little girls, and boys just have cooties, you know?。
And so nobody's attracted to the opposite sex。
at a super early age.。
It happens at some point.。
But when we move through adolescence,。
our bodies begin to bond, and specifically for males,。
as we begin to experience the release。
of some sort of orgasm, our brain creates synapse。
that could bond us to the same sex,。
if that is what is more mysterious to us.。
Because before that, girls aren't beautiful,。
they're just kind of mysterious.。
And so our bodies begin to bond to something.。
I believe that's a great explanation for this.。
That comes from Ricky Shillette,。
who struggled much of his life with homosexuality himself.。
You can go for more information on that,。
go to livehope.org.。
I hope that you will, if you're here,。
and you identify as gay,。
or you struggle with homosexuality,。
that you would check out livehope.org,。
Ricky Shillette's ministry.。
Now for girls, it's different.。
For girls, it comes from an emotional attachment,。
almost always some sort of codependency,。
some sort of really close friendship,。
which crosses the line and turns physical.。
And when it turns physical, it's confusing,。
you're convinced that you're lesbian,。
or bisexual, or whatever that is,。
and you continue to act out.。
Very similar, almost always,。
in almost in every single case,。
the same sex parent is either absent,。
or neglected, or confused,。
or doesn't identify well with you.。
And so I believe that there is cases。
of both nature and nurture,。
that both of those are in play。
to cause someone to live out the homosexual lifestyle.。
I had a friend I sat with,。
I sit with people who identify as gay,。
or struggle with homosexuality often.。
And I had a friend, and I just said,。
"Hey, when did you notice that this was your deal?"。
And he said, "JP, when you're in the locker room,。
"you can't control how your body responds."。
And I was just hit with compassion by that.。
I was like, "What a great explanation.。
"When you're a dude in a locker room。
"with a bunch of naked dudes,。
"and your body responds, that's a..."。
I would certainly think,。
"Hey, this is my natural predisposition,。
"this is the way that God made me."。
And that's a feeling.。
But what you do with that feeling is up to you.。
That's the action that comes from that feeling.。
I don't deny the feeling, not for one second,。
I believe that it's real.。
But I believe with the feeling, you have a responsibility.。
I have lots of feelings,。
and I'm not even trying to relate to the gay community.。
I'm just saying I have lots of feelings。
that I have to take captive and not act out on.。
And so I will tell you that your identity, friends,。
is so much more than your sexual orientation.。
Your identity is so much more than your sexual orientation.。
Verse 11, this is where we get hope.。
"Idolaters, men who have sex with men,。
"the sexually immoral drunkards."。
And that is what some of you were.。
But you were washed, you were sanctified,。
and you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ,。
and by the Spirit of our God, He changed you.。
And so my third and final point。
is the change that is necessary.。
There are three kinds of changes。
that I believe are necessary.。
The first one is that Christians must change our approach.。
We must change our approach and point people to Jesus,。
and share Jesus with non-believers.。
Not try to make them not gay,。
but try to show them the hope that they have in the gospel,。
that with believers we would point them to the truth.。
And I know it is a very scary reality for some of you。
that you might be celibate the rest of your life.。
But I know also that there are a lot of women。
in the room right now that are faced。
with that same real reality, that same fear.。
And it's not godly.。
It's ungodly.。
You can trust Him, He has a plan for you.。
And you're not gonna get to the end of this race,。
and get up there and be like,。
"God, I was celibate, what's up with that?"。
You know, you're not gonna be like,。
"I missed out on sex."。
It's going to be okay.。
My buddy, the guy in the locker room,。
said, "I don't think I will ever be attracted to women.。
"But I love Jesus, and I understand the scriptures,。
"so I'm committed to celibacy.。
"I will never have sex.。
"I will die, and I won't know what that's like."。
That's okay, I have older, single female friends。
who'd say, "You know what, I may not have sex.。
"I may die, I may leave this earth, I may get to heaven,。
"having never had sex."。
It's going to be okay, we're all almost there anyways.。
Life is so short, man.。
And I know you're thinking, "Well, easy for you to say.。
"I get it, I understand."。
I'm just telling you, that's their testimony.。
We'll be in heaven soon.。
I have a hunch that you're gonna get up there,。
and he's gonna have a reward for you。
that's going to make it so worth it.。
It's gonna be so worth it, man.。
And even if you've given into that,。
Macklemore says this,。
and I can't change, in the chorus, she sings,。
"Even if I tried, even if I wanted to,。
"my love, she keeps me warm, she keeps me warm,。
"she keeps me warm, she keeps me warm."。
If you're here and you're attracted to the same sex,。
I want you to know Macklemore's right.。
You can't change.。
But my God, the creator of the heavens and the earth,。
is God of miracles.。
He can do anything.。
He can do anything, he can certainly change you.。
And that's the second thing, the change that's necessary.。
The people who struggle with homosexuality。
must understand that change is possible.。
I see this all the time, at least once a month.。
I had a friend who acted out all through college,。
was very much in the gay lifestyle,。
very much in multiple gay relationships,。
never thought that he would not be gay,。
went through a recovery ministry here,。
was told by many of his gay friends,。
"Hey, they're just trying to change you,。
"that's not loving, that's unloving."。
Married a girl on our staff,。
they have a little girl now named Hope,。
because he said, "There's hope."。
That's his message for you, there's hope.。
Have another friend who I prayed for long ago,。
it was actually a friend of mine's sister,。
we were in a Bible study together,。
he said, "Hey, pray for my sister,。
"she's in the same sex relationship."。
We prayed as a Bible study,。
I never heard anything else about it。
until I saw her name again as someone。
we were hiring on staff at Watermark.。
I went to her and I said, "I prayed for you years ago."。
She goes, "I'm married now."。
I said, "But you were in the same sex."。
She goes, "Yeah, I was.。
"I'm married now, she's today pregnant."。
God can change people for sure,。
but for you, he might not.。
Man, you may have this struggle for the rest of your life,。
you may continue to be attracted to the same sex。
for the rest of your life,。
that may absolutely be the reality that you live in.。
And I want you to know something,。
that when your identity is so wrapped up。
in your sexuality or your sexual orientation,。
someone asking you to change is absolutely offensive.。
It is confrontational.。
If your identity is your sexuality。
and someone's saying, "Hey, you need to change."。
You're like, "How can I change who I am?"。
But I want you to know。
that I'm not trying to make you not gay。
or even tell you that you're not gay.。
I'm trying to tell you that you are so much more than gay,。
that God loves you,。
that your identity is in Christ who died for you,。
and there's no shame in the kingdom.。
And you sit there and some of you,。
you're not out of the closet,。
and you're like, "There's things that have happened to me。
"in my life that I'm gonna take to the grave."。
And I know you're here,。
and I want you to know。
that there is no shame in the kingdom.。
All of those things were disastrously displayed on the cross。
for the world to see.。
They went on Jesus.。
Everything that happened in private。
went on him in the public square。
as he breathed his last breath for you.。
And change is possible.。
He died for it.。
In fact, following Christ means change.。
Sanctification means change, and we all want change.。
That's why we make New Year's resolutions.。
That's why self-help books are the best sellers。
year after year after year.。
Everybody wants change.。
The most despairing message in the world。
is you can't change.。
But God can change you.。
It's what he does.。
He's really, really good at it.。
And that is what some of you were,。
but you were washed, you were sanctified,。
you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ。
by the spirit of our God.。
I was a sex addict, a pornographer,。
a pervert, I was a pervert.。
If you knew where my mind was,。
you wouldn't let me preach up here.。
But God washed me.。
He is sanctifying me.。
He justified me in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ。
and by the spirit of our God.。
And Macklemore says, "The right-wing conservatives。
"think it's a decision.。
"I don't think how you feel is a decision.。
"I think what you do with those feelings is a decision."。
I know men who feel attracted to eight-year-old boys.。
And I believe that feeling is absolutely real.。
But I would not tell them to act out on it。
because they feel it.。
I would tell them to take that thought captive。
and to conform it to the image and the character of Christ.。
And I know that we've made this a civil rights issue。
as of late, and I want you to know。
that race is not a feeling.。
I have felt African-American most of my life.。
(congregation laughing)。
And it doesn't, it doesn't make me black.。
(congregation laughing)。
Race is sacred.。
Race is determined by God.。
Sex is also sacred.。
He invented it.。
And so the Bible condemns racism.。
That's why at the center of most civil rights movements。
was Christians, people who knew the Bible.。
But I'm telling you that you choose who you have sex with.。
And if you have sex in a way that is different。
than God's design, it's wrong and it's harmful.。
And I haven't spent any time talking about God's design。
because I think it's pretty obvious,。
but you can imagine God made Adam.。
He looked down and said, "What's that?。
"And what's it for?"。
And then God made woman.。
And he said, "Oh, that's what that's for."。
(congregation laughing)。
And I know it's kind of funny,。
but I just wanna go logical with you for a second,。
that her body changes and moves and accommodates that。
in a way that brings forth life.。
This is God's incredible design.。
It is beautiful and fascinating.。
But if you do with that instrument other things,。
you bring harm to your life.。
And that is why a God who loves you says, "Don't.。
"Even if you feel like it, don't, because I love you."。
And I know it's a hot topic for government。
and I won't spend a lot of time here,。
but I would tell you that a government。
should always govern us toward what is best for society.。
And so if you are pro-redefining marriage,。
then you believe that what is best for society。
is for a child to have two mommies or two daddies.。
If you believe that,。
you're certainly entitled to that belief.。
But there's another change that needs to happen.。
It's a change in our society, that's the third one.。
Because Paul writes that this particular struggle。
is a sign of God's judgment on mankind.。
That it is evidence that we do what we feel like,。
regardless of what he says.。
Romans 1, verse 25 to 27 says,。
"They exchanged the truth about God for a lie。
"and worshiped and served created things。
"rather than the creator who is forever praised, amen."。
They exchanged the truth of God for a lie.。
That which God says is wrong, they said, "It's not wrong."。
They took a truth and they said,。
"Hey, here's a lie and we'll hold onto that."。
God says, "Hey, this is wrong."。
They said, "Now it's not wrong."。
Because of this, God gave them over to shameful lusts.。
Even their women exchanged natural relations。
for unnatural ones.。
In the same way, the men also abandoned natural relations。
with women and were inflamed with lust for one another.。
Men committed shameful acts with other men。
and received in themselves the due penalty for their error.。
And I want you to know there's no shame in the kingdom。
that God forgives.。
He says, "I've removed your transgressions。
"as far as the east is from the west,。
"an impossible distance.。
"I have covered them with the very blood of my son, Jesus,。
"because I love you."。
It's interesting that we are,。
our culture's really heating up on this topic。
and we're like a frog in water being boiled。
and not fully aware.。
When I first heard the song, "Same Love," she says,。
"It's a woman saying, 'She keeps me warm, she keeps me warm.'"。
And that was weird to me.。
It was interesting to me.。
That woman was saying, "She keeps me warm."。
And it was like, wow, that just doesn't sit right with me.。
But Macklemore's been incredibly successful。
because when I hear it today, it's not weird.。
I've been conditioned.。
I'm like, oh, there's nothing weird about that.。
That's totally normal.。
That's completely right and I don't think anything of it.。
And I want you to know something, friends.。
I'm not a bigot.。
I've never hated someone because they were gay.。
More often, I feel hated because I call it a sin,。
just like my sin.。
I feel like Macklemore hates me, if I'm honest.。
And if you're here and you've been given over to that sin,。
I want you to know that God loves you。
and He's not mad at you.。
And I believe that in your heart,。
you know that it's not right, that it's unnatural,。
even though it feels natural to you.。
If you're here and you struggle well,。
I want you to know I'm so proud of you.。
I have a feeling that the Lord has something。
really special stored up for you。
that's available to all of you,。
special for all of you.。
And if you're here and you're a heterosexual Christian,。
I want to ask you, how have you loved on the gay community?。
Not just hated the sin,。
but how have you loved the sinner around you?。
How have you gone to lunch and brought down the fence。
and said, hey, I want to enter into your world?。
I'm gonna end tonight by inviting up my friend,。
John Burnie, who is just going to share。
for a moment with you his story.。
If you would, welcome John to the stage.。
(congregation applauding)。
- Like I said, my name is John Burnie。
and the PORCH team asked me to share a little bit。
of my story this evening.。
And I knew that if I didn't write it down,。
I'd be so nervous to share it.。
I was so nervous this year that I'd forget my name.。
So bear with me.。
One of my very first memories growing up。
is standing against a brick wall。
and an older neighborhood boy lining two of us up。
to be chosen for a sexual encounter。
and not being the one chosen.。
Later on, he would go on to abuse me.。
But some of the deepest hurt that came from that encounter。
was that it introduced a lie that I was not chosen.。
I remember feeling shame not only for the act,。
but also for desiring it and desiring to be chosen.。
I started to have homosexual fantasies shortly after that,。
starting about the age of six,。
and really remember lying about those thoughts。
from that age on.。
In junior high, I started to physically lust。
over the male physique and seek out pornography,。
which continued to grow through high school.。
By the end of high school,。
I remember coming to the realization。
that these desires were not something。
I was just going to outgrow.。
They were following me.。
In college, I acted out physically。
and felt guilt, shame, and alone, completely isolated.。
I felt that if I told the truth,。
my whole world would crumble.。
After college, I moved to Dallas,。
and our family had some turmoil。
that uncovered some family secrets.。
It was at this point in my life that I remember thinking,。
oh, I can go through my whole life。
and never tell the truth,。
and even still, at some point,。
it's going to be revealed and it's going to be hurtful.。
So I decided to go to regeneration。
and Watermarks Recovery Program。
in hope of telling the truth.。
To be honest, three years ago,。
when I started regeneration,。
I could not even say what I am sharing with you today。
by myself in front of a mirror.。
My life was ruled by fear,。
and now, three years later, by the grace of God,。
I am here with the opportunity。
to share God's story in my life.。
I think that a big shift in thinking for me。
is knowing that my testimony is not about what I've done,。
but about what Christ has done for me,。
and through this, I have a new life.。
I'm not sharing my story,。
but the grace of God at work in my own life.。
2 Corinthians 5:17 says,。
"Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation.。
"The old is passed away; behold, the new is come."。
At regeneration, I was introduced to that verse,。
which is a promise that the things I struggle with。
don't define who I am.。
It is Christ who defines who I am.。
How does that look for me today?。
It's not that I'm perfect or don't struggle,。
or that lust isn't something that isn't there,。
but really living life,。
trusting that God is making me new, like his word promises.。
Romans 12, one and two says,。
"Therefore, I urge you, brothers, in view of God's mercy,。
"to offer your bodies as living sacrifices,。
"holy and pleasing to God.。
"This is your spiritual act of worship.。
"Do not conform any longer to the pattern of this world,。
"but be transformed by the renewing of your mind.。
"Then you will be able to test and approve。
"what God's will is, his good, pleasing, and perfect will."。
I am learning that the renewing of my mind。
is only brought about by a daily,。
abiding relationship with God,。
asking him to renew my mind.。
Community and surrounding myself with other men。
who are pursuing Christ, who know who I am,。
and know what I struggle with, has been huge.。
We share each other's burdens and hold each other accountable。
and I've seen fruit from it,。
like being able to share my testimony with my little sister。
and say this in front of you all.。
These are things that were unimaginable to me.。
I thought I always would have to hide.。
It is only by the grace of God that I can say today。
that I am fully known and I am not rejected, but accepted.。
I have been shown mercy and love.。
Thanks.。
(audience applauding)。
(audience cheering)。
- I don't know what it's like to sit there for an hour。
while someone is talking about your struggle.。
When you don't see it as a struggle,。
maybe you see it as a gift, I don't know what it's like.。
But I know where life is found and I found life myself。
in the same place where John has found life.。
If you're here and you identify as gay, I love you.。
God loves you even more than I do or could.。
He has an amazing life for you.。
He has a kingdom stored up for you。
and the battle will be hard, the battle will be real.。
The struggle will be difficult.。
I've seen people jump on the road and jump off the road。
and jump back on the road and it's a very similar path。
that I have ventured down myself with pornography.。
But I know where life is found.。
So whether you're in Dallas or Fort Worth。
or listening in around the country,。
I want you to know that God is crazy about you.。
He's shown that through displaying the gospel.。
His son, Jesus Christ, your sin going on him,。
him going in the grave, him coming out of the grave,。
promising you that you can live forever with God.。
That is the hope that we have.。
I pray that you have it in common.。
When you trust in that, he deposits his spirit in you。
as a helper to sanctify you and what that spirit does。
in the lives of all of us is he changes us.。
He makes us, he takes us from being dead to life.。
And I have heard stories like John's over and over。
and over and over and over again。
and I will never get tired of hearing them,。
both in girls' lives, in men's life,。
in several of your lives.。
And I'm grateful for that message of change.。
We can't change.。
But he changes us.。
Let me pray.。
Father, help us as the church to be full of grace and truth.。
Father, in your supernatural abilities,。
will you take those who feel shame right now。
and will you remind them that you love them?。
Will you remind them that your grace is sufficient,。
that your power is made perfect in our weakness?。
And Father, will you equip your church,。
your bride, the church, to love those in our paths。
and to call the church to truth。
and those outside the church to the gospel?。
Thank you for the gospel, Lord.。
Thank you for how you love us.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
I had a friend just tell me like,。
she's like, "I get it, man.。
"I was raised in the church.。
"I know it's a sin.。
"I don't know that you need to cover that."。
And I don't think you get it.。
Everyone has something to do when they leave here.。
We all are responsible for bringing down this fence.。
We all must move toward someone in our lives。
to show them and display God's love,。
not to make them not gay,。
but to tell them that they've been made new。
through Jesus Christ.。
Oh, how he loves you.。
Some of you need to hear that desperately right now.。
God is crazy about you.。
He's not mad at you for what you did last night,。
for there's now no condemnation for those who are in Christ。
and he's no longer counting your sins against you。
if you've trusted in Christ.。
And some of you,。
some of you need to feel the weight of that condemnation。
so that you might move to a place。
where there's not any in Christ,。
that you would trust that 2014 years ago,。
God loved you so much that he sent his son to this earth。
to live a perfect life and to die a perfect death。
specifically and especially for you.。
In a moment, if you're here。
and you're looking for community,。
there's gonna be guys that gather in this room。
right down this hallway that would love to talk with you.。
And if you're a girl, there's girls in this hallway。
that would love to talk with you.。
They're also looking for other Christians。
to go through life with.。
There's gonna be a lot of people up here。
that would love to pray for you if you're here。
and your struggle is homosexuality。
or you identify as gay, I'd love to meet you.。
And also, if you just wanna come up,。
I don't want people to feel like that's the only reason。
that you have to come up here.。
If we can pray for you about anything,。
whatever's going on in your life,。
maybe something else resonated with you.。
If you have more questions。
or wanna talk about other topics。
that we didn't cover tonight in regards to this,。
we would love to talk with you also.。
And I'll keep my commitment that I made to you。
on the front end.。
I'd love to meet with you.。
I love you guys.。
Go in peace, to love and serve the Lord.。
(silence)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
