(upbeat music)。
- Love it.。
We are continuing a series called Missing Out.。
If you're just joining us, I would highly encourage you。
to go back and listen to the first couple of messages。
so you can be totally caught up。
in where we are in the series.。
I'm gonna start by asking a question。
that I'm gonna need a little bit of help。
from kind of the first few rows.。
What is the most entertaining part of a wedding。
or wedding and reception?。
- Cake. - Cake.。
- The cake, okay.。
(audience laughing)。
Okay, bouquet throw.。
I would have said bouquet and garter throw.。
And so I'm gonna tell you why.。
And it's really maybe the most entertaining for a long time.。
I feel like before I got married,。
it was like my least favorite part of a wedding。
because it felt like the cattle call。
made up by some married person。
trying to set their son up on a date or something.。
Where it's like, everyone who can't get a date。
on the dance floor right now,。
single ladies in the background,。
and maybe the bouquet gods can help you.。
And so if that wasn't weird enough,。
and then the garter thing,。
I don't know where this tradition came from,。
but it's like, we're gonna have this guy。
take this thigh band off.。
And if you guys would be a little bit more diligent,。
you could pull off a thigh band as well。
and fire it off into the air.。
But it's definitely maybe the most entertaining part。
of a reception because it seems like at every reception,。
there's always like one person who came game face on,。
headband on, they're like ready to go up。
and they're gonna grab that bouquet or that garter.。
They are getting this one。
as though they think it really may work.。
And then there's others who are like intentionally missing。
'cause they don't wanna send the wrong message。
to their date who's there or something.。
All right?。
And here's what's funny is like now,。
this didn't used to be the case,。
but it seems like you go to weddings。
and people will like intentionally step back。
to stay away from it.。
You've seen this before, anyone?。
I heard a story today from a girl on our staff.。
She said she went to a wedding。
and the bride put a $100 bill in the bouquet。
because she knew all of her bridesmaids and girlfriends。
did not want to get married,。
but they would want $100 and she wanted a good photo.。
And so they were up there grabbing for this $100。
because there's something about our generation。
that we may not want marriage for some of us,。
though that may not be the case for all of us,。
but everyone wants $100, right?。
And so I think really most of us in the room。
probably fall into two camps as it relates。
to tonight's topic of missing out on love.。
And the first may be that camp of you going,。
hey, I'm great with missing out on love right now.。
I do not want a relationship。
that is not in the cards for me.。
I'm great in being in that camp.。
And then there's another camp。
where we are figuratively grabbing。
and we would love to take that bouquet home。
where we are so sick of missing out on love.。
And it's Valentine's Day week, which only makes it worse.。
Another thing invented probably by a married person。
where it's like, we're just gonna celebrate our love,。
the thing that I don't have。
and is totally absent from my life.。
And so this week is only made worse。
because it just seems like you wish you had a Valentine's.。
You're sick of watching bridesmaids at home。
with your girlfriends and not getting to hang out。
with a Valentine.。
Lots of blank spaces and no names to write in them.。
And so, I mean, it's true.。
And we wish we were not missing out on love.。
And so here's why I set up with all of that。
because inside of those two camps,。
both of them are in danger of missing out。
on what true love really is.。
Like both of those camps in some ways。
probably wrongly define what true love。
because the person who doesn't want it,。
if she knew or he knew what true love was,。
she would know it is the thing。
or he would know that he or she desires most.。
And that person who's reaching for it,。
I just want it and I just want someone to love me。
and pursue me and I just want someone to take me on dates。
or to go on dates with,。
that person in some ways has wrongly defined。
what true love is because even if she or he。
got all of those things,。
she could still be or he could still be。
missing out on love, on true love.。
And so that's tonight's topic of missing out。
on this idea of true love.。
And here's kind of the big takeaway。
in case I can't keep you engaged for the next 25 minutes。
and you start counting these wood things up here。
is that true love always involves God.。
The source of all true love that you and I。
will ever experience always involves God。
because God is love, we're told.。
And the very thing that you came into this world。
desiring most and the thing that you will die。
on your deathbed desiring most is that true love.。
And the good news for all of us is that God has made a way。
and opened a door so that no one would ever have。
to be missing out on love,。
so that no one would ever have to lack that thing。
that they desire most and is found only in him.。
And so we're gonna be in Ephesians three,。
we're gonna jump around a little bit。
as we discover this topic of what really the Bible。
presents to us about this idea of love,。
what true love really is, what it isn't,。
and what it does inside of our life.。
And so we're gonna be in Ephesians chapter three,。
Ephesians was written by the Apostle Paul.。
If you have a Bible with you, you can open up。
Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, Romans,。
Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians.。
If you hit any books before that, just flip back.。
And we'll be in chapter three where Paul is writing。
to this group in Ephesus,。
and he prays this really unique prayer.。
It's one of the only places where we see Paul。
say the things that he says and also start it with,。
this is when I get down on my knees.。
I pray for you guys all the time,。
but when I get down on my knees,。
this is the thing that I pray.。
And here's what he says, we're gonna pick up。
in verse 14 of chapter three.。
For this reason, I, Paul speaking,。
kneel before the Father from whom every family。
in heaven and on earth derives its name.。
So what's unique about this is in this culture,。
we think prayer, we think, hey, I just,。
I get on my knees to pray.。
And in this culture, you didn't.。
It would be only really, really, really unique occasions.。
Generally, prayer would involve standing。
with your hands raised, and Paul says,。
no, I get on my knees and I get on my face,。
and I pray to the God, and then he tries。
to help us see who he's praying to,。
how big God is, before whom every family。
and every person that's ever lived。
and ever existed comes from.。
And this is what I pray to that huge God, verse 16.。
And I pray that out of the glorious riches,。
out of his glorious riches, he may strengthen you。
with power through his Spirit in your inner being。
so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith,。
that Christ would dwell in the deepest parts of your heart.。
And I pray that you, being rooted and established in love,。
may have power, think about this,。
together with all God's people,。
to grasp, here's what I want, and here's what I'm praying,。
here's what I'm begging God to give you power。
to be able to do, to grasp, hold onto,。
how deep, how wide, how long,。
and how deep is the love of Christ,。
to know this love that surpasses knowledge.。
I want you to be able, here's what I'm praying,。
when I get down, in unique occasions,。
I pray for you all the time, but when I really get down,。
if there was one thing I could pray,。
it's not God, will you protect this group,。
will you enlarge this group, will you bless them,。
any of those things, if there's one thing I'm gonna pray,。
Paul says, it's that you would know。
how deeply loved you are, a love that is beyond。
anyone's ability to understand, a love, he says,。
that is so great, that if God does not。
supernaturally intervene, you will not be able。
to understand it, you will not believe it.。
I mean, what a bizarre prayer.。
If you could pray anything in the world,。
why would you pray, I am begging the God of the universe。
from whom every family that ever existed has come,。
to do one thing for you, Ephesians, for you, Christian,。
that he would allow your heart to have strength,。
supernaturally, to know how deeply loved you are.。
And even this week, as I was thinking about。
why would you pray that, why is that such a big deal?。
'Cause most of us are like, yeah, I know God loves me,。
I know, I know he loves me, why would you spend。
your prayer, this big prayer, on that?。
And then it kinda hit me.。
There's one thing that all of us, including the Ephesians。
and all of us in the room, have in common.。
Like, we all share this deep desire to be loved,。
even the guys, we all share this deep longing。
for someone to love us, and then at the same time,。
we all share this resistance, that we don't feel lovable,。
we don't feel worthy of being loved, or we feel unlovely,。
like there's something inside of all of our hearts。
that both longs to be loved, and yet resists。
the idea that we're worth loving.。
And so Paul says, I'm praying that God would break through。
that resistance inside of your heart,。
that you wouldn't be insecure in how God feels。
and what God feels towards you,。
that you would be fully filled, he says,。
with a knowledge of how much God loves you.。
And think about it, how much of what you and I do。
is driven by the desire to be loved?。
And we may not call it that in that moment,。
but on a daily basis, how much of social media life。
is driven by a desire to be loved, or to be accepted,。
or to be like, typing out a tweet, no, delete it,。
it's not witty enough, or taking a picture,。
but you take 16 times just trying to look casual at home,。
nothing going on here, and you're like,。
yeah, this is just how I woke up, and how much,。
or how many times, I feel like I hear this all the time。
from my wife, where we'll be in a scenario,。
and someone will take a group picture, and what happens?。
Hey, can I see that?。
We're gonna delete this.。
Or it's, hey, can you send that to me,。
because I am looking good in this picture.。
Because we wanna project, we want to influence,。
and project out there, we're worthy of being loved,。
and we wanna control the parts of us that think,。
that's not worthy.。
I mean, how much of just the way we dress。
is driven by tighter, more stylish, whatever it is?。
Love me.。
Love me.。
The jobs that we work, I mean, I have friends。
that became doctors because they wanted to be loved.。
I'm worthy.。
Plastic surgery is at an all-time high right now.。
It's higher than it's ever been, percentage-wise.。
And in terms of numbers.。
Because I hate myself.。
I hate the way that I look.。
And Paul says, if there's one thing I could pray and ask。
that you would really believe, is how deeply loved you are,。
that God sees you as worthy of being loved.。
In the midst of the resistance,。
unloveliness, or I feel unlovable.。
I mean, this is why shame is powerful.。
This is why Adam and Eve in the garden。
ran and covered themselves, because I don't feel lovely.。
I don't feel worthy of being loved.。
I'm gonna cover it to hide it.。
This part of our heart, I mean, this is why you see。
famous people spiral out of control under addictive habits。
or self-destructive tendencies.。
This is why Kesha, in a Rolling Stones interview。
you probably may be familiar with, recently said,。
look, I'm a crusader for telling other people。
to love themselves, and I hate myself.。
Kesha, who's beautiful, who has all the fame,。
all the money, everything that any 26-year-old girl。
would, in worldly terms, want, and she says, I hate myself.。
And she's not the only one, because there's something。
inside of us that both yearns to be loved。
and yet feels that resistance.。
And so Paul, to the Ephesian church and to us, says,。
I'm praying that you would believe how much he loves you,。
that you would know his love, a love that is beyond。
human ability to understand how deep, how wide,。
how big it is for you, not just the world,。
for you, so that no one would have to be missing out。
on love, true love.。
I think there's a further kind of problem。
with our really thinking as it relates to love,。
and it's that we live in a world that's so tarnished,。
even what I mean by that word, because people。
kind of love everything, I love my dog, I love chocolate,。
love my wife, I love, love, love.。
And if that weren't enough, there's also influences。
constantly hitting our minds of what love looks like,。
whether it's The Bachelor, or whether it is Taylor Swift,。
song after song after song, or whether it is any。
romantic comedy you've ever seen, like this is what。
love looks like, and all of those provide poor definitions.。
And so God has given us actually a definition。
of what his love, what true love, what he feels。
when he looks at you is.。
And it's in 1 Corinthians 13, and I've never thought。
about this before, a lot of you are gonna recognize。
this passage, 'cause you've heard it at every wedding,。
or at many weddings that you've been to.。
And I've never realized this before.。
Like this is not, Paul's writing this passage,。
and if you go read it this week, and I would highly。
encourage you to, Paul writes this passage,。
and he says, hey, you need to love one another,。
love each other, let me tell you what love is like.。
And then he goes off, and I always thought,。
oh, that's how I'm supposed to react, or relate。
to other people, and that's true.。
But this is even more describing how God relates to you,。
and to me, the definition of true love for you and for me.。
And so that's our second point, the definition,。
we're gonna be in 1 Corinthians 13, pick it up in verse four。
of how God feels towards you.。
Love is patient.。
God is patient.。
Some of you need to hear that, that was, for me,。
one of the biggest ones of the next few verses this week,。
because here's what my heart runs to.。
I think that God thinks like I do, and I wonder。
if he just looks at me and goes,。
when are you gonna get it together?。
When are you gonna trust me?。
When are you gonna really believe that I'm for your good。
and everything you experience is passed through my hands?。
When are you gonna trust me, David?。
Does he ever get tired of me?。
And he says, no, my love with you is patient,。
in the midst of that addiction you're walking through.。
In the midst of that relationship you keep going back to。
that you know is not right.。
In the midst of whatever sin and whatsoever struggle,。
God says, my love for you is patient.。
Here's what else it is, it's kind.。
Everything you experience, it may not feel like it,。
but it's passed through my hands, and it's kind.。
It does not envy, it does not boast.。
It is not arrogant or rude.。
It does not insist on its own way.。
That love, you may have the version that says,。
seeks the benefits of others,。
or seeks after the welfare of others.。
How much would it change a lot of our thinking。
if we really believe that?。
Like when God looks at you,。
when he governs life around you,。
he is seeking not for his own best, but for your best.。
And a lot of us have never known a love like that.。
As many broken families as we come from, mine included,。
where I didn't grow up in a home where I knew love。
from a fatherly figure that I could always trust。
was not self-interested.。
And God says, my love for you is always driven。
by not self-seeking, but other-seeking.。
It says that love is not irritable or resentful,。
or it keeps no record of wrongs.。
Your translation may have, that God, when he looks at you,。
there's not a clipboard and tallying up。
how many times are you gonna do this,。
but it keeps no record of wrongs.。
God is love.。
Love keeps no record of wrongs.。
God keeps no record of wrongs。
for those who have underneath his love in Christ.。
And somebody, that's the biggest thing。
you need to hear tonight.。
That for whatever reason, or the way you were raised,。
or your experience of church, when you think about God,。
he's a police officer, he's a judge,。
but he's not someone who says, the slate is clean.。
I love you.。
It does not rejoice in wrongdoing,。
but it rejoices with the truth.。
Love bears all things.。
God bears all things.。
It believes all things.。
It hopes all things.。
Love, or God, endures all things,。
regardless of what you're walking through.。
He does not grow weary and tired with you.。
He loves you.。
His love, verse eight, never ends.。
His never fails.。
God cannot stop loving you.。
He will not stop loving you.。
And I think even the word,。
my biggest fear in this message right now。
is I don't know how to communicate。
how deep and how amazing the love of God is.。
So the spirit will have to root that in your heart。
if anything's gonna take place,。
but here's what I know.。
God will not stop pursuing you.。
He will not stop loving you.。
He loves you right now, not some future version of you.。
His love will never fail.。
His love will never bail out on you.。
He is aggressive in his love, and he,。
I mean, you can clap, but he is the only source。
of true love that you will ever experience,。
the only love that you will know like that,。
and that's when he looks at you, what he feels.。
(audience member whispers)。
I think one of the ways that we've seen this so clearly。
is like God has made the first move.。
In any relationship, there's always someone。
who makes the first move, whether it's a guy。
who gives some pickup line or asks,。
hey, I've got tickets to this thing,。
just by chance, would you like to go,。
and makes the first move, or whether it's a girl。
who just tries to put herself in front of the path,。
and it's like, hey, I made these cookies。
in between memorizing the Bible and working out,。
and so, (audience laughs)。
just, it's what I do every day for people,。
and so there's always, right, I mean,。
there's always someone who makes some sort of first move。
in any relationship, and here's what happened.。
Here's what has happened for you and for me。
is that God has made the first move and said, I'm in.。
And he did it in a way that none of us would have predicted,。
none of us would have done it, and here's what he did.。
This is the demonstration of the true love。
that God has for us.。
This is Romans 5, eight.。
But God demonstrates his love for us in this.。
While we were still sinners, Christ died for us.。
That God has made the first move,。
and here's why I think this is so huge.。
It's 'cause most of us, we don't read it like this.。
We read it like this.。
Put the second one up.。
But God demonstrates his own love for us in this.。
When we agreed to become good, he died for us.。
When I agreed I'm gonna clean myself up,。
I'm gonna try harder, I'm gonna be better,。
then Christ died for us, and that's not it at all.。
That when we were still sinners, Christ died for us.。
Here's why I love that verse,。
'cause here's what it tells you about me, or about God.。
God is a God who loves bad people.。
He will not stop loving you.。
He will not stop, no matter what you ever do,。
for the rest of your life, he will chase and pursue you,。
and you can run, but you will not outrun his love,。
and you can reject it, or you can accept it.。
He is a God who loves bad people,。
even bad people who don't think they're bad.。
He loves you, regardless of what you will ever do。
or have ever done, right now,。
his perfect love is working inside of you,。
and he loves you if you've trusted in him.。
And he loves you if you haven't,。
but you have a unique place and a unique acceptance。
of his love if you have,。
regardless of what you've ever done.。
And he says, "I love you.。
"I will not stop."。
He's reckless.。
I mean, this is crazy, crazy love.。
This is why we go, we gotta tell everybody about this love。
of a God who is in love with the human race.。
He can't help himself.。
He cannot stop.。
He will not stop.。
He's crazy about you, and he'll give anything,。
including his son, anything.。
And Paul looks into his audience and says,。
"If there's one thing I want you to know,。
"if there's one thing I believe that could change。
"the course of your life, it's that you really believe。
"how desperately God loves you."。
But he's not a God who loves,。
when you clean yourself up, that he is crazy,。
insanely obsessed with you, in love with you.。
And he looks into all of our pasts。
and all of our future failures that he already sees,。
and he says, "I love you."。
And if you walked in here tonight and you're going,。
"I don't even know where I stand。
"if there is a God who's there.。
"I don't know what he thinks about me,。
"my current addiction, my homosexual relationship,。
"my abortion."。
He says, "I love you."。
And he wants you to accept his love,。
but he will not force you,。
and he will allow you to reject it.。
And it is the thing he wants most,。
and the thing that in all of his power he cannot do,。
which is force you to love him.。
And it is the thing he wants most。
because he's crazy about you.。
Crazy about you, not some, in general, the whole world,。
you, alone in all creation.。
He said, "I'll die for you."。
I think, as I think about how to,。
really what the takeaway for me as I study this text,。
and I think for all of us,。
and the band is gonna come up in just a minute,。
and play a song that speaks a lot of these truths over us,。
I wanna invite and ask you to do something,。
and it'll be way more beneficial。
than anything that I've said for the past 20 minutes.。
I want you to pray if you know Christ,。
if you've trusted in him alone,。
and the work he did on the cross,。
not because you're a good person,。
but because you're not a good person.。
And he died, and he rose again,。
showing the check cleared.。
It was more than enough.。
If you're in that camp,。
I want you to pray during this next song,。
God, will you help me to believe how much you love me?。
Every addiction, according to leading psychologists,。
is fueled by one lie, I'm not worthy of being loved,。
and I can't find anything to convince me that I am.。
So much of what self-destructive tendencies。
we all experience are fueled by the lie。
that I'm not worthy, I'm ashamed.。
And so in the next few minutes as they play this song,。
I wanna invite and ask you。
to ask God to do what no message could ever do,。
which is God, will you help me to believe?。
Will you help me, as Paul said,。
to know how deep, how wide, how long,。
and how much you love me, how much you really love me.。
And if you want to,。
this actual prayer has repeated itself。
in two times in Scripture.。
And so you can pray this next prayer there,。
I'm about to show you, that's another verse.。
But this idea of like,。
Lord, will you satisfy us in your love?。
Ephesians is not the first place it came.。
The oldest psalm in the Old Testament,。
the book of Psalms, the oldest psalm we have。
is a psalm written by Moses.。
In the days when Israel wandered in the wilderness.。
And it's Psalm 90.。
And in it, there's this line that so captures this idea,。
and here's what it says.。
Lord, will you satisfy us in the morning。
with your unfailing love?。
Will you satisfy us?。
We just left Egypt, we're gonna be prone to wander,。
prone to chase after other gods.。
We don't have a Bible, we don't have a Pentateuch,。
we don't have anything, we're wandering in the desert.。
Lord, will you satisfy my heart with your unfailing love。
so that we may experience joy and gladness。
all the days of our life?。
We will not chase it looking in other places,。
in the wells that are dry.。
Would you satisfy us?。
And so right now, if you're a believer,。
that's just what I wanna ask you to do.。
Say that in those words, say it in whatever your words,。
but will you just pray to the God of the universe,。
God, will you help me to know more deeply。
how much you love me?。
And if you're not a believer,。
there's two things that we want you to know.。
You are more sinful than you even realize.。
As bad as you think you are,。
and I don't say that in jest, so am I,。
you are more broken than you'll ever understand.。
But you're more loved than you could ever imagine.。
And the God who loves you doesn't wait with a hammer,。
he waits with his arms spread out on a cross saying,。
I love you, I'll do anything for you.。
Will you accept my love, my perfect love?。
And will cast out the fear, fear of death,。
fear of being loved, fear.。
I was asked to, I got a chance to speak at an event。
we've held this past weekend called D-Town.。
And yeah, some either high schoolers who snuck in here。
or leaders, just for high school and junior high,。
or if you're in junior high, PG-13.。
It was for our student ministry,。
and it was 1,000 kids, it was awesome, it's unbelievable.。
If you're looking to serve somewhere,。
student ministry's incredible.。
And in the midst of this weekend,。
they had 1,000 kids there,。
and all kinds of just exciting stuff was going on.。
And at one moment throughout the weekend,。
one of the directors, a buddy of mine named David Penuel,。
he got up on the stage and he said,。
look, I have $100 for the first person。
who's willing to go jump in the watermark pond.。
First person who's willing to do it, 100 bucks.。
And as you can imagine, this is in a room。
of young adults where I have a job.。
This is like high school kids where it's like,。
oh my gosh, $100?。
It's like five years allowance.。
Unless I live in Highland Park.。
And I don't know if I could say that.。
If you live in Highland Park, will you please forgive me?。
I think, I don't know if I should or not.。
Anyways, so anyways, so of course,。
tons of hands went up, and one of the kids,。
he said, stretching his arm, you, you can do it.。
And he went and he grabbed it,。
and he grabbed his $100 that he so desperately wanted,。
and he totally submerged himself in the water.。
And then he came back inside, and he displayed,。
not only, he displayed really two things.。
How desperately he wanted that thing,。
and what it was worth to him.。
Totally, I'll do that.。
I'll jump in the pond, it's worth it to me.。
When the question of what you were worth,。
how desperately you were wanted, was put in front of God.。
His answer was a cross and the brutal murder of his son,。
so that you would never have to wonder。
how deeply loved you are.。
It is the thing you were made for.。
It is the thing you came into this world。
longing to experience, to know and believe,。
and the thing you will want to know in your deathbed.。
And God has provided a way, provided his son,。
so that no one would have to wonder,。
and no one would have to be missing out on love.。
You guys pray with me?。
Father, we pray now, and I pray now。
that you would do what I will never be able to do,。
what JP could never do,。
what Shane's singing a million songs could never do,。
which is allow us to know how deeply you love us,。
how crazy you are about us, how you will not stop,。
you cannot stop, and how you have displayed。
that love perfectly.。
You define love perfectly.。
Would you convince my heart right now,。
would you convince my friend's hearts in the room。
of how deeply they are loved,。
would you convince the hearts of those。
who maybe don't know you through your son?。
They don't know that perfect display of love。
that you've given us.。
Would you grab hold of their hearts right now?。
We love you, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
