(audience cheering)。
- All right, hey porch, why don't you join me。
as we read God's word together.。
From the book of 2 Timothy chapter one,。
verses one through 12.。
Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus,。
by the will of God according to the promise。
of the life that is in Christ Jesus.。
To Timothy, my beloved child,。
grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father。
in Christ Jesus our Lord.。
I thank God whom I serve as did my ancestors。
with a clear conscience as I remember you constantly。
in my prayers night and day.。
As I remember your tears, I long to see you,。
that I may be filled with joy.。
I am reminded of your sincere faith,。
a faith that dwelt first in your grandmother Lois。
and your mother Eunice,。
and now I am sure dwells in you as well.。
For this reason, I remind you to fan into flame。
the gift of God which is in you。
through the laying on of my hands.。
For God gave us a spirit not of fear,。
but of power and love and self-control.。
Therefore, do not be ashamed of the testimony。
about our Lord, nor of me his prisoner,。
but share in suffering for the gospel。
by the power of God, who saved us。
and called us to a holy calling,。
not because of our works,。
but because of his own purpose and grace,。
which he gave us in Christ Jesus before the ages began,。
and which now has been manifested。
through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus,。
who abolished death and brought life and immortality。
to light through the gospel,。
for which I was appointed a preacher and apostle。
and teacher, which is why I suffer as I do.。
But I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed,。
and I am convinced that he is able to guard。
until that day what has been entrusted to me.。
Now, for our first message in 2 Timothy.。
(audience cheering)。
- All right, Porch, how we doing tonight?。
We doing okay?。
(audience cheering)。
It's great to see you, welcome back.。
If you've been here before, we're so glad。
that you would continue to give up your Tuesday night.。
If this is your very first time in the room,。
you picked a great evening to join us。
because we are kicking off a brand new series tonight。
that I cannot wait to get into.。
But before we do, it just feels right for us to pray.。
I'm gonna take a moment and I'm gonna pray for us。
and then we'll dive headlong into this.。
God, thanks for tonight.。
Lord, I feel a deep sense of mine and our need。
for you in this moment, God.。
These people, they do not need me, Lord.。
They do not need the porch, God, they need you.。
And then God, not only do we need you,。
but God, we're here and we're saying to you,。
we want you, God.。
Like we wanna be connected to something。
that is big and bold and beautiful,。
and God, that thing is you.。
And so hear us here now that God, we want you in this place.。
If you agree with those words that God,。
we need you and we want you, would you just,。
in the quietness of where you are, tell him that.。
God, I need you.。
Maybe tell him what you need him for.。
In the quietness of where you are,。
maybe you're here and you're wanting for more of him.。
Tell him that and why you're wanting for more of him.。
God, we know you're worthy of wanting,。
you're necessary for needing,。
and we're a people who are united by those things.。
So meet with us now, please, we pray.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
Well, when Brooke and I visited Rome several years ago,。
we did as the Romans do,。
and we made sure to hit all the hot spots along the way.。
We checked out the Colosseum, we walked the Roman Forum,。
we went to the Pantheon,。
we made sure to go by the gelato shop.。
We did what any regular tourist would do,。
and yet of all the places that we hit,。
there was one place that stood out above the rest for me,。
that before we left Italy,。
we made sure, though it was our last destination,。
it would be the most meaningful destination,。
and yet it would not only strike you。
as a typical tourist destination,。
because it is this little tiny building。
known as Mamertine Prison.。
Now, you probably hear that and think, prison.。
I guess we'll never travel together,。
because you and I have very different ideas。
about what travel looks like.。
It doesn't look like going to prison,。
it actually looks like trying to go on vacation,。
and yet what you need to know about this prison。
is this prison is not your normal prison.。
It's a curious little place,。
because it's not a place for common criminals.。
You see, in the Roman Empire,。
it would have been a place for the empire's own enemies.。
It's not a variety of cell blocks,。
it's not multiple cell doors,。
it's actually just one cell,。
and that cell was reserved for those。
that were either awaiting trial。
or awaiting their own execution,。
and it is this cell that is pictured behind me。
that the Apostle Paul sat in himself。
as he awaited his own execution,。
and it's within this cell that he penned his last。
and his most personal letter.。
He penned a letter to his young protégé,。
he penned a letter to Timothy,。
and I remember as I walked into the cell,。
the reason it struck me so powerfully。
is I was within its walls。
and I crouched within Paul's own place,。
I opened that letter, I read 2 Timothy to myself,。
and as I read those words, a thought struck me.。
Paul, you lived an impactful life,。
and yet this cell is a testament。
to the fact that your life ended,。
but the gospel didn't.。
The gospel, it didn't die in this cell alongside you,。
it pushed forward, it carried on,。
it pressed ahead, and it begged the question for me,。
how did that happen?。
I'll tell you how it happened.。
It happened because a young man, a young leader,。
someone like you in their 20s and 30s。
heard the call from Paul,。
and he rose up, stood his ground,。
embraced responsibility for the gospel,。
and he continued that work。
that has made the difference in your own world.。
You see, that letter was written to a young man,。
a man by the name of Timothy,。
and Timothy knew, my time is now,。
my turn has come, and I am praying, Porch,。
that we, as young people like Timothy,。
would realize our time has come。
and our turn is now,。
and I'm hoping we will embrace the call。
the same way he did,。
because I don't know if you've noticed,。
but our spiritual heroes of the faith,。
they aren't getting any younger.。
Like, you can just look back over the last decade,。
and we have lost great names,。
the names of people like J.I. Packer and Tim Keller。
and R.C. Sproul and Charles Stanley and Billy Graham,。
and I could go on and on,。
but we have lost so many heroes of the faith,。
and yet, though their lives have ended,。
the gospel must not.。
The gospel must continue forward.。
The question, though, that is confronting us here tonight。
is the same question that confronted me there in that cell。
as I crouched down against its wet floor.。
Who is going to go with it?。
Who will carry the work ahead?。
And I'll just level with you.。
I'm hoping it's me.。
I'm hoping it's you.。
Like, I'm hoping it is us,。
that God looks upon people like us。
within our generation, for our generation,。
and for every generation to come。
to be the people that see the people。
that see the movement of God from eternity past。
and grab hold of it and carry it into eternity ahead.。
That's what I'm hoping for,。
which begs the question, how do we do that?。
Well, that's what this entire letter is about.。
You see, famously, people's final words,。
their own swan song, often impart the most important things。
that they want to communicate,。
and in this letter, we see some of those things。
from the Apostle Paul.。
He wants to tell you how you can accept the call,。
you can embrace the responsibility,。
you can take the baton, you can carry the gospel,。
but before he tells you all the activities you need to do,。
he wants to tell you the attitude。
with which you need to do it.。
That's where the whole letter opens up.。
That's why Hunter read us through those first 12 verses,。
because it introduces to us a mentality,。
an outlook, a mindset that we need to have,。
an attitude we must adopt。
if we're going to be a part of this work.。
So if you have a Bible, turn with me to 2 Timothy.。
As you're doing that, let me just say this from the get-go.。
Some of you are here and you're like,。
dude, you are intense, and I'm not a Christian.。
I am here just checking things out.。
We're checking him or her out,。
and I did not know necessarily。
that you were gonna be coming on so strong,。
and yet let me just say,。
this evening is an interesting evening,。
because while every single Tuesday。
we try to open the scriptures in a way。
that appeals broadly to all people,。
this chapter is very specifically written。
to the family of God.。
And so I'm gonna be speaking most specifically to believers,。
but if you're here and you don't know Jesus,。
let me just encourage you with this.。
Jesus has something for you here tonight too.。
So let's look into what Paul has to say。
as he writes to his young protege.。
We're gonna pick it up in verse six.。
Paul begins, I mean, he says through the first few verses。
who he is and then who Timothy is,。
and I love that he identifies Timothy specifically。
within verse five that he has a sincere faith,。
which means it's not a hypocritical faith.。
It's not a faith that saves face.。
It's not put on to others like him.。
Instead, it is a faith of genuity.。
And then as we keep going, it gets into six,。
and it says this.。
"For this reason, I remind you, Timothy," or believer,。
"to fan into flame the gift of God,。
"which is in you through the laying on of my hands.。
"For God gave us a spirit not of fear,。
"but of power and love and self-control."。
Now out of the gate, there's some debate。
around what Paul means when he says,。
"Fan into flame the gift of God。
"that is in you through the laying on of my hands."。
Some commentators, they read that。
as an individual interpretation。
that Paul is telling Timothy,。
"Hey, I want you to fan into flame。
"the God-given gifts that are specific to you.。
"You're a pastor, and so you need to work on your teaching。
"and your preaching and your leading and your shepherding."。
And so Timothy, you get to work on those things.。
You see, they look at Timothy。
like he's the guy in high school sports。
that has all this raw potential,。
but he has none of the work ethic to actually seize it.。
They're telling him,。
"Hey, you need to get after it, Timothy."。
And yet what we know is while there is some good argument。
that that would be true, that's not the only argument.。
In fact, I think there's a better argument。
for what he means when he says,。
"Fan into flame the gift of God."。
What does he mean then?。
Well, I think he tells us in verse seven.。
He says, "For God gave us, aka gifted us,。
"a spirit not of fear."。
So what's the gift then?。
"He has gifted us a spirit of courage.。
"He has gifted us, you, brother, sister,。
"a spirit of courage,。
"which is why we must kindle the flame of courage."。
That's your first point.。
We must kindle the flame of courage.。
Like that's the attitude。
that God wants his people to walk with.。
That's the manner in which we move.。
But notice courage is given from God,。
which implies something really important.。
It implies that courage is not your factory setting.。
Like it's not your default mentality.。
Fear is.。
Fear is the default setting for people that do not know God.。
And we get that because we're all tyrannized。
by some kind of fear.。
Fear of the future, fear of failure, fear of man,。
fear of the outsider, fear of death,。
fear of not being enough.。
Whatever it is, you can name your fear for yourself.。
That is your default mode until Jesus.。
But then Jesus steps into your story。
and he changes everything.。
And as he changes everything,。
he moves you from a mentality of fear。
and into a mentality of courage,。
which is really important to understand.。
Because as he gives you a spirit of courage,。
that insinuates something so important.。
And I want you to catch this。
'cause I think you're gonna want it.。
He gives you a spirit of courage。
because he does not intend for you。
to live a lame Christianity.。
He gives you a spirit of courage。
because his future for you is not small nor insignificant.。
He gives you a spirit of courage。
because he wants a future that is big and it is bold instead.。
That is his intent for your life.。
He wants you to have a courage。
that moves past low risk environments。
and steps into high risk environments。
because that's what courage is needed for.。
Like no one needs courage to tell their mom, hello.。
But fellas, you need courage to tell her hello.。
You know, like that's different.。
There's a different level of risks there.。
And what we know is that the higher the risk,。
the higher the reward.。
And so if Jesus is calling you into a life。
where courage must be your default setting, your mentality,。
what that insinuates is, yes, okay,。
there's going to be some risk,。
but there's also gonna be some reward.。
There's going to be something in my journey with him。
through this life that is going to be fulfilling,。
that's going to be meaningful,。
that's going to be worthwhile.。
And we all want that.。
You want that.。
I know you do 'cause I talk to you。
every single week down front or out in that coffee shop。
that you walk through people that want to leave a legacy。
and make a difference and change the world。
and find fulfillment.。
That's what young adults want.。
And the amazing thing that Paul is telling us。
as God gives you a gift through the spirit of courage。
is he wants that for you more than you want that for yourself.。
He's looking at you and he's like,。
oh, you want to leave a legacy?。
You want to change the world?。
You want to find fulfillment?。
I want that for you more than you want that for yourself.。
And yet here's the issue.。
If we're in agreement, God, why then isn't that my reality?。
Because we're not as courageous as we think.。
We're not as courageous as we think.。
You see, we set great goals,。
but what we fail to realize in view of our great goals。
is that those great goals actually fall short。
of the greatness of God。
and the goals he would set for your life instead.。
And so what we do is rather than focusing。
on changing eternity, we focus on changing the world.。
Rather than working to leave behind a spiritual legacy,。
we just focus on leaving behind a physical legacy.。
When we could be making a difference forever,。
instead we just focus on making a difference today.。
I'm not saying that those things are not good,。
but I am saying those things are not of God.。
God wants your life to be purposed into something。
that transcends the barriers of our time。
and extends into the future forever.。
That's the kind of greatness he's calling you into.。
That's the sort of courage he has given you for.。
John Shedd says, "A ship in harbor is safe,。
"but that's not what ships are built for."。
Some of you hear that and you're like, "Yes, I want that.。
"I wanna set out onto the open ocean.。
"I wanna raise my sail.。
"I wanna catch the wind.。
"I want to voyage into the future."。
And yet often what we know is we dream dreams。
that often are too small for God。
because we fear looking odd or different。
or strange or weird in the eyes of the world.。
And because we do, hear me,。
we settle for the creature comforts。
of a casual Christian life。
when the radical reward of a courageous life。
is waiting for you instead.。
That's why we have to fan the flame.。
That's why we have to keep the fire.。
That's why we have to cultivate our courage。
because while God has given us the gift,。
it's our job to keep the gift.。
So how do we do that?。
How do you keep your fire burning?。
Well, I'll put it very simply,。
though there's a lot that we could say,。
I would just simply tell you。
what we believe in our family, Brooke and I,。
that you just say yes to whatever God asks.。
That's it.。
You just say yes to whatever God asks.。
We have a family motto that we wanna live our lives。
on the cutting edge of faith,。
which just means we wanna live。
where the fighting is fiercest.。
We know we wanna be in a place。
where God has to be greatest.。
If we're in a place of life。
where God is not required to move,。
why would we wanna be there?。
We wanna be where God has to make himself known。
to be exactly who he says he is.。
And so we say yes to him as often as possible.。
Now, those yeses look different。
over the course of our lives.。
Like they've looked small and they've looked big。
and they've looked peculiar。
and they've looked uncertain at different times.。
I mean, it's looked as small as just going across the street。
and watering the widow neighbor's plants.。
It's looked as personal as taking our guest bedroom。
and opening it up and inviting a girl。
who'd been kicked out from her family。
to live with us for a season。
until she could get her feet back underneath her.。
It looked as unpredictable as leaving community。
and stepping away from our city and journeying someplace。
we never thought we would live。
because there was no ministry there that needed to be there.。
You just say yes to God.。
Now, I'm not putting us up here as the example to follow.。
We have said no far too many times。
and every single no we have lived to regret.。
And so I'm imploring you don't say no。
when God is asking you to say yes.。
So where's he asking you for your yes tonight?。
Like, is it finally to come clean。
of the last 2% of your sin struggle。
that you've been hiding away and keeping in the dark。
because you don't know what people will think of you。
if you actually come forward about it all?。
Is it yes to joining region。
and actually working through your past。
as opposed to ignoring that that thing happened。
and as long as I don't look at it,。
I don't have to remember it?。
Is it yes to talking to your coworker about Jesus?。
And I don't mean talking to them in a way。
where you're trying to intellectually armbar them。
into submitting into devotion to Christ.。
I'm talking to you about visiting with them in a way。
where you just ask them, hey, what do you think of God?。
And then letting the conversation flow naturally。
and visiting with them about the person of Jesus.。
Like, is it saying yes to writing a letter。
and building a bridge with that estranged sibling,。
brother, sister that you haven't spoken to。
in weeks, months, even years?。
Maybe it's yes to answering Tyler's call。
and filling out an application。
and joining us here at The Porch。
and leveraging your life for a cause。
that is bigger than yours.。
I'm not talking about the cause of The Porch,。
I'm talking about the cause of the kingdom.。
There is a yes that God is asking of you,。
so why wouldn't you say yes to it?。
Because listen to me, Noah, he said yes to building an ark。
when the earth had never rained.。
And God used his family in the process of recreation.。
Abraham said yes to following God。
when he didn't even know where God was taking him.。
And it was through Abraham。
that he became the father of many nations.。
Moses said yes to confronting Pharaoh.。
And God, he performed signs and wonders。
as he delivered his own people out of Egypt.。
Ruth said yes to Naomi,。
and God made her the ancestral mother to the Messiah.。
David said yes to facing Goliath,。
and God made him king over his people.。
Elijah said yes to confronting the prophets of Baal,。
and God sent fire from heaven.。
And best of all, Jesus said yes to the cross。
when no man in his right mind would have.。
And yet because he said yes,。
God raised him in victory over sin and death.。
Why don't you say yes?。
It's through your yes。
that you kindle the flame of your courage.。
You cultivate the gift God has given.。
You see, you believe big about God.。
You believe big about God,。
and then you say yes to putting yourself in positions。
where he becomes big as a result.。
And when you do, that changes everything。
about the way you lead your life.。
It leads you to not just move through this world casually,。
but it leads you to embrace opportunity,。
even if it is risky,。
which is what Paul goes on to say next.。
He tells us in verse eight,。
"Therefore, because God has given you a spirit of courage,。
"do not be ashamed of the testimony about our Lord,。
"nor of me, his prisoner, but share in suffering。
"for the gospel by the power of God."。
So we've already clarified that God has given you a courage。
that's going to lead you into a life that is rewarding,。
but it will require risk.。
And Paul tells you right here,。
"Hey, it's gonna require two risks of you very specifically.。
"It's not isolated to these two and these two alone,。
"but it certainly will be these two and these two alone."。
And I love the two that Paul gives us。
because it shows that Paul, he knows his audience.。
He understands Christians very well。
because he actually points to the two risks。
that we're often most gun-shy about。
when it comes to our faith.。
Telling people about Jesus。
and suffering well whenever hardship comes.。
Those are the two things that Paul does.。
Why would he do that?。
Why would he say this?。
Because Paul knows your second point,。
courageous faith is uncensored faith.。
Courageous faith is uncensored faith.。
Like courageous faith,。
it's unashamed of what other people think。
and it is unafraid of any difficulty ahead.。
So I was thinking about how to illustrate this to you.。
And I just thought, okay, if you're a sports fan,。
you're gonna understand this more than likely.。
And if you're a Cowboys fan,。
you're gonna understand this most definitely。
because every single season without fail,。
we are unashamed of where our loyalty lies.。
We didn't buy this, right?。
Like we step up and we say, hey, this is who we are.。
And yet though we're unashamed of where our loyalty lies,。
we're also unafraid of the consequences。
of following these guys。
because year after year after year after year,。
they don't ever seem to pan out the way。
that we're hoping they would.。
Here's the thing though.。
The difference between Jesus and the Cowboys。
is Jesus is undefeated.。
(congregation cheering)。
Jesus has never lost.。
He has only ever won,。
which means you have no reason。
to censor any part of your faith.。
So why would you do it?。
Well, why do you censor anything?。
You censor something。
because you think that something is inappropriate,。
which means if you're censoring your faith,。
you think Jesus is inappropriate.。
You look at him and say, hold on,。
this wouldn't be right for this moment.。
Like I'm at the office and so I need to censor you。
because it would feel inappropriate。
to jeopardize my working relationships。
when in reality all you're doing。
is you're jeopardizing their eternity.。
You censor him when you're out with your friends。
because man, it feels inappropriate。
to kind of impose my Christian convictions。
and spoil all of the fun,。
even though those same Christian convictions。
are trying to save you from the guilt and the regret。
you know you're gonna feel in the morning.。
You censor him from your social media。
because it feels inappropriate to risk your image。
to your followers when in reality,。
what you're doing is you're risking your witness。
to all of your followers.。
This is the crazy thing.。
Jesus never censored himself for you.。
He was willing to be 100% of who he said he was,。
the son of God, and he was willing to do 100%。
of what he said he would do, die for your sins.。
And that is truly inappropriate.。
And yet he was willing to live uncensored。
in his fidelity for you.。
So that way now, because we have believed。
in a God who saves, we can live unashamedly。
with fidelity to him.。
We don't have to care what anyone thinks。
because we already know what God thinks.。
And we don't have to be afraid。
because we already know how the story ends.。
Jesus tells us in John 16, 33,。
"I have said these things to you,。
"that in me you may have peace."。
Why, Jesus?。
"Because in the world, you'll have tribulation.。
"You will have trouble.。
"But take heart, I've overcome the world."。
Paul says it later when he writes。
to the church at Corinth, 2 Corinthians 4, 16, 17.。
"So we do not lose heart.。
"Though our outer self is wasting away,。
"our inner self is being renewed day by day.。
"For this light momentary affliction。
"is preparing for us," what?。
"An eternal," not a temporal,。
"but an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison."。
Listen, Christian, you and I should never believe。
that trouble isn't coming.。
The Bible has said far too much。
to convince us that it will.。
We should never believe that trouble isn't coming,。
but we should always believe that hope isn't far behind.。
That's why when, not if, but when trouble does come,。
we don't lose heart.。
So listen to me.。
If you fear that you won't have a future。
because of what you did in the past,。
in Christ, you have hope,。
because shame doesn't get to write the end of your story.。
If you're suffering because you have some chronic pain。
or some mental illness or some body shame,。
in Christ, you have hope,。
because he has promised to replace your mortal body。
with a heavenly one.。
If you lose your family, your friends,。
your loved ones out of your allegiance to Jesus,。
then in Christ, you have hope,。
because it is through him that we have new family,。
we have new friends, we have new loved ones.。
It's through him that we have us.。
You have hope, which I know as I say that,。
for those of you in this room that are suffering right now。
and that have been suffering for a long time,。
you nonetheless wonder, okay, I get that,。
I understand that I'm going to suffer.。
In fact, I know that I will 'cause I am already,。
but why, Jesus, must I suffer?。
I'll tell you why.。
Because it is in your suffering,。
not your strength, that Jesus saves.。
It's in your suffering, not your strength,。
that Jesus saves.。
It's by suffering that we comfort one another.。
That's what 2 Corinthians 1, 3, 4 says.。
It says, "Blessed be the God and the Father。
"of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies,。
"and the God of all comfort,。
"who comforts us in," what?。
"In our affliction, so that we may be able。
"to comfort those who are in any affliction。
"with the comfort with which we ourselves。
"are comforted by God."。
Do you hear that?。
You're more capable of comforting people。
because of your suffering than you are apart from it.。
This is why vulnerability begets vulnerability,。
and courage is contagious, according to Brene Brown.。
We were talking, Brooke and I,。
over the course of the weekend with our nanny, Lauren,。
and she was unpacking some of the highlights。
of her time at LAUNCH.。
And as she was kind of running through the list。
of all the things that she got to experience,。
the thing that kind of topped all of them。
was this evening that she had with the girls。
in her group late at night,。
and they just started sharing their stories with one another.。
They just started speaking honestly with one another.。
And the reason that evening was so significant。
is because as they started sharing about themselves,。
and not just the best of themselves,。
but the worst of themselves,。
the hardest things of themselves,。
what they found is that it began to comfort one another.。
You see, in Christ, wounding can be wonderful.。
Bruising can be a blessing,。
because those things actually become a bonding agent for us.。
And so many of you get that.。
Like, you have been in places where someone looked up。
and was like, "Yeah, man, I struggle with porn."。
You're like, "Dude, I thought no one would ever say it,。
"but me too.。
"Yeah, I'm bulimic, me too."。
You've been in that place.。
You've heard someone identify their deepest pain,。
that thing they would hide furthest away,。
and yet they bring it into the light,。
and as they do, you feel comforted by it.。
You see, suffering can save,。
but it doesn't just do that.。
It's by suffering that others see Christ as sufficient.。
It's by suffering that others see Christ as sufficient.。
2 Corinthians 12:10 tells us,。
"For the sake of Christ, then I'm content with," what?。
"With weaknesses and insults and hardships。
"and persecutions and calamities.。
"For when I'm weak, then I'm strong."。
Listen, do you know how compelling it is to people。
when they know what's happening in your life?。
Like nothing's going right, everything's going wrong,。
and yet you're okay?。
That's so confusing to them.。
It's so confounding, it's so perplexing.。
They're like, "Hold on, this doesn't make any sense.。
"How are you so stable?。
"How are you so secure?。
"How are you so strong?"。
It leaves them wondering what you have。
that they and the rest of the world does not.。
And then it compels them to understand you have Jesus,。
and they need him too.。
And then lastly, suffering saves。
because it's by suffering that Jesus makes himself known.。
Jesus, he suffered for our sake.。
And so if you follow him, you get to suffer.。
Notice you get to, not have to,。
you get to suffer for the sake of others.。
And that also is wildly perplexing.。
They wonder like, "Why would you give me money?。
"Like you've been saving up for that car,。
"for that trip, for that remodel,。
"and yet you've given me whatever it was you were saving。
"because you heard I had a need?。
"Why would you do that?。
"Why would you forgive me。
"when I've been nothing but difficult for you?。
"Why would you be kind to me。
"when I've only ever been hateful to you?。
"Why would you comfort me。
"when all I've ever been is indifferent towards you?"。
And then they learn, "Oh, it's because you know Jesus.。
"It's because you know a man。
"who initiated towards the unlovable,。
"who pursued the undesirable,。
"who saved the unforgivable.。
"That's how.。
"It's not you, it's him.。
"And it's him through you now."。
You see, suffering can save,。
which means fear isn't our future, friends.。
Like if you know Jesus, that's not your future.。
Freedom is instead.。
And because that's the case,。
that's why we don't have to blur our beliefs for people,。
and we don't have to censor our faith for others.。
Like we know we can speak plainly,。
and we can share openly,。
and we can suffer peacefully。
because Jesus has made all of that possible.。
We have been given a gift of courage,。
and that changes everything about the way we move.。
Now, does that mean it's always gonna be easy?。
For sure not.。
There's nothing easy about the Christian life.。
And Paul knows that.。
Like he's gonna actually tell Timothy,。
"Hey, I know that you have the gift of courage,。
"but I also feel like you need some confidence。
"to boost that courage."。
And so listen to what he says.。
He says, in these final four verses。
that we're gonna read together, 9 through 12,。
he says, "God saved us, and he called us。
"to a holy calling, not because of our works,。
"but because of his own purpose and grace,。
"which he gave us in Christ Jesus before the ages began,。
"and which now is being manifested。
"through the appearing of our Savior, Christ Jesus,。
"who abolished death and brought life and immortality。
"to life through the gospel,。
"for which I was appointed a preacher and an apostle。
"and a teacher, which is why I suffer as I do."。
It's a mouthful.。
Paul has a little bit of a run-on sentence。
'cause he gets so excited that he finishes by saying,。
"But I'm not ashamed,。
"for I know whom I've believed,。
"and I'm convinced, not just confident,。
"but I'm convinced he is able to guard。
"until that day what has been entrusted to me."。
I love it.。
Paul looks at Timothy and he gives him this pump-up speech.。
Like he knows, hey, I've told you what's true,。
I've called you to what's hard,。
and yet you might need a little confidence boost。
beneath your courage.。
He looks at Timothy and he sees what my coach saw in us。
when I was in high school with my first year。
playing high school football,。
and we were finally, for the first time in like 20 years,。
facing off against our cross-town rival.。
And listen, they were good, like really good.。
Like they'd won state the year before kinda good。
and played in a different district altogether than us,。
and yet in this moment,。
they were coming to play against us, and we were bad.。
And I'm not being modest.。
Like we were really bad.。
We were not in any way whatsoever。
comparable for the competition.。
And yet in this moment, our coach knew,。
hey, I'm gonna give you good courage.。
I'm gonna train you, I'm gonna prepare you,。
we're gonna practice hard.。
You're gonna have every reason to step into that fray。
and fight as well as possible.。
And yet he also knew, though you have courage,。
you need some confidence to boost that courage.。
You get a little shot in the arm.。
And so he walked into that meeting and he gave us a speech,。
the likes of which I dream about to this day.。
It fills my bones as I prepare to preach.。
You know, it's like that kind of moment.。
It was so motivating.。
It roused my inner man and it led me forth。
into the throes of battle to be utterly defeated.。
And yet he did all of this because he knew,。
hey, it's one thing to have courage,。
but you also need good reason for courage.。
You need some confidence beneath it.。
Timothy needs the same from Paul.。
So Paul, he writes this pump up speech.。
He gets so engulfed by all that he's sharing.。
And the reason why is because he wants Timothy to know,。
hey, true courage finds its confidence in Christ.。
True courage, it finds its confidence in Christ.。
It doesn't find its confidence in anything else.。
It doesn't find its confidence in your ability.。
It doesn't find its confidence in your social status.。
It doesn't find its confidence in what people think of you。
or how well you're regarded, what your reputation is online.。
It doesn't find confidence in anything but him.。
And the reason we know that is he gives us four reasons。
within these four verses for that confidence.。
He tells us first and foremost in verse nine。
that Jesus is the one who calls and saves.。
He's the one who calls and saves.。
Like, I love it.。
None of us were looking for Jesus when he found us.。
None of us.。
Like, think about where you were when he found you.。
I know where I was.。
Like, I was at this cheesy little youth group conference。
out in Arlington, Texas.。
And as I sat in this room,。
it was this overly dramatic skit from stage。
that absolutely plucked my heartstrings。
and compelled my faith.。
And I look back on that and I'm like, oh my gosh,。
like, that is the most cringe-worthy skit ever.。
And yet it was through that thing that Jesus decided,。
yep, you're mine, come on.。
Like, he used that because he doesn't need anything else.。
He can do whatever he wants。
whenever he wants with whoever he wants.。
He's the one who calls and he's the one who saves.。
It is up to him when it happens and how it happens。
and with who it happens.。
And so when it comes to us,。
it gives us every reason to share the gospel。
at all times and in all ways and with all peoples.。
The second reason we have confidence。
is because Jesus does all the work himself.。
Does all the work himself.。
Like it says so in verse nine.。
He says, "Not because of our works,。
but by his own purpose and grace."。
Meaning, listen, someone's salvation does not depend。
on your ability to get the sales pitch right.。
Some of you need to hear that.。
Like someone's salvation, it does not depend。
in any way whatsoever on your ability to sound fluent。
or answer all their questions。
or walk the Roman's road with them。
or present a compelling case for Christ.。
He doesn't need you to do any of that.。
Like it's not about how awesome you are,。
it's about how awesome he is.。
That's what saves.。
He's the one that does the work.。
He has done way more with way less in the past, I promise.。
So say yes to him.。
That's the second reason.。
The third reason is Jesus abolished death once and for all.。
That's verse 10.。
Which is important for us to understand。
because what that's telling us is it took,。
Jesus has taken the sting out of that very thing。
which we should be most afraid of in life.。
We have no reason to fear death any longer.。
Why?。
Because Jesus neutered it of all its power.。
And so what are you afraid of by sharing the gospel?。
That they won't like you?。
That they'll make fun of you?。
That they won't invite you out on the weekend?。
Like listen to how trivial this stuff is.。
And yet that's the reason,。
and I'm not trying to belittle that。
because I understand a desire to be liked.。
And yet Jesus is looking at you and saying,。
"Hey man, their soul is worth more than your approval.。
"So tell them about me."。
That's the third reason.。
And then the fourth reason is Jesus isn't a theory,。
he's a person.。
And I gotta be careful。
'cause I've got two minutes to finish this thing。
and I might get on a soapbox with this point.。
But verse 12 tells us,。
"I know whom, not what, but whom I have believed."。
I'm convinced so much evangelism does not work。
because we are trying to tell people。
about a concept to understand than a person to know.。
We're so convinced that what they need。
are the facts of the faith.。
And I'm not diminishing the significance of truth,。
but what I am telling you。
is that there's no fire within facts and facts alone.。
Facts don't make followers of Jesus,。
they just make fans, that's all they do.。
Like you can know all about someone。
but not actually know someone.。
Jesus has not settled。
for that kind of relationship with you.。
He did not live the perfect life,。
die the death you deserve,。
rise forth from the grave,。
taking up his own life in his own hand,。
and then ultimately beating back all shame forever。
for those that would believe in him。
just so we could know about each other.。
Do you hear how ludicrous that is?。
That's not what he's come to do.。
And yet so many of us,。
we are settling for an evangelism。
that is just trying to invite people。
into that kind of dynamic.。
Jesus did not die for that kind of dynamic.。
He died so people would know him,。
walk with him, love him, relate to him.。
And I probably shouldn't say this,。
but if that's your strategy,。
you should ask yourself the question,。
how well do you know him。
or do you just know about him?。
We have good reason for confidence, friends.。
God has given us a spirit of courage。
and he has given us good reason to live like it.。
So let me ask you, why don't you?。
I've been thinking about this.。
I've been thinking about that a lot.。
I think there's a lot that we could say。
about why we don't live lives of courage,。
but why we live lives of cowardice.。
And there's really plausible,。
really understandable reasons for why that is.。
Reasons that are not specific to you and you alone,。
but are also inclusive of me, myself.。
Like I'm not perfect at this.。
I fail at this every week.。
But what reasons could there be?。
Like, yes, I know it could be the opposition。
we fear we'll face from others.。
It could be a neglect of spiritual discipline.。
It could be some willful sin in our life.。
We could number a variety of different things。
that put us in a place。
where we don't feel like we can do this.。
And yet I'll tell you bottom barrel,。
why so many of us do not operate with this sort of courage.。
And the reason why is we don't think we're good enough.。
We don't think we're good enough.。
We look at ourselves and we think, me?。
No, like certainly not me.。
Like I don't know enough and I'm not bold enough。
and I'm not charismatic enough and I'm not funny enough.。
And I'm not witty enough and I'm not learned enough。
and I'm not smart enough and I'm not enough.。
Like that's the bottom line is I'm just not enough.。
And so Jesus, you've got to find someone else.。
Like I trust that you will do that.。
I believe you'll send someone else,。
that you'll find someone else who will call to them.。
You'll send someone else that will go to them,。
that you will send someone else who will save them.。
And God looks at you and he says, I already did it.。
I sent someone.。
I have spoken through someone.。
I have saved through someone.。
And yet that someone, being the someone of Jesus Christ,。
wants to go with you.。
He wants to do it with you.。
Like when we were lost in our cowardice,。
unwilling to do what we know we should do,。
Jesus, he came courageously for you.。
He moved from heaven to earth。
and he navigated all the complexities。
and all the difficulties and all the challenges。
of our present day,。
because he ultimately wanted to get to you.。
And we were ashamed of our sin。
and yet Jesus was not ashamed of you at all.。
He lived uncensored for you.。
He moved through this world in a way。
where he never feared associating with you.。
(gentle music)。
I wish some of you would get that.。
That he wants you, man.。
He longs for you.。
He hungers for you.。
He yearns for you.。
So much so that he would be all that he is。
in coming to you,。
that you could be all that you are in coming to him.。
And then when we were uncertain。
if we would ever be right with God again,。
Jesus had confidence that you'd be his anyways.。
He knew.。
He knew the cost.。
He didn't second guess it.。
He knew the price.。
And he's willing to pay it.。
He knew the debt that only he could cover.。
And so he had confidence to come and to get you.。
Jesus knew when his time had come。
that his turn was then and he raced into it.。
Paul, Paul knew when his time had come。
and when his turn was now and he raced into it.。
The same was true for Timothy.。
The question that I just wanna leave you with is,。
do you believe your time is now and your turn has come?。
And will you race into it as well?。
Let me pray that you would.。
Jesus, thanks for tonight.。
Thanks for the sufficiency of your word.。
Thanks for the power of your spirit.。
I have nothing good to give these people.。
I have no amount of fervor, no amount of zeal,。
no amount of passion that can compel them to believe,。
that can move them to action.。
I can't rattle their dead bones and bring them to life,。
but you, Jesus, can do all of that。
and you can do so much more.。
And so I'm praying, God, that you would now.。
God, this has just been on my heart。
as I've been thinking about second Timothy.。
But God, far be it for the porch to be a place。
that is found popular.。
But let it be, God, that the porch is found。
to be a place that is powerful,。
a place where you delight to dwell,。
where you move amongst your people,。
where you breathe new life and you forgive old sin.。
And you change souls forever.。
Would you do that work now, God?。
Please, we pray in Jesus' name, amen.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
