(phone ringing)。
(phone dialing)。
- You have seven unheard messages.。
- Hey, sorry I haven't texted.。
I'm just not really sure what I'm feeling right now.。
- Hey yo, Danny!。
Where you at, bro?。
I'll see you soon, all right?。
- Hey, so I have moved on,。
but I feel like the Lord keeps putting you back。
on my heart for a reason, so please call me back.。
- Hey, bro, hey, I know you're going through it right now,。
but listen, I found another girl at the farmer's market now.。
She's not a farmer, but she is on the market, okay?。
So hit me back, love you, bro.。
- Not sure if this is the right number,。
but last night was a mistake.。
I was just hoping we could keep that between us.。
- Hey, just wanted to say,。
I don't think I can make it tonight.。
Yeah, I've just been thinking about us a lot lately,。
and we need to talk.。
- All right, Ports, how we doing tonight?。
You doing okay?。
It's great to see you.。
Everybody in the front, y'all doing good?。
Everybody in the top, you doing all right?。
It's amazing to be here.。
So glad that y'all would choose to join us。
as we're continuing through our dating series,。
We Need to Talk.。
I'm so excited for where we're going,。
but we need to say hello to a couple of people。
that are joining us here tonight.。
Number one, we want to say hello。
to everybody that's joining us in the chapel.。
We're so grateful that y'all would make the time。
and kind of stay steadfast to the cause。
and not give up on the evening,。
though you may not have gotten a seat in this room.。
We're so glad that you would be here with us.。
And then we're so grateful。
that the work God's doing in Dallas。
is a work he's doing in other cities all over our nation,。
particularly those cities。
where we have Porch Live locations, just like this one.。
So shout out to all of you guys,。
but very particularly Porch Live, Greater Lafayette,。
Porch Live, Fresno, and Porch Live, Scottsdale.。
Well, Porch, there was a moment early。
in mine and Brooke's dating experience。
that to this day is still the stuff of hot debate.。
And so what I wanted to do。
is I wanted to let you into the chat。
and see if you could help us settle the dispute.。
Does that sound okay?。
Are you up for that?。
So it was at this time in our relationship。
where we weren't even officially dating yet.。
You see, we'd spent a lot of time around each other,。
and we had even piqued one another's interest.。
But for a variety of reasons,。
namely I had some commitment issues,。
we had not gone out on a date yet.。
And yet that was all gonna change.。
Like I had finally run my course and had my fill,。
and I was ready to ask her out.。
And so I knew that is all going to finally change。
at the annual organizational Christmas party.。
This is the moment that I was waiting for.。
Like I knew this was the time。
when we would have the perfect moment in the perfect place。
to be able to look one another in the eye。
and say that we're gonna go out together.。
And so I made up my mind coming into that evening,。
by the end of the night, I was going to ask her out.。
And simultaneous to that,。
she had made up her mind completely separate of me。
that if I didn't ask her out, she was gonna move on.。
And so the evening came,。
and I was in leadership of this kind of club thing。
that we were involved in.。
So I had some duties to the people.。
And by the end of the evening,。
after I'd said goodbye to all of our guests,。
and I had made sure to say hello to some friends,。
and I kind of closed the event down,。
I knew that perfect moment in that perfect place。
had finally arrived.。
And so as I'm making my way to ask her,。
"Hey, will you go on a date with me?"。
It was right in that moment that I got sidelined。
by another person, a girl at that,。
which required a long conversation of me。
because there was something really big happening。
in her life, and she wanted to be able to process it.。
It certainly didn't help optics that I was talking to her,。
and I wasn't talking to Brooke.。
And yet I concluded that conversation swiftly,。
and I started searching, trying to find where Brooke was.。
She'd already left.。
And I was gutted.。
Like this was that moment.。
Perfect time, perfect place.。
It was Christmas.。
Like merriment was in the air.。
The lights were twinkling above.。
The night sky was cool and refreshing to be out in.。
But not to be deterred, I decided I was going to call her.。
Now we'd hung out a lot, but I had never given her a call.。
There had never been a good reason to,。
and yet now I had the perfect reason to.。
And so I decide, you know what?。
Hey, a call is not exactly the picture perfect scenario,。
but she's gonna see my name pop up.。
And I mean, that's gonna be surprising to her.。
Like, why might he be calling?。
And I'm sure he'll have a good reason, and she'll pick up,。
and we'll pick right back up where we would have been.。
And so I dial her number, and it rings,。
and it rings, and it rings.。
And then it went straight to voicemail.。
For the love of God, why is this so hard?。
So I decided to hang up, and I would just wait,。
by the phone, mind you, until she called me back.。
Only she never did.。
Herein lies the dispute that I need your help with.。
Should I have left a voicemail or not?。
In my estimation, having never called her before,。
knowing that when you see someone who you know。
in your call log, the natural response is to call them back.。
Yes?。
- Yes.。
- And yet, in her opinion, if you don't get a voicemail,。
then you don't get a call back.。
Now, the verdict is still out。
on what we actually think of this situation.。
You see, there's a lot that can be argued about both sides.。
If I really laid my case before you, I have no doubt。
that I'd get a grandstand of applause,。
and you would all side with me.。
But that's neither here nor there.。
You see, good cases can be made either way.。
And the reason for that is because in dating,。
there's always room to debate。
whether someone went far enough.。
You see, that was the issue in our moment.。
I thought I had gone far enough,。
but she was looking at me and saying,。
"You definitely did not go far enough."。
And it's in those moments in dating。
where we can really debate the specifics,。
but you cannot debate when you've gone too far.。
You see, you can always look at one another。
and you can wonder, like, should you or shouldn't you。
bring flowers on the first date?。
Is it good for you to make sure。
that you buy all of the meals whenever it is。
you're together with sidebar guys?。
If it's a date, then you definitely。
should be picking up the tab.。
When is the right time for you to start unpacking。
all of your past romantic history?。
When does that happen?。
You see, there's a lot of debate that can happen here.。
But when it comes to those areas。
of our romantic relationships,。
we know that in the spots where we've gone too far,。
we often feel that there's not much to discuss.。
We're pretty conclusively convinced。
when those moments come.。
And the reason we are is because。
they're associated with negative feelings,。
things like shame and regret and embarrassment and guilt,。
things that we don't like to feel,。
those moments that feel like a dark cloud。
in the midst of a sunny sky over your romantic relationship.。
We're all familiar with those.。
It's convincing when you've gone too far.。
When you started fooling around。
and maybe you found yourself further physically。
than you thought you'd ever be,。
or you experimented with the same sex,。
and at first it was just innocent.。
But then you found yourself catching feelings。
in a way that you never actually anticipated happening.。
Maybe you met someone at a really low point in your life,。
and at that moment, you became so emotionally entangled。
that codependency began to creep in,。
or you slept with one another,。
even though you swore in this relationship,。
this time it was going to be different.。
You see, the reality is going too far。
is a feeling many of us are very familiar with.。
And it's a feeling that our society。
is very familiar with too,。
which is why we've seen the advent of consent culture,。
this idea where two people,。
so long as they're under a verbal agreement,。
can have emotionless, boundaryless, and commitmentless sex.。
Because in a materialist culture。
like we have here in America,。
you can disassociate what happens to your body。
from what happens to your mind and your soul.。
And yet, according to one author。
and a journalist out of the Washington Post,。
a woman by the name of Christine Imba,。
she argues that couldn't be further from the truth.。
You see, she wrote an article,。
and I would commend it to you.。
It's called "Consent is Not Enough,。
We Need a New Sexual Ethic."。
And in there, she makes the case。
that the primary argument around consent today。
is not what's legally correct,。
but what's ethically correct.。
You see, the debate really revolves around。
not whether we can do X, Y, or Z,。
but whether we should do X, Y, or Z.。
She says this in that article.。
She says, "Making the standard of consent。
"our sole criterion for good sex。
"punts on the question of how to conduct a relationship。
"that affirms our fundamental personhood。
"and our human dignity."。
What's she saying?。
In her estimation,。
it's impossible to separate one's body from their emotions.。
It's not possible to engage in physical intimacy。
and not develop a emotional connection with someone else.。
And that's a point that her peers within scholarship。
agree on.。
I could share with you several,。
but I'll just give you one.。
Peggy Ornstein, in her book "Girls and Sex,"。
was doing a variety of interviews on college campuses,。
and as she was talking to young college women,。
she found that they perceived hooking up,。
sober mind you, to be awkward.。
As one freshman girl put it to Peggy,。
she said, "Being sober makes it seem。
"like you want to be in a relationship.。
"It's really uncomfortable."。
What are those college students saying to Peggy。
as she's concluding her data?。
They're saying, "I want to experience。
"the physical pleasure of physical intimacy,。
"but I don't want the emotional pain。
"that comes with a real connection."。
And the same is true for us.。
That's what happens whenever we go too far.。
We don't like the feeling.。
And what the world has done is it's given you two solutions.。
Hey, if you don't like the feeling。
that you get whenever you go too far,。
whenever you cross boundaries you shouldn't cross,。
whenever you slip into places you know you shouldn't go,。
what you have to support your conscience。
is you can be appeased by way of consent,。
or you can avoid those feelings by way of alcohol,。
neither of which are very good options.。
I think there's a better way.。
You see, rather than regretting going too far,。
what if we just knew how far is too far?。
That's what I want to talk with you about today.。
Like, I want to talk to you about how far is too far,。
which is a really interesting question。
when you think about it,。
because when people ask this question,。
it may be one inquisition,。
but it's actually two lines of logic.。
People want to know where the line is.。
Tell me, like, where's the line at?。
And then how close to the line can I actually get?。
That's what people really want to know,。
which is a really dumb way of thinking about it.。
Like, why would you want to get as close to the ledge。
as physically possible,。
knowing that one wrong movement。
might lead you slipping over the side。
and falling into your romantic doom?。
Why would you ever want to do that?。
Because it's a thrill?。
Actually, yes.。
That's why many young adults want to know。
where the line is.。
They want to know, that way they can avoid messing up,。
but they can also avoid missing out.。
But here's the thing.。
If you're operating in a romantic context,。
within a dating relationship to someone else,。
with that mentality, I don't want to miss out,。
then the truth is you've already missed out.。
You see, what we know is that contrary。
to what most people think,。
the goal of purity is not just to avoid moving too fast。
or going too far.。
The goal of purity is also, and actually it's more so,。
about seeing God as too good.。
That's really what we want,。
which is why boundaries are really helpful.。
Now, if we're going to talk about boundaries,。
it's useful to have a common definition。
that we all agree upon when we're talking about this idea.。
And so here's the idea of boundaries.。
A boundary is a line that guards against temptation。
for the sake of personal flourishing.。
It's a line that guards against temptation。
for the sake of personal flourishing.。
And it's often, it's a line that you yourself set.。
You see, many people think of boundaries。
as trying to box you in.。
But really what boundaries are trying to do。
is they're trying to build you up.。
You see, a fire can both burn down a home。
and bring warmth to a house.。
And the same is true in a dating relationship.。
The difference though depends on the boundary。
that fire is contained within.。
In a dating relationship,。
the two of you can go up in flames.。
You can be burnt by wrong behavior,。
or your relationship can become a source of life.。
It can be a cause for warmth as you date。
in a way that is both befitting of Christ。
and blessing to one another.。
So then it begs the question,。
what kind of boundaries should we have?。
Well, the apostle Paul,。
he really begins to unpack that idea for us。
in 1 Thessalonians chapter four.。
So if you've got a Bible, you can pull it out.。
1 Thessalonians chapter four.。
While you're doing that,。
let me just give you a little bit of brief context.。
Paul is writing to a group of young believers。
in this bustling metropolis known as Thessalonica.。
Thessalonica was a highly diversified。
and a highly sexualized city.。
You see, within its streets,。
things like pagan worship and temple prostitution。
and serial adultery were rampant.。
It was so common for there to be not a one woman man,。
but a many woman man.。
One Athenian order by the name of Demosthenes。
by the name of Demosthenes,。
he articulates this context。
to which we're reading into by saying this,。
this was from his day.。
He said, "We keep prostitutes for pleasure.。
We keep mistresses for the day-to-day needs of the body.。
And we keep wives for the begetting of children。
for the faithful guardianship of our homes."。
You see, what's he saying?。
We live in a Greco Roman society that is sexually charged.。
And it's into that society that the apostle Paul。
is writing to this young community of believers.。
And he's trying to tell them,。
"Hey, there's a way to order your life。
so that when you do what is appropriate。
and you avoid what is inappropriate,。
there are boundaries that you should follow."。
And my hope over the course of our time。
is to help you see the same.。
That within our context,。
there's a way to live appropriately,。
to order your life with boundaries。
so that way your relationships can flourish and not fail.。
And the way that I wanna do it。
is I wanna give you four ways。
to know when you've gone too far.。
That's what I wanna do.。
I'm gonna give you four ways。
to know when you've gone too far.。
The first of which we read about in the opening verses.。
And as we do so,。
we're just gonna take verse by verse by verse.。
We'll talk about it a little bit。
until we get to the very end.。
So here it goes.。
First Thessalonians four, starting in verse one.。
He says this, "Finally, then brothers,。
we ask and urge you in the Lord Jesus。
that as you receive from us。
that you ought to walk and to please God。
just as you're doing,。
that you do so more and more.。
For you know what instructions we gave you。
through the Lord Jesus."。
So we'll stop right there.。
The first way you know when you've gone too far。
is your Christianity looks compromised.。
That's the first.。
That's how you know you've gone too far.。
It's when your Christianity looks compromised,。
when your behaviors in life。
don't match the beliefs that you claim.。
Which interestingly is not the case for the Thessalonians.。
Like Paul just described them.。
He said, "Hey, we've become convinced of your faith。
by way of not only your words, but your deeds.。
You're not just in the business。
of learning a lot of things about Jesus.。
You are in the business of living those things yourself.。
You want to follow Christ。
in a way where your life looks like his own.。
Why is that?。
What was the cause for them to have this kind of allegiance?"。
He tells us, "They saw that Jesus was an authority.。
It says that they learned from his instruction."。
So I'll put it to you like this.。
If you were to go to driver's ed。
and a 16 year old was sitting there。
trying to teach you how to drive a car,。
that would not be very good instruction.。
But if you showed up to driver's ed。
and Lewis Hamilton was sitting behind the wheel,。
you better take some notes.。
That guy knows his way.。
He has understood the rules of the road。
and you will be served well。
to learn the things that he has to teach you.。
You see, the credibility of your teacher。
impacts the quality of your learning.。
These Thessalonians, they're looking at Jesus。
and they're like, "Man, there's no one。
more credible than him.。
He's one that can teach me the things that I know,。
not just for some things in life,。
but for everything in life,。
even the areas in which I engage romantically。
with other people.。
He's my authority."。
And so I listen to him.。
"Poarch, let me ask you,。
when it comes to dating and relationships,。
who's your authority?。
Who are you learning from?。
Like whose instruction are you sitting underneath?。
Who is it that's discipling you。
when it comes to the realm of romance?。
Is it your buddies?。
The way that they talk about women?。
Maybe it's your girlfriends.。
Could be TikTok, significant other.。
Maybe it's none of those.。
Maybe it's your favorite romanticy author,。
Sarah J. Moss, Rebecca Yarrows.。
Maybe it's a podcast that you listen to,。
something on YouTube, like whatever,。
or call her daddy on Spotify.。
I don't know what it is, but there's a good chance。
you're subscribing to someone else's authority.。
And the issue is when you start to do that,。
what happens is you start to go too far.。
You see, why is it that our Christianity。
becomes compromised?。
Our Christianity becomes compromised。
when we stop listening to God。
and we start listening to other people.。
It doesn't even mean that they're bad people.。
It doesn't mean that they have an evil agenda,。
but there's a difference in listening to good teachers。
and listening to a godly teacher.。
And Jesus wants to teach you the ways of God himself.。
He wants to spare you from a Christianity。
that looks compromised.。
So how is it that our Christianity can look compromised?。
Well, I wanna share with you a couple of different examples。
because what I know is this is not just pertinent。
to physical compromise, though that's true.。
You see, when our Christianity becomes compromised,。
we know that we have encroached a boundary。
in not only physical places,。
but emotional places and spiritual places too.。
And so your Christianity,。
it can look compromised physically for sure.。
I talk to people all the time and they look at me。
and they say things like,。
"Well, how else are you supposed to know it's going to work。
"unless you move in with each other?"。
Look, I'll tell you how you know it's gonna work.。
Your relationship's gonna work。
because you're committed to making it work.。
You do not have to cohabit in order to figure out。
whether or not we're a compatible couple.。
In fact, if you look at the data,。
what you realize is cohabiting。
is not a determiner of marriage material.。
It might actually be one that exposes the opposite.。
According to the research,。
cohabiting increases the likelihood of divorce,。
it decreases overall marital satisfaction,。
and it's directly linked to negative psychological。
and emotional outcomes for children.。
Meaning a relationship does not last in your life。
because, "Oh my gosh, he's house trained.。
"I never would've thought he picks up after himself."。
That's not why it's gonna last.。
It's not gonna work because,。
"Dude, she loves to cook and I love to eat."。
That's not why it's gonna work out.。
You're not looking for a roommate,。
you're looking for a spouse.。
Now, let me be abundantly clear,。
these aren't bad things to look for.。
And when you get married and you rightly enter a home。
under the proper covenantal union that God has established,。
man and wife, you should work through some of these details.。
You don't want your home to feel like。
a never-ending season of survivor。
where you're constantly fighting for your life。
with this other person on the same island.。
That's not what you want.。
But you need to make sure。
that you're valuing the right things first,。
that you're looking at them and you're trying to discern,。
"Are you someone that I can build a life with。
without pretending we're already。
in that life together right now?"。
You need to look at them and you need to see in them Jesus,。
someone that will serve you even at cost to themself,。
that will seek your good because they care about you,。
that will sacrifice because they want your wellbeing.。
You want someone that looks like Jesus.。
If you find someone like that, I promise you'll work it out.。
But how do we know if we're sexually compatible?。
(congregation laughing)。
What do you mean?。
Like, are you a guy?。
Is she a girl?。
It's gonna work.。
(congregation laughing)。
We're laughing, but this is the gray question。
facing our culture.。
We so often look at one another and we wonder,。
"But hold on, I've got to know。
that there's good sexual chemistry here."。
Oh, so what you're talking about。
is you're not wondering if your parts fit。
'cause your parts will.。
What you're actually wondering is,。
can he strike the right positions。
or do they know the proper technique?。
That's really what you wanna know.。
Is this thing going to be good for me?。
And that is selfish.。
That's so selfish.。
That's not valuing the life of another person,。
that is valuing your life in their place instead.。
And here's what I want you to know.。
You're not supposed to know if you have sexual chemistry。
or compatibility before you get married.。
That's why you get married.。
You spend the first few years of your marriage。
figuring this out together.。
Like that's the beauty of marriage.。
Like sex is meant to be explored。
between a husband and a wife,。
not experimented with other people before you ever get there.。
I love it.。
In the book of Song of Solomon,。
which I'm committed to teaching at some point。
here at the porch,。
what I love is you get to chapter four。
and you see Solomon and the Shulamite on their wedding night.。
And as you enter the bridal chamber with the both of them,。
what you see is Solomon admire his bride's beauty.。
He explores her body。
and he does so in a way that dignifies her.。
It says that he starts with her eyes behind her veil.。
And then he moves and he looks at the way。
her hair falls over her shoulders.。
He sees the whiteness of her smile.。
He describes the scarlet redness of her lips.。
He sees the blush in her cheeks.。
He sees the dignity in her neck.。
And I'll stop there because he gets pretty steamy。
as he continues to make his way down.。
You see, what you have to know。
is that sex is meant to be explored.。
Solomon, he didn't enter into that bridal chamber。
wondering, are we sexually compatible?。
Let me tell you how he figured it out.。
He took one look at her and he said,。
I think this is gonna work.。
The same will be true for you.。
So you will compromise your Christianity physically。
if you fall prey to some line of question like this,。
but you'll also, you'll compromise your Christianity。
emotionally if you fall prey to questions like,。
well, how do I lead my girlfriend?。
What are you talking about?。
That is a ridiculous question.。
Now, I know most guys that ask that question。
are not trying to be ridiculous.。
They're trying to be noble.。
They want to do well at the job.。
And yet the truth is, though the Bible has a lot to say。
about the way that men sacrificially love。
and lead their wives and provide for their homes,。
it doesn't say a lick about the way boyfriends。
are supposed to lead their girlfriends.。
And so here's the truth.。
Stop trying to lead her like she's yours。
when you haven't done what it takes to make her yours.。
Like when Brooke and I were dating,。
there came a moment in our relationship。
after we'd been together for a considerable time.。
And at the end of that, and after that time,。
there came a moment where she was getting。
different job opportunities in different cities.。
And it looked like the severing of our relationship。
was at hand.。
And yet I looked at her and I said,。
hey, I know we've talked about this,。
but you don't belong to me.。
You're not mine.。
We're not married.。
You follow God.。
He's the leader of your life.。
And I trust that he's going to work this thing out。
if he wants it to be.。
He leads my life.。
He leads your life.。
And the same is true for you.。
God is the leader of your life.。
Yes, some of those things change。
whenever you enter into the marriage union,。
but only then do you start to see leadership roles shift.。
But for now, you lead you and she leads her.。
I could get into the whole point of,。
well, aren't I supposed to guard her heart?。
No, you're not supposed to guard her heart.。
She's supposed to guard her heart.。
That's her job.。
You're supposed to guard your heart.。
You think about yourselves as you think about one another.。
That's the way this thing works.。
And then you compromise your Christianity,。
spiritually speaking,。
whenever you find yourself in spots。
where you're trying to get your significant other。
to be a part of church or Christianity alongside you.。
I get this question all the time.。
I'll sit down, I'll stand up here,。
and people will come talk to me,。
and they'll be like,。
how do I get my boyfriend to come to church with me?。
How do you get them to?。
You shouldn't have to.。
Like the Bible is very clear.。
2 Corinthians 6, 14 tells us,。
do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers.。
For what partnership has righteousness with lawlessness,。
or what fellowship has light with darkness?。
You see, your partner should love God。
before you ever enter the picture,。
not because you entered the picture.。
But they're such a nice guy.。
That's great.。
Send them a thank you card.。
You're not looking for a good person.。
You're looking for a godly person.。
That's what you're after.。
You want to link up with someone where,。
as my friend and the director of discipleship。
here at the porch says, Tyler Moffat,。
your of courses match their of courses.。
That's what you want.。
And their of courses need to match yours。
on the biggest issue in the cosmos,。
which is what do you do with the person of Jesus?。
You need to agree about the claims of Christ.。
Now, I could go on, but the bottom line here is,。
if you feel like you're bending your Christian integrity,。
or you're suppressing your spirituality。
just to be with someone,。
then you've gone too far.。
Jesus never compromised.。
He never compromised when he came for us.。
He was faithful to you in the past, in the present,。
and he will be for all time.。
And so you don't compromise yourself for someone else.。
He's shown you the way to love, so you follow his way.。
And the second we pick up is in verses three through five.。
It says this, "For this is the will of God,。
"your sanctification,。
"that you abstain from sexual immorality,。
"that each one of you know how to control his own body。
"in holiness and honor,。
"not in the passion of lust like the Gentiles。
"who do not know God."。
So the second way you know you've gone too far。
is if your behavior becomes disrespectful,。
is if your behavior becomes disrespectful.。
It's interesting.。
Paul tells us very clearly what God's will is for your life.。
If you've ever wondered, here it is.。
He tells you.。
And it's not first and foremost studying the scripture.。
It's not first and foremost serving the poor.。
It's not first and foremost sharing the gospel.。
And it's not first and foremost seeking the lost.。
He tells you the will of God for your life。
is your sanctification,。
and that comes by way of abstaining from sexual immorality,。
which is interesting, right?。
No one would have guessed.。
So what is it about abstaining from sexual immorality。
that particularly looks like Jesus?。
Well, Paul tells us.。
He says that when we abstain from sexual immorality,。
it teaches us how to control our bodies。
in holiness and honor,。
in a way that considers God。
and in a way that considers others.。
I think Ben Stewart put this most profoundly.。
He said that we conduct our lives in a way that reflects God。
and it respects others.。
That's the idea that Paul's getting at here.。
But when we don't, that's when we've gone too far.。
That's when we become lost in the passion of lust,。
which is what Paul says here,。
which is a pretty intense idea.。
Like no one wants to be lost in the passion of lust,。
and yet the truth is this often happens to us。
more frequently than we care to admit.。
And the reason for that is because we don't take abstaining。
from sexual immorality as seriously as we should.。
That idea for abstaining,。
it can also be interpreted as fleeing,。
meaning that you're trying to create。
as much distance as humanly possible,。
as fast as humanly possible。
between yourself and the object of your dread.。
So hypothetically, if you're fleeing the scene of a crime,。
you're not sticking around to shake hands and kiss babies.。
You're not trying to see,。
"Hey, who's really working up the case?"。
No, you're hitting the road.。
Like you're getting out as fast as possible.。
You're running for the hills.。
Why?。
Because there are consequences to your actions。
and you don't want them to come to bear.。
You flee the scene as fast as possible.。
If we don't flee sexual immorality,。
there are consequences too.。
And we will pay them if we're not careful.。
First Peter 2 11 says, "Beloved, I urge you。
as sojourners and exiles, people that are not of this world,。
but people of a different world,。
to abstain from the passions of the flesh,。
which wage war against your soul."。
You see, Peter's saying, "Hey, your soul is under attack.。
And so you should flee sexual immorality.。
You should create as much distance from it as possible."。
And yet here's the thing,。
rather than flee sexual immorality,。
we often just choose to flirt with it.。
That's what we do.。
We often find ourselves not fleeing, but flirting.。
Like we watch porn,。
even though we know Pornhub profits。
off of filming rape and sexual assault。
and child sex trafficking.。
Or we indulge sexting,。
not because I'm actually romantically interested。
in that person, but just because it feels good to be wanted.。
Or we find ourselves listening to erotic romance。
on audio book.。
And the reason for it is because I could read it,。
but man, it's so much better to hear not one,。
but two voice actors tell every spicy detail to one another。
and let my imagination run wild.。
Or it's the fact that we'll hit up OnlyFans.。
And we have no consideration。
for the cycle of sexual solicitation。
those girls are trapped within,。
just because it helps us to scratch the itch and get off.。
You see, even though we don't go as far as we could,。
we so often go further than we should.。
And the reason why is because。
we're like my roommate who never cleaned his room.。
Like, sure, we'll tidy the place up a bit.。
We'll hang up our clothes, put our shoes away,。
make sure our towels hung up and drying.。
We will give the appearance of cleanliness.。
But deep down, if you peel through the layers,。
what you'll actually find is filth.。
This is too often what we do when we don't flee,。
but we flirt with sexual immorality.。
And the thing is, this is not just talking to us。
about the ways that we're sexually deviant or disrespectful.。
It also, it has something to say about the way。
that we're emotionally deviant or disrespectful,。
something that's rampant in our day.。
So ladies, that little voice in your head。
that makes you question everything he does,。
or it assumes nothing is ever right,。
or it interprets every minor move。
as a major declaration of love。
that is not honoring to your man.。
When he looks at you and he says,。
"Hey, I'm sorry, I'd love to, but I'm busy tonight.。
"How about tomorrow?"。
It is respectful to take him at his word。
and not infer something that isn't true.。
Well, who's he gonna see then?。
Is it that girl that he was talking to at the coffee shop,。
that redhead that stood up from the rest of the crowd?。
Maybe it's not who he's seeing.。
Maybe he's not seeing anyone.。
Maybe he doesn't wanna be with me.。
Maybe I did something.。
What did I do?。
Did I come across too clingy?。
Like, was it the fact that I wanted to see him on Thursday,。
even though we had plans on Friday?。
Maybe it's not something that he's going to see.。
Maybe it's not something that I did.。
Maybe it's no one.。
Maybe it's nothing.。
Maybe he just wants to chill and he can't chill with me.。
But I'm chill.。
I'm so chill.。
I'll chill all night.。
I'll eat an entire gallon of ice cream。
'cause I'm that kind of chill.。
I'll prove him.。
Maybe it's none of that.。
Maybe he just means what he's saying.。
Maybe he's just telling you, I'd love to, I can't.。
How about tomorrow?。
It's honorable to take him at his word。
and not assume something else.。
You see, you know you've gone too far。
when your behavior becomes disrespectful.。
And so here's what we have to do, Porch.。
We have to take control of our bodies.。
We have to take captive our thoughts.。
We have to subdue our flesh.。
And the reason we do is Jesus did all of that for us.。
Jesus controlled his own body.。
He took captive his own thoughts.。
He subdued, mastered his flesh for you.。
And so we should do so for him and for other people too.。
Paul keeps going.。
He says in verses six and seven,。
"See to it that no one transgresses。
"or wrongs his brother in this matter,。
"because the Lord is an avenger in all these things.。
"As we told you before and we solemnly warned you."。
For God has not called us for impurity, but in holiness.。
You see, the third way we know we've gone too far。
is when your partner feels violated.。
The third way you know you've gone too far。
is when your partner feels violated.。
That's what Paul means when he says,。
"We should not transgress。
"or we should not wrong our brother or our sister."。
It's the same idea of we should not overstep。
and we should not overreach into someone's life.。
Overstep, it's the idea of going someplace you don't belong.。
So if you trespass on private property, you're overstepping.。
And overreaching is the idea of taking from someone。
something that does not belong to you.。
My son does this all the time.。
We sit next to each other at dinner every night.。
And for whatever reason,。
he likes what's on my plate more than his.。
And so he's constantly just reaching,。
just wants to get, he'll kick, squirm, fuss。
until he gets hold of what I have.。
And yet he can never reach it.。
Why? Because it's not his.。
It's not within his grasp.。
If it was his, I would put it within his reach, but it isn't.。
And yet he will overreach trying to get what is not his.。
And we will do the same thing in dating.。
See, Paul is making a case that we hurt people。
whenever we overstep and whenever we overreach.。
Like there's a whole volume of violation。
whenever we go against the will of another person。
and we try to take from them what isn't ours。
and we try to go someplace that isn't ours to go.。
That's why boundaries are important.。
And it's why boundaries are a really good prover。
of romantic potential partnerships.。
Henry Cloud says it like this.。
He says in his book, "Boundaries,"。
"We can't manipulate people into swallowing our boundaries。
by sugarcoating them."。
No, boundaries, they're a litmus test。
for the quality of our relationship.。
Those people in our lives who can respect our boundary,。
they'll love our wills, our opinions, our separateness.。
But those who can't respect our boundaries。
are telling us that they don't love our nos.。
They only love our yeses, our compliance.。
I only like it when you do what I want.。
In other words, bad partnerships are characterized。
by overstepping and overreaching.。
And this is a really rampant issue in our culture。
where people take what isn't theirs。
and they go someplace that isn't theirs.。
It's rampant in our day.。
I could have pulled out so many different examples.。
I had a bunch.。
I had to strip those away because time is of the essence.。
And yet I wanted to share one of them with you。
because I just thought it was startling.。
According to Pew Research,。
56% of women under the age of 50,。
which covers everyone in this room,。
report having been sent unwanted。
sexually explicit images or messages.。
Unwanted.。
84% of college-aged women, that being 18 to 22,。
claim to have received the same thing,。
unwanted sexually explicit images or messages。
from strangers online.。
That is startling, isn't it?。
It's startling because that covers far beyond。
more than half of the women in this room.。
That's been your experience, ladies.。
But it's also startling because this has been unwanted。
and it is totally unwarranted.。
And the crazy thing about it is,。
while I know in our current liberated sexual day,。
every solicitor in this moment of these images or messages。
is not necessarily a male, but by and large,。
this is typically characterized of the male population.。
Those whom God has dignified with the purpose。
of providing and protecting his daughters.。
Not preying upon and propositioning them。
for their own benefit.。
We live in a day where we overstep and we overreach.。
It's more common in our culture than we often realize.。
So how do you know when it's happening。
in your relationship?。
Well, I'm gonna give you four categories to consider.。
I could rush these, but I think that these are important.。
So I wanna take our time。
'cause I wanna make sure you hear 'em.。
The first thing you know if someone's violating you。
in your relationship is they're pressuring you sexually.。
They're pressuring you sexually.。
Like if someone in your relationship。
is constantly guilting you to do more.。
I've got sexual needs, baby.。
Like I need you to help me out with these things.。
What they're proving to you。
is that they don't need more of you,。
they need less of you.。
If there's someone in your relationship。
that's always asking for another picture.。
Like it's not like we're having sex.。
Like we're just kind of fooling around a little bit.。
We're just messing with one another.。
What they're proving to you。
is that they can make excuses for their sins。
and they cannot find solutions for their godliness.。
If they're always insisting,。
hey, like you should come stay the night.。
Like we're not gonna do anything.。
We're just gonna sleep right next to each other.。
That person is deceiving you.。
They don't wanna sleep next to you.。
If they do, you've got a different problem on your hands.。
You've gotta be careful.。
Hebrews 13, verse four says,。
"Let marriage be held in honor among all,。
"and let the marriage bed be undefiled,。
"for God will judge the sexually immoral。
"and the adulterous."。
You know what that tells you。
if you're being pressured sexually?。
That verse tells you that your partner does not fear God.。
Because what we know is sexual immorality and adultery,。
it is judged by God.。
Now, to be very clear, it is forgiven by Christ.。
But we do not sin all the more that grace may abound.。
That's not why we do it.。
No, we relish in the free gift of grace。
that Jesus gives to those who are genuinely repentant,。
not just remorseful.。
You want someone who is not trying to defile you,。
but honor you.。
Someone that will look at you and say,。
"Hey, you're with me for now,。
"but I don't know how long we'll have,。
"but you will be with someone forever,。
"and I want to honor them as well as you.。
"I want to set you up for success."。
The next way you know if someone's violating。
in your relationship is they're demeaning you verbally.。
They're demeaning you verbally.。
So listen, ladies, if he's belittling your body,。
if he is constantly comparing you physically,。
if he's tearing down your confidence,。
then get away from him.。
Because if he's quick to judge you on the externals,。
then he won't be slow to judge you on the internals。
whenever they become known.。
Guys, you need to know if your girl is quick to critique you.。
Like if you bring her flowers and she mocks you。
because you got her daisies and those are so cheap,。
or if she chooses to make a joke。
about some romantic advance you make,。
you wrote her poetry, you planned a date,。
you came with questions,。
and she thinks this is so cheesy or cliche,。
then get away from that.。
You don't want someone that's going to critique you.。
You want a woman that is going to celebrate your effort,。
not criticize your results.。
I love this.。
Proverbs 26, 24, 25,。
it tells us about the dangers of emotionally oversharing.。
That situation where some woman shares with you。
the deepest longings in her heart,。
even though she has no business in giving you her heart,。
this is what Proverbs 26, 24, 25 would say.。
It says, "Enemies disguise themselves with their lips,。
"but in their hearts they harbor deceit.。
"Through their speech, though their speech is charming,。
"do not believe them."。
You see, I have seen so many couples suffer。
under unnecessary emotional manipulation。
because there's this deep fear。
that this is the best it's ever going to get.。
So I'm willing, I will silently suffer。
so long as it keeps us together.。
And yet what happens in that situation。
is you don't walk into a thriving, healthy relationship,。
instead you fall down into a toxic one.。
Do not allow for that.。
You deserve more.。
Christ, he has died and risen so that you might have it.。
The next thing you need to know。
is they may be controlling you physically.。
They may be controlling you physically.。
Like if you're just dating,。
and that person, your boyfriend, your girlfriend,。
gets mad because,。
well, we're supposed to spend the weekends together.。
Again, we've talked about this.。
You don't belong to them.。
Like they have no right to get frustrated。
unless you made a commitment。
and now you're going against it.。
They have no reason to be frustrated with you.。
Instead, they need to look at you。
and they need to honor the fact。
there's separation between the two of you.。
You have genuine autonomy.。
You're independent persons.。
And yet I have seen both guys and girls。
do things like track their boyfriend。
or girlfriend's location,。
monitor their transaction history,。
share their social media。
because they want to know who they're talking to。
and when they're talking to them.。
They're controlling them physically.。
And if someone's doing that in your life,。
you need to run.。
You got to get away from that.。
That's not safe.。
Like, listen, Jesus is not someone。
that confirms that kind of control in your life,。
though people have used his name to substantiate such.。
Jesus is not someone that will side with that person。
and say, yeah, my word authorizes all of this.。
No, Jesus's word does not authorize any of this.。
Jesus, he lives to uplift people,。
to bring them into a place of flourishing.。
And yet often those that try to physically control us。
have other things in mind.。
And then the last one is。
they're manipulating you emotionally.。
I mentioned the way that she or he。
may emotionally overshare in the hope。
of reeling you in that they have no intent.。
And yet you also need to know that there are people。
that will always try to make things seem like your fault.。
They'll try to invalidate your feelings.。
They'll never take ownership when conflict arises.。
They will constantly question your judgment。
rather than seeking to understand.。
And you should be careful of them.。
I need to keep going, but here's the point.。
God has called us to holiness.。
And because he has, we don't go where we don't belong。
and we don't take what isn't ours.。
We do the opposite.。
We go where Jesus went.。
Where did Jesus go?。
He moved towards his beloved.。
And then we do what Jesus did.。
He didn't take, he gave.。
We're willing to give of ourselves。
that our boyfriend, our girlfriend,。
and eventually our husbands and our wives might have life.。
That's the thought here.。
And the very last thing you need to see。
is in verse eight, and we'll go quick.。
It says this, "Therefore, whoever disregards this。
disregards not man, but God,。
who gives his Holy Spirit to you.。
The fourth way you know you've gone too far。
is if your conscience has grown cold."。
If your conscience grows cold.。
That's what Paul says in the final verses of this section.。
He looks at the Thessalonians and he says,。
"Hey, there's one more final issue.。
There's one more final warning I need to issue you。
when it comes to your romantic relationships."。
He says, "If you disregard any of the above,。
any of the other three things that we've talked about,。
then you not only disregard God,。
you not only disregard man, you disregard God.。
And the only way that happens in your life。
and in your dating is when your conscience has grown cold."。
Hear me on this.。
Because this is certainly some of you.。
Some of you are in a relationship tonight。
where at some point in the past,。
you knew you'd gone too far.。
I don't know what it was,。
and I don't know how long ago it may have been,。
but you know we went too far at that point back then.。
And now you just feel like it's too late。
to do anything about it.。
It just doesn't matter what point is there.。
Like you've been sleeping together for so long now,。
it just feels normal or pornography.。
It's been his addiction,。
and he's brought that into a relationship.。
And though I've begged him to get over it,。
he's never going to get over it.。
Or you've seen, man, she's cheated,。
but I just, I don't know that I can do any better.。
And when we're together, it's good.。
But even if she goes unfaithful。
and she does things with other guys,。
I'm not willing to give up on this.。
Or maybe it's masturbation.。
Like you think about that, you're like, you know what?。
I know that I'm not supposed to,。
but it's really kind of the lesser of all evils,。
and I need a sexual outlet.。
Or maybe you so desperately just need to be needed by a guy.。
And so you'll do whatever it takes.。
Like you'll wear as little as possible.。
You'll do as much as possible,。
and you will go however far as needed。
so that way you can get his attention.。
I don't know what it is for you, but here's the thing.。
If you're thinking, you know what?。
We crossed the line way back then.。
We're way too far gone now.。
It just doesn't really matter.。
It does matter.。
It matters because you matter.。
God is looking at you and he's saying,。
"Hey, it's not just that you've disregarded man.。
Don't disregard me.。
I care about you.。
I want you to keep fighting.。
I don't want you to give up already.。
You may feel like you're too far gone, but here's the thing.。
No one has gone too far that I cannot reach them."。
That is the gospel.。
The long arm of God extends to any and every person.。
No person can outrun his redemption.。
No person can outpace his pursuits.。
He is a God that reaches for the very worst of us。
and even those that feel like we could not go any deeper.。
And so if you're here and you're thinking,。
"It just doesn't matter,"。
you need to know it desperately does。
because it matters to him.。
You see, you can't outrun him.。
Doesn't matter how far you feel gone.。
He can still go further。
because when we'd compromised our Christianity,。
then we know Jesus, he never compromised us.。
He pursued us anyways.。
When we disrespected God by way of going astray in our sin,。
Jesus never lost sight of you.。
He considered you even still.。
When sin had absolutely violated you,。
Jesus stepped in and he rescued you.。
Not only that, he restored you.。
Not only that, he redeemed you for all time。
should you place your faith in him.。
And when our conscience had grown cold,。
so cold as dead in the grave,。
Jesus brought us to life.。
Jesus looked at us and he made us like himself.。
He made us alive.。
And so here's the thing.。
If you want to order your relationship in a way。
that not only avoids the bad,。
but it pursues the good,。
then you need to look at Jesus。
who has ordered his relationship to you。
in a way that absolutely dealt with the bad,。
but now is advocating for your good.。
He took your sin and he condemned it on the cross.。
He bore it in his body, but he rose forth.。
So then not only would you be forgiven,。
but you'd have forever should you place your faith in him.。
Look to Jesus and see one who pursues us,。
no matter how far we've gone。
or how far we feel we've fallen.。
Let me pray that you would.。
Lord, we love you and we're grateful for tonight。
and we thank you for this time.。
I know God, like this talk can feel heavy。
because even as we're walking through some of these details,。
there's a weight, not just in the ideas,。
but in the experiences of them ourselves.。
We see God in our own lives。
that we've lived through some of this stuff.。
And yet God, I pray that what people would hear。
is not condemnation,。
for such is not the future of those in Christ.。
I pray instead, they would hear redemption,。
that though their past may be checkered,。
their future can be white as snow.。
God, we pray, would you meet with us now?。
Would you minister to our hearts?。
Would you call back to mind something we've said。
that we need to know?。
And God, would you work in us,。
not just to be better people, but to become like you.。
We love you and we're grateful for tonight.。
It's in your name we pray, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
