(upbeat music)。
- All right, all right, it's fun worshiping with you guys.。
How's everybody doing?。
(congregation cheering)。
I love it, I love it.。
If you're just in town with us this evening,。
welcome, if you're a guest with us,。
we're so glad you're here.。
Welcome to the porch.。
My name's JP or Jonathan Picluda.。
It's fun to be with you.。
Tonight's a one-off, we're not in a series right now.。
We're in between.。
As David said, we're gonna go into summer。
on the mountain next week, and so excited to be with you.。
I've been, my family and I, we're in Branson, Missouri.。
I was speaking at a camp there called Canicuk.。
Anybody familiar with it?。
(congregation cheering)。
Awesome.。
And so just meeting with the counselors。
and the staffers there,。
and then we were driving back from that camp。
and kind of going through,。
and so I've got the kids in the back,。
my daughter, Presley, my daughter, Finley,。
my two-and-a-half-year-old son, Weston,。
and my wife, Monica, and we get into Oklahoma,。
kind of southern Oklahoma.。
We're on the home stretch.。
We're about to approach Texas soil,。
and my iPhone goes off.。
You know, this alert, this notification.。
At first, I think like Amber Alert or something,。
'cause it's my phone and Monica's phone.。
They're both going crazy, and so I look at it,。
and it says, "Tornado warning in your area。
"for the next 15 minutes."。
Now, I look outside the windows,。
and it's like, it looks fine.。
I don't see any tornadoes.。
I don't even see anything that remotely looks like a tornado,。
just some red dirt, you know, that's it.。
And so I drive a little bit further,。
and it goes off again, except for now not 15 minutes,。
but the next 45 minutes,。
and now I see the clouds beginning to change shape,。
and my kids are interested in what,。
they're like, "What does your phone say?"。
And Weston's in the back of my tree.。
He's like, he just learned a new word.。
He's like, "Tornado, tornado."。
And then my daughter Finley starts crying。
as it begins to rain, and then sweet Presley is like,。
"Guys, we need to pray, we need to pray," which is awesome.。
You know, yeah, awesome.。
And so I kind of thought this through.。
I know words are important.。
We preach the gospel here, so I don't want to exaggerate.。
It was undoubtedly, undisputedly the hardest rain。
I've ever seen in my entire life took place.。
It was not drops of rain, it was sheets of rain,。
and then as we're sitting there, zero visibility,。
have to stop on the highway.。
I look out my window.。
I can't see the median two feet away.。
It's loud.。
I talk to Monica, like, "Are you okay?"。
She's like, "I think so."。
The kids are hysterical in the back.。
I'm like, "It's gonna be okay."。
They're like, "You're lying."。
(audience laughing)。
"Your phone said tornado."。
And then the rain turns to hail,。
and they're like, "Daddy, what's the noise?。
"What's the," I mean, it's like golf balls hitting us.。
It's like God did a ice bucket challenge。
on the entire state of Oklahoma,。
and we're sitting in there, and I'm like, "Oh no,"。
and then you know what?。
The rain lets up.。
It does, it lets up.。
I can see again.。
I begin to drive a little bit further, a little bit slower,。
and then the iPhone goes off again.。
And now the kids are like, "What does it say?。
"What, what, what, tell me, what, what?"。
Presley's like, "What?"。
She grabs it before I can read it.。
She's like, "What's flash flood?"。
(audience laughing)。
And so it says, "Flash flooding now in your area。
"for the next 30 minutes," and then it goes off again,。
and it stretches that 30 minutes to an hour.。
So this is now four, and so I'm like, "Flash floods?。
"Like, does that really happen?"。
I mean, like, you hear, like, I mean, I've heard of this.。
I've seen the warnings on the TV before,。
and so now the rain has let up.。
We're driving down the highway,。
and we're kind of in rural Oklahoma,。
and there's this gas station。
kind of in the middle of nowhere,。
and I watch as this person is pumping gas,。
and this wall of water consumes their vehicle。
over the tires up to the door handles, totaled.。
I see this 18-wheeler coming down this hill,。
which is a road but looks like a river。
and rapids all around his tires。
as these three roads/rivers meet,。
and there's just all of this craziness,。
and I see the carnage of what is flash floods.。
Luckily, we were, you know, the highway was higher,。
but they shut down 75, shut it down, closed.。
Over the bridge, we sat there for 45 minutes,。
southbound, northbound, couldn't go anywhere,。
and I was so grateful for the warning,。
but do you know what I did next?。
I did something maybe you've done,。
and I look back on it, and it was kind of foolish, right?。
I went into settings, general, notifications, off.。
(congregation laughing)。
Yeah, I turned them off.。
Now, what's interesting about that。
is if I believed like, hey, it says flash flooding,。
and then there's gonna be a wall of water。
coming down the road, going to, excuse me,。
if I really believed that at a heart level,。
like it's, you know, it says tornado,。
and then all of a sudden, you know,。
we're in fear of a tornado,。
I'd be walking around with that iPhone,。
you know, and those notifications, like, to my ear,。
waiting for the next one,。
but the problem is it's an annoyance,。
it's an inconvenience to me, it scares my kids, frankly,。
and so I went and I shut that off,。
like I'm not listening anymore,。
and I believe there's areas of our lives。
where we shut off the word of God,。
and in those areas, we are being swept up。
by the current of our culture,。
and the reason that we've shut off the voice。
and the word of God is because we don't trust it,。
or it's an inconvenience, it's an annoyance。
to our prerogative and our agenda,。
and what we want to accomplish in our lives,。
and this says something about who we believe God is,。
we don't believe that he wants our best for us,。
better than that, his best for us,。
and so tonight, we're going to talk about an area。
that I believe we, Dallas and Fort Worth,。
and specifically the porch, and specifically young adults,。
have been swept up in the current of culture,。
and that topic is sex,。
so we're going to talk about not being swept up。
or avoiding the current of sexual sin this evening,。
and so if you're a guest with us,。
you're probably like, oh, great, you know,。
the priest is not gonna teach me to be celibate,。
you know, I brought a friend tonight, great, listen.。
(audience laughing)。
We're gonna bring, we're gonna go to the word of God,。
and we're gonna see what he says,。
and we're gonna see if we can trust it,。
and before we do, I want to read to you the last verse。
that I'm gonna cover tonight,。
it's verse eight in 1 Thessalonians four,。
before you turn there, just listen to this verse,。
this is the last verse I'm going to read,。
it says, "Therefore, anyone who rejects this instruction。
"does not reject a human being but God."。
The very God who gives you his Holy Spirit.。
If you reject this instruction,。
you have shut off that notification to God,。
the creator of the heavens and the earth,。
and you said, I don't care what you say about this topic,。
I'm gonna do what I wanna do, whatever I feel like doing,。
it's up to me, not you, I got my own life,。
I don't need your help, God, no thanks,。
and you shut it off,。
and I love that Paul, God through Paul,。
makes it that clear to us,。
if you reject this, you reject God,。
you don't reject JP, you don't reject Watermark,。
you don't reject the porch,。
you don't reject some message or illustration this evening,。
you reject the Holy Spirit, God's Holy Spirit,。
and so we, around this topic of sex,。
we just say stupid things,。
we come up with these weird theologies。
and these strange ideologies。
that we think make sense to us, and it's dumb,。
we say things like, you know,。
well, it's okay as long as you're ready,。
like, can I just, I've been ready since the fifth grade,。
(audience laughing)。
like, I'm ready, I'm ready right now,。
where's my wife, like, I'm ready, okay,。
I've been ready, so what does that mean,。
as long as you're ready, what is that, who says that?。
We say things like, have safe sex,。
well, the problem with that is God,。
the creator of the heavens and the earth,。
said sex outside of marriage isn't safe,。
and if you think it's safe,。
then your view of sex is really small,。
and the sex you're having is not God's best,。
because God says it's not safe, it's powerful,。
that it's strong, it's this thing that he created,。
that he invented, and if you take it out。
of its desired context, it creates carnage,。
it creates disaster, we say things like,。
try before you buy, okay, that sounds cool,。
how about buy before you try, okay,。
there's some wisdom there, how about,。
instead of try before you buy,。
how about you buy before you try,。
and then you're in a committed relationship,。
and then you can try for the rest of your life,。
you can keep trying, if it doesn't work, just keep trying,。
okay, just keep trying, you'll get there,。
one way or another, we'll figure it out, okay,。
and we come up with these silly rules,。
like, well, you know, I would, yeah,。
well, I would never pay for it,。
or I would never pay for it there,。
or not unless they're this old,。
or not unless the age gap is this big,。
or whatever that is, and I'm just asking you the question,。
who or what has the authority to tell us。
what is the best around this topic of sex?。
Like, you gotta answer that question。
before we go any further, who or what。
is the best source to determine what is okay regarding sex?。
And I'm just gonna give you the answer,。
the one who invented it,。
the one who thought it up。
in his unbelievable creativity and goodness,。
I think that he's the authority on it,。
there's nobody that knows more about sex than God,。
and so I believe this is probably the biggest issue among us,。
and I believe that we've lived in the gray,。
continuing to justify our sin on this topic,。
or finding pride in the lack thereof,。
and so when I chose this passage in 1 Thessalonians 4,。
if you wanna turn there,。
honestly, here's what was going through my head,。
I was coming from teaching something,。
I was moving towards, I'm teaching Thursday in Houston,。
and I had this kind of, the porch in the middle,。
and I knew I'd seen this verse,。
and I'm like, man, that seems like a great verse,。
the porch needs it in this season,。
and it'll probably be easy to teach,。
and whoa, I probably wrestled with this passage。
as much or more than any passage I've ever set before you,。
because there is certainly。
some interpretive challenges in it,。
and I want to make sure that I teach the truth。
on the word of God this evening,。
and so I mean, I have wrestled with the Greek words,。
I have wrestled with the different commentaries。
on the passage, what other theologians had,。
I've had a team of brilliant people searching this passage,。
trying to make sure that we identify。
the truth in it this evening,。
and so I pray that it changes your life,。
I pray that it impacts your life。
if you would turn to 1 Thessalonians 4,。
and we're gonna look at God's will, God's way,。
and God's warning regarding sex from the scripture.。
God's will, God's way, and God's warning。
regarding sex from the scripture.。
Now, if you think DFW 2015 is a sexually charged culture,。
I will tell you from research。
that we have nothing on Thessalonica, okay?。
The church that Paul wrote this passage to,。
it was crazy sexually charged.。
There was no Christian influence there,。
and so there was nobody bringing morality。
around this topic of sex.。
It was normal there to have orgies, okay?。
In fact, you could go to places like you would a gym。
to have an orgy if you wanted to,。
and it wasn't just frowned upon,。
it was actually, and it wasn't just allowed,。
it was actually encouraged.。
In fact, you could go to temples,。
say you're worshiping your God, and sleep with prostitutes,。
and that would be considered worship.。
Could you imagine?。
Don't imagine too long, but that's crazy, right?。
This is crazy, and so transvestites, normative,。
homosexualities, normative, pedophilia in this culture,。
absolutely accepted and normative,。
and there was no government coming around。
with rules for this, so it would be completely fine。
and normal for you to rape a slave.。
If you wanted to, that's your prerogative.。
No one's gonna say anything to you,。
they're just gonna applaud it in this culture.。
This is the culture he's writing this letter to,。
and so if you think, well, you're gonna give me。
some old advice, right, that's old-fashioned,。
no, no, no, no, we've got nothing on Thessalonica,。
and he is going to call Christians,。
those who follow Christ with God's Holy Spirit,。
to be set apart and to be different.。
Verse one.。
As for other matters, okay, so we're changing topics here。
to a brand new topic, and it stands on itself.。
Brothers and sisters, writing to believers,。
so if you're here and you don't follow Jesus,。
listen in, but we don't expect,。
I mean, you're gonna have all the sex you want,。
like, why wouldn't you, right?。
Now, I'm gonna give you some wisdom。
why I think you shouldn't, even if you don't know Jesus,。
but just know that these rules are for believers,。
those who follow Christ, and so if you're hearing,。
like, man, I don't follow Jesus,。
like, I'm just kinda searching, I get that, man,。
I know where you're at, welcome,。
we're so glad you're here, truly, sincerely.。
Brothers and sisters, porch,。
believers in Dallas and Fort Worth,。
we instructed you how to live in order to please God,。
as in fact you are living.。
Now, we ask you and urge you and the Lord Jesus。
to do this more and more, keep doing what you're doing,。
keep, you're doing it well, keep going, Christians.。
Keep going, brothers and sisters,。
for you know what instructions we gave you。
by the authority of the Lord Jesus.。
He's getting serious.。
Like, the Lord Jesus, under his authority,。
we've given you this instruction that it is God's will.。
Man, who wants to know God's will?。
Anybody come in here tonight, like,。
man, I wish I knew God's will.。
It is about to be black and white in the text,。
like, completely spelled out for you.。
Write it on your arm, get it tattooed,。
I mean, it is spelled out, here is God's will for you.。
It is God's will that you should be sanctified,。
that you should, it is God's will。
that you should avoid sexual immorality.。
Now, that's one of those words I think we can hide behind,。
sexual immorality, what does that mean?。
I'm not sexually immoral, I'm in a committed relationship.。
Man, we've been dating for like six months.。
It's serious, JP.。
We're probably gonna get married.。
You know, I'm trying before I buy.。
So, what is sexual immorality?。
This word, porneia here, is sex, sexual acts.。
Let me just read the definition I wrote down.。
So, again, I wanna be super careful tonight.。
Sexual acts with anyone you are not married to.。
Let me define sexual acts.。
Anything causing stimulation or sexual pleasure.。
So, let me put it all together.。
Anything causing stimulation or sexual pleasure。
with anyone you are not married to.。
Okay, including yourself.。
Okay, this is what he is talking about.。
Is that clear, is anybody gonna leave here confused?。
Well, I don't know if he's talking about premarital sex.。
Fornication, absolutely.。
All of that is encompassed in this word right here.。
It is a powerful word, it is a very specific word.。
It's a word different than adultery.。
It's a very specific word here.。
And so, he is saying this is his exhortation to believers.。
You know what he's saying?。
And it's good news.。
He's saying, hey guys, way to go, keep going.。
It's like you're running a marathon and you're growing tired。
and the apostle Paul is on the side of that road。
holding a cup of water, those little cups,。
you get a cup and throw it away.。
And he's like, keep going, you can finish.。
You can do this, you guys know what I'm saying?。
Like, I go to the, well, I go to the gym.。
I've been to the gym recently.。
And, yep, I've been there.。
And there's these guys, okay?。
We call them the circus clowns.。
Yeah, which is just offensive.。
I'm kind of realizing that right now in front of you.。
But we do and the reason we do is because。
they're the guys that take it real serious.。
Like, they got the lifting straps and the white powder。
and like, dude's on bench press and like, one dude's,。
you can do it, come on, you can do it,。
push it out, push it out, push it out.。
And you don't know who's working out harder,。
like the guy holding the bar or the guy over there,。
you know, and it's just like, man,。
you're taking this thing a little too serious.。
That is the encouragement the apostle Paul has for you.。
You can do it, come on, keep going, keep finish this race.。
So if you're here and you're like, man,。
this isn't even my struggle.。
Like, I caught this early on, like, I'm pure until that day.。
Like, awesome, this is a word for you.。
He's saying to keep going.。
So encouraged by you.。
Awesome job.。
Way to go, keep going.。
And then this, what is God's will?。
That you will be sanctified through sexual purity.。
From this text, the summary statement.。
God's will is that you will be sanctified。
through sexual purity, my first point this evening.。
That you will be sanctified through sexual purity.。
What does sanctified mean?。
It means to be set apart in holiness.。
That in a world that you don't belong to,。
a very temporary world, that you would stand out。
in the way that you avoid sexual immorality.。
And so if you're here and you're like, man, that's weird.。
Like, everyone around me is just kind of doing their thing.。
When you date and you're in a relationship,。
you just have sex, that's normal.。
God's saying, don't be normal.。
He's saying, hey, stand out, be sanctified.。
Present yourself as holy.。
Allow him to present you as holy。
by the way you're sexually pure.。
And so this includes what you listen to,。
what you watch, what you read, and of course, how you date.。
And the text says very plainly,。
there is a way to please God.。
Some of you are pleasing God in the way you date.。
Way to go.。
He's pleased, he looks down on you。
and he sees the way you date and he's just like,。
man, way to go.。
Keep going.。
Finish this race.。
And some of you are here asking the question,。
well, how far is too far?。
And here's the answer.。
You've already gone too far.。
In 10 years of vocational ministry,。
I've never had a single person ask me that question.。
How far is too far?。
That hadn't already gone too far.。
You're looking to justify your sin.。
Get married, man.。
That's why God made the covenant of marriage.。
Like we have such a false view of dating.。
Imagine if you were on a deserted island。
with nothing but this book, right?。
And you had to determine what marriage looks like。
and what dating looks like.。
I'm not talking about D Magazine or Cosmopolitan。
or anything else.。
I'm just saying this book, that's all you had.。
Like what conclusions would you draw?。
Like if we really believe this is the word of God, right?。
Just like that iPhone notification,。
we'd be like, okay, now what do I do?。
I wanna know your will, Father.。
I wanna do your will, Father.。
My friend, the other day I went to a wedding ceremony。
that the father of the bride did.。
And it was beautiful.。
It felt biblical.。
It was fantastic.。
And the father of the bride stood up there。
and he just expressed how encouraged he was。
by the way the two of them had dated.。
They were about to take their first kiss in public.。
Amazing.。
Amazing.。
I'm not saying that's your new rule.。
I'm just saying, man, that's incredible for them.。
Amazing, right?。
And he looked at her and he said,。
hey, before you go any further,。
I just wanna clarify something.。
You've never heard me say anything negative about sex.。
This is in the wedding ceremony.。
He says, that's because sex is good, because sex is God's.。
And you are about to free to take part.。
And I want you to enjoy it.。
And I want you to give all of yourself to him.。
And likewise, you all of yourself to her.。
That's a daddy saying that to his daughter.。
Awkward, a little bit, but right.。
(congregation laughing)。
But amazing.。
Amazing.。
And see, some of you, right,。
you've got the purity piece down,。
but you don't understand that sex is good.。
It's of God's.。
And when you go down that aisle。
and you get to the altar, that switch flips.。
And now what you have been taught。
has been a dangerous and powerful thing.。
You now have the freedom.。
This is the only safe sex that exists.。
It's a trusted sex.。
It's a covenant committed sex.。
And you have all the sex you desire。
and all the sex they desire.。
And that's good sex.。
That's God's sex.。
Don't you got to understand this is so important.。
God made sex and he made it good.。
It's his genius invention.。
He made the parts.。
He made the way they work.。
He made that get hard and that gets soft。
and that fit there.。
He did that.。
Is that awkward?。
It wasn't awkward in Eden.。
It's awkward because of sexual immorality.。
You got to understand this is God's incredible,。
powerful, amazing, beautiful invention.。
Like it's like the father, son, and the Holy Spirit。
are like okay, there's the two of them。
and we would like for them to increase the number.。
How do we do that?。
He's like well, we'll give them that and her that。
and they can come and do that and then they'll be babies.。
He's like that's cool, but let's throw in some pleasure.。
Good idea, Holy Spirit.。
Yes, pleasure.。
It's like that's what's going on there.。
This is God's incredible invention。
to enjoy in the context of what he says.。
He's the one who created everything.。
Who knows better than God?。
It's not dirty, it's not bad, it's good.。
No one knows more about it than him.。
But we grew up, we're the tips and tricks generation.。
So I grew up going through the grocery store aisle.。
I saw the Men's Health and the Maxim.。
I saw the Cosmo.。
I saw the advice on the cover of those magazines,。
21 ways to make her orgasm.。
It's the tips and tricks.。
Welcome to church, okay?。
And so you're like what is that really saying?。
21 ways to have a relationship based on the superficial。
fact of your desire for pleasure that is selfish。
so it is destined to fail.。
That's what it's really saying.。
21 ways to fail at a relationship。
because you based it on the wrong things and it's stupid.。
See, when you remove the things that God has placed。
in sex for it to be, all you have left is tips and tricks.。
And the sexual immorality of our culture。
has given some of you sexual anxiety.。
Even as a pure Christian person,。
I mean, even as someone committed to purity,。
you're thinking things, well, how will I perform。
and will I last long enough?。
And what if I take off my clothes。
and he doesn't think I'm hot?。
This is all the result of sin.。
Don't you hate sin?。
None of this would be there if sin wasn't there.。
And I hate that you're worried about those things.。
Those are the wrong things to worry about, man.。
That was never God's desire for you。
that you would be sitting around as a 20-something。
or a 30-something wondering how you might perform in sex.。
That's ludicrous and Satan's playground.。
Man, I hate that for you.。
That's not his desire.。
You don't understand the safe sex that God has for us.。
And Christians, those committed to Christ in the room,。
we should be sex experts.。
Now, I wanna clarify that I'm not talking about technique.。
I'm talking about the fact that we should know。
where it comes from and we should know what it's for。
and we should know why God designed it.。
We should be evangelists on this topic.。
Hey, sex is good.。
It's from God's.。
It has an intended purpose.。
You know what it is.。
It bonds two people together and it creates babies.。
That's what God made it for.。
And so when you take that powerful act outside of marriage,。
you are facing something really, really destructive.。
I know from experience.。
The other day I was talking to a friend。
that recently got married and we were just talking。
and he loves Jesus and knows the word。
and he just said something that caught me off guard.。
He said, "I don't know if I wanna have children."。
I was like, "What?。
"Why would you say that?"。
And he goes, "Because everyone who has them。
"just talks about how difficult they are。
"and talks about, you know, I talk to people。
"who are so excited when they're empty nesters,。
"when their children leave the house。
"and so I just don't know if I wanna have them."。
And it was like the Holy Spirit。
just gave me the words in the moment。
and I just said, "Who cares what everyone else says?。
"God says they're a blessing.。
"God says be fruitful and multiply.。
"God says blessed is the person who has them.。
"God says they're jewels and crowns.。
"I mean, God says all these amazing things about them."。
If we just had the word of God,。
I don't think you would ever say that.。
You would say, "I wanna have as many children as I can。
"and make disciples in the home。
"and wreck shop in the world that God has entrusted to me."。
And in the same way, I think on this topic of sex,。
we've listened to everyone but God.。
We've let shows and magazines and culture。
and books and articles influence our view of sex。
more than God.。
And even people we talk to。
who have these dumb fortune cookie sayings,。
try before you buy, right?。
More than God.。
But God made it.。
It's God's.。
It belongs to God.。
Why wouldn't we listen to him?。
So Paul writes, verse four,。
"That each of you should learn to control your own body。
"in a way that is holy and honorable."。
Brothers and sisters,。
each of you should learn to control your own body。
in a way that is holy and honorable,。
not in passionate lust like the pagans who do not know God.。
Now, if you have your Bible,。
I want you to circle those two words, know God.。
That's important in this passage.。
I think that's unbelievably important。
to understand this passage.。
Not in passionate lust like the pagans who do not know God.。
No, you know God.。
Because you know God, you have self-control.。
And so what is God's way to live out God's will?。
It's that, my second point,。
that you would avoid sexual immorality with self-control.。
That you would avoid sexual immorality with self-control.。
Now, when I hear self-control, I hear discipline.。
And I've really wrestled with this this week,。
as I told you, because often I would teach things。
like purity and against pornography and sexual immorality.。
Then I would say things like just pursue Jesus。
and just look at Jesus and just love Jesus.。
And I see that.。
I see that in the scriptures throughout and throughout.。
But here I see, and also wage war.。
I mean, do what you need to do。
by the power of God's Holy Spirit living in you。
because you know God.。
Take control of your own vessel, your own body,。
and the members of your body.。
Bring them under your control,。
which is to say bring them under his control。
because the fruit of the Spirit, okay,。
the fruit of the believer who has the Holy Spirit。
living inside of them is what?。
Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness,。
gentleness, faithfulness, and what?。
Self-control.。
The Spirit of God produces self-control in your life.。
And so if you're in a place where you're like,。
"Man, you just don't understand, I can't."。
What you're saying is you just don't understand God can't.。
God can't.。
No, no, no, he can.。
I assure you he can.。
And so like we, people ask questions。
like is masturbation a sin?。
Which was a huge struggle of mine.。
I mean, owned my life for a number of years.。
And I remember a friend told me, he said,。
"Hey," this was his advice, he was a pastor,。
a trusted advisor of the scriptures,。
and he says, "Man, if you can do that。
"in a way that is holy and honorable,"。
he's like, "Knock yourself out."。
I remember I was like, "Really?。
"That's good, so you serious?"。
And he's like, "Yeah, yeah, man, man,。
"if you can go and do that by yourself。
"in a way that's holy and honorable,。
"yeah, go ahead, but if you can't, don't.。
"If you can't do it in a way that's holy and honorable,。
"stop it, 'cause it doesn't honor the Lord."。
And you're not living, you're not learning。
to control your body in a way that's holy and honorable.。
You're giving in to the passionate lust like pagans.。
Don't do that.。
Yield to his spirit living inside of you.。
Beg him for help, you do whatever it takes,。
Jesus says in Matthew five.。
Interesting that he says regarding the topic of lust。
that if your hand causes you to sin, cut it off,。
which I believe is relevant to the topic at hand.。
And if you're here and you don't think。
masturbation is wrong,。
then I would encourage you to fast from it.。
What do you mean, fast from it?。
Well, the scriptures encourage us to fast。
from the things that we desire,。
and so fast from that, for how long?。
I don't know, a year?。
Well, I can't.。
Oh, you're mastered by it.。
And now you're in violation of 1 Corinthians 6:12.。
You've been mastered by something.。
The scripture says there is someone。
who gives into lustful desires.。
It says it's the pagans, the ones who don't know God.。
I don't believe that this is simply saying。
that if you know God, you are not sexually immoral.。
I think it is actually saying that the secret。
to controlling your body in a way。
that is holy and honorable is knowing God.。
I pick on the men often.。
Ladies, let me talk with you for a second.。
This includes modesty.。
Oh, here we go.。
Pastor man's gonna tell me,。
you be careful what you wear.。
Yes, I am, because the scripture does.。
It says dress modestly.。
And so if you dress to be sexy, okay,。
even if you don't do it for a guy,。
even if you do it, well, it just makes me feel good.。
I like the way I look in the mirror.。
I didn't do it for him, right?。
And you realize that those guys are giving you attention。
because of the way you dress,。
and that attention feeds the way you dress.。
Can I just tell you what's behind that attention?。
Like, I'm a guy, in case you didn't know, I'm a guy.。
And what we're doing, when we take notice to you。
because you dressed sexy, is we're undressing you.。
We're picturing you naked.。
And with some of you, that's not very difficult.。
It's like, just turn the pants to beige,。
and you're naked, right?。
And I'm not trying to be grotesque。
or just say crazy things up here.。
I'm just telling you the truth.。
I mean, you know, I was gonna say, ask a guy.。
Maybe don't do that.。
Just take my word for it.。
No, here's the deal.。
That's what's going on.。
And if you attract a guy with your body,。
you're gonna lose him for your body.。
And by the way, your body's gonna change.。
It's gonna wither.。
The scriptures tell us.。
Charm is deceitful, and beauty is fleeting.。
And so instead of pursuing being sexy,。
which is just cheap beauty, it's a shortcut to beauty,。
pursue being beautiful and having character,。
because character doesn't fade.。
Character lasts long.。
And for gentlemen, character is an amazing investment,。
the scripture says, the book of wisdom says.。
So pursue character, not being sexy.。
If you want a scripture, 1 Timothy 2, verse nine.。
See, Christians do not, this is what the text is saying.。
Christians do not do whatever they feel like.。
And this is actually evidence that we're Christian.。
We're not mastered by our desires,。
we're mastered by our creator.。
I went an entire year with fasting from desserts.。
If you were thinking something else, it was desserts.。
I went an entire year fasting from desserts.。
That was just up Mother's Day, okay?。
And so for a whole year, I didn't eat any desserts.。
Now, this is really difficult for me, why?。
Because I love desserts, okay?。
I love any kind of candy, all sorts of sweet things.。
That is definitely a vice of mine.。
And so after I was finished with the fast。
and I could eat desserts, again,。
a guy in my community group bought Krispy Kremes。
over to our time.。
And so the guy we're meeting, he had Krispy Kremes.。
And so I had one, okay?。
And I had the chocolate one filled with icing,。
not Boston cream, but icing.。
You can only get at Krispy Kreme。
because it's basically like lard and sugar.。
And so I had, it was amazing, like unbelievably amazing.。
And then there were two others there。
and they were just like staring at me, like calling me.。
And it was like, and it was right,。
the box was right in front of me.。
And I was sitting there and I was like sweating.。
And I was like, "Hey, anybody want these, please?"。
You know, and the guys were like, "No, man, we're full."。
And like, I wasn't full.。
And like, if I'm honest with you,。
like all my life, like I just eat until I'm full.。
Like, I'm like, if it's there and it tastes good,。
you know, why not?。
Why wouldn't I do that?。
I mean, any other time, any other season of my life,。
there's two Krispy Kremes left.。
Like, I just take them down.。
But this time, because I had gone a year without,。
I had the self-control to close the box and push it away.。
And this is what God is calling you to。
regarding the topic of controlling your body。
in a way that is holy and honorable.。
It says in the scripture, I don't want you to miss it.。
It says, "Learn to be self-controlled."。
Or it says, "Learn to control your body."。
It's something you have to learn because you know God.。
Discipline, practice, try, but also yield。
to his spirit living inside of you。
who produces self-control.。
And so I will just tell you this as an exhortation.。
A person who will pursue physical intimacy。
with you outside of marriage is a person who is committed。
to pursuing physical intimacy outside of marriage.。
Let me say that again.。
A person who will pursue physical intimacy with you。
outside of marriage is a person who is telling you,。
hey guy, just as a heads up,。
I'm committed to pursuing physical intimacy。
outside of marriage.。
And I know, 'cause I've done this for a while,。
that you're like, no, no, no,。
but we have something special and I'm special。
and I'm his lovey and he's my whatever.。
And so like, it's special and I, yeah, it's not special.。
Okay, I just wanna break the news for you.。
Sex outside of marriage is not like sex inside marriage.。
Now I know, mind blown.。
So let me say that again.。
You're not even following me.。
You're like, what did he just say?。
Like, wah, wah, wah.。
Sex outside of marriage is different。
than sex inside of marriage.。
I can't explain it, it just is.。
I know from experience and I know from hundreds。
and hundreds and hundreds of people coming into my office。
for marital counseling or premarital counseling,。
it's just different.。
And so if you grow fond of sex outside of marriage,。
you're gonna find that sex inside of marriage。
is just a little bit different.。
And if you want that, you gotta go outside of your marriage。
to get that.。
And can I just tell you, just be cautious.。
Like, unless you're here and you're like,。
no, man, I don't care if he has an affair,。
it's no big deal.。
Like, if that's you, okay, you probably don't know God。
and we're glad you're here.。
(congregation laughing)。
And so you're just here, you're like,。
hey, how do I avoid sexual immorality in a relationship?。
1 Corinthians 6:18 says, "Flee."。
Flee what?。
Flee sexual immorality.。
How do I know if it's sexually immoral?。
If your body is preparing itself for sex, you flee.。
And dudes are like, well, when she holds my hand,。
like, my body is preparing itself.。
Okay, flee.。
All right, whatever.。
Like, here's the way I explain it.。
You ever been to the airport?。
Yes, you have.。
There is a moving sidewalk there.。
You ever seen these?。
They're genius.。
Like, they take you from one place to another quickly.。
You can walk on them and it's like you're running.。
It's amazing.。
Have you seen the moving sidewalks?。
It's like escalators, but they're flat.。
Amazing.。
And so once you get on that, right,。
it's taking you down a path.。
And the only way to stop is to jump off of that.。
Likewise, when you are engaged in sexual intimacy,。
you are traveling down a path.。
That path ends in sex, okay?。
And the only way to stop that。
is to get off of that moving sidewalk,。
to get off of that path.。
And so if you're here, you're like,。
yeah, as soon as she holds my hand,。
like, you know, we're moving down that path.。
Cool, don't hold hands.。
Get married and hold hands as much as you want or more.。
You know, do whatever you want in marriage, right?。
It's free game, right?。
Keep the marriage bed undefiled, the scriptures say,。
but have fun.。
Be like, wait a minute, what, are you serious?。
Like, what are you saying for me?。
I don't know where the line is for you.。
You do.。
It's probably before you think it is.。
I wouldn't get close to the line.。
I wouldn't step on the sidewalk.。
Why?。
Because it's unloving to tell somebody you care about。
that I'm gonna take you on a path。
that's not gonna satisfy you tonight.。
There's nothing loving about that.。
That is not God's intention.。
And you're like, dude, but you don't even, man,。
we can make out and we're not going down that path.。
There's something wrong with you.。
Get therapy is what I would say.。
That's not God's design.。
That's not God's intention.。
You should not be able to make out with someone。
and not have your body be prepared for sex.。
That should not be.。
And if that's the case, like, let's talk.。
I'll refer you to somebody.。
Like, we'll help you or something.。
But it shouldn't be.。
All right.。
How someone handles their sexual cravings。
will show you the God they worship.。
Let's go, verse six.。
It's about to get difficult.。
In that in this matter, no one should wrong。
or take advantage of a brother or sister.。
The Lord will punish all those who commit such sins.。
As we told you and warned you before.。
For God did not call us to be impure,。
but to live a holy life.。
Now I didn't write that passage.。
The Holy Spirit did through the apostle Paul.。
I wanna read it again。
'cause there's obvious interpreted challenge in there.。
And in this matter, no one should wrong。
or take advantage of a brother or sister.。
The Lord will punish all those who commit such sins.。
As we told you and warned you before,。
for God did not call us to be impure,。
but to live a holy life.。
And so this is God's warning.。
My third and final point is sexual sin is never safe.。
Sexual sin is never safe.。
I have wrestled with this text。
as much as I've wrestled with any text.。
What does punish mean there?。
What does it mean?。
What does it mean?。
How do I reconcile that with Romans 8, 1?。
There's now no condemnation for those who are in Christ.。
And say, Gideon's five,。
that he's no longer counting our sins against us.。
It's written to believers.。
What is he talking about?。
How does God punish believers?。
And so I've wrestled with it.。
I believe I have clarity.。
And I wanna tell you what it means.。
When it says the Lord is going to punish。
those who commit these things,。
this is what it means.。
It means he's going to punish them.。
In Hebrews 12, it talks about the Lord。
disciplining his children because he loves them.。
And so you might be like,。
well, does that discipline look like him。
intentionally moving towards me,。
reactively disciplining me?。
Does it look like a natural consequence,。
like an STD or an unwanted child?。
Does it look like something reactionary。
because of what I've done?。
And as best and most honestly as I can answer you,。
yes.。
Any and all of those things.。
It's in this life.。
If you have trusted in Christ。
and you're a follower of Jesus,。
you believe that he has died for your sins,。
in eternity, you are with God.。
That's the good.。
His grace has saved you through the faith you have in him,。
you believing upon him,。
that he's paid the price for your sins.。
You're gonna be with him forever and ever.。
But if you leave this room。
and you engage in sexual sin,。
this scripture says the Lord is gonna punish you.。
And I can't tell you how many times。
like I have talked to believers,。
followers of Jesus that were so committed to Christ.。
They're like, dude, we had sex one time。
and like one time and she got pregnant.。
Like why?。
Like, 'cause God loves you and he's merciful to you.。
And because he loved you,。
he spared you, you getting away with that。
without any cost or anything difficult.。
And so now you have a beautiful child to love。
or to give toward adoption.。
And that was God's mercy to you,。
to show you that he is involved in your life。
and that he does not want you to go down。
the slippery slope of sexual sin.。
I have talked to people like, bro, I lived,。
I never even kissed a girl.。
And one night I had a little too much to drink,。
I had sex and I caught an STD.。
They said, why?。
'Cause God loves you and he's merciful.。
And he does not want you to go down the slippery slope。
of sexual addiction.。
Frankly, like I did.。
As a pagan, I got away with it.。
So I thought.。
So I thought and then I got into marriage。
and realized I had no idea how to love a woman。
in a monogamous committed relationship。
because all my life I had been in relationship。
to relationship to relationship to relationship.。
I had broken the bonding that God had wired me toward.。
I had bonded to a variety, not just of live women,。
but thousands of pornographic images.。
And now I'm in a marriage and one woman,。
frankly, won't satisfy me.。
I've got to learn by the power of God's spirit in me,。
self-control.。
And it was a task and it took an army of people。
called community holding me accountable。
and me yielding every step of the way。
to his spirit living inside of me by his grace.。
(silence)。
The NASB says the Lord is the avenger of these matters,。
which is awesome.。
Here's what that means.。
I've got a little girl, I've got two little girls。
and I joke around like I've got a gun collection.。
If they ever bring a boy over, like, it's like, what's up?。
But the truth, here's the truth.。
Here's the reality.。
What this text means, I don't have to do that.。
'Cause when that guy comes over who is like I was,。
I don't have to bow up and say, hey,。
and let me show you my armbar.。
I can just be like, hey, you don't have to be afraid of me.。
Like the God who formed her in her mother's womb,。
the one who spoke things into existence。
says that he is the avenger of these matters.。
If you want to take advantage of her,。
like you deal with that God.。
I was at, we were at camp a couple years ago。
and Presley walked up to this little boy。
and she was like, it was really cute.。
And she was like, hi, do you want to play with me?。
And he looked at her and he kind of stepped back。
and he goes, boom, and he threw her on the ground.。
And I saw it.。
And it was almost a homicide.。
(congregation laughing)。
I mean, I can tell you, I remember feeling complete rage.。
I mean, I'm looking at this little kid, I'm like,。
oh, somebody come, oh.。
And like, she's on the ground.。
Like for a second, I thought she was unconscious.。
Like she's just lying there。
and she's kind of that quiet cry, you know?。
And like, she's crying, but hysterical,。
nothing's coming out kind of thing.。
And I'm just like, bro, call your mama right now.。
Like something, man.。
And so, and I was telling Todd that this week,。
Todd is the senior pastor here.。
And he just, he reminded me, he's like,。
hey, that's like what the Lord feels。
when someone takes advantage of his daughters.。
And I knew I was gonna tell you that tonight.。
Now, let me tell you what happened to me last night.。
We were at dinner.。
Weston, my two and a half year old,。
walks up to a little girl and throws her on the ground.。
And I saw it.。
Now I'm on the other side of it.。
It's my son.。
And I'm like, I grab him and I take him outside。
and I take him in my truck and I sit him down.。
He's like, no, daddy, no, daddy, I don't need a spanking.。
I'm like, oh yeah, you do, bud.。
(congregation laughing)。
And listen, I want you to hear what I said.。
I said, for the rest of your life,。
until the day you die, you never put your hands on a woman.。
I said, let me tell you something.。
God made you to protect them and to care for them。
and to provide for them.。
And you will never hurt a woman。
until the day you die physically or emotionally.。
And now you're about to experience pain.。
(congregation laughing)。
And it's because of what you did.。
And ladies and gentlemen, this is what God is saying to you.。
It sounds like fear mongering.。
I know, the text is scary.。
Scared me.。
This is what God is saying.。
Some of you, you're here and the truth is。
God's not gonna discipline you in this life.。
He's gonna discipline you in the next.。
You don't know him.。
And you're not battling sexual sin.。
You're not fighting it.。
You've just completely given way to it.。
You've made up your own rules.。
You've forsaken the word of God.。
You've come up with your own rules.。
And I'm begging you with any credibility。
that somehow the Lord in his mercy has you here tonight,。
maybe you think I have some sort of credibility on that.。
I'm begging you to repent and to turn to Jesus.。
He's big enough to wipe away those sins.。
He's big enough to make you a new creation.。
I'm not saying anything crazy,。
like you're gonna be a virgin again。
or anything like that, okay?。
I'm just saying that he will pay for those sins。
on the cross so that you don't have to pay。
for your sins in hell.。
But if you do not repent, you will pay。
for your sins in hell.。
If you do not trust in Christ for the forgiveness。
of what you've done to God's brothers and sister,。
or God's sons and daughters, I'm begging you.。
I truly, truly am.。
And so if I can clarify that more,。
you say, "Hey, why did you get on your knees?。
"Why did you plead with me in that way?"。
I'd love personally to have that conversation with you.。
And so to the believer who is here。
and waging war in the battle, I'm so encouraged by you.。
Keep going, stay strong, finish the race.。
And to the believer who is here who is losing the battle,。
you're trying to fight, but you keep like a dog。
to his vomit, returning to that,。
which wants to bring destruction to your life.。
Beg for help, scream for help, okay?。
Come up afterwards, there'll be a team of people。
ready to help you.。
We would email whatever you need to do to get help.。
We wanna help you.。
And to the person who is overwhelmed with guilt。
from past sexual sin, I know you're here, listen.。
Okay, would you lean in right now?。
I wanna talk to you for a second.。
You're here and you're like thinking back。
and you just heard the Lord's gonna punish you。
and you're like, "Oh," and you're just like,。
"I can't believe," and maybe you have。
some of those things I mentioned.。
That's where you cling to Romans 8, 1。
and 2 Corinthians 5.。
And I want you to remember, now listen,。
remember the one who wrote this text murdered Christians.。
And that's probably worse than whatever you've done.。
And the one who gave this sermon was a sex addict。
and a porn addict and was often in strip clubs。
and did terrible, terrible things to women,。
was an abuser and was emotionally abusive to women.。
That's who's given this message.。
I've received the grace of Christ and so should you.。
And so should you.。
He is big enough to set you free from that sin.。
You say, "Well, what about God's punishment?"。
Okay, if you've repented, then move on。
and receive the grace of God.。
Now, if there's a consequence that you know。
that you're living with, that's the fallen world。
that we live in, but God's going to make it okay。
at the end of this race.。
Shame is from Satan.。
God has set you free.。
And to the person who will continue in sexual immorality,。
I will do just about anything within my power。
and authority to help you stop.。
Please repent and receive Christ.。
And so in summary, God's will is sanctification。
through sexual purity.。
God's way is avoiding sexual immorality。
through self-control.。
And God's warning is the serious consequence of sexual sin.。
There is no safe sex or sexual immorality.。
I read an article this morning that reminded me。
of something maybe you saw in the news or heard about.。
It was a family that was on vacation in Wimberley, Texas,。
which was where we went on vacation when I was little.。
And a flash flood came and swept away their house。
and their house was floating down the river。
and the mom calls her sister and says goodbye.。
And as far as we know, they've all passed away。
except for the father.。
It's a terrible thing.。
I say that not to make light of the situation,。
really to ask you to pray for him。
and for those that mourn that family.。
But it reminded me of something.。
When I was 17 years old in my small town that I grew up in,。
my house was 100 yards from the Guadalupe River.。
And on a sunny day, I was sitting there,。
everything looked fine and right in the world,。
and my dad ran in.。
Now my dad is just like,。
he's not super like emotionally expressive,。
you know, unless something has caused him to be.。
I've never known, he's a very moral person.。
I've never known to lie or exaggerate or stretch the truth.。
And he runs in the house and he just yells,。
"We've gotta get out of here."。
And I like come out of my room,。
and I'm like, "What are you talking about?"。
He's like, "We've gotta get out, the river's coming up.。
"We've gotta get to the other side of the bridge."。
I had lived there for 17 years.。
Our house had never flooded.。
The river never came anywhere close to our house.。
And so I'm sitting there, I'm like,。
"Dad, you've lost your mind, it's not even raining.。
"Like the sun is shining, you know,。
"what are you talking about?"。
And so I go in my room and I'm thinking,。
I'm like, "But I can trust my dad."。
You know, he's never said anything crazy before.。
I grab some stuff and I go and I get in my car,。
at 17 years old, and I'm driving。
to the other side of the bridge, just as he told me to.。
And I like don't really know where I'm gonna go。
or what I'm gonna do,。
but I'm just kind of doing what my dad said.。
And as I get to the bridge, I see a car float by.。
And I realized that the river,。
because of rains up north, was coming.。
There was a wall of water coming.。
And that was the last time I saw my house in eight days.。
And when we returned to it, everything had been destroyed.。
And I realized that I can trust my dad.。
My dad loves me, even when it doesn't make sense to me.。
Even when it goes against what I feel and what I see。
and the world around me, I can trust my dad.。
And I want you to know you can trust。
your heavenly father even more.。
He wants to give you good things.。
He's not trying to rip you off.。
You don't have to feel ashamed.。
He loves you and he's moving towards you。
like a loving father.。
Yield to him.。
Let me pray.。
(prayer)。
Father, draw near to us as we sing this last song.。
Move in our hearts and strengthen us。
by the power of your Holy Spirit, because we know you.。
My friends that don't know you, God,。
would you introduce yourself to them,。
even as we sing this song?。
Show them what you've done for them through Jesus Christ,。
your only son, who you allowed to die on our behalf。
because we've been sexually immoral。
and sexually perverted and sexually messed up.。
Terrible things we've taken part in or have happened to us.。
God, we need your remaking, your rebuilding,。
your renewing, and to the Christian in the room,。
Lord, would you spur them on?。
We are thirsty for you, God.。
We want more of you, God.。
We want to know you, God.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
