[Music]。
We're just trying to drive hoodie sales is what we're trying to do.。
Hand and force modesty. I'm kidding. But I kid because I care.。
So tonight we're starting a series called Colossians where we're going to be studying the book of Colossians for the next few weeks.。
I'm going to start us off with kind of a story that will tell us where we're going.。
My first year on staff here, I was like totally broke.。
What I mean by broke is I had no money.。
I was part time here and I was full time in grad school.。
I was trying to make ends meet, giving plasma and doing odd jobs on the side.。
Attending extra watermark events based on whether or not they had food.。
Is this a women's ministry thing? Is there food there?。
I owned one thing. There was one thing that I owned.。
It was a 2003 Xterra. I know, don't be jealous.。
Which for some reason is like a ladies car. Only sorority girls drive this thing.。
Any guys that drive it? You're not going to raise your hand now.。
I drove this and I loved the Xterra. I was a big fan. It's a great SUV.。
I kept it in immaculate shape. I would wash it all the time. I did all the maintenance on it.。
I kept it in great shape because it was the one thing that I owned.。
It was my little lady car and I loved it.。
There was a day where I was going to meet someone for lunch.。
I am driving and I hear this... I'm not a car guy.。
I knew that was not a good sound. I pull over and it starts steaming.。
I open up the hood. Whatever it's called.。
I open that up. I'm just totally lost in a train of thought.。
I open up the hood and I know what I'm looking for.。
I have no idea what things are supposed to look like in there.。
I just go and try to start it again. It won't start. I have it towed to a mechanic that I knew.。
Who I trusted. They ran all these tests and they came back.。
They said, "Your car is totaled. I've got some bad news. It's totally worthless. It's totaled."。
I was like, "What? Is this a joke right now? What do you mean it's totaled?。
Look how clean it is. This thing is awesome. What do you mean it's totaled?"。
He said, "Yeah, some coolant got into the oil pan and the oil pan gives the oil to the engine.。
It's kind of what keeps the engine running."。
He said, "Anything that gets into the oil pan other than oil will totally ruin the engine."。
I'm like, "Wait, what do you mean totaled?"。
He's like, "Well, we'll give you $500 for it."。
I'm like, "Am I being punked? Is Ashton here somewhere? Is this a joke?。
I will Flintstone this thing home before I'm going to take $500 for my...。
I'm insulted right now."。
He said, "Look, it's totaled. You need a new engine, which is worth more than it's worth.。
Anything that gets in the oil pan except for oil will totally destroy an engine."。
The reason I tell you that story is because much like anything getting into an oil pan and an engine will ruin a car,。
if anything is added to the message of grace for Christians,。
the message of grace, and what I mean by that is God's undeserved kindness towards you.。
If anything is added to make you have to deserve it, it becomes anything but grace.。
Anything added to grace becomes anything but grace.。
Anything added, whether it's...。
Hey, if you're a Christian, yes, you get God's grace, but you also have to do some good things.。
Yes, you also can't drink, can't dance, can't see rated R movies.。
You have to have a baptism or a second baptism or speak in tongues.。
Then you're really a Christian.。
Anything added to it, to grace, becomes anything but grace.。
It ruins totally the engine on which Christianity runs, on which the Christian life is lived.。
Interestingly enough, there was an entire letter that the apostle Paul wrote to a group of believers who were struggling with this idea.。
They were being told different messages, and this was when the New Testament was new.。
There wasn't a Bible.。
There were just kind of apostles who go around teaching.。
They're being told these competing different ideas, and being told really that Jesus gets it started, and then you need to do some certain things.。
Paul writes this letter to this group of believers in Colossae to say, "No, if you add anything to grace, it becomes anything but grace."。
For the next few weeks, we're going to study this letter.。
We're going to be in the book of Colossians.。
If you have a Bible, you can flip open there.。
If you don't, it'll be on the screen.。
If you don't have a Bible, we have some in the Welcome Center that would be our gift to you.。
Let me set up a little bit of what's going on in Colossae.。
Colossae is kind of an interesting city because it was a major trade center, and so all these different roads would run through it.。
Because of that, there was all kinds of different people, backgrounds, beliefs that all came to live in this city of Colossae.。
People of different religions, people of different skin tones, people of every different walk of life all came to live here.。
It was a really interesting city.。
It was like Austin, like the same "Keep Austin Weird" is "Keep Colossae Weird."。
That's what's going on.。
There's all these different ideas that fill the people, or all these different beliefs that fill the people who make up this city.。
These Christians, these new Christians, are being told by all kinds of other people, "Yes, Jesus, but you also need to believe," or "You also need to do this."。
What else is interesting about Colossae is Colossae was known primarily for two different things.。
The first one was this area was the hub of Mother Nature worshipers.。
Her name was Saebo, but essentially she's Mother Nature.。
They did all kinds of weird—we won't even really go into it—but all kinds of Mother Nature worship in this area.。
The reason people were so driven or so likely to worship Mother Nature is because there's one other thing that happened all the time in Colossae.。
Earthquakes.。
Earthquakes happened all the time.。
People, during an age when there wasn't any scientific—people just didn't know really how anything happened.。
So they'd go, "Earthquakes? Oh my gosh, it's Mother Nature. Again, we need to please her. Christians are not doing their job."。
So there were all these different competing ideas about how the world worked, and all of these people persecuting Christians inside of the church, saying, "Yes, Jesus, and you also need to do some other things."。
So Paul writes to this group of believers, and he's sitting in a prison cell.。
He's sitting there in Rome, and he begins to write out how they have everything that they need in Christ.。
And he gives them the secret to how people change.。
Really, it's a topic we talk about all the time here, about what changes people.。
And ironically, it's not hearing another message. It's not trying a little harder.。
And he lays out what the secret is to experiencing change.。
So we're going to pick it up in verse 1 of chapter 1, and we'll get started.。
So let me say just this one last thing before we start in chapter 1, because this letter is unique among Paul's letters, too.。
It's been called by many scholars the most profound of all of Paul's letters, or most difficult to understand.。
Paul writes a little bit like my sister talks, and what I mean by that, and I love my sister, but she's like a verbal processor who will jump from one topic to the next.。
Anyone? No one's ever met anyone like this before? Maybe it's a woman thing.。
And she'll just jump from one topic -- I'm kidding.。
She'll jump from one topic to the next, where she's like, "Oh, and the sky, the weather was great today, and I can't believe that she wore that thing.。
And oh my gosh, the Mavs won, and I can't believe --" and I'm like, "What is going on?"。
Paul, in this letter, will do something very similar, where he'll go from one topic to the next.。
So we're going to follow him and kind of move slow to make sure we don't miss anything.。
But if you walk away confused, one, it's my fault if the student hasn't learned, teacher hasn't taught.。
And secondly, Paul can be a little confusing.。
In 2 Peter 3, the Apostle Peter even says this, where he's like, "We know Paul has written you some letters, and we are confused."。
Does he know that we're fishermen? Because I don't know what he's saying.。
C.S. Lewis even said, "Out of every gift or all the gifts God gave Paul, clarity was not one of them."。
So we're going to move really slow, and we're going to go through this letter.。
So we're going to pick it up at verse 1. Here we go. Colossians 1, verse 1.。
"Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and Timothy, our brother."。
So Paul and Timothy are sitting in this prison cell.。
And here we go, verse 2. "To God's holy people in Colossae," so to the church, "the faithful brothers and sisters in Christ, grace and peace to you from God our Father.。
We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you."。
So Paul and Timothy are sitting there in the prison cell, got a lot of time on their hands.。
They're praying, and they say, "We always thank God, and here's what we thank Him for when we pray for you.。
Because we've heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and the love you have for all God's people."。
So we've heard, not only you're full of faith, but you also love people.。
"The faith and love that spring from the hope," faith, love, and hope, "stored up for you in heaven,。
and about which you have already heard in the message of the gospel that has come to you.。
In the same way, this gospel that is producing faith and love and hope is bearing fruit in all and growing throughout the whole world."。
So the gospel has been changing, and it's changed you.。
"Just as it has," here's where we're going to get to our first point,。
"Just as it has been among you since the day you heard it and you truly understood God's grace."。
This brings me to my first point. The source of change is grace.。
Here's what Paul just said, and if you guys want to put that back up there, Daniel, you can put it back.。
The means by which people change, according to Paul, in this verse, is by understanding or accepting God's grace.。
This is the thing that changes someone's life.。
Think about it. There's a lot of things that, in your world and in my world, would totally change your life.。
If you woke up tomorrow and they happened, if you won the lottery, you would wake up and things would be different.。
You would have access to different things.。
If an inheritance was given to you, your life would immediately be changed.。
If a loved one or a parent died, your life would immediately be changed.。
Paul says, and the Bible teaches, the most powerful force of change in anyone's life,。
the way Christians become Christians and the way that they grow as Christians, is by accepting God's grace.。
Now, what is God's grace? God's grace is not mercy.。
Mercy is not getting what you deserve.。
You blew it on your job, at your work pace, and you didn't get fired. That would be mercy.。
You blowing it and getting a promotion would be grace.。
Now, God's grace is getting unmerited or undeserved favor, accepting that.。
Now, here's the two parts of grace, and if you miss either of them, you'll miss grace entirely.。
It is accepting the God who has given himself for you, who's given his life for you, that's Jesus,。
and the fact that you did not and do not deserve it.。
It is accepting the God who has given himself for you, that he gave his life, and accepting, I do not deserve it.。
If you deserve grace, it is not grace. It's anything but grace.。
You cannot deserve it. This is at the heart of Paul when he says, you know what changes people?。
The day they realize that God sits in heaven and he doesn't love them because they do good things.。
He doesn't love them because they didn't do bad things.。
The day they begin to change, the day Christians change, is the day they realize God loves them regardless of what they do,。
and then they begin to grow, and then they begin to change.。
That's some of your story in this room, and if that's a foreign concept, and it can be a little philosophical,。
you may think Christianity's all some self-help or like do good and be better.。
The message of the Bible, the Christian message, is not try harder. It's you can't.。
God did not come to give you a second chance, and a second chance, he came to save you.。
That's grace, and the day that you accept, I cannot change myself, Paul says, is the day that everything begins to change.。
So to accept God's grace is to say, I believe and I accept. You gave yourself for me.。
And then here's the second part, and it's much harder.。
And I do not deserve it. I never have, and I never will.。
That's what Christians believe, and if you meet a Christian who thinks, yeah, but I've kind of earned it, and I'm doing my part,。
they're not a Christian. They're not. That's the message of grace.。
Paul says if you add anything, you totally get rid of the gospel, you totally get rid of what Christians believe,。
as we're going to see for the next few weeks in these chapters as he impacts that idea.。
But this is so huge. This means that no one walks into church, walks and stands before God and goes, ha ha.。
I mean, look at me, man. I know a lot of Bible verses.。
You say, First Peter, I know how to get there in about seven seconds.。
I saved myself from marriage. I give away a lot of money. It's me and God doing this thing together.。
That person is not a Christian. The message of Jesus and the message of the New Testament is that no one deserves it.。
Not JP, not me, not you, not Billy Graham, not Mother Teresa.。
That it is only grace, and if you do not accept God's unconditional love,。
despite the fact that you are unworthy of it, if you do not accept both of those, you will not change.。
You will not experience grace. But Paul says, if you do, you begin to step in the direction of change.。
It is the thing that initiates the Christian life, God's grace, God giving himself for you.。
And it is the thing that sustains the Christian life.。
So now Paul brings us to the source of this grace as he continues.。
In verse seven, you learned of it. So speaking about God's grace that's been changing you since you heard it from a path.。
So a path, for us, came, we know, and visited Paul while he was Rome, and while Paul was sitting in Rome in prison,。
and told him, this is what's going on, and this is what's going on in our church.。
Our dear fellow servant, who's a faithful minister of Christ on our behalf.。
And also he told us of your love in the Spirit.。
For this reason, since the day we have heard about you, again, Paul and Timothy, we have not stopped praying for you.。
We continually ask God, here's what we ask, we go and we pray, and this is what we ask God.。
To fill you with the knowledge of his will through all wisdom and understanding that the Spirit gives,。
so that you may live a life worthy of the Lord and please him in every way.。
Bearing fruit in every good work, growing in the knowledge of God, being strengthened with all power,。
according to his glorious might, so that you may have great endurance and patience.。
The second point is the source of grace is God.。
Now here's what I think is interesting about that prayer.。
You may have heard that and you may go, that is the weirdest prayer ever.。
Or you may be going, oh, that's so beautiful.。
I kind of agree, it's kind of a little bizarre.。
And it's inspired and it's awesome, but let me say it this way.。
If you're hearing that, if you're in Colossae and you're reading it, and you read,。
and is this the most encouraging thing that you can hear from the Apostle Paul?。
We ask God to fill you with the knowledge of his will and all wisdom and understanding the Spirit gives,。
so you would live a life worthy of him.。
Bearing fruit in the knowledge of God, being strengthened with all power,。
according to his glorious might, so that you may have great endurance and patience.。
I mean, if I'm reading it in Colossae, I'm going, what does that mean?。
What are you talking about, Paul?。
And here's even a step further.。
If tomorrow, or I'll just use my own car example.。
If in that moment my car broke down, and I was trying to figure out what am I going to do?。
And I have anything, I can't replace this, I can't afford that.。
And two friends sent me two different text messages.。
Let me ask which one would be more encouraging.。
Maybe insert you, if you were in my shoes at that point.。
And the first one said, hey man, I just want you to know, I'm praying that God's going to provide you a car.。
I'd get that and go, oh, that is awesome, how great is that?。
And the second one said, hey man, I heard you lost your car.。
I'm praying that God would fill you with the knowledge of his will, through all wisdom and understanding,。
that the Spirit gives, so that you may live a life worthy of him, bearing fruit in every good work,。
growing in the knowledge of God, being strengthened with all power, according to his glorious might,。
so that you would have great endurance and patience.。
Which one do you think I would appreciate more?。
Right? I mean, why would Paul pray that? That's so bizarre.。
Think about the conditions in Colossae were horrible.。
Conditions you and I can't even begin to imagine.。
This time, 99% of the empire lives in incredible extreme poverty.。
We know that the economy inside of this city was horrible and falling.。
So most people either didn't have a job, or they were losing their job, or in danger of losing their job.。
On top of that, there's earthquakes going on all the time,。
and there's people trying to force them to worship Mother Nature.。
Why, Paul, would you pray for me to have more knowledge of wisdom and the Spirit and understanding?。
Why won't you pray for the earthquakes to stop, Paul? Why won't you pray for me to get a job?。
Why would you pray that?。
I mean, think about it. I'm being serious.。
It's kind of a bizarre prayer.。
But I think Paul points us to something that's really important as it relates to what we need most,。
what they needed most, and even what prayer is for.。
Like, he doesn't--it's as though he says, "I don't want to pray for circumstances."。
I mean, I'm not going to pray that God would change the circumstances.。
I'm going to pray that God would change you.。
Essentially, what he says is, "I'm praying that you will know God more.。
You will have a deep, profound awareness of Him and what He would have you do in every circumstance."。
That Paul--according to Paul, here's how I, the Apostle Paul, see prayer.。
Prayer is not, "Hey, God, will you give me a job?" or "Give me, give me, give me."。
Prayer is me asking God to give Him more of Himself and asking that God would take more of me,。
more of my mind, more of my heart.。
Prayer is not just, "Hey, will you get some stuff for me or change these things?"。
but, "Will you change me?"。
And honestly, it kind of makes sense if you think about it.。
Like, circumstances--if you just ask God, "Will you change this circumstance?"。
There's always going to be, "Will you just--I'm so tired of being single.。
Will you bring me a relationship? I'm so tired of working in this job.。
Will you get me a promotion? I'm so tired of living in this place.。
Will you help me to find another roommate so I can move out?"。
If you just ask God to change circumstances, a couple things happen.。
You always need more prayer for more circumstances.。
Like, there's always, "God, will you help me get this relationship?。
God, will you help me to get out of this relationship?。
God, will you help me to find a new roommate? God, I need another new roommate."。
There's always a need for more circumstances.。
It's the--Paul says, "That's not what you need most. It's what you think you need."。
What you need and what I am asking God from a prison cell on my knees。
is that He would give Him more and more of Him to you.。
The same God who graciously and in grace gave Himself for you on the cross。
would give more and more of Himself to you.。
This is the thing that you need more than anything。
because circumstances--if you just pray for circumstances to change,。
if they improve, sometimes that improvement distracts us from God.。
Ever thought about that?。
Like, "God, will you please just bring me a boyfriend or please bring me a girlfriend?"。
And then you get a girlfriend, and now you're distracted from Him.。
It's the flip side.。
"God, will you please just heal this person?"。
Genuine, sincere prayers that you should definitely pray.。
"God, will you just change--will you take away the disease?。
Will you take away the cancer?"。
And then if He doesn't, the circumstances don't change.。
Then you're in despair.。
And so Paul says, "Look, I'm going beyond circumstances.。
I'm praying that despite whatever happens, whatever you face,。
you will know and have a deep awareness of God.。
That is the thing you need most, and you may not even realize it.。
It is the thing we all share in common, and in that moment,。
I would much rather have a car."。
But Paul would say, "That's not what you need most.。
What you need most is more of Him and Him getting more of you.。
That is what prayer is for, and that is what you need more than anything else."。
He continues and gives us really our response to this incredible grace,。
this incredible God who offers us the free gift of eternal life,。
the free gift of His grace in every situation and in every circumstance.。
Here's what he says.。
This is our response to God's grace.。
"And giving thanks," verse 12, "and giving joyful thanks to the Father。
who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of His holy people。
and the kingdom of light.。
For He has rescued us from the dominion of darkness.。
He brought us into the kingdom of the Son He loves,。
in whom we have redemption and the forgiveness of sins."。
It's beautiful.。
He says, "Look, here's your response.。
Be thankful, joyful and thankful."。
Not, "Hey, try harder, do more, join 18 community groups."。
Be thankful.。
And if you go, "Oh, man, I'm kind of thankful."。
He then goes into these huge statements about,。
"Thankful for all God has done."。
"The Father who has qualified you.。
You did not qualify yourself," he says.。
"The Father," past tense, "qualified you."。
This is what you're to be thankful about.。
He qualified you.。
God rescued you.。
God redeemed you.。
God forgave you.。
Everything, ironically, in this passage is huge.。
Paul's like, "Your God is big.。
Your sin is big."。
It's colossal, to use the colosse term.。
Everything about it is huge.。
He says, "Your rescue is big.。
Your new identity is big."。
The idea of even dominion of darkness,。
so we're gonna walk through a couple of these changes。
that God has done, where it says, "He's rescued you.。
He qualified you, not because of anything you've done.。
He rescued you from the dominion of darkness."。
When I read that, I'm like, "Dominion of darkness?。
I was under the power of darkness?。
Really, Paul?。
Are you sure?。
I live in America.。
Are you talking about ISIS right now?"。
I feel like that's a little bit more dominion of darkness.。
I don't know that I was in the dominion of darkness.。
Here's what I think he's saying.。
The dominion of darkness,。
Satan poses as an angel of light.。
It's not looking like you think it would look.。
He says, "God has rescued you."。
The dominion of darkness is worshiping anyone or anything。
other than the one true God.。
He's rescued you from that,。
because that, if you worship anyone or anything,。
will always lead to darkness.。
In our country, the dominion of darkness,。
really, I would say, is the God of self,。
the American dream.。
Pursue what makes you happy.。
Do what you think you should do.。
Do what's right for you.。
No one can say what's really right for everyone.。
Do whatever you think you should do.。
Here's where I just want to add,。
this is what leads to the dominion of darkness here.。
Can we agree on something for a second?。
Can we all agree that it's not working?。
The more that you and I do whatever we want to do,。
whatever feels good,。
the more that I just do whatever I think I should do,。
the more people get hurt,。
the more debt gets racked up,。
the more casual sex takes place and scars are made,。
the more damage is done in our world.。
And it leads to darkness.。
The more hollow we feel,。
and Paul says, "I know why.。
"Because you're still worshiping someone。
"other than the one true God."。
And it always leads to darkness.。
But he's rescued those of us who are in Christ from that,。
and he's brought us into the kingdom of light.。
And that word brought, I love it,。
because it's the same word for deported.。
He brought you from one kingdom into another kingdom.。
Which must be like the first time in human history,。
or in history, that someone was deported。
out of a bad country into a good country.。
We don't just deport tons of people back to America。
from third world countries.。
It just doesn't happen.。
You deport, and usually you're deported。
from a place that you want to be.。
And Paul says, "No, God stepped into that dominion of darkness。
"and he pulled you out of it, and he rescued you,。
"and he did it.。
"You didn't do anything.。
"As good as you think you are, you did nothing."。
And he says, "You don't deserve it, and neither do I."。
And our response is joyfully giving thanks,。
which I think is ironically really hard for a lot of us.。
Like the more I follow Christ, the longer I'm a Christian,。
the more I begin to think, "I'm a pretty good person.。
"I think God should probably want me on my team."。
The more, and maybe many of you in the room right now,。
like your response, even to this message,。
is not like, "Oh my gosh, I'm so thankful, Lord.。
"Grace, I know I've been a Christian。
"since I was a little kid, but this is so refreshing.。
"I'm overwhelmed how good you are."。
You're just going, "Really?。
"Can we get something other than grace in here?。
"I want to learn something.。
"Can we try something in the Old Testament。
"for once in a while?"。
Because you have grown cold.。
And Paul says the response should be。
for all believers the same, joyful gratitude。
that you did not deserve it, and I don't deserve it.。
But despite, even there's a word for people。
that are not grateful when they're given something,。
entitled, entitled.。
And Paul says, "Look, let the overwhelming work。
"that God has done for you not allow you。
"to become entitled, but let it move you。
"to be thankful to him."。
That's your role.。
He says, "God did this, God did this."。
Your role, be thankful, be thankful.。
There was a man named Martin Luther。
who started the Reformation, and honestly,。
part of the reason we're in this room right now,。
and started Protestantism, and talks about this idea,。
really the opposite of entitlement.。
He talks about how we're so unworthy,。
and yet we're so welcomed, despite all of those things.。
It's hard for us to even see how unworthy we are.。
And he says what I'm about to read on his deathbed,。
and he doesn't even say it.。
By the time the moment had come,。
he'd lost the ability to speak.。
He couldn't speak.。
He was literally, very shortly, gonna die,。
and he asked for some pen and paper.。
And he reaches out his hand, and on his right,。
he writes the last words we have from Martin Luther.。
He says, "We are beggars, this is true."。
And then he died.。
That we are beggars who have been welcomed。
to the table of God.。
We don't bring anything to the table,。
we bring nothing.。
And yet God has lavishly loved us,。
despite the fact that all of our brokenness,。
despite the fact that we still think。
we're pretty good people,。
despite the fact that we're entitled.。
He loves you, and he died for you.。
And he offers that free gift of grace。
to anyone who will accept it.。
So tonight, our hope and prayer for this message,。
and really this book,。
is that some of you will accept that grace。
for the first time.。
That is the single decision that you will make。
that will totally change the trajectory of your life.。
The free gift, Paul says,。
that's when people begin to change.。
Not when they say, "I'm gonna really try harder,。
"I'm trying to get back in church."。
But when they say, "I surrender, I can't.。
"I'm accepting the free gift.。
"I'm not a good person.。
"I think I'm a good person, but I'm not a good person.。
"I need a savior.。
"A God who gave himself for me, who was undeserving.。
"And I'm accepting that free gift."。
Tonight is the night for some of you,。
and we wanna talk to you afterwards.。
Because if you have not stepped into that relationship,。
there, I don't know how else to say this.。
Buckle up when you drive.。
I'm being serious.。
There is a,。
you cannot be too safe.。
God's grace will always be there tomorrow.。
He does not promise you will be there tomorrow.。
And today, on March 17th, or whatever it is, 2015,。
you have been told about the free gift.。
You will no longer stand before God, who loves you,。
who spread his arms and died for you,。
and say, "I never heard about the free gift."。
And tonight, he says, "Will you come and take it?。
"Will you come accept it?。
"You can't do anything to earn it.。
"You could never afford it.。
"I've given it out for free for everyone."。
It's the thing that makes Christianity different。
from every other world religion there is.。
It's not about what you do.。
It's about what God has done.。
And tonight is your night to accept it.。
And so buckle up,。
if you don't wanna come down and talk about it and receive it.。
And I'm not saying that to be hurtful or to be mean.。
I'm being serious.。
I've said that to close friends of mine。
who have waited and waited and waited,。
and you never know how many more days you have.。
But God has given you today, and he's crazy about you.。
The second thing, I think some of us。
who are believers in the room, we just need to apply it.。
We need to continue to remember。
whether you're walking through a season。
just where you're covered in shame。
from a past abortion, a current addiction,。
maybe a string of just past sexual relationships。
that you just carry guilt from.。
And for you, Paul says, be free.。
Free enough where you can even walk in the light。
and talk about it.。
God's freed you from those things.。
You don't have to carry the guilt.。
There may be pain that life brings about,。
and there's ways that God has given us。
to find healing and hope.。
But for you, the message is just to apply that grace,。
the grace of God who loves you with all your faults.。
And perfectly accepts you right where you are.。
And will perfectly accept anyone。
who will accept his free gift, his grace,。
his giving of himself.。
The story honestly ends with that car,。
in a way that was awesome.。
And I got a phone call from someone later that day.。
So my car's broken down, I don't know what I'm gonna do.。
And they call and they say,。
"Someone told me your car's broke down.。
"I have a car you can have."。
I'm like, "What, is this a joke right now?。
"This is not a funny joke if it is a joke."。
And he says, "No, I have a car."。
I'm like, "What do you mean you have a car?"。
"Yeah, I have a car, you can have it.。
"Just come get it.。
"Come take it."。
I'm like, "Well, let me see it."。
I show up, I'm like, "This is awesome.。
"Are you serious right now?。
"Can I pay you?"。
And in my mind, I'm going, "I can't afford to pay him.。
"I've got a $500 clunker back here.。
"What am I gonna pay him with?"。
"I can't afford that."。
He's like, "No, you can't pay me."。
And then he even said,。
"The only thing I ask is just don't tell people。
"specifically who gave it to you."。
And I'm like, "What, you don't even want the credit?"。
If I give away a car, I'm like,。
"Giving away a car.。
"Just want everyone to see.。
"David's car going over here.。
"Giving away a license plate, David's gift.。
"Giving away a car.。
"Be blessed."。
Right?。
And they're like, "No, I just don't want anyone。
"to know.。
"Just take the free gift."。
And that's God's message to you and to me.。
He says, "Look, I've already purchased it.。
"I've already paid for it.。
"Everything that you've ever done,。
"every mistake that you've ever made。
"has been paid for by my son dying on a cross for you."。
And some of you need to know this。
because you may be abusing grace.。
You may be avoiding grace.。
What you need to hear is that grace is not a principle.。
Grace is a person.。
His name is Jesus.。
Jesus is the personification of grace.。
John 1 tells us, "Jesus came and he was full.。
"He was the fullness of grace.。
"And from his grace, we have received grace upon grace."。
John 1 16 says.。
Jesus, grace is not some principle.。
You may have met some concept, some idea.。
Grace is a person.。
You do not even have to go looking for grace.。
If you're in the room, grace is looking for you.。
That's why you're here.。
Will you accept it if you haven't?。
And then for the rest of us,。
what a gift to be able to just apply it,。
continue to walk into God,。
despite all of our messed up,。
all the things in my heart that are messed up,。
all the moments on the stage where I want you to like me,。
or I'm directed and governed by just like me,。
or any million moments between now and the time I get home,。
or when I get home,。
all the different things that run through my veins。
and course through my heart that are just broken.。
And God says, "You're more worthy than you understand,。
"more loved than you'll ever realize."。
That's my grace.。
My son paid for it.。
We come and meet the person who is grace.。
Father, we love you.。
We love you.。
Many of us do.。
Many of us would if we knew you.。
And pray for anyone right now。
that you have not yet established relationship with.。
Would your hand be heavy on their heart?。
Not so they would feel bad,。
but so they would know you.。
Thank you for your grace.。
One thank you just even seems silly。
for you giving me your son.。
But thank you.。
We love you.。
Would you continue to increase that joyful gratitude。
in the hearts of my friends who know you,。
and would you right now capture the hearts of those who don't.。
In Jesus's name, we're saved and we pray.。
Amen.。
