(upbeat music)。
- All right, what's up everybody in the room,。
everybody joining us online.。
We are continuing this series, The Book of Ephesians,。
and I wanna welcome PortsLive Locations Midland,。
PortsLive, Boise, Scottsdale, Greater Lafayette, North Houston,。
Tulsa, all of the different locations joining us。
from around the country.。
Let me start by telling you guys about yesterday in my life.。
It was a day that I did not see coming once upon a time,。
specifically when I was younger, dating my wife,。
early in marriage, sitting in rooms like this,。
listening to people long ago,。
and it was the day when my wife and I went to go。
purchase a minivan.。
And I'm gonna be honest, I didn't see this coming.。
People would sit there and talk about their family。
and the minivan and we loaded them all up。
and I would sit there when I'm dating my wife。
or early in marriage and they would share that。
and I'd always be like, that's not us, babe,。
we are not minivan people, we are Tahoe,。
we are Tahoe people.。
And then, yeah.。
(audience laughing)。
And then the day came and after months and months。
of my wife wanting a minivan more than anything else。
in the world and you know, just things change,。
people change, it's very practical,。
it's a very practical car, we went to go buy a minivan.。
Now long story short, we went there and we got there。
and we checked it out and it didn't work out。
and so we are still on the hunt, so to speak.。
But even the fact that we're in the hunt,。
just something I did not see being a part of my story。
sitting here.。
But while I was at the dealership,。
they needed my license to do some different paperwork。
and so we gave it to them and we looked at the car。
and it just didn't make sense and we decided,。
hey, we're not gonna buy this one and we took off.。
I get 30 minutes away from the dealership,。
headed back to our house and I get a phone call。
and he says, hey, your driver's license is still here.。
And so this, you know, long story short,。
just became like, oh, this is such a mess,。
we just wasted three hours, now I gotta go back。
and get my driver's license。
and this little piece of identification.。
Now I say all that to really lead up。
to the driver's license.。
When you think about a driver's license,。
it is something that doesn't determine or define。
who you are but it describes who you are。
and it describes, in particular, a few things about you.。
It determines who you are, it tells you your name.。
Everybody who's got a driver's license in the room。
has their name on it.。
It tells you where you live, so it tells you who,。
it tells you where, it tells you what year you were born.。
So who, where, what, tells you what height you are。
and when you were born, so who, what, where.。
And tonight, we're gonna look at a passage in scripture。
where the Apostle Paul is going to give us, so to speak,。
another document that defines, or sorry,。
describes who you are, where you will spend eternity.。
When you will change, what you have in Christ,。
what you need most in this life.。
And he's gonna say, 'cause we're in the series,。
Ephesians, Introducing the New You,。
we're gonna be at Ephesians chapter one,。
and he's gonna lay out the who, what, why, where, and when。
of your new identity in Christ.。
And what I wanna answer as we walk through。
who you are in Christ, what you need most,。
and when you will change, so the who, what, and when,。
is the question of where you will spend eternity。
and why you will spend it there.。
Where you will spend eternity,。
either with God in heaven forever。
or in hell apart from him, and why that will be the case.。
As we look at those three different questions,。
and I can't think of a more important message。
that you can answer, 'cause here's the deal,。
you come every week, or a lot of you guys come every week,。
and people listen online, and we hope that you have,。
man, an amazing career, hope you have an amazing marriage,。
hope that you raise kids that love you and that you love,。
and God just blesses you in every way,。
but not if you don't know Jesus,。
or not at the expense of you not knowing Jesus。
and spending eternity apart from him in hell.。
In other words, you can listen to our dating messages,。
you can listen to how to fight anxiety,。
but if you don't know Jesus,。
if you're not gonna spend eternity with God,。
that is a waste, and I wanna start tonight,。
and as we journey through this passage,。
give as much clarity to how you can know。
where you will spend eternity。
and why you will spend it there.。
And so we're gonna be at Ephesians chapter one,。
we're looking at who you are in Christ.。
This follower, believer of Jesus, this is who you are.。
Paul's laying out to the church in Ephesus,。
and as a reminder, if you missed last week,。
the letter Ephesians was written to the church in Ephesus,。
young church that Paul loved this city,。
and Ephesus is still a town that exists today,。
you can get on a plane and you can go fly and go see it。
today and go see the beautiful port city that is Ephesus.。
And this, 2,000 years ago, was a place。
that didn't look like it had boats coming through it,。
it didn't look like a port would today,。
but a place that the apostle Paul just loved,。
and so he writes and he launches in and says,。
"This is who you are, the new reality。
"of who you are in Christ.。
"This is what I'm praying for you,。
"'cause it's what you need more than anything else,。
"and this is when you will change。
"and what you have access to in Christ."。
So I'm gonna start in verse three of chapter one,。
it'll be up on the screens.。
If you don't have a Bible, it'll be up there.。
Additionally, if you don't have a Bible,。
we have a Bible for you, we'd love to give you as a gift。
in the Welcome Center right out here.。
So verse three, answering who you are in Christ,。
the first point, and in verses three through 14,。
the apostle Paul gives the longest single run-on sentence。
in the entire Bible.。
I mean, it's literally a single sentence in the Greek.。
It would get butchered in your high school English class。
back in the day, but it's just him overwhelmed.。
It's a little bit like, I don't know,。
like my sister, when she would tell stories,。
she would just go and go and go,。
and she was like, "And today was great,。
"and I was at school."。
And then all of a sudden, Bob came out,。
and Bob was like, "Oh, this is so great."。
And Bob didn't bring his lunch,。
so I was like, "Bob, you can have some of my lunch."。
And all of a sudden, out of nowhere,。
comes Steve, and Steve was like,。
"And you're like, whoa, whoa, whoa."。
And Paul is just caught up in the emotion and passion。
of what God has done in Christ.。
And so he just goes in, starting in verse three.。
I'm gonna try to get through it in a single breath.。
13 verses, here we go.。
All praise to God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,。
who has blessed you with every spiritual blessing。
in the heavenly realms,。
because we are united with Christ.。
Even before he made the world,。
God loved us and chose us in Christ。
to be holy without fault in his eyes.。
God decided in advance to adopt us into his own family,。
bringing us to himself through Jesus Christ.。
This is what he wanted to do,。
and he gave him great pleasure.。
So we praise God for the glorious grace。
he has poured onto us, who belong to his dear son.。
He is so, oh man, I didn't make it.。
He's so rich in, (audience laughing)。
I feel like I'm rapping or something.。
He's so rich in kindness, his grace,。
that has been purchased, that has purchased our freedom。
with his blood of his son, and he forgave our sins.。
He has showered his kindness on us,。
along with all wisdom and understanding.。
God has now revealed his mysterious plan regarding Christ,。
a plan to fulfill his own good pleasure.。
And this is the plan, at the right time,。
he will bring everything together。
under the authority of Christ,。
everything in heaven and on earth.。
Furthermore, because we are united with Christ,。
we have received an inheritance from God,。
for he chose us in advance,。
and he makes everything work according to his plan.。
God's purpose was that we Jews,。
who were the first to trust in Christ,。
would bring praise and glory to God.。
And now you Gentiles, who have also heard the truth,。
that God saves you, and when you believed in Christ,。
he identified you as his own,。
by giving you the Holy Spirit, whom he promised long ago.。
The Spirit is God's guarantee。
that he will give us an inheritance he promised,。
that he has purchased us to be his own people.。
He did this so we would praise and glorify him.。
The first question I wanna answer。
is the Apostle Paul goes through,。
he says, this is who you are.。
When you trusted in Jesus, when you said,。
I'm no longer believing that my good works,。
or myself, will earn eternal life,。
and get me good standing, or get me right with God.。
When you put your faith in Christ。
as the payment for your sin on the cross,。
his death and his resurrection as proof of that payment,。
a few things happened,。
and you receive the fact that you were chosen by God.。
So who are you?。
You are chosen by God.。
And he says, before the foundation of the world,。
God chose you.。
Your father in heaven, and he walks through。
with the father did, the son did, and the spirit did.。
He said, your father in heaven。
chose you before creation ever happened.。
That there has never been a moment you have existed。
where if you are in Christ,。
you were not chosen and loved by God.。
From the very first breath you ever took。
to even before that, he says,。
before anything in creation, God chose you.。
Says that he's blessed us in the heavenly realms,。
as in spiritual, eternal blessings,。
that we won't even fully experience or realize。
until we're in heaven.。
And that he destined us for adoption, that he chose.。
The word adoption, as I've said before,。
and a couple of weeks ago we talked about this,。
wasn't a word that was synonymous。
with what we think of adoption.。
Adoption, in other words, when we think adoption,。
we think, oh, like a child, like a baby.。
In the Roman world, that wasn't what people thought of。
when they thought of adoption.。
They thought of adopting an adult, and here's what I mean.。
In other words, that's pretty bizarre.。
If somebody said in your life,。
hey, we're gonna adopt someone,。
and then the person that they adopted showed up。
and he was a 40-year-old man, you'd go,。
wait a second, what?。
But that's exactly what would happen over and over.。
The most common form of adoption。
was a means by which you would pass on your inheritance。
to someone you selected.。
In other words, the vast majority,。
almost all of the Roman emperors,。
the king of the land, was adopted,。
chosen by the emperor of the time.。
Very few, only three, had any blood relationship。
with the person that came before them.。
So they thought adoption was something。
where you would look and you would select,。
and in that day and age, they would look and they'd select,。
hey, based on certain qualities,。
hey, you fit, and you fit,。
and no, definitely not passing it over to you,。
and they would choose who would be a good fit.。
Paul says, God looked and he knew。
everything you would ever do,。
every sin you'd ever commit,。
everything wrong inside of your heart and your life,。
and despite all of that, he said, I choose you.。
He sees your worst moment,。
and before you ever live that out,。
he sees every sin you're gonna commit in your life,。
sins you don't even know you're gonna do,。
and 2037, on a Thursday, he saw, he sees,。
and he chose you, not because of you, in spite of you,。
just because of his grace, we're gonna see in a second.。
He sees your worst and says, I choose you.。
It's not dissimilar to this, or similar to this.。
In the past decade of doing young adult ministry,。
I've gotten to do a lot of weddings,。
and something really interesting happens in that moment.。
It's a day where the bride will go through。
just hours and hours of renovation process。
in order to get ready for this moment.。
I mean, the guys are out playing golf that morning,。
and then they're like, do I need to shave,。
and then they're getting their suit on,。
and the girls, from Tuesday at four 'til Saturday at four,。
are just going to work.。
They're busting out a tackle box。
full of makeup and painting things,。
tying hair, putting hair that didn't even exist。
before attaching it, eyelashes.。
I mean, they're just going full sin, spray tan,。
in the middle of December,。
looking like they've been on a beach for the last 18 months,。
and they just get so ready, and it's the moment。
where they look better than they've ever looked。
or will ever look in the rest of their life,。
and it's kind of their day.。
And the guy is looking at her in her best moment。
and saying, hey, I choose you.。
See, in the best moment here,。
and he's seeing her and chooses her.。
In other words, I've done weddings,。
and I've never been standing next to the groom,。
and doors open, and see the groom go,。
ah, man, I don't know.。
Ah. (audience laughing)。
I feel like whatever renovation happened。
is maybe less likely to choose.。
He's going, man, this is the most beautiful。
I've ever seen her.。
And he's choosing her at her best,。
and the scriptures say that God looked at you and I,。
and he chose us at our worst.。
And he makes the decision, man, I chose you,。
and before the foundation of the world,。
before all of that, in spite of you, I chose you.。
And then he says, the son, and the son purchased us,。
so you are chosen in Christ.。
You have been purchased.。
It's the same word for redeemed.。
What's redeemed?。
Just like if you go redeem a coupon or something,。
you're exchanging it and getting something in return.。
And the message of Christianity is Jesus said,。
I will give my life in return for yours.。
I will take your place and die the death you deserve。
so you can have the standing and relationship with God。
that only I deserve.。
Why did he do this?。
Is it because he knew you're a great person。
or you're not as bad as the other people?。
No.。
Completely because of his riches in grace, the verse says.。
That he is rich in grace.。
What's that mean?。
The word grace is the word for undeserved favor.。
That has nothing to do with anything。
that is deserved or merited.。
And God is a God who's rich in grace.。
Grace, I've tried to teach my kids,。
it's not just you don't get punished.。
You were speeding and you should have got a ticket.。
I'm gonna let you go.。
That's mercy.。
Grace is you were speeding and you should have got a ticket。
and I'm gonna give you a new car.。
That's what grace is.。
In fact, I was trying to explain this。
to my six-year-old at the time he was four.。
And I was like, man, this is gonna be。
just a brilliant parenting move.。
And so he had acted up, hit his sister or something,。
you get in a spanking, take him to the back room,。
sit in there and I'm like, hey, do you know what you did?。
And of course, after like five minutes of negotiating。
of no, okay, you hit your sister and you deserve a spanking.。
But you know what you're gonna get?。
A piece of candy.。
And I'm gonna take the spanking.。
And I like hit myself.。
(congregation laughing)。
Which feels a lot less weird when you're not telling it。
to a room of thousand people.。
And ever since that moment, every time he gets in trouble,。
I'm like, you're getting a spanking.。
He's like, I want grace, I want grace, please.。
Spank mommy, spank mommy.。
I'm like, oh man, this message was not delivered.。
But that's in essence in a far greater reality, real way,。
he took what we deserved and he gave us。
what we could never ever get on our own.。
And he purchased us and made us adopted into his family.。
And then it says the spirit of God has now sealed you。
or confirmed and guaranteed that God has made a promise。
and that good work he will bring to completion.。
You didn't get yourself in based on how good you were,。
which means you can't get yourself out。
based on how bad you are.。
The spirit has sealed it.。
It's done, sign sealed, it will be delivered。
to God for all of eternity.。
And he uses the language of the spirit.。
He's now sent and begins to come into our life。
and begin to transform us and convict us.。
And it says, it's like the deposit.。
What's a deposit?。
Well, when we were looking to buy that car,。
if I'm gonna buy that car, I put down a down payment。
or a deposit, which says, hey, here's some of it.。
And it's a promise for more to come.。
And the Bible says, man, that spirit inside of you。
is a promise from God sealing you,。
that there is more to come, eternal life to come,。
transformation to come, the new you is beginning。
and it is a guaranteed sure thing.。
And now the spirit is beginning to bring about。
and transform.。
Now, how do you know if you have the spirit?。
If you can't think of a time where the spirit of God。
and the word of God began to direct your life。
and call you to do something that on your own,。
you wouldn't wanna do, you wouldn't wanna confess that,。
you wouldn't wanna share that,。
you wouldn't wanna be generous like that,。
you wouldn't wanna share your faith at work like that,。
you wouldn't wanna go back and ask for forgiveness。
like that, you wouldn't wanna say, man,。
I think I've messed up in this relationship。
and I have dishonored you and God.。
If you can't think of any moment in your life。
where you decided to do something,。
not because it felt right or you wanted to,。
but because you knew and felt like the spirit。
was convicting you or moving you to,。
then you may not have the spirit of God.。
'Cause the Bible says all who are led by the spirit of God。
are children of God, Romans chapter eight,。
that he begins to come and he doesn't bring perfection。
overnight and none of us are and all of us。
are in need of a savior, but he begins to just bring about。
in our life and things that used to just be,。
man, this is normal and I do whatever I want,。
all of a sudden, it's like he just begins to move in。
and bring transformation.。
Now, the most challenging part of that whole passage。
is like, wait, he just said you chose, God chose me,。
wait, I thought I chose God whenever I trusted in him.。
Did he choose me or did I choose him?。
Yes.。
In other words, this is a tension the Bible presents。
of God wants every person on the planet to know him。
and yet he knows in advance every person。
that will accept him.。
And in a way that none of us will be able。
to fully understand, there is free will。
and yet God is sovereign and he has chosen。
and has known you if you are in Christ。
from the foundation of the world.。
Now, if you're going, wait, but I'm not a believer,。
what about my family, how do I know if he's chosen them?。
You don't, but you know that he has chosen people。
everywhere, which moves us to share the gospel with people。
'cause there are people out there who are going。
to make that decision, they're going to accept Jesus.。
Not a motivation against it, it's a motivation for it.。
And if you're in the room and maybe you're like,。
man, I don't even know where I stand on all this,。
could I suggest that maybe even the fact。
that you're here right now is a reflection。
of the fact that God is after you,。
not to rip you off, but because he's a God who loves you,。
gave his life for you, wants you to experience。
good things inside of life.。
And you're in a church on a Tuesday night at eight o'clock,。
you could be at some happy hour.。
And could it be that God is pursuing you?。
'Cause he wants you to be among those who are chosen.。
So Paul launches in, you can just see the passion,。
I just see Paul just going off 'cause he's so excited。
about what God has done, sealing and giving security。
for the rest of their life, and then he launches。
in verse 15 into a prayer, and in that prayer,。
he asks for something really interesting for them.。
He says, I'm praying for you guys, and here's what he says.。
Ever since I heard of your strong faith in the Lord Jesus。
and your love for God's people everywhere,。
I've not stopped thanking God for you.。
I pray for you constantly, asking God,。
the glorious Father of our Lord Jesus,。
and here's what I'm asking him,。
to give you spiritual wisdom and insight。
so that you might grow in your knowledge of God.。
I pray that your hearts will be flooded with light。
so that you can understand the confident hope。
he's given us to those who he has called,。
his holy people who are his rich and glorious inheritance.。
So Paul launches in, and the first thing that he prays。
is say, I'm praying to God, praying about you guys。
constantly, woken in the morning, thinking about you,。
here's what I prayed.。
Going to bed at night, thinking about you guys,。
here's what I prayed.。
And what he prayed specifically is,。
God, will you give them spiritual wisdom and insight。
so that they might grow in their knowledge of God?。
Now, when you read the Bible, you're like,。
man, that's so poetic and it's so beautiful,。
but it's kind of a funny thing to pray.。
In other words, with everything that got going on in life,。
with all the different ways that life was difficult。
and challenges they were facing,。
why would you choose that, Paul?。
When you think about your life,。
instead of a room like this, you don't pick any one of us,。
and you think about all the different challenges。
that are faced, the job that you didn't get。
or you did get or the boss you don't like。
or the dating relationship that you're not sure。
is gonna make it or even should or is even on the radar,。
and all the different things that are difficult。
in your life, and let's say one of the friends。
around you, tomorrow morning, they send you a text。
and they just said, hey, just want you to know。
I'm praying for you, and I'm praying。
that God would give you spiritual wisdom。
and insight into the knowledge of God.。
You would go, what?。
What does that even mean?。
You'd probably hit the like button,。
and you know, not sure I understand.。
They'd say, I'm not either, just read it this morning。
in Ephesians, what is he saying?。
Well, it's pretty profound, basically he's saying,。
I'm praying that God would give you。
a greater understanding and knowledge of him.。
I'm praying that you would know God more.。
The second question I wanna answer。
is something that Paul is asking God for。
'cause he knows that above everything else I could pray,。
the thing that you need, Ephesians,。
and you need, David, and you need, fill in the blank,。
more than anything else in life, is to know God more,。
to know who he is, who you are in light of that,。
what he has promised you in Christ, what you have,。
and he's saying, hey, what do you need most?。
The thing that you and every person out here,。
and you're not gonna think of it this way。
and have probably never even articulated it this way,。
but he's saying, you know what?。
Of all the things I could ask God for,。
the promotion, car, house, prosperity。
and financial blessing in your life,。
marriage, kids, I'm praying that you would know God more。
and that you would have a deeper understanding。
of who he is, his love for you,。
his control in the world around you,。
and that you would have a death grip。
on the hope you have in heaven.。
The hope we have in Christ,。
and he says the confident hope,。
because he's telling them, no matter what you face in life,。
because you're in Christ, you have a confident hope,。
you know who wins.。
I'm praying that God would allow you to know him more。
and to know the depths of the hope that you have,。
'cause no matter what you face in life,。
no matter if you die in the next four months,。
four minutes, or 40 years,。
you can rest with a confidence you know who wins。
and how this thing ends,。
and you know where you're gonna spend eternity,。
forever and ever and ever,。
and I'm praying that that would become a reality。
in your life, 'cause the more that becomes a reality。
of man, I just know, no matter what I face,。
I know how this ends, I know my God wins,。
it'll change your moments.。
Why do I say that?。
From time to time, I'll record a sports game。
when I'm at like, you know, tonight,。
or I'm out doing something or speaking somewhere,。
and I can't watch in a person, so I do what we all do,。
just record it so that I can go watch it later,。
and I will do my best to go, if it's the Mavs,。
or it's whoever, if I'm around people,。
hey, don't tell me the score, don't tell me the score,。
just wanna go watch the game,。
and I'll show up and just volunteer, hey, good to see you,。
hey, if you've seen the Mavs, Aggies, whatever,。
don't tell me the score, okay?。
Inevitably, though, somebody ends up being like,。
oh my gosh, did you see Luka?。
He just went off in that quarter,。
I cannot believe we're advancing,。
and you're like, ah, so I go watch the game,。
and now I'm watching it in an entirely different way。
'cause I know what happens, and so whatever,。
you know, there's a fumble on the opposite side of the game,。
the team that I want not to win,。
but I know is gonna lose anyways,。
I'm like, it's all right, I know who wins, or girls.。
I've lost everybody with the sports thing,。
imagine The Bachelor, and you know who he picks at the end,。
or the girl, or whichever one,。
and you're like, oh no, they had a fight,。
but I know that he ends up with her,。
so it's all gonna be fine, I mean, it's the exact same thing,。
and Paul is saying, hey, when you know what is coming,。
what's ahead, who wins, it allows you,。
when things don't go how you wish that they would,。
to go, I know how this ends, and I have hope,。
and Paul is saying, man, I am praying。
he would deepen his knowledge,。
your understanding of who he is,。
and the hope that you have in Christ.。
And that you would know how loved you are.。
Verse 18, he says, he calls the people of God,。
God's holy people, his rich and glorious inheritance.。
Now he just said, God's inheritance is you.。
That's a funny thing.。
Why do I say that?。
Inheritance is something, it's a reward,。
it's something you get, it's something that,。
eventually, you're going to receive.。
And God, who owns and controls everything,。
created everything, everything has been made by and for,。
looked at you, and despite having all of that,。
says, that is my great inheritance.。
I mean, it's like, what do you give Elon Musk,。
or Bill Gates, who own so much,。
and could buy anything for themselves,。
what do you give them at Christmas?。
I mean, truly, it's like, man, you could buy,。
here's some socks, and if you wear them,。
the socks are gonna go through the roof,。
and we'll be quadrillionaires, 'cause they have everything.。
And yet, despite the fact, God,。
there's not a single inch on the planet,。
or in the universe, that is not his.。
Bible just said, man, you are his chosen possession,。
his inheritance.。
That there's never been a moment。
you have not been loved, wanted, chosen by God.。
But the deepest thing is, Paul is saying,。
oh man, I'm praying for you to know that,。
and for you to know him,。
for you to have a deeper understanding of him,。
above anything else he could give you,。
I'm asking him to give you that.。
When 10 years ago this month,。
or a couple months ago, 10 years ago,。
my wife and I got engaged, and whenever you get engaged,。
you get to go through what's called the wedding registry,。
which I've just shared before,。
it's like the greatest thing ever,。
because it's the only time in your life。
you get to go around and pick out a bunch of gifts,。
and then in a way that society accepts,。
send out paperwork to people going,。
hey, we know you're gonna get us gifts,。
if you do, we'd like it to be one of these, okay?。
And so you just go around and you get to register,。
and pick out at Bed, Bath, and Beyond,。
or wherever, Crate and Barrel,。
all the different things you want people to buy you.。
And that's awesome.。
What is a far greater gift in marriage。
than the toaster and the spatula is the spouse?。
And it would be insane for if you were catching up。
with a friend who'd recently gotten married,。
and you were like, man, how is it?。
And they were like, it's unbelievable.。
I gotta show you this toaster.。
We got four lanes here for four pieces of bread,。
and let me show you the spatula over here.。
And you're like, no, but how's marriage?。
I just told you.。
You wanna see the bread?。
You'd be like, well, but how's your wife?。
I actually haven't seen her in a while.。
Let's go back to the spatula.。
You'd be like, you have missed the forest for the trees.。
You are obsessed with the things and the gifts。
that came with it, not the person, the relationship.。
That's essentially what Paul's saying.。
And candidly, the older I get,。
the more that I just walk with Jesus,。
and I see men in my life, and I see women in my life。
who just continue to walk with Jesus,。
this shift begins to happen,。
where it's not that God's against stuff,。
or having a car, or having nice things,。
or having a house, or whatever it is,。
but more than he wants you to know any of that,。
or have any of that, he wants you to know him.。
And more and more, I just see people who,。
man, they may even drive the car,。
they may even have the house, but it's like, man,。
all that's fine,。
but not if it gets in the way of me knowing Jesus.。
I mean, there's plenty of people on the planet。
that have everything that you would want in life,。
but they don't know Jesus, and they're miserable,。
and sadly, they're going to hell if that stays the case.。
And Paul is saying, more than anything else,。
what will endure longer than anything。
that God could bring into your life。
is gonna be a relationship with him,。
and I'm asking that he would give you more of that.。
And then he finally answers the question of when we change,。
and it's inside of the prayer,。
and he brings something else up, and here's what he says.。
"I also pray that you will understand。
"the incredible greatness of God's power。
"for us who believe him,。
"the same power that God has towards us and works in us,。
"the same power that raised Christ from the dead。
"and seated him in the place of honor。
"at God's right hand in the heavenly realms.。
"And now he's far above any ruler or authority。
"or power or leader or anything else,。
"not only in this world, but in the one to come.。
"God put all things under his authority.。
"He made him head over all things。
"for the sake of the church, and the church is his body.。
"It is made full and complete by Christ。
"who fills all things everywhere with himself."。
That Paul just said, hey, I'm praying。
that you have an understanding。
of the access you have to the power of God in your life.。
The answer to the question of when you will change。
is when the power of God becomes something。
that you begin to surrender to and let work in your life.。
'Cause here's what he just said.。
The same power that raised Christ's dead,。
bleeding, bled out body, and brought life back into it。
is now at work in those of us who believe.。
And he brings up there is resurrection power。
that you and I have access to in Jesus.。
And this is how people change.。
This is how Christians change.。
It's not that they come in and they hear a bunch of rules。
and they're told you need to do something different。
or you need to act a certain different way。
and they just walk out of here。
and bootstrap and try harder.。
No, the power of God comes into the life。
and begins to transform them。
and do what the resurrection power of God does.。
It takes dead things and brings life into them.。
And there's no greater force or power in existence.。
I mean, you think about God creating the world,。
everything in a moment with a word.。
That's impressive.。
But creation power is creating something from nothing.。
Resurrection power is God creating something alive。
from something dead.。
He doesn't just have the ability。
to make something beautiful out of nothing.。
He has the ability to make something beautiful。
out of something bad.。
And this is where as Christians,。
we have to have an understanding of how you change.。
It's not you deciding on your own.。
You know what?。
I can do it.。
I've got what it takes.。
It's by surrendering and walking and accessing.。
I'm dependent on you, God.。
Apart from you, there's no power in my life.。
There's no power in your life.。
You don't have the ability to conquer anxiety.。
You don't have the ability to conquer depression.。
If you did, you would have done it already.。
You think you have a match for lust,。
the pornography you've had for a decade?。
And could it be that maybe you think the problem is,。
man, I just need to try harder and work harder.。
And Paul is saying,。
"There's no power in you all by yourself,。
but you have access to the resurrecting power of God。
that takes dead and broken, messed up things,。
and he brings life into them."。
And I wanna answer the question as we close here in a second。
of how you and I do that。
and how Christians experience that change.。
But it's not by deciding,。
man, I'm just gonna work harder.。
It is by accessing the resurrection.。
This is why people and how people。
begin to experience change.。
This is why people make the decision,。
man, I'm walking in step with the Spirit.。
I'm walking in step with God.。
I need to forgive my father.。
I never thought I could.。
After all the pain, all the hurt, all the abuse,。
and I need to forgive him.。
It's how people, like I've already shared even my own story。
of pornography for years,。
and God, through the Spirit of God and the Word of God。
and people of God moves you to go,。
man, God, I'm totally dependent on you.。
If this is gonna be anything I experience victory in,。
it's gonna be not by my strength or my might,。
but by you and by you alone.。
And so God, I am surrendering.。
I'm walking in step with you, your Word, your people.。
And God begins to bring change.。
And let me answer the question, how does that happen?。
Two weeks ago, I was in California.。
My family went with my wife's family.。
We were on a beach.。
It was amazing.。
It was beautiful.。
And I was up one morning。
and I was watching out in the distance the Pacific Ocean.。
And this sailboat was sailing by.。
And I was watching it.。
And a few minutes later, I went in and just grabbed coffee。
and I came back out and it was completely still.。
This thing that had been moving at a significant pace。
was all of a sudden just stopped in the water.。
And the sail was down.。
Sailboat can't move without the sail being up。
and the wind pushing it in a specific direction.。
Apart from that, it is incapable of moving。
in any direction all on its own.。
Or it is entirely at the whim of the waves around it.。
And this is the Christian life.。
The Christian life is that you and I are incapable。
of becoming more and more like Jesus.。
We are incapable of being and living the new you.。
And our role, just like a sailboat, is to spread the sail.。
What does that look like?。
It means, God, I am surrendered to you.。
I am trusting in you.。
I am incapable on my own of having the type。
of dating relationships that you call me to.。
I can't, but you can.。
And so I'm inviting you in.。
God, I am trusting you.。
I am opening my life and saying,。
God, you direct it wherever you will.。
I am surrendered to you.。
And when you begin to do that,。
it's like the spirit of God fills the sail of your soul。
and he begins to direct and he begins to guide.。
But it doesn't happen on your own,。
but it happens in story after story。
of people sitting around you who have experienced。
the power of God in their life.。
The same power that raised Christ from the dead.。
Working in their life and bringing and healing。
all the different places that you think,。
man, that's too far.。
And Paul would say, you have access。
to the most powerful thing that has ever existed.。
And the spirit of God inside of your life.。
And that's when you would change.。
So where will you spend eternity?。
Well, it comes back to the why.。
How do you put your faith and trust in Jesus。
as the payment for your sin?。
'Cause if so, you are chosen, you are forgiven,。
you are sealed, you were purchased.。
And the greatest thing any of us need in this life。
is more of God.。
And the way that we experience change in our life。
is not by trying harder or by doing more things.。
It is by, God, I am dependent and surrendered to you.。
You bring change.。
I'm opening the sail of my life and you direct.。
And I trust you.。
And that person will spend eternity with God in heaven,。
not because of anything they've done,。
but because of Christ, because they are the new creation.。
And that same extension is offered by God to you tonight.。
And just the last thing I would say,。
man, if you've never made that decision,。
tonight is your night.。
And God, he's not angry at you, he's crazy about you.。
He gave his life for you。
so that you could experience a new life in him.。
Let me pray.。
Father, I thank you that you are at work in our lives.。
I thank you for the ways you are bringing resurrection power。
and taking areas of our soul and our life and ourself。
that are dead and you're bringing life.。
And so would you help us, God, to be surrendered,。
to be open to you, to be led by you,。
to walk just dependent on you.。
God, we can't change ourself.。
We can't conquer anything,。
but you can conquer everything.。
And so God, we ask for your help。
to walk in dependence on you.。
I pray for anyone who has never trusted in you tonight。
that would change.。
And in their heart and where they're sitting。
or in the moments that we're having ahead,。
that they would come to a place。
where they realize and accept that。
they are chosen.。
They are loved.。
They have been purchased by Jesus's life。
and they are sealed.。
And that is a deposit of what is to come.。
We worship you now in song.。
Amen.。
We worship you now in song. Amen.。
