[MUSIC]。
>> Well, hey Dallas, it's great to be with you tonight.。
My name is Garrett.。
If we've never met before, I wanna give a shout out to my Fort Worth family,。
where I spend most of my Tuesday night missing you guys this evening.。
Also to anybody that's dialed in through the porch app online or。
gathered in your city to experience the porch this evening.。
So glad that you guys are with us.。
Hey, I wanna catch you up on some news if you missed it.。
48 hours ago in the country of Pakistan,。
on Sunday, an oil tanker disaster happened.。
So this is an 18-wheeler oil tanker carrying about 5,000 gallons or so of oil.。
And it turns over and starts gushing into the street.。
And here's the thing about oil, it's valuable anywhere.。
It's valuable in Texas, it's valuable in Pakistan.。
It's worth money, it's liquid money, it's pouring out everywhere.。
And all of a sudden, as soon as this disaster starts to happen,。
the word gets out that liquid money, aka oil, black gold as they call it,。
is leaking out everywhere all over the street by the thousands of gallons worth.。
And one of the local mosques there in Pakistan starts to broadcast。
over their speaker that they normally use for a call to prayer,。
starts to broadcast that oil is in the street.。
And so everybody starts to grab buckets, they grab cans, they grab cups,。
everything that they can possibly grab for the goal of grabbing some of that oil.。
Because that could be a life-changing event, right?。
So everybody rushes forward to enrich themselves on what has just happened.。
And unfortunately, if you haven't read, it ignited and blew up.。
And over 150 people, over 150 people and counting,。
have lost their lives in the literal pursuit of wealth.。
The actual action of wealth.。
And the world says, "Get rich or die trying."。
Get rich or die trying, go get what you can.。
Get rich or die trying.。
And these people tried to get rich and they literally died.。
So on that note, we're gonna begin the porch.。
Welcome, so glad you're here.。
So kind of a somber start.。
The apostle Paul, the apostle Paul in 1 Timothy chapter six。
is going to beg you, beg you tonight, warn you.。
He's gonna pull out all the stops.。
You're gonna hear him say crazy, crazy warnings.。
He's gonna pull out all the stops to convince you。
that get rich or die trying might be the most dangerous advice。
that you have heard yet.。
And so 1 Timothy six is where we're gonna start.。
And here is the challenge.。
If you can hear my voice right now,。
you probably are in the wealthiest country。
in the history of the world.。
If you're in the same room with me right now,。
then you're in one of the most materialistic cities,。
for sure by reputation in that country,。
in the history of the world.。
That's where we're at.。
And we are so accustomed to everybody just having a bucket。
and filling up everything that they possibly can。
as frantically as they can, that we don't even notice.。
We don't even see where we are.。
We don't even see what's going on。
because we're immune to it.。
But this is what we do.。
We pursue wealth.。
It's natural for all of us.。
It's the American dream.。
It's what we do.。
And I wanna tell you, I'm a struggler tonight.。
I don't, this is not an area。
that I claim to have conquered.。
I wanna read and interact with the text with you tonight,。
but this is not a place。
that I would call a strong suit for me.。
I would much rather hustle and get on a grind。
and earn a dollar than I would to chill。
and be content with what I have.。
And so this text is particularly challenging for me.。
I want you to know that,。
but I think it's appropriate for us all to admit。
as we get started tonight,。
that pursuing wealth is more natural to us than we think.。
This is why, this is why some of you。
have not been at a job longer than 12 to 18 months,。
because as soon as somebody offers。
like 3,000 more dollars a year,。
you're like, boom, gone.。
Like, I don't need to hear anything else.。
Don't need to read a job description.。
Give me the cash and I'm good, right?。
Some of you like make dating decisions based on this.。
You know, it's like, okay, well,。
we don't have that much fun together.。
And he, I think he kind of knows Jesus.。
He's at least heard of Jesus,。
but he's in medical school, winner.。
All right, big deal.。
All right, and so you're like completely。
wrapping your life around the pursuit of wealth。
and you don't even realize it.。
And some of us, when we daydream,。
oh man, this is me.。
When we daydream, sometimes the daydream。
starts to look less about who you're with.。
You know, oh, when I'm 50, when I'm 60, when I'm 70,。
I wanna be with my family.。
I wanna be with my brothers and sisters,。
my wife, my husband, my grandkids.。
It stops looking like that and it starts to sound like。
this is where I'm gonna live, you know?。
This is what I'm gonna have.。
This is what I'm gonna live in.。
This is the right address I'm going to have.。
This is the kind of car I'm gonna drive.。
And all of a sudden, your dreams and hopes and plans,。
and as you picture life later。
when you're living it down the road,。
all of a sudden it becomes more about what you have。
than who you're with.。
We think materially instead of relationally.。
It's just natural to us.。
That's what we do.。
Some of you can't complete a purchase。
without already thinking about the next one.。
This is me.。
Oh man, we bought a house.。
I got married 10 months ago.。
We bought a house and as we did,。
four months later we remodeled the shower.。
The house was built in 2014.。
We don't need to remodel a shower.。
That's ridiculous.。
Now we barely closed the papers。
and I'm looking for ways to improve this thing.。
It's embarrassing.。
All right, that was my authentic moment for the evening.。
And so we are, we naturally are moving toward wealth。
and we don't even realize it.。
We are embarrassingly rich.。
And I don't think God wants us to feel guilty about that.。
But I do think he wants us to be careful about that.。
And get rich or die trying is a bad advice。
that may make for a great 50 cent debut album,。
but it is not gonna help you very much。
in your walk with Christ, all right?。
So we're gonna get started.。
First Timothy six, all right?。
Verse three.。
If anyone teaches a different doctrine,。
it's not gonna sound at first like he's teaching on money,。
hang with it.。
If anyone teaches a different doctrine。
and does not agree with the sound words of Jesus。
and the teaching that accords or fits with godliness,。
then he's puffed up with conceit and he understands nothing.。
In other words, if you disagree with Jesus,。
then you have a conceit problem.。
And part of the problem for these particular people。
that Paul has in mind is that they imagine。
that godliness is a means of gain,。
that their Christianity is going to make them rich,。
that if they can be godly or faithful,。
that somehow their bottom line is gonna actually。
and materially move in kind of a one-to-one relationship,。
in kind of a push-pull relationship.。
If I'm godly, then I will be wealthy.。
And if you ever hear that message,。
then you need to turn the TV off。
because that is not what God's word teaches.。
It says right here that imagining that godliness。
is a means of gain is a mistake.。
But in verse six, it says,。
"Godliness with contentment is great gain."。
Godliness with contentment makes you already rich.。
If you're godly today and you're content today,。
then you are rich today.。
Now that's a huge claim.。
That's a big claim.。
I don't know about you, but that kind of makes my mind go,。
"Ah, are you sure?"。
'Cause last time I checked,。
my mood doesn't really change my bills.。
You know what I mean?。
And so if I feel content or if I feel happy。
or if I feel peaceful or if I'm godly or not,。
I still got the bills, I still got income,。
I still got to do the whole financial thing.。
And so how and why would he get away with a crazy claim。
like godliness with contentment is great gain?。
And here's why, it's pretty obvious.。
Verse seven, "For we brought nothing into the world."。
For is like a because word right there.。
"Because we brought nothing into the world."。
That's why godliness with contentment is great gain,。
because we brought nothing into the world。
and you can't take anything with you out of this world.。
Death is the end of the road.。
And so the first reason,。
Paul's gonna give us two warnings tonight,。
two warnings and an instruction,。
two reasons why get rich or die,。
trying is bad advice and then some instruction.。
And the first warning is this,。
you are guaranteed to lose your money.。
The death statistics are impressive, 100%.。
(congregation laughing)。
There will be a day when you have nothing.。
Billy Graham said, "I have never seen a hearse。
"pulling a U-Haul."。
You are not ever, you are not ever going to be able。
to get anything out of this world, okay?。
You are guaranteed to lose your money.。
That's true just by experience.。
It also says in the scripture in Hebrews chapter nine,。
"It's appointed for man to die once."。
So it's appointed for you to die, that's going to happen。
and you're gonna lose everything you have.。
Death is the great equalizer.。
You might be a rare kind of rich.。
You may be a rare kind of rich, right?。
The kind of person that people just wanna be around。
because it might go better for them.。
But on the day of your funeral, your net worth will be zero.。
Not a single thing will you have.。
This is a really practical reason why get rich or die trying。
is really bad advice.。
Because the best you can actually do。
is get rich and then die.。
That's the best you can do.。
Nobody can outrun that.。
You can't outlive that.。
No amount of money can overcome that law.。
You can get rich and then die.。
That's all you can do.。
You might've heard of John D. Rockefeller before.。
John D. Rockefeller was considered to be maybe。
the most wealthy American in the history of our country.。
He was an oil and philanthropist magnet essentially.。
And his worth, at his peak in today's dollars。
would have been over 350 billion.。
300, three, five, zero, nine zeros.。
That's how much wealth this man had。
at the peak of his wealth.。
You might've heard the story before they asked him,。
"Hey John, how much is enough money?"。
And he said, "One more dollar."。
You might've heard that.。
But you might not have heard this.。
At his funeral, someone kind of edged up。
to John Rockefeller's accountant.。
And he said, "Hey, how much did he leave?"。
The accountant said, "All of it."。
(congregation laughing)。
What do you mean how much did he leave?。
100% of it.。
There's nothing about John Rockefeller。
that is going with him into the next life.。
Now he left a mansion for his family.。
He left Rockefeller Center in New York City.。
Some of you have been there.。
And so he left things behind in this world。
because of his wealth.。
But he did not take anything with him out of this world.。
Ecclesiastes 2.21.。
This is not gonna be the most encouraging verse。
you've ever heard, I'm gonna warn you.。
"For a person may labor with wisdom, knowledge, and skill.。
"And then they must leave all they own to another。
"who has not even toiled for it.。
"This too is meaningless and a great misfortune."。
Let me translate that.。
You can get on your grind for 60 years。
and they're gonna throw you a 30 minute retirement party.。
Everybody's gonna clap for you.。
And then you're gonna die and your spoiled nephew。
is gonna get your money。
and they didn't do anything to deserve it。
except to be born into your family.。
This is a great misfortune, says Ecclesiastes 2.。
Whoever dies with the most toys still dies.。
That's what it says in 1 Timothy 6, 7, paraphrase.。
If you think, yeah, well, if I'm gonna die,。
I mean, I know the way our minds can get around。
this kind of thing.。
You think, well, if I'm gonna die,。
sometime I still got a life to live between now and then.。
So if I'm gonna die and it's gonna go to zero,。
I guess I might as well have a lot。
between now and the time I die.。
Paul knows that some of you think that way.。
And that's why he is gonna turn up the heat a little bit。
on the next warning.。
Look at this in verse eight.。
"But if we have food and clothing,。
"with these we will be content."。
Try living that one out.。
"But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation."。
And now listen to the vocabulary he reaches for。
when he starts to warn about the danger。
of wanting to be rich.。
"But those who desire to be rich fall into a temptation,。
"into a snare, into many senseless and harmful desires。
"that plunge people into ruin and destruction.。
"For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evils."。
That's a pretty popular misquoted verse right there.。
You ever heard money's the root of all evil?。
You ever heard that?。
Money's the root of all evil.。
Bible says that money's the root of all evil.。
The Bible doesn't teach that.。
It doesn't say that money is the root of all evil,。
as if you just see some evil out there.。
And if you follow the path back to where it began,。
money's behind it all.。
That's not what the Bible says.。
It doesn't say every evil in the world out there。
is because of money.。
What it does say is that if you fall in love with money,。
you will become capable of any kind of evil.。
If you fall in love with money,。
you will surprise yourself with what you're capable of.。
"The love of money is a root of all kinds of evils."。
Anything can come from this thing.。
It's through this craving that some have wandered away.。
From the faith and pierced themselves with many pangs.。
Pierced themselves with many pangs.。
Money is a gateway drug.。
If you fall in love with money,。
who knows what you'll love next?。
You might start to love respect.。
You might start to love power.。
You might start to love position.。
Maybe one day you'll love money enough to steal some of it.。
Maybe next you'll love it enough to cheat on your taxes.。
Maybe one day, according to this,。
you'll even wander away from your faith.。
And you think that's crazy.。
There's no way that I would do that.。
But that's just the point.。
Is if you fall in love with money,。
you don't know how crazy you're gonna become.。
That is the danger of falling in love with money.。
So my second point is this.。
Loving money is self-destructive.。
Loving money is self-destructive.。
Suicidal to your faith.。
If you fall in love with money,。
you are destroying your faith.。
They work together.。
You can have money.。
God, I mean, it says right there,。
we have food.。
We have food and clothing.。
We'll be content.。
So you're gonna need some amount of money。
to have food and clothing.。
God knows that.。
God's not calling you to hate your money。
or to pretend that you can operate in the world。
without some measure of money.。
He is telling you that you cannot love money and love God.。
Jesus said, related to this topic,。
you cannot serve both God and money.。
No one can serve two masters.。
And if you think you can, he's not your master.。
You can't serve God and money.。
And if you fall in love with money,。
then your faith just jumped into the rear view mirror。
of your life and you were headed a different direction.。
Another story came out this week of a jeweler.。
This one is crazy.。
Of a jeweler who claimed to have hidden some jewels。
and gold in New Mexico, in the mountains, okay?。
Now, my first reaction when I hear that is not,。
hmm, I wonder how many mountains are in New Mexico。
and I wonder if I could somehow search them all。
and find the jewelry, okay?。
Or whatever the treasure is out there.。
But are you ready for this?。
Two people in the last five months have died in New Mexico,。
in the mountains, looking for jewelry。
because a man claimed that he hid it there。
for alleged jewelry.。
Now, I don't know what's crazier.。
The fact that those people went after some kooks jewelry。
in the mountains of New Mexico,。
or if part of you are on your phone on Google right now。
looking up flights to New Mexico,。
trying to figure out, you know,。
like, oh, my aunt lives out there.。
You know, we could stay with her.。
This is gonna go great, you know?。
This will drag you into a pit.。
This will drag you away from God.。
There is no way that you can cultivate。
the kind of love relationship with God that you want。
and love money at the same time.。
It's not possible.。
Paul's telling you, you will self-destruct.。
Galatians 6 says, "God is not mocked.。
"You will reap what you sow.。
"And if you sow to your flesh, you'll reap destruction."。
I can trace this in my life.。
I've been alive 28 years.。
It's not a long time,。
but I've loved a lot of things that aren't God.。
I can remember times I needed, I felt like I needed,。
I wanted new Nikes.。
I can remember wanting a new fishing pole.。
I can remember wanting my dad to take me out to play ball。
or go to the Rangers game.。
I can remember wanting a new house.。
And I can tell you this,。
not a single thing has satisfied my soul except Jesus Christ.。
And I know this, that when I love anything other than Him,。
when I pursue anything other than Him,。
there is an interruption.。
It is not a both and when it comes to our loves.。
Now here's something important to see.。
I don't want you to miss this.。
Nowhere in that text does the Bible demonize money, okay?。
Nowhere in the text does it talk about dollar amounts.。
It doesn't say you have to have a minimum amount of money。
to be a Christian.。
It doesn't say you have to stay under a maximum amount。
of money to be a Christian.。
It doesn't say that.。
There are no dollar signs.。
It is talking directly to your heart's posture.。
Do you see that?。
Look at these words right quick.。
In verse nine and verse 10, it says,。
"Those who desire to be rich fall into temptation."。
It doesn't say those who are rich。
are automatically in a temptation.。
It doesn't say that.。
Whether you have money or whether you don't。
is not the issue.。
It's what do you love.。
Those who desire to be rich.。
Look in verse 10, "The love of money."。
I'm not saying money's the root of all evil.。
It says, "The love of money, the human response to money。
is a root of all kinds of evils."。
Through this craving, there's another heart word.。
It's through this craving.。
Not through the having of money,。
but through the craving of money.。
And if your heart, if your heart gets wrapped。
around this thing, that is what will lead you away.。
God is not calling you to hate your money.。
He is the one who gives it to you.。
Later, the text will say to enjoy.。
Focus your hope on God who gives you everything to enjoy.。
And so he doesn't want you to hate it。
and he doesn't want you to love it.。
He wants you to use it.。
So the guy who stands up and says that God wants Christians。
to be financially poor is just as wrong。
as the guy who stands up and says,。
"God wants all Christians to be financially rich."。
There's nothing in the text that mandates a dollar amount.。
You just need to see that.。
The problem is not that you have any amount of it.。
The problem is if any amount of it has you.。
That's the issue in the text.。
Hop down to verse 17.。
It says, "As for the rich in this present age,"。
and I'm just gonna pause right there for a second.。
This is a unique opportunity.。
The Bible is about to coach rich people.。
So this is an interesting opportunity。
that you're about to see.。
This is unique, okay?。
I don't know off the top of my head。
anywhere else in the scripture。
that God actually takes the time to say,。
"Hey, and if you're rich, do this."。
David down here is probably like,。
I got like three references for you。
that you've totally forgot about.。
But I can't think of any other。
off the top of my head right now。
that involve God actually coaching rich people.。
Okay, so here it comes.。
"As for the rich in this present age,。
"charge them not to be haughty."。
Don't be prideful.。
Don't set your hope on the uncertainty of riches.。
What an irony, since we think that riches。
is what is gonna secure us.。
We think that money is what's gonna make our boat。
go straight and everything go smoothly, right?。
And it is too volatile for that.。
But on God, don't focus on the uncertainty of riches,。
but on God, who richly provides everything to enjoy.。
There's a relief.。
God's not calling you to sell everything you have。
automatically just because you come to the faith.。
And you go, wait, didn't Jesus tell a guy,。
"Sell all you have, give it to the poor,。
"and then follow me."。
Yes, he did, because he knew。
that's what that person's heart needed.。
And if you're afraid of that, man,。
maybe that's what you need.。
But I know this, God does not mandate。
a uniform dollar amount that everybody's gotta come under.。
What he mandates is that you love him and not your money,。
and he will take care of the rest.。
Every dollar you have is a gift from God,。
and he's in charge of it.。
Verse 18, "They," meaning the rich in this present age,。
"They are to do good, to be rich in good works,。
"to be generous."。
Be ready to share.。
Don't be ready to collect.。
Don't be ready to get things.。
Be ready to share something.。
"Storing up treasure for yourself,"。
storing up treasure for themselves,。
"as a good foundation for the future,。
"so that you may take hold of that which is truly life."。
You have an eternity ahead of you.。
You're gonna spend forever somewhere.。
That's for sure.。
You're gonna spend forever in a place, awake.。
That's where you're gonna be.。
And how full your life is there。
depends on how empty you can make it here.。
Paul's instruction tonight is be rich in good works.。
It's the third point, straight from the text in verse 18.。
Be rich in good works.。
Now this is hard for us,。
because we are all rich on a global scale, all of us.。
Now I know you don't feel rich.。
I know you probably don't wanna think of yourself as rich,。
because that could come with some sort of a responsibility.。
But I want you to know, on a global scale,。
you are probably, if you can hear my voice right now,。
you are probably rich.。
And so let me give you two resources,。
just so you know I didn't pull that out of thin air.。
One would be the Bible.。
So that was just a couple of verses up,。
where it says, "With food and clothing, we'll be content."。
And so if you have food and you have clothing,。
and then anything on top of that, you have extra.。
So if you have more than enough food,。
and you have more than enough clothing, congrats.。
You are rich, man.。
You are rich.。
In 1 Timothy 6 terms, if you have more food,。
if you have more than food and clothing you need for today,。
then you are officially rich.。
But if you wanna look at something。
that is objective in the sense。
that it looks at the whole world statistically,。
then I would invite you to go to globalrichlist.com.。
Globalrichlist.com.。
And you can find out, you just type in, it's super easy.。
You type in your name,。
and you type in what your income is,。
and you hit start, and get ready to be embarrassed,。
all right, by how much wealth you have,。
and how difficult it is for the rest of the world, okay?。
So I'm just gonna assume safely tonight that we are rich.。
And it's saying be rich in good works.。
And I think we may be the worst rich people ever.。
Like imagine what a good rich person would like.。
Can you get that person in your mind?。
Like what would a good rich person be like?。
I'm assuming that they would be fulfilled.。
I'm assuming that they would be relaxed, right?。
They're rich, how do you have a bad day?。
Just relax, right?。
When you envision a good rich person,。
you probably assume that they are relaxed,。
at peace, and generous, right?。
They're ready to share.。
They're exactly what 1 Timothy 6 says they should be.。
But we have got a nation of rich people.。
This is, America is Disney World to the rest of history,。
not just to the rest of the globe,。
but to the rest of history.。
And we are the worst rich people in history.。
Depression rates have skyrocketed。
as America's wealth has continued to rise.。
We are not good at being rich.。
We are not good at this thing of having wealth.。
It's like we're worried about going hungry。
and we live in a permanent Thanksgiving.。
It's like, somebody wake up and see what's going on.。
We are not good at being rich.。
And the text says right here, if you will do good,。
if you will be rich in good works,。
okay, this has to do with other people.。
This doesn't have to do with you.。
To be rich in good works, be generous,。
and ready to give something, and you will store up,。
get this, treasure for yourself。
as a good foundation for your future.。
Now, I don't want you to miss what that means.。
When it says for the future, it does not mean on earth.。
Okay, God is not guaranteeing that if you put dollars in,。
God is going to give you dollars back.。
He could work that way.。
He can do whatever he wants.。
But if anyone teaches that you,。
if you will just give your cash,。
God will give the cash back to you.。
You know, if you need that 10,000,。
just drop that 100 in and watch God work.。
Anybody who says that,。
that as if they know that God is going to give you。
material earthly currency, they are off.。
This guarantee is in the future.。
That's why it says for the future,。
so that you can take hold of that,。
which is truly life giving.。
And real riches aren't what you have.。
It's who you serve.。
That's one of the reasons why I love serving。
at the porch in Fort Worth.。
I love it because I get to be around people。
who have decided, you know what, this is not gonna be,。
my life on earth is not gonna be,。
my few minutes on earth before all of my stuff is gone。
are not gonna be about what I can collect.。
They're gonna be about what I can give.。
And we've got a group of people over there。
from every occupation you can possibly imagine.。
All right, we've got nurses,。
we've got oil and gas landmen,。
we've got students, we've got teachers,。
we've got physicians assistants,。
physicians assistants students.。
There's like nine hospitals in Fort Worth。
or something crazy.。
I mean, it's just huge all in a big clump.。
So it's like a ton of medical.。
And so we've got people all over the place。
from every occupation.。
I don't know what a single one of them makes,。
except my wife.。
I don't know what a single person on our team makes.。
I know this, they have decided to be rich。
in the way they live their life.。
They have decided to give away their lives。
for the sake of Christ, for the sake of the gospel.。
They have decided that they wanna be rich。
instead of endlessly trying to get rich.。
They've decided, you know what,。
what I wanna do is I wanna live a life。
that is consistent with what this book says.。
And with what the book says is to be generous。
in the way that I handle other people,。
be ready to share, not ready to collect.。
And I don't know what life is gonna look like in heaven,。
but I suspect for them it's gonna be really good.。
And the same for you if you're doing this.。
And the Bible promises you'll be rewarded.。
And some of you, I know, you just go,。
man, I don't wanna be generous to be rewarded.。
But the Bible says you're gonna get one anyway,。
even if you don't want one.。
'Cause God's good in that way.。
So in summary, don't pursue wealth。
because you're guaranteed to lose your money.。
Don't pursue wealth because your loving of money。
is self-destructive.。
And then lastly, be rich in good works.。
Be generous to other people,。
and you will be a good, rich person for a change.。
'Cause 1 Timothy 6 has a word for you。
and what to do with all your wealth.。
And even if you don't think you have it.。
And I know some of you maybe have been sitting there,。
I should've said this earlier,。
but some of you may be sitting there going,。
you know what, I'm not trying to get rich, man.。
I'm just trying to get out of debt, amen.。
You know, like I'm not trying to get rich, dude.。
Like I'm just trying to get out of debt.。
I just wanna tell you, I get debt.。
I have found myself in debt.。
Medical debt, private school education debt, twice, okay?。
Yeah.。
House, car, the whole deal, man.。
Like I have been under a mountain of debt.。
And I wanna tell you, sprinting to get a dollar of debt。
off the books is the same thing as sprinting。
to get a dollar of income on the books。
because it's hope in wealth.。
You gotta handle things responsibly, not obsessively.。
Paying debt obsessively is the same thing。
as going to get income obsessively.。
Trust God and be rich.。
Stop trying to get rich and just be rich.。
We're gonna give you a chance to do that next week.。
So next week, we're not gonna gather in this place, all right?。
So here in Dallas, we will not have a porch.。
Let it be known, we will not have a porch。
in the traditional sense next Tuesday night.。
In Fort Worth, we will not have a porch。
in the traditional sense.。
If you show up to either one of those two places,。
you'll be very patriotic and you'll be very alone.。
So do not come to the porch next Tuesday night.。
What we are gonna do is we are gonna allow you,。
we're not gonna take on the red, white, and blue.。
We know you got plans.。
And so here's what you can do.。
Be bold where you are.。
Have the most generous 4th of July you've ever had.。
That means picking up a meal, pick up a meal.。
But I know what this, I know what we want it to include.。
Generosity with your time, generosity with your intention,。
or with your attention, with the way you focus.。
Put your phone down and pay attention。
to your family for a minute, you know?。
Go with your friends and get into their lives a little bit.。
Talk to them, and especially, especially,。
look for your opportunity wherever you are,。
whatever environment you go into on the 4th of July,。
whatever environment you go into,。
look for a chance to be bold about the Savior。
who really set you free.。
And that's why we're gonna hand you,。
if you need some help with that, if you need a prop,。
what we're gonna do is we're gonna hand you one of these.。
Okay, and so this is a red, white, and blue band.。
It says, "Be bold on it," okay?。
And so let that be a reminder to you,。
wherever you are, that when you see that,。
you want to move yourself toward a bold conversation,。
not hanging out at the lake, drinking Natty Light,。
all right, stay away from that, that ain't gonna help you,。
all right, but a sense of intentionality, okay?。
A sense of urgency, a sense of,。
I'm gonna live my life in front of you。
maybe different than I ever have before,。
and I want to show you who it is。
that has caused me to live in this way.。
The most generous way that you can spend。
the Fourth of July is to share with someone。
the hope that you have in Christ,。
the freedom that you have in Christ.。
Ask somebody if they have a faith.。
Ask somebody if they've been to church.。
Ask somebody if they'll just listen to your story.。
If they're not comfortable engaging in a thing,。
I know some of you are like, oh no,。
this is the stuff I hate, I can't talk to people like this.。
The introverts' knees are like shaking right now.。
I'm telling you, just ask someone。
if they'll listen to your story,。
and then you can just share the way Christ has saved you.。
That is our hope.。
Every one of you in Dallas and Fort Worth。
are gonna get one of these,。
and you hang onto it for next week.。
Wear it on the Fourth of July,。
and celebrate the United States.。
I love it, I'm a patriot, but I'm telling you what,。
I'm not loyal to the United States。
above my relationship with Christ, not even close.。
And so make that day an opportunity。
to be rich in the real way.。
Let's pray together.。
Father, my prayer this evening, our prayer this evening。
is that you would launch a group of young adults。
into the city by the hundreds, by the thousands, God,。
that you would raise up a generation,。
continue to raise up a generation that will speak boldly,。
they'll be bold, they won't be sidetracked。
by the customs of the day, by the holidays of the day,。
but God, we will live a generous lifestyle。
in the way that we engage with those around us.。
God, help us to stop bowing down to the almighty dollar,。
God, we don't wanna spend 50 more years chasing money。
and then coming face to face with you。
and wondering why another day,。
another dollar sounded better.。
God, when we see you at the end of our life,。
when all of our net worth just falls to the ground,。
we wanna know that we were rich on earth。
in the way you said, God,。
not in the way Dallas or Fort Worth said,。
not in the way Houston said, not in the way America said,。
but in the way you said, God, we were generous,。
we were ready to share,。
we were ready to share our hope in Christ,。
we were ready to share a defense for the faith。
and the hope that's within us.。
God, preserve our faith by helping us turn back now.。
Corporate America is not worth us bowing down to.。
God, help us to stop resisting church membership。
because we're trying to get a career launched.。
Help us just to go in where you want us to go.。
We're not good at being rich, God,。
you've given us material wealth。
and we're not good at it, God,。
and so we ask you for spiritual wealth。
and we wait for you, in Jesus' name, amen.。
[Music]。
