Well, hey everyone, and welcome to The Porch.。
We're going to be diving into the question that's been on everyone's mind.。
Why in the world are women so hard to understand?。
I think what you meant to say was, "Why in the world are men so confusing?"。
Okay, so it seems like both genders may have some difficulty understanding each other.。
Which is why each week, we're spotlighting a different side of the room。
to dig into issues we face within our own gender while growing an understanding for the opposite sex.。
One night, we're putting the guys under the microscope.。
The next night is for the girls.。
But don't worry, everybody's invited every night.。
Because here's the thing we've figured out.。
We're not actually short on opinions about men and women.。
He's saying this.。
She's saying that.。
But what does God have to say about all of it?。
Welcome to the debate that culture can't settle.。
Welcome to what's actually true.。
About him.。
And about her.。
Welcome to your favorite Tuesday night series.。
She Said. She Said.。
Alright, well Porch, how are we doing tonight?。
We doing okay?。
It's great to be with you.。
Man, I have loved this summer.。
Living through Porch 20.。
But man, I am so excited for this series and the next 20 that are still ahead of us.。
I am so glad that you are here in this room.。
If you are new to the space for the very first time, let me be, I hope just one,。
but not the first to welcome you here.。
We're so glad that you would give up your Tuesday to be here.。
And then to all of our Porch Life family all across the country, we love you guys.。
We're so thankful for what God is doing.。
Not just in here, but out there.。
And the fact that you would tune in too.。
Some of you, you're watching this right now.。
Others of you, you're watching this in the future.。
But all together, we are so thankful that you would be a part of what God is doing in the lives of young adults.。
Special shout out to three very important Porch Life locations.。
Porch Life Midland.。
Anybody from Midland in the house?。
Porch Life Greater Lafayette.。
Anybody from Greater Lafayette and Dallas?。
Okay, we got a little bit of love for you guys.。
And then Porch Life Springfield.。
Well, hey, just a couple of years ago, my wife and I, we stood on this stage and we announced something very important to our family.。
Well, we're back.。
Roll the video.。
That's right, everybody.。
Coming in just a few months, we are expecting a little girl.。
Yes, yes, yes.。
That was my reaction.。
You saw Cash's reaction.。
He has no idea what is in store, nor do I.。
It only took me walking into Hill House once to realize I have no clue what is actually ahead of me.。
I am completely out of my depth.。
And yet, while we've been processing the news of having a little girl, and I've been wrestling with God about becoming a girl dad.。
How crazy is that?。
I have been spending a lot of time, yes, reading and researching and listening and trying to catch up with what's happening in the lives of ladies.。
But more than that, I've just been talking to God and I've been contemplating everything that I want my daughter to believe is true about her.。
Like, I want her to grow up believing that she's valuable, like before she ever accomplishes anything, she is valuable.。
I want her to grow up knowing that she's important.。
Like, it doesn't matter how popular she is.。
It doesn't matter how pretty she is.。
It doesn't matter how cool she is.。
It doesn't matter what comparison culture tries to serve up to her and tell her how she needs to catch up and match her peers.。
I want to know she's important and I want her to know that she's worthy of respect.。
Like, that she is by God dignified from birth.。
That it doesn't matter what some boy has to say about her.。
It doesn't matter what some boss has to say about her.。
It does not matter what somebody might say to her in the future.。
It is undeniably true that she is valuable, worthy of pursuing.。
And as I've thought about her, I've thought about my boy, my son Cash, and I've just been considering the things that I want him to believe are true of himself as well.。
Like, I want him to grow up believing his masculinity is not something that he needs to apologize for.。
It is something that he can appreciate which God has given him.。
I want him to grow up and know that he is exactly who God intended him to be.。
Like, under the hood of his heart and all the hardwiring that God has put together, he does not need to feel insecure.。
He does not need to be loud and performative to match up with the world.。
And he does not need to feel like he needs to make up for some deficiency that the world is telling him he has.。
And I want him to know that he has what it takes.。
Like, he can lead when others can't, he can serve when others won't, and he can do what others haven't.。
I want my son to know what it means to be a man.。
And I want my daughter to know what it means to be a woman.。
And I want the same thing for every one of you.。
Because as I've been praying about my children, God has not only brought them to mind, he's brought you to mind.。
It's funny.。
I don't share that announcement just to get a rise out of the crowd.。
I share it because this is what you do with family.。
Like, you celebrate really good news.。
And the porch is an extension of mine and Brooke's family.。
And so we wanted to bring that to you.。
And yet, as we've been praying about our family, I have been thinking about you.。
And I want so desperately for you to understand what it is to be a man and what it is to be a woman.。
Like, for the guys in the room, I want you to know that your masculinity is not a problem that needs to be fixed.。
It is something to be understood and embraced.。
And for the women in the room, I want you to know that your femininity, it is not amounts of meeting beauty standards and finding a man。
or becoming a girl boss who doesn't need to find a man, but embracing your God-given dignity and distinctions.。
That's what I want us to know.。
I want you to know that despite what modern culture and woke politicians and TikTok influencers or the manosphere or the femmosphere might have to say,。
which, if you're paying attention, is about as erratic as confetti in a tornado, your manhood and womanhood matter.。
It matters to you. It matters to your family. It matters to our society.。
It matters to our city. It matters to our world.。
But most of all, it matters to God.。
The question is, who gets to decide what a man or a woman is?。
Like, for the guys.。
Is it Andrew Tate? Is it Dan Bilzerian? Is it David Goggins or Joe Rogan or Mr. Rogers or Uncle Phil?。
For the ladies in the room, like, is it Beyonce? Is it Kylie Jenner? Is it Alex Earl? Is it Alex Cooper?。
Is it Martha Stewart? Is it Beth Dutton? Or is it Emily Gilmore?。
The fact of the matter is, our society does not have a good definition of what a man or a woman is,。
as the aforementioned lists entail.。
There are a lot of opinions out there, and a lot of these opinions are not, in fact, good.。
Like, for example, some people are saying that men and women are the exact same.。
That all you have to do is just swap jerseys if you want to.。
That you can pick whatever team you want to play on, whatever you want to play on.。
But here's the problem with that, and I want to be gracious in saying this.。
The problem with it is reality.。
Like, we can just simply read from Genesis 1, verse 27, that God created man,。
talking about mankind in his own image.。
In the image of God, he created him, male and female.。
He created them.。
You see, God wants it to be very clear that we're different from one another.。
Men are males, and women are females, which is why gender is not assigned at birth.。
Gender is recognized at birth.。
Your mind doesn't get to tell you what your body is.。
Your body actually is a sign from God what, in fact, your mind should say.。
It is recognized by way of your biology in at least four different ways what your specific gender is.。
It is recognized through your gender code.。
Men have a Y chromosome.。
Women have two X chromosomes.。
It is recognized through your genitalia.。
Men have penises.。
Women have vaginas.。
Yes, in fact, we are going there.。
It is recognized through your hormone chemistry.。
Men have testosterone.。
Women have estrogen.。
It is recognized through your brain development.。
So even if Facebook wants to give you years ago, I think it was '72, I think they have reduced it to '50,。
but now there's a custom fill-in feature for you to identify your gender however it is you want to identify.。
And God is very clear that gender is binary.。
It's male and it's female.。
Now, let me just be really clear on something.。
I can say all of this so simply.。
And so many of you, you're ready to receive it quickly because it matches up with your understanding of the world.。
And yet there are people in this room, when a space is this large and a crowd is this big, that this is anything but simple to understand.。
And so I just -- I want to speak to you.。
If that's your story, your experience in the room, if you find yourself wrestling with gender confusion, if you feel trapped in your body,。
I just want you to know you're so welcome here, and you do not have to believe to belong in this space.。
We would love to get to know you.。
We would love to hear your story.。
It would be our joy to journey with you.。
And all you have to do is just come up and say hello.。
But I also want you to know, if that's you, that your dysphoria, it doesn't get to tell you who you are.。
God wants to tell you who you are.。
And the beauty of it is, is that God, he's not asking you to come up and meet him where he's at.。
He actually has come down to the person of Jesus to meet you where you are.。
In his heart, it beats with compassion towards the helpless and the harassed, which we all were once a part of.。
And it beats for you here tonight.。
You need only come to him.。
That's what one group of people is saying.。
They're saying that traditional masculinity is a mistake, that we don't need men to act like men because, well, that can become toxic.。
Here's the thing.。
It's just as toxic to neuter a man of God when he has a God-given design and he has been asked to become something that he is not.。
That's why young men today, they're experiencing higher levels of anxiety and purposelessness and loneliness than at any other point in human history.。
You see, I need you to lean in on this.。
We do not need to suppress masculinity.。
We need to sanctify it.。
And that's what Christ wants to do.。
He wants to sanctify your manhood, men.。
And then for women, the popular concept of our culture is that you don't need no man because who run the world?。
Exactly.。
Just this week, I was reading a feminist article.。
Now, admittedly, it was a radical feminist article.。
And yet as I was reading it, the idea that the author was presenting was this concept that the male population has become redundant, that women can do everything that men can do.。
They can fulfill every role that men can.。
And in addition to that, they can have children.。
Now, I want to be very clear.。
I am in no way speaking to the capabilities of women in this moment.。
I believe that women are wildly capable for so much.。
My wife is a boss.。
Like she is a leader in business.。
She is a manager of people.。
And she has literally built companies, ideas, campaigns, strategies that have literally moved the needle at a cultural level.。
She is altogether amazing.。
And she is one example of what is true of so many women in this room.。
And yet what I know to be true of my wife, what she would say is that she nonetheless needs me.。
Why does she need me?。
Because no single person, single gender can rightly image God without the other.。
Men need women.。
And then she would also say that she knows she cannot fulfill the mandate given her by God to fill the earth and subdue it.。
Because despite what that author is saying, and no matter how much inventory you have in the sperm bank,。
at some point, God is going to need to show back up and make their contribution.。
You know?。
Men and women are required to do all that God has desired.。
And so if you're here and you're thinking along the same lines of this camp,。
I just want you to know that you're given so much access to womanhood in and of your own God-given right.。
And yet it is through the presence of men that even more realms of womanhood are made available.。
As you consider becoming a wife, you consider being a mother, you consider being a grandmother.。
Men need women.。
Women need men.。
I could go on.。
I could give you more examples.。
But we need to get into the text.。
My point is very simple.。
In a world where the conversation around manhood and womanhood feels a lot like he said/she said,。
we need to consider what has God said?。
What has he said is the purpose of being a man?。
What is the purpose of being a woman?。
We need to consider what are the problems in becoming a man and what are the problems in becoming a woman?。
We need to actually consider what is the path to becoming a true man of God?。
What is the path to becoming a true woman of God?。
And that's what we're going to do over the course of this series.。
Over six weeks' time, we are going to answer these three questions.。
And if that math ain't mathing for you, the way we're going to do it is every week we're going to focus on one gender.。
And so it's guys tonight.。
Ladies, you're invited.。
And it's girls next week.。
And then it's guys the week after that.。
And it's girls the week after that.。
All the way until we have answered what is the purpose, what are the problems, and what is the path towards manhood and womanhood?。
And this is intentional.。
Like it isn't just because I want to give the boys a look behind the female curtain.。
Like it's not that I'm trying to give us space to really evaluate things that we should not know.。
Instead, there is stuff here that will deeply serve the other if in fact we are informed.。
You see, we live in a culture that has convinced us that for one gender to win, the other gender must lose.。
And yet that's not God's design at all.。
Like men do not win whenever women are subjugated and suppressed and silenced.。
That's not a victory for a man.。
And women don't win whenever men are weak and soft and insecure.。
That's no victory for women.。
What we know is that we need each other to be at our best.。
Which is why you're in the room even when it's not your week.。
So tonight it's guys night, but ladies you're invited.。
Next week it's girls night, but the boys are going to be there.。
And the reason for it is threefold.。
And this is so intentional.。
It's because number one, we need to learn to empathize with one another.。
Instead of casting blame, we need to show support.。
Instead of acknowledging the deficiencies in the opposite sex,。
we should try and really understand their context and do what we can to come alongside.。
The second reason is we want to expect of them.。
Ladies, I want you to build great expectations from the word of God for the men in this room.。
Because I've said this before.。
Ladies, you single-handedly hold the power to so many men's maturation。
if you will only raise your expectations for them.。
You will look at them and you will tell them where they're being a boy instead of being a man.。
And when you do so, what's going to happen is wildly perplexing.。
And for the likes of those on looking incredibly fascinating,。
you're going to see them lay awake at night.。
You're going to watch them put out resumes on LinkedIn.。
You're going to actually see them get some guys around them and make war against their sin.。
And you're going to see them shave that old nasty neard of theirs.。
They just keep growing that no one has looked at them and told them they need to get rid of。
because hygiene is important.。
It's important that you're here.。
All of us, we need to be able to empathize, expect, and encourage appropriately of one another.。
And courage is the last one.。
And the reason why I say that is because of this.。
It means a lot when a man wants to be a man.。
It means a whole lot more when a woman wants him to be a man.。
Like when my wife looks at me and she asks me for my coat, you think that annoys me?。
No.。
That honors me.。
Like I get to be a man.。
Like she looks better in it anyways, and so I'm, like, glad to give her my coat。
and step into my role as a man for her good.。
You see, lying at the heart of every man is the question, do I have what it takes?。
And, ladies, when you encourage him to be a man, you're professing your belief that he can do it.。
And, ladies, likewise, like I have no doubt there are many women in here that want to be women,。
but how much more encouraging is it to you when men treat you like women?。
When they look at you and they actually validate the question that lies at the center of your heart,。
which is, am I worthy of pursuing and protecting?。
And so when he actually takes initiative, when he makes the call, when he walks across the room,。
when he chooses to hold open the door, whatever he does, whatever it is you want,。
those things validate that you're worthy, that you're valuable, that you're --。
you are sufficient to seek after.。
And so, men, it will serve our ladies.。
It will encourage them if not just in relationship, if in friendship you validate the fact that they have dignity.。
They're worthy of listening to.。
They're worthy of spending time with.。
They're worthy of asking the opinion of, et cetera, et cetera.。
Now, with all that said, I've got 20 minutes.。
We've got to go.。
Where do we start?。
Like I've already said that we're going to talk about the purpose of men.。
So where in the text do we begin?。
Well, I think the most appropriate place is for us just to start wherever it is that God starts.。
I reckon that feels like a really fitting place.。
So if you have a Bible, you can turn to page 2, Genesis chapter 2,。
because God does not waste any time to get into this at the very beginning of the book.。
While you're turning there, I mentioned it already, but tonight we're looking at God's purpose for men.。
Now, typically when the question of men's purpose comes up,。
most people jump into a conversation about the roles which men should fill,。
which isn't a bad place to begin, and it's actually a very normal place for us to consider,。
because if I were to come up to you and ask you, "Hey, who are you?"。
you would look at me and you would respond with some list of roles.。
You would tell me that you're an accountant, a teacher, a chiropractor, a nurse practitioner, an attorney.。
You would tell me what you do, because that tells me a lot about who you are.。
And yet, though that's not a bad place to begin, that's not the best place to begin,。
because while we can evaluate men on the basis of function,。
things like he's a father and he's a husband and he's an elder and he's a brother,。
the best place is not to consider function, it is to consider the essence of a man.。
Like before any man stepped into a role, what was true of that man?。
And by and large, I know it's not true across the entirety of this room, or everyone listening online,。
but what I know is that most people who track with the porch are single.。
And this is great, because we're going to catch up with Adam in his single years.。
And so without further ado, let's get into this thing.。
Genesis 2, verses 5 through 7, what we're going to see is it's not the role, it's the responsibility of Adam,。
and that's the responsibility of men that tell you what your purpose is.。
It says this, "When no bush of the field," verse 5, "was yet in the land,。
and no small plant of the field had yet sprung up, for the Lord God had not caused it to rain on the land,。
there was no man to work the ground, and a mist was going up from the land,。
it was water in the whole face of the ground." You get the picture. This is early, early, early creation days.。
"The Lord God formed the man of the dust from the ground, and he breathed into his nostrils the breath of life,。
and the man became a living creature."。
We're going to keep reading, but I just think this is too important to not take a moment to actually read,。
because this sets the prerequisite to becoming a man.。
If you don't get this, you get nothing, because what makes you a man is not the fact that you are a male.。
Like my son, he's 20 months old. He is a boy of the male population.。
He's not a man. He might eat like a man, but he is not a man yet.。
And what makes him a man is not the fact that maybe one day he's going to lift heavy weights,。
and he's going to work on cars, and he's going to drink beer and grill steaks and hunt game and play football,。
even though that's all a dad could really hope.。
What will make him a man is not his activity in life. It is his responsibility to God.。
And so what we're going to see here is before Adam even becomes a man, something is necessarily true to him.。
And it's this, that God's Holy Spirit indwells him.。
Because what God has done here is he has taken a man, and he has formed him from the ground,。
and sitting before him, as my friend Jobe Martin describes, is a shell of a man.。
He looks like a man on the outside, but he does not live like a man on the inside.。
Not until he comes face to face with his maker, and his maker breathes into his life.。
And it is as God breathes his spirit into Adam that he becomes a living being.。
He becomes a real boy. No, he becomes a man.。
You see, the reason I say this now is because there are guys all across this room in this place tonight。
that look like a man on the outside, but they do not live like a man on the inside.。
And that's because they have not met the God-man, which is Jesus Christ.。
You must meet him, God who became man, before you can ever become a man.。
And I don't care how much money you make. I don't care if you make Forbes 30 under 30.。
I don't care how much sex you have, if you're beating women off with a stick.。
I don't care how much strength you exhibit, if you're more fit than Chris Bumstead himself.。
And I don't care how successful you are.。
If you walk into a room like this, and everybody knows who you are, none of those things make you a man.。
Don't believe me? Just try them. Give them a shot. See how well they work out.。
They will not dignify you the way that God, through Christ, in sending his spirit, can actually dignify you.。
Brothers, I am leaning into this because so many of you, you're going to hear all of the stuff I'm going to say,。
and you're going to just start jumping into it and applying it, and it's going to be fruitless.。
It's not going to work. It's not going to fill you up.。
In fact, it's going to frustrate you because you're going to be doing something out of your strength,。
when in reality, you should be doing it out of his spirit.。
So you need to know what makes a man.。
It is not what you fill your life with that makes you a man.。
It is what God fills you with that makes you a man.。
And brothers, he wants to fill you with his Holy Spirit tonight if you don't have it.。
Let's keep reading. Verse 8.。
"And the Lord God planted a garden in Eden, in the east, and there he put the man whom he had formed.。
And out of the ground the Lord made spring up every tree that is pleasant to sight and good for food.。
The tree of life was in the midst of the garden, and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil."。
And he goes on later to say that, hey, you can eat of any tree but one.。
Now, before we jump down to verse 15, I just think that this is important because, again,。
I think it's going to meet some of you fellows in the room, and it's going to sit you in this text,。
because the truth of the matter is God has taken Adam out from the wild,。
and he has transplanted him into the garden, just as he has taken you out of the wild,。
where you are frustrated, and you are unfulfilled, and you are anxious.。
And he has moved you into his presence, the garden, where you might actually meet him face to face.。
And as that interaction takes place, all of the purpose you've been searching for will be found.。
You thought you were just coming to the porch. You came to get some purpose tonight.。
It says in verse 15, "The Lord God took the man, and he put him in the garden of Eden to work it and keep it.。
And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, 'Hey, you may surely eat of every tree of the garden,。
but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat.。
For in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die.'"。
One last thing you need to know if you want to know what the purpose of men is, is we work for good.。
We work for good.。
That's what it means in Hebrew when it says that God put the man in the garden to work it.。
Men were created with an orientation towards work,。
which means you might hate your job, but you should love your work,。
because men are meant to provide.。
Here's the thing, as I say that men are meant to provide, our minds more than likely immediately rush to this idea。
that a man's job is to provide food for his family and a roof over their head,。
and he's supposed to pay for beach trips and travel, and he's got to cover the shopping budget,。
and he's got to make sure that the kids can play club sports.。
But the thought here is so much bigger.。
You see, this isn't just the call on the life of a husband and a father to provide.。
As I said, Adam is single in this moment.。
So he's not just meant to materially provide for his family.。
He is meant to culturally provide for flourishing,。
that in every space he walks into and in every space you walk into,。
it doesn't matter who you are visiting with.。
It doesn't matter if you're pulling up to your office space,。
if you're visiting with friends down the street in the neighborhood,。
if you're showing up to the pool on a Saturday,。
if you're choosing to make a phone call to someone that lives across the country.。
I don't know what space you're entering into,。
but whatever space you're entering into, you're supposed to produce flourishing in that space.。
You're supposed to treat it the same way that I treat my grass.。
I cut my yard every week, and I care a lot about my grass.。
I just want it to be like a fluffy green pillow-top mattress.。
And as I cut my yard, I consider carefully what must I do to make it grow.。
Do I need to fertilize it in a specific season?。
Do I need to water it at a specific time of day?。
Right now I'm noticing the fact that the heat has been so extreme。
that my grass is actually retreating instead of encroaching to the curb。
because the soil has dried up.。
That's how focused I am on that flourishing.。
Men, you should be likewise focused on the flourishing within whatever space you walk into。
because if God is the creator of all things, then man is the cultivator of all things.。
And contrary to popular belief, that work does not start when you have a family.。
It starts before you ever have a family.。
And, fellas, let me just say, if you're not doing it before a family comes into the picture,。
no girl in her right mind should picture a family with you.。
Why?。
Because Paul writes to Timothy, and he says this.。
He says, "But if anyone does not provide for his relatives。
and especially for members of his household,。
he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever."。
You see, according to Paul, who through the Holy Spirit has been inspired,。
we learn the truth that a lazy man is a faithless man,。
and no woman wants to marry a faithless man.。
So can I just level with you?。
And I'm going to say it straight because, men, we need to hear it straight.。
If you do not have a job, you need to get one.。
If you do not have a career path, you need to set your trajectory.。
If you are working remotely, you need to get honest,。
if that's about cultivating Christ's kingdom or cultivating your comfort.。
And if you're living at home and you're not saving to pay off debt,。
it's time to move out because men have been called to engage the world.。
We have been meant to run into it, not retreat from it.。
So I just want to ask you, which way are you running?。
Are you running towards what's hard but right,。
like foregoing your hobbies and your leisure,。
sacrificing even at great cost to yourself in order to cultivate God's good world,。
or are you running towards what's easy and wrong?。
The reason I ask you that is because Christ has shown us what a man is meant to do。
in that he ran towards what was hard but what was right.。
He did not delay. He moved with great haste.。
He came to get to the very people from whom God had sent him to reach.。
Now, I need to say this.。
It is important that we understand at the opposite end of the spectrum。
can be hardworking men who are not faithful either.。
I know plenty of wives that have hardworking husbands。
who are more married to their jobs than they are their spouse.。
I know plenty of girls who have absentee fathers。
that have filled the void with idiot boyfriends,。
and I know plenty of young sons that have no man to show them。
what it means to be a man.。
Hardworking does not equal faithful.。
Cultivation equals faithful.。
You see, cultivators, they don't just work to make a check.。
They work to make a difference.。
So are you making a difference in the spaces in which you walk?。
Because that's what Jesus did.。
There was not a person he met. There was not a situation he engaged.。
There was not a town to which he traveled。
where great good did not flow forth from his time there.。
He made a difference in every place and with all the people that he met。
because he was the apex cultivator.。
That's what you're called to be.。
Don't just learn it from the text.。
Look to his life.。
In him, you'll find a good example to follow.。
The second purpose of men is seen in verse 15 too.。
It tells us that he was put in the garden to work it,。
but he was also put in the garden to keep it.。
It's fascinating.。
This is where the idea of both provision and protection comes from。
because men are called to secondarily fight to protect.。
That's your purpose.。
You're meant to fight to protect.。
Now, this doesn't mean that you need to start taking Brazilian jiu-jitsu,。
though that certainly wouldn't hurt,。
but it does mean that God has a very specific reason。
for which he has designed men to be physically stronger than women.。
Listen to me.。
I know there are some ladies in here and online that can really move some weight.。
I work out at EOS up on 15th and Plano, and I watch women just put boys to shame,。
open shame when they just like load another plate on the bar,。
and you see those guys tuck tail and run.。
I have no doubt that there are plenty of ladies here who are physically strong,。
and yet by and large, you're the exception and not the rule。
because what we know is that God has made men physically stronger.。
Like they can physically build more muscle.。
We can hormonally carry more aggression,。
and we can psychologically predispose to action instead of emotion.。
This is why he doesn't listen to your problems。
because he doesn't think with his heart.。
He thinks with his hands, and so you start to describe to him what's wrong,。
and he starts to think about what he can do, and it's neurological.。
Now, listen to me.。
It's not his fault.。
It is his problem.。
He needs to grow.。
He needs to learn to listen with his face and consider what you're feeling,。
but the truth of the matter is this is part of just being a man.。
It's also why men have broader shoulders than women.。
If I were to take a random group of ladies,。
and I were to take a random group of men,。
and I were to try to fit as many of them into an elevator as possible,。
my money would be that I can get more ladies in the elevator than I can the men,。
and the reason why is because if you look at a lady and you tell her,。
"Have you lost weight?"。
That's a compliment, but if you look at me and you ask me if I've lost weight,。
that's an insult.。
Men want to be large.。
Women want to be broad.。
We want to be strong.。
It's funny.。
One of the first things my son learned was to, like, throw up two arms,。
which I was so proud of when he did so.。
Now, with that settled,。
it's important for us to understand the physical and emotional strength of men。
is not meant to protect themselves.。
It's meant to protect others,。
and when that's mishandled,。
when men lose control of their strong emotions。
and they become hot-headed and foolish,。
when they lose control and they act in violence and abuse,。
or when they lose control and neglect their God-given strength。
by operating in passivity,。
women and children lose.。
I used to sit in a Bible study with an amazing teacher。
who worked us through the book of Genesis,。
and he would trace this theme again and again and again,。
which we pick up just two pages from Genesis 2 and Genesis 4,。
that as goes the man, so goes the family, so goes the world.。
And you see it.。
We'll talk about it in coming weeks,。
but the damage of an absentee husband and an absentee father,。
it repercusses across generations.。
That's because men are called to fight to protect.。
So what do we do about this?。
What does it actually look like for us to employ this purpose today?。
I'll make three suggestions.。
Number one, we don't send women to fight our battles.。
In 2016, the United States opened virtually all military occupations,。
including combat roles, to women,。
and yet it speaks volumes when you look at the registered numbers。
that men still overwhelmingly make up the majority of personnel。
in frontline specialties, combat deployments, and casualties.。
Why is that the case?。
Because by and large,。
women don't want to volunteer for those positions,。
nor should they have to.。
Now, I want to be very clear.。
I'm not saying that a woman can't nor a woman shouldn't enter into the fray.。
There have been many women, brave, bold, courageous women,。
that have laid down their life for the sake of people they love,。
mothers that have covered their children from spraying bullets,。
from a man of violence.。
But what I am saying is that men should enter the fray first.。
Men should enter the fray first。
because we don't send women to fight our battles.。
It's funny.。
I remember nothing about the movie "Titanic"。
except for that one horrible human being at the very end。
that grabs some little child and tries to sneak on to a safety boat。
because that's wrong.。
That's cowardice.。
Men, do not be cowardly.。
You be courageous for the sake of our ladies.。
The second thing that we have to know is we should learn self-control.。
And I just need to be honest about this one.。
It's time we stop thinking that self-control is a good idea,。
that it's a noble cause to pursue,。
that it's something we really should grow in,。
and it's time to actually start taking steps in learning it.。
We'll talk about this more in the coming weeks。
when we talk about becoming a man and what the path therein is.。
But good lives are not built through feelings.。
They are built through decisions.。
And that's because consistency always moves the needle more than intensity.。
So what does it look like for you to build rules into your life?。
I'm going to just give a couple of examples,。
but I'm going to challenge you to consider what rules you need to assign to yourself。
depending upon what your tendencies are.。
If your tendency is to get defensive when you feel misunderstood, then rule.。
Listen, take a lap, and follow up once your jets have cooled.。
Are you prone to passivity?。
Then rule.。
Do not wait until tomorrow to do what you can do today.。
Do you gossip when other people are not around?。
Then rule. You should not say to someone else what you would not say to that person instead.。
Proverbs 25:28 says, "A man without self-control is like a city broken into and left without walls."。
That means it's defenseless.。
No woman wants to live with that.。
And then the third thing that I would suggest is you become the master of your flesh.。
Perhaps the most important battle you can fight in your single years is against your sinful passions。
because marriage is not going to cure you of your lusts.。
In fact, you will carry them into your marriage, and the enemy will then use them to destroy what God has deemed good.。
Now is the time to become the master of your flesh instead of being mastered by your flesh.。
Again, we're going to talk about this in the coming weeks, just giving you more and more bait to come back.。
But I will tell you this.。
One of the things that we need to do as men is we need to stop calling it a struggle.。
We need to start calling it a sin.。
We need to gather some guys around us and making war against that which is warring against us.。
It's time to just get real about it, guys.。
You're not alone in it.。
Every one of us has something, more than one thing.。
And so it's time to link arms and make war.。
Men fight to protect others because Jesus fought to protect us.。
He willingly came to our aid.。
He willingly stepped into our fight.。
He willingly laid down his life for the sake of his bride, his beloved.。
And the amazing thing is he didn't stay dead.。
Jesus rose in victory.。
And because he has risen in victory, we know that we do not fight for victory.。
We fight from victory.。
And that gives you all the fighting spirit you need.。
And here's the last one in 49 seconds.。
Turn the page.。
Go to Genesis 3.。
This is what happens right after Adam and Eve eat the forbidden fruit.。
It says this.。
Verses 8 and 9.。
Are you there?。
There's one page.。
It says, "And they heard the sound of the Lord walking in the garden in the cool of the day.。
And the man and his wife, they hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden.。
But the Lord God called to," who?。
Men, who did he call to?。
He called to the man and he said to him, "Where are you?"。
This is a very subtle detail, but it has massive implications because we should consider why does he call to Adam?。
Was it not Eve who first saw the fruit?。
Was it not Eve who first was tempted?。
Was it not Eve who first took of the fruit?。
Was it not Eve who first tasted of the fruit?。
Why then is God coming after Adam?。
Like he's not the one that got them into this mess, right?。
Wrong.。
Because here we see the third purpose of manhood, which is men should take initiative.。
They should take initiative.。
You see, it was Adam that had received the command from God to not eat of the tree of good and evil.。
It was Adam who passively stood by.。
It says in verse 6 that he was with her.。
And he did not protect his bride.。
And because of this, it was Adam who stood ultimately responsible for his family's failure.。
And the reason for that is because though men and women are equal in essence, they are distinct in role.。
And the role of men, according to God, within the home is headship or leadership.。
Now, just breathe, ladies.。
I promise I'm not saying what you think I'm saying.。
And we're going to talk about this in seven days' time.。
We'll get there.。
Just hang with me for a week.。
This is for the men.。
And I want to make a couple things abundantly clear to the guys because there's a few things here that I am not saying.。
Notice I did not say that all men are the head of all women.。
A husband, according to the biblical worldview, is the head of his wife in the same way that elders are the head of the church.。
And Christ is the head of the body.。
Now, how do those people, according to God's word, husbands, elders, and Christ, how do they exercise their headship, their leadership?。
Not through domination, but through sacrificial leadership.。
That's what they do.。
But Kylan, what about my leading of my girlfriend?。
Okay, boss, listen.。
You put a ring on it.。
You ask her daddy's hand.。
Have you asked her daddy for her hand in marriage?。
Have you asked her before God, family, and friends and vowed for better or worse, sickness, health, until death do you part to provide for her?。
Then you are not her husband.。
And thus you have no headship.。
And thus you have no right to her body, to her money, to her time, or to her attention.。
So much damage has been done under the lie that boyfriends lead girlfriends.。
That is incorrect.。
The Bible assesses you as brother or husband.。
As of now, you're a brother.。
Would you make out with your sister?。
I don't think so.。
So you honor her.。
You conduct yourself in a way that dignifies her.。
You sacrifice for her.。
And you recognize the fact that she's God's girl and not yours.。
Number two, notice I did not say that women are inferior to men.。
Both are created in the image of God.。
Thus both are co-equal.。
And yet what you see is that woman is actually the crown jewel of creation.。
What do I mean by that?。
Well, let me just put it to you like this.。
If I want to sell a magazine to women, I put a woman on the front.。
Not some dude.。
And if I want to sell a magazine to a man, I put a woman on the front.。
As I love said, like women are better than men.。
And every dude in here said amen.。
And then lastly, notice I didn't say women are incapable of leadership.。
I already mentioned my wife is an incredible leader in the corporate work space.。
My number two at the porch, Emily Carter over here, is an absolute boss.。
One of the best leaders that I know.。
I fear for the day when she leaves my team, this is me putting you on public。
notice that you're not allowed to do so.。
She's over here at the porch named Jenny Allen who is not just a friend of。
ours and not just a speaker at Awaken, but also the founder of IF.。
And she organized a 24-hour global prayer movement.。
Boss.。
You know, like all of these ladies are capable of incredible leadership.。
And they're not the only ones that I could go on about.。
What this is saying is nothing about the capacity or capability of women to lead.。
What this is saying is that men occupy a unique role of spiritual headship when。
they become husbands.。
And yet, though men cannot function in this role while single,。
what you need to know, guys, is you can image headship today,。
meaning you can prepare yourself for it.。
One of the greatest mistakes young men make, young single men make,。
is they wait to learn what it might be to image Christ through their headship。
until they get married.。
Now, there's opportunity for you to begin to cut your teeth on this right now.。
And here's what I mean.。
I'll just give you a few examples,。
all of which come by way of you stepping into your God-given purpose to take。
initiative.。
If you're taking notes,。
you'll want to get these down because you need to put them into practice。
starting tonight.。
Number one, you need to get serious about pursuing godly women for marriage.。
You need to get serious about pursuing godly women for marriage.。
As a future head of your family,。
you will be expected to woo and romance her long after you say your I do's.。
So don't wait until that time to figure out what it looks like to pursue her as。
someone worthy and protect her.。
You take initiative right now.。
And here's what I would say.。
I don't know what you're waiting for.。
Like there are ferociously godly women all across this room.。
I talk to them every single week on my staff and within my team leaders alone.。
There are eight single godly ferocious women that I cannot believe the young。
men have not scooped up.。
I don't know when it happened,。
but at some point we decided to make marriage a capstone event,。
something we do at the end of our adulthood after we have achieved all of。
our young adult accolades.。
When in reality it was meant to be a cornerstone event,。
something that happens at the beginning of your adulthood.。
So that way as you link arms with someone whom you deeply love,。
you can experience growth in the achieving of life's goals together.。
You're passing on something amazing.。
Now I know not everybody here is called to marriage,。
but if you are burning with desire,。
stop going to your computer and start looking to a woman.。
You can actually find that through the avenue of marriage,。
covenantal union,。
there is someone that you can make the most of your twenties in.。
You're not going to make the most of your twenties playing sand volleyball.。
You're not going to make the most of your twenties out there playing pickleball。
or softball.。
You're going to make the most of it.。
If you want to be married by finding a woman and journeying through your。
twenties together in.。
And if you're in your thirties, make haste men, make haste.。
Number two, you need to protect women as sisters,。
which means you don't need to wait to lay down your life until you're married.。
You can learn how to do that right now.。
So you can offer to walk her to her car.。
She doesn't need to walk out in the dark after this evening by herself,。
whenever she's moving apartments,。
you can get some buddies together and you can go leverage some of that God。
given physical strength to move some furniture for her.。
And you actually,。
you can actually engage the weirdo that makes her uncomfortable in social。
environments.。
You can exercise protection today.。
You can start fighting to protect women as sisters.。
You can learn the skill of decision-making.。
I don't know.。
Shouldn't be a part of your vocabulary.。
Like as a husband,。
you will need to make decisions with wisdom and discernment.。
So start now, like your friends,。
they're going to want to do something after the porch.。
Guess what?。
There's two restaurants open.。
There's velvet taco and there's in and out.。
You can be very decisive in just a moment.。
You can start practicing the skill of decision-making.。
Fourthly, you can start being accountable to your actions.。
When something goes wrong,。
you own 100% of whatever you can own.。
And I would,。
I would implore you to own it fast.。
Your duty as a husband is to initiate reconciliation with your wife and with。
your children whenever you fail.。
So it's a good skill to learn right now.。
And then the last thing that I would tell you,。
if you were trying to learn how to image headship again,。
just prepare for the day when that role will be afforded you.。
Disciple other men,。
disciple other men like as a future father,。
you are going to be responsible for training your sons and daughters in。
godliness,。
but you don't need to wait until you have children to learn that Paul was a。
spiritual father to Timothy and Titus.。
You can become a spiritual father to others right now.。
And so go and volunteer and kids go volunteer with students.。
Come serve with us here at the porch.。
Like start a Bible study.。
I don't know what it is,。
but begin to cut your teeth on the work of discipling other people because,。
because ultimately this will be expected of you when you are a husband and a。
father.。
So get in the game now instead of later.。
These are just a handful of ways you can begin imaging headship,。
but notice,。
and this is important to say at the end here,。
not a single one of these is about domineering anyone,。
but sacrificing you,。
you sacrifice yourself.。
And we know this is how it should be because Christ has imaged headship。
towards us and that he sacrificed himself for our sake.。
And so you can do the same.。
Here's my last story.。
I'm sorry.。
This has run long.。
When I started working in young adult ministry,。
the greatest source of conflict that I found myself repeatedly reconciling。
where he said,。
she said conversations that happened all the time,。
different people with different perspectives that were different,。
different perspectives that led to differing opinions.。
And yet the way through all of that chaos and confusion was never by trying。
to understand who was right and who was wrong,。
but instead what was true.。
That's the heart of this series is we want to look at what God has said is。
true.。
And the beauty of it is he has not only spoken what's true into the。
confusion of our day and in your life,。
but he has sent Christ to give you the confidence that comes when that truth。
reigns Supreme.。
You see men,。
God has spoken what is true about who you are and he has sent Jesus to give。
you the confidence to step into all of it.。
Christ,。
he worked for our good.。
He lived the perfect life that we could not live.。
He fulfilled every demand of the statutes and laws of God.。
And he did so perfectly,。
but he not only did that,。
he fought to protect his beloved.。
He laid down his life for the sake of those that he came to save.。
He was not in any way at fault.。
And yet he embraced all of our problem as his own.。
And he took initiative in the work of it because he knew they will not,。
nor can they come to me.。
And so I will come to them.。
I will do what they cannot.。
I will die the death they deserve.。
And because I can do all that,。
I will rise forth on the third day so that any man that wants to be who God。
made him to be need only look to the man that God became himself for Christ。
came.。
He has shown you the way brothers.。
Let me pray that you would follow a minute.。
Lord, thanks for tonight.。
God, I, uh,。
I know that this, this all can feel hard,。
can feel maybe heavy.。
Part of that God is my imperfection as a, as a preacher.。
And so God,。
I pray that you would extend grace to the minds and the hearts of my。
friends here to look past my shortcomings and see God,。
your sufficiency.。
I pray God that very specifically my brothers here would not feel beat up,。
but they would feel called into everything you want for them.。
And I pray God that the men in this room.。
Oh, listen to me, men.。
I pray we would rise up and be the men that you have made us to be.。
And that God, this room, our sisters, this city,。
our country could be better because you,。
God have been seen by us as better.。
And we have forsaken all else to follow after you and become Jesus,。
which you became.。
We love you, Lord.。
We want to rise up for some of us.。
That means we first need to fall down.。
Won't you God help us to not only look like men,。
but live like them live like him who died for us in Christ's name.。
Amen.。
