[MUSIC PLAYING]。
What's up, everybody?。
Joining us from wherever you are tuning in from,。
we are continuing the series, Therapy,。
where we are each week exploring a biblical perspective。
on mental health.。
For the last few weeks, we have been diving into anxiety。
and what is a perspective that the Bible says。
is helpful as it relates to anxiety.。
Tonight, we're going to finish off really the last。
of the handful of weeks that we've。
been diving into the topic of anxiety, which。
is such a big issue that we didn't。
think we could do it justice by doing it one night.。
Mental health was a problem in our society。
well before COVID ever took place,。
and corona has only escalated and made things worse.。
So we are camping out and talking each week。
on session one, session two, session three,。
and going week by week what it looks like to walk。
through therapy, getting healthy, covering anxiety,。
covering depression, covering just general healing。
and recovering from our past.。
So tonight, we're finishing off just looking at anxiety.。
And I'm going to start like this.。
A couple of years ago, I got invited。
with a friend of mine who was in ministry, JP,。
if you're familiar, who now leads a church called。
Harris Creek in Waco.。
But the two of us were invited to go to London。
to be a part of a conference for kind of next generation。
pastors, 75 of us from all over the world.。
And we were hanging out in London for the week.。
So we decided, hey, we're going to make this just。
like a brocation, plan it out, have a game plan for going。
to see all that London had to offer.。
Neither of us had ever been to London before,。
so we're researching.。
We got the plan.。
We're going to see Buckingham Palace.。
We're going to see Churchill's War Room.。
We're going to go see the bridge and the Eye of London.。
We just had everything worked out.。
And when we got there, because I'd never been to London,。
I didn't know how similar it was to New York City,。
and that the primary way that most people get around town。
is taking something called the--。
anybody know?。
My staff team is right here.。
The Tube.。
This brother's been to London.。
And you take the Tube.。
The Tube is the subway version in London。
of how most people get around.。
It's basically a train that will take you all over the city.。
Here's why I love the Tube.。
Much like the subway in New York, for $5,。
you can go anywhere you want in the city.。
Unlike what an Uber--。
the same amount if you paid towards an Uber of $5,。
you're going to get one block over.。
If you take the Tube, you put $5 on something。
called an Oyster card, and it loads you up。
to be able to go anywhere you want.。
You can go up to Chelsea.。
You can go over to Kensington.。
You can go see all that there is to see for such。
an incredibly cheap price.。
So we loaded up, got ready.。
We took the Tube everywhere we were going to go.。
And something happens whenever you're not。
familiar with the grid lines of a train organization,。
or train system, so to speak.。
There are times where you want to go to some area north。
in North London, or in East London, or some area。
to go see some tourist attraction.。
And you get on a train that you think。
is taking you in that direction, only。
to realize you are headed in entirely the opposite direction。
of where you want to go.。
This happened multiple times for us, because neither of us。
had been really to London.。
So we looked at it.。
We're like, oh, we need to get on the A line。
and come up here, only to realize。
we were headed in the complete opposite direction。
of Buckingham Palace, or of whatever site。
that we were going to see.。
So in that moment, what do we do?。
Well, we get off the train.。
We identify.。
We begin to try to attempt to find,。
how do we get to the destination we're actually。
attempting to go?。
Well, the answer, of course, you need。
to get on a train headed in the right direction。
of that destination.。
Now, what does it have to do with anxiety?。
Well, really a lot, because just like there's trains,。
and depending on which train you get on,。
it's going to take you in a direction and ultimately。
a destination, our minds and our thoughts。
work in really similar ways.。
In other words, every time that you have a thought,。
if you and I choose to allow and dwell on that thought,。
we continue to invite other thoughts like it that。
lead us in a direction in life.。
They begin to fill our mind, fill our mindset,。
as it relates to anxiety or anxious thoughts,。
and they take us in a direction.。
What I want to cover tonight is one。
of the most important aspects of experiencing a peaceful life,。
and that is learning to think rightly.。
The Bible over and over hits that there。
are thoughts that should fill you and I's minds.。
There's a way that you and I are to dwell on truth,。
as we'll talk about here in a second.。
But if you cannot conquer the ability to think rightly,。
you will not be able to address your anxiety.。
So we're going to dive in for the next handful of minutes。
and really look at two ideas or two points from this text.。
One of them is related to realizing,。
the other is replacing.。
One of them is realizing, and the other is replacing.。
In Proverbs chapter 23, verse 7, it says this.。
"For as a man," or as he thinketh,。
the King James Version says, "or as a man thinks within himself。
so he is, your thoughts take you in destinations."。
And I'll unpack and explain more what I mean.。
But the first aspect to you addressing your anxiety--。
this is so huge--。
you have got to realize your anxious thoughts lead you。
in the direction or destination of anxious feelings.。
Anytime you feel anxious-- listen to me--。
every time you feel anxious on the inside,。
those anxious feelings are coming。
from some anxious thinking that is behind them.。
Your thoughts direct and influence。
the destination of your life, and they direct and influence。
the experience that you're going to have with anxiety.。
The anxious feelings often lead us to reach out.。
And out of the fact that nobody likes to feel anxious,。
we turn to anything that can kind of give us。
some sort of peace.。
So you turn in order to numb yourself to a bottle。
or to just check out through scrolling through Instagram.。
Or anytime there's some sort of anxiousness,。
out of the overflow of trying to get relief from that,。
we will reach out to find something that will help us。
experience more peace.。
But tragically, we seldom address the anxious thoughts。
that are behind and fueling and feeding。
those anxious feelings.。
In other words, first idea is that you have to realize。
anxious feelings come from anxious thinking.。
Just like I mentioned getting on a train。
and how there's trains of thought that we get on,。
if you allow your thoughts and the idea of a train of thought。
we even recognize like, hey, thoughts can lead you places,。
which is why we have this term of train of thought.。
If you get on the wrong trains of thought,。
it will take you towards the wrong destination。
and lead you in the wrong direction,。
the wrong direction away from peace and towards anxiety.。
And you've got to begin to address。
what are the anxious thoughts that are feeding。
and fueling the anxious feelings that I have on the inside?。
What are the trains, the trains of thought。
that I'm getting on that are taking me away from peace。
and towards anxiety?。
Some of the more common trains of thought。
that I think are common just for, you know,。
in my life or young adults and have seen over the years。
would look like some of these.。
This is what I call the WebMD train.。
This is the train of thought that you get on,。
you wake up in the morning,。
you got like some weird neck pain or something in your back。
and you're like, oh man, what is going on?。
And rather than just saying likely,。
it's probably that I just slept weird,。
my pillow was in a weird position.。
You begin to go, man, I think I may have like something,。
like there's a growth or something inside of here,。
like neck pain.。
And I go to WebMD, I pull up the app,。
I type in on symptom checker, these are my symptoms。
and I'm making a walkthrough,。
like, oh, this is what I'm feeling.。
Inevitably, when it pulls up possible diagnoses,。
it always includes things like, you know,。
oh, you got back pain,。
or that could be kidney failure or a appendicitis rupture,。
or, you know, cancer is in there.。
For some reason, cancer makes every single list of like,。
thank you WebMD for just making me anxious.。
And all of a sudden,。
what was just a little bit of back pain。
from sleeping in a weird way,。
you begin to go down that WebMD, you know,。
train of anxiousness and you go,。
oh my gosh, I'm going to die.。
I'm too young to die.。
I didn't know back cancer was a thing.。
Who's going to take care of my dog whenever I die?。
And what could have been a moment。
that wasn't filled with anxiety, all of a sudden is.。
And you feel anxious because anxious thoughts。
fueled and fed that.。
If you're going to address that anxiety that you feel,。
you've got to address the anxious thoughts。
that are behind it.。
Another one as common as the。
reading into the relationship train.。
So this happens early in a dating relationship,。
happens anytime in a dating relationship early.。
But let's say you just started dating a guy,。
you know, you're three dates in,。
he drops you off at your house,。
you get there and he comes up, gets out of the car.。
And he says, man, I had a great time.。
And he proceeds to give you a side hug.。
You turn away after getting that side hug。
and you begin to walk into your apartment。
and all of a sudden you start overanalyzing,。
what does I had a good time mean?。
And side hug?。
A side, what am I, your cousin or something?。
And you begin to plan your tape.。
Oh, he's going to break up with me.。
He's not interested in me.。
He was just doing this, like giving it one last chance.。
I'm not even sure I want to keep moving forward with this.。
This thing is over, rover.。
And you begin planning your tape.。
There's probably some other girl out there.。
I bet he likes Sarah.。
And without even realizing it,。
you jump on that train of thought.。
And the next thing you know,。
you're scrolling through Sarah's Instagram,。
checking out how many times your boo,。
you thought he was your boo, but no more,。
has been liking her posts and her pictures.。
And you begin to think, maybe I need to break up with him。
before this thing ends.。
I never even liked him that much to begin with.。
'Cause you jumped on that train.。
And trains of thought take us places.。
Another one would be the my boss doesn't like me train.。
Lauren has this one all the time at work.。
She's on my team.。
No, I'm totally kidding.。
Where all of a sudden, in a moment,。
you send an email, you say something in a meeting,。
you do something where you're like,。
here's what I think we should do.。
And you begin to go, oh man, he did not respond to that。
the way that I was hoping they would respond.。
I felt like everyone thought that was a really bad idea.。
And you begin to think, oh,。
I better like look for something else to do.。
I'm on the chopping block next.。
Or you send some email to your boss about whatever it is,。
and he doesn't respond for a few days.。
And you go, man, did he not get the email?。
No, of course he got the email.。
It couldn't have gone to spam.。
We work at the same company.。
Oh man, I bet he's going to let me go.。
I'm next on the chopping block for sure.。
He thinks all my ideas are stupid and dumb.。
And the next thing you know,。
you are looking up your LinkedIn profile。
and trying to find your password。
'cause you can never find the LinkedIn password,。
trying to update your resume。
'cause you're afraid you're going to lose your job.。
And you hopped onto that train。
and without ever even trying, all of a sudden,。
you were moving towards the destination。
of anxiety and anxiousness.。
The most common train of thought。
that a lot of people get on,。
I was talking to a counselor。
and just preparing for this series.。
He described it's just the what if train.。
We hop on this what if,。
and we begin to think about the future。
and think about hypotheticals。
and what if this could happen.。
And we begin to fill our mind with ideas of like,。
man, what if I get COVID-19?。
What if something does happen to my parents?。
What if they're not able to afford retirement。
and I end up having to take care of them。
for the rest of my life?。
What if I'm single for the rest of my life?。
What if I get married and I can't have kids?。
And you begin to live in some future hypothetical land。
out there that only robs you of peace right now。
and moves you in the destination of anxiety。
because your thoughts,。
if you do not address your anxiety at a thought level,。
you're not gonna experience peace.。
And you've gotta recognize and realize。
my anxious feelings are a trigger。
that there's anxious thinking。
that is coming into my head.。
And I've gotta address and deal with that anxious thinking.。
The apostle Paul in Philippians chapter four,。
as we read last week,。
launched into a conversation about anxiety.。
And last week we laid out that he said,。
hey, don't be anxious about anything.。
Philippians chapter four, verse six says,。
but in everything by prayer and supplication。
with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God。
and the peace of God, which transcends understanding,。
can't understand it, it's beyond words,。
will guard your hearts and minds.。
And then he immediately launches into this next thing.。
So he says, don't be anxious, pray to God,。
and also do this.。
He says, finally, brothers, whatever's true,。
whatever's honorable, whatever's just,。
whatever is pure, whatever's lovely,。
whatever's commendable, if there is any excellence,。
if there's anything worthy of praise,。
think on these things.。
So he doesn't just say, hey, don't,。
remember the biblical definition,。
this is gonna be really helpful for you.。
Maybe this is your first time tuning in.。
The biblical definition of being anxious。
is not having an anxious thought.。
It's dwelling on anxious or fearful thoughts.。
It's sitting there, replaying them, rehearsing them,。
thinking about them, focusing on them,。
dwelling on those things.。
Paul says, don't do that.。
If you have fearful thoughts, they're gonna pop up.。
They're occasionally gonna fill your mind,。
but don't dwell on them, don't hold onto them,。
don't meditate on them.。
Instead, meditate on these things.。
Get on these trains of thought.。
And he lays out, hey, whatever's true,。
whatever's honorable, whatever's pure,。
whatever's worthy of excellence,。
these are the things that should fill and flood your mind.。
The second idea that Paul talks about。
is you and I have to replace,。
if we wanna experience peace,。
we've gotta replace our trains of thought.。
Now, before I launch into that,。
here's one thing that is highly related。
to whether or not you're gonna experience peace,。
or highly related to how you can address。
the trains of thought.。
You have got to examine。
what is feeding your anxious thinking.。
Your anxious feelings come from anxious thoughts.。
What is feeding those anxious thoughts?。
I don't know what it is for you,。
but I know every single one of us,。
there are things that can fill in a moment。
our anxious thinking.。
Maybe it's scrolling through social media,。
and you need to take a break from social media。
because you get on there, and every time you do,。
it fills your mind with how much you don't have,。
how discontent you are with life,。
how sad you are that they, you know,。
you saw a picture of somebody。
posting their engagement pictures,。
and what floods your mind is,。
I'm gonna be single for forever,。
I'm gonna be the cat lady that grows into old age。
with 47 cats, nobody cares about me,。
and what could have been a moment of peace。
is a moment of anxiety,。
'cause you jumped on that anxious train,。
because something was feeding it, social media.。
Maybe it's the news.。
Like, it's borderline impossible to turn on the news。
and not feel anxiety coming up,。
being bombarded with, you know, virus spread,。
political craziness, racial tension,。
and that's just in America,。
and then now we got global news,。
versus like back in the day,。
in order for you to be, you know,。
anxious about Pakistan 50 years ago,。
it would take a while to get over here,。
and now with the click of a button,。
you can be worried about things。
you didn't even know existed 'til five minutes ago,。
and you need to watch, what are you feeding yourself?。
What is filling your head, filling your mind,。
filling your thoughts?。
'Cause if it's filling your thoughts,。
and it's anxious or fearful,。
it's gonna fill your heart with anxious feelings.。
You've got to address what you're feeding yourself.。
Maybe you need to get off, you know,。
like to know it, or Pinterest, or just online shopping,。
because when you do, you get on there,。
and you scroll through 1,000 different, you know,。
bridal dresses or clothing that you can't afford,。
or whatever it is,。
and it just feeds something inside of you.。
It is impossible to live a peace-filled life。
with anxious thoughts,。
to live a content life with discontent thoughts.。
As we read earlier, the Proverbs say,。
"As a person thinks, so they are."。
Your life is being shaped by how you think,。
and what you think is being shaped。
by what you're feeding it.。
You may need to take a break from dating apps,。
because every time you're on there,。
your emotional joy of that day goes up and down。
based on whether or not you get a match.。
And you find yourself quickly scrolling through,。
disappointed, almost self-loathing,。
'cause you're like, man, another day,。
and nobody liked me, no one will ever like me,。
and you're feeding something that is not helpful.。
If you want to experience peace,。
you've got to address the anxious thoughts,。
and if you want to address those,。
you've got to address what's feeding those,。
'cause Paul would say,。
"You need to replace that with the truth.。
"You need to replace that with God's word,。
"and hold on to what is true."。
By thinking about what you're thinking about.。
Over and over, the Bible talks about this.。
If you want to experience transformation in your life,。
you've got to change the way that you think,。
which is why Paul said, "Hey, get off those trains.。
"You need to get on these trains."。
If the trains of thought you're dwelling on。
are not true, lovely, good, right, pure, noble,。
you need to get off of those.。
Imagine how you and I's life would change。
if what filled our hearts。
was not thoughts of fear, but of faith.。
Not thoughts of how temporary things around us are,。
but eternal, like this life is a vapor.。
I'm going to be in heaven forever and ever.。
No matter what I face, I can handle it,。
'cause this life, the scripture says, is like a vapor.。
It's like when it's cold outside and you breathe,。
and it's there and it disappears.。
It puts it into perspective.。
So now whatever I face today, I'm like,。
man, I'm going to be okay.。
If my life was filled with thoughts,。
not about myself, but about others.。
If it was filled not with thoughts about。
negativity, but positivity.。
If you were to examine the thoughts that you've had today,。
how would you describe them?。
Were they more all like the world thinks?。
Or more like God describes,。
and what God says is important?。
Were they more peaceful or more anxious?。
Were your thoughts about yourself。
more negative today or positive?。
Begin to audit and think about what am I thinking about?。
Because you're going to experience an anxious life。
if what fills your heart or fills your mind。
is anxious thoughts.。
Imagine how our life would change。
if what flooded through our mind constantly,。
I know my life does and would and is,。
and experiences peace when what floods my mind。
are thoughts like these.。
May God is good, he's in control.。
I can trust him.。
God is good, he's in control.。
I can trust him.。
God is good, he's in control.。
No matter what I say, God, you're good.。
You're in control.。
People think they're in control.。
People think that society and the population。
decides what's going to happen.。
You've already determined and you're over everything.。
I can experience peace.。
You promise that no matter what I face, God,。
you are going to work it together。
for the good of those who love you.。
You're going to work it together for good in my life.。
You're going to use it.。
No matter how hard it is to bring about good in my life.。
God, no matter what I walk through, I'm never alone.。
You are with me.。
I've never been alone.。
I'll never be alone because you've promised in your word,。
you'll never leave me nor abandon me.。
How about thoughts like God has promised,。
I'm going to meet all of your needs.。
God will meet all of my needs.。
If I need it, God will meet my need。
because he cares about me.。
That's like my sexual past doesn't define me.。
Sin that I've committed doesn't define me.。
What Christ did on the cross, that's what defines me.。
That's what defines me.。
That's what define me.。
How would your life change?。
How much negative self-talk would end?。
How much more peace would you experience?。
Paul would say, you have got to begin。
to replace second idea, the trains of thought.。
If they're not noble or right or pure or lovely。
or admirable, or really just,。
if they're not consistent with God's word,。
you've got to begin to replace those trains of thought。
in your life.。
The final idea, I know I just said two,。
but I'm going to almost bracket into a third one。
is that in order to experience peace,。
you've got to realize the full truth in your life.。
You've got to begin to realize in the midst。
of those moments where I feel anxious,。
what is the anxious thought?。
Here's what I'm feeling.。
I feel anxious.。
What anxious thoughts are informing this?。
Man, I feel anxious that my mom is getting older。
and I'm worried she may get COVID。
and she could get sick and die.。
Okay, so now I'm feeling anxious about that.。
The thoughts that are informing that,。
in order to experience peace from that anxiety,。
I got to address those thoughts。
and address them with the truth from God's word.。
What do I mean by that?。
Like here's why, here's the power。
of a lot of the anxious thoughts.。
It's so important, so stay with me。
and I'll try to explain it as best I can.。
The power of the anxious, the reason why you're anxious。
is because a lot of those thoughts。
that fuel your anxious feelings,。
there is some truth in them.。
That's what makes them powerful.。
Like if it was like, oh my gosh, I'm anxious right now。
'cause my mom is going to get eaten by an alien,。
you probably don't struggle with that.。
You probably have never been like,。
oh man, that's a realistic scenario.。
What makes our anxious feelings so strong。
or the power in them is that there is some truth。
in the ideas or the thoughts。
that are feeding those anxious thinking.。
Does that make sense?。
So in order for you to address that,。
you've got to get into not just a partial truth。
because there is some partial truth。
inside of the things that feed our anxious thoughts,。
but the entire truth.。
What do I mean by that?。
Like, let's use that example.。
Like, man, I'm anxious right now.。
I feel anxious 'cause I'm worried。
my mom's only getting older.。
Maybe she could die from COVID.。
That's being fueled by anxious thoughts。
that, okay, she's 68, she has an autoimmune disease,。
she has whatever, yada, yada, yada.。
Those are all realistic thoughts.。
She could die by COVID.。
That's true, but it's only part of the truth.。
The entire truth, God's word tells us,。
is that God is in control over everything.。
He's determined your mom's days before she ever existed.。
He will not allow her to die one second。
before he is already determined.。
She's going to live the number of days,。
whether or not COVID is there,。
that he has allotted and planned out for her.。
And that's the entire truth.。
So I can either rest and promise that,。
God, you're over all of that.。
Nothing's going to happen that you didn't see coming,。
that you're not in control over,。
and I can have peace, or I can just be anxious.。
But I'm believing part truths that are behind that.。
The weird thing about part truths,。
which are generally speaking what is filling,。
honestly, I think it's almost always half truths,。
or not the entire truth that fuels。
and feeds our anxious feelings and our anxious thinking,。
is that by nature of being half true,。
that means they're half not true.。
It could be true, or they're half true,。
which means they could be half lies.。
They're not necessarily the truth.。
And the way that you and I combat them。
is with the entire truth, which comes from God's word.。
What does God actually say about this?。
And it gives me a perspective,。
an ability to address the anxious thoughts that I have.。
Maybe you find yourself wrestling with half truths,。
if you will, of things like this.。
Like, man, I'm never going to be able。
to conquer my depression.。
My brother will always be an addict.。
I'll never be able to get out of debt.。
I don't have friends that care about me.。
I'm never going to get married.。
I'll always be alone.。
The power of those things is,。
I mean, there is some truth in them.。
It's just not the entire truth.。
I'm never going to get married.。
I'll always be alone.。
What makes that powerful is there is some truth in that.。
You may never get married,。
but the entire truth is that if you're a follower of Jesus,。
you'll never be alone.。
You've never been alone.。
God has promised you may be single, but you're not alone.。
And the only thing that can fill a hole in your heart。
that lacks some relationship that you want。
is not a relationship with a person.。
It comes from God.。
And you may not believe it right now,。
but that is the truth.。
That's the entire truth.。
And you can allow those anxious half-truths。
or anxious thoughts to fill your anxious feelings.。
But if you begin to address them。
with the truth in God's word, God will never be alone.。
This life is a vapor.。
Whether I'm single or not,。
I can experience an amazing life.。
We've already seen, I mean,。
Jesus, who experienced an amazing life,。
or Paul, who didn't lack anything in life.。
He experienced the abundant life the Bible calls him.。
Neither of them were married.。
They didn't get to heaven, experience and lack here.。
And so as I begin to combat the lies。
or the half-truths with the entire truth,。
I begin to experience peace.。
Maybe you find yourself thinking,。
"Man, I'll never be good enough.。
I'm never, all the other people,。
like they're so much better than me.。
They're gifted in ways that I'm not.。
I just feel like so insecure about myself."。
And there's a part truth in that.。
You'll never be good enough.。
But the Bible says that's not the whole truth.。
The entire truth is that because of Christ。
and your relationship with him and Christ in you,。
you are more than enough.。
It even says that in our weakness,。
in the places where, AKA,。
this is 2 Corinthians chapter 12,。
it says, "Hey, wherever you're weak, AKA not enough,。
not smart enough, not pretty enough, not talented enough,。
in all of those places, God is more than enough,。
and his power is made perfect in weakness."。
So I can either dwell on,。
"Oh my gosh, I'm so embarrassed.。
I'm so insecure.。
I don't like who I am."。
Or I can say, "Man, all of the weaknesses。
that I bring to the table, God is bigger and better.。
And in the midst of the weakest places in my life,。
God can show his power, show up and show himself.。
He's more than enough."。
That's the whole truth.。
Maybe you find yourself thinking, "I can't change.。
I'll always be depressed.。
I'll always be addicted.。
I'll always be whatever it is.。
I'll always have dysfunctional relationships."。
The reason why that I can't change is powerful。
is there is some truth in it,。
but it's not the entire truth.。
It is true.。
I can't change.。
But the Bible says the entire truth is that through Christ,。
God can change you.。
That's the entire truth.。
And he can bring that about in your life.。
As you walk with Jesus, as you study his word。
and you begin to apply it,。
and you surround yourself with God's people,。
he will begin to change you.。
Maybe you struggle with thinking。
that your value is found in how you look.。
And here's what, let me just tell you, it is.。
Your value is found in how you look,。
how much you make, how much is in your bank account,。
to the world, to people who do not matter,。
whose opinions do not matter.。
And you get to decide,。
am I gonna let the opinions of the world around me。
determine my value,。
or am I gonna embrace the entire truth,。
which is that it may matter to them,。
but my value is not determined by them.。
My value has already been determined by God,。
who gave his life for me by sending his son on the cross.。
And he said, this is how valuable you are.。
It has nothing to do with how much you make,。
how your figure is, what job you have,。
the car that you drive, what family you came from,。
the color of your skin.。
Your value was determined。
when Jesus gave his life on the cross.。
And you can either allow that entire truth to define you,。
or you can allow the opinions of people who don't matter。
or whose opinions don't matter to define you.。
But that's a half truth, it's a part truth.。
It's not the entire truth。
which is found, contained in scripture.。
As I've already mentioned,。
there are so many people who experience fear,。
panic, anxiety.。
Right now, it seems like it's as high。
as it's ever been in culture.。
It's pandemic going all around us.。
People flooded with fear over what if,。
what if I die, what if my parents die,。
what if I get sick, what if something happens?。
And the worst thing I could say is like,。
oh no, that won't happen, like God's for you,。
nothing can stand against you.。
Even viruses, that's not the truth.。
There's a part truth, you may get sick.。
Someone you love may get sick.。
Something could happen like that.。
But it's not the entire truth.。
Everything you face in life,。
you will face, you have face.。
God is in control over.。
He's numbered your days.。
He loves you and He's for you.。
You can trust Him.。
Worrying about it is not gonna help you.。
It'll just make you anxious.。
Having anxious thoughts over what if。
is not gonna help you.。
It'll just make you anxious and feel anxious.。
And He's saying, hey, in those moments。
where you begin to go on that train。
and you begin to fear and you begin to,。
what if and what if and what if,。
He said, no, hold onto what is true.。
Truths that you find in God's word.。
A lot of us, and I'll close here.。
You may be thinking like, man,。
I just don't know how to study God's word.。
I just don't know where to go in the Bible。
and I don't know what to do.。
So here's what I want you to do.。
In that moment, as you begin,。
hopefully you have a small group。
or hopefully you have a community group.。
I want you as you feel, you go,。
what am I feeling right now?。
I'm afraid, I'm anxious.。
I'm worried.。
Begin to ask the question, why?。
What are the anxious thoughts that are informing that?。
What truth from God's word would apply to those?。
If you don't know, then bring your small group in and go,。
hey, here's the anxious thoughts that I'm having.。
What would God's word say?。
'Cause I don't know it as well as you guys do.。
Will you help me understand?。
Like what would God's word say about the faith。
that I'm just really afraid I'm gonna lose my job。
and I'm really afraid that I'm gonna be single.。
What would God's word, how would it help me understand。
what lies I may be believing from there?。
This is also why it's so important for you。
to begin to spend time in God's word.。
Doing what Romans chapter 12, verse two says,。
is the way that you and I experience transformation.。
By not being conformed by how the world thinks,。
but be renewed, have your life changed.。
By transforming, have your life transformed。
by changing or renewing your mind,。
by reading God's word and beginning to apply.。
And when I find myself anxious,。
asking what anxious thoughts are feeding into this,。
the anxious feelings that I have,。
and what lies may be behind that?。
What's the entire truth from God's word?。
And you know what's gonna happen as you begin to do that?。
Like this is the truth about anxiety.。
It doesn't go away overnight.。
Anybody tells you that?。
Generally, maybe every once in a while.。
I just have never seen it.。
It takes a process.。
It's a journey in life.。
If you struggle with anxiety, it takes time.。
And it takes working through,。
and it takes renewing your mind。
in order to retrain the way that you think.。
And as you do, and you study God's word,。
and you begin to address the things。
that make you anxious with God's word,。
you're gonna experience increasing amounts of peace.。
And you'll experience the ability to more quickly recognize,。
hey, I'm getting on a really anxious train。
that is not helpful.。
It's gonna take me in a direction.。
It's gonna take me to destination anxiousness,。
and I don't wanna go there.。
And you'll quickly say, gotta get off of that.。
I'm gonna hold on to what's true.。
When I was in London,。
we visited some friends that lived in the town.。
They were really familiar with where everything was,。
they knew where the eye was,。
they knew where all the tourist attraction was,。
and not just that.。
They knew all the tube routes.。
They knew all the subway routes, if you will.。
So we'd go with them, and here's what never happened,。
not one single time.。
We'd ride around with them,。
and previously, when it was just me and JP,。
we'd be like, oh man, I do not know。
what we're looking at right now,。
and they have some different English words。
that are different from the words that we use,。
and what are we looking at?。
And we would, at times, get lost.。
Not one single time did we get lost when we were with them.。
We'd get on, and if we were tempted to be like,。
oh, I think we need to take C,。
they'd be like, nope, don't need to take C,。
we need to take E.。
The E line is where it's gonna take us。
up to where we wanna go.。
They knew it because they were familiar with it,。
because every single day, they were around it,。
they'd just kinda eat, sleep, and breathe the tube.。
That's how they got around.。
They were familiar with it.。
So they didn't get on the wrong trains as easily as we did.。
But they didn't get there overnight.。
They didn't grow up, or there was nothing miraculous.。
They weren't born with the understanding。
of the tube layout system.。
Now, what does that have to do?。
People who are able to identify,。
I don't need to get on this anxious train.。
I need to get on the train of truth from God's word.。
It takes time.。
It takes knowing it, being familiar with it,。
and the more that you grow in your knowledge。
and understanding of God's word,。
the more you identify, hey, I'm feeling anxious about this,。
here's anxious thoughts informing it.。
I wanna fight those with the truth.。
I wanna get on the right trains.。
The easier and quicker it will be,。
and it takes time, and it's a process,。
but it is the path towards peace,。
or you can continue to be anxious,。
which won't help, always hurts,。
and it doesn't have to be the experience.。
Final half-truth in here,。
and some of you are believing,。
is that you are too unworthy to ever go to heaven.。
That is a half-truth.。
It contains a little bit of truth in it,。
because you are too unworthy to go to heaven.。
The Bible says that all of us have fallen short。
of the standard of God, which is perfection,。
that all of us have fallen short。
of God's glorious standard, Romans 3:23,。
that if it came to you on your own,。
you are unworthy to go to heaven,。
but that is not the entire truth.。
If you're buying the lie that I'm too unworthy,。
I'll never be able to go to heaven,。
that's partly true.。
You are too unworthy, but because what Christ has done,。
he has allowed anyone who would just trust in him。
as the only one worthy, who gave his life。
for every unworthy person like me,。
like every ear and person listening to this message.。
If you'll put your trust in what Jesus did on the cross,。
he will make you worthy, not because he will change you。
and make you like this imperfect person。
that deserves to go to heaven, no.。
It's only by what Jesus did on the cross。
that you and I are made, or allowed,。
or given the worthiness that only Jesus has,。
that only Jesus deserves,。
that gives us access to eternal life.。
And you've embraced a part truth by thinking。
you're not good enough to get into heaven,。
or you are a good enough person,。
so I'm pretty nice and I'm pretty good,。
so that's probably what will get me in.。
Those are both lies.。
The truth from the Bible is that God will allow anyone,。
and every person is unworthy,。
and he allows any unworthy person to have eternal life。
if they'll accept the free gift of putting their faith。
in what Jesus did for them on the cross,。
paying for every sin they ever committed.。
And when they do, they have become worthy。
of experiencing eternal life in a moment by faith.。
And you need to embrace, you've embraced a part truth.。
The entire truth is that God has gone out of his way。
to make it so that you could have a relationship with him。
for all of eternity and have experience of peace。
for all of eternity.。
Let me pray.。
Father, I pray for anyone listening to this message。
that has never put their faith in Jesus,。
that you would make them more anxious。
than they have ever been about where they stand with you,。
about what happens after they die,。
in order that would prick them and lead them。
to reach out to you and receive。
the free gift that you gave by giving your son.。
That wouldn't make them try to be a good person。
or attend church more or do more good things,。
but it would make them realize they can never do enough.。
And they would experience peace。
when they trust in what you did on the cross.。
I pray for every person that's listening to this message.。
And we're all in varying degrees on a journey with anxiety.。
Would you help us to take steps。
by getting off the wrong trains,。
addressing the lies we believe with the truth?。
Would you move us increasingly in the direction of peace?。
Though we may not be fearless overnight,。
that we, as we follow you, would fear less in our lives.。
We love you and we worship you。
and we thank you for Jesus.。
In his name we pray, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
