(drum roll)。
- Howdy!。
- Howdy!。
- Good to see you guys.。
If you have a Bible, I wanna read to you a couple verses。
starting in Mark chapter one.。
And I wanna read 'em to you and then we'll pray。
and then we can move through 'em together.。
But if you've got a Bible, Mark chapter one's。
where we're gonna be.。
If you don't, I think they're gonna put 'em on the screen。
so you'll be okay.。
But while you're turning there, let me just say,。
I love this church.。
When I graduated from Texas A&M,。
(audience cheers)。
I did not move to Dallas, but I had people。
that I cared about move to Dallas.。
And there were some people that I just,。
I wasn't sure what was gonna happen to 'em spiritually.。
And it was awesome for me to run into them months later。
and to see them just blasting off in their love of God,。
and trust of Him, and their peace, and their joy in life,。
just hitting new levels of living.。
And so much of it was because of the community。
and the love and the support they found at this place.。
And over the last several years,。
I've found that people I really care about come here。
and are blessed and are ministered to.。
So when they asked me to come this summer,。
I said yes, absolutely, 'cause I'm a fan of Watermark。
and all these people.。
So it's wonderful, wonderful to be here.。
Mark chapter one, beginning in verse 14.。
Let me read a couple verses to you, we'll pray,。
and then dive in.。
It says this.。
Now after John was arrested, Jesus came into Galilee,。
proclaiming the gospel of God and saying,。
"The time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God is at hand.。
"Repent and believe in the gospel."。
And passing alongside the Sea of Galilee,。
he saw Simon and Andrew, the brother of Simon,。
casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen.。
And Jesus said to them, "Follow me,。
"and I will make you become fishers of men."。
And immediately they left their nets and followed him.。
And going on a little farther,。
he saw James, the son of Zebedee, and John, his brother,。
who were in their boat, mending the nets.。
And immediately he called to them,。
and they left their father, Zebedee, in the boat。
with the hired servants and followed him.。
And they went into Capernaum,。
and immediately on the Sabbath,。
he entered the synagogue and was teaching.。
And they were astonished at his teaching,。
for he taught them as one who had authority,。
not as the scribes.。
And immediately there was in the synagogue。
a man with an unclean spirit, and he cried out,。
"What have you to do with us, Jesus of Nazareth?。
"Have you come to destroy us?。
"I know who you are, the Holy One of God."。
But Jesus rebuked him, saying, "Be silent, come out of him."。
And the unclean spirit convulsing him。
and crying out with a loud voice came out of him.。
And they were all amazed,。
so that they questioned among themselves, saying,。
"What is this, a new teaching with authority?。
"He commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him."。
And at once his fame spread everywhere。
throughout all the surrounding region of Galilee,。
and immediately he left the synagogue,。
entered the house of Simon and Andrew,。
with James and John.。
Now Simon's mother-in-law lay ill with a fever,。
and immediately they told him about her.。
And he came and took her by the hand and lifted her up,。
and the fever left her, and she began to serve them.。
And that evening at sundown, they brought to him。
all who were sick or oppressed by demons,。
and the whole city was gathered together at the door.。
Let me pray for us.。
Lord, thanks for these few minutes we have together。
around your word.。
Thanks for every person here, God,。
whether they came here because they just。
love studying the Bible,。
and they just couldn't wait to do that,。
and Sunday isn't sufficient,。
they need other days to connect with you,。
in a space like this, I just think that's awesome.。
And thank you for the people that are here。
that that's not their story at all.。
They're here 'cause they got tricked or something,。
or someone just brought 'em and they said okay,。
and acquiesced to being at a church on a Tuesday.。
Wherever we are, God, and how we connect。
to moments like this, and how we think about you,。
I just wanna thank you that you've given us。
this collective moment together。
to talk about you and to think about you,。
and to hear about what you care about.。
And I just wanna ask you, God, in these few minutes,。
would you help us see Jesus, and see him clearly?。
Open our eyes so that we understand what he was doing,。
and understand how he wanted to present himself.。
And then, Father, I pray we wouldn't just understand it,。
I pray you would help us think your thoughts,。
and also love what you love.。
Help us see him and see him as lovely.。
God, our hearts need to be touched by you,。
and I'm asking you to do that.。
I want some lives to be different。
as a result of this moment,。
and I just really feel it tonight,。
I can't generate that, I can't.。
Watermark, and the Shanes, and Ben。
are not what people in this room need, it's really not.。
It's you, we need you, God, together.。
And so please sit with us.。
And I wanna ask you, if you're willing,。
just to take a minute and pray.。
You talk to him, and say,。
God, please teach me something right now.。
(silence)。
And then if you would, please pray for me,。
that the Lord would use me and I would be helpful to you.。
Well, Father, we love you, and we trust you.。
Use this time, and we pray that in Jesus' name, amen.。
Well, several years ago,。
I was part of a ministry in Houston。
that used to gather periodically。
with other pastors from the area to pray.。
And I remember whenever we would do it,。
there was always one guy and I that were reintroduced.。
And I say reintroduced because I always remembered him,。
but he never remembered me.。
But he would never say that.。
They would always say, hey, do you remember Ben?。
And he would go, yeah!。
Right, and then to show everybody that he remembered me,。
he would tell a story about a shared experience we had.。
The only problem is the stories。
were never actually about me.。
So I remember the first time, they're like,。
you remember Ben?。
He was like, yeah, we used to play golf together.。
He's got a great swing.。
And I'm sitting there thinking,。
I've never played golf, like in my life.。
Like not just with you, but like in life.。
And the next time I saw him, they were like,。
you remember Ben?。
He was like, yeah, man, we shared the gospel once。
in the third ward in Houston, down in this bar.。
This guy's a powerful evangelist.。
He's anointed and he's going on,。
and I'm like, I've never been to a bar with you.。
And the longer this went on, I was like,。
I don't know who this golf-playing bar evangelist is。
that he's thinking of, but it's not me.。
And I never called him on it.。
I was never like, you are a liar.。
I just kind of went, hey, hey,。
and we'd visit for a minute and then move on.。
But the interactions were always brief.。
They were always shallow.。
Our relationship wasn't very deep.。
And it was certainly not one of those handful。
of relationships you get in life。
that was transformative to me as a person,。
because at the end of the day, he didn't know me.。
And so we could know each other's names,。
know a little bit, but it wasn't transformative.。
He didn't know me.。
Now, why tell you that?。
For this reason, we're talking about Jesus tonight,。
and everybody knows Jesus.。
Everybody likes Jesus.。
Everybody's on board with Jesus.。
Everyone's like, Jesus, yeah, I know Jesus.。
Yeah, that's great, I love him.。
Katy Perry's got his name tattooed on her wrist.。
Justin Bieber's got it on his ribs.。
Kesha's got Jesus on her necklace, right?。
Everybody's into Jesus.。
Every religion has a prominent place for Jesus.。
I remember sitting with a Satanist at the zoo,。
a story I don't have time to unpack.。
(audience laughing)。
But even for them, Jesus has a prominent place in Satanism.。
So everybody is on board with Jesus.。
I've never really met someone that's like,。
Jesus, I hate that guy.。
Even people that aren't into Christians,。
aren't into church, say they don't have a problem with Jesus.。
Everyone's like, Jesus, yeah, I know Jesus.。
I'm into Jesus, I like Jesus.。
But if you start to ask people, then tell me about him.。
When you ask people about what he actually did。
and actually said, it's amazing how few people。
really know what the real Jesus had to say。
and what he thought and what he did.。
And so there's people that say, yeah, I know Jesus.。
Yeah, I'm into Jesus.。
But they don't actually know much about Jesus.。
So they've got a picture of Jesus,。
but it's one that they've just kind of filled in the gaps。
with things they made up out of their own head.。
It's like a make-believe Jesus.。
And the problem with a Jesus like that is he's not real.。
It's like having an imaginary girlfriend。
or imaginary boyfriend.。
That's not gonna be a deep relationship.。
And it's not gonna be transformative.。
It's not gonna change you, right?。
'Cause at the end of the day, it's just kind of you.。
And so the reality is I'm just was thinking about us。
and praying about us and here,。
and I'm thinking what we need is not like a Jesus。
we make up, a Jesus we like,。
'cause it tends to be the Jesus we make up。
tend to agree with everything we think or believe.。
And that's not gonna change you.。
But none of us are who we're meant to be.。
We're not the men we're meant to be and we know it.。
We're not the women we're meant to be and we know it.。
And what we need, if we're gonna change,。
if we're gonna be what we were meant to be under God,。
what we need is not a Jesus we made up.。
What we need is the real Jesus.。
And that's why we're in Mark,。
'cause that's what Mark gives us.。
Gospel of Mark, most scholars believe,。
was the first one ever written about Jesus,。
first written account of him.。
And for the first decade or two after Jesus' life,。
there weren't really written accounts about him。
because the truth is they didn't really need one.。
I mean, there were so many people that knew him.。
First Corinthians 15 says there was like hundreds of people。
that connected with Jesus, knew Jesus.。
So in those early days, after his death and resurrection,。
there wasn't much written down about him。
because if there was any distortions about Jesus,。
if anyone was confused about what he was really like。
or began to say stuff that wasn't true,。
like, oh yeah, Jesus, didn't he like fly。
and like shoot fireballs?。
There was enough people that knew him。
that would be like, no, no, he wasn't like that.。
But as time went on, the people that knew Jesus personally。
were dying off.。
And so those that knew him realized,。
hey, we want generations later,。
people like us to know the real Jesus.。
And so guys like Mark wrote down this account of Jesus。
so we could know the real Jesus.。
And what we're looking at tonight。
is we're looking at Jesus introduce himself to the world.。
And what's interesting is I don't know。
how you would introduce Jesus.。
Like if I asked you, hey, tell this person about Jesus,。
I don't know what the first things would be。
that you would say.。
But I will say this, my guess is it would not be like this.。
But let me tell you what we're gonna do.。
I'm here tonight and then next week,。
I'll tell you what we're gonna do is we look at Mark.。
Most people when they teach the gospels,。
if you look at your Bible, it's broken down。
in these little kind of bite-sized pieces.。
And most people just teach each little bite-sized piece,。
which is a great way to do it,。
but we don't have that kind of time, right?。
And those are neat little vignettes,。
but we're gonna do something a little different.。
Scholars call those little things pericopes,。
which we won't because that's a weird word.。
We'll call them moments.。
And usually the Bible breaks them up。
into these little moments and that's not bad.。
But the problem is if you just read the life of Jesus,。
that way you can miss some things.。
Like in chapter one, the section I just read,。
verses 21 to 39, in my Bible,。
they're broken up into three little independent sections.。
But if you just read the verses,。
that's one day in the life of Jesus, one crazy day.。
So what we're gonna do is just kind of fly over。
this section of Jesus introducing himself to the world.。
And we're gonna see his first impressions,。
how he came off to people.。
And we're gonna see his self-identification,。
how he wanted to introduce himself.。
And then we're gonna get some personal application for us.。
But to look at his first impressions,。
you see it in verse 14, as he launches his ministry,。
it says, "Jesus came into Galilee,。
"proclaiming the gospel of God, saying,。
"the time is fulfilled, the kingdom of God is at hand.。
"Repent and believe in the gospel."。
Now we could do a whole sermon on just that,。
on the kingdom of God, and that would be a great sermon,。
but we're not gonna.。
But even if you don't know what that means,。
you realize that sounds significant.。
He's saying there's a new era has arrived,。
there's a new system of rule that's present.。
He's not just walking around handing out hugs。
and being like, I just love you guys, right?。
He's saying something new has started now.。
It's a new governing of things.。
And then he says, "Repent, your whole life changes。
"right now because I'm here."。
And you read something like that,。
and you go, who talks like that?。
Who says that kind of stuff?。
I mean, how would you feel if I walked in here and said,。
your life changes forever today 'cause I'm here?。
You'd be like, who the heck are you?。
Who talks like that?。
But you don't get much time to think about it,。
'cause then in verse 16, it says he immediately。
starts calling people to him, and he says,。
"Follow me, and I will make you become fishers of men."。
And it says immediately, they left their nets。
and they followed him.。
That Jesus is preaching this message,。
and then he comes up to people and says,。
you guys, follow me.。
That he doesn't just think he is someone。
that should be listened to,。
he thinks he's someone that should be followed,。
that your life should reprioritize to be around him.。
And what's crazy about that is he's walking,。
preaching this message, and he looks at guys and says,。
hey, you guys, follow me.。
That's crazy.。
What's even crazier is that they do.。
And their response is immediate and total.。
They drop the nets and follow him.。
Now, some of you hear that and you go,。
well, Ben, isn't that how they did it back then?。
Like rabbis, teachers would walk。
and their disciples would follow them?。
Didn't they all do it this way?。
No.。
Because back then, yes, you would follow a rabbi。
and a teacher, but you would stay at your job.。
Jesus says, follow me, and they drop their nets。
and follow him.。
Two of them that he calls later drop their net。
and their dad, they're like, uh, bye,。
and they just leave to follow him.。
And the other thing that was different was back then,。
you would pick the rabbi.。
The rabbi didn't pick you.。
You would say, I wanna learn from that guy,。
and you would go do it.。
It's like colleges.。
Baylor doesn't just call you and say,。
you, Baylor Bear, green shirts in the mail,。
get over here to Waco.。
It doesn't work that way.。
You pick where you wanna study.。
And yet Jesus is walking down the street and going,。
you two, get in the truck, and they're doing it.。
And so if you were some of the first people reading this,。
the natural question you would ask is,。
who calls people like, like, who talks to people like this?。
Change your life for me.。
And then they do it.。
What kind of guy is this?。
And then in verse 21, we jump into this crazy day with them,。
and it says, he took them into Capernaum,。
and immediately on the Sabbath,。
he entered the synagogue and was teaching.。
A synagogue was a place like this where you would teach.。
He steps in and starts teaching them the word of God,。
and it says, and they were astonished at his teaching,。
for he taught them as one who had authority。
and not as the scribes.。
He gets in there and he's blowing their mind。
because he doesn't sound like what they're used to.。
The scribes back then would read the words of God,。
and then they would always kind of quote other rabbis。
to sort of try to get around the interpretation.。
They're like, well, Halil says this,。
Gamalel believes it's coming from this angle,。
and they would just kind of teach it that way.。
They said, Jesus is astonishing them。
'cause when he walks in, he's teaching。
as if he has authority.。
He's teaching like you've heard it said, but I say to you.。
He's talking like he runs this place.。
And they're listening to him and they're going,。
uh, who talks like that?。
But they don't get long to think about it。
because it says, and immediately,。
there was in the synagogue a man with an unclean spirit,。
and he cried out, what have you to do with us,。
Jesus of Nazareth?。
Have you come to destroy us?。
I know who you are, the Holy One of God.。
And Jesus rebuked him, saying, be silent, come out of him,。
and the unclean spirit convulsing him。
and crying out with a loud voice came out of him,。
and they were all amazed,。
so that they questioned among themselves, saying,。
what is this, a new teaching with authority?。
He commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him.。
So Jesus is teaching in a way that's blowing their minds,。
but they don't even get much of a chance to think about it。
because all of a sudden, a demon-possessed guy。
starts losing his mind,。
which makes for a very memorable church service, right?。
[audience laughing]。
And Jesus casts out the demon.。
Jesus just shuts it down.。
And what's crazy about that is it says they were amazed,。
but did you see why?。
They weren't amazed that he cast out a demon.。
There were other people doing that.。
And there wasn't even amazing things。
about the way he did it.。
The way he did it was, in a sense,。
similar to what other exorcists in the time would do.。
You would always call the demon to be silent。
and then call it to come out.。
It says what amazed them was Jesus's authority。
as he did it, because the exorcists in the day back there,。
they would call a demon to be silent。
in the name of the most high.。
They would invoke a higher power.。
And then they would call it to come out。
with different chants and incantations。
and different things like that to try to call it out.。
Jesus doesn't do any of that.。
He doesn't call on any other power than his own.。
This guy literally starts freaking out.。
Ah, stop it.。
And it's done.。
[audience laughing]。
It would have made a very boring exorcism movie, you know?。
Because there's no like twirling heads,。
no one climbing a wall.。
Literally he's like, ah, stop, credits roll.。
It would have been a very short film.。
And it says the people see this。
and they have no category for this.。
They go, this is a level of power we're not familiar with.。
Who talks like this?。
And who has control over the spiritual world like this?。
What kind of authority is this?。
And it says, and immediately he left the synagogue。
and entered the house of Simon and Andrew。
with James and John.。
And Simon's mother-in-law lay ill with fever。
and immediately they told him about her.。
And he came and took her hand and lifted her up。
and the fever left and she began to serve them.。
So he's teaching powerfully, great.。
And then he's exercising spiritual power, that's awesome.。
But now we got a physical issue.。
I mean, this isn't the intangibles。
of teaching the spiritual world.。
This is physical sickness fever, right?。
Jesus walks in, says, mother-in-law's sick.。
And so he walks up and just casts out the fever.。
Fever out, right?。
And it's not just like the fever broke。
that suddenly she got better and they were like,。
oh, Jesus takes credit for it.。
That was me guys, right?。
And then she lays in bed the rest of the day。
and drinks fluids and try to recover.。
It's that he touches her and it's gone.。
And she goes from ill to popping up.。
And Mark lets you know that 'cause he says,。
she just popped up and started serving people.。
She's like more tea, John, scone, bill.。
And she's just ready to go.。
And you look at this and the question that you ask。
when you see that is,。
who has authority over the physical world like that?。
He just told a fever what to do and it did it.。
And it says by the end of it,。
the whole city's at the door wondering what kind of guy。
we just got ourselves into here.。
Now, let me just stop right there.。
And let's just, before we continue, look at something.。
I want you to see what was Jesus's first impression。
with these first people that met him.。
If you were to ask them, hey, tell me about Jesus.。
What was the first thing that stood out to them,。
that burned into their minds that they were talking about?。
What stood out about Jesus to them was his authority.。
Was his authority.。
Not his wisdom, though he was wise.。
Not even his love per se, though he is loving.。
What stood out to them, what they would think of。
when they thought of Jesus was authority.。
He commands people as if he thinks he has the right。
to command people.。
He commands the unseen world as if he believes。
he has the right to command the unseen world.。
He commands nature as if he thinks he has the right。
to command nature.。
And it looks like all those fears agree with him.。
What kind of guy is this?。
What kind of authority is this?。
I wonder if that's what you think of。
when you think of Jesus.。
Is that the Jesus that comes to mind。
when you think about him?。
That he walks in with that kind of authority?。
Or do you see him more like they do on South Park。
or Family Guy?。
Just a little guy in a bathrobe.。
I remember I was at a wedding once。
with a bunch of Navy SEALs.。
That's another story I won't unpack,。
but getting to visit with them.。
I appreciated the honesty at one moment with one guy.。
We were just visiting and he said,。
"Man, I'm the most effing not religious person。
"you're ever gonna meet."。
Just kind of dropped it on me.。
And I was like, "Okay, rockin', all right."。
And that's how we started the conversation.。
But I remember as we sat in that church,。
we were looking up at this stained glass window.。
And it was this picture of Jesus.。
And he was just like, just this tiny, tiny little guy。
and with long hair and just looked,。
he was like petting his sheep.。
And he just looked adorable and small.。
And I remember looking at that and just saying,。
"Hey man, you know he was nothing like that, right?。
"That the people who met him,。
"what struck them about him was his authority,。
"that he runs this place."。
But what's interesting, if you notice,。
they don't start following at his feet。
and calling him Lord yet.。
They don't start worshiping.。
Truthfully, they see the power,。
but they don't know what to do with him.。
So they start doing what a lot of people do.。
They start trying to put him in a box,。
trying to figure out what box to put him in.。
And there's two popular boxes they start to put him in.。
And incidentally, they're the same boxes。
we tend to put him in.。
The first group starts to put him。
in like the healing helper box.。
Like, "Oh, he's the guy that's just here。
"to help us with a problem.。
"So I just, I come to him if I have a problem,。
"he fixes it, we high five, and I leave."。
And some people wanna treat him that way.。
And some of us do too.。
You go, "I don't really want anything to do with Jesus。
"unless I have a problem, then I'll pray。
"'cause I got a problem, and if he fixes it, great,。
"and I'm gonna move on."。
And incidentally, that's one reason。
why some people approach him.。
That's the same reason why some of your friends reject him.。
Is it not?。
And you've heard people say that to you.。
Yeah, yeah, you are into Jesus。
because you need him to solve your problems。
because you're weak and frail and need that.。
I, on the other hand, am not a weak person.。
I am self-sufficient, so I don't need your religious crutch.。
I don't need your Jesus, right?。
And that's the first box they wanna put him in,。
kinda your healing helper guy.。
What's funny is after this crazy day,。
Jesus goes out early to pray that morning,。
they go look for him, and the disciples are like,。
"Dude, everybody's looking for you.。
"They all want their friends healed.。
"Let's set up shop, it's healing ministry time, let's go!"。
And Jesus says, "No, no, I'm not doing that."。
He's not anti-healing, but he says,。
"No, I need to keep moving。
"because I have a message to preach,。
"and the miracles, they serve a message.。
"I'm not just here to solve problems.。
"I have something to say to you about your life.。
"The miracles serve a message I wanna preach to you."。
Now, some people hear that and you go,。
"Okay, I see where you're going.。
"He's not the little healing helper buddy.。
"You're gonna say he's authority, he's power,。
"he's sort of the religious rule maker,。
"like here it comes, I'm used to this.。
"He's the one that's gonna charge in。
"and starts telling me you're making a mess of your life.。
"You need to quit sleeping with her.。
"Don't drink that, don't smoke that, don't touch her.。
"Oh, here we go."。
He's the guy that's gonna drop some rules on us.。
Well, what's interesting,。
and we won't read through this section,。
but Jesus heals a leper,。
and once he does that, his ministry blows up,。
which just, if any of you are in ministry,。
just a little FYI.。
If you ever heal a leper, buckle up。
because it goes crazy, all right?。
And it gets to the point where he can't go anywhere.。
Everywhere he goes, he's getting mobbed.。
He's like Justin Bieber in a Hollister.。
It's crazy everywhere he goes.。
And once that happens,。
the religious leadership of the day takes interest in him.。
They go, "Oh, we got a religious guy on the scene。
"that's kind of blowing up."。
And so they start showing up to check and make sure。
that he's sitting in the appropriate religious box.。
The problem with Jesus, though,。
is he just gets out of all your boxes.。
And so what's interesting is if we get to Mark chapter two,。
Jesus starts to introduce himself,。
and Mark just ties together these five stories in a row。
of his interaction with these religious leaders,。
and they basically get in fights the whole time.。
And it's fights over Jesus's identity.。
And Jesus says, "No, I'll identify myself,。
"and I don't fit into these boxes of yours."。
And so we won't go in deep on all five,。
but we'll look at one.。
He goes to Capernaum in chapter two, verse one,。
and he's preaching, and the house is packed.。
People can't get in.。
It's just wall to wall,。
and there's some guys with a paralytic friend.。
They got a friend who's paralyzed on a mat.。
They wanna get him to Jesus 'cause Jesus heals people,。
and they can't get in, the place is packed.。
So they climb up on the roof of the place,。
rip the roof open, and lower their buddy down。
right in front of Jesus, like you do, right?。
And Jesus doesn't get mad about it.。
He's not like, "What is this?"。
Or I mean, he's not anti-healing,。
but he doesn't heal the guy right away.。
He just stops and is like,。
"All right, stay paralyzed for a second."。
And he decides to use this as a teaching illustration.。
And it says he gets into this moment。
that when he saw their faith,。
he says to the paralytic, "Son, your sins are forgiven.。
"Your sins are forgiven."。
Now he's been healing other people。
without maybe even saying anything.。
This is something else.。
He decides to use this as a teaching moment and says,。
"Son, your sins are forgiven."。
And it says, "Now some of the scribes are sitting there。
"questioning their heart,。
"why does this man speak like that?。
"He's blaspheming.。
"Who can forgive sins but God alone?"。
And that's a good question.。
They say, "Hey, who talks like that?。
"And who does talk like that?"。
I mean, honestly, it would be like。
if you two were in a fight right now.。
Like let's say something went sideways, yes, y'all.。
And let's say something just went really crazy。
between the two of you and it's ugly and you're fighting。
and you're like, "Relationship's far from over.。
"This may turn, you know, like police involvement.。
"Like it's getting ugly."。
Imagine if I stepped into that moment and was like,。
"Well, shh, I forgive you."。
(congregation laughing)。
You'd be like, "Who are you?。
"Like you're not a part of this."。
And if I was like, "Shh,。
"then I wipe away every wrong you've ever done."。
(congregation laughing)。
You'd be like, "Who do you think you are?"。
And that's what they're saying.。
Like, "Oh, this guy's a good preacher.。
"Oh, this guy can heal people.。
"Now suddenly he's up there taking a divine prerogative.。
"Your sins are forgiven."。
And they're in the back throwing penalty flags.。
Like, "He can't talk like that.。
"What's that guy doing?。
"Only God can do that."。
And what's crazy is they actually don't even get to say it。
out loud, it's just they're questioning in their heart。
who does this.。
And while they're questioning in their heart who does this,。
it says immediately Jesus perceived this and said,。
"Which is easier?。
"Which is easier?。
"To say paralytic rise or your sins are forgiven?。
"Which is easier?。
"Which is easier?"。
Yeah, they're about as quiet as you are.。
It's a hard question.。
At the end of the day, the answer is it depends, right?。
I mean, in one sense,。
to say your sins are forgiven is easier.。
Why?。
Because there's no way to verify if it really worked or not.。
So I could say that all day long, right?。
And in that sense, to say to someone who's paralyzed,。
"Get up and walk" is infinitely harder。
'cause that's instantly verifiable.。
You're gonna know if I got the juice to pull that off。
in about five seconds if the dude can get up or not, right?。
But on the other side,。
only God can forgive your sin.。
That's infinitely harder.。
And so Jesus asked them, "Which is harder?"。
They can't answer that.。
And so Jesus takes those two things and ties it together。
and says, "So that you may know。
"that the Son of Man has authority to forgive sins,。
"get up and walk."。
And the guy rises and they're amazed and they glorify God.。
What kind of guy can forgive sin?。
What kind of guy can step into our crazy。
and make it peaceful?。
What kind of guy is this?。
Conflict number two is Jesus is hanging out。
with the party crowd.。
He goes to a party at Matthew's house.。
Matthew throws crazy parties.。
The religious people say, "You can't do that.。
"You can't show up there."。
And what's interesting is Jesus doesn't look。
at the religious people and go, "Y'all need to relax.。
"Y'all are being legalists.。
"Just calm down."。
Like he doesn't pick a side.。
Like they say, "You can't be there."。
And Jesus says, "These guys are sick。
"and they are sick."。
He says to seek to fill the vacancies in your heart。
with things or sex or some sort of new trick。
or exciting thing, he says, "That's not sufficient."。
He says, "What they're doing, that desperate insecurity,"。
he says, "It's a sickness."。
But then he says, "They're sick.。
"But I'm the cure.。
"I'm the cure."。
Who talks like that?。
Who says something like that?。
All the brokenness in you, I can fix it.。
I can fix it.。
His disciples don't fast.。
The Jewish religious people back then would fast,。
go without food certain days,。
and it was a remorn over their sin,。
hoping that one day God would send the Messiah,。
his official representative that would fix things.。
So they come to him and say,。
"Why aren't your disciples doing that?"。
And what's interesting is Jesus could have just said,。
"Oh, they'll fast later."。
But Jesus says something else.。
He says, "They're not fasting。
"'cause the bridegroom's here,。
"'cause the bridegroom's here."。
That was a wildly arrogant thing to say.。
Because all through the prophetic writings,。
the bridegroom, the husband of his people,。
the one that was gonna come and love your soul。
for better and for worse, always and forever, is God alone.。
And Jesus says, "My boys aren't fasting, you know why?。
"'Cause the bridegroom's here."。
And they're like, "How can you say that?。
"That's who God is, and you're talking like that."。
They see him the next Sabbath,。
and he's walking with his disciples,。
and they're plucking grain,。
and they're rolling the little chaff off。
so they can eat the grain,。
and the religious leaders call him on it.。
They said, "You can't do that.。
"That's harvesting.。
"Harvesting's illegal on the Sabbath."。
And that's a conflict.。
And Jesus could have said to them,。
"Well, technically, just running your hands together。
"and eating a little seed is not harvesting。
"if you read the Hebrew in its original text."。
He could have done it that way,。
and that would have been a legitimate way.。
He goes the harder way and says,。
"You guys have completely missed。
"the heart of God in the Bible.。
"You have missed God entirely.。
"Even though you have the Bible memorized,。
"you got it all sideways.。
"You guys don't understand that God put his word out there。
"to bless us, not to tyrannize us.。
"You guys are mixed up on who God even is."。
That was the gutsier way.。
And he could have stopped there,。
and that would have been like, "Whoa, that was intense."。
But then he goes, "And I'm the Lord of the Sabbath."。
(congregation laughing)。
He says, "This day set aside to worship God alone,。
"that's my day.。
"That's my day.。
"That day is about me."。
And then on the next Sabbath,。
he picks a guy up in front of them。
and he's got a withered hand.。
And he says, "Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath?"。
And they're sitting in the back like, "Don't you dare."。
And he just goes, "Healed."。
And if you were making a movie about it,。
that's when you would kick in the soundtrack。
of like Rihanna singing,。
"Who's Gonna Run This Town Tonight?"。
You know what I mean?。
You're just like, "This guy is mic dropping these people."。
And by the end of it, it says, "They wanna kill him。
"'cause they understand what he's doing.。
"He's saying, 'I'm not just a religious teacher。
"'and I'm not just your little buddy.。
"'I am in a class all my own.。
"'You have never met anyone like me.'"。
Who runs the world like that?。
Who runs the spiritual world like that?。
Who can look into the darkness of my soul。
and say, "I can fix that.。
"I'm here to fix that."。
Who can look at us and say,。
"Yeah, this place is broken and sad,。
"but I'm here to bring the joy of a wedding day."。
Who talks like that?。
Who does that?。
You've never seen anyone like him.。
C.S. Lewis said it this way,。
"On one side, clear, definite moral teaching.。
"On the other, claims which if not true。
"are those of a megalomaniac。
"compared with whom Hitler was the most sane。
"and humblest of men.。
"Jesus told people their sins were forgiven.。
"This makes sense only if he really was the God。
"whose laws were broken。
"and whose love is wounded in every sin.。
"I am trying here to prevent anyone from saying。
"the really foolish thing that people often say about him.。
"I'm ready to accept Jesus as a great moral teacher,。
"but I don't accept his claims to be God.。
"That is the one thing we must not say.。
"A man who is merely a man。
"and said the sort of things Jesus said。
"would not be a great moral teacher.。
"He'd be either a lunatic。
"on the level of a man who says he's a poached egg,。
"or else he would be a devil of hell.。
"You can shut him up for a fool,。
"spit on him and kill him as a demon,。
"or you can fall at his feet and call him Lord and God,。
"but let none of us come up with this patronizing nonsense。
"about him being a great human teacher.。
"He's not left that open to us.。
"He did not intend to."。
He stepped into this place and says,。
"This is my world, this is my kingdom.。
"I run this place."。
The first impression is his authority.。
And as he introduces himself, he says,。
"You've never met anyone like me.。
"I'm God on earth, the Son of God,。
"with all God's authority right here,。
"and I've come for you."。
And when a man makes a claim like that,。
you're really only left with two options,。
allegiance or rebellion.。
Allegiance or rebellion.。
Now, some of us hear that and we're really uncomfortable。
because you're like, "Ugh.。
"I, man, I don't like authority."。
So if you're saying the goal of tonight。
was Jesus is your authority,。
yes, that is the goal of tonight.。
If you're like, "My only problem is I don't like authority.。
"I don't want anyone telling me what to do,。
"so I don't like this."。
Well, let me just say this.。
You want authority.。
You do.。
Maybe not all the time,。
but when things really go sideways for you。
and stuff begins to break,。
you want somebody that can show up and lead this place.。
So I remember, I remember when Katrina hit New Orleans.。
I remember listening to the radio。
and the mayor is crying,。
like the mayor that's supposed to be strong。
and tell people where to go.。
They asked the mayor, "What are we gonna do?"。
And he just starts crying on the radio.。
And the announcer starts crying.。
And I'm sitting there in the car。
just listening to these two grown men。
just heave and make noises.。
They have no answers.。
They're just in need and they start crying.。
Shepard Smith.。
He's standing out there on an overpass,。
dead bodies that nobody's picking up,。
and he just starts crying on national TV.。
Like he's got no answers, no power.。
All he has is helplessness in the face of problems。
he can't solve, and he just starts crying.。
And I remember watching this all over,。
of going, "Somebody help us."。
And I'll never forget, I was watching the news。
when Lieutenant General Russell Honore got off the helicopter。
that they sent a general.。
And I remember he stepped off that helicopter。
with just the badges rolling down his chest.。
And even the news,。
people that are meant to be professional。
or a little skeptical of the media were fawning over him.。
They were just like, "Are you here to tell us what to do?。
"Oh, just send us places."。
And I remember he would just walk up and be like,。
"You, carry those sandbags.。
"You, carry that water.。
"You, just run around in circles.。
"You."。
And he would just start telling everyone what to do.。
And they were all like, "Yes, sir, that's awesome.。
"I'm on it."。
And off they would go.。
There was such relief and such joy。
'cause in the midst of my chaos and pain,。
somebody is here to tell me what to do。
that'll help me and give me life.。
And so we may say, "Ben, I don't want an authority。
"over my life," but let me tell you something.。
We're all one phone call away。
from being brought to our knees.。
We're too frail in this world, whether we know it or not.。
We really are.。
And some of us, external crises will help us see that,。
problems we can't control.。
Some of us, it's the internal stuff.。
There's things going on in you that you don't like.。
And as much as you try to dial in your discipline,。
we can't fix you.。
And you're starting to develop some secrets。
that are eating you alive.。
And you're starting to get scared.。
And you're wondering who's gonna step in and help you.。
We want an authority.。
We do.。
We might be scared of it, some of us,。
because people who had authority in our lives before。
used it to abuse us.。
And that was wrong.。
But Jesus steps in and says, "I'm your authority,。
"whether you like it or not.。
"But look at what kind of king he is.。
"How does he use his power?。
"He comes to the person who's unclean,。
"and he makes them clean.。
"He comes to the people who are sick,。
"and he makes them okay.。
"He comes to the people who are lonely and desperate,。
"and brings them the joy of a wedding day.。
"Look at what kind of king we have.。
"Look at him."。
Bob Dylan sang it, "You're gonna serve somebody.。
"It may be the devil, it may be the Lord,。
"but you're gonna serve somebody.。
"Look at this king.。
"His power is in service of his love."。
C.S. Lewis, whose quote I read earlier,。
was an atheist, a very proud one,。
very defiant one, as he taught at Oxford.。
Became a Christian.。
I read the first book he wrote after he became a Christian.。
It was an allegory.。
And it's really raw.。
He like cusses in it, and he's very upset.。
But his picture of becoming a Christian。
in this allegorical story is of the character。
being forced down a mountain in the rain at night。
by sword point to have to go drown himself.。
C.S. Lewis was not excited about becoming a Christian.。
[audience laughs]。
But he couldn't get away from this little carpenter。
from Nazareth who changed the world and said he was God.。
And so he bowed his knees and was the lowliest,。
saddest convert in all of London.。
But then he wrote a biography about his experience.。
It wasn't an allegory.。
It was his actual conversion experience。
told from his life story,。
and he entitled it "Surprised by Joy."。
He said, "I saw that he really was who he said he was,。
"and I fell to my knees 'cause I had nowhere else to go.。
"And what I found there was the joy I had longed for,。
"that he's the king and he's good."。
Let me pray for us.。
God, you came here with all the authority of heaven.。
You taught like you ran this place 'cause you do.。
You commanded the unseen world。
because it's yours to command.。
You commanded this physical world。
because you hold it together by the word of your power.。
You, Jesus Christ, the Son of God,。
rule this place even now, and all of us.。
There's no secrets here, no surprises,。
no one off your radar.。
And yet with all that power, how do you use it?。
You talk to us.。
You grab the hand of an old woman who's hurting。
and make it okay.。
You grab a guy that's unclean,。
and you do the impossible.。
You don't become dirty by touching him, you make him clean.。
And some of us just really need that, really want that.。
You make the people who are empty full.。
You make the sad joyful.。
You live the perfect life we could not,。
and you came to sacrifice your life.。
Greater love has no man than this,。
that he'd lay down his life for his friends.。
You went to the cross to move our sin and shame。
out of the way, to open up a relationship with God.。
All of your power used in service of your love。
to take lonely, wayward, broken, sick people。
and make us holy, loved, adopted,。
cherished children of God.。
Thank you, King Jesus.。
We joyfully submit to you.。
And God, I know there wasn't a lot of application。
in this sermon, I wrestled with that,。
but the truth is there's a thousand。
or 2,000 problems in here.。
I couldn't illustrate them all if I wanted to,。
but we have them.。
And many of us, what we need is not a three-step plan。
of how to get our mess together, what we need is a hero.。
And so God, I just pray even now。
as we have a moment to talk to you,。
we could come honestly, and some people in this room。
need to just say, okay, I'm ready to belong to Jesus.。
If he's calling people to himself, I'm in, I want in.。
If he's forgiving sin, I need forgiveness.。
If he's cleansing people, I need cleansing.。
I want on the team, give me the jersey.。
And if that's you, you cry out to him。
and tell the person who brought you,。
tell one of the pastors here, we'd love to encourage you。
and celebrate with you and walk with you.。
And God, for those of us that know you,。
maybe we've been walking with you every moment of every day。
right up until this moment, or maybe it's been a long time,。
but what we need more than anything tonight。
is not a technique, what we need is to sit。
at the feet of our hero.。
That as we look into the face of Jesus, we see God.。
The God who said, let light shine out of darkness,。
shown into our hearts to show us the glory of God。
in the face of Christ.。
And in beholding him, we are changed from glory to glory.。
Guys are gonna lead us to respond to Jesus in song。
and you can sing it, but I wanna challenge you,。
whatever you're bringing in here, lay it at his feet.。
He cares and he's strong.。
And maybe not all the answers will come tonight,。
but there's peace in knowing that the king of the universe。
knows my name and cares.。
We rest in you, our good and loving king, Jesus.。
(music fades)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
