Hey Porch, please join me as we read God's Word together from。
the Gospel of Matthew chapter 22 verses 34 through 40.。
But when the Pharisees heard that he had silenced the。
Sadducees, they gathered together and one of them, a。
lawyer, asked him a question to test him.。
Teacher, which is the great commandment in the law?。
And he said to him, you shall love your Lord, you shall love。
the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and。
with all your mind.。
This is the great and first commandment.。
And a second is like it.。
You shall love your neighbor as yourself.。
On these two commandments depend all the law and the prophets.。
Now our third message in our series called Disciple.。
And it's about the Lord's love for you.。
Well Porch, how are we doing?。
We doing okay?。
Man, it's good to see you guys.。
So glad that you'd be back with us this evening.。
Special shout out to Porch Live.。
Love that y'all would tune in with us.。
And a special shout out to Porch Live Indy, Dayton and。
Greater Lafayette.。
We love you guys and we believe in what God is doing where you。
are.。
Well, a couple of years ago, I and close to a hundred other。
young adults descended upon Colorado for a week's worth of。
snow skiing.。
I was jazzed for it because this is an activity that I've done。
since I was a very small child.。
We have pictures actually of me snow skiing with a leash from。
my dad, actual evidence of me sleeping as I'm going down the。
mountain because I was so young.。
And so the thought of going and skiing was really exciting for。
me.。
Like I love this activity.。
It's one of my favorite things to do and I've been doing it for。
a long time.。
And so I've kind of hit this point in my snow skiing journey。
where I've moved beyond the basics and now I kind of focus。
on some of the more sophisticated aspects of the。
sport.。
Like I don't just want to plow down the mountain.。
I actually want to hockey stop instead because that's way。
cooler.。
I know how to actually navigate through moguls instead of just。
rolling over the top of them.。
I know it looks way better though it actually doesn't。
necessarily impact the sport much.。
If you keep your knees together, you look much more poised and。
elegant as you go down the mountain rather than just being。
widespread and crossing your skis up.。
I know some of the aspects of the sophisticated elements to。
the sport.。
And yet when you go on a trip with 100 other young adults,。
what you realize is you get a mixed bag of talent.。
You do.。
100 young adults.。
We had some people on this trip that they came and they had all。
of their own gear.。
Like they had been like me grown up in the sport and they love。
to go and do it.。
They had season passes and so whenever they got the chance to。
go, they looked the part.。
And yet we also had other people that had never seen snow before。
in their life.。
A true mixed bag of talent.。
And so it occurred to me as being one of the leaders on this。
trip working with a team to organize this ski escapade that。
I needed to help those newbies on the mountain make their way。
without too much trouble.。
And so I abandoned all of my sophisticated understanding of。
the sport and I began to contemplate the philosophical。
question, what is snow skiing?。
To which I arrived at the conclusion, it's two things.。
It is speed and it is control.。
Fundamentally, if you're going to teach someone how to ski, you。
need to help them regulate their speed and you need to help them。
control their direction.。
Like you need them to be able to hit the brakes.。
Otherwise that ends very badly.。
And you need to help them learn to turn left and to turn right.。
You see, I had to boil it down to the most fundamental skills。
possible.。
And so once I had deduced what it looked like to teach snow。
skiing, I assembled Kylan's very own ski school.。
And here I was skiing down the mountain with 30 to 40 young。
adults skiing right behind me like a mother and her ducklings.。
We were just making our way down the mountain.。
You see, my goal in teaching them how to ski was I didn't。
just want them to survive the mountain.。
I wanted to help them thrive.。
On the mountain.。
Now, why do I tell you that?。
Because you and I in the story of Jesus Christ are the ducklings.。
We're those that are following after our leader down the。
proverbial mountain of life.。
And his desire is to help us not just survive life, but really。
thrive in life.。
And so he wants to give us some fundamental skills, some very。
elementary lessons, those, that knowledge, which is most。
critical of all.。
So that way we can follow him in a way that looks like he。
himself.。
And that's what we're going to talk about tonight.。
What is that most fundamental, critical lesson from Jesus?。
And we find it in Matthew chapter 22.。
So if you have a Bible, you can pull it out.。
Turn with me to Matthew chapter 22.。
If you don't have a Bible, do not worry.。
You can find it on the screens behind me.。
We also would love to give you one.。
If you don't have a copy of the scripture, we'd love to give。
that to you as a gift.。
While you're turning there, let me just set up the fact that。
we're in a series called Disciple, where we've been。
trying to really wrestle with this idea that we don't want to。
settle for just knowing about Jesus.。
But instead we want to know the real Jesus.。
And some of you were in the room and you're like, I know Jesus,。
man.。
Like I understand live a life of good and die to death, observe。
rose from the grave, beat death by death itself.。
Got it.。
And yet I genuinely believe there's more of Christ to see。
for you tonight.。
And so if you're here and you feel like I know this lesson。
already, first and second greatest command, I don't need。
to worry about what this guy's going to say, then you're。
mistaken because this lesson put me on my heels.。
It peeled back new layers of understanding that I did not。
know myself.。
And so I would invite you to just let the spirit work in this。
moment, because I think God has something very special in store。
because we come to Matthew chapter 22.。
What we need to know as we desire to see the real Jesus is。
that Jesus is in the last week of his life, meaning everything。
he's going to say and everything he's going to do and everything。
he's going to think like everything about this man's life。
here in his last week, it matters so much.。
Like if you want to know what matters to someone, look at how。
they prioritize their time.。
When time's running out, Jesus has one week to live.。
And so he doesn't have any time to waste.。
Everything he's going to do is meaningful because the moments。
he has left, they matter.。
You tracking with me on this?。
So when we find him, he's already entered into Jerusalem.。
He's already overturned all the money changers tables.。
And we see that he is in a verbal debate, a verbal。
altercation with the religious leaders.。
And it says this in verse 34, but when the Pharisees heard。
that he had silenced the Sadducees, they gathered together.。
And one of them, a lawyer, asked him a question to test him,。
teacher, which is the greatest commandment in the law.。
Now, it may be tough to pick up just from jumping in the middle。
of the story, but tensions are pretty high when we find Jesus。
in this moment, because the religious leaders, they're not。
fans of Jesus whatsoever.。
And so they have decided to try to incriminate him.。
They want to call into question his credibility.。
And yet we see that he's already had two other debates up to。
this moment.。
This is the third of three debates in the story.。
The first two were with the Sadducees, and we've seen that。
they've tucked tail and they've run because he's whooped them。
up, you know, he's two and O.。
And so the Pharisees decide that they've got something for him.。
And so they do what any sensible person would do.。
They phone a friend and they decide to get the best person to。
debate Jesus as possible.。
If you're organizing a debate team and you're going through。
the line and you're picking out your players, the lawyer is a。
pretty good person to pick because that tends to be what。
they do for a living.。
And so they pick this guy who's a trained scholar on the Old。
Testament, specifically the Pentateuch, those first five。
books of the Bible.。
And by remedy calculation, he would be very familiar with the。
613 commands that those first five books contain.。
He is the definition of a textbook nerd.。
Okay.。
And he decides to come to Jesus and according to the Pharisees。
test him.。
And yet, if you read the gospel of Mark, what you realize is。
this man may not actually have malicious intent.。
The Pharisees, they want to incriminate Jesus.。
But this guy is genuinely curious.。
We see that he comes to Jesus and Mark and he says, "Teacher,。
which is the greatest commandment in the law?"。
Like of all the governing principles, of all 613 rules to。
follow, which is the most important?。
It's like what you feel whenever you're listening to someone。
explain the rules to a really complicated game.。
Have you ever had this experience where you're listening。
to someone and they're trying to tell you how to play this。
sophisticated game.。
And so they're telling you all the rules and it feels like。
they've been talking for what is kind of like an hour and you。
reach this boiling point where you're like, "Just tell me how。
I'm supposed to win."。
That's what this guy's doing.。
He's like, "I know all of the minutia of the law, all 613。
rules, but I just want to know like, what's the most important。
one, like of all of it?。
How do I win?。
Like of all the regulation and all the rule that God's given。
in the game of life, tell me how I'm supposed to win."。
And so Jesus answers him.。
He says in verse 37, "You shall love the Lord your God with all。
your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind."。
This is the great in the first commandment.。
He quotes the Shema, which was a prayer given to the nation of。
Israel by God as they entered into the promised land.。
And so we read this in Deuteronomy.。
It says this, this is the Shema, "Hear, O Israel, the Lord, our。
God, the Lord is one.。
You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all。
your soul and with all your might."。
Jesus answers this guy's question with something so special to the。
heritage of the nation of Israel that for 1400 years from the。
date of which it was given, they would have recited this prayer。
twice every single day.。
It's hard to pull into our modern context, but like the。
best equivalent I can think of is kind of like our pledge of。
allegiance and our national anthem all rolled up into one.。
Like that's kind of what they're doing.。
But instead of this being to America, this is a pledge and。
it's a praise to God.。
Like it's a declaration of a love to God, but it's also a。
celebration of a loving God.。
That's what he tells him.。
And what we find is that this teaching, it tells us what。
matters most in life, which is to love the Lord.。
That's it.。
Like, if you're wondering like, man, what matters most in life?。
It's to love God.。
And yet what we see is that Jesus, he qualifies what that。
love should look like.。
He says that it's with your heart and with your soul and。
with your mind.。
And so I want to unpack for you over the course of the rest of。
our time, what those mean.。
How do we actually do that?。
And I mean, I'm just going to level with you.。
This is really like five sermons in one.。
So if you're taking notes, just like buckle up, you know,。
because we're going to really make a move here.。
You know, if you're thinking like how many points I'm just。
going to tell you, we got four points up top.。
We've got a lot of ground to cover and I'm just going to try。
to race through it as well as I can and honor your time.。
I just think it's so important.。
Okay.。
So here we go.。
The first thing you need to know as you try to love God is you。
need to know that love for God is expressive in life.。
Love for God is expressive in life.。
That's what it means when it says we should love the Lord。
with all of our heart.。
Now we need to be careful because our Western mind often。
equates the heart with emotion.。
But the Eastern mind, the context with Jesus speaking,。
would have equated the heart not with emotion, but with。
expression, meaning the heart is way more than just the source。
of our feelings.。
It's the source of our desire.。
So what's the difference?。
Well, I'll put it to you like this.。
When you have feelings for someone, you experience emotion.。
But when you desire someone, that emotion evolves into a。
particular kind of expression.。
So when you're interested in someone, you're not just content。
to admire them from afar.。
Instead, whenever you feel a desire to be with that person,。
I want to be with them.。
What do you do?。
That emotion turns into expression.。
You start texting them.。
You start talking to them and asking about them and you get。
on their social media and you like those posts very。
strategically so that way they see that you have been watching.。
Go far enough back that way they know that this wasn't。
cursory in any way whatsoever.。
You may actually slide into their DMs.。
I'm not promoting nor condoning that that's the right proper。
step, but that is an expression that you may take as you're。
desiring to express your undying love for this person.。
Like this is often what happens.。
We find that our love, that we love them from our heart, not。
just emotionally, but expressively.。
Matthew 12, 34, it says for out of the abundance of the heart,。
the mouth speaks.。
Like God cares about how we live our lives.。
But here's what's really important to understand.。
God doesn't just want your obedience in life.。
Like he doesn't just want your conformity to his will or your。
compliance to his rules.。
That's not what he's out for.。
Like God wants your heart.。
That's what he wants.。
Like he wants your heart more than anything.。
He wants you to feel a love for him emotionally that overflows。
the banks of your life and expresses itself practically.。
That's what he wants.。
He doesn't just want you to have all the feels, but do nothing with them.。
He wants you to have all the feels and those feels lead to a different way of。
life that ultimately impact the person you are.。
He doesn't want us to just act out of obligation.。
Oh, I've got to do this.。
He wants you to act out of inclination.。
I want to do this.。
That's what this means, which is exactly what one of my seminary。
professors used to teach us.。
He used to say our external determinations depend on our internal。
inclinations, which just very simply means this, that you pick in the world,。
whatever you prefer at heart.。
That's it.。
You pick in the world, whatever you prefer at heart.。
So there's not probably a soul in this room that loves their alarm clock.。
You laugh because you hate it.。
It goes off and it's like, oh my gosh, I can't turn the thing off quickly enough.。
You know?。
And yet the irony is we snooze it so it can just hit us again in 10 minutes.。
You know, it's just crazy that that's the case.。
And yet, not a soul in this room likes their alarm clock.。
We actually, in fact, hate our alarm clock.。
So why do we keep setting it every single night?。
Because we love the job it wakes us up for in the morning, or at least we want to keep。
the job that it wakes us up for in the morning.。
I know.。
You want to keep the job.。
You want to keep the job that it wakes you up for in the morning.。
Here's why I've used this example.。
Your greatest inclination is to make a paycheck, keep your job, not get more sleep.。
You see, your greatest internal inclination determines your external determination.。
That's what's happening here.。
That's what Jesus is getting at when he's saying, hey, love the Lord with all your。
heart, because he wants your actions in life, like how you speak and what you do and。
the choices you make and the way you treat other people and the conduct you keep.。
He wants all of that to spill forth, overflow from a place of loving God.。
Proverbs 27, 19 says, "As in water, face reflects face.。
So the heart of man reflects the man."。
You see, our heart reflects what's actually true about us.。
So what's your heart saying about you?。
What's your heart actually saying about you?。
If you can just do an evaluation here tonight, if you can do some investigative work on。
the internal aspects of your soul, what's it saying?。
Like the way you figure it out is you identify the actions that you do take in life, and。
then you question the motivations that undergird them.。
That's how you figure out what's going on in your heart.。
Like what does it tell you about your heart when you can't ever seem to say something。
nice to that coworker at the office?。
Or you always slip into cursing whenever you're around that group of friends.。
Or you habitually flirt with girls, though you never have an intent to actually commit。
to pursuing one.。
Or you complain regularly about your family, or you act like everything's okay, and you。
put on a strong face even when you know that things are not okay.。
What's your heart actually saying?。
Listen, God wants your heart.。
And if your heart doesn't want Him, then He wants you to be honest about that.。
He already knows.。
You're not hiding something from Him that He doesn't already know.。
So He would rather you be honest.。
If you don't want me, just tell me.。
Because you can't fix your heart, but I can.。
But I will fix it when you're willing.。
I will step in to the hurt of your heart whenever you're ready.。
And you will not be able to love me until I do so.。
You see, some of us here, we do want God with all of our heart.。
But maybe the most honest thing some of us can do here tonight is just say, "God, I。
want to want you with all of my heart, but I don't."。
He can work with that.。
He can work with it because He's in the business of changing hearts.。
That's who God is.。
He doesn't want you to fabricate obedience.。
He wants genuine desire.。
And if you do not have genuine desire, He wants to start by giving you that first.。
That's the first part of the command that we learn.。
You love the Lord with your heart.。
Okay.。
Next one is you love the Lord with your soul.。
So our point here is love for God is distinctive to ourselves.。
Love for God is distinctive to ourselves.。
It's unique.。
That's what He means when He says, "Hey, love the Lord with your soul."。
Now I'll admit, and maybe this is incriminating because I'm standing on stage.。
I'm supposed to know this stuff.。
But love the Lord with your soul was one of those that I didn't really know what。
we're actually saying.。
Right?。
Love the Lord with your heart.。
You can kind of make up the difference between what you're hearing and what。
you're understanding.。
I think I know what that means.。
Love the Lord with your mind.。
I think I can kind of work that out and figure out the way that should work.。
Love the Lord with your soul.。
Like that's a hard thing to consider.。
And for me, as I was reading it, I knew I was like, man, I don't know that I have。
a good answer for that.。
And so this is totally sidebar.。
But for some of you in the room, you actually have doubts, questions about the。
things that the Bible is saying.。
Take it from one that had questions in this passage.。
That's okay.。
If you're confused by something the Bible says, or you have questions about。
something it pulls up, don't worry.。
Like he, he can work with you.。
He can answer those questions.。
There are solutions to your doubts.。
Just lean in and not away.。
So how do we love the Lord with our soul?。
Well, when I began to study this, what I found is that the Hebrew word in the。
Shema for soul is the word Nefesh.。
And it was so illuminating to learn what the meaning of Nefesh was.。
Because the meaning of Nefesh when translated directly, it means throat,。
which is a weird swerve, right?。
You weren't expecting that.。
I wasn't expecting that when I studied it.。
Throat's not exactly what I anticipated I was going to get whenever I was。
romanticizing soul in my mind until I realized in the Hebrew mind, why throat。
was significant because in their mind's eye, your life emanates both in and out。
of your throat.。
Like the very evidence of your existence moves by way of your throat.。
So on a cold day, which we haven't had many of yet, we're going to get them.。
But when we get a cold day, you step outside and you see your breath in the。
air.。
This is what's crazy.。
That is the evidence of your existence.。
You're going to see it like your soul.。
It's like, man, that's the evidence that I'm alive.。
Like that's the evidence that God actually has imbued me very distinctly, very。
uniquely to be who I am.。
And it says so in the Bible, like Genesis chapter two, it says in verse seven, then。
the Lord God formed the man of the dust from the ground.。
And guess what?。
He breathed into his nostrils, the breath of life.。
And this is what's crazy.。
The man became a Nefesh, became a living creature.。
That's the Hebrew.。
You see, you don't have a soul.。
You are a soul.。
Like you are a soul.。
Your soul is from God almighty.。
And it is for you personally.。
Like it's representative of your being and your essence and your soul is like any。
other soul in the entire cosmos.。
Like you are one of a kind.。
You are a unique combination of personality and ability and destiny.。
And because you're a unique combination of those three things, there is no one else。
like you anywhere else in all the world.。
It's fascinating.。
Like people spend incredible amounts of money on rare art.。
Salvatore Mundi by Leonardo da Vinci.。
It's over $450 million.。
Interchanged by Willem de Kooning went for $300 million.。
The card players by Paul Cezanne sold for $250 million.。
Why?。
Because they were crafted by some of the greats.。
And they are one of a kind themselves.。
Porch, listen to me.。
You have been crafted by the greatest of all time.。
And you are one of a kind.。
There's no one like you.。
And the price on your head is the price of Christ's blood.。
And that is an immeasurable value.。
That is a priceless determination.。
That's what God wants you to know.。
He wants you to love him with your soul.。
Psalm 139, 13 through 14 says, "For you, God, form my inward parts.。
You knit me together in my mother's womb.。
I praise you.。
I'm fearfully and I'm wonderfully made.。
Wonderful are your works.。
Catch it.。
My soul knows it very well."。
So when Jesus says that you should love the Lord with all your soul, he's saying。
that you should love God with whatever unique combination he's given you.。
And I think this is going to be a massive point for some of you here tonight,。
because some of you need to simply know.。
It is not possible for you to love God with all your soul while indulging some sort。
of insecurity that you hate about yourself.。
Some of you are so dissatisfied by the way God's made you.。
And because you're willing to entertain that dissatisfaction, you'll never be able。
to love him with all your soul.。
Like whatever part of you that you feel insecure about or embarrassed by,。
whatever part of your design you wish you could change.。
I hate this about myself.。
Like your body shape or your personal interests or the background and family you。
come from or the social quirks that always pop up at the worst possible time.。
And you just play the tape over and over and over again whenever you leave those。
conversations, because I'm so stupid to say that.。
Why did I do that thing?。
Whenever that happens for you, what you need to know is it's not possible to。
indulge that insecurity and love God with all your soul at the same time.。
Like for some of us tonight, the most loving thing you can do is stop。
criticizing yourself.。
Start embracing who God made you to be.。
Start trusting with what he's doing in your life and start living into the story。
that he's writing already.。
That's the best thing you could do.。
But it starts with some of you embracing who you are.。
This is my story.。
Played for years by self-hate.。
And yet I know I can't love God with all my soul if I continue to indulge that.。
Instead, I must embrace who God's made me to be because who you are is from God and。
who you're becoming is for God.。
Like this is big.。
You don't get to live according to your personal preferences.。
You don't get to live according to the preferences of other people.。
According to God's word, you get to live according to his preferences.。
And that's good news because he prefers you to be exactly who he's made you to be.。
That's his preference.。
His preference is I made you like this.。
I want you like this.。
And I'm not only going to leave you where you are, I'm making you into the one that I。
want you to be.。
One that conforms with my will, that aligns with my word, that looks the epitome of what。
I intended at original creation.。
I'm leading us back to Eden.。
And I'm going to make you right.。
You have to love him with your soul.。
He also wants you to love him with your mind because a love for God is perceptive of。
reality.。
Love for God is perceptive of reality.。
That's our third point.。
Now, it's typical to hear that whenever we're supposed to love God with more of our。
mind, we think that that equates to just thinking more about him, learning more about。
who he is, learning more about what he does.。
That's not exactly what Jesus is saying here.。
To be fair, we should learn more about God, but we're not supposed to simply learn more。
about him.。
What we learn about him should influence the way that we look at life.。
What we learn influences the way that we look like.。
The goal is not just to know more about God.。
The goal is to do more with what I know about God.。
That's what he's working on.。
And as you do with what you know, as you live according to what you've learned, he's。
going to continue to put more deposits into your life because he does want you to know。
as much of him as possible.。
It's less about what you know.。
It's more about how you live in light of what you know.。
It's like an Indiana Jones in the last crusade.。
When faced with seemingly impossible odds and a great chasm between himself and the。
Holy Grail, all hope seemed lost for our hero.。
Indy stood there amidst a great canyon with no way across, his father held captive by。
the dreaded Nazis and time running out.。
And yet in that moment, when it seemed like there was no way, he remembered the words。
of his father from his own notebook that there in the midst of that chasm, lied an。
invisible landing.。
And so Indy did what?。
He took what he knew and he applied it to his life and he was able to perceive the。
imperceivable step off the chasm.。
Into the abyss, yet land upon an invisible bridge, race across and save the day.。
What do we learn from that story?。
Because in the same way, we are meant to take what we know to be true, not from Dr.。
Jones diary, but from the Bible and we're meant to apply it to our life.。
You see the word of God, it's like a light to our minds.。
That's what the scriptures say.。
The thing about light is light doesn't change anything about reality.。
What it does is it reveals what's actually real.。
That's what the word of God does.。
That's what Psalm 119 tells us in verse 105.。
It says, "Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path."。
Like, have you ever considered that there is more reality to this world than you may。
well perceive?。
Have you ever thought about that?。
Like things may not be exactly as you think.。
Like there may be more reality that is just not yet perceived by you.。
Have you ever considered that?。
Because that's an idea that the biblical authors were really well acquainted with.。
Like they were comfortable with this idea of mystery and the fact that things didn't。
look exactly as they were.。
And yet the way they were able to act, they were able to act, like act into, live into,。
be a part of real reality is they increased their understanding of who God was and what。
God said.。
They filled their minds with his word.。
And we have to do the same things because God's words bring clarity to true reality.。
That's why as we follow Jesus, we read his word daily, often, frequently.。
You read his word, not because I have to, but because he's trying to teach you.。
And as you read his word, you ask good questions and you find friends to process with,。
and you don't give up whenever it gets hard.。
That's what Paul describes in Romans chapter 12.。
Like the product of it is amazing because in Romans 12 too, it says, "Do not be conformed。
to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind."。
How does it happen?。
Looking into, peering into the mysteries of God, reading his word, learning who he is,。
understanding his will, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is。
good and acceptable and perfect.。
You see, we love God with our minds when we aspire to see the world as it should be seen.。
And the only way to see the world as it should be seen is through the eyes of the one who。
rightly sees it.。
So I remember early in my ministry career, I think it was my first year actually, so。
stressed out, anxious, couldn't get a break.。
Felt like I was failing at everything that I put my hands to.。
And I just was praying.。
I was like, I don't know what else to do.。
I've hit my last resort.。
I was just praying.。
I was like, God, help me to be more patient.。
Help me to be more understanding.。
Give me God wisdom to navigate these difficulties.。
And Lord, would you help me to be more loving to my coworkers?。
God, I'm jealous of that guy.。
Would you help me to be forgiving and acceptable and empathetic towards him?。
God, would you help me?。
And just felt like everything I was praying is like, God, here's one more problem.。
God, here's one more problem.。
Please help me with this.。
Lord, help me, help me, help me.。
Like that's everything I felt like I was praying in this moment.。
And I was so overwhelmed.。
And I was like, God, what is the one prayer I can pray to cover all the other prayers?。
You know, like what's the easiest way for me to just say everything I got to say?。
Cause I don't know that I'm going to get through all of it right now.。
You ever been in that spot?。
Here's the prayer you pray.。
God, would you help me to see you clearly?。
Because in seeing you clearly, I will see everything else as a result.。
That's it.。
That's the prayer.。
Now, in the moment I was just making a last ditch effort and grabbing something that felt good.。
But what's been amazing is I've walked with the Lord and I've studied his word.。
I've realized that that is a timeless truth that is encased in the greatest command.。
That's how you love the Lord with your mind.。
You see, you love the Lord with your mind by seeing how he sees.。
And you see how he sees by seeing into Jesus.。
Because when you see as Jesus sees, you don't withdraw from conflict.。
No, you seek peace instead.。
Like when you see as Jesus sees, you don't just spend money because I've got it and I can just put it out.。
No, like you save your money and you steward it for the benefit of yourself and as a blessing to other people.。
When you see as Jesus sees, you don't just get pent up with frustration because things aren't going the way you want.。
You trust that the Lord's in control and he actually does have your good in mind.。
Like when you see as Jesus sees, you don't view people that are different than you as a person to be avoided.。
You see them as a person worthy of being welcomed.。
This is what it means to see as Jesus sees.。
That's why God wants us to love him with our minds.。
This is crazy.。
God doesn't just want you to just think about him more, to just know a bunch of stuff.。
No, he knows.。
Hey, if you fill your thoughts with thoughts of me and if you see as I see, you won't only see me more clearly.。
You're going to see true reality the way it's meant to be seen.。
That's a really generous invitation.。
God wants you to see the world as fully and capably as possible.。
But the way that happens is you love him with your mind.。
That's it.。
And then the fourth and final thing that Jesus teaches us is that love for others is reflective of ourselves.。
Love for others is reflective of ourselves.。
22 verse 39 says, "And a second is like it.。
You shall love your neighbor as yourself."。
Now, this is easily one of the most well-known verses in all of the Bible.。
But I also think it's easily one of the most misunderstood verses in all the Bible.。
Because, see, so often whenever we read this and because we know our Bible so well, we think, well, we're supposed to be humble.。
We're supposed to die to self and we shouldn't think more highly of ourselves than we ought.。
And the greatest among you shall be your servant.。
The first shall be last and the last shall be first.。
And we should look to the interests of others.。
And you should give even a grace cost to yourself.。
And because we know the Bible so well, we hear what we think Jesus is saying as opposed to actually listening to what Jesus is truly saying.。
So what's he saying?。
Is he saying, "Stop loving yourself.。
Start loving other people."。
No, that would be wrong.。
You see, this verse is not saying that you should love your neighbor instead of yourself.。
This verse is not saying you should love your neighbor in place of yourself.。
This verse is not saying you should love your neighbor more than yourself.。
That's not what this verse is saying.。
It's saying you should love your neighbor as yourself.。
Meaning God's expectation of you is that you do love yourself.。
That you do love yourself.。
And the way you love yourself directly influences the way you love other people.。
It does not give any license for egotism and pride and self-seeking.。
The Bible, it decries that idea in so many other places.。
But that's not what this particular verse is saying.。
It is saying, "No, there is a way that you are supposed to love yourself.。
And it's so important to get that right because it directly impacts the way you're supposed to love other people."。
This is the second greatest command.。
So how are we supposed to love ourselves?。
Well, it's like an age-old leadership lesson.。
Don't expect of others what you won't expect of yourself.。
So I remember learning this very early in my ministry career.。
We had a director on our team who was the definition of hardworking.。
Like he was the guy that was super reliable and he always came through in the clutch.。
And he was the one that when he walked in the room, you just breathed a sigh of relief.。
Like, "Oh my God, thank goodness Brent is here."。
Like you would just feel so much relief because he would come into the room because he was on your team.。
And yet one thing always stood out to me about this guy in particular.。
He would always announce at the end of the workday, 4.30 p.m., that, "I'm going home, everybody.。
And you should go home too."。
Which just stood out to me as really weird.。
Like this is one of the top dogs in our organization.。
And yet he's telling us to go home?。
No, no, no, no.。
Like that, that, that doesn't feel right.。
This feels like a test.。
And so I refused to do what Brent said.。
Instead, I decided to make sure that I put on another pot of coffee, got back to work, was the last one out of the building.。
That is until eventually he called me into his office and he asked me why I was doing that.。
And then he proceeded to tell me why he left at 4.30 every day.。
He told me this, he said, "Kylin, I can't take care of our team if I don't take care of myself.。
And I leave at 4.30 because it's good for me.。
And I want you to leave at 4.30 because it's good for you too."。
Now, did Brent always leave at 4.30?。
No.。
Whenever the job required, he'd stay late.。
Whenever the job required, I would stay late.。
But what he was communicating to me is exactly what Jesus is communicating in this moment.。
Brent was literally loving me as he loved himself.。
That he wanted for my good in the same way that he wanted for his own good, in a way that believed what God said about him.。
Like, I wanted to stay at the office and work real hard because I wanted to prove that I brought value to the organization.。
And yet Brent knew my value isn't found in the way I work.。
My value is in what Jesus Christ has done for me.。
Like, all of my value is wrapped up in the cross, in the work that Christ has done, not the work that I can do.。
And yet that's the most liberating thing because whenever he knows that and whenever we know that, it empowers us to love people radically.。
Like, that's the issue here.。
You see, God wants you to love yourself so that way you can adequately love other people.。
And yet where we often get into trouble is we're not very good at loving ourselves.。
Like, newsflash, you're actually not very good at it.。
I'm not very good at it.。
Like, some of us can't love others because we don't find ourselves lovable.。
Like, you're dissatisfied with how you look in the mirror or you're consumed with what people think of you or you constantly talk down to yourself because it's how your parents only ever spoke to you or you're embarrassed by your job.。
You feel shame for what you did in college or in that relationship or to that friend.。
And you don't feel like you fit in to whatever room you're a part of for whatever reason.。
If this is you, listen, you will not be able to love your neighbor because you cannot love yourself.。
Like, you won't be able to celebrate other people because they have what you want.。
Like, you won't be able to serve other people because you don't feel worthy.。
You won't be able to see people that are hurting because all you see is your own hurt.。
That's why it's so important for you to learn how to love yourself because it's going to empower you to love other people.。
But if you don't find yourself lovable, you will not be able to do it.。
For others, we can't love others because we do a poor job of loving ourselves.。
It's not that we don't find ourselves lovable.。
It's that we do a really poor job of loving ourselves.。
Like, you don't pursue God's best for you.。
Instead, you pursue whatever feels good for you.。
Like, you just want to feel desired.。
And so you lower your standards to get some attention.。
Or you just need to unwind, even if it means that you've got to have another drink, another vape.。
Like, you so badly want empathy from people that you vent about that problem.。
You vent about that person.。
You vent about your pain.。
And even though all that is so legitimate, the way in which you vent it, it doesn't help you.。
It only hurts you.。
It leaves you embittered.。
Some of you want so badly to feel accepted that you're even willing to compromise your own morals to make that happen.。
If it's you, if you're here and you're entertaining sin in your life, you're not alone.。
I've been there.。
We've been there.。
This is a part of the human story.。
And yet what you need to know is you won't be able to love others because you're doing a bad job of loving yourself.。
You see, sin wants you to think that you're helping yourself.。
I'm doing this, man.。
It feels good.。
Like, actually, I get a high off of it.。
Like, it's pleasant to my being.。
It gratifies my flesh.。
Like, it does feel nice.。
It masquerades as love.。
But in truth, when you rip off the mask, all it is is hate from an enemy that does not want your well-being.。
You see, you're entertaining the very things that Jesus Christ went to the cross to free you from.。
And for others of us, you can't love other people because you love yourself too much.。
You're too focused on where you want to be in life, what you want to achieve in the next five years,。
the kind of reputation you really want to be, the kind of reputation you really want to have, the sort of circle you want to be a part of,。
the kind of experiences you want to have in life.。
You won't be able to love others because all your time and all your space and all your energy, it's gone into loving you.。
The danger here, if it's you, is you won't be able to see others because you can't see past yourself.。
Like, you're too busy.。
You're too preoccupied with where you want to be in the future to see where God actually has you here in the present.。
Like, you're too proud.。
You're too concerned with being impressive one day that you miss what's important to God here today.。
You're so focused on your purposes that you're missing out on the purposes God has for you.。
And heads up, the purposes of God are so much better than any purpose you could ever design for yourself.。
Like, he wants to save the world.。
That's amazing.。
That's why Jesus is calling people to follow him, to be his disciple.。
Hey, I'm saving the world.。
I'm doing a good thing and I want you to do it too.。
That's a purpose worth living for.。
That's a purpose far greater than anything we could draw up for ourself.。
And yet the way he does it is he saves the world one person at a time.。
And he wants to use you to do it.。
But the only way it's done is by loving others rightly.。
And the only way we love others rightly is we love ourselves rightly first.。
Now, listen to me, and I need this to be really clear because some of you are listening to this and you're like, this feels really heretical.。
Like some of you are sitting here like, no, I don't know that that's what it's teaching.。
I'm not preaching a self-care gospel just to be abundantly clear.。
Like, I'm not telling you that you just need to think more positive thoughts.。
And you know what?。
You really should complain about the commitments you have and find a way to get out of them.。
You really should get more vacation time.。
I can't believe they're holding out on you.。
You need to eat a healthier diet.。
That's going to make you more, more, more blessed in life.。
I'm not saying any of that.。
I'm not preaching a self-care gospel, but I am preaching to you the real gospel, which is a soul care gospel.。
That's what the gospel is.。
It's God saw your soul and it was condemned.。
And he said, I'm coming in to save it because I want you for myself.。
I'm going to save your soul.。
And yet so many of us condemn our soul by way of doing things that we know we should not do.。
And yet the way that you love yourself rightly is you love yourself as Christ himself has loved you.。
But that's it.。
How has Christ loved you?。
Like he's gone to the cross on your behalf.。
He's endured the wrath of God in your place.。
And so what that means for us is, is I can love myself enough to forgive myself.。
I can love myself enough to accept myself.。
I can love myself enough to not give up on myself because Jesus Christ never gave up on me.。
I can love myself enough to celebrate the fact that God is out of his mind going crazy that you placed your faith in him.。
He loves that.。
All of all of heaven rejoices at the salvation of a single sinner.。
And so since God celebrates me, I can celebrate me too.。
I can love myself enough to hold myself to a higher standard.。
That's the Christian life.。
God does have a standard that he is calling us to.。
He does want us to walk in that way because that's the way of Jesus.。
And so I can love myself enough to go that way.。
I can love myself enough to believe we have purposes in life.。
First John 4, 9, 10 says, "In this, the love of God was manifest among us.。
That God sent his only son into the world so that we might live through it.。
In this is the love, not that we have loved God, but that he loved us and he sent his son to be the propitiation of our sins.。
Beloved, if God so loved us, then guess what?。
We also ought to love one another.。
No one's ever seen God.。
But if we love God, God abides in us and his love is perfected in us.。
Put simply, we love the Lord because he's loved us and we love one another because he loved us.。
And the reason we know it is because Jesus loved us with all his heart.。
Like Jesus's own expression was to be perfect in our place.。
Jesus loved us with all his soul. His distinction as the son of God was laid aside that he might become the son of suffering.。
He loved us with all his mind, like his perception was of a reality we knew not of.。
His perception was of a reality where we could be in relationship with God forever.。
None of us knew that.。
We were darkened in the understanding of our mind.。
Yet as he stepped in light of the world, he brought clarity to reality and he said, no, you can be with me forever.。
And he loved us as himself.。
His reflection has made you and has made I children of God.。
This is the love of God for you.。
That's the power of what he's done and that power is found in Christ's love for us.。
So let me pray for us.。
God, thank you for tonight.。
We're so grateful for this evening and a chance to sit under your word.。
And God, I flew through this thing.。
But God, don't let my urgency cost these people in this room the intensity of what you're communicating.。
That you don't want this a life where they do a bunch of things, where they get active and they get to work.。
That's not your heart for them, God.。
No, your heart for them is that they would love you with all of their being.。
God, that they would love you with their heart.。
That they wouldn't just be obedient and begrudgingly submitted.。
But God, that they would desire you, that you would unlock something within them that loves you, God.。
That they would love you with their soul.。
They would embrace, God, who you've made them to be and who it is you're making them into.。
That God, they would love you with their mind.。
That they would learn about you and that learning would lead to new living.。
And that God, they would love others as themselves.。
That God, you have loved them very specifically.。
Thus, they should love themselves in light of that.。
And it should liberate them, God.。
It should unleash them, Lord, to make a big difference in the world and to love other people.。
This is your teaching, Jesus.。
The first and greatest command and the second just like it.。
Love me because I've loved you.。
It's in Jesus' name we pray.。
Amen.。
Hey, Ports, let's stand together, would you?。
We're really excited because the evening's not over.。
We're going to respond in worship.。
And every one of us in this moment has a response to take.。
And so you should know, we've got a team down to the front, my left and right.。
They'd love to pray with you if you want prayer, if you need processing, they're here for that.。
But let's sing together and celebrate the love that God has given.。
you。
