(upbeat music)。
- Let's go 2019.。
(audience cheering)。
Come on man.。
Yeah, 2019 looks good on y'all, okay.。
Hey, we're starting a new series tonight called Self Care.。
We could not be more excited about this series。
as we dive into a very popular term。
and culture right now of self care.。
My most recent experience with the new form of self care。
is related to something called the chiropractor.。
I don't know, anybody chiropractic people out there?。
Anyone over the age of 30 something?。
I had some like back pain recently。
and a friend was like, oh dude,。
you gotta go check out the chiropractor.。
So went to the chiropractor with kind of fear。
and trepidation of like what sort of witch of indoor。
witch doctor am I about to walk into right now?。
Because the spine feels like a pretty valuable。
component of the body.。
If you're gonna lose a finger, that's one thing.。
If you're gonna be forfeiting something with the spine,。
that feels like a bigger deal.。
So I kind of go in there and basically was like,。
hey, can we not touch the neck?。
I've heard that can kill ya.。
And so they went through it and I went a couple times。
and dude, and it worked.。
I was like, I stand before you a healed man.。
I tell you that.。
[congregation laughing]。
And so that was kind of the most recent self-care.。
But dude, I love self-care.。
I'm a fan and I'm not just a fan.。
Like I'm a fad self-care person.。
Like I kind of go from one fad to the next along with it。
of like, oh man, yeah, this is gonna work this time.。
Whether it's like, you guys remember P90X?。
Anybody do P90X?。
[congregation laughing]。
That guy was so creepy.。
To Insanity and Shanti or CrossFit, any CrossFit people?。
[congregation cheering]。
You guys are all eating kale and doing deadlifts together.。
Or just intermittent fasting is like a new thing.。
I feel like I'm always down to try something new。
that kind of comes along.。
Advocare, anybody remember or do Advocare?。
Yeah, I tried it.。
I can never remember to take the vitamins.。
I just like would buy them and then throw,。
it was basically like putting money down the toilet.。
But here's the truth.。
I'm not the only person who loves self-care.。
Like our world is filled, we love self-care.。
And there's no time of the year that we as a society。
are more into self-care than really。
the beginning of the year.。
Where New Year's resolutions are rolling out。
and people are going back to the gym。
and you got all these kinds of different goals for 2019.。
So I don't know what self-care looks like for you,。
but our society is really all about it.。
Even that term of, hey, self-care,。
whether it's staycations or hey,。
it's an excuse to go to the spa or join a yoga class。
or fast pass, any fast pass people in here。
or bar classes or class pass, not fast pass,。
that's Disney World, class pass.。
(congregation laughing)。
Or getting your nails done or just taking a vacation。
or retail therapy.。
Any retail therapists in here under the banner。
of treat yourself?。
Here's my favorite thing about self-care though.。
If you've heard the expression,。
which is just something in culture,。
it's like it's a virtuous way to do all the things。
you wanna do anyways.。
You thought about this?。
It's like, yeah, I'm sorry, I have to break my commitment。
and stay home and put cucumbers on my eyes。
because if I don't care of me, take care of me,。
I can't take care of you.。
So this, you're welcome, really, is what this is all about.。
I feel like I need this massage right now。
because if I don't get it, I'm cranky.。
If I don't sleep at least this amount,。
then I'm just not me.。
And so it's like a new virtuous way。
to kinda do the things that we wanna do anyways.。
But biblically speaking, that would be a little bit more。
like selfish care, if you will.。
But there are things that the Bible says。
we as followers of Jesus should have in our life。
to experience self-care.。
Said another way, there is biblical self-care。
that the Bible lays out.。
And so for the next handful of weeks,。
we're gonna look at some of the teachings。
as it relates to scripture about how you can be。
a healthier you and experience a better self-care。
as it relates to your mind, body, soul, spirit,。
kinda rest in general.。
So we're gonna kick this off and hopefully,。
I think it's gonna be really, really helpful。
and we are excited.。
But tonight, we are gonna dive into the starting point。
of self-care, that if you don't get this thing。
that we're gonna discuss tonight right,。
then any amount of yoga that you add to your regimen。
is just gonna be useless, or ultimately not gonna be。
meeting the greatest needs that you have.。
So tonight, we're gonna dive into the starting point。
of self-care.。
If you take notes, you can write out。
the starting point of self-care.。
We're gonna be in John chapter four。
and we're gonna look at an interaction that Jesus has。
with a lady and in it, he lays out three things。
that are crucial to your understanding,。
my understanding of self-care,。
if you're gonna experience it at any point in your life。
and in 2019 this year.。
So in John chapter four, if you go to Bible,。
you can flip open there, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John.。
John was written by the apostle John,。
one of Jesus's best friends.。
And he lays out and writes this account。
of an interaction Jesus has with this woman。
and we're gonna pick it up in verse four.。
You may have heard this story before,。
but some of the more profound truths。
that are contained really in the entire New Testament。
are recorded in this interaction that Jesus has.。
We learned something about him, something about you,。
and something about self-care.。
So we're gonna, three takeaways.。
We'll start in verse four and go from there.。
Now he, that's speaking of Jesus,。
had to go through Samaria.。
Now let me pause.。
Here's why this is significant, why John is including it.。
So John is basically saying, hey, Jesus, starting out,。
he had to go through Samaria.。
What was Samaria?。
Samaria was this area, I think we have a map that's up here,。
that no one, if you were a Jewish person,。
you never went through Samaria.。
There was a phrase in that time that, hey,。
you would dust the sand off of your sandals。
if you got any of Samaria on you。
because it was an area that was filled。
with kind of former Jewish people。
that basically married a bunch of pagans。
and kind of blended all these different religions together.。
So if you're in the Jewish areas,。
put it back up there, Billy,。
in the green on the top and the bottom,。
in order to get to any of these areas,。
you would go all the way,。
you wouldn't travel directly through,。
you'd go all the way around by the Jordan River。
because you wanted to avoid Samaria.。
It was kind of a rough neighborhood, if you will.。
Child sacrifice was a part of kind of cult worship there.。
And so this was not a people that got along well。
with Jewish people, Samaritans and Jewish people.。
And yet Jesus does what no one did in that day.。
And he says, I have to go through this area,。
and we're gonna discover why here in a second.。
So when he came to a town in Samaria called Sychar,。
near the plot of the ground。
that Jacob had given his son Joseph,。
Jacob's well was there.。
And Jesus, tired as he was from his journey,。
he sat down by the well, and it was noon.。
So Jesus walking along, stops at this town,。
there's a well, he sits down by the well, and it's noon.。
When a Samaritan woman came to draw water,。
Jesus said to her, will you give me a drink?。
Because his disciples had gone into food to buy town.。
The Samaritan woman said to him,。
you are a Jew, and I am a Samaritan woman.。
How can you ask me for a drink?。
For Jews, John writes in parenthesis,。
do not associate with Samaritans.。
And Jesus answered, and he says what only Jesus。
could get away with saying, if you knew the gift of God,。
and who it is that's asking you for a drink,。
you would have asked him,。
and he would have given you living water.。
I say this because, ladies, if a guy ever interacts with you。
as it relates to a question and says,。
if you knew the gift of God,。
standing in front, like only Jesus can say this type of thing。
because he's Jesus, he is the gift of God.。
And for God so loved the world, he gave.。
And so Jesus says, if you knew who was talking to you,。
you would have asked me for water.。
But she said, sir, you have nothing to draw with,。
and the well is deep.。
Where can you get this living water?。
Are you greater than our father Jacob,。
who gave us this well and drank from it himself,。
as did his sons and livestock?。
And Jesus answered and said,。
everyone who drinks from the well,。
from this water, from this well, will be thirsty again.。
I'm gonna hit pause really quick。
because it'll give us really a launching point。
into the first idea as it relates to self-care.。
Jesus points out something that all of us,。
it's not that crazy profound that he just says,。
hey, if you drink this water, you're gonna thirst again.。
That this will not be something。
that'll finally satisfy you。
or satisfy you for more than even a day.。
It'll be something that you'll have to continue。
to come back to over and over again.。
But he's trying to launch into a conversation。
with this lady, and he's gonna use the physical idea。
of water to begin to say, hey, there's thirst that you have。
that you are unable to meet by yourself.。
The first idea I wanna pull out from this text。
is that self-care without Christ, or alone,。
self-care is not enough.。
It will not last, it won't last.。
Self-care without Christ will not last.。
Like Jesus points to herself,。
hey, if you keep drinking this water,。
it's really simple, you're gonna have to come back。
here tomorrow, and the next day, and the next day.。
And he's doing so because he wants to begin。
to talk about thirsts and something lacking。
in this lady's life, 'cause Jesus knew。
who he was talking to.。
This wasn't just any woman.。
This is a woman who didn't just have physical thirst.。
She had voids in her life that she was trying to meet。
and was coming up empty over and over and over again.。
What do I mean by that?。
A few verses later, we're told,。
as they continue the conversation,。
this was a woman who had been married five times.。
And she was sleeping with a man who is not her husband.。
Today, just a few verses later,。
Jesus, in the conversation, says,。
hey, go call your husband.。
She says, I don't have a husband.。
And Jesus says, you're right.。
When you say you have no husband,。
the fact is you have had five husbands.。
And the man you're sleeping with now,。
or you have now, is not your husband.。
What you've said is true.。
Five husbands today is pretty rare.。
If you meet someone that's on their fifth husband,。
or on their sixth suitor, their sixth man,。
it's like, that's pretty unusual.。
In this day, it was unheard of.。
This was a woman that had gone from one relationship。
to the next to the next and come up empty。
over and over and over again.。
And Jesus is trying to launch into a conversation saying,。
hey, if you try to self-care or care for yourself。
or cope with the emptiness in yourself alone,。
you will always come up empty over and over and over again.。
That this was a girl, I mean,。
this is the most clear expression of a girl。
who is thirsty in all the New Testament.。
You know what I mean by that?。
For anyone who's not used to that term,。
which I feel like is my favorite recent term,。
not long ago, or a little while ago,。
I was hanging with a friend, my friend Jake,。
and he was like, we were talking about some relationship,。
you're dating, and he brought, he was like,。
dude, that girl is just thirsty.。
I'm like, like she needs a beverage?。
What do you mean thirsty?。
He's like, no, she's like looking for a relationship.。
But even today, we use this kind of term,。
and this is a woman who, if anyone in the New Testament。
is relationally thirsty, it would be her.。
And she had gone from one to the next to the next,。
trying to fill this void and come up empty.。
But if you try to self-care on your own,。
whether it's through a new workout regimen,。
whether it's through new goals that you have for this year,。
whether it's through health,。
whether it's through a number of spa days,。
you will always come up empty.。
If you try to just self-cope。
and self-medicate with the world and experience like,。
hey man, I need a drink tonight,。
or I need this new purse, or I need this,。
fill in the blank, or I need a relationship,。
you will always come up empty.。
And Jesus is saying that if you self-care without Christ,。
you will always find something that does not last.。
Because the truth is, just like she was thirsty,。
there was a void on the inside.。
There is a void on inside of all of us.。
That you are thirsty and I am thirsty.。
And if we are not aware of the ways。
that we will, out of that just void,。
or out of unmet desires, try to meet those things,。
you are putting yourself in incredible danger.。
Like, candidly, I have thirst,。
I can have thirsts inside of me,。
or desires inside of me that are just destructive。
for me, for people around me, for my family.。
Like a desire for, hey, I just need the approval of people,。
and I just wanna be liked, that if I let rule my life,。
will lead me to a place where I no longer。
am concerned about the things that God cares about,。
I'm concerned about what you care about.。
A desire is inside of my life that could lead me。
to commit adultery because I wanna have sex。
with women who are not my wife.。
Desire is inside of me for just money and materialism,。
and man, I just need to go make a bunch of money.。
And if I'm not careful, out of that thirst,。
I will let that thirst lead me to take actions。
that will impact not just me, but all those around me.。
Where are you thirsty?。
Maybe it's just an insatiable, like you're constantly。
consumed with what people think about you,。
or your social media, or maybe it's a need for control,。
and you have an eating disorder right now.。
Or just a loneliness that's inside of you。
that constantly comes up, and it's leading you。
to make decisions like, I mean, pornography,。
you know what pornography, the number one reason。
people who study it would say people get addicted to porn。
or people watch pornography, they want to feel desired.。
Thirsty.。
And the problem is not necessarily that you're thirsty,。
that's gonna be a reality, it is what you do。
with that thirst.。
And you need to have a death grip on the fact。
that there are desires and things in you。
that want to run your life into the ground,。
that wanna lead you to make decisions,。
that will lead you into every place from a rehab。
to broken relationship after the next.。
Do you know what those are?。
I have a dog named Judah who is a Rhodesian Ridgeback,。
he's like, yeah, he's like a little baby elephant.。
He's 130 pounds, he's enormous.。
And yeah, yeah, sweet.。
And he did the weirdest thing.。
This dog will eat out of the trash can while we're gone.。
And that may be like, oh, you know, that's kind of sweet,。
maybe you have an open trash can.。
We have a trash can in a drawer.。
He can pull the drawer open because he's like six four。
and he can get his face in there。
and eat out of the trash can.。
What happens when a dog eats out of the trash?。
He's like, I'm hungry, that looks good,。
and he begins to eat water bottles.。
What happens, you might think,。
whenever your dog eats water bottles?。
Well, it causes some complications.。
And so he is constantly making decisions。
and out of his hunger, eating from the trash,。
which leads to all kinds of exciting opportunities。
to be a good neighbor and pick up your dog's liquid。
that's rushing out of him at times.。
And you may be like, oh man, that's kind of weird,。
why are you telling me this thing?。
Here's what will happen because of this decision.。
My dog is what you would call a walking pooper.。
And of course, the appropriate term.。
So because he'll eat trash, then we'll take him to the park,。
we'll go outside and there's people all around us.。
Any dog owners here, you will have sympathy。
for what I'm talking about.。
So you go around, you got your dog,。
you're hanging out at the parks with all these kids.。
Hey, have a great day, sun's outside.。
And then the dog will be like, oh man,。
the water bottle is needing to come out,。
but it can't come out, so he will just begin squatting。
and walking around and circling people.。
How do you stop a dog from doing that。
when you're around people and you're like,。
he's got a water bottle in there and it's,。
there's nothing coming out.。
I would get it if it was.。
And literally, he was like going around。
a two-year-old the other day and I'm like,。
Judah, stop, Judah, stop it right now.。
I mean, you can't stop.。
He's like, dude, when you gotta go, you gotta go.。
And it is causing complications,。
not just in his life, but in all those around him.。
(congregation laughing)。
In the same way.。
(laughing)。
There is something, as crazy as it sounds,。
in me that wants to eat from the trash.。
And it's not the trash of a trash can,。
it is the trash of pornography.。
It is the trash of finding my worth in other people.。
It is the trash of vanity and body image。
or trash of, hey, if I only made more money.。
The trash of, man, I wanna be seen as impressive to people.。
And it is the trash that if you feed yourself that,。
it's gonna have side effects.。
I don't know what trash you are tempted to eat,。
but you need to have a death grip and awareness on that.。
Because it's not just that self-care。
without Christ won't last,。
it is that self-care without Christ can cost you.。
And this woman had followed that inner urge。
for relational, just connection with one man after the next,。
after the next, to the point where she's all alone,。
or she's living this life。
where she's not even married to this guy.。
I mean, that's why she came in the middle of the day.。
You don't come to a well。
in the middle of the day at this time.。
The reason she came is because she was an outcast.。
She was an outcast of the outcasts.。
Samaritans were outcasts.。
But even among men,。
you came in the morning to the well to get water,。
and at night when it was cool.。
You didn't go in the middle of the day。
unless you didn't wanna see anybody.。
And this was a woman who had made decision after decision。
out of her desire, and she'd found herself empty and alone.。
And Jesus says, you've gotta seek outside of yourself,。
and there is a solution.。
He continues in verse 16, 14, I'm sorry.。
But whoever drinks the water, Jesus speaking,。
that I give them will never thirst.。
Indeed, the water that I give them will become in them。
a spring of water welling up to eternal life.。
What are you saying, Jesus?。
Jesus is using this metaphor of water.。
Water is that thing that like the body, it has to have.。
Your body's like 50% water.。
If you don't have water, you will die.。
And unlike food, you can kinda last a little water。
but without water, you will die.。
It's necessary for life.。
And Jesus says in the same way that physical water。
is necessary to life, I offer a spiritual water。
that if you are gonna experience self-care,。
if you're gonna experience soul care,。
you're gonna have to have something from me.。
The second idea from this text is that self-care。
with Christ involves soul care.。
Jesus is trying to say I to whoever is interested,。
whoever is willing, whoever will receive it,。
I will offer them something that won't just quench。
their thirst and go into their stomach.。
I offer them something that will penetrate into their soul。
where nothing else can or like nothing else can.。
It would be such a tragedy if this year you met。
all of your goals as it relates to health and self-care。
and boundaries, and I hope you meet all of them.。
But you forfeited the thing that is your deepest need。
which is care at the soul.。
It would be such a tragedy if you came here tonight。
and you had a good time, you laughed,。
and the music was cool, but you didn't walk away。
experiencing relief at your greatest, deepest need。
which is at your soul, and Jesus says I alone。
am the one who can meet that need.。
And self-care without me is foolish, it will not last,。
but self-care with me will involve a soul care.。
That is what my desire for you to experience is.。
A relief almost.。
I wanna meet you at a place that nothing else in life。
can touch which is the soul.。
It's not hard to see like so many of the things。
that we think in life actually would satisfy.。
They never do.。
I mean like just if you think about it,。
like two clear ways that you can, all of us。
could probably see this is if you're in a relationship。
that you can, all of us could probably see this。
is one of them I would call the like。
I can't wait until mentality.。
I can't wait until mentality.。
People have this idea, I mean I remember having it。
where man I just can't wait till I'm dating.。
I'm dating someone, can't wait till we're engaged.。
We're engaged, can't wait till I'm married.。
Oh man, it's gonna be amazing.。
We get married, man I can't wait till we have kids.。
To have kids, I can't wait till we have kids。
that can dress themselves and sleep.。
I can't wait until they're in school.。
I can't wait till, it just goes from one thing to the next.。
And I don't know where, inside of the room。
I know most of us are either dating,。
maybe seriously dating, and if any of that mentality。
is like I can't wait, you are chasing a moving target。
that just moves along with you.。
Same thing happens with money.。
I mean remember in college when like I just can't wait。
to have a job, unbelievable 30 grand,。
I'm just like throwing money everywhere.。
And then you're like I can't wait till I have 40 grand,。
50 grand, and it never goes away.。
Because there's something inside of you。
that no amount of money, no relationship,。
nothing can touch but him, but Jesus.。
And he says self-care with me involves a soul care。
that I wanna come in and allow them to experience。
at the deepest level, satisfaction.。
The second place we see it is in just like celebrities.。
I mean you look at these people, I mean they're so,。
you're like you are the most attractive, wealthy,。
successful person ever and you work like you make a movie。
where someone just tells you to read a line。
for like a month, a year, you have everything。
anybody could ever want and the number of them。
that are on antidepressants is unbelievable.。
Just look into it.。
The number of them who've come out from Cameron Diaz。
to Tom Brady to Brad Pitt to Jim Carrey to Lady Gaga,。
Demi Lovato, on and on and said like hey,。
if you think anything he will satisfy, you are deceived.。
I mean just think even about the idea,。
they've got everything you ever want.。
They've got more access to self-care than we'll ever have.。
They get a massage a day, they get to have their own masseuse.。
They could go shopping whenever they want。
and not really get worried about it.。
Like they're able to go on vacation whenever they want to.。
They own a little small island and they're all depressed。
or many of them are.。
I mean think about that.。
You're going to Tahiti in your own little vacation。
and you're packing pills to help you cope。
with the depression of your life.。
That's crazy and I'm not saying anything。
about even antidepressant meds.。
That's not my point.。
My point is the people who have the life。
that everyone would go oh, that's amazing。
are trying to cope with just the sadness。
of the reality of their life 'cause there's something empty。
in them that no success, no fame, no money。
can ever satisfy and Jesus would say you're thirsty。
and there is only one well that can meet that need.。
There was an interview just with Tom Brady who does it again.。
I mean the dude's like 85 and he is just crushing it.。
It's unbelievable, Tom.。
Give everybody else a shot, okay?。
Sorry Patriots people and it's true。
and he interviewed on 60 Minutes and basically。
he said just this exact thing.。
He's the guy who's won multiple Super Bowls.。
He's married to this supermodel and here's what he said.。
Why do I have three Super Bowl rings。
and I think there's still something greater。
out there for me?。
I mean a lot of people would say hey man, this is it.。
I reached my goal, my dream, my life.。
Me, I think God, there's gotta be more than this.。
I mean this can't be all that it's cracked up to be.。
What's the answer, they asked him.。
He said I wish that I knew.。
I wish I knew.。
I think there's a lot of parts about me。
that I'm still trying to find.。
Translation, what did you just say, Tom Brader?。
The guy who's literally got, you'd be like。
that's gotta be nice.。
He says I climbed the mountain of success。
and I got to the top and there was nothing there.。
I've been on the wrong mountain.。
It's empty and Jesus would say。
there is no amount of success, no amount of money,。
no amount of relationship, there's no man out there,。
there's no woman out there, there's no ability。
to have children or whatever you find yourself being like.。
I wish, there's no job that can ultimately satisfy。
and there's no person who's in any circumstance out there。
that cannot currently experience satisfaction。
if it was turned to him.。
Jim Carrey said that I wish everyone could be rich。
and famous so they could see how empty。
and meaningless it all is.。
It's empty.。
So Jesus interacts with this woman。
and he basically presses in and says。
you've been married five times.。
One man to the next, you're thirsty。
and I offer you a water that can quench your thirst。
and he begins to kind of press in on an area。
that had to be a sensitive subject with this woman。
and what does she do?。
She does what many of us do.。
When God is kind of pressing in on us。
and we try to move away from it or change the subject,。
here's what happens.。
The woman said, sir, give me this water。
so I won't be thirsty, you have to come draw here。
and he told her, go and call your husband.。
You read this earlier.。
I have no husband, she said.。
Jesus said to her, you are right when you say。
you have no husband, the fact is you've had five。
and the man you have now is not your husband.。
What you've said is quite true.。
How long was the pause after that sentence?。
I mean, this is, I don't even know a modern equivalent.。
That a random stranger shows up and actually tells you。
something, there's like no way that he could know this。
and she begins to say, sir, I perceive that you are a prophet。
I can see that you're a prophet。
and then she does what so many of us do.。
Our ancestors worshiped on this mountain。
but you Jews claim that the place。
where we must worship is in Jerusalem.。
Jesus brings up kind of this very tender topic with her。
and she's like, oh wow, okay, relational,。
you wanna talk about my relationships.。
While we're on the subject, you guys say we should worship。
on this mountain, let's talk about mountains。
and just tries to distract from the conversation。
and Jesus, you gotta love Jesus 'cause he goes with her。
and he says, woman, believe me, a time is coming。
when you will worship the Father。
neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem.。
You Samaritans worship what you do not know,。
we worship what we do know for salvation is from the Jews.。
Basically like God gave the Old Testament, the Bible then,。
to the Jewish people.。
Yet a time is coming and has now come。
when true worshipers will worship the Father。
in spirit and in truth。
for they are the kind of worshipers the Father seeks.。
Jesus says, you're defining worship as you do worship。
at this mountain or that mountain or in this church。
or in this church building or at this time of the week。
or on Sunday, worship is not something you do at a building,。
it's not about where you worship。
or even when you worship, worship is something you do。
in spirit as in constantly.。
Worship is more about how you live your life.。
You're constantly living and constantly worshiping。
if you're worshiping or living in spirit and truth,。
Jesus says, for God is spirit and his worshipers。
must worship him in spirit and in truth.。
The woman said, I know that the Messiah,。
called the Christ, is coming and when he comes,。
he'll explain everything to us.。
Then Jesus declared, I, the one speaking to you, am he.。
We're gonna come back to that in a second,。
but Jesus essentially lays out, hey, worship,。
the most important thing about worship。
is not where you worship but who you worship。
and how you worship.。
Now, worship is something that's constantly going on。
and God is not seeking people to worship him。
in a building in a moment or not some religious exercise。
but a relationship.。
Self-care, if you're gonna experience it this year,。
and gosh, I want,。
if you're gonna experience self-care, health, growth,。
you to become everything that you wanna be in life,。
it is gonna involve the third idea,。
which self-care with Christ。
involves an ongoing relationship with him.。
It involves an ongoing relationship with Jesus,。
a growing relationship with him,。
not some religious action, that's what he's saying,。
hey, in spirit, constantly in connection with the Father.。
If you're gonna experience self-care,。
it involves an ongoing relationship,。
which means in order for you to have a growing relationship,。
what do you have to do?。
What do you have to do to grow any relationship?。
It takes time, communication,。
listening to one another, prioritizing.。
If you're gonna experience growing。
and being increasingly healthy, self-care,。
it will involve a growing relationship.。
You will prioritize spending time in God's word,。
that's what I mean by listening.。
You will prioritize prayer.。
One of the things that is at the top of my list,。
dude, I just wanna pray more this year.。
I wanna continue to just develop the habit of,。
God, when my life is going crazy,。
will you help me turn to you?。
God, will you help me pray more?。
I'm about to walk into this meeting,。
I'm concerned about what they're gonna think about me,。
or maybe I'm just anxious,。
or God, I can't fall asleep right now, will you help me?。
If you're gonna experience a growing relationship,。
it's gonna involve spending time in God's word,。
spending time in prayer,。
growing that relationship, priority,。
it's gonna involve work.。
There's no relationship, if you get married,。
or if you are married, there's no marriage out there。
that doesn't take work, relationships,。
take prioritization and work.。
And if you're gonna grow your relationship with Jesus,。
it's going to involve this happening.。
I think one of the craziest, or maybe the saddest thing,。
so when you read this, you're like, Jesus says,。
hey, drink the water I give you, you'll never thirst again.。
And there's a lot of Christians,。
because they don't practice what Jesus said。
of worshiping in spirit and in truth,。
worship constantly, having a relationship with God,。
because they don't practice that, they're thirsty.。
Like you may be a Christian in the room,。
and you're like, dude, I believe in that,。
yeah, the whole Jesus thing,。
yeah, Jesus satisfied thirst, yeah, that's great,。
I'm in on that, but I'm still empty.。
There's still part of me that just feels like empty.。
And it's because you are not taking advantage。
of what you have access to, a relationship with God.。
You're not prioritizing your relationship,。
spending time in His word, spending time with Him,。
walking with God's people.。
You have access to something that you've started,。
but you're not consistently applying it to your life.。
It's not dissimilar to this.。
Remember, I talked about the chiropractor,。
so I went, and while I was there,。
I went three times, like in a few days,。
and it was like, dude, this is awesome, amazing.。
And they were like, yeah, if you sign up。
for 70 bucks a month, you can have an unlimited pass.。
I'm like, unlimited pass, I can come in here any time?。
Unlimited pass, done, sign on the dotted line.。
I haven't been back since.。
I need to go cancel it, but you can't do it over the phone.。
And it had been a year, I kept the membership.。
And you came up to me and you were like,。
hey, you mentioned the chiropractor thing,。
how's that going, still a believer,。
I'm thinking about doing it myself,。
and I was like, you know, it worked initially,。
but it really hasn't worked since.。
I mean, I haven't been back since,。
but I don't know that I would really encourage。
anyone to do that, you would say。
the problem is not with chiropractors,。
it's that you're not going.。
You're not taking advantage of what you have access to.。
The problem is not that Jesus doesn't bring satisfaction,。
the problem is that you are not taking advantage。
of what you have access to,。
and if you're gonna experience self-care,。
it's gonna involve an ongoing relationship,。
that's what God, it says in the text,。
the Father is seeking you.。
Not for you to do some deed once a week。
and religious act, to have a relationship with you.。
That's what God is seeking.。
And if you're gonna experience that,。
like here's the problem, a lot of people in the world。
are like, yeah, I'm kind of, you know,。
I'm a follower of Jesus, I believe in him,。
living water, great, and I'm kind of experiencing。
my purpose, it's 'cause you're kind of following Jesus.。
Hey, I'm kind of experiencing peace,。
it's 'cause you're kind of following Jesus,。
which I may not even really be following Jesus.。
And he's inviting you, man, I want you to experience。
the life you were made for.。
But it's gonna involve prioritizing, spending time with me.。
In summary, just this idea that self-care。
without Christ won't last.。
Self-care with Christ brings soul care,。
and self-care with Christ is an ongoing relationship.。
When I was in college, my senior year,。
we had the final spring break, which was so sad.。
Just 'cause you don't get those anymore.。
And my roommates, we were deciding what to do,。
and there was this girl that I was all interested in,。
and I knew where she and her friends。
were going for spring break, so I was like,。
guys, hey, look, beach, it's gonna be great.。
Her and her friends were going to Destin, Florida,。
we weren't dating, and I was like,。
we should go to Destin, Florida.。
How great would that be?。
And they're like, with all the families?。
And I'm like, it's gonna be great.。
Good family experience together.。
And convinced them, we were gonna go to Alabama,。
and convinced them to go way out of our way。
just 'cause there was a relationship with this girl,。
who's now my wife, that, yeah, I know,。
that's gonna be closing prayer, okay?。
And just wanted everyone to know.。
(congregation laughing)。
That I was going out of my way to seek。
to be in a relationship with her.。
This text, over and over, talks about seeking.。
There's a woman, and she's seeking to fill a void。
that her relationships can't meet.。
And she's trying one after the next after the next,。
and she's still empty, she's thirsty inside, she's seeking.。
It says that Jesus was seeking her.。
I mean, think about how it started.。
Jesus had to go to Samaria.。
Think about that sentence for a second.。
You had to?。
You're Jesus.。
You don't have to do anything.。
And he woke up that morning and said, I've gotta go,。
there's a woman I'm gonna go meet.。
She's the outcast of outcasts.。
She's the woman that no one wants to have anything to do with。
but the Son of God.。
And he woke up with her on his mind.。
He was seeking a relationship with her.。
The very first person in all of the Bible。
that Jesus says, I'm the Messiah,。
is the most relationally dysfunctional person。
in all of the Bible.。
And he says, I haven't given up on you.。
And she believed that day.。
And the story goes on, and all of her life was changed.。
Because it was a man who was seeking,。
and she responded to that.。
No, no, they didn't say that.。
It says the Father is seeking a relationship with you.。
Here's what I know.。
If you're inside of the room right now,。
there's a God who wants something so much more for you。
than just a message on Tuesday night。
or a worship song on Tuesday night.。
He wants a relationship with you.。
And from the very first breath you took in our planet,。
he's been seeking you.。
Until the last day that you live on our planet,。
he will be seeking you.。
How do I know that?。
Because the very same word that it says,。
Jesus had to go to Samaria,。
is used in Matthew chapter 16,。
where Jesus looked at Jerusalem。
and he said, "I have to go to Jerusalem to die。
"on behalf of the human race,。
"on behalf of every person that's ever sat。
"in any one of these seats,。
"who's ever lived on this planet."。
If you're listening to me right now,。
there's a God who was there who is seeking you.。
You woke up this morning and he is crazy about you.。
He's seeking you.。
You think that there is a God out there,。
that if he's there,。
I don't think he wants anything to do with me.。
I'm a porn addict, I'm an abortion.。
I've had an abortion.。
I was a part of telling someone to have an abortion.。
I'm an addict.。
And you think the God who's there。
doesn't want anything to do with you.。
You don't want anything to do with you.。
And he's crazy about you.。
And he is doing everything he can to seek out,。
not so that you would just trust in him,。
though that is enough,。
so that you would walk with him。
and have a relationship with him this year.。
My prayer for you, my prayer for this message would be,。
God, would you awaken us to have an ongoing,。
constant, growing relationship with you?。
Where we experience our spirit and in truth relationship。
with the Father who's there, who's been seeking you.。
Even right now, there are some of you that are here。
and a friend invited you。
and you thought you were going to the porch restaurant。
and you're like, what are we doing here?。
The Father is seeking you.。
He has not forgotten you.。
He is crazy about you.。
He has given his life for you.。
Because just like he had to go to Samaria,。
he says, I have to go to the cross。
because for the joy set before him,。
Hebrews chapter 12 says, he died for you.。
And so I don't know where you are.。
I don't know what you believe.。
But there is one man who can satisfy the desires。
of your soul, you were made for it.。
And there is no other well that can.。
And tonight, he is seeking you。
and reaching in your direction, all of our direction。
and inviting us to walk and accept him。
and walk with him in relationship.。
Let me pray.。
(soft music)。
Father, thank you that you are a God。
who goes out of your way for sinful, broken people。
like me, like this woman who had no idea。
what she was gonna encounter that day,。
but she just went to get water and avoid people.。
There was a God who couldn't avoid meeting her.。
And I pray for friends in the room。
who have never accepted that,。
who have never come to just acknowledge or understand。
that you are not there demanding。
some sort of sacraments from us,。
but you gave a sacrifice for us by giving your life。
and dying in our place to pay for all the sins。
in our past and our present.。
And no matter our story, you're not done with us.。
And you have been pursuing us。
in ways that we can't even fully see now.。
But we for sure can see the pursuit of you on the cross.。
And so Lord, for anyone who's never put their faith。
in Christ tonight, I pray that tonight would be their night.。
They would not leave their seat,。
they would not leave this building。
without coming to a confident place in their faith in you.。
I pray that you would allow those of us。
with one foot in the world and one foot out of it。
that are kind of following Jesus。
and kind of experiencing peace。
to take a step in your direction.。
(gentle music)。
And experience self-care,。
the self-care they're looking for.。
That the truth is, there's a self-care。
that's been looking for us,。
despite the fact that we didn't even realize it.。
A self-care by the name of Christ.。
Thank you that you're a God who seeks.。
We worship you now in song.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
