(upbeat music)。
- Well, hey, it's been a minute。
since I've been up here with you.。
And so if I haven't had the chance to meet you or connect,。
my name's Tyler, I'm the Director of Discipleship here.。
And since we're family,。
I wanted to share a little family update。
with you, so I think we have a picture of my family.。
This is my crew up here, there they are.。
This is my family.。
So we got a little addition, number four, that's coming.。
And thanks, I appreciate that.。
And here's the thing, the due date is March 19th, okay?。
So that's like nine days, so surprise.。
And so here's the thing about fourth babies,。
in case you don't know, they could come at any point.。
So if at some point I just run off from here,。
you know what's going on.。
My wife's giving birth, hopefully.。
So, but hopefully that doesn't happen and no tornado.。
So, hey, if you have a Bible,。
if you'll open your Bible to Genesis chapter 11.。
Genesis chapter 11,。
we're walking through the book of Genesis this spring.。
And there's so many great moments in the book of Genesis,。
but we're looking at 10 iconic moments.。
If you're reading the book, you don't wanna miss these.。
And we've looked at Adam and Eve.。
We've looked at Cain and Abel.。
We've looked at Noah and the flood.。
And today, tonight, we're looking at the Tower of Babel.。
Now the Tower of Babel is a story。
I bet many of us have heard,。
but kind of as this series has gone on,。
if you've been tracking with us,。
you've seen we've kind of taken a different approach。
to each story.。
And I think as we read this,。
you're gonna see a little bit of a different approach。
that we're taking and I hope,。
I think it's gonna be really applicable to your life.。
So Genesis chapter 11, we're gonna start in verse one.。
We're gonna read it, pray, and then dig in.。
Here we go.。
It says, verse one,。
"Now the whole earth had one language and the same words.。
"And as people migrated from the east,。
"they found a plain in the land of Shinar and settled there.。
"And they said to one another,。
"'Come, let us make bricks and burn them thoroughly.'。
"And they had brick for stone and bitumen for mortar.。
"And they said, 'Come, let us build ourselves a city。
"'and a tower with its top to the heavens,。
"'and let us make a name for ourselves,。
"'lest we be dispersed over the face of the earth.'"。
Verse five.。
"And the Lord came down to see the city and the tower。
"which the children of man had built.。
"And the Lord said, 'Behold, they are one people。
"'and they will all have one language.。
"'And this is only the beginning of what they will do.。
"'And nothing that they propose to do now。
"'will be impossible for them.。
"'Come, let us go down there and confuse their language。
"'so they may not understand one another's speech.'。
"So the Lord dispersed them from there。
"over the face of all the earth.。
"And they left off building the city.。
"Therefore, its name was called Babel。
"because the Lord confused the language of all the earth.。
"And from there, the Lord dispersed them。
"over the face of all the earth."。
Let's pray together.。
Father, there's already so many exciting things。
that are happening tonight.。
Amazing worship, awaken announcement.。
And yet, God, we long, like as a people,。
we long to hear from you.。
So Holy Spirit, we just, you're here,。
but we just invite you to take over.。
Open our eyes to behold wondrous things from your word.。
Lord, would we mine every bit of truth out of this text。
and when all of us leave tonight,。
changed after an encounter with God.。
That's what we want, nothing less.。
So come, Lord, have your way in Jesus' name, amen.。
All right, I wanna ask this question, I'm curious.。
How many runners are here?。
Just identify yourself.。
Come on, all right, I see you.。
Now, if you're sitting by someone who you know,。
they ran 10 miles this morning,。
but they didn't wanna own it, just nudge 'em.。
Like, yeah, you're a runner.。
All right, here's the thing.。
I grew up running track in high school,。
but I always aspired to be a runner, like a real one.。
And so there's been two times in my life。
I've signed up for a half marathon.。
Okay, the first time was in Nashville, April of 2020,。
signed up for the marathon, the half marathon.。
So I start training, I start increasing mileage,。
everything's great.。
Then March of 2020, the world shuts down,。
they cancel the race.。
Okay, the second time I signed up for a half marathon,。
was this year, 2026, the Cowtown Half Marathon, Fort Worth.。
Yep, I knew, I knew you people。
would come out of the woodworks.。
And so I signed up and I did it again.。
I start running, I start building up mileage.。
I'm like, I feel good, I'm on Strava,。
I'm connecting with people, this is great.。
And then about a month ago, ice hits Dallas, okay?。
And I'm playing out in the ice with my kids,。
we're throwing those little pellets,。
they weren't really snowballs,。
but we're throwing them at each other, it's great.。
And then Sunday night, our neighbors invite us over.。
Now our neighbors live, not very far away,。
but down a little hill over to the side.。
So I'm all nervous about my pregnant wife and my kids.。
I'm like, you guys gotta be safe.。
You know, like no falling on the ice,。
there's terrible things that can happen.。
So I'm watching, my wife's on the grass,。
my kids are on the grass.。
I'm on the sidewalk, holding a salad bowl,。
and I start walking down the hill,。
I make about 10 steps, and it's like a cartoon.。
Feet in the air, salad bowl goes flying.。
I go land on my back, wind knocked out of me,。
and I just roll over, and my kids come over,。
and I'm like, I'm okay, you know,。
I'm trying to say something.。
And they all think I've died.。
So they just start weeping, crying.。
And finally we get inside, you know,。
I kind of come to, a few days later, go to the doctor.。
I broke a rib in my back, okay?。
I didn't even know you had ribs in your back,。
but I broke one.。
And at this point, I'm like, I'm just not a runner, okay?。
I tried and I failed, that's it.。
But I asked the doctor, so we're looking at my x-ray,。
displaced all over, and I say,。
hey, I got this half marathon coming up in March,。
you know, any chance I can do that?。
And she starts laughing, and she goes,。
you know, here's the thing about ribs.。
She said, there's not much we can do。
to make it better for you,。
but there's not much you can do to make it worse.。
And then she said a line。
that has been living in my head ever since.。
She said, if you plan to do this marathon,。
it's gonna hurt, but you can do it.。
And some of you guys are like, oh, it's on, right?。
And so I remember getting back and going,。
okay, I'm doing this thing.。
Like, I don't care how much pain。
this 26-year-old PA just told me it's gonna hurt,。
but I can do it, I'm doing it.。
And I remember getting home in the first week,。
it was like learning to breathe again.。
You know, like, not like, oh, that hurt.。
You know, first week.。
Second week, it was, I went for a walk.。
And a few days later, I go for a power walk.。
Now I'm power walking in the morning。
with the Richardson moms.。
I'm like Janice, Denise, hello.。
You know, walking through.。
Then I start lightly jogging one mile,。
then two miles, then four miles,。
then 10 miles, then guys,。
last weekend, Caltown ran the half marathon。
with a broken rib.。
(congregation applauding)。
Felt like death the whole time, but,。
and I think we have a picture, yeah,。
me and my son right up here, you know, hanging.。
The great thing is some of you guys were there,。
and so like mile eight, I see old Mark Costanza,。
one of our leaders, just fired up.。
It was great.。
All right, why do I spend all that time in that intro?。
I think one, 'cause I've learned with runners,。
if you don't tell someone, it didn't happen.。
So posted on Strava, I got to tell my closest friends.。
Number two, hopefully deeper reason, is this.。
Throughout this process, I've been pondering this question,。
and I think it's applicable for where we're going tonight.。
This process made me think,。
what does God think about our ambition?。
Like, what did God think?。
When I heard from that PA, it's gonna hurt,。
but you can do it, and something in me was like,。
oh, it's on.。
Like, is God in heaven going, here he goes again, moron?。
Is that what's happening?。
Like, is God angry at you when you set goals。
and dreams for your life?。
Is he frustrated when back-to-back weeks,。
you work 60, 70-hour works, we grind in at work?。
Is he mad at you?。
Is God frustrated when you set goals。
and dreams for your life, and you think about it 24/7,。
or you save up for that trip。
that you've been wanting to go on to Europe or to Atlanta,。
I don't know, but wherever you're wanting to go,。
like, and you've been saving up, is God mad at you?。
Is God angry when you run a half marathon with a broken rib?。
I've been wondering, and I think that gets。
to the story we're looking at today.。
We see in the Tower of Babel, human ambition on display,。
and you see incredible ingenuity and talent。
and ambition and direction,。
and God is going to come and tear that down.。
And so many of us listen to this story and we go, yeah,。
God's not really for our ambition.。
God kind of hates when we work hard,。
so we just need to like rest and chill.。
Is that what this is about?。
And so that's what we're going to look at.。
So here's how it's going to go tonight.。
I'm going to quickly kind of walk through the story,。
just line by line, and then we're going to have。
three takeaways and we're out of here, before the tornado.。
Here we go, number one.。
So the beginning, we read it at the beginning,。
but right at the beginning it says the whole earth。
is together and they have one language,。
which sounds amazing, right?。
Can you imagine if there weren't all these languages。
and everywhere you went on the world, you knew the language?。
The problem is God gave a clear command,。
and we've talked about this in this series.。
He gave a clear command.。
He called it a cultural mandate in Genesis chapter one,。
and then reemphasized in Genesis chapter nine,。
where he said, be fruitful and multiply and what?。
Fill the earth, disperse out,。
go into the earth on a grand adventure.。
And what are they doing in Genesis chapter 11?。
Huddled together in one place.。
So this isn't actually as good.。
Not only that, but it says they're coming back from the East。
and they're settling in a land called Shinar.。
Now, what's interesting about settling in the East。
is that after the fall, they went East, East of Eden,。
and now they're coming back.。
And they're trying to, they're getting in Shinar,。
this flat land, and they're going, this is nice.。
Like, this is great.。
They're looking up Zillow going, we can afford this.。
Like, this is awesome.。
Oh, there's a coffee shop here.。
It's walking distance to target.。
This is a main walking trail.。
They start dating.。
They're like, well, I just got in community.。
I don't want to leave her.。
They're like settled.。
They're settled in Shinar.。
And then it says in verse three, look in verse three.。
It says, and they said to one another,。
come, let us make bricks and burn them thoroughly.。
And they had brick for stone and bitumen for mortar.。
So they gather up at the coffee shop。
and they're having group think.。
They're like, guys, what do we do now?。
Like, we're just chilling, paying our mortgage.。
We're drinking our latte.。
And they go, oh, there's that cunning edge technology.。
Brick, which is hardened clay, and bitumen,。
which is like waterproof mortar.。
It's adhesive.。
And they say, if we put those together,。
we can build something great.。
And then look what they build, verse four.。
Then they said, come, let us build ourselves a city。
and a tower with its top in the heavens.。
And let us make a name for ourselves,。
lest we be dispersed over the face of the whole earth.。
So they say, let's make a city and a tower to the heavens。
and let's make a name for ourselves.。
And that'll be awesome.。
And you wonder, we all know like, guys, don't do that.。
But why?。
Why?。
So interesting, when you think about what they're building,。
they're building a waterproof tower that goes into heaven.。
Now think about what we talked about last week,。
Noah and the flood.。
What did God just do to the whole earth?。
He flooded it.。
And so they're sitting around in Shinar,。
drinking their lattes going, oh, I got an idea.。
What if we build a waterproof tower straight up to God?。
We're not gonna focus on the fact that He promised。
that would never happen again.。
We're not gonna focus on the fact that it was actually。
due to the wickedness of man.。
No, no, no, we're gonna build this tower。
so we don't need God.。
We don't need to focus on His promises.。
We don't need to freak out about His threats.。
We can be our own God.。
That's what this is about.。
And they begin to build this tower up to heaven.。
Now I want us to think, pause here for a second.。
Where are we doing this today?。
Now it's easy to think of things like AI, right?。
I mean, AI is a great example。
because AI is kind of this idea of,。
oh God, we don't really need you.。
We're just gonna create you.。
We're just gonna make somebody who can do everything you do.。
And this could be a sermon on AI,。
but I think God doesn't care so much about the tower.。
I don't think God cares so much about the technology.。
I think what God cares about is their mindset。
behind why they're building it.。
You see it in the second half of verse four.。
That we may make a name for ourselves。
lest we be dispersed over the face of the earth.。
This is the motivation that God goes,。
I got to deal with that.。
So what does he do next?。
Let's look at verse five.。
Verse five, he says, it says,。
"And the Lord came down to see the city and the tower。
with which the children of man had built."。
I love this because they build this tower.。
They're like, we're gonna build a tower.。
It's gonna go into the heavens.。
And then verse five goes, "And God had to come down."。
It's like, what's that amp pile down there?。
You know, oh, they're building a tower.。
Come Michael, check it out.。
That's amazing.。
Like God sees everything.。
Is he saying he's blind?。
No, it's irony.。
It's like, God, they think they're getting to heaven.。
God has to come down to them.。
Look at verse six.。
It says, "And the Lord said, 'Behold, they are one people.。
They all have one language.。
And this is only the beginning of what they will do.。
And nothing that they propose to do。
will now be impossible for them.'"。
God looks down and he sees one people and one language.。
And they're together and they're ambitious,。
but they're building towards sin.。
Their motivation is anti-God, not for God.。
It made me think of teenagers.。
Like I was a youth pastor for a number of years.。
It's amazing how creative teenagers are。
when it comes to sin.。
I was thinking back when I was in high school,。
like the laziest dude ever could be sitting in classes,。
doing nothing.。
Then the teacher goes out。
and he sees the answers on the table.。
And all of a sudden he's Tom Cruise from "Mission Impossible"。
scaling walls, doing Morse code to his friends.。
Like, we gotta get those answers。
so I don't have to work, right?。
Some of us in the midst of...。
You have no ambition in your life。
until it's hiding yourself in your sin.。
You become incredibly creative.。
You're amazing at working things behind the scenes。
to make sure no one catches you.。
And this is like them.。
This is like them.。
So is God threatened by this?。
Is God going, "Oh no, he's the teacher walking back in.。
"How could you?。
"You stole the answers.。
"What's going on?"。
Is that what's happening?。
No, he's not threatened by their ambition.。
He recognizes the havoc that it can wreak on them。
and society if left unchecked.。
So what does he do?。
Verse seven.。
Verse seven, he says, "Come, let us,"。
little nod to the Trinity, to the divine counsel,。
"Let us go down there and confuse their language。
"so that they may not understand one another's speech.。
"So the Lord dispersed them over the face of all the earth。
"and they left off building the city."。
So here God says, "Come, let us, let us go down,。
"confuse their language so they can't understand."。
This is judgment, divine judgment on human beings.。
They're gonna come together and do this?。
Against my name, I'm gonna judge them.。
And then it says, "So the Lord dispersed them。
"over the earth."。
He did the very thing that they feared in verse four.。
Remember in verse four, they said,。
"Oh, let's build this to heaven, make a great name。
"so that we don't have to be dispersed."。
God's judgment comes。
and then the very thing they feared happens to them.。
But they are for the first time in the story。
actually obeying.。
They're actually obeying the cultural mandate。
when God said, "Go out to the earth."。
Disperse and fill the earth.。
Finally, they're obeying it,。
but it took the judgment of God.。
And you realize God's judgment on them。
was actually his mercy to get them to obey,。
except it was the long way.。
And then in verse nine, last verse.。
Verse nine, it says, "Therefore," God changes the name.。
It's name, Shinar's name was called Babel。
because the Lord confused the language of all the earth.。
And from there, the Lord dispersed them。
over the face of all the earth.。
So God changes the name of the city from Shinar to Babel,。
which means confusion.。
So Shinar, the place of potential,。
the place of settling, the place of ingenuity。
becomes Babel, the place of confusion,。
the place of wilderness, the place of restlessness。
and lack of calling.。
And I was thinking some of you tonight。
have moved from the land of Shinar to the land of Babel。
over the past few months, years, weeks.。
You used to have ambition for your life.。
You used to have excitement for your life,。
but due to levels of failure and disappointment,。
you find yourself in the land of confusion.。
For many of you, young adult years is the land of confusion.。
You go to your mom's house, you go back to your parents。
and they go, "What are you gonna do with your life?"。
And you're like, "Babel, confusion, I have no idea."。
Right, some of you, you had exciting things happen。
and then you get beat up,。
like life beats you up a little bit.。
You go through a breakup, the job that you wanted,。
you end up getting let go of,。
or it turns out to be something different.。
The friend group, you're like, "Best friends for life,。
"it's us," totally ditch you.。
All the hopes and dreams that you had crumble。
and it's in that place.。
I mean, think about it.。
This is where the people are at the end。
and it's the judgment of God,。
and yet it's his supreme mercy to take them away。
from the very thing that was gonna lead to their destruction。
to actually, for the first time in a long time, obeying God.。
I think some of you came in tonight.。
I don't know why you're here.。
I think some of you are here because you're in Babel, man.。
You're confused, you're hurt, you're disappointed,。
you're distracted, you're disillusioned with life.。
And it's to you that I wanna give three encouragements.。
I wanna give three kind of takeaways,。
encouragements if you find yourself in Babel.。
These are gonna go quick and then we're gonna rock.。
But three encouragements.。
Number one is just from my heart.。
I was gonna do two and then I added a third。
'cause I had to, so we're gonna go quick, Kylan.。
Here we go.。
Number one, the first encouragement。
is to write out a vision for your life.。
Write out a vision for your life.。
I talk to so many young adults these days。
who have no vision for their life, not at all.。
And it sounds like humility.。
I talk to 'em and go, hey man, what's your trajectory?。
Like, what are you on?。
What do you wanna do with your life?。
It's like, man, I don't know.。
I'm just kinda following God, you know, just like who knows.。
And then when you drill down, you realize,。
wow, your life is full of chaos.。
Like, there's so many like relationships you're juggling。
and work you're trying to figure out。
and you're laying at night kinda juggling。
all these thoughts, sometimes having panic attacks。
'cause you don't know what to do。
with all the things in your head.。
And you're just waiting for someone to give you vision.。
You're looking to your boss going,。
man, I wish you would just like give me a direction.。
Like, what am I supposed to do?。
Give me something to do.。
You're looking for a boyfriend or a girlfriend。
or a spouse, a husband, a wife, a mentor。
to come in your life and just tell me what to do.。
I've literally had young adults say,。
I wish someone would just tell me what to do.。
And yet core to the book of Genesis。
is that God wants you to have a vision for your life.。
I remember a few years ago,。
actually right when I got out of college,。
I met with Matt Chandler.。
Matt Chandler, pastor, he's spoken on the stage.。
I met with Matt and I was like,。
Matt, if you could give any advice。
to people in their 20s, what would it be?。
And right off the dome, he was like, oh man, I know.。
Figure out what do you want?。
Ask yourself that question。
and be brutally honest with the answer.。
He said, I'm not even talking spiritual stuff.。
I'm just saying, buy a journal, put on the top,。
what do I want and start writing stuff.。
And so I took him up on it.。
I remember being 22, 23 and buying a journal,。
going out, what do I want?。
Just start one, a wife, you know,。
and a two and just start writing, writing out things.。
I remember writing about a hundred things。
of all the things that I want.。
I was just like, I just wanna think.。
He said, you gotta do this。
'cause all frustration is rooted in unmet expectation.。
So many young adults just walk around frustrated.。
They don't even know why.。
Why are you frustrated?。
I don't know.。
You have these expectations for life。
that you've never articulated.。
Few years after that, I found a wife, I got married.。
And I remember right after we got married,。
I remember reading Psalm chapter 90 verse 12.。
It says, teach us to number our days。
that we may gain a heart of wisdom.。
I remember with Jen, my wife,。
we just found out two months in that we were pregnant.。
And so we were just like, whoa, what are we doing with life?。
And I remember thinking, all right, based on Psalm。
chapter 90 verse 12, I wanna create a vision,。
a plan for my life.。
And I just wrote new journal, 10 year plan.。
And I wrote it in the first person。
as though 10 years from now had already happened.。
So it was 2019 at the time, I said, the year's 2019.。
I am 37 years old, I was 27.。
And I just started to write.。
And I went back and found it.。
And I'm gonna read it to you.。
And this is very vulnerable and I didn't even want to,。
but I was encouraged to, so I'm gonna do it.。
You can judge me, totally fine, it probably warranted.。
Here's what I wrote.。
I said, the year is 2029, I'm 37 years old.。
Jen and I have been married for 10 years.。
I'm working in ministry and love what I get to do.。
Jen and I are able to give away a significant portion。
of our income and trust God。
to live completely dependent on him.。
Our house is known as the most fun house in the neighborhood.。
Our four kids, hello, Moffat the prophet, I'm just saying.。
Our four kids love Jesus, love each other。
and are constantly encouraged to live on mission at school。
and with their friends.。
Our oldest, Emery, Emery Kay is nine and in fourth grade.。
She's a leader among our kiddos and we go on a date often.。
At 37 years old, I've memorized 50 chapters。
worth of the Bible, I've discipled 50 guys.。
I do not live a life marked by fear,。
but see fears and anxieties as a way of pressing。
into the power available through the Holy Spirit.。
I am known as a guy who's always five minutes early,。
working on that one.。
I've run five marathons.。
See, I wanted to be a runner, I wanted.。
I've attempted a half Ironman.。
I constantly get up at 4.45 to work out。
before my kids get up so I can pack their lunches。
and help them get ready for school.。
I love Jen with all my heart, been faithful to her alone。
these past 10 years of marriage.。
She knows she has all my love,。
even among the craziness of ministry and raising kids,。
we go on a date regularly.。
I love God more than I ever have in my life。
and his will is able to flow through me unhindered.。
My prayer time is rich and prioritized daily。
and I'm able to say with the Apostle Paul,。
but I do not account my life of any value。
nor as precious to myself.。
If only I may finish my course,。
the ministry I received from the Lord Jesus。
to testify to the gospel, to the grace of God, Acts 20, 24.。
I remember writing that and just thinking,。
what's gonna happen, what's gonna happen?。
Now, here's where we get jammed up.。
If I take that 10 year plan and I go to God and say,。
okay, I'm in control, therefore this is gonna happen.。
It's gonna happen.。
I'm gonna have four kids.。
I'm gonna get married to Jen.。
I'm gonna do all these things.。
Then what I'm doing is what was happening in Babel.。
It's seizing autonomy and saying, I wanna be my own God.。
And God says, you cannot do that because if you do that,。
you don't understand there's so many things。
you could never plan.。
You know what didn't make my 10 year journal?。
My second born, my son spending the first 10 days。
of his life in the NICU, not sure if he was gonna make it.。
You know what didn't make it?。
Is moving four times over the past seven years.。
You know what didn't make it?。
Is conflict and difficulty and arguments。
I've had with people.。
You know what didn't make it?。
Breaking my rib on ice.。
Didn't make my 10 year journal.。
And yet we walk through life going, God, you are God.。
I'm not God.。
But core to being human is you've given me agency。
and I'm not gonna bury that talent in the sand.。
I'm gonna run.。
And some of you guys, because you wanna be humble I think,。
or because you're insecure, or because life。
is beating you up, you just meander through life。
with no vision, none.。
And I would say, get a vision for your life.。
Center it on the glorious realities in this book。
and run the race with endurance that's set before you.。
Do you realize, do you realize that you,。
if you're a Christian, have the Holy Spirit of God。
inside of you and God wants to do incredible things。
through your life.。
The issue with Babel is not that they built a tower。
and it's not that they had ambition.。
It's that they wanted to build a tower to be their own God.。
And that's why Psalm chapter 34, 14 and 15。
needs to be your anthem in this season.。
But I trust in you, oh Lord.。
I say, you are my God, my times are in your hand.。
You write your 10 year plan and you say that verse。
and submit it to God.。
God, here's what I want.。
And you, you sanctify me.。
You take me where you wanna go.。
You are God, I am not God.。
And then you get up and you start living the life。
that God's given you on this earth, so precious.。
That's the first encouragement.。
To get a vision for your life.。
Number two, the second thing is don't settle,。
live resolved.。
Don't settle, live resolved.。
Look again at Genesis 11, verse two.。
It says, "And the people migrated from the east."。
As the people migrated from the east,。
they found a plane in the land of Shinar。
and they settled there.。
What's so interesting about the land of Shinar。
is there's another group in the Bible。
who found themselves in the land of Shinar.。
1500 years later, after the Tower of Babel.。
And we see it in Daniel chapter one, verse one.。
Look at this on the screen.。
It says, "In the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim."。
Great baby name, Jen.。
"King of Judah, Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon,。
"came to Jerusalem and besieged it.。
"And the Lord gave Jehoiakim, king of Judah,。
"into his hand with some of the vessels。
"of the house of God.。
"And he brought them into the land of Shinar,。
"to the house of his God,。
"and placed the vessels in the treasury of his God."。
And it goes on, if we were to keep reading in Daniel,。
to say that what Babylon did is they ransacked Jerusalem。
and they took some of the best and the brightest,。
some of the young adults from Jerusalem,。
and they brought them to Shinar.。
They brought them to Babylon and we find out their names.。
It's Daniel, and Shadrach, and Meshach, and Abednego.。
Young adults taken to Shinar,。
right into the belly of Babylon.。
And it tells us in Daniel chapter one。
that they learn a new language, which is interesting.。
That they experience, they learn,。
they're engulfed in a new culture.。
And while they're there,。
they're respectful and they're excellent and they excel,。
but they never compromise.。
And you see in Daniel chapter one, verse eight,。
we meet Daniel and it says, "But Daniel resolved。
"that he would not defile himself with the king's food。
"or with the wine that he drank."。
Do you see the difference。
between what's happening in Genesis 11。
versus what's happening in Daniel chapter one?。
Two groups of people, both in the land of Shinar,。
very different experience.。
I love that Daniel in Shinar, in Babylon,。
refuses to compromise, to fit into Babylon's way of life.。
Instead, he lives resolved in the midst of Babylon.。
It reminds me of Romans chapter 12, verse two.。
Some of you have heard this.。
It says, "Do not be conformed to this world,。
"but be transformed by the renewal of your mind,。
"that by testing you may discern what is the will of God,。
"what's good and acceptable and perfect."。
Oh, may your young adult years be known。
like as you look back, you're old and wrinkly,。
you look back and you go, my young adult years。
were when my convictions,。
when my resolutions were crystallized in my mind.。
Spend time alone with this book during these years。
and get to know what it says.。
Study it, get it burning into your brain.。
Memorize scripture like you never have before.。
Read the whole thing before you get married.。
If God has marriage for you,。
how cool to go into marriage going,。
I've read the whole thing.。
I would tell young adults, my last job,。
I go, you guys, you have weird time。
and you have weird money, okay?。
You don't have a lot of time.。
You don't have a lot of money,。
but you got weird money and you got weird time.。
You can take that last minute weekend trip to Colorado。
and leave at two in the morning.。
You can just do it and you do.。
Utilize your weird time and your weird money。
towards glorious God-centered things。
that are gonna explode your heart for what God is doing.。
Like you were put on this earth to do that.。
And so man, study this book.。
Sign up for the disciple class that we have here。
that's starting at the end of the month.。
You'll hear about it in the button at the end.。
Just sign up.。
We're just gonna lay out.。
Here's what Christians believe。
and here's how to be discipled unto Jesus.。
Man, awaken.。
Coming back after years, just resolve tonight.。
Be like, you know what?。
Not only am I going,。
I'm inviting everyone in my community to go.。
Can't afford it?。
We'll figure out a way for you to get there.。
Like what if young adults here are going,。
man, we have got to be at the things where God is moving.。
I gotta be there, man.。
I am resolved like Daniel in the midst of Babylon,。
not to be conformed to this world, to be transformed.。
I got a different mind.。
I am being used.。
I'm being transformed by God for renewed purpose.。
Maybe you'd come to the porch every Tuesday。
and just annoyed the jeepers out of your coworkers。
where they're like, well, stop inviting me.。
And you're like, you gotta come, you gotta come.。
What would it look like for you to not settle。
but re-resolved in this age?。
That's the second one.。
And then number three, quickly.。
The third encouragement is you don't have to make a name。
because you already have one.。
You don't have to make a name, you already have one.。
Look again at Genesis chapter 11, look at verse four.。
Says, "Then they said, come, let us build ourselves a city。
"and a tower with its top in the heavens。
"and let us make a name for ourselves。
"lest we be dispersed over the face of the whole earth."。
Their motivation was I want a great name for myself.。
And there is so much confusion today。
of people, of young adults, of human beings。
trying to figure out how do I make a name for myself?。
Constantly wondering, am I enough?。
Have I done enough?。
Am I worth enough?。
I mean, I was just talking to someone yesterday。
who's a financial advisor。
and just having to grow his client list.。
I gotta make a name for myself。
to try to grow this thing, right?。
Or maybe it's on social media.。
You're like, man, I have nobody on social media.。
I gotta get my platform pristine.。
I gotta make sure I gotta spend hours curating my image。
so that what?。
I can make a great name for myself.。
Some of you it's with popularity or reviews in your business。
or with your boss.。
It's like earning influence and a name。
with your workplace or with your community。
or with a significant other.。
You're like, she doesn't even know my name.。
I gotta get her.。
Make a name for myself among her, you know?。
Or maybe it's even at a place like this.。
Some of you tonight, you walked in thinking,。
oh, I literally Bible study.。
And then you show this.。
You're like, I'm a nobody here.。
How do I make a name for myself here?。
Built into our fallen nature is this desire。
to say, hey, am I enough?。
Am I worth it?。
Have I made a name for myself?。
And here's the secret in the world's eyes.。
You never, it will never be enough.。
You'll have never made a name enough.。
There's always more that you can do.。
And if you're trying to find your name,。
your identity in any source other than God, just hear me.。
You are building on sinking sand, sinking sand.。
What if, I just wanna pitch a vision to you.。
What if your life was so secure in Christ。
that it didn't matter what happened in your social media,。
in your job, with your relationship, it didn't matter.。
You were firmly planted in the ground.。
What would that be like?。
Reminds me of my dad.。
My dad, three years ago, almost to the day.。
So let me back up.。
He worked at Microsoft for 27 years in corporate sales。
down in Houston, selling to oil companies, account manager.。
He did well, and we as a family, we love Microsoft.。
Like we were all in, man, but they provided for us。
and we were Microsoft people.。
So while you guys were getting iPhones,。
we had our Windows phone, okay?。
Doesn't exist anymore, but we did it.。
While people were getting iPods back in the day,。
we had a Zune, okay?。
And so we were just Microsoft people.。
And three years ago, almost to the day,。
my dad gets called into a Teams call with HR。
and they sit him down and they say,。
"We're so sorry, your job is eliminated.。
"You have this much severance.。
"You have this much time.。
"Bye."。
And I just think, 27 years with a company like Microsoft,。
where he did well, I mean, what would that do to you?。
And I'll never forget the text。
that he sent our family group text after.。
He said this, he said,。
"Looks like God has nudged me and mom。
"along in preparation of our next adventure together.。
"My role at Microsoft was eliminated,。
"so I was given severance package。
"and will be transitioning out.。
"March 17th is my last day on board."。
Then he said this.。
He said, "I had a great time there.。
"No regrets, no bitterness, excited about the future.。
"God is good and I am so glad to be His."。
Man, isn't that good?。
I remember reading that text from my dad,。
just being so proud.。
Like, yeah, the world, your world is shaking.。
I mean, he was this close to retirement.。
Now everything's off.。
Now he's in his late 50s, 60s.。
He's got to find a new job.。
He's too old, there's all this.。
I know who I am.。
And I'm curious for you,。
and I want to end just by asking this question.。
Can you say that?。
Can you say, "I am His, I'm His"?。
See, in Shinar, back in the Tower of Babel,。
God wasn't trying to destroy the people.。
He wasn't taking their ambition and going,。
"Oh, I'm threatened by you," or, "I don't like you,"。
or, "That seems prideful,。
"and so I'm just going to tear you down."。
God was not trying to destroy them.。
He was watching.。
He was wanting them to try to do something.。
That they could never do.。
God was watching them try to do something。
that they didn't have the ability to do, which was what?。
To claw and earn and climb their way up to Him.。
They're going, "We got to get there.。
"We got to get to God."。
And they're working their way up to Him。
when He had already come down to them.。
I mean, think about the gospel,。
the fullness of it fulfilled in Jesus.。
That we don't have to go up to heaven, we don't,。
but that heaven has already come down.。
It's already come down.。
God made a way for right relationship。
for us to have with Him.。
Think about what the New Testament says.。
It says He's given us a new name.。
He's invited us into a heavenly city,。
and we've been invited into the throne room of God,。
all because of what Jesus did, all because of what He did.。
And some of you, I believe you have been living in shine art.。
I mean, your whole life is I got to grind, I got to go,。
I got to be ambitious, I got to build my client base,。
I got to experiment with women or with men.。
I got to do all these things。
because I had to make a great name for myself。
'cause deep down I got to be my own God。
so that I can prove to the world and to God,。
see, I'm good enough, I did it.。
And I'm telling you, it will always fail you.。
On the authority of God's word, it will fail you.。
Some of you know that all too well.。
For some of you, today needs to be the day of salvation.。
And if you're anything like me,。
you're like, all right, salvation, let's go.。
What do I got to do?。
What do I got to get?。
It's going to hurt, but I got to do it.。
All right, let's go.。
Here's how salvation works in this kingdom.。
Surrender, surrender.。
God, I can't do it.。
I can't earn my way to you.。
I can't be good enough.。
I can't create a name that will finally satisfy。
all my deepest longings.。
And it's to that person, God goes,。
I know you don't have to come down to heaven.。
I came up to heaven.。
I came down to you.。
And right now in here, wherever you're watching,。
you can, in the midst of Shinar,。
in the midst of Babel, you can invite God in and say,。
Jesus, I want to live for your kingdom, not mine.。
I repent for trying to be my own God.。
And instead, oh God, I want to live for your kingdom.。
Fill me with your spirit.。
Remind me of your love.。
Set me free to be ambitious your way, not mine.。
God says, for that person,。
you filled with the spirit of God and come on, ready, set,。
go, go, stop with the frivolous dream.。
Start living again, start living again.。
And I want to end with this that I've been praying over you.。
It's Revelation, it's the last book.。
We've been in the first book of the Bible。
and praying the last book of the Bible over you.。
Revelation chapter three, verses 11 and 12.。
It says this, Jesus, he's writing to the church。
in Philadelphia, which is not in Pennsylvania.。
It's in Turkey.。
He says, I am coming soon.。
Hold fast what you have so that no one may seize your crown.。
And then he says this, to the one who conquers,。
I will make him a pillar, a tower in the temple of my God.。
Never shall he go out of it.。
And I will write on him the name of my God。
and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem,。
which comes down from God out of heaven and my own new name.。
Don't give up, find your name in Jesus.。
For those of you who feel broken tonight,。
and feel just like, man, I don't know what to do.。
God can restore the land。
that the locusts have eaten in your life.。
He can.。
He's done it in my life and many of ours.。
And he can restore to you the joy of your salvation.。
Write a God-centered vision of your life, live resolved.。
And don't live to make a name,。
embrace your new name in Christ.。
Let me pray for us.。
Father, I just thank you for the reality,。
the amazing reality。
that we don't have to earn our way to heaven.。
We don't have to build a tower up to you.。
You came down.。
And Jesus, you didn't just come down to forgive us of sin。
and pat us on the head and say, okay, okay,。
try not to mess this one up.。
You filled us with the very spirit of God.。
You gave us gifts and talents and desires and abilities.。
And you not only have restored us to relationship with you,。
you've reignited a passion all the way back。
for what you created human beings to be,。
in the image of God, to do what God does,。
to take chaos in the created order。
and bring beauty and order and life.。
Oh God, would you do that again?。
Would you do that again in each of our lives?。
Restore the land the locusts have eaten.。
And may Jesus be magnified in our lives,。
both now and until you come or you call us home.。
We love you, in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
