(upbeat music)。
- Love it, welcome friends in the room。
and friends in Fort Worth and in Houston。
and friends just joining us from wherever you are at.。
How y'all doing?。
What a March Madness bracket busting weekend.。
Hey, I don't know if you had a chance。
to be a part of anything related。
to the past weekend's holiday.。
Anyone celebrate, you know what holiday it was?。
St. Patrick's Day.。
What a weird holiday.。
Can I get an amen for some?。
I mean, and maybe it doesn't seem weird at all to you。
and just the green beer feels normal。
and pinching people wherever that thing comes from。
and wearing green and celebrating the Irish。
and having horrible traffic if you live anywhere。
near Greenville around here.。
But what becomes increasingly weird。
is if you compare it to the original purpose。
of that holiday, which is St. Patrick.。
And I don't know if you know the story of St. Patrick,。
but it has nothing to do with green beer。
or anything like that.。
St. Patrick was a guy who really lived a remarkable life。
that God used to transform an entire country.。
St. Patrick, or Patrick, was born around 400 years AD。
or 1600 years ago.。
He was a guy that lived, he wasn't even Irish.。
He was born in Great Britain and around the age of 40,。
he got a vision from the Lord, he would say,。
that he felt like Jesus was calling him。
to go to the nation, or to the island of Ireland.。
It wasn't even a nation at the time.。
It was just a bunch of like pagan different people groups。
running around and around 400 AD.。
And he got a vision that God wanted him to go over there。
and to share the message of Jesus with these people.。
He felt like he was called to go over there.。
And so he goes over there, and for three decades,。
he goes all throughout the nation,。
and he teaches and invites these Irish people groups,。
these pagan Irish people, to come to know the one true God。
and to come to know Jesus.。
And he leads thousands and thousands of people to Christ.。
One historian said that when he arrived in Ireland,。
he found it entirely pagan, but when he was done,。
he found it and left it entirely Christian.。
He truly transformed this entire nation.。
He risked his life over and over and over again.。
I mean, he's an amazing guy that God used。
to really spark a crazy revival, widespread revival,。
all throughout the nation.。
And for 30 years, he led over 160,000,。
think about this, his ministry,。
160,000 people to Christ.。
He started 300 churches all over Ireland.。
And here's what happened next,。
is God didn't just use him to change Ireland.。
What happened is all of the kind of Christian converts,。
or conversion converts, there we go,。
to Christianity that were a part of kind of his lineage。
ended up going back to Great Britain,。
which had been run over by pagan ritualistic。
and nature worship and all kinds of stuff,。
and ended up transforming the nation。
of Great Britain as well.。
God used this man in an incredible way.。
And it has nothing to do with any of the ways。
that we celebrate him today.。
Now it's just an excuse to get hammered on Saturday。
and feel okay about it, 'cause it's one day a week.。
And one day a year.。
And it has nothing to do with the incredible life。
that this man that God used to transform a country.。
Even the shamrock, or the three-leaf clover.。
One of the reasons that's associated with St. Patrick。
is because he would use those shamrocks,。
the three-leaf clovers, are all over Ireland,。
if you've been there.。
And he would use those to explain the Trinity.。
It's not the perfect illustration for the Trinity,。
but he would go around and say,。
hey, this is kind of what God is like.。
He's three in one, it's one leaf,。
but it has three parts to it,。
and just like Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.。
He used that, and it ended up being a part。
of leading thousands and thousands and thousands。
of people to Christ.。
There's even historians, if you're a history nerd,。
who would say that the Irish people。
were a part of really saving Western civilization。
from being overrun by all these kind of like。
nature worshipers at that time.。
Just point being, he was a man that God used。
in an incredible, incredible way.。
And I think the reason I start there。
is for most of us in the room,。
we all come in here tonight,。
and I think there's part of us。
that wants to live a life of purpose.。
Whether or not we even realize it,。
or we would have even said that when we walked in,。
we all, at the end of our days,。
wanna come to a place where we have lived a life。
that mattered to someone.。
We all wanna do something significant for God.。
And here's how I know that.。
In other words, no one came in here tonight。
and is like, you know what I want?。
At the end of my life, what they write on my tombstone。
is this guy really didn't do anything that mattered ever.。
And the world's probably better off without him here.。
That's just not something that any of us。
strive for or desire to have.。
We all wanna be used by God in a significant way,。
or we all, at least, even if we wouldn't say that,。
we wanna live a life that matters.。
And what we're gonna see tonight。
is that the type of life that matters。
is the life that God uses for his purposes,。
for significant things for his kingdom,。
just like St. Patrick was someone。
who God used in this incredible way.。
We're gonna look at the story in Jonah chapter three,。
and we're gonna see what exactly is the type of person。
that God uses in an incredible way.。
Because all of us, the good news is,。
come in and we all have the opportunity,。
as we're gonna see tonight, to be a part。
of being used by God in significant ways。
and to do the simple things that are required。
in order to be used by God.。
So tonight, we're talking about the type of person。
that God uses, the type of person that God uses.。
So we're gonna be in Jonah chapter three.。
If you have a Bible, you can flip open in Jonah chapter three.。
Like I said a couple weeks ago,。
probably the best bet if you wanna find the book of Jonah。
is to go to the front and use that table of contents,。
or you're gonna be spending for a while.。
And so once you find it, go to chapter three.。
If you don't have a Bible, there is a number。
of free Bibles in the welcome center outside of this room.。
For you, if you're in Fort Worth,。
Garrett will let you know where those are,。
and there's also Bible apps, and it'll be on the screen.。
So we're gonna pick it up in verse one.。
As we recap, let me recap a little bit。
what's going on with Jonah.。
So if you're just joining us, we've been in this。
for the past couple weeks.。
Jonah is a guy who was famous because he was swallowed。
by a whale, great fish, big fish is officially the term.。
But he was swallowed by a fish,。
but he's a guy that God called around 750 BC.。
So God shows up to the nation of Israel,。
and he goes to this guy named Jonah,。
and he says, "You're gonna be my prophet.。
"You're gonna speak to the people on behalf of me,。
"God, at this time."。
The Old Testament is essentially about the story。
of God's people, that's the nation of Israel.。
Old Testament, first half, that's what your Bible's about,。
God's relationship with the Old Testament,。
with the nation of Israel.。
And he would speak to the people through prophets.。
And a prophet was just somebody that he said,。
"Hey, they don't have Bibles,。
"so I'm gonna speak to them through you."。
And you may be going like, "Wait, what?。
"He would do that?。
"I mean, couldn't the guy just say, 'God was speaking to me'?。
"If you were a prophet on God's behalf,。
"and you prophesied or said something。
"on behalf of the Lord, and it didn't come true, you died."。
So it wasn't exactly the occupation that everyone was like,。
"Yeah, I wanna be a prophet,。
"and if it doesn't come true, you guys kill me."。
That wasn't really something that people dreamed of doing,。
so it wasn't something that lots of people did.。
But God raised up these prophets, and one of them was Jonah.。
And God comes to Jonah and says,。
"Hey, I have a very special mission for you.。
"You're not gonna be just the prophet to my people,。
"you're gonna be the prophet to the nation of Assyria,。
"or to the capital of Assyria named Nineveh."。
Now, what does it have to do with anything?。
Here's what you gotta know about Nineveh.。
Nineveh was not a good place.。
It was not the place that you wanted to go on vacation to,。
it was not a place that you wanted to spend a lot of time.。
It was the capital of the cruelest army,。
or the cruelest people in the ancient world.。
The Ninevites were not good people.。
They are the great, great, great grandparents,。
as we said, of Isis.。
And they make Isis honestly look like the Girl Scouts,。
or something, like Grandma's Bingo Club.。
That's how tame it looks like to be a part of Isis,。
compared to the Ninevites.。
They had mastered how to skin people alive.。
They literally said, "We're gonna specialize in cruelty。
"and make everyone in the world afraid of us."。
So whenever they took over a city,。
they would take all the men,。
they would decapitate their heads,。
and put 'em in big piles outside of the city.。
Then they would take the women and children sometimes,。
and just burn 'em alive, and say,。
"If you mess with us, this is what happens."。
They were not the people that you wanted。
to have God come to you and say,。
"I have a mission for you.。
"I'd like you to go and tell Isis。
"that they need to all turn to God right now,。
"or they're all gonna go to hell."。
That wasn't exactly the message that you wanted to go,。
if God showed up to you, and it wasn't what Jonah wanted.。
So Jonah says, after God asks him,。
"Hey, you're gonna go to Nineveh,。
"and you're gonna be a preacher to the Ninevites."。
He says, "I'd like to not do that.。
"You're breaking up, can't hear you great."。
And he takes off.。
And God says, "Hey, you're going to be a part of this."。
And as the story, if you missed it,。
he gets on a boat, he ends up getting swallowed by a whale,。
the first Uber, we said, and God brings him back,。
and he says, "You're going to Nineveh."。
And so where we pick up this week, after last week,。
is that last week Jonah essentially cried out and said,。
"Lord, I surrender, I submit."。
And so now we're gonna pick up the story。
where God again says, "You're gonna go to Nineveh."。
So this is verse one of chapter three.。
"Then the word of the Lord came to Jonah a second time.。
"Go to the great city of Nineveh,。
"and proclaim to it the message that I give you."。
Jonah obeyed the word of the Lord, and he went to Nineveh.。
I just wanna stop right here and look at the first point,。
the first criteria, the first thing that's involved。
when God uses a person, that when God uses someone,。
he uses them despite their past.。
It says that the word of the Lord。
came to Jonah for a second time,。
that God is a God of second chances,。
that God didn't give up on Jonah despite his disobedience,。
despite the fact that he ran, that God decided,。
"Hey, I'm gonna use you for something significant.。
"We're gonna see you in a second."。
Jonah ends up leading the greatest revival。
we know of in the entire Bible.。
And he was the guy who said,。
"I don't wanna be a part of it, I'm not gonna obey you."。
And God came to him again,。
that God is a God of second chances, of third chances,。
of fourth chances, of fifth chances.。
Despite Jonah's past, despite his rebellion,。
God did not give up on him.。
God is a God who uses people despite their past,。
that if you and I will just surrender to him,。
whatever your story is,。
there's no telling what God can do with your life.。
What does it take in order to be someone that God's used?。
Do you have to have a perfect track record?。
Do you have to be kind of the person。
who has everything all together,。
has had everything all together in your life?。
No, the story of the Bible, the story of Jonah,。
is the story that God uses broken, messed up people。
who just surrender and cry out to him,。
who just surrender their life to him,。
not people with a perfect past.。
Whatever you think in this room disqualifies you。
from being someone who lives an incredible life。
that God uses.。
It's not an obstacle for God,。
it usually is like the opportunity that God uses。
to say, "Man, that's a part of your story,。
"you're gonna be a minister to men and women,。
"or men or women who have that as a part of their story."。
If your legacy includes, man, a past abortion,。
maybe you have been in a same-sex relationship for a while,。
maybe you're someone who's gotten caught gambling。
or stealing at work,。
maybe you're someone who struggles with alcoholism。
or addiction of different kinds,。
you'll probably end up being a pastor,。
especially if you hang around with God's people long enough.。
That's just how God works, that's what he does.。
Whatever your story is in the room,。
you are not too far from the grace of God。
to be used for an incredible purpose,。
to be used in incredible ways through him.。
That's just what God does over and over throughout the Bible.。
God uses people despite their past.。
Maybe you got pregnant at an early age,。
or maybe you got pregnant just outside of marriage,。
and you're like, "Can God really, can he really use me?。
"I feel like I'm damaged goods."。
The message of Jonah, the message of the Bible in general。
is that God uses broken people over and over and over again,。
whatever your story is.。
Maybe your story is just filled with pain from decisions。
that you didn't even make,。
but you grew up in a dysfunctional home,。
you didn't have two parents around.。
Maybe your story's like mine,。
where I can be tempted to believe that God can't use,。
it's like, "Man, I grew up without a dad around.。
"I got father wounds that I still have to fight。
"and work through, and Lord, I don't wanna do anything。
"as a result of just trying to fill some void in me。
"'cause I didn't have a dad around."。
I can be tempted by the lie that, man, God uses people,。
he uses people that come from pretty stories。
and Christian families and really godly parents,。
and those are the people that God's gonna do great things,。
that's who God does great things with.。
And then I read the Bible, and I see stories of men。
like Abraham and David, Abraham, who was Abraham?。
Abraham, the father of our faith.。
Abraham was not exactly like the poster child of like,。
"Man, that guy's amazing."。
Abraham pimped out his wife multiple times.。
I think we would all agree,。
at least once is probably bad enough,。
and God's like, "Hey, you're gonna be。
"the father of the faith.。
"You're gonna be the guy that I use in incredible ways."。
Samson, Samson's a guy who, I mean,。
if you know anything about the story of Samson,。
Samson had a soft spot for the ladies,。
and he over and over and over again,。
I mean, even towards the end,。
he gets caught with his girl Delilah,。
who's not his wife, who he's staying at her house,。
and God is just incredible in his grace,。
uses this person.。
The Bible is not a book full of just good stories。
about good people who have it all together.。
It's a story of the God who's there,。
who takes broken people and will use them。
if they will just surrender their life to him.。
And he uses them despite their past.。
Let me say one further,。
'cause I know there's people in this room,。
you think that you have messed up too bad。
for God to write an amazing story in your life.。
I've got family members who think,。
"Man, a godly guy could never love a girl like me.。
"I mean, look what I've done.。
"Everything in my rear view mirror is all jacked up.。
"I mean, the porch is great,。
"and that's all good for pretty people。
"who have their life together,。
"but godly guys are not gonna like a girl like me."。
Do you know what, if you believe that,。
do you know what your biggest obstacle。
to experiencing a story where God can write。
an amazing marriage and future and all of that into it,。
if that's what he has for you,。
your biggest obstacle is you,。
because you're buying the lie。
that your past is a problem for God's grace.。
It is a platform for his grace, if you will let it be.。
And whatever story you have is a story。
that God wants to use to minister。
to other people around you.。
He does not use perfect people.。
He uses people despite their past,。
whatever your story is.。
Let me just give you some examples,。
'cause maybe you're like, "Dude, I don't know if you know.。
"You don't know what I've done, man."。
You must be new here,。
because let me go through what Watermark staff,。
let me just give you some of the stories。
from Watermark staff around here.。
Here's who's on staff at Watermark.。
This is just our church staff.。
We have porn addicts who are pastors.。
We have potheads who are pastors, formerly.。
We have alcoholics, adulteresses, cocaine dealers,。
heroin addict, eating disorders,。
people with abortions, multiple abortions。
inside of their past,。
people who lived for years and years。
in the same-sex community or in a gay relationship,。
prideful, self-righteous, arrogant people,。
people, whatever your story is,。
it's not something outside of the bounds of God's grace.。
If you will just turn to him, he can do something amazing.。
If the greatest missionary the world will ever see。
is sitting inside of this room,。
the next Billy Graham is sitting inside this room,。
it would not surprise me at all.。
If they were leading the charge,。
hammered on Greenville this past Saturday,。
that's just what God does.。
He captures people and uses them despite their story.。
Whatever your story is, it is not a problem for God's grace,。
but it can be a platform for it.。
And Jonah obeyed the Lord and came for a second time.。
When he came for a second time,。
and he turned and he went to Nineveh.。
God further uses just some of the ins and outs。
of Jonah's story, which is what he's doing in your life.。
Like he's gonna take the things at your job,。
the circumstances in your life,。
and he is going to use those for future opportunities。
where you're gonna share and be able to relate to people.。
You're gonna come from a broken home,。
you're gonna be able to minister。
to people from a broken home.。
An abortion may be a part of your past,。
you may be an incredible minister。
for the sake of the gospel.。
To other people who have that as a part of their story,。
he just weaves those things.。
You know what is crazy about the story of Jonah?。
Jonah is swallowed up by a great fish,。
is what the Bible says to us,。
and God sends him to a city called Nineveh,。
and he's clearly at work, even in the details。
of you're gonna be swallowed by a fish.。
Why do I say that?。
Do you know what Nineveh, the derivative。
of where that word comes from?。
It means house of the fish, it means great fish.。
That's what the word Nineveh means.。
If you show like the calligraphy。
for what the word Nineveh is,。
it's literally a fish with a house around it.。
That's what Nineveh means.。
And you know what the god。
that the people of Nineveh worshiped was?。
The fish god, a god named Dagon.。
Think about that.。
That is crazy.。
God's gonna go, hey, look,。
these people that worship the fish,。
this is him, that's him, it's like Merman.。
And God's gonna say, hey, I'm gonna take you,。
and I'm gonna bring you all the way。
to these Ninevites who worship a fish god,。
who mean the house of the fish,。
and they're not gonna be introduced to a man god,。
or a man that's half fish, half god.。
They're gonna be introduced to the one true living God,。
and they're gonna be introduced to him。
through a man who's swallowed by a fish.。
You think that that got their ears?。
This dude just was living in a fish for three days?。
We worship that guy?。
I'm listening.。
That's exactly what God did,。
because God uses the stories that he's writing in your life,。
even stories filled with pain,。
stories filled with just consequences for our own sin.。
And when we just hand them over to him,。
he will write an amazing story。
to minister to the world around us.。
That's the first quality of the person that God uses.。
He uses people despite their past。
when they surrender to him.。
So Jonah goes, and he begins to head towards Nineveh,。
and he arrives at Nineveh, and here's what we're told.。
Verse three.。
Now Nineveh was a very large city.。
It took three days to go through it.。
Here's what is crazy about Nineveh, and just studying this.。
Nineveh was one of the wonders of the ancient world.。
Remember how I said they were vicious warlords?。
They're like, hey, we're gonna be known for being tough.。
Here's how they set up the city.。
It was further, we're gonna be known for being tough.。
You hear me?。
And so they set up the city with these massive walls.。
I mean, walls, I've never,。
I like over and over went to go fact check。
because I was like, that can't be the case.。
100 feet tall walls that were three chariots deep。
so they could ride three chariots worth on them.。
They literally wanted to show to the world around them,。
hey, don't mess with us.。
See our chariot races?。
We will dominate you in 100,。
that's taller than the ceiling.。
I mean, this makes the wall,。
whatever between Mexico and Texas gets built,。
it makes that look like child's play, if it ever happens.。
It makes it look like, oh my gosh, that's pathetic.。
And this was this incredible city.。
It was 60 miles in circumference.。
I mean, it was a wonder to the ancient world.。
It was a city full of 600,000 people.。
It's three days just to journey across it.。
And Jonah shows up and he sees this incredible, huge city.。
And here's what happens.。
Jonah began by going one day's journey into the city.。
And he began proclaiming,。
40 more days in Nineveh will be overthrown.。
Verse five, the Ninevites believed God.。
We're gonna pick that up here in a second.。
But the second criteria,。
second thing that we see from Jonah's life,。
the second type or quality of a person。
that God's gonna use is someone who shares his message.。
All that Jonah did was say, man, God gave this message,。
I'm just gonna go around and I'm gonna share it.。
The second quality of the person that God uses,。
if you wanna be someone who lives a life。
that God uses for incredible significance and impact,。
you are gonna be someone who shares the message of God.。
Our message is very different than Jonah had in that day.。
40 more days and Nineveh's gonna be overthrown or fall.。
Our message is the gospel of Jesus.。
But what we can see from Jonah's example。
is that Jonah was willing to share God's message。
even when it was uncomfortable.。
He was willing to share the truth。
even when it was uncomfortable.。
As believers, if you and I are gonna be people。
who live significant lives,。
it's gonna involve some uncomfortable moments。
where we share the truth of who God is,。
that we are called, like Jonah,。
to confront people with the truth.。
The good news is, ours is a lot easier of a pill to swallow.。
If you're Jonah and you have to go into the ISIS beehive。
and essentially go, yeah, all of you guys。
are gonna be toast in 40 days, turn to God,。
it's not gonna be the most welcoming,。
oh, this guy's awesome, I gotta come hear him again,。
this is amazing.。
But he still confronted those people with truth。
even when it was uncomfortable.。
The same is true for us.。
There's just things in sharing the message of Jesus。
that, I mean, there's no way to like,。
oh, we're gonna sweeten the deal on this one。
and it's gonna really go down easy.。
Things like this.。
Everyone's going to die.。
There's just not a way to get around that being a,。
oh man, tell me more, huh,。
this is such an encouraging message.。
There's certain things that are just a part。
of the reality of our world and a part of our message。
that no matter how you try to spin 'em。
and how gently we share them, which you should,。
are not gonna be received as, man,。
that is the most exciting, comfortable truth。
that I've ever heard.。
Things like this.。
Jesus is the only way to heaven.。
That's what the Bible teaches.。
That's what we think is true.。
And in order to be a Christian, you have to believe that.。
So if we're gonna be faithful to sharing truth,。
we're gonna have to experience and be faithful。
even when it's uncomfortable.。
Things like this.。
You're not a good enough person to enter heaven.。
That's another truth that's not exactly a welcomed one。
in a culture, in a world like ours。
that increasingly says, man, everybody gets to believe。
whatever they wanna believe。
and you can't tell anyone that we're wrong.。
You cannot be someone who God uses。
without being willing to share his message,。
which involves sharing things。
that are not always the most comfortable thing.。
You know what happens when we and I。
are willing to share the truth,。
even when it's not the most comfortable truth to share。
in a culture that says, no, the truth is all relative?。
It leads people to action.。
Like oftentimes, this is the thing that people going,。
oh man, I'm gonna die someday.。
The idea that all roads lead to God。
or all religions teach the same thing。
is actually not true。
because none of them actually teach that.。
It's those types of,。
when that grabs onto someone's mind or heart,。
God uses that to change and transform their life.。
It's often the uncomfortable truths。
that lead people to act.。
I was studying this past week。
and do you know what the most effective way。
to get people to evacuate from a hurricane is?。
Scare them to death.。
I mean, it's literally, what happens,。
whenever a hurricane come,。
like in Harvey, you know this,。
or in Irma comes,。
or when there was a hurricane that came on the East Coast。
and there are just times where it's the governor。
and the mayor and different people,。
they're like, we have to get these people out of here.。
If they stay, they're going to die.。
And so they have put incredible amounts of research。
into what is the most effective way。
to get people out of here。
'cause we gotta get them out of here.。
Like Katrina, they just investigate or research,。
like how do we get people to evacuate。
so that their life would be spared?。
And what they found is there are a few ways。
and there's the way of putting it on the radio。
or putting it on television。
or on like Facebook and social media.。
It's the least effective way.。
Least effective way to get people。
to actually move and evacuate out is to do that.。
There's a little bit more effective way。
and that's going door to door.。
So this happened in Harvey,。
or this, you may have had family in Irma,。
which was the Florida hurricane this past year,。
where they go around and they're like,。
hey ma'am, there's gonna be a hurricane on Thursday,。
just wanna let you know you need to evacuate.。
The roads are gonna be shut down Thursday afternoon。
so you need to be out by Thursday morning.。
You gotta get out of here.。
That's a little bit more effective than the TV,。
but not as effective as the main way。
that people are effective,。
which is to make sure they know you are going to die。
if you stay here.。
Here's how they do that,。
and they take it seriously.。
It's like in Florida,。
they went around handing out Sharpies。
and said please write your social security number。
on your body so that when you float by us,。
I mean, I know, it's a little bit like,。
oh man.。
(laughing)。
We will know who to contact.。
So please in permanent marker,。
write your name and your social security number.。
Another hurricane,。
they went around and just said,。
hey, we're looking for next of kin。
because we're gonna need to know who to contact。
for when they wanna bury your body.。
So will you just tell us who to call for you?。
I mean, does it happen?。
In an East Coast storm,。
they went around and handed out tow tags.。
What's a tow tag?。
It's what they put on people in a morgue。
whenever you're dead,。
and they said, will you fill this out。
and put it on your toe。
because we're gonna need to identify you。
whenever we're picking up the bodies.。
It's the single most effective way。
to get people to take action。
is they confront them with the truth.。
That if you stay here,。
it's not gonna be okay.。
Sometimes Christianity,。
as a follower of Jesus,。
involves us taking that step。
towards communicating to the world around us,。
hey, if you stay here,。
it's not gonna be okay.。
If you continue to believe。
that you being a good person。
will get you into heaven,。
you're not gonna be okay.。
If you continue to believe,。
you can believe whatever you want out there。
'cause I just believe that my God accepts everybody.。
Your God's not real.。
The God who's there does accept everyone。
who accepts his free gift of Jesus dying on the cross.。
That's what the real God is there.。
That's what the real God believes and shares.。
And so sometimes we have to cross over。
and say, man, I'm gonna share the truth。
even when it's uncomfortable.。
I'm not gonna be a jerk about it。
and picket and yell.。
I'm gonna do so as winsomely as I can,。
but it involves sharing the truth.。
I had a dinner not long ago with my wife。
and my mother and father-in-law,。
my wife's parents.。
And we were at dinner and the waitress came up。
and we were just talking and getting to know her。
and all of a sudden the conversation of faith came up。
and I just asked her, hey, do you have a faith?。
Her name was Ashley.。
And she said something that's not uncommon here, no.。
She said, yeah, I believe that God。
loves and accepts everyone.。
And I said, man, I believe that God loves。
and accepts everyone too.。
Can I tell you about it?。
I believe that God loves everyone so much。
that he made a way for everyone to be accepted。
by sending his own son to die on the cross for their sins。
and whoever trusts in what Jesus did on the cross。
paying for their sin, not in how good of a person they are,。
not in the things that they've done,。
not in the bad things that they've done。
that would keep them out of heaven,。
whoever says I trust in Jesus,。
Jesus paid for everything in my past,。
everything in my present, everything in my future,。
that person can have eternal life。
and is loved and God has already extended the offer。
to be accepted to them.。
And she responded, yeah, I don't think that that's true。
and I don't believe that.。
And I said, man, that's awesome.。
Where do you find the basis for your belief。
that do whatever you want, believe whatever you want。
and as long as you're a good person, you're gonna be fine?。
I don't know, it's just kind of what I believe。
and it was one of those moments where generally,。
at least for me when I'm sharing my faith,。
it generally, there's not a lot of pushback。
where it's like, yeah, I don't believe that。
and can I get you something else, you want some water?。
Which is what that moment was and it involved going,。
hey, but let me tell you this, Ashley,。
the God who is there loves you so much。
that he sent me, not because there's anything special。
about me at all and I think he sends believers。
into our lives or he sends believers into your life。
to share the message of his love that he is there。
and he did die in your place and he died in my place。
and to anyone who will just accept his free gift,。
they will have eternal life forever.。
And it wasn't a moment where it was easy。
or even like, she wasn't like, oh gosh,。
well, hey, can I pray the prayer right now?。
What do I need to do?。
It was a, yeah, I don't believe that。
and so that's fine with you but it was a moment。
where I'm not called to do anything。
other than be faithful to share the message.。
If you are a Christian and if maybe you finally。
got your friend to come with you for the first time。
and they're not exactly here tonight。
and they're not exactly on board。
with the entire Christian thing and you're like,。
oh man, this was the worst night ever。
to bring this person with me, it's not normally like this.。
(congregation laughing)。
It's just a part of following Jesus。
is that we believe that man, we found the answer,。
the antidote to a virus or to a killer。
far worse than cancer, far worse than any sickness。
that is out there and it's the most unloving thing to do。
to when a storm is coming, when there is a hurricane。
coming in to not go around and say,。
hey, if you stay here, you're not gonna be okay.。
I can pretend that, no, you just pretend。
if it works for you, how insane would that be。
in that hurricane scenario to just be,。
to receive the answer from the person inside of that house.。
No, it's gonna be fine for me.。
I believe that storms will go around my house。
and everything will be fine.。
You'd be like, you are a looney tune.。
You gotta get out of here, lady.。
It would be unloving to say or to not share。
a storm is coming and if you stay here,。
you're not gonna be okay and that's essentially。
what Christians are called by God.。
One of the ways that he uses them is by sharing the truth,。
even when it is uncomfortable and Jonah goes in。
and shares the truth with that city。
and something amazing happens.。
In response to a message that,。
it's not the most impressive sermon of all time.。
It's eight words, it's five in the Hebrew.。
40 days and this place is going down。
and something amazing happens, verse five.。
The Ninevites believed God.。
The Ninevites believed, not Jonah.。
The Ninevites believed God.。
They expressed in a moment, faith.。
They trusted in God and a fast was proclaimed.。
All of them from the greatest to the least。
put on sackcloth, a fast, essentially,。
all that they did was they went into mourning,。
saying, hey, we have been wrong.。
We have been living wrong and sackcloth。
was essentially like putting on funeral clothes together.。
Sackcloth is like potato sacks.。
If you remember potato sack races as a kid.。
Essentially, that's what they ended up putting on.。
Everybody's putting on potato sacks and not eating.。
Call it fast because this is what we're hoping will happen.。
When Jonah's warning reached the king,。
he rose from his throne and he took off his royal robes,。
covered himself with sackcloth and he sat down in the dust。
that even the king is involved.。
This is the proclamation that he issued in Nineveh.。
By decree of the king and his nobles,。
do not let people or animals or herds。
or flocks taste anything.。
Do not let them eat or drink.。
So the king declares everyone's gonna fast,。
even the animals, but let the peoples and the animals。
be covered in sackcloth, which is like the dog sweater。
years and years before it ever happens.。
And it's kind of amazing.。
You gotta think, like, how did they get that on the cow。
and put it on?。
Let everyone call urgently on God,。
the one true God, not Dagon,。
the God that they believed in.。
Let them give up their evil ways and their violence.。
Who knows?。
God may yet relent and with compassion。
turn from his fierce anger so that we will not perish.。
But when God saw what they did,。
how they turned from their evil ways,。
how he relented, or how they turned from their evil ways,。
he relented and he did not bring on them。
the destruction that he had threatened.。
This, I think, is the greatest miracle。
in the entire book of Jonah.。
A lot of people think of the greatest miracle。
as the fish, clearly.。
Like, when you ask the answer,。
Jonah, yeah, the story about the fish.。
Jonah just experienced, or saw firsthand,。
the greatest revival we have recorded in the Bible.。
The greatest revival maybe recorded in all of human history。
where an entire city is turned upside down。
by a five-word message from a guy。
who, in a city that took three days to go through,。
he goes one day into the city,。
preaches five words,。
and the entire city is turned upside down.。
How could this be possible?。
Because God was the one who was causing。
the hearts of the Ninevites to turn back to him.。
That God was clearly doing something supernatural。
inside of the hearts of these people.。
That God was keeping the prophecy, in essence,。
that in 40 days, or within 40 days,。
this city will be overthrown.。
Why do I say that?。
Because the word overthrown has two meanings.。
One, it'll be destroyed, or it'll be overturned.。
It can either mean to be overthrown,。
that was the prophecy,。
and in 40 days, this place is gonna be overthrown.。
Can be destroyed or overturned.。
And God doesn't allow invaders or things from the outside。
to come in and take down the city.。
He takes it from the inside。
and the hearts of all of the people,。
and he turns them to him.。
Something clearly supernatural was going on here。
where God allows this unimpressive message.。
I mean, if I preached that sermon,。
no one would ever come back.。
And not just 'cause it's a hard truth,。
but because it's like, this is five words.。
I don't even know what to do with this.。
And God turns the city upside down.。
That is crazy.。
Because God was clearly the one behind,。
and clearly the one at work here.。
The greatest miracle is what God does amongst these people.。
And he changes and turns the city upside down.。
And here's what I mean by that.。
If you're like, ah, yeah, it kind of is,。
but maybe they just really felt bad。
and they decided to turn to God.。
Maybe he really wasn't the one behind it。
and orchestrating and causing the hearts of these people。
to turn to him.。
I mean, how would you explain that。
if it happened in our own country?。
I mean, seriously, apart from God,。
apart from God actually doing something。
in people's hearts, here's what I mean by that.。
If you leave here tonight,。
you go out inside of the city of Dallas,。
and you begin to proclaim this message,。
this five words, you just go out and you go,。
hey, 40 days from now, and Nineveh,。
or Dallas, will be overthrown.。
Thank you very much, let me close in prayer.。
And all of a sudden, the entire city is turned upside down.。
I mean, everyone's like, hey, shut down the Mavericks games,。
we gotta go all into prayer and fasting.。
President Trump comes out and says,。
excuse me, American people,。
we are all gonna go into prayer and fasting,。
and I want all the pets in burlap right now.。
You would be like, clearly, this is a God thing.。
If there's ever a God thing,。
this was clearly just a God thing.。
It wasn't the messenger that made it happen,。
it was the God of the messenger.。
And this is the way that God works.。
The third idea from this text is that God uses people。
in spite of people.。
That ultimately, when God decides to bring about。
an incredible revival inside of a city,。
it is all about the God, not the messenger.。
That God uses people in spite of people.。
God's role, God alone, is the one who saves.。
We share the message, and it's ultimately up to God。
whether or not someone will respond。
or whether or not someone is going to come to trust。
or come to believe like the Ninevites did.。
The Bible says in 1 Corinthians 12, three,。
about the idea that God alone saves.。
And this is an uncomfortable truth,。
and I'll share why in a second,。
but here's what it says.。
That no man can say Jesus is Lord except by the Holy Spirit.。
Unless the Holy Spirit allows a person,。
they cannot believe and express that.。
John 1, verses 13.。
To as many as received him, Jesus,。
he gave the right to become children of God。
who were born, not of blood, nor of the will of man,。
nor of the will of flesh, but born of God,。
that God caused it to happen.。
John 6, verses 37 and 44.。
Jesus speaking, he says, "No one can come to me。
"unless the Father who sent them draws them to me.。
"And all that the Father gives to me will come to me."。
In other words, that God says it is God alone。
who draws, who drew the Ninevites to him.。
If you're a believer, who drew you to him.。
And maybe you're going in the room like,。
"Man, that doesn't paint a really good picture.。
"Like, if God can do it, if God's alone, that saves him,。
"why didn't he just save everybody?"。
He's trying to by sending people like you and like me。
into your workplace, into your apartment complex,。
into the places that you live,。
into the organizations that you're a part of,。
and the families that you're in.。
He's like, "I got my girl on the job.。
"She's at AT&T, I got her on the eighth floor.。
"I got her there, she's the light of the world.。
"She's gonna share the gospel."。
God is pursuing people,。
and often he's pursuing them through you.。
And our role is just to share, God's role is to save.。
Well, then why didn't God just do it on his own。
and save him without us?。
Because he wants us to experience being used by him。
for significant ways.。
He doesn't need us, he doesn't need you, he doesn't need me.。
But he wants us to experience being used by him。
in significant ways, i.e. the message。
that we're talking about.。
How do you be a person that God uses?。
He wants us to be someone that he uses,。
and he wants us to open our mouths and share。
and trust him that he alone is the one who saves.。
It's like this, when I was in college,。
I volunteered at this boys and girls club。
in Bryan College Station.。
And it was a college station,。
but we would participate in these fourth and fifth grade,。
it was inner city basketball and football.。
And I would coach this fourth grade team,。
and we would get dominated.。
I mean, just straight up just destroyed。
at basketball and football, except for one year.。
And I don't wanna brag, but there was one year。
that we were the city-wide champs,。
fourth grade Purple Panthers, it's a true story.。
And I was the coach of this flag football little league.。
I tried to find a picture, like desperately,。
it's out there, people, okay, it's my one claim to fame.。
And what happened on the team was,。
we got this, we had all the kids come together。
the first day, and all of a sudden,。
I see this kid named Ray, who's on our team,。
who would end up being the MVP by far,。
not just of the league, of the team,。
of like, man, you should just coach right now,。
take the whistle.。
And he was this kid, he wasn't bigger than anybody else,。
but he just like, knew the game.。
His dad had like, played college football,。
and his dad was really into it,。
and he just, he knew how to play.。
So whenever we would line up,。
he's with a bunch of eight and nine-year-olds,。
he would be out there, and he played quarterback,。
and he'd be like, all right, Kiki, you go over here,。
Bucci, you're going right there, all right,。
hey, you're gonna take the ball,。
it's gonna be a sweep right, here's what you're gonna do.。
And he would literally lay out the entire thing,。
and he would tell everyone what to do.。
And any time that we wanted to score, here's what we did.。
'Cause he just like, he had hand-eye coordination。
and things that the other kids are like, is that a flower?。
And he was like, okay, and I mean, it's like breaking ankles。
and the other kids are like,。
do we get orange slices yet or not?。
And he was just like, I have a tiger, man,。
headband and everything.。
And any time that we wanted to score,。
we'd do the same thing.。
I mean, I would just say, hey, quarterback sneak,。
or quarterback draw, and he would just take it,。
and he would take it to the house,。
and it happened every single time.。
And to the point where we would go three downs,。
and we would want the other kids to play,。
so I would be like, Ray, you gotta let the other kids。
have the ball, so let Kiki run one time,。
so I want you to hand it off to Kiki.。
So we would hand it off to Kiki,。
and then the next play, he'd be like,。
all right, Bucci, here's what we're gonna do.。
We're gonna do the, and he's calling these crazy plays,。
and he would hand it off and let him take the ball。
and let him run.。
He'd get, of course, his flag dropped like five yards back.。
And then on the fourth down, we'd just like,。
Ray, take it to the house.。
And this happened, and true story, we won every game.。
We smoked everybody, it was amazing.。
And why is this story taking so long?。
And, (laughs) I'm just reliving the glory days.。
And, (audience laughs)。
and we would involve the other people on the team,。
'cause we needed to?。
No, because we wanted them to be a part of it.。
We didn't need Bucci to get sacked five yards back.。
(audience laughs)。
And true story, his name was Bucci.。
And, (laughs) that's a great name, that's your name.。
And, (audience laughs)。
it was because of one reason, we wanted them to be involved.。
We wanted them to be a part of it.。
Not because we're afraid of losing or afraid of not,。
no, we wanted them to be a part of it.。
This is what God is doing with the message of Christianity.。
It's not because he's afraid of, oh man,。
people are not gonna get saved。
if I don't step in and work there.。
He wants you and I to be a part of it.。
God alone saves, but he's invited us,。
not because he needs us,。
but because he wants us to be a part of it.。
If you are a Christian in the room,。
if you wanna be someone that God uses,。
it's gonna involve you knowing that whatever your story is,。
even if you're not a Christian in the room,。
you need to know that whatever your story is,。
you are not too far gone for God to use you。
in incredible, amazing, significant ways,。
just like he did with Jonah.。
An undeserving person who goes one day into the city,。
not three days, bare minimum.。
He's the guy that's like, what's it take to pass?。
I'm gonna do that and get out of here.。
And God uses him to bring about the greatest revival。
in the history of the world.。
Where everything's turned upside down.。
Because Jonah was a good guy?。
No, because despite all of his flaws, God would use him.。
Our role is to share, God's role is to save.。
What you need to know,。
if you've never had a moment here tonight,。
and I know you're here,。
what you've trusted in what Jesus did on the cross,。
time for you.。
God has been orchestrating and working behind the scenes。
in your life to try to get your attention,。
to try to bring you to a place。
where you would trust in that.。
That's why you're here tonight.。
That's why you're in a church on a Tuesday night.。
Because the God who is there is trying to get your attention。
when are you gonna stop trusting in who you are?。
Or stop making up excuses like you're too bad of a person。
to be used by God or to be accepted by God。
because of what he did in Jesus.。
And when are you gonna turn and accept。
what he did on your behalf and give your life to him?。
In summary, the person that God uses is always used。
despite their story,。
is a person who shares the message of God,。
even when it is uncomfortable.。
And ultimately, God uses people in spite of people.。
He is at work in spite of us.。
I'll close here.。
I was studying this past week and came across a story of,。
you guys know who Alfred Nobel is?。
You may not recognize that name,。
but you may recognize something that he came up with,。
which is the Nobel Peace Prize.。
The Nobel Peace Prize is essentially a part of a legacy。
that he started 115 years ago,。
but Alfred Nobel was not known。
for being the Nobel Peace Prize guy.。
Here's what happened.。
He was born in the late 1800s, in the 1800s,。
and he invented something called dynamite,。
or Shane Everett told me to say it's TNT,。
which I think is just on the Looney Tunes, for real.。
And he invented dynamite.。
And dynamite was this new invention on the scene.。
He comes up with dynamite, and he becomes a millionaire.。
$300 million.。
Very quickly, incredible riches.。
Alfred Nobel.。
And one day, and he hadn't invented any Peace Prize。
or anything like that, he invented dynamite.。
And one day he wakes up and he goes to pick up the newspaper。
and he reads on the newspaper, front of the paper,。
"The merchant of death is dead.。
"Alfred Nobel, the man who got rich,。
"discovering ways to kill people faster。
"than anyone else, is dead."。
And it wasn't a joke, and he was clearly very much alive.。
And what had happened was the newspaper had heard。
that a Nobel had died.。
They thought it was him, it was Ludwig, his brother.。
His brother had died, but the newspaper got it wrong。
and they printed, man, Alfred Nobel died.。
And what he saw, what he was confronted with,。
was what the future was telling for him.。
Based on the life that he had lived,。
based on the things that he had done,。
the merchant of death, this is the legacy。
that I'm gonna live?。
This is who I am, this is how people perceive me,。
this is what I've been giving my life to,。
I'm the merchant of death, and it changed everything for him.。
He spent the rest of his life, he said,。
"I'm taking all $300 million and I'm giving it。
"not to being the person who brought death and destruction。
"into the world, but to being the person。
"who would bring increasing amounts of peace."。
So that's why he started the Nobel Peace Prize Foundation.。
I want to be someone who isn't known for bringing death,。
but someone who's known for bringing peace.。
And every year, the person who brings an achievement。
or who ushers in some sort of action。
that leads to incredible amounts of peace。
is awarded that prize.。
But in other words, he was able to see。
my life is not gonna last forever.。
I'm gonna be known for the person。
who gives my life towards something.。
We're all, at the end of our days, gonna be known。
as someone who gave our life。
towards something or to someone.。
And he made the decision after he saw。
what none of us will ever get to see in the same way.。
You probably are not gonna read an obituary。
of a front page paper that says your name,。
that says, "Man, this is how you died。
"and this is how you're gonna be known."。
But the God who is there is sending a message。
to every single person, every day that they're alive,。
all around you, he's trying to get your attention。
and my attention through his word。
that your life is a vapor.。
It is gonna be here and it is gone.。
Think about a vapor.。
That's how the scripture expresses it.。
Today, there was a close friend of someone on our staff。
that went into the ground.。
They were buried today.。
Last week, they were alive and it was fine。
and they were healthy and everything was okay.。
And all of a sudden, it's gone.。
That the life that you live and I live is a vapor.。
And at the end of it,。
what are you gonna have given your days to?。
When your time comes and when my time comes?。
And I know what's happening in the room,。
like you're young, like, "Dude, I'm gonna live forever."。
And I hope that this message, man,。
is stamped in your memory。
that just like Alfred Nobel,。
what are you gonna give your life to?。
And he saw the end and he made a change.。
I don't know where he was, with faith or believer.。
I don't even know that he made a good decision。
with 300 million 'cause if I'm him,。
giving it towards the mission and movement of Jesus,。
and I'm sure he wouldn't have believed it,。
would be a far better impact.。
But what are you gonna give your life to?。
To the only thing that at the end of our lives。
actually matters, which is Jesus。
and making him known to living a life of purpose.。
Are you gonna continue to buy the Dallas dream。
and the Dallas lie to get yourself a house。
and get yourself a white picket fence。
and a wife or a husband and a couple kids。
and a golden retriever,。
and that's gonna be the life that you live?。
And maybe you can retire at 65.。
Is it really the big, that's too small.。
The American dream is too small of a dream。
to give your life to.。
And you're gonna walk out these doors just like I am。
and you're gonna see advertisements and social media。
and people fighting for your attention saying,。
"Give your life to this."。
And when it all comes into perspective,。
what are you gonna give your life to?。
He had to make the decision.。
"What am I gonna give my life to?。
"I've already given so much of it。
"to dynamite and destruction.。
"Man, I'm gonna make the change。
"to give something for bringing peace."。
What are you gonna give your life to?。
What are you gonna give your 20s to?。
What are you gonna give tomorrow to?。
What are you right now giving your life to?。
If you've never had a moment in this room。
where you've trusted in Jesus,。
tonight is your night, man.。
And God who's there is saying,。
"I invite you to give your life to me.。
"I already gave my life for you."。
If you just accept it,。
for the rest of us who have,。
the invitation every single day,。
because we live in a world with incredible freedom,。
but it's pulling for our attention saying,。
"Give your life to this.。
"Give your life to the climbing of the corporate ladder.。
"Give your life to your 401k."。
Are you kidding me?。
Spend your entire life,。
that's unpromised by the way,。
so that you can have a certain amount。
in your bank account at the end of your days?。
That's a pathetic dream.。
If that's the only dream that's there,。
what are you gonna give your life to?。
What are you giving it to right now?。
Because that will pretty much tell you the answer.。
Let me pray.。
(gentle music)。
Heavenly Father,。
would you do something amazing。
through the lives and the people that are in this room?。
Would you, Lord, raise up the next Billy Graham,。
the next St. Patrick,。
the next sparker of a revival in our times,。
and would you turn our world upside down through them?。
Would you raise up godly women and men as missionaries,。
who spend the rest of their days。
giving their lives to your purpose and to your mission?。
Would you do something incredible, Lord?。
We pray and ask that you would raise up the body of Christ,。
and it would be stronger than ever into this chapter,。
and that someday, when they write the history books。
of the church in North America,。
they would speak of a man or a woman。
that is right now inside of this room,。
and of how they led a movement of the people of God。
who repented from their sins,。
who turned to you, who trusted in you,。
who shared the message of Jesus,。
the only message of eternal life,。
the message to the world around us,。
that if you stay where you are in your sins,。
it's not gonna be okay.。
(gentle music)。
Would you do something amazing, Lord?。
I don't have enough eloquent words,。
I don't have enough passion in my heart。
to be able to ask you to do that, Lord,。
but I know you wanna do that more than I do,。
or than anyone else here does,。
so Lord, we ask that you would do so.。
You say that the eyes of the Lord。
go to and fro throughout the entire earth。
looking for someone whose heart is fully his, Lord.。
Would you grab our hearts, and would they be fully yours?。
Would we build our life upon you and your promises?。
And would the ministry of Jonah。
pale in comparison to the ministry you unleashed。
through my friends here?。
I pray that you would, right now,。
on anyone who is not sure。
that they've trusted in Jesus Christ,。
they are not sure that if they died tonight,。
they would go spend eternity in heaven with God,。
that you, Lord, would press on their hearts,。
that they wouldn't leave this room,。
they wouldn't talk it away,。
they wouldn't get distracted,。
they wouldn't explain it away,。
that they would come to the end of themselves。
and realize, I'm not sure,。
and they would approach another believer,。
or they'd come down front,。
and that you would capture their heart,。
and you would do what only you can do, Lord,。
which is not what a message or music。
or anything else can do,。
but you are the God who saves.。
We worship you now, amen.。
(gentle music)。
