[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
All right, Porsche, let's go.。
How we doing?。
We doing OK?。
It's great to see you.。
Man, it makes my week every weekend to be here with you.。
Thanks so much for choosing to be here at the Porsche,。
not just in Dallas, Texas, but also all over the globe.。
There's so many people tuning in with us all over the place.。
And so we want to just say a special hello.。
If you're tuning in with us online somewhere,。
from wherever it is you stream, or if you're listening to this。
at some point in the future, welcome.。
We're really glad to have you here.。
Special shout out to Portslife, Dayton, Scottsdale, and Boise.。
Let's give it up.。
Hey, I want to do an exercise with you.。
Now listen, this is going to be a rhetorical exercise.。
I do not need you to speak back to me.。
I need you to think in the quietness of your inner self.。
I want you to go through the halls of your personal history。
back to that very first moment where you felt。
some sense of personal panic, like some social embarrassment.。
You can work your way back there while I tell you about mine,。
because mine was when I was in the seventh grade。
and I joined the football team for the very first time.。
I know.。
I had not grown up playing football.。
I had been around sports, baseball, soccer,。
but I had never really spent any time around football.。
I didn't watch it.。
I didn't know the rules.。
I didn't know the position.。
And yet what I knew is that I had a bunch of friends。
that were all joining the team, and so I was eager to jump。
on board with them as well.。
So the day comes, and we make our way out。
to try out for a specific position.。
But I didn't know anything about the sport,。
and so I picked the only position that I knew of.。
I chose to try out for quarterback.。
Did I know any professional quarterbacks?。
No.。
Did I know how to spin the peel?。
No, I did not.。
Did I know that it was the most important position。
on the team?。
Of course not.。
I just simply knew that this was an important position to--。
this was a position that everybody knew about.。
And so the day came for me to try out,。
and what I found out is that the tryout's really。
just a matter of you self-selecting。
into what you wanted.。
So I got put into this position, and it was amazing.。
I started learning the role really well,。
and then eventually, as season started to approach,。
we got delegated into a variety of different teams.。
Much to my surprise, I was put on the A team, which。
was surprising to me because, listen, I was not。
under the illusion that I was God's gift to the sport。
of football.。
I knew that I had worked really hard,。
that I had given it the good college try,。
that I had showed up early and I had stayed late.。
And I thought, man, this is just my coaches recognizing。
the fact that I had really gone for it.。
And so they're rewarding all of my effort.。
And so the day comes for us to make our journey。
to my very first football game.。
I grab my gear.。
I board the bus.。
I say hey to my buddies, and we go to Paris, Texas.。
And in Paris, Texas, we offload from the bus,。
and I do what I always do.。
I find my fellow quarterbacks, and I grab a ball,。
and I start to warm up the old arm,。
like eye socket to hip pocket.。
I'm working my drills with these guys。
until eventually our coach comes over, and he does what he always。
does.。
He does a head count.。
And then he does a second head count.。
And then he does a third head count.。
Because come to find out, he had one more quarterback。
than he was expecting--。
me.。
My name had accidentally been placed on the wrong roster.。
And because I was not, in fact, qualified。
to quarterback the best of my 12-year-old companions,。
my coaches decided in that moment。
to remove me from the only position I was familiar with。
and put me in a completely different position。
that I had no familiarity with whatsoever.。
This is the stuff of prepubescent panic.。
OK?。
I was freaking out.。
Like, my whole world had flipped upside down.。
It felt like the sky was coming down on top of me。
because I was no longer playing on offense.。
Now I was playing on defense.。
I was no longer calling the shots on the field.。
I was lost on the field.。
I had no idea what I was doing.。
I was not under the mistake that I was a part of the A team.。
No, I actually thought that I had made the mistake。
of playing this sport to begin with.。
You see, I had expected one thing,。
but I experienced something completely different.。
Now, why do I tell you that?。
Because for many of us, faith can feel the same way.。
Like you boarded the bus of belief。
and you made your way out to the big game。
and then you offloaded and you realized,。
this is nothing like what I thought it was.。
Like, I thought not just that I'm lost on the field,。
I'm actually lost in my faith.。
It's not just that I am a part of the wrong roster.。
I might be a part of the wrong religion.。
It's not just that I'm questioning。
how to play this position.。
I'm actually questioning all of my claims to belief.。
Like, I'm in a position where I'm not sure。
that this is exactly what I thought it was supposed to be.。
I had some expectations,。
but my experience in walking with God。
has not panned out like I thought it would.。
And the result is you've been left with disappointment.。
Brene Brown in her book "Rising Strong,"。
she says, "Disappointment is unmet expectations."。
And the more significant the expectations,。
the more significant the disappointment.。
And listen, there's nothing more significant。
about a person than what they believe about God.。
Which is why today, many young adults,。
some of you included,。
are actually on the road to deconstruction。
because your deconstruction from God。
is the result of your disappointment in God.。
Now, here's the thing that we need to know.。
When we wrestle with disappointment on God,。
there's a variety of different reasons。
why that could be happening.。
Like, it could be rooted。
in some sort of theological breakdown.。
Like, you thought you believed one thing,。
but then you learned something different,。
and now your spirituality is spiraling.。
It could be that you're facing a sociological dilemma.。
Like, you know Christians, and you know what they claim,。
but then you know the way they live,。
and all it feels like is hypocrisy,。
and all you can do is question the claims they say。
are in fact true.。
Maybe it's not theological, maybe it's not sociological,。
maybe it's just circumstantial.。
Like, you know God can show up,。
you know He will show up for others,。
but it just hasn't happened for you,。
and it feels like the circumstances in your life,。
they have gone from good to bad to worse.。
And again and again, you found yourself。
facing the unfairness of life,。
having your hopes dashed against the rocks of reality.。
Whatever the reason, for many people,。
their experience of Christianity。
is more synonymous with disappointment。
than enjoyment of God.。
So, if you're here, and you're somewhere。
on the road to deconstruction,。
at the very least wrestling with your belief,。
and at the very most walking away from your belief,。
then you need to know this talk is for you.。
Because we're gonna see Jesus engage with someone。
that is facing their own personal disappointment in God.。
So if you have a Bible, you can grab it,。
and you can turn with me to Matthew chapter 11.。
We've been in a series called "Deconstructed"。
because we know now more than ever before,。
people are questioning their faith,。
and we don't think that's inherently a bad thing.。
A.J. Swoboda says it in his book, "After Doubt."。
"Deconstruction is a double-edged sword.。
"It can edify our faith。
"by helping us critically rethink wrong beliefs,。
"but it can also go too far and bring our faith to nothing."。
You see, there's a major difference in remodeling a room。
and tearing a house down.。
One is taking a space and making it more livable.。
The other is taking a space。
and rendering it completely inhospitable.。
My goal in this series,。
if you're here for the very first time,。
is I want to make the space where your soul resides。
as livable as possible.。
Like, I want your faith to flourish.。
Like, I want your inner person to thrive.。
And yet what we often have to do。
is we have to critically evaluate our belief。
and see what parts are weak.。
Like, what in the foundation feels cracked?。
What do we actually need to reassess?。
And then what does it look like。
to not just deconstruct what feels weak,。
but actually reconstruct something strong in its place?。
That's what we've been doing.。
And what we know is that as we step further。
inside the Christian story of reality,。
what we often have to do。
is deal with the disappointments we feel about that reality,。
which is what Jesus is going to do。
with a guy by the name of John the Baptist tonight.。
And so we'll pick it up。
as they kind of work through a series of steps。
on how to deal with disappointment.。
So it says this, Matthew chapter 11,。
starting in verse one,。
we're just going to take it little by little.。
"When Jesus had finished instructing his 12 disciples,。
"he went on from there to teach and preach in their cities.。
"Now, when John heard in prison。
"about the deeds of the Christ,。
"he sent word by his disciples and said to him,。
"Are you the one who is to come。
"or shall we look for another?"。
Now, listen, if you know anything about John B,。
not John B from Outer Banks, but John B from the West Bank,。
what you need to know is that John the Baptist。
is Jesus' guy.。
Like his entire story is one of effectively serving life.。
Jesus is hype man.。
You know what that is?。
Like it's the guy that comes up。
before the main act takes the stage。
and gets the crowd excited。
and keeps injecting energy into the room,。
make sure the vibes are really great.。
Like that's who John is.。
He's the forerunner.。
Like it says that he's the one。
who came to prepare the way for God's Messiah,。
the anointed one of Israel.。
He baptized Jesus in the Jordan.。
He stood there and he heard the voice from heaven say,。
"This is my son with whom I'm well pleased."。
He also was self-identified as the voice in the wilderness。
claiming make straight the ways of the Lord.。
John was a spiritual giant.。
Think about it in your own life.。
Who is the best believer,。
like the fiercest of faith that you know?。
They don't stand a chance in comparison to John.。
John is a spiritual savant,。
literally at the very beginning of his life。
while he's still in his mother's womb.。
It says that he received the Holy Spirit.。
The best of us does not have that going for him, okay?。
John was just built different.。
And yet what we know is despite the fact that his history。
is marked by moments of incredible faithfulness。
in this story, what we find is a moment。
marked by weak faithfulness.。
And the reason for that is disappointment.。
You see, John is in prison for doing the right thing.。
He called out a wicked ruler by the name of Herod。
who had slept with his brother's wife, which is messed up.。
She also happened to be Herod's niece,。
which is really messed up.。
And so John is doing the only right thing。
and yet they're not facing judgment for their wrong.。
He is facing judgment for his righteousness.。
And that is disorienting.。
Like that's disillusioning.。
That's disappointing.。
Like, God, this is not the way it's supposed to be.。
Like I'm doing the right thing.。
I'm saying the right thing.。
I'm taking the right stand.。
Why God is this happening?。
Like Jesus, you're the one who's coming。
to deliver us from evil.。
And yet it feels like I'm being delivered。
straight into evil's hands。
as I await my own execution.。
If we're honest, some of us have felt that way。
or we feel that way here tonight with God.。
We have felt disappointed with them.。
We are asking the same question that John himself is asking.。
Hey, are you sure you're the right one?。
No, no, no, hold on.。
Let me clarify.。
Are you actually the right one。
or do I need to be looking for someone else?。
Because I've had great expectations of who you are.。
And yet my experience as I sit in prison。
for the last year to year and a half。
doesn't necessarily jive with what I expected.。
You see, John is helping us realize the first point。
as we talk through disappointment tonight。
that disappointment can lead to disenchantment.。
Disappointment can lead to disenchantment.。
Like you know this feeling.。
Like you go back and you watch a movie。
that you loved when you were a kid。
or you pull out all the toys that you used to play with。
or you go to the park, that place that you love。
from that time past or like me,。
maybe you collected rocks when you were a kid.。
That's kind of a weird thing to admit,。
but you go back and you look at it。
and you're like, man, this is actually。
a pretty shambly collection of rocks.。
I don't really know what I was doing.。
I just kind of picked these things up。
at some point at some time in the past.。
You look at the things you once took great delight in。
and yet you find them semi-disappointing。
because they're not what you thought.。
And then really what it does。
is it disenchants the entire experience that you remember.。
That's what's happening right here.。
That happens to Christians.。
Like we experience something in the faith。
that doesn't match what we expect。
and it not only makes us sad, it makes us skeptical.。
You wonder, Jesus, are you sure。
you're actually who you say you are?。
Are you someone different altogether?。
Because this is not playing out the way。
that I actually expected.。
Maybe it happened in your own life.。
Like you thought Jesus was supposed to be loving,。
but your experience with him has felt。
like he honestly could care less about you.。
Maybe you thought Jesus was supposed to be in control。
and yet you're dealing with some stuff。
and it feels like he's nowhere to be found.。
He has forgotten about you altogether.。
Or maybe you thought Christianity。
was meant to be more fulfilling.。
Like you've heard of this joy that Christians walk in。
and yet you've never found that.。
You've heard of the peace。
that's supposed to surpass all understanding。
and yet you've never felt that.。
You've heard of this forgiveness。
that transcends all wrongs。
and yet you don't know that you've ever received that.。
Maybe it's not something。
that's actually happening in your life.。
Maybe it's actually something。
that happened in someone else's life.。
Maybe it's a youth pastor that you grew up knowing。
or maybe it was a senior pastor of a church that you loved.。
Or maybe it wasn't that.。
Maybe it wasn't someone that worked for the church.。
Maybe it was someone that you went to church with,。
a parent or a brother or a sister。
or a spiritual mentor in your story.。
That man, they loved God so much.。
They loved God more than anybody you had ever known.。
And then they decided to walk away from it all.。
They punted on their faith.。
They denied their devotion.。
They went AWOL from everything they once believed.。
And as you have seen them leave it all behind,。
it's only left you wondering in the process。
if it wasn't real for them.。
Is it even real at all?。
That's what's happening to John in this moment.。
He has faithfully lived his life doing the right things,。
following the right theology, living in the right way.。
He has done everything right.。
But in this moment, he wonders if it's all wrong.。
Maybe you're here and you can resonate.。
Your belief is burning out.。
Your spiritual performance is exhausting.。
Your convictions are actually cracking.。
Your faith is growing faint.。
And you get John's question, the brutal honesty,。
the guttural nature of his question.。
Are you the right guy?。
He's, I'm not sure anymore.。
It's to that question that Jesus responds。
because he doesn't want disenchantment。
to be the end of John's nor your story.。
(congregation laughing)。
So he says this.。
And Jesus answered them,。
"Go and tell John what you hear and see.。
"The blind receive their sight and the lame walk.。
"Lepers are cleansed and the deaf hear,。
"and the dead are raised up,。
"and the poor, they have good news preached to them,。
"and blessed is the one who is not offended by me."。
Like in response to John's question。
about Jesus being the Messiah,。
Jesus answers with a messianic response.。
We won't go through all of the text,。
and yet what you see is Jesus pulls。
on four different messianic prophecies。
from Isaiah 29, 35, 42, and 61,。
all of which John would have been extremely familiar with。
because Jesus, he wants to engage John's disappointment。
and to keep it from becoming disenchantment.。
He wants to speak the most enchanting words.。
It's amazing.。
It's really, it's actually pretty beautiful.。
He's looking at him and he's saying,。
"Hey man, I know you think I'm not who I say I am,。
"and yet let me just tell you from the book you believe in。
"that I am in fact who you want me to be.。
"Like I have done what only the Messiah can do.。
"Like the blind can see, the lame can walk,。
"like the sick are healed,。
"the deaf can hear, the dead are raised.。
"I am exactly who you want me to be."。
You see, Jesus, he does all of this for John。
and he does it for you and I。
because he wants you and me to know。
that Jesus turns rumors into reality.。
Jesus turns rumors into reality.。
You ever felt that?。
You ever read the Bible and wondered like,。
"Man, this feels like a joke."。
Or, "Man, this doesn't feel like a joke.。
"This feels true, but that's definitely not real。
"in my world."。
Jesus is like, "Man, all of that biblical rumor, it's real.。
"It's actually biblical reality.。
"And I'm gonna help you find it."。
That's what Jesus is saying to John.。
That's what he's saying to us。
because the Christian life is not a sensible reality at all.。
It is a spectacular one.。
Like according to the Bible, don't miss this,。
Christians, they not only believe that God exists,。
we believe that whole seas split in half,。
that heaven breaks into the earth,。
that pillars of fire fall from the sky.。
Whoosh, animals, they talk out loud,。
angelic armies, they appear to protect。
that the existence of an invisible reality。
actually does exist,。
that dragons and giants and demigods are all real,。
that supernatural gifts are given,。
not just to the people in this book,。
but to people like you in these seats.。
We also believe that people speak in languages。
that they never learned at some point in the past,。
that the sun itself stood still,。
that a resurrection from the dead is possible,。
and there is life everlasting。
to anyone who believes in Jesus.。
That's what we believe.。
There's nothing sensible about that.。
It is sensational.。
Reality for the Christian is more magical than materialism.。
It's more sensational than your circumstance.。
That's why Jesus says to John,。
"Hey, everything that you've expected of me, it's true."。
The blind, they see.。
The lame, they walk.。
The deaf, they hear.。
The sick are healed.。
The dead, they rise.。
Everything you expected is in fact true.。
Do not let your circumstances dictate your judgment,。
which is a really fair warning for me and for you,。
because our expectations of Jesus,。
they can be clouded by our experiences in life.。
Let me say it again.。
In yours, in my expectations,。
they can be clouded by our experiences in life.。
So think about it this way.。
It's kind of as if the circumstances in your life。
are like the weather.。
Some days, sun's shining, birds are singing,。
clouds are just floating by.。
You can make shapes of them if you like.。
And Jesus is so very clear.。
He's easy to see, even when you're not close to him,。
when he's across the way,。
'cause you've not spent a lot of time together。
as of times recent, and yet you can still see him.。
Yet there are other moments。
where the circumstances aren't so bright and shining.。
Where storm heads roll forward,。
the fog begins to rise,。
the thunder begins to rumble.。
And Jesus isn't so easy to pick out any longer.。
Porch, like the clouds,。
your circumstances are always moving.。
It may be dark today, it will be bright tomorrow,。
but that which does not change is Jesus.。
He stands with you, he stands for you.。
You need only keep your eyes fixed on him.。
It is possible for two things to be true.。
Life can be hard, and yet God can be good.。
Those two things can be true side by side at the same time.。
Hebrews 13, eight tells us a really simple,。
but a really profound verse.。
If you're in the business of trying to put things to memory,。
you should put this to memory,。
that Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever.。
What does that even mean?。
It means that Jesus never, ever, ever changes.。
His feelings for you, they are the same.。
Yesterday and today and tomorrow.。
So it doesn't matter.。
Like you may feel shame for something。
that happened in the past,。
and yet his forgiveness still reaches for you right now.。
Like you may be struggling against something。
here in the present, and yet Jesus wants you to know,。
my strength is sufficient for you today.。
You may be feeling some deep sense of fear。
about something out in the future,。
and yet Jesus wants you to know,。
hey, I stand beside you and we will walk together。
towards it.。
Like he never changes, and so our expectations of him。
should not change either,。
even when our circumstances say differently.。
But Kylan, doesn't he have the power。
to change my circumstances?。
Yes!。
But that doesn't mean he will.。
He absolutely has the power to change your circumstances.。
He has the power to change John's circumstances,。
yet it does not mean that he will.。
It's actually, it's really interesting.。
If you look at the passage we're studying,。
the words that Jesus has John's disciples。
bring back to him, they're full of messianic prophecy,。
all of which Jesus is the fulfillment of.。
And yet Jesus conveniently excludes。
one element of the prophecy.。
He excludes。
(pages rustling)。
liberty of the captives,。
and the opening of the prison to those who are bound.。
He does not, in anything that is so far from ironic,。
tell John what John wants to hear.。
He has the power to change John's circumstance,。
but he chooses not to.。
He can absolutely give to John what John wants,。
but he knows what John needs.。
He knows that the best way to deal with disappointment。
isn't by changing your circumstances。
to accommodate your faith in God.。
The best way to deal with disappointment。
is to grow your faith to deal with any and every circumstance。
that would test you from your God.。
He won't give you what you want.。
He will give you what you need.。
And the beauty of it is, it always leads you nearer to him.。
He wants to keep you close by, near to himself,。
not dependent or satisfied or contented。
by anything else in this world.。
No, he wants you to cling to him,。
not circumstantial comfort.。
That's what he's doing for John.。
That's what he'll do for you.。
As it keeps going in verse seven, it says,。
"As they went away, Jesus began to speak。
"to the crowds concerning John.。
"What did you go out into the wilderness to see?。
"A reed shaken by the wind?。
"What then did you go out to see?。
"A man dressed in soft clothing?。
"Behold, those who wear soft clothing are in king's houses.。
"What then did you go out to see?。
"A prophet?。
"Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet.。
"This is he of whom it is written,。
"Behold, I will send my messenger before your face。
"who will prepare your way before you.。
"Truly I say to you, among those born of women,。
"there has arisen no one greater than John the Baptist,。
"yet the one who is least in the kingdom of heaven。
"is greater than he."。
I love this.。
Jesus is not frustrated with John in this moment.。
He hears word of John's doubt, even John's disappointment.。
And he's not annoyed by it.。
He looks at the crowds that are listening in。
and he's like, "Hey, this is my boy, John.。
"There's no one born among women who is greater."。
That's a high compliment.。
That's a big thing to say.。
He also looks at the crowds and he's like,。
"What did you go out to see?。
"A reed shaken in the wind?"。
John, he's not concerned with public opinion.。
He doesn't care what you think about him.。
He cares what God thinks about him.。
What, you went out to see if he wore soft clothing?。
No, like he isn't allured by creature comforts.。
He doesn't need to sit in the halls of power。
like king's courts because he sits with God.。
John is not concerned with you.。
He does not do what he does。
by way of the dictation of others.。
He's a prophet.。
He's my prophet.。
He's the greatest among women。
or the greatest among those born of women.。
Jesus is not in the slightest disappointed with John,。
which should be wildly encouraging to us。
because we may grow disappointed in God from time to time,。
and yet God does not grow disappointed in us.。
God does not magnify your mistakes.。
He magnifies his grace.。
Like he doesn't fixate on your sins.。
He forgives them instead.。
He doesn't emphasize your shortcomings.。
He embraces you despite them.。
You may be disappointed with God at times,。
yet he is never disappointed with you.。
Romans 8, one, famous verse,。
which you should preach to yourself daily says,。
there is therefore now no condemnation。
for those that are in Christ Jesus,。
not even a condemnation which you might ascribe。
as true of yourself.。
There's none.。
You can self-condemn, but it is not what God condemns。
because we know for the law,。
the spirit of life has set you free in Christ Jesus。
from the law of sin and death.。
Now, let me be abundantly clear.。
This does not mean that we should overlook our sin.。
Doesn't mean that we should pacify our depravity.。
We should leverage grace like a license。
or hall pass to do whatever we want.。
That's not what this is saying.。
And yet what it is saying is that though we may feel。
despondent in life and disappointed in God,。
we do not run from him.。
We run towards him.。
Because when there was good reason。
to be disappointed in you,。
he did not run from you.。
He ran to you.。
He came after you through hell and high water.。
He made quick haste to get to those whom he loved,。
though there was nothing lovable about them.。
This is who our God is.。
He's not disappointed with you.。
He's wildly crazy about you.。
And yet it's not because of something that we've done,。
nor we've earned, nor we've merited,。
but simply because he chooses to lavish love.。
He welcomes your questions.。
He's not afraid of your doubts.。
He's not offended by your frustrations with him.。
Eugene Peterson says,。
"The reason many of us do not ardently believe。
"in the gospel is that we've never given it。
"a rigorous testing.。
"We've never thrown our hard questions at it.。
"Face it with our most prickly doubt."。
What's Eugene saying?。
True faith does not walk out on Jesus。
when he fails to meet our expectations.。
It leans into Jesus that he might help you sort it out.。
And the reason for that is because there is no road。
to maturity without disappointment.。
There's no road to maturity without disappointment.。
There was no one like John B, okay?。
Like he was the greatest born among women,。
and yet what we know is that John's maturity。
was not the result of an absence of disappointment,。
but the presence of it.。
How do you grow in maturity?。
Not by age, not by intelligence.。
You grow through experience.。
Don't miss this.。
Especially those experiences。
which do not meet your expectations.。
Those experiences which lead to your disappointment.。
That's why you can't just apply。
for whatever job you want in life.。
Some of you are in the job hunt right now,。
and yet what you need to know。
is that some positions require experience.。
Because at some point,。
as you ascend into the heights of hierarchical power。
within corporate America,。
it doesn't matter how many degrees you have,。
it doesn't matter how many letters are after your name,。
or how many books nor knowledge you know,。
what matters are the problems you've solved,。
the issues you've addressed,。
the challenges you've faced.。
You need experience,。
which is not learned, but lived.。
You and I, if we want to grow,。
particularly into godliness,。
we need to live through some disappointment.。
We need to be willing to undergo some adversity.。
Now, let me just say, in a room this size,。
I'm not too naive to know。
that the amount of disappointment felt is deep,。
and the source of that disappointment is broad.。
But I'm also not too naive to know。
that God is working through those disappointments。
for your good.。
Like, some of you are so disappointed。
that your walk with God doesn't feel sensational.。
It feels sensible.。
But what you need to know is that God is at work.。
Like, God is stirring up in you a holy discontent。
to break you out of your sensibilities.。
He wants you to wrestle and question and struggle。
and wonder for more of him.。
This has been my reality for the last two years.。
I'll just level with you, porch.。
I don't want to play the Christian game.。
I don't want to stand on stage and look the part.。
I don't want to say the right things。
yet not actually mean them.。
I don't want to read this book and know it's true。
yet not actually believe it.。
I want this to be real.。
Like, I want this book and the lessons I've learned。
and the lives I've seen to be real in my own experience.。
I pray every single day,。
God, would you be real to me?。
Would you be real to me?。
Would you be real to me, God?。
I don't just want to live in a world full of rumor.。
I want to live into the kind of reality。
that you've come to bring.。
Help me, God.。
Unlock me from these sensible ways。
and unleash me, God, into a spectacular life.。
And by his grace, he's doing it.。
If he'll do it for me, he will do it for you.。
I promise you he will.。
Not because you earned it, man, you deserve it.。
You know what?。
You look like you actually could use it.。
No, he will do it just simply because he cares。
for you to know him as he is.。
Does anybody want that?。
It's available.。
It's available.。
Some of you are disappointed that you know what's true,。
you just don't feel what's true.。
But God's at work.。
Like, he's renewing your mind beyond sterile knowledge。
in leading you into a beautiful and bold belief.。
Like, here's the thing.。
Maybe instead of just doing Christianity the right way,。
you should do it in the way that works for you.。
Maybe you should read your Bible at night.。
Maybe you should read through your journal.。
You should draw in your journal.。
Like, maybe you should read books.。
You should listen to audio books.。
But man, that's not as spiritual as those guys。
that sit down, they just read book after book。
after book after book.。
Who cares?。
Like, the right way of doing things is the way。
that leads you to love Jesus as revealed by his word more.。
So do that.。
My goal every day is to end the day and love Jesus more。
than I did at the beginning of it.。
I will relentlessly pursue that in my life.。
And I am giving you permission to do the same.。
Some of you were disappointed that God hasn't answered。
that prayer that you've been praying.。
But listen, man, he is at work.。
He is inviting you not just to trust in him,。
but to process with him, to plead with him,。
to implore him, to not pull your punches,。
to maybe forget your manners when you pray to him.。
Maybe to yell.。
God had no issue with those that grumbled to him.。
He took issue with people that grumbled about it,。
but wouldn't actually come and talk to him about it.。
He can handle your problems.。
He already knows.。
It's not secret.。
He's very clearly aware of what's going on in here.。
So why don't you tell him about it?。
He's already aware.。
And the beauty of it is,。
is he actually wants to listen to you.。
Isaiah 62, 6, 7, it's amazing.。
It says, "On your walls, O Jerusalem,。
I have set watchmen all day and all night.。
They shall never be silent.。
You who put the Lord in remembrance, take no rest.。
Give him no rest until he establishes Jerusalem。
and makes it a praise in the earth."。
What's that saying?。
God is saying, "Don't quit asking me.。
Don't quit talking to me.。
Don't quit processing with me.。
Don't quit praying to me.。
Don't quit pleading with me.。
Give me no rest.。
Be in constant, incessant annoyance in my life。
because I love you and I want to hear from you."。
Some of you are disappointed that God hasn't given you。
what you really and rightly have wanted.。
A husband, a wife, a job,。
some opportunity, rest, healing, friends.。
You have rightly wanted and you have patiently waited.。
But God's at work.。
He's calling you to wait with him, not just on him.。
Not just on him.。
He would be glad to let you wait longer。
if it brings you closer。
because he cares about you that much.。
Some of you have waited for so long.。
To God, a day is, a year is but a day.。
Time is so very far outside of him.。
If it feels like it's taking long,。
it's because he wants longer with you.。
Maybe instead of waiting on him,。
you just need to wait with him.。
God does not waste disappointment.。
He wants to use it.。
Last story.。
In 1951, shortly after relocating his family to Switzerland,。
Francis Schaeffer, a theologian and an apologist。
who defended the Christian faith。
following the post-war era,。
he underwent the most influential faith crisis of his life.。
Today, we know that his crisis。
was known as the Hayloft experience。
where for three months,。
he plunged into the darkness。
of his own personal deconstruction。
and paced the Hayloft of his Swiss chalet。
seeking answers about God.。
You see, Francis had been one of the lead members。
in a brand new evangelical movement,。
one that was zealous for theological precision。
and ecclesiological correctness,。
and yet as he spent time amongst this movement。
and they began to build momentum,。
he grew disappointed。
in the fact that they were zealous。
for all manner of other things。
except loving their neighbors.。
And so it was out of this movement,。
frustrated by the fact that people。
were more focused on serving Jesus。
than actually enjoying Jesus,。
that he took an existential hiatus。
and he sought after God。
and he set himself to answer this question。
as quoted by him,。
if so many zealous Christians。
were lacking the reality central to Christianity,。
is Christianity itself even real?。
As he recalls, he had known that,。
he had to know that Christianity was real,。
that one could experience a true sense of God's presence。
and that the scriptures were in fact。
God's revelation to man.。
And he committed that if by the end of his questioning,。
he couldn't emerge from his hayloft。
with a deep sense of the reality of it all,。
then he would altogether abandon the faith forever.。
By the end of those three months,。
pacing back and forth in his Swiss chalet,。
Francis emerged。
and what was once an existential crisis。
was replaced by existential bliss。
as he learned,。
my God is real,。
his word is true。
and he does save.。
I will go to him,。
I will be with him。
and I will be his forever.。
Francis made a commitment in conviction,。
believing all these things are actual reality,。
stepping further into the experience that God was inviting。
and because he did,。
his life changed,。
his family's life changed。
and the entire world changed。
to the point that we're standing in a room。
with several thousand young adults。
talking about it right now.。
Friend, are you disappointed with God?。
Perhaps your experience does not meet your expectation。
because Jesus is calling you to a new experience。
that you know not even to expect.。
That's what the gospel promises.。
The gospel is a message of God liberating us。
out of the disappointment of our status,。
lost in sin,。
estranged from God,。
enemies to one another。
and hating our brother。
and yet Jesus came to solve the disappointment in our life.。
All the fulfillment we sought,。
yet could never find,。
he came to give.。
All the purpose we longed for,。
yet could never find,。
he came to offer.。
All the hope that we wanted,。
yet could never attain,。
he came to bestow.。
You see, Jesus,。
he came to enchant the disenchanted.。
(gentle music)。
Son of God,。
enthroned in glory,。
become son of man,。
down here with the lowly。
because he wanted to take you,。
a disenchanted poor soul。
and enchant you。
into the experience of a son and daughter of God.。
Jesus came to turn a rumor into reality.。
Rumor has it that we had no hope,。
yet Jesus knew he could change that story。
by living the life we could not,。
dying the death we deserve,。
being buried in our place,。
yet rising forth from the grave。
to replace the rumor of your eternal condemnation。
with one of everlasting life.。
And Jesus came to mature the immature,。
not apart from our disappointment,。
but by bearing our disappointment,。
the disappointment of our sin in himself.。
There's an experience of God that will never disappoint。
because that experience of God has a name。
and his name is Christ,。
Jesus Christ.。
He's come to seek the lost.。
He's come to save.。
He's come to save the dead,。
liberate the captive。
and give you the enjoyment。
you so very much long for in this life.。
Do you believe it's true?。
Because it quite in fact is.。
Let me pray you would.。
God, we love you.。
Oh God, I pray。
that you and I,。
we have talked about this so much,。
that God, I want the porch。
to be a place。
of experiential spirituality。
where everything we read is true.。
We would realize as true in our own lives。
that God, we would know。
your presence isn't just something we study about.。
It isn't just something we know about.。
Your presence is here。
and we get to be loved by you.。
Oh God, I pray that you would pierce。
whatever barriers exist within this room。
and over our hearts, God,。
and you would liberate us from sterile Christianity,。
boring spirituality,。
and you would lead us, God, into an experience,。
not an emotional experience,。
but God, a real and genuine experience of you。
that leads us, God, to claim this must be true.。
There's no other explanation。
than the fact that God is who he says he is,。
that Jesus Christ has come to save。
and he has in fact saved me.。
I pray, God, that even in this next moment,。
we would stand to our feet,。
we would not rush from this room,。
and we would sing to you,。
not at you, but to you.。
We would pray to you,。
not at you, but to you.。
And God, we would hear from you。
because one word from you can change a person forever.。
We love you.。
And it is in Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
Hey, porch, let's stand to our feet.。
Everything we just talked about, we are about to do.。
We have worshiped, we have taught,。
and now we're going to experience the goodness of God.。
We're gonna declare to him。
that he and he alone is worthy of our pursuit.。
So let's sing to him now.。
If you need to pray with people,。
we've got folks down, the stage left, stage right,。
they'd love to engage with you.。
The time is yours, the king is here.。
Let's sing to him together.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
