(ethereal music)。
- Well, hey, I'm not sure that I'm gonna get。
the opportunity with many of you.。
And yet, if I did have the privilege。
of officiating your wedding,。
I would do with you what I would do with many couples。
that I choose to officiate the weddings of.。
I would sit down with you and your fiance,。
and I would run you through a whole list of questions。
because I want your wedding to be everything。
that your Pinterest says it should be.。
I would make sure that I ask you things like,。
well, tell me your love story。
because I need to know how the two of you met。
and where you were and did you see each other。
across the room and you lock eyes。
and you decided to walk across the room.。
Or I would wanna know, like, hey,。
what are you gonna do for your first act of marriage?。
You know, are you choosing to do a hymn or communion。
or, you know, unity candles?。
That was something back in the '90s,。
but it's kinda making its way back around.。
Or do you wanna do the sand, you know,。
where you pour some in together。
and you kinda mix that thing up,。
even though we're not real sure where it came from?。
That's something that you could do.。
I would also ask you, what do you wanna do with vows?。
You know, do you wanna do traditional vows。
or, oh, you wanna do personal vows?。
Okay, well, how are you gonna get。
those personal vows on stage?。
'Cause you're gonna handwrite those,。
you're gonna print those.。
Okay, perfect.。
And do you want me to carry that?。
Oh, you wanna put it in a vow book.。
Well, that's cute.。
Who's gonna get that on stage?。
Is it in the altar?。
Oh, it's in my jacket pocket.。
Thanks for letting me know.。
And then I would even ask you,。
hey, are there any particular sensitivities in your family。
that I need to be aware of?。
Any crazy Karens, you know, that are showing up upset。
that you didn't invite the grandkids?。
I would ask you all sorts of stuff like this,。
because I genuinely want your wedding day。
to be the stuff of your dream, ladies.。
But then I would move past that。
and I would tell you a few convictions that I have,。
namely three convictions.。
Now, these convictions are not gonna catch you off guard.。
At least two of them won't,。
because most often when I share these convictions。
with the happy couple, they expect them.。
And the reason why is because I guess it's typical。
for the pastor to look at you and say,。
hey, number one, you should go。
through premarital counseling.。
And then number two, you shouldn't sleep together。
until you actually do the deed and say your I do's。
and decide to go off on your honeymoon.。
You should wait.。
It's worth preparing, not just for the wedding day,。
but for the marriage after.。
Can I get an amen from the people?。
That's actually more important than your wedding day.。
But the third conviction that I would offer to you。
often catches people off guard.。
And the reason for it is because they assume。
that they've already done it.。
Here's the conviction.。
I tell them, I want you to be completely honest。
about your story with one another.。
And it's interesting.。
Whenever I tell couples that,。
even though it seems relatively obvious,。
you can see them squirm in their seats。
because they're operating under the expectation。
that they already know everything about each other.。
Like I'll look at the bride and she'll look at me。
and she'll say, but I already know everything about him.。
Like he's told me all of his hopes, all of his dreams.。
I've met his family, at least most of his family.。
There's still some family,。
but that family doesn't matter as much.。
But I feel like I know this guy pretty well.。
And then yet, as I'm asking the question,。
his eyes grow wide and she wonders, wait, what don't I know?。
And it just feels like the tension rises in the room.。
And yet I tell them this,。
not because I want to advocate for someone to get cold feet。
before the big day comes.。
I ask them to do this because when the big day comes。
and you find yourself standing in the altar,。
I want you to be able to look at the other person。
and commit all of yourself,。
vow everything you have to them and the whole,。
I want you to commit everything you have to them,。
the whole of them,。
including the busted and broken and bruised parts。
of who they are.。
I want you to be able to feel someone look at you and say,。
yeah, I know everything about you.。
You've been totally honest with me and I'm in this。
for richer or poorer, better or worse,。
sickness and health.。
That's what I want for the couples。
whom I officiate weddings for.。
And listen, I want that for you.。
But here's the reality.。
That only happens by way of honesty.。
You see, honesty is the key to intimacy.。
And it's not just the key to intimacy in marriage,。
though it is true.。
It is also the key to intimacy in any relationship。
you have in life.。
You see, it's impossible to have a good relationship。
with your doctor if they don't just come clean to you。
with all the facts of your lab results.。
It's difficult to have a good relationship。
with your accountant if they fudge the numbers。
on your tax return.。
And it's difficult to have a good relationship。
with a friend that won't just be honest and tell you,。
yeah, you look bad in those jeans, you know?。
Like good relationships depend on honesty,。
which is why in your stage of life,。
your young adult years, you're making some。
of the biggest decisions you will ever make。
that will actually impact the rest of your trajectory.。
And so you need to decide this biggest decision.。
What am I gonna do with the person of God?。
Because the truth of the matter is God doesn't want someone。
to live halfway in and halfway out with him,。
though many of us choose to live that way.。
He wants either all of you or he wants none of you.。
And the truth of the matter is God wants all of you。
if you will willingly offer it to him.。
He doesn't want a percentage, he wants the whole pot.。
He wants the entirety of who you are.。
And the reason you've gotta come honest with him。
is because he's got a lot of things that he wants。
to be true of your life.。
He has a lot to say about how you speak。
and where you spend your money。
and who you spend your time with。
and what you decide to do with your future。
and what you find entertaining.。
He wants to input so much truth into your experience.。
It's going to change the whole of who you are.。
And so you need to figure out, do I really trust you?。
Do I really trust you, God?。
And the only way you get the answer to that question。
is if you come honest to him.。
And the reason I know that is because as we look。
in Genesis chapter 15, we're going to meet a guy。
that decides to figure out, do I really trust you, God?。
And the process to identifying if he does。
is he has a really honest conversation with him.。
So if you have a Bible, you can grab,。
you can turn with me to Genesis chapter 15.。
If this is your first time here in the porch this year,。
then you need to know we've been journeying。
through the book of Genesis.。
And the reason why is because we want to know who God is.。
We believe if I know who God is,。
then I can know who I am。
because everything about him dictates everything about me.。
And as we've journeyed to this point,。
we've worked through chapters one through 11,。
which is really all the prime evil history of the world.。
It's the creation, and the fall, and the flood,。
and the Tower of Babel, all of those things。
that kind of hit humanity at large.。
And yet when you turn into chapter 12,。
which comes before 15 and yet impacts where we are tonight,。
you find yourself not looking at primeval history,。
you find yourself looking at patriarchal history.。
It's where God decides, you know what,。
I've got this redemptive plan to bless all of humanity,。
but I'm gonna do it by way of one specific family.。
And so he comes to this guy named Abram.。
And the reason he comes to Abram。
is because everyone in the world。
is going a different direction.。
And yet as he pulls Abram out,。
he looks at him and he tells him,。
hey, I've got bigger plans for all of this.。
I've got something better in store.。
And Abram, or Abraham, as many of you know him,。
he looks at God and he says, I get it, I'm on.。
Like, let me come with you.。
And so what they do is they partner together。
and it's through Abram。
that God is going to bring about a blessing.。
He looks at him and he promises in chapter 12,。
hey, I'm gonna give you kids, I'm gonna give you a land,。
and I'm gonna make of you a blessing。
that's going to change the landscape of humanity forever.。
And yet what you gotta know is,。
though Abraham was faithful, he was not perfect.。
He had moments that would've made his mama proud,。
but he had moments that certainly wouldn't have, you know?。
And yet despite the fact that his walk with God。
looked so much like ours, it's not perfect,。
we read this about him in Romans chapter four,。
verse 20 and 21.。
It says, no unbelief made him, talking about Abraham,。
waver concerning the promise of God,。
but he grew strong in his faith as he gave glory to God,。
fully convinced that God was able to do what he'd promised,。
which is just wild when you consider that.。
Like, nothing caused his faith to waver.。
He was fully convinced of the promises of God.。
Like, how the heck do you get to a place like that,。
you know?。
We're gonna find out.。
Because tonight, we're going to figure out。
what is the path to trusting in God completely.。
So Genesis 15, we're just gonna take it from the top,。
and we're gonna work our way through.。
It says this, after these things,。
the word of the Lord came to Abraham in a vision.。
Now, you gotta ask yourself,。
if it's prompting us to consider after these things,。
what things is it speaking about?。
It's talking about the things that took place in Genesis 14.。
In chapter 14, you see Abraham's nephew, Lot,。
is kidnapped by these four kings in the land of Canaan.。
And so he goes this whole, like,。
Liam Neeson taken addition, rescue-style mission,。
and he springs into action to bring his nephew, Lot,。
back into safety.。
And yet, as he comes out of that moment,。
what he realizes, he's kind of public enemy number one,。
and so chapter 15 turns, and he just has this adrenaline dump.。
Like, he's lived through this harrowing experience,。
and now he comes to God,。
and he's just kind of pouring stuff out.。
And so the Lord, knowing this is his experience,。
comes to him to comfort him.。
And so God says this, in verse one, he says, "Fear not,。
"Abraham, I'm your shield.。
"I'm your reward.。
"I'm your shield.。
"Your reward shall be very great."。
But Abraham said, "Oh, Lord God, what will you give me?。
"For I continue childless,。
"and the heir of my house is Eleazar of Damascus."。
You see, Abram does the very first thing you gotta do。
if you wanna trust God.。
He just comes honest to him.。
You gotta do the same.。
You gotta come honest to God.。
That's the first thing you do.。
If you wanna build a trusting relationship with God,。
then you need to come honest to him.。
By this point, it's important to know,。
like, Abram was probably a few years。
into his journey with God,。
and yet, despite having lived。
through some pretty wild circumstances,。
like, by this point, he has left his home,。
he has left his family,。
he has faced a famine in this foreign land,。
he has encountered foreign armies,。
he is currently in conflict with the king of Sodom.。
Despite all of this, and having done it。
for the sake of being faithful to God's promise,。
he looks up, and he still has no kid to show for it.。
Like, the very thing that God said would come,。
he doesn't have, and so he comes to God,。
and he doesn't do what many of us do。
whenever we find, you know what,。
my circumstances aren't what I expect.。
Like, when things go sideways,。
he doesn't do the Christian game,。
he doesn't put on a right face,。
or decide to say the right words,。
or do the right thing.。
Instead, what Abram does is he comes real.。
He gets really honest.。
Have you ever done that before?。
Just got real honest with God。
about the things in your life that are frustrating,。
that are irritating, that are aggravating,。
that you can't make any sense of?。
You ever done that?。
I know I just did that a couple of weeks ago,。
I got in prep for this message, and yet,。
it just ironically set this up,。
so that way the text applied to me personally,。
but a couple weeks ago, I was driving back。
from Ouachita Baptist University.。
You really gotta emphasize the Ouach.。
Because the people know, you know, the Tigers,。
they live four hours up in Arkadelphia, Arkansas,。
and so I made my way up there to speak at a chapel,。
and it was a joy, it was so great to be there,。
and yet on my drive home,。
I just felt this agitation in my spirit.。
There were some things。
that I needed to personally unpack with God,。
some frustrations that I had,。
and so what I decided was,。
I'm not gonna turn on the music,。
I'm not gonna download the pod,。
I'm just gonna spend time with God and unpack this,。
and then once that's done,。
I can go about my merry way and do whatever else I want,。
and yet what you realize is by the end of my trip,。
I had gone four hours in complete silence。
because I had just been word-vomiting everything to him.。
Now, I don't say that to you。
because I'm trying to make myself out。
to be some sort of example.。
I say that to you because I want you to learn。
from my experience that bottling all of that up for so long,。
it took me four hours to unwind。
when that never had to be the case,。
but I was unwilling to come honest.。
God doesn't want you to be that way.。
Like, whatever it is, he wants you to know。
you can come to him on it, and here's the thing.。
I think so often we fear if we do come real,。
God's gonna want to check the return policy on you and I,。
and yet that's just not the case.。
Like, you're not gonna come and tell him something。
that he hasn't already known about.。
He's omniscient, he knows everything,。
and so he's not gonna turn to the left and be like,。
"Gabriel, hold on, man, what did we bite off here?。
"It seems like it's a little bit more than we can chew."。
He's gonna look at you and be like, "I know!"。
And yet though God knows everything,。
he wants to hear about everything from you。
because that's what relationship looks like.。
So all that sadness you feel about your singleness。
because by this point you thought you'd be married,。
you'd have a family, you'd moved on with your life,。
he wants to hear about that.。
Like, all that frustration you feel with your parents。
because no matter how hard you try or how much you give,。
it's still never enough,。
they're perpetually disappointed in you,。
he wants to hear about that.。
All that shame that you feel for what you did,。
that habit or addiction that you constantly hide in secret。
and you can't seem to upend,。
he wants you to come and talk to him about it.。
Like, that weariness you feel from your depression。
that no matter how hard you pray,。
no matter how much you trust,。
no matter how much you surrender, still seems to never end.。
God's like, "Come talk to me about it.。
"Come be honest with me about it, I know already.。
"So just let me ask you then,。
"like what's keeping you from talking to him?。
"What's keeping you from being real with him?。
"What's keeping you from being honest?"。
I think for many of us,。
if I were just to kind of throw out a singular answer,。
though I know there's a variety of exceptions here,。
I know that generally speaking,。
the reason we don't talk to God honestly。
about the things that we struggle with,。
are frustrated by is because for fear of being wrong,。
we never come real.。
We don't wanna be wrong in the sight of God.。
And so what we do is we come completely fake.。
We look phony, we act false in front of him.。
And yet that's not the way that Abram does it.。
Abram comes completely honestly.。
And yet I love that as you read this,。
you see he doesn't come disrespectfully.。
He calls him Lord God, that word Lord God,。
it's the word Adonai Yahweh.。
It's similar to what we talked about earlier in the series.。
But the idea here is he looks at God and he says,。
"Hey, you're Adonai.。
"You're my master, you're my Lord,。
"you're the sovereign supreme over everything.。
"And then at the same time, you're Yahweh.。
"You have a personal relationship with me.。
"I know your name."。
And so he comes and he is respectful to him.。
He acknowledges who God is.。
And yet though he is respectful, he is simultaneously real。
with him.。
Which we agree is possible, don't we?。
Like, isn't this the idea of tough love?。
That someone would just deal straight with you,。
even if it's hard to receive for your own good.。
I know that this is what happens every morning。
when I come out of the bedroom and I look at Brooke。
and I say, "Hey, does this look okay?"。
And if she tells me no,。
I don't think it's because she hates me.。
Or is trying to sabotage my street cred.。
I think it's because she loves me。
and she's trying to save my street cred.。
She's being honest for my good.。
And because she, and the reason why。
is because she respects me.。
You can be honest with God because you respect him.。
You see, honesty is a way of honoring someone.。
And so the first thing you gotta do。
is you gotta come real to him.。
You gotta be honest with him.。
Again, I'm not telling you to rip,。
like to just kind of pop off on him or be disrespectful。
because the two of you were in very different weight classes。
and you can't handle that son.。
And yet what you do need to know。
is you can come very legitimately sincere。
if in fact you find yourself frustrated。
with something in life.。
Now, does that mean that he owes you an answer?。
If you come and you ask him questions,。
does that mean that he's gonna tell you。
everything you wanna know?。
No, it's interesting.。
Abram comes and he does ask God a question.。
And yet what you see is God gives him the silent treatment.。
Like he does not give him a reply at all,。
so much so that when you get to verse three,。
it's like the beginning of a new dialogue.。
It says, "And Abram said,。
"Behold, you've given me no offspring。
"and a member of my household will be my heir.。
"And then finally, behold, the word of the Lord came to him.。
"This man shall not be your heir.。
"Your very own son shall be your heir."。
Why doesn't God answer Abram the first time?。
Like he shows up and he asks a legitimate question.。
Why does God choose to plead the fifth。
and not engage with him?。
For this reason,。
you don't have to understand everything to trust God.。
You don't have to understand everything to trust God.。
He doesn't owe you an answer。
because an answer doesn't make him trustworthy.。
His character does.。
Like if you've ever wondered,。
like, God, why aren't you answering my questions?。
Why, God, aren't you answering my prayers?。
I'll tell you why he isn't.。
It's because you're not ready for it.。
It doesn't mean that he wants to leave you。
where you are for long.。
Maybe he's trying to grow something up in you。
or maybe he's trying to grow something out of you.。
But if he's not answering your questions,。
responding to your prayer,。
it may be because he's wanting to do something in you。
before he does something through you.。
You just may not be ready yet,。
which ironically is exactly Abram's situation.。
Abram, he asks God, doesn't reply.。
He asks again and God's like, okay, fine.。
You want to know, guess what?。
Your heir shall be your own son.。
He tells Abram for the very first time,。
specifically where the blessing will come from.。
It's not through a general descendant.。
It's not through his offspring.。
It's not through some seed.。
It's through his son.。
And what you see is Abram takes this information。
and he absolutely ruins his story with it。
because he does not choose to receive that news。
and trust God by continuing to remain faithful to his wife。
who has a barren womb.。
Instead, he decides to take matters into his own hands。
and he sleeps with his servant, Hagar.。
And what he does is he prolongs the fulfillment。
of God's promise by 12 years.。
You see, God knows, hey, you may not be ready。
for the information that I'm wanting to give to you.。
And we need to trust him that that may, in fact, be true.。
Like, it's fascinating.。
God called Abram to follow him in Genesis 12.。
And when you look at it, five different times,。
he tells him, hey, all of the promises。
that I'm giving to you, they're not gonna come through you.。
They're gonna come through me.。
We see it.。
He says in chapter 12, he says, I, talking about God,。
I will show you the land.。
I will make you a great nation.。
I will give you a name.。
I will bless you and I will curse those who dishonor you.。
So then let me ask you this,。
because I think it's gonna finally make its way home。
for us here in the room.。
Why doesn't Abram choose to trust in God?。
Why does he take matters into his own hands in this moment?。
If he has God's promise, if he knows what God's going to do,。
why then does he circumvent the process?。
Not because he doesn't think God can do it,。
because he doesn't think God will do it.。
You see, he questions his character,。
which feels really shameful to say out loud.。
Like we all hear that and we're like, how dare he do that?。
And yet we all do this。
in the secrecy of our private lives, don't we?。
We all look at the things that God has said,。
and in some way, and at some time,。
we feel like we're the exception to that rule.。
So yeah, sure, like God has come, or Christ has come。
that you might have life and have life abundantly,。
but that may be true for everybody else.。
But the thing is, like, you don't know my family,。
you don't know my history, you don't know my hope.。
Like, you're not gonna be able to lead me。
into abundant life because you haven't seen。
the mess that I've made.。
Or we know his promise to work all things together。
for the good of those who love him。
and are called according to his purpose.。
Except we look at us and we're like, dude,。
have you seen the mistakes that I've made?。
How wrong I've gone?。
There's no way back for me.。
That may work for other people.。
That's not gonna work for me.。
I'm the exception to that.。
Or we know the reality that nothing can separate us。
from the love of God, but the truth of the matter is,。
Jesus, you don't know what I've done.。
You don't know how deep the stain actually goes.。
And so we look to God and we claim。
what Abraham claims in this moment.。
We say that we're the exception.。
But here's the thing.。
There are no exceptions to God's promises.。
Every promise in the scripture。
for those that believe in Christ,。
those promises are true for them.。
And that includes you.。
That's why God shows up in this moment。
and he rebukes Abraham.。
Like he shows up and he says, behold, that word behold,。
it's the idea of, hey, whoa, hold up.。
Like he's trying to get Abraham's attention.。
I'm like, hey, wait, you're off track.。
Let's get back on track because what you're saying is crazy.。
It doesn't make any sense.。
And I love that it says the word of the Lord came to him.。
It's the first time that language,。
the word of the Lord ever appears in the Bible.。
And the reason it appears in this moment。
is it's the word of the Lord that Abraham forgot.。
And so that word comes to him.。
And here's the truth for us tonight.。
Many of us, we don't trust God。
because he hasn't told us the answers。
to the questions that we've been asking.。
And because that's true,。
we let our feelings tell us who he is。
rather than letting his word do all the talking instead.。
Like it's typical.。
I visit with people all the time.。
I myself was one of them.。
We get so hung up on God's unrevealed will.。
Like those things that are out in the future,。
which we know nothing about.。
What am I gonna do for my job?。
Who am I gonna marry?。
Are they the one?。
God, am I always gonna struggle like this?。
Am I ever going to get over this pain?。
Am I ever going to find God。
that this shame actually is subdued?。
We start asking all of these questions about the future.。
And what we do being so focused。
on the unrevealed will of God。
is we forget about the revealed will of God.。
We become so transfixed。
on what's gonna happen in the future。
that we forget what God has said about the past,。
even though it was he who was in the past。
that has everything to say。
about what's happening in your future.。
You see, so many of us, we struggle to trust God。
because the truth of the matter is。
we're willing to come to God。
and maybe we're even honest with God,。
but we don't want to receive。
God's honest word in return to us.。
We want to say our piece,。
but then we don't want to receive。
what he has to say in response.。
And yet the reality is there's no relationship。
in that sort of situation.。
God has much he wants to say to us.。
And that's why we've got to get into this book.。
That's why we've got to spend time in this word.。
Like this is not just an archaic text,。
something locked away long ago from a time well spent.。
No, this is a book that is speaking live today to you.。
It's relevant.。
It is a timeless truth.。
And so you need to read its words.。
You need to marinate in its scriptures.。
You need to spend time learning what it says。
because these are not just principles to know.。
This is evidence as to who God is.。
And the reason you find yourself struggling to trust in God。
is because you're questioning his character.。
And he's like, no, no, no, no, no.。
Don't question my character.。
Remember who I am.。
Yeah, your circumstances may be sideways.。
Things may feel crazy, but the truth of the matter is。
everything can be falling apart, but I'm not.。
I'm still in control.。
I'm still sovereign supreme.。
I'm still on my throne.。
You can trust in me.。
And so we've got to be willing.。
We got to be willing to admit the fact。
that we don't have to understand everything to trust him.。
That's why God tells Abram to do what he does next.。
Because even though we have doubt,。
there is something that we can do with it.。
It says in verse five, and he brought him outside。
and he said to him, "Hey, look toward heaven。
"and number the stars if you're able even to number them."。
And then he said, "Hey, so shall your offspring be."。
And Abram believed the Lord。
and he counted it to him as righteousness.。
I love this.。
God looks at Abram who is questioning his character。
and knowing that, hey, you're struggling to trust me。
in this moment.。
God, he doesn't plead his innocence.。
He doesn't grovel for him to understand.。
Because God knows, okay, if it's my character in question,。
character is not proven by way of what I say.。
Character is proven by way of what I do.。
Like you can say you're kind,。
but you actually convince someone that you are。
whenever you take the time to talk to them,。
even if it means you got to go out of your way.。
You can say you're humble,。
but it's way more convincing to lavish praise。
upon other people,。
even though you did the majority of the work.。
Like you can say that you're reliable,。
but it's way more convincing to actually follow through。
on the promises you make.。
See how that works?。
It's why when you apply for a job,。
they want character references.。
Why do they want character references?。
Because they may be able to get a good impression of you,。
but they cannot ascertain the quality of your character。
in a single interview.。
They've got to talk to people。
that have spent time with you,。
because the truth of the matter is,。
character is proven through consistent evidence over time.。
And so that's why God takes Abram and he's like,。
"Let's go look at the stars."。
Because he knows, Abram stands before those stars.。
He and we will remember who you're dealing with.。
You'll remember who you're dealing with.。
It's the third thing you got to do。
if you want to build a relationship of trust with God.。
Like, I love it.。
He doesn't come to Abram all punitively.。
He doesn't look at him and say,。
"Okay, son, you're going to doubt me?。
Let's step outside and take a look at those.。
What do you think of them?。
You want to go ahead and start counting them?。
Yeah, you want to be real serious about this?"。
He doesn't do that with them.。
He takes Abram and he does.。
He walks him out and he says, "Hey, look up.。
I put all of those where they are.。
I'm the star maker.。
The scriptures say that God breathed them into existence.。
I'm the creator of the cosmos.。
If I can do that,。
don't you think I can take care of your boy?。
Don't you think I can provide for you a son?"。
I love it.。
David in Psalm 8,。
he references a similar sort of situation。
where he had to come face to face。
and gain a new perspective on who God was.。
And the way that he did was by looking at the night sky.。
That says in verse three,。
"When I look at your heavens, the work of your fingers,。
the moon and the stars, which you've set in place,。
what is man that you're mindful of him?。
The son of man that you care for."。
I think that's why God tells Abram to step outside。
and look at the stars,。
not just because he wants him to get to counting,。
because he wants him to get a new perspective.。
You see, he wants Abram to go from。
telling God all about his problems。
to telling his problems all about his God.。
He wants to shift his perspective.。
Now, the truth of the matter is,。
I know it's not feasible for all of us to do this,。
to jet set to some desert nearby。
and get underneath the night sky。
and look at the cosmos above.。
I know that that's not feasible for us,。
but yet it is feasible for us。
to block some time on the calendar,。
to take a day off work,。
to set aside some time every single month。
so that way we can not only work for God,。
but we can actually walk with God.。
I remember as a student in college,。
I would sit on the front steps。
of the administration building at Texas A&M,。
and it was there that I regularly found myself。
meeting with God,。
and under the night sky there,。
learning who he was and what he was like,。
what his heart beat for,。
what, in fact, he cared about,。
what he had to say about me,。
and what it looked like for me。
to actually internalize those truths.。
It was by way of me setting aside time to be with him。
that I was able to learn who he was。
and thus who I am.。
God wants to do the same thing for you.。
The truth is, we just don't often set that time aside,。
but it's much easier to do than we think.。
We just gotta commit ourselves to doing it.。
And the thing is, when we do this,。
what happens is our trust rises,。
because even when we can't make sense。
of the world around or the situations。
we find ourselves suffering through,。
we can still look at God and say,。
man, this may all feel like chaos, but you don't.。
This may all feel disordered, but you aren't.。
You, God, are still good.。
And so even though it may feel like。
all of my reality is spinning into disarray,。
you, God, are still here,。
you, God, are still good,。
and you, God, are still committed to me.。
Which, interestingly, is where this story ends.。
We see in verse six。
that Abram believed in God。
and it was counted to him as righteousness.。
And so he believes in God according to his character.。
Again, God takes him out, shows him the stars,。
and it evidences to Abram who God is.。
And yet as we keep going,。
we find ourselves in this moment。
that is honestly kind of strange.。
Like, you read through it and you're like,。
what is happening here?。
And yet God wants to ratify not only his character,。
but also his commitment to Abram and to ourselves.。
So it says this in verse seven.。
And he said to him,。
I'm the Lord who brought you out from Ur of the Chaldeans。
to give you this land to possess.。
But Abram said, oh, Lord God,。
how am I to know that I shall possess it?。
And he said to him, bring me a heifer three years old,。
a female goat three years old, a ram three years old,。
a turtle dove, a young pigeon.。
See how it gets odd?。
And he brought him all these and he cut them in half.。
Gets a little bit more odd.。
And he laid each half over against the other,。
but he didn't cut the birds in half.。
And when the birds of prey came down on the carcass,。
Adam drove them away.。
The Bible is just odd sometimes.。
You know, you read this stuff and you're like,。
what on earth is happening?。
There's good reason for why all of this is happening.。
Because while admittedly we have no category。
for what's happening in this text,。
Abram does, you see it.。
Like God starts asking random stuff。
and Abram's like, yes, sir.。
And he just starts going and he finds the animals。
and he starts cutting them in half。
and he starts splitting the pieces.。
Clearly he understands what God has asked and we do not.。
So it begs the question,。
what was happening in their context。
to help us realize what in fact this means?。
Well, Abram knows the minute God starts giving。
all the instructions, what God is wanting to do。
is he is wanting to set up a blood path covenant,。
which was a ritual ceremony in the ancient Near East。
where two parties would enter into an agreement。
with one another and they would walk through the pieces。
of these animals one after the other, testifying。
to each other that if they don't keep their oath,。
as was done to this animal, so shall it be done to me.。
It's declaring a consequence。
if they fail to keep their commitment.。
And the reason God does it with Abram in this moment。
is because he knows, Abram, he's questioning,。
hey, can I trust you God?。
And so God looks at him by way of his own suggestion。
and he's like, hey, let's make a covenant,。
get the animals, you know what to do.。
And the reason for it is fourthly,。
you can only trust God's character。
if you can trust God's character。
when you can trust God's commitment to you,。
when you trust God's commitment to you.。
It's fascinating.。
This idea of covenant, it can feel distant to us,。
but we experience this today,。
the primary place where we see covenant in our modern world。
is in the form of marriage.。
I know for Brooke and I, we talk often。
about the covenant of marriage that we share。
with one another, not because we'd love to reminisce。
on that day long ago that was so very wonderful,。
though I think we did in fact have the best wedding.。
We talk about that covenant。
because we often got to rely on it.。
Like we look at each other and I'll do something stupid。
or she'll say something she regrets.。
And we're like, God, I'm so thankful for this covenant。
because the truth of the matter is,。
even though we're untrustworthy towards one another,。
I can believe by way of your commitment to me。
before God and all our family and friends。
that you're not going anywhere.。
You see, there's something in a commitment to another person。
that allows us to find a deep level of trust.。
And so that's what God's trying to do with Abram right now.。
He's like, hey, I wanna give you even more reason to trust.。
I've given you enough, like my character is flawless.。
There's nothing concerning about me.。
There's no questions you could ask。
that would ever bring me into any kind of reproach.。
Like I don't lie, I don't cheat.。
I don't steal, I don't sin.。
Like God is perfectly good.。
And yet he looks at Abram and he's like,。
but so you have even more reason.。
Let's make this covenant,。
which is really interesting to think about.。
The fact that God is the one who suggests it。
because here's the truth.。
Covenants, they're used as a sort of safeguard。
in relationships that may experience distrust.。
And the reason that's interesting is。
there's nothing untrustworthy about who God is.。
God's the one that comes up with this idea。
and yet he is not the one that runs the risk。
of creating any distrust between he and Abram.。
Instead, Abram is the one that poses all the risk.。
And yet God says, hey, let's strike this thing up。
because the reality is I will enter into it。
though I don't need to,。
because I want to assuage your fears,。
though you have no reason to fear.。
This is the compassion and kindness of God。
towards people like you and me.。
He sees us in our insecurity and he tells us,。
hey, that insecurity, it in no way。
invalidates my trustworthiness,。
but it nonetheless matters to me.。
And so let's deal with it.。
Let's put something in place that helps us。
to make sure you feel safe with me.。
And yet here's what's interesting。
is Abram gets all this stuff together.。
You find that time passes.。
That's what the idea of these birds of prey。
that Abram starts to fight off and shoo away.。
It feels like such a weird detail.。
And yet it speaks to us this thought。
that he had these animals。
and yet no action has taken place so long in fact。
that these buzzards have come to roost.。
And the reason nothing has happened。
is because according to this covenant,。
it was always the lesser party in the relationship。
that would go first, which in this story is Abram.。
And so what he's doing is he's stalling.。
He knows if I go through this covenant,。
I'm gonna eventually fail God。
and that's gonna mean the end of me.。
Is that why you might be stalling。
in your relationship with God?。
Is it because you fear that if you take another step。
with him, if you go deeper with him,。
he's eventually gonna find out the fraud that you are,。
the failure you are, and he's gonna want out.。
He's gonna move on.。
He's gonna find someone better.。
Is that the reason you're hesitant to step into。
a relationship, a real relationship with God?。
If it is,。
then you can know Abram never went through the covenant.。
It says actually that God put him to sleep.。
And yet though Abram never went through with the covenant,。
God does.。
Because in verse 17, it says,。
"When the sun had gone down and it was dark,。
"behold, a smoking fire pot and a flaming torch。
"passed between the pieces.。
"On that day, the Lord made a covenant with Abraham."。
Smoking pot and a flaming torch。
feel like another odd detail,。
but it's representative of the presence of God.。
All throughout the Old Testament, fire and smoke,。
they were symbolic of his presence among his people.。
And you see this presence of God moves through the pieces。
by himself, declaring that if I fail the oath,。
then let me be ripped apart.。
And if Abram, if humanity fails to keep the oath,。
let me, let God be ripped apart.。
It is crazy to consider that is in fact what happened.。
Because as you keep reading through the Bible,。
you find that God was ripped apart,。
not because he failed to be trustworthy, but because we did.。
So let me just speak honestly to you here。
in the last couple of minutes I got.。
I don't know where in your life。
you feel like you can't trust God,。
but let me challenge you.。
If you're here and you feel like,。
"Man, I can't trust God in that place."。
Let me just ask you,。
would you take a hard look in the mirror。
and would you ask, should he trust you?。
'Cause the truth of the matter is,。
there's not a single person in this room, myself included,。
that could stand before a holy and a righteous。
and a good God and say, "Yeah, God, I'm worth it."。
Not a single one of us can do that.。
All of us know in the honest place of our heart,。
we are all untrustworthy people.。
And yet here's the amazing thing, Ports,。
I need you to listen to me if you're checked out.。
If you find yourself staring into that part of you。
that is in fact untrustworthy,。
that should convince God to step aside,。
what you need to know is in the place。
that you are untrustworthy,。
God's trustworthiness shines most brightly.。
Because in your area of sin, Christ came in.。
And what you see in Jesus is a character by way of his life。
that proves as he fulfills every command of the law,。
he's perfect, he's without blemish.。
And as you see in Christ, through his death,。
a commitment that he would go the greatest lengths。
to get to you, doesn't matter how much you've done,。
what all wrong you've committed, he has died for it.。
And as you look to his resurrection,。
you see in him a King, one who is victorious。
over everything that has rendered the world wrong.。
So, can God be trusted?。
He can be.。
And the place you can begin is by trusting in Christ。
for the forgiveness of your sins.。
Let me pray that you would.。
God, thank you for just being here with us.。
Part of me, God, didn't want to come up here。
because you were ministering by way of your worship.。
And yet, God, another part of me thought,。
yes, God, but your word wants to speak to your people。
because there are people in this room, God,。
that if they could just be honest, they don't trust you.。
They look at their life and they think, what a mess.。
It's not what I hoped for.。
This isn't what I intended or dreamt of。
or thought I'd achieve.。
I feel stuck.。
I feel stagnant.。
I feel way left behind.。
This isn't what I wanted.。
And so, God, in the face of their disappointment,。
they have grown to distrust you.。
And yet, here tonight, God, by way of your word,。
you're telling them you can trust in me.。
You can trust in me.。
You can trust in my character.。
By way of Christ, you can see one that was perfect。
where you were imperfect.。
You can trust in my commitment.。
By way of Christ's death, you can know。
there is no link that I would not go.。
And by way of Christ's resurrection,。
you can see a king who has, in fact, conquered.。
And so your trust, it's well-placed if it's placed in me.。
I pray, God, would you communicate that to these people?。
And would we stand and would we worship。
in a continuation, God, of where we were at the first,。
but even more so now, God, as we have heard from you,。
would we respond in rejoicing?。
Would we raise our hands?。
God, would we linger a little bit longer。
because you're in the room?。
Come, God, we wanna meet with you.。
We love you, it's in your name.。
Amen.。
