I mean, he's practically dating a model.。
She told me they went to Cabo and he paid for the whole thing.。
Dude, she does his laundry and cooks.。
He proposed at the Eiffel Tower in Paris.。
Bro, she plays in his fantasy football league and knows more about the Cowboys than he does.。
She's got the husband, the house, she's got it all.。
What more could you ask for?。
What more could you ask for?。
Hey, isn't worship, great worship, a gift?。
I know Fort Worth and Houston, you just worshipped as well.。
It is a gift.。
Can we just applaud our bands, whoever just led us, wherever you're at.。
Thank you for using your gifts to, it's like you're looking, you came in, you're distracted。
and you're looking through this lens that's out of focus and great worship through song。
and music just focuses our hearts for what we're about to hear as we move through this。
series relationship goals.。
And so great to be with you.。
Great to have been with you in Sky Ranch and to return back here with you now.。
And so I want to start with a buying experience I've recently had.。
I went shopping for sunglasses, actually bought two pair of sunglasses for two different reasons。
and had two very different purchasing experiences.。
Have you guys ever gone and bought sunglasses before or glasses of any sort before?。
I see lots of them, so I know you have, unless you stole them.。
I hope you didn't.。
So I go out, so the first kind, the first week, Monica and I were in Mexico and I forgot。
my sunglasses and I kind of didn't even realize that I forgot my sunglasses.。
We're out there and we went shopping one day in Mexico, like, you know, to a mall in Cancun。
and we're walking through the mall and I'm like, oh, I forgot my sunglasses.。
I think I should get some.。
And I didn't really know what I was looking for.。
And so I put on some aviators and I'm like, Hey, what do you think?。
She's like, nah, too top gun.。
And so I put on some wayfares.。
I'm like, what do you think?。
She's like, nah, too Ferris Bueller day off and or last summer.。
And so, and so I kept trying on different pairs, you know, what do you think?。
How do they, how do these make me feel?。
You know, who, what is the identity that I'm putting on with these and kind of just different。
trying on different kinds.。
I must've tried on like a hundred pair of sunglasses before coming to one and then constantly。
second guessing that decision.。
And uh, and so, Oh well.。
And so the second time I purchased a pair in the past couple of weeks was actually for。
my friend Shane E. So his car got broken into and I was over at his house and his car got。
broken into that night.。
And, um, and he's like, man, they stole my sunglasses.。
I'm like, I'm sorry, bro.。
I was like, Hey, I'd love to get you a new pair, you know?。
And uh, and so I'm like, what were they?。
And he's like, well, they were some Ray bans.。
I was like, well, what, what were they?。
And he's like, they were a model number RB 8301 size 56.。
I'm like, these things come in sizes.。
And uh, and he's like, yeah, size 56.。
That's what they were.。
I'm like, well, I'm glad you know.。
Okay.。
So I'm going, so, so we, we, Monica and I are on a double date with some friends and。
we find ourselves out.。
And so I go, I'm looking for the sun.。
I'm like, Hey, I've got to find shady, some sunglasses.。
Do you guys mind if we, if we go, and so I'm walking into sunglass hut and sunglass Island。
and sunglass are us and, and trying to find these.。
And, and so now I know exactly what I'm looking for.。
Right.。
And it's, I'm like, Hey, do you have RB 8301 size 56?。
And they're like, Oh, come here, sir.。
You know, here's our selection of Ray-Bans.。
You know, these I think would look great on you.。
I'm like, no, no, no, no, no.。
You don't understand.。
I'm looking for RB 8301 size 56.。
Do you have those?。
Cause if you don't have those, I'm wasting my time.。
You're wasting my time.。
8301 size 56.。
I'm sorry, sir.。
We don't have that.。
Okay.。
Thanks.。
Onto the next store.。
Hey, do you have RB 8301 size 56?。
Uh, sir, let me look.。
Oh, you know what?。
Here's the Ray-Ban section.。
I think these Maui gems would look good.。
No, no, no.。
You don't understand.。
Mr. Salesperson.。
I'm looking for RB 8301 size 56.。
They're like size 56.。
They come standard in size 59.。
I know my friend has a tiny head.。
Okay.。
I need size 56.。
I'm like, don't let that distract you from worship later, but I'm looking for size 56.。
And so like, I'm sorry, sir.。
I don't have those.。
And so we go one to the next to the next, because here's the deal.。
These guys are trained professionals.。
It is their occupation to sell me a pair of sunglasses.。
But if they don't have what, see the way that I overcome their sales brainwashing is I know。
exactly what I'm looking for.。
There's, there's two kinds of shopping.。
You guys know this.。
You, you have been to the mall where you know exactly what you're looking for.。
We'll call you the focused shopper.。
You're the focus shopper.。
You're going in.。
You're like me.。
Hey, do you have this?。
If you don't, you're wasting my time.。
And then there's the impulsive buyer.。
This is where you have a little bit of money, a little bit of time, and you're looking to。
feel better.。
So you go to the mall and you find yourself looking at purses, you know, because your。
old purse is well, not the one you're looking at.。
You know, you got no reason, you know, until you, you're looking at buying a bag so you。
can put your 26 other bags inside of it.。
You're like, well, this Mark Jacob or, you know, Tory Burch or long champ or whatever,。
you know, I don't know.。
Let me just try these out.。
Or, or you're just, you find yourself in Brookstone, you know, looking at some weird remote control。
helicopter that works for your iPad only because you have money in time and you're going to。
get sold because you don't know what you're looking for.。
And some of us date that way.。
We don't know what we're looking for.。
And so we're just waiting for this feeling to come to us.。
And somebody told us, well, you just know when you know.。
And so you're going through life waiting till you just know, when does this feeling kind。
of come up on me so that I can identify the person that I'm going to spend the rest of。
my life with?。
And that's foolish.。
Start with standards.。
And so tonight, as we move through relationship goals, we're talking about identifying the。
one, whether you are on the date or trying to find the person that you're going to date.。
I want to give you from the scriptures, some criteria so that you can know what you are。
looking for so that you can identify the one.。
And when I say the one, I just want to clear up some misunderstandings.。
Say maybe you came in here and you thought that there is one person out there that you're。
looking for and you've got to find them like a needle in a haystack.。
No.。
If you're a follower of Jesus Christ and you're listening to this message right now, there's。
a group of people that you can select from, probably hundreds of thousands of people that。
you could spend the rest of your life with and fulfill God's will for you.。
I always hit that home in this way.。
My wife and I have been married for 12 years now.。
And I always say, do you think that I am the best one for her?。
Now I'm six feet, seven inches tall.。
She's five three.。
We're very different beings.。
If God made her specifically for me and me only for her, then he just has a sense of。
humor that he would put us together.。
Is there someone out there better for Monica than me?。
Absolutely.。
Problem.。
Some of you, I just heard mind blown.。
Yes, yes, there are men out there better for her, better suited for her, more compatible。
for her than me.。
But we married each other.。
And so we belong to each other for the rest of this life.。
We're not searching for anybody else.。
We don't need to find anyone else.。
Right?。
If you believe in this idea of the one, then when marriage gets tough, you're going to。
think, oh, I married the wrong one.。
That's what about half of you will do.。
That's what I want to save you from tonight.。
One of many things I want to save you from tonight.。
And so if you're a follower of Christ, there's this relatively small group of people that。
you can look in to try and find the one out of many that could be the one.。
So tonight we're identifying the one I'm going to be in first Timothy chapter four.。
If you want to turn there, we're going to look at one verse tonight.。
We'll look at several verses, but I'm going to move through slowly through one verse.。
As we talk about five things that scripture identifies that would make a great list.。
Let me give you this disclaimer.。
This is not a dating verse.。
Okay.。
This is the apostle Paul talking to Timothy saying, Hey, if they try to look down on you,。
set an example in these five character traits.。
But as I think about biblical character traits that I could give you to for a husband or。
a wife, I cannot put together a better list than the apostle Paul or the Holy spirit through。
the apostle Paul already put together here in first Timothy four.。
I have zero problem with you writing down this list and leaving with it and using it。
as a checklist in a dating relationship or as you consider one, you got to have standards.。
And let me say this in love.。
If your standards are not God's standards, then your standards are stupid.。
And I mean that as lovingly as I possibly can.。
If you are out there and you're looking for someone to spend the rest of your life with。
and you haven't considered God's standards for you, what are you doing?。
If your standards are not God's standards, then your standards are stupid.。
First Timothy four 12.。
Don't let anyone look down on you because you are young.。
Hey, newsflash.。
If you're in this room or you're listening to this message, most likely you are an adult.。
You can buy cigarettes and vote and everything.。
And so I don't know when this happened.。
Somehow it just happened to you.。
You woke up one day and he was like, I'm a grownup time to do grownup things.。
Okay.。
And so he's like, don't let anyone look down on you because you're young, but don't stick。
out your chest.。
I'm like, yeah, don't look down on me cause I'm young.。
He's going to tell you how, here's how you don't set an example for the other believers.。
Paul tells Timothy and he gives us five things in the, in the way you talk and speech and。
the way you act in conduct and the way you love in faith and in purity.。
And as I think about what you're looking for in someone that you might spend the rest of。
your life with, I can't come up with a better list than this.。
This is a gift to young adults who want to get married this verse.。
And so the first one, he says, what did they say?。
This is the question.。
It's going to be five questions.。
What did they say?。
He says, set it.。
Super negative.。
Are they constantly critical or do they encourage you?。
What comes out of their mouth, both to you and to others?。
You don't have to be dating to observe this as you hang out and you run in circles.。
You can listen to what people say.。
What did they say?。
Did they show their ignorance and lack of vocabulary by constantly using profanity?。
Are they quick to get angry?。
Are they harsh?。
James one 19 says, be quick to listen and slow to speak and slow to become angry for。
man's anger does not bring about the righteous life that God desires.。
Did they have the righteous life that God desires for them or are they quick temper?。
That's not going to make a good husband.。
Oh, he just has a bad temper.。
Cool.。
He's a bad husband.。
Okay.。
That's not cool.。
I was at a restaurant once and this woman was there wearing this shirt and it said,。
you call me a B like it's a bad thing, but said the word, you know, and I'm sitting there。
thinking, man, I think it's a bad thing.。
And I wanted to go tell her, but I was scared of her.。
Cause I'm like, man, maybe, you know, anybody who wears that shirt, you know, right.。
Who's who knows what's going to happen.。
Right.。
But it's not cool to be feisty or sassy or have attitude.。
Like if you found identity in that, you found identity in something different than the spirit。
of God.。
Why would you do that?。
That's not who you are.。
Cause it's not who Christ is.。
Just be careful if you're like, oh man, don't mess with me.。
Nobody will.。
Nobody.。
Why does this matter?。
It feels like tips and tricks.。
I think this is first on the list.。
And I think it's unbelievably important because Jesus says, because as you're thinking about。
spending the rest of your life with someone, you want to know what's in their heart.。
And let's be honest, you can't just kind of walk up and, you know, somehow look inside。
their heart.。
You can't see what's in their soul, but Jesus says you actually can.。
He says, pay close attention to what comes out of their mouth.。
This is the number one way to tell what's in somebody's heart.。
He says this in Luke chapter six, verse 45, a good man brings good things out of the good。
stored up in his heart.。
And an evil man brings evil things out of the evil stored up in his heart for the mouth。
speaks what the heart is full of.。
You want to know what some, what is in someone's heart.。
You look carefully, listen carefully to what comes out of their mouth.。
Are they a gossip?。
Are they constantly talking about people instead of two people?。
Are they a, did you hear person?。
You know this?。
Did you, did you hear about self?。
Oh, did you hear?。
She, did you hear?。
Hey, did you hear this?。
Did you hear that?。
Oh man, did you hear, are they a, did you hear person?。
Or can I tell you what I told them person?。
Cause I don't talk about people.。
I talk to people what's coming out of their mouth.。
Man, can I just tell you like sometimes ministry is hard.。
You're listening to people's problems and, and you're talking to people all the time。
and like sometimes it's really difficult.。
And sometimes I just whiff, like sometimes I just miss it.。
Sometimes I get angry.。
Sometimes I'm impatient, man.。
Sometimes I didn't have time to like work on a message and I feel like I phoned it in。
and I get down and say, Oh, I'm just kind of beat myself up.。
I can tell you what a blessing it is to go home to a cheerleader.。
I married a cheerleader y'all.。
And she comes aside and she doesn't, she's never like, Oh babe, what do you want?。
You need more time to prepare.。
Hey, you shouldn't have said this.。
Hey, you gotta be patient.。
She's like, Oh sweetie, come here.。
Talk to me about it.。
Hey, let me remind you who you are to God.。
Can I remind you how he loves you?。
Can I remind you what he sees in you?。
Man, that is a blessing y'all.。
Oh, I think that I found myself a cheerleader because the Proverbs tell us it's better to。
be on the corner of a roof than with the contentious wife.。
Better to be, it's like a dripping faucet.。
It says it's like it's Chinese water torture to be with a contentious wife.。
Like you don't want the woman who's who wears the shirt.。
You call me a B like it's a bad thing.。
You don't want that.。
You don't want the guy who misses the free throw and throws the basketball out the window.。
You don't want that along with curse words and whatnot.。
I always ask my kids, do you speak, are you speaking words that build up?。
You want someone who speaks words that build up, that encourage, that help everybody who。
hear them.。
Man, that is a blessing to the rest of your life y'all.。
And so the second thing is what are they known for?。
The second question on the list, what are they known for?。
It says they set an example in conduct.。
The word is the way they act or your, your version may actually say in their life, what。
is their reputation?。
What are they known for?。
Proverbs chapter 20 verse 11 says, even small children are known by their actions.。
So is their conduct really pure and upright?。
We should inspect it even from when they're little, they are known, they have a reputation。
by what they do.。
And so this is really the essence of dating, right?。
We're trying to figure out, are they someone we want to marry?。
And so really, as we spend time with them, we're looking at the way they act.。
And in fact, really the rest of this list fits under this conduct banner.。
How did they act?。
He's going to give us some other things to inspect, but really it fits under this.。
Hey, how did they act as you choose from this very relatively small group of people?。
And if they love Jesus, you can clearly see this in their life.。
And so if you're hanging around with people and you're like, man, I don't know anybody。
who loves Jesus like that.。
Can I just tell you you're hanging in the wrong circles?。
Paul actually says in Philippians two, that these kinds of people stand out like stars。
in a dark night, that you can't miss them because in contrast to culture, in contrast。
to our world, they shine brightly.。
And if you're like, man, I don't know anyone like that.。
And you may be hanging out in the wrong places.。
And so we date to observe and we're not trying to find out if we're compatible.。
Can I just give you this newsflash?。
Like a female center and a male center are incompatible centers.。
They're not compatible.。
Okay.。
Here's what I mean by that.。
You're going to conflict.。
You're going to argue.。
You're not going to get along.。
And so really you're, you're relying on that commitment, that covenant that you made to。
work through that.。
You're not trying to find someone compatible with you.。
You're trying to find someone fully yielded to Christ in the way that they live their。
life.。
And if you're fully yielded to Christ and they're fully yielded to Christ, you don't。
have to pursue each other.。
You're pursuing God together and therefore growing closer and closer and closer and closer。
every day.。
This concept changed my marriage and my dating relationship.。
In fact, it pushed me to marriage because I realized, Hey, I was dating someone at the。
time who was fully yielded to Christ.。
I said, well, what am I doing then?。
I'm wasting my time dating her.。
Put a ring on it.。
And so let me tell you that last week, you know, we talked about baggage and for those。
of you who are here, who, who have never married, I would tell you, there is nothing that you've。
done that has disqualified you from marriage.。
Nothing.。
Okay.。
And so if you left last week feeling condemned or guilty or like this isn't for you, no,。
there's nothing that you've done that has disqualified you from marriage, but be faithful。
and heal from that baggage and you can pursue marriage, but consider their reputation and。
listen to people, right?。
Listen to people.。
There was a guy who was, uh, this guy and this girl, they were going to get married.。
We found out kind of last minute that he had a track record of being abusive and they hadn't。
known each other very long, like only a couple of months.。
And so, you know, before the wedding we said, Hey, we, we wouldn't do this.。
You guys should stop and, and date a little bit longer and, and let's see a track record。
of faithfulness.。
And she said, no, he's, he's really charming.。
You know, he's, he's been really kind to me and, and she was really upset with us for。
saying this.。
And so they got married and they went on the honeymoon and they came off the honeymoon。
and he threw her down a flight of stairs and broke both of her legs.。
And we were there, you know, pick up the pieces, but consider someone's reputation, their track。
record, where they've been.。
She said, he's really charming.。
You know, Proverbs says 31 verse 30, charm is deceptive.。
And not only is charming is charm deceptive, but beauty is fleeting.。
And then you're looking for a woman who fears the Lord.。
What you want is you want their repentance to be as notorious as their rebellion.。
Do you understand?。
Like, I'm not saying if they were rebellious, that they're disqualified from marriage.。
I'm saying that they're qualified from, for marriage whenever their repentance is as notorious。
as their rebellion was.。
And so I don't care if he's been to prison.。
Okay.。
Single parents make amazing spouses, but you want their repentance to be as notorious as。
their rebellion.。
And when you see that track record, you're like, Hey, let's go.。
I don't care what they've done.。
Christ can heal and fix anything, but that doesn't mean you need to be in a rush or just。
trust their words.。
And so not only is charming charm, deceptive, but beauty is fleeting guys.。
Can't just say something, man.。
Some of your criteria is dumb.。
All right.。
Like you're walking around, you're talking to your boys.。
You're like, man, I'm a boob guy.。
I'm a butt guy.。
You're a dumb guy.。
You need to be a Bible guy.。
All right.。
Jesus Duke.。
Okay.。
You need to be a Bible guy.。
You need to have criteria that God has.。
All right.。
Listen, listen.。
If you're listening to this message, never ever say that again for the rest of your life.。
Okay.。
It's stupid.。
All right.。
It's dumb.。
You do not love the things that God loves.。
You love the things that pornography have taught you to love.。
You need to repent and ask the Lord to change your heart and your mind so that you might。
be attracted to what he's attracted to when he says, I look at the heart.。
Okay.。
And so adjust your criteria to meet his criteria because it says that beauty is fleeting.。
Here's all that means.。
It's going away.。
It's a depreciating asset.。
Nobody here, right?。
If I said, Hey man, how many of you just think like some 80 year old woman's really hot.。
Don't raise your hand if that's you.。
Okay.。
Probably you're like, not as just, not just my thing, but by the grace of God, maybe one。
day you might be married to an 80 year old.。
And I still think you're going to be attracted to that 23 year old co-ed.。
Okay.。
But if you've learned commitment and to love the things that God loves, hopefully her heart。
is still attractive to you.。
And let's face it, we're all getting uglier every day.。
Okay.。
That's what's happening.。
You're going to leave here.。
You're going to hate me.。
Think about it.。
It's the truth.。
Okay.。
But your heart can get more and more beautiful.。
And I pray the Lord brings somebody that would see that and notice that and realize that.。
And so beauty is fleeting.。
And here's what that, we just got to talk about this for a minute.。
And so as you inspect what they do, we got to inspect how they dress.。
Let's talk about modesty for a moment.。
Are they trying to attract you with their character or with their abs, who they are。
or their curves, right?。
It matters.。
And so this is where I think social media is just a real gift to us.。
Because if she's like taking the picture, you know, cleavage, you know, perfect angle。
and everything, or she's laying on the bed and it looks like she wants to sleep with。
you.。
She probably wants to sleep with you.。
And I would run.。
I would unfriend her and I would run the other direction and say, I do not want anything。
to do with that.。
That's not who I'm looking to spend the rest of my life with.。
And she's trying to waste my time.。
And that goes for him too.。
And so ladies, you will not catch a good guy with your body.。
You will catch a guy that loves your body and he will leave you when your body leaves.。
And ladies, your body's going to leave.。
Okay.。
You get nine months pregnant, your body's gone, you know, and it may come back.。
Hey, Hey, stay with me.。
It may come back.。
It may come back and then you're going to do it again and it may come back and you're。
gonna do it again.。
But listen, when you're 80 years old, your body's gone.。
That's all I'm saying.。
You got it.。
You come up here like, no, I'm gonna get Botox and plastic surgery.。
And I'm going to do, no, come on.。
You're going to be on botched or something.。
Nip and tuck.。
That's what I'm talking about right now.。
First Peter three versus three through five says your beauty should not come from outward。
adornment.。
What, what, what does that mean?。
Why would God preserve that for thousands of years?。
What are we talking about?。
If we're not talking about outward adornment, such as elaborate hairstyles and the wearing。
wearing of gold jewelry or fine clothes, rather it should be that of your inner self, the。
unfading beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which is of great worth in God's sight.。
What if we started applying that verse to our lives?。
Game changer.。
And so ladies, do you address attractively?。
It's fine.。
It's fine to put some effort in the way you look.。
Or do you dress to attract like you're bait?。
You're not bait ladies.。
You're not bait.。
You're a person.。
You don't have to address to attract.。
You can dress attractively, but you don't need to address to attract.。
You're not bait.。
You're not trying to catch a fish.。
So people are known by what they do.。
It's called a reputation.。
I said when their repentance is notorious as their rebellion, that's when they've changed.。
I mean, let me hit it home like this.。
If, if I want to get a loan from the bank, like, let's just say I need $10,000 from the。
bank.。
And so to get this loan, let's say I rent a car and say I've rent a Bentley, $400,000。
Bentley.。
Let's say I put on a $3,000 Brioni suit.。
I walk in there with a leather binder.。
I've got my act together.。
I'm saying all the right things.。
I sit down with that banker and I say, Hey, I need $10,000.。
Now is he going to listen to what I say and look at what I'm wearing and look at what。
I drove up in and be like, Oh man, that's easy.。
You must be a millionaire.。
Here's 10 grand.。
What's he going to do?。
What's he going to do?。
He's going to check my credit because it's going to tell the real story.。
He's going to look at my history because it doesn't lie.。
The car can lie.。
The suit can lie.。
My words can lie.。
Everything about me can lie, but the history doesn't lie.。
I've heard it said that past behavior is the best indicator of future performance.。
Past behavior is the best indicator of future performance.。
And so am I saying you're disqualified from marriage?。
No, but I'm saying you need a season of faithfulness.。
Third point, how do they love?。
You asked the question, how do they love?。
He says, do they set an example in how they love?。
How have they treated others?。
They've dated.。
You could interview their exes if that was even possible, but they probably be like,。
"Oh man, she's a psycho."。
Well, why did you date a psycho?。
Can I ask you that question?。
"Oh, but no, no, no, you don't know.。
It was her problem."。
Okay, sure it was.。
One seems right to another pleases case.。
And so how do they love?。
How have they loved others?。
Because here's the deal.。
When we left, we just got back from this deal called launch retreat at Sky Ranch.。
And whenever we left to Sky Ranch, the last thing that I said is I said, "Hey, we want。
to leave this place better than we found it."。
That's hard to do.。
It's hard to leave a place better than you found it.。
We want to pick up the trash.。
We want to leave the cabins cleaner than we found them.。
We want to have a great reputation with this incredible partner.。
And that's how you date.。
You leave somebody better than you found them.。
That's how followers of Christ date with this new culturally idea that has only been around.。
Dating as we know and understand it has only been around less than 100 years.。
It started as a euphemism for prostitution.。
True story.。
Look it up later.。
That's the history of dating.。
So dating is not even necessary for marriage, but it is the way that our culture does it。
today.。
And so as you date someone, as a follower of Jesus Christ, can you imagine that when。
you break up, they're like, "Man, I'm so glad we spent time together.。
You encouraged me with your words.。
You were kind to me.。
You were a picture of what it looks like when a man treats a woman with respect or a woman。
treats a man with respect and love.。
It was incredible.。
Thank you for the time.。
I'm sorry that it didn't work out, but I'm really glad we got to know each other when。
we did.。
And my heart didn't dry.。
I didn't give it to you.。
That's mine.。
That hardly exists today, but you leave here and you try that, and I'm telling you, it's。
going to save you so much time and heartache.。
You leave someone better than you found them.。
Did they leave others they've dated better than they found them?。
Or are they driving down the road, looking at the rear view mirror of dating, and there's。
just cars piled up?。
Wrecks, baggage, hurts, heartache.。
How do they date?。
How do they date?。
How do they love?。
You asked me, why do you love them?。
Sometimes people say, because the way they make me feel.。
Will you just listen to that?。
How selfish is that?。
I love them because of the way they make me feel.。
What about when you don't feel that anymore?。
Do we love God because of the way he makes us feel?。
No, we love God because of who he is, because sometimes the feelings aren't there.。
Sometimes you don't want to get in the Bible.。
Sometimes you don't want to seek him.。
You do not love God because of the way he makes you feel.。
You love him because of who he is.。
The way that he's loved us, he invented it.。
You don't love somebody because of the way they make you feel.。
You love them out of a commitment.。
The emotion, as Adam said a few weeks ago, it plays a tiny part in it, but it is not。
ultimate.。
As you're considering someone, have they followed their feelings in and out of a relationship?。
That's what happens when you follow your feelings.。
You follow your feelings in and out of jobs, in and out of relationships.。
A sign of immaturity is when someone's feelings define their reality.。
Let me say that again.。
A sign of immaturity is when someone's feelings define their reality.。
A sign of maturity is when the truth defines reality, regardless of how they feel.。
But a sign of a lack of maturity is when their feelings define what is real for them, because。
our feelings change.。
That's why you have to look past the feelings of love to the action, the verb of love.。
How does she care for people?。
Is she compassionate?。
Where does she serve?。
How does he treat people who can do nothing for him?。
Not you when he's dating you and trying to trick you into marrying him.。
How does he treat people who can do nothing for him in return?。
The homeless man on the side of the road, the server in the restaurant, the person who。
just cut him off in traffic.。
At what point does he feel entitled toward anger?。
Because that's when he's going to feel entitled toward anger to you.。
Is he controlled by the spirit or controlled by his emotions?。
If he doesn't treat you well, it's done.。
Listen, I'm tired, and I mean this as lovingly as I can.。
My motive, I got no other motive than for you to have a happy marriage.。
If he's cheated on you, it's done.。
Well, where's the grace in that, JP?。
Man, extend grace, right?。
When there's something, you know, small, overlook a small offense.。
If he's identified himself in a dating relationship as unfaithful.。
If she's cheated on you, you don't need to continue that relationship.。
They're not walking with Christ.。
They did something with someone else they shouldn't even do with you.。
And so stop tricking yourself into our modern idea of dating and say, I'm going to go find。
someone fully yielded to Jesus.。
You said, well, where's the grace in that?。
It may be the most graceful thing you could possibly do is to show them that, hey, that。
will not be tolerated by the church.。
Okay.。
Extend grace in marriage possibly once there's a covenant commitment there, but not in dating。
in regards to that specific infringement.。
So ladies, is he considered of your feelings?。
Is he just running game?。
Does he initiate or does he leave you wondering constantly?。
Is he intentional?。
Men, does she thrive on drama or she's steady in difficult situations?。
I'm not saying that your relationship history DQs you from marriage.。
I'm saying you want to track record.。
You want to season of faithfulness, walking with God.。
This that there's never been a divorce between two people who are committed to walking with。
Christ.。
It's never happened in the history of history.。
Divorce rate about 50% marriage satisfaction rate, much lower 20% but between two people。
fully committed to Christ, there's never been a divorce between those two people ever.。
It's never happened.。
And so I'm not saying your history DQs you the other day we bought a car for Monica.。
I kind of told you before some of that process, but we found one and inexpensive one that。
we can afford, I should say.。
And I ran before we purchased it, I ran Carfax and it had been in a wreck.。
This car was discounted accordingly.。
And for some that would be like, Hey, I'm not going to touch it.。
It's been in an accident.。
But what I looked at it as that Carfax is it had been in a wreck three and a half years。
ago.。
It was repaired and it hadn't had any problems since then.。
You see that the wreck doesn't DQ you, but the season of faithfulness is what qualifies。
you a season of walking in relationship, committed to Christ.。
The fourth thing is what do they believe?。
He says, do they set an example in faith?。
What do they believe?。
This is a big one of really important one.。
This is not a check the box.。
They go to church.。
I met him at the porch, right?。
There are people here who are going to use this list to pray on you.。
That's the reality.。
There are people here pretending and posing.。
There are wolves among the sheep.。
We will find you.。
We will expose you.。
That's the truth.。
Okay.。
We're looking for you.。
But for those of you that are here that are looking for this list, you want to consider,。
Hey, what is their faith?。
Not like this.。
Okay.。
Yeah, I'm not, I'm, I'm a Christian.。
That's their words, but is the trajectory of their life that they're committed.。
They're connected to a church.。
The members they're serving, they're in community.。
They wake up, they get into God's word.。
It's it marks them.。
This is important.。
Second Corinthians six 14 says, do not be an equally yoked with non believers.。
What do righteousness and wickedness have in common or what fellowship can light have。
with darkness?。
I've said this before.。
People have gotten so angry at me.。
This is like basic, basic stuff.。
If you're a follower of Christ, you don't date someone not following Christ period.。
That would be detrimental.。
If Christ is the most important thing to you in your life and they don't believe in him,。
then what are you doing?。
You're wasting their time there.。
You're wasting your time.。
And so you're looking for someone who has already committed to Christ.。
If you never get married, you'll be okay.。
If you never have sex, you will be okay, man.。
And if you've had all kinds of sex and you have all kinds of, of history or you've done。
everything wrong, I want you to know there is hope for you in the gospel.。
It is never too late to take your life and to say, Christ, I'm ready to go all in with。
you.。
I'm going to connect to your body, the church.。
I'm going to, I'm going to surround myself with other people running hard after you.。
I'm going to begin to learn and know your word.。
It's never too late.。
I don't care if you're 80 and your body's failed you.。
It's still, you can still jump in with Jesus.。
It's never, ever, ever too late.。
They should be in community, study the word, belong to a church running with Christians.。
This is why where you look really matters.。
Just real quick.。
Okay.。
Like it's, you want to look where that relatively small group of people that you can marry is。
all the time.。
Like I can find a Christian book at Barnes and Nobles.。
Like I can walk into that book, big bookstore and I can try to like navigate, okay, where。
is the Christian, the faith section and in the faith section, I want to go to the Christian。
section and then in that Christian section, there's going to be some Christian books there.。
I can search for it there, but it's a lot easier to find a Christian book in a Christian。
bookstore, right?。
If I go to Lagos or Lifeway, like the odds are if you blindfold me and I grab a book。
off the shelf in Barnes and Nobles, it's probably not Christian.。
You blindfold me and I grab a book off the shelf at Lifeway.。
It probably is.。
I'm not saying there's not crazy there.。
There's heretics there.。
There's people that have written books that call themselves Christians with whack theology.。
That's certainly there, but more than likely you grab a book off the shelf in a Christian。
bookstore and it's going to be a Christian book.。
The same is true.。
Like you, can you find someone to spend the rest of your life with in the bar or the club?。
I guess it's possible.。
Like if you want to stack the odds against God and see, I guess you can do that, right?。
Why would you do that?。
Why not just go to where the people you can marry go and hang out there and grab one off。
the shelf?。
Likewise, you could find a Christian.。
I'm not saying that all of them here are Christian.。
There's crazy here too, I promise.。
Fifth one, last one.。
It's a big one too, though.。
They're all big, honestly.。
They're all important.。
That's why they're on the list.。
Are they relentless about purity?。
This is the only yes or no question on here.。
It's a yes or no question.。
Are they relentless about purity?。
He says, "Set an example in your purity."。
The word is translated chastity.。
It's this, the state or practice of refraining from extramarital or especially from all sexual。
intercourse.。
Set an example in your purity.。
I want to tell you why it really matters.。
Because remember, they're supposed to be fully committed to Christ.。
If they'll push the envelope with you or with pornography or with someone else or by themselves,。
they're saying something.。
They're saying, "Hey, I'm committed to having sex, pursuing intercourse outside of marriage.。
I'm telling you that right now.。
Like my feelings, my desires, I put them before God's word.。
I do what I want to do when I want to do it.。
If this is the boundary of marriage, I'm telling you right now as we're dating, as I push this,。
as I try to talk you into this thing with me, I'm telling you something.。
I'm telling you the marital institution or God's institution of marriage is not ultimate。
to me.。
It is not important to me.。
If it was, I would marry you and then bring up the conversation.。
But instead I'm bringing it up out here because I don't think it can happen outside of the。
confines of marriage."。
They're saying something.。
They're saying this, "I'm an adulterer.。
I live this, man.。
And here's what I mean by that is I had sex outside of marriage, was addicted to pornography.。
I got inside of marriage and I thought, oh, this is going to be awesome because I have。
someone I can have sex with whenever I want.。
It's not really how it works.。
Okay, that's just loving counsel to you.。
I know you may think that like, man, you just must get home and have sex three or four or。
five or six times.。
I told you last week, you know, my friend says, I hope you never have sex, but that。
with your spouse, you pursue intimacy, that we redefine that word.。
And so as someone who had jumped in and out of relationships, as soon as they got hard,。
I had trained myself for divorce my entire life.。
And so two years in a marriage, I'm like, man, this is hard.。
I want out.。
I want to go outside of my marriage.。
That's all I know.。
I was addicted to it.。
And by the grace of God, I didn't, aside from pornography, which I did.。
And God has restored me and he's healed my marriage.。
But I'm saying this to you.。
So that's not your strategy, is hope.。
But that right now you would pursue healing.。
Right now you would pursue that track record of faithfulness because I've married people,。
guys.。
And, and like, like some of them, like they waited till the altar to kiss.。
They never kissed until they were sound was right there.。
I'm doing the wedding.。
Their friends are there.。
The friends are watching the first kiss.。
And I know that some of you right now are like, that is crazy.。
Okay.。
I want you to, here's, here's the truth.。
It's not like they didn't want to.。
It's not like they weren't extremely tempted to constantly, but you imagine with me for。
a moment how protected that marriage is now, how crafty is the enemy that he says, man,。
you want to make sure you do that on this side of marriage.。
I've never, ever, ever talked to the married couple who said, man, I wish we'd went further。
when we were dating.。
We should have tried more stuff out, you know, make sure everything's fits.。
It's crazy.。
I've never met that couple.。
And you're laughing, but I know you've said it crazy stuff like that.。
And it's ridiculous.。
That's why it's funny right now because it's ridiculous.。
And can I tell you something about the couple?。
I'm not even saying I'm not prescribing that as the law for you.。
I'm saying for those of you that just said, why'd they wait until they were married to。
kiss my hunches.。
I'm going to go on a limb.。
They have a better marriage than you will.。
This is my hunch.。
I mean, I married a lot of people, dozens and dozens of people.。
My hunch is their marriage is better than yours.。
Follow them as they follow Christ.。
First Corinthians 6, 18 verse 20, flee from sexual immorality, run from it.。
All other sins a man commits are outside his body, but he who sins sexually sins against。
his own body.。
Do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy spirit who is in you whom you've。
received from God?。
You are not your own.。
You were bought by a price.。
Therefore honor God with your body.。
And so if you're asking how far is too far, you, you've already gone too far in your mind.。
It says flee from sexual immorality.。
How far is too far?。
Run the other way.。
Go the other.。
How, what can, can we hold hands?。
I don't know if you hold hands at the altar, you probably be glad you did, but if you don't。
find what, I don't know, right?。
I'm not, I'm not here to put law on you.。
I'm saying pursue absolute purity.。
I wish I would have.。
Some people are like, no regrets.。
I'm like, that's ridiculous.。
I've got tons.。
I've got lots of regrets, man.。
Everything that I did that was not God's will.。
I regret everything I did that went against God's commands.。
I regret, did you hear what it said?。
It says you are not your own.。
I'm going to go a little bit long tonight.。
I'm just going to tell you, cause there's a lot here, but we're almost done.。
It says you are not your own.。
It says you've been bought at a price.。
You ever have somebody borrow something from you?。
iPhone charger, truck.。
You got a truck.。
I'll borrow your truck.。
You ever had this?。
You're like in your roommate's closet.。
You're like, how did my shoes get in here, girl?。
You didn't even ask, you know, where'd you wear these?。
You ever have somebody borrow something from you?。
I know this is like total dad illustration, but we had a bounce house and, um, people。
would want to borrow it all the time.。
And so they would call, Hey, can we borrow your bounce house, man?。
We have this like birthday party for, you know, second graders.。
Can we borrow your bounce house?。
Sure, man.。
Yeah, absolutely.。
You know, you can borrow the bounce house.。
But when they would, I would say, Hey, here, here's the rules to the bounce house.。
You know, no more than five people in it.。
It's a small bounce house.。
No more than five people in it.。
No adults.。
It's not like commercial grades, you know?。
And uh, and, and you know, here's, uh, here's where I'd love to have it back.。
Why am I giving them rules?。
Why would I expect that they follow the rules of my bounce house?。
Because it's my bounce house.。
That's why you are not your own.。
You are not your own.。
You were bought by a price.。
That's why I can tell you how to treat your body because it belongs to me.。
You have it on loan.。
And so while you borrow that body from God, I would lean in heavily and say, Hey God,。
what do you want me to do with it?。
And what don't you want me to do with it?。
Okay.。
Because he loves you.。
I'm not making rules for the bounce house just for fun.。
It eventually popped in the possession of somebody else.。
I'm still a little angry about it anyways, right?。
He's telling you this because he loves you and he cares about you and he wants good things。
for you.。
And it's never too late to follow his commands.。
In summary, inspect what do they say?。
What are they known for?。
What do they love?。
What do they believe?。
And how are they relentless about purity?。
Are they relentless about purity?。
I have a friend, Ryan, he was, came to the porch and just kind of really learned a lot。
of these things, just kind of God's desires for dating.。
And he took note of this girl that was very different than his criteria.。
Like he thought, you know, I'd marry a blonde and she'd be this short or this tall or whatever.。
And she was just different than all the things like his worldly list.。
But he realized that she met the godly criteria.。
And so before he left for an international discipleship trip or a mission trip, he said。
to her, Hey, I'd like to ask you out when I get back.。
And he goes on the trip.。
Now she's thinking, well, I mean, this guy is nothing that I thought that I would be。
married to.。
And so I'm not, you know, he's just not what I'm looking for in a guy.。
But as she began to pray about it, she committed to praying about it while he was gone.。
She went through this list.。
She says, you know what?。
All of his words build people up.。
And he has a great reputation among his friends in his community.。
And it seems like he loves well, like he's caring and compassionate and gentle and good。
to others.。
He has a good reputation there.。
I know that he's committed to purity.。
I know that the guys that he's running with are committed to helping him be committed。
to purity.。
And I know he loves Jesus.。
Why wouldn't I give this a shot?。
When he got back, she said, yeah, I'll give it a shot.。
We can go on a date.。
They've been married now for a couple of years.。
I got to do their wedding.。
And so listen, okay.。
And they have an incredible ministry together.。
That's that's the punchline.。
I mean, God has strengthened their ministry together because this life is about him.。
Right?。
Marriage is this metaphor of Christ in the church.。
I don't know if you know this.。
I don't have time to teach you now.。
We're out of time.。
But marriage, God gave it to us.。
It's a metaphor of how he loves us and how he's committed to us.。
What criteria did he give you?。
Did he want you curvy, blonde, brunette, dark skin, light skin before you come to him before。
you can spend forever with him?。
What criteria did he have?。
Once your heart, once your heart, he's so much more concerned with what you believe。
than what you look like.。
You see that you should be too.。
You know what happened?。
I found those sunglasses eventually.。
RB 8301, believe it or not, size 56.。
You know what I did?。
I bought them.。
I committed to them.。
They met the standard.。
They were what I'm looking for.。
You're not looking for a person.。
You're looking for character traits that would make a great spouse.。
Begin to look for those character traits.。
Redefine your standards.。
Redefine your list.。
Consider Christ's list towards you.。
I'm going to pray and we're going to move towards worship.。
I'd love for you just to think through this list.。
I hope you wrote it down.。
If you can't, you can go back and listen to it.。
Father, thank you that there's nothing that we've done or a way that we look or a way。
that we dress that disqualifies us from you.。
But that in the gospel, you're rushing toward us.。
You're jealous for us.。
You love us through amazing grace.。
You care about us.。
Father, thank you for this list of traits that you scribe through your servant Paul。
to Timothy.。
I pray that you would help that be a fruitful list for my friends here this evening as they。
consider who they might spend the rest of their life with.。
Would you use it in their hearts and their lives and their minds and in their communities?。
Father, we thank you that we can laugh together and that we can study your word together and。
just that it gives life, that it never returns void.。
Most of all, Lord, we're thankful for how you love us.。
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.。
In 1 Samuel 16, God sends Samuel to look for a king to rule his people.。
Samuel sees Eliab and thinks, "Hey, perfect.。
This guy looks like a king."。
God says, "Do not consider his appearance or his height, for I have rejected him."。
The Lord does not look at the things people look at.。
People look at the outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart.。
And so if they don't have these five character traits, they're not right for you in this。
season.。
You don't need to wonder.。
You don't need to try on a bunch of different things or ask, "Hey, how do they make me feel?"。
It's just not right.。
It doesn't fit in this season.。
And if they do meet those character traits, you're like, "Man, they got them."。
There's people running through your mind.。
They're like, "Well, I know a lot of people that fit those character traits."。
I mean, we just got back from like 1,000 people in Sky Ranch, and like 200 or 300 of them。
would fit, I'm guessing, would fit those character traits really well.。
And if you say, "Yeah, but I'm just not attracted to them," then what I would encourage you。
to do is look inward and then say, "God, what is it in me that causes me not to be attracted。
to the things that you're attracted to?"。
And so what maturing do I need to do?。
What time do I need to spend with you that this person whom you've said would make an。
incredible life partner, but I'm just not attracted to them in the things that are fleeting?。
And so that's just good heart surgery.。
I'm not saying it's your fault.。
I'm not even saying it's your problem.。
I'm just saying it's something to think through and to pray through.。
There's nothing that I want more.。
I mean, I would love to shut this ministry down just because everybody in it just gets。
married and happily ever after.。
Like, that would be awesome.。
We do the wedding here, like 3,000 or 4,000 of you just get married, it'd be awesome,。
you know, right?。
But some of you, before we get there, right, you need a season of faithfulness.。
Let us help you with that.。
It's time to go all in with Jesus.。
He loves you.。
He's crazy about you.。
He gave his life for you, for all your sins, for everything you've done wrong.。
And so tonight, if you're looking for community, you realize you don't have believers around。
you.。
Guys, you go down this hallway, and there's a room full of people there that are also。
looking for community.。
Girls, you go down this hallway, not Snapchat, but down this hallway, and there's a room。
full of people there that are looking for community.。
And outside, as you go outside, you're gonna see all these booths, and these are ministry。
partners of ours.。
These are people who have effective ministry, are doing effective ministry in the city.。
And you can just stop by those booths and ask them questions and serve with them.。
They're looking for people to help them further the mission, and you may be a great candidate.。
And so talk to them.。
And then if you're here and you're in college, we have a party for you upstairs.。
And so go to the second floor and look for my friends in the college ministry.。
They would love to meet you tonight.。
And go up to my friend Adam Tarnow or Paige or Rachel or Daniel and just introduce yourself,。
okay?。
And for the rest of you, if we can pray for you or talk to you about anything, you have。
questions about something I said, you disagreed with it or you really agreed with it or whatever。
that is, we'd love to talk with you.。
Find somebody with a light bulb on their shirt.。
They would love to minister to you and pray with you.。
Love you guys.。
