[MUSIC PLAYING]。
Love it.。
Love it.。
So intense.。
Tonight, we're starting a new series.。
Like you heard a few minutes ago, called Game of Thrones.。
And I'm going to start us off with kind of a story that'll。
tell us where we're going.。
Anyone road trip fans out there?。
A few.。
Well, I'm going to let you in on my favorite road trip。
experience.。
I love road trips.。
And we called this the Epic Eastern Extravaganza, which。
is super nerdy and embarrassing.。
But you'll understand why we called it that.。
It was with me and three of my friends.。
And in college, we had a spring break。
where we decided, hey, we're going。
to go on a road trip together.。
So me, three guys, we're going to get in the car,。
and we're going to go on a road trip.。
And so we get on the car.。
The day comes, and we haven't planned out anything。
on where we're going to go.。
And so we literally get in the car and go,。
where should we go?。
And people are throwing out ideas.。
And then one guy says, hey, let's go to Memphis.。
That's east.。
We wanted to go east.。
And so we book a La Quinta in Memphis, and we take off.。
And so we go to Memphis.。
And he wanted to see Graceland, which。
is Elvis' home.。
And he wanted to see all the different things in Memphis.。
And so we walked around the town.。
We saw Memphis, all that it had to offer.。
We walked.。
We were walking in Memphis.。
We had the barbecue in Memphis.。
We had everything that you could experience in Memphis.。
And then we realized, hey, where should we go next?。
And so we decided to keep moving east.。
And one friend said, hey, I've got friends in Knoxville.。
Let's go to Knoxville.。
Knoxville's a couple hours east, still in Tennessee.。
And so on the way there, we stopped in Nashville。
and got to see all that Nashville had to offer.。
Yeah, if you're from Nashville.。
And so we saw Nashville and the sights and the music industry。
and everything that Tulane and just kind of the fun that。
was Nashville.。
And then we continued on the journey to my friend's friends。
in Knoxville.。
And we got there.。
We saw the Smoky Mountains.。
And we saw the University of Tennessee, the other UT.。
And we just had the whole Knoxville experience.。
And so then we decided, where should we go next?。
And another guy in the car said, hey,。
I think we should go to Savannah.。
I don't know anyone there, but I did a fourth grade project。
on Savannah.。
And so let's go to Savannah.。
So we've got nothing else to do.。
So we might as well head that way.。
So we start going off to Savannah.。
And we stop in Charleston, because along the way,。
another one of the guys said, hey, I。
want to see Charleston, South Carolina.。
So we stopped there.。
We have lunch.。
We see the shore.。
And then we head to Savannah.。
And we didn't know anyone.。
And so we decided to stay in the America's Best Value Inn,。
which is a pretty tall claim for America's Best Value Inn.。
And I'm not sure they lived up to the experience of best value。
in America.。
It was a hotel that had seen better days.。
And one of the places that--。
it was a place that if you go in there,。
you don't sleep in the bedding.。
You sleep on top, because you're not sure what's happened here.。
And I don't want what's happened here.。
I'm not sure if what happened at America's Best Value Inn。
stays in America's Best Value Inn and could get on me.。
So we'll sleep on top of it.。
So we stayed at Savannah.。
And then we had a friend, or one of the guys in the car,。
his girlfriend, who was in Florida.。
And so he said, hey, let's go there.。
And somehow he talked us to taking hundreds of miles。
out of the way to go be wingmen for him。
and a bunch of his other girlfriends, which were awesome.。
And so we headed down to Florida and stayed on the beach。
with them.。
And then we headed to Louisiana.。
And in the car, one of our friends,。
or one of the guys with us, knew people in Baton Rouge。
and said, hey, we can stay there.。
And so we stayed and stayed in Baton Rouge.。
And so that was our final stop.。
And then we headed back to Houston after that.。
It was eight days, 3,500 miles, 10 states.。
And it was a lot of mail in one truck for a lot of miles,。
which still today the car smells from the residue that。
was left over.。
But here's why I tell you that story.。
In that, the journey that we took。
and the destinations that were chosen。
were all influenced and chosen and impacted。
by those of the passengers who made up the vehicle.。
In every stop, in every destination,。
it was chosen and influenced by those。
who were inside of the car.。
Along the journey, those who made up the journey。
helped determine and influence the decisions。
on where we would go.。
Life is, in a very similar way, a journey that all of us。
are on.。
And the decisions about the destinations。
of where your life is headed towards in any arena of life,。
whether it's a marital destination, where you want。
to be someday financially, whether you。
want to head towards a destination in your character,。
your life is a journey that will be。
and is being shaped by the passengers or the people who。
are with you on that journey.。
That those who are closest to you。
are influencing the direction and the destination,。
ultimately, of where you are going in life.。
And this really isn't hard to see,。
that those who are closest to us,。
just the power of association in our life,。
those who are closest to us influence us the most.。
And we can see this, really, when you look back through life,。
you can really tell this.。
When you look at junior high and you。
see how we all had the same haircut, the bowl cut,。
or you look at how you dress similar to your friends,。
you wore the sambas or the jingos.。
No one wears jingos alone.。
You only wear those for a very particular group of friends.。
All of your life has been shaped.。
In high school, the car you drove,。
the car you wanted to drive was shaped。
by the people and the persons who were in your life,。
the relationships.。
Your college experience was likely。
shaped in a good way or in a bad way。
by the people who were with you on that journey。
through college.。
Maybe your college, you had people around you。
who valued learning or who valued doing well.。
And so they encouraged you on a Friday night。
or on a night before an exam to stay home and study.。
And maybe you didn't do so hot your first semester。
of freshman year because you were surrounded。
by people who thought, hey, you can always retake a class.。
You can't retake a good time.。
Let's do this.。
And so they impacted you.。
But the people that are around us,。
the relationships that are closest to us。
will make the deepest and most significant impact。
on our life.。
It's just something we see.。
And so here's why that's so significant.。
Here's where we're going tonight as we set up。
this series on Game of Thrones.。
I think we all would say, yeah, that's true.。
The people in our lives, the relationships, our friends。
are going to have a role and influence。
and determine the direction of our life.。
But I'm not sure how much of a role。
and is it really that significant.。
And so tonight, we're going to explore。
the life of an Old Testament king.。
We're going to be in the book of First Kings,。
if you have a Bible you can fit there,。
where he shows us how crucial, how crucial this idea。
and this principle is of those who are with you in life,。
those who are closest to you in a relationship。
will make the most significant impact on your life.。
Here's the way we said it.。
Your friends show you a forecast of your future.。
Your friendships and my friendships, my friends,。
the people that are closest to us。
show us a forecast of our future。
because they determine the decisions and the direction。
and ultimately the destinations in our lives。
as we journey through life.。
So Game of Thrones, I'm gonna set up。
just a little bit about this series。
and where we are even in the Bible.。
So if you're in First Kings, you can open your Bible。
and it's in what's called the Old Testament in the Bible.。
This will be kind of review for some of you。
and maybe new for some of you.。
The Bible is broken into two parts primarily.。
There's the Old Testament and the New Testament.。
Yeah, good.。
So the Old Testament and the New Testament.。
The Old Testament is a study of the story of God's people.。
It's God's nation of Israel。
and so it traces the story of God's chosen people.。
Then we get to the New Testament。
and it's introduced through the church and Jesus。
and he establishes a broader group of people.。
So the Old Testament, when you read it,。
you're reading the history and the story。
of the nation of Israel who God said,。
"You will be my chosen people."。
And so in the Age of Kings,。
what's interesting about the Age of Kings,。
which is where we get this,。
Game of Thrones is a study of the kings of Israel.。
It wasn't always that there were kings in Israel。
and you may not have ever heard this before,。
but the nation of Israel for 500 years,。
once they were established and you can read about that。
in Genesis, Exodus, in those first few books,。
once they were established,。
they had 500 years with no king.。
They were a nation ruled by law.。
And what's interesting about that。
is this was something the world had never seen。
and not until the founding of this country,。
United States,。
would they see and be introduced into it again,。
that we will not be ruled by a king.。
You won't have a king, you will be ruled by law。
and ultimately God will be your king.。
And so the nation of Israel, 500 years in,。
decided, "Hey, I wanna have a king.。
"We want a king.。
"We're out there talking to the other nations。
"and they're like, 'Yeah, this is our king.。
"'Where's your king?'。
"Well, we don't have a king."。
And so, "We want a king, give us a king."。
And so they demand that God would give them a king.。
He said, "You don't want a king.。
"They're gonna do what kings do.。
"They're gonna take your daughters.。
"They're gonna take your land.。
"They're gonna take your money.。
"You don't want a king.。
"We wanna be like all the other nations."。
That's the point, you're not like all the other nations.。
And so because they wouldn't relent,。
God said, "All right, we'll give them a king."。
And so tonight, we're gonna study the fourth king of Israel。
and a man by the name of Rehoboam.。
Rehoboam, and you probably have never heard of Rehoboam,。
but you should know about his father and his grandfather.。
His father was Solomon and his grandfather。
was arguably the most famous king of all, David.。
And so the king lineage went like this.。
God says, "Fine, give them a king."。
And he appoints Saul.。
And Saul is like the Disney prince king.。
He's the guy that looks tall, he's handsome.。
He's like what you see when you go to Disney World today.。
He's a guy that was taller than everybody else。
and it went really, really badly for Saul.。
And so God replaces him with David.。
And David is a man that's called after God's own heart。
and he does really, really well。
with the exception of one event with Bathsheba.。
And so after David and David of Bathsheba, David's son,。
Solomon takes over when David dies.。
And Solomon starts out really, really well.。
God gives him more wisdom。
than anyone who had ever lived before.。
And then in the middle of his life,。
Solomon turned away from God。
because of going after foreign women.。
And so as a punishment for the disobedience。
of turning away from God,。
God said, "I'm going to rip the kingdom。
"from your son's hands.。
"And I won't do it until after you die to honor David,。
"but I'm gonna rip the kingdom from your son's hand。
"and give half of the kingdom。
"or a majority of the kingdom to Jeroboam."。
And so that's where the story picks up。
and Solomon decides, "Hey, I'm not gonna let that happen."。
So he chases down Jeroboam。
and Jeroboam flees to Egypt.。
And I know these are like really exciting names.。
We don't use Jeroboam and Rehoboam anymore,。
probably because of the story we're about to read.。
But Jeroboam flees to Egypt and eventually Solomon dies.。
And that's where our story picks up。
because Rehoboam is the successor.。
He's gonna be the king, the next king of Israel.。
And we're gonna explore one of the most catastrophic events。
in Israel's history.。
We're gonna be in 1 Kings 12.。
You can open up your Bible to 1 Kings 12.。
If you hit Chronicles, you've gone too far.。
So back up, back up.。
And as we explore the age of kings,。
we're gonna start in verse one.。
It'll be on the screens if you don't have a Bible.。
Now, Rehoboam went to Shechem,。
which was just a city where they anointed the kings.。
For all of Israel had gone there to make him king.。
So Solomon dies, his son Rehoboam goes to Shechem,。
he's gonna be made king,。
and all of Israel gathers around.。
It's like Lion King, with the baby being hold up.。
All of Israel gathers around to make him king.。
And so everyone's standing there and this is what happens.。
When Jeroboam, he was the other figure,。
son of Nebat heard this, he was still in Egypt,。
for he had fled there from King Solomon.。
He returned from Egypt.。
So Jeroboam hears Solomon's dead, I can finally come home.。
He comes back.。
So they sent for Jeroboam, that's Israel,。
and he and the whole assembly of Israel。
went to Rehoboam and said,。
"Your father put a heavy yoke on us."。
So all of Israel gathers together。
and Jeroboam's kind of a spokesperson,。
and they say, "Tell him this, tell Rehoboam this,。
"we want him to be king,。
"but here's what we want you to ask him to do.。
"Your father put a heavy yoke on us,。
"but now lighten the harsh labor。
"and the heavy yoke he put on us, and we will serve you."。
And in other words, Solomon,。
or I mean, Solomon, your father, Rehoboam,。
he was always having us build things,。
he was always taxing us, he built tons of palaces.。
Can we just get a break?。
Can you lighten the load that your father put on us?。
Can we not have another building campaign?。
Can we not have as much in taxes taken away from us?。
Will you lighten the yoke on us?。
We want you to be king, but will you lighten up?。
And Rehoboam does something very wise, verse five.。
He answered, "Go away for three days,。
"and then come back to me."。
So the people went away, so they all go away.。
And so Rehoboam takes time to process this decision.。
It's a very important decision,。
it's the first decision that he would make.。
There's a lot at stake.。
Then, verse six, he does another smart thing.。
"Then King Rehoboam consulted the elders。
"who had served his father Solomon during his lifetime.。
"How would you advise me to answer these people?"。
So again, Rehoboam does something very smart.。
He's facing a decision, and he does something。
that all of us in the room need to learn to do。
when facing a decision of great importance。
or any importance in our life.。
When making decisions, start by seeking direction。
from others.。
When you and I are faced with making a decision。
about who to date, where to live, what house to buy,。
and any decision, whether you're gonna switch jobs,。
Rehoboam models something that is very, very crucial。
and God speaks to constantly in the scriptures.。
When you are faced with making a decision,。
go and seek direction from others in your life.。
That one of the key ways that God speaks to you。
and God speaks to me is through wise counselors。
or through his people in our life,。
and they have been given to us to protect us。
from making a foolish decision.。
And Rehoboam does something very wise,。
and here's why it's so wise,。
is because there are certain decisions。
in your life and my life where the emotion of the decision,。
hey, we're in love, or I just want this house so bad,。
can blind us from doing something that is right。
or can make us or lead us to do something。
that will lead us towards a destructive path.。
There are certain decisions in all of our lives。
where we just can't see it as much as we want to,。
and we look at other people's lives。
and it's much easier to see.。
I mean, all of us have had friends。
that we've seen them make decisions where you go,。
what were you thinking when you decided to date him?。
He just got out of prison.。
What were you thinking when you decided to buy that,。
when you decided to stay there,。
when you decided to go there,。
when you decided to quit that job?。
And we think, someone with a third grade IQ。
could have looked at this situation。
and told you this is not a good idea.。
But as easy as it is for us to see,。
in the moment for that person and for you and for me,。
there are decisions that you will face。
where you will be unable to see。
and to really act wisely on what you should do.。
And so he models for us, all of us have been given by God,。
others in our lives that we are to,。
when making a decision, start by seeking a direction。
from others around us.。
He learned this from his father, Solomon.。
And here's why this is so interesting to me about Solomon.。
Solomon wrote the book of Proverbs.。
If you have your Bible, or if you have a Bible。
and you flipped it halfway open,。
you hit somewhere near the book of Proverbs.。
It's called the book of wisdom.。
And Solomon wrote the book of wisdom。
and he's the wisest man who ever lived.。
And one of the topics he said more about。
than almost any other topic。
was seeking counsel from others.。
Think about that.。
The wisest man who ever lived.。
If there was one person in the history of the world。
who could go without seeking counsel from other people,。
I mean, he's wiser than everybody he talks to,。
it'd be Solomon.。
And yet he says more about seeking counsel from others。
or don't make a decision without consulting other people。
who can see the situation clearly.。
He says more about that topic。
than anyone else in all of scripture。
because he's the wisest man who ever lived.。
So here's just a few because there's so many,。
we really can't even go through all of them.。
Here's a handful of them.。
Proverbs 15, 22.。
Plans fail.。
If you have plans, here's how they're going to fail.。
If you have plans to get married,。
if you have plans to buy a home,。
if you have plans to success in your job。
or wherever you are, if you have plans,。
they fail for lack of counsel.。
But with many advisors, they succeed.。
Proverbs 11, 14.。
Where there is no guidance, a people or a nation falls.。
But in an abundance of counselors, there is safety.。
Proverbs 12, 15.。
The way of fools seems right to them.。
Like a fool will think,。
oh, this is for sure the right decision.。
Oh, we should definitely date.。
We should definitely get engaged.。
We should definitely move in.。
But the wise listen to advice.。
And you are making decisions in this period of your life,。
this season and in this season of my life。
that are distinct from almost any other season。
of life that you'll face.。
Like the decisions you make in your 20s and in your 30s。
will impact the direction and course of your life。
in ways that almost no other decade of your life will.。
Who you're gonna marry, where you're gonna work,。
where you're gonna live, what you're gonna do for work.。
And Solomon says to you, and God says to all of us,。
one of the key gifts I've given you。
is that you would seek out counsel。
from other people in your life when making decisions.。
Start by seeking direction.。
So here's what they respond to him。
as he asked them for direction.。
Verse seven, they replied,。
if today you will be a servant to these people。
and serve them and give them a favorable answer,。
they will always be your servants.。
Basically, the elders tell Rehoboam,。
hey, if you will be a servant to these people,。
it's going to go well for you.。
Lessen the load, lighten the load.。
And had Rehoboam taken this advice,。
the story would have gone totally different。
from where it's about to go.。
But he makes a very foolish decision.。
After making a wise decision, seeking others' input,。
he makes a very foolish decision.。
Verse eight, but Rehoboam rejected the advice。
the elders gave him and consulted the young men。
who had grown up with him and were serving him.。
And he asked them, what is your advice?。
How should we answer these people who say to me,。
lighten the yoke?。
So Rehoboam rejects their advice。
and he goes to the younger men who had grown up with him.。
He goes to his high school buddies and says,。
I don't like the advice that they gave me.。
What do you think that we should do?。
The young men who had grown up to him replied,。
verse 10, these people have said to you,。
your father put a heavy yoke on us,。
but make our yoke lighter.。
Now tell them, my little finger,。
this is probably gonna be shock value,。
is thicker than your father's waist or your father's loins,。
if you have another translation, which is literally the word.。
In other words,。
I am more of a man than my dad is, is what he's pointing at,。
but you should read your Bible, that's in your Bible.。
My little finger is thicker than my father's package.。
And so my father laid a, that's what it says,。
my father laid a heavy yoke on you。
and I will make it even heavier, he says.。
Tell them that you're more of a man than your father.。
My father, tell them this, my father scourged you with whips。
but I will scourge you with scorpions.。
In other words, hey, don't lighten up,。
tell the people you're not lightening up,。
you're gonna make it even worse.。
Tell them about the scorpions,。
you're gonna bring out scorpions out of these people。
and tell them about your dad's package,。
bring out the scorpions.。
(congregation laughing)。
And here's why I'm making fun of that,。
is anyone can see reading that this is not good advice.。
I mean, it's not hard to think,。
oh my gosh, don't do it, Rehoboam,。
this is terrible advice that you're getting。
from the young men, your high school buddies,。
who work for you.。
Of course they want you to increase the load.。
It's easy to see, unless you're Rehoboam.。
And he introduces us to a quality about Rehoboam。
that I think is in all of us.。
He wasn't looking for wise advice,。
he was looking for affirmation.。
He was looking for advice that he wanted to hear.。
It's not dissimilar from situations。
where maybe you're dating a guy。
and your friends go, he's trouble,。
I don't think you should date him.。
And you just go, well, I'm gonna get new friends,。
I'm just gonna move on.。
And so Rehoboam decides and makes a decision。
in the next verse that tells us what's gonna happen.。
Verse 12, three days later,。
Jeroboam and all the people returned to Rehoboam。
as the king had said, so come back to me。
in three days, verse 13.。
The king answered the people harshly,。
rejecting the advice given him by the elders.。
He followed the advice of the young men。
and said, my father made your yoke heavy,。
I will make it even heavier.。
My father scourged you with whips,。
I will scourge you with scorpions.。
So the king did not listen to the people,。
for this turn of events was from the Lord。
to fulfill the word of the Lord。
that had been spoken through the prophet Ahijah,。
the Shilonite.。
So here, this brings us to our second point,。
that the life of Rehoboam, tragically,。
as we're gonna see, illustrates that all of us,。
when it comes to choosing counsel,。
must choose counsel carefully.。
Choose who you're going to listen carefully.。
And this is so important, and I don't know if I can,。
in a compelling enough way, communicate this.。
You have to develop the habit of selective hearing.。
We live in a world that's so loud,。
and culture that is so loud,。
and instructs us in so many ways that are foolish.。
And they're like Rehoboam's young high school friends,。
and some of you are surrounded by people。
who are speaking foolish advice to you.。
And the reason that's significant。
is because who you listen to。
will impact and influence what you do.。
Who you're going to listen to。
is eventually gonna impact and influence what you do.。
And to seek out from others around us。
when it comes to advice,。
not people who will just affirm the decision,。
the relationship, whatever it is that we want,。
but people who will speak wise counsel.。
Because if you're just looking for someone to affirm。
whatever decision you're facing,。
in whatever way you think you should go,。
they're out there, and you can find them.。
And they're gonna give you foolish advice.。
Like, of course, you should date him.。
He's a doctor.。
He doesn't speak English, but he's a doctor.。
Well-loved by his people.。
Or people who are gonna say,。
"Hey, you guys should definitely move in together.。
"It makes financial sense."。
Of course, everyone's moving in together.。
You should definitely move in together.。
Or people will say,。
"You should for sure lease that Mercedes."。
Or, "You should sure buy it.。
"It's on sale, and you have a credit card.。
"Let's go."。
Of course you should.。
And there's no shortage of advice,。
but who you listen to.。
And there are so many foolish voices.。
And how do you understand what a foolish voice is?。
A foolish voice or a foolish advice。
for you and for me is any instruction。
that either goes against God's word。
and goes with the crowd,。
or just goes with the crowd。
and goes against a principle in God's word.。
If it goes against what God has said。
or God's people have spoken。
and goes with the crowd, the world around us,。
it's pretty, you can be pretty confident,。
it is foolish advice,。
and it is going to lead you to suffer harm.。
And there are those who will tell us。
what you want to hear,。
and it will take you to a place。
that you do not wanna end up.。
And so in learning to listen,。
selective hearing, look for wise counsel,。
not affirmation.。
Here's the second thing I think。
that this illustrates for us,。
is that you and I have to choose friends really carefully.。
Choose those who will be close to us really carefully,。
because here's what's crazy about friendship,。
the power of friendship.。
Your friends and my friends。
at times have more power over us。
than our convictions.。
I mean, that's the power of peer pressure.。
It's like, I know I shouldn't do this,。
but everyone, oh, okay.。
Your friends and my friends,。
think about that,。
have more power over your life。
and your decisions。
than your convictions,。
than what you believe,。
than your theology.。
And they will influence and point you in a direction。
if you are not careful。
that will lead to a destination。
you don't wanna be at.。
And so choose your friends carefully.。
Your life has been shaped。
and my life has been shaped by this.。
Almost any bad decision that you look back on。
or I look back on。
was most likely shaped。
by those who were closest to us speaking into this.。
Like, think about it.。
Like, the first time you got introduced to alcohol,。
it wasn't by yourself behind a 7-Eleven,。
just like, ah.。
Or the first cigarette you smoked。
or the first joint you smoked。
was all influenced by those in your life,。
by a friend.。
That's the power of friendship,。
who you run with.。
And tonight, some of you are running with fools。
and it's going to end badly for you。
as we're gonna see in a second.。
And God who loves you。
is inviting you out of that。
and says, I don't want those who are closest to you。
to be fools.。
Listen carefully.。
Choose your friends wisely.。
Your view of sexuality,。
so many different stages in your life。
have been shaped by those who are closest to you。
because friendship is powerful.。
And your life is being shaped by this.。
And some of you guys,。
like we hear it every week,。
like you're still in the party scene。
and you're going, yeah,。
but I'm trying to live on mission.。
Jesus was out there with the partiers.。
You're not Jesus.。
You can't, if you walk on water,。
then you can hang out with foolish people.。
And I'm not talking about living on mission.。
I'm saying those who are closest to you,。
who will influence you the most.。
God says, don't run with fools.。
Transition, the aftermath of what happened。
based on him telling these people.。
When all of Israel saw that the king,。
verse 16, refused to listen to them,。
they answered the king.。
So they see the king says,。
I'm gonna make it even heavier.。
There's gonna be scorpions.。
It's gonna be rough.。
They say to the king,。
what share do we have in David,。
which is the line of the king?。
What part in Jesse's son?。
To your intents, Israel,。
look after your own house, David.。
So the Israelites went home.。
They basically say, Rehoboam,。
you take care of you.。
We're gonna take care of us and we're out of here.。
But as for the Israelites。
who were living in the towns of Judah,。
Rehoboam still rolled over them.。
So here's what's happening.。
Judah, Israel was made up of these 12 tribes,。
or 12 states, and only one of the states。
remained underneath the rule of Rehoboam.。
He lost 90% immediately.。
Like this instant,。
if you've heard of the northern kingdom of Israel。
and the southern kingdom of Judah,。
and you wonder, how did that happen?。
I thought there was one nation.。
And you read the Old Testament,。
this is the moment right here, right here.。
Verse 17.。
Where Israel rebels because Rehoboam。
decided to listen to fools instead of heed wide counsel.。
King Rehoboam is thinking,。
hey, I'm gonna still take control.。
These people, they think they're rebelling,。
but it's not gonna happen.。
Verse 18.。
King Rehoboam sent out Adaram,。
who's in charge of the forced labor,。
to go get people to continue building projects.。
And they literally killed the messenger.。
But all Israel stoned him to death.。
King Rehoboam, however, managed to escape。
and get into his chariot and escape to Jerusalem.。
So verse 19.。
Israel has been in rebellion。
against the house of David to this day,。
that the kingdom divided.。
Jeroboam was made king of the north,。
and it would never be the same.。
All because of a decision,。
influenced and directed by fools.。
Which brings us to our third point.。
Direction from fools will bring, not maybe, disaster.。
If you are listening,。
and you are following instruction of,。
hey, yeah, but they're my buddies, fools,。
it will bring disaster into your life.。
That as it's been said, if you show me your friends,。
I will show you your future.。
Your future in every arena of life。
is right now being shaped and will be shaped。
by the relationships that you keep.。
Your friends forecast the future that you hold.。
Ironically, again, is Solomon, Rehoboam's father,。
had he just listened to his dad,。
who wrote the book of Proverbs for his son,。
speaks about this very idea.。
Here's what he says in Proverbs 13, 20,。
where he says this,。
"Whoever walks or lives with the wise,"。
the word walks, same as lives,。
"Whoever walks with the wise becomes wise."。
So in other words, if you live,。
and you surround yourself by wise people,。
people who live according to God's word,。
which is ancient wisdom,。
that's what instructs their life,。
or just wise people.。
If you walk with wise people, something happens.。
It gets on you.。
You become wise.。
But the companion of fools,。
here's what I love about this verse.。
But the companion of fools doesn't say,。
we'll become a fool.。
We'll suffer harm.。
That if you hang out and I hang out with foolish people,。
it's not just, hey, you're gonna be a fool.。
You will suffer for it.。
And I have friends today that are not alive。
because they did not heed this principle and this truth.。
And you may have friends that have made financial decisions,。
maybe are facing criminal charges。
because they hung out with fools and it cost them.。
And if you surround yourself,。
but they're my longtime friends and they are fools,。
it's going to cost you.。
And I think the challenge in this subject of like,。
yeah, of course, taking instruction from fools。
is gonna lead to disaster.。
I would never take direction.。
Is it's hard to see if I'm listening to fools.。
Like, is this person a fool?。
And so again, a fool or a non-fool,。
a wise person,。
the way you can identify am I receiving wise counsel。
is does this line up with what God has spoken。
and what God has said?。
Does this line up with what God has spoken,。
what God has said?。
And if it doesn't, you need to move with real caution,。
real caution and broaden the circle。
and bring other people in on should I date her?。
Should I not date her?。
Yeah, but they said, God just wants me to be happy, right?。
You need to move with real caution.。
Especially if you are dating someone right now,。
oh my gosh, you have got to hear this。
because you are gonna make decisions that will impact。
and could potentially bring havoc。
into the rest of your life.。
If you are dating someone, oh, I'm begging you,。
please, before you make a decision。
about hey, we're gonna get engaged。
or hey, we're gonna get married,。
if you are the only person who is speaking into it。
that is that a good decision, you are a fool.。
You are a fool, Solomon says.。
And you have silenced one of the ways God speaks to us,。
which is through his people around us.。
Not to control us, but to protect us.。
He speaks in three ways, his spirit, his word。
and his people and if you don't have others。
speaking into that, you are a fool.。
You're a fool.。
And you're headed towards harm.。
Rehoboam faced a decision and he sought wise counsel,。
which is really good and then he rejected it。
for counsel that he wanted to hear。
and it cost him everything.。
And it will the same in your life and in my life。
or has a potential to because who we listen to。
will impact what we do and if you show yourself。
your friends or show me your friends。
or Solomon says, show me your friends。
and I'll show you your future.。
So here's the application I think for tonight.。
There's two for all of us and then there's one really。
that I think applies just to community groups.。
First one is this, you need to rid your life of fools.。
You need to rid your life of fools。
and seek wise counsel in every situation.。
And if you're going, I don't know if I have。
any non-foolish friends, tonight is your night.。
We're gonna change that.。
We wanna invite you after the service to go into this room。
or into this room right down here and go and step into。
what we call open community and be around other believers。
who will speak to you what is true or speak God's word。
and help inform the decisions that you're gonna make.。
And if you haven't made that decision, I'm telling you,。
tonight is your night and you know you need that.。
You're going, yeah, but I got my buddies。
and we were going out last Friday.。
Your life will not change in any way that is good。
and it will only be disrupted by the fools。
that you hang out with if they're fools.。
I mean, can you imagine the story even for Israel。
if Rehoboam had done this?。
Hey, I'm gonna rid my life of these fools。
who clearly are a little biased。
and I'm going to listen to wise counsel.。
Number two, you need to make the decision。
about who will influence your decisions.。
Make the decision about who is gonna influence my decision.。
I'm gonna make the decision about who's gonna speak。
into my decisions in my life.。
That means you may need to change your playmates。
in your playgrounds.。
We say that all the time.。
Now, one of the key ways that God grows us。
is we have to step out of what's behind us。
and into new relationships。
and you need to change your playmates in your playgrounds.。
If you don't have a group of believers around you。
who give you the collective counsel。
and wisdom of God's word, you need to step into one。
and tonight is your night.。
I mean, even imagine if Rehoboam had done this.。
I think what's so tragic about this。
is God wants to speak to you.。
Like he wants you to know his will for your life。
and he wants me to know his will for my life.。
And one of the primary ways he speaks is this。
and what's so weird is we put so much confidence。
in like random speaking things.。
That yeah, I'm confident, God told me to do it。
and then you dig down every week,。
it seems like someone comes up.。
Yeah, God told me I'm supposed to marry her。
and I'm like, really, tell me about that.。
Yeah, well, her name's Sarah and I was opening the Bible。
and I opened it up and it was like,。
oh, Sarah married Abraham.。
My name's not Abraham but I'm a big fan of the name。
and it was like, oh, marry Sarah.。
Oh, I'm supposed to marry Sarah.。
Does she know you?。
No, but I know that I'm supposed to marry her.。
Or of like, I was sitting at this green light。
or this red light and I was like,。
God, if you want me to quit my job,。
just make it turn green.。
And it's like, I could be wrong.。
God may speak that way but I know he speaks。
through other people in his life。
and it's like, we're quick to put lots of confidence.。
There was this green light and no confidence。
and other people around us who wanna speak wise counsel。
over us and some of you have gotta step out。
of the past life and change your playmates.。
And so let me be really clear.。
Am I asking you to change your friends?。
No, I wouldn't.。
Yes, I'm asking you to change your friends.。
That's one of the things that we say around here。
all the time is there's something that is so striking。
and it is how some people change so little。
hanging around here.。
That years will go by and they change so little。
and then there's some people who change so much。
in that same amount of time period。
and the difference is who they run with。
and who they're surrounded by.。
And God is inviting you into that.。
That's why we are just freaks about everyone,。
every person you've ever seen on this stage, on our staff,。
lives in community with other people speaking wisely。
into their life about the decisions they're making。
and about their life.。
And then here's the third one.。
This anybody can play but it's really most applicable。
for people who are in a community group。
is you need to invite those into your community group。
to speak into the decisions that you're making。
with the things that are going on.。
Here's what I mean by that.。
You need to invite them into the decision making process.。
For whatever reason, due to the newness of a group。
or due to the spiritual maturity。
or just due to whatever reason,。
there are people in groups and they'll think,。
I don't know if you should be dating her。
but I don't know if I should tell them。
I don't wanna be judgmental。
and so let's remove that off the table。
and hopefully they'll grow to that point。
but invite others.。
Here's what that looks like.。
Hey, do you think that we should be dating?。
Do you think that I should buy this car?。
Do you think this is a wise decision?。
Do you think that we should get engaged?。
Do you have any red flags about us moving forward?。
Invite them into that until they feel the freedom。
to be a part of it.。
Invite them in and if you're going,。
yeah, but I don't know if I wanna invite them in,。
that's a problem and that probably tells you something。
about the decision that you're facing, that you're making.。
When making decisions, start by seeking direction.。
Who you listen to will impact what you do。
and if you show me your friends,。
Ray Balm says, I will show you your future.。
Don't make the mistake of surrounding yourself by fools.。
I shared a couple weeks ago about how I was,。
like I didn't have the rebellious stage。
which I'm like really insecure about in my life。
'cause I feel like it's like,。
that would be such an awesome story.。
I was like at VBS with all the church kids in there。
but you were out where?。
And so I like feel that and as I look back,。
I even jokingly said, I just didn't have the like strip。
clubs and we were out, you know, getting snorting stuff。
and then I jokingly said that the DARE program。
was just really effective in my life。
and here's like the truth of that.。
I don't know why that's funny to people every time.。
[audience laughing]。
Really not.。
It's a great program.。
Here's the truth is it wasn't that.。
Like I am so thankful God preserved。
and there's my heart is wicked and dark。
as everybody in the rooms here.。
We're all messed up, really messed up.。
Thank goodness we have a savior。
but God preserved a lot of those decisions。
and a lot of those opportunities。
and a lot of the view of sexuality or alcohol。
or drugs or any of those things through relationships.。
It was this principle and some of you maybe。
can relate to that, that you were spared,。
that you're not like, yeah, I was snorting Coke.。
You're like, no, I don't know.。
I don't even know where I would get Coke。
if somebody wanted it.。
I'd be like, here's a beverage.。
Is this what you wanted?。
And so you can relate to that。
and what you need to know is that this is how God works。
and no matter if that wasn't a part of your past。
and for whatever reason, some of us just in God's grace,。
that was, he protected us through those.。
If that wasn't a part, you can start today。
and he's inviting you to, to be protected and preserved。
and invited into God's people to protect you through that。
'cause that road trip story I shared at the beginning,。
what's funny about that story is it's like a metaphor。
for the journey of life but that was not。
the last destination that those guys。
really went with me in my life.。
They were really the way or a huge way。
in which God influenced and impacted。
and took the journey of my life.。
Here's some of the other destinations。
where I just looked over and it was those same guys。
that were sitting there and I'm in Africa。
doing work in this orphanage and I look over。
and it's those same guys with me.。
We're doing ministry work or we're just worshiping in church。
and I look over and it's those same guys。
when I'm going through a really hard breakup。
and I look over and it's those same guys。
when I was introduced to my wife.。
It was the same guys.。
And then fast forward and years later I'm standing there。
and I'm wearing a tux and my wife comes in in a white dress。
and I look beside me and it's those same guys,。
those same guys who really taught me how to read the Bible.。
Who really are a lot of the reason I'm even in ministry。
because God preserves and protects through relationships.。
And I say that at the risk that you would be like,。
yeah, you're just a good, good kid.。
That's the reality is I'm not, none of us are.。
But all of us can yield to this principle。
and move in a direction of a destination。
where you wanna head towards,。
whether that's in a happily married。
to someone who loves Jesus and loves you。
or whether that's financially free。
or whether it's a moral and character destination.。
He invites all of us and this is the way。
that he's chosen to do it.。
Because you and I will be the sum。
of the someones in our life.。
You and I will be the sum of the someones。
that are in your life and in my life.。
And he's invited us all to be a part of this principle.。
I'm gonna pray and then the band's gonna come up.。
(congregation laughing)。
Father, we thank you for just how you preserve your word.。
Through ray of home, we thank you that you have。
given us the gift of others in our life。
who can speak wise counsel.。
Would you protect us from seeking。
and even from making a foolish decision。
about who, what friends are gonna be the ones。
who impact our decisions because they are。
a forecast of our future.。
Thank you that you have preserved。
and just the story of the King, Ray of Oam。
and how much, it's not some children's story,。
it's a man who lost it all, but he didn't have to.。
Father, would you protect us, would you surround us,。
would you stir in our hearts to move。
and just be obedient to this principle。
that you protect through your provision。
for others in relationship in our life.。
Would you surround us with wise people。
and help us to get rid of the foolish ones.。
We love you.。
I pray for my friends in the room who don't have that.。
Would you stir their hearts right now。
because they know that they need it to act.。
This is the day.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
(silence)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
