Hey Porch, join me as we read God's word together.。
From the Gospel of Mark, chapter 4, verses 35 through 41.。
On that day, when evening had come, he said to them, "Let us go across to the other side."。
And leaving the crowd, they took him with them in the boat, just as he was.。
And other boats were with him.。
And a great windstorm arose, and the waves were breaking into the boat, so that the boat。
was already filling.。
But he was in the stern, asleep on the cushion.。
And they woke him and said to him, "Teacher, do you not care that we are perishing?"。
And he awoke and rebuked the wind, and said to the sea, "Peace, be still."。
And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm.。
He said to them, "Why are you so afraid?。
Have you still no faith?"。
And they were filled with great fear, and said to one another, "Who then is this, that。
even the wind and the sea obey him?"。
And now our seventh message in our series called "Disciple."。
Well, what's up Porch?。
How we doing tonight?。
All right.。
Hey, I do want to give a quick shout out to everyone watching online tonight.。
Porch Life Springfield, welcome to the mix.。
I know you guys are new, getting up and running.。
We got Porch Life Fresno, Porch Life Scottsdale, it's amazing that you guys are jumping in。
with us.。
Hey, my name's Timothy Atik, I'm one of the pastors here.。
I am not normally here on Tuesdays, but I love any chance I get to be here.。
I did not know I was going to be here tonight.。
I got a call this morning, probably between nine or 10 from Kylan, and he was like, "Hey。
man, do you remember when you had your child on a Tuesday at breakaway and you needed someone。
else to speak?"。
I was like, "Yes."。
He's like, "I need you to do that for me tonight."。
Because Cash Levi Perry was born today.。
So I don't know, yeah.。
I don't know if they've got the live stream on just to introduce Cash to the porch.。
That'd be a good way to start his first day on this earth.。
But Brooke and Kylan, we are so excited for you guys and can't wait to meet Cash.。
So that means you get me tonight, and I'm so glad to be here with you on election night.。
Anytime that I have the chance to teach the Word of God, I love to give people an opportunity。
just to pray before we do that.。
So if you join us on Sundays, and if you don't have a home church, please come join us on。
Sundays.。
We'd love to have you.。
But right now I want to invite you to take a second and just pray.。
Say, "God, would you speak clearly to me tonight?"。
And then I want to invite you to pray for the people around you.。
Just say, "God, speak clearly to them."。
And then I want to ask you to pray for me.。
Just say, "God, would you speak clearly through T.A. to us tonight?"。
Well, Lord, I pray that you give us eyes to see you and ears to hear from you.。
God, I pray that our hearts would be receptive to all that you want to say in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
Hey, so I wasn't planning on being here, as I've already shared.。
And so I'm just going to warn you from now.。
I am giving a talk I've given at the porch before, about two and a half years ago.。
Some of this might sound familiar to some of you.。
I'm just OK with that.。
Like I am not under any impression that you remember what I say, what I said two and a。
half years ago.。
And sometimes a movie is better the second time you see it.。
OK?。
So I hope it's an encouragement to you.。
If some of the stories are familiar, you can just laugh as hard as you did the first round.。
All right?。
And that'll make me feel really good.。
So several years ago, when my two boys—I have three boys now—but when my two oldest。
boys, when they were about two and a half and five months old, I made a very unfortunate。
decision as a dad.。
And that was to attempt to drive from Austin to Dallas with my two boys, but without my。
wife.。
Like, I was planning to fly solo just myself.。
So we began to make our way up I-35, and for the first hour of the trip, I was crushing。
it as a dad, primarily because both kids were asleep.。
And then we got to around the temple area, if you're familiar with that drive up 35,。
and my kids were awake.。
And so I decided that it was time for us to stop off at the Chick-fil-A in Temple to have。
lunch.。
And so I literally, I pulled into the parking space in the Chick-fil-A of Temple, Texas,。
and I sat for a minute and I just evaluated everything that needed to happen in order。
for me to get in and out with my two boys without dying.。
And so I felt like I had my game plan.。
I got out of the car.。
I had Andrew in the car carrier in one hand.。
I had the diaper bag slung over my chest.。
I had Noah, my two and a half year old, in the other hand, and we are walking in to Chick-fil-A.。
And you could just see the sympathy on the Chick-fil-A worker's face.。
He was like, "My pleasure."。
Like, it's always their pleasure, but this time it was absolutely his pleasure.。
So we go into the Chick-fil-A, I order, and we sit down, and everything is going perfect。
during lunch until my five-month-old Andrew, who's in the car seat, just destroys his diaper.。
Like right there in the middle of my number one with no pickles in Chick-fil-A sauce.。
Like he just absolutely destroyed his diaper.。
It was the type of thing that if I was going to be a good dad, I'm not going to finish。
my lunch before changing him.。
I'm going to change him now.。
So I gathered up all of our stuff.。
We went into the bathroom of the Chick-fil-A in Temple, Texas.。
I pulled down the changing table.。
I put my five-month-old on it.。
I tell my two-and-a-half-year-old, "Noah, stand right here.。
Just stand right here."。
And I just begin ferociously wiping Andrew down.。
Like I'm trying to clean this kid off.。
And right as I'm cleaning him off, he goes to the bathroom, a different number this time,。
and he floods the changing table.。
Like this thing is out of order.。
Like he floods the changing table.。
And right as he floods the changing table, I use my last wet wipe.。
So I just want to put you, I want to put you there, people.。
Okay, I just want you to, I want you to imagine, here I am in the Chick-fil-A of Temple, Texas.。
I am holding a bare-bottomed baby up in the air with nowhere to put him and nothing to。
clean him up with.。
You might be like, "That sounds like worst-case scenario."。
It wasn't.。
You want to know what the worst-case scenario was?。
The worst-case scenario was holding a bare-bottomed baby in the air with nowhere to put him and。
nothing to wipe him down with, looking left, just in time to see your two-and-a-half-year-old。
playing with the urinal cake.。
That's the worst-case scenario.。
So let's talk about stress tonight.。
Because I will tell you, when I was standing there in that bathroom, I felt stressed out,。
overwhelmed, and out of control.。
That is what I felt in that moment.。
And that was just for a day.。
Praise the Lord, I got out of that situation, and that stress only lasted for a brief time.。
But here's the reality.。
Some of you guys have much more significant things going on in your life, and it's causing。
stress.。
And we're talking about it on Election Night, because some of you just sang "I Trust God,"。
but the reality is, is you might feel like the world is over if your candidate doesn't。
win.。
And you're like, "Man, is this it?。
Am I leaving the country?。
Is Jesus coming back tomorrow?"。
Like for you, it's deeply stressful.。
Or maybe your life has just not turned out how you thought that it would at this age.。
Maybe you're not living up to your own expectations, and that's really stressing you out.。
Or it's that time of year where bonuses are just kind of that close that you're beginning。
to wonder, "How much is it going to be?。
Am I going to get it?。
Will there be a promotion?。
Is there not going to be a promotion?。
Am I about to lose my job?。
Is my company going to downsize?。
Inflation is kind of a thing.。
Holidays are coming up."。
For some people, that spells disaster when it comes to being with family.。
Maybe you're in a relationship and you're just wondering what the timeline of this thing。
even is.。
There's just so much to be stressed out about.。
Some of you are stressed and you don't even know why you're stressed, you just know you。
are.。
Like if any of those things are going on in your life, I just wouldn't be surprised if。
you don't feel what I felt standing in that Chick-fil-A bathroom.。
If you're honest, you feel stressed out, overwhelmed, and out of control.。
Here's the good news.。
According to the Scriptures, what I want to show you tonight is that stress isn't inevitable,。
it's actually optional.。
Like what I want to invite you into tonight is I just want to invite you into peace and。
I want to share four truths from the Word of God that speak directly, directly to your。
peace and what you do with these four truths will have everything to do with whether your。
soul feels chaotic or calm tonight and in the days ahead.。
It will impact whether you live under pressure or filled with peace.。
Stress isn't inevitable, it's actually optional.。
So if you have a Bible, I want to invite you to turn with me to Mark chapter 4.。
Mark chapter 4 is where we're going to be.。
Now as you're turning there, I really need you to listen, okay?。
Because some of you all just heard me say that stress isn't inevitable, it's actually。
optional and that stressed you out.。
It stressed you out that I said you shouldn't be stressed out.。
So here's what I want to make sure you hear.。
Some of you guys in here, like you have, you have like clinical anxiety.。
And if that's you, I want to make sure you know I'm not speaking about your clinical。
anxiety, like your anxiety disorder.。
That's not what I'm speaking to tonight.。
And so I want you to feel the weight lift from you that I'm not trying to put a weight。
on you that's going to feel crushing right now.。
What I'm trying to speak to, as I'm speaking to the everyday stress that the good majority。
of us allow to weigh us down when we have a Savior and a King who is before all things。
and in Him all things hold together.。
I'm just trying to invite, I'm trying to invite us closer to Jesus and to peace.。
So we're looking at Mark chapter 4.。
The gospel of Mark was written by a guy named John Mark.。
John Mark was not an eyewitness to the things that he wrote.。
He actually got his accounts of what we're reading from Peter.。
He was a disciple of Peter.。
If you're not familiar with the Bible, Jesus had 12 really close friends.。
But there were three of those 12 friends that he spent extra time with and their names were。
Peter, James, and John.。
Peter was one of the people who was closest to Jesus.。
A lot of people in the early church, the first century church, viewed Mark's gospel as Peter's。
memoirs.。
And so John Mark is learning from Peter's eyewitness accounts.。
John Mark wrote this book to portray the person and mission of Jesus Christ for roaming Christians。
undergoing persecution under Nero.。
So I would imagine that they felt stressed out, overwhelmed, and out of control.。
And so it's helpful for these Christians who are undergoing persecution from Nero to hear。
a story about Jesus calming a storm.。
So let's pick it back up.。
We just read it, but listen to it again.。
It sets the scene for us.。
Verse 35 of Mark 4, it says, "On that day, when evening had come, he," that's Jesus,。
"said to them, 'Let us go across to the other side.'。
And leaving the crowd, they took him with them in the boat, just as he was.。
And other boats were with him, and a great windstorm arose, and the waves were breaking。
into the boat, so that the boat was already filling.。
But he was in the stern, asleep on the cushion.。
And they woke him and said to him, 'Teacher, do you not care that we are perishing?'"。
I love this.。
I love this passage so much.。
So I just want you to get what is happening here.。
Okay?。
So you got Jesus and his friends, they begin to go across the Sea of Galilee.。
What you need to understand is that the Sea of Galilee is situated at about 700 feet below。
sea level, and it's surrounded by hills.。
The Sea of Galilee, I've been on it before, it is known for sudden and violent storms.。
Jesus and his friends find themselves in one of these sudden and violent storms.。
What's interesting, though, is to think about who is on the boat with Jesus.。
If you're familiar with the Bible, and you're familiar with what the occupations were of。
several of Jesus' friends, what was their occupation?。
They were fishermen.。
At least four of them were fishermen, which means the Sea of Galilee had been their office.。
These were boat guys.。
And yet these guys who officed on the Sea of Galilee find themselves in a storm that。
has them freaking out.。
Which I find really interesting.。
Like I believe that this was the worst storm they had ever experienced in their life, because。
we don't see even the professional fishermen saying, "Hey guys, we've been here before.。
You do this.。
You sit here.。
We're going to make it.。
Don't freak out.。
This is just what happens on the Sea of Galilee."。
No, the professional fisherman is like, "This is it!。
This is it!。
We are going to die!"。
And as water fills the boat, stress fills their souls.。
Why?。
Because they're no longer in control.。
Which shows us the very first truth that we need to understand about stress.。
At the root of your stress is a lack of control.。
You realize that, right?。
At the root of your stress is a lack of control.。
Just think right now what you can't control.。
You can't control the outcome of the election tonight.。
You can't control how much free time you have.。
You can't manufacture a 30-hour workday.。
You can't control whether you're going to get that raise or not.。
You can't control chronic pain.。
You can't control your loved one's health.。
You can't control it.。
At the root of your stress is a lack of control.。
So that's where we have to start.。
Now if that is true, if at the root of your stress is a lack of control, you're going。
to love the second truth I have for you.。
Okay, here's the second truth.。
God will intentionally lead you into situations that you cannot control.。
No one's saying amen to that.。
Like that's just...。
Isn't that great news?。
At the root of your stress is a lack of control.。
And great news, God will intentionally lead you into situations you cannot control.。
Do you remember whose idea it was to go across to the other side of the Sea of Galilee?。
Whose was it?。
It was Jesus's.。
Jesus was and is God, which means Jesus knew that he was inviting his friends to cross。
the sea at the exact same time as an "I think we are going to die" type of storm was going。
to be brewing.。
So I have to believe that Jesus intentionally led them into the storm.。
And if you were to go and read this book, you would see that that's what God has a tendency。
of doing.。
He consistently leads his people into situations that they cannot control.。
Think about Joseph in the book of Genesis.。
He's thrown into a well and sold into slavery by his brothers.。
The nation of Israel was busted out of Egypt and led by Moses, but where did Moses lead。
them?。
To a dead end at the Red Sea.。
Daniel was thrown into a lion's den.。
Zachariah and Elizabeth were old, wrinkly, and barren.。
This is what God does.。
He will intentionally lead him...。
He will intentionally lead his people into situations that they cannot control.。
The problem with that is that we love control.。
Like some of you guys are budding control freaks.。
Some of you guys are in full bloom.。
Like you know who you are.。
You're like, "Yeah, that's me."。
I love control.。
You want to have every single aspect of your life under control.。
Hair has to be perfect.。
Clothes have to be perfect.。
Weight on the scale has to be perfect.。
Organization on the desk, perfect.。
Your day has to go exactly how you planned.。
You need everything under control.。
And if you're one of those people who needs every single aspect of your life under control,。
you know what your life is going to feel like?。
Some of you all have heard me share this before.。
It's going to feel like trying to carry a big pile of laundry.。
You know what I'm talking about?。
Like you go to the dryer, you open up the door, and like we're busy people, right?。
So we only have time for one trip from the dryer to the couch or to wherever you're taking。
your laundry, right?。
So you reach in there, you scrape the insides of the dryer until you really...。
Like something in your mind clicks like, "Yep, I got it all.。
Yeah.。
I have every article of clothing in my grasp."。
And then you begin to make the walk.。
And as you're making the walk, like you just...。
Something triggers inside like, "Hey, just look back."。
And when you look back, what do you see?。
Man down.。
Sock down.。
Now this is where we display our brilliance because instead of taking that pile of laundry,。
dropping it off and coming back, no, we're busy.。
And we developed this very noble and heroic mantra of no sock left behind.。
And so we back up to the sock and we try and balance the entire pile on one hand as if。
we were crushing it with two hands.。
And just when you get that sock, what do you see?。
Whitey tighties down.。
And shame on you for never switching to boxers.。
What are you doing with your life?。
But like this...。
Look, if you need to have everything in control of your life, this is going to be your reality.。
Like you're going to feel like, "Man, I'm crushing life one day and then the financial。
sock's going to fall."。
And just when you feel like, "Man, you get that back under control," you know what?。
There goes your relationship status.。
And just when you get that back in control, okay, here comes your parents' divorce.。
And like it's just one thing after another where you want control and you can't have。
it.。
And I think it begs the question, like if Jesus loves us, why does he lead us into situations。
we can't control?。
It feels unloving.。
And I'll answer that before we're done.。
The third key truth that I want you to know is this, you don't have to be in control because。
Jesus already is.。
And we sang about that tonight.。
Here's the great news on the night of the 2024 election, you don't have to be in control。
because Jesus already is.。
Your candidate doesn't have to win because Jesus Christ already reigns, which is really。
good news.。
But you don't have to be in control because Jesus Christ already is.。
Watch how things play out for the disciples.。
Look back at the text.。
Verse chapter 4, verse 39.。
It says, "And he awoke and rebuked the wind and said to the sea, 'Peace be still.'。
And the wind ceased and there was a great calm.。
He said to them, 'Why are you so afraid?。
Have you still no faith?'。
And they were filled with great fear and said to one another, 'Who then is this that even。
the wind and the sea obey him?'"。
This is amazing.。
Like they come to him, and I love their question.。
Their question is what?。
Do you not care that we're perishing?。
That's how real the Bible is.。
Like they are coming up to God in the flesh, they're like, "You don't even care."。
And Jesus wakes up and what does he do?。
He begins to speak to the storm.。
And what are the words that come out of his mouth?。
"Peace be still."。
Now this is where you have to learn to see the scriptures.。
You have to start putting yourself into the story.。
Because sometimes we get the wrong picture of Jesus, like he's groggy, just woke up from。
a nap and he's like, "Oh man, peace.。
Peace be still."。
No, I didn't know that was what was going to come out.。
Like you never know sometimes up here.。
When he says, "Peace be still," he uses the Greek word, "Themao."。
Themao is the same word he used back in chapter one of Mark when he cast out a demon.。
You know what it means?。
It literally means to muzzle.。
So don't imagine saying, "Peace be still."。
Imagine him saying, "Shut up.。
Be quiet."。
It's like putting a muzzle on an unruly dog.。
Like when I read this, I thought of this TV show that used to be on.。
It was probably long before y'all's time, but it was called The Dog Whisperer.。
And The Dog Whisperer was this show about this world-renowned dog trainer named Caesar。
Milan.。
And the way the show would go is that it would open with like this montage of clips of like。
an unruly dog.。
The dog would be like barking and biting his owner and like eating an entire couch in one。
sitting.。
And then Caesar would show up, knock on the door, the dog would come up, and Caesar would。
just look at the dog and go, "Hey.。
Hey."。
And the dog would like stop what it was doing, like do the head tilt and fall over and die.。
It was crazy.。
It was crazy.。
But I read this and I'm like, yeah, Jesus is the sea whisperer.。
Like he, Jesus just steps in and he's like, "Hey.。
Be quiet.。
Be silent.。
Peace.。
Shut up.。
Put a muzzle on it."。
And in a moment in time, the sea goes from chaotic to calm.。
What if the great calm of the sea could be the great calm of the soul?。
You know what I love is that everyone on the boat is freaking out.。
But did you see the word "but" in verse 38?。
That word, when you learn Bible study methods, people tell you to look out for the "but"。
because the "but" marks a contrast.。
So if I'm studying the scripture, I want to put a box around that because it's something。
that you want to highlight.。
You want to zero in on because what the author of the text is trying to show you is that。
what's coming after the word "but" is very different than what came before it.。
What comes after the "but"?。
But he was in the stern asleep on the cushion.。
Everyone's freaking out.。
Jesus is asleep.。
How was he able to sleep through the storm?。
Because he wasn't threatened by the storm.。
Those waters had been made by God simply speaking.。
Surely they could be calmed in the exact same way.。
And I believe that tonight is an invitation, whether it's the election that's causing you。
stress or one of the other many things that I mentioned, but I believe that God is inviting。
many of us and just saying, "Hey, look, the great calm of the sea can be the great calm。
of the soul.。
Like, he wants to speak peace into your life tonight."。
And you know what the good news is?。
Is that, you know what, that can sound really nice and flowery.。
It's like, "Okay, TAs, this guest speaker is just saying, 'Oh, just be at peace.'。
But that sounds really good in this room."。
But then when you leave, it's like, "I don't even know what that looks like."。
You know what the good news is, is that the Apostle Paul tells us the way.。
Listen to what he says in Philippians 4, 6 through 7.。
He says, "Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication,。
with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God."。
And watch this, "In the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your。
hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus."。
So let's just unpack that real quick.。
So he says, "Do not be anxious about anything."。
So that is a command from God through Paul to us.。
Do not be anxious about anything.。
Do you know what anything means in the Greek?。
Anything.。
That's what it means.。
It means anything.。
Do not be anxious about anything.。
And like, at least in my Bible, and you can check yours, but at least in my Bible, next。
to the word anything, there's not an asterisk that points me to a footnote at the bottom。
of the text, like giving me caveats.。
Do not be anxious about anything, except at the 2024 election when you've only got two。
options, Harris or Trump.。
Do not be anxious about anything, except when your relationship status feels like it is。
falling apart.。
Do not be anxious about anything, asterisk, footnote, except when you haven't lived up。
to your expectations and life just isn't what you thought it would be at the age of 28.。
Do not be anxious about it.。
No, do not be anxious about anything.。
But then he goes on.。
And what does he say?。
Not in everything.。
Everything means everything.。
In everything.。
By prayer in supplication.。
So what's his point?。
Like, if something's stressing you out, God wants to hear about it.。
Whatever's stressing you out right now, have you talked to God about it?。
What I'm not asking you is have you talked at God about it?。
I'm asking you if you have invited Him in.。
Sometimes we want to talk at God about what's stressing us out, but we want to keep it,。
we want to keep the ball in our court.。
Like we really don't want to give it over to Him.。
We keep trying to control and manage.。
So what I'm asking you is have you invited Him in?。
Paul says, by prayer and supplication, and then watch this word.。
He says, with thanksgiving.。
Now this is where I feel like my tendency is to think that Paul messed up and erasers。
didn't exist back then.。
He's like, okay, you're stressed out, you're anxious, but don't be anxious, and you've。
got to pray about it.。
And then thanksgiving, oh shoot, no, you don't thank God yet.。
He hasn't done anything about it.。
You save that to the end.。
Now, our tendency is to think that the order of things is something happens, we stress。
out, we pray, God does something about it, and then we say thank you.。
Paul's like, no, that's not how it works.。
Something happens, you start stressing out, you start praying about it, and you start。
thanking God right in the midst of the uncertainty.。
Have you ever tried that?。
Have you ever stopped in the midst of the stress and started thanking God for what He's。
done in the past?。
Because when you remember that God's been faithful, it reminds you that He's capable.。
He's been faithful in the past, He's capable with your present.。
So try that.。
Just start looking back and thanking God for what He's already done.。
But I also want to encourage you to try thanking God for what He will do.。
Have you ever tried that?。
God, I thank you in advance for what you're going to do.。
Now what I'm not talking about right now is like a name it and claim it thing, like that。
if you just pray and ask God for it, and you ask Him for $10,000 tomorrow, it's just going。
to show up in your mailbox.。
That's not what I'm talking about.。
Thank you God that you're going to give me a new car this week.。
Thank you God.。
That's not what I'm talking about.。
I'm just saying you put your confidence in God, thank you.。
God, I'm going to make it this week because you're in control of my life.。
I don't know how you're going to figure this out.。
I don't know what you're going to do, but I do know that you're in control.。
You're before all things and in you all things hold together.。
So I'm grateful because I'm safe in your hands.。
And I can't see a way out, but just because I can't doesn't mean you can't.。
And so I trust you.。
Thank Him for what He will do.。
Let your requests be made known to God, watch this, in the peace of God which surpasses。
all understanding will.。
That's a promise from God through Paul to you.。
It doesn't say that it might guard your hearts and your minds, it says that it will guard。
your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus.。
You want to know what stress ultimately is?。
Stress is simply a distress signal from your soul that you're looking inward instead of。
upward.。
You're looking to yourself for the solution.。
You're looking for control that you don't have.。
Paul's point is, "Hey, stop looking inward, start looking upward."。
You have been made to look upward.。
Put your trust in Him.。
The fourth truth that I need you to know tonight is this.。
When you can't control life, you have two options, fear or faith.。
Those are your two options, fear or faith.。
The normal and natural response to a lack of control is fear.。
That's what stress is.。
It's when you don't have control, when you can't see the outcome, you can't see how something's。
going to turn out, and it causes fear.。
That's what stress is.。
It's fear of the unknown.。
Fear was the disciples' response.。
We know that because Jesus asked them, "Why are you afraid?"。
But look at what else He says.。
Look back at the text.。
Verse 40, "Why are you so afraid?。
Have you still no faith?"。
So Jesus' point is, "Hey, you actually had two options.。
You chose fear, but you had the option of faith."。
Why did they have that option?。
Because Jesus, the one who calms storms, was in the boat.。
And so His point was, "You chose fear when you had the option of faith, because the one。
who just has to say the word was in the boat."。
Maybe God brought you here tonight so that you could simply hear that stress isn't inevitable,。
is optional.。
You do have a choice.。
Why?。
Because Jesus Christ, the Prince of Peace, the one who just has to say the word, is in。
the boat of your life, and He cares.。
And He's passionate about your peace.。
If you ever question if God cares about your peace, all you have to do is look at the cross。
of Jesus Christ, because the cross is a message of peace.。
Colossians 119 says this, "For in Him," that's in Jesus, "all the fullness of God was pleased。
to dwell in, through Him to reconcile to Himself all things, whether on earth or in heaven,。
making peace by the blood of His cross."。
So just listen to this.。
Jesus died, was buried, and rose from the dead so that we could experience peace.。
On the cross, Jesus Christ was crucified, punished for your sins and mine, and when。
He declared on the cross, "It is finished," it was the same thing as Jesus saying, "Shut。
up to the storm."。
Because when He declared, "It is finished," that was His way of saying, "Be quiet to a。
different storm, the storm of sin that threatened to separate you and me from Him for all of。
eternity."。
He has gone to the cross and He has conquered the grave, making peace.。
So if you're, if this is your first time at the porch, if you don't know anything about。
Christianity, then I want to make sure you hear what I'm saying.。
Our message tonight isn't, "Do better, try harder."。
It's, "Hey, there's peace available with the God of the universe."。
Like you can leave tonight having peace with your Maker.。
Like you don't have to wait, you don't have to wonder, lay awake on those nights where。
it's just you and your thoughts and wonder, "Like if I were to die tonight, like what's。
going to happen?"。
Like if I stand before God and He looks at me and says, "Why do you deserve to be in。
heaven?"。
Like you don't have to wonder.。
Jesus Christ came to make peace between you and God.。
He takes all of your sin and He gives you all of His righteousness.。
So that when the God of the universe looks at you, you know what He sees through faith。
in Christ?。
He sees the righteousness of Jesus Christ, His Son, which is incredible.。
You can have peace with God tonight, but the only way it comes is through faith.。
It's inviting Christ into your life.。
It's giving your life to Jesus and just saying, "Jesus, I don't want to do life without You。
anymore."。
Like if you're the one and only one who can make peace with God, I want You.。
I want You to be the King of my life.。
Jesus cares about your peace.。
And if you ever question if God is in control, all you have to do is look at the empty tomb。
because that's where Jesus Christ took His life back from the grave.。
That's why Jesus can say in Revelation chapter 1 that He holds the keys to death and Hades.。
He is sovereign and in control of all things.。
So it kind of brings us to this question, like if Jesus loves us, then why would He。
lead us into situations that we can't control?。
Here's the simple answer.。
It gives Him an opportunity to show up in your life.。
The worst thing that He could ever do for you is let you go your whole life thinking。
that you are self-sufficient, to let you get to the end of your life and stand before God。
and realize that without a Savior, you have nothing.。
What if Jesus loves us so much to know that there's more joy waiting for us in dependence。
upon Him than in control of our own lives?。
What if He cares so much about our joy that He invites us into situations where we have。
no choice but to depend on Him?。
You know, it's interesting.。
I said that you have two choices, fear or faith.。
But I want you to look back at the wording of verse 41.。
What's their response when Jesus calms the storm?。
It says, "And they were filled with great fear."。
You would think it would say, "And they were filled with great faith."。
Jesus says, "Why are you afraid?。
Have you still no faith?"。
They should be filled with faith now, but it says, "Jesus said, 'Why are you so afraid?。
Have you still no faith?'。
And they were filled with great fear."。
That feels off.。
It's a different type of fear.。
You know what faith is?。
Faith is choosing not to fear your circumstances because you fear the one who's in control。
of your circumstances.。
See, it's a different type of fear.。
It's a fear driven by faith.。
It's not the opposite of faith.。
It's the product of faith.。
It's believing that the one who's in control of your life, the one who's in the boat of。
your life, is in control and can give peace.。
I'll close by just showing you one more thing in the Scriptures.。
So years ago I was just battling some stress and anxiety in my life and so I went to see。
a biblical counselor.。
A biblical counselor is just someone who opens up the Bible, listens to what's going on in。
your life, and then shares Scripture with you to encourage you with it.。
And so I sit with him, I share with him what's causing me stress, and guess where he takes。
me in the Bible?。
Mark chapter 4.。
So he opens up Mark chapter 4, tells me his story about Jesus coming to the storm.。
I'm like, "That's so great.。
Thank you so much.。
I paid a lot of money just for you to show me that story."。
Okay, that's great.。
But before our session was over, this is the thing that I remember.。
Before that session was over, he just said, "Hey man, you have to see Acts chapter 12."。
I was like, "Man, what's Acts chapter 12?"。
And he had me turn over to Acts chapter 12, which is a story about Peter.。
Peter was one of the guys in the boat.。
Now what's interesting is we don't know who ran to Jesus and said, "Do you not care that。
we're perishing?"。
But if you know anything about Peter, it sounds like something he would say.。
We don't know for sure.。
Peter was a speak first, think second kind of guy.。
But we do know that that question articulates what everyone in the boat was thinking.。
Do you not care?。
And so this is amazing.。
Turn to Acts chapter 12.。
It's a story about Peter.。
King Herod has just put James to death.。
And he sees that people are so excited that he put James to death that he arrests Peter.。
And what the text kind of leads us to believe is on that night, like Herod plans to put。
Peter to death.。
So here Peter is on another night with a different storm where his life is on the line.。
But listen to what Peter is doing.。
This is amazing.。
Watch this.。
Now when Herod was about to bring him out on that very night, what's Peter doing?。
Peter was sleeping.。
Between two soldiers bound with two chains and sentries before the doors were guarding。
the prison.。
Behold, an angel of the Lord stood next to him and a light shone in the cell.。
He struck Peter on the side and welcomed saying, "Get up quickly."。
And the chains fell off his hands.。
So just think about this.。
Follow me on this.。
Peter's on the boat, runs to Jesus and what's Jesus doing?。
He's sleeping.。
What's Peter's question?。
Or one of their questions.。
Do you not care that we're perishing?。
Jesus gets up, calms the storm, goes to the cross, conquers the grave, comes to Peter,。
looks at Peter and says to him in John 21, "You follow me."。
And Peter took him so seriously that on another night with another storm where his life is。
on the line, you know what he does?。
He's like, "I know exactly what to do.。
I go to sleep."。
He said to follow me.。
I know what to do when storms in life come.。
I sleep peacefully.。
And he's sleeping so peacefully that an angel shows up and it's not enough.。
Did you see the text?。
Like the angel comes in, light shines, he's still asleep.。
The angel has to strike him to wake him.。
It's amazing.。
It's like, "Dude, get up.。
I'm an angel.。
You should be up by now."。
And so it's just a good, it's instructive.。
Like if sleeping peacefully when death is knocking at the door is the goal, then can't。
we all agree that we probably all have some room to grow?。
Like tonight are you going to sleep peacefully?。
Like whenever you find out who wins this election, are you going to be able to sleep at night?。
Like what's going to keep you up tonight?。
And will you lay down and go to sleep knowing that the Prince of Peace, the one who just。
has to say the word is in the boat of your life and he cares?。
Let's pray together.。
I just want to invite you right now, look, here's what we're going to do.。
We're going to have people up front who are available and ready to pray with you.。
So if it would be helpful to you to talk to someone or have someone pray with you over。
what's stressing you out, you can totally do that.。
We're going to sing in just a minute, but if you need to kind of ask your friend to。
pray over you, to put a hand on you and pray over you and whatever's stressing you out,。
you should do that.。
You don't have to rush out of this place.。
You can sit here and do business with the Lord and just wait on Him to bring peace into。
your life for whatever it is.。
If you're here tonight and you don't have a relationship with Jesus and you're realizing。
for the first time that Jesus Christ wants to give you peace with God, then I want to。
encourage you right now just to invite Christ into your life.。
So pray with me.。
Just say, "Lord Jesus, would you come into my life tonight?。
Thank you, Jesus, that you died for me.。
Thank you that you rose from the dead for me.。
Would you come into my life?。
Would you forgive me of all of my sins?。
Would you make me at peace with God?。
And would you lead me in a new life?"。
If you just received Christ into your life, my encouragement to you is to tell someone。
tonight.。
And for everyone else here, this is just time for you to, maybe you need to sing in response。
to declare that you trust Jesus.。
Maybe you need to sit and pray.。
Whatever you need to do, if you need to come up and have someone pray for you, this is。
the time for you to respond to God.。
We need you and we love you.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
