Oh my gosh. I'm so glad you're here. And I am so excited for this. Oh my goodness. Bless you. Come sit. Come sit with me.。
Well friends, we have talked so much. We did an entire series on Inter-Renewal Leads to Corporate Revival. We have talked about Awaken. We have mentioned in different moments what God is doing across the world and yet for me it has felt so abstract to our room because all we often see is just what's happening around us.。
So God in his kindness by way of the Church Leaders Conference, which is happening here at Watermark, brought us a friend all the way to share with us what is not abstract for her, but is very real for her instead.。
And so Sarah, thank you for being here.。
No, can I say it is such a treat to be with you. Greetings from across the pond. And I've only been here for a few days, but I can tell you I've fallen in love with Texas. I've encountered, I tell you, I've encountered…。
Y'all can give her a little bit more than that. Come on Texas.。
I've encountered, should I tell you, I've encountered Texan BBQ. I mean, wow, why have I never had that before? I've encountered today Nerd Gummy Clusters. Who knew about those? Wow. I've encountered Baby Jesus. Have you come across these? I mean, I tell you, who knew? Who knew? And I'm developing my, I'll come back, now you hear it.。
There you go.。
I'm going to take him back with me. So thank you for having me. It's been such a treat being here.。
Oh, we're so glad you're here. Genuinely. I hope this isn't the last time. I hope we get to have you back. And it is an honor, truly an honor to have you here on stage. Sarah, there's a lot that I want us to talk about. Would you just give us like a brief bio, some background on yourself? Like, who are you? What's God been doing in your life? What have you seen? Anything that you want to share on that topic would be wonderful before we keep going.。
I would love to. Well, I don't know, maybe like some of you, I didn't grow up in a Christian household. I'm the fourth, I'm the youngest daughter of four, four girls, can you imagine?。
I'm the youngest of four.。
Oh, come on, come on. I grew up in London, a great family, love my mom and dad, really happy home. And it wasn't until I was 12, just about to turn 13, that my dad, who I adored, basically disclosed the secret life that none of us knew about. And it utterly devastated us. It devastated my mom, it devastated me. It was a pretty colorful secret life, shall we say.。
And really what happened is home, that had been this amazing safe place, suddenly became really unsafe. It became very volatile. And I suppose in my teenage mind, I thought, you know, if the person I trust the most actually isn't trustworthy, I can't trust anything.。
And, you know, I think I just began to spiral down. And looking back, I think I was probably quite depressed. And I remember thinking, what is the point of this short life? We're here for such a short amount of time. And what is, it's just like a mean joke.。
And my mom got really sick and ended up in hospital. And I used to go and do my homework in the afternoons in hospital with her. And just a whole series of events happened. And I didn't ever want to go home. I just go round and round on our underground, which is our tube, putting off going home, putting it off. And my dad would come and go.。
And my dad actually tried to take his life. And I found him. And I think for me, that was one of my lowest points in my life. And I think I thought, you know, as you do with a teenage brain, he can't love me enough to want to live. It's my fault. I've done something wrong.。
And those deep rejection, those, you know, those lies that come, they take root. And then I was in hospital with my mom. And it was kind of a time where I was in the Church of England school, nominal, none of my family were Christians. And I just thought Christians were so flaky. I thought, you know, they just haven't got their stuff together, have they?。
They're just so, and I had this school chaplain. He was an alcoholic, which, you know, poor guy, but he used to pass out and not make our lessons. We were like, yeah, free period. He hasn't made it. It's fantastic. And I thought that's what they're like, all these Christians, this kind of, I had never actually met a proper Christian, to be honest, but I was inoculated enough against it to think that is not what I want to do.。
It's antiquated. It's out of date. It's, you know, and then my mom, when I was in hospital, when she was in hospital, she said, Sarah, you've got so many big questions about life. My two elder sisters were at Cambridge University, leading the Mystic Society. And they were like, Sarah, you've got to keep going, because you're going to be reincarnated to something better. And if you don't, if we mess up on this one, we'll all come back as ants. And I was like, oh, my goodness.。
But, you know, it's always like two in the morning, when you're by yourself in your room. Even if it made sense, mentally, it didn't come close to the hurt. It didn't come close to the hole that I was feeling I was sinking into.。
So I go to hospital. I say to mom, I'm not getting confirmed with what they want me to do at school. Christians are hypocrites. I'm not going near them. And she, not being a Christian, says, Sarah, won't you just find a church to ask some of your big questions?。
And I remember thinking, that is the last place on the planet that's going to ask these questions. But I would have done anything for her, because I didn't think she was going to make it. And so I literally looked up Central London Church, never having been. And I phoned them up. I came up with this church called Holy Trinity Brompton, HTB for short, phoned them up, and I said, have you got anywhere I can come and ask questions?。
And they said, sure. Why don't you come on a Wednesday night at 6.30? And literally, I remember, I nearly bottled it. I nearly didn't go. I was like, can I wear jeans to church? Can I not? And I remember pitching up. And it's the church I've been at for decades. And I came through the glass doors. And there I was, this 13-year-old with these weird questions.。
Nobody condemned me. It's like I was staring at people's eyes. I saw the love of Christ in their eyes. I was like, you have got something that I want. And I could feel it. They never said, where are you from? Why have you pitched up? Where's your family? They just loved me week after week.。
And I just started to hear about Jesus that I thought I knew about him. But nobody had said I could have this personal relationship with him. Nobody had said that he's alive. Nobody had told me that there was this freedom that I could have. And I think I was just ready to sign on the dotted line. I was like, when are they going to ask me? Come on.。
And eventually, I remember the night that I was like, I've got to let go of the reins. I know I've got to let go of this control. I've got to let go of the rejection. I've got to let it all go. And I've got to invite him into my life for real.。
And I remember that moment, and I tell you, it was like liquid love just flowing through me. It felt like the arms of the Father were like, welcome home, Sarah. Welcome home. And I've never left since. It was like freedom for me.。
It's so amazing because we've had some amazing people speaking at these conferences. And on Sunday, I was here at church, and someone was saying that they've done this analysis that CBT, cognitive therapy, is the equivalent of when you have ministry of the Holy Spirit.。
They've said the same things happen in your brain and your neural pathways. And honestly, for three years in worship, I would blub. I would like, I'm going to have it together. I've got my mascara on. Nothing is going to happen. I'd go in and I would weep the presence of God, the healing, the freedom.。
Three months later, my mum was healed. She became Christian. A year later, my two elder sisters became Christians. A year later, my other sister, who was like, what has happened? She came to faith. And you know what?。
My dad disappeared. We had a missing persons out for him. He took all our money. We had to leave our schools. We lost our home. We could never live together all again. And yet we'd lost everything, practically, physically, monetarily. We were so rich.。
The joy that we had, we put our worship music on in the kitchen and we'd be like, come on, Jesus, you can rescue us. You can do this. And he stepped in as father. And I have to say, throughout the decades, as I look back, he has literally, I won scholarships for schools I shouldn't have.。
We found money in our shoe when we never had it. And I was like, God has provided. And it's just been an amazing adventure. And yeah, so that's where it's begun for me.。
That is so amazing. This is off the beaten path a little bit, but we were just talking about this a moment ago. And we were talking about how the line between faith and foolishness can feel so razor thin, and yet if you're willing to live by faith, you'll see the things that you've seen. You'll see God move in the most amazing ways.。
What has that experience been like for you? To say like, yes, God, I will continue to say yes, even though it's scary, even though it feels hard, even though it doesn't necessarily make sense. God, I'm willing to give you my faith. I'm willing to give you my belief. I'm willing to follow you wherever it is you lead.。
Anything that comes to mind for that? Well, do you know, I mean, I've got three daughters who are all in their 20s. And that generation are always in our house. They're always around our table. And so many of them aren't Christians. And they're always saying, I don't know what my purpose is in life. Like, what is it? I don't know. How do you decide what you're going to do with your life, career choices, paths, you know.。
And, you know, I want to say to them, we have the greatest purpose of all lifetime in the whole of history. We have the Great Commission. There is nothing like being a Christian. You know, no career. You know, I've seen people get to the top of their careers, and they're like, it's empty. Why didn't someone tell me? When you get to the top of it, there is nothing there.。
I've seen people pursue relationships, just going all out, you know, the body beautiful. That's what I want to do. I want to get a wife or a husband and pursue it. And, you know, if they haven't got Jesus in their life, they just drain the other one dry. They've got nothing to give. And I've just seen how God can transform relationships and be in the center.。
And so, for me, I think there is no greater adventure than knowing Jesus. And, you know, when you really see him, he is captivating. He is the most charismatic man. I mean, let's face it, he turned water into wine. He loved to party. You know, he was with the outcasts. He was hanging out with the prostitutes. He was hanging out with the tax collectors.。
He was on the forefront of the, you know, everywhere that the religious elite would think, oh, you can't go there. You know, and he's the same. And so, for me, it's the biggest adventure. And I just want everyone to experience it. And, you know, for us in our nation, we've had kind of nominal Christians.。
People who've kind of grown up and, you know, their parents and their grandparents have been Christians. And they've gone to school and, like me, hated it and thought, I don't want any. It's out of date. You know, the kind of the sexual ethics. I mean, what Victorian society are you living in? You know, come on, we're enlightened. But we're seeing something extraordinary happening.。
Yeah, that's right. And, you know, in the last three years, I'd say, and you know, the context we're in, and I don't know what it's like here, but for us, it's like secular. It's atheistic. You know, all of our education is like, God is dead. He doesn't exist. And you are so naive. And you're so backward if you believe in God. You know, our churches are shrinking. Our churches are being sold off. And it's just like, atheism is the way.。
And yet, you know, we've got, we're most digitally connected than we've ever been as a generation. And yet we're most anxious. That's right. We're most isolated. And we're not happy. And, you know, what we're seeing now is a move of God like I've never seen. Yeah. And we're seeing young men and women in their early 20s. I mean, for example, we planted churches. So in our churches, I remember we had a zoom call with some of our church pastors. And I was like, how's it going? How's the term?。
And they were like, we don't know where these young people are coming from. We haven't done advertising. We haven't invited them to church. Nobody's invited them to church. They're just pitching up. And they're saying things like, in my dorm at university, I had this vision of Jesus. And Jesus showed me that I needed to ask for the gospel. So I've come here on Sunday saying, will you show me the gospel? And our pastors like give them the Bible. And they're like, no, I don't want this. I want the gospel. And they're like, it's in here.。
It's in here. And you know, 21 year old Hindu girl at university, she's in her bedroom at night. This presence comes into her bedroom. And she's like, she knew it was God. And she was like, who are you? What is your name? And he said, I am the father of Jesus Christ. And she was like, who is that? And she goes to church to one of our pastors. And she's at Oxford University, bright cookie.。
And she goes and she says, I've got to talk to you. Last night in my bedroom, this vision appeared. And they said they were the father of Jesus Christ. Who is the father? Who is Jesus Christ? She only knew Jesus as a swear word. And you know, she's come to faith. She's reading her Bible. She's got this new sense of freedom.。
You know, young guy called Will. I know it's phenomenal. There's this young guy that we met, we must have met him about two months ago in one of our churches. Chronic anxiety, just crippling anxiety, kind of on recreational drugs, get a gaming all day, couldn't leave his room. And you know, he's fit, he should be on the soccer pitch, great looking young guy. Locked down, parents didn't know what to do with him. He couldn't leave his room, crippled with such fear.。
And slightly dabbling in the occult, because there's a spiritual awakening in your generation. There is something people want to encounter, they want something more. And he explained to me and my husband, we sat with him. And he said, I was so fearful and anxious. I couldn't leave. I couldn't have meals outside of my room. I couldn't talk to friends unless I was gaming online.。
And he said, one night he went to sleep. And he had a dream. And in his dream, Jesus appeared to him. And he said, I don't know who Jesus is, but I knew it was Jesus. And he said, read the Bible. And so he woke up. And he thought, he just remembered it really clearly. And he thought, I don't think we have a Bible in this house. His parents are atheists, grandparents are atheists.。
Then he thought, I think my granny might have had one of those King James Bibles, those tiny ones. Let's face it, at best of times, you can't really read them. So he went and hunted one out. He came out with it. And he said, I didn't understand a word. He said, all I can say is when I read it, the anxiety left me. And when I didn't, it came back.。
And he came on one of our courses, found out about Jesus. The guy is transformed, the freedom. And he basically was like, why doesn't everybody know this? He said, why are my friends in lockdown and anxiety? And he said, they just need to encounter Jesus.。
And the day we met him, the day before, he'd met some of his friends, who also had introduced these other guys who were at Jesus. And they're just so on fire. And they were like, we decided that we were going to go out and give Bibles on the street. And can I just tell you, you'd be spat at. I mean, it's not a good idea. And so his pastor was like, okay, well, you sure you're going to do this? And he goes, yeah, we're going to do it on the high street.。
So like the shopping mall where everybody's walking around and being busy. So he and two other friends, I think they took 300 Bibles that they got, they bought of their own money. And they went out. And within two hours, they had 300 conversations and gave out 300 Bibles. The next, I mean, phenomenal.。
The next day, we were up in Birmingham, which is a big university city. We heard the same story. They didn't know anything about the story we'd heard the day before. They said, you know what, some of our students have been going out on campus. They took 3000 Bibles with them. And in an afternoon, they gave them all out.。
I'm seeing people come carrying Bibles. I haven't seen Bibles carried in years. They've got highlighter pens. They're coming to church. And our youth group, like our youth pastor, he's great and always doing really fun things. And they come early. I mean, whoever comes early.。
I mean, they don't in the UK. You're like, oh, yeah, we're going to start now. They're going to arrive in 10 minutes. And they're coming early. They're camping out. And they're basically coming up to our youth pastors and saying, listen, we love what you do. You and the team work so hard. But can we just ditch the bingo? And can we go straight to Bible study and worship?。
That's so crazy. It's this hunger in them. And you know, they want something authentic. They want something deep and ancient. And you know, what I'm hearing from them is our parents are atheists. We know it doesn't work. That worldview is broken. It causes anxiety. It's empty. What we've been taught all our lives in education is wrong. And we've been told there's no truth. It's subjective. You do your thing. You do you. You be the best you can be.。
You know, they're like, no. And they're saying the sexual revolution hasn't freed women. It's objectified women. They hate the hookup culture. And they're coming into the church and they're saying, what does the church have to say about this? So it's an extraordinary move. And three of our churches have come together. And three of these amazing young pastors. And they've just basically said, listen, we want to champion each other. Why don't we just pray for each other? We don't want to compete.。
There's too much competition in the world. We want to cheer each other on. Why don't we come together once a month and invite young people who want to come and pray? Now, this is to pray. This isn't a social gathering. This is like to pray. And you know, at Easter, 3,000 young people came.。
And they come at 7 p.m. to pray till 7 a.m. And when I see them, they are on the floor prostrate. They're crying out for their parents' generation and their grandparents. And I went to this event where my kids dragged me Saturday night. I've clearly got no social life.。
And they're like, Mum, you've got to come with us. And I was the oldie. I was like the dinosaur in the back row. And there were 600 18 to 24-year-olds. And there was a moment, we were there for hours, can I say, but there was a moment in the worship towards the end of this evening when I opened my eyes and I just saw these young people on the floor literally crying for the nation.。
Saying they are so desperate. We are so desperate because we are going down the tubes. And politics is not going to solve it. Economics is not going to solve it. It's only Jesus and his church that is going to bring hope. It's only him. And they're crying out. And they're weeping. And they are wailing. I mean, literally, it's not attractive. They are really weeping.。
Yeah, good praying typically is it, you know. Yeah. And I'm watching them. And I'm feeling like, oh, I'm feeling so stirred. And then the worship plan starts. And they all get up. They take off their trainers. And they start lifting their trainers. And they say, send me, send me. And it's honestly, they're like, commission me. It's like Isaiah 6. It's like, God, I'm so abandoned. My life is nothing if you're not in it.。
And they're like surrendering their careers. They're surrendering their relationships. They want purity. They want the narrow path. They don't want the big path. And they're saying, I don't care what it costs. Send me. And I'll never forget these trainers in the air. And, you know, they are so sold out.。
And I have this group of young girls who've just come to Christ. And a couple of weeks ago, they sat down with me. And they said, Sarah, can we ask you some personal questions, which is always a little bit worrying. And I'm like, sure. Undefended. What do you want to ask? And they're like, well, we were just chatting. And we were saying, um, you know, we wonder how often you fast a week. Is it once or twice a week? How many days do you fast? This is what they're asking me. I'm like, ah, because the Bible says when you fast. So is it one or two?。
And I'm thinking, oh, my goodness. You know, I'm not fasting. And here are these young people so sold out. They're like, it says it. We're going to do it. We're going to live a different way. We're going to be distinctive. And I tell you, that is what is changing our nation. That is what it is the army that we've been praying for. The harvest isn't a problem. Guys, the harvest in America is ready. It's the workers of you.。
And then we've got to pray that God will raise up the workers and say, look at you here tonight. I don't know why you're here tonight. I don't know if this is just in your calendar, but I just want us there to say, I don't think it's an accident you're here. I think God wants to commission you. He wants to stir you. He wants to say, don't put labels. Don't let people label you to say you're too young or too inexperienced or don't know enough. Because I believe he's launching this generation to be the answer for our nation and to go for it.。
Okay. I, I have to ask because it may escape us. I don't know if you, if our crowd tracks with genuinely how secular the UK had become. And yet everything you just described is so radically opposite of every place that has traditionally been true. How does that happen? Like, because I think the question in my mind is like, how do we get that here?。
It's like, God, what I've spent, my team can attest this. We spend a lot of time praying and contending and pleading and begging. Oh God, won't you move here? So I think I'm just trying to get a little bit of what's on you on us. So any thought about that? Like, gosh, like this is what really moved the needle that changed things. And obviously it's attributed to the spirit, but any thoughts that come to mind?。
Totally. You know, I, I just think we're so desperate. We are so desperate. And I think there's a level of, we've slept walk into this place. And I just want to say to you, you know, the one thing the UK is leading America in is church decline. I mean, whoa, amazing. You know, do not get to where we are. You don't have to get to where we are in the, in the US. You've got an opportunity not to be asleep on your watch.。
We were asleep on our watch. And yet we were church planting. And in our network, we were seeing amazing, amazing fruit. But when I look nationally, we're in rapid decline. We're closing, you know, every closed church is like the palace of a long forgotten king. The people who walk by say the king is dead. And we want to say no, he's very much alive. So we're on a mission to not close one more church in our nation.。
We're on a mission to raise up 1000s of church planters. We're on a mission to raise up 1000s of worship leaders, kids pastors, we want to see a whole generation captured for Jesus, because that is what is going to turn around our nation. But it's simply, I think what you said prayer, I think we've come to the place of God, letting go of control. There's no strategy that can do this. There's no whiteboard. I mean, I love strategy. We're full of like, I've got 10 year plan and all the steps and the project plans.。
And it's almost like God has said, I'm sovereign. And if you really let go, and it's risky, because you're out of control. You know, some of these gatherings that we have, we're like, Holy Spirit, what are you going to do? Yeah, you know, and you've got 1000s of young people who are just crazy, like sold out for God and like, where are they going to go? And who's going to disciple? I mean, I met someone the other day, this incredible young person who just come to faith and they were like, do you know that Adam and Eve are in the Bible?。
Do you know that? I mean, like, you know, Adam and Eve, and I'm like, yeah, I know Adam and Eve. They're in the Bible. I mean, like, there was no biblical literacy. They have no idea. They literally know Jesus as a swear word. But God has captured their hearts. And I think, I think it's that crying out to God, you know, even throughout the Bible, if just one stands in the gap, I will not destroy the city.。
That's right. Who is going to stand? Who's going to contest for your college students, for your family, for your sister, for your brother, for your parents, you know, who is and it's not going to happen if we're lukewarm. You know, aren't we just so bored of traditional Christianity? Yes. Are we just bored? You know, there is nothing but adventure in the Bible. That's right. I mean, it's the craziest novel, if you read it cover to cover. I mean, it's bonkers. And people are being healed. They're being set free. You know, they're, I mean,。
it's amazing. They're feeding the 5,000 out of two loaves and few fishes. I mean, the demoniac, I mean, you name it. Listen, we've got people who need freedom. Yeah, that's right. Who are in lockdown. And we have secret sauce. Yeah, we've got the power, the same power that raised Christ in the dead lives in you and me. Do you know that? It's the same power. And I think the enemy just wants to keep a lid on us.。
So just be a nice, modest Christian, just live nicely. And just, you know, don't rock the boat. Yeah, just be pleasant. I think I mean, goodness, I think the invitation that you just spoke to in the scripture is so clear of like, five loaves, two fish doesn't equal seven people. It equals 5000. That doesn't make any worldly sense. Because we're not of this world. Yeah. Yeah. This isn't our home. It's not our home. Okay.。
And we're just passing through. And you know, the other thing that really struck me, it took 12 people to rock the world. That's right. Look how many are in this room. If we really pressed in, can you imagine what would happen in Dallas? Can you imagine what would happen across the whole of the state? You know, and we're supposed to be weird. We're not supposed to look like other people. We're not supposed to sound like them. We're supposed to be countercultural. And you know, it's exciting. Salt is salty, yeast in the dough.。
Have you ever come across yeast? It looks so useless. And it's useless by itself. It's not an essence in the dough. We're called to be in the dough, in the world, but not of it. And I just think I'm so excited about what God's doing in this generation. And I know he's doing it here in the US. And I know there's an uptick of young men coming back to the church. I know that he's stirring. And I just want to encourage you, if he can do it, if the Holy Spirit can move in crusty Church of England,。
in our old buildings that are falling down and stoning, if he can move in people who are so inoculated against any faith, he can do it anywhere.。
That's amazing. So great. Sarah, I would love for you, because you are in just the short time that we've known each other, and we've gotten the chance to visit one of the most courageous people, because God has not given us a spirit of fear, but one of power, love and self control. Opposite of fear is courage.。
And your story is one where as y'all have taken on the task of church planting, it just doesn't make sense, given the society you're in and the way that people respond. I mean, Jesus is a curse word. And yet y'all have said not on our watch.。
Like we're going to do something. We will be the one that stands in the gap. Where did that courage come from? And what does it look like for my friends to pick up some of that for themselves?。
I don't feel very courageous, can I say. Fear is very real. And what I've realized is that when I look at me, I'm so inadequate. My resources are really limited. I haven't got what it takes. But then I remember I'm hidden in him. It's not my resources, it's him. And with him, it's limitless resources.。
I've got the resources of heaven at my fingertips. You have the resources of heaven at your fingertips. It doesn't matter about your qualification, your education, your past does not define your future.。
And what I've realized is that the more we step out in his strength, the weaker we feel. So don't get me wrong, I go into context where the fear comes. I was talking to some people this week and they were like, "Oh, you're bold." And I was like, "Well, should I really tell you how it goes?"。
I remember being in a meeting. I walked in and it was actually just a room full of men, of pastors. They all had dog collars on and I hadn't worn my dog collar because I hadn't thought about it and I never do. And it was in our institutional church. It's kind of like if you've seen Harry Potter, it's like kind of going into the ministry and there's this woman with these little glasses and she's kind of like at reception saying, "I dare you to come in. Why are you here?" You know, this kind of thing.。
And so it's quite intimidating. And I remember going into this meeting and I walked in and I kind of looked at all these other priests and I kind of tried to catch their eyes. You know when you go into a room and you don't know anybody. And they sort of looked at me and then looked away. And so I did what you'd probably do. I went to the coffee station and I went to make a cup of coffee and still looking to see if somebody would say hello. And I'm a friendly bunch.。
So I then sort of thought, "Oh, I know what I'll do." So I turned to one of them. I said, "Oh, can I fill up your coffee?" He goes, "Oh, yes." He passed me his coffee cup, filled it up. And then the next one passed me his cup and I filled it up. And I suddenly realized they thought I was the tea lady.。
Of course. They thought I was the tea lady. And the imposter syndrome just welled up in me. And I wanted to shrink. I wanted to leave the room. So I did what any good woman does. I went to the restroom. And as I went to the restroom, to be honest, I went in and I looked under the cubicles and I knew nobody was there because there are never any women in this building. There's only men. I love men. It's great. But I know that there's never a queue for this loo.。
So I go in and literally this is what I do. Okay, no joke. I'm going into the restroom and I look underneath and then I'm like this. I'm like, "I am the head and not the tail. I'm fearfully and wonderfully made. No weapon formed against me will prosper." And I literally had to -- I was like a demented woman shouting. They probably hear me down the hall. But I was like, "I have to break what is on me."。
>> That's right. >> And I carried on and on until it lifted and then I went back into the room. But the only problem was when I went back into the room, they were all then seated. And there was one -- and I felt -- they probably weren't thinking this, but I felt they all turned around and thought, "What's the tea lady doing coming back in again?" And I went and I sat right next to the chair because it was the only place that was free. And then the chair said, "Oh, we welcome Sarah who's presenting to us today."。
And the room was like, "Really?" But can I tell you? I only tell you that because it never gets easier. But what it does is believing whose we are, not who we are. If I think it's all about me, nothing is going to be. But if I remember, if you remember your identity, you are children of the King of Kings. You're adopted. We have got a different bloodline. We have power.。
You know, what you bind on earth, we bind in heaven. We have -- our words have power. What you speak over yourself has power. What you speak over your future has power. You know, I love all this kind of manifesting, but I feel like saying to people, "No, no, no, no. This is scriptural. We've got to speak out, you know, promises. Call it out of each other."。
So you're very kind to say I'm courageous. I'm not. I just -- I know that the Lion of Judah goes ahead. And I know he roars. And when he roars, every knee bows.。
I love it. We have this saying that we frequent within our team on the topic of inner renewal and outward revival and the way in which God might pour forth his Spirit. And it's like we would rather be gullible about revival than cynical.。
Like we would rather be like, "That wasn't you? We thought that was you," rather than us get there and be like -- and him look at us and say, "Were you guys not paying attention? I was moving the whole time."。
And so that thought of, "Oh, goodness. Wouldn't we be -- I mean, 1 Corinthians 15 talks about it within the concept of the resurrection. We are to be pitied above all men if this isn't true. But if it is, then good on us for believing." Right? Sarah, you have been a part of so many amazing stories through the church planting that is taking place in the UK, much of which you oversee.。
Does anything, any of those stories, do they particularly -- anyone come to mind that would serve as just useful to this room? I have a couple more questions, but I'm just curious. We've heard a story about Fernando out of CLC, which was incredible, but anything else? I don't know. I'm just curious. You're loaded with stories.。
Well, the thing is, in our church, if you're going to go through the Church of England, you have to go to seminary for three years. And you have to get into seminary. You have to be assessed. It takes seven years, the whole training. And generally, they say, "Where was your first degree?" And so you have to have kind of -- it's kind of quite elite.。
And in our church, we suddenly got these opportunities to plant into some of the most deprived areas in the country. Now, our church is in the wealthiest area in the whole of the country. We've got Harrods, that is our local shop, if you know that. You know, it's not exactly an area of deprivation.。
And yet, we were being invited to plant into areas which had food poverty, illiteracy rates, domestic abuse, addiction. And we were like, "Oh, my goodness." You know, like, I don't know what I would do pastoring in a place like that. But we suddenly saw we had men and women in our congregation who were leading, like, our connect groups, our discipleship groups, who were born evangelists.。
But, you know, they'd been drug addicts. They'd been set free. They'd encountered Jesus. He had turned their life upside down. And they were all out. So we'd go to them. We'd say, "Listen, we see a call on your life. What do you think about being ordained in the Church of England?" And they'd be like, "You must be joking. There's no way I'm doing that."。
And they'd say things to me like, "I don't see anybody who looks like me on the platform, whether it's ethnicity, whether it's socioeconomic background." They were like, "No, I've been told I'm rubbish all my life. I don't need to go through that process and be spat out."。
And so we realised we needed to love them through the system. And so we recognised, you know, the Apostle Paul, high pedigree, amazing, you know, orator, fantastic theologian. We need them. Peter, rough fisherman. I think he'd be tattooed up to here if he was here now. And Jesus says, "I will build my church on you."。
And these were the Peters. And so, you know, high EQ. And, you know, would you rather have a pastor who's got high EQ or IQ? I think you want EQ, don't you? You want them to love people, to be, you know.。
And so we launched this Peters stream. And I can't tell you what it's taken our theological college by storm. We've got 100 of them studying at the moment. We've got Gav, who was a coke addict for 14 years. I remember teaching at the seminary, and I saw Gav in the front row, and he was sniffing like this.。
And there was this older lady who was on the independent track. And I saw her, you know, when you're speaking sometimes, you're having another conversation with yourself. I was speaking, and I was like, "Oh, where is she? Oh, no, she's going to get the Kleenex." She came back down, she gave the Kleenex to Gav.。
And Gav was like, really loud voice in the front row, goes, "Oh, don't worry, love. I've just blown my nose on cocaine. It always drops." And I was like, in the seminary, I was like, "No, Gav, no." But I tell you, you take Gav into a prison, and I tell you the evangelism on that wing, because Gav talks their talk.。
And it's the same as Fernando. Fernando was born in a prison. None of his family had ever been married. He'd never seen marriage modeled. And he left school at 13, no qualifications. He then got involved in drugs. He became a drug addict.。
He ended up in this drug den in a place in London, and somehow someone came in and said, "Fernando, Jesus loves you." And he encountered Jesus, went to rehab, read his Bible 10 hours a day in rehab. He then came, and I was in a different role, and I interviewed him for one of our youth pastors, thinking, "Ooh, bit of a rough diamond. I don't know how this is going to work."。
And I thought, "Well, we'll give it a go." And I tell you, Fernando has been phenomenal. He went through our seminary. He qualified, the first thing he's ever qualified in, in getting his theological degree. He's a CrossFit champion in the UK.。
And every Sunday, I'd meet someone new, and they'd go, "Met Fernando at the gym. Met Fernando at the bus stop. Met Fernando at the supermarket." This guy can't help but be an evangelist, whatever he is, for Jesus. And he was, my husband kind of mentored him for the last five years, and we launched him in a church plant last summer.。
Guess where God applauded him? Right in the same area where the drug den had been. And Fernando is like, "Get me at it. I want to minister to these prostitutes, to these alcoholics, to these addicts. They're my people."。
The church has quadrupled in size. He's baptizing people every week. He is so on fire. And you know, we need the Fernandos of this world. And I believe God is raising them up. Don't ever disqualify yourself.。
God has called you. You might not look the shape that you think you can see on the platform, but I tell you, there is a reason why you're here. God has got a gifting. He has designed you. He knows what he has you for. And it's my joy to release these young men and women and to say, "We are going to back you all the way. We are going to believe in you. We're going to put scaffolding around you so you don't blow up the church. We're going to help you."。
And we're seeing it. Claude, six foot seven. Claude, massive, brilliant black guy. I love Claude. He used to run the biggest drug county lines in our country. He encountered Jesus in a phenomenal way. Again, on a park bench talking to someone.。
And he just, I remember him coming to church weeping, weeping. And he's huge. He's really big. And anyway, he came to me and he said, "Sarah, you know, I think I could really help you with the network because I had quite a network in the UK." And I was like, "Thanks so much, Claude. I think it's a slightly different network."。
And he's written this book, Guns to God. I mean, it is 99 pages on guns and one page on God, but you can get it on Amazon. And he has been ordained. And when I was at St. Paul's Cathedral and I saw Claude in his robes, because we have to get ordained in our robes, not that we ever wear them again, I just wanted to weep.。
Because what God had done in Claude's life, and I tell you, that man is a gentle giant. God has transformed him. And he's on the move. He will evangelize to anything that moves. So we're seeing these amazing kind of redemption stories. We're seeing God use the surprising.。
And it doesn't surprise me because I often think, you know, I now recruit people. I don't think I would have recruited one of the disciples, not one. I would have recruited like the highly educated, the well-connected, well-traveled, proven track record. They were none of the above.。
Yeah, that's amazing. I mean, those 12 that Jesus recruited, I mean, they're complete misfits, you know, four uneducated fishermen, a religious zealot, a tax collector. I mean, and yet Jesus must have seen the potential in you. That's right. And I think that is our job, is to see the potential in our friends, in our colleagues, and to call it out of them and say, I see a gifting on you.。
Let's be kingdom people. Let's not just build our careers and try and get our homes. I mean, these are all good things. And God wants to use you wherever he's going to send you. But being sold out for him and saying, getting the trainers off, send me wherever I stay.。
I think that's so important for you to hear, because it's so easy, particularly here in Dallas, Texas, the most nominal Christian schools, to really believe like, yeah, I believe that Jesus would save me. But many of you don't think that Jesus would actually send you.。
And he would. He will. He wants to work not only in you, he wants to work through you. Yet all you have to do is just simply say, yes, such a timely word, Sarah. Two final thoughts that I would love you to speak into.。
Number one, I think for the skeptic in the room, the person that hears about everything that's happening over there and thinks that's wonderful for them, but I'm quite okay here. My life is good. I'm grateful for the way things are. I don't need any of what they're having. I think I'm fine. And I'm skeptical even that it would ever take place here.。
What would you say to that person? What would you say to the skeptical?。
There comes a point where there's a decision, and you have to decide what's your priority in life going to be. Are you going to be on the fringes? Are you going to be dangling your feet into the swimming pool? Or are you going to dive in?。
I'll tell you, if you want a life of adventure, if you want to really live abundant life, I'm not saying it's going to be easy. It's battle and blessing all the way. But I tell you, we belong to a different kingdom. And we may not see that, but on the other side of eternity, we're going to think, oh, you're going to think this is what I invested in. I invested into this kingdom. Or we're going to say, I wish I'd seen it.。
Why did I invest in me? Why did I invest in the things that rot and that ruin? Why didn't I go all out? And I just want to encourage you, don't wait for that. We have a mission, people. We have the best mission. And we have every resource of heaven behind us. And I don't think there's ever been a more exciting time to be alive.。
I really don't. And you know, you look back at those 12 misfits of disciples, they shook the world and they continue to shake the world. They've outlived every empire. Where is the Roman Empire now? You look forward, the Iranian church is the fastest growing church in the world. The Chinese church, the underground church, God is on the move. His spirit is on the move. And we don't want to be asleep.。
And I think in the West, the enemy comes to just inoculate us enough to think, I'm okay. And I just want to challenge you, ask the Holy Spirit to stir you. Ask him to say, I don't want to settle. I don't want an average life. I want to live. And whatever you call me to do, I want to step into it. And I don't know what that's going to be like for everyone here.。
But all I know is, you know, people want guidance. And I always say, you know, if you focus on the guidance, you're going to be so disappointed. Look to the guide. Get to know the guide. Whoever your guide is, whoever you listen to, we are all going to face crises at some time in our lives. You may have already faced them, but they're coming.。
I don't know anybody who doesn't have major challenges in their life right now. However young, however old. Who do you go to in those times? Who do you listen to in those times? Can I tell you, if you listen to Jesus, if you learn to hear his voice, if you learn to say, he says, my sheep know my voice. He knows you. He knows you intimately. Do you know that? He's created you. He's your father.。
You're not going to miss what he's got for you unless you are literally deliberately saying, I'm turning away. He wants to fill you. He wants to bless you. He wants to heal you. He wants you to go further than you could possibly imagine.。
You know, I've got kids. I want them to fly. You know, I'm not trying to hold them back. I'm saying, you go girls. You just go and let me give every resource I've got, as meager as it may be. Now, we've got a father in heaven who's got every resource. And I believe he's saying to you, my boy, my girl, come on, hand over the reins.。
How about you let me lead you? You let me lead your relationship. You let me help you in making those decisions. You let me help you forgive that person that feels so unforgivable in your life. And that is just going to breed bitterness in you. You help me remove the comparison that just is going to completely freeze you from doing anything. Let me help you. And that is the kind of father that we've got.。
- That's right. - And I've experienced it. And I know you've clearly experienced it. And we're a people on mission.。
- That's right. I was recently listening to John Tyson explain that Martin Luther King, when asked if he could live in any century, which century would it be? And he said, the end of the 20th, which is right in the middle of the civil rights movement. That was the hardest for him. And yet he knew it is in the place where the fighting is fiercest that God often moves the most.。
- Yeah. - And I think that that should be an encouragement to us that as we live in a modern moment where it feels like, I don't know that we're going to come back from this. Like it feels like culture is on a downturn. We are so perfectly positioned for a move of God to break forth and for something to happen in our day that they speak about for days to come.。
- Come on, come on. - Last thing, you were telling me down here that you had one final thing you wanted to share from your diary. Would you just end with that and then I'll close. - I will try and be quick. - Thank you. - You will be so patient. I just was remembering a story. A while ago, I went to a party. It was a great friend of mine across the other side of the city. And all our friends were there. Great night. And I got back in my car and I drove across. It was pouring with rain. Not like your crazy rain here.。
I mean, that's a whole nother level. I was like watching it last night. - It was pretty wild, yeah. - And I drove back home. And I remember getting back, taking my coat off. And as I took my coat off, I was like, oh, Sarah, you fool. I left my diary in the kitchen at this party. Now, leaving my diary is like leaving my phone. I'm one of those really sad people. I put everything in my diary. Like top of my diary, what I'm doing. I can't tell you really what I'm doing tomorrow because I'm looking at tonight to do.。
And I write everything. And it's just like the way I do. And I was like, oh, no, I'm just, this is going to be a nightmare. I'm not going to have time this week to go and pick up my diary. I won't know what I'm doing. And then I just thought, okay, I'm going to have to go now. I'm going to have to go back. And it was like one in the morning.。
So I was like, oh, and it's dark and it's miserable. And I was really cross with myself. So anyway, I get my coat back on. I get back into the car, drive back across the city, really annoyed and just thinking, this is irresponsible. You're going to be tired, Sarah. And that's just not good. And, you know, the whole thing.。
And then halfway there, I think, oh, my goodness, what happens if they've all gone to bed? What happens if I get there and they're not even awake? And I was like, oh, this is such a bad plan. This is such a bad plan. And then he turned around and I thought, well, I'm halfway there. So what I'll do is I'll do the other half. And then when I get there, if the lights are on, I'll be like, yeah, I'll knock on the door, grab the diary, back home, job done.。
Anyway, drive up, lights are on. I'm like, yay, they haven't gone to bed. So this is about half one, quarter to two by now. And so I go knock on the door. And my friend, whose place it is and has held the party, opens the door. And he's like, he stands there and he looks at me and he goes, Sarah, you're here. You're here.。
And I was like, yeah, I'm really sorry. I left my diary in the kitchen. Great party, by the way. Can I just grab the diary? And he's like, but you're here. And I was like, he's being really weird. And he's like, he looks like he's seen a ghost. He was like, here, here. And I was like, yeah, here.。
I said, because I left my diary. Do you mind if I just go and grab my diary? I think he's being really bizarre. And anyway, he said, yeah, yeah, come in, come in. And so we're good Brits. We go and have a cup of tea in the kitchen. Debrief, post-mortem about the party. Who got on with who? Was it great? And the whole thing. And he's like, yeah, Sarah, it was amazing, wasn't it? We had all our friends with us. It was a great party.。
But then he paused and he said, do you know what? As everyone left and I started clearing up, he said, I just started to sink down and down and down. He said, I felt completely alone. And he said, I got to the point whereby I actually thought, I think this life would be better without me here.。
And I never knew anything, that he ever felt anything like this. And he said, at that moment, your face came into my mind. And I thought, you're so smiley, always talking about your Jesus. And I was like, I'm not sure that's a good thing. He said, you're always talking about your Jesus.。
So I said, Jesus, Sarah's Jesus, if you exist, prove it to me tonight. I want Sarah to knock on my door tonight. And half an hour later, I knocked on his door. And you know what? We cried. He gave his life to Jesus that night. I prayed for him.。
But the reason I want to tell you that story, I didn't go all, holy God is leading me to my friend who's in need. I went grumbling, annoyed. I was so cross. I nearly turned the car around.。
I didn't see that God in his sovereignty, in his love, had heard the cry of my dear friend and had sent fumbling, foolish me across the city to go and show him that he loved him and that he wanted him and he was there for him and he had purpose.。
And I wanted to tell you that story tonight because you might not see the fingerprints of God. You might not feel him. It doesn't mean he isn't moving in your life.。
Do not underestimate what he wants to do in you and through you and the people he wants to touch, even if you feel unholy and you're like, well, sorry, you don't know me. You don't know what I've done.。
Do you know what? Jesus knows you. He knows everything about you. There is no shame in his kingdom. He is all about saying, we start anew. We start afresh every day.。
That stuff from behind is not going to dictate your future if you let Jesus lead you as your guide.。
[Applause]。
Thank you. Thank you so much for being here and for just spending the last few minutes just sharing your heart and your story and all that God is doing and being so very honest and authentic with us. It means the world.。
Porch, would you give Sarah one more great Texas thank you for being with us? Thank you. Thank you so much.。
I hear all of that and just like as candidly as I can be with you, I want that so badly for you.。
Like I want it so badly for you. I want it so badly for us. I want everything that Sarah just described, not hypothetical scenarios, but literal stories of the way that God is moving in the lives of people exactly like you. I want that for you.。
And so what I want to do just as we go here to close is I just want to give you an opportunity to pray and tell the Lord if in fact you want that for yourself.。
So would you just bow your heads with me? Could we bring the house lights down? God, it would be so easy in this moment to spring to the stage and give a rousing conclusion and lead us, God, out.。
And yet, Lord, what I just sensed from your spirit as we were wrapping our time is that what you have done there, you do, God, wish to do here.。
What you have done with them, you, God, want to do with us. God, we want to just take a moment and we want to tell you that, God, we want for the same.。
That we don't just want it generally, we want it personally. We want it for ourselves, God. So, friends, would you just take a moment and maybe a gullible spirit, not a cynical or a skeptical one, would you just pray for yourself?。
And would you just say, God, I've heard so much tonight about the ways in which not only you have moved, but God, you are moving.。
God, I want you to move like that in my life. Take a moment and pray for that.。
God, I don't know what to do. We've talked so much. I know, oh God, I know how deeply we need you.。
And yet, God, often we don't want you. We want something else. We want success in this world. We want a relationship that makes us feel whole.。
We want friendships to give us good company, God. We want influence because that makes us feel important.。
We want all these other things, and yet, God, what we know here tonight as we hear, God, all that you're doing across the world, particularly in the UK, is that, God, you are wanting for us.。
And so, God, here now, in a moment of just transparency, we want to admit that, God, we want you in return. Or maybe it's not even to that extent, but, God, we want to want you like we have heard.。
Oh, Jesus, you are worthy. And yet, we often give our affection and attention, our time and devotion to all manner of other things. And yet, here tonight, God, with the room we have, the people that are here, we want to take back our attention.。
We want to recall, God, our devotion from all the places that we have allowed it to wander. And, God, we want to offer it to you again.。
We want to say to you, God, we need you, yes. We want you, yes. We want you, God, not generally. We want you personally. We want you to move in our life.。
And so, God, we're going to respond in a time of worship. And, Porch, you can open your eyes and look at me. Here's what we're going to do. This is going to feel a little bit different tonight, but I'm okay with different.。
We've got people down to the right and to the left, and we're just going to spend some time, and we're just going to do ministry because that's what this is. I don't know what you think you've walked into, but we want to offer to you the kind of forgiveness that Jesus has.。
We want to offer you the kind of healing that Jesus has. We want to offer you the kind of redemption that Jesus has. We want to offer you the kind of hope that Jesus has. We want to offer you the kind of prayers that Jesus loves to hear. We want to offer you whatever ministry you feel like you may, in fact, need.。
And so, the altar's open. People are available. We would love to not just stand and sing and kind of move through our rhythmic ritual of a Tuesday. No, we want to do honest business with a God that is wanting to do honest business. We want to be a people that believe everything we've heard.。
And so, we're going to sing, and yet I want to invite you to respond. Maybe for some of you that's in worship, but maybe for some of you, you just need someone to pray over you. Maybe you just need someone to listen to you.。
This space down here, this space is that space. Maybe the people sitting next to you, those people are the right people. But let's not just casually work our way out of this evening. Let's receive the ministry that Jesus wants to do tonight. Let's do that now as we continue in worship.。
