[MUSIC]。
[APPLAUSE]。
>> What's up, Porch?。
How we doing tonight?。
>> [APPLAUSE]。
>> Hey, it's so good to see you.。
I hope that all is well.。
My name is Timothy Ateeb, people call me T.A., and。
I'm one of the teaching pastors here at Watermark.。
And it's so great to see the couple thousand people that are right here in。
Dallas, but I know that people are watching all over the nation.。
So just want to say hello to those at Porch Life Tulsa, Porch Life Austin,。
Porch Life Midland, and then Porch Live Indianapolis.。
Hope that all is well wherever you are, and so glad that you are jumping in with us.。
This is gonna feel like a major swerve real quick.。
But before we jump in, here's what I want to ask you to do.。
I want to ask you to take a moment, close your eyes, and pray.。
Because here at the porch, we believe God is here, and he wants to meet with us.。
And so I just want to give you a second, in the quietness of your own heart,。
just pray and say, God, would you speak to me tonight?。
Just pray that real quick, God, speak to me tonight.。
And then would you pray for me?。
Just say, God, would you speak through TA to me?。
Lord, we give tonight to you.。
My hope and prayer, Lord God, is that you would give people eyes to see you.。
Lord, that you, Jesus, would be famous in this room, and in this city, and。
in this nation, and in this world.。
And that for every person in the room tonight, for。
those who don't know you, God, I pray that they would sense you introducing。
yourself to them, and for those who have known you for a long time,。
I pray that they would get a fresh touch from you.。
We need you, we love you, we give this time to you, in Jesus' name, amen.。
Well, we're in a series that we're calling The Return,。
Living Like Jesus is Coming Back.。
This is week four, and so the idea behind the series, if this is your first time。
here, is if Jesus were to walk through those doors tonight, and。
we were to hand him a microphone, and he would just simply say, hey,。
mark the calendar, I am returning one year from today, what would change?。
What would we begin to do?。
What would we stop doing?。
How would life change?。
And so we've just talked about specific things that would change along the way.。
And when we started the series, once we had launched it,。
we posted on our Insta story, and we just asked, hey,。
Porch Nation, what would change?。
And you know what the most common response was?。
The most common response was, I would share my faith more.。
I would share my faith more with those who I love.。
And so I wanna talk about that tonight.。
I wanna talk about us sharing our faith.。
Now, if you're here tonight and you're not a Christian,。
like someone tricked you into being here, if that's you, I'm so glad that you came.。
Tonight might feel like a family conversation among the Christians that。
are in the room, but this is actually a great night for you to be here.。
Because in some ways, this is gonna be an infomercial for Jesus and。
for Christianity.。
Like what you're going to hear tonight is what we believe in and。
why we feel so strongly about leaving this building and。
going and telling others about Jesus.。
But as I think about the idea of sharing my faith,。
I think about the moment when Cat and。
I were in the delivery room for our third son, Jake.。
We have three boys, our oldest is 13, our middle is 11.。
And then we took a six year pause on having children because。
we needed a break.。
And then we have Jake, who is now five years old.。
And I will never forget being in the delivery room,。
we were living in College Station at the time.。
And we were in this very large hospital room.。
My wife was in a bed over there, and then there was a bed over here.。
And then there was this massive, just dead space in the middle of the room.。
And I remember standing in the dead space of the room,。
not knowing what to do.。
Like my wife is in bed over there, in labor.。
There are doctors and nurses moving all around.。
And I don't know if you've seen Talladega Nights where Ricky Bobby is like,。
I don't know what to do with my hands.。
I was like, I don't know what to do with anything.。
Like I'm stranded in this space where I don't wanna get too close to my wife to。
where she's like, we should trade places.。
And I didn't wanna get in the way of the doctors and the nurses.。
And so I just stood there awkwardly, not knowing what to do.。
Like if there was a camera in that room and we could roll the tape,。
you'd be like, that's a man who doesn't know what he's doing.。
And then it was so sweet and so kind, this nurse noticed that I was six years。
out of practice on what to do when your wife goes into labor.。
And so this nurse came, she came by and she's like, okay,。
dad, if you wanna come right over here and you can just, she like,。
you can stand right next to your wife and you can help her along the way.。
I was like, thank you very much.。
Thank you for telling me what to do.。
You're like, what does that have to do with sharing your faith?。
Well, here's the deal.。
When someone puts their trust in Jesus Christ, the Bible,。
the Holy Scriptures would say that a birth has taken place.。
It's called being born again.。
New life spiritually has taken place.。
And we believe here at Watermark that anytime someone is born again spiritually,。
a miracle has taken place.。
Like that miracle is only possible because God has done something miraculous。
by the power of the Holy Spirit.。
Like God gets all of the credit.。
So if you're here tonight and you have put your trust in Jesus Christ,。
it is because the Spirit of God has moved and worked in your life and。
God has done a miracle.。
God gets all the credit for it.。
And at the same time, God gives us parts to play in people being born again.。
Like he actually uses us to share the good news of Jesus Christ with other people.。
And as the Spirit of God is working and people hear the good news,。
they put their trust in Christ and they are born again.。
And so God gives us a part to play.。
He invites us into the family business of sharing the good news of Jesus Christ。
with others.。
And yet, I just wonder if some of you will hear that and you're like,。
"Oh my gosh, I don't want to talk about sharing my faith because I don't do it."。
And it feels awkward and you feel like a failure,。
you feel like you're not doing what you're supposed to be doing.。
And now here comes a message which is going to beat you over the head and。
just remind you of how you're not doing what you're supposed to be doing.。
That's not what tonight's about.。
My hope in some way is to kind of be that kind medical worker that just came。
alongside me, I was like, "Okay, so here's what you're going to do.。
You're going to come over here and you're going to...。
Here's what it's going to look like to share your faith."。
Like maybe you're like, "I just...I want to share my faith but。
I just need a little direction on how to do it."。
That is what tonight is about.。
Because if Jesus was coming back in a year, what would we want to do?。
We would want to tell the people we love about Jesus.。
And so if you have a Bible, would you turn with me tonight to 2 Corinthians。
chapter 5 is where we're going to be.。
And if you don't own a Bible, we'd love to give you one.。
Like that's our gift to you tonight, okay?。
We have Bibles here that we would love to give you.。
And if you don't have a Bible to look on with now,。
we're going to have it on the screen.。
But 2 Corinthians chapter 5, let me read you.。
Verses 16 through chapter 6, verse 2, here's what it says.。
Starting in verse 16, it says, "From now on, therefore,。
we regard no one according to the flesh.。
Even though we once regarded Christ according to the flesh,。
we regard him thus no longer.。
Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he's a new creation.。
The old has passed away, behold, the new has come.。
All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself and。
gave us the ministry of reconciliation."。
That is, in Christ, God was reconciling the world to himself,。
not counting their trespasses against them, and entrusting to us。
the message of reconciliation.。
Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ.。
God making his appeal through us.。
We implore you on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God.。
For our sake, he made him to be sin, who knew no sin, so。
that in him we might become the righteousness of God.。
Working together with him then, we appeal to you not to receive the grace of God in。
vain, for he says, "In a favorable time, I listened to you, and in a day of salvation,。
I have helped you.。
Behold, now is the favorable time.。
Behold, now is the day of salvation."。
We're talking about sharing our faith, and what the Apostle Paul is going to do。
right here as he writes to his friends in the city of Corinth is we are going to talk。
about five things that we just need clarity on when it comes to sharing our faith.。
Here's what those five things are.。
We're going to talk about our mentality.。
We're going to talk about our message.。
We're going to identify our mission.。
We're going to be clear on our motivation.。
And then we're going to talk about our methods when it comes to sharing our faith.。
The first thing that we see in this text is just the right mentality when it comes。
to sharing our faith.。
Look back at what Paul says in verse 16.。
He says, "From now on, therefore, we regard no one according to the flesh.。
Even though we once regarded Christ according to the flesh, we regard him thus。
no longer."。
Prior to becoming a Christian, Paul was a very devout Jew.。
And in religious law, like it would have been very frowned upon for Paul to have any。
type of interaction with Gentiles or non-Jews.。
And so what Paul is identifying here is he's reaching back into the time of his life。
where he didn't know Christ and he saw people for their ethnicity.。
And because of their ethnicity, he removed himself from them and he created a barrier。
between him and them.。
And now he's saying, "I don't see people for their ethnicity,。
I see them for their spirituality."。
And there's a shift that's happened in his mind.。
And here's the deal, if we are going to be people who live like Jesus is coming back。
and if we want to share the gospel with others, we might have to have a shift in our。
mentality so that we begin to see people differently.。
Let me just identify a few different shifts in our mentality that might have。
to take place.。
Number one, this is for some people in the room but not everyone.。
Some of you need to understand that cocooning yourself in a Christian bubble。
is not healthy.。
It's just not healthy.。
Like it is very possible when you come to Christ that you just want to surround。
yourself with godly people.。
And that's a good thing.。
You do...your primary playmates in life need to be strong Christians.。
And yet, every Christian needs to have meaningful interaction with people who。
don't know Jesus.。
And yet, it's possible to move yourself to a place where you have no meaningful。
interaction with those who don't know the Lord.。
And so, here's what you become.。
You become a sponge that is always soaking up but never being wrung out, right?。
And so, here's what you do.。
You come with your community group to church on Sundays and then you come。
with your Christian friends on Tuesdays and then you get breakfast at Cindy's。
with your Christian friends on Wednesday or Thursday and then you meet for coffee。
with your Christian friends at some other time.。
And then during the weekend, you go to the dog park with your。
Christian friends.。
You go to happy hour with your Christian friends.。
You go on vacation with your Christian friends.。
You do holidays with your Christian friends.。
And what happens...what is a sponge that never gets wrung out?。
It's a block of bacteria, right?。
That's all it is.。
It is a block of bacteria.。
You have been made to be wrung out.。
We come here and we soak up the word of God.。
We remind ourselves of the gospel.。
We surround ourselves with godly people.。
But then we go out and we invest in meaningful interactions with people who。
don't know the Lord and we wring...we get wrung out with the gospel so that people。
can know Jesus through us.。
And so, some of you all just need to hear, "Hey, if you don't have any Christian。
friends, you need to get some."。
What's another way that our mentality might need to shift?。
Some people, not everyone, but some of you who are kind of more rule followers,。
lean towards legalism, here's what you need to know.。
For you, your shift might need to be that you begin to see people for their need,。
not their sin.。
Sometimes we see people for their sin and you know what we do?。
We withdraw from them and judge them.。
Don't be surprised when people who don't know Jesus don't live like Jesus.。
We can never expect sinners to live lives that look like they have been freed from。
the power of sin.。
And so, you know what?。
When you see people for their sin, you're going to withdraw from them and judge them.。
But when you see them for their need, you're going to move toward them,。
you're going to pursue them, you're going to love them.。
Another shift in our mentality that might have to take place is that it is never us。
versus them.。
Like there are people in this world who share different beliefs and values that。
are so contrary to yours.。
Their life looks so different than yours.。
What they stand for, what they believe in, what they think is right,。
how they choose to live their life is so vastly different than yours.。
And it's possible because they live a different life, they vote a different way,。
they believe different things, that you can create this us versus。
them mentality.。
Let's just be clear.。
We only have one enemy and it's Satan.。
And if someone is so contrary to your life, they're not your enemy,。
they are a captive of the one true enemy.。
And so we move toward them in love.。
For some of you, you might just need to hear that you're seeing people in only a。
material way, not in a spiritual way.。
And so you're around unbelievers all the time, you just haven't dug below the。
surface to realize that they're unbelievers.。
So you're living like they're just your coworkers, they're just your neighbors,。
they're just the people that you go play pickleball with, they're just the people。
that you go to the bar with, they're just the people that you're in a running group。
with, they're just the people that you do CrossFit with, that's all they are to you.。
And yet if Jesus was coming back, if we knew he was coming back,。
what I would hope is that we would begin to dig below the surface to realize,。
hey, do they know Jesus or not?。
And then the final shift that might need to take place in our mentality is simply。
this, with God, the impossible is always possible and no one is ever too far gone。
from knowing Jesus.。
Like I would imagine that there are people that you work with and you're like,。
"That guy, he will probably never know Jesus.。
Like he is so lost, there is no way for him to be found."。
And I'll just say that Jesus does his best work in the most impossible。
of situations.。
I mean, a week ago from today, I was sitting in a group with friends and。
we were praying specifically for one of my friend's sisters who has been running。
from God for 15 years.。
She has lived in rebellion, she has wanted to have nothing to do。
with Jesus and we were praying for her.。
Wanted nothing to do with Jesus.。
And here's the text that I got from my friend.。
I was sitting right up there in that balcony this past Sunday morning.。
In all caps, "Magnify the Lord with me," three exclamation points.。
"My sister surrendered her life to the Lordship of Jesus Christ yesterday。
at 4.27 PM," two exclamation points.。
In all caps again, "She's been born again by the power of the Holy Spirit,"。
two exclamation points.。
No, three, I got bad eyesight.。
"To God be all the glory and thank you for praying with me throughout the years.。
I can't wait to tell you the story next time we see each other."。
In all caps again, "God is faithful."。
Prayer hands.。
And so this morning when I saw him, man, it's just celebration because that's。
what God does.。
He's in the business of doing the impossible, do not rule anyone out.。
And we need to just be clear on our mentality.。
We might need to begin to see people for their need and we move。
toward them in love.。
Second, we need clarity on our message.。
What is our message?。
So, hey, all eyes on me.。
If you're here tonight and you don't know Jesus Christ, you are not a Christian,。
you really haven't wanted to have anything to do with Christianity,。
this is a great moment for you to just hear what Christianity is all about.。
Because right now, I'm just going to share with you what we really believe。
because we don't believe that Christianity is about just trying to be a good person。
or attending church more or voting a certain way.。
That is not Christianity.。
Christianity is not about realizing all the things we need to do,。
it's about us getting our hearts around what has been done for us by God,。
through Jesus, by the power of the Spirit.。
So, here's our message.。
Look at the text.。
I don't need to tell you my opinions, it's just in the text.。
What does it say?。
Verse 17, here's our message.。
"Therefore," I wonder if anyone needs to hear this tonight, "if anyone is in Christ,。
he is a new creation.。
The old has passed away, behold, the new has come."。
You want to know what Christianity is about?。
It's about being made new.。
It's about getting a new start in life, getting a clean start.。
Christianity is not being a bad person and trying to become better.。
Christianity is about dead people being made alive spiritually.。
That's what Christianity is about.。
So, here's what that means.。
You don't have to be defined by your past.。
You are not the sum of all your failures.。
Jesus Christ is able to step into your life and make you new.。
He's able to take all of your failures, no matter what it is.。
He can take that weekend, that abortion, that season with that guy or that girl or that。
whatever you went on, whatever binge you went on, whatever it is, whatever that season is。
of your life.。
Whatever that thing is, your greatest regret, whatever it is, Jesus is able to take your。
failure, all of it, and trade it for his forgiveness and his favor.。
But not only that, watch this.。
Verses 18 and 19.。
It says, "All this is from God."。
So, if you want to know if God is good, here is what is from God.。
All this is from God, making people new, who through Christ reconciled us to himself and。
gave us the ministry of reconciliation.。
That is, in Christ, God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses。
against them and entrusting to us the message of reconciliation.。
Okay.。
So, track with me on this.。
What speakers will do is speakers will often repeat what they want emphasized.。
Let me say that one more time.。
Speakers will often repeat what they want emphasized.。
What is the word that we see Paul repeating all throughout those two verses?。
Reconciliation.。
That's a really important word in the Bible.。
In fact, I would say if you want to know what the message of the Bible is, reconciliation.。
That word reconciliation in the original language of the New Testament Greek, it has two facets。
to it.。
It means that there has been a distinct change, and then it also means to be brought into。
favor.。
So, what's the distinct change and what does it mean to be brought into favor?。
What is the reality of Christianity?。
Here's the reality.。
We were children of wrath, and then through Jesus' death on the cross, his burial in a。
tomb, a resurrection from the dead through faith in him, we who were children of wrath。
through faith have been made children of God.。
That's the reality.。
We were enemies of God, and now we are children of God.。
Here's why this is so important, because I think a lot of people in this world are at。
war with God and they don't even know it.。
Like, I remember when I was in college.。
So ladies, you just need to know that in college the way that guys express care for one another。
is by beating each other up.。
You guys show care to one another by like leaving notes on the mirror.。
We hit each other.。
And so there would just be times where I would walk into guys' rooms, I'd just open the door,。
wouldn't say hi, and she'd be like, and then we'd go at it for five minutes and I'd be。
like, "OK, dude, see you later."。
And that was what we did.。
So this one time I walked into this guy's room, he was like 220, in college I was about。
a buck fifty, so it was kind of a David and Goliath type situation, but I just went for。
it and went on the offensive.。
So we're wrestling and I remember this moment so vividly, and it was a long time ago, where。
this 220 guy, he just lets out this loud, like, "Aaah!" and he pile-drove me into the。
closet.。
And so I find myself like on my back in his dirty clothes with him on top of me, and I'm。
not good at fighting, so I panicked, all I needed to do was to give him a wedgie, and。
so I just started wedging him in that moment.。
And as I am pulling this guy's underwear halfway up his back, I have a realization.。
Here's the realization.。
We're in a fight and I didn't even realize it.。
Like I thought we were just joking around, messing around, like fun wrestling between。
two dudes.。
And this guy, we were in a fight and I didn't even realize it.。
And I just wonder how many people are in that same place with God, that you're at war with。
him, you don't even know it.。
I remember talking to this guy who was in his college years at Tex A&M and he just said,。
you know what, he just said, "Yeah, I see you."。
He just said, "You know what, I'll think about religion, I'll think about spirituality later。
in life, but right now I just want to enjoy myself."。
And maybe that's where you're at, but you need to think about that mentality.。
Do you know what you're assuming?。
You're assuming that you're just in neutral standing with God.。
Like you're just kind of in the middle.。
You and God are good.。
Just circle back to him later on in life.。
What the scriptures would say is you're either with God or you're against God.。
There's no in between, there's no neutral standing.。
You're either a child of wrath or you're a child of God.。
And the beautiful news is that Jesus Christ has come and he has given his life and he。
has conquered death through his resurrection.。
Why?。
Reconciliation.。
So that when you put your faith in Jesus, a distinct change happens where you are brought。
into favor and the God of the universe looks at you and calls you his child.。
And he pours out his love, his desire, his approval, his grace upon you.。
And so you're at peace with the everlasting God for all of eternity.。
That's good news.。
Do you know Jesus?。
But that's not the full extent of our message.。
How is this possible?。
Look at verse 21.。
This might be the most beautiful verse in the entire Bible.。
Like if you only know one verse in the Bible, no 2 Corinthians chapter 5 verse 21.。
Here is the message of Christianity.。
Here's what it says.。
It says, "For our sake," for our sake.。
If you want to know if God cares, everything he's done has been for our sake.。
Him sending Jesus, it was for our sake.。
Jesus Christ going to the cross, it was for our sake.。
Jesus Christ conquering death, it was for our sake.。
For our sake, he, that's God, made him, that's Jesus, to be sin.。
He made Jesus to be sin.。
So here's what we're talking about.。
A friend Dan Neumann, he said, "We're talking about a God crushing his sinless son so that。
sinful enemies could become sanctified sons and daughters."。
John MacArthur puts it this way.。
God treated Jesus on the cross as if he had personally committed every sin ever committed。
by every person who would ever believe.。
For our sake, God made Jesus to be sin.。
Jesus didn't sin, and yet he took all of your sin.。
What's sin?。
It's any way that you have lived contrary to God's ways.。
He made him to be sin who knew no sin so that in him, in Jesus, this isn't you just finding。
your spirituality and finding what works for you, you finding your own path in life.。
No, if you want what we're talking about, reconciliation with God, it comes through.。
It is in Jesus Christ so that in him, what might happen, don't miss this, we might become,。
this is amazing, we might become the righteousness of God.。
What's righteousness?。
It's a judicial term, it means to be declared right standing before God the judge, that。
God would look at us who are guilty, and Jesus Christ has stepped in our place, he has taken。
our guilty sentence so that we can go free.。
So I want everyone to repeat after me, this is what's known, don't repeat this, but this。
is known as the great exchange.。
This is the great exchange, his righteousness to us, our sin to him.。
Repeat that.。
His righteousness to us, our sin to him.。
One more time.。
His righteousness to us, our sin to him.。
This Christianity, that when there was no way for you to be right with God, Jesus made。
a way, that he has given us his righteousness and he has taken our sin so that a perfect。
God could look at imperfect people and see the perfection of Jesus in us.。
Even while we continue to live imperfect lives, that is how a perfect God can spend eternity。
with imperfect people.。
It's because the perfect son of God went to the cross and dealt with all of our imperfections.。
He took them and gave us his righteousness.。
That's Christianity.。
This is our message.。
So I just want you to think, is there anyone in your life right now that could benefit。
from hearing that news?。
And maybe God brought you here tonight so that you could hear that news.。
So we have clarity on our mentality, we have clarity on our message, now we need clarity。
on our mission.。
What is our mission?。
Francis Shannon in his book Crazy Love, here's what he said.。
So if you're a Christian, listen to this.。
He said, "The point of your life is to point to Christ."。
So if you want to know what your mission is in life, if you want to know what the point。
of your existence is, if you know Christ, that's the point of your existence.。
It is to point others to Christ.。
Sharing your faith, that's not a pastor thing or a missionary thing, that's a Christian。
thing.。
And so what does Paul say in verse 20?。
This is our mission.。
He says, "Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ, God making his appeal through us.。
We implore you on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God."。
So do you want to know what your mission is?。
Your mission as a Christian is to be an ambassador for Christ.。
Now when we think of that word ambassador, we think representative, like it's someone。
from one country being a representative to another country.。
But when the scriptures use the word ambassador, it has a different meaning.。
Here it is.。
Ambassadors were messengers that were sent from an overpowering army to one that was。
about to be destroyed.。
As was military custom, the messengers brought terms of surrender and thus peace to the army。
that was about to be overwhelmed.。
It was a final offer before utter destruction.。
That's what's in view when Paul says that we're ambassadors.。
We are the messengers that go out into the world and offer people terms of peace before。
destruction because if Jesus is coming back, and he is, we don't know when, but he is coming。
back and so we get to be those messengers that go and give a final offer before utter。
destruction.。
So I just want you to think, when God calls us ambassadors, he's inviting us into something。
bigger than ourselves.。
It scratches that itch inside of you for that need for significance.。
If you're looking for significance, here it is, you're an ambassador of Jesus Christ.。
And tell me some job title that you can put on LinkedIn or wherever you put it that would。
make you more significant than being an ambassador of the King of Kings and Lord of Lords.。
You know what it means?。
It means that we get to be agents of rescue.。
Do you all remember that movie Taken?。
Came out a long time ago, a guy named Liam Neeson.。
If you haven't seen the movie Taken, it's about this dad who has a daughter who goes。
to Europe and she gets taken.。
And unfortunately for the guys who took her, that girl's dad is in the business of jacking。
people up.。
So he burns down Europe to get his daughter back.。
Now, years ago I was looking for a sermon illustration so I asked my creative director。
at the time, I said, "Here's what I want you to do.。
I want you to go through the movie Taken and I want you to remove every scene that deals。
with wrath or rescue."。
Do you know what the final product was?。
Here was the movie Taken.。
A guy has a daughter, that daughter wants to go to Europe to see some concerts, that。
daughter gets on a plane and goes to Europe, that daughter gets on a plane and comes home.。
That was the movie.。
That's the movie when you take out all of the wrath of this dad and all of the need。
for rescue.。
The reason I tell you that is because God has invited us into the family and business。
to be ambassadors, to be agents of rescue, but often we wake up and you know what we。
do?。
We go to work, we go to work out, we go to hang out and we remove people's need for rescue.。
We remove the impending wrath that is coming towards them and we remove their need for。
rescue from their lives.。
And so we go and we work out next to them and we work next to them and we hang out next。
to them and we forget the reality that for that individual right now, wrath is waiting。
for them and they're in desperate need of rescue.。
What makes it so great when Brian Mills in Taken is reunited with his daughter?。
Why do we resonate in Captain Phillips when those seals drop those Somali pirates?。
It's the rescue.。
That's our story.。
We have been rescued from captivity.。
And now our rescue is for others to be rescued.。
We are agents of rescue.。
That is our mission.。
It's our mission.。
So what's our motivation?。
Here's our motivation.。
Look with me.。
Verse 11, go back to verse 11.。
What does it say?。
It says, "Therefore, knowing the fear of the Lord, we persuade others."。
We fear God.。
What does it mean to fear God?。
It doesn't mean to be scared of God.。
It means for us to see God for who He is and to realize His greatness and to respond accordingly.。
Verses 14 and 15 say this, "For the love of Christ controls us because we have concluded。
this, that one has died for all, therefore all have died.。
He died for all that those who live might no longer live for themselves but for Him。
who for their sake died and was raised."。
What's our motivation?。
It's not obligation.。
It's love.。
When we experience the love of Christ, it is right to extend the love of Christ.。
And now look at chapter 6, verses 1 and 2.。
Here's our motivation.。
"Working together with Him then, we appeal to you not to receive the grace of God in。
vain for He says, 'In a favorable time I listen to you and in a day of salvation I have helped。
you.'"。
Watch this, "Behold, now is the favorable time.。
Behold, now is the day of salvation."。
What is Paul saying?。
He's saying the gospel is winning now.。
The Spirit of God is working and moving people's lives.。
Now, today is the day of salvation.。
You have no clue if tomorrow 20 people at your workplace would put their trust in Christ,。
if someone would simply share the gospel with them.。
Not because you share it, but because the Spirit of God is moving and working and you。
sharing is just the final, the final straw that brings that person to know the Lord.。
Today is the day of salvation.。
Let me just open your eyes to what God is doing all over the world.。
I want to show you a map.。
It's published by a ministry called Global Media Outreach.。
They share the gospel online through different ads and through apps and websites.。
And so here is, if you put it up there, you're going to see pins kind of popping around the。
map.。
And so this is just today.。
So if you look at the bottom, what, I can't even, my eyesight is bad so I can't even see。
what that number is.。
Is that two billion?。
Is that what that is?。
Over two billion people have interacted with the gospel today.。
Interacted with it, that's what the blue pin means.。
So they've either clicked on a banner or they've downloaded an app.。
Two billion people.。
274 million people have indicated some type of decision and so they've interacted with。
somebody and they've made a decision whether they're going to go to church or they want。
to get discipled or they want to take a next step with Jesus or they want to put their。
faith in Jesus Christ.。
Now I want you to see where are all those pins popping around?。
I mean you see them popping around all over the world.。
The gospel is on the move.。
The gospel is, it's winning.。
You can pull the map down.。
Let me just share some of these stats with you.。
But I just want you to get your mind around this.。
In 1979 there were an estimated 500 Christians from a Muslim background in Iran.。
Today there are hundreds of thousands and some say more than one million Christians。
in Iran.。
And Iran is considered one of if not the fastest growing church in the world today where you。
can be killed for believing in Jesus.。
Nepal is one of the only Hindu majority countries in the world.。
In 1950 there were no reported Christians.。
Today people estimate that there are between one and three million Christians and some。
have considered Nepal one of the fastest growing churches.。
In 1975 there were an estimated 2.7 million evangelical Christians in China.。
People estimate that there are somewhere between 80 and 100 million Christians in China today,。
a country where the gospel is not welcome.。
The Houston Chronicle published an article about three years ago estimating that by 2030。
there will be more Christians in China than in the United States.。
Today more Christians live in Africa.。
Like if you think that the United States is the epicenter of Christianity, you're wrong.。
More Christians live in Africa than any other continent.。
By 2050 Africa will be home to almost 1.3 billion Christians.。
The gospel is winning.。
It's winning.。
And at the same time there is so much left to be done so I need you to get this.。
I need you to understand it.。
There are 7.6 million people living in DFW and if every church in the metroplex that。
teaches the Bible and proclaims the gospel, if every single one of them had their record。
Sunday and were packed to the brim, there would still be millions of people in DFW not。
reached yet with the gospel.。
And now you step outside of the United States and there are approximately 3.3 billion people。
in our world today who either have limited exposure to the gospel or virtually no exposure。
to the gospel at all.。
Like there are actually billions who have never heard the name of Jesus and there is。
no organized effort at this moment to reach them.。
And so there is work to be done.。
So the question is what can we do?。
So here that brings me to our final point.。
What's our methods?。
What's our methods?。
This is where I just come alongside you and just say hey, here's what it looks like to。
share your faith.。
Here's what I want to encourage you to do.。
This week let me just encourage you to start a conversation and try and turn it spiritual.。
So let me just break that down real quick.。
If you come to Watermark on Sundays, I talked about this back in January.。
I'm going to replay it because it's so important that we get our hearts around this.。
Start a conversation.。
I'm just talking about starting a conversation.。
Hey what's your name?。
I'm TA.。
What's your name?。
Have you been working out here long?。
Where do you live?。
What do you do?。
Just whatever it is, start a conversation and in the midst of that conversation look。
for an opportunity to turn it spiritual.。
So here's what this means.。
It means going to work tomorrow and just looking at someone in the eyes that you don't normally。
talk to or you introducing yourself to that guy that you always ride up with on the elevator。
but it's been too long now for you to not know his name.。
You know what?。
You can do it.。
You know what?。
We've ridden this elevator together so many times I feel like now I should finally ask。
you your name.。
Start a conversation and turn it spiritual.。
And I'm going to give you the words to say so you can't be like, "Well yeah but I just。
I don't know how to do it."。
Okay let me just, you like you can write it on your hand and be like, "Hey, my name is。
TA and like here it is."。
Okay, just look for opportunities to turn it spiritual.。
So for example, when you're at a restaurant or at a coffee shop this is so simple but。
it's effective.。
And I'll put them on the screen.。
You can just look at your waiter or waitress and just say, "Hey, you know what?。
I'm a follower of Jesus.。
I'm about to pray for our meal.。
Is there anything that we can pray for you for?"。
Just to ask them.。
"Hey, is there, I do this most of the times now when I'm in a restaurant.。
Hey, we're about to pray for a meal.。
Is there anything I can pray for you for?"。
And that gives you a quick window into their lives.。
And they're going to share with you some of their greatest needs.。
I'm so encouraged when I meet waiters or waitresses that are like, "You know what?。
Someone asked me that just the other day."。
I'm like, "Man, we're getting out there.。
We're doing it.。
We're really doing it, people."。
Or like this tomorrow when someone's like, "Hey, what'd you do last night?"。
"Hey, I went to my church and it was meaningful."。
Do you go to church anywhere?。
You're in the conversation.。
You just turned it spiritual.。
"What'd you do last night?"。
"I was at church last night and it was really meaningful."。
Do you go to church anywhere?。
"Hey, we never talk about this, but faith is something that's important to me."。
Do you have a faith?。
You're in the conversation.。
Here's a question that a friend gave me a while back.。
And I've used it at gas stations.。
I've used it, you know, on the beach.。
I've used it in a bunch of different places.。
I just say, "Hey, is there anything you or your family needs that I can ask God to help。
you with?"。
That's it.。
"Is there anything you or your family needs that I can ask God to help you with?"。
It gives them an opportunity to open up.。
If someone you know is going through a really tough time, ask them this.。
"Hey, where do you usually look for help or hope when life is tough or stressful?"。
I know for me, when life is tough, I don't know what I would do without my faith in Jesus.。
Do you have a faith?。
You're in the conversation.。
Or what if you just went out to lunch with someone you've been working with for a while,。
and in the midst of that lunch, you just said, "Hey, you know what?。
We haven't talked about this before, but my faith has become increasingly important to。
me."。
Do you have a faith?。
You're in the conversation.。
So how do we respond?。
My encouragement, start a conversation and turn it spiritual.。
And then my only other application point is this.。
Consider going.。
Consider going to the nations that have never heard the name of Jesus before.。
And I know that that feels like a massive jump from start a conversation, turn it spiritual,。
and then I'm like, "Hey, pack it up and move."。
You're like, "Where's the in-between?"。
I don't know.。
But here's the reality.。
Like I just believe that young adults are who God is going to use to take the gospel。
to the nations.。
And so I don't know what God's doing in your life, but something in some of you tonight。
might just be resonating with the reality that there are people in this world that have。
never heard the name of Jesus and you're like, "I can do something about that."。
You don't know what it looks like, but you wouldn't mind giving a year or two years or。
a few years of your young adult years to taking the gospel to those who have never heard.。
And if that's you, we would love to help you do that.。
Our hope is that from the porch we would send out hundreds of young adults every year to。
reach those who have never heard the name of Jesus.。
And if you don't know where else to start, here's my encouragement.。
You start with prayer.。
Just praying two simple words, "Use me."。
That's it.。
Use me.。
I want to invite us to pray those words right now.。
So like here's, this is going to be super awkward and a major swerve, but I just want。
to ask us to be a people that gets on our knees right now as much as you're comfortable。
with it.。
If you don't know Jesus, this is going to be the weirdest thing that you've ever experienced.。
So you don't have to get on your knees.。
There was no way I'd ask you to do something like this.。
You can just stay seated.。
And you know what?。
If you're more comfortable sitting, that's fine too, but I just want to ask us to take。
a moment and to pray.。
All revivals, I don't know if you've seen what's been happening at Asbury over the last。
two weeks.。
All revivals start with prayer.。
We want to see a revival in our workplaces, in our gyms, in our apartment complexes.。
So let's just pray.。
I just want to ask you to close your eyes and I want to encourage you to just ask God。
right now to bring to mind the people in your life that do not yet know Him.。
And then I want to encourage you to just ask God to use you in their lives.。
Just say, "God, use me."。
Whatever that looks like, use me.。
Think about your spheres of influence, your work, the place where you live, the place。
where you work out, places you go to hang out.。
Just ask God, "Use me in those places."。
Ask God to give you opportunities to share your faith this week.。
And now pray for those in our world who have never heard the name of Jesus.。
Would you just pray?。
Say, "God, would you raise up young adults from right here in this room to take the gospel。
to those who need it?"。
And maybe you're here tonight, before you can share this message, you first need to。
receive this message.。
If you're here tonight and you don't have a relationship with Jesus Christ, just with。
all eyes closed, I want to ask you to, if you'll just slip up your hand real quick so。
I know who I'm even talking to in this place.。
If that's you, if you want to begin a relationship with Jesus, just let me know who I'm talking。
to in this place.。
You can just pray with me.。
Say, "Lord Jesus, thank you that you died for me.。
Thank you that you rose from the dead for me.。
Would you come into my life?。
Would you forgive me of my sins and would you begin to lead me in a new life?。
Lord Jesus, we need you.。
We ask you to use us for your glory.。
Would you give us opportunities this week to share our faith with those who desperately。
need you?。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
