(Music)。
Hey, it's good to be with you guys. My name is JP, Jonathan Picluda.。
And I'm just traveling through this series.。
And like one thing about me is, man, I love gifts.。
That's not a hint. Don't buy me or anything.。
But that's my love language is gifts.。
And so I like to buy gifts.。
We tend to, you know, express to others our love language.。
And so one thing I love like Christmas time, you know, or birthdays.。
And anytime there's a chance to get or receive, give or receive gifts.。
And so at Christmas time we had our young adult Christmas party.。
That's our staff Christmas party at my house.。
And so what I did is I wanted to do a gift exchange.。
And so I just went and got gifts for everyone there.。
And then we did that deal where you draw numbers.。
You know, there's a lot of things to call it.。
I'll call it politically correct, rob your neighbor or something.。
And so everybody gets a number.。
You guys know the rules.。
Like one gets to go again at the end.。
So one goes first, then two, then three.。
And you can steal.。
And with three steals, then the gift is locked after three steals.。
You guys know the game?。
Okay, good.。
And so we play.。
And so, you know, as you're sitting there, you probably played the game.。
You're sitting there and you're kind of looking at your gift.。
And you're like, hey, am I going to use this gift or do I hope to lose this gift?。
And what happens is people start selling their gift.。
They're like, hey, Kelly, man, I don't know if you noticed, man, this thing is a juicer.。
Look, it's really neat, you know.。
And, hey, you know, you mentioned you need a juicer.。
So they can go and have one more shot, you know.。
Or they go, oh, no, no.。
And they start hiding it behind them.。
Like, no, you don't want it.。
It doesn't look very cool, you know.。
And they're trying to keep the gift.。
So some of them want to keep the gift.。
Some of them want to lose the gift.。
And they're thinking, hey, will I use the gift?。
But I played my game with a twist, okay, because that's what's fun.。
So here's what we did is I had a special gift in there that had a consequence tied to it.。
And what it was was it was this Christmas inflatable yard art, okay.。
And if you got it, you had to keep it up through January all the way to February every day, okay.。
That's what you had to do.。
And so I told them that.。
I said, hey, here's the deal.。
There's one gift in here that you may not want.。
And if you get it, you can't get rid of it.。
So if you open that gift, right, now I'm telling you what it is.。
If you open that gift, you're stuck with it.。
And so everybody's kind of nervous because nobody wants to keep the Christmas yard art.。
Oh, and by the way, it wasn't just Christmas art.。
In fact, let me show you the incredible yard art that it was.。
I think we'll show you.。
Neat how that works, right.。
And so it was just to give you a little flavor.。
Like some of you are like, oh, no, that's cool.。
It's a nutcracker.。
No, it's not.。
It's a redneck nutcracker, okay.。
Got a nice little beer belly here, all right.。
Got a snowflake tattoo over here.。
Missing some teeth.。
Got the redneck mustache.。
And can't forget the can of beer to celebrate Christmas, okay.。
So if you get the redneck nutcracker, you've got to keep it up all the way until February.。
And nobody wanted to get that gift, right.。
And so I see them kind of nervous.。
Like, man, I don't want to get that one.。
Low and behold, my dear friend Laura Elmore, who served on our staff at the time, she gets that gift.。
She unwraps it.。
Oh, to her demise.。
Her husband is also there, John Elmore, which I think is ironic because he heads up our recovery ministry and was an alcoholic, you know.。
And so he's got the redneck nutcracker with the beer in front of his house all the way to February.。
And he's like, okay, man, I don't know if I can do this.。
And then he's like, yeah, sure, I'll do it because he's a gamer.。
And so I tell you that because tonight as we move through quarter life crisis, we're going to talk about something that the scripture calls a gift.。
But I think so many of us hope to lose the gift instead of use the gift.。
And that gift is, ready, singleness.。
Scriptures, the Bible, God, the creator of the heavens and the earth through his servant Paul called singleness a gift.。
He called being single a gift.。
And I don't know that we fully take advantage of that gift that the creator God has entrusted to us for at least a season because we're constantly living in some future season.。
And I think we really miss out on all that that gift has to offer.。
And so I don't know if you're here and your mom is constantly asking you things like you don't want to be married, you know.。
And you're like, hey, mom, some of you are nodding your head.。
You're like, mom, it's not up to me, you know.。
Or maybe you're starting to think, maybe that whole 30, that's a good idea, you know, maybe CrossFit, maybe that's my problem.。
Maybe I need to do CrossFit and I'll meet someone special.。
Or you're thinking, man, I'd be married if I had more money or you're wondering, when will I ever find the one?。
There it goes. He's going down.。
There we go.。
You're thinking, maybe I'd be married or when will I ever find the one?。
When will this happen, God?。
Or maybe you're here and you're like, man, how do I let him know I'm interested?。
And you spend a lot of your time wondering, how do I let him know I'm interested?。
Or maybe you see it as a gift.。
Maybe you're like, dude, I don't know what you're talking about.。
Singleness is a gift. It's awesome.。
And you're abusing the gift.。
You're thinking, hey, man, I'll take this gift that God gave me for a season and I'll use it for me.。
That's right, I'll use it for me and it's going to be fun and I'm going to jack with people's hearts.。
And I'm going to drag people along.。
And I'm going to play the physical game and I'm going to experience as much pleasure as I possibly can outside the context of what God intended because I don't fear God.。
So how can we use this gift that the Lord has entrusted to us for a season?。
As we move through this text, we're going to be in First Corinthians, Chapter seven.。
We're going to talk about seeing singleness as a gift.。
We're going to talk about the reason you're single, which was the title to the emailer.。
And so if you follow us on Twitter or you have signed up for the emailer, you may have gotten that.。
And some of you I've heard that that rubbed you the wrong way.。
It says we're going to tell you the reason you're single.。
Oh, we are indeed not just we, but the scripture actually.。
And so stay tuned for that.。
As we move through the scripture, we're going to talk about lastly, a season of singleness for some of you.。
What does that look like?。
We're going to be in First Corinthians seven.。
This is Paul's letter to the church in Corinth, which was an incredibly messed up place.。
But we can draw hope from that because Paul in his letter, he actually addresses them as saints or if you have the new NIV, a holy people.。
And so these this this place where these terrible things are happening.。
OK, there's a dude who's sleeping with his father's wife.。
There's men who are going out with prostitutes.。
There's people who are getting drunk at communion.。
OK, they're seeking the party, even in church.。
And Paul says, hey, you're a holy people.。
And as he addresses this, this holy people, almost 2000 years ago, he addresses this topic of singleness.。
And he has some really specific commands for them that I believe we can apply to our lives today.。
I'm going to start in verse six and then later on a jump to verse 32.。
OK, so that's where we'll be in First Corinthians seven.。
I hope you're encouraged.。
He says this. I say this as a concession, not as a command.。
And so as I read that, I'm tempted to think it refers to the verses before.。
But but read it like this as a concession, not as a command.。
I say this. I wish that all of you were as I am.。
This is Paul who is single saying, hey, it is my desire that you were as I am.。
It's not necessarily God's desire, but it is my selfish desire.。
I say this as a concession, not as a command.。
But each of you porch has your own gift from God.。
One has this gift. Another has that.。
Now we see this idea that that our status.。
Whether married or single is a gift from God.。
Now to the unmarried and the widows, I say it is good for them to stay unmarried as I do.。
But if they cannot control themselves, they should marry.。
For it is better to marry than to burn with passion.。
Paul writes. God preserved the scripture.。
For centuries that we might read it today and learn from it here at the porch is one reason.。
And so the first point that I bring before you is challenging you to see your singleness as a gift.。
My first point is seeing your singleness as a gift.。
And so this is not the gift that we want to use. This is the gift.。
This is the gift so often that we want to lose.。
We hope that God would send us to another life stage.。
And so it's really interesting because I see this all the time as I meet with a lot of you.。
And I have experienced it myself as I was single in Dallas.。
It's like if we're single and we're not being asked out, we just hope to be dating.。
And if we're dating, then we hope to be married.。
And so often I meet with people who are married who just hope to be single again.。
And it's very cyclical.。
It's like basically we just can't be content in the life stage that we're in.。
We're constantly longing for another life stage.。
And some of you are like, "No, I'm dating and I just hope to stay dating."。
Some of you are nudging your boyfriend right now. He's talking about you.。
[Laughter]。
And that's not right either because as we've talked here many times, dating exists for the sole purpose of marriage.。
Dating is actually an extra-biblical idea. You can't find it anywhere in the Scriptures.。
There's really only two seasons. There's single and then there's married.。
Or betrothed, I should say.。
And that's the closest we get to dating is being actually engaged.。
But we've kind of introduced this idea of dating and then a whole other flavor of seriously dating.。
And all that it actually does is slow down this process that God has intended to actually be married.。
And so you see our generation continuing to delay that season of marriage longer and longer and longer.。
Because what we like to do, we like to play married.。
And that's dating.。
We like to pretend to be married and we call that dating.。
"Hey, you're cute. I enjoy spending time with you.。
Hey, you want to pretend to be married for a couple months, maybe about a year and a half or something?。
We just play house?"。
Let me talk to you for a second about the presence that my children get.。
I've got three kids. Weston, 20 months. He's 20 months old.。
And then Presley's seven. Finley's five.。
And I watch the gifts that they give and I find it ironic.。
The gifts that they get, rather. I find it ironic.。
Because what they get is these gifts that are all replicas of a future season in life.。
Let me explain.。
Like Weston, he gets a toy lawnmower.。
What we do is, he's a kid, right?。
And so even with our kids, we kind of push them into living into some future life stage.。
"Hey, why don't you pretend to be an adult?" Weston at 20 months. And mow the grass.。
And so then my girls, Presley and Finley, they get a kitchen.。
So they can play house.。
And so it's like, "Okay, you guys pretend to be house."。
And Presley's like, "Okay, I'm the mommy. You're the daddy."。
I'm like, "That's weird. Stop that."。
And so then what they'll do is they'll get these baby dolls.。
And they're obsessed with baby dolls. My daughters.。
And sometimes my son. I'm sad to say.。
But my daughters, they're obsessed with baby dolls.。
And so one day when Finley was three, she's walking around.。
She has this baby doll stuffed up her shirt.。
I'm like, "What are you doing?" She's like, "I'm breastfeeding."。
I'm like, "Don't ever say that word again!"。
"What? Where did you hear that?"。
"You better lose that term."。
It's like, "Girl, no. Be three."。
"No, you're not. No! No! Stop!"。
But we're always... And you know what? It's cute when you're three.。
It's not so cute when you're 33.。
It's cute when you're three when you play house.。
And you're constantly trying to live in a season that you're not in.。
But when you're 33, it's less cute.。
When you're playing house.。
And you're constantly living in a season that you're not in.。
And so Paul is saying singleness is a gift.。
I want you to know marriage is a gift too. It absolutely is.。
Marriage is a good thing. Proverbs 18.22 says,。
"He who finds a wife finds what is good and receives favor from the Lord."。
But I think we read that and we miss the context.。
We read that and we think, "And he who does not find a wife finds wrath from the Lord."。
And it doesn't say that. It doesn't say you're not the favorless.。
It's not like God has forgotten you or forsaken you.。
Because the scripture also actually says that singleness is good.。
Marriage is good and singleness is good.。
It says that they're both good.。
So if we read it in context, now we can go to verse 28.。
1 Corinthians 7.28 it says, "But if you marry, you have not sinned." Paul writes.。
"And if a virgin marries, she has not sinned."。
"But those who marry now will face many troubles in this life."。
"And I want you, and I want to spare you this."。
Literally, troubles in this life translates tribulations in the flesh.。
"But those who marry will face many troubles in this life."。
And Paul, the apostle Paul, he's looking you in the face and he's saying,。
"I just want to spare you of this."。
Or at least, as he goes on, to say, "Prepare you for this."。
"Make sure you know what's coming, that you're going into this eyes wide open."。
And so it's interesting because we tend to elevate marriage so much in the church.。
But is it not ironic that the apostle Paul, the greatest missionary to ever live, was single?。
He was single.。
And he said, "It's great. It's good. I wish you were as I am."。
You know who else was single?。
Jesus was single.。
Is Jesus not the most eligible bachelor on the planet?。
I know some of you are like, "Can I laugh at that? Or is that blasphemous?"。
Just track with me.。
Women like, I've heard, men who have power and whatnot,。
He's God, alright?。
So He can do anything. He spoke things into existence.。
It seems like He's a pretty eligible bachelor.。
And He was 33 years old, so He moved past that time when folks in this culture would have gotten married.。
But He chose not to take a wife because He was on a mission.。
And He didn't have that distraction of marriage.。
He is our example.。
And so marriage is a good thing, but not at the expense of singleness being a good thing.。
Singleness is also a really, really good thing.。
And so, so much, I think, of our quarter life crisis is us trying to live in some different season。
instead of living in the season that God has entrusted to us.。
And so those of you here that are playing married,。
I have a word of caution for you.。
Not I, but the Lord.。
Be careful.。
The Bible really gives you two options in dealing with lust.。
Option one is to make war with it.。
To remove that which is causing you temptation.。
To cut off the hand and gouge out the eye, which seem like pretty extreme things to me.。
But those come from Jesus Himself.。
That you would wage war with lust for the sake of pursuing a greater good in God.。
The other option is marriage.。
For Paul writes, "It's better to marry than to burn."。
Now it's interesting to me that he doesn't write, "Hey, listen, if you're burning with passion, just go ahead and look at some porn."。
"Hey, listen, if you're burning with passion, go ahead and masturbate."。
"Okay, take care of that. Take matters into your own hands. Get rid of that passion. It's all good."。
But he doesn't do that. He gives you two options.。
He says, "Hey, you can wage war with your lust or you can get married."。
And what do we do? We play house and put off marriage and continue to play with our lust.。
And continue to experience the pleasures that were never intended to happen outside of marriage.。
Why? Because we don't trust God who says, "Hey, I'm not trying to rip you off. I'm trying to set you free. I'm trying to give you life."。
"Do you not look at statistics? Do you not see the direction you're headed? I have something for you that's better."。
And we say, "God, we don't trust you."。
Like if we're just real honest, "God, we just don't trust you. We'd like to do it our way."。
Verse 9, "But if they cannot control themselves, they shouldn't marry. For it is better to marry than to burn with passion."。
This burning with passion or giving in to the fire of passion will add to your quarter-life crisis.。
Much anxieties. Much anxieties.。
But God says, "No, you have two options. You can use the gift of singleness that I've entrusted to you."。
Or you can move to another season.。
And moving to another season may not be up to you.。
So if you find yourself single, then your option, your only option that honors God is to use it.。
My brother-in-law, this Christmas this past year, we go to my wife's family's Christmas exchange,。
which they're notorious for giving awful gifts.。
I'm just being honest.。
And my brother, not my in-laws, they give great gifts, but their extended family gives awful gifts.。
And my brother-in-law's uncle, he gives him this little package, he opens it, and it's a stopwatch.。
Which is a bad enough gift as it is, because what do you use a stopwatch for?。
We have an iPhone, it's got a stopwatch.。
But it doesn't work. It's a broken stopwatch.。
And so my brother-in-law is just like, "Okay, this just kind of adds to the awful gifts."。
And everybody's like, "What do I want to do with this stopwatch?"。
And I kind of heard his uncle say that it was valuable, and it was plastic, so it didn't look valuable,。
but I heard him say it was valuable.。
And so my brother-in-law, I was like, "Hey, maybe it's worth something."。
He's like, "You want it?"。
And I was like, "Sure, I'll take it."。
But why?。
Because I know that his uncle desires to give him good gifts, right?。
His uncle loves him, he cares for him.。
If you give him a stopwatch and it doesn't work, it's got to be for a reason.。
So he gives it to me.。
I look on eBay.。
It's going for about $150.。
So I sold it.。
It was worth something.。
He didn't know it.。
He was taking it for granted.。
It was useful, and he didn't realize it.。
And there's a risk whenever you have something that's really useful and you don't understand how to use it.。
Singleness is a gift, and it's useful.。
And the way that you use the gift is you trust the giver.。
See, I was like, "Hey, man, I trust your uncle would give you something good.。
He would desire to give you something good.。
I trust this thing has a value.。
For some reason, he gave it to you."。
And in the same way, as you find yourself single, you can trust the one who gave that gift to you and ask him how you might use it.。
Verse 32, "I would like you to be free from concern."。
The word "concern" is literally "anxieties."。
Paul writes, "I would like you to be free from anxieties.。
An unmarried man is concerned about the Lord's affairs, how he can please the Lord.。
But a married man is concerned about the affairs of this world, how he can please his wife.。
And his interests are divided.。
An unmarried woman or virgin is concerned about the Lord's affairs.。
Her aim is to be devoted to the Lord in both body and spirit.。
But a married woman is concerned about the affairs of this world, how she can please her husband.。
I am saying this for your own good, not to restrict you, but that you may live in a right way in undivided devotion to the Lord."。
And so Paul, in this small paragraph, gives us two profound, important lessons.。
One, he is trying to convince you something that you will not believe, but I'm going to say anyways, because it's my duty as I exegete the scripture.。
Marriage will not solve your problems.。
Marriage is only going to add to your problems.。
There are problems in singleness.。
There are more problems in marriage.。
And if you don't like that truth, you're like, "What did he just say?"。
It's straight from the scripture.。
That's what Paul is saying.。
Okay?。
It's a good thing, but you're choosing your problems.。
And with marriage, you're choosing more problems.。
I'm not trying to talk you out of it.。
I'm just trying to teach accurately what the scripture says.。
And the second one.。
So first one is marriage actually puts a magnifying glass on your problems.。
And the second one is actually my second point this evening.。
And it's this, that you are single for a reason.。
Paul is going to show you now the reason that you have found yourself single for at least a season.。
He says, "No, there is a reason you are single."。
And so if I could go back personally to being single, and not that I fantasize about this at all,。
but as I think about it and spend time with you, I'm telling you, there are things I would do dramatically different.。
I would take an international trip at least once a year to go and to take the gospel to the dark places of this earth.。
I might use all my vacation days doing exactly that.。
I would see my place of business as a mission field.。
I would lose my job sharing the gospel, or at least I'd want to.。
I would want to be there and understand that God has hung a light exactly where he has, and that I would be there for a purpose.。
I would belong to a church. I would become a member there. I would serve there. I would give there.。
And I would come under the authority of the elders there, and I would say,。
"Would you guys help me find what gifts the Lord has entrusted to me so that I can unleash those gifts for the kingdom?"。
I would not think of Christianity as this idea that I would add to my life,。
but I would think about it as the biggest thing about my life,。
processing all decisions in regards to how they would bring glory to God, the creator, the maker of heaven and of earth.。
I would ask him constantly, "Lord, how do you want to use my life to bring your kingdom here to this place?。
What do you want to do through me? I believe you want to do incredible things today.。
For the eyes of the Lord go to and fro, looking for hearts that are fully his.。
Lord, I pray that you would find me so faithful that you might use me to change this place."。
If I was single, again, I would get trained.。
I would become biblically equipped, biblically literate.。
I would learn the scriptures. There's classes here that are free, or very close to free,。
and they're equivalent of seminary classes.。
You can go and sit under the teachings of great Bible teachers so that you know this book through and through。
and how to apply it to your life so that you can go into any situation to bring about the resolve that God desires through his scriptures.。
You can do that now, for you will never have more time.。
It's so frustrating when married people say that, and it's so true.。
It can frustrate you, but your frustration does not change, make it any less true.。
I love you, and I'm telling you, I'm pleading with you, you will never have more time for the rest of your life than you do right now.。
And so he just says, "Focus."。
It seems like what he's saying in this small text is like, "Selfish singleness is not an option. It's your ministry."。
Like, you cannot be selfishly single. There's some of you here that are like, "No, I like to be single. I don't want to be married. I want to play the field."。
That's not an option. That's not an option.。
That's what the world does, so if you want to do like the pagans do, that's what you can do.。
But if you're here and you're like, "Hey, I claim Christ," you don't have the option of playing the field and keeping my options open。
and, "Hey, I'm going to kiss her tonight and her tomorrow and take her out and jack with her heart."。
That's not an option for you. "Hey, I'm going to have some friends with benefits."。
No, there are no friends with benefits in the kingdom.。
There's no friends with benefits in the kingdom.。
Okay, that's not how we do, man.。
That's what the pagans do, man.。
You're submitted to a greater spirit than the spirit that is in the world.。
You say, "Hey, I will pursue a spouse or I will live radically for the kingdom of God."。
Those are your two options. You choose.。
If you know Christ and you're here, and I know a lot of you don't, but if you're here and you know Christ, you choose between those two options.。
Those are your two options.。
Todd walks into my office, my first year on staff.。
Todd's the senior pastor here. And he says, "Hey, JP."。
"Yes, sir." "How's your ministry doing? How's your ministry going?"。
I instantly had this response. I'm like, "Hey, man, let me tell you about it, Todd."。
It's great. Young adults are getting into community groups and watching lives change.。
This dude trusted Christ. This girl trusted Christ.。
This girl came from this background and changed everything about her life.。
God did that in her. It's incredible to think we're going to Haiti, Todd.。
We're going to Brazil. We're going to Africa. It's amazing, these trips.。
He looked at me confused and he said, "No, bro. How's your ministry going?"。
He points to a picture of my family.。
He says, "Dude, that's your ministry. That's your primary ministry. This ministry comes first."。
I'm here with you guys, and it is a joy and an honor to be with you.。
But the truth of the matter is my wife's at home. She's tucking our three kids into bed.。
She's singing "Jesus Loves Me." She's reading them Bible stories.。
She's changing that diaper for you. She's giving him the bottle.。
I'm here, and I'll get home long after they're tucked in.。
I'm grateful she's there, but that's my primary ministry. This is my secondary ministry.。
If I don't do that well, I'll never do this well.。
I am a man with a divided heart. That's the truth.。
That's what Paul is saying.。
I am less available to you than I could be, and I'm grateful.。
But that's the truth, and that's what he's saying.。
I just ask you, can relationships distract you from God?。
Everyone needs to be nodding their head, north and south.。
There are two kinds of people here.。
There are folks that came in, they're singing, "You will love me."。
They're singing, and they're worshiping God, and they're here, and they're focused on God.。
I'm like 1 Corinthians 7, and they're like, "Oh, great, man. Paul's letter to the church at Corinth."。
They're taking notes, and I know where he's going, singleness.。
This is going to be awesome. They're hanging on to every word and the illustrations.。
They're like the Nutcracker. "Ha, ha. I love it. I'm learning. I'm teaching."。
And then there's others of you that are like, "Oh, man, she's right there.。
Oh, man, he's behind me."。
And you haven't heard a word I've said. You don't even know I'm up here right now.。
You're the ones not laughing right now, because you're in this daze of, "Okay, she wore the dress.。
Oh, my goodness. Should be illegal."。
"Okay, I didn't get to shake her hand or meet and greet, but maybe afterwards I can go up and say something."。
"Lord, give me the courage to say something."。
That's the other half of you. Like you don't even know you're in church right now.。
Okay? You're still figuring this thing out.。
Relationships can indeed be a distraction.。
I'm telling you, I've had to back out of the last two international trips that I was on.。
Not for any emergency, like for a dance recital and something else. I don't remember what it was.。
Something family-related. I was like, "Hey, it doesn't make sense for me to go on this trip."。
And I had to ask for my commitment back.。
But I sat down with my single friend the other day. I hadn't seen her in a while.。
She actually helps me prepare these messages. Week in and week out, we sit together and talk about what the Scripture is saying.。
I'm with a group of people. My friend Cheryl, she's 40 years old and she's single.。
And we sit down and I just said, "Hey, Cheryl, I haven't seen you in a while."。
And she goes, "I know, man. Seven weeks, six different places, six different airports, three different countries."。
"I've been traveling."。
I'm like, "Oh, tell me about it."。
And she always has these magnificent stories of God working.。
And she's doing the things that some of you only dream about doing. Why?。
Because she's using her singleness.。
And you know what? Some of you...。
Okay, this is the crazy part.。
Some of you would feel sorry for her.。
And I think, "What a joke."。
Because she would never say this because she's humble.。
But I'll tell you, she should feel sorry for you.。
Because you're wasting your singleness.。
She's using her singleness.。
You hope you lose your singleness.。
And she's using every day of her singleness to bring the kingdom here.。
When I get up there, I hope I get her house.。
Or one like it.。
Right?。
God's using her in that way.。
And you can be used in that way as well.。
She's not distracted by a husband or desperation for one.。
She says, "Hey, if God gives me that, great."。
"But until then, I'm single."。
"So I'll use it."。
"If the Lord entrusts me with one, awesome."。
"But until then, I'll leverage the gifts that He gave me."。
So why is she single?。
The same reason you are.。
You ready? Here's the reason you're single.。
It's directly from the scripture. It tells you why you're single.。
Verse 32.。
"To be concerned about the Lord's affairs, how you can please the Lord."。
Verse 34.。
"To be devoted to the Lord in both body and spirit."。
Verse 35.。
"You are single so that you may live in a right way in undivided devotion to the Lord."。
How novel of an idea.。
The reason that you are single.。
The reason that you're single is so that you can say,。
"Lord, here's my life. Take it and use it for your glory."。
"That I can go and learn more about you."。
"Everything about you."。
"So that all my few little moments I have here on the earth were all about to die."。
"God can take you and use you by about to die."。
I just mean in comparison to how long you're going to be with Him.。
It's like that long.。
But a vapor, James says.。
And we can say, "God, use my life."。
Last week we talked about narcissism and wasting your life on you.。
And I think there's no greater way to waste your life than to live in desperation for another season.。
Desperation. I'm not talking about just a desire, a God-given desire.。
I'm talking about an obsession.。
And so why are you single? Is it because you're tall?。
Or short?。
Or fat?。
Or skinny?。
Or ugly?。
Or too pretty?。
Or have BO?。
Maybe.。
Maybe those are some of the circumstances.。
But the reality of it is you're single so you can seek Him.。
So that you can use your life to find Him.。
And so don't be so desperate to lose the gift that He's given you.。
Use the gift that He's given you.。
But what if you're here and you desire to be married?。
You have a God-given desire to be married. Let's talk about it.。
Verse 36.。
"If anyone is worried that he might not be acting honorably toward the virgin he is engaged to,"。
"and if his passions are too strong and he feels he ought to marry,"。
"he should do as he wants. He is not sinning. They should indeed get married."。
And so my third point is simply this.。
That some of you are here and you're single for a season.。
Some are single for a season.。
So you're here and this is a momentary kind of stop.。
It's not like a call to singleness.。
It's not a terminal gift of singleness or a chronic gift of singleness.。
It is a singleness for a season.。
It's going to turn into another season.。
And in fact, that's most of you in the room.。
Most statistics out there, the most conservative one I could find,。
would say that about 80% of you will be married one day.。
So the vast majority of you.。
And so this is simply a season for you of singleness to which I say,。
the Apostle Paul would tell you, "Use this season well."。
Use it well.。
And so if you are dating someone, act honorably toward one another.。
Your quarter-life crisis would be a much bigger crisis。
if there was a pregnancy or an STD or a breakup after a sexual encounter。
because those breakups are absolutely the hardest.。
But your quarter-life crisis is even greater。
when you pursue another idol other than the Lord.。
And you act as though you are not afraid of Him。
by the things that you give yourselves to.。
And so I'm just telling you that sex is--。
absolutely believe this--。
sex will keep you in the wrong relationship too long,。
and it will keep you from the right relationship.。
And I see it all the time.。
All the time I see it.。
I'm not just saying that.。
I'm not trying to scare you to follow God.。
I don't need to scare you to do anything.。
I'm telling you there is a way that He created us to do,。
things He created us to do so that we would find life in them.。
So don't trust a dude if he says he loves you。
and his hand's moving toward anything other than a ring box,。
as it's been said.。
And if you do want to get married,。
for those of you--I want to talk with you for a second--。
those in the room right now that desire to get married,。
I would tell you now is the time to train to be married.。
I think so often young adults don't realize。
they are becoming more of what they already are.。
You're becoming something.。
Like great spouses, great husbands and wives are not just born.。
They are created, and they are created when they're single.。
I've said this before,。
but I've never met any couple with marriage problems.。
And I meet couples all the time。
who come to me with so-called marriage problems,。
but they're always single people problems。
that they brought into their marriage.。
They're always problems that they had before their marriage。
that they brought into marriage。
that marriage put a big old magnifying glass on。
and said, "Hey, look at this problem right here."。
And so now is the time to deal with that.。
How do you deal with that?。
You get a really dysfunctional roommate.。
You live in community.。
Okay, you resolve conflict.。
You talk to people.。
You date in a way that honors God.。
Why is it important to date in a way that honors God?。
Because if you're not,。
what you're telling the person that you're dating。
is you are an adulterer.。
Let me define that.。
An adulterer is someone who has sex。
with someone they're not married to.。
Here's why I say that.。
Listen closely.。
I have a sexual desire.。
I know the Lord doesn't want me to express it in this way.。
I do not care.。
I'm going to follow my urges.。
Can I tell you something?。
Trust me on this.。
You will have those urges.。
He or she will have those urges for another person。
after they're married to you.。
They've already told you。
they're committed to following those desires.。
Do you see what I'm saying?。
They said, "Hey, I do not fear God.。
"I follow my urges.。
"That's why I want to have sex with you right now。
"outside of marriage."。
Later on, we're going to be married,。
and when I have those urges again,。
I'm going to follow them.。
If they tell me to have sex with someone else,。
I'm going to follow them.。
I'm telling you that now.。
I'm trying to.。
I'm jumping up and down,。
waving my arms, saying, "I'm an adulterer.。
"I'm an adulterer.。
"I'm an adulterer.。
"You want to marry me?。
"Marry an adulterer."。
That's what they're teaching you.。
And you're like, "Man, he just made that up."。
No, I didn't.。
I see it all the time。
over and over again.。
And so I don't think we realize。
that you're becoming more of what you are.。
I had this call with this girl the other day, last week,。
and she wanted to live with her boyfriend,。
and she just asked me if I thought that was wise.。
And I thought she was wise for asking, honestly.。
I appreciated the question,。
and that she would reach out.。
And so we just talked through.。
She wanted me to give her the secular statistics,。
which all would say, "That's a bad idea."。
I say all.。
Any credible one would say,。
"That's a really, really bad idea."。
But I just said, "Hey, I'm not interested。
"in talking about your behavior.。
"Let's talk about your belief."。
And she said, "Oh, yeah, yeah.。
"No, you don't understand.。
"I have this dream that he and I,。
"we're going to go to church together,。
"and we're going to take our kids to church,。
"and we're going to belong there,。
"and it's going to be awesome."。
And I go, "Cool.。
"Can I ask you a question?"。
She's like, "Yeah."。
"Do you belong to a church right now?。
"Are you a member at a church right now?。
"And do you go there, and do you serve there,。
"and you're there every Sunday,。
"and throughout the week trying to be a part of the body?"。
And she just said, "No, it's busy.。
"Life's busy, and I really hadn't found one that I like,。
"and we've been looking.。
"We interviewed churches for a couple weeks,。
"and we just didn't see one, so I just don't know.。
"But no, we're not really going to one right now."。
Cool.。
I'm sure marriage and children。
are going to make that a lot easier.。
Come with me sometime when I'm trying to check in。
my three kids into child care on Sunday morning.。
I don't think I've ever made it in here。
before 30 minutes after the service started.。
I mean, it's like those things don't make it easier, friend.。
And by the way, what makes you think。
you're going to do different than--。
Some of you are here, and you're like,。
"Yeah, I do think, man, I'll be great.。
"I'll go to church, and I'll belong there."。
And you're not going to church now.。
And I'm just saying, "No, you won't.。
"Let me just shoot you real straight.。
"No, you won't.。
"You're going to do more of later。
"what you already do today.。
"That's what you're going to do.。
"That's what people do.。
"Life's a pattern.。
"You get stuck in a pattern.。
"That's what's going to happen."。
You could change it right now.。
You could plead with God's Holy Spirit。
to change it in you, to help you,。
and to move towards those things.。
You're becoming something.。
You're becoming something.。
And so if you can't be pure outside of marriage,。
what would make you think that you can be pure in marriage?。
If you can't be pure--。
And when I say pure, I mean like in and out of a relationship,。
like personally pure as well.。
Like some of you are thinking,。
"Man, yeah, I struggle with porn,。
"I struggle with masturbation,。
"but that'll change when I'm married."。
It'll change, it'll grow.。
It'll become a bigger problem in marriage.。
That's what will happen.。
Yeah.。
You're looking at someone and saying,。
"I'm unfaithful.。
"Marry me.。
"I don't know how to be faithful."。
So don't marry someone who has proven to be an adulterer.。
And I'm not talking about someone who's made a bad choice。
or someone who has a past.。
Those people can change.。
Listen, I was that person.。
I was a porn addict, sex addict.。
I surrendered my life to God through Jesus Christ,。
and he began to change me,。
and I got committed and serious about that。
by his grace at work and my life.。
And so I'm not saying someone who has a past.。
I'm saying someone who has a present, you know?。
They're still in it.。
Paul just says if you marry, you don't do what is wrong.。
If you remain single, you don't do what is wrong.。
The only wrong is to obsess over what is not available to you。
or to pretend that you are in a life stage that you're not.。
And so my challenge for you is to use this season to be single-minded,。
meaning singularly focused on God and what he desires。
but also living in the season that he has you,。
which is singleness.。
And so Paul writes this idea, and let's just be honest.。
It's in 1 Corinthians 7.。
There's some strange things going on in the church of Corinth.。
Isn't Paul the only one who says this?。
And any kind of weird here, like, man, he's just bitter, single man.。
That's what's going on here.。
Paul's just angry, and so he doesn't want anybody else to be married。
because he's not married.。
He couldn't find a wife, and so he doesn't want me to have a wife.。
Is that what's going on here?。
Did you know Jesus says the same thing?。
Paul's just expounding on Jesus' idea.。
It comes from Matthew 19.。
Let me read it to you.。
"I tell you that"--okay, so they've asked him,。
"Jesus, is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife?"。
He says, "You know what?。
"The Lord has brought together, 'Let man not separate.'"。
In one word, "No," he says.。
And then he says this, "I tell you that anyone who divorces his wife。
"except for sexual immorality and marries another woman commits adultery."。
And so the disciples, they hear this, and they're like, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!。
"You're talking about, like, marriage.。
"Like, it's forever or something.。
"And if that's the situation between a husband and a wife,。
"it's better not to marry," to which Jesus doesn't say--。
"No, no, no, hold on, guys.。
"No, no, no, hold on.。
"No, no, you misunderstood me.。
"It's not that it's not better.。
"Okay, let me explain this.。
"No, marriage is really good.。
"That's not what he says.。
"Let me just show you what he says, okay?"。
They say, "It must be better not to marry," to which Jesus says,。
"Not everyone can accept this word,。
"but only to those to whom it has been given.。
"For there are eunuchs," which is a unique word.。
A eunuch is a person without reproductive parts.。
Okay, you tracking with me?。
All right.。
"There are eunuchs who were born that way,。
"and there are eunuchs who have been made eunuchs by others,。
"which I say we should pray for those guys.。
"And there are those who choose to live like eunuchs."。
Now, listen to this part, okay?。
So eunuchs are those without reproductive organs.。
"There are those who choose to live like those。
"without sexual desire for the sake of the kingdom of heaven.。
"And the one who can accept this should accept this."。
What?。
Jesus says several profound things.。
Let me go over them.。
He says, one, marriage is forever.。
And so if it's forever, it takes a lot of preparation.。
We should prepare for it.。
Two, he says there's only two options.。
You can choose celibacy or you can choose marriage.。
Those are your only two God-honoring options.。
You have celibacy, and then you have the outlet for sex,。
which is marriage.。
There's no other outlet for sexual release, okay?。
Celibacy or marriage, those are your two options。
according to the one who gave you life。
and made the world and everything in it.。
And then he says, "There are some who are single。
"for the sake of the kingdom."。
And so they're not selfishly single,。
not like, "Oh, man, single's fun.。
"I'm gonna play the field.。
"I'm gonna jack with hearts.。
"I'm gonna have friends with benefits."。
No, they're single for only one reason,。
single for the sake of the kingdom.。
And so he's saying, he's expounding on this idea。
that singleness is a gift to which a friend asked me,。
"Well, is it a gift like cancer?"。
To which I say, "No."。
Okay, it's not.。
Like, cancer is bad.。
Cancer's always bad.。
Singleness, the scripture says, is good.。
It's not like a rejoice in suffering kind of gift.。
It's a gift that you actually use。
and honor God with.。
And so Jesus says, "Some should remain single。
"for the sake of the kingdom."。
Who is that?。
It's those that can't or don't marry.。
And he says, "Some will, and they should do so forever."。
Expounding, Paul is just expounding。
on the idea of Jesus Christ as Savior.。
So in summary, to see your status。
or your singleness as a gift,。
trust the one who's entrusted it to you.。
The reason you're single is to be devoted to the Lord.。
And thirdly, a season of singleness。
might be preparing you for a life of marriage.。
Therefore, prepare well.。
Use this season to prepare well.。
It's interesting, the nutcracker,。
it ended up kind of being the highlight of Christmas.。
I mean, of course, there was the baby in the manger,。
and that was really the highlight of Christmas.。
But they had a lot of fun, let me just say,。
with this nutcracker.。
We would drive by the Elmore's house,。
and it was on their front porch,。
and it was lit up and everything.。
And so people would come and knock on their door.。
In fact, this one gentleman comes and goes,。
"Hey, man, I know the people that live here。
"must have a sense of humor.。
"I mean, you got a nutcracker with a beer belly out there."。
And my friend John got to engage with him。
and share the gospel with him.。
And this thing that was considered this curse。
ended up being such a tremendous blessing in the season。
that we would continue to talk.。
We talk about it today still.。
In fact, it reminded, I mean, that's how I thought about it。
is we were just dialoguing about how funny。
that whole exchange was and how fun it ended up being,。
that it actually gave them life.。
It was actually something that they didn't need to lose,。
but they could actually use.。
And I never want to play games with you guys,。
and so I just want to have a real transparent moment。
with you as we end.。
It was a really hard week.。
The past two weeks, really difficult, challenging weeks.。
And what that looked like is we're moving,。
we're building a home,。
but we have to move from our house into a temporary house。
so that we can eventually move into that house.。
So we're moving, knowing that we're going to have to move again.。
I'm just like, "Oh."。
And so then we had a garage sale.。
And so garage sales are hard because you take all of this stuff。
that you invested money in, you put it on your lawn,。
and you exchange it for a nickel.。
And so people are coming over and taking all of my stuff,。
and I don't like that, and they're giving me pennies for it.。
And so in the midst of the garage sale,。
there was just a lot of challenging things that happened.。
And then Monica begins to complain about her leg,。
saying that her leg hurts, to which I look at it,。
and right here on the back of her leg is this red mark.。
And so she gets on an antibiotic in the midst of that,。
but the red mark, it just kind of starts growing and growing.。
And I'm thinking, "Hey, the antibiotic's got to be working."。
And she's telling me, "Hey, babe, my leg really hurts."。
And I'm kind of like, "Hey, suck it up,"。
which I know makes me husband of the year.。
But I'm like, "Hey, it's going to be okay."。
And we got a lot going on.。
And she even says, "Man, I think the first time we had a garage sale,。
it was a lot easier."。
And I'm like, "Yeah, absolutely, because I don't know if you noticed,。
but Weston's trying to ride the skateboard in the street,。
and he's 20 months old, and the girls are chasing the neighbor's dog over there.。
Come back, Presley!"。
Okay, now, "Okay, what is that, sir?。
You'd like to give me a nickel for that plasma? Okay, here you go."。
And so all of these things are going on, and I'm like,。
"Yes, it was easier when we were--life was simpler, and life's not so simple now."。
And she's like, "By the way, my leg hurts."。
I'm like, "It's going to be okay. You're taking an antibiotic."。
[laughter]。
And so about 10 p.m., she's like, "I'm just going to text my dermatologist."。
I'm like, "Fine."。
[laughter]。
She texts a picture of her leg.。
Dermatologist calls immediately back and says,。
"Hey, you need to go to the ER right now."。
So I'm like, "How can we go to the ER? We've got these three kids in the other room."。
So I'm like, "Hey, can somebody come over and watch the kids。
while we go to the ER so they can tell us that nothing's wrong?"。
And so then my--I know, wicked person.。
So somebody comes over and watches the kids, and we leave,。
and we go to the emergency room to which they say--they rush us to the back and say,。
"I was so glad that you came in. Her body's fighting this infection.。
That's what's happening. We need to lance this--。
we need to cut into her leg right now."。
And I was like, "Really? Hey, babe, I'm sorry."。
[laughter]。
And I just went real nice, kind of through all of that.。
Like it just felt like the weight of the world, and like I was teaching here,。
and then I'm teaching in Houston on Thursday,。
and all of it--I taught this morning at this thing,。
and just like the distraction of ministry, and I forsake.。
I took for granted my ministry.。
I missed out on my primary ministry.。
I let you guys down. I let my family down.。
I let my community down.。
I couldn't stand before you and say, "Follow me as I follow Christ,"。
in the way that I strive to live with my wife in an understanding way,。
1 Peter 3, 7, or Ephesians 5, 25,。
that I would love her as Christ loved the church and gave his life for his bride.。
I missed my primary ministry.。
And can I tell you something else?。
When I was single, I missed my primary ministry.。
Man, I would love to be up here and be like, "Hey, do it just like I did.。
Don't do it like I did."。
Probably my greatest regret in the world。
is that I missed out on ministry when I was single.。
Man, I look back on those days like, "Man, what if--we could have done that.。
Man, we could have changed that nation.。
We could have made that whole nation have water or food to eat.。
We could have done that."。
Man, I could have--that neighbor that I had who was lost,。
he could be in heaven if the Lord would have used me in that way,。
but he didn't because I wasn't available to be used.。
Man, I could have studied the Word.。
I could have known the Scriptures like people who really know the Bible.。
I could have taught and drawn from my 20s, but I didn't read the Bible.。
All while I called myself a Christian, I was playing games.。
I wasn't a Christian. I was a Dallasite.。
I look like Dallas and smell like Dallas and talk like Dallas,。
and I did the things that Dallas said.。
All while I called myself a Christian, and I wasn't a Christian.。
If I would have died, I wouldn't have been with God。
because I didn't fully understand what he did to set me free from Dallas,。
free from my sins.。
I didn't understand what he did so that I could use my singleness for his glory.。
I want you to plug into a church and belong there.。
I beg you to. This is your week.。
Get in a community, a group of friends that you're doing life with.。
Sit across from them and say, "Hey, guys, is there weird quirkiness in me。
that you think God wants to change? Is there a reason that I'm single。
and I don't want to be?" If you don't want to be, maybe you want to be.。
But let them be honest with you. Say, "Hey, guys, what if?"。
Ask that a lot when you're single. Ask, "What if?" a lot.。
"Man, what if we moved there? What if we moved to West Dallas。
and began to just love on people down there?。
Do you think we could change a community?"。
Oh, yeah, you can. Oh, yeah, gifted folks in this room, you absolutely can.。
These are the things I want you to do. All right?。
Listen, here's what I promise you. God's Word promises you.。
You won't regret it. Keep having sex, you'll regret it.。
Living with your significant other, you'll regret it.。
If you're a follower of Christ, you will regret it.。
Keep looking at porn, you'll regret it.。
Keep wasting your singleness, you'll regret it.。
But you say, "Hey, God, here's my life. Would you use me?"。
I'm not focusing on the don'ts. This isn't a don't message.。
This is, "Hey, go and be used," message.。
Surrender to God, message.。
Look to Him and say, "Lord, how do you want to use me?" message.。
Don't try to lose the gift. Use the gift.。
Let me pray.。
Father, would you help us do that?。
Would you make us believe that, God?。
Would you stir in our hearts that reality, Lord?。
Would you show my friends, would you convict the ones you need to convict, Father,。
that your Spirit would sit heavy on their hearts,。
showing them the things that they've done that have been a dishonor to you,。
and Lord, remind them of the things that you've done。
so that they don't have to pay for those things,。
that you've paid for those things through Jesus,。
that they don't have to leave guilty, Father, that they can leave new, Father.。
And for other ones who have been wasting their singleness, God,。
I pray that you would stir in their hearts and minds。
the things that they can do to live in a way that's brave,。
to live in a way to be used by you.。
As your eyes go to and fro, looking for hearts that are fully yours, God,。
that you would see us and use us and find us available to you to be used, God.。
For we love you and we love the way you work and move.。
It is in Jesus' name. Amen.。
[Silence]。
