(Music)。
Well, a special hello all the way from San Antonio.。
(Cheers)。
You've heard of it, yeah.。
It's like the most forgotten city in the state of Texas.。
But, man, it's a huge honor to get to be here tonight.。
And so whether you're here in this room or you're in Overflow,。
or maybe you're watching from one of the, gosh, 13 live sites,。
it's a joy to get to be here.。
And I just want to say this to the Porch team and specifically David.。
Man, just so grateful getting to watch what God has been doing here at the Porch.。
And I don't know if you know this, but me and my wife and I,。
we lived in Washington State for about a decade.。
And getting to watch what God is doing here among young adults is pretty supernatural.。
And there's nothing like this that we've seen, I mean, in the entire U.S.。
I hope you know that, that even the fact that you guys have Overflow,。
that this is a packed room, is absolutely incredible.。
And I think a big piece of that, yes, is God moving in a really unique way,。
and you're a part of something really special.。
But it's also the leadership of the Porch that is, man, pushing forward。
and really defining how young adult ministry is being done across our nation.。
You guys are setting that pace.。
And so thank you guys so much.。
It's an honor to get to be here tonight.。
And real quick, I will, I'll do a trick.。
Just because I feel like you won't listen until I do.。
But before I do, like David said, a year ago, my wife and I,。
we planted a church in San Antonio.。
And I think I have a picture of my wife and my family.。
Yeah, there's my wife, Jane, and that's our almost two-year-old daughter, Tilly.。
I think there's another picture of Tilly.。
Her eyes.。
Listen, there's not another human on planet Earth。
that I love more than that little kid.。
And her name's Matilda, but we call her Tilly.。
So now that we got the introductions out of the way,。
this is going to get weird.。
Are you guys cool with that?。
Is that okay?。
Some of you tonight, you're going to walk out of this place,。
and you're not going to have heard anything that was said after this point.。
And there will be many of you that walk out tonight a little upset and angry.。
Some of you, you're going to love it.。
Some of you, not so much.。
If you walk out of this place angry, sorry.。
You've been kind of warned.。
But I'm going to need some volunteers that will be willing to help me out up here on stage.。
And so we're going to grab a few.。
Ma'am, you have your hand up.。
Would you please join me up here?。
Would you guys give her a huge round of applause?。
Let's get somebody maybe over here, maybe a gentleman.。
We've got a young lady.。
We need a gentleman that's pretty--。
I need someone that's pretty--。
you're just excitable.。
You've got some energy.。
For real, you can do it, bro.。
Wait, right here.。
Yeah, come on up.。
You guys get this guy with the white shirt right here.。
Sorry.。
Fella, white shirt, cap.。
Oh, man.。
This is now awkward.。
I tried.。
I'm sorry.。
I feel like I let you--。
Hey, you come on.。
Maybe two active.。
Hopefully we can reign you in.。
Come on up.。
Yeah, both of you, come on up here.。
Ma'am, we're going to have you come here.。
Sir, you here.。
I want to know each of you guys.。
Tell me your name.。
Cameron.。
Cameron, OK.。
Cameron, what do you do?。
I'm an ADT salesman.。
I'm sorry?。
ADT salesman.。
No, I heard you.。
Just sorry.。
I'm just kidding.。
I'm just kidding.。
I'm kidding.。
I always tell that joke.。
OK, tell me your name.。
Sadie.。
Sadie.。
We've got Cameron, Sadie.。
Sadie, what do you do?。
I'm a pre-K teacher.。
Pre-K teacher.。
Oh.。
Thank you.。
Bless your heart.。
Man, I almost want to just stop and pray for you,。
because I know this season has been crazy.。
So, well, here's what we're going to do.。
We're going to do a trick, and I'll be honest with you.。
I've got a deck of cards.。
This is really important.。
It's not a card trick, OK?。
But what a deck of cards gives us tonight is it gives us 52 objects。
that most people in this room are somewhat familiar with.。
Correct?。
Like you've played with a deck of cards.。
Perfect.。
In a second, we're going to start with you, Cameron.。
We're going to have you select a card, OK?。
Now, so that we're all on the same page tonight,。
this is really, really important.。
There are two parts to every playing card.。
Yeah, you can take that off.。
Yeah, sorry.。
There's the value of the card.。
That would be, let's say, like the number or the letter,。
if it's like a king or queen.。
That makes sense.。
It's value.。
And then there's the suit.。
You got it?。
There are only four suits, so that we're clear.。
There are two red ones.。
There are two black ones.。
The two red ones are the heart and the diamond.。
The two black ones are the spade.。
That's like the little shovel thing, and then the upside-down heart.。
And then there's the clubs, OK?。
Or clovers, or puppy feet, depending on where you're from.。
OK, you got it?。
You'd be so surprised.。
There's just two.。
There's the value, and there's the suit.。
That's what you need to know, but people get lost.。
OK, now here's the deal.。
In just a second, like I said, I'm going to let you select a card.。
Now, when people leave tonight, there's really only going to be one solution。
that people are going to come up with.。
So I'm going to go, Drew, either all of these cards--。
you didn't have a whole lot of choices, maybe just two or three options.。
So, Cameron, I need you to be honest.。
I need you to look through there.。
They can see this with a camera.。
All of these cards are, in fact, different.。
Can you see that?。
Yeah, absolutely.。
Perfect.。
You can see this as well.。
OK?。
They're pretty shuffled, too.。
They're not in any special order, nothing like that.。
Feel good?。
Feel good?。
Yes.。
OK, super important.。
We'll start with you.。
Cameron, I'm going to take my finger.。
I'm just going to run through the cards like this.。
I'm going to say, stop.。
OK?。
You're going to take a look at the card and memorize it.。
If you feel as though I stopped too soon or too late and I'm forcing a card on you,。
or if you just don't like the card, tell me.。
OK?。
Are we ready?。
A lot of setup.。
I know, I know.。
You think you're nervous.。
Just wait.。
Here we go.。
You ready?。
Just say out loud, say stop.。
Stop.。
Right there?。
How do you feel about-- nope, too far.。
OK, we'll start over.。
Stop.。
How about this one?。
Yep.。
You feel good about this?。
I feel good about this.。
Can you memorize it?。
Thank you.。
You won't forget it.。
I have a bad memory.。
Can you memorize it?。
Yep.。
You got it?。
OK, perfect.。
Now, Cameron, I want you to look there at the back wall.。
Yeah, that one.。
You don't have to point at everything.。
Yeah, yeah.。
It's my show.。
I'll tell the jokes, Cameron.。
I want you to look there.。
You're going to imagine-- you're going to start to-- all of a sudden, you're going to see。
your card become an appearance.。
I love that some of you turned around.。
I love that some of you turned around.。
I love that some of you turned around.。
It's just in his mind.。
You're going to see the value there.。
You'll see the suit.。
In your mind, say it over and again, not out loud, just in your mind, so that you don't。
forget it.。
Say it.。
Are you ready?。
Yes.。
Same thing.。
If you would, just say stop.。
Stop.。
Right there, how do you feel about this?。
Good.。
You feel good?。
Yep.。
You won't forget it?。
Nope.。
Perfect.。
Same thing.。
Look there at the back of the wall.。
Take it in your mind.。
OK.。
Just over and over again.。
Over and over again.。
Perfect.。
OK.。
Now, just to make this interesting, we're going to use a few of you in the crowd as。
well.。
So, I tell you what, ma'am, you have this beautiful yellow dress.。
Would you please stand up for me?。
Would you tell me your name?。
Paisley.。
Paisley.。
Beautiful name.。
Paisley, in just a second, I'm going to take these cards.。
I'm going to throw them to you.。
OK?。
If the rest of you catch these cards, here, this is how this is going to work.。
We'll just take the cards, put them face down in the palm of your hand.。
Got it like this?。
You'll be able to take your thumb.。
You'll just peek open the cards.。
Look there.。
Memorize one.。
It's fairly simple.。
It'll save us a little time.。
You can leave the rubber band around them.。
Just, would you do me a huge favor?。
Would you, I could throw them, but I'm kind of nervous.。
If you would, would you just take those cards, hand those to Paisley.。
OK?。
Paisley, look right here at me.。
OK?。
Look right here.。
Look right here at me.。
OK?。
Listen to my voice, not theirs.。
OK?。
Look right here.。
OK.。
Perfect.。
Take your thumb.。
I want you to peek open the cards.。
Stay right here.。
Once the cards are open, look there at the card.。
Memorize it, both parts.。
You got it?。
OK.。
You can close it.。
Look right here at me.。
In your mind, see the value and the suit.。
The value and the suit.。
Very good.。
Sir, tell me your name.。
Jordan.。
Jordan, would you stand up real quick for me?。
Paisley, would you take underhand, would you toss those cards to Jordan?。
Nice.。
That was a great job.。
Very cool.。
You can stay standing.。
Stay standing.。
Jordan, same thing.。
Face down.。
Look at the cards up with your thumb.。
When you've got them open.。
Oh, no, don't do the top one.。
I mean, you can, but go somewhere in the middle.。
It makes it more impressive.。
OK?。
You got one?。
Got it memorized already?。
Close it.。
Look right here at me.。
Value, suit.。
Value, suit.。
OK.。
Let me have trouble with you.。
And then let's go-- ooh, sir, you look super cool.。
You got this beard.。
I love it.。
Would you stand up?。
Tell me your name.。
Ryan.。
Is that right?。
OK, perfect.。
Jordan, it's a long way, so will you get it to Ryan?。
Nice.。
Oh, that was--。
Almost perfect.。
Spin them around real quick.。
Oh, flip it.。
Oh, that'll make it easy.。
Oh, spin it.。
Oh, my gosh.。
Like a wheel.。
Yeah, there you go.。
There you go.。
There you go.。
Look right here at me.。
Look right here at me.。
Whenever you're ready, Ryan, open the cards.。
Look there at the card.。
Memorize it.。
Go ahead.。
Do that now.。
Got it?。
Value, suit.。
Value, suit.。
Toss the cards here.。
Nice.。
OK.。
Jordan, you got it?。
You got it?。
OK.。
Value, suit.。
Toss the cards here.。
Nice.。
OK, perfect.。
Go ahead.。
Stay standing.。
Stay standing.。
Jordan, stand up.。
OK, perfect.。
You're doing great.。
OK, now look.。
Five cards.。
We're going to try to do this very, very fast, OK?。
Here's what I need you to do.。
Try your best to help me out, OK?。
If you go blank, this is not going to work.。
It will all look a little awkward.。
But try to focus as much as you can on your card.。
This will help you.。
I want you to imagine going back to like the halls of a high school.。
You're walking through the hall.。
All of a sudden, you turn into a classroom.。
It's an art room.。
I want you to see in the corner there's a canvas and there's an easel.。
I want you to walk towards it in your mind.。
And as you get close, you're going to see there's two markers.。
There's a red marker, a black marker.。
In your mind, would you grab the marker that you associate with your playing card?。
OK?。
Don't do anything to give it away.。
Perfect.。
Perfect.。
Perfect.。
OK.。
Cameron, you reach down.。
It will look like-- start with you.。
OK?。
Don't give anything away.。
It's either red or it's black.。
It's either red or it's black.。
It's either-- very good.。
OK.。
Your tails are in your eyes.。
Kind of, yeah, bump-- yeah.。
Black marker?。
Yes.。
Yes.。
It's 50/50, but it's still impressive.。
Cameron, right here.。
Red, black, red, black, red.。
Ooh.。
Oh, there it is.。
Red.。
Perfect.。
The rest, yes?。
Yeah, OK.。
Very good.。
Right here.。
Jordan, I'm kind of most nervous about you.。
You reach down there.。
Is it a black marker?。
You can tell me.。
It's not a black marker.。
Am I telling you it's a black marker?。
Yeah, yeah, yes or no.。
Just saying.。
It's a black marker.。
It was.。
OK.。
Oh, my gosh.。
I knew we were going to have trouble with him.。
No, you're doing great.。
Great, great.。
Here's what we're going to do.。
We'll focus in.。
Cameron, think about yours.。
OK?。
You know it's either a heart or it's a diamond.。
It's either a heart or a diamond.。
Very good.。
OK?。
Very good.。
Very good.。
Focus in on the value of the card.。
OK?。
I think I got it.。
You guys got yours?。
Focus in on the suit.。
Now, with the easel, here's what I want you to do.。
You've got the red or the black marker.。
I want you to begin to draw your card in your mind.。
Draw the card in your mind.。
Start to draw it.。
I know yours is red.。
I know it's also a diamond.。
OK?。
Focus in on it.。
Cameron, I believe the card that you're thinking of is the 10 of diamonds.。
Is that correct?。
That is correct.。
Yes, you can have a seat.。
Well done.。
The cards came pretty fast.。
This is what I saw.。
The 7 of spades, the 10 of clubs, and the king of diamonds.。
If I named your card, will you please have a seat?。
I don't know if you just saw that.。
I don't know if you just saw that I just got 4 out of 4.。
All that to say is if this doesn't work, obviously not my fault.。
OK?。
At this point, all we know is that your card is black.。
Focus in on it.。
You're doing a great job.。
I know, it's OK.。
Look ahead.。
Try your best not to give it away.。
I'll tell you this up front.。
The harder you try to not give it away, the easier you're going to make it.。
OK?。
Here we go.。
Focus in on it.。
We know it's black.。
It's a 7 of spades.。
It's a club or a 7 of spades.。
Very good.。
Oh, man.。
Focus in on the number.。
See, I'm going to be honest with you.。
I think I have an idea, but I'm not 100%.。
OK?。
So here's the deal.。
If you get close, they're going to lose their mind for you.。
The card that you begin to paint in your mind, it looked as though you began to draw a number.。
The number that I think that you drew was some straight lines.。
It looked like maybe the 7 of clubs.。
7 of clubs, is that what it is?。
If you guessed right, give her a huge round of applause.。
Ta-da.。
Stop.。
You don't mean it.。
Well, how do you teach after that?。
I don't really have a great segue, so if you have a Bible, grab it.。
Meet me in Acts chapter 4.。
Actually, as you turn to Acts chapter 4, and feel free to look at the table of contents。
if you need to, but I want to say this.。
What's interesting about magic and illusions and the way that it works is this.。
Is that the secret to how that works was on full display on this stage right in front。
of you.。
Like every detail of how it worked was literally right in front of you.。
But you miss it because you're not trained to see it.。
Or because of what magicians would call misdirection.。
Your focus and your attention all goes here while the secret and the magic happens over。
here.。
And here's the reason I share that tonight is this.。
Because I believe with everything in me that not a single one of you are here by accident。
or happenstance.。
Like whatever reason you walked into this place tonight, for whatever reason, you're。
not here by accident.。
That I believe that the God of the universe has pieced things together and put you in。
the seat that you're in because he wants to speak to you tonight.。
That he has something for you.。
And more than you being here on purpose and with intention, that I believe that the God。
of the universe is here tonight and my fear is this.。
Is that we would walk into a place like this and although his presence be on full display,。
that it be right in front of us.。
Just like the magic trick, we miss it.。
Just like the magic trick, our attention is diverted.。
We spend so much time and worried about what people think about us.。
Or maybe we're just here scoping and hoping and I hope I get a date out of this.。
Or whatever this is, like that you completely miss the God of the universe showing up and。
showing off and wanting to speak to you in a language that your heart can understand.。
And so tonight I want to pray for us and just ask God to speak to us in a really powerful。
and sweet way that maybe just maybe you understand.。
So Jesus, I believe that you're here.。
I believe that you're in this room and I believe that you have something in store for us all.。
Myself included, God.。
And I don't want to step into this space and you show up and then I miss it, God.。
So I pray for every person in this space.。
I pray for every person in the overflow, every person watching remotely, God.。
Right now, would you open the eyes of our heart to see you?。
Would you open up the ears of our heart to hear you in a unique way?。
And God, I pray that we'd walk out of this place forever changed.。
Not because some guy did a card trick, not because some guy taught well, but because。
you showed up and you spoke to your people.。
That's what we want.。
That's what we need.。
Not another talk.。
We need your presence.。
So speak to us tonight, Jesus, in a way that we can understand.。
It's in your name we pray.。
Amen.。
Well, in Acts chapter four, my wife and I, we've just been walking through just a scripture。
app that's been chronologically just walking through the Bible and this was the passage。
that we read this morning.。
So I was like, this will be sweet.。
I'll just share this.。
But I believe that there's something in this that we're going to see tonight that ultimately。
is the secret to how you and I experience a life to the fullest.。
That Jesus shows up on the scene and in John 10, 10, he would say that I've come to give。
you life and life to the fullest.。
But if we're honest, man, very few of us actually experience that type of life.。
And so in Acts chapter four, we're going to start in verse one, but let me kind of set。
the stage so you know what's going on.。
Acts is just really the story of the early church.。
And you've got a couple of Jesus's followers who are hanging out and all of a sudden the。
Holy Spirit just descends on them.。
They begin to just share the gospel and people's lives begin to get changed.。
And Peter and John, two of these disciples, these followers of Jesus are on their way。
to the temple, on the way to a church service, a lot like the porch.。
And they come in contact with a beggar, a lame beggar, can't walk, who's been outside。
of the temple.。
The scripture is going to tell us that he's about 40 years old and he's been there for。
majority of his life.。
So he's pretty well known.。
And if you've got to think about it, if you're going to beg for money, doing it outside of。
a church is not a bad place to do it.。
And so Peter and John are walking towards the temple.。
They come up to this lame beggar.。
He asked for money.。
They kind of bypass him for a second and then they stop, they pause, they turn and they。
look at him.。
And they're thinking like this lame beggar is like, cha-ching, here we go, payday.。
And Peter and John, these two men look at him and go, "Hey, listen, silver and gold,。
we don't have it.。
But what we do have, we give freely in the name of Jesus, get up and walk."。
And all of a sudden the muscles in this man's leg begin to like strengthen and his legs。
begin to like straighten.。
And he stands up for the very first time and he begins to walk.。
And the Scripture tells us not only that, he's kind of skipping, he's almost dancing。
to the people in the synagogues are paying attention going, "What in the world?。
Like we know this guy, how did this happen?"。
And so they begin to point to Jesus and lives begin to be changed.。
It's causing this great commotion.。
And so then the religious leaders at the time grab Peter and John because they're causing。
all this commotion.。
They throw them in prison and they're like, "What do we do?。
It's pretty late.。
Maybe we should deal with it tomorrow."。
And that's where we find ourselves in this story.。
Got it?。
Perfect.。
So chapter four, verse one, this is what it says.。
It says, "The priest and the captain of the temple guard and the Sadducees came up to。
Peter and John while they were speaking to the people."。
Just side note, Sadducees are the religious leaders of the day.。
Fun fact, they're the ones who put Jesus on trial and put him on this kind of this, this。
whole false witness.。
And they're ultimately the ones that execute him.。
And so the Sadducees did not believe in the resurrection.。
And that you'll see that's kind of just a fun fact.。
Verse two says, "They were greatly disturbed because the apostles were teaching the people。
and proclaiming in Jesus the resurrection of the dead.。
So they seized Peter and John because it was evening.。
They put them in jail until the next day.。
But many who heard the message believed and the number of men grew to about 5,000.。
The next day the rulers and elders and teachers of the law met in Jerusalem.。
And I as the high priest was there.。
And so were Caiaphas, John, Alexander and the other men of the high priest family.。
They had Peter and John brought before them and began to question them by what power or。
what name did you do this?。
And then Peter filled with the Holy Spirit said to them, 'Rulers and elders of the people,。
if we are being called to account today for an act of kindness shown to a cripple or asked。
how he was healed, then know this, you and all the people of Israel, it is by the name。
of Jesus Christ of Nazareth whom you crucified, but whom God raised from the dead that this。
man stands before you healed.。
He is the stone that you builders rejected, which has become the capstone.'"。
And verse 12, watch this, "Salvation is found in no one else for there is no other name。
under heaven given to men by which we must be saved."。
If you're taking notes tonight, man, point number one, the secret of life is this, that。
the message has to be clear.。
Your message has to be clear.。
Now real quick, one of my favorite things, we moved to San Antonio about three years。
ago and was so grateful to move back to the south because you guys have, my wife and I's。
favorite restaurant in the world, a place called Chick-fil-A.。
And we love it, absolutely love it.。
So do they.。
But Chick-fil-A, listen, and most of us, we do, we love it.。
And there might be some different camps and maybe divided a little bit on maybe the sauce。
choice or maybe it's like, hey, it's sweet tea versus lemonade, or maybe it's like the。
Chick-fil-A sandwich versus the nuggets.。
But here's what's interesting.。
The vast majority of us love it really, really well.。
And somehow, someway, Chick-fil-A is hired like two renegade cows that are vandalizing。
billboards all across the southeast.。
And no matter what place you find yourself, whatever side you find yourself, all of us。
in this room know Chick-fil-A's slogan.。
It's three simple words.。
You know it, right?。
Eat more chicken.。
Why do you know that?。
Because Chick-fil-A's message is unbelievably clear.。
Unbelievably clear.。
And what is sad is this, that the world in which we live right now is dying for the answers。
that you and I claim to have.。
This about the hope that we claim to have, and sadly, the church right now finds itself。
stuttering.。
It finds itself confused.。
And so it's no matter that even in your own heart, when you think about the message that。
you've given your life to, that you claim to be, man, I've given my whole life to Jesus,。
surrendered everything to it.。
But why is it that the message is so unclear, even for our own hearts?。
We don't necessarily really even know what exactly it is that we're living for, some。
of us.。
Now listen, I didn't grow up in the church, so I didn't know like most of this stuff.。
I remember sitting down with a youth pastor when I was almost a senior in high school,。
and he goes, "Drew, can I just ask you a few questions?"。
I'm like, "Yeah, shoot for it."。
And I was like, "Hey," he's like, "what do you know about the Bible?"。
I was like, "Ah, I'm pretty sure Jesus is like the main character."。
He's like, "Yeah, good."。
And he goes, "Drew, can I tell you this, or can I ask you this?。
If I could tell you the whole story in just three or four minutes, would you want to know?"。
And I was like, "Yeah, bro.。
Like you bought lunch, sure, I'm listening."。
And listen, I'll never forget what he said.。
He said, "Drew, in the very beginning of this book was just God, in perfect relationship。
with himself, and there was nothing else.。
And God begins to speak the world into existence, creates all things with just His words.。
On the sixth day, God reaches into the dirt and He forms mankind.。
It would be the first thing that God ever touches.。
He breathes life into man."。
Why?。
So that we would have this opportunity to have this intimate, deep relationship with。
the God of the universe, that we could be fully known, fully loved, fully treasured。
by Him.。
And we make it three chapters into the book before we totally screw it all up.。
Then we go, "God, hey, thanks, but no thanks.。
Like I want to be king, I want to be captain, so would you just slide off the throne and。
let me take charge?"。
And in that moment, sin entered into the world and it fractured it.。
It broke it.。
In real talk, listen, I don't have to convince you of that.。
You don't watch the news for very long or flip through Twitter before you're like, "Yeah,。
it's pretty broken.。
It's jacked up.。
Surely this isn't the way God intended it."。
Or better yet, listen, love my daughter, she's about to hit two.。
Listen, you don't have to hang out with a two-year-old very long before you're like,。
"Dang, that's like the most evil creature on planet earth right there."。
Amen?。
Yeah.。
But here's what's interesting, think about this.。
My wife and I, we don't sit down with Tilly and go, "Hey, listen, when you don't get your。
way, you need to bite people.。
Let me show you how to do that.。
When you get frustrated, throw a punch.。
Like scream."。
No, no, no.。
That's inside of her.。
She's born with it.。
That's her default setting that every single one of us, that's where we find ourselves,。
that the sin of our great, great grandparents have been passed down from father to son,。
mother to daughter, and it's in every one of us, like a cancer, a plague that's killing。
us.。
In the entire Old Testament, although it's filled with a bunch of really crazy stories,。
it's all just one giant promise, and this is the promise that God sees you in your brokenness,。
and He loves you too much to leave you there.。
And one day, He's sending a hero to fix every bit of it.。
And so when you turn the pages from Malachi into Matthew, or Old Testament into the New。
Testament, you see that the hero actually shows up, but it's not what anyone expected.。
Because the hero was actually God Himself that was willing to leave His throne room,。
His kingdom, wrap Himself in human flesh, and move into our trailer park.。
That's who Jesus was.。
Like God in the flesh.。
God incarnate.。
So we call Him Emmanuel at Christmas, because God is with us.。
He's here.。
He's present.。
He walks on earth for 33 perfect years, teaching us what it means to be fully human, fully。
alive.。
And then He willingly lays His life down on our cross.。
Don't miss that.。
That wasn't Jesus' cross.。
It was yours.。
That was our death penalty for our treason against the God of the universe.。
And He willingly lays His life down on that cross, crucified, placed into a tomb, and。
then three days later, He walks out of the grave, proving that He has the power over。
sin and death, and all who call upon the name, all who take their lives like Texas Hold 'Em。
style and push the chips in and say, "It's all yours.。
I'll step off the throne.。
You be the captain.。
You call the shots."。
In that moment, something miraculous happens.。
The Bible would tell us this, that we go from being enemies of God, slaves to our sin, and。
the moment we say yes to Him, that we get adopted into the family, no longer orphans,。
but now sons and daughters of the King of the universe.。
That's our message.。
That's our message.。
Porch, hear me.。
Do not leave this place thinking that the message of Christianity is that Jesus came。
to this earth to take bad people and make them good people.。
That's not Christianity.。
Christianity is that Jesus came to take dead people and bring them to life.。
That's what it means to follow after Jesus.。
And our message has to be clear.。
Listen, not just to the world around us, but to us, but to ourselves.。
You know why many of us live such defeated lives?。
Because that's not the story we believe.。
We think, "Man, Jesus, you just came here to help me not cuss as much.。
Didn't you die on the cross just so I would watch a few less rated R movies?"。
Like we joke, right?。
But that's what many of you believe by your actions.。
What if you really did begin to believe that the same power that rose Jesus Christ from。
the grave now, of course, is through your veins, and that you can live a life of victory?。
We're running out of time.。
Point number two is this.。
Not only does the message need to be clear, but also we'll see that these men were marked。
by Christ.。
In verse 13, it says, "When they saw," so the Sadducees saw the courage of Peter and。
John and they realized that they were unschooled, uneducated, ordinary men.。
They were astonished and took note that these men had been with Jesus.。
But since they could see the man who had been healed standing there with them, there was。
nothing they could say.。
So they ordered them to withdraw from the Sanhedrin and confer together.。
"What are we going to do with these men?" they ask.。
Everybody living in Jerusalem knows they have done an outstanding miracle and we can't deny。
it.。
But to stop this thing from spreading any further among the people, we must warn these。
men to speak no longer to anyone in this name.。
So point number two is this.。
They were marked by Christ.。
They were marked by Christ.。
These religious leaders look and go, "Hey, listen, those two guys, here's what's obvious.。
Listen, they're not very educated, they're not real smart, they're unschooled, but here's。
what's really clear.。
Those guys been with Jesus.。
How do they know that?。
Think about this.。
When Jesus was put on the cross, the disciples, they all peaced out.。
Like none of them were around.。
How was it obvious that those two guys had been with Jesus?"。
Well, let me paint it this way.。
Right after I graduated college, I jumped in a car with a musician named Josh and we。
spent a year and a half touring around America, just making loops around the US.。
Eventually, we would move to Washington.。
We ended up planning a church together and would serve together for a decade.。
So we go to college together, we spend all this time together.。
Now here's the deal.。
If I were to invite Josh out on the stage, which he's not here, he's in Washington still,。
but if I were to invite him out and we would get a chance to hang out or maybe go grab。
coffee afterwards.。
Couple things that you would notice pretty quick.。
You're like, "Dang, Drew, you and Josh are super similar.。
Like you talk a lot alike.。
You have the same inflection, like same mannerisms.。
You tell a lot of the same stories and jokes, most of which he stole from me."。
And so, but here's the deal.。
Why does that happen?。
Why is that true?。
It's not because we set aside and go, "Hey, let's practice our moves here.。
Like how do you do your hand when you talk?。
Like is that how it works for you?"。
No, no, no.。
The reason that we're so similar is because we spent every single waking moment for a。
year and a half living together side by side in a car.。
Why was it so obvious that these men had been with Jesus?。
Is because for every single waking moment of their life for three solid years, they。
were side by side with Jesus.。
It was obvious those guys have been with Jesus.。
They talk just like Him.。
They've got the same mannerisms, the same stories they tell.。
It's just like Jesus.。
It's obvious that they've been with Him.。
So then maybe the million dollar question for you and I is this, is it obvious that。
we've been with Jesus?。
Are we marked by Christ?。
When your coworker looks at you, when your friends hang out with you, is it obvious that。
you've been hanging out with Jesus?。
To go, "Hey, listen, the real talk, I don't know if I believe in all of this stuff.。
I don't know how I feel about Jesus, but here's what I do know.。
If He was on earth, I'm willing to bet He'd talk a lot like you do.。
I'm willing to bet He'd live like you do.。
I'm willing to bet He would love like you do, that He would listen like you do, that。
He would care like you do.。
That it's obvious that you've been with Jesus.。
And here's the deal, church, please don't miss this.。
It's not about performance.。
It's all about proximity.。
That over time as you walk with Jesus, as you build intimacy, and you begin to look。
more and more like Him, the pieces of you that look like you begin to fade away and。
He begins to step into the spotlight.。
Church, is it obvious that you've been with Him?。
It breaks my heart to think that the vast majority are going to leave this place tonight。
and what you're going to hear is you need to leave this place and start performing.。
Start doing more theater, acting more like Jesus.。
That's where we get the idea of hypocrisy, that it's just theater.。
But as you walk with Jesus, as you know Him intimately, He begins to change you.。
Listen, and this is going to, some of you aren't going to believe this and I'm okay。
with it.。
The love of Jesus is more real than the chair you're seated in right now.。
Jesus is not a philosophy or a theory or something that you subscribe to.。
It's actually something and someone you can experience.。
And it breaks my heart to think that the vast majority of us are going to continue playing。
a game and missing out on that love that He offers.。
The third thing is, not only is the message clear and marked by Christ, but they were。
motivated by the cross.。
They were motivated by the cross.。
In verse 18 it says, "Then they called them in again and commanded them not to speak or。
teach at all in the name of Jesus.。
But Peter and John," I love this, "replied, 'Judge for yourselves whether it is right。
in God's sight to obey you rather than God, for we can't help speaking about what we've。
seen and heard.'。
And after further threats they let them go.。
They could not decide how to punish them because all the people were praising God for what。
had happened, for the man who was miraculously healed was over 40 years old."。
So listen, the religious leaders pull Peter and John aside and they go, "Hey guys, come。
here real quick.。
We're going to chat with you."。
They go, "Here's the deal.。
We're going to let you go to kind of keep things from getting a little crazy, but here's。
what we need you to do.。
This whole Jesus stuff, we need to keep it on the DL.。
A little hush-hush if you don't mind.。
And if we don't mention this again, we'll be cool."。
And Peter and John's response in that moment is, "Hey listen, that's ultimately between。
you and God.。
He gets to decide that.。
But here's what we know for certain.。
We can't help but speak about the things that we've seen and heard.。
Like our minds have been blown.。
Like our lives have been touched in a drastic way and we can't help but talk about the things。
that we've seen and we've heard."。
Church, it is the thesis of my life that I believe that if you're in this room and you,。
you really love Jesus, not just an idea of it, like you really love Him, you're a follower。
of Him, then the only reason that you're still here on planet Earth is because God has left。
you with an assignment and a mission to carry into the world.。
Just real talk, let's think about this.。
Like if you love Jesus, like that moment that you push all the chips in, why not in that。
moment do you not get zapped up into heaven to be with Him?。
Like why not?。
Like think about this.。
That would be a much better deal than what we've got going on down here.。
Like as amazing as the porch is, and it's incredible, as amazing as the DFW area is,。
and to be in the throne room with King Jesus, to be fully known, to be fully loved, to be。
truly seen for who you are and completely accepted, no hurt, no pain, no cancer, no。
fear, no anxiety, no worry, no stress, like are you kidding me?。
That's a much better deal than what we've got going on down here.。
So why leave us here?。
Because He's not done.。
Because He rescued your heart and He sent you into the world motivated by everything。
that you've seen Him do in your life.。
Now, love, I've heard it said this way, the gospel just hit you on its way to someone。
else.。
But check this out, what if God so loves the people in your office space that He rescued。
and redeemed your heart and then He left you there so that you could share the gospel with。
Him?。
Because I love them so much that I'm not gonna pull you out.。
I'm gonna leave you there so that you can pass on that love, so that you can share that。
with them.。
Think about this.。
And once again, it's not about performance, it's not about duty.。
Like these men, like they were threatened with their lives and they go, "Hey, we can't。
help but speak about it."。
Think about Isaiah.。
Some of you may remember this story.。
In Isaiah chapter six, there's this moment where this very broken man comes face to face。
with the God of the universe.。
He sees Him, high lifted on His throne, and he goes, "Oh man, like I'm screwed up, like。
I'm messed up, I've got a lot of issues, like don't kill me."。
And God heals him, forgives him.。
And then God asks this question, "Who, who we send?。
Who's gonna go into the world and tell them about my goodness?。
Who's gonna tell them about my love?。
I have a rescue plan just for them."。
And if you ever go back to that passage, I want you to know what it doesn't say.。
Isaiah doesn't have a moment where he goes, he looks around and he's like, "Ah, I guess。
it's just me.。
I guess I'm the only Christian in the office.。
I guess I'm the only one in the social club that loves Jesus, so I guess, I guess me.。
I'll do it."。
No.。
There's, there's an exclamation point by the end of his statement where it's like he steps。
up to the plate and he goes, "No, no, no, no, God, here I am.。
Here I am.。
You send me.。
God, you could send anybody.。
Anybody could go, but I'm asking you, send me.。
God, I've seen your beauty.。
I've seen you to be a treasure that you promised to be.。
Like send me.。
I'll go.。
I'll tell the world.。
I'm motivated by what you've done for me, that you've rescued me.。
You've redeemed me.。
I was once an enemy.。
I was once a slave, but now I'm alive.。
I'm adopted.。
I'm your son.。
I'm your daughter.。
Send me, please.。
You don't have to.。
You could send anybody, but God, you left me here and I want to tell them, I want to。
tell them, God, send me.。
A couple years ago, I was at an event much like this, and at the time I was just doing。
magic and I'm sitting in the back and watching people worship and I'm watching this gentleman。
just lose his mind.。
I mean, hands up, I mean, he's just going for it.。
Like no one else in the room.。
Like it was obvious.。
And so there was something stirring in me and this probably wasn't smart, but I just。
kind of walk over and I was like, hey, listen, I just kind of tap him on the shoulder.。
I'm like, hey, bro, I hate to bother you, but I need to know, what's the secret?。
And what's the secret?。
What is it that allows you to worship Jesus with such reckless abandonment?。
Like nobody else in the whole room.。
And all of a sudden, he responds this way, what do you mean I'm the only one in the room。
worshiping this way?。
It was in that moment that one of the moving lights swings across the audience and I notice。
that there's this massive glaze over his eyes.。
I go, man, I'm so sorry to ask, but are you blind?。
He's like, yeah.。
And it was in that moment that God dropped a message in my heart.。
This was a young man that maybe he couldn't see with his eyes, but his heart was fully。
open.。
For him, the message was so clear that God had rescued and redeemed a broken person just。
like him and adopted him into the family.。
For him, it was so obvious that he was marked by Christ, that he loved Jesus, not just in。
a moment, not just to sing a song, but the rest of his week, the rest of his month, the。
rest of his year was spent walking with Jesus.。
And it was obvious that he was motivated by what God had done in his life.。
Church, this is my prayer for each and every one of you.。
And maybe so, would you know that this is the life that Jesus invites you into?。
And would you know that he is absolutely worth it?。
He really is a treasure.。
He really is.。
He really is everything that he claims to be.。
Please don't spend all of your time playing church, playing Christianity, and missing。
the life that Jesus invites you into.。
Jesus, we love you.。
And Jesus, I have no idea the stories of the people in this room, but I know that you do.。
I know that you are good.。
I know that you love them.。
I know that you have a plan for them.。
I know that you're inviting them into something deeper.。
And so God, I pray that they wouldn't miss out on that.。
God, I pray that I wouldn't miss out on that.。
That I wouldn't get so busy playing the role of a Christian, playing the role of a pastor,。
that I miss out on the intimacy that you invite me into.。
So Jesus, for every person in this room, I pray tonight that they would walk out of this。
place with the message, with your message unbelievably clear in their heart.。
No matter where they land, no matter where they are spiritually, would the message be。
clear to them.。
God in the days to come, I pray that you would mark them with your presence, overwhelm them。
with your presence.。
And God, I pray that you would motivate them such at a deep level of what you've done for。
them.。
And then you would send them into the world to be agents of hope and reconciliation and。
change in this world.。
We love you, Jesus.。
We trust you.。
