(gentle music)。
♪ No matter what the storm ♪。
♪ Our anchor holds ♪。
♪ No matter what may come ♪。
♪ Your people press on ♪。
♪ No matter what the storm ♪。
- We are continuing 1 Peter.。
If you have a Bible, you can flip over to 1 Peter.。
Hello, friends in the room,。
friends in Fort Worth, Houston,。
and all over who are joining with us.。
Let me read the passage that we will be in tonight。
as we continue 1 Peter,。
a letter from the apostle Peter,。
the leader of the disciples。
who had his life totally changed by Jesus,。
formerly known as Simon was Peter's name.。
And Jesus came along and said,。
"I'm gonna change your name to Rocky,。
"and you're about to change the world。
"with you and a whole bunch of other people."。
And so let me read one of the letters。
that he wrote to the church.。
And here's, Peter means Rocky, or Rock,。
in case you're like, "What is he talking about?"。
Here's where we're gonna be in chapter five,。
starting in verse one.。
Peter writes and says,。
"To the elders, the leaders among you,。
"I appeal to you as a fellow elder。
"and a witness of Christ's sufferings,。
"who will also share in the glory to be revealed.。
"Be shepherds of God's flock that is under your care,。
"watching over them, not because you must,。
"but because you're willing, as God wants you to be,。
"not pursuing dishonest gain, but eager to serve,。
"not lording it over those entrusted to you,。
"but being examples to the flock.。
"And when the chief shepherd, Jesus, appears,。
"you will receive the crown of glory。
"that will never fade away.。
"In the same way, you who are younger,。
"submit yourselves to your elders.。
"All of you, clothe yourselves in humility。
"towards one another, because God opposes the proud,。
"but shows favor to the humble.。
"Humble yourselves, therefore, under God's mighty hand,。
"that he may lift you up in due time.。
"Cast all your anxieties on him, because he cares for you."。
Let me pray one more time, we'll dive in.。
Father, thank you for your word, thank you。
that you take people like Simon Peter,。
who are broken, messed up people,。
and you allow them to step into a relationship with you。
and step out of wasting their life away。
and finding purpose and healing and hope,。
and finding you.。
Father, we pray that that would happen tonight,。
that you would open eyes for anyone。
who doesn't have a relationship,。
that you would open all of our eyes。
to just the truths contained in your word.。
You'd instruct our hearts, that you would allow。
just your word, which you say is sharper than anything,。
to pierce into our hearts, to pierce into this heart,。
mine and my friend's hearts, and to transform us。
and make us more like Jesus.。
Father, we love you, thank you for sending your son。
to die the death that we deserved,。
and allowing us, by his new life, to have lived a life。
that, apart from him, we could not live.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
Well, I went to the University of Texas A&M.。
Any Aggies in this place?。
Oh my gosh, it's entirely Aggies.。
Hello, breakaway.。
So when I was at A&M, I did sports。
for the first couple years there.。
I did track, it was nothing impressive at all,。
and I threw the javelin, which like six people。
on the planet do, so it's like me and you six guys.。
And anyways, we had these sport advisors。
who would tell you or help you enroll you。
in the classes that you would take.。
Basically, everybody who was involved。
in the athletic program, especially for like football players。
or different people, are like, we're gonna make sure。
you take the easiest electives we have.。
So we're gonna go knitting on one,。
we're gonna go yoga class, and then agronomy。
was the one that I got handed.。
So I'm gonna start by telling you。
about my experience in agronomy.。
I know all you guys love agronomy.。
What is agronomy?。
The study of the stars?。
No, it's not that, that's astronomy.。
Agronomy is, it was agronomy 101,。
and I got told by my advisor, this is gonna be your elective。
for the first semester, he go, agronomy is the study,。
or it's recreational turf grass.。
Agronomy, yes, agricultural, Texas A&M,。
agriculture mechanical, and they had an agronomy class,。
and it was me and essentially the football team,。
and we're in there, and you are learning。
about how grass grows.。
So I am about to tell you what I learned。
over this entire semester in the next probably 35 seconds,。
and I'm gonna save you what I paid $3,000 for。
and give it to you right here.。
Basically, here's what you study.。
Hey, this is how grass grows, and these are the things。
that are essential and necessary,。
and the different types of grass, and how they can all grow.。
And there's four things that are necessary。
for any grass to grow.。
If grass, if you ever have it to grow,。
I'm about to save you.。
I know everyone came in here tonight being like,。
please, talk about the grass.。
And so I'm about to remove that and tell you,。
if grass is gonna grow, there's four things necessary.。
Sunlight, I know you can write this down.。
I see a lot of people.。
Water, soil, and you gotta pick the weeds.。
I'm gonna repeat them.。
Sunlight, water, soil, you gotta pick the weeds.。
I just saved you $3,000 right there.。
Yeah, you're welcome.。
Here's why I start with that.。
In order for, (laughs)。
yeah, thank you, that's great, yeah, clap.。
So in order for anything in this grass to grow,。
you had to have these four things, and that are essential.。
If they were not present, the grass would not grow.。
If there wasn't water, couldn't happen.。
If it was like in a closet, you couldn't grow grass.。
If you were trying to throw grass on concrete,。
it had to have soil, couldn't grow.。
If you didn't pick weeds, it would choke out the grass。
and it wouldn't grow.。
Why would I start there?。
No reason at all.。
I just had to get that off my chest。
and share it with somebody.。
I'm totally kidding.。
The reason I start there is because in the same way。
that there are four essentials that are required,。
are necessary in order for growth to take place,。
and grass is life.。
All of us came in here tonight, especially for Christians,。
if you're a Christ follower in the room,。
I'm talking especially to you,。
with a desire to grow, to grow spiritually.。
In other words, for Christ followers,。
there probably isn't very many or any of us。
who came in the room who's like, you know what?。
I feel like I've reached the pinnacle of my growth.。
I don't need to know any more Bible.。
I know all that I could possibly ever know。
or all that there is to know.。
My prayer life, it's like me and Mother Teresa。
are on the same playing field here.。
My service and my ministry impact,。
it eclipses anything else on this planet。
and like anything anyone has ever seen.。
The very few or none of us come in here feeling like,。
man, there's no spiritual ground for me to take.。
And if that is you, this message probably。
is not gonna be for you, so you're dismissed right now.。
But for the rest of us who came in saying,。
man, I want to grow, I want to experience。
spiritual growth in my life, that I do wanna see,。
I do wanna see my integrity grow,。
which happens whenever you spiritually grow。
and you grow more and more godly.。
I do wanna grow in my knowledge of God's word,。
I do wanna be better at relationships,。
which I know whenever I'm good at vertically。
I'm making sure that I love the Lord my God,。
that I become a better lover of my neighbor as myself.。
That we all came in here with this desire。
to spiritually take it on and spiritually grow.。
And just like in that agronomy class。
where we remove the mystery of,。
hey, these things are always present,。
if growth is gonna take place,。
there are certain things that Peter lays out。
in this passage that if you are going。
to experience spiritual growth,。
are essential in your life and in my life.。
Said otherwise, if the three things。
that we're gonna talk about are not present in your life,。
you will not spiritually grow.。
And you're gonna wake up however many months from today。
and you're gonna look back and wish。
that you had began to implement the stuff that Peter says,。
or you're gonna begin to apply them。
and begin to see and experience growth.。
It's not the exhaustive list of things,。
but if these are not present,。
just like sunlight with grass, you will not grow.。
And Peter gives us very clear instructions。
on what those things are gonna be.。
So we're gonna pick it up right where we stopped。
or right where we started at verse one of chapter five。
where Peter goes into his closing remarks to the church。
and we're gonna look at the three essentials。
that he lays out necessary for spiritual growth.。
He talks about submission to godly leadership,。
clothing ourselves in humility towards God。
and towards others or towards other believers,。
and then how we cast our anxiety, not carry it.。
So we're gonna look at those three ideas。
and the three things that he says are necessary。
if you and I are going to experience growth。
inside of our life.。
Let's pick it up back in verse one.。
So he begins writing to the elders.。
Elders is a word for pastor, leader.。
He's writing, as you know,。
a lot of the New Testament is letters.。
So if you have the New Testament,。
which is the second half of the Bible, part two,。
a lot of it is made up of letters。
that were written by the apostles, the disciples and Paul,。
and they wrote these letters.。
There's 21 letters out of the 27 books in the New Testament.。
21 of them are these letters written to churches。
who are made up of new believers going,。
"How do I live out this faith?"。
And Peter and a lot of the boys wrote these letters saying,。
"Hey, this is what it looks like to follow Jesus."。
So now he begins addressing the specific leaders。
of the church that he's writing to,。
and here's what he says.。
"To the elders, the leaders of this church,。
"among you, I appeal to you as a fellow elder。
"and a witness of Christ's sufferings,。
"who will also share in the glory to be revealed."。
Like, hey, I'm in this, we're in this together。
as leaders of the church.。
I'm telling you, be shepherds or care for God's flock。
that is under your care.。
"Watching over them, not because you must,"。
so he's talking to the leaders,。
here's how I want you to lead your church,。
"but because you're willing, as God wants you to be.。
"Not pursuing dishonest gain,"。
don't do this to make more money,。
to take advantage of people,。
"but being eager to serve."。
He gives the call and the commands of leadership。
inside of the church.。
"Not lording it over those who entrusted it to you,。
"but being an example that you lead by example to the flock.。
"And when the chief shepherd,"。
like, reminder, leader of the church,。
you have a leader, Jesus,。
"and when he appears, you will receive the crown of glory。
"that will never fade away,"。
that it's gonna be worth it.。
In the same way that there's something。
for the elders or the leaders of a church to do,。
elders is the local leadership of a church.。
In the same way, you who are younger,。
or you could insert, hey, you friends at the porch,。
or you who are younger inside of their church,。
there's specific things for you to do.。
Submit yourselves to the elders.。
The first essential that he gives us for spiritual growth,。
if you and I are gonna experience it,。
is that you and I are called to submit to God's leaders,。
called to submit to God's leaders.。
Now, here's what I know about you,。
'cause I know it's true about me,。
and it's really just true about millennials in general,。
probably just Americans,。
is like, submission in general and submission to authority。
are not a millennial's favorite word choice, if you will.。
Like, probably not a lot of us have like a tattoo。
that says submit to authority.。
It's just not something that we're really excited。
about doing around here,。
maybe 'cause there's been abuse of authority。
or different things that we've seen,。
but if you're a follower of Christ, this is not an option,。
that you and I, me too, are called to submit ourselves。
to a local church group。
and the leadership of that local church,。
that if you and I are gonna experience growth,。
the first idea is that you and I are called。
to submit to God's leaders.。
What do I mean by that?。
I do not mean that you're called to attend a church.。
I mean that you're called to be plugged in。
or a member of a church.。
If you attend here on a Tuesday,。
even if you attend on a Sunday, you're not a member.。
You're an attender.。
You and I are called to be members of a church,。
whether that's here or another place.。
If you're from another church, we're so glad you're here.。
We're not trying to church steal or anything.。
We hope you go deeper into wherever God has you,。
but all of us are called, if you're a Christ follower,。
to be members of a church.。
You and I are called to submit to a local leadership。
and be underneath the authority of elders around us,。
just like grass wouldn't grow in that scenario。
unless it's under sunlight.。
You will not grow unless you are under the authority。
of local leadership,。
unless you are underneath the authority。
of a local leadership.。
Man, I missed this for so many years of my life.。
I remember in college that there was never,。
I never plugged into a church.。
Like I would serve at different places,。
but I was disobedient to this passage,。
to many passages inside of the New Testament。
that teach that you and I are called。
to be a part of a local church.。
And there's an epidemic among millennials。
where they just church hop.。
Hey, you kinda go to the village on Sunday,。
you check out the porch on Tuesday,。
maybe go to IBC or PCBC。
or any of these different initials out here,。
and you kinda just check 'em out。
and they're kinda on the Rolodex and which one's up next.。
And then I podcast this person and I listen to this person,。
and the scripture says you're living disobedient。
to what Christ's command is on your life.。
Whether you're gonna plug in here or another place,。
if you are a Christian,。
you are called to be a part of a local church.。
I'm gonna say it again and I'm just gonna hammer it。
and then give an illustration and we're gonna move on.。
If you are not a member of a church,。
and you're a Christian,。
you're living in disobedience。
to the clear commands in scripture.。
And you may be hiding behind like some smoke screen,。
I'm trying to figure out my job,。
and maybe, you know, and I wanna make sure I get married。
'cause then, you know, my boo may have a different church.。
You're hiding behind a bunch of excuses.。
And God's command is that you become a member of a church.。
If it's not this one, there's lots of great ones,。
but we're all called to get plugged in.。
You will not grow if you're not connected to a local body.。
And on the flip side, what's amazing is how much people grow。
whenever they get plugged into a local church.。
Like I was talking to a buddy today。
who's one of our leaders,。
and we were hanging out a couple weekends ago。
at something called a porch leader retreat,。
which we do a couple times a year.。
We take the 10 or 12 leaders that lead the teams。
here at the porch.。
There's 200 volunteers,。
and they're over them at the Dallas campus.。
They're amazing men and women.。
And they, with our staff, just pull away,。
and we spend the weekend.。
And I was talking to one of the guys there,。
and we were talking randomly.。
He was sick, and we were talking about Advil,。
and he was going into, and I was reminded of his story。
because in the midst of the Advil, he was like,。
"Yeah, I try not to take too many Advil。
"because I feel like I hit it pretty hard。
"on the old liver there for a number of different years。
"when I was back in college,"。
referring to just his story。
and the ways that he wasn't pursuing Christ,。
but part of his past was just,。
"Man, I was living for the party scene."。
It was either sex, alcohol, drugs, whatever it was,。
until Christ captured his heart.。
And I asked him today,。
we were talking about some of his story,。
and he said, "Man, there were so many times。
"I would come down front,。
"and I would talk to someone down there,。
"and the same thing would happen every time.。
"I'd basically come down and confess,。
"and I'd be like, 'Yeah, I got wasted again this Friday.。
"'Yeah, I got wasted this Friday.'"。
And finally, JP, he told me,。
"Man, when are you gonna go all in?。
"If you want to stop playing the game。
"and experience change, go all in."。
And it was in that moment, or when he decided to do that,。
he submitted himself to a group of elders.。
He joined this church.。
And in submitting to the elders,。
you're like, "What does that mean here?。
"I'll give you what it means here."。
It means you follow the instructions。
that they have for the flock among you, or a flock here,。
not because they're like,。
"Oh, man, we need somebody to make us feel important。
"because they will stand before God。
"and give an account for the flock here."。
And some of the instructions they have。
is be in a community group, that you serve somewhere,。
that you have a annual kind of checkpoint with our staff。
to make sure, "How are we doing?"。
And annually, you agree, "Hey, I'm still in.。
"I still want to be a member here."。
And in doing that, that's what it looks like。
to submit to the authority of Watermark,。
to be a part of the elders' leadership here.。
And in doing that, his life began to change.。
Like, if you just do that,。
if you just do that one thing,。
you're gonna experience growth because everything else,。
like, if you're connected,。
if you go all in at a healthy church under godly leadership,。
you're gonna grow in your Bible knowledge.。
You're gonna grow in your ability to talk about your faith.。
You're gonna grow in the peace that you have over anxiety.。
Maybe not overnight,。
but by submitting to the care of the elders here,。
you're gonna step into being known by other people.。
You're gonna step into using your gifts,。
not just consuming all the time, but contributing.。
And you're gonna experience growth in your life.。
And if you don't wanna grow,。
if you're like, man, I do not want to grow at all spiritually,。
my goal is to maybe move a little bit backwards,。
the thing you have got to avoid, like the plague,。
is becoming a member of a church.。
And even if you're not avoiding it like the plague,。
but you're just avoiding it in general,。
you are not going to grow。
if you don't submit to God's leadership。
inside of a local church.。
Peter continues and tells us something else。
related to just that idea of humility or submitting.。
He says this in second half verse five.。
All of you, so now we talked about elders, young people,。
everybody, clothe yourselves with humility。
towards one another,。
because God opposes the proud,。
but he shows favor to the humble.。
Humble yourselves therefore under God's mighty hand。
that he may lift you up in due time.。
That Peter says that you and I are every single day,。
if you're a Christian,。
you are to clothe yourselves in humility.。
Our second idea from the text。
is that we are to clothe ourselves in humility。
towards God's people and God's timing.。
I'll explain what I mean by that.。
But he basically says, hey, every single day,。
just like he uses the verb that just means tie around you,。
or to tie it on, that every day you wake up。
and just like you put on clothes,。
you put on humility as you look at your day.。
Very few of us probably have ever left the house。
without clothes and been like, oh my gosh,。
can't believe I forgot to put on clothes, gotta go back.。
In the same way, Peter would say, hey,。
you are to not leave the house every single day,。
put on, just like you put on clothes,。
put on humility towards one another。
and the way that you interact with one another。
and the way that you are humble towards God。
and his timing in your life.。
And I think a lot of times humility can be misunderstood.。
And as you've, if you've been with us,。
heard us say before, an old C.S. Lewis quote,。
which is just a Christian writer,。
that humility is not thinking about yourself。
or thinking less of yourself, like, man, I just hate me,。
or thinking more of yourself.。
It's thinking about yourself less.。
It's not thinking less of yourself, like, man, I hate me。
and I'm just so ugly and gosh, I'm not,。
I don't deserve anything.。
It's not thinking about yourself.。
The focus of your life is not on how bad you are,。
how good you are, but just on others around you。
and the God that you serve.。
And Peter says every single day,。
the posture of a Christian is to be one。
of being considerate towards other,。
of being humble towards others, humble towards God,。
which we'll talk about in a second.。
But what does it look like to be humble towards others?。
It looks like being considerate of the needs。
of other people around you.。
It looks like being caring and serving。
other people around you, rather than seeking to be served,。
not to get, you know, praised as the servant,。
but just because you see people as who they are,。
made in God's image, the same God that you serve.。
And Peter says, put this on every single day。
when you get up, seek to serve others around you.。
The crazy thing about humility is like,。
humility looks good on everyone.。
Like there's not a person in the room。
who if you are humble, are not gonna be more attractive.。
Like if you can just learn to have a true,。
sincere posture of humility, if you're a person。
who's like, man, I'm not quick to like celebrate myself。
and how great I am and you know, me, me, me, me, me,。
enough about me, now you talk about me.。
If you're not that person, but you're someone。
who's like, man, I'm quick to praise others,。
I'm quick to acknowledge just how much of my life。
is a gift from God and anything that's good there,。
I've really been so fortunate.。
Like that person is so attractive.。
The person who seeks to serve,。
the person who out of humility is like grateful。
for things in their life 'cause they're not entitled.。
The person who's out of humility, like not easily offended,。
they're quick to forgive.。
Like you see, ever seen conflict between humble people?。
It's like the most boring thing ever.。
It's like, man, I'm so sorry.。
No, no, are you serious?。
No, this was me.。
Are you, no, no, it was mainly me.。
And it's like, oh my gosh, guys, seriously.。
You don't conflict much.。
Humility is one of those things。
that makes life better and makes anyone who has it better.。
I mean, true story, fellas,。
if you've been hit with the ugly stick,。
I can tell you one thing.。
You will be more attractive to the ladies in this room。
if you are humble.。
(laughing)。
It's true.。
Somebody told me this last week.。
Dude, you got a face made for radio.。
I was like, you're a mean, mean person.。
That'll click.。
And if you got a face made for radio,。
I am confident you will be more attractive,。
you will be a more potential suitor。
if you can learn the art of humility。
that overflows from your relationship and love from Christ.。
Just that's for free, okay?。
You can take that to the bank.。
But it's true, it's the little black dress.。
It looks good on everybody, regardless of who's wearing it.。
Humility, it looks good every single time.。
Ugly stick is not in my notes, I apologize.。
(laughing)。
Let's just save the email.。
And we're moving on.。
And then he talks about not only humility towards others,。
but humility towards God's timing.。
Come back with me.。
That humility doesn't just look like humility towards others,。
but humility and trusting of God's timing.。
Or one of the ways humility manifests itself。
is by trusting in God's timing inside of your life.。
But what does he say?。
He says at the end of verse that God,。
by when we humble ourselves underneath his mighty hand,。
we trust and allow him to exalt him in due time.。
That part of humility is trusting,。
like God, you're in control.。
I'm gonna trust your timing inside of my life.。
How much of young adulthood is spent not trusting。
or fighting against God for the timing。
that you don't think is playing out the way you want it to?。
I can speak from experience in my own life.。
I mean, so much of my own struggles with humility。
are clearly going, God, when am I gonna move further。
down the road?。
I should be farther in my career.。
I should make more money by now.。
Maybe for you, it's like, hey,。
I should have been married already.。
God, what are you doing?。
I should have, my biological clock is running out, God.。
Are you gonna do something?。
Am I gonna get a promotion?。
Am I ever gonna own a home?。
Where am I gonna live once my roommate lives?。
And so much of humility is just saying,。
God, I'm gonna trust that you're in control.。
I'm gonna trust your timing.。
It's the word that Peter uses.。
That you would trust humility。
is trusting the God who's in control,。
who's moving the circumstances around.。
That he's over my life。
and he's the one ultimately who's in control.。
This one is probably easily the one that like,。
I wrestle with to a point where I don't even feel。
like I can truly preach it with integrity.。
So I'll just say, man, I stink at this.。
Join the crowd.。
And I was with JP and Garrett who leads it in Fort Worth。
and we were doing a teaching retreat a couple months ago.。
And we were planning out the year。
and we break away, go to somewhere,。
whether it's a lake house。
or just a place of friends connection.。
And we try to get away and plan out the year。
of the sermons and the series.。
And throughout that time,。
I just remember dialoguing and going,。
man, sometimes I feel like, oftentimes I feel like,。
I'm like, I don't know if I should even stay in ministry.。
I feel like I should be further down.。
Maybe I should go lead a church like God.。
I feel like, and I can immediately go,。
man, maybe I need to go into the business world。
or I should be elevated further along。
in my career path by now.。
I should be making more money.。
I should have a bigger house。
or whatever the different accomplishments.。
And it's a pride that wells up in me。
that I would call, man, it's just discontentment。
and it's pride and it's evil and it's wicked.。
And it's the thing that brings the opposition of God.。
And Peter says, man, trust the God who's in the heavens.。
You can trust his timing over your life.。
You can voice and express the things。
that, man, you're disappointed.。
You can be honest with God, but at the same time,。
humble yourselves and say, I'm gonna choose God.。
I trust your timing.。
I can be honest in asking you。
to bring about certain things in my life,。
but I'm gonna trust your timing above my own.。
And Peter says, man, clothe yourself in humility。
and you'll experience growth.。
Humility towards others, humility towards God.。
And then he finishes and really connects。
to the idea of humility and so much of our future。
and the ways that we don't trust God's timing,。
which is called anxiety.。
And here's what he says.。
Cast all your anxiety, or casting,。
it's a continuation, it's the same sentence.。
And in the Greek, that word cast is casting.。
So casting all, one of the ways we humble ourself。
is by casting all of our anxiety on him。
because he cares for you.。
That just like in that lawn scenario,。
there were certain things required in order for it to go.。
One of them was picking the weeds out.。
That in order for your, I'm sorry,。
in order for the grass to grow,。
that weeds had to be picked up and plucked and removed。
or they would choke out the grass.。
And the same way as it relates to anxiety。
inside of your life.。
The Bible doesn't say, hey, you'll never have anxiety ever.。
It says, hey, when you are anxious,。
there's something specific that you're to do.。
Just like pulling weeds out so that the grass can grow,。
you and I are to cast out anxieties。
so that the faith that we have can continue to grow.。
Casting them to a very specific place.。
Our third idea from the text is just,。
we cast your anxieties, don't carry them.。
You cast anxieties, you do not carry them.。
If you want your faith to grow,。
you cast your anxieties on the Lord,。
you do not carry them, Peter says.。
Peter, like a fisherman who was very familiar。
with casting things or casting in our day,。
casting a net out, says you and I are called。
not to carry anxieties around,。
but to cast them on the Lord,。
surrender them and bring them to him.。
Said another way that when I'm anxious,。
God wants me to, his word tells me to,。
bring to him the things I'm anxious about.。
Bring to him through prayer.。
God, you know what I'm facing today.。
You know the interview that I had.。
You know that if this job doesn't work out,。
that I don't know what I'm gonna do.。
God, you know that I'm so tired of being single。
and I'm really hoping that something's gonna change.。
God, you know that I'm not sure where I'm gonna live。
'cause my roommate's about to move out.。
And you know that as I sit here, I'm anxious, Lord.。
Will you help me to trust you?。
And Father, will you change this?。
He says, bring your anxieties for a very specific reason,。
because he cares for you.。
And that little word care is a word。
that's almost stronger than the English word care.。
It means you matter to God.。
Not like you matter to God, but you matter to God.。
Some of you, the most important thing。
you're gonna leave here with,。
especially if anxiety's a part of your story。
or part of your struggle,。
is knowing that God cares about you.。
He cares about the things you're wrestling with.。
He cares about the things that are making you anxious.。
He cares about what's on your schedule tomorrow,。
that the God of the universe cares about you.。
He cares enough to send his son to die for you.。
Do you not think that he cares about the fact。
that your mom has cancer?。
And Peter says, cast all your anxieties on him.。
He cares you.。
When you get anxious, so much of our tendency。
is to hold onto it ourself。
and try to carry it ourself.。
Peter says, you're not strong enough to carry it.。
The God of the universe is saying,。
bring your anxieties to me.。
Why, because I won't know about 'em unless you do?。
No, I'm God, I know everything,。
but the reality is your heart and yourself。
will begin to change if the reaction to the struggles,。
the problems, the fears that you face in life。
goes from, I'm just gonna hold on to this,。
I'm gonna turn it, to going, God,。
you know what I'm facing, I'm gonna turn it,。
I'm gonna give this to you.。
Will you help me right now?。
And Peter says, when you do that,。
you cast out anxiety and your faith begins to grow.。
You're not strong enough to carry it.。
My son is, I have a 17-month-old son。
who's in this stage right now where everything,。
he wants to pick up everything and carry it around.。
He refuses to ask for help for anything,。
so he just goes around,。
and not only does he want to pick everything up,。
he goes ballistic whenever he doesn't get to pick it up,。
'cause we're terrible parents, apparently.。
And so he will go around。
and he'll try to pick up different things.。
I'm like, buddy, you can't pick that up,。
and then he'll just lose it.。
It's like, hey, buddy, you can't pick up the dog.。
He weighs four times as much as you do.。
And he'll just go ballistic.。
Last night, we were trying to get out the door。
to this banquet that we were going to,。
and the babysitter, we had a new babysitter showing up,。
and we're going, and we're getting everything ready,。
and our son is kinda outside playing,。
and he's trying to pick up this toy that he has。
that's way too heavy, and so I go and I grab him,。
and he just begins to lose it.。
And the babysitter's right here for the very first time,。
I'm like, hey, everything's fine, it's gonna be great.。
You're gonna love this kid.。
(audience laughing)。
And I'm like, man, buddy, just let me carry it.。
You're not strong enough.。
Peter says that whatever you're facing,。
and man, I have such compassion for anxiety.。
My wife, it's very a part of her story,。
and she's seen incredible victory,。
but I know for a lot of us in the room,。
anxiety can just be something that owns and grips us.。
And Peter says whatever you're facing,。
you're not strong enough to hold onto it.。
You're not strong enough to carry it,。
but there is one who is, will you bring it to him?。
And in doing so, you cast out the anxiety,。
and even then, you're declaring,。
God, I trust you, and your faith will grow.。
That God, in the moments where I'm tempted to despair。
'cause I don't know what I'm gonna do about my job,。
I don't know who I'm gonna marry,。
I'm just overwhelmed, I'm anxious right now,。
I'm not even sure why I'm anxious,。
but God, you know, and you're in control, I trust you.。
I don't know what tomorrow holds.。
I know that you hold tomorrow.。
You hold all things, and I'm gonna bring those to you,。
and even in that, you're showing your faith,。
you're flexing your faith.。
Peter says don't carry your anxieties,。
cast them off to the God who cares for you.。
Here's what's so crazy about anxiety,。
is it will choke your faith.。
Like only one of anxiety or faith can grow at the same time.。
Jesus, in Matthew 13, even says this,。
that hey, if you want your faith to get choked out。
or to not grow, if you allow anxiety around it,。
we'll choke that out.。
And further, what's interesting,。
is that anxiety, stay with me,。
anxiety and faith require the same soil to grow in,。
uncertainty.。
Like in other words, you cannot have faith。
without uncertainty,。
'cause that's just called seeing or sight.。
You cannot have faith without uncertainty,。
you cannot have anxiety without uncertainty.。
The very same circumstances。
under which anxiety shows up and flares up。
is the very same circumstances。
where faith shows up, uncertainty.。
Why does that matter?。
Oh, that's an interesting observation,。
because here's what it means.。
The very same circumstances today,。
if you were anxious today,。
if anxiety is a part of your story,。
if anxiety is something that you wrestle with,。
the very same things that cause anxiety in your life。
are the places that God wants to lead。
and grow your faith to,。
so that a moment where you normally get anxious,。
faith shows up.。
The very same circumstances, I'm on the plane,。
the plane starts going down,。
in a moment where I normally would be like,。
oh my gosh, I'm gonna lose it,。
all of a sudden I'm filled with faith,。
my God is in control.。
And that's an extreme one,。
maybe for more that hits at home,。
the very same moments where you're at work or your job,。
or you're not sure what's gonna happen。
in the midst of your family,。
maybe they're divorcing,。
where anxiety wells up,。
those are the moments。
that God, if you will let him lead you there,。
wants to eventually bring you to a place。
where instead of anxiety showing up in uncertainty,。
faith shows up,。
because it's the same places that they grow,。
uncertainty,。
and the God who is there wants to grow them in your life,。
he does not want you to carry anxiety,。
he wants you to cast them on him.。
Inside of this room, there's gonna be two stories,。
I'm gonna land the plane here.。
There's two paths that people are gonna come in,。
for Christians in the room,。
there's those of us who would come in。
and you're not a member of a church,。
you're not gonna get plugged into a church,。
you're gonna leave here and kind of continue jumping around。
and attending different places,。
but you will never submit to authority.。
You're not gonna clothe yourselves in humility,。
and listen to others and be subject to elders,。
and you're in the face of anxiety,。
you're not gonna turn to God,。
and your faith is not gonna grow, it's gonna die,。
or it's gonna be frozen from where you are now,。
until when you decide to do those things.。
And then there's others,。
who would decide or have already decided,。
I'm gonna submit myself to elders,。
I'm gonna step under the leadership of a church,。
because the church is perfect,。
no, there's no such thing as a perfect church,。
but because it's part of God's plan。
for me experiencing growth,。
and it's a command,。
and I'm gonna seek to be humble every day,。
put on humility, to allow others to speak into my life,。
to listen, be slow to speak, do whatever I can,。
be humble towards other believers and others in general,。
and humble towards my God,。
that God, I'm gonna choose to trust you,。
and there's gonna be moments where I don't want to,。
but I'm gonna choose to voice, God, I don't want to,。
will you help me trust you, and trust your timing,。
and I'm gonna bring my anxieties when they well up,。
I'm gonna bring them to you,。
not just hold onto them,。
but bring them to the God who says, I care for you,。
will you cast them on me, I'm strong enough.。
In that class, we would go and you'd see grass,。
and you would try to evaluate,。
or you would be a part of the class,。
was evaluating like, hey,。
which of the four essentials was not present。
that led to the grass not growing, if it was dead?。
So you're like, was it water, was it this?。
And you do an assessment, if you will.。
Inside of the room, the spiritual assessment,。
Peter puts before us,。
in that if you're gonna experience growth,。
you've gotta examine, it's going, hey,。
and you can like go, I'm not taking your assessment, great,。
well, I'll just put the questions out there.。
Are you a part of a local church?。
Are you underneath the authority of elders,。
who will stand before God, and give an account for you?。
Are you seeking to clothe yourselves in humility,。
with other believers, allowing them to speak in your life,。
serving and using the gifts God's given you,。
to walk humbly?。
Are you seeking to trust his timing,。
and casting your anxieties on him?。
If you're not, you're not gonna grow,。
and your faith will freeze,。
and you'll look back to this moment,。
and either wish you would have started,。
what hopefully someday you will,。
or you'll look back, and say, man, I kept going,。
I was doing those things, and I kept going,。
and my faith has strengthened and grown,。
and in the face of uncertainty,。
I have a God who I follow, and I cast my anxieties on.。
Let me pray.。
Father, thank you.。
God, that you care for us.。
Would that truth alone, if nothing else,。
seep in the hearts of maybe our friends in here,。
who don't have a relationship with you,。
who are not sure where they stand with you.。
Would they know that the God who sits in heaven,。
when he looks down, doesn't see them,。
and think, when are you gonna get it together,。
but feels compassion and care towards them,。
and longs to know him,。
longs not for them to try to work their way,。
or do something for them,。
but trust in what you've done for them,。
by dying in their place.。
Father, would you take ground in those of us。
who have anxiety, just as a part of our current reality,。
or just as a part of our wiring, or whatever it is,。
Lord, would you help us to trust in you,。
would we take things to you, and surrender those things,。
and find your peace and your grace sufficient,。
your powers made perfect in weakness,。
and Father, where we are weak,。
would you be strong as you promise you are.。
Father, would my friends who are not submitted。
to the authority of the church,。
as they claim the name of Christ,。
would the spirit of God press hard on their hearts right now,。
and move them quickly to join and be a part。
of being the church,。
and being a part of just your design,。
for which we would be cared for.。
Thank you that you have sent the chief shepherd,。
our savior Jesus, to die in our place,。
and you call out to all of us to come,。
experience your love, your care,。
and to come to the altar of the God who lives.。
We worship you now in song, amen.。
