(dramatic music)。
- What is up the porch?。
How we feeling?。
I don't care if you're excited, 'cause I'm excited.。
I gotta be honest, I'm a little giddy to be here,。
and if I, like, am Energizer Bunny tonight,。
it's because I've had a lot of Diet Dr. Peppers,。
and I'm pumped to be at the porch.。
This is my first time,。
and getting to be in the room is amazing.。
Kylan, thank you to you and the team for the invitation.。
Can we give it up for these men and women。
that make it all happen?。
(congregation applauding)。
Somebody on the team I just briefly met,。
I interacted with Misty,。
and she was over there interpreting with sign language,。
and it was just like, man,。
God is using so many people to bring tonight to life.。
I'm honored to play a part.。
If I would've known Scottsdale was an option,。
I might've said yes to that, and no offense to Dallas.。
Definitely wouldn't have gone to Midland or Dayton,。
let's be honest, but to the people out in Scottsdale,。
it's good to be here in Dallas, though.。
It's always good to be in Dallas.。
I got a little run on the Katy Trail today.。
(congregation cheering)。
I won't tell you my average pace, but I ran.。
Anybody else out on the Katy Trail?。
Got a little barbecue at Terry Black's.。
For everybody watching from around the world,。
let's just be really clear, barbecue is better in Texas.。
(congregation cheering)。
Eating barbecue before speaking, however,。
might not have been the smartest decision.。
I am expected, humbled.。
I also wanna thank Watermark Church。
for blessing the city with this.。
T.A. is a great friend of mine,。
and he was at Terry Black's today, and really grateful.。
But I pray that God would use our time together.。
I was ministered to deeply through the worship,。
and I was so grateful to come and sing those songs.。
It was good for my soul.。
I don't know about you, but it was just good for my soul。
to lift my eyes and to sing about the blood,。
the wonder-working blood, and remind me。
that it's not all up to me, and to remind me。
that what I've done has been forgiven。
and covered by the blood.。
And I pray as we open God's word tonight,。
and I've been excited, expected, humbly timid a bit,。
I don't take your audience lightly,。
that I would get 30 to 40 minutes,。
and if the Lord moves, an hour and a half,。
two hours, relax, Kylan, that I would get some time with you。
and that God would use me to bring his word。
and encourage you, and I was thinking,。
getting ready for this, what would I say?。
Like, what would God have me say?。
But more of like when I was in my 20s,。
and 30s for that matter, based on the hair,。
I'm definitely out of that zone.。
But a lot of times at Passion Conference, I wear a hat,。
so people may think I'm a little younger than I really am.。
I didn't lose my hair so quickly.。
But anyway, moving on from that, what would I tell myself?。
'Cause I was living in Arlington, Texas.。
We got any Arlington people in the house?。
Come on, when I was 24, 25, 26, I was living in Arlington,。
and some of you in here have all of life figured out,。
and you're on a path, and you're feeling good,。
and you know where you're going,。
you know what you're aiming for, everything's sorted,。
and if that's you, don't raise your hand,。
because that's really gonna frustrate the rest of us.。
But when I was 24, 25, 26, living in Arlington,。
I felt a lot of pressure to figure out。
what my life was supposed to be about.。
And it was the decisions that,。
and at the time, I was following the Lord,。
I was working at a church,。
I was wanting my life to be for God's glory,。
but I was just like, man, I felt so much pressure,。
like a dating decision, a career decision,。
a vacation decision, a lunch decision,。
it was just like, man, I wanna get it right,。
I know this is supposed to be the greatest time of my life,。
and I got my whole life in front of me, God willing,。
but I don't wanna mess up.。
So I was like, what would I tell myself。
looking back on that season of life?。
That's part of what I was gonna bring.。
And then I had some young professionals at my house。
on Monday night, I think that was Monday night,。
no, I'm sorry, it was Thursday night,。
and I was talking to a close friend of ours,。
it's in your season, a lot of you season of life,。
and just talking to him, and I felt the pressure,。
like that was on his,。
I could see the pressure on his shoulders,。
like physically, and he was just like,。
I'm trying to figure life out, and I need some help,。
and Brad and Brittany, my wife,。
would you help me make some of these decisions?。
And so I pray that God would use our time together,。
and the moments I have with you to encourage you.。
We're gonna be in John chapter 13.。
We're going to a very familiar passage,。
and if we're not too careful with scripture,。
and with Jesus, and church, and the porch,。
we get too familiar, can I get a amen?。
Familiarity breeds contempt.。
It's like, we got any golfers in the house?。
Any public golf course people in the house。
that you just hope when you go play golf。
that there's actually grass,。
and you gotta make a decision,。
is do you wanna pay the extra $15。
to get a bucket of golf balls to hit off the range?。
Yesterday, I got to go and played a really nice country club,。
and I was giddy about it.。
I'm a terrible golfer, but when I got there,。
the greens were perfect.。
Somebody came and got my bag out of the car.。
They put it on a golf cart, like were taking care of me.。
They like took it to the range.。
There was like Pro V1.。
If you're not a golfer, just follow me.。
Pro V1 golf balls laid out on this range.。
The range was perfect.。
The key boxes were perfect.。
The greens were perfect.。
Even in Dallas, Texas, where it can be hard to grow grass.。
I'm like, this is incredible.。
We only played nine holes.。
I was like, and it was, yes, 45 degrees and windy,。
but I'm like, I don't get to play here ever.。
I go back to the public golf courses。
where there's not a lot of grass most days,。
but these guys played all the time.。
So they're like, man, should we even play?。
I'm like, yes.。
I'm not familiar with this.。
This isn't normal for me.。
Don't rob me of this experience.。
But a lot of times, if we're not careful。
when we approach scripture, when we approach Jesus,。
we're just too familiar, too flippant.。
Oh, I've been there, heard that.。
Know what that's all about.。
And I was reading John chapter 13 a couple months ago,。
and it's the night before Jesus would give his life on a cross。
just before the Passover meal,。
the last hours of his life on earth.。
And it's the story of Jesus washing his,。
what is it?。
Washing his disciples' feet.。
You're familiar with the story.。
Good job right there.。
And we know, I think the point of it。
is that we should go and do likewise.。
And this was one of the most significant acts。
of Jesus's life.。
And one of the most successful, honestly, 24 hours,。
the most successful 24 hours of anybody。
that's ever walked on planet earth.。
But when I was reading John chapter 13,。
it hit me in a brand new way.。
Let's dig in.。
John 13, verse one.。
It was just before the Passover festival.。
Jesus knew, I want you to see that word knew, K-N-E-W.。
Jesus knew that the hour had come。
for him to leave this world and go to the Father.。
Having loved his own who were in the world,。
he loved them to the end.。
The evening meal was in progress。
and the devil had already prompted Judas,。
the son of Simon Iscariot, to betray Jesus.。
Jesus knew that the Father had put all things。
under his power and that he also knew。
that he had come from God and was returning to God.。
So he got up from the meal, took off his outer clothing。
and wrapped a towel around his waist.。
After that, he poured out water into a basin,。
began to wash his disciples' feet,。
drying them with the towel that was wrapped around him,。
a very selfless act.。
Something of Jesus's stature in this culture。
would not have been done.。
He came to Simon Peter, who said to him,。
"Lord, are you going to wash my feet?"。
Jesus replied, "You do not realize now what I am doing,。
"but later you will understand."。
"But no," said Peter, "you shall never wash my feet."。
Jesus answered, "Unless I wash you,。
"you have no part with me."。
Then Lord Simon Peter replied, "Not just my feet,。
"wash my hands, wash my head as well."。
Jesus answered, "Those who have had a bath。
"need only to wash their feet.。
"Their whole body is clean.。
"And you are clean, though not every one of you."。
For he knew he was going to betray him。
and that's why he said not everyone was clean.。
When he finished washing their feet,。
he put on his clothes, returned to his place.。
"Do you understand what I've done for you?" he asked them.。
"You call me teacher and Lord, and rightly so,。
"for that is what I am.。
"Now that I, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet,。
"you also should wash one another's feet.。
"I have set an example that you should do。
"as I have done for you.。
"Very truly I tell you, no servant is greater。
"than his master, nor is a messenger greater。
"than the one who sent him.。
"Now that you know these things,。
"you will be blessed if you do them."。
Jesus, I pray against the spirit of familiarity tonight.。
And use me and use your word。
to give us a fresh glimpse of your greatness,。
your sacrifice and what you've done for us.。
May it blow a fresh wind in our sails.。
We pray this in Jesus' name, we all say, amen.。
I'm gonna bring three points, is that okay with y'all?。
Jesus knew some stuff.。
That's not a point, I don't know why you're laughing.。
It kind of hurts my feelings, but point number one,。
Jesus knew stuff, write it down.。
No, I'm kidding.。
But the phrase that really got me was not what he did.。
Okay, there's a few words.。
In verse one, it says he knew something.。
In verse two, it says he knew something.。
And in verse four, he did something.。
So he got up from the meal.。
So John is helping us understand。
what Jesus was thinking about before he did something.。
Okay, and I've got a working title.。
I don't know if it's gonna stick or not,。
but it's "The Quest for Success."。
Anybody wanna be successful up in here?。
Okay, we need more ambition from the people at the porch.。
Anybody actually wanna be successful?。
Can be honest, it's okay.。
Yeah, by the way, if you wanna date somebody,。
you should have raised your hand。
because girls aren't looking for guys。
that don't wanna succeed in life.。
Can I get amen from the ladies?。
Let me ask again, anybody wanna be successful?。
Okay, okay, my guy, you went too hard on that.。
That looked desperate, all right?。
Might as well stand up.。
But if you want me to set you up,。
I'm happy to sort that out after.。
True story, by the way, I hate to flex, I hate to flex.。
But on stage at Passion several years ago,。
this is not in my notes,。
I was tasked to do something fun in a moment.。
On a moment's notice, I was like,。
we should do a blind date on stage at Passion.。
And I was a little intimidated。
because like John Piper had just spoken.。
And I'm like, am I really gonna be the guy。
that goes up on stage and does a blind date。
right after John Piper talks about the glory of God。
and taking the gospel to the nations?。
But I did it anyway, that couple got married.。
So let's just say, my man,。
should I deviate?。
No, okay, anyway.。
We want the quest for success.。
But the trap that you and I get into,。
this is what I would tell myself,。
is we get so consumed about what we do,。
what the decision is.。
And we think too little about why we do what we do.。
So I'm not saying don't be ambitious,。
don't make plans, don't make decisions,。
but think more about why you choose things。
instead of just what you choose.。
It's not about the decision,。
the first and foremost that God cares about,。
it's about the heart that leads to that decision。
and those choices.。
And life is some, like success is the sum of our decisions,。
both the big decisions and the small decisions.。
In Jesus, it said he made a decision to get up。
based on what he knew was true.。
And my question for you is, are you driven。
and or is what you know about God and yourself,。
does what you know about God and yourself。
dictate the way you live?。
Does what you know about God and yourself。
inform, inspire, influence the decisions。
that you make, the way that you live?。
Or does what you feel drive the decisions。
and the choices in the lifestyle that you live?。
And be careful 'cause feelings are fickle.。
Can I get an amen?。
We're feeling good when we get the promotion,。
when we get the raise, when we go to the awaken。
in the spiritual conference, you know, this conference。
and we're on a mountaintop and it's like,。
everything's rolling.。
But when you get, the bottom falls out,。
you don't get the job, you don't get the promotion,。
the relationship doesn't work out。
and bad things start happening。
and you're starting to walk through hard times.。
A lot of times those feelings which are fickle。
start driving the decisions in the lifestyle that we have.。
Be careful, let what you know,。
what you know to be true.。
That's why Paul says in 2 Corinthians 5,。
so we are convinced, or the love of Christ compels us。
'cause we are convinced that one died for all,。
therefore all die and he died for all。
so that we would no longer live for ourselves。
but for him who died and rose again on our behalf.。
We're convinced.。
It's what you know and convinced of。
and many of you aren't convinced of the truth of Jesus。
and I pray that through coming to the porch。
and being in community and studying God's word。
that you would be moved from being like interested。
or open or like, you know, I think,。
to you would be like, man, I am convinced。
that one died for all and therefore all died。
and he died for all。
so that we would no longer live for ourselves。
but for him who died and rose again on our behalf.。
A.W. Tozer says what we think about God,。
what comes to our mind when we think about God。
is the most important thing about us.。
It's what you know dictate the way you live。
or is it your feelings?。
That's where we're going.。
What did Jesus know?。
I've got, you ready for my three points?。
The people that laughed at me, the ladies,。
Jesus knew some stuff, wasn't one of them。
but I'm gonna go out of order if that's okay。
but I'm still sticking to the text.。
Verse three, Jesus says that he knew。
that the father had put all things under his power。
but here's what he knew also,。
that he had come from God and he was returning to God.。
Here's the point to be really clear.。
Jesus knew where he came from and where he was going.。
Do you know where you came from?。
Like no, like deep down in your soul.。
Do you know where you came from and where you're going?。
For me, randomly, if you want to go visit my hometown,。
I would not be a good tour guide.。
People are like, where are you from, Brad?。
Well, I claim to be from the great state of Texas.。
I've been in Atlanta, Georgia for 17 years.。
Any Georgia people in the house?。
Okay, so I'm gonna trace you back to my hometown.。
So I live in Atlanta now, we lived there for 17 years.。
It's amazing but my home is where I grew up。
in Canyon, Texas, West Texas.。
We got any West Texas people in the house?。
Come on, I lived in Birmingham。
for a short season after college.。
So my cell phone has a 205 number.。
Everybody's like, you're from Birmingham?。
I was like, no, I just lived there for 15 months。
and I just didn't want to change my number.。
Before that, I had been at the great university。
called Texas A&M, so I'm an Aggie.。
Got any Aggies in the house?。
Great, any Longhorns?。
God bless you.。
Pulling for NC State tonight with all my heart.。
But before I moved to Canyon, follow me here,。
I actually was raised for the first five years。
in a small town at the tip of Texas called Perryton, Texas.。
And I know a little bit about Perryton。
and that's where my family lived。
before my parents got a divorce and we moved to Canyon.。
But I was not born in Perryton,。
even though that's where we lived.。
There was a better hospital on the other side。
of not just one border, but two borders in Liberal, Kansas.。
So your boy right here, nobody really cares for Kansas,。
but your boy, I'm from Kansas and it's terrible.。
No offense.。
Please come back to the porch, the preacher next week。
will be a lot kinder.。
But I was born in Liberal, Kansas。
and I could tell you nothing about it.。
I don't know where I'm from.。
Like, I don't know, I don't know anything about it.。
I was just born in a hospital there。
'cause there's a better hospital.。
My dad was born in that hospital.。
We, I guess, were there two nights。
and then drove back to Perryton.。
And so maybe that's my hometown.。
But here's the point.。
Jesus knew, he knew he was from heaven, from glory.。
The image of the invisible God,。
the firstborn of all creation, he knew that.。
And he also knew what he was about to face。
wasn't gonna stop him and he was getting back to heaven,。
back to glory, back to the throne.。
And he knew that deep down,。
so that informed the way he lived.。
Okay, Christians, do you know where you came from?。
And not just like, you know,。
this is when I started going to this church。
or this is where I started going to that church.。
Do you know who you were?。
Kylo was talking about it earlier,。
before Jesus saved you?。
'Cause this is what you need to know.。
If you wanna live a life that honors and follows Jesus,。
you need to know deep down what you got pulled out of.。
Ephesians 2, verse one through 10,。
it says that we were dead in our transition.。
Ask for you, ask for me.。
This is where we're from.。
This is what we got pulled out of.。
Ask for you and me.。
We were dead in our transgressions and sins。
in which we used to live。
when we followed the ways of this world。
and the ruler of the kingdom of the air,。
the spirit that is now at work。
and those who are disobedient, like the rest.。
Says you and me and the Ephesians at the time,。
like the rest, we were by nature, objects of wrath.。
This is where we were, but the story continues,。
but because of God's great love for us,。
or I'm messing up my memorization.。
He's rich in mercy and he made us alive with Christ Jesus.。
Even when we were dead, we can't forget it.。
We can't lose sight of where we're from,。
what we got saved from, what we got rescued from.。
And yes, we go on to live mature lives in Jesus。
and add a lot of value to the kingdom of God here on earth,。
but we can't forget that we got saved from God's wrath,。
and it's only by Jesus.。
And when we remember,。
when we know deep down where we're from,。
then it informs not just the way we sing,。
but the way we live.。
Jesus knew where he was from.。
Do we know where we're from?。
And then my question is, do you know where you're going?。
Well, one, do you know that, are you confident?。
This is a crusade-style presentation of the gospel,。
but are you confident if you died today,。
you would be spending forever in heaven with Jesus。
because of your relationship with him,。
or are you stuck playing the good works game。
just trying to be better than most?。
Have you made peace with God?。
I was at a funeral a couple of weeks ago,。
police officer in our city, and we were hosting it,。
and the mayor and the chief of police。
were sitting right over here next to me,。
and I was standing up on stage。
listening to several people come up and honor it,。
and one cop goes, I went to his bedside。
to make sure he knew where he was going,。
and he made peace with God.。
I'm like, "Thank you, Jesus, but why wait till the bedside or the graveside?。
Do you know where you're going?。
But also, are you living like this world is not your home?"。
This is the trap that we get stuck in because we think life is the sum of how it measures。
up on planet Earth with our relationship, our amount of money, our title, da-da-da-da-da-da-da.。
No, you and I need to live with an eternal perspective.。
This is not our home.。
Life is fleeting.。
It's vapor.。
I'm not saying we just need to live carefree, but we get so overwhelmed with the affairs。
of this world that we forget that we can store up treasures in heaven.。
So let your life be defined by where you've come from, thank you, Jesus, and where you're。
heading.。
I can't wait.。
All right, I gotta hurry up.。
Jesus knew—hang with me, because I've got to correct my theology a little bit.。
It says in Scripture, it says, "Jesus knew that the Father had put all things under His。
power."。
He knew that.。
He knew who He was.。
But the theology correction is He knows who He is, because He was alive then, and He's。
alive now.。
Jesus knows who He is.。
He knows He's God.。
People wanted Him to be somebody else.。
They wanted Him to be the earthly King, the earthly Messiah.。
They wanted Him to restore the nation of Israel, but that's not who Jesus was and what He came。
to do.。
He wasn't just a man born of a virgin.。
He was the Son of God.。
And He knew that God had put all things under His power.。
But my question for you is, do you know who you are?。
Are you letting the world define who you are?。
Jesus moved towards His disciples in humility, in a confidence in who He was, and that, therefore,。
He served them.。
He did what was best for them.。
He did not come to be served, but to serve.。
Here's where it breaks down.。
You and I, we move towards the world, not often out of humility, but out of insecurity.。
This is what I'm guilty of.。
It's tricky.。
Sometimes it's pride, false pride.。
But if we're honest, when we're interacting with people, we're not doing it from a place。
of acceptance, we're doing it for their acceptance.。
Do you like me?。
I'm going to do something to impress you so you like me.。
What do you think about me?。
Like, will you validate me?。
Will your opinion of me help me feel better about myself?。
And this is really insecure, because we go throughout the world trying to get validated。
instead of adding value.。
And we're letting our title, are we in a relationship or not?。
Do we have a good enough job, a good enough apartment, a good enough condo?。
We're all trying to do it to say, look at me and be impressed.。
Look at me and tell me you think I'm valuable.。
We're moving to the world out of insecurity, looking to people to determine our value.。
I can't tell if you agree with me or not.。
Maybe I'm the only one that does this, am I the only one that does this?。
But what we need to be doing is moving towards the world and to people from a place of knowing。
that we are loved, valued, purposed, significant in the eyes of God.。
And we don't have to always aim to be trying to earn that from other people.。
No matter how many friends you have, how much money you have, that will never satisfy your。
soul so quit looking for it all the time.。
Just know you're loved by God, that He chose you, He prizes you, you are His workmanship,。
He's knitted you together in your mother's womb like you are a prized possession.。
And don't let the world determine your value, let God determine your value.。
Know who you are.。
In high school, maybe it's safer to use an example from high school instead of right。
now because I still struggle with it, but in high school, I'd grown up playing basketball。
my whole life and I thought I was really good, honestly I probably wasn't.。
I was really good in warm-ups, I just wasn't good in games because I cared too much about。
what people thought.。
So like in warm-ups, man, I'd just be like, "Come on," and then I'd get in games and people。
were like, you know, valuating me and I'd just like choke completely, I cared too much。
what people think.。
Well, I'd been really good, like in some people's eyes, small town, West Texas, most of like。
elementary, middle school, even early high school.。
But when I got to my junior year, my playing time went significantly down and it was going。
further down, further down, further down.。
And I got real close to being the guy on the end of the bench that in the blowout was going。
to get his name started chanting by the student section, you know what I'm talking about?。
And you've been there and you're like, I'm like, "Oh no, like I thought I was good and。
I'm this close to having all my friends at school chanting to the coach in the blowout。
to put me in the game."。
And I quit, couldn't handle it, the thought of it.。
You know what's the saddest thing about that is I love basketball.。
I had spent my whole life being good at it and I missed out on half of my junior year。
and all of my senior year in being a part of that group of people doing something I。
love because I cared too much about what people thought, people that I would never see again。
for the most part.。
Because I was looking to the world, to people to validate me and it made me make decisions。
that I deeply regret instead of remembering that like I am loved by God, chosen by God,。
valued by God and I can move towards the world to add value instead of to get value.。
I can move towards the world to serve and to impact and to love and to bless instead。
of being looked for people to serve and to bless and make me feel better about myself.。
Are you moving to the world and making decisions out of insecurity or out of humility?。
Out of being loved, out of being accepted.。
Alright, last point, I think Benji is going to come, I could get really excited about。
this.。
It says in verse 1, "Jesus knew that the hour had come for Him to leave this world and go。
to the Father."。
He knew it was time.。
He'd been teaching, He'd been performing miracles, He'd been healing the sick, raising the dead,。
He'd been impacting people, He'd been training up His disciples but He knew it was time,。
the hour had come for Him to do what He ultimately set out to do.。
He knew His assignment.。
I don't know if it's still a phrase so I didn't put it as a point.。
He understood the assignment, is that still a thing or not?。
He knew His assignment.。
Do you know your assignment?。
Do you know that there's a calling on your life?。
Do you care that there's a calling on your life?。
Because there is, just like Jesus had an assignment, God has an assignment for you.。
And my question is are you even considering it?。
Because I would imagine, again this is just me and you and a few friends at a dinner table,。
some of you don't care about God's assignment.。
You think God's role in your life is to be the genie in the sky that blesses the plans。
that you make when you offer them up to Him and say, "God, this is my plans, this is what。
I've got sorted, this is by the age I'm gonna get married, who I'm gonna get married to,。
the job that I want and I've figured all that out, God, I'm just, I'm gonna put it up to。
you and you better bless me.。
You better sign off, you better put your stamp of approval.。
If you're there, you better make it happen and if you do, we're good."。
No, God, it's not our, His life for our glory, it's our life for His glory.。
Consider what does Jesus want for you?。
So for me, when I was 24, I'd moved back from Birmingham to Texas and I'll be honest, the。
reason I did, and I was still trying to figure out what my life was all about, but I'd been。
in Birmingham for a couple of years and I had not met one girl that I felt like I was。
gonna end up with and I thought, "I need to move back to Texas.。
I need to marry a girl from Texas and I need to eventually live in Texas."。
And so I moved back and church invited me to be on their staff and I was always open。
to ministry, but I was now on this church staff in anonymity, a smaller church plant。
and I'd always said for the last, like, not always, but for the last, the previous few。
years I was like, "Okay, I want to get married, I'm open to ministry, I'd love the girl to。
be from Texas and I'm open to being a pastor, but I wasn't really sure about working in。
the church."。
But I was like, "I do know one thing, I don't want to be a youth pastor."。
No offense to the youth pastor, that was like a few things I kind of knew.。
I was like, "It just felt too good for that, right?"。
Well now I moved back to Texas, I say yes to this church to be their teaching pastor,。
but it was a really small church with a young pastor who didn't really like to let other。
people teach.。
So I was like, "I'm the teaching pastor entitled, but, like, you're not letting me teach."。
And then, like, two weeks into the job, the youth pastor left and they're like, "Oh, Brad,。
would you mind, like, hanging out with a youth?"。
And I'm like, I felt like that was all set up, you know?。
So now here I am in Arlington, Texas, and I'm a youth pastor, and I'm not meeting a。
girl from Texas, and I'm like, I'm not even sure I want to be a pastor, and honestly,。
I was embarrassed to tell my friends I worked at a church.。
It's a finance major, made really good grades in college, I don't remember what I studied.。
I mean, I studied finance, but I just, I studied all night before every single test, went and,。
like, threw up on the piece of paper, and then I left and I forgot everything I talked。
about.。
Is that anybody else's flow or just mine?。
Yeah, you, I, it's not, I made, like, a 3.9, but you don't want me touching your finances.。
I just was really good from midnight to 8 a.m., like, I'm your guy.。
But anyway, so, and so I'm here, and I've got the things that I think I want to be true。
about my life, and my relationship with God was based on if those dreams were actually。
becoming a reality.。
Ended up staying at this church for three years, and tripled my commitment, and it was。
this church, and one of the guys at this church that God used, and he was so humble that he。
was excited, he connected me with Passion and Louie, and then I got offered this opportunity。
to be a part of Passion Global Events, and then Louie invited me to come out into Atlanta。
and be his right-hand guy, and on paper, it was a no-brainer, it was a really hard decision,。
and that's when God was, like, kind of forming in me when I was, like, 26, 27, "Oh, Brad,。
I have wired you to be a pastor," and I was still having to deal with, like, I don't know,。
I'm not going to make much money, all my friends are doing all this other stuff, da-da-da-da-da-da.。
I move to Georgia, having already been in Birmingham, didn't take a girl with me from。
Texas, because I didn't meet her.。
Next week, I'm in Georgia, I meet this girl named Brittany.。
Also, I met her boyfriend, Brad, at the same dinner.。
The way I like to tell the story is I told Brittany that the better Brad was finally。
here and told that guy to move away.。
That's actually not, that did not happen.。
We actually didn't hit it off all that well that night, but a month later, we did see。
each other, she gave me a full-frontal hug, and I was like, "That girl digs me," you know?。
But a few months later, we—sorry, this is not in my notes—nine months later, find。
out she's single, just, you know, just happened to shoot her a message on Facebook, no big。
deal.。
It's like, "I just heard your name, thought I'd check in," a.k.a. heard you broke up.。
We start dating, and we end up, like, getting married.。
I love her so much, she's amazing, you'll like her more than me.。
She's from Kentucky and Indiana, and I'm, like, so much more boring than Texas, like.。
So I'm, like, married to Brittany, living in Georgia, and then we start planting this。
church, and then Louie asked me to be the youth pastor, and I'm like, "Nah!"。
And I can tell you from my story, I can't—I can't promise you it's going to be easy, but。
I can tell you from my story that God's plan for your life is better than your plan for。
your life.。
Ephesians 2:10, "You are God's workmanship."。
You're His workmanship.。
He wants to form you, and mold you, and shape you, and make you into someone, and it might。
not look exactly like you think it's going to look, but He's created you in Christ Jesus。
for good works, which God prepares in advance for you and me.。
And so let the pressure fall off a little bit, and let the trust rise up a lot.。
And obviously, I can't say it's all going to be easy, and you're not going to go through。
hard times, and you're not going to get hurt, you're not going to get disappointed, no,。
that's going to happen.。
We live in a broken world.。
But more recently, I've been reminded of a sermon I heard in college, and come on, let's。
be honest, no offense to T.A., me, Kylan, and all the other preachers, but a lot of。
people forget what we say on these stages.。
But there's an every once in a while message that just drops, and you never forget it.。
I remember hearing this pastor in college, and all I remember is him saying, like, "I'm。
so grateful, like, I'd rather be a pastor than I'd rather be the president of the United。
States, or one of the richest guys on earth."。
And he just kept saying the phrase, "I'm a rich man."。
I'm a rich man.。
Or you could use a different word, man, I'm a successful man, and he was saying it humbly.。
Not because he had all this stuff that the world thought he should have, but because。
he was rich in impact.。
Successful in impact.。
So I want to charge you, yes, some of you are going to go on, and you're going to, like,。
God's going to favor you in the world's eyes in an amazing way.。
Some of you are going to serve in anonymity.。
But don't let that determine if you're successful or not.。
What success is, is faithfulness.。
What success is, is being who God called you to be.。
What success is, is letting God work in you and work through you.。
I wish I had time to preach, but maybe I'll get invited back, but in Colossians 1, Paul。
is writing to the Colossians, and he's telling them about this guy named Epaphras.。
We always think God, or, no, I'm not even trying, just go read Colossians 1, all right?。
He talks about Epaphras.。
Anybody named Epaphras up in here?。
No?。
OK.。
Epaphras is the guy who took the gospel to Colossae.。
Paul, Timothy, Silas, they never made it there, as far as we know.。
But Epaphras went to Ephesus, where he heard the gospel, and he felt so convicted, and。
he burdened and emboldened, and he went back to his hometown, and he started telling them。
the message that he heard in Ephesus.。
So in my mind, I'm like, well, yes, God's sovereign, he does what he wants, but would。
the gospel ever gotten to Colossae if it weren't for some guy named Epaphras, who no one is。
ever going to name their kid after?。
When I get to heaven, yes, I want to follow the feet of Jesus.。
I love to shake a few people's hands.。
You can mark my words.。
I'm going to Epaphras' front door.。
I'll be like, "My man, I'm honored to meet you.。
I know a lot of people didn't talk to you on earth, but your guy, Brad, did.。
I went to the porch and talked about Epaphras, because what you did on earth mattered to。
me."。
How does God want to use you?。
What's his assignment on your life?。
And please don't get all worked up on whether or not you're the Paul or the Epaphras.。
It's all about Jesus.。
And if my days tell a story, may it be of not Brad Jones, may it be of you only, because。
I knew deep down that you saved me, that you loved me, that you called me and assigned。
me, and that I'm going to spend forever with you.。
I know where I'm going.。
Let's pray.。
I love the way we started this night, just taking a few moments.。
We'll take a few moments right now, and ask God to solidify in your heart what you know。
to be true.。
Thank you, Jesus, for saving us, forming us, calling us, and awaiting us.。
May our lives tell a story of your glory.。
We pray this in Jesus' name.。
