(upbeat music)。
- How we doing Porch?。
(audience cheering)。
Man, it's so fun to be with you guys tonight.。
My name is Garrett.。
If we've never met before,。
I've been on staff at the Porch for the last five years.。
Came in through the Watermark Residency Program,。
did some great years out in Fort Worth.。
So shout out to my Fort Worth family。
and of course every other group that's invisible。
to the group here in Dallas.。
But we know all around the country。
and even around the world,。
people are tuning in tonight to be a part of this.。
And now I'm serving with the Awakened Conference.。
Anybody got an Awakened Conference ticket out there?。
Man, this is gonna be the farthest reaching,。
we pray, event that we've ever done。
in the entire history of the Porch.。
It's gonna be something special.。
Hey, we're taking a break from our series tonight,。
before they were kings.。
And we're gonna talk about one very, very specific topic.。
So let me share a little mistake I made recently,。
very small, that will introduce this idea.。
So mistake number one, I went to the grocery store.。
Anybody else get really stressed by the grocery store?。
Just me?。
I mean, it gets to me, man.。
I'm just gonna be real with you.。
I get stressed.。
I feel like it takes too much time.。
I got other things I wanna get back to doing.。
Too many people, too many options.。
And it just kinda gets to me, man.。
It's a little quirk.。
So I get back to, but once my record was,。
when I was single, it was four months。
I went without even going to the grocery store.。
I was pretty proud of that.。
I just, I ate out with friends, fasted,。
and I just don't love it.。
So anyway, but my wife now, she works full time.。
We gotta split the domestic responsibilities.。
So I gotta pull some weight around here。
and go to the grocery store.。
So I'm there, and yogurt is on the list.。
And I've already got my stuff in the cart and everything.。
And I go back to the yogurt,。
and I'm like, the options thing.。
It is a yogurt avalanche back there.。
It is a bonanza.。
I don't have another word.。
But it was so much.。
I'm just, I looked at the shelf,。
I was like, I just lost the will to live.。
I'm like, just give me a yogurt.。
So I grabbed one that said nonfat plain.。
See?。
I don't know why you didn't tell me.。
You guys should come shop with me.。
So I grabbed that, and I was thinking,。
you know what, I recognize the name on the outside.。
I'm gonna put some fruit and granola around this.。
You know, it's gonna be all right.。
Let me tell you this.。
It was not all right.。
It wasn't even the neighborhood of all right.。
You know what it was?。
It was not even yogurt anymore.。
All right?。
Here's where I learned a very important lesson.。
If you lose the flavor and you lose the fat,。
you've lost the yogurt.。
You now have sour cream, all right?。
That's what you have.。
It's so nasty.。
And so I realized, we changed so much。
of what's essential about this,。
that now it seems like we've even changed the whole thing,。
which is a pretty transferable idea.。
I mean, think about this.。
Isn't this true?。
If you lose enough parts, you eventually lose the whole.。
Eventually, if you lose enough of the essential parts。
of one thing, anything, you eventually will lose the whole,。
the entire thing.。
This can happen with a job.。
Some of you, you had a job and you loved it.。
And then what happened was you got a new boss,。
and then the new boss had new ideas.。
And then all the people you love。
started to go work somewhere else.。
And you look up and you realize one little change at a time,。
and you go, hey, I think I lost the job I love,。
not because I got fired or went somewhere else,。
but because they changed it one little step at a time.。
And now I can't even recognize my own job anymore.。
It's completely changed.。
It's completely gone.。
This can happen in a relationship.。
You can be dating someone, and then all of a sudden,。
you start losing the quality time of the relationship,。
which is an important part.。
And then it goes another step,。
and you lose the kindness and the good tone,。
you know what I mean?。
The mutual respect of the relationship.。
And then you might go another step,。
and all of a sudden, maybe you look up。
and you even lost the faithfulness of the relationship,。
and you look up and go, who are we kidding?。
It doesn't even feel like we have a relationship at all.。
Because eventually, if you take out。
enough of the essential parts of anything,。
you change the entire thing.。
You can't just endlessly reduce something。
and still have something.。
Some of you may have experienced this at a very young age。
where your family, your mom and dad,。
who were married at the time, sat you down。
and explained to you why mom and dad。
were no longer gonna live in the same place,。
but you were still going to be a family.。
And even at six or eight or 10 years old,。
you wouldn't have known to put it into these words,。
but the truth is, you knew, you knew.。
Like, look, if you live there and you live,。
I mean, are we really a family?。
It feels like it's changed so much。
that if you, at some point, lose enough of the parts,。
we really have changed the whole thing.。
And what I wanna declare and talk about。
a little bit tonight is the fact。
that this can even happen to the church.。
Church can be changed one little part at a time,。
one biblical part removed at a time,。
until all of a sudden the drift is so far。
that you don't even have anything resembling。
a biblical church anymore.。
So what I'd love to do tonight。
is I would love to share three things。
that you can't lose and still be the church,。
three things that you cannot lose.。
If you lose them, you're no longer the church,。
you're something else or really close to it.。
Three essential ingredients, all right,。
that if you lose these parts,。
you really are flirting with corrupting the whole thing.。
Now, I picked a risky topic tonight, and here's why.。
Most of you are not walking around,。
driving around, living around, thinking,。
you know what I need to hear about tonight?。
I need to hear about some church essentials,。
you know, somebody give 'em to me.。
That's not what we typically think about.。
We typically are reacting to our needs in life, you know?。
We typically think, you know what, I gotta get a job.。
You know what, I gotta get a better job.。
You know what, I gotta convince someone。
to spend the rest of their life with me.。
What am I doing?。
You know, like we typically don't walk around。
consumed with, you know what, I need to know,。
what would a biblical church be, you know?。
And it's just not the terms we think in.。
And we know that statistically at least,。
about half of you is our best guess,。
are already committed to a local church.。
You're part of a church.。
You know what a biblical church is,。
either here or somewhere else.。
And it's my hope tonight that the things that we discuss。
would just encourage you to keep chasing。
what you're already chasing.。
But I also know that for the other half of you,。
I have no idea, I am shooting into the dark tonight.。
I have no idea what your relationship with church is.。
Some of you might say, none, I'm just busy,。
so I just kinda drop in every once in a while, podcast.。
It's a casual relationship, you know what I mean?。
Some of you would say it's more complicated.。
It's complicated, that's my relationship with church.。
It's complicated.。
Maybe someone even, maybe you have church pain, you know?。
Maybe from your background at some point,。
it was hard for you to even come in here tonight.。
Maybe the last time you were in a room like this。
and heard someone sing and you heard someone talk,。
maybe someone who I remind you of for whatever reason,。
like put on a microphone and said something hurtful.。
Maybe when you look at church, you think, you know what,。
I don't really have a problem with what's going on there.。
I just don't know if I can believe it.。
You know, intellectual credibility, man.。
Like I don't really know if I can believe everything.。
So I have no idea for the half of you,。
some of you are like, man,。
somebody invited me to the porch.。
I thought he was inviting me to his house.。
I'm like, where am I right now?。
Some of you, you know, totally caught off guard.。
But whatever your relationship is with church tonight,。
the reason I wanna put these in front of you。
is because of the way God changed my life。
through the church.。
See, my relationship with church was when I grew up,。
I went to church some.。
I was there Christmas and Easter.。
We were in a very small town in Texas,。
very conservative culture.。
My mom had a little tattoo on her ankle.。
She would put a bandaid over that tattoo on the ankle。
because, you know, small town church,。
it gets a little tight in there.。
So she'd been divorced several times, you know,。
she'd had three kids, but three dads,。
and I was the middle kid.。
And so we were just a little bit。
on the outskirts of the village, you know?。
And we went to church some,。
and I came to the conclusion by the time。
I was about 14 or 15,。
that church was the main source of boredom in the world.。
All right, I mean, that's where I was.。
That's where I lived.。
There were more interesting things to do, you know?。
And all of a sudden, I just ran down as far as I could。
a path of promiscuity, partying, pornography addiction,。
and addiction to self.。
Narcissism is the only way I can say it.。
I just completely pursued anything I wanted to do.。
I was a hedonist, you know?。
It just means I sought pleasure.。
Whatever was fun, that's what I did.。
And all of a sudden, I looked up at 18, 19 years old,。
and I realized this is not fun anymore.。
My life is broken.。
I'm sick and tired of the hangovers.。
I'm tired of drama-filled relationships.。
You ever been in a drama-filled relationship?。
Oh my goodness.。
So I'm tired.。
I'm tired of pregnancy scares.。
I'm tired of guilt.。
I'm tired of shame.。
And all of a sudden,。
I had been at the world's carnival away from church,。
and then all of a sudden,。
the rides started to make me sick.。
And I was tired.。
And I found out that there wasn't life there anymore.。
And what happened to me was God showed me。
that the one I had heard about my whole life,。
the one who got on a cross for me,。
the one who had come out of a tomb for me,。
that's Jesus, paid for everything,。
knowing in advance that I was going to do that,。
that I was gonna run that far.。
And then when he enlightened my eyes to see that,。
he didn't just give me a heaven to be saved to,。
he gave me a people to belong to.。
And so what I'd love to share with you tonight。
is if you're on that end where you say,。
I don't really want a formal relationship with church,。
that's not really my favorite thing,。
I would just say,。
I hope that something that is shared tonight。
would be as attractive to you as the church became to me。
when my life started finally to change.。
So three things tonight that you can't lose。
if you're still gonna be the church.。
I picked these three, okay?。
So there's the greatest weakness of this message.。
And some of you are like,。
going through the Bible,。
looking for this list of three,。
you won't find it.。
It's not like Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus.。
Three things you must be in order to still be the church.。
It doesn't work that way.。
But I picked these three for a specific reason.。
It's because I think these are the three。
that are most popularly abandoned in our day to day.。
The three things that I think are most popularly abandoned。
that will make us cease to be the church.。
Here they are, I'm gonna give them to you in order,。
and then we'll go.。
Number one, authentic connection with other Christians.。
Number two, willingness to be counter-cultural.。
And number three, the urgency in the mission of Jesus.。
We'll take those slower as we go.。
First, authentic connection with other Christians.。
What does that mean?。
It means they know you and you know them.。
Not just you are near them and they are near you.。
That is so different.。
Did you know that you can be in close proximity,。
of course, some of you are in a city and you're lonely.。
How could you be lonely in a city?。
The math doesn't work.。
There's more people in the city.。
You should be more connected than ever.。
But somehow it's possible to be lonely in a city。
because you can be close to a person,。
but not close to a person.。
And they don't know you.。
They don't know what your fears are.。
They don't know what your doubts are.。
They don't know what your insecurities are.。
They don't know what your tendencies are.。
They don't know where you're prone to leave the God。
that you love or hope to love.。
They don't know your weaknesses.。
They don't know your strengths.。
All of a sudden, there's a surface level social game。
that's going on as we all just kind of remain。
on the surface of life.。
And what happens in a real church,。
in a place where the scripture is being pursued,。
is that you have an authentic connection。
with other Christians.。
This happened to me, man.。
I remember the first time this happened.。
I had been living the life I just described.。
All of a sudden, a dude invites me to a small group.。
I was like, I don't know what this,。
well, I don't know what this group that is small is,。
but I will show up, whatever.。
So I showed up, and all of a sudden,。
this dude opens up with the line,。
hey, these are, okay, let me set the stage。
a little more clearly.。
This is eight college dudes, nobody else, all right?。
Eight college dudes.。
And this dude breaks off with,。
"Hey guys, I just wanna confess masturbation to you guys.。
"And yeah, that was a part of my week.。
"All right, let me be more real.。
"It actually happened twice."。
And that's what he started in on.。
And I had no idea what he was doing.。
I was like, you're not even gonna warm up to it, man.。
You're not even gonna get to,。
we're not gonna get to know each other.。
(congregation laughing)。
It was weird.。
And all of a sudden, they started to go around the circle.。
And I realized, what they're trying to do。
is they're trying to follow Jesus together.。
That's all they're trying to do.。
What they're trying to do is they're trying。
to be honest with each other.。
They're trying to authentically confess to one another.。
They're trying to be known by one another.。
That's the goal here.。
You know how sometimes you can tell。
some people don't wanna be known?。
That's why the average length of conversation is very short.。
Because at some point, a few seconds in,。
you gotta make a decision about whether you're gonna be。
in or out on the conversation.。
And all of a sudden, I realized,。
for the first time in my life,。
I am around people committed to depth in church.。
This amazed me.。
I had never seen that before.。
I thought church was full of hypocrites, you know,。
and full of people pretending to be perfect.。
And those dudes, for sure,。
were not pretending to be perfect.。
I can tell you that.。
They made that abundantly clear right at the start.。
And they were just being honest.。
I had been around nothing but college baseball locker rooms,。
and I only had friends who were exactly like me.。
And I just, it was a mundane world。
of surface-level conversation.。
And the drunk, "I love you, man,"。
had nothing on the depth that I saw amongst these people.。
And I wanted it.。
It's normal.。
It's normal, biblically,。
that if you're gonna be the church,。
you're gonna have to get below the surface.。
You're gonna have to be honest.。
You're gonna have to let yourself be known。
for where you're strong and also where you're weak.。
Here it is from the scripture, Hebrews 3:13.。
"Exhort one another,"。
this is a fascinating verse, by the way.。
I love this verse.。
"Exhort one another every day, as long as it's called today,。
so that none of you may be hardened。
by the deceitfulness of sin."。
All right, let's look at this.。
There's a problem and a solution.。
The problem is,。
none of you would be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin.。
That's the problem, deceitfulness of sin,。
deceitfulness of sin.。
What is the deceitfulness of sin?。
It's that you would do wrong and not care.。
It's that you would do wrong from yourself,。
you know, not because of some circumstance forced you,。
but like out of you, like there's a brokenness in you,。
a prone to wander in you.。
And you would actually do wrong from yourself,。
maybe for yourself, and you would think to yourself,。
"That doesn't really affect myself."。
That's the deceitfulness of sin,。
that you just do whatever you want。
and be completely ignorant of the fact。
that you are hardening your own heart against God。
and maybe ruining your life.。
That's what the problem is.。
That's a very individual problem, you know what I mean?。
Individual problem.。
But look at the solution he gave right at the start.。
"But exhort," what?。
"One another."。
He just gave a group solution to our individual problem.。
There's no person you've ever met。
who doesn't have that individual problem,。
the tendency to sin, the tendency to the wrong.。
Doesn't mean they're as bad as they could be,。
it just means they're not as good as they should be.。
Does that make sense?。
And the truth is, is that we need one another.。
Christianity is a team sport, it always has been.。
Man, people get really creative。
in the ways they talk themselves out of this.。
I just wanna tell you that.。
People get so creative when they don't wanna be known。
or they don't wanna be a part of a church.。
I was sharing the gospel with a guy a couple months ago,。
his name was Jeff.。
He was a really nice guy, he seemed super open.。
So I went to the conversation and I said,。
"Hey Jeff, let me take a turn in the conversation, man.。
"Do you have a faith?"。
And he said, "Yeah man, I'm a Christian."。
He was ready, boy, he was ready.。
I said, "That's great, man.。
"Well, let me ask you this, Jeff.。
"If that dude over there came up to you and said,。
"Jeff, I heard you're a Christian.。
"I wanna go to heaven, man, what I gotta do?。
"What would you say?"。
And he said, "I would tell him by grace through faith,。
"alone in the cross of Jesus Christ, alone."。
I mean, he was ready.。
I was like, "Dude, this brother needs to preach."。
But I didn't tell him that.。
Instead, I said, "Okay, Jeff, one more question.。
"Go one more with me.。
"What church are you a part of?"。
He got real passionate.。
He was like, "Oh, you know what?。
"I don't even need a church.。
"You know what?。
"I mean, man, I don't have to go to church。
"to be a Christian."。
And he started, I mean, he gave me like eight objections.。
It was almost like he was more ready for me to ask that.。
And his big like landing point, this was fun.。
He said, "You know, Jesus said,。
"where two or three are gathered, there I am among them."。
I said, "That's great, Jeff.。
"Who are you, two or three?"。
He said, "I got my roommate, but he's an atheist."。
I said, "That's bad math, Jeff."。
All right, that's not gonna work, all right?。
We get so creative when we wanna talk ourselves out of it.。
Let's just do a little call and response right quick.。
All right, let me tell you.。
Here's some objections I've heard.。
These are direct from people, all right?。
This is a real thing.。
I'm not making fun of anybody up here.。
Much, but I wanna just tell you,。
these are the responses that you get, okay?。
I've heard people say,。
"I don't need to go to church to be a Christian."。
You heard that?。
"I don't need to go to church to be a Christian."。
Right, kind of like I don't need to go home to be married.。
Okay, the answer is that's probably not gonna work long.。
You know what I'm saying?。
Like it's just not gonna go very far for very long.。
It doesn't, here's one.。
People at church are as messed up as me.。
Great, you'll fit right in.。
It's gonna be amazing.。
You can meet all your friends.。
(congregation laughing)。
I love this.。
I don't need an organization.。
I can change the world on my own.。
Awesome, how's that going for you?。
Where'd you change the world?。
What'd you do?。
You can't do it alone.。
That's the truth.。
Some dudes get super spiritual with it.。
I love this.。
Have you ever heard somebody use the term Big C Church?。
You ever heard that term?。
Big C Church, here's what it means.。
It means the global church,。
all believers in all places, all over the earth,。
every nation, you know?。
And so some dudes will go theological with this。
and they'll say,。
"You know what?。
"I'm a Big C Church guy.。
"I love the whole church, you know, global.。
"So I don't really wanna commit to any specific one."。
Okay.。
Ladies, if you were with a man.。
I feel like I don't even need to finish this right now.。
(congregation laughing)。
I will.。
And he says,。
"You know, I'm kind of a Big W women guy.。
"Global women, all women.。
"So I don't really feel the need to commit myself,。
"you know, with all of my gifts。
"to any little W woman specifically."。
Leave, all right?。
You're like, that is the most unhealthy.。
You'd be like,。
"You got some psychological issues is what you have."。
All right?。
That's the fact of the matter.。
And so it just doesn't make sense.。
Let me just be honest with you.。
It just doesn't make sense to be like,。
"I'm so into the global movement of Jesus。
"that I can't commit to the local movement of Jesus."。
You can't add, okay?。
Like that doesn't work, all right?。
You have to be able to do this.。
Christianity is a team sport.。
It always has been.。
And the team is the local church.。
Why do we talk ourselves out of being on the team。
that we claim to be on?。
It doesn't even make sense.。
It's normal to have, if you're a believer in Christ,。
to be the church, you must be a part of a church.。
An imperfect place, you'll fit right in,。
show up, be a part of it, and get engaged, all right?。
Number two, a willingness to be counter-cultural.。
Changing gears completely.。
A willingness to be counter-cultural.。
This is essential if we want to be the church.。
Or if you change your mind about wanting one,。
this is something you should look for.。
A willingness to be counter-cultural.。
Now, what do I mean by this?。
Counter means against.。
That's all it means.。
So you have to be willing to go against。
popular culture sometimes.。
Kind of works like this.。
Summer's coming up.。
We got any lazy river people in here?。
Lazy river people, looking forward to it?。
Man, you guys are hard workers.。
I'm looking forward to the lazy river myself.。
The lazy river is a place where you go without any effort.。
It's a place where you and everybody else,。
there is no freedom of thought.。
There is no, it is we are going, all right?。
And there's not a lot of force involved.。
It's just, you know, hands off.。
Popular culture is like that.。
You don't have to do any effort.。
You can just go.。
Path of least resistance.。
And then, you may remember at some point when you were a kid。
you get out of the lazy river and you decide。
you're gonna run uphill just to see how hard it is.。
And you realize it's really hard。
and it kind of upsets the people, all right?。
And so it is frustrating to those as you walk upstream。
and it takes a lot of effort and you realize。
how much force is actually in your face.。
At some point, being a Christian will feel like that.。
At some point, you will feel a sense of disagreement。
with the culture around you.。
Not because you wanna be disagreeable.。
Not because you wanna be a know-it-all.。
Not because you wanna be argumentative.。
And by the way, let me put that boundary in place.。
I didn't say an eagerness to be counter-cultural.。
That's not Christian.。
You don't wanna be argumentative.。
You don't wanna be combative.。
That's not the point.。
You don't wanna just turn around in the lazy river。
and splash for no reason.。
That just doesn't make any sense.。
It's gonna upset the people, all right?。
But what you have to do is be willing。
to humbly and gently walk with Jesus。
even when the rest of the world is in conflict。
with your choice or with your belief.。
That's just a normal part of Christianity.。
In fact, at one point in the scripture,。
the Bible calls you in exile.。
Did you know that?。
If you happen to be a believer in Christ,。
exile means you have been exiled, okay?。
Like you are not a part of the rest of the people.。
You are different.。
And that's a normal part of being a Christian.。
Jesus did counter-cultural things all the time.。
And I just wanna be more clear。
about what I mean by counter-cultural.。
I know some people, like going against the grain。
means something like, you mean like you have a wedding。
and don't have a hashtag, you know?。
Like, no.。
I mean like in some more meaningful way.。
Like, you run a marathon and don't tell anybody?。
That would be crazy.。
That would be crazy.。
Somebody should definitely do that.。
I've never heard of that at all.。
(congregation laughing)。
But I mean in some meaningful ways。
that you would be willing to go against culture.。
Jesus did this all the time.。
Think about some things Jesus said.。
Let me summarize.。
He told rich people it would be hard for them.。
Everybody knows it's easy for rich people, right?。
He told rich people it'd be hard for them to go to heaven.。
He showed women they were important。
at a time when not many believed that.。
He told men they couldn't divorce their wives for no reason。
at a time when not many believed that.。
He told leaders to act like slaves of their people.。
Nobody did that.。
He told people to pay their taxes。
even though the government was corrupt.。
He invited white-collar criminals to become his followers.。
This is my favorite one.。
He told religious leaders that they were the devil's kids.。
Literally, quote, "You are of your father, the devil,"。
end quote.。
It's right there in John chapter eight.。
Jesus, if you're watching this,。
at some point you lean over to your friend。
and you just say, "I don't think he cares what we think.。
"I think he is totally free from what we think."。
And in fact, that actually happened.。
In Mark chapter 12, it says,。
"And they came and said to him,。
"Teacher, we know that you are true。
"and do not care about anyone's opinion,。
"for you are not swayed by appearances,。
"but you truly teach the way of God."。
And I just wonder, could anyone say that about you, truly?。
Could anyone accurately say to you,。
if you claim to be a part, if you don't,。
this question wouldn't even make sense,。
but if you claim to be a follower of Jesus,。
could people say that your way of life。
is fully independent from the approval of people?。
Could people say that you're an independent thinker?。
Could people say that you're firm enough。
to go wherever Jesus goes?。
Could they say that accurately of your life?。
You will feel the resistance at times.。
Some of you feel it when you decide to stop sleeping。
with the person you're dating out of honor for Jesus,。
and they look at you like you are from another world.。
Or all of a sudden, you're the person in the office.。
You come into a relationship with Christ,。
and all of a sudden, you're the person in the office。
who wants to honor the boss who no one likes,。
and everyone is mystified,。
because you honor the boss who is not honorable,。
and they look at you like you're from。
a complete other world.。
Or when you stop partying, and you go,。
"Look, if I have to find new friends, I find new friends,。
"but I can't go back to that same place."。
And all of a sudden, people look at you。
like you're from another world.。
They're doing that because now you are,。
and you're gonna notice that sometimes。
if you choose to follow Jesus.。
It's normal to have to be willing at times。
to go against the grain of culture.。
Number three, urgency in the mission of Jesus.。
If you wanna be the church,。
or if you wanna find one at any point,。
you're gonna need to find people,。
or be a person who is urgent in your personal mission.。
If you wanna see the mission God gave。
every single one of us, it's in Matthew 28, 19 to 20.。
It goes like this.。
This is the words of Jesus.。
Go, very famous words.。
Go, therefore, you're like, "Go where?"。
It says to all nations.。
Well, that includes this one.。
So like, go to work and make disciples.。
Go to your friend and make disciples.。
Go to your family and make disciples.。
Some of you like to get a little creative,。
and you're like, "Can I go to the bar and make disciples?"。
No, it's not gonna help you, all right?。
Go to the people you can go to。
and lead them in such a way that they fall in love。
with the way of Christ because they read your life.。
What it means to make, you're like, "Make disciples."。
What does that mean?。
Here's what it means.。
It means to be so in love with Jesus。
that you can't help but love your friends so much。
that you try to connect them to him.。
That's all make disciples is.。
It's to love Jesus so much that you can't help。
but wanna take your people, your friends,。
your relationships, the people God has put in front of you。
and to actually lead them toward the one。
who is total fulfillment and total satisfaction。
and total joy.。
That's what it means to make disciples.。
It means, you can call it evangelism, share the gospel.。
You can call it outreach, serve the poor.。
You can call it anything you want.。
It is loving people so much that you must bring them。
to the one who is love.。
And I just wanna say, the first time this starts。
to happen to you, it is a little nerve-wracking.。
Let me tell you, this is the first time in my life,。
a specific moment when I actually wanted。
to try to make a disciple.。
I wouldn't have called it that.。
I just would have said I wanted to help my friend.。
But here's what happened.。
We were in college and we were both working retail.。
I did not go to college in order to work at Men's Warehouse,。
but I ended up there because that's where I could get a job.。
So there I was.。
And me and my friend, we were working,。
and I had left the party scene about six months prior.。
So I mean, I was like fresh out of the world,。
just trying to follow Jesus for the very first time.。
And this dude was completely still entrenched in everything.。
And his joy was very fragile, just like mine had been.。
I knew right where he was.。
He would come to work, he was moody, he was tired,。
he was frustrated.。
It was the highest of highs and lowest of lows,。
usually the lows.。
And he was just kind of wearing himself out.。
He always seemed to be on the verge。
of really wrecking his life.。
And I knew what that was 'cause I had been there,。
and my heart just broke for him.。
And one day he was in a low, low valley,。
and we were closing up shop.。
And we were standing up front at the registers.。
And I could just see he was tired, he was hungover.。
I could tell he had a headache, dehydrated, disoriented,。
you know what I mean, just the whole deal, man.。
And I saw him, and it was just so fresh in my memory。
what that had felt like.。
And so I just realized my heart starts racing.。
I'm like, I think God's telling me to talk to this dude.。
I was not a pastor.。
I had no reps, I had no nothing.。
I just had, I love this dude, I don't know what to say.。
It's one college dude talking to another.。
That's all I had.。
And so all of a sudden my heart's kind of racing,。
and I'm like, if I don't talk to this dude,。
God's gonna keep me up all night.。
You know, like I gotta say something.。
I didn't have any words.。
And so what happened was I just said, hey man,。
not making this up, hey man,。
I'm afraid that if you keep doing this,。
history's gonna kind of keep repeating itself,。
and I just think there's a better way.。
And he knew I was a Christian, so he, you know,。
it wasn't exactly we shared the gospel。
and he got baptized on the spot,。
but it was my first time, okay, you know,。
I didn't have, it was the best I could do.。
But he knew exactly what I was referring to, you know?。
And so I said it and kind of stopped, looked at the ground.。
And after you do that for the first time, you're like,。
is my friendship with this dude over?。
Is he about to, you know, hit me in the face?。
Like, what is about to happen?。
Like, you're so nervous, like, it's not normal, you know?。
You're like, what did I just do?。
Oh my gosh, am I the crazy guy with a sign on the street。
who's saying, you know, you don't know,。
it's like an out of body experience, it's so weird.。
And so all of a sudden I like,。
I waited and I just said that and he goes,。
thanks man, I appreciate that.。
And that was it.。
And I went to my car and I was like, okay, you know,。
it was so bizarre, you know?。
And some of you have, you know,。
you don't know what that feels like。
because you've never reached out to a friend。
to actually try to be a friend.。
Some of you, you share the gospel everywhere you go。
and you remember that first time where you're like,。
oh my gosh, they're gonna think I'm crazy, you know,。
they're never gonna talk to me again.。
And the truth is they might feel your love coming across。
because that's what it really is, right?。
And I just wanna tell you,。
if you haven't felt that before,。
it's so freeing to love someone so much。
that you no longer care what they think of you.。
And if you think you're a friend,。
but you care more about someone's opinion than their soul,。
you are no friend, is the truth.。
And so urgency in the mission of Jesus is part of it, man.。
That's part of the deal.。
If you love him, if you know him,。
and you know he loved you first,。
then it is unavoidable that if you wanna be the church,。
a sense of urgency for the people around you,。
you can't force them.。
Let me just say that, you know, you can't force anybody,。
you don't need to force anybody.。
Don't preach, you know, don't like go home to your roommate。
and be like, I've been waiting, you know?。
Like don't go in and like,。
don't go unload on your roommate.。
Like that's not the point.。
It is something to propose, okay?。
It's not something to impose, okay?。
You offer Jesus to people.。
But if you don't offer,。
you're not extending what Jesus died to extend。
to that person.。
And it's normal, it is normal for us to have a sense。
of urgency in personal mission.。
In fact, this is what's fun.。
Some of you are here tonight because of that.。
Somebody took a risk, didn't they?。
Somebody said, somebody at work decided。
to have a non-work conversation with you。
and put themselves out there and say,。
hey, there's this thing I want you to come to.。
It's church.。
I don't know how you deal where you're at with that,。
but please come.。
And here you are.。
You didn't hit him in the face or anything.。
You were like, all right, man, let's do this.。
Somebody got you here with a risk.。
Some family member, you know, sent you a little email。
or hit you up on, you know, gave you a text.。
And they said, hey, and with no doubt,。
hoping they don't push you away even further,。
decided to take one little risk,。
one further little step to say,。
hey, you should try this place.。
And here you are.。
That's normal Christianity.。
Then instead of just hoarding all our relational credibility。
that we would actually use it to connect people。
to the God who loves them.。
That's normal.。
That's how it works.。
Three things that we gotta keep。
if we're gonna be the church, really be the church.。
Urgency in our personal mission,。
a willingness to be counter-cultural.。
And of course, my first point, which is so terrific,。
I'm having to scroll up to get it.。
Authentic connection with other Christians.。
Let me finish here.。
There's one more piece of the puzzle。
that I just think is so critical,。
that anywhere you find this,。
you have probably found a church,。
and anywhere you don't find this,。
you haven't found a church.。
And that's something that's called the gospel.。
The gospel is not just a type of music.。
That's what I always thought it was.。
Like, what's gospel?。
Is that like a choir?。
The gospel is good news.。
That's what it means.。
That's the word in Greek.。
It literally means good news.。
It's that simple.。
So for the rest of your life, you know what gospel means.。
It means good news.。
And you go, well, what's the good news?。
I could use good news.。
Bad news everywhere.。
It's the good news that even though you've sinned,。
you're loved.。
It's that even though you've done wrong,。
God's good, and he's right.。
It's that even though you've created shame for yourself。
through a series of choices you made,。
God made a series of choices to come and get you back.。
The gospel means that even though we all were like sheep。
and went astray, that's what sheep do.。
They kind of wander out of the way, okay?。
We are like that, the Bible says,。
but God, the good shepherd, comes to retrieve us.。
That he would leave behind those who were already found。
and go to a great distance to come to get us.。
And that he paid a great price。
so that we could know him and be forgiven。
and embrace real peace,。
peace that no amount of promotion or money or high。
or sexual fantasizing or conquering。
or whatever we put ourselves up to could ever offer.。
That Jesus actually climbed up on a cross,。
and when he was there,。
he wasn't just experiencing physical pain,。
he was experiencing the emotional and spiritual torment。
that we deserve as people who turned our back on God.。
But God wouldn't turn his back on us.。
He came to get us, and he paid for 100%.。
Think about this, 100% of the debt.。
I don't know if you've ever been in debt,。
medical, student, credit card, automobile.。
I have no idea if you've ever been in debt。
and what that feels like, but oh, to be free.。
You may not have known that your sin in your life。
creates a debt that you could never pay to God。
because of his perfection and because of where you are,。
but he closed the gap.。
He came all the way here.。
He lived a perfect life.。
He never messed up.。
I don't know if you knew that.。
You'll never get to the page of the Bible,。
like where's the one where Jesus messed up?。
It's just not in there.。
He lived a perfect life.。
And then he climbed on a cross,。
and he died a sufficient death,。
sufficient to bring us all to God.。
Who could do that?。
Could take a room this size, rooms this size,。
a world this size of this much complexity。
and this much confusion and bring us all to God.。
For what price?。
Free to us, expensive to him, but free to us by faith.。
That's the core of the church.。
It's how God built this for 2000 years,。
by telling people you're loved just as you are.。
And all of the morality of the Christian faith。
and all of the behavior of the Christian faith。
is just a reaction to God's love who loved you first,。
who came 100% of the way to get you.。
Not so that you could shape up,。
but so that you could know what love really is.。
It find life in life indeed.。
Let me pray for you.。
Father, thank you for our evening tonight.。
And God, I pray that if that sense of your love。
and your complete sufficient payment。
hasn't dawned on everyone who can hear my voice tonight,。
God, I pray that they would feel it, they would know.。
Not just so they can feel a feeling,。
but they can know a savior.。
They can know what love really is.。
Not the conditional thing we thought it was,。
where if we do well, we're rewarded.。
And if we don't do well, we're punished.。
But just to know that we've all not done well,。
but you've withheld punishment.。
Instead gave it to our substitute, Jesus.。
And now the way is clear for us to get to you.。
It might be counter-cultural.。
It might be counter-intuitive.。
It certainly is not anything we would have ever come up with。
but it's what you came up with.。
And it's your way of getting to us。
when we never wanted to get to you.。
Thank you, Jesus, that there is enough grace。
for everyone we know and even enough for us.。
In Jesus' name.。
- Hey guys, thanks so much for listening.。
Hopefully that message was encouraging.。
If you're interested in staying up to date。
with all the messages, content, sermons。
that we're putting out,。
then you wanna make sure to subscribe below。
and hit the notification bell。
so you're updated every time something comes up.。
If you're interested in finding more about our ministry,。
go follow us on Instagram @theporch.。
If you have questions,。
whether it's about the message you just heard,。
our ministry in general, any way that we can serve you,。
email us please at info@theporch.live.。
Thanks again for listening.。
