Recently I was watching this special ABC did, it was recorded Diane Sawyer kind of led the。
charge on this deal called Young Guns. And as a parent I saw some really alarming imagery。
in the show where they just were talking about how many children were coming into the emergency。
room having been shot by their parents' gun that they found. And so I'm a gun owner, you。
know, a CHL holder. And so as I'm watching this thing, it's always funny to me, as I'm。
watching this, as I'm watching this video and just, and just a parent, you know, of three。
kids, it just kind of grabs my heart and there's just things in there. And so you'll see, I'll。
show you just a really short clip. You're going to see some kids who respond really well.。
These are kids who have been trained. All of the kids that you see, they've sat down, they've。
gone through a program led by the police so that they know how to respond if they see a gun.。
Some of them do well, some of them not so well. Watch this.。
There's like, we have a response to that. And, you know, so they hid the guns in the。
classroom and they of course remove the bullets and they wanted to see with the hidden。
cameras how the kids respond. And all of you frankly responded the same way that I did。
when I saw that kid turn the gun to his face and pull the trigger and pointed at his friend。
and pull the trigger. She's like, "Oh, ah!" Like there's just something like, "Oh!" And like,。
why is that so disastrous for us? Like, why is that so difficult to watch? And it's because。
we think about both the people who are handling the subject, right? There's their lack of。
awareness around it. And then secondly, so first of all, it's the people who are handling。
the subject. Secondly, the seriousness of the subject, right? The incredible wake of。
disaster that it could cause. And I show you that up front as we talk about this idea of。
the battle of the sexes. We're moving through this series and tonight we're talking about。
love and dating. I know, and I know because I can only imagine that you might have this。
response like, "Oh, come on, guns and love and dating? Come on." But here's the deal.。
I don't know that we understand both the seriousness of the subject and I don't know that we fully。
understand the wake of disaster that comes from it. We will. Like we will as we move。
through it. Some of you do. Some of you have experienced it very well. But I think for。
a lot of us, for whatever reason on this particular subject matter, like a dog to his vomit, we。
continue to run to that which has brought, has already brought incredible destruction。
in our lives. And in fact, when I think about my past dating experience, I have a very similar。
response as I do when I watch that video. As I think about the wake of disaster that。
exists out there, girls who I have no idea where they're at, but I'm a part of their。
story. And because I'm a part of their story, right, they're going to be a little, potentially。
a less of a wife, right? A less of a mom. Because I'm a part, because I played a role。
in their story, right? Which means their kids are going to grow up different because mom。
was different. Why was mom different? Because she dated. And listen, I want to be really。
clear. Like I believe God heals. I believe God is sovereign. I believe He's huge. I believe。
He can make right. But I also don't want to stand up here and pretend like my sin didn't。
have consequences on others. I'm certain that it does today. I am certain that it does today,。
that there would be a legacy, potentially a wake of disaster behind those sins. And。
this is why I'm so unbelievably passionate about this subject. I try to attack it as。
logically as I possibly can just to present data, sheer facts to you. I just want to beg。
and plead with you tonight to open your mind. Open your mind and just consider what I'm。
saying as I present to you statistics and facts and scripture from the creator of the。
heavens and the earth, the creator of the universe, God. What He might have for you。
on this topic of love and dating because the reality of it is the success of your marriage。
will be determined by how you date for most of you in the room. And how you date will。
be determined by how you view dating. That's a fact. And so I want to help us with this。
reality of love and dating today and just the seriousness of it. And I want to tell。
you something. I am a dad with two little girls and a son. And my little girls are seven,。
are about to be seven and five. And I want you to know something. They don't play with。
guns. They don't. They play princess. Okay. They play house. It's cute. You know, Presley's。
the mom, Finley's the dad usually, which is weird, but maybe they need to come to the。
battle of the sexes. But anyways, so they, they play house. And, and so this is what。
they do. And here's the reality of that. It can be just as disastrous as playing with。
guns and you think, no, of course not. You can't, people can die. JP. Here's why. Because。
we never really grow out of that. Some of you are still here wanting to play princess.。
Some of you are still here hoping to get rescued. Some of you, 23, 26, 29, 32, 36 years old,。
39 years old, hoping that Prince Charming is going to come through or that some, some。
princess is going to lay down for you to get to play house with her. It's like we don't。
grow out of it. And so that's something that we've got to talk a lot about. I've got to。
talk a lot about with my little girls so that they would have a right view of that. Some。
of you have been playing princess your whole life, playing house your whole life, and we've。
never really outgrown it. And so tonight I want to talk about what is dating, what it。
looks like to redeem dating. And then as you leave here, before you leave, how do we identify。
love and dating? How can we identify love and dating? And so let's just start off with,。
number one, what is dating? Okay. What is dating? And so if we're going to define something。
and you're at the porch where we teach the Bible, we believe that it is God's living。
truth that the Bible can both tell us who God is, teach us about his character and give。
us instructions for life and what he desires for us. Where would we go in this book to。
cover dating? Where is dating in this book? It's nowhere in there. There's the answer。
to that trivia question. Genesis to Revelation, nowhere in this entire book is even an example。
of dating. Okay, us as pastors and preachers and teachers, we have tried to stretch us,。
you know, Ruth and Boaz, which is weird, and right? Jacob and Rachel and Leah, right? It's。
just a little strange, right? And so Isaac, Rebecca, these stories will kind of stretch。
and put them over and try to teach dating from them. But the reality of it is, is it's。
nowhere in here. Why? And that's just an important fact in and of itself. Why is it not in there?。
Here's why. It's a very, very, very modern phenomenon. And that's important, right? Unless。
we understand history, unless we understand where something comes from, then we will certainly。
corrupt it and be taken advantage of by it. Dating is a very, very, that which might be。
ultimate in your life, that which might be the most important thing, that which might。
be the thing that you think more about than anything else, didn't even exist not very。
long ago. And so just before we go further, I thought it would just be fun to kind of。
go through the history of dating. And so I'll start in the year 1896. 1896, that's when。
the word actually enters our language. The word dating enters the English language. And。
do you know what it means? It means prostitution. Dating comes into the English language as。
a synonym with prostitution. Going on a date was a euphemism for paying for sex. If you。
said, "Hey, I'm going to go on a date," that meant that you were going to call on。
a prostitute. At this time in history, one-on-one between singles, one-on-one hanging out between。
people who are not married is highly discouraged by culture. So culture would say, "Hey, if。
you're a girl and you're a guy and you're single, you should not be hanging out one-on-one。
together." So for most of the world, for most of our existence as humanity, we did。
not do this idea of dating. And then in 1900, there's a sociology shift. And here's why,。
and this is important, because you insert media. You insert media. Now we see the birth。
of a woman's magazine, which begins to tell her how to dress and give her tips and tricks。
and techniques and what to expect and what to think. And it begins to tell her what is。
important. And so in the year 1900, there is one million subscribers to Ladies Home。
Journal, which began to influence women. And then in 1930, you see the invention of the。
automobile, which this was really, really important. This was another shift in dating.。
It took dating outside the home. What do I mean by that? Before the '30s, okay, before。
1930, dating happened in the living room. The father of the daughter would oversee everything。
the guy did. So he would, to date a girl, he would go into her house. He would ask her。
father if he could hang out, and they would hang out on the couch with dad right there.。
Yeah, that's what dating looked like up until this point. And so with the invention of the。
automobile, it pulls dating outside the home. And now in the '30s, what happens, and this。
is huge, this is huge, guys begin to offer a girl an experience. Do you see that? Hey,。
no longer are we going to sit on mom's sofa. Now I'm going to take you out, and I'm going。
to offer you an experience. And so what that meant, this was huge into the '40s, dating。
really exploded. Why? Because now the better the experience the guy could offer, the nicer。
the car, the prettier the girl. And before you think, "Oh, that's crazy. That's chauvinistic,"。
consider reality today, okay? This is still the phenomenon that our culture lives in today.。
And so here's what this looked like. It looks a lot like prostitution, you begin to understand,。
because it's like, "Hey, I will give you a nice experience in exchange for sexual favors."。
This still exists in much of America today. "Hey, let me take you out. Let me give you。
an incredible experience. We're going to make a memory together. And before the night is。
over, you might stay over, or we would get to do something fun and experience some sort。
of intimate moment together." So that our heart would race, and we would feel an emotion,。
a feeling, and we would be able to chase that thereafter, continuing to feel something better,。
more pleasure, whatever that is. And so in the 1960s, I'll just read this, "The new dating。
lifestyle society led way the greatest social upheaval in history of singleness in the Western。
world, the sexual revolution. This radically altered the sexual landscape of our nation.。
Sex is seen as an experience to be collectively shared, not restrained by stale religions."。
This is what it says. And then in the '60s, we see the sexual revolution, the great fault。
line of America, where it says, "Hey, you should do whatever feels good." We are still。
suffering the effects of the sexual revolution today. In the '70s, Playboy is born and placed。
into every convenience store in plain sight. And so if you want to access a naked female,。
you can do so at the 7-Eleven. In the '80s, the Internet is born. And so now that kind。
of is just an explosion of media influence into our lives. You can look at naked people.。
You can look at positions. You can study sex. You can become an addict of it without even。
having a partner. Okay? This is what happened in the '80s. In the '90s, there's just more。
of an explosion of this. But what happens now is Hollywood, specifically in 1990, Hollywood,。
through movies and music, begins to take sufficient -- I'm sorry, significant strides in pushing。
the previous boundaries and defining what this should look like for us. See, like a。
frog getting boiled in water slowly, we don't realize the external influences in our lives.。
And then in the 2000s, everyone has a mobile device in their pocket. You can access explicit。
pornography right here in church without leaving your seat. You can see every kind of sex act。
imaginable without moving. Right now, you have the inventions of smartphones, you know,。
massive scale. The pornography industry just explodes. Cohabitation is widespread and assumed.。
You have most people who live together before they're married. They think it's wise. It's。
not even that they're doing it and they're ashamed of it. They're saying, "You're stupid。
because you don't do it," which from a stance on logic is unbelievably ignorant. It is statistically。
very, very, very stupid to live with someone before you're married to them. A success rate。
of about 2%, okay? A success rate of about 2% of people who live together before they're。
married are then eventually happily married. Two percent, statistically ignorant. And so。
sex is seen as a necessary component of life and just a physical act. That's where we're。
at. That's the history of dating in a nutshell. And so let me ask you this question. Are we。
getting better at it? Is it getting better? Are we improving? And the reality, I see some。
of you shaking your head no. The reality is some of you here, you're like, "Yeah, getting。
better. Yes. Yes, because I got a nice car and I look good and I make money, which means。
lots of sex for me and I can have pleasure, right? And I got a smartphone in my pocket。
and I can access pornography and I can feed my flesh. Yes, we're getting better." Stay。
tuned. Let's keep reading. Let's make sure. Are we getting better? Are marriages better?。
Absolutely not. Look at divorce rates, right? I think we have a graph of that, of the staggering。
increase in divorce rate. When you see that dip right there, that could be a little bit。
deceiving because it actually represents less marriages, not less divorces. Percentage of。
divorce has stayed the same over a long length of time and have only gotten worse since the。
sexual revolution, an explosion of divorce. When you introduce the idea, "Do what feels。
good," you have people who no longer need to stay in a relationship. Half of you, this。
is going to happen to. How do you know it's not you? Like everybody knows it's not going。
to happen to me. I know it's already happened to a lot of you. I get that. Grace abounds.。
I'm so glad you're here. For the rest of you and for those that have happened, it's statistically。
very likely that it would happen to you again. I know you're like, "No, I'll never go through。
that again." Yeah, statistically you might. What are you going to do? How are you going。
to make sure it doesn't happen to you? I mean, do you have a plan? Are you dating with a。
plan? You've got to date with a ... You're going to make sure a divorce doesn't happen。
to you. You've got to have a plan, right? It's going to happen to half of you. I can。
literally draw a line right here. All of these divorced. All of you. All of you. You're like,。
"Why didn't you go that way?" What's up? He's like, "Go that way." I meant all of you divorced.。
That's what I meant. What are we going to do? What's our plan? What is dating? Dating。
is spending time with the opposite sex to determine if they are someone you should marry.。
That's what dating is. Let me give it to you again. Dating is like a no-dumb moment, right?。
It's not that obvious for some of you. Dating is spending time with the opposite sex to。
determine if they are someone you shouldn't marry. Not could marry because the reality。
of it is, and this is going to blow your mind a little bit, you really shouldn't go on a。
date with someone you couldn't marry. The reality of it is you should only go on dates。
with people that are in the realm of, "Hey, this is marriage material," which is actually。
very small. It's a small minority on this earth of people who yield to this book and。
live their lives according to God's instruction. Those are the only people who are available。
to you. I should say this. I'm only talking to Christ followers in the room. I realize。
that about half of you are not. We'll say this half. This half is not Christ followers.。
Those of you here that are following Jesus should only be on a date with other people。
who are following Jesus. That's the realm of the folks that you could marry. While you're。
on a date with someone that you could marry, you're now finding out, "Is this someone that。
I should marry? Is this someone that I enjoy spending time with? Does it seem like this。
is the person that I might continue to serve God with, continue to pursue God with? Is。
that what's going on here? Are they a person I should marry?" I'm not telling you that。
they are the one. There is no one for you. Let me say that really clearly because I know。
that always blows some people's minds. There is no one. Are we good there? God is sovereign.。
He knows everything. And there is no one. Mind blown. Let me hit this home for you like。
this. I'm married to my wife Monica. I love her very much. Am I the one for Monica? Is。
there a better one for Monica? When God created me November 9, 1980, did He also at some point。
shortly thereafter, March 9, 1981, create Monica and think, "Hey, I made her exactly。
to compliment JP so that they might find each other one." If He did, He has an incredible。
sense of humor because I'm 6'7" and she's 5'3". So I would just be like, "God, could。
have made me shorter or her taller or something." Let me hit you like this. There are people。
alive today better suited for Monica than me. She's the one because we walk down the。
aisle together. There are dozens, hundreds, potentially thousands of people that Monica。
could have had a very happy marriage with. But she and I got married. And so we became。
the one for each other in that moment. It's important to know that. Sometimes some people。
are just like, I'll get emails and I'll be like, "What? There's no one? That's crazy.。
We're looking for the unicorn and the one." And so I said that we only date believers.。
That's 2 Corinthians 6, 14, "Do not be yoked together with unbelievers for what do righteousness。
and wickedness have in common or what fellowship can light have with darkness." There's always。
someone that throws like a temper tantrum on this. I mean, I'll get like some email。
or some angry tweet that's like, "How dare you judge my boyfriend because he's an atheist?"。
And I'm just like, "Okay, man, stay tuned. Come see me in a little while. We'll meet。
up. We'll try to help you when that doesn't go well." It just doesn't go well. We don't。
missionary date. You guys follow? I'm not talking about sexual positions here. I'm saying。
we do not date people so that they would come into a relationship with Christ. That's not。
what we do. We do not missionary date.。
And so if that's the reality, if we're looking for a sold-out believer, and I'm looking,。
is actually looking for a spouse, what makes a good spouse? It's like if I'm supposed to。
spend time with them to identify if they have characteristics of a good spouse, what do。
I do? Right? Okay, first of all, you need a plan. You need to get help from others.。
You need, we call that here, that's community. Don't do it alone. If you're going to have。
a plan, if we're going to date intentionally, if we're going to go at this on purpose, then。
that looks inviting others to speak into it. It's Proverbs 15, 22. Let me talk to you about。
plans for a second. "Plans fail for lack of counsel, but with many advisors, they succeed."。
This is always confusing to me. I get these emails of people who want dating advice. "Hey。
man, here's the deal, the situation with my girlfriend, boyfriend, whatever, this is what's。
going on. We've been dating for like six years and I want to get married, but he blah, blah."。
So here's the deal. And when I say blah, blah, I mean that's incredibly interesting and I。
really want to help you. But my first response is this, "What does your community say?" Let。
me ask you a better way. Why are you asking a stranger who does not know you or have any。
vision into the aspects of your relationship? And when you have other followers of Jesus。
around you who know you, "Well, I didn't really like their answer." "Hey, I'm sorry about that.。
You're not going to like mine either." Because I'm going to say, "Go back to them." What。
I'll say is I'll say, "Hey, would you just email me again and add them to the email so。
that we can all learn from each other?" Wisdom comes from the counsel of many. It says about。
16 times in the book of Wisdom, Proverbs. Wisdom comes from the counsel of many. Let。
me be abundantly clear. If you don't have Christ's followers, I'm happy to get that。
email. I truly am. Okay, and so I'm not trying to be condescending about that. But I am trying。
to hit on the importance of having other followers of Jesus in your life looking into your relationship。
and speaking wisdom into it. And I promise you, if they're doing that well, they will。
not always tell you what you want to hear. "Faithful are the wounds of a friend, but。
deceitful are the kisses of an enemy," the Proverbs says. So you have to have other people。
speaking into that. Another thing you can do. How do I know if there's someone I should。
spend the rest of my life with? Listen to how they talk. Okay, listen to how they talk.。
Listen to what comes out of their mouth. Is it gossip? Is it lies? Are they playing games?。
How do they talk? Do they use language that they shouldn't? Do they slander people? Are。
they constantly talking about things that they shouldn't? Why is this important? It's。
unbelievably important in dating. Here's why. Because Jesus says over and over throughout。
the Gospels, "Out of the mouth displays the heart. The mouth displays what's in the heart."。
What are you trying to do when you're dating them? You're trying to figure out what kind。
of heart they have. I'll show you Luke 6, verse 45. "A good man brings good things out。
of the good stored up in his heart, and an evil man brings evil things out of the evil。
stored up in his heart. For the mouth speaks what the heart is full of." So watch what。
they talk about. The gossip about, lie about, cuss about, slander about, or the truth and。
the beauty that comes out of their mouth that they use for building others up. For the building。
up of others. Another thing you can observe is watch how they care for others. Not care。
for you because let's be honest, they like you. And so they're going to probably, and。
that's important too, if they're not good to you, that's easy, right? Okay, peace out.。
But it's not just about you, it's how they care for others. It's how they care for their。
neighbors. It's how they care for the kids in the nursery. It's how they care for the。
other people that they serve with. Other people in their teens. It's how they care for co-workers。
and employers and employees, right? How do they care for others? This is huge in the。
scripture, Mark 10. Jesus models this perfectly. The disciples are saying, "Hey, we want to。
be great. We want to be great." Jesus says, "Hey, everyone wants to be great, but not。
so with you." Verse 43. "Instead, whoever wants to become great among you must be your。
servant. And whoever wants to be first must be slaves of all." So you don't want to marry。
someone who's selfish or self-focused or narcissistic. Those people make awful spouses. I'm trying。
to spare you of this, okay? You want to marry someone who is other-centered. Someone who。
loves their neighbor as themselves, Jesus would say, right? They love their neighbors。
as themselves. Not someone who is stuck on themselves. Not someone who is constantly。
following their emotions or their feelings and just kind of doing whatever is the irresponsible。
thing in the moment. But someone who has a plan, right? See, people get divorced when。
they simply follow their feelings. Whoever you marry, should you marry, you're not going。
to feel like being married to them one day. And if you make a habit of following your。
feelings, you won't be married to them long. And so, so many of us, we jump into a relationship。
without a plan. This is crazy. Like, I know, and so I'm hitting you, and I'm trying to。
unlearn. We've got to unlearn some of this. Like, the reality of it is, is for most of。
the world in the existence of humanity, marriages have been arranged. And so, like, people come。
at me, "Well, yeah, but this is so important." I'm like, "Tell me that was important when。
people met at the altar." Okay? Like, mom and dad are there, and they're like, "Hey,。
meet your husband. Okay, now you're married, now go." The divorce rate was a whole lot。
lower. And if, I'm just, it's just logic. Just think about it. You can disagree with。
me. That's okay. Just leave here and think about it. See, what's happening is Hollywood。
and culture and Dallas is saying, "We're so good at this. You should listen to us." Here's。
the truth. They're not very good at it. They're not very good at it. They're going to be knocking。
on our door saying, "Will you please help me? I hate this man. I hate this woman. I。
never want to see him again. He's crazy. She's crazy." They're not very good at it. You've。
got to unlearn to relearn, right? God, the creator of the heavens and the earth, he's。
really, really, really, really, really good at it. And so, culture says, "Follow your。
heart." The Bible says, "Your heart is wicked and deceitful above all things and beyond。
cure." Jeremiah 17, 9, "The heart is deceitful above all things and beyond cure. Who can。
understand it?" Dallas says, "No, you should trust it. You should follow it. That's what。
you should do. Follow your heart." And so, what do we do about this? We're talking about。
dating. What do we do with it? We've got three options to understand it. We can reject it.。
We can go Joshua Harris on it. We can kiss it goodbye. We can say, "I don't want anything。
to do with dating." That only made sense to the devoted long-term Baptist in the room.。
So we can say, "Hey, I don't want anything to do with dating. I'm a Christian, so I won't。
do it. It seems evil. It's not in the Bible. I'm not going to take part in it." We can。
reject it, okay? Or we can accept it. And we can say, "What? You know what? I'm like。
Miley Cyrus and I can't stop. And I'm going to get after it. I'm going to find a dark。
horse like Katy Perry. I'm just going to run this race. This is how I'm going to roll.。
I'm just, you know what? I can't help it. The current of the culture is so strong. And。
JP, I think you're crazy." And you know, whatever. I'm just going to do whatever I want, whatever。
feels good. I'm going to accept it. And here's the third option, and this is the one that。
I want you to consider, okay? We can redeem it. We can take a cultural idea that hasn't。
been around very long. It's not a biblical idea, and we can breathe into it biblical。
truth so that we can redeem it. So the world can watch us do it, and the world can look。
at your marriage, should you have one, and say, "Man, I want it that way." They're singing。
Backstreet Boys to you, right? "I want it that way." This is what we want to do. We。
want to redeem it. So how can we redeem dating? That's my second point. How can we redeem。
dating? I'm just going to give you a few principles. By dating intentionally, number one, by dating。
intentionally. Okay, what this means is dating with a plan, dating on purpose, not just going。
out and saying, "Well, of course I'll go out with him because it's free coffee and that's。
fun. Of course I'll ask her out because it's just a fun way to spend a Friday night." But。
dating actually on purpose. So what does this look like? If you started early like I did,。
I started in the fifth grade, and so that just means you have to unlearn some of those。
things because there's no point in dating in the fifth grade. I'm not going to get married。
in the fifth grade, and we said that dating was for marriage. So if you don't want to。
be married, honestly you shouldn't be dating. That's the truth, and so I'm going to come。
back to that. But here's just some questions that I get. One is, how do I let a guy know。
I like him? Got that a lot. How do I let a guy know I like him? If I like a guy, right,。
girls just feel so powerless. And here's the truth. There's a God who created you, who。
has a plan for you, and He loves you. I don't even know that you have to let a guy know。
you like him. Okay? I think you can get, and I want you to stay with me, girls, before。
you get all angry and frustrated. I think you can serve that God who knows you and loves。
you and has a plan for you with all your heart. And I really think what He wired in us, now。
don't do it for this reason. This is always the risk because you turn it into a math equation.。
Like, people say, "Well, you should be in front of Him so He trips over you." And you're。
like, "All right, if He trips over me, then He'll marry me." Now don't do that, right?。
Here's what I want to say. You serve that God, and I think He's wired us as men to be。
attracted to that, particularly those of us who love Him. And so you serve Him so radically。
that we can't pursue Him without tripping over you. Right? You're running so hard after。
God. You're looking for God. Your entire life is following the trajectory of God. You're。
hoping and you're trusting in God. And as we decide that we want to serve God, too,。
you're everywhere that people who serve God are. I really think God wired us to love this。
idea. You see this in Rebekah in Genesis 24, right? Eleazar shows up looking for a wife。
for Isaac, and there she is. And she gives him water, and she gives his camels water,。
and she's just serving. And we see that, and so it's easy. "Well, if I want to get a guy,。
I should serve him." Right? But here's the reality. We don't know how many days, weeks,。
years she did that every single day, serving every single person who came through there.。
We don't know how long she was faithful. We don't have a vision into that, do we? And。
so you serve. You serve God. You change the entire trajectory of your life to pursue Him。
like crazy. And so guarding, we talk about guarding your heart. What can guarding your。
heart look like? Resisting the urge to control the situation. If you feel helpless, I get。
it. I mean, I probably don't understand it fully, but I've talked to enough girls to。
understand that there's just a feeling of helplessness there. It is an opportunity to。
trust God. And opportunities to trust God are good. They may not feel good, but I promise。
you they're good. And so if you're a guy, how do I let a girl know that I like her?。
Okay, this one's a little more difficult. You use your words. All right? Did I say use。
your text message? Thank you. Did I say use your thumbs? No. Did I say use your Facebook。
and poker? No, that's weird. Don't do that. That's stupid, okay? Don't do that. Like,。
remember, JP said that on Tuesday night. Don't poke anyone on Facebook. Okay, here's the。
deal. You use your words. I just want to break that down. I want to get real practical with。
you. What does that look like? It looks like you getting up the courage because you trust。
in a God who is sovereign and who loves you and who controls all things, and you go to。
her and you look her in the eyes face to face, not even over the phone, just face to face.。
You say, "Ugh." And you get out the words. Somehow, someway, a miracle, you say, "Ugh,。
I really like spending time with you. Can we do that?" Right? You just do that. All。
right? That's what you do. And she may say yes, no, or maybe. But you use your words.。
This is real important. Okay, I've been asked to say this a few times, okay? So in case。
you missed it, you fell asleep, you just woke up, don't text. Don't text. Okay? Some of。
you guys are like, "What? That's crazy." I'm telling you, I love you guys. All right? My。
people, don't text. All right? Use the English language in the audible form. Face to face.。
You're a man. All right? You can do that. I promise you, it's good growth opportunities。
to use your words. And so that's how it looks like. This is how you let a girl know that。
you're interested. You say, "Hey, I'm interested in you. I'm interested in spending more time。
with you." And so men, what does leading look like in relationships? I got this question。
a lot. This is good. I really want to address this. So what does leading look like in a。
relationship? So you're not married, you're in a relationship. I think it can look like,。
you know, the modern culture would call it chivalry or kindness. The Bible would call。
it service, serving. So you might feel called by the scripture to be a leader. If you look。
at wherever verse you would use to be a leader, you're going to see the reality of the service。
behind it. Christ, husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the churches, Ephesians 5:25,。
that he gave himself up for her, that he served her to death. Okay? 1 Peter 3, 7. Husbands,。
live with your wives in an understanding way, treating them like something fragile and valuable.。
You see this idea. Wherever you see the idea of leading in the New Testament, you're really。
going to see the idea of serving. And so what does leading look like in a relationship?。
It looks like serving. It looks like being kind, being a gentleman, right? This is what。
it looks like. This is important, guys, okay? This is really important. What does leading。
look like in a relationship? It looks like never letting her wonder. Let her know where。
she stands, okay? For whatever reason, girls just wonder a lot. Their mind just wanders.。
And girls, you can work on this. Take your thoughts captive, okay? You can do that too.。
Guard your hearts. I'm just trying to love you right now. But guys, don't let her wonder.。
We talk a lot about leadership on my team and just in church. We talk a lot about leadership.。
Leadership, ready? This is how I define leadership. Leadership is removing confusion. Or I'll。
say a very important aspect of leadership is removing confusion. And so if you want。
to lead in a relationship, you remove confusion. You let her know what you're doing. Let her。
know what you were doing yesterday, why you did that thing that she thought was weird。
and wondered if you really wanted to break up because you did that. Just let her know,。
"No, I opened your door for you not because I wanted to break up, because I wanted you。
to get in the car." Okay? And so you just let her know what your intentions are. And。
"Hey, by the way, I really had fun tonight and I'd like to do this again sometime. Can。
we do this again tomorrow or Friday?" Right? You just be intentional. You don't have to。
be intense, but intentional. Okay? Nervous laughter on that one. And so you date intentionally.。
You remove the confusion. Right? Never let the girl wonder. And then this is the big。
one. It shouldn't be a big one, but for whatever reason it is, don't play games. This is what。
leading looks like. Listen, if leadership is removing confusion, games cause confusion.。
And so guys and girls, don't play games. What do I mean by game? Game is you doing something。
to get an emotional response. You can play a game with someone you don't even date. Right?。
You doing something to try to get a response from them. That's you playing a game. Whether。
that's call them or not call them. Whether that's hang up on them or say something. Like。
some of you, and this is really broken and really twisted and I don't get it, but some。
of you will actually start a fight just to feel loved. And that's broken, man. And I'm。
just saying like don't go into marriage with that. Like "Hey, I just need some attention。
so I'm going to pick a fight right now." It's really childish. Okay? And so don't play games.。
Verse 12, 9 just says this, "Love must be sincere." Love is sincere. It does not play。
games. And so another way that you can lead, and this is important, protect and preserve。
purity. Okay? Men, the way that you can lead in the relationship is protect and preserve。
purity. Every now and then I'll talk to a guy that's like, "Yeah, we're dating." I'm。
like, "Man, how's purity going?" He's like, "Man, it's going really well. You know, I've。
tried a few times to do something that was inappropriate, but she keeps me straight,。
so she keeps me straight." I'm just like, "What? Dude, she needs to break up with you,。
man. What is going on right now?" That's not her job to keep you straight. You want to。
know what leading looks like in a relationship? It looks like leading towards purity. Man,。
that's the reality. And so, that's frustrating.。
First Timothy 5, verses 1 and 2 says, "Treat younger men as brothers." And he's talking。
to the unmarried right now. And so it's, I always thought this verse wasn't very applicable。
upon studying. It's very applicable. "Older women as mothers and younger women as sisters。
with absolute purity." Why does it say, "As sisters with absolute purity"? It's telling。
you how you treat someone you are not married to. This is what it's saying. And so, women,。
what does it look like, what does submission look like in dating, right? Submission is。
that S word. What does that look like in dating? Here's what it looks like. You ready? Submission。
in dating looks like submission to Christ. Submission in dating looks like full and complete。
obedience and submission to Christ. And so, what does that mean? It can mean how you dress.。
All right? Like not following the trends of the world which show off your body, even though。
that might get a particular guy. It means submission to Christ in how you dress. First。
Timothy 2.9 says, "I also want the woman to dress modestly with decency and propriety."。
And then in 1 Peter 3.7, we see the same idea repeated. And he just says, "Your beauty should。
be that of your inner self with unfading beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit which is of great。
worth in God's sight." Yeah, that's worth, yeah. That's sad only one person's excited。
about that. Okay? Here's the deal. Let me tell you this. It's just this simple reality.。
I'm just hitting you with logic. Logic from a dude. I'm just a dude and I'm just coming。
at you with logic. Okay? Think about bait. Whatever you want to catch, it determines。
the bait that you use. And so, if you want to use your boobs, you're going to catch a。
dumb bass. Okay? If you want to use your body, right, you're going to catch a dog. That's。
just the truth. And so, I had a girl tweet at me about a year ago and she just said,。
"Hey, let me..." We were covering dating and she said, "Hey, this is what I want you to。
talk about. Why don't you talk about why all guys are dogs? Why don't you talk about that?。
You know, help me understand why all guys are dogs." And so, here's her profile pic.。
She bended over, chin up, blouse hanging down, camera shot straight down the shirt, you know,。
boobs smashed together. And I'm like, "I know why you're getting dogs. I can help you with。
that. Okay? Stop using your body as bait because that body's going to fade and he's going to。
leave you and you're going to be hurting." And I've sat in that meeting far too many。
times. All right? "Charm is deceptive and beauty is fleeting, but a woman who fears。
the Lord is to be praised." So, be that. Okay? You don't have to take shortcuts. There's。
a God. He's in control of things. And if He never, ever gives you a husband, you die and。
go to heaven. When did heaven stop being good enough? It's like, "I want a husband and heaven."。
You don't even have a husband in heaven. It says we're not married in heaven. Right? Okay?。
You die and you go to heaven. It's going to be okay. All right? I hope he has a husband.。
If you want a husband, I hope he has a husband for you. If he doesn't, it's going to be just。
fine. All right? You won't explode when you hit 42 or whatever. Like, it won't just happen.。
Right? And so, just hang in there. Okay? Submission to Christ is being careful with your heart.。
And so, what do I mean by that? Let me just say like this. Nicholas Sparks and ABC have。
a vested interest in entertaining you. They do not have a vested interest in you having。
a healthy marriage. Okay? So, just be careful what you feed your heart. Because as you feed。
it stuff, it starts to want stuff. And it starts to want whatever you feed it. So, just。
be careful what you put in there. Okay? Don't feed your heart. Don't just feed your heart。
trash. And don't follow your heart. You inform your heart. You begin to tell your heart where。
to go and what to pursue and what to run after. Proverbs 423 says, "Above all else, guard。
your heart, for everything you do flows from it." And so, ladies, this is what I want to。
say. God wired you to give love. He did. He made you that way. It's a part of His wiring,。
your unique wiring, your unique just existence, the way God made you female, is He made you。
to give love. But here's the honest truth, and some of the guys are going to hate me。
for this, and I'm really okay with that. But God will exploit that in you. Okay? We will。
learn if you let us how to exploit your wiring to give love so that we can get what we want。
from you. And so, just be careful. Song of Solomon is repeated throughout. But in chapter。
3, verse 5, it says, "Do not arouse or awaken love until it so desires." Other translations。
say, "Do not awaken love before it's time." It says it over and over throughout the Scripture.。
And so, just be careful. And so, you submit to your husbands, ladies, as He submits to。
Christ, but until then, you just submit to Christ. Do you follow me on that? Submit to。
your husbands as He submits to Christ, but until you have a husband who's submitted to。
Christ, you just submit to Christ. That's what submission looks like. And so, lastly,。
I would tell you that dating intentionally, or not lastly, but I'll just say, dating intentionally。
looks like dating with purity. What does redeeming dating look like? It looks like dating with。
purity. This is not simply not having sex. Sex serves a purpose. God created sex. Sex。
was designed. So, I'm just coming at you with logic, so stay with me. Stay with me. I want。
you to take this. I want you to repeat it. Sex. God made sex, and sex is good. It's a。
great gift from God. If you never have it, you're going to be okay. But if you do get。
to enjoy it in a marriage, it's a wonderful thing, and it serves a really interesting。
purpose. Just consider this. You have reproductive organs. And those reproductive organs, they。
work together in sex to produce a human. And so, what we do as singles is we try to have。
sex and prevent birth. That's what we do. We try to capture that pleasure without what。
we view as a consequence, which is really a gift from God. It's the way he wired us.。
That's why God wired us to only have sex in marriage. It's just a simple design idea.。
And so, what we begin to do, and stay with me, we begin to capture the pleasure without。
the purpose, but we don't realize that the pleasure serves a purpose. Do you hear me?。
We capture the pleasure without the purpose, not realizing that the pleasure serves a purpose.。
What the pleasure does is it actually bonds a husband to his wife. What that means is。
when your body physiologically is built that when you experience an orgasm, you would bond。
to whatever is around you, that that person would become the epitome of attraction to。
you through a brain synapse that is produced in the event of orgasm. The pleasure you experience。
serves a purpose to bond you to another human being. That's why in the Hebrew, the word。
for sex is actually two becoming one. This is God's design. Science has now proven it.。
Psychiatry has now proven this idea that I'm hitting you with. So, what happens when you。
begin to have sex outside of marriage is you teach your body not to bond. You begin to。
rewire your body. This is the extreme dangers of pornography. So, if that's your struggle,。
go listen online to a message I did called Looks That Kill. But this is the extreme dangers。
of pornography. You are rewiring your brain in the way that it's supposed to work to bond。
to one human being for a lifetime. And so, here's why I would tell you that being with。
someone, like if someone is willing to have sex with you before marriage, they're communicating。
something really clearly to you. They're saying, "Hey, I follow my desires." And particularly。
if they claim to be a Christian, they're saying, "Hey, I know this is not God's best, but I've。
justified it somehow, some way, so that I can follow my desire in this moment." And。
what they're telling you, they're saying, "Hey, I will always follow my desire. I will。
not fight. I will not fight my desire. I will follow my flesh." They are telling you this,。
"I'm an adulterer. And you marry me, someone hotter than you is going to come along, and。
I'm communicating to you right now that I'm going to pursue pleasure over you." Do you。
see that? They're saying, "Hey, I am not willing to stand against these sexual urges in this。
moment. It's too tempting. And so, should you want to spend the rest of your life with。
me, you need to know one fact about me. That is that I follow my sexual urges in a moment.。
You're marrying me knowing that. So, when I have adultery, you cannot fault me. When。
I cheat on you, do not fault me. I've told you that ahead of time. You guys following。
me?" When I heard this, it blew my mind. I'm like, "That's exactly what it is." I get that.。
You're saying, "Hey, I will not suppress these desires. They're too strong. And so, when。
they come back up later, I will follow them then, too." And this is why you have a huge。
spike in adultery in marriages right now. This is why you have a huge spike in divorce。
since the sexual revolution. It's just science, y'all. Okay? It's just the studies of humans,。
the way our brains work. It's simple. And the way that God designed us, when we go against。
that, what happens, it's important. And so, lastly, you date towards something. What does。
redeeming dating look like? It looks like you date towards something. And so, if you。
don't want to get married, I already said it, don't date, right? Like, I know the world。
says, "Hey, you can date casually. You can experience pleasure casually." Or it says。
this other idea. It's like, "Hey, date for years." Like, some of you, I've been engaged。
for four years. I'm like, "That's stupid. You can't even have sex, right? I mean, this。
is crazy. Don't do that. Like, get married." The only reason that a guy would want to be。
engaged to you for that long, right, is he's saying, "Hey, I want to wait. I just want。
to make sure something better is not going to come along." That's it. That's it. Listen,。
I'm the bad guy. That's okay. I don't mind being the bad guy. I'm the truth teller. That's。
what I am, okay? The only reason that a dude wants to stay with you for six years with。
a ring on your finger, "Man, I just want to make sure," all right? And that we weren't--you。
were wired to get married. You weren't wired to date, frankly. God didn't create you so。
that you could exist in a relationship for a long time without being able to give yourself。
to each other. You weren't made that way. It's 1 Corinthians 7, "Better to marry than。
to burn with passion." You were made, you were created to meet someone who is fully。
committed to Christ so that you could come together and be married and have sex for a。
lifetime. And that event was meant to be much faster than it exists today. Am I telling。
you to rush into marriage foolishly? No, I'm telling you to make sure that you have all。
those other things in place, that they're following Jesus, that community has approved.。
But once those are in place, man, go! Off to the races for you, okay? And so, date towards。
something. See, we all want a fairy tale pic. I'm sorry, we all want a fairy tale. I'm going。
to show you a picture. I read that off my island. So, we all want a fairy tale. Let。
me show you what I came home to yesterday, okay? I walk, I pull up in my driveway and。
I'm walking to the sidewalk and then my little girl meets me. I think you guys, yeah, there。
she is. That's Presley. So, she's dressed like Frozen, if you know that reference. And。
so, she dresses up like a princess. This is what happens when you're in the first grade.。
You go to school, you come home, you take off all your clothes and you put on a princess。
gown every single day. That's what we do, okay? And so, she dresses up like a princess.。
And Disney has done an incredible job of letting her know that there's a prince charming out。
there that wants to come and rescue her. And when we watch that, Nicholas Sparks, notebook,。
whatever, like we're just moved with emotion and we're like, "I want it that way." Like,。
we want those things, right? We're like, "That's what I want. I want the fairy tale." And it's。
the same. I don't know if you've noticed this, it's the same story over and over. The Frozen。
or Cinderella or Snow White, right? There's evil, there's good, there's a prince charming,。
a rescuer comes in, there's a dance on distress, right? Over, same story, over and over. Whether。
it's Braveheart, if you're a guy, maybe you know that reference. Same story, over and。
over and over and over again. Why does our heart go after this? Because you were made。
to love. And you were made to be loved. And I've got to tell you something really important.。
You're loved right now. Not when you have a man. Not when you have a woman. You're loved。
by an amazing God right now. So my last point is how do we identify love and dating? I'll。
try to do this quickly. I know we're over. How do you, this is just a simple, how do。
you know if they're the one, right? Are they someone you desire to serve with your entire。
life? That's it. How do I know if they're the one? You look at them and you say, "Will。
I serve this person my entire life? Am I willing to serve this person, my men and women, am。
I willing to serve this person my entire life? When she is ugly and, you know, crazy, am。
I willing to serve this person? When he is ugly and unemployed and whatever, am I willing。
to serve this person my entire life?" And as soon as you can commit to that, assuming。
they're madly in love with Jesus, you get married. And so love is a decision accompanied。
by an emotion that leads to a commitment. Love is a decision accompanied by an emotion。
that leads to a commitment. So many of us, we date because we want to feel love, not。
give love. We date because we want to feel loved, not actually give love. And so what。
I'm doing tonight is I'm not trying to lower your view of dating. I want to raise your。
view of marriage. Marriage is the only metaphor in the Scripture that talks about Christ in。
the church. It is not ultimate. Let me just say this. You never get married if you call。
the singleness. If you're here and you're like, "I'm called to singleness." Great. You。
don't need a date and just pursue God with your entire life. I hope some of you are.。
It's very biblical to be called to singleness. It's not biblical to be called to singleness。
and to date. Okay? Should you date, you date for marriage. And so now I'm talking to the。
rest of you who desire to be married. Married is a good thing. It is a metaphor. Todd talked。
about last week between Christ and the church. But it is so much more than that. It is this。
thing that God created. It is a gift to us. It serves a purpose in procreation. But have。
you ever heard about the Jewish wedding tradition and how that worked? I want to tell you that.。
I want to end with this. Just this idea that fathers, right? The father of a son and the。
father of an unmarried daughter would come together. The father of the son would go into。
a foreign land and find a wife for his son and would make an agreement with that father.。
And then the son would leave his home, his father's home, and go into that foreign land.。
Stay with me now. This is history. This is how this happened for a long, long time. He。
would go into that land and he would bring with him a dowry, a price that was to be paid。
for her. And he would go to her father and he would purchase her. Or he would purchase。
the right to be trothed to her, which is engaged to her. Okay? They would meet and they would。
toast. They would drink wine from the same glass. And from that moment on, they belonged。
to each other. He would leave. For over a year, for over 12 months, the Jewish boy would。
leave and go back to his father's house, back to his homeland. And what he would do is he。
would begin to build a house for them. Not just any house, a room on his father's house。
called the bridal chamber. He would begin to add to his father's house this room called。
the bridal chamber. He would work on it. What was he doing for that entire 12 months? Was。
he playing PlayStation? No. He was building. Was he looking at porn? No. He was building。
their house. Was he at the strip club? No. He was building their house. His entire life。
was distracted by preparing a place for her. What's she doing? Here's why. She didn't know。
the hour or the time that he was going to come back. She knew that it would be over。
a year, but it's not like he says, "Hey, on March 3rd, I'm going to..." No, no. She doesn't。
know. And so she just waits. Does she wait with a dude? No. No, no, no. No, she waits。
and she begins to make her wedding dress and she begins to get together her bridal party.。
These are traditions that we still use today. They were created in the Hebrew tradition,。
in the Jewish tradition. She would get together her bridal party and she would get together。
her wedding dress over that 12 months and she would wait. And when the time would come,。
when the house was finished, check this out, he would leave and he would go for her. And。
he would take with him his groomsmen and they would go before him with musical instruments,。
trumpets, musical instruments. And it was a party. They would go before him from city。
to city as he traveled back to her place, this foreign land where she's from. "He's。
coming for you. He's coming to get you. He's coming to take you home with him." And this。
message would go out before them and it would reach her. "He's coming. He's coming. Grab。
my dress and put it on. You girls, you ready? Come on." And then she would get ready and。
he would come. That was my Shane and Shane voice. He would come. He would come. He would。
come for her and she would be veiled. She would be veiled. It's beautiful. This happened。
for thousands of years. She'd be veiled and he would take her to his parents' house and。
they would travel back. And when they got back to his father's house, there was a party.。
A party. They walked into a party and they had a wedding ceremony where they became husband。
and wife. And then check this out. Here's the explicit details. They would go into the。
bridal chamber and they would make love for seven days. Could you imagine how awkward。
that is? You come out. Her hair is all crazy, you know. So they would make love for seven。
days. They'd consummate the marriage. And there was a party outside for seven days.。
It didn't stop. That's a wedding, man. That's a wedding. Okay. And then he would present。
her to her, to his family as pure and his. All right. Here's why that is so unbelievably。
important and why I would tell you right now you are already in a fairy tale, whether you。
know it or not. In Matthew 26, the last thing that Jesus does before he dies, he takes the。
cup and then he had given thanks. He gave it to them saying, drink from it. All of you.。
This is my blood of the covenant, the covenant, the covenant, which is poured out for many。
of the forgiveness of sins. And then they say, but Jesus, where are you going? Where。
are you going? He says, I'm going to my father's house. I'm going to prepare a room for you。
in John 14 verse two. He says, my father's house has many rooms. If it were not so, I。
would have told you that I am not going there to prepare a place for you. And if I go and。
I prepare a place for you, I will come back and take you to be with me that you also may。
be where I am. And then revelation 19, we see this incredible picture where the groom。
comes from the foreign land or comes into the foreign land to take us back with him,。
us male and female as his bride. And you know what? We do not know the hour or the time。
of when that's going to come, but the scripture tells us it will happen with noise and music。
and trumpet blasts of his people, of his angels. And then he takes us into the place. The church。
is hidden for seven years and presented pure and holy. Some believe to God, the father,。
the creator of the heavens, the earth. This is the story that you are a part of. And so。
you wonder, man, how do I date and why is marriage important? This was created into。
our, our creation, our earth, our universe. God made this and wired it in. He stepped。
into the story in Jesus. And so culture says, Hey, I'm going to redefine marriage. You can't。
get it. God's it's God's. He made it. It's his, it belongs to him. And it's so much more。
than a white picket fence, a German shepherd and two kids. It's a metaphor for the way。
that he loves you. Not when you get married right now. And so if you're married, follow。
him, serve him. If you want to be married, serve him. If you're single, serve him. If。
you want to be single, serve him. What's your role? You're going to die soon, man. You're。
going to die soon. You're going to be with God forever and ever and ever. It's going。
to be incredible. Like a honeymoon, the scripture says. That's where we get the seven day honeymoon,。
by the way. It comes from that tradition. That's where we get the toast at the marriage,。
at the wedding, by the way. It comes from that tradition. That's where it comes from.。
He loves you selflessly. And so why does your heart move when you see someone be loved selflessly?。
It's because it's the way God loves you. I want to show you something. I just, I want。
to show you what love is. Okay. Will you just watch this with me? We'll end with this. Why。
does your heart move when you see someone give their life for others? It's because the。
Lord God, creator of the heavens and the earth, wants you to know that he gave his life for。
you. Came into a foreign land to rescue you and committed to you that he's coming back。
for you. And that's why you're alive, man. It's not to look cute or to get married or。
to feel good. It's to live for him. I'm going to do a wedding on Saturday between my friends,。
Kyle and Leah. They've just done such an incredible job, such an incredible job of pursuing God。
together and honoring him and their relationship. And Monica and I've been meeting with them。
for several weeks and here's what's going to happen. I've done enough weddings to know。
how this is going to happen. Kyle's going to stand there right beside me. I'll be here.。
He'll be there in the chapel. The doors are going to be shut and music's going to be playing。
and he's going to be watching those doors, just waiting for them to open so that he can。
see the one he's spent the rest of his life with, the one he waited for since he was a。
boy so he can see her. The doors are going to swing open and he's going to smile and。
it's all going to become foggy because he's going to cry. And that waiting, that moment,。
I always watch the groom. That's the moment you and I are in. We're waiting. We're anticipating。
Jesus' return. It could happen any minute. I hope it happens right now. Might happen。
tonight, tomorrow. He's going to come back for us to take us home with him.。
Amen.。
[silence]。
