(eerie music)。
- I love it, how about that?。
Welcome friends in the room, friends in Fort Worth,。
in Houston, and El Paso, and Cedar Rapids,。
and wherever you are joining us from。
as we continue this series, The Afterlife,。
a look at what is beyond the grave, or after death.。
Anyone a big fan of the beach in here?。
(audience cheering)。
Yeah, or Mexico, or Cancun, any Cancun fans?。
So when I got engaged to my now wife。
about five and a half years ago,。
six years ago, I was essentially assigned one thing.。
So this is just a little free tip here,。
men, whenever you get engaged,。
you're essentially given one thing,。
or at least I was only entrusted with one responsibility,。
and hey, you can't mess this up, so go get after it.。
She'll cover the flowers, everything else,。
you just cover this, and it was the honeymoon.。
And so I am tasked with getting the honeymoon,。
and I'm not gonna let my soon-to-be bride down,。
so I'm gonna find the best place in the entire world。
we're gonna go to, it's gonna be amazing,。
it's gonna be, you know, whatever honeymoon spot。
is the best one available, we're gonna go there.。
I had been given some advice at this time in my life。
that I'm not sure is good advice,。
or definitely not biblical, but it was this.。
It was hey, there's two things in life。
you can't spend too much money on,。
an engagement ring, 'cause she's gonna have it,。
hopefully forever, and the honeymoon.。
And so I was like, man, I'm all in on that, okay.。
So I essentially go, I'm gonna break the bank.。
I invest, I find the best place,。
it was this place called the Paradise of Beauty,。
Pariso de la Bonita, I know, habla Espanol.。
And I researched it, it was like really secluded,。
you had your own maid, you had 1,250 square feet,。
was each size of each room,。
you had your own private plunge pool,。
you had two flat screens, not one, but two flat screens。
inside of your hotel room, I mean, it was like to the nines.。
Every morning at breakfast, there'd be somebody out there。
with like literally a huge golden harp。
just playing music for you as you sit in paradise。
and you're enjoying it.。
There was this gourmet chef that was a part of it,。
it was a gourmet all-inclusive of what it was called.。
I mean, it was like, dude, we are never ever gonna be able。
to come back here, but it's gonna be amazing。
when we're there.。
So the wedding week comes, we get through the wedding,。
Saturday night we got married, on a Saturday night。
we were gonna leave Monday morning。
so that we didn't have to get up early next morning。
and go on an airplane ride and get out of there.。
And so the wedding comes, everything goes great,。
wedding night goes great, and then Sunday,。
we're waiting to leave the next day,。
and around late afternoon, I begin to experience something。
that's gonna sound just bizarre to you,。
but I began to have the closest thing I know。
how to describe it would be like almost a panic attack。
about what are we gonna do at Pariso de la Bonita?。
I have no idea, I barely even know this woman,。
I'm about to go spend eight days with her,。
we're going to a foreign country, it's like secluded,。
it's like you just lay around and relax.。
I like, when I, vacation, I wanna like go。
and go see things and excursion,。
and I begin, I know that sounds crazy and bizarre,。
but I'm like, oh my gosh, what are we gonna do there。
for eight days?。
And I know what you're thinking, it's your honeymoon,。
I know what you're gonna do.。
(audience laughing)。
After 10 minutes of that, you're like,。
what are we gonna do for the rest of the time on this time?。
(audience laughing)。
And so I'm like, this is legitimate for you,。
you're like, this is, I know, all right, back with me.。
It's true, anyways.。
(audience laughing)。
Anyways, I'm wondering like, legitimately,。
I'm like starting to freak out, I'm like,。
it was a low moment, for real.。
My poor wife at the time, as I'm like,。
I begin to like get choked up, I'm like, I don't know,。
I just don't know what we're gonna do。
in the paradise of beauty.。
I mean, we're just gonna lay around for eight days,。
that sounds terrible.。
I'm gonna be bored out of my mind.。
True story, go to Barnes & Noble, get like 12 books,。
I'm like, I'm gonna make this an educational trip,。
we have to, because I have no idea what are we gonna do.。
We chose this like boutique, tiny hotel.。
Oh man, I'm gonna be bored out of my mind。
in paradise of beauty.。
And truly, I began to like think through like,。
man, maybe we should stay here in Dallas.。
You know, there's some cool hotels around here,。
maybe we get out of this.。
And it sounds funny, but it's true.。
I was like, really like, oh man, what are we gonna do?。
And I say all of that, because in a very similar。
parallel way, that I was afraid or I was concerned about,。
man, paradise, everyone says it's paradise of beauty,。
it's amazing, incredible reviews, supposed to be awesome,。
it's your honeymoon week, supposed to be incredible,。
and yet I have no idea what we're gonna do.。
I'm like, I'm not even sure I wanna go。
and be a part of that.。
In a very similar way that that paradise。
was not something I wanted to go to.。
I think today, a lot of us experience something similar。
as it relates to heaven.。
Like, it's kind of this place where everyone says。
it's amazing, it's gonna be great someday,。
and yet if we were honest and heart of hearts,。
we're kind of like, I don't know, I wanna go。
when I die someday, 'cause I don't wanna go to hell,。
and so if I'm between those two options,。
I wanna go someday, but I don't know that I wanna go today,。
and I don't know that I wanna rush through,。
you know, I don't wanna miss out on not getting married,。
or I wanna get married someday, or I wanna have kids first,。
and heaven sounds like some place that I kinda wanna go,。
I'm just not sure what we're going to do.。
I mean, forever is a long time.。
What are we gonna do up there?。
And then you have people saying things like,。
hey, you're gonna be on a cloud,。
you're gonna be playing a harp, you're like,。
I think I'd rather stay in Dallas,。
if that's where we're gonna be.。
I mean, that doesn't sound, or other people say,。
it's like, hey, it's like one big worship service,。
church service, and maybe you're like,。
I don't like music, so you're like, let's review again.。
What are the two options?。
Hell, let's go through that one more time,。
or the church service forever?。
Ah, and it just doesn't sound that great.。
And I think the truth of the reality is,。
if we understood what awaits us in eternity,。
what awaits us in heaven, or in paradise,。
it would be something that we couldn't wait to get there.。
Truly, I think one of the reasons the Bible。
is a little bit cryptic in the way that it describes it。
in kinda like allegory and metaphor,。
is because if we truly understood all that awaited us。
in the pleasure ahead of us,。
of just the, what it would be like there,。
the suicide rate might increase.。
'Cause people are like, man, I just wanna get outta here,。
I can't wait to be there.。
And so tonight, we're gonna talk about heaven,。
because it is anything but boring.。
It is anything but a place that you don't wanna go to,。
and we're gonna discover exactly, from God's word,。
what heaven is like.。
It's not one long church service, spoiler alert,。
you're not on a cloud with a harp, wearing a diaper.。
You are gonna experience。
what this world is always intended to be.。
So we're gonna be in Revelation chapter 21 and 22,。
as we explore what heaven, or what paradise, will be like.。
Revelation 21 and 22, we're gonna look at what heaven is like。
and what it's not, based on the passage。
that we're looking at.。
Who will be in heaven, or who will be。
in this eternal paradise?。
And finally, once and for all, what are we gonna do。
in heaven, forever and ever and ever?。
So Revelation chapter 21, Revelation is the only。
prophetic book inside of the New Testament.。
What do I mean by prophecy?。
It's basically like, hey, we're looking at the future.。
And it was a book that was written by the apostle John,。
one of Jesus' best friends, and John basically outlived。
all the other disciples.。
The other guys had either gotten killed for their faith,。
or had gone off and had lost their life as a missionary,。
and John, as an old man, is exiled by the Roman Empire。
to this island called Patmos.。
Basically, they're like, hey, you gotta go sit。
in time out, John, for the rest of your life.。
And so John is out there, and while he's there,。
God essentially gives him this vision。
of what heaven is gonna be like.。
And it says, man, I want you to write this stuff down.。
And this is what the future ages of the church。
are gonna go through, that's the Revelation.。
And then he goes in, and this is what heaven,。
one day, is gonna be like.。
So we're gonna pick it up in verse one of chapter 21,。
as John describes what he saw.。
John speaking.。
Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth.。
For the first heaven and the first earth,。
that's this one, had passed away,。
and there was no longer any sea.。
That he sees this new heaven and this new earth.。
And he says there's no sea on the earth.。
What does that mean?。
The sea in today's day on our planet right now。
is 97% of the water on planet Earth is undrinkable.。
Did you know that?。
There's too much salt in it, or it's not clean enough.。
In other words, it provides one purpose。
and one purpose alone.。
Or the primary thing it does is divide people.。
It separates us.。
And he says in this new heavens and this new earth,。
there's no sea, it's like there's no division among man.。
And he says this.。
And I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem,。
coming down out of heaven from God,。
prepared as a bride, beautifully dressed。
for her husband.。
And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying,。
look, God's dwelling place is now among the people.。
He will dwell with them.。
God will dwell with mankind, and they will be his people.。
And God himself will be with them and be their God.。
And he will wipe away every tear from their eyes.。
There will be no more death or mourning or crying or pain,。
for the old order of things has passed away.。
He who is seated on the throne says,。
I'm making everything new.。
Then he said, write this down,。
for these words are faithful and true.。
A first idea I wanna talk about is what is heaven like?。
And we're told, some indication,。
heaven is this earth made new.。
It's a new heavens and a new earth.。
It is like earth 2.0.。
So in other words, if you have this idea。
of what heaven is like 'cause you're kind of floating around。
and the clouds up there and someday, you're off.。
The Bible teaches that what we're gonna experience。
is this earth that we're on resurrected or made new.。
This earth, but only in 2.0 version.。
Everything wrong with this earth, restored, made right,。
everything broken, fixed, and put back together。
that as God originally intended and designed it。
at the very beginning in the Garden of Eden。
in Genesis chapter one, and man introduced sin。
and everything fractured, and the Bible teaches。
that everything will be restored and made new.。
In fact, in Romans chapter eight, if you have a Bible,。
you can read that later or you can read it later tonight.。
You can write it in Romans chapter eight.。
Paul begins to talk about creation and he says,。
"The world around us, it's like it remembers。
"not being subjected to futility," is what he says.。
"It remembers what it was like to not be broken,。
"that the creation," it says, "longs," Paul says,。
"every tree, everything that you see,。
"the mountains, the sea, the ocean,。
"all of it longs to be set free,"。
Paul says in Romans chapter eight,。
"from the bondage that came with sin."。
It longs to experience being set free。
and there's gonna come a day where everything is set free,。
where every animal, every plant, everything will be set free.。
This earth will be entirely made new.。
There's gonna be a new Mount Everest.。
There's gonna be a new, like a redeemed or restored,。
made new again Hawaii, think about that.。
There's gonna be a new Dallas,。
hopefully with more things to do.。
There's gonna be a new, wherever you live,。
wherever you're from, all of it will be made new.。
Here's why that's important, because that means。
that it changes the way that you live this life.。
Like you don't have to, if you're a Christian,。
you're gonna spend eternity and eternity。
and forever and ever on the new earth,。
in a earth 2.0, where everything good about this earth。
is you're currently experiencing and is there,。
only it's even better and it has nothing,。
the curse of sin that's a part of it.。
It means that you don't have to have a bucket list。
if you're a Christian, because you're gonna,。
you can just have a list, 'cause you're like,。
"Hey, look, I can go to Everest in this life。
"or in the next and I can't die in the next one."。
And, "Or I can go to Hawaii in this one,。
"or I can go to Hawaii 2.0, maybe I'll wait for that one."。
And it can allow you that, "Man, I'm gonna do。
"maybe the only thing that I can't do in eternity。
"in the new heavens and earth,"。
which is tell people about Jesus.。
I don't have to spend my life being like,。
"How am I gonna get the most adventures。
"and experiences for me in this life?"。
Because I'm gonna have forever and ever and ever,。
I don't have to have a bucket list.。
I can just have a list.。
What the Bible teaches about where we are right now。
is that we are not at the final destination.。
There's gonna come a day where everything。
broken in this world will be made new.。
And that's ultimately where we're gonna spend eternity.。
It's like we're at the airport.。
Here's what I mean by that.。
Tomorrow I'm gonna go to an airport,。
'cause we're flying out of town for something.。
And I don't know if you've been to an airport recently,。
here's what every person at the airport has in common.。
No one wants to be there, okay?。
It's, I mean, true, it's one of the few places in life。
where everyone's like, "Yeah, I don't wanna be here.。
"I'm waiting here in order to get to my destination."。
Like truly, you look around and it's,。
there's some places in life you go。
and some people wanna be there and some people don't.。
And then there's places like the airport。
where it's like literally everyone is like,。
"I am, this is not where I'm supposed to be right now.。
"I can't wait to get to my final destination."。
That's what the Bible says this earth is like.。
That it is a place where it is not your final destination.。
And so as crazy as it would be for someone to be like,。
"I'm gonna post up shop and really go all in。
"investing in my little chair at the airport。
"because this is my life.。
"I'm gonna really invest here and this is what I care about."。
That's how it talks about this world or this earth.。
It would be just as crazy for us。
that ultimately it is not the destination。
that you and I will spend our lives.。
And the destination we will spend our lives。
is crazy as it thinks to be like,。
"How amazing is heaven gonna be?"。
Everything broken in your world and in my world。
will be no more, the curse will be over.。
There will be no more breakups.。
There will be no more job loss.。
There will be no more cancer, no more death,。
no more sickness, no more back pain, no more balding,。
no more need for medical attention,。
no more anything wrong with this world.。
No more battle of the bolds or fight against gravity.。
You're gonna have totally redeemed and glorified bodies.。
That's what the Bible teaches awaits you and me.。
And it will be fully inside of the presence of God。
in His very first action we're told.。
Did you read it?。
What's the very first thing that God does?。
Is it sit you down and scold you?。
Hey, let me tell you, all right,。
let's play the clip here, huh?。
What were you thinking here?。
Let's talk about this one.。
Is that what God does?。
No, it's like the most intimate act you could do.。
He reaches across in the same hands that were crucified,。
wipes away the tears of His children.。
I mean, how intimate is that?。
I mean, if I was to come up, if you were crying。
and I just came up and I was like,。
(congregation laughing)。
you may take a swing and be like, what are you doing, man?。
It's like a father wiping away his child's tears.。
And that's what awaits us.。
And that's the very first act that He does.。
What else awaits us is a pleasure, the Bible says,。
that comes from being in His presence.。
It says in His presence, Psalm 16,。
there is pleasures forever.。
Like so many pleasures and in such a level。
you can't even begin to comprehend them is what it teaches.。
I mean, truly, this is where I think it almost breaks down。
and it becomes hard for us to even have a knowledge。
of what could possibly await us.。
Because we don't have a category for the pleasures。
of an eternal realm, an eternal heaven。
where everything is healed and everything is right.。
We only have the pleasures of this world。
to kind of compare it.。
It's like this, it would be like attempting to explain。
the pleasure of sex to a child who thinks。
the highest pleasure in the universe is chocolate.。
They would be like, what is it like?。
And I mean, think about that.。
They would have no category for it.。
They'd be like, what do you mean?。
You're like, yeah, probably the height of human pleasure。
would be sex and marriage and intimacy.。
And they'd be like, well, is it like chocolate?。
'Cause chocolate is the greatest.。
You're like, no, it's not really like chocolate.。
It's way better than chocolate.。
And they're like, well, it's chocolate?。
Do you eat chocolate?。
Is it a part of it?。
Not usually, but it's way better.。
I mean, they just couldn't, think about it, truly.。
They just couldn't have a category.。
'Cause they're like, I can't even imagine a pleasure。
better than chocolate.。
That's what it's like when you and I think of like,。
man, well, is it like, you know, is heaven like,。
you know, just endless, fill in the blank.。
It's like, man, it's so much better。
than you can even comprehend is what the Bible teaches.。
And that's what awaits you and I.。
Well, it awaits a particular group of people.。
So the first idea of, hey, what is heaven like?。
It's this place where the earth is redeemed。
and made new and restored.。
It's a place full of the presence of God。
and the pleasure that comes from living in his presence.。
And then it tells us who will be there in verse six.。
Jesus said, it is done.。
I am the alpha and the omega, the beginning and the end.。
To the thirsty, I will give water without cost。
from the spring of the water of life.。
Those who are victorious will inherit all of this。
and I will be their God and they will be my children.。
But the cowardly, the unbelieving, the vile,。
the murderers, the sexually immoral,。
those who practice magic arts,。
which is essentially a word that, it's a word pharmakia,。
it essentially was like drug use at that time.。
The idolaters and all liars, they will be consigned。
to the fiery lake of burning sulfur.。
This is the second death.。
And then in verse nine through 26, he begins,。
John talks about some of the dimensions。
and almost like the measurements of heaven.。
You should go read it later.。
Wish we had enough time to cover all of that.。
But I'm gonna keep going as he relates。
to really just covering who will spend eternity。
in the new heavens and the new earth.。
And he says this in verse 27.。
Nothing impure will enter it, the new heavens and new earth,。
nor will anyone who does what is shameful or deceitful,。
but only those whose names are written。
in the Lamb's book of life.。
So if you take notes, you can write it,。
who will spend eternity with God?。
And we're gonna go through what the scripture says,。
are those who will spend eternity with God.。
'Cause it says several things.。
It says thirsty, what does that mean?。
Those who accept freely, those who are victorious。
or overcome, you may have in your translation,。
and those whose names are written。
in the Lamb's book of life.。
What does it mean that those who are thirsty?。
What does it mean to be thirsty?。
It means people who acknowledge their need.。
Like if I was to show up to a group of people。
that half of them had just finished running a marathon,。
they were dehydrated, they were dying of thirst,。
and then the other half was like,。
no, I've got a camelback on, I've been great.。
You would see, hey, one group has a need,。
they are thirsty and in need,。
and they acknowledge their need,。
they're willing to take a drink.。
The other is like, man, I'm totally fine.。
Jesus says the people who will spend eternity in heaven。
are those who say, I need a savior.。
I need someone who can save me.。
And he says that the ones who will spend eternity with him。
are those who say, I accept the free gift.。
That's what it says.。
They accept without cost that Jesus will provide。
the eternal life or the payment for their sin。
by giving his life in their place.。
He said those are the people。
that will spend eternity with God.。
Not good people.。
You hear it said every single week。
that the Bible doesn't teach, and it's insane。
how many people out there think the Bible teaches,。
Christianity teaches, the God who's up there。
wants good people in heaven and bad people in hell.。
And the way you get to heaven is by being good.。
The Bible doesn't say.。
Whosoever behaves shall not perish, but have eternal life.。
It says whoever believes.。
What does it mean to believe?。
It means to, by faith, put your trust in Jesus.。
His death in your place, dying for your sin.。
His resurrection from the grave, showing the check cleared.。
It went through, it was more than enough.。
The Bible teaches that person will have eternal life.。
That's the message of Christianity.。
It's not, hey man, if you do good things,。
then you'll be with God in heaven forever.。
And the only way that you can accept that。
is by coming to a place where you're like, I'm thirsty.。
And if I'm gonna get into heaven, God,。
it's not gonna be 'cause I cleaned myself up.。
If I'm gonna stay out of heaven,。
it's not gonna be 'cause man, I'm a bad person.。
You don't know what I've done.。
Both of those reflect someone who's not thirsty。
or not willing to accept the payment Jesus made。
freely for them.。
I mean, if you've ever wondered like, man, isn't it,。
really God just accepts the good people.。
You have not read the Bible.。
I mean, at Jesus's last moments on planet Earth,。
there's this moment where he has this occasion。
with these two thieves,。
and there's these thieves surrounding him.。
So Jesus is being crucified,。
and it says that he's crucified between two thieves,。
or two criminals is the word that's used.。
And these were men who had not just broken any kind of law.。
If you were crucified in that day,。
it would be synonymous with the type of crimes at our day。
that would merit the death penalty.。
In other words, in Jesus's day, it wasn't like,。
oh man, you're speeding on your camel.。
Give them the crucifixion.。
It would be crimes that just like today,。
you don't get killed, capital punishment for speeding.。
You get capital punishment for murder, for rape,。
for something, for terrorism.。
That's the type of actions that these two thieves,。
that the son of God, perfect righteousness,。
is being crucified between.。
And in one of the last moments。
that Jesus has on planet Earth,。
one of the criminals asked Jesus for a favor.。
He says, I've spent my whole life running from you.。
He had done things that who knows what he had done.。
Something on the equivalent of murder or rape.。
He had ruined someone's life,。
maybe taken someone's son or daughter and killed them.。
And he looks at the son of God and says,。
will you remember me?。
I'm gonna ask you a favor.。
I got nothing else to ask.。
I got nowhere else to go, Jesus.。
My hands are nailed to a piece of wood.。
Will you remember me?。
He was thirsty.。
And Jesus said what he would say to you,。
and he says to anyone who acknowledges,。
I'm unworthy, God.。
Will you remember me?。
And Jesus says, today you will be with me in paradise.。
You will be with me because of nothing that you did,。
despite everything wrong that you did,。
but the fact that you were simply thirsty.。
You acknowledge your need.。
All you need is need to be a Christian.。
It's the message of Christianity.。
So who's gonna be in heaven?。
Someone who acknowledges their thirst,。
acknowledges their need.。
And then he says, those who are victorious.。
What does that mean?。
You gotta be victorious?。
The word victorious is the Apostle John,。
it's really kind of one of his favorite words。
inside of the book of Revelation.。
It's the word nekeo, if you've heard that word before.。
And inside of the book of Revelation,。
he uses it several times.。
The good news is if you're like victorious,。
am I victorious?。
I don't know if I'm victorious.。
I definitely wasn't in March Madness.。
What does it mean to be victorious?。
He gives us the definition in 1 John chapter five。
where he says, who is victorious?。
And he answers his own question.。
1 John chapter five, verse five.。
So the person who accepts freely,。
the person who's victorious.。
And he says this, who is it that overcomes or is victorious?。
It's the same word.。
Only the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God.。
What does it mean to be victorious?。
It means that you have accepted Jesus as your Savior,。
as the Son of God.。
That's the person who overcomes.。
Then he tells us who won't be there.。
The cowardly, the unbelieving.。
And he goes through a list that essentially。
could stop right there, unbelieving.。
Anyone who hasn't put their faith in Jesus.。
So they're defined by sexual immorality,。
drug abuse, that's what he says.。
By the actions that they've done in this life.。
They're not defined by Jesus.。
So anyone who has not believed in him.。
And then if you're like, well, I haven't done those things。
and maybe I haven't been sexually immoral,。
then he says liars and he covers everybody.。
And he says, these are the people who will not be there.。
Anyone who has not trusted in Jesus will spend eternity.。
And then finally he says that those who are there。
will be those whose name is written。
in the Lamb's Book of Life.。
How crazy is this, dude?。
So what the Bible teaches is that there's this book。
that God has up in heaven somewhere.。
And every time that someone trusts in Jesus。
or accepts what he did on the cross,。
man, Jesus, I'm not worthy to get into heaven.。
I messed up today, yesterday, a lot.。
I've done some bad things.。
But I accept that you died in my place because you love me.。
And so I'm not gonna trust in what I've done.。
I'm gonna trust that you died in my,。
you paid for my sin and you rose from the grave.。
When a person accepts that and trusts in Jesus,。
their name, it says, is written in the Lamb's Book of Life.。
And what the Bible teaches is that whoever's gonna get in。
to spend eternity with God in the new heavens。
and new earth has their name written in there.。
If it's not written in there, you're not getting in.。
It comes down to essentially that.。
Not how did they live in this life?。
It comes down to is their name written in there or not?。
It's essentially like this.。
A few years ago, I was in charge of planning。
my high school's 10-year reunion,。
which was, feels like a mistake on their part.。
And so I had to plan a party for like 1,000 people。
'cause I don't have enough to do.。
And so I, you know, had to rent out a venue。
and had to like plan out having food and catering。
and kind of all this stuff.。
And it was down in Houston.。
And planned it all out.。
And I brought my wife who didn't go to high school with me.。
So she's like gonna meet all these strangers。
who you can barely recognize,。
1,000 people in my class.。
And so I'm like running around trying to host the event。
and do, you know, make sure that putting out fires.。
And I was like, I asked my wife,。
"Hey, will you just stand at the door?。
"Here's the list.。
"You'll be the entrance, essentially the bouncer."。
So she's seven months pregnant at this time.。
Just put the prego lady at the front door。
and be the bouncer, which is pretty genius, honestly,。
'cause no one's gonna be mean to the pregnant lady.。
Anyways, and it was further genius。
because she didn't know anyone from my class.。
So to her, it was like, "Hey, did they buy a ticket?。
"Is their name on the list?。
"If it's not on the list, then you can't get in.。
"Just tell me your name, it's on the list."。
Versus me, who may have been tempted to be like,。
"Oh man, well, you were kind of the captain。
"of the football team, we'll let you in here."。
Or, "I think I was kind of mean to you in high school.。
"Get on in here."。
Or, you know, whatever the excuse was.。
I would have been tempted to, based on who they were。
or how they behaved or, you know, the high school experience。
or how did I know them, not necessarily based on。
whether or not they were just on the list.。
What the Bible teaches is it comes down to simply that.。
If you're gonna spend eternity with God,。
it's not just your default position.。
The default position of humanity is hell.。
And it's only those whose names are written。
in the Lamb's Book of Life, is what it says,。
who have spent eternity with God.。
How do you get your name written in the Lamb's Book of Life?。
You must be victorious.。
How are you victorious?。
A person is victorious by simply one thing,。
believing in Jesus.。
That's 1 John chapter five, that's what it says.。
And those who believe in Jesus have accepted.。
This is what the Bible teaches.。
If you have your name written in the Lamb's Book of Life,。
you're victorious.。
And that means you've believed in Jesus,。
which means you have accepted what he did on your behalf。
because you acknowledged you were thirsty.。
That's what it says.。
That's who's gonna be in heaven, those who are thirsty.。
And so they accept out of their thirst Jesus。
to quench that thirst or to meet their need.。
And they believe in him and they are victorious forever.。
And they are written in the Lamb's Book of Life forever.。
Those are the ones who are gonna spend eternity。
with God in heaven.。
Finally, what are we going to do in eternity?。
In eternity?。
Is it gonna be harps?。
You know, is it, can we fly?。
Is it just kind of whatever you want it to be?。
Like, I love cotton candy.。
There's cotton candy everywhere.。
Like, what is heaven gonna be like?。
And we're told in Revelation chapter 22,。
verses one through five.。
Then the angel showed me the river of the water of life,。
as clear as crystal,。
flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb.。
Down the middle of the great street of the city.。
And on each side of the river stood the tree of life.。
So the river goes right through the tree of life.。
Remember the tree of life is from the Garden of Eden,。
if you've read Genesis.。
That it reappears.。
And inside of the tree of life, right at the tree of life,。
it is a tree that's bearing 12 crops of fruit,。
yielding its fruit every month.。
There's food in heaven.。
And the leaves of the tree。
are for the healing of the nations.。
No longer will there be any curse.。
The throne of God and the Lamb will be in the city,。
and his servants will serve him.。
They will see his face,。
and his name will be on their foreheads.。
What does that mean?。
It means, man, there's gonna be no doubt。
whose they are in eternity,。
because it'll be seen right on them.。
I'm his.。
I'm Christ's.。
There will be no more night,。
and they will not need the light of a lamp。
or the light of the sun, for the Lord their God。
will give them light.。
And they will reign or rule with him.。
It's the idea of royalty forever and ever.。
And the angel said to me,。
these words are trustworthy and true.。
You can take him to the bank.。
Our third idea is what will we do in heaven?。
There's two things that really I wanna pull out。
from this text and from other texts。
that we see in Scripture.。
The two things that we're gonna do inside of heaven。
is work and worship.。
Work and worship.。
The Bible just said that, hey,。
the servants of God are gonna serve him.。
They're gonna go throughout life,。
and in eternity, they're gonna serve God。
in the new heavens and new earth.。
The Bible tells us in other places。
that it gives an indication that, hey, we're gonna work.。
There may be some, there's gonna be some way。
that we experience jobs。
and experience almost a calling in life,。
that God is gonna assign to each of us。
some sort of work that we're gonna do。
for him for all of eternity.。
But it won't be like the work in this life.。
Like, this world is full of work。
that is just toilsome, or I'm filled with anxiety,。
or there's bad bosses.。
There's all kinds of things。
that are a result of sin in this life.。
But it says it'll be restored。
to like it was at the beginning.。
Do you know that there was work。
before sin entered the world?。
It was a part of the garden.。
Like, work is not a consequence of sin or the fall of man.。
Work was a part of God's original plan,。
and in eternity, he is going to allow you and I。
to experience a work that doesn't bring pain and toil.。
It brings joy and satisfaction.。
It's almost like the things that you do in life,。
of like, dude, I just feel like alive when I do this.。
I love this type of thing.。
That's the type of thing that you and I are gonna do.。
You may be doing it right now,。
but there's no question that you're gonna do it。
for all of eternity, as he's gonna assign,。
and he wove you stitch by stitch together。
in your mother's womb.。
He knows exactly the best type of calling。
or work for you to do, and for all of eternity,。
you're gonna experience the joy。
of getting to do that with him.。
We know that there's certain jobs that won't be in heaven.。
There won't be a need for pastors,。
because everyone will be saved.。
I'll be looking for work if anyone's hiring.。
And there won't be a need for firefighters,。
because there won't be fire.。
There won't be a need for policemen,。
'cause there won't be crime.。
There won't be a need for medical,。
for doctors or for nurses,。
because there won't be sickness or death。
or any of those different things.。
And so, there'll be jobs that won't exist there anymore,。
but there will be, for all of eternity,。
a joy, and you're like, dude, I hate my job.。
I can't even imagine the idea of like,。
oh yeah, I really enjoy doing this.。
Even that will be removed,。
as he will assign you work that brings life.。
It will not be boring.。
Boredom is a symptom of the fall.。
Boredom is a result of sin.。
It's a result of the curse, the Bible says.。
Heaven is not a place that's boring.。
Hell is a boring place.。
Heaven is a place that is every moment。
increasingly more pleasurable,。
more fulfilling, more satisfying,。
where every moment is better than the one before it.。
Forever and ever and ever.。
That's what the Bible says you and I will experience.。
And he tells us part of the way that we're gonna work。
is you and I, if you're a Christian,。
if you're a follower of Jesus,。
your name is written in the Lamb's book of life,。
is you're gonna rule.。
You're gonna reign with God forever.。
What does that mean?。
I have no idea.。
And there's a lot of debate out there.。
Some people say, man, you're gonna reign over the angels,。
'cause there's indication that。
that's gonna happen in Scripture.。
Some people, C.S. Lewis thought,。
hey, you're gonna rule over different galaxies.。
It's not clear exactly.。
Here's what I know it means.。
It means God did not create you for insignificant things.。
That the God who's there looks at you and he's like,。
look, you're gonna reign with me like royalty.。
You're gonna be, as it were, a prince or a princess,。
a part of the dynasty of God forever and ever and ever.。
And when he looks at you,。
he doesn't see some insignificant,。
hey, you're nothing, you're not that important.。
He looks at you and sees all that will be。
and can be and should be,。
and he wanted to be from the very beginning of time.。
He sees someone who's gonna rule and reign with him forever,。
who's the crown of all creation.。
That's what he looks when he sees his children.。
That's what he looks when he sees you.。
And you're gonna reign with him forever and ever.。
So the first idea is work,。
and the second idea, we're told in the Bible。
and in this text, is that we're gonna worship God forever.。
What are we gonna do in heaven?。
We're gonna work and we're gonna worship.。
And we think worship, here's where we're doing,。
we're kind of done a disservice,。
is we've used language that almost makes worship,。
when I say worship, what do we think?。
Singing.。
No offense, John.。
We think, hey, that's it.。
We think like, oh my gosh, I'm not even a good singer.。
I really don't like, I try to get here late, honestly,。
because I don't wanna be a part of the songs.。
We're gonna sing forever and ever.。
That doesn't sound exciting.。
Will the Cotton Candy at least be there?。
And we think that that's what it's gonna be.。
That's not what worship means, biblically speaking.。
When you are given a glimpse in what is worship,。
worship is living.。
The Bible says in Romans chapter 12, verse two,。
that you and I are to offer the way that we live。
as a spiritual sacrifice to God.。
The way that you date, the way that you handle alcohol,。
the way that you handle sexuality, the way you use money,。
all that stuff today can be an act of worship.。
And in heaven for all of eternity,。
the way that you live will be worshiping God.。
And you'll experience a joy from enjoying God。
forever and ever and ever and ever.。
That's what we're going to experience in eternity.。
Music is a part of that,。
and that'll be a part of it as well.。
But it's not exclusively that, or even mostly music.。
It's the way that you and I live our life。
for all of eternity.。
As a part of worshiping, it'll come and flow just freely。
from seeing God's face.。
And I wish I had time to really go in depth。
into what that means, but what John says。
is that you are gonna see God.。
You're gonna see him eyeball to eyeball.。
If you're a Christian in the room,。
your eyes are gonna behold him.。
In the Old Testament, we're told that God tells Moses,。
hey dude, Moses asked God, hey, can I see you?。
I just wanna see you.。
Come on, let me see your face.。
And God says essentially, if you see me,。
you're gonna explode.。
That's how amazing I am, which is like,。
why would you explode if he's so amazing?。
No idea, but that's how amazing God was。
to the point where he says, look,。
hey, I'm gonna cover your eyes and hide you in this rock,。
and I'll pass before you, and you can kind of see。
the afterglow of me, and that'll have to be enough.。
And Moses was like, hey, and he passes by before him.。
And it says Moses sees him, and he lights up。
like a glow stick for a week, just seeing that part of God.。
And it says, man, you're gonna see him face to face,。
and you know what happens when you see him?。
You're gonna change.。
If you're a Christian, that's why we're told we change.。
In 2 Corinthians chapter three,。
that you and I, when we see God,。
the more we see him, we're transformed。
from one degree of glory to the next.。
Everything broken about you, every insecurity,。
every sin temptation, every anxiety,。
everything that was never meant to be a part of you。
is gonna fall off, and you're gonna see him.。
And if you're a Christian, it's coming.。
That's not some pie in the sky theoretical.。
You're gonna see him, and everything is gonna change.。
You're gonna worship him, and you're gonna work with him.。
I think the biggest challenge is still inside of this room.。
If I'm sitting here, I'm like, man, yeah,。
I think I wanna go to heaven more now.。
I don't really know, though.。
I mean, I guess, you know, it sounds like。
we're gonna have jobs that we don't hate,。
and it's gonna be nice, and I'll get to go。
to Mount Everest, maybe, and not have to worry。
about oxygen tanks.。
It sounds pretty cool.。
And you still may be sitting there going,。
like, I don't know if I really want to go.。
I still wanna get married, I still wanna get kids,。
or I really even want to go to heaven.。
And I don't know that you've ever wanted anything else.。
I think at the end of the day, the deepest, strongest desire。
that you have ever had has been one for him.。
I'll explain it like this.。
When I was in college, I spent five weeks。
in a village in Africa, and five weeks was like。
one of those things where I signed up for,。
yeah, I'll be gone five weeks, it'll be great.。
And like three weeks in, you're like,。
yeah, so this is Africa, okay.。
And I remember feeling so homesick for the last week,。
or week and a half, and being like,。
man, my sister had just had a baby,。
and I had to come back and essentially go right back。
to school, so it was like my summer's totally gone.。
I'm like missing everything from my mom,。
to Mexican food, to just air conditioning.。
And I just remember feeling really homesick.。
And in this life, every pain, every longing,。
every desire that you've ever had is being homesick.。
Like whether you're Christian or not,。
you came into the room and you got hurts,。
you got things that are a part of your life,。
you got things that you wish you could change about yourself,。
you got things where you're dissatisfied,。
you got desires maybe to be married,。
maybe to have a more successful career,。
maybe you have a desire to not have to deal。
with some of the baggage from your past,。
or something that's, I don't know,。
just been a part of your story.。
Maybe you have a deep desire,。
you just wanna be successful,。
maybe it's a deep desire, I wanna be married,。
maybe it's a deep desire, I wanna have kids.。
And when I said the idea that, man,。
maybe you're sitting there going,。
I don't know if I really want to go to heaven.。
I don't know if you've ever wanted anything else.。
Every desire you've ever had.。
You thought it was a desire for a husband,。
but you really just wanted to be loved,。
you wanted to feel the love that will only come。
in the arms of your Savior someday,。
in all of eternity, and you're gonna experience it.。
Maybe you wanted to feel security,。
you're like, man, I just don't know。
if I'm gonna be provided for,。
and I'm worried, I'm kinda working like three jobs,。
'cause I'm not gonna go back to where I was,。
and I was poor growing up,。
and you have this deep desire to just be provided for,。
and it's ultimately a desire that will only be satisfied。
in all of eternity.。
It's a desire for heaven, you're homesick.。
Every desire, every ache, every pain in this life。
is one that ultimately is just an echo。
that you're not home, and you're homesick,。
and you came in here tonight homesick,。
you're gonna leave this room tonight homesick,。
and whether or not you ever come to even realize it,。
you were born with a desire that was placed。
inside of your heart, a desire to be home.。
It's a desire that you're gonna have tomorrow。
when you wake up, in 10 years,。
at the time that your first child is born,。
you're still gonna be plagued with that desire,。
and when you're laying on your deathbed someday,。
it's gonna be inside of you beating there,。
because God tells us he put it there.。
Ecclesiastes chapter three tells us that God said,。
"I put eternity in every person's heart,"。
so that that longing, that echo,。
that craving for something else in this world。
would never go away.。
No matter how many times they get whatever。
they thought that they wanted, it's not going away.。
They're homesick, and I put it there。
so that they would long to be home.。
They would know they're not home yet,。
but they will be if they trust in the one。
who gave his life for them.。
If you have never had a moment where you've trusted in Jesus。
as the payment for your sin, you are homesick,。
and it is only going to get worse,。
and you're gonna live, if you die,。
and you never trust in Jesus,。
you will live with the reality that you'll never be home,。
and what could have been the infinite joy,。
the ecstasy for all eternity that awaits those。
who believe in Jesus will be something。
that could have been, and it slipped from your grip.。
It was just always there, and you never accepted it,。
and you may be thinking, well, man,。
I'm gonna stand before God, and maybe he'll。
reasonably understand me.。
You're gonna stand before him, and he's gonna say。
that on April 10th, 2018, you heard the message of Jesus.。
You can no longer live this life being like,。
I never heard that there's a God out there who says,。
man, I accept people not on the basis of what they do,。
but on the basis of have they accepted my son,。
and his death in their place, and his resurrection,。
proving he's the son of God.。
I accept people on that, so you can no longer。
stand before him, and you're gonna stand before him,。
and you will look at April 10th, 2018,。
will be a day that marks forever your life,。
forever your eternity, and whether you accepted him or not,。
and the God who's there is crazy about you.。
He's already extended the invitation。
that he's gonna accept you.。
The question is, will you accept him?。
Let me pray.。
(gentle music)。
Father, I stand before a group of people。
who you love way more than I do,。
and yet even as messed up as my heart is,。
I can think of no more significant thing。
than if it's true that we really can know。
where we're gonna spend eternity.。
I can think of no more significant decision。
that someone could make if it's true。
that the factor of where they're gonna spend eternity。
is the factor of Jesus, and what do they do with him?。
And that alone determines everything.。
And so I just ask for your help, Lord.。
I ask that the Spirit of God right now。
would move in people's hearts,。
would push aside insecurity, push aside pride。
that's holding people back from making a decision。
to accept you as their king, their savior,。
to trust in you, that you would open their eyes,。
and they would be among those。
who are gonna spend eternity forever and ever with you,。
their king, the one that all of their life。
they've longed for, whether or not they even realized it.。
Father, we love you, and we wait for that day,。
and in this life, all we can do is try to dream。
or imagine or take what you've told us。
about what it's gonna be like when we're finally home.。
Would you help us in the midst of feeling homesick。
to not turn to anything other but your love?。
As we wait to go home.。
We love you, Jesus.。
Amen.。
