(soft music)。
(soft music)。
- All right, all right, how we doing?。
Come on.。
Come on, start a new series.。
Great to be with you, Dallas, Fort Worth, Houston,。
wherever you're at listening.。
So excited to be at the porch this evening.。
And so in the month of April,。
my family and I, we fasted from sweets,。
from all sorts of desserts.。
That means no cake, no candy, no pie,。
no anything that is remotely would resemble a dessert.。
And so my kids are not excited about this.。
There was one exception.。
We just said, hey, unless we're celebrating something,。
okay, so if they go to a birthday party。
or we were celebrating something,。
we, you could have a dessert.。
And so I don't know if you knew this,。
but April 2nd is International Children's Book Day.。
I didn't know that till I Googled it needing any, no.。
But so, no, unless you were celebrating something,。
we couldn't have dessert.。
And so at the end of April, my little girl Finley,。
her soccer season is over.。
And so we go to the last game。
and then there's this party afterwards.。
And so as we move to the party,。
we're, you know, the kids are like,。
hey, daddy, can we have a dessert?。
Can we have cake or whatever's gonna be there?。
And I said, yes, everybody can have, you know, one dessert.。
And so we get in there, we go into the restaurant,。
we kind of have this back room reserved。
and the kids walk past the mints.。
Mints are always the moral dilemma of this deal.。
Like, 'cause it's like a mint,。
it kind of serves a purpose, it freshens your breath.。
Is it really candy, is it not?。
It's almost like medicine of sorts.。
You know, and so we decided early on, no mints, okay?。
That's a dessert, that's a sweet, that's a candy.。
And so we go to the back room。
and my son had grabbed a mint.。
He grabbed one, Weston, my three-year-old.。
And he says, daddy, can I have this?。
And I said, no, you know, we're gonna have,。
and I saw they were serving cupcakes.。
So we're gonna have, you're gonna have a cupcake.。
Everybody's gonna get cupcakes, it'll be awesome.。
And yay for cupcakes, you know?。
And he goes, but daddy, I want the mint.。
And I'm like, no, no, no, no, we're gonna have cupcakes.。
In just a minute, they're gonna bring out cupcake.。
I've seen them, red, white, and blue, amazing cupcakes,。
sprinkles on top, incredible.。
They're coming out.。
And he goes, but daddy, I want the mint.。
I said, Weston, if you have the mint,。
you can't have a cupcake.。
I'm getting frustrated now.。
I'm like, don't you understand, it's cupcake.。
He goes, but I want the mint.。
And so I level with him.。
I get down on his level, kneel beside him.。
Son, he's holding this little bitty Lifesaver mint.。
I'm like, son, you don't want the mint.。
They're bringing cupcakes, bro.。
Now you, you traveling?。
Like if you eat this mint, you cannot have a cupcake.。
You can get one dessert, that's the rules.。
We're celebrating Finley's soccer team.。
You get one dessert, if you eat the mint,。
you can't get a cupcake.。
He says, I want the mint.。
I said, you're gonna take the mint.。
You're gonna put it in your mouth.。
And you're not, everybody's gonna get a cupcake.。
Everybody's gonna be happy.。
It's gonna be a celebration.。
And you're not gonna have a cupcake。
'cause you ate your mint.。
That's what you want.。
He said, yes.。
Can I have the mint?。
Sure.。
Sure.。
I've spelled it out for you.。
Rips it open, throws it in his mouth,。
instantly bites into it, because who can resist。
biting into a mint?。
I can't.。
I'm always like, I'm not gonna bite into it this time.。
Yes, I do.。
And so he bites into it, takes the mint down,。
like chews up, 30 seconds, daddy, I want a cupcake.。
(congregation laughing)。
No, buddy.。
No, you're not getting a cupcake.。
So they bring out the delicious cupcakes.。
Everybody gets a cupcake.。
Weston's screaming his head off 'cause he didn't get it.。
And I'm like, buddy, I told you this was going to happen.。
You had a choice.。
And you know what you chose?。
Do you know what he chose?。
He chose not to trust his father.。
That's what he chose.。
He chose not to trust a good daddy.。
He chose his desires over his father's instruction.。
And you and I do the exact same thing.。
You did it today.。
We did it this week.。
We do the exact same thing.。
We trust our desires over a loving father's instruction.。
And so this is the question we're starting with.。
Do you trust your father or do you trust your desires。
in decisions?。
Because we have the same choice.。
Do we want to have one more drink?。
Are we going to go too far again?。
Are we going to return to that muddy puddle of pornography?。
Or go back to the mall to do some coping and shopping?。
Are we going to continue to entertain the thoughts。
of that guy that doesn't belong to us?。
Are we going to continue to do these things。
that we can't stop doing?。
Are we going to continue to talk about people。
behind their back?。
Are we going to continue to gossip?。
Or are we going to trust our father?。
We have the same choice that Weston had.。
And there are little choices that you are making。
in this season that are bringing about death in your life.。
They are costing you the life that God has for you。
and the really difficult thing is just like Weston,。
you cannot see them.。
You need help, we need help seeing these things.。
And so tonight we're going to look at a choice。
that was like this but someone else made it。
and it cost all of us greatly.。
In fact, it's costing us tonight.。
So we're moving through this series,。
beginning this series rather called BC.。
It just stands for Before Christ.。
We could have called it OT.。
We could have called it Old Testament.。
We're telling you some ancient stories,。
literal historical narratives that actually happened.。
We're looking in the lives of people。
and tonight we're starting at the very beginning,。
the invention, the creation of humanity if you will.。
And so we're looking at the story of Adam and Eve.。
What went wrong in Eden?。
That's where we'll be tonight if you want to turn。
to Genesis chapter one, two and three.。
That is where we'll be.。
And so to set this up, God made everything.。
In Genesis chapter one, it's the creation story,。
seven days all together.。
Genesis chapter two, camps in creation day six。
and really explores this again in a larger fashion.。
It tells you more about the lives of Adam and Eve.。
So it's the same story, Genesis one, Genesis two,。
same story told in a different way,。
in a different order if you will.。
And so that's kind of how that goes。
and then we'll go into Genesis chapter three.。
And so in chapter one, God made it。
or God said it, it was and it was good.。
This is the pattern we see in chapter one.。
God said it, it was and it was good, day one.。
God said it, it was and it was good, day two.。
God said it, it was and it was good.。
And then we get to day six and he brings forth animals.。
He speaks them into existence, father, son and spirit。
working together to create, to form and to fill the earth.。
And he said it and it was and it was good.。
And then he creates his kind of grand opus,。
his finale if you will, he creates man, humans.。
He said it, it was and the end of chapter six says,。
it was very good.。
And so he puts man and woman in Eden, in paradise,。
in perfect relationship with him.。
We can't even fathom this, that they walked。
and talked with God, they communed with God.。
And there it was, two grown, naked adults。
in perfect paradise where the manifestation。
of all evil comes to them in the form of a serpent。
and they royally screw it up.。
And we tell it to kids as children's stories。
before they go to bed, it's weird,。
I don't know why we do that but we do that.。
And we would do the same thing, in fact,。
we do the same thing every day.。
So let's dive in, chapter two, verse 15.。
The Lord God took the man and put him in the garden。
of Eden to work it and to take care of it.。
And the Lord God commanded the man,。
you are free to eat from any tree in the garden。
but you must not eat from the tree of the knowledge。
of good and evil for when you eat from it,。
you will certainly die.。
God says, here you are, everything I have is yours.。
Look around you, it's amazing.。
The lion lays with the lamb, it's all for your enjoyment,。
it's all for your pleasure and for your care。
and you get to rule over them.。
Oh, that tree over there, don't eat it.。
Don't eat the fruit from that tree.。
So in, you know, I don't know if you've ever done。
like memory verses, the only memory verse in this moment。
in history is don't eat from that tree.。
That's the Bible, it's like a fortune cookie.。
It's like, don't eat from that tree, that's it.。
That's all the instruction you have to know.。
Do not eat from that tree.。
And so this reminds me, 'cause we hear this。
and we're like, man, that's a,。
it's kind of a strange dilemma, but it's really not.。
It's not that strange if you think about it.。
It's the same dilemma that we exist in all the time.。
In fact, I'll tell you, it's like the backyard。
of my old house, Monica and our old house,。
we had a backyard and I went to great lengths。
to make that backyard like Eden.。
I planted flower beds, specifically for my kids.。
We had a koi pond back there.。
I bought this swing set, okay, with all sorts of swings。
and a trapeze thing and a slide.。
I put sidewalk chalk back there so they could ride。
on the sidewalk, put tricycles back there。
so they could race around the swimming pool.。
Oh, and then there was the swimming pool。
and they can't swim.。
And I said, go back there and have a blast.。
Do anything you want, slide down the slide,。
swing on the swings, write your name with sidewalk chalk,。
draw pictures if you'd like, race around on your tricycles,。
but don't touch the pool or you'll die.。
You could die.。
(congregation laughing)。
So don't touch the pool.。
This is, and you're like, this is their instruction.。
Hey, go have fun, kids.。
I love you.。
And because I love you, I know that's dangerous.。
So don't do that.。
And loving God gives his kids loving instruction.。
You exist in the same reality.。
Hey, date, go have fun, man, talk to each other,。
be careful with your heart.。
No, y'all spend time together.。
Don't cross physical boundaries.。
You want a glass of wine, have a glass of wine.。
Don't have three.。
Okay?。
You like your job, good, work.。
Don't make it an idol.。
You wanna buy that fine, don't worship it.。
You make money, awesome, don't worship it.。
God gives us the same kind of instruction.。
Chapter two, verse 20.。
But for Adam, there was no suitable helper found,。
so the Lord God caused the man to fall asleep,。
fall into a deep sleep, and while he was sleeping,。
he took one of the man's ribs,。
and then he closed up the place with flesh.。
Then the Lord God made a woman from the rib。
he had taken out of the man,。
and he brought her to the man.。
And it's funny, 'cause in verse 23, he breaks out in Psalm.。
So Adam comes, wakes up, sees the woman lying there naked,。
and he just sings, "I can't keep my hands to myself,"。
or something, I don't know what he's saying.。
I mean, I could, but why would I want to?。
I don't know what he's saying.。
But he's saying something to there, okay?。
So he just busts out, it's like the first words。
Adam spoke to the woman, he sang.。
Not a lot has changed, okay?。
And so, and so I just wanna insert。
this interesting fact here.。
I got this from gotquestions.org.。
The only reason I got it from there,。
because it was the most concise source。
of citing a bunch of scientific journals.。
But I'll read it to you.。
Why chromosomal Adam and mitochondrial Eve。
are the scientifically proven theories。
that every man alive today is descended from a single man,。
and every man and woman alive today。
is descended from a single woman.。
And these scientific journals go on to say。
that there was some sort of bottleneck。
in humanity's history, see, also a flood.。
And so it has been proven, some people might say,。
you believe that everybody came from two human beings?。
So does science.。
Okay, so does any credible scientist。
believes that everyone came from one woman.。
And as it says, it's a scientifically proven theory.。
And so then, in chapter two, verse 25,。
is this really profound reality。
I could spend an entire night on.。
It says, Adam and his wife were both naked。
and they felt no shame.。
And you'll never know this until you're with Jesus.。
You will never know what this is like,。
'cause what it's saying is this profound reality。
that they were fully known and completely accepted.。
That there was nothing to hide,。
and they were completely loved.。
Everything was seen displayed in the open,。
and they were completely accepted.。
And there's this one thing that's off limits.。
And this is where the enemy is a mastermind.。
This is his playing field in your life.。
He takes the one thing that is not readily available to you,。
and he grabs you by the back of the head,。
and he begins to rub your face in it.。
And you see that, you don't have that,。
why don't you have that?。
And you're driving down the road,。
ah, why don't you have, where, where,。
why don't you have it, what's going on?。
Your guy's not good.。
And he makes it worse than it is,。
and he will drive you to a place of complete desperation,。
depression, despair, if you let him.。
But where you don't have something, where you lack,。
that's his playing field.。
Chapter three.。
Now the serpent was more crafty。
than any of the wild animals the Lord had made.。
He said to the woman, did God really say。
you must not eat from any tree in the garden?。
No, he didn't say that.。
That's what he does, though.。
No guy's gonna like you, you can't have a guy, no guy.。
And he just takes the reality and he exaggerates it.。
And he just keeps planting it in your heart.。
The woman said to the serpent,。
we may eat fruit from the trees in the garden,。
but God did say you must not eat fruit from the tree。
that is in the middle of the garden,。
and you must not touch it, or you will die.。
This is the first act of legalism.。
Legalism is taking the word of God and adding to it.。
God said don't eat the fruit.。
He says, God said don't eat it and don't touch it.。
They added to the rules.。
Like, right, it may be wrong for me。
to have a computer in my bedroom,。
but if I tell you that being a Christian。
means not having a computer in your bedroom,。
then that's an act of legalism.。
Now it may be wise for you。
not to have a computer in your bedroom,。
but if I begin to define Christianity or God's instructions。
based on what is wise for me,。
that is extra-biblical ideas, that's legalism.。
Like, it may be wrong for me to consume alcohol,。
but if I say it's wrong to consume alcohol, right,。
that's legalism.。
The Scripture says don't get drunk,。
that it's a sin to get drunk.。
When I begin to tell you these universal truths are sins,。
when it's unwise for me or sin for me,。
and it's outside of what God directly commands,。
that's legalism.。
That's what Eve did here.。
The enemy just says, "You will not certainly die,"。
the serpent said to the woman,。
"for God knows that when you eat from it,。
"your eyes will be opened and you will be like God,。
"knowing good and evil."。
My first point this evening is the consideration of sin.。
The consideration of sin is temptation.。
Tonight we're going to look at the consideration of sin,。
the consequence of sin,。
and before you leave here this evening, the cure for sin,。
the first idea is the consideration of sin is temptation.。
Temptation asks, does God really care?。
Is it really against the rules?。
Like after all, it's his creation, right, he made it.。
Does he really care how far you go?。
Do you think God doesn't want you to have,。
does God really care?。
This is called justification.。
It's you wanting permission to sin.。
Temptation asks, is God keeping good from you?。
He's not a loving father, he's not a father you can trust,。
he's trying to rip you off.。
He's trying to keep something from you.。
He's trying to keep good from you.。
Temptation asks, is God really that big of a deal?。
See, everywhere you see God in this text,。
it's Yahweh Elohim, it's this incredible, intimate,。
profound word for God, it's I am God, I am who I am, God.。
And so Eve says, Yahweh Elohim said。
that we must not eat the fruit or we will die,。
and Satan says, Elohim said you won't die.。
Elohim didn't say that.。
And he tries to get you to think less of God.。
God's not that big of a deal.。
God's not a big deal.。
Temptation ultimately asks this.。
I want you to hear this.。
Who is ultimate?。
Are you ultimate?。
Is your desires ultimate?。
Is your pleasure ultimate?。
Is what you want, is what you want ultimate?。
Is what you want your God?。
Temptation asks, who is ultimate?。
See, this is the second fall.。
The first fall happens is displayed in Isaiah and Ezekiel。
that Satan comes to the earth and he's here。
and he's the prince of this air and he's ruling this world。
and he's trying to lure you out of relationship with God。
and his message to you is simply this,。
and you've gotta hear this,。
this is so relevant for where we live.。
You can be like God.。
You don't need to worship God, you can be like God.。
You can build a palace and you can have lots of money。
and you can make great of your name.。
You don't need to make great of his name,。
make great of your name.。
And this is demonic and his essence.。
It is Satan's mantra.。
In fact, this is the mantra of the satanic church.。
The satanic church does not worship Satan.。
They don't even believe in Satan.。
They worship themselves, it's hedonism.。
The mantra of the satanic church is do as thy will.。
It's this, do whatever you want to do.。
So whenever you go through this world thinking,。
well, whatever makes them happy, that's Satanism.。
Have you ever said that?。
Well, whatever makes, I just want them to be happy.。
So does Satan wants them to pursue happiness。
so they will never be happy.。
So they will never be, they will sit in discontentment。
'cause to pursue happiness is not to have it.。
The mantra of the satanic church is do as thy will.。
And so if you follow your desires,。
that's the satanic message in our world.。
We see this, like people use this for advertising,。
feed your preferences, indulge your flesh.。
Spas use this, vacations use this.。
Come and indulge here, indulge your flesh.。
Do whatever you want, take a break, kick up your feet,。
relax and feed your preferences.。
This is a satanic message.。
It's very different than the message of God.。
Discipline yourself for godliness.。
You see how different those are?。
Feed, do whatever you want,。
discipline yourself for godliness.。
You see how those are different?。
See, the opposite of loving God is not hating God,。
it's loving self.。
It's making yourself like God.。
And Satan is crafty, he knows you, he hates you,。
he wants to kill you.。
And his game plan is to get you to doubt God.。
He finds out what you desire。
and he makes you feel entitled to it。
and he says, why has God kept that from you?。
If God was good, he wouldn't have kept that from you.。
That's his game plan.。
He says, what, you have to wait to be married, have sex?。
What?。
God's trying to keep that.。
You don't get to live there,。
God's trying to keep that from you.。
Why hasn't that boss noticed you?。
Why hasn't that boy noticed you?。
Go ahead and please yourself, it's not as bad as sex.。
God's trying to keep pleasure from you.。
Have a shot.。
Take the edge off, take a hit, relax a little.。
What is your temptation, I'm asking?。
What's your greatest temptation today?。
What'd you come in here with?。
Because he tempts us with something we like.。
He doesn't tempt me when I'm not doing desserts。
with broccoli and Brussels sprouts.。
I mean, he tempts me with chocolate.。
Hey, he tempts me with the things that I want.。
And he uses phrases like, JP, you deserve.。
You deserve, like I'm most tempted。
when something's lacking, like three kids。
and running around in ministry,。
and you just get, every now and then you're tired。
and I'm walking around, I'm like, man, I deserve a nap.。
Dude, that is when I am in the war, like center in the war.。
I deserve a nap, I'm hungry.。
I'm lacking something, I'm tired.。
And I'm right in the middle of the battleground.。
Or I'm lonely.。
Man, he will meet you there and mess you up.。
And so Satan wins if you feel sorry for yourself.。
If you listen to that you got ripped off message。
because he wants you to focus on you.。
And so I've heard people say, even here at the porch,。
they say, well, God wouldn't give me these desires。
if he didn't want me to do this.。
What?。
I mean, you're telling, I don't know if you've read。
the narrative of this book,。
but it's that you have all kinds of wicked desires.。
Philippians says, their God is their stomach,。
their enemies of the cross of Christ。
because they follow their appetite,。
they follow their desires,。
that makes them enemies of the cross of Christ.。
That's a satanic message.。
God wouldn't have given me these desires。
if he didn't want me to do this.。
Where's discipline yourself for godliness in that?。
Satan thinks he is ultimate.。
But he'll make you think you are ultimate。
because he just doesn't want you to think God is ultimate.。
Here's what I'm saying.。
If you worship anything other than God,。
Satan receives it as worship.。
You worship clothes, money, a relationship,。
a boy, a girl, a boss, any obsession,。
a car, an apartment, anything, Satan will receive.。
He doesn't need you to worship him.。
He'll receive your worship.。
You worship self.。
He'll receive that as worship.。
You have two options.。
As it comes to worship, worship the one true God。
or worship Satan, period.。
That's it.。
Those are your only two options.。
And so trusting God and temptation。
is believing that God is good, loving, and in control.。
Because there's something in us that wants to be like God.。
What's crazy about this story is they were already like God.。
Adam and Eve, they were made in his what?。
They were made in his love.。
They were made in his image and likeness.。
They were made like God, right?。
And there they are.。
They were set in the Garden of Eden as rulers。
to rule over things like God.。
And then Satan comes and is like,。
"Hey, if you eat from that, you'll be like God."。
He should've said, "I'm already like God."。
But we do the same thing when we're discontent.。
Like I can hit a spot.。
Like when I'm in my lowest of lows。
or when I look back in history of my lowest of low points,。
I notice that what I'll do is I'll go。
and I'll check my bank account.。
I'm reaching for a security blanket.。
Then I'll usually get depressed,。
so then I'll check my Twitter followers。
or my Facebook friends or my Instagram likes.。
And I'm just reaching for something to find significance in。
so that I can be like God in my own messed up, sinful mind.。
We do the same thing.。
And so your greatest weapon against temptation。
is God's word.。
Like Eve should've reflected on her one memory verse。
and was like, "Don't eat that.。
"I'm not gonna eat that.。
"I'm not going to do it."。
Last week, we here on staff,。
every year we have a staff play day.。
And this particular day was archery tag.。
You ever done this?。
So it's kinda like paintball with like a bow and arrow。
and the arrow has this big foam tip on it.。
Dangerous, yes.。
And so we got into teams.。
It's like dodge ball.。
You run to the middle, you grab your arrows,。
you back up and you're just shooting at the other team.。
And I caught one to the face.。
It wasn't fun.。
It swole up, couldn't see out of that eye for a few minutes.。
Wasn't cool.。
But when you're out there。
and these fiery darts are just coming at you,。
like there's no question that you're in battle.。
No question.。
Nobody's out there just like standing around like,。
"Hit me, how dare you?"。
David, you kinda were.。
But nobody else, nobody else was like that.。
Everybody else was like, "Duck in, you're shooting."。
Running around, right?。
Because there's no question you're in battle.。
If some of you came in tonight,。
you don't realize you're in a war.。
There's an enemy trying to kill you, man.。
He's trying to lure you out。
of an intimate relationship with God。
and move you towards despair and depression。
and apathy and nothingness.。
And for some of you, he's winning.。
And I just need you right now to say in your mind,。
in your heart, he's winning, but he ain't gonna win.。
We're gonna change that.。
I'm gonna cling to some hope tonight.。
I'm gonna reach out for some help tonight。
'cause he's not going to win.。
How are you going to respond in temptation?。
How did they, verse six.。
When the woman saw that the fruit of the tree。
was good for food and pleasing to the eye。
and also desirable for gaining wisdom,。
she took some and ate it.。
He also gave some to her.。
She also gave some to her husband。
who was with her and he ate it.。
Then the eyes of both of them were opened。
and they realized they were naked。
and so they sewed fig leaves together。
and made coverings for themselves.。
In verse six, it offered to satisfy,。
it looked good, and it offered her control.。
And it's interesting that it says that Adam was with her。
because here we see a passive man.。
Women, let me tell you something.。
If you're looking for a man, you do not want a passive man.。
You want a man who will stand against sin.。
What happened?。
Huh?。
Come on, yes, thank you.。
You do not want a passive man.。
That's funny.。
Preach, come on.。
You do not want a passive man.。
I'm gonna give you more on this in just a minute.。
But you want someone who rejects sin,。
not someone who is apathetic towards it,。
not someone who will watch it happen,。
someone who will make war with it,。
someone who stands in opposition to it.。
And it's interesting to me, just a side note here,。
that they attempted to cover themselves.。
What's crazy is the narrative。
is not that they covered their mouth.。
They ate the fruit.。
It's not that they covered their eyes.。
Don't let me see.。
It's not that they covered their ears or anything.。
They covered their reproductive organs.。
Why?。
I don't know, let's go.。
No, I think, I think,。
I think, it's just a theory.。
I think it's like, it's our flesh.。
Like, we have a flesh, we have a desire,。
and that is a way that is going to take us out.。
And so when sin entered the world, right,。
we began to cover up our flesh, that area.。
Like, people will say, you know,。
I hope this isn't inappropriate.。
It probably is.。
Like, what's he thinking with?。
Is he thinking with, what's he thinking with?。
I'm not gonna point anywhere else, relax.。
[congregation laughing]。
But is he thinking with his head。
or is he thinking with his flesh, right?。
And so I think that that's just a theory.。
That's a side, write it down, or maybe don't.。
[congregation laughing]。
It is the first act of religion。
that they covered themselves, interesting aside.。
Then the man, verse eight,。
and his wife heard the sound of the Lord God。
as he was walking in the garden in the cool of the day.。
And they hid from the Lord God。
among the trees of the garden.。
But the Lord God called to the man,。
"Where are you?"。
He answered, "I heard you in the garden,。
"and I was afraid because I was naked, so I hid."。
Says the Lord God was walking in the cool of the day.。
Okay, that word for cool in the Hebrew is ruach.。
And 92 times in the scripture,。
it's translated storm, like a windstorm.。
One time in the scripture, it's translated cool.。
And so, listen, I've got an associate's degree in art, okay?。
The most worthless degree you can imagine.。
And, sorry, if that's you.。
And-- [congregation laughing]。
And I don't know Hebrew,。
but I have heard a credible case multiple times。
that this is not God walking in the cool of the day,。
but that this is God moving toward them like a windstorm.。
That this is God, why?。
Because God is not passive to our sin.。
God is never casual about our sin because he loves us,。
and everything God does is restorative.。
So when we sin, you may feel like God is running from you.。
God is running after you in your sin,。
running to you in your sin.。
It says in the Psalms that he reached down in the miry muck,。
in the slimy pit, and set you on a solid foundation.。
He's moving towards you in your sin.。
I can think about one time I was in the backyard。
with the girls, Presley and Finley were playing back there,。
and I was supposed to be watching them,。
but I turned my back for a minute,。
and I was doing something in the flower bed,。
and Monica begins to beat on the window。
from inside the house and point to the pool,。
and when I turn around,。
I saw the one thing you never wanna see as a parent.。
I saw Presley flailing in the deep end.。
She couldn't swim, and drowning.。
And I just remember, like, with every,。
I don't even know how it happened.。
Like, all I know is one minute I'm in the flower bed,。
and like, Raiden, the next minute I'm in the pool,。
it just happened like a warp zone.。
And iPhone, clothes, everything, to save my daughter.。
Because I saw her in danger.。
This is what's happening here.。
I'm convinced.。
That they did the one thing God asked them not to do,。
and shh, in fact, the Hebrew boy,。
in the Hebrew, this reads so fast,。
she saw, she ate, she offered, he ate,。
God moved like a storm.。
And the Hebrew child, a young Israelite,。
would've read this like,。
oh, he's gonna rip 'em to shreds.。
He's gonna kill 'em.。
And then you just see this act of grace,。
and ask for repentance, where are you?。
Who told you you were naked?。
And ask, and repent.。
Repent, I know the answers to these questions,。
but I want you to repent.。
And he said, who told you you were naked?。
Have you eaten from the tree。
that I commanded you not to eat from?。
The man said, the woman you put here with me,。
she gave me some fruit from the tree, and I ate it.。
Some of you have dated this guy.。
Then the Lord God said to the woman,。
what is this you have done?。
The woman said, the serpent deceived me, and I ate it.。
So the Lord God said to the serpent,。
because you have done this,。
cursed are you above all livestock and all wild animals.。
You will crawl on your belly,。
and you will eat dust all the days of your life.。
Interesting that the serpent。
was probably a lizard before this, not a snake.。
In fact, probably the only animal。
that changed through the fall was the serpent.。
Because now he's, I know, mind's blown.。
'Cause I, yeah, we always see a snake,。
but probably a lizard before that.。
And I will put enmity between you and the woman,。
and between your offspring and hers.。
He will crush your head, and you will strike his heel.。
To the woman he said,。
I will make your pains and childbearing very severe.。
With painful labor, you will give birth to children.。
Your desire will be for your husband,。
and he will rule over you.。
To Adam he said, because you listened to your wife。
and ate the fruit from the tree。
about which I commanded you, you must not eat from it.。
Cursed is the ground because of you.。
Through painful toil, you will eat food from it。
all the days of your life.。
It will produce thorns and thistles,。
and you will eat the plants of the field.。
By the sweat of your brow, you will eat your food。
until you return to the ground,。
since from it you were taken, for dust you are,。
and to dust you will return.。
You will die.。
The second point is the consequence of sin is death.。
The consequence of sin is always death.。
Your sin of pornography, your sin of lust,。
your sin of materialism, your sin of covetousness,。
your sin of greed, your sin of jealousy,。
your sin of gossip, it's death.。
It brings about death.。
So let me define sin, verse six.。
It looked good, it satisfied her desire,。
and it gave her knowledge.。
It looks good, it does good, but God says it's not good,。
and God gets to define what is good,。
regardless of what you see, regardless of what you feel,。
regardless of what you think, God says what's good.。
And so do we trust God to define what is good?。
Or has our desire turned to sin?。
James says this, "But each one is tempted。
"when by his own evil desire he is dragged away and enticed.。
"Then after desire has conceived, he gives birth to sin,。
"and sin, when it is full grown, gives birth to death."。
Let me say what sin is.。
Sin is simply anything that does not come from trusting God.。
Did you hear that?。
It's worth writing down.。
Sin is simply anything that does not come from trusting God,。
that comes directly from Romans 14, verse 23.。
Anything that does not come from faith is sin.。
And so the result of sin, you feel shame,。
you feel ashamed, you cover up, you justify, you blame.。
She did it, he did it, they did it, they caused me to do it,。
everybody else is doing it.。
You'll blame anything you can reach for.。
And you even blame God, you get angry at God.。
I talk to this person up here all the time.。
JP, man, he broke up with me.。
Like we were living together and then he moved out.。
I just can't believe God did this to me.。
I'm like, what?。
I can't believe God did this to me.。
Sweetie, God's been jumping up and down,。
waving his arms, saying that dude is a loser.。
Like do not date him, run.。
And you've been like, what, you wanna move in?。
Okay, I'll move in with you.。
And I can't believe God did this.。
God didn't do this to you, you did this to you.。
You chose this.。
Like who else, what other believers were around you saying,。
hey, this is a good idea right here.。
That's gonna be amazing, beautiful babies.。
I mean, y'all, no, man.。
God's like, don't do it.。
But we'll blame anybody.。
And God wants repentance.。
Not just confession, not hey, this is what I did,。
but I'm turning from what I did.。
And I'm gonna do everything I need to do to own what I did.。
I did that, that right there, that was me, man.。
I did that.。
Hey, everybody stop, 'cause I gotta tell you。
what I just did.。
I'm gonna shine a big old bright spotlight on it, okay?。
It's ugly, man, it's so gross.。
So gross what I did, but I did it and I'm gonna own it.。
My God can restore me, he can heal me.。
I can find restoration, he's gonna take this mess,。
he's gonna make it a message,。
he's gonna do an incredible work here.。
But I'm turning from that, man, I'm moving on.。
I'm not gonna do that again.。
I want repentance.。
My little girl was, when we lived at that house,。
I walked in the back and Presley's there,。
she's like three years old.。
And I walked back there and I'm like,。
Presley, who threw those rocks in the pool?。
And she opens her hand and rocks just fall from her hand.。
She's like, I don't know.。
I said, sweetie, you cannot throw rocks in the pool.。
I didn't throw rocks in the pool.。
Well, who threw rocks in the pool?。
Finley, her little sister, who can't even clench her fist.。
And I go, Presley, Finley threw rocks in the pool?。
Yeah, Daddy, I'm sorry.。
Sweetie, if Finley threw rocks in the pool,。
then Finley's gonna get a spanking.。
Oh, that's terrible.。
All right, Presley, I'm like, I don't know what to do.。
I've never been here before as a parent.。
I'm like, all right, Presley, Finley's getting a spanking.。
Okay, Daddy, take her inside.。
I'm sitting in the room like, God, what do I do?。
Help me, help me.。
I'm like, I can't, I don't know what to do.。
And so I go back out and I'm like, Presley,。
do you have something you need to tell me?。
Daddy, I'm so sorry that Finley threw rocks in the pool.。
(congregation laughing)。
Oh, man.。
I'm like, at my wit's end.。
Well, right about then, this guy lives with us.。
And he lived with us at the time,。
and he pulls up the window upstairs。
and he overlooks the pool.。
He goes, Presley, she goes, hey, Matt.。
He goes, did I just see you throwing rocks in the pool?。
And he's like. (congregation laughing)。
And it was like, I was like, praise God.。
'Cause I didn't, but it was just like somebody was saying,。
one, she's trying to blame anything that she can。
on her sin, and two, somebody saw her.。
Dude, God sees everything you do.。
Everything, you've never done anything。
that he doesn't intimate.。
He sees your thoughts.。
And he's not running from you.。
He's not afraid of you.。
He went to great lengths to pay for it.。
He let his own son die for it.。
And so, like, it's time to bring it to the light.。
Like, it's time to shine a light.。
He's like, man, I did that, I repent.。
I'm moving from that.。
God already knows.。
He knows the intimate details of all of it,。
the craziness of all of it.。
Man, if you knew everything that went through my mind,。
you wouldn't let me preach.。
If I knew everything that went through yours,。
I wouldn't let you in.。
So it's mutual, as it works. (congregation laughing)。
But here we are, and God is bigger than that.。
So the consequence of sin,。
to the woman, he says, childbearing's gonna be hard.。
There's pain, there's miscarriage, there's loss,。
there's difficulty in it.。
Child rearing, raising them, it's difficult.。
Like, no kid, like, kids don't have to be taught。
to do wrong, if you've never been there,。
I'm just telling you.。
They will automatically do wrong.。
They have to be taught to do what's right.。
And in verse 16, it says this interesting thing.。
It says, your desire will be for your husband,。
which I'm like, that ain't so bad, you know.。
Like, in the bedroom with Monica, I'm like,。
maybe the fall should happen right here, you know.。
Your desire will be for your husband.。
That's not what it means, okay.。
It's the same word for desire.。
Some of you are just catching up, like, oh.。
(congregation laughing)。
Desire for your husband, it's the same word for desire。
that shows up in Genesis chapter four.。
And it says, Cain, sin is crouching at your door,。
and it desires you.。
It desires to rule over you.。
And so a part of the fall is that now a woman。
wants to play the man's role.。
And a woman who is stuck in sin will be contentious。
and unruly and impossible to lead.。
And so, fellas, now is where you say amen or come on, yeah.。
(congregation laughing)。
You don't wanna date this woman, okay.。
There you go.。
And some of you ladies right now, you hate it.。
You're like, what, I hate that.。
And you've just proven the point.。
(congregation laughing)。
And to Adam, the passive man, he says,。
now work is toilsome, it will never be done.。
And so there's a guy out there that's like,。
he doesn't know what job to take because he gets in,。
he's like, it's hard, so it must be wrong,。
it's difficult, so it must be wrong, it's difficult.。
No, no, work is difficult.。
Because, see, work, before the fall, Adam worked.。
After the fall, work became hard, it fought against him.。
So now, work that's hard is not wrong, it just is.。
Like, work is tough.。
So if you date or marry a passive guy,。
that's gonna be a guy that's like, man,。
I guess there's no job for me 'cause jobs are hard.。
Jobs are hard, okay.。
Come on, I know.。
And so Adam worked before the fall.。
But now, he's tempted to find identity in his work.。
Because of the fall, this is the monotonous irony.。
You work the ground, you eat from the ground,。
only to fertilize the ground.。
To dust you will return, and death enters the world.。
Verse 20, Adam named his wife Eve。
because she would become the mother of all the living.。
And the Lord God made garments of skin for Adam。
and his wife and clothed them.。
Before this moment, nothing had died.。
And because they sinned, something had to die,。
and God made garments for them from that animal's skin.。
Before this moment, nothing had died, nothing would die.。
Sin enters the world, death enters the world,。
and you see the first sacrifice.。
You see that God did not abandon them, he clothed them.。
He allowed them to have children,。
and he has a glorious plan to fix all of this.。
And that's found in Romans chapter five,。
verses 17 through 19.。
For if by the trespass of one man,。
death reigned through that one man,。
how much more will those who receive。
God's abundant provision of grace。
and of the gift of righteousness reign in life。
through the one man, Jesus Christ.。
Consequently, just as the result of one trespass。
was condemnation for all men,。
so also the result of one act of righteousness。
was justification that brings life for all men.。
For just as through the disobedience。
of the one man the many were made sinners,。
so also through the obedience of the one man。
the many will be made righteous,。
will end with the cure for sin.。
The cure for sin is Jesus.。
The cure for sin is Jesus.。
Here's a trivia question.。
Where does Jesus first show up in the Bible?。
I heard John one, in the beginning was the word,。
the word was God.。
Genesis chapter three verse 15.。
A little passage called the Protoevangelium。
translated the first gospel,。
the first account of good news。
is Genesis chapter three, three chapters in verse 15.。
I will put enmity between you and the woman。
and between your offspring and hers.。
He will crush your head and you will strike his heel.。
That woman is going to, from her lineage,。
a child will be born who is going to crush you。
and he will be bruised or hurt in the process.。
That child is Jesus Christ,。
shows up foreshadowing Genesis chapter three.。
And so here's another trivia question.。
What is the oldest religion known to man?。
It's Christianity.。
In the beginning was the word, was Jesus Christ.。
Christianity is the oldest religion known to man.。
It starts at the beginning of the beginning。
with the Father, Son and Spirit, Jesus Christ.。
There in the very beginning, the Trinity,。
the God that we worship,。
that Jesus was born 2016 years ago。
in a date that reset the calendar.。
But he existed in eternity past,。
in the very beginning he was there.。
Christianity was God's plan from the very beginning.。
So how is Jesus the cure for sin?。
Romans 5:19, through the obedience of the one man,。
the many will be made righteous.。
He paid for your sin, all of your sin,。
everything you've done, 100% of it,。
the most wicked acts you could possibly do。
were paid for on the cross of Jesus Christ.。
He paid for it.。
You don't have to pay the consequence in eternity.。
Jesus paid the eternal consequence as an eternal God.。
First Corinthians 15 verse 45.。
So it is written, the first Adam became a living being.。
The last Adam, just a word for man, a life-giving spirit.。
So not only did Jesus pay the price for our sin,。
we now have his Holy Spirit reigning in our lives。
as Satan tries to lure us out of a relationship with God,。
he fights for us.。
He's fighting for you and you don't have to sin.。
You never have to give in to temptation.。
You can surrender to the Spirit.。
You can yield to the Spirit and you will have victory。
'cause First Corinthians 10, 13 says,。
no temptation has seized you except what is common to man.。
And God is faithful.。
He will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you can bear。
and when you are tempted, he will provide a way out。
so that you can stand under it.。
And what this means is for the rest of your existence,。
if you've trusted in Christ,。
you will never, not one time, ever have to sin.。
It will never be like all of my options is I can only sin.。
I don't have to sleep with him.。
I don't have to sleep with her.。
I don't have to drink that.。
I don't have to smoke that.。
I don't have to think that.。
I don't have to buy that.。
I don't have to worship that.。
I don't have to get that.。
I don't have to go there.。
I don't have to be with him.。
Never for the rest of your life,。
you can trust a loving father who's crazy about you。
and he's given you instruction。
and you have the same choice as Eve,。
the same choice as Adam.。
Will you trust him or will you follow your flesh?。
Will you follow your desires?。
And if you're like, but you don't understand,。
man, I can't stop thinking about him.。
I can't stop sleeping with her.。
I can't stop looking at porn.。
God in you can, period.。
And so in summary, the consideration of sin is temptation.。
The consequence of sin is death.。
And the cure for sin, beautiful, amazing,。
incredible, complete cure for sin is Jesus Christ,。
the son of God, your savior.。
One day growing up, we would go to this swimming pool。
all the time and on this particular day,。
there was this girl who was clearly babysitting.。
She had a kid with her who was not hers。
and he was a little older than a toddler.。
Like I remember, he was a little too old to have floaties,。
but he did have floaties.。
And so he's like rolling around the pool with these floaties。
and he's just a bad kid, man.。
I mean, he was acting crazy。
and the lifeguard kept blowing the whistle.。
You know, he'd run and the lifeguard blow the whistle。
and he'd just look at him and stick out his tongue and run.。
And I was like, gosh, who's kid is this, you know?。
And he kept just kind of making faces at the lifeguard,。
making fun of the lifeguard, taunting the lifeguard,。
rejecting the wisdom of the lifeguard.。
And so finally the lifeguard comes down off the stand,。
he goes, has a conversation with the babysitter.。
Like, hey man, you gotta, you know, we can't have this.。
And so she eventually leaves.。
She's packing up her stuff, she's going to leave.。
She takes off his floaties,。
she turns her back for a moment.。
The kid runs to the pool,。
jumps in the pool and he's flailing.。
Can't swim, didn't realize he didn't have his floaties on.。
Lifeguard throws the lifesaver, the little ring,。
and then jumps in.。
And then with everything, swims to that kid,。
the kid that had been taunting him the entire time.。
The kid that had been just completely rejecting his wisdom。
the entire time, he's now saving, moving toward,。
with all of his might, with everything he can,。
with all of his being, to save that child.。
As some of you, you're here and you're flailing in your sin.。
Can't swim, you're drowning in it.。
And God in all of his might is moving towards you.。
Jesus Christ was the greatest act and example。
of someone moving toward you to save you in the gospel.。
So when you came in, you got a little lifesaver mint.。
Did you guys get that?。
Anybody eat it?。
Come on.。
(congregation laughing)。
Resist the urge.。
And these things don't last around me.。
If I see one, you know, I'm like, it's like candy.。
It's like medicine that you need to take.。
But I don't want you to eat that one.。
Whoops.。
I want you to save that one.。
I want you to put it somewhere,。
and I want it to serve as a reminder to you。
that God is moving towards you in temptation,。
that he has something better for you,。
that he's a loving father, offering you something better。
than your urges may present to you in the moment.。
So put it somewhere where you're gonna see it.。
Put it on your dashboard or there by your speedometer。
or wherever you want where you're gonna see it。
on a regular basis to serve as a reminder。
that Christ is your savior, that God is moving to you,。
and you do not need to follow your impulses。
and your urges and feed your preferences。
and indulge your flesh.。
You can hold out for something better。
because I know no greater way to overcome temptation。
than to find a superior satisfaction in our savior.。
If you believe that God has something better for you,。
you will not eat the mint.。
If you believe that the father, a trusting,。
a father you can trust, a loving dad。
has something good for you,。
you will not follow the urge in a moment.。
And if you don't, you will.。
You will, you'll do what you want when you wanna do it.。
Satanic.。
Let me pray for us.。
Father, would you strengthen our resolve。
to follow you, your spirit in us.。
God, you reign.。
And we praise you with our lives.。
We want to praise you with our whole lives,。
with the way we steward your resources,。
with the things that we give thoughts to,。
the way that we feed our appetite, the way that we date,。
the way that we commune in fellowship,。
the way that we hang out, the way that we work.。
Would all of these things be acts of worship to you?。
That we would not conform any longer。
to the patterns of this world, God,。
but by your spirit we would be transformed.。
By the renewing of our mind,。
that we would be able to test and approve。
what your will is, your good, pleasing,。
and perfect will help us, God.。
Thank you for your provision of Jesus Christ.。
As we come to the altar to worship you,。
help us to lose the world。
so that we might offer you our entire soul.。
Amen.。
You guys like love letters?。
I don't know if you guys did this,。
but in a time I shouldn't have been dating,。
you know, in high school you just write those letters。
and get one and make the swap,。
figure out creative ways to fold 'em.。
Maybe just me, I don't know.。
It's just cool to read something.。
Maybe you haven't, maybe you haven't been there yet,。
and that's honestly God's grace to you, I assure you,。
'cause those letters for me represented。
a lot of heartbreak, but I will say,。
it's cool to read something to know。
that somebody really cares about you,。
and you're special to them, and you matter to them.。
You have this amazing love letter.。
And it is the single greatest way, I think,。
to overcome the lies of temptation is with the truth,。
and you've gotta know this book,。
you've gotta figure out a way to get this in here,。
and more importantly in here,。
because when Jesus was tempted, right,。
on the Mount of Temptation, Satan is right there,。
the full manifestation of evil in front of him.。
He responds three times with truths from Deuteronomy,。
and that's how he overcame temptation.。
He's modeling something for us.。
And some of you right now,。
you're battling thoughts of shame and guilt,。
and I just want to remind you。
that God knows every single thing that you've done.。
He's moving towards you, and he loves you,。
and it is for his joy, to his delight to forgive you.。
To his delight.。
He takes pleasure in forgiving you, man.。
He cannot wait to forgive you and make you the next,。
I mean, it's awesome, man.。
He cannot, he's right now like,。
please let me forgive you, like repent,。
like I can't wait to forgive you,。
and restore you, and make something amazing out of you,。
with your whole life, to do something incredible.。
