(soft music)。
- All right, Porch, how's it going?。
(audience cheering)。
Yeah, it's good to be with you guys.。
My name's Todd, I get to hang out here at Watermark with you.。
I got to hang out with you a couple weeks ago.。
We're gonna dive in again.。
My friend JP's gone, and so you won't miss him.。
I'm gonna tell you a story about my kids.。
'Cause isn't that what JP always does?。
So I'm starting all over, man.。
I got my first grandkid, right?。
I know I just lost all street cred with you guys,。
but that's all right.。
I'm a grandfather.。
That is the first actual life stage that has not fit in me.。
You know, I can remember when I turned 10,。
you were double digits.。
I was like, okay, I'm double digits, no big deal.。
It was, it kind of rolled off my back.。
Hit 13, I was a teenager.。
For me, I was about 10 years away from puberty.。
It was all good, 13 wasn't that big a deal.。
16, hit me, I got my license.。
I was free to go where I wanted to go.。
That was fine.。
18, graduated from high school.。
I was 17 when I got out of high school.。
That was no big deal.。
Got out of college, that didn't seem weird.。
I was that guy.。
I was now in my 20s and cranking along.。
I got married, that seemed like normal, okay?。
It kind of hit me just right.。
I had a baby, that was cool, that was fine.。
I married my daughter, that didn't freak me out.。
I didn't marry her, my daughter,。
that would have freaked me out.。
(audience laughing)。
Married my daughter off, key word there.。
Married my daughter off, that didn't freak me out.。
But then a year ago on Father's Day,。
my daughter gave me an envelope, said happy,。
and she had father's scratched out and grand put on top of it。
now that freaked me out.。
I'm like, that's a life stage I'm not really ready。
to be associated with.。
You know, grandpa, no teeth, close to the grave.。
And so that was different for me.。
I wasn't really ready to go there, but I'm there, man.。
It's awesome, so I got new kid stories coming.。
I'm gonna tell you an old kid story.。
So my daughters are, right now my oldest is 24,。
that's the one that gave me the baby, my other one's 21.。
She's out of college and hangs out。
with you guys here sometimes.。
When they were three and five,。
I decided to take them on a bike ride.。
I threw them at the back of that little, you know,。
carousel you strap on the back of a bike.。
And my whole life I had always blessed my kids.。
I'd love to take them for ice cream and things like that.。
And love to take them to go get some, you know,。
candy at different times, but this was different.。
I was gonna actually let them go on their own。
on a bike ride with me.。
And there wasn't a Buc-ee's near us, okay.。
It wasn't even a Buc-ee's around at the time.。
But had there been, I'd have taken them to a Buc-ee's。
'cause Buc-ee's has the biggest candy selection I know of。
that you can go kind of walk up and down these huge aisles.。
But I took them to the biggest candy store that was near us.。
And we walked into this candy store and I just said,。
okay girls, you're three, you're five.。
You can get whatever you want.。
Just pick an item, it's yours.。
You get to choose it.。
There's no decree that's coming from dad,。
but I'm just gonna tell you。
as we get ready to walk in these doors,。
your dad knows candy.。
I am good at candy.。
I've studied candy, I eat candy, I love candy.。
I hide candy from your mom.。
I am good at candy.。
And so I'll help you, all right.。
I'll give you all the counsel I can,。
but let's go, you're free.。
And so we walk into the store and my five-year-old, Ali,。
immediately grabs my hand and she says,。
daddy, what should I get?。
And I go, oh baby.。
And I leaned over, I picked her up。
and we walk over to that candy aisle.。
Three-year-old in tow, Kirby behind us.。
And we start looking around。
at all the different candies that are there。
and I'm explaining to her the wonders of chocolate,。
you know, and reminding her what that is,。
what's behind those different wrappers。
and letting her know about all the different stuff.。
I looked down and Kirby was already done.。
Kirby had made her decision.。
She's, you know, jerking at my shorts.。
She said, let's go, I got it.。
I'm like, okay, Kirby, hang on a second.。
And I'm gonna help you in just a minute.。
Let daddy help you.。
And she just kind of looked at me like, I got what I want.。
And so I go, okay, Kirby, just hang on a second.。
Ali, let me just explain something to you, Ali.。
This stuff up here, this is where the really good stuff is.。
Down low is just the single stuff.。
Up here is the like pound bags of candy.。
And so, you know, I'm taking my little daughter。
and I'm just saying, hey, check it out.。
This is a pound bag of Skittles, okay.。
It's not a little bag of Skittles.。
You might want to consider this one。
'cause it's got like Skittles for a week right here, okay.。
These are Starbursts, they're hard to unwrap.。
You can't get to them as quickly as the Skittles,。
but they're good.。
This will last you a long time.。
Okay, your dad, your dad is a big fan of Reese's, okay.。
Let's get this one.。
Or how about this, peanut M&M's.。
That's the way to go right here.。
All right, this is where dad loves peanut M&M's.。
Get the pound bag of peanut M&M's.。
And on and on we went。
through all these different things of candy.。
And anyway, Ali settles on the pound bag of Skittles.。
This is what she's got.。
Five years old with her own pound bag of Skittles.。
And I put her down and Ali immediately goes, oh, Curbs.。
Listen to that, dad is good.。
Dad knows candy, right?。
And Kirby was like, I'm good.。
I got what I want.。
And so I looked down at what Kirby has。
and Kirby's got her arm, you know,。
kind of tucked in tight and I unlock her little fist。
and she's got in her hand。
what would fit in a little three-year-old's hand.。
It's a single piece of candy.。
Now I looked at it, I gotta admit, it was kind of cool.。
It was big and it had a really nice wrapping.。
It had this really bright yellow wrapping around the red.。
And I looked a little closer and I saw it was in fact。
this little bad boy right here, which is an atomic fireball.。
All right.。
(audience laughing)。
Now I gotta admit, it's impressive looking, okay?。
Nice wrapper.。
And by the way, where was Kirby?。
Her little three-year-old eyes,。
where her little three-year-old eyes could see,。
that she couldn't see up to the wonders。
of pound bags of candy.。
All she saw was down there where the loose candies were,。
the single Jolly Ranchers, right?。
The individual piece of the bazooka bubble gum.。
And then this little gem right here,。
which she locked on, it fit neatly inside。
a little three-year-old hand.。
And I just go, "Kirbs, no, you don't want that."。
She looked at me like, "Hey, I thought we could come in here。
"and get whatever we wanted.。
"Are you retrading?。
"Have I just stumbled onto some gold down here。
"that you don't want me to know about?"。
And so I looked in those little three-year-old eyes。
trying to communicate all that.。
I said, "Okay, come on.。
"You don't wanna listen to Dad?。
"You wanna go with your little three-year-old wisdom?。
"Let's go."。
We slapped the pound bag of Skittles up there.。
We put the little atomic fireball up there.。
Paid for 'em both.。
We walked outside.。
We sat on the curb.。
You know, we opened up this thing.。
Now look, I want you to just follow with me.。
You got a little three-year-old, right?。
And so Allie goes first, and she dips into her little bag,。
and she brings out a little red wonder that big.。
Kirby, on the other hand, has got this bad boy working.。
It pops in her mouth, it's like, "I'm all good.。
"You follow Dad's advice.。
"I'm having a big time."。
So Allie, you know, pops a little Skittle in there,。
and she's kinda chewing it.。
Kirby goes in her own way.。
Now let me ask you a question.。
What happens when you put an atomic fireball in your mouth?。
The answer is, right away,。
it's got this thin layer of sugary sweetness.。
And for a while, you had a big old nod of goodness,。
and you're looking at Dad like,。
"You ripped off that other girl.。
"She got a little, you know,。
"I can't see what else is in there.。
"She just saw one red one come out.。
"She's got a big red one."。
And Kirby's sitting there, you know,。
getting that thing in her mouth, letting her saliva go to work。
kinda sucking on that thing all happy,。
and then all of a sudden,。
that little thin layer of sugary sweetness。
that was the result of her informed three-year-old choice。
started to fade away.。
And out like a projectile,。
the vomit of a three-month-old comes as fireball.。
And I'm ready.。
I'm like,。
(audience laughing)。
No, we're gonna eat this candy, right?。
And so with all the brilliance of a 30-something-year-old。
dad, I just put it right back in her mouth,。
and I go, "Now, Kirby."。
And like brilliant young dads are prone to do,。
we engage in a conversation that's less than time, right?。
And so, you know, there's this forest fire of, you know,。
disease happening in her mouth.。
And I'm going, "Now, this is what happens。
"when you're gonna listen to your daddy, right?。
"Daddy, I told you, he knows candy.。
"You're three years old.。
"You think you know what you want?"。
And Kirby's looking at me, you know,。
her little eyes are getting a little bit more red,。
little tears, right?。
And so, you know, she spits it out.。
All right.。
And I go, "Okay."。
And I kind of put in my hand, we went home,。
and we sat down, Allie just sat there,。
one in front of her, just kind of dumped out the Skittles,。
just eating them one at a time.。
"Oh, here's a purple one, right?。
"A green one."。
(audience laughing)。
And I, you know, took Kirby's now pocket-lint-covered。
atomic fireball, put it on the table.。
"Kirby, you can have the rest of your candy。
"anytime you want."。
And we actually sat there,。
and here's what happened.。
I'm exaggerating a little bit, obviously,。
about what I did to my little Kirby,。
but there was something that came into my mind。
not long after I did that.。
And it was literally that night。
as I was kind of reliving it,。
and it hit me where the Lord just said to me,。
"Hey, Todd, you know, we're a lot like that.。
"In your three decades of living,。
"you're pretty sure that what you can see is what's good.。
"What you think makes sense to you,。
"you grab it all the time,。
"and I'm just trying to pick you up.。
"And I'm trying to encourage you,。
"I'm trying to show you where the really good stuff is,。
"but you're so cocksure that you know how to select things,。
"and I give you freedom to select whatever you want.。
"And here's the thing, you are free.。
"I'm not gonna force myself on you,。
"but freedom isn't being able to do whatever you wanna do.。
"Freedom is being able to do what leads to life.。
"And when you have the freedom。
"to not be a slave to your flesh。
"and your 30 years of finite wisdom,。
"when you learn, Todd, to freely love me because I love you,。
"you're gonna stop grabbing all the atomic fireballs。
"that are so attractive to you."。
And it really has become a metaphor in our family.。
We talked a lot about that, and we did.。
We had this little family conversation.。
We talked about how there are things that make sense to us,。
that we can see certain things,。
and we don't believe that God is good.。
We don't believe that God can be trusted.。
And so as a result of that,。
we're grabbing stuff all the time.。
And listen, when you grab sin,。
there's a reason sin is tempting.。
It looks like it's gonna be life-giving.。
And when you first grab it,。
sometimes there's this jolt of adrenaline and fun.。
But it doesn't take long。
for that thin layer of sugary sweetness to wear off.。
And there's this sting.。
Sometimes it leaves scars。
and numbs us to real good taste.。
The Bible says, "Be on the alert.。
"Be of sober spirit,。
"because you've got an adversary who doesn't love you."。
He is the devil.。
He accuses God of not being who he says he is.。
He'll accuse you of not being worthy。
of a relationship with God.。
And he is looking to devour you.。
We are making our way through 1 Peter,。
and that's exactly where we are in the text.。
1 Peter chapter five, let's read it.。
"Be of sober spirit, be on the alert.。
"Your adversary, the devil,"。
who I'm gonna show you who he is in just a moment,。
and he is a liar.。
"Prowls around like a roaring lion,。
"seeking somebody to devour."。
Verse nine, "But resist him.。
"Be firm in your faith,。
"knowing that the same experience of suffering。
"are being accomplished by your brethren。
"who are in the world."。
Hey, listen, after you've suffered for a little while,。
it's not as long as you think,。
"The God of all grace,。
"who called you to his eternal glory in Christ,。
"will himself perfect, confirm, strengthen,。
"and establish you.。
"To him, the one who deserves it,。
"and the one who is worthy of it,。
"the one who is all-powerful,。
"that you should listen to who loves you.。
"To him be dominion forever and ever."。
Amen.。
Here's the deal.。
We serve a God。
that is known in the scripture as one who is。
a sun and a shield.。
Sun gives light.。
A sun gives off that which causes growth。
and goodness to happen.。
A sun produces for us that which we need.。
We can't live without the sun,。
hitting those little green plants,。
getting that chlorophyll active,。
and photosynthesis go to work,。
so plants get richer and stronger,。
and provide us shade, and provide us food.。
The Lord God is a sun, and he's a shield.。
He is a protector.。
He's a provider, and he's a protector.。
And then it says in Psalm 84, verse 11,。
"No good thing does he withhold from those who love him."。
He gives grace and glory.。
And he's saying, "Todd, come here, man.。
"You wanna go pursue whatever you wanna,。
"you can, you're free,。
"but I'm gonna give you stuff you don't deserve.。
"I'm gonna give you insight you don't have,。
"and I want you to have things。
"that only a loving father would want you to have.。
"I'm not trying to rip you off,。
"I'm trying to set you free.。
"I'm trying to scoop you up,。
"and give you what you don't deserve."。
And it is glorious, this is who God is.。
The Lord God is a sun and shield.。
He gives grace and glory.。
No good thing。
does he withhold from your little。
three-decade-old bright self.。
And so get off that bottom shelf。
of grabbing what you think makes sense to you.。
That's gonna give you just a very thin moment。
of sweetness, and then it's gonna be something。
you're gonna wanna spit out,。
and you're gonna wonder if anybody can ever love you again,。
because you grabbed that thing.。
You have an adversary, the devil,。
and he wants to ruin you.。
We are at war.。
And there's a God who wants us to win and do well.。
The verses that we looked at last week。
in 1 Peter chapter five, it says this, right?。
Remember, "You younger men, be subject to your elders."。
In other words, listen, some guys that are there。
before you that have given you an example to follow,。
that have lived life, that have learned some lessons。
in a really painful way, listen,。
you can learn what you need to learn through experience,。
and the problem with experience,。
it's a great teacher, right?。
But a lot of times, it's a very expensive one, isn't it?。
And so it says, "Pay attention to your elders,"。
'cause they've grabbed some stuff。
that looked good to them when they were three, too.。
"Listen to them, because they've come to know。
"what the older brothers should always know."。
See, Allie could tell Kirby, "Listen to Dad."。
Both of my kids, since the moment they were little,。
I cared for them, I protected them, I provided for them.。
No good thing did I withhold from them.。
But Allie had two more years of experience with me,。
and so her first response, when I offered her。
whatever she wanted, was to look to me and say,。
"Dad, what would you choose?"。
"Kirby, listen to him.。
"I know him better than you.。
"I've lived with him longer than you.。
"I have prospered more than you。
"because I've listened to him."。
That's what older brothers should do.。
"You younger men," it says, "You younger folks,。
"be subject to your elders."。
And then it says, "And all of you,。
"clothe yourself with humility to one another."。
Why?。
"For God is opposed to the proud,。
"but gives grace to the humble.。
"Humble yourself, therefore."。
Say, "Dad, what do you want from me?。
"What do you want for me?"。
Because what your father wants is life.。
He's come that you might have life,。
and have it abundantly, but there is a liar.。
And he roams about seeking whom he may devour.。
And gang, we are at war with him.。
When you don't think you're at war,。
you become a little less vigilant.。
You become a little less alive, a little less aware.。
You know, sometimes you're playing a game。
as simple as hide and seek, and when you know。
that somebody's trying to capture you and win a game,。
even as simple as that, you try and slow。
your breathing down, you're very careful,。
'cause you know that the person who's trying。
to get you out of the game is close.。
At war, I've never been in a combat situation,。
but one person said this, "There's something。
"about war that sharpens the senses.。
"You hear a twig snap or a rustling of the leaves,。
"and you go into attack mode.。
"Someone coughs, and you're ready to pull the trigger.。
"Even after days of little or no sleep,。
"war keeps us vigilant."。
And here's what I'm gonna tell you.。
We're at war.。
You will not do well in this life。
if you have the wrong view of who our enemy is.。
If you think of him like some buffoon wearing red leotards。
with little horns that bounce around, joke.。
You guys remember, I don't know,。
before probably you started watching Saturday Night Live,。
there was a guy named John Lovitz,。
and he did a skit on Saturday Night Live。
where it was a people's court。
where some young girl had sold her soul。
in order to become a world-class hairdresser.。
And Judge Wapner was listening to the case。
where she was suing to get her soul back。
because he did what he said she would do.。
He'd make her a world-class hairdresser,。
but what he did is he kind of tricked her。
because she was so good that the hairstyles。
she created in people were never, ever affected again。
by weather or by time.。
And so she never had any repeat business。
and she went bankrupt.。
And she was suing for her soul back.。
And John Lovitz was the Satan figure.。
At the very end, there's a hilarious little scene。
where he comes out and he's being interviewed as he leaves,。
and he just kind of looks at the camera。
when he realizes he's getting run out,。
and he just starts to look at the camera.。
He goes, "Oh, obey me, obey me.。
"I am the Lord of darkness."。
And if you think of Satan as some buffoon like that,。
you're not gonna be very vigilant.。
Likewise, you might not even think you can fight him。
if you see him as this irrepressible force。
that you're going to have to be subservient to.。
What's so amazing is that 60% of all believers。
don't even acknowledge the reality of an enemy.。
They don't think there is an adversary that's out there.。
Many people who think there's an adversary that's out there。
think he's equal with God,。
and there's no way to defend themself against him.。
And your Bible that God's given you says,。
no, no, you have an adversary,。
but greater is he who is in you, this God,。
the God who it says right there in 1 Peter chapter five,。
is the one who has dominion forever and ever.。
He is your father, he is your friend,。
and he has given you the ability to not be a slave to sin.。
The whole book of 1 Peter is about you doing well。
against persecution and against the trouble。
that's in this world,。
and God's trying to help believers stand firm。
against the fiery ordeal all around them,。
and specifically it's gonna end with the temptation。
that wages war against our soul.。
Now here's what you need to do.。
When you go to war, you want to find out。
how's your enemy gonna fight, who is he,。
what's his tactics, and there's no surprise.。
He always does the same thing.。
He whispers in your little three-decade-old mind,。
three-year-old mind, 23-year-old mind,。
you can't trust your dad.。
His character isn't good, his word isn't true.。
He is not, in fact, holy.。
He's not a sun and a shield.。
He doesn't give you light in life.。
He doesn't provide for you anything.。
He's not a, anything that's gonna protect you.。
You gotta get out from underneath him.。
Grab your own candy, use your own eyes.。
Please your own self.。
As foolish as that is for a three-year-old to do,。
it is infinitely more foolish for us to do.。
The most important thing about you always。
is gonna be your view of God.。
That's why we say this all the time,。
because if you buy the lie that God isn't good,。
his word isn't true, disobeying him is not that big a deal,。
and that life can be found when you go your own way,。
your adversary has you right where he wants you.。
And he's no fool.。
He wraps things very well.。
He makes them look really enticing and exciting.。
He'll even give you some immediate feedback。
so that your brain hardwires itself to want it。
and to like it, but there is always a crash.。
There's always another side.。
Indians and Asian Indians have a saying。
that goes like this.。
It says, "He who rides a tiger must prepare to dismount."。
You know, when you ride a tiger, that's a big deal.。
You look pretty bad to the bone.。
You're on this thing, and everybody's looking at you.。
Man, he's alive and apart.。
That guy's riding a tiger.。
Look at him.。
That guy's hilarious.。
He's fun to be with.。
He's crazy.。
His stories are amazing.。
But I'm gonna tell you, man,。
there's a time when you dismount,。
when you're alone in your room,。
and you're staring at the ceiling,。
when you look over at that bed,。
and you go, "I don't even know his name."。
Those decisions I've been making。
to find some sense of meaning and love,。
they're not giving me meaning.。
I don't feel very loved.。
I feel used.。
Here I go again.。
When you get through the pleasure of riding a tiger,。
and all your girlfriend's like,。
"Man, how'd you get these guys?"。
And, "Guys, how'd you get these girls?"。
All of a sudden, you go,。
"Man, how do I get this seared soul。
"that's been eating these atomic choices。
"that look life-giving to me?"。
And there's moments of fleeting pleasure,。
but man, they are leaving me numb.。
And your father's not mad at you.。
I wasn't mad at Kirby.。
I just go, "Kirby, we're gonna walk。
"through a long life together, man.。
"Let this be the worst decision you ever make.。
"Let your decision right there be instructive to me.。
"Be on the alert, man.。
"You are at war."。
I love the idea that God wants us to be free.。
And again, I wanna tell you,。
true freedom is not the right or ability。
to do whatever you want to do.。
True freedom is the right or ability。
to do what leads to life.。
And see, until you know that your Father in heaven is good,。
that He is the one that's not just。
has dominion forever and ever,。
that His word is true,。
until you know that His word is good,。
you're not going to listen to Him。
when you walk through the candy shop of life.。
I love 1 John 5, 3, where it says。
that this is the love of God,。
that we keep His commandments,。
and His commandments are not burdensome.。
It's one of the things that I love to tell my friends。
that are three decades behind me.。
I love to tell you, let me just say, guys,。
I have, by the grace of God, about your age,。
I started being on the alert and being sober-minded,。
in other words, clear thinking.。
I looked around.。
I saw a lot of the people that were still buying the lie。
that what feels good, you should do.。
And I started to look at what the word said about God,。
and not what I thought God was,。
was some father who was miserly。
and was trying to slap my hand。
when I reached for the good stuff.。
And I started to look at the word of God,。
and I saw that God wanted to set me free。
and give me life indeed,。
that He didn't come to oppress me.。
He came to lift me up.。
And it was the other one who I'd been following,。
and I had learned enough of these lessons already,。
and He'd been stealing my own sense of self-worth and purpose.。
He'd been killing my joy.。
And He'd been destroying my soul.。
And I believed that there was a God。
who was gonna give me grace.。
And then slowly, as I began to trust Him,。
has restored the glory in my life.。
And I'm just telling you,。
as somebody who's walked with Him now for three decades,。
I have never regretted letting my Father pick me up。
and walk through this life.。
What I thought I'd do with you guys tonight。
is help you know how to go to war,。
help you think through about truths about this enemy.。
I'm gonna give you seven of 'em.。
Are you ready?。
We're gonna move kinda quickly through 'em.。
But here are seven things。
that you need to know about the enemy,。
because his tactics are always the same.。
He's gonna challenge God's character.。
He's gonna challenge God's justice.。
He's gonna challenge his trustworthiness.。
And he's gonna get you to believe。
in your own little three-year-old eyes.。
(computer mouse clicking)。
First one.。
There is no secret about what's coming。
or who it is coming from.。
In John chapter eight, in verse 44,。
it says, "Your adversary, this one who roams around。
"like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour,。
"he is a liar.。
"He is the father of lies."。
That's what he does.。
And whenever God is there to sow truth and life into you,。
there's something else coming at you。
that's gonna say, "No, don't listen to him.。
"Satan is not creative.。
"Only God is creative.。
"All Satan does is reverse things."。
He's gonna tell you, "Don't believe truth.。
"Don't even believe there is truth.。
"Don't believe if somebody's got truth for you,。
"it's to set you free, it's to oppress you,。
"and to make you puritanical,。
"and to make you out of touch,。
"and to make you miss out on all the fun。
"that there is in this world."。
That's the lie.。
And he is a liar.。
Let me just show you in Matthew chapter 13,。
there's a story that you guys are probably familiar with.。
It's the story of a sower.。
And Jesus is telling a story。
about what happens in this life,。
that God in his grace has brought us people。
that are gonna go about sowing truth.。
And so watch, it says,。
"The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a man。
"who sowed good seed in his fields.。
"But while his men were sleeping,。
"his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat."。
And then he went away.。
You see, there's always gonna be people。
that are gonna try and sow truth and life。
and help towards you,。
but there's always an enemy who's sowing something else.。
Don't go there.。
Are you kidding me?。
You even believe there's a God?。
You believe God's good?。
You believe he's got your best interest in mind?。
See, for me, the longest time in my life,。
I thought, man, why would I wanna follow God?。
Because everything I've heard that God wants me to do,。
I don't wanna do.。
And everything I do wanna do, he says,。
"You can't do that."。
And look, I'm gonna tell you, some of that is true.。
But I'm like a three-year-old in a candy shop.。
And Kirby really didn't want to look up there.。
It hurt her neck to look back.。
She wanted the freedom to do whatever she wanted to do.。
And I gave her that freedom,。
just like God gives you that freedom.。
But how's it working out for you?。
And your father is just trying to tell you,。
hey, listen, don't be surprised.。
There's no secret about what's coming。
or who it's coming from.。
And so that's why you find things like this in Scripture.。
Don't be deceived.。
Don't walk in the way of the wicked.。
Don't stand in the path of sinners.。
Don't sit in the seat of scoffers.。
But delight yourself in the law of the Lord.。
And on that law, meditate day and night.。
Why?。
Why?。
So you'll be boring, out of touch,。
never have any fun.。
No, so you'll be like a tree。
firmly planted by streams of water。
that when everybody else is withering and looking for life,。
you bear your fruit in season and out of season.。
And whatever you do, you'll prosper.。
Have you paid attention?。
That's what God wants for you.。
I'm gonna tell you, there's no way。
that my life would look like it does。
if I was still grabbing what looked good to me.。
I'm gonna go home tonight, I've said this before,。
to a wife I've been married to coming up on three decades.。
Last night, all six of my kids, my son-in-law,。
my granddaughter were there.。
We hung out, friends I've had for 30 years came over.。
And we sat and we laughed.。
Our adult children wanted us to hang out with them.。
We played games, we jacked around.。
We had big steaks, we had losers, we had laughter,。
we ate ice cream, and we went to bed。
and we just go, man, this is good.。
You know what I wanted to do?。
I wanted to betray that wife.。
I wanna have affairs.。
I'm not a monogamous guy by nature.。
I'm polyamorous.。
I am self-destructive.。
And yet because of the kindness of God,。
he has taught me to be on the alert.。
Do you guys know that there's somebody。
who's just always sowing lies out there?。
I came across a study this week that just,。
it made me laugh, and I tweeted about it a little bit.。
I'm gonna show you a few of these tweets.。
There was a study that was done。
by a major institute in Israel.。
And listen, I don't know how much money they spent on it,。
but basically, the headline that was released last week。
said this, it said, "Israeli scientists, geneticists,。
"have determined that men are men and women are women."。
And I thought to myself, oh my gosh.。
It's amazing, science has figured that out?。
And then it went through and it discussed the fact。
that hey, you just can't tell that,。
you know, not only can you tell that in anatomy classes。
and in showers and in French paintings,。
you can actually see that when you go inside.。
They studied 20,000 different genes, they said,。
inside men and women, and they found out。
that over 33% of the genes in men。
and 33% of the genes in women are not just gender neutral,。
they are male, and they're only in men,。
and they're always in men, and they're only in men.。
And what they basically said is this is not。
a matter of choice, this is a matter of hard biological fact.。
Now listen, what was the reason they did this,。
I don't know, but have you noticed lately。
that people are starting to go, I'm not really sure。
we can say men are men and women are women.。
What's also very interesting about this is,。
what, for the longest time, have you heard,。
because you're a person of faith,。
that you are somehow anti-science?。
There is nothing in your faith that is anti-science.。
As I've said many times before,。
the Bible's not a science book,。
but it doesn't contradict science in any form or fashion.。
I can remember one time we were, as a family,。
we were actually up in British Columbia,。
we had an Australian waitress who was up there。
for the summer, and she was engaging with us as a family,。
and I actually, I started talking to her,。
and I said to her at one point, hey, do you have a faith?。
And she goes, no, I don't really have a faith,。
I guess, gosh, I do.。
She goes, I guess I have faith in science.。
And I had just been through this with my kids,。
and so I turned to my 13-year-old boy at the time,。
I said, hey, Kate, I go, tell her why。
we believe what we believe, and in fact,。
you know, we don't have faith in science,。
we have faith in God, that God has revealed himself。
in his word, and tell her why it's a good idea。
that the Bible is not a science book.。
And he was ready, he just looked, and she looked at him,。
she goes, yeah, why is it a good idea。
the Bible's not a science book?。
And he says, because a science book changes。
every two or three years.。
And she just stopped, and she goes, you know what?。
She goes, you're right.。
And I go, we've got a God who's not a liar,。
he's not a son of man that he should repent,。
and if he says it, it'll happen.。
And he loves us, and he's trying to keep us。
from having to figure out on its own,。
and so he pulls back the veil, and he reveals to us。
what we otherwise can't know in our selfishness。
and sinfulness and blindness.。
Your father loves you, you ought to get to know him.。
That's what philosophy, by the way, is.。
Philosophy is just men trying to figure out。
what God's already revealed.。
So anyway, there was this thing that was out there。
and released, and so I just started tweeting, you know,。
and I just said a few of these things.。
I said, listen, I'm officially predicting scientists。
in Springfield, Missouri, at Bass Pro Shop labs,。
will soon discover that fish prosper in water.。
And then I retweeted the article from the Israeli scientist.。
I said, also just in, elementary school science teachers。
stand firm that drinking water is good for humans.。
I put, breaking, dieticians confirm,。
while that Oreo is definitely better tasting with milk,。
they are not better for you than milk.。
And I linked to the other article.。
Also breaking, the National Association of Medicine。
confirms children not removed prematurely from the womb。
by Planned Parenthood live richer and fuller lives.。
And I just started putting these things that are out there.。
Okay, I said, by the way, physicists at MIT。
announced that inflated basketballs。
bounce better than deflated ones.。
And so I finally stopped, because like, get a life, dude.。
I mean, get over it, right?。
But my point is, is I just said, look,。
there's some things that are out there.。
Here's what's so crazy.。
Let me tell you what's going on with your generation.。
Don't you feel stupid sometimes when you go,。
well, listen, man, I mean, I don't hate people。
that have gender dysphoria at all,。
but I also don't wanna love 'em。
by sowing air into their life and telling 'em it's okay.。
I said here, very famously at the porch one night,。
I think Bruce Jenner was very courageous。
when he stood up and said, hey, I'm just not,。
I just, I'm confused.。
I think I wanna be a woman.。
That takes a lot of courage。
for somebody to raise their hand and go,。
man, I am tormented.。
Something's happened to me, things are happening in me.。
I look and I wanna grab feminine clothes.。
I wanna present as a woman.。
I wanna live as a woman.。
That takes a lot of courage.。
Bruce Jenner's problem was not that he confessed that.。
Bruce Jenner's problem was his church.。
Bruce Jenner's problem was that people didn't go,。
hey, Bruce, man, we love you, we're not afraid of that.。
There's some crazy stuff that goes through my mind,。
and not just through my mind, man.。
Let me tell you some stuff I've grabbed。
against all sound wisdom.。
But bro, when we do what seems right to us。
and we don't listen to the good father who made us,。
and it's why, what I was gonna say to you earlier。
is that people mock you for a long time。
because you're people of faith, not people of science,。
and now when science is saying, hey, listen,。
when God said he created us, male and female,。
he created us, he meant it,。
and science is saying, male and female, he created you,。
and we're going, well, science, science.。
What matters is how people feel, what they think.。
Have faith in humanity.。
I'm like, oh, no, no, because when we're humans,。
we grab stuff that only we can see,。
and we've got a loving father that wants to scoop us up.。
Do you guys get this?。
So guys, you've got an enemy,。
and you need to know something.。
There is no secret about what's coming。
or who it's coming from, and you better know。
you are at war for your soul.。
And God's not mad at you 'cause you've been grabbing.。
I wasn't mad at my three-year-old.。
I just go, sweetie, I love you, and you know what?。
I wouldn't, as a father who was very present in that moment,。
I would've maybe let her grab it。
if it was gonna be something, if it was like,。
I don't know, if it was cyanide, I would've said no.。
I know, I lied.。
You can't have the cyanide candy, right?。
Which begs the question,。
why is 7-Eleven selling cyanide candy?。
Which they weren't, okay?。
And so, but my point is, at some point, God just says,。
go, you can have it, you can take it,。
you can take that cyanide.。
In fact, you can buy the final lie。
'cause this is the greatest lie.。
This is why suicide's the greatest lie。
because when you live your life, your way long enough,。
you get so filled with despair, so filled with hate。
that you go, you know what I'll do?。
I'll just go to sleep forever.。
I'm still in control.。
But the greatest lie is that you go to sleep forever。
because death is not anything more。
than an eternally fixed beginning.。
It's appointed that men should die once,。
and after this comes judgment.。
And what the enemy wants to do is finalize the deal.。
He hates you.。
He resents the fact that he's gotta give you。
a thin layer of sugar.。
He just wants to see you die.。
And your father loves you, secondly.。
Not only is there no secret about what's coming。
or who it's coming from,。
there's no shame or sin in being tempted.。
I've kind of already alluded to this.。
You know, one of the things that,。
and I tell people all the time,。
is that I'm not gonna let you make me what I'll never be,。
which is a guy that isn't still very alive.。
The Bible talks about this fact.。
The Bible talks about the fact that if we say。
that we're not tempted, okay, or that we don't even sin,。
that we are liars.。
Let me just show you something.。
Watch this.。
This is Luke chapter four, verse one.。
Now watch this very closely with me.。
It says, "Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit,。
"returned from the Jordan and was led around。
"by the Spirit in the wilderness,。
"and then he was tempted for 40 days."。
So let's just review.。
Jesus was tempted, full of the Holy Spirit,。
being perfectly submissive to the Father.。
One of the things that sometimes happens。
in a crazy, sad way is that we start to go,。
gosh, man, I can't really tell people what I'm thinking.。
I can't tell people what I've done.。
I can't tell people what I'm thinking.。
I can't tell people what I want to do.。
That's the first thing you should do.。
You should walk in there and go, man,。
I love big red candy with flames on it.。
And so wisdom would just say, I'm not going in there。
until you pick me up.。
There is no shame or sin in being tempted.。
We have a high priest, Jesus.。
He was made to live as we live.。
We've got a God who doesn't just go,。
I wonder what it's like to be a human.。
I wonder what it's like to not know for sure。
or see all the heavenly world.。
See, he has been tempted, Hebrews 4:15.。
For we do not have a high priest。
who cannot sympathize with our weakness,。
but he has been tempted in every way as we have been.。
I would tell you he's been tempted beyond how we have been.。
Why do I mean that?。
Because you don't really know how strong temptation is。
if you keep giving into it.。
All of us have given into temptation.。
Jesus, in that little section there in Luke chapter four,。
Jesus went into the wilderness for 40 days.。
He didn't eat for 40 days.。
There was some supernatural provision for him to live。
that he could be tempted beyond。
what we can even think humans can experience.。
He knows what it's like to be tempted。
because he never relented.。
When the weight of temptation is put on most of us,。
we finally go, okay, okay, okay, I'll give in.。
Jesus never gave in.。
He never tapped out.。
He said, you crank it.。
You put that arm bar on me.。
You go, you rip it out.。
You just tear the ligaments.。
I am not going to give.。
That brother knows what it's like to be tempted,。
and he's not angry at you。
when you struggle in your temptation.。
He just wants to help you out.。
Thirdly, there's no such thing as a faithful man。
who ever surrenders to temptation.。
Now look, be very careful here.。
Notice I didn't say there's no such thing。
as a faithful man who doesn't sin.。
We all sin.。
We all need a savior.。
I love to tell people,。
saying that we shouldn't disobey God。
and sometimes disobeying God doesn't make us a hypocrite.。
It makes us human.。
Do you guys know every day I go to war,。
I can't believe that even though now for 30 years。
I've walked with Christ,。
even though I've grabbed atomic fireballs before。
and I've had them, I spit them out,。
I still am tempted by atomic fireballs in my life.。
And I'm not gonna let you make me a guy。
that has to act like I'm not tempted。
because when I act like I'm not tempted,。
I don't surround myself with mighty men and sisters。
who encourage me, Hebrews 3:13,。
day after day as long as it's still called today.。
I will become hardened by the deceitfulness of sin。
if I don't have you guys there to help me.。
And so I'm not gonna let you make me a pastor。
who somehow cleft out of the human experience, no.。
I have got to go to war just like you。
and be vigilant against sin just like you.。
And I want you to know something,。
there's no such thing as a faithful man。
who surrenders to temptation.。
Now watch this, hypocrites aren't people who say,。
you've gotta listen to God, you've gotta love God,。
and then sometimes sin.。
Hypocrites are people who go, this is what God says,。
this is right and this is true, except when I do it.。
Then it's not sin and I don't want you。
to really talk to me about it.。
We're not gonna go there.。
Hey, we'll talk about that guy's sin,。
we'll talk about that little 2% of the population's。
struggle with same-sex, you know, sin.。
We'll talk about the transgender people,。
which even a smaller percentage will say that's sin,。
but don't you talk to me about my pride, my arrogance,。
my body image infatuation, my lust for material things.。
Don't you talk to me about that stuff。
because I just wanna make more money。
so I can give more money.。
No, no, when you become an individual who says,。
I'm not gonna struggle with an area of my life。
that God wants to invade and that God wants to see。
conform to the image of his son, why?。
So he can give me what a man should have,。
which is a right and glorious life.。
God wants every area of my life to be such。
that when people look at me, they go,。
that's the way a man should love a woman,。
that's the way a dad should treat children,。
that's the way a friend should treat a friend,。
that's the way a man should conduct himself。
in holiness and honor.。
His speech, his conduct, his love, his faith,。
and his purity, that's the way a 23-year-old。
ought to live in Dallas, Texas.。
And not be sucked into the vortex。
of the atomic fireball of the Dallas way.。
That is a noble person.。
If more people were like that, this would be a better city.。
Not some guy who just swipes until he sees what he wants。
and runs after it.。
But a man who serves and loves and cherishes and honors,。
that's a man.。
Where you get in trouble is not when you screw up.。
When you screw up, you just go, oh my gosh,。
we gotta confess our sins to God。
so that we might be forgiven,。
and we confess to each other so we might be healed.。
There are some times I do some stuff。
and I just go, God, what in the world is wrong with me?。
And I don't go to some priest to get forgiveness.。
My high priest is in heaven.。
If we confess our sins, he, Jesus, is faithful and just。
to forgive us our sins and cleanse us。
from all unrighteousness, 1 John 1:9.。
And it says also, God, in James chapter five,。
confess your sins one to another.。
Every sin that I commit affects other people.。
And when I go to those people and go,。
I gotta acknowledge this is true.。
God lets me experience what he wants me to experience,。
which it says in Psalm three,。
that our Lord, our shield around me,。
you're my glory and the lifter of my head.。
And I can't tell you how many times my friends,。
my wife, my kids, go, hey, dad, we love you.。
Look, dad, come here.。
Yeah, you were just short right there.。
You were selfish right there.。
In that moment, you weren't tender.。
In that moment, you weren't kind.。
You're the one who taught us to memorize。
Proverbs three, three, and four.。
Don't let kindness or truth leave you.。
Bind it around your neck.。
Write it on the tablet of your heart。
'cause that's how you're gonna have favor。
with God and men.。
And dad, that wasn't kind,。
and it kinda made our family awkward,。
but come here, look, we love you, dad.。
And they're the lifter of my head.。
So here's the deal.。
When I just go, hey, I'm dad.。
Don't you ever tell me that I made a mistake.。
When I'm too prideful to let guys know。
that they can't come and sharpen me。
and make me a better man still, I'm in trouble.。
Don't surrender to sin in any area of your life,。
and don't be surprised when we all still struggle.。
Now let me just tell you something.。
That doesn't mean you date guys and marry guys。
or marry girls that are consistently surrendering to sin.。
No, you gotta let them become people that are faithful.。
I tell people all the time,。
don't marry somebody who's not already well married.。
What do I mean by that?。
I've been married for 30 years,。
and there's still times when I'm not gracious。
towards my wife in fleeting moments.。
Okay, but I'm not abusive.。
I don't rail on her, and I never did.。
If you've got a guy that's abusive,。
if you've got a guy that says he loves God,。
but he loves his flesh more,。
and so he drags you physically。
into a part of the relationship。
that you both know isn't good,。
and you rationalize and justify it,。
and go, that's not sin for us 'cause we love each other,。
and surely God understands.。
I wouldn't hold that guy's hand。
through the candy shop of life.。
I'd say, I love you, I'm not mad at you,。
but I'm not gonna yoke with you。
until you get well married to Jesus.。
That's what Jesus says to you.。
Because he loves you.。
Let that person grow and mature in their faith.。
So we all still struggle in sin in some way,。
but there's no such thing as a faithful man。
that surrenders to it, compromises it,。
or who walks away fourthly.。
There's no saint beyond falling or screwing up.。
I can remember, I have a friend,。
actually, what he does, he's a stand-up comedian,。
and he warms up audiences for live sitcoms.。
Big Bang Theory and whatever the shows are。
that folks are watching right now,。
those sitcoms that have live audiences,。
he'd be the guy that would come in and warm 'em up,。
but he's got this amazing bit。
where he walks through the Bible.。
He's an impersonator and a comedian,。
and he does different characters that you know。
from Hollywood and famous people。
that are different characters in the Bible,。
and he works his way through.。
The first time I was listening to him do this,。
one of the bits he did is he got to David,。
all right, this amazing David,。
and his bit was he stood up there,。
and he got to David, and I forget the voice he used,。
'cause the voice didn't matter, but it just made me laugh.。
He goes, "Lord God, maker of heaven and earth,。
"what is it, man, that you just take note of him?。
"You alone in great and worthy of praise.。
"I will sing of your loving kindness and justice。
"from the rising of the sun in the morning。
"until it's setting in the,。
"who is that woman taking a bath?"。
And it just cracked me up,。
and I was actually there when he was doing this live bit,。
and he looked at me, he goes,。
"Ah, the laughter of familiarity,"。
because that's the way I feel sometimes.。
I'm like, I'm this guy that just wants to love God。
and do God, I'm reading the Bible, you know?。
I'm doing weddings and whatever it is,。
and all of a sudden, thoughts cross my mind,。
I go, "Am I even saved?"。
And I'm just sitting here, and I just,。
listen, there is no saint who is beyond falling。
or screwing up, I tell you that,。
'cause the enemy's gonna accuse you,。
"You don't love God, why are you thinking that?。
"Why did you do that?"。
Answer, "Because in that moment,。
"I did not delight myself in the law of the Lord,。
"or on that law, meditate day and night."。
And when I don't do that,。
I am anything but a tree firmly planted by,。
you know, springs of water, I'm like a weed,。
weeds grow fast.。
And so, I'm just gonna tell you,。
this is why 1 Peter 5:8 says, "Be on the alert."。
You can't let that gun down for a minute,。
you're at war, and the enemy wants to take you out.。
And by the way, some of you guys don't feel very tempted,。
that's probably because the enemy's not really concerned。
about you, 'cause you're not doing much for the other side.。
And so, I'm just telling you, some of you guys,。
"I don't really struggle with temptation, Todd."。
Okay, well, there's a reason.。
Because you grab whatever has flames。
and looks attractive to you right in front.。
So, I would just tell you, you know,。
"The prudent sees evil," Proverbs 22 says,。
"and hides himself, but the naive go on。
"and are punished for it."。
First Corinthians chapter 10 talks about this,。
it says this in verse one, it says,。
"I don't want you to be unaware, brethren,。
"that our fathers were all under the cloud。
"and all passed through the sea."。
They were all baptized into Moses,。
in the cloud and in the sea.。
They saw this, they ate the same spiritual food,。
they drank the same spiritual drink,。
they were drinking from a spiritual rock。
which followed them, the rock was Christ.。
Nevertheless, "With most of them, God was not well pleased,。
"for they were laid low in the wilderness."。
Why?。
They happened as an example for us,。
that you can do really well for a long time。
and see all kinds of amazing things happen.。
But watch this.。
It says in verse seven, "The people sat down。
"to eat and drink and stood up to play.。
"At some point, despite all that they saw going on,。
"they stopped being vigilant."。
And all they did is eat and drink and play.。
In other words, they weren't putting on。
the helmet of salvation, the belt of truth,。
the breastplate of righteousness,。
they weren't shod in their feet in the gospel,。
standing firm in the goodness of God,。
that if he loved me and he gave himself for me,。
why wouldn't he give me every encouragement in life。
to how to live right?。
And they got lazy and they got licked.。
You just need to know there is no special cases.。
I mean, there's no one who's beyond messing up.。
Next one, there's no special cases.。
This is a big one.。
Sometimes the enemy wants you to go,。
oh, hey, well, no one has the background that you've got.。
No one's tempted the way you are, right?。
Well, first Corinthians 10, 13 says this,。
"No temptation has overtaken you,。
"but such as is common to man."。
And God is faithful.。
"And will not allow you to be tempted。
"beyond that which you are able,。
"and with the temptation will provide the way of escape。
"also so that you might be able to endure it."。
All of us have reasons why we think。
we don't have to be or can't be obedient.。
And what we all wanna do is just go,。
surely it's okay if I don't take。
God's admonition and warning seriously.。
Surely God's okay if I do this thing and he's not.。
Because just a little piece of candy。
is gonna burn your mouth。
and he doesn't like his little girl's mouth being burned.。
And so he's patient towards you.。
He's not always severe in his discipline towards you,。
but that's why sometimes you keep going back。
'cause you think you got away with it.。
That's what it says in the Bible,。
Ecclesiastes chapter eight, verse 11,。
"Because the sentence against an evil deed。
"is not executed quickly,。
"because some of you grab pieces of candy。
"with real thick layers of sweetness。
"and you keep going, this must not be a problem,。
"even though you know it's a problem,。
"you just keep going 'cause it hadn't got you yet,。
"you're not pregnant yet,。
"you don't have some disease yet.。
"And so you just keep going, you just keep going,。
"looking around, wondering why it's not a problem.。
"Because the sentence against an evil deed。
"is not executed quickly,。
"therefore the hearts of men among them。
"are given fully to do evil.。
"There is no special cases.。
"The wages of sin is death."。
It's coming.。
It's coming.。
Some of you guys are like the fool。
that jumped off a 100-story building,。
mocking the law of gravity.。
And you're filled with adrenaline,。
it's amazing scenery,。
people are filming you and posting on Instagram。
while you go flying down in your squirrel suit.。
But it's just a matter of time。
before the reality of gravity catches up with you.。
Some of us jump off two-story buildings。
and it's not long before we hit.。
Others of us have jumped off a real high building。
and all I'm gonna tell you is it's just a matter of time.。
Do not be deceived, God is not mocked.。
There is no special case.。
A man will reap what he sows.。
The enemy doesn't want you to believe it.。
Two more, one, there's no silver bullet.。
It's just common that we're looking。
for that one conference, that one message,。
that one place we can go,。
the one person we date, we marry,。
the community group that's perfect,。
the church that's just awesome,。
the podcast that will forever change our life,。
and you may as well try and eat such a big meal tonight。
you never hunger again.。
It's crazy.。
There is no silver bullet.。
In fact, when you think you've found it,。
you actually can be sure that you've lost it.。
And that is why we are called to be on the alert,。
to be sober in all things,。
and to not turn aside to myth.。
It is a daily battle.。
And we are to remain vigilant and on the alert。
and stand firm.。
Lastly, there's no sense in going at it alone, guys.。
You gotta make sure that you don't try。
and fight your adversary alone.。
That would be crazy.。
The scriptures are filled with admonition.。
It says two are better than one。
because they have a good return for the labor.。
If either of them falls, the other one。
will lift up his companion in Ecclesiastes chapter four.。
But woe to the one who falls。
and there's not another one there to pick him up.。
You gotta find friends that will sharpen you.。
You gotta find friends that will smite you in kindness.。
It's like oil upon your head.。
It refreshes you.。
There is no sense in going at it alone.。
In fact, it says in Proverbs 18, one,。
he who separates himself seeks his own desire.。
He quarrels against all sound wisdom.。
Remember what Ali did?。
Ali came to me and said,。
"Daddy, help me pick candy."。
Kirby said, "I'm gonna go my own way."。
There's just no sense in fighting alone.。
Navy SEALs know this.。
They're the most highly trained warriors in the world.。
They've got a motto.。
Two is one, one is none.。
And God did not create you to be an orphan.。
He made you to be a part of a family。
and a community that cares for you and loves you,。
that you can be encouraged day after day。
as long as it's called the day。
so you won't be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin.。
It's deceitful because it looks life-giving and it's not,。
and it's deceitful because you think。
you are gonna be able to manage it and you can't.。
We all say, okay, I'm gonna do this,。
but I'll never go there.。
There's a reason they're called gateway drugs。
because they're never enough and it won't be long before。
you're not just doing that, you're doing this。
because when you rely on something to satisfy you。
or give you ease or give you pleasure or to numb your pain,。
it won't numb it or pleasure you long enough。
and then you want more and the only one。
that you want more of is the God。
who is life from beginning to end,。
who gives grace upon grace.。
And he's not mad at you。
because you've grabbed some fireballs before.。
That's who I wanna end.。
It's not a seventh point about your adversary,。
it's just a truth and that is this,。
there is no such thing as a sinner so far gone。
that they're beyond help.。
I don't know what you've done before you got in here,。
but I know this, you're not dead.。
I mean, maybe you're spiritually dead,。
you haven't realized the goodness of God,。
but God wants to quicken you.。
He wants to rush into you with his spirit,。
which is the life giver.。
So far, the ultimate lie of the enemy,。
which is the way to deal with your pain。
and have all the 13 reasons why is to just end it。
and look like you're a hero。
because you were courageous enough to show the people。
how foolish they were out there.。
No, you're the fool because you've been listened to a liar。
who wants to steal, kill and destroy.。
And his ultimate goal is to not give you。
any other chance to get help.。
And there is a day, guys, when you're beyond help.。
God offers forgiveness to your repentance.。
He doesn't offer and promise tomorrow to procrastination.。
And there's often a second chance, but listen to me,。
there's always a last chance.。
But if you're here tonight, your last chance hasn't come.。
You've got a chance right now.。
And so there's no such thing as a sinner。
who's so far gone to beyond help.。
I don't care how many fireballs you've sucked on.。
I don't care how blistered your mouth is.。
He is the one who makes beauty from ashes.。
He is the one who takes your sin,。
though they're red as scarlet, and makes them white as snow.。
He is the one who is filled with love and kindness.。
He is slow to anger.。
All I wanted Kirby to do was to dig。
into the bag of Skittles with us.。
I want you to know I love you.。
I don't want you to waste your time,。
your mouth, or your nerve endings on sin.。
I want to heal you.。
I want to raise you to be a woman of glory and beauty。
who grabs things that are life-giving,。
and that's what your father wants for you.。
And so if you're here and you're buying the lie。
that God isn't filled with love。
and isn't full of good character and his word isn't true,。
you are not on the alert.。
In fact, you have been deceived.。
And if you're here and the enemy's telling you。
that whatever you've done is so awful and so bad。
that God doesn't love you still,。
you're not listening to the word of God.。
And I'm here to tell you he loves you.。
In the same way this dad loved that little three-year-old,。
your heavenly father loves you so much more.。
He wants to give you grace and glory.。
But you be on the alert.。
You be sober of spirit because tonight。
someone's gonna lie to you.。
I sowed truth in your life tonight.。
A lie's gonna come from your flesh,。
from what you watch on TV, the world,。
and from the enemy, the devil.。
You make sure you know the one who has dominion。
and who you will give an account to。
is your daddy who loves you.。
Listen to him.。
Father, thank you for my friends。
and for the way they graciously listen to me.。
Share with them what I have learned.。
Oh, would you give them the wisdom, Lord,。
just to be subject to me in this moment。
because I'm just sharing with them your heart.。
I don't want them to listen to me.。
I want them to listen to you.。
I want them to see your beauty and your goodness.。
I want them to know that you are a sun and a shield,。
that you give grace and you give glory,。
that in your right hand is fullness of joy。
and in your presence are pleasures forever.。
That's your words.。
And oh, Lord, thank you that you've shown me that it's true.。
Thank you that there's a bunch of my 20-something friends。
in this room that know it's true.。
And we just wanna say, listen to dad, man.。
He knows where life is.。
Let him pick you up.。
Don't swipe right.。
Get on your knees, submit to him。
because he will pick you up and he will restore to you。
the years the locusts have eaten.。
He will make you pure and holy again.。
Father, I thank you that you've restored taste buds。
in my mouth that I have burned with foolish choices.。
And I pray tonight there might be somebody here。
who learns of your goodness。
and others who knew it when they came in。
that will walk out of here more committed。
to holding your hand.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
