(gentle music)。
- All right, hello, friends in the room.。
Hello, friends of Fort Worth and in Houston。
and those tuning in around the country and the state.。
I'm gonna start with a question.。
Have you ever received bad advice about something?。
(laughs)。
Yeah, a lot of people have.。
I received bad advice related to wedding invitations.。
And since we're talking about adulting in this series,。
part of adulting is attending weddings。
and filling out wedding invitations.。
And so some of the bad advice that I received。
happened when I was 18 years old.。
It was really the first time。
that I'd ever received a wedding invitation.。
For me personally, I had friends that were getting married.。
I get this invitation.。
I'm in college at this point.。
I get the wedding invitation and I'm not really sure。
what I'm supposed to do with this thing.。
How do I fill it out?。
And if I don't fill it out,。
does that mean I for sure can't come?。
So I ask my roommate and he begins to,。
I explain, hey, what do I do with this?。
It says number of guests.。
What do I put there?。
And he says, look, you just fill it out.。
You say I'm coming or I'm not coming.。
And then in the number of guests,。
you put how many are coming.。
And I'm like, okay, so I just put the number。
of people that are gonna come.。
And I put in yes, coming or not coming.。
That's all that I do.。
Yes, that's all you do.。
It's really easy.。
Are you kidding me?。
I'm like, perfect, okay.。
So I put it down.。
And what I did not understand is that he was saying。
you only fill out the number of guests。
if they have told you you can bring another person.。
That's the only time that you say I'm bringing two.。
In other words, every wedding invitation that you receive。
is not just a chance for you to put in。
as many people as you would like to bring.。
I'm gonna write down eight or nine people.。
My little posse is gonna come with me to this wedding.。
And you're laughing now, but it only gets worse。
because I did not understand that.。
And so every wedding that I attended,。
based on that bad advice that I had been given,。
I would always bring a date with me。
because who likes to attend a wedding by themselves?。
Can I get an amen from a sister or brother?。
And so I would always bring a date with me。
to every single wedding I go to。
'cause it'd be like, how many number of guests?。
Of course I'm bringing two.。
Sometimes it would have one written already on there。
and I would cross it out and write two.。
(audience laughing)。
Oh my gosh, it's so terrible.。
But I would always bring someone with me.。
It wasn't until I got married and my wife was like,。
we can't just bring anyone to the wedding。
when she helped me fill out the intendant.。
But I didn't realize that this was the case.。
In fact, I cannot believe this actually happened.。
At one wedding, I brought two dates with me。
because I was like, yeah, come on, it's gonna be great.。
It's gonna be a party.。
You don't have anything going on, it'll be fine.。
We'll go.。
And I didn't understand that there was a certain process。
and I had received bad advice as it relates。
to kind of etiquette and the rules。
of bringing a date to a wedding.。
I don't know how many bridezillas I created。
from my decisions and how much I cost。
different fathers of the groom who were like,。
who the heck does this guy think he is?。
He's bringing three people to our wedding?。
What in the world?。
And my point in that story is that in following。
that bad advice, there were consequences。
that ended up costing others.。
That I followed bad advice and it led me to act。
in a certain way as it related to the wedding invitation。
and those actions for sure had consequences for sure。
at weddings where it's like $75 a head。
and I'm like, somebody's paying for this.。
It's gonna be great.。
It's ending up costing someone because of my decisions.。
All because of bad advice I'd received.。
And the reason I start there is because tonight,。
we're gonna talk about a topic that I think。
if there's any topic that touches all of us。
across the board, it's this one.。
It's a topic we're all interested in。
and it's also a topic that every one of us。
has received bad advice in.。
And it's the topic of relationships.。
As we continue the series on adulting。
and what it looks like to step into having。
adult or mature, non-childish relationships,。
all of us as we've grown up have received some bad advice。
from different mediums of culture。
or just different voices in our life。
who have given us some really, really bad advice.。
That unlike a wedding where it's just,。
oh, it costs some other random guy we don't know $75.。
If we follow the bad advice from the world around us。
as it relates to dating, the consequences。
are more costly to us and more costly。
to all those in our path.。
And really have a potential to create catastrophic pain。
in your life and in my life.。
So we're gonna explore what some of those。
bad advice topics are.。
You and I have received bad advice from mediums,。
honestly, that don't even seem that bad.。
Probably if you're like me and you were a child。
in the 90s, from very early on, you grew up。
hearing bad advice or given a picture。
that didn't always include good advice.。
You were given a picture of what a relationship,。
dating, all that stuff looked like,。
whether it was in TV through Corey and Topanga。
or Zach Morris and Kelly Kapowski。
to Ross and Rachel and Crazy Joey。
or the movies that we watched with The Notebook。
and How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days。
or Titanic Off the Edge of the Boat。
or whatever it was, we were given this picture。
of what love and dating and relationships。
were supposed to look like and we were also。
given some really bad advice.。
Or the songs that you and I grew up listening to.。
Not only the days of Hanson marked our childhood。
but also that of NSYNC and of Usher and Boys II Men。
and all these different expressions。
that sent a clear message about dating,。
about romance, about relationships,。
many of them with a message that was full。
of horrible advice.。
And so what does it look like to leave。
the ways of childhood behind and become adult。
as a relationship?。
It starts with removing the bad advice。
that you and I have received from the world around us。
and aligning ourselves with what God's word。
has to say as it relates to those bad advice.。
So we're gonna look at seven pieces of bad advice.。
This is gonna be an unusual night.。
Normally, we'll just take one passage of scripture,。
we'll break it down and talk through it.。
Tonight, we're gonna look at seven different。
pieces of advice that really, I think all of us。
at some point have heard the message。
of these bad pieces of advice。
and what God's word has to say about them.。
So here we go, we're gonna dive in。
and let me say one last thing.。
I think it's clear that the advice that we've received。
from the world around us is not helping, it's hurting.。
The marriage rate is in decline like never before.。
A few years ago, a couple decades ago,。
seven out of 10 of you were married by this point。
in their 20s.。
Today, two out of 10 will marry in their 20s.。
Marriage is declined as people less and less trust。
even the institution of marriage.。
You know, today, this came up from Business Insider。
in May of 2014.。
You will spend, the average person will spend。
more years single and alone than married.。
For the first time in the history of our nation,。
the average person due to delay in marriage,。
due to divorce, you wait till you're 30,。
you get married and then you divorce 10 years later。
and then you're single for another decade,。
due to delay in marriage, divorce and death,。
you and I will spend more years alone than married.。
It's never been that way in the history of our nation。
and it is the current reality we're a part of.。
It's clear there's a problem.。
The divorce rate is one out of every two marriages。
ends in divorce.。
It's clear the advice that the world around us。
has given us is not good advice,。
but God has, in the midst of a world that speaks。
such terrible advice, given us clear instructions。
on how you and I can experience the relationship。
that I think all of us long for and desire to be a part of。
if he brings that person into our life.。
So we're gonna look at seven pieces of bad advice。
or bad ideas that have really been a part。
of all of our upbringing.。
The first idea is that appearance trumps all.。
That appearance trumps all.。
The first piece of bad advice is that appearance trumps all.。
We live in a world that says,。
hey, the most important thing is physical attraction.。
I think most of us wouldn't say,。
yeah, appearance trumps all.。
I agree with that.。
We would say it in a less shallow way。
so that we feel better about ourselves.。
We're like, look, if I'm not attracted,。
it is a deal breaker, okay?。
Wouldn't we?。
We'd all say, look, I have to be physically attracted。
to someone.。
I'm not saying that's right or wrong.。
I'm just saying that that idea of, hey,。
appearance trumps all is connected to that.。
In other words, we're willing to give a little wiggle room。
on anything other than attraction.。
You think about that?。
Like if their character's not great,。
we're like, we're gonna work with them.。
I'm gonna be there and coach them along.。
If they, even if it's like they don't speak English,。
we're like, we'll get Rosetta Stone.。
It's okay, she's a babe.。
Oh man, it's gonna be great.。
She can learn English.。
Salsa, spicy, I love it, ah.。
So wrong.。
That's not in my notes, I apologize.。
We live in a world where the message is,。
hey, appearance trumps all.。
Even Tinder, think about Tinder.。
Tinder is the, Tinder has taken all the other dating。
online apps thing and really it's gone like,。
look, we don't care what you believe, where you work,。
any of that stuff.。
Are you hot or not?。
Because we're gonna go left or right based on that.。
It promotes, love at first sight is a myth。
that is connected to appearance trumps all.。
Like in other words, no one is ever, hey, I fell in love。
and it wasn't because physically you were beautiful.。
You've never, I wrote this down in my notes,。
I've never heard the story of, hey, here's how I met her.。
The first time I saw her, she was serving the homeless。
and I was like, wow, I am not at all physically。
attracted to you, but I must meet this Mother Teresa。
and see if she would like to mother some Teresas。
of her own.。
(audience laughing)。
It's never happened.。
It's all connected to appearance.。
That's the only thing, love at first sight is really,。
hey, I thought she was hot or I thought he was hot。
and that's what I mean by that.。
That is a myth.。
Appearance trumps all and here's the reality.。
Appearance, oh my gosh.。
That also was not really in my notes, okay.。
Appearance is a depreciating asset.。
It is one of the few things that if you bank。
and put all your stock and date someone。
because of the way that they look,。
it is one of the few things that is for sure leaving.。
Ever think about that?。
Like gravity is gonna win that fight with all of us.。
It is you putting all your stock in something。
that for sure is gonna depreciate.。
This idea of why it's such bad advice to put all。
of your stock in appearance or appearance trumping all。
is really nothing new.。
There was a guy in the Bible whose name was King Lemuel.。
He was a king in Israel's history and he wrote out。
some words that his mom had given him.。
This king inside of the Bible,。
we're gonna look at his proverb that he writes here。
in a second but it's basically a proverb。
where his mom said, "Hey, King Lemuel, I want you to sit down。
"I got some advice.。
"You're gonna look for a lady someday and I want you。
"to make sure that you do not get led astray。
"by a salty, spicy girl but you look for someone。
"who has a certain characteristic in their life.。
"That you're not led away by just beauty。
"or their external appearance."。
And he writes down and writes, this is some of the words。
that my mom passed on to me.。
This is what it says, Proverbs 31 in verse one.。
"The sayings of King Lemuel."。
An inspired utterance his mother taught him.。
He'd go to verse 10.。
"A wife of noble character who can find.。
"She is worth far more than rubies."。
In other words, he writes out this song and says,。
"Oh, this is what my mom taught me.。
"I am to look, when I look around and I try to find。
"a potential spouse, a potential mate that I'm gonna live。
"this life with, what I'm to look for and what is most。
"valuable in a person has nothing to do。
"with their external appearance or their physical。
"characteristics but with their character.。
"My mama told me I'm to look after someone。
"that doesn't just have physical characteristics。
"that I like and she looks a certain way。
"or he looks a certain way, but it is character。
"over physical characteristics that matters most."。
That in other words, long before Justin Bieber came along。
and gave us the love yourself, it was King Lemuel's mama。
who said, "If you ain't got character,。
"my mama don't like you and she likes everyone."。
(audience laughing)。
Straight from his mama, King Lemuel said,。
"Look for, hey, baby boy, I want you to look for a girl。
"who has character, if you're a girl or a guy,。
"the rule applies for all of us.。
"That is you look for a spouse, physical appearance。
"is one of the few things that is for sure fleeting。
"and is going to be out of here.。
"Look for physical characteristics, not character."。
All right, second bad idea, second bad idea is,。
hey, in dating someone, you want to leave。
a little bit of mystery, right?。
You want to create a little confusion,。
you want to leave them wanting more,。
you got to play the game.。
And you want to make sure if they text you,。
you don't text back a little bit,。
you wait at least twice as long before you text back。
to show them who's boss.。
I'm gonna drive to see right here.。
You play the game that you leave a little mystery,。
create a little confusion, leave them wondering,。
leave them wanting.。
This is horrible advice, especially for Christ followers.。
And it's advice that honestly, you cannot live out。
some of the commands in scripture if you follow,。
particularly for the guys in the room。
and also for the girls in the room,。
if you are all about playing games.。
Here's what 1 Corinthians 13 says as it relates。
to why we are to put aside this innate,。
whatever it is inside of us that's like,。
I'm just gonna play the game.。
Maybe it's a desire for control,。
or maybe it's fear of rejection,。
or I don't know what it is,。
but it's definitely not loving,。
and it's self-seeking or selfish.。
In 1 Corinthians 13, that most famous description。
of what is love, what does it look like。
to care and love someone, it lays out that if you。
at any point act in a self-seeking way,。
you can be sure you're not acting in love.。
It says this about love in verse five of chapter 13。
of 1 Corinthians.。
Love does not dishonor others.。
It is not self-seeking.。
It is not easily angered and it keeps no record of wrongs,。
that love is not self-seeking.。
Whatever self-focused desire, I'm gonna play the game,。
I'm gonna keep 'em wound around my finger, is not loving.。
And as Christ followers, you and I are to not leave。
a little mystery or create confusion.。
In fact, for especially the guys in the room,。
one of the key characteristics of what leadership is。
is you remove confusion at any point.。
One of the more loving and less self-seeking things。
that you could do is say, I'm going to remove confusion。
in this relationship at every point along the way.。
There will be no friendationships.。
You're never gonna be wondering what's going on with me,。
what's going on with her.。
From beginning to end, I'm going to remove confusion.。
When I ask you on a date, it won't be like,。
hey, you wanna hang out?。
I got this, you know, pass to Six Flags, you wanna come?。
I don't know where that date came from,。
but it won't be that.。
It will be, I would like to take you on a date.。
I'm gonna look you in the eye.。
I'm not gonna text you or use a medium。
that I could ask someone out and include an emoji.。
Think about that.。
That's probably not the best context。
in which you ask someone out.。
I'm gonna look you in the eye.。
I'm gonna call you.。
I'm gonna have a conversation.。
I would like to take you out on a date.。
I'm gonna remove any confusion of what this is。
along the way.。
As we date, I'm going to remove any confusion。
of where you stand and where I stand。
and where this is headed.。
I'm gonna remove any confusion from that relationship。
because that is most loving.。
And yes, it will be less like, oh, it's mysterious,。
and I kinda like mysterious.。
Mysterious now turns into shady later, I promise you.。
You do not want mysterious.。
What you want is someone,。
especially if you're a lady looking for a guy。
who will remove confusion from beginning to end.。
When the relationship comes to an end,。
they're gonna sit down and say,。
"I think this relationship should end."。
Guy and girl.。
And girls, you have a responsibility as well。
to remove confusion.。
If you don't wanna go on a date,。
you say, "I don't wanna go on a date."。
You don't just be like, "Oh, plans keep coming up."。
And you say yes originally,。
and then you just keep canceling.。
You say no.。
You remove confusion because love is not self-seeking.。
It is other-focused.。
I don't know why I wrote this,。
but for followers of Christ,。
it is don't hate the player, hate the game.。
It is don't date the player, and don't play games。
for all of us in the room who love Jesus and know him.。
Third piece of bad advice。
is that you and I are to search for the best.。
I don't think anyone thinks of it this way,。
but this is a relatively new idea。
that I think has really permeated all of our thinking.。
We live in a world where the internet has changed the game。
and it's changed decision-making.。
Here's what I mean.。
Everything that I do,。
I'm constantly searching for the best experience。
or the best product or the best purchase or whatever it is.。
When I go to a restaurant, I go to Yelp.。
I'm like, "Best Mexican food, place in town, filter.。
"Which one's number one?"。
When I get to the restaurant, I look at best appetizers.。
I look at which one of me read the tips,。
and I look for the best.。
I'm not gonna settle for second best.。
I want the best.。
When I go to Amazon,。
I spend eight hours researching a coffee grinder。
versus old days of just going to,。
I don't know where they sell coffee grinders.。
And Bed, Bath, and Beyond, wherever they sell them.。
And I spend hours and hours researching。
because I want the best.。
TripAdvisor, I'm not gonna settle for any mediocre hotel.。
I want the best.。
Rotten Tomatoes, we live in a world that constantly,。
the internet has not only given us the opportunity。
to experience the best,。
it produces the idea that the best is possible.。
And so of course, this has bled into the way。
that many of us, I would say most of us,。
think about dating.。
Like we are constantly looking for the best out there.。
I'm not a quitter, I'm an American.。
I wanna find the best person for me in the entire world.。
That's what I'm gonna do.。
I'm gonna search out and find the best.。
Here's why that is a bad idea.。
You will never find the best person for you.。
I mean, it is literally impossible.。
What do I mean by that?。
If you took all the people just in our country,。
if you're like, I'm gonna find the best person。
in the world for me, you will not find them.。
It would take you more years than you have.。
If you took just the people in America,。
give or take a couple years on your side。
of the opposite gender,。
and you lined all of them up for a speed dating,。
and you went through all of them to determine,。
'cause the only way to know if something's the best。
is to go through all of them,。
and you went through each one for one minute a piece,。
you would spend 167 years looking through。
and working through, is this the best person?。
It is literally impossible.。
You'll never get there.。
That's why some of you are,。
I don't know if I should even say that.。
That's why some people out there end up waiting。
until they're 45 still looking for the best,。
and all the options pass them by.。
If you search for the best out there,。
you will never find it.。
But God has given us a solution。
that we are not called to look for the best option possible,。
but to look for God's best.。
That is your best chance,。
or best advice as it relates to this point.。
You are to look for God's best.。
What is God's best?。
Is that you would look for someone who loves Christ。
and is committed to him more than he's committed to you。
and your dating relationship.。
If you find that person, pursue them and marry them.。
That is the best that you're gonna get.。
And the other one will never happen.。
It is literally impossible.。
If you just go and take the mentality,。
I'm gonna search for the best.。
But what is possible is to find what God,。
the creator of the heavens and the earth,。
who designed marriage, who designed you,。
who designed all of life, what he says is best,。
and has asked all of us to trust him.。
Hey, this is what really is best.。
And if you try to find man's best, you'll never get there.。
All right, next piece of advice.。
Number four, make sure you are sexually compatible.。
That's a zinger, how about that?。
Make sure that you are sexually compatible.。
You've probably heard this.。
Hey, this is why you wanna try before you buy.。
You wanna make sure you test things out,。
make sure expectations are on the same page.。
Make sure that you guys, you know,。
things work together in that arena.。
That's a big part of marriage.。
You don't wanna go in flying blind.。
Let me remove any question of sexual compatibility.。
How do you know if someone's sexually compatible?。
If you are a man and they are a woman,。
you are sexually compatible.。
(audience laughing)。
I mean, I don't mean,。
but I really want you to think about that.。
I don't wanna be crude, but if you have a penis。
and they have a vagina, #adulting message,。
then you are sexually compatible.。
Every girl in this room is sexually compatible。
with every guy in this room, it's true.。
And so this idea of like, hey, I need to find sexually,。
someone who's sexually compatible is a myth.。
And honestly, it's bad advice.。
And here's why it's bad advice.。
And man, I want you guys to get this so bad.。
Because that's based on the premise。
that you can take sex outside of marriage,。
where it was created and intended to be placed。
and experienced and not have pain, not have consequences.。
That you can take this action。
outside of the context of marriage。
and it will not create pain and destruction。
inside of your life.。
From a culture around this, sex is just physical.。
That's why you should experiment and try it out.。
The reality is sex is powerful.。
God created it and made it and designed it。
so that it would be placed in the context of marriage.。
And the sexually compatible idea is so dangerous。
and such bad advice because it takes that idea of sex。
and it places it outside of the context it was created for.。
And it is wreaking havoc all over our land,。
all over our country.。
Sex is powerful.。
There's no question there.。
The apostle Paul says this as it relates to sexual sin。
and why it uniquely affects people,。
different than other sins.。
Why when people come down front and they're like,。
I need to tell you something I've never told anyone before.。
And they pull you aside, I know what's coming next.。
It's always sexual sin.。
It's never like when I was 15,。
I went to this dance with this girl and I got wasted。
and I've just been carrying shame.。
It's always sexual sin because it's powerful.。
The apostle Paul explains why this is。
in 1 Corinthians 6, verse 16 and 18.。
It says this.。
He's writing to this group of men。
who were going to have sex with prostitutes.。
And it'd be like men in our culture who's like,。
hey, I have a high sex drive.。
I gotta look at porn and masturbate.。
He's writing to them who are going to have sex。
with prostitutes 'cause they're like,。
I have a high sex drive.。
And he's going, that is crazy.。
You are doing something damaging to yourself uniquely.。
He says this, verse 16.。
"Don't you realize when a man joins himself。
"with a prostitute, he becomes one body with her.。
"For the scriptures say the two are united。
"or glued into one when they have sex.。
"Run from sexual sin," verse 18.。
No other sin so clearly affects the body as this one does.。
No, for sexual immorality is a sin against your own body.。
Sexual sin in a unique category, Paul says,。
is like no other sin.。
And when you take it outside of marriage。
and you just play around with this thing,。
you're playing with fire and you're going to get hurt.。
It was created and it's this powerful gift。
from God who is very pro-sex.。
He is all about sex.。
There wasn't sex, God made sex.。
Think about that.。
To say God is anti-sex or a prude。
is like saying that Steve Jobs,。
who made the iPhone, was anti-iPhone.。
That is lunacy, that's crazy.。
God is very pro-sex.。
And because he's also pro-you。
and knows how sex works best,。
he said, "I design this to be something。
"that is experienced in the marriage context。
"where permanently two people are joined together,。
"where there's no fear of it being ripped apart,。
"but permanently it's this bonding agent。
"that I've given to man.。
"And if you take it outside of marriage,。
"it will always bring pain.。
"It is like fire."。
Like we've said before, a fireplace.。
I love fire in the fireplace.。
It's awesome, crackling wood.。
It's great.。
Inside of that context,。
fire ravaging through your house is not great.。
In the same way, sex inside of marriage。
is the context for which it was created and is great.。
Sex outside of that is like a fire。
moving through the home.。
It is just dangerous, will only create more damage.。
And God who loves you and me。
has given that gift to be for that specific context.。
He's not angry at you, but it's powerful.。
And your own experience has seen this.。
And the pain that you look back on sexual experiences。
with different people, with different partners,。
that first person, why is it that sticks with you?。
'Cause sex is powerful.。
And God has placed it.。
Sexual compatibility is a lie。
that will lead you down a painful path of destruction.。
All right, moving on.。
Next one.。
My past defines me.。
Another bad idea of dating advice,。
that my past defines me.。
In other words, my past disqualifies me from God's best.。
I have done sexual sin.。
I've done things that in my past,。
and they disqualify me from God's best.。
There are, I know people in this room。
who think, man, I have done too much.。
A godly man or a godly woman could never love me.。
Like I'm used up, I'm used goods.。
A godly man, I mean, that just doesn't work.。
All this stuff you guys talk about,。
of course that's nice, but you don't know what I've done.。
And so because of what I've done,。
a godly guy who actually lives by all this,。
he's not gonna want a girl like me.。
Or a godly girl who lives by this,。
she's not gonna want a guy like me.。
And that is a lie.。
This one is personal for me.。
I have a sister who I have had long conversations with,。
who is a believer in Christ,。
but has made decisions, she's a single mother of two.。
And as we even discuss about the porch,。
she would say, hey, those guys are not going to like me.。
They're not gonna wanna date a girl like me.。
And I tell her what I would say to you if you're there,。
you have fallen for a lie.。
A godly man will see you like Christ sees you,。
which is not condemned.。
How did Christ see women who had sexual sin in their past,。
or men who had sexual sin in their past?。
The clearest picture we have in scripture is in John 8,。
and one of my favorite stories of Jesus in the entire Bible,。
where Jesus is teaching on the temple,。
and all of a sudden this woman who had a sexual past。
is thrown in front of him.。
He was in a sexual past of like five minutes ago,。
had done sexual acts that you would think would condemn her.。
In fact, she's thrown in front of him,。
and these Pharisees who dragged her there。
begin to say, Jesus, the law says about this woman。
who we just caught having sex with another man's wife,。
or with another wife's husband,。
with a guy who was not her husband.。
(audience laughing)。
(laughing)。
Woo, okay.。
Didn't sleep a lot last night.。
All right, the law says about this woman。
who had just been caught having sex。
with a man who wasn't her husband.。
They drag her and throw her in front of Jesus.。
They said, the law says she should be killed.。
They begin calling for the death penalty in this crowd,。
and Jesus bends over and begins writing in the dirt,。
and we're not even told what he writes,。
and at some point he pauses and he looks up。
to this group of men calling for the death penalty。
on this woman who had a sexual past,。
and what does the Son of God say?。
Perfect righteousness.。
What is he gonna do?。
He looks at the crowd and he says,。
let the man who has not sinned throw the first stone,。
and then he goes back to writing,。
and it says, one by one, from the oldest to the youngest,。
they all walked away 'til it's just Jesus and the woman,。
and he looks at her and he bends over near this woman,。
and he says, where are your accusers?。
Does no one condemn you?。
The perfect Son of God, perfect righteousness,。
looks at her, and she responds with, no one, Lord.。
They've all left, and he says, neither do I condemn you.。
I do not condone what you have done,。
but you are looking at perfect righteousness,。
God in a bod, six foot perfection in sandals,。
staring at you, and you are not condemned,。
and I don't even know if I should joke like that,。
because I really wanna make sure you hear this.。
If that's your story and that's where you are,。
and you're going, can God love me?。
I look at my sexual past, does God love me?。
You can see from the story of that and so many others。
that when he looks at you,。
though he may not condone your past, he does not condemn it,。
and if you find a godly man,。
he will not look at your past and go, I could not marry you.。
That's not a godly man.。
A godly man sees like Jesus sees,。
and a godly man who says, I wouldn't marry a girl。
who has a past like that, or a godly girl who says,。
I wouldn't marry a guy who has a past like that.。
That's not a godly girl or a godly guy,。
and they don't see like Christ sees,。
and they don't look like Christ looks in that scenario.。
That your past does not define you.。
If you're a follower of Jesus,。
Christ has redefined your past,。
and through him, he is redefining your future,。
and if you follow this bad advice,。
it will do what it's done to so many,。
and it will push you into relationships,。
dating men or dating women,。
because you're like, look, a godly guy couldn't,。
this is the best I can do,。
and then you're gonna have sex with that person,。
'cause it's the best you can do,。
and to have a relationship with that kind of person,。
you gotta just have sex all the time,。
and God looks and says, your past does not disqualify you,。
and a godly man will see like Christ sees,。
and see you like Christ sees, and a godly woman.。
All right, moving on.。
Number six, bad idea or bad advice。
as it relates to relationships is this,。
and they lived happily ever after.。
This could end every single romantic comedy,。
or every single fairy tale that's ever lived,。
and I think why we even laugh at that。
is because we know this is not true, right?。
Like we know that the myth。
that if I marry the right person,。
everything will be great,。
and we will ride off into the sunset together.。
We just know it's like, that's ludicrous.。
If you marry any person,。
you're gonna ride off into the sunset having conflict,。
and having to work through it together.。
That's the reality, that there is no,。
and they lived happily ever after,。
that it just came easy because they found the right person.。
No matter who you marry, you are marrying a sinner,。
and it's gonna take work.。
Even in choosing who to marry,。
you're just choosing someone。
you're gonna have conflict with,。
choosing someone who you are gonna have to die to yourself,。
and decide to do what would best honor and care for them.。
That's what marriage is,。
that it is no happily ever after.。
In fact, marriage actually promises us,。
it's one of the few promises we have about marriage.。
Paul in 1 Corinthians 7, he promises,。
look guys, I just wanna hit time out.。
As you move towards marriage,。
here's something you need to know.。
It's a promise.。
You gonna have trouble, girl and guy.。
It's gonna be there, it's promised.。
1 Corinthians 7 says this.。
Those who marry will face many troubles in this life,。
and I wanna spare you of this.。
One of the pictures it gives for marriage。
is not this happily ever after and everything was easy.。
It says it's like a refining fire,。
which God makes you more holy through.。
Think about that.。
That's the process of marriage.。
It's a process by which God just doesn't make you happy,。
although it does bring happiness,。
but it's about holiness,。
and through which God makes you more and more like Christ.。
There is no happily ever after.。
You're choosing and marrying a sinner,。
which you will choose to sacrifice for, serve, love,。
seek forgiveness from, and submit to,。
and they are to do the same with you.。
Final bad idea or advice is this, number seven.。
Let your heart lead you.。
Listen to what your heart is telling you.。
Your heart will direct you and guide you.。
How many of us have heard this before,。
from either a parent or from a grandparent,。
or from a friend, or just from the TV show friends?。
Whatever it is, we've all heard this idea。
of like let your heart guide and lead you.。
I don't know if there's a more destructive piece。
of bad advice on this entire list,。
maybe sexual sin than that piece right there.。
Like our world around us is screaming,。
hey, do what feels right.。
Do whatever is good for you.。
Look, nobody can tell you what to do.。
You do you, girl.。
You do you, boy.。
You do whatever is right for you.。
Nobody can tell you what's right and what's wrong.。
Can we all just agree,。
the more you and I do whatever we feel like,。
whenever I feel like doing it,。
with whoever I feel like doing it,。
the more pain I create, the more damage is caused,。
and the more empty I feel.。
Like is it any wonder when this message。
is everywhere in our world?。
Okay, do whatever your heart leads you to do.。
Why, things like pornography are out of control.。
Divorce, out of control.。
Infidelity, out of control.。
Rape is out of control because people doing,。
this is kind of what I feel like doing.。
I'm gonna do me, out of control.。
It's more common to be raped than to be a smoker.。
How tragic is that?。
Our debt problem, out of control.。
But you and I, if you take the advice of,。
hey, listen to your heart,。
just do whatever your heart leads you to,。
here's what the scripture says about your heart.。
Your heart, Jeremiah 17, nine says this.。
Your heart is deceitful above all things.。
In your life, the least thing。
that you should trust is your heart.。
That in your life, above everything else is your heart.。
It has the ability to deceive, to convince you,。
yes, this is what you should do.。
Yes, hey, God wants you to be happy, right?。
That's the kind of lie that the heart feeds.。
And the world around us is screaming,。
hey, just follow your heart and it's not working.。
And tragically, like here's the dichotomy。
that I think is so sad.。
Every once in a while, we see examples。
of how this lie is just not working.。
And we can all agree, we can all see if we're honest.。
It's not working to just follow your heart,。
do whatever feels right.。
And every once in a while, you and I get a glimpse。
from a culture, from Hollywood,。
from different things in our world where we see,。
oh my gosh, when you do what you just want to do,。
or when everyone does whatever they feel like doing,。
someone's going to get hurt and it's going to lead to pain.。
And every once in a while, we're able to see。
that both the same world that screams out,。
hey, just do whatever you feel like doing。
is the same world that's gonna weep with you alongside。
when they see how painful the decisions。
of people who doing whatever they feel like doing。
end up creating in the lives of those nearest to them.。
There was a picture of this this past week。
that I think was one of the more clear ones。
I've seen recently from Kelly Clarkson on American Idol.。
If you saw that clip or you saw the news,。
you know what I'm talking about, where she basically,。
and we're gonna see a clip of it here in a second,。
but basically she writes this song。
and she goes on American Idol, which is,。
if you don't know American Idol,。
what am I explaining American Idol, seriously?。
And she was the winner of the first season.。
She's an artist and she came on for the last season,。
which is this year, and they brought her on。
to sing a song that she'd written.。
It's a song she wrote that laid out。
how her father had walked out,。
had followed his heart to unfaithfulness。
and abandoned his mother, or abandoned her and her mother,。
had created all kind of pain in her life。
and his decisions, him doing him,。
had caused all kinds of pain in her life。
and how piece by piece she is learning。
to trust a man again through her new husband。
or through her husband, that it is possible。
for a man to stay, it is possible for someone。
to not just listen to their heart and do what they want,。
but to say, I'm going to die to my wants。
and put your wants ahead of my own, that it is possible.。
Here's the clip that gives us the perfect picture。
of that dichotomy.。
♪ In the dark peace I fell far from the tree ♪。
♪ I will never leave her like you left me ♪。
♪ And she will never have to wonder her worth ♪。
♪ Because unlike you I'm gonna put her first ♪。
♪ And you know he'll never walk away ♪。
♪ He'll never walk away ♪。
♪ He'll never break her heart ♪。
♪ He'll take care of things ♪。
♪ He'll love her through piece by piece ♪。
♪ He'll restore my faith ♪。
♪ Sorry ♪。
♪ That a man can be kind ♪。
♪ And a father should be great ♪。
(gentle music)。
♪ Piece by piece ♪。
(audience cheering)。
- Here's where I show that.。
All that that shows is that the idea。
that you and I can just do whatever feels good。
at any point and not have consequences,。
that it not create pain is insane.。
And in a picture like that and in so many other ones,。
you see it when all of a sudden,。
everyone in the world's cultural leaders,。
Keith Urban, J-Lo, are all now weeping。
because of the decision someone made。
in following whatever felt good for them。
and the pain that it created in someone's life.。
And why I think that's so important and so powerful。
as it relates to marriage and dating。
is inside of the context of your dating relationship,。
inside of the context of pursuing a marriage。
where you will be faithful,。
or you are going to stay even when it's hard,。
where you're gonna care, you won't walk away,。
where you are going to self-sacrifice。
and be someone who says,。
"I'm not gonna do what feels good for me.。
"I'm gonna lay those things down because I love you."。
Who's gonna teach people to live that way?。
Who's gonna teach people to not do whatever they feel like,。
not do what just feels good?。
Who?。
Is it the culture around us?。
Like, who's gonna actually keep that message?。
Or who's gonna teach husbands to stay?。
Is it Hollywood?。
You really think Hollywood's gonna teach?。
Hollywood only screams the message,。
"You do what feels good."。
Is it the government?。
I really want you to think about it.。
Who's gonna teach men to be faithful?。
Who's gonna teach husbands to love their wife,。
to lay down their life for her?。
Who's gonna teach wives to do the same for their husband?。
Who's gonna teach men to not give themselves over。
to drug addiction or alcohol addiction or workaholism。
or have an affair with the secretary?。
Who's gonna teach it?。
Hollywood?。
The government?。
The government is amazing.。
The government's not gonna teach that.。
They're gonna teach, "Hey, have safe sex,。
"and if you do something illegal,。
"we're gonna put you in jail,。
"a timeout for a little while."。
That's what the government's gonna teach.。
Who's gonna teach that message?。
Christ.。
The perfect example of a spouse who was faithful to the end,。
who was committed, "Even when it hurt, I'll die for you."。
The message of the church and why this is so important。
is we offer the only solution to Kelly's song of,。
"Hey, could there be a man out there who'd be faithful?。
"Could there be a spouse out there,。
"a wife who's gonna love me, who's gonna stay together,。
"even when it's hard, even when it's hurt?。
"I'm not gonna go anywhere."。
We offer that solution.。
It's not gonna be the government who helps people,。
trains people, teaches people.。
Die to your selfish desires.。
It's Christ, the perfect spouse.。
Jesus calls himself, "I am the groom.。
"My church is the bride."。
I'm perfect.。
And if you will follow me and surrender to me,。
surrender your love life to me,。
surrender your dating life to me,。
surrender your life to me.。
Not because I'm angry and I want control of it.。
I want it to not have control of you.。
You're gonna hurt yourself.。
Will you surrender to the God who loves you,。
who wants you to learn and be led by the perfect spouse?。
Jesus.。
Who's really gonna teach people that?。
Church of Jesus Christ uniquely even offers。
that solution to the world,。
where we are the ones in the midst of a culture saying,。
"Do whatever you think is right for you."。
Saying, "Don't do whatever you think is right for you.。
"Do what is right for your wife.。
"Do what is right for your children.。
"Don't spend your life chasing after one hit。
"to the next, to the next,。
"to some fling with the secretary."。
It's the church who says,。
"No, no, no, don't waste your life on those things.。
"Surrender it to Christ.。
"He'll lead you in the direction of the relationship。
"that you want, that the world needs to see."。
And we alone offer that.。
And Christ has offered that invitation。
to all of us if we'll accept it.。
Will you just surrender to me, he says.。
And that's the invitation.。
And if you will do that,。
that is the best advice that you will ever experience。
as it relates to your love life,。
your dating life, and your relationship life.。
And that's the only one that will lead to a place。
where you can actually experience the thing。
Kelly sings of and wishes for.。
Someone who won't leave, who'll never walk away,。
who doesn't just wanna take but wants to give,。
both in marriage and ultimately in life,。
as you live and respond to your Savior。
and surrender that part to him.。
He wants to change all the parts of you。
and all the parts of me that aren't like him.。
And he's given us this invitation.。
Will you just surrender?。
I know as I look, I have an 11-week-old son,。
and I come from a legacy of very bad fathers,。
very bad husbands.。
I have only seen bad examples.。
And I look at my 11-week-old son,。
and I pray, God, please let the legacy。
of bad fathers die with me.。
And please let him see an example of a father。
or of a husband who loves his wife,。
who's not going anywhere, who's not abusive.。
And I've never seen that example in person, God,。
so I need your help.。
You're my only hope.。
And he's your only hope.。
He's your future marriage's only hope.。
He's our world's only hope.。
And he's a God that if you and I will surrender to him,。
we'll lead you to what you never even hoped was possible.。
We surrender and step into the best advice。
you'll ever receive.。
Let me pray that we would.。
Father, thank you.。
You give us the perfect example of a good father,。
that you love us.。
And if we'll just surrender to you, you will lead us。
into the type of relationship with you。
we've always wanted, into the relationship with a spouse.。
If that's a part of your plan for us,。
we've always wanted, will you help us?。
Father, I pray that my son would see that.。
I pray that the men and women in the room。
who share a story of a painful parenting。
that they experienced growing up,。
that you would reparent them and they would provide。
for their children should you give them them.。
A legacy of what a husband and wife committed。
to one another looks like,。
which is ultimately a marriage,。
which is ultimately a metaphor for how you love us.。
We worship now you because you loved us first。
and we respond to you in that love.。
If you don't have a relationship。
with that God that we just sang to,。
and you can't say that I actually trust you, Lord,。
with my life, both this life,。
and I trust you with my eternal life,。
the best relationship advice that you can get tonight。
has nothing to do with dating or when to get engaged,。
and has everything to do with the only relationship。
that in the end matters, which is Jesus。
and your Lord and Savior and knowing him,。
and stepping into that relationship with the God。
who loves you, who's already reaching out to you,。
and has already proved he loves you。
by dying on a cross for you.。
Will you accept that free gift。
and place all of your trust for this life and the next。
on him and not on you and what you've done?。
Regardless of how good your past is or how bad your past is,。
if you think that God either could not love you。
because of what you've done,。
or will accept and love you because of what you've done,。
you've put your trust in the wrong person.。
And the person that will ultimately let you down,。
there is only one way the scriptures teach us,。
and it's through Jesus and accepting that free gift,。
not because of anything I've done,。
but what he did on the cross.。
It's the best relationship advice that you can get tonight.。
If you're walking through, we know sexual sin,。
and even that discussion brings up all kinds of pain。
from people's pasts.。
We'll have an entire team down here.。
We'd love to pray with you, come alongside you,。
not because we are any better.。
Frankly, all of us probably have some form。
of whatever you've struggled with,。
are struggling with, or have done in your past.。
All of us down here could probably share and be like,。
yeah, me too.。
Let's pray, thank you, Jesus, for grace.。
And we're not gonna be surprised, I promise you.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
