Come on, come on.。
Well it's summertime and so that means my little girl, my seven year old Presley's at。
home and my five year old Finley's there.。
She starts kindergarten this year and my 22 month old Weston is there.。
So every morning is kind of like Groundhog Day.。
I wake up to the same scene over and over and over and I'll paint the scene for you.。
Presley and Finley, they share a room, twin size, two twin size beds in there.。
They wake up, okay.。
They go to this little chest in the room and they put on princess outfits.。
Okay.。
So Presley puts on this purple gown and then Finley puts on this blue gown.。
They put on these tiaras.。
They are Elsa and Anna, if you know who that is.。
And they walk around the house.。
Let it go.。
Let it go.。
And they sing and to where I'm like, let it go.。
I don't want to build a snowman for the first time in forever.。
Okay.。
I don't want to do this anymore.。
And so music is powerful.。
It's powerful because what happens is I realized they're not just singing the song.。
They want to be the person who sings the song at seven and five.。
And I'm like, that's crazy.。
And they want to be them and they're starting so young.。
I mean, they want to be these princesses, these made up fictitious fairy tales.。
And I'm like, that's crazy.。
Until I look back on my own life and for me, it wasn't frozen at five and seven.。
It was a little group called new kids on the block in the second grade.。
I wanted to be Jonathan Knight.。
We had the same name.。
I had the same haircut.。
I put lines in my hair because I liked them so much.。
Some of you are like, who is new kids on the block?。
Tell you later.。
Right.。
And I realized that how powerful music is that it can, it can reflect our identity and。
even define it.。
As I look at back at different snapshots of my life, different seasons, right?。
Who I was often was reflective of what I was listening to.。
It's hard to tell what comes first.。
I think both kind of happened simultaneously.。
So new kids on the block in the second grade.。
And then after that, I wanted to be just like my older sister and I wanted to be like her。
so much.。
I started listening to Metallica and guns and roses and the very same things that she。
listened to.。
So this was kind of the November rain season.。
And then I found girls and I loved girls.。
And so I loved guys who sung about girls and, and I thought I was this helpless romantic。
and I took affection to shy and Joe to see and soul for real and boys to men, the great。
boys to men.。
And I'm singing these songs.。
I remember walking through the mall, just going up to strange, no very first time that。
I saw you and just like, you know, that's, that's what I wanted to be.。
That's who I was that identity.。
And then it went, you know, a little bit darker from there.。
This was kind of the really confused era of my life.。
I began to listen to rap and not just rap like gangster, hardcore, bad rap.。
And I thought I was a thug.。
I was a wannabe gangster, wannabe thug, you know, and I was listening to DJ screw and。
ghetto boys and scar face and bone thugs and, and all of this.。
And I looked back on that time and I realized, you know, I had the, the gold chain, the big。
Nike, you know, and it was confused.。
I needed your, I needed your prayer.。
I had the 1979 Mercedes Benz with hydraulics that super fly on the back, true story.。
And then to further define the identity crisis, I kind of got my act together.。
And so then there were some even darker days, began to listen to country.。
It was Garth Brooks and George Strait.。
We would go dancing in my small town on the weekends.。
I bought some Wranglers and some Justin Ropers lace ups were the big thing at the time.。
And this is what I was jamming to.。
And then some even darker days was in sync.。
Backstreet boys are all for one.。
I was confused, man.。
It's a confused brother, but music, it doesn't just reflect our identity.。
It often defines it.。
I believe it does both.。
And there's power in these words that we listen to.。
Sometimes we don't even fully understand the message.。
And there was a time in the church when the best music that is out there came out of the。
church.。
It would flow out of the church since then, Hollywood and Nashville and places like that。
have claimed it for themselves, places like New York.。
And some of the music that we listen to every day actually flows out of those places, which。
is fine.。
But when we're listening to it, it's not okay when we start to believe it.。
And if you think I sound like your parents right now, I just want you to consider the。
different seasons of your life and how music that you listen to might reflect your identity.。
Martin Luther says this next to the word of God, music deserves the highest praise.。
It controls our thoughts, minds, hearts, and spirits.。
There's a reason that we worship God in song and that we sing to him because it is often。
a reflection of our hearts, minds, and spirits.。
And if that's what we do when we sing songs about God and to God, we call that worship.。
Then what we do in the car often would be idol worship, worshiping false idols, believing。
false ideas.。
And that's why we're doing this series called Lyrics and Lies.。
We're listening to the very songs that we love, very songs that our peers love, songs。
we listen to every day.。
And we're going to look at the meaning and the biblical truths that are in them or the。
ideas that come from them that combat truths of the eternal scriptures that we say this。
is ultimate truth.。
This is ultimate authority from God's word.。
And so that's where we'll be just the next few weeks.。
And tonight we're going to look at a song by Ella Maria Lani Yellich O'Connor.。
Anybody know who that is?。
There's a reason she goes by Lord.。
Okay.。
She's got a long, confusing name and her song Royals was the number one hit when she was。
17 or 16, 17 years old.。
I'm sorry.。
16 years old.。
It was an international hit.。
She's from New Zealand.。
And this is what it says.。
I've never seen a diamond in the flesh.。
I cut my teeth on wedding rings in the movies, and I'm not proud of my address in a torn。
up town.。
No postcard envy.。
I'm going to try not to sing, but it's catchy, but every song is like gold teeth, gray goose。
tripping in the bathroom, blood stains, ball gowns, trash in the hotel room.。
We don't care.。
We're driving Cadillacs in our dreams, but everybody's like crystal Maybach diamonds。
on your time piece, jet planes, islands, tigers on a gold leash.。
And we don't care.。
We aren't caught up in your love affair.。
We'll never be Royals.。
It don't run in our blood.。
That kind of Lux just ain't for us.。
We crave a different kind of buzz.。
Let me be your ruler.。
You can call me queen bee and baby, I'll rule.。
Let me live that fantasy.。
You've heard the song, I'm sure, but do you know the message?。
Lord is saying, and there's a great irony here.。
Lord is saying, Hey, all these rappers are, are, are rolling around in their cars, uh,。
sipping gray goose trash in the hotel room.。
And I'll never be that.。
I know that I'll never be that.。
Now the very song that she's saying about not being that enabled her to be that.。
Okay.。
That's the great irony here is this song was number one.。
She was one of the youngest ladies ever to be number one on the billboard charts.。
And so the song that she sings about, Hey, I don't want to be that.。
I'll never be that.。
That's not available to me is the very song that kind of ushered that lifestyle to her。
so much so that in her last MTV interview, she said, yeah, I trashed the hotel room last。
night.。
She has become the very thing she didn't.。
She said, Hey, I'll never be that.。
And it's just a recreation.。
Solomon says, there's nothing new under the sun.。
Uh, maybe you listened to Weezer back in the day, Beverly Hills, you guys don't Beverly。
Hills, you know, that's where I want to be.。
And he says, I don't have a chance to live like Kings in Beverly Hills.。
And the same thing, the song that they sung about, they said, Hey, we'll never be.。
That was the very thing that enabled them to be that as it became a hit.。
That identity to go back to that, what you believe you will be.。
And more importantly, who you are, who Christ has made, you will often define the trajectory。
of your life.。
It is who you will become the way others see you, the dream they have for you.。
And see, I think that for a lot of us, the problem is not that we don't believe in Jesus.。
You're here, you're in a church on a Tuesday night, praise God.。
You're singing love songs to the King of Kings.。
I think your problem, most of you is not that you don't believe in Jesus.。
It's that you don't believe that he's at work within you.。
You don't believe that he has more for you, that he wants something greater for you.。
So many of us are disappointed in who we are or who we are becoming.。
And we're at that crossroads in our lives.。
We just did a series called quarter life crisis where we're actually dying to our dreams.。
We're realizing, hey, I'll never be that.。
And so we settle, just like Lord said in our songs, hey, I'll never be that.。
So I'll settle for something less.。
I'll never be royals.。
I don't need to be that.。
It doesn't run in my blood.。
And so I'll just settle for something else.。
But our problems come from not understanding who we were created to be.。
And without knowing who we actually are, we cannot know our purpose.。
And I want you to listen closely to the statement.。
I can think of no greater tragedy than talent without purpose.。
Let me say that again.。
I can think of no greater tragedy than talent without purpose.。
And that lack of purpose comes from not understanding who you are, who you were created to be, what。
you've been claimed as by God, the most powerful being in the universe.。
And so tonight we're talking about what it means to be royals, a message on identity.。
We're going to go down a path through a scripture and discuss who royals are, what we were before。
being royals, and what it means to be royals, what we do as royals.。
And so I'm going to be in 1 Peter chapter 2.。
If you want to turn there, I'll start in verse 9.。
1 Peter was written in 64 AD from Peter, who spent some time with Jesus.。
You've heard his name probably.。
He wrote this letter from Rome.。
What's interesting about that in Rome in 64 AD, Nero is the emperor.。
Nero was a wicked, wicked man.。
He hated Christians.。
We've talked about him in the past here.。
And so Nero, he was kind of crazy.。
And so one thing strange that he did in history, we can read this in history books, is he actually。
set Rome on fire.。
There was a terrible fire in Rome.。
Nero, the emperor started it.。
You say, why would he do that?。
Well, he actually then blamed Christians.。
This small group of people called the way.。
And the reason Nero lit Rome on fire and blamed Christians is because Nero said that Christians。
hated humanity.。
Now why would Nero say Christians hate humanity?。
Here's why.。
Because Christians wouldn't worship false gods.。
They wouldn't worship idols.。
Now to Nero, these idols were the ones who allowed for fertility.。
These idols were the ones who would allow for rain or good weather or crops to grow.。
And so the fact that Christians wouldn't worship them, and he translated, Hey, they hate humans.。
They hate humanity.。
They don't want the human race to prosper, these Christians.。
And so what he would do being a wicked man is he would actually stitch animal skin to。
Christians and then he would unleash dogs on them for fun and watch dogs, rip them to。
pieces.。
He would, he had this statue built and he would take Christians and he would dip them。
in oil and he would light, set them on fire so that they could illuminate a statue of。
himself.。
And he would have fun torturing Christians.。
There's a really, really wicked man.。
But Peter wrote this message to the persecuted church, to Christians who are under persecution,。
living in a broken world that they do not belong to.。
He said this, but you porch Dallas, you are a chosen people, a Royal priesthood, a holy。
nation, God's special possession that you may declare the praises of him who called。
you out of darkness into his wonderful light.。
Peter, God through Peter writes to you, you are Royal.。
You are important.。
You have infinite worth given to you by God, the creator, the one who made everything you。
see made you and he made you for a purpose.。
You are a Royal priesthood, a holy nation of people belonging to God set apart for his。
purpose.。
And so my first point is Royals know who they are.。
This is who you are.。
This is what the scripture says.。
You are, when I say you, I don't mean you.。
I mean you specifically, you are chosen.。
God's chosen people among all creations.。
He creates everything.。
He creates animals, he creates humans, and then he brings, he calls some of them into。
relationship with him.。
He ignites your heart.。
He did it in spite of you.。
He chose you, which begs the question, well, what if he didn't choose me, JP?。
What if I'm not chosen?。
What if he didn't choose me?。
What if he didn't recruit me to be on his team?。
Let me ask you to consider something where you're at right now on a Tuesday night.。
It seems like he's after you.。
Okay.。
It seems like he has a message he wants you to hear.。
He's looking at you and he's saying, Hey, I choose you.。
I want you to play on my team.。
And he says, I want to identify who you are.。
You are a royal priesthood.。
Lord said you'll never be royals.。
The Lord, King of Kings, Jesus said, you're royal.。
He made you royal and that this is who you are.。
You might be like, I'm Catholic, I'm Baptist, I'm Methodist.。
I'm non-denominational, I'm spiritual, but not religious.。
You might have all these words to identify yourself.。
God says, no, you are a part of the royal priesthood.。
And there's something in us that longs for this.。
You can look at my seven year old and my five year old who wakes up every day and dresses。
like princesses.。
And you're like, yeah, that's seven and five year olds.。
Listen, this moves throughout your life.。
Ladies, you always want to be a princess, whether it's a quintillion, a quinceañera,。
a prom, any excuse to dress up like a princess.。
Dare I say wedding?。
Okay.。
Any excuse to dress up like a princess.。
Guys, you're here and you're like, man, I just don't understand girls.。
I want to know what they want.。
Let me tell you guys, I'm going to let you in on a secret what they want.。
They want to be treated like princesses.。
Whether they're five, 25 or 55 years old, they desire, ladies are nodding their head.。
Guys, I'm telling you, they desire to be treated like princesses.。
This is what they want.。
And don't get me to talk about my 22 month old son who will take any opportunity he can。
to grab a sword and slay something.。
Okay.。
There is something in us that longs for this story.。
Do you know what the gospel message is?。
Do you want to look at creation?。
It's the four point gospel presentation, creation, fall, redemption, restoration, creation, fall,。
redemption, restoration.。
This is the message that Disney has made a trillion dollars on creation, fall, redemption,。
restoration.。
Are you ready?。
There's a king who has brought peace to a land.。
There's an evil force that put a curse on the land.。
It's fallen.。
The king is gone.。
The land is fallen.。
The king is going to come back.。
He comes back, he slays evil, and then he restores the peace in the land.。
You need not look past Braveheart or Frozen or Snow White or Cinderella or whatever movie,。
epic movie you can think of, creation, fall, redemption, restoration.。
It is the very story that has been written on our hearts.。
There's a reason that we long for this because it's inside of you.。
There's a reason that you long to be a princess because you are one.。
Jesus says you are one, and only the king can tell you you're a princess, and it's something。
that can't be taken away from you once you've been adopted into that royalty.。
See, some of our problems, our main problem, dare I say, is that we've forgotten who we。
are, or maybe you never knew your royalty.。
A royal priesthood, a people belonging to God, a holy nation, he says.。
I have identified what you're a part of.。
You've been set apart for God, and so you use these words to identify you.。
I'm an American, or I'm a CPA, or I'm an Aggies, dop, right?。
Or I'm a Tridel, or I'm a finance major, or I'm on this team, or I went to school here,。
or I know this, or I can do this, or I work here, or this is my occupation.。
All these things that you try to identify you as that aren't necessarily bad, but there's。
only one that's eternal.。
There's only one that will matter a thousand years from now.。
You're a holy nation, a people belonging to God, a royal priesthood, a Christian, a follower。
of Jesus Christ, the one true God.。
It's the only one that will matter a thousand years ago.。
It's the only title that you will carry with you.。
God, I'm yours.。
I don't belong to anybody else.。
I belong to you.。
You created me.。
I was made by you for you that I might live for you.。
You are, the scripture says, God's special possession.。
This identifies who you belong to.。
God, the creator of the heavens and the earth says, "I choose you as royal and holy.。
You are mine."。
This means something if God's choosing you.。
This means something.。
If I choose you, listen, I'm weak.。
There's not a whole lot I can do with you.。
If I choose you to be on my team, that doesn't really matter much.。
If God, the creator of the heavens and the earth, chooses you to be on his team, it means。
something.。
But you have to play on his team.。
You're not just sitting on his team.。
You're not just riding the bench on his team.。
There's things he wants to do through you.。
There's a reason that he's recruited you to his team, that you're a part of this holy。
people, that he has set you apart in the world.。
Paul says that you would stand in the world like a star in contrast to a dark night.。
Some of us just look like the dark night.。
There's no contrast.。
That's what's confusing about Dallas Christianity.。
I've never been great at sports.。
Let me strike that.。
I've never been decent at sports at all, which is sad.。
What a waste of height.。
I know.。
I'm 6'7".。
I've been 6'7" as long as I can remember.。
I came out the womb 6'7".。
I'm just not very good at basketball.。
People would say, "Oh, where do you play basketball?"。
I'd say, "At Doan."。
They'd say, "What a waste of height."。
I'd say, "Oh, thanks for that compliment.。
I appreciate that."。
There was this basketball tournament that First Baptist Quero put on.。
Quero was never good at basketball because we were good at football.。
That means we weren't good at basketball.。
Except for one year, we were really good at basketball.。
It was the year of the Dream Team because there were two guys that played on the team.。
Their names were Michael and David.。
They were awesome.。
I mean, NBA worthy awesome.。
I remember David would throw the ball off the back wall behind the backboard.。
Michael would jump from the free throw line and windmill dunk Aliyah just sick.。
You just watched him all day.。
That's unbelievable.。
They were that good.。
They played in this tournament First Baptist Quero put on.。
For whatever reason, they probably felt sorry for me or maybe they thought I was good because。
I was tall, but they said, "Hey, we want you to be on our team."。
We dominated.。
Why did we dominate?。
For two reasons.。
One, because of whose team I was on.。
They were really, really good.。
Two, because they believed in me.。
They didn't say, "Hey, just come on our team and sit on the bench."。
No, we all had to play.。
I said, "No, bro, you're playing in the game.。
Listen, you can do this.。
Let me tell you what to do."。
We dominated because they thought I was good.。
I actually was decent.。
God, the creator of the heavens and the earth, he looks at you and he says, "I don't want。
you to waste your gifts and talents on you.。
That would be such a waste because you're just going to go in the ground.。
The dust you will return.。
I've given you those gifts and talents because I want you to play on my team.。
There's some things I want to do through you."。
You're so distracted by Dallas right now.。
Distracted by that relationship, by that job, by that six-figure income, by the pursuit。
of that car or that apartment.。
I don't want you to be distracted.。
I want you to stand apart in all that stuff.。
Be different than all that stuff.。
I want to use you.。
I've got plans for you, man.。
He says, "I promise you an inheritance."。
God always keeps his promises.。
You know what you're playing for.。
You know there's something at the end of all of this.。
He says this, verse 10, "Once you were not a people, but now you are a people of God,。
belonging to God.。
Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy."。
My second point is that royals know where they came from.。
Royals know where they came from.。
That means what you've been saved from.。
What that means is there's been a change in your life.。
That at some point you look backwards and the scripture would say about you, "I was。
an object of wrath."。
What that means, in case there's any confusion, at some point in your past you were headed。
towards hell.。
You weren't going to be with God.。
Then God, in his mercy, in spite of you and who you are, because he can, saved you in。
spite of you.。
He said, "No, I want you to come play on my team, bro.。
We're going to be together forever.。
I didn't just call you home to be with me right then.。
I've left you there so that I can do some things through you.。
I can accomplish some things through you."。
What this means is at one point you were not under God's mercy.。
Now you've received God's mercy.。
You've been given a promise through Christ, his death and resurrection for the forgiveness。
of your sins that you will be with him forever.。
As a promise, as a seal, he's given you, he's deposited with you his Holy Spirit so that。
he can do incredible works through you as you avail yourself to him and not be distracted。
by the world, not get caught up in the current of the world, not sit back and say, "Well,。
I'll never be royals, so I might as well do this."。
He says, "No, no, no, no.。
You are.。
Not you will be.。
You are right now.。
In this world, I'm going to reclaim it from evil.。
I'm coming back.。
Redemption is on its way.。
Restoration is on its way.。
Play as though you're on the winning team because you are.。
Read the back of the book if you haven't yet.。
See how this game ends."。
And he says, "Let's go, man."。
See, the problem with Christianity in Dallas is it's so diluted.。
It's like a country club.。
It's like this thing that you go to.。
In Dallas, Christian is a hobby.。
God is a hobby.。
God in the scriptures, somebody told me today, God in the scriptures is always king, but。
in Dallas, for some reason, he's a hobby.。
In the scriptures, he's always king.。
Anytime you see God, he's king.。
He's king of the universe, but here he's a hobby.。
Something I go to, where my friends go to, and I like the preaching and the singing,。
and it's fun.。
I get to get dressed up to go there, kind of like the club.。
If church is a hobby, then there's no hope for the evil in the world, but when you realize。
that you are the church, that it's your identity, you look at the evil in the world and you。
say, "Oh, the solution is within me.。
The solution to those problems, I have them.。
They are within me."。
Christianity always means, if you're a Christian, it always means there's been a change in your。
life.。
I've told a story before about getting in a fight once.。
It was the worst day of my entire life, what that looked like.。
I was at a neighboring school.。
It was not my school.。
I was there very much alone.。
I got in a fight with a dude, which ended up being a fight with a lot of dudes, and。
it just did not go well for me.。
I was teaching this past week at a family camp.。
I'm sitting there and I'm teaching the parents and teaching from the scriptures.。
Afterwards, this guy comes up.。
He's from Victoria.。
We're talking about who we know and people we know and have in common and places we've。
been and whatnot.。
We're catching up, and that comes up somehow.。
He's like, "You look like that wannabe thug that got in that fight that time after the。
basketball game."。
I'm like, "Oh, yeah, that's because I'm him.。
That was me."。
He's like, "What?。
What?。
No, no, but you've been reading the Bible.。
What?"。
He goes, "What happened to you?"。
I was like, "Bro, Jesus happened to me.。
That's it.。
I got nothing to boast in, but God came in my life and changed me, captured my heart.。
I was that guy, but there's been a change.。
I realized who I was created to be, for Christ."。
It's the same person you were created to be for Christ.。
You don't want to waste your gifts and talents.。
I know no greater tragedy than talents without purpose.。
You have a purpose.。
It comes from who you are.。
It flows out of who you are.。
He's calling you to rid yourself of the sin that so easily entangles you.。
The whole chapter we're in, it starts out like this.。
It's 1 Peter 2, verse 1.。
It says, "Therefore, rid yourself of all malice and all deceit and hypocrisy, envy and slander。
of every kind."。
Then he says, "How?"。
He says, "Like newborn babies crave pure spiritual milk that you would grow in the word so that。
you might grow up in your salvation so that you have tasted that the Lord is good."。
Now that you have tasted the Lord is good, that you would not stay where you're at.。
Not like, "Hey, I'm a Christian and I'm just going to stay right here."。
But that no, there would be a conversion in your life and then you would grow.。
You're like, "Well, I don't know the Bible."。
That's what that guy told me.。
He's like, "Man, how do you know the Bible?。
You were that wannabe thug."。
I was like, "Well, I just started.。
Somebody sat me down and started teaching it to me."。
That's what needs to happen.。
If you're here and you're like, "Man, I don't know the Bible.。
It's like a relevant book written thousands of years."。
No, it's called discipleship.。
You've got to start right now.。
You start somewhere.。
Have someone teach this to you.。
If you crave it like spiritual milk, there will be a change called sanctification that。
happens in your life as God takes what he made and begins to make you like him.。
That you begin to become the reality that you already are.。
I know that's confusing.。
You're royal right now and God, because he stands outside of time, is making you royal.。
You're co-heir with Jesus that you would inherit the world.。
This is your inheritance as he comes and makes a new earth here for you that you would live。
in for how long?。
Forever and ever and ever with him.。
It's awesome.。
He says this, "Dear friends, I urge you as foreigners and exiles to abstain from sinful。
desires which wage war against your soul.。
Live such good lives among the pagans that though they accuse you of doing wrong, they。
may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day he visits us."。
My third and final point is royals show who they serve.。
Some of you, you're here and you're hearing this message, you're like, "I'm a royal.。
That's weird.。
I don't even know what that means.。
Somebody invited me to the porch and this dude's telling me that I'm a king.。
That's odd."。
I'm glad you're here.。
I know that some of you are here and you're like, "Yeah, I get it.。
I am."。
But you're going to leave here and like a dog to his vomit, you're going to return to。
that sin that so easily entangles you.。
You're going to return to that website.。
You're going to return to that bar.。
You're going to return to that drink that you like that you know you have too many of.。
You're going to return to that relationship where you know you've gone too far and your。
friend said, "Hey, he's no good for you."。
You're going to return to that mall where you buy those things you can't afford because。
you find identity in them and you're broke but you think you're sex in the city or whatever.。
You're going to return to those things.。
You're going to return to those things.。
It's not any different, and everybody's seen this story play out, than the girl who had。
the abusive boyfriend, the guy who was no good for her, he was verbally abusive to her.。
You look at her and look at him and like, "How did that even happen?"。
Everyone's telling her, "Hey, he's no good for you.。
You're better than that."。
But the problem is she doesn't believe it, so she keeps going back.。
You sit her down and you're like, "No, sweetheart.。
You don't understand.。
He's no good for you.。
You're better than that."。
But the problem is she doesn't believe it, so she goes back to that.。
That's what you need to hear.。
That's what Jesus is telling you right now, is you're better than that.。
Sin that you keep running back to.。
You don't have a sin problem, you have an identity problem.。
That's not who you are.。
You're not the loose girl anymore.。
You're not the slut they called you.。
You're not Cash McMogelson, buddy.。
You're not that dude.。
You're not the one who's finding identity in Dallas, walking around like you're Johnny。
Dallas and you own everything.。
That's not who you are anymore.。
You're not the ladies man anymore.。
You were that person, that's not who you are anymore.。
"Well, I'm the guy.。
I'm just the life of the party."。
No, you're not.。
You're a royal.。
Act like a royal, the one you've been called to.。
That's who you are.。
"You don't know me, man.。
I'm a fighter.。
You better not say that."。
No, you're not, buddy.。
You're God's son, bro.。
You're prince.。
All this is going to be yours one day, but right now you're doing a really good job of。
trying to screw that up, living for yourself.。
"Oh, you think those gifts and talents were given to you for you?"。
No, they weren't, ma'am.。
No, they weren't.。
God gave you those for him.。
As a royal, you know who you serve.。
You serve the one true God.。
You're in this world as strangers and aliens, a world that you do not belong to.。
And it says, "Abstain from sinful desires which wage war against your soul," which just。
sounds difficult.。
But he's telling you, "I've given you my spirit.。
You're no longer a slave to sin," or maybe he hasn't.。
Man, he wants to right now.。
That's why you're here, that you would trust in Christ for the forgiveness of sins and。
that you would live for him, no longer being a slave to sin but a slave to the one true。
God.。
And what you need to hear right now is who you are.。
This is this message.。
I've seen it preached through TV.。
I've seen it preached through movies.。
I've seen it preached through my own life and even in my parenting.。
There's this incredible scene in Blood Diamond where his son is taken over by the rebel army,。
where they get his son addicted to drugs and they make a child soldier out of him.。
This actually happens.。
And it's depicted in this movie.。
And he comes up and the dad is trying to rescue the son from the rebel army.。
And the son actually pulls a gun on his own father because he doesn't recognize him and。
he's a soldier now.。
He's a child soldier and he kills anyone that would oppose the rebel army.。
They've brainwashed him.。
This is what Satan does to you.。
And it's this powerful scene where he says, "Hey, this is not who you are.。
You are D'Avandy.。
You are my son.。
Your mom waits for you.。
The cows long for you.。
You are a good boy.。
You are a good son.。
This is not who you are."。
This is the message that Christ has for you.。
When girls have been trafficked through sex traffickers and pimps due to a thing called。
Stockholm Syndrome, they often don't want to leave the pimp.。
It's all they know.。
They've been fed drugs through him.。
They've been brainwashed through him.。
And so these people have to come in rescuing these girls to take them back to their loving。
parents and their pretty lives.。
They have to unbrainwash them.。
And so they show up and they say, "No, he's not good.。
You don't understand.。
He wants to kill you.。
He wants to kill you.。
Your mom and your dad, they're waiting for you.。
Your grandmother and grandfather are waiting for you.。
You have a home and a white picket fence and they have this for you.。
It's ready for you.。
You have a life.。
We're ready to take you home."。
And often the girls don't want to go with them.。
They want to stay in the slavery of getting raped for profit every day.。
I know that's harsh words.。
I know, but that's the truth.。
And so I'm telling you the truth.。
And this is what Jesus is saying, "Hey, this is not who you are.。
I have something better for you."。
I parent through this idea.。
My girls, when they do something, the other day we were outside and Presley had a granola。
bar and she just took off the wrapper and threw it on the ground and began to eat the。
granola bar.。
And I just, I stopped down, I get down and I said, "Presley, I don't say that's not what。
you do."。
Or at least I don't start there.。
I say, "Presley, that's not who we are.。
We're not litterers, okay?。
God has put us here temporarily.。
We're going to leave this place better than we found it.。
That's not what we do because that's not who we are, Presley.。
And that's what you got to hear right now.。
You're sleeping with that dude.。
That's not who you are, man.。
You need to get wasted.。
That's not who you are.。
Oh, you think you're better than everybody else?。
No, God saved you in spite of you.。
That's not who you are.。
You're going to stay in there, you're going to return to that website?。
That's not who you are.。
You're going to return to that drug?。
That's not who you are.。
God has something better for you.。
He set you apart.。
He's called you to know him.。
He's got plans for you, awesome plans for you.。
He wants to use you.。
He says, "Live good lives so that people know your good God.。
They know the one you serve, the way that you live, the way that you work.。
People are looking at you and they say, 'Man, what kingdom do you belong to?。
You seem so different than this world.。
You don't act like the world.。
You don't love the things that people of the world love.。
Who is your king so that you can point to him?'"。
Guys, I believe that God, and I want you to hear me, man.。
I believe that God desires to change the world through the people at this gathering.。
I believe that he wants to do incredible things through all of you, okay?。
But it starts with you.。
It starts with inside of you.。
You have to know who you are before you can know why he has entrusted the talents to you。
that he's entrusted.。
Before you know your purpose and your mission, you have to know who you are, who he's created。
you to be.。
In the past, whenever somebody would do something courageous, they would assume that they came。
from noble blood.。
And so, like, if you did something, if you stopped evil, if you stood against evil, they。
would say of you, they'd say, "Oh, you must come from nobility.。
You must come from royalty.。
You must have royal blood inside of you.。
That's the only way that you would have had the courage to do that."。
And Jesus tonight is saying, "Hey, all of you have royal blood in you, and that is why。
you have the courage to do these things."。
And I don't know if you noticed what's going on in the world, but I can't think of a greater。
time for you to realize who you are and what you've been called to because there's racial。
rioting in Ferguson, Missouri over the death of a young man.。
This still exists today.。
There's still this confusion that happens.。
There's this Ebola virus that has broke out in Liberia.。
It's the most contagious virus in the history of the world.。
It's killing people.。
There's this group called ISIS, the Islamic State, that are killing anyone who opposes。
them.。
They're torturing them.。
If you call yourself a Christian, they're cutting off your head.。
This is happening today, 2014.。
There was 13 people killed and murdered in New York City this weekend, and it won't even。
make the headlines because of so much other craziness that's out there.。
And if you think church is a hobby, you look at that and you're like, "I don't know what。
the solution is."。
But if you realize that church is your identity, that you're a people who have been called。
apart from the world, you realize that the solution to those things is inside of you.。
"Well, JP, what are you asking me to do?。
Fly to Iraq, maybe?"。
I don't know.。
I don't know what gifts and talents the Lord has entrusted to you, but I know why he entrusted。
them to you.。
For him, there is something in you that cries out, "I've got to do more than this.。
I don't want to just settle for the mediocre American dream."。
And you take that American dream and you try to plug it in that void.。
And he's like, "No, I've called you to more.。
You're my people, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people belonging to God.。
I've called you out of that.。
I have plans for you."。
And the greatest tragedy I can think of right now is talent without purpose.。
And he says, "No, I have given you a purpose."。
You're going to watch these boundaries dispute over the Gaza Strip or any other news headline.。
He's like, "You might be the solution.。
At least the solution is inside of you.。
What are you going to do about it?"。
And so the application tonight, I'm trying to make this really clear.。
Some of you are here, you're stuck in sin, and you need to realize who you are.。
Like I said, you're not the life of the party anymore.。
You're not the easy girl anymore.。
You're not the drug addict anymore.。
You're not the porn addict anymore.。
You're not the kid with $100,000 in debt anymore.。
You're God's.。
And you've got to realize that.。
You've got to know that he's called you to more.。
And it may take a plan.。
It's going to take some accountability, certainly community.。
It starts with trusting in Christ for the forgiveness of sins and then living for him,。
his spirit in you, living for him, producing good works so that others would know the King.。
And then there's a second part of you that say, "No, I'm saved and I'm in and I'm going。
to church and I'm plugged into community group and I'm walking with God and I'm dealing with。
sin."。
And he says, "Yeah, yeah, the reason I saved you is to deal with the evil around you."。
And we got to lock arms and wreck shop starting here in Dallas and then spreading throughout。
the world.。
You're a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people belonging to God.。
And so you want to do such good deeds that others say, "Well, who is the King that she。
serves?。
Who is the King that he serves?"。
And you say, "Well, what am I supposed to do?"。
And I say, "Man, get a pen and a journal and a Bible and a lot of prayer because I believe。
it's inside of you.。
I believe it'll tell you and it will just take some courage and some prodding.。
We'll partner with you."。
And then everyone here, and this is a layup application for you, everyone here has someone。
in their life that needs to be reminded of who they are.。
They said they knew God once, maybe you were in Bible study with them or they call themselves。
a Christian, but you realize that they've slipped off.。
They fell into some bad stuff.。
They got worldly.。
And I want you to text them.。
I want everyone in here to text someone and just say, "Hey, I want to remind you that。
you're royalty."。
And let that begin a conversation that you're going to have with them.。
They'll be saying, "What?。
What do you mean I'm royalty?"。
Or, "Why are you texting me?。
Are you drunk?"。
Or I don't know what they're going to say.。
But I want everyone in here, I want 3,000 text messages to go out throughout the world。
to someone saying, "Hey, you're royalty.。
Let's talk about it.。
I'm here to remind you that you're royalty."。
So everyone can think of someone.。
I'll close with this.。
I like movies, if you can't tell.。
I like music.。
I probably love movies even more.。
One I really like is Born Identity.。
I don't know if you've seen it, but there's this guy, Jason Bourne, he's a product of。
the government, a secret weapon.。
He's been trained up.。
He's been given all these skills.。
And then there's this scene when he's in this cafe, and he doesn't know who he is.。
Hence Born Identity.。
He doesn't know who he is, and he's sitting there with a friend, and he's saying, "I can't。
remember who I am."。
And she's like, "That's okay."。
And then he begins to say, "Hey, I know the license plates of all six cars in the parking。
lot.。
I know that our waitress is left-handed.。
I know that that guy over there is 215 pounds, and he can handle himself.。
I know that I can run a half a mile at this altitude before my hands start shaking."。
He goes, "But I don't know who I am.。
And so then I don't know why I can do all this, and I know all this."。
What a tragedy it would be if Jason Bourne took all those skills that he just said and。
began to use them on himself or something else.。
He didn't know who he was created by and why he had those gifts and talents.。
And some of you are here tonight, and you're like, "You know what?。
I can do this, and I can do this, and I can do this."。
But I'm here to tell you, you don't know who you are, and you're wasting those gifts and。
talents that God gave you for him for you, on you.。
You're spending them on yourself so that you can build a bigger temporary kingdom and try。
to play princess like Presley and Finley and try to play prince like Weston.。
"Man, you don't understand me, JP.。
I'm a lady, man."。
You're still playing prince.。
You don't realize that you are one.。
"Oh, you're still pretending to be a princess.。
I'll put on the dress and everything.。
I got a Pinterest album called Princess."。
That's not very Pinterest-ing, okay?。
God has something better for you.。
He's called you to more.。
The gifts and the talents that he's entrusted to you, he's given you for him.。
If you need help identifying what they are or how you might use them, we are here.。
We'd love to tell you.。
I'm just going to end by telling you what a royal is.。
Some of you are like, "What does it mean to be a royal?"。
It means you're an adopted child of the king of the universe, an heir of all the world。
and co-heirs with Christ.。
You are God's masterpiece created in Christ and assigned a purpose that was planned out。
before he created anything.。
You are more than a conqueror, an heir to an eternal inheritance that he has set up。
for you and sealed by his spirit, a saint who has set apart a place where God lives。
a light in a dark world.。
You're going to reign with Christ even over the angels.。
You will rule over the angels.。
You're no longer under the power of death called sin.。
You've been raised up with Christ and you have a seat in the heavenly places.。
You're immeasurably loved by God.。
God is your daddy.。
He says you can call him father.。
You are given a purpose uniquely designed without condemnation.。
He's no longer holding your sins against you.。
You are a new creation, a chosen people, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, God's special。
possession.。
You are.。
That's who you are.。
It's time we lived it out.。
If we did, everything would change.。
If just the people in the room right now understood who they were, everything would change.。
Let me pray for us that we would, and then let's worship that king.。
Father, we need your help to understand who you have created us to be.。
Father, that you had Jesus die in our place so that we might have life in this world that。
we do not belong to, that we would live in it as strangers and aliens.。
God, that we would deal with the sin that wages war in us, but then also that we would。
deal with the evil that wages war in this world.。
Father, as we sing to you, as we worship you, would you help us to identify the gifts and。
the talents that you've entrusted to us and help us to know what to do with them?。
Lord, protect us from ourselves that we would not waste our lives on us, but that we would。
spend our lives on you, the one true God.。
A few minutes convincing you from the scriptures by the Spirit of God that you're royals.。
And now I've got to tell you that not all of you are.。
That there's some of you on the outside you're looking in.。
There's a people that are in the room that have been set apart, and you're realizing。
that you're not one of them, that you've really been blending in more than you've been set。
apart, that maybe you at some point in your life have embraced the idea of God, but you。
haven't surrendered to him and what he's done through Christ, that he literally put all。
the sins that you've committed on Jesus, and he crushed him in your place because he loves。
you, and he chooses you, and he wants you playing for his team.。
And man, I know the world is hard.。
I know life is difficult, and I know it's full of distractions, and that's the hope。
that I give you is, man, we're all going to be together one day in paradise forever and。
ever and ever, and this will look like a commercial, man, like that long.。
Like we'll have a hard time remembering.。
Remember that breakup?。
And you'll be like, no, I don't.。
Like the greatest tragedy of your life, you'll be like, I don't, that happened?。
I don't remember.。
Really?。
Oh, maybe, no, I don't remember.。
I've been with God for a billion years.。
I don't remember.。
That's what's going to happen.。
That's where we're going to be, man.。
That's what's been set up for you.。
If you're here and you're realizing, man, that isn't my inheritance.。
That's not what I've embraced.。
That's not what I knew God had for me.。
We'd love to talk to you.。
There'll be a group of folks up here ready to pray with you and talk with you and wrestle。
with you, hard questions or wherever you're at, or just celebrate with you, man.。
We want to be about that here.。
If you've got good news, you've got a promotion, let us celebrate with you.。
Let us thank God with you.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
