(upbeat music)。
- I wanna start just by sharing with you,。
I love coming back to the porch。
because it brings me back to Dallas and I'm from Dallas.。
And so I went to high school,。
I graduated from high school just down the street。
at Highland Park High School.。
Don't judge me, that's just, that's where my family lives.。
So that's where I went.。
But as I was preparing for tonight,。
I decided to bring this newspaper, "The Bagpipe,"。
which was a Highland Park High School publication.。
And it was a senior issue。
where they included the senior poll.。
Your high school might've had a senior poll,。
but this is where they have a bunch of different categories。
and they rank people in the class, different things.。
I just wanna share with you what I was rated.。
Okay, I was rated three different things.。
Okay, the first thing that I was rated。
is I took third place in the category of just plain nice.。
So here's what that means.。
There was two people who were nicer than me at Highland Park。
but then I was nicer than about 376 other people.。
So that's a big deal, no big deal, but it's a big deal.。
I also took third place in most sincere,。
which means that there was people。
who didn't fake it as much as I did.。
And so they took the first two spots,。
but then I was more sincere than the rest of the class.。
And then this one stung a little,。
but it just was the reality.。
I took second place in most religious.。
Like there was someone who beat me.。
I'm like, how do you like me now?。
If you could just see what I'm doing now,。
I promise you first spot would go to this guy.。
Anyway, as I look back on what I was rated,。
I think that it can just be summed up。
that people saw me as a good guy.。
It was like, there's Timothy Atik.。
He's a good guy.。
Girls were like, Timothy Atik's the kind of guy。
you wanna marry, which was a subtle slap in the face。
'cause it was like, we don't want you now,。
but see me in about 15 years.。
But the point was like, hey, he's a good guy.。
And then I went to A&M and I think most people,。
not everyone, but most people would say,。
yeah, he was a good guy.。
Like he was nice to people.。
He went to church on Sundays.。
Like as far as we know, Timothy Atik was a good guy.。
And even now living in College Station,。
like I coach my kids' soccer teams.。
I send meals to people when they have a baby.。
Like I think people would look and be like,。
I think he's a good guy.。
But here's the deal.。
I don't wanna be known as just a good guy.。
I wanna be known as a godly guy.。
And that's what I want for you.。
I don't want you to just settle for being known。
as being a good guy or girl.。
I want you to know or be known as being a godly guy。
or a godly woman.。
Like if you consider yourself a follower of Jesus Christ,。
do not ever exit at just being a good guy or girl.。
Here's why.。
Listen to what Peter tells us in 2 Peter 1, verse 3.。
He says his, that's God's divine power,。
has given us everything we need for a godly life.。
So do you hear what that's saying?。
God has given us everything that we need for a godly life.。
So if God in his limitless, matchless power。
is giving us everything we need to live godly lives,。
why would we ever be okay just being good or good enough。
when we can be godly?。
Let me tell you what I'm really talking about tonight.。
I'm talking about moving from Jesus being a part。
of your life to being the passion of your life.。
Like why would you settle for just a little flicker。
of a flame for Jesus when you can be white hot?。
That's what he desires for you.。
And that's where the most joy and the most life is found.。
And so here's what I'm gonna do tonight.。
I'm gonna give you four keys。
to moving from good to godly.。
And I'm gonna do it by stepping into the life of King David.。
If you have a Bible, turn with me tonight。
to 2 Samuel chapter six.。
2 Samuel chapter six is where we are going to be tonight.。
2 Samuel chapter six, and if you're new to the Bible,。
then you still might be familiar with King David。
because you might have heard of the story。
of David and Goliath.。
We use that as analogies for all sorts of things。
anytime the little guy is up against the big guy.。
But there is so much more to the life of King David.。
He was the second king ever of the nation of Israel.。
The first king was a guy named Saul,。
and God saw him as a mediocre king.。
And so God replaced him with David.。
He dubbed David the man after my own heart.。
That's who David was, is he was a man after God's own heart.。
That's the type of guy that we should want to learn from。
as followers of Jesus Christ.。
David was the best king that Israel ever saw.。
He led the nation to a point。
where it was the dominating force throughout the world.。
David was God's man sitting on the throne.。
And we're gonna step into a story that when you hear it,。
you're gonna be like, this feels super outdated.。
Remember, we're looking at a story that took place。
in the ancient Near East.。
But what I need you to understand is that David。
is early on in his reign in Israel.。
And what he is doing just right out of the gate。
is he is showing us what he's gonna prioritize in his life,。
which is good as we read it for you as a young adult。
to just evaluate, am I prioritizing。
the right things in my life?。
You might be prioritizing things to be known。
as a good guy or a good girl,。
but there's a big difference between a Christian boy。
and a godly man.。
Don't you want to be a godly man or a godly woman?。
Do not settle for anything less。
if you consider yourself a follower of Jesus Christ.。
And so we're gonna look at a story。
early on in David's reign.。
And again, it's gonna feel very outdated,。
but I assure you this story is extremely relevant to today.。
Second Samuel, chapter six, let me read you。
verses one through 11, track along with me.。
It says this.。
"David again gathered all the chosen men of Israel,。
"30,000, and David arose and went with all the people。
"who were with him from Baal Judah。
"to bring up from there the Ark of God,。
"which is called by the name of the Lord of hosts,。
"who sits enthroned on the cherubim.。
"And they carried the Ark of God on a new cart。
"and brought it out of the house of Abinadab,。
"which was on the hill.。
"In Uzzah, in Ahio, the sons of Abinadab。
"were driving the new cart with the Ark of God,。
"and Ahio went before the Ark.。
"And David and all the house of Israel。
"were celebrating before the Lord。
"with songs and lyres and harps and tambourines。
"and castanets and cymbals.。
"And when they came to the threshing floor of Nacon,。
"Uzzah put out his hand to the Ark of God。
"and took hold of it, for the oxen stumbled,。
"and the anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzzah.。
"And God struck him down there because of his error,。
"and he died there beside the Ark of God.。
"And David was angry because the Lord。
"had broken out against Uzzah.。
"And that place is called Perez-Uzzah to this day.。
"And David was afraid of the Lord that day,。
"and he said, 'How can the Ark of the Lord come to me?'。
"So David was not willing to take the Ark of the Lord。
"into the city of David, but David took it aside。
"to the house of Obed-edom, the Gittite.。
"And the Ark of the Lord remained in the house of Obed-edom,。
"the Gittite, three months, and the Lord blessed Obed-edom。
"and all of his household."。
So I'm giving you four keys to moving from good to godly.。
The first is this, prioritize God's presence.。
I hope you're taking notes.。
Anytime God wants to speak, you write it down.。
Like, don't leave it to your mind to just remember。
that's not what your brain is for.。
Write it down, okay?。
The first thing, moving from good to godly。
is prioritize God's presence.。
This is a story about David moving the Ark of God.。
And if you're new to the Bible and you hear the word Ark,。
you might be thinking that we're talking about a boat。
because all you know about is Noah's Ark.。
We're not talking about a boat at all.。
When we talk about the Ark of God,。
another name for it in the scriptures。
is the Ark of the Covenant.。
I don't have time to give you all the background。
of the Ark of the Covenant.。
It was the most important piece of furniture。
in the nation of Israel.。
And the reason it was so important。
is because the Ark of the Covenant,。
it was this four foot by two and a half foot wooden box。
that symbolized the presence of God.。
Like, the presence of God was said to reside。
right on top of the box.。
And if you're new to Christianity or the Bible,。
all of this is gonna sound very weird to you,。
but all I need you to understand。
is that the Ark of the Covenant was said to be the place。
where God's presence resided, okay?。
Now, what you need to know。
is that David's predecessor, Saul,。
allowed the Ark of God, the Ark of the Covenant,。
to remain in a place where it didn't belong.。
See, the Ark of the Covenant was put in the tabernacle。
or the temple, which is the meeting place of God.。
And David tells us this about his predecessor,。
1 Chronicles 13, three.。
He says, "Let us bring again the Ark of our God to us,。
"for we did not seek it in the days of Saul."。
So Saul was the king that went before him.。
And what's David saying?。
He's saying, "For about 20 years,。
"we didn't care about God's presence."。
Like, if the Ark of the Covenant。
is where God's presence resides,。
we didn't care about it for 20 years.。
And that's gonna change with my rule.。
And so right out of the gate, what David is saying is,。
"We're bringing the Ark of the Covenant back,。
"and we're putting it in the capital city.。
"We're putting it where it belongs,。
"because we are going to prioritize God's presence.。
"His presence will live in the midst of the people."。
And so you just think about that.。
That was his priority.。
He prioritized the presence of God.。
If you wanna move from good to godly,。
I would encourage you to do the same thing,。
to prioritize God's presence.。
The interesting thing is that,。
if you've never heard of the Ark of the Covenant,。
there's probably a reason,。
because the Ark of the Covenant isn't important anymore.。
And the reason why it isn't important。
is because Jesus Christ。
has made the Ark of the Covenant irrelevant.。
See, in the ancient Near East,。
one guy was able to get close to the Ark of the Covenant,。
once a year, to step into the presence of God.。
And when Jesus Christ was crucified on the cross,。
and when he rose from the dead,。
he did away with all of that,。
making a path for every single one of us。
to live in the presence of God.。
And so I just tell you that today,。
you have access to the God of the universe,。
the King of kings and Lord of lords.。
Prioritize his presence.。
Here's what I wanna ask you to think about.。
Can you think of a time in your life,。
can you look back and be like, oh yeah, God was there?。
Like, is there a time in your past where you're like,。
you know what, at that one porch, God was there?。
Or you know what, when I went to that camp,。
or when I went to that conference,。
or when I was in that dark place in my life,。
you know what, God was there.。
Like there's different times in my life。
where I can look back and be like,。
God was absolutely there.。
Like when my life hit rock bottom shortly after college,。
when I was living in sin, you know what, God was there.。
When my son went into the NICU when he was born,。
God was there.。
When my wife and I lost a child to miscarriage,。
you know what, God met us there.。
There's these significant moments in my life。
that I can look back and be like, God was there.。
And I would imagine that many people here。
can look back in the past and be like, yeah, God was there.。
But here's what I'm afraid of.。
I'm afraid of getting to heaven and getting perspective。
and being like, oh, God was there a lot more。
than I realized.。
Like, so he was there in my home office every single morning。
and he was there when I was driving to work in the morning。
and he was there when I was on the soccer field。
with my kids and he was there when I was on date。
night with my wife and he was there。
when I didn't know what to do.。
And he was there when I was really stressed out。
and he was there when I was making dumb decisions.。
I don't want to get perspective and be like,。
oh, God was not just there in the magnificent times。
or the monumental times, God was there in the mundane times.。
So what I'm telling you when I talk about prioritizing。
God's presence is I'm talking about stopping this desire。
to get back to someplace.。
Like if I could just get back to that place in my life。
where God was there in transitioning to the mindset。
of God is here.。
Like to just live in that reality that when you wake up。
tomorrow morning, before you even put your feet。
on the ground, you know what?。
God's here in the room with me.。
That God's driving with you to work.。
He's sitting with you at work.。
He's on the bench next to you at the gym.。
He's not working out.。
He doesn't need to, but he's there.。
Can you just imagine having that type of awareness?。
You know what I'm saying?。
I'm just telling you to wake up.。
Like it's amazing how little babies can sleep。
through the Aggies winning in Kyle Field.。
Like there's a hundred thousand people。
and you'll just see little infants sleeping.。
Can you imagine all that they're missing out on?。
And I just wonder if God's like, yeah, wake up.。
Like every day he's putting displays of his goodness。
and his greatness on in our lives.。
He's written a word and given it to us。
so that we can actually hear from God every single day.。
And I think he's just like, wake up because I'm here.。
So what does it look like to prioritize God's presence?。
Let me just encourage you, meet with him every day.。
Like meet with him every single day.。
Don't just meet with his word, meet with him.。
Here's what I mean by that.。
Like this book doesn't exist for completion.。
It exists for connection.。
So if you read it and close it。
and never answer the question,。
God, what are you saying to me?。
Then what a waste of time.。
And then don't leave him there.。
So many of us leave God at home。
like he's like some little puppy。
that when we walk out the door,。
he just sits there in the window with his head tilted,。
like I'll see you when you get home.。
Like, no, I think the reason that Paul says,。
pray without ceasing is because when you close your Bible。
and say amen, God's like, all right, we better get to work.。
Let's go to the gym.。
Like he's just going with you.。
Whether you want him to or not, you can't ghost him.。
Like he is with you every moment of every day.。
Prioritize his presence.。
Number two, you want to move from good to godly,。
tremble at God's holiness.。
Tremble at God's holiness.。
Look back at this story.。
Look at verses three and four.。
Remember, this is a story about them moving the ark of God.。
And it says, "And they carried the ark of God。
"on a new cart and brought it out of the house of Abinadab,。
"which was on the hill.。
"And Uzziah and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab,。
"were driving the new cart with the ark of God,。
"and Ahio went before the ark."。
Now, when you hear that they had the ark on a cart。
and they were driving it, red flags should go up.。
And the reason why is because God had actually given。
very specific instructions on how to move the ark.。
See, the ark was a wooden box that had rings。
on all four corners, and God had told them。
to put poles through the rings,。
and it was to move on the shoulders of four men。
who were qualified to move it.。
But God also said, "You do not touch the ark。
"because it is holy."。
That was his command.。
He had actually commanded his people,。
"You don't touch the ark specifically because it's holy."。
And the text uses that word, it's holy.。
Now, watch what happens.。
Verse six, "And when they came to the threshing floor。
"of Nacon, Uzziah put out his hand to the ark of God。
"and took hold of it, for the oxen stumbled,。
"and the anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzziah,。
"and God struck him down there because of his error,。
"and he died there beside the ark of God."。
And so they're moving the ark,。
and Uzziah sees the ark toppling over,。
and what does he do?。
He puts out a hand to catch it, and he dies.。
Now, real talk.。
When you hear that, that Uzziah puts out his hand。
and tries to save it, and then God kills him,。
what's your automatic thought?。
Like, what do you think about that?。
How do you feel about that?。
It seems harsh, right?。
Like God's overreacting.。
Like they caught God on a bad day.。
He's like, "I knew they shouldn't move the ark.。
"You touched it, boom, you're done."。
But if you have the thought,。
God was too harsh,。
then that is a misinformed response,。
because the reality is not that God was too harsh.。
The reality is that Uzziah was too careless,。
because he was dealing with a holy God.。
See, if you wanna move from good to godly,。
you have to begin to get your heart and mind。
around the holiness of God.。
Don't miss what I'm telling you right now.。
All eyes on me.。
Your view of God will determine your response to God.。
Like how you know God to be。
will determine how you are with God.。
Your view of God will determine your response to God.。
So if you have a small view of God,。
that's why you have a small response to God.。
And those people who are just on fire for Jesus,。
I promise you, it's not just 'cause they're weird.。
It's because their views of Jesus are just so big。
that they don't know any other way to respond.。
God is a holy God.。
What does it mean that God is holy?。
Well, the Hebrew word for holy is the,。
it's the word kadosh.。
It means awesome or singled out.。
It can even mean cut off.。
So when we talk about God being holy,。
we're talking about God being singled out。
or so awesome or so cut off from everyone else。
in his greatness and in his beauty and majesty.。
All it means is that God is so other。
than anyone or anything else in this world.。
Like we can't begin to fathom who God is。
because he is holy.。
I'll explain it this way.。
Like in case you ever wondered what the executive director。
of Breakaway Ministries drives,。
I drive a 2015 Hyundai Sonata.。
It's what I drive.。
It's a pretty sweet ride.。
I'm just gonna be real.。
I got like the top of the line Hyundai Sonata.。
Like I spent somewhere between 20 and $30,000 on it.。
It's top of the line.。
It's got a panoramic sunroof, leather seats,。
even the like seat coolers.。
That's a big deal.。
So top of the line.。
So I want you to think about us on our best days.。
Like if you lived your best day today,。
let's just equate that to being a top of the line。
Hyundai Sonata.。
So if that's us, like us on our best days,。
if we're a Hyundai Sonata, then who's God?。
Well, we'd say, well, then God's a Mercedes S-Class。
starting at $100,000.。
Wrong.。
God's not a Mercedes S-Class.。
He's the Airbus 380 private jet designed by a Saudi prince。
that has a parking space for a Rolls Royce,。
a private concert hall, and a prayer room。
that automatically turns towards Mecca。
wherever it is in the sky.。
That's who God is.。
You know what the interesting thing is?。
That jet never made it to production.。
So you can't even get online and find images of it。
so that you can begin to get your mind around it.。
Your brain doesn't have a space for that type of aircraft.。
And it's the same with God.。
When we say that God is holy,。
that's what we're saying, that our mental capacity。
cannot even begin to scratch the surface。
of who God truly is.。
He is so other than we could ever know Him to be。
in His love and in His grace and in His mercy,。
but also in His justice and in His wrath.。
God is so other than we can ever comprehend.。
So when we talk about God being holy,。
it begins to make sense why a guy named Isaiah saw God.。
And when he just saw God, you know what he did?。
He's like, "Oh my gosh, I am lost and I am a filthy man."。
Is there anyone in your life that when you get around them,。
you're like, "Oh my gosh, I'm lost.。
"I'm a foul mouth and I'm a filthy human being."。
No.。
Or like a guy named Ezekiel.。
He saw God and when he saw God, he just hit the ground.。
Is there anyone in your life that like they walk in the door。
and you're just like, "Kh-kh-kh."。
Like you just collapse.。
You're like, "I'm sorry, I didn't do that on purpose.。
"That's just, that's what you do to me."。
Anyone like that in your life?。
Or in Revelation, John gets a vision of Jesus.。
And when he does, he just collapsed.。
He's like, "I'm dead, I died."。
And the angel's like, "You're not dead, get up, man."。
(audience laughing)。
That is the natural response to a God that is holy.。
So let's just be clear.。
If Jesus walked through that door tonight,。
nobody here would be sitting there like,。
"That's pretty good, I guess."。
(audience laughing)。
No.。
Like your body would instinctively hit the ground。
because your body has been made to worship a holy God.。
Do you know him as holy?。
Holy, holy.。
Several years ago when I was in probably。
fourth or fifth grade, I used to go each week with my dad.。
(audience laughing)。
What did I say?。
When I was in fourth or fifth grade,。
I used to go with my dad to,。
my dad would go to play racquetball with his close friend.。
And so I would tag along because my dad's racquetball buddy。
would bring his son, so we'd hang out together.。
And I'll never forget this one night。
where my dad had called the YMCA just down Preston Road。
and he had reserved a racquetball court.。
These two high school kids were playing on the court。
that my dad had reserved,。
and they just were playing right into my dad's time.。
So my dad politely knocked on the glass,。
just told him it was time, and the high school kid。
gave my dad the middle finger.。
And what that kid didn't realize is that my dad。
at the time was the chief psychologist。
of the Dallas County Juvenile Department,。
which was the place that troubled teens were taken。
when they didn't do right.。
And my dad's racquetball buddy。
was actually a Dallas County judge and an attorney.。
So when that high school kid stepped out,。
my dad very clearly and firmly informed him。
of who he had just flicked off.。
And in that moment, fear was put into that high school kid.。
And his buddy with him was like, "Dude, you can't do that."。
See, that kid did not realize that he was in the presence。
of one who commanded his respect.。
And I just tell you that to say, you know what,。
sometimes we are far too casual in the presence of God.。
Far too casual.。
Like we love talking about the fact that God is loving。
and kind and full of grace, and He is.。
But Jesus is more than just your buddy.。
Like He's the King of kings and Lord of lords.。
And so let me just encourage you。
to tremble at His holiness.。
There's times where I get up in the morning。
to meet with God, and I just kind of fly。
into my time with God, and I just start babbling in prayer.。
I'm just moving fast, and as I'm praying,。
I begin to say, I begin to pray, and I'm like,。
"And God, you are holy, holy."。
And as I'm working through three holies,。
by the time I get to the second one, I just slow down.。
Because I'm reminded of who I'm meeting with.。
And my posture moves from slouched back。
to leaning forward or bending a knee.。
Because God is worthy of our worship.。
He is worthy of everything because He is holy.。
So number one, prioritize His presence.。
Number two, tremble at God's holiness.。
Number three, treasure God's commands.。
Treasure God's commands.。
Listen to what David says in a different account。
of the same story.。
In 1 Chronicles chapter 15, verses 13 through 15,。
listen to what he says, it's very interesting.。
He's talking about the time that things。
went terribly wrong with the ark.。
He says, "Because you did not carry it the first time,。
"the Lord our God broke out against us."。
Why?。
"Because we did not seek Him according to the rule.。
"So the priests and the Levites consecrated themselves。
"to bring up the ark of the Lord, the God of Israel.。
"And the Levites carried the ark of God。
"on their shoulders with the poles,。
"as Moses had commanded according to the word of the Lord."。
Do you know what David's saying?。
He's saying we were too comfortable.。
Like God had spelled out exactly what we were to do,。
and we didn't do that.。
We were far too casual.。
The third key to moving from good to godly。
is simply to treasure God's commands.。
And I want you to see my wording there.。
I didn't say obey God's commands.。
I said treasure God's commands.。
'Cause some of you just need to hear。
that when we talk about obedience to God,。
obedience to God is actually for your joy.。
Like I love what Todd Wagner has said on this stage,。
and other people have said on this stage。
that God isn't trying to rip you off.。
He is trying to set you free.。
Would you believe that?。
A pastor named Charles Swindoll put it this way.。
He said, "If the Lord cared enough to write it。
"and cared enough to preserve it,。
"He cares enough about the details。
"to have you and me pull it off precisely His way."。
French existentialist philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre said this.。
He says, "Man is the being whose project is to be God."。
Isn't that interesting?。
Man is the being whose project is to be God.。
Do you know what he's saying?。
He's saying we wanna call the shots.。
Like we wanna do things our way.。
That's our bent.。
That's your bent, that's my bent.。
Is to say, you know what God, I can do it better.。
Let me do it my way.。
But God has given us His word so that we will know His way。
so that we can carry out His will.。
You know what our tendency is?。
Our tendency is to say, God, I wanna do your will,。
but I wanna do it my way.。
God, I know you've given us your word。
so that we can know your ways to carry out your will.。
I do wanna carry out your will, but I wanna do it my way.。
So I remember a friend telling me, you know what?。
My girlfriend and I, we wanna honour God。
and we wanna honour God in our relationship,。
but we have just decided we're good。
with everything above the waist.。
And you might hear that and be like,。
hey, prudes, what's up?。
Like that might be, that's like just Friday night for you.。
I don't know what your thing is,。
but this isn't a dating talk right now.。
I just find it interesting, His wording.。
We have just decided.。
Isn't that interesting?。
We have just, it doesn't matter。
what God has spelled out for us.。
We wanna honour God, but we have just decided.。
You know what the interesting thing is?。
Is we want God's commands to submit to our feelings.。
So have you ever said something like this?。
Well, I just don't feel convicted about that.。
I just don't feel convicted。
about getting wasted on the weekends.。
Like I just don't feel convicted。
about hooking up with people.。
I just, I don't feel convicted。
about cutting corners at work.。
Here's the problem.。
Like God's commands don't bend to our feelings.。
Our feelings must submit to God's commands, period.。
Like if you don't feel convicted,。
that doesn't indicate a problem with God's commands.。
It indicates an issue with your heart.。
And so let me just encourage you.。
Treasure God's commands.。
Like obedience is actually one of the greatest displays。
of your love for God.。
Jesus puts it this way in John 14, 15.。
If you love me, you will keep my commandments.。
I want you to look back in the story.。
Let me just read you verses 12 through 15.。
Listen to what it says.。
It says, "And it was told King David,。
"the Lord has blessed the household of Obed-Edom。
"and all that belongs to him because of the ark of God.。
"So David went and brought up the ark of God。
"from the house of Obed-Edom to the city of David。
"with rejoicing.。
"And when those who bore the ark of the Lord。
"had gone six steps,。
"he sacrificed an ox and a fattened animal.。
"And David danced before the Lord with all his might.。
"And David was wearing a linen ephod."。
So David and all the house of Israel。
brought up the ark of the Lord with shouting。
and with the sound of the horn.。
Do you know what we see there?。
We see obedience and joy colliding.。
That treasuring God's commands is for your joy.。
God isn't trying to rip you off.。
He's trying to set you free.。
A while back, I was talking with my 11-year-old Noah。
and he was telling me about a kid at school。
that was just being really mean to him.。
And it was just, it was stealing my son's joy.。
Like I could see bitterness taking root in his heart.。
And I don't know if you've had a bout with bitterness,。
but you know what bitterness is?。
Bitterness is a weed that if you let it grow inside of you,。
it will overtake anything healthy inside of you.。
And so what I told my son is I said,。
"Man, I just wanna encourage you。
"to go to that person at school and just say,。
"'Hey, is there anything that I've done。
"'to hurt you or offend you?。
"'Because if so, I wanna know about it。
"'so I can ask your forgiveness.。
"'But I see the way you treat me。
"'and something is wrong and I wanna deal with it.'"。
And as I was encouraging my son, Noah,。
I just saw fear in his eyes.。
Because as he listened to me,。
I could see he didn't fully trust me.。
I could see that he was believing。
that what I was telling him was out to steal from him。
and rip him off instead of set him free.。
And I just wonder if so many of us read this word。
and we're like, "God, you are out to rip me off."。
And he's like, "No, I'm just trying to set you free."。
The final key to moving from good to godly。
is this, reject man's opposition.。
Reject man's opposition.。
I don't have time to read you the rest of the story.。
I'll just read you verse 16.。
Listen to what it says.。
It says, "As the ark of the Lord。
"came into the city of David,。
"Makal, the daughter of Saul," that is David's wife,。
"looked out of the window and saw King David。
"leaping and dancing before the Lord。
"and she despised him in her heart."。
So his own wife, David, is coming home。
and he is rejoicing.。
He's full of life and joy at moving the ark of God.。
And he comes home and his wife just lights him up.。
She's embarrassed by him.。
And you know what David says to her?。
He says, "I'll even become more undignified than that."。
And his point is, "I'm worshipping God.。
"I'm not seeking the approval of other people."。
The reason that I bring this up。
is everyone's great with you being good.。
Everyone is great with you being good.。
People have no problem with you striving。
to be a good guy or a good girl.。
But people aren't gonna be a fan of you being godly.。
Because you know what being godly does。
is it shines a light on the areas of their life。
where they're living in disobedience to the Lord.。
And people today do not wanna feel convicted.。
And so you know what they'll say?。
They'll say, "You're so legalistic."。
Let's just be clear on what legalism is.。
Legalism is believing that if you do all the right things。
you will earn the favor of God.。
Legalism is ratifying a certain set of traditions saying,。
"If you don't do these things,。
"you will not be in God's favor."。
But to pursue holiness for the sake of honoring God,。
knowing that you already have His approval,。
that's not legalism.。
That's just biblical Christianity.。
And so let me just encourage you,。
stay the course, reject man's opposition.。
What do we do with a talk like this?。
Well, let me just encourage you to do three things.。
Just three practical things.。
Number one, before you leave tonight,。
let me just encourage you, meet with God.。
Like if God is here, meet with Him.。
Like if we're singing a song, meet with Him.。
Don't come, go to all this effort to be here。
and leave without having met with God.。
And then when you get home tonight,。
let me just encourage you to share with a friend。
or if you guys go and grab something to eat after this,。
just sit and share with a friend。
what commands do you want to fully obey in your life。
in order to walk in freedom and display your love for God.。
And then let me just encourage you, every day this week,。
start every day on your knees telling God。
that He is holy, holy, holy.。
And then I'll end just by sharing this.。
If you're here tonight。
and you don't have a relationship with Jesus Christ,。
you might be sitting there saying,。
you know what, I'm actually good with just being good.。
Like I'm good with being good.。
I just want to share with you the words of Jesus。
from Mark chapter 10, verse 18.。
Jesus said to someone, "Why do you call me good?。
No one is good except God alone."。
Isn't that interesting?。
No one is good except God alone.。
Do you know what that means?。
It means our definition of good。
is not God's definition of good.。
God's definition of good is perfection.。
Do you know what that means?。
Us being good without Jesus is not an option.。
Us just being good enough is not an option.。
And that's okay.。
Because the good news of Christianity。
is that when we could never be good enough,。
Jesus Christ left heaven and came to earth。
to be good enough in our place.。
See, we talked about prioritizing the presence of God.。
Jesus was forsaken from the presence of God。
so that we could be brought into the presence of God.。
When Jesus hung on the cross, you know what he declared?。
"My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?"。
He was forsaken so that we could be accepted.。
We talked about trembling at God's holiness.。
Jesus Christ was and is holy.。
And yet he came so that us unholy people,。
through his death, burial, and resurrection,。
could be made right with a God who is holy, holy, holy.。
We talked about treasuring God's commands.。
Jesus fulfilled all of God's commands perfectly.。
He lived the life that you and I never could。
so that every single one of us。
who constantly fall short of God's standard。
can still have the love, acceptance, and approval of God,。
not because of what we will earn through performance,。
but because of receiving Jesus Christ。
in his perfect work for us on the cross.。
And then we talked about rejecting man's opposition.。
Jesus was spit at, laughed at, and mocked.。
And he endured man's opposition。
so that we could experience God's acceptance.。
This is Jesus.。
Do you know him?。
If not, the invitation to you tonight。
is simply to come and know him as your Lord and Savior.。
Let's pray together.。
Lord Jesus, I pray。
that you would do a work in our hearts tonight.。
God, I would imagine that there's people in this room。
who are like, "I'm not good and I'm not godly.。
"I'm far from both."。
And I just wonder if there's anyone in here。
who feels like that train has left the station,。
like there's no hope for them。
because of where they've been or what they've done.。
And I just thank you, Jesus,。
that what you did on the cross was sufficient for everyone,。
that anyone who would call upon the name of the Lord。
shall be saved,。
that complete forgiveness is on the table tonight,。
that instantaneously we can go from being enemies of God。
to being children of God,。
that we can go from being wicked in your sight。
to being godly in your sight, all because of Jesus Christ.。
Lord, I thank you that if we know you,。
you put your spirit in us,。
and your spirit is the one who goes to work in us,。
that obeying your commands isn't just something。
that we have to muscle up every day,。
but your spirit actually is the one。
who is at work in our lives.。
So I pray that my friends wouldn't leave here。
thinking that they just need to do a bunch more.。
I pray that they would realize that the key to godliness,。
it starts with surrender.。
It just starts with waking up every day,。
acknowledging your holiness,。
and surrendering to your leadership。
on a moment-by-moment basis.。
Lord, would you do a good work in our lives?。
We need you.。
We love you.。
In Jesus' name.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
