Porch, how we doing? We doing okay?。
Hey, welcome to Porch Christmas. So glad that you're here.。
Thankful that we've gotten to journey together all year long and we are bringing it home。
tonight. I love the fact that。
we're getting to kind of ring in the holiday at the beginning of December so we can really。
calibrate ourselves and get ourselves prepared for where we're going over the course of the next month as we step into Christmas.。
So without further ado, I thought I would just start with a story。
as per usual. Well for some of you, the pressure is high this Christmas because。
you're going to be spending the holiday with your significant other's family for the very first time.。
I remember when this happened for me. It was。
2017. Brooke and I were first married and I。
finally got the opportunity to bring in the holiday and celebrate with some Christmas spirit alongside my。
in-laws. And it was meaningful for me because of a couple of different reasons. Number one, because I had never been invited。
to celebrate the holiday with them. Not because they don't like me. We get along great.。
They just have a rule in their family that you have to ring it to bring it.。
Which meant that if you're so serious about your relationship, then you'll put your money where your mouth is.。
And you'll put a rock on her finger. And then you get entry into the family festivities. Which by that point, I had done so.。
It was also meaningful because the second reason was they take Christmas very, very seriously. Like some of your families,。
they care a lot about。
the holiday.。
So much so that they gear up with all sorts of different traditions. Things like baking cookies every single year and stringing lights together and。
watching Christmas vacation. Anybody a fan in here of that one? And wearing matching Christmas pajamas.。
I had never been a part of that, but now I have several sets of Christmas pajamas from years past.。
Taking Christmas Eve and sitting by the fire, waking up in the morning and opening presents one。
by one。
by one. So we could see what everybody got. They take their Christmas traditions very。
seriously. And I was all for it because I came from a family that was the exact same way.。
But there was one tradition that stood out to me most of all. And it was this. On Christmas morning,。
before we did anything, before we opened any presents,。
before we we made our way to the stockings or we considered the rest of our day's plans,。
we read the Christmas story.。
Not the one about Ralphie and the Red Ryder BB gun,。
but the one about Jesus. The fact that Christ in this season came and he came for you and。
me. You see, they knew what I knew and I'm praying you would know tonight.。
That as wonderful as all the pageantry of Christmas is, the real wonder is found in the person of Christmas himself.。
It's found in Jesus.。
Now, why do I tell you all of this? Because some of you here are wondering why you haven't gotten an invitation to Christmas yet.。
And the fact may be you haven't put a ring on it.。
So you should make haste because that may be your entry to spending time with the family.。
But also and more importantly than that,。
bigger than the festivities of the holiday, more than lights and baked goods and dinner with family and time by the fire。
and singing Christmas carols or whatever it may be for you.。
There is something so significant in this season。
where the true wonder of the holiday lies in wait.。
And that's what I want to talk to you about tonight.。
That's what I want to help us find here at the beginning of this。
Christmas season. And the way that I want to do it is I want to look at the book of Philippians.。
So if you have a Bible, you can turn there with me. The book of Philippians. Now you may be wondering。
why are we going to Philippians? This is not my normal place for a Christmas message.。
Typically you would find yourself at the the front chapters of one of the Gospels.。
Maybe one of the verses that you read at the beginning of the night in our opener.。
But the reason we're looking at Philippians 2 is I think that therein lies the kind of wonder。
I really want us to get tonight. Because what we see is a。
perspective on Christmas。
that's not earthly,。
but is heavenly.。
You see in Philippians 2 we get to stand and not from our vantage point here on planet Earth,。
but we get to stand from the vantage point of God himself in heaven as he thinks about this moment.。
The moment that we've come to celebrate this month.。
And what we know is that as we see through God's own eyes on this holiday,。
we'll find the reason that the season is so significant.。
Namely three reasons in specific. The first of which is this, that Jesus was born to reach a lost world.。
Jesus was born to reach a lost world. That's what it says starting in verse 6. Verse 6 says,。
"Who, though he was in the form of God,。
did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped.。
But he emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men."。
Now, I want you to stop where you are and just think about this for a minute.。
Like this statement is telling us something about the nature of who Jesus is.。
Actually, it's telling us the fundamental nature of who Jesus is.。
So the same way that if Jesus were to wear a letter jacket, all the patches on his arms, they would detail。
characteristics about who he is. That he's a friend of sinners, and he went all state in miracle making,。
and he was first team when it came to saving the world. Like he would have patches lined along his arms that detail。
these different。
characteristics of who he is. And yet most fundamental to who he is, that identifier which you would find on the back of his。
jacket would be "Son of God."。
Because that is the name that is most fundamental to who Christ is.。
Like when he says he's in the form of God,。
it's not saying that he looks like God. It's not saying that he's a substitute. He's a nice alternative.。
It's saying that he's actually God. You get that?。
And if we gathered here, and you heard that news, that would be good enough reason for us to get in this room together tonight.。
Because that is amazing. Like if you want to find the wonder of the holiday,。
what's more wonderful than that? Than this idea that a God in heaven became a man here on this earth.。
Like that is jaw-dropping. That's awe-inspiring.。
That's wonderful beyond measure. And yet Paul, as he writes through this, he doesn't just stop there.。
Like what we know is he goes on to tell us that。
he was in the form of God, and yet he emptied himself.。
Because he did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped. That word "grasped" in。
the original language, it's the idea of seizing something or taking something by force.。
So just to get some perspective, what Jesus is saying here is, is I, as Jesus Christ, am the most powerful being in the。
world, in all creation, and yet I'm not on a power trip.。
Like I'm not looking out for myself.。
I'm actually willing to lay aside my sovereignty, punt on my privileges, give up my glory,。
because I'm not thinking about me. I'm thinking about you. I'll do whatever it takes to get close to you, to help you.。
Isaiah 53, 2 tells us,。
"He had no former majesty。
that we would look at him,。
no beauty that we should desire him."。
So this is a good, this is a good moment for me to introduce someone。
to the stage.。
Porch, will y'all do a great job of helping me welcome my son Cash Levi to the platform?。
Let's see if we can find him. There he is.。
Okay, he just spit up all over Brooke. That's good. I'm glad you emptied up before you got on stage, buddy.。
All right, let's go. Mom, stay close.。
Porch, meet little Cash.。
Doning his very own Porch t-shirt, if you can see this. Cash, meet several thousand of your best friends.。
When Cash was born,。
a couple of things struck me.。
Number one, I。
was struck by how remarkable he is.。
Remarkable in the sense that he's a true gift from God to us.。
But I was also struck by the fact。
that he's pretty regular.。
In the sense that he's just like me and he's just like you.。
Jesus was the same way.。
Jesus was remarkable, a gift from God.。
And yet Jesus became regular, just like me and just like you.。
Jesus。
was totally self-sufficient before he came to this earth. But when he came as a baby, he became like Cash.。
And he needs his mommy and daddy for everything.。
Jesus, before he came,。
was totally self-reliant.。
And yet, like Cash,。
he relied upon others to meet his needs.。
There was no aura about Jesus when he was here on this earth.。
There was no halo over his head. If he had walked into this room tonight,。
he wouldn't have floated to his seat.。
He would have looked。
just like you,。
just like me.。
And he would have been like him.。
Jesus came。
and he set aside his transcendence as。
God and he took upon dependence.。
Like a babe.。
That's how badly Jesus wanted to reach you.。
That's how badly Jesus wanted to reach me.。
He was willing to become like us.。
That's how far he would go. He didn't hedge his bets. He wasn't one foot in, one foot out.。
He emptied himself completely.。
Because he loves you.。
It says that he's come not just to be a man, but to be a servant. Why a servant?。
Because he wants to help you.。
He wants to help those that are helpless.。
He wants to love those that are unlovely.。
He wants to redeem those that feel beyond redemption and save those that think they cannot be saved.。
That's how much Jesus in this season matters.。
You've been very good.。
Thank you. I'm so glad that you like those lights.。
I'm gonna give you back to your mommy now.。
Jesus was not just born to reach a lost world.。
He was also born to rescue a broken people.。
He was born to rescue a broken people.。
That's what verse 8 tells us. Verse 8 says that in being found in human form,。
he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross.。
You see, that's the important part of Christmas. Like Jesus didn't just come to associate with you.。
He came to liberate you. Like 2 Corinthians 8 and 9 says, "For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though。
he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor, so that by his poverty。
you might become rich." Meaning Jesus didn't just come for you. You get that. Like he didn't just come to associate.。
He came to change everything for you. He came to liberate you. Y'all know that movie, The Nightmare Before Christmas?。
That movie that can't make up its mind if it's Halloween or Christmas flick? Nightmare Before Christmas.。
That's a pretty appropriate title for your story before Jesus ever entered in.。
It was a nightmare. And yet Jesus came into your story not just to。
shine a light into the recesses of your soul and show you just how broken you are.。
Not just to prove to you that you really are messed up, but you know what? Hey, what good luck.。
You're gonna have to figure that out by yourself.。
No, he came because he wanted to figure that out for you.。
Like he stepped in to fix the most broken parts of who you are. To free you of your failures, to save you of your。
sins, to ultimately redeem you in your worst mistakes.。
That's why he came. The birth of Christ that we celebrate at Christmas is Jesus looking upon your helpless estate and saying,。
"I can help!"。
Like you don't think that you have anyone who could help you in the most。
heart-wrenching places of your life and yet I can do it. If you need a liberator, I。
can liberate you. If you need a redeemer, I can redeem you. If you need a healer, I can heal you.。
If you need a Savior, that's what I've come to do.。
I have come willing to empty myself so that you might be filled up instead.。
You see, Jesus。
he did the unthinkable.。
He descended。
from God to man, to servant, to death,。
to even death on a cross, an。
infinite humiliation for the Son of God.。
So that you might ascend。
from death。
to life,。
to child of God, to eternity with him forever.。
I love the way CJ Mahaney says,。
"Christ bore it alone。
that we might not ever be alone."。
So what do you do when you know all of this?。
Once you know that Jesus was born to reach a lost world and rescue a broken people,。
you do what God does, which is where this。
passage ends in verses 9 through 11.。
It says, "Therefore," because of all of this, because Jesus has been born to reach a lost world and to rescue a broken people,。
"Therefore God has highly exalted him.。
He's bestowed on him the name that's above every name, so that at the name of Jesus。
every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father."。
You see, you remember who Jesus is. You see the life。
he lived, the lengths that he would go to get to you, and。
then you respond rightly.。
How do you respond?。
With rejoicing.。
You praise him because there's no one like him,。
because you know that Jesus was born to reign over。
everything.。
He was born to reign over everything, and that includes you.。
In theological circles, whenever you work through this section of Scripture,。
there are three terms used to describe。
the detail that Paul's unpacking.。
The first is Christ's condescension,。
that he condescended, that he lowered himself from heaven to earth. The next is Christ's。
reconciliation, that he bore our shame in。
sin on the cross. And then the last is Christ's exaltation,。
that though he died,。
death could not keep him.。
But he rose forth from the grave because he is who he says he is. He did what he said he would do.。
He's not just a nice guy, a miracle worker, a helpful teacher.。
He's God, and he conquered that unconquerable foe. He vanquished our very worst enemy.。
He ultimately。
dominated that which was dominating you and condemning you to separation from him forever.。
He took away your sin, and as he rose forth from the grave, he declared。
that I am who I say I am. I am king.。
And he sits on his throne tonight.。
He reigns over all tonight.。
He rules over everything。
tonight. What does that mean, that he rules? We don't really use that kind of language.。
Like you don't say like, "I rule over my cubicle."。
No one talks about。
their workspace like that.。
You might look at someone and say, "You rule," but that's the closest thing we get.。
So what does it mean when the scripture is telling us that he reigns, that he rules? It means he's not only all-powerful,。
it means he has the right to rule, and he has the right to rule。
because he is。
king.。
And so some of you need to know tonight, like I don't know what the holidays hold.。
I don't know what the month ahead has in store,。
but because Jesus reigns on his throne right now,。
you have a reason for hope.。
Because Jesus reigns on his throne right now,。
you have a reason for peace.。
Because Jesus reigns on his throne right now,。
you have a reason for joy.。
I remember。
just several years ago。
finding myself so excited because Christmas was coming.。
Love this holiday, the chance to be with my family,。
to sit by the table with my friends, to enjoy good food, to watch cheesy Hallmark movies, to sing those songs。
and avoid Mariah Carey at all costs. You know, I was just pumped, man. I love this season。
for all of these reasons, and yet what I realized。
is that that name,。
which is at the center of the holiday, it didn't evoke within me。
the kind of wonder I wanted.。
Maybe that's you here tonight.。
What you need to know is that the name at the center of this holiday is that name which is above every name.。
It's the name which every knee shall bow and every tongue shall confess. He is Lord.。
Both heaven on earth and under the earth. If you want to be reawakened to the wonder of。
Christmas,。
then you need look no further than the one。
that sought to reach a lost world,。
rescue a broken people, and today reigns over all things.。
If you want to be reawakened to the wonder of Christmas,。
you need look no further。
than the one who came looking for you.。
Let me pray for us.。
God, we love you。
and thankful。
here God standing at the final Tuesday of this year。
knowing just how much God you've accomplished。
in the lives of very individual people from very different backgrounds with very broken and busted stories.。
I'm so grateful God that。
you've given us the joy of being a part of that. So grateful God to you that here in this room。
we haven't just gathered because we want to be entertained,。
because we want to grow our intellect,。
because we want to meet new people. Yes, God, those are good reasons to gather, but God we have gathered here。
with the soul and singular purpose of。
seeking you.。
And in this season。
that's easy to do。
because we're reminded that you sought us。
first.。
We love you.。
And we sing to you now and we celebrate you Jesus,。
the one that would reach out。
to a lost people, would rescue us from the most broken parts of our story and would reign over us。
today, tomorrow, and forever for our good. We sing to you now in Jesus name we pray.。
