Hey, let me just say this from the outset.。
I'm eager to get into the word of God.。
And we've got some amazing things lined up。
over the course of this weekend.。
I just first and foremost wanna say thanks for being here.。
I know some of you, you've traveled short distances.。
Others of you have traveled very long distances。
to be in this room.。
And that doesn't fall absent on us.。
So thanks for being here.。
Here's what I just wanna encourage you to remember.。
Because I had to remind myself of this。
even as I was sitting in these seats.。
I was sitting down here and we were leaning into worship.。
And as we were doing so, it just was like。
all of this octane and all of this energy。
and all this enthusiasm for like,。
man, we're finally here, like awaken is happening.。
Like, man, months and months and months of prayer。
and tons and tons and tons of planning。
has all gone into this moment.。
And we have arrived at last.。
And yet here's what I desperately need you to know.。
Awaken is not about us arriving.。
Awaken is about God's arrival.。
That's what awaken is about.。
Like this is a generation of young adults。
gathering together from all across the country,。
even the globe, with the express purpose。
of seeking the Lord while he may be found.。
There's an urgency to that.。
And so I know there was a lot of urgency。
to get in this room and get yourself a seat.。
And oh my gosh, I gotta scramble out front.。
I gotta lift my hands of worship.。
And there's so much urgency to this moment.。
And yet the urgency has not passed.。
In fact, the urgency should only build。
as we make our way through our time together.。
You see, every single session,。
every time we open this book,。
every single set list we've planned,。
all of it is only driving us further and further and further。
in the direction that we have commonly come together。
to seek, which is after God.。
Because we believe that he draws near to those。
that draw near to him.。
And so hear me on this.。
You've made it.。
Praise God, I love that you're here.。
It's gonna be amazing.。
And yet, and yet at the same time,。
the work behind you isn't finished.。
Let's lean together.。
Let's continue to seek.。
Let's allow everything that we study from the scripture,。
everything that we feel the spirit prompt。
to push us further and further and further forward。
so that way God knows you are wanted here, oh God.。
He comes where he's wanted.。
Let this be the place in all of the world this weekend。
that wants God the most.。
I was telling the team in the back,。
I was like, gosh, we're not the coolest,。
nor do we need to be.。
We're not the funniest, nor do we need to be.。
We're not the smartest, nor do we need to be.。
But you know what we must be?。
We must be the hungriest.。
A people that hunger and thirst, why?。
Because they will be satisfied.。
And I want us satisfied.。
I believe that this can be a time。
that not only shakes the reality of your life,。
but the reality of our realm。
as God makes his presence known in your life,。
through your life, and to those around your life.。
So I'm gonna pray and then we're gonna get into it。
'cause I'm eager for what's ahead。
and they've already started my timer, so let me pray.。
God, we love you.。
We love you and we know God.。
Even the ability to say that is the testament。
to the fact that you loved us first.。
Not a single one of us, God, is worthy of your love。
and yet you have chosen to offer it to us.。
We didn't merit it.。
We didn't earn it.。
We didn't deserve it.。
And yet, God, you nonetheless said,。
I love you enough to send my son.。
And Jesus, because you have come, we have come here together。
and we're asking that you would make yourself known,。
manifest among us.。
Yes, God, we know your spirit is already here,。
that God, you are omnipresent.。
There is no place in all the earth。
that you are not already, always, all at once.。
And yet we're asking for something unique this weekend.。
We're asking for an outpouring of your spirit.。
And so God, as we lean in that direction,。
it's not just because we wanna have an awesome time together。
though, God, that is true.。
It's because, God, we want things to change。
because of Awaken.。
Change in our lives, change in our cities,。
and God, even across this country and our world, God.。
We believe it's possible, not because we're worthy.。
Lord, it is highly inappropriate for us to think。
that we're the ones through whom God might do it,。
which is why, God, we don't come and manufacture anything.。
It is inappropriate for us to pray。
that you would do revival through us,。
but God, it is appropriate for us to ask。
that you would do revival for us,。
for your heart is towards your people.。
And so God, come near to us now, we pray.。
In Christ's name, amen.。
- Man, it's good to see you guys.。
Okay, well, let me start off with this。
'cause we got a story that's gonna kick things off。
and hopefully set up our time together.。
When I met Brooke, who is my wife, in case you didn't know,。
it didn't take long before I knew。
that I wanted to date her.。
I was on the fence in the slightest。
because it was not hard to fall for a girl。
that loves beef fajitas over chicken fajitas.。
It wasn't hard to fall for a girl。
that doesn't take herself too seriously,。
is fine to be the butt of the joke.。
It wasn't hard to fall for a girl。
that was willing to poke fun at the guys,。
had never met a game that she did not want to play and win,。
and that came from a family that loved Jesus.。
I was in, the minute I met her, I was like,。
gosh, that girl's awesome, I want to date her.。
It was the easiest decision I made in college,。
but marrying Brooke, that was a much harder decision.。
Not because she did anything wrong.。
Quite the contrary.。
She did everything right, which I was not planning.。
She did all of it correct.。
It created for this massive problem in my life。
because I was the guy that was so low by choice.。
Some of you, you're in that spot.。
I preferred freedom over drama,。
and I knew as long as I was on my own, that was fine.。
Freedom is all that I was going to experience.。
I was a Bachelor to the Rapture sort of fella.。
That was my story.。
I was totally committed to living through college。
as a single.。
I didn't intend to find my girl while I was there.。
I wanted to find her out in the world.。
Why?。
Because I wanted to see her on the front lines of faith.。
I wanted to find my woman on the mission field.。
I wanted to find her chasing God and not some dude.。
And yet when Brooke entered my story and we began dating,。
I was the hypocrite because we were three years。
into the relationship and I realized something significant.。
I could not any longer live with one foot。
in a dating relationship with her。
and another foot trying to live the single lifestyle。
because fellas, just so you know,。
it is not a good husbandly rhythm to spend two hours。
at the gym or to order Chewy's combination fajita burritos。
or to get golfing on the weekends with the boys.。
Those things are not as quite conducive to husbandry.。
So I knew I had to make a decision.。
And yet the reason I was able to make that decision,。
I was able to bend the knee by the ring, pop the question,。
was because I realized something important.。
That I did want all of Brooke.。
But that meant I had to give all of me.。
That was my decision.。
And the truth of the matter is a lot of you。
are facing a similar decision today,。
like you've been in a relationship with Jesus。
where, man, you've made amazing memories.。
Like you have shared some incredible laughs,。
you've gotten to know each other,。
you've listened to him by way of his word,。
you've talked to him by way of your prayers,。
you've experienced his family as you come into his church,。
you've learned everything that he has in store。
for not only your life, but for the rest of the world.。
You've learned his dreams and his hopes and his aims.。
And yet, though you know each other so well,。
you have not made the decision to go all the way with him.。
Because yeah, you've got Jesus,。
but you've also got your career, and you've got your friends,。
and you've got your hobbies, and you've got your influence,。
and you've got your followers, and you've got your body,。
and you've got your reputation to keep,。
and you've got your dreams and your own aspirations,。
things that you are desperate to achieve,。
none of which are the problem.。
Like the problem is not that you want all of the things,。
the problem is that you want Jesus,。
you just don't want surrender.。
Which as I say that,。
I know some of you are probably thinking to yourself,。
he must be talking about somebody else down the row,。
sitting next to me even, because you know your story,。
you know your habits, you know the schedule of your life。
is that you show up to church on Sundays,。
you get in quiet times over the course of your week,。
you show up on Tuesday nights or stream along with us,。
you know that you post the occasional Bible verse,。
and you don't get drunk, only buzzed.。
But there's the danger, you can look all the way in。
while still being one foot out.。
You can be sitting in the church with your Bible open,。
but you can have your heart checked out.。
You can sing all the lyrics,。
but you can never actually mean any of the words,。
you can take good notes,。
but you never actually apply them to your life。
so that way they live out loud.。
You see, you can love Jesus sincerely,。
and still refuse to surrender completely.。
But here's the thing, that's not what Christ。
came to give you, Christ did not come to give you。
this sort of life where you are torn between two spaces.。
Him and you, he came to give you a life。
that requires all of you, and the reason we know it。
is because it required all of him, he went first,。
and so now we give all of ourselves in response.。
He has called you to a life of surrender,。
and what I wanna do is I wanna talk to you。
about some steps you can take to actually do that,。
because in rooms like this, in times like these,。
it's easy for us to talk about the merits of surrender,。
and to even feel like we've done it a time or two,。
and yet what we realize is this is a decision。
that we are continually faced.。
It's interesting, it's said that the average adult。
makes 35,000 decisions a day, most of which don't matter.。
Most of those decisions are immaterial,。
those are decisions like should I drink out。
of this coffee mug or that coffee mug?。
Should I text that friend back,。
or should I wait until another more opportune time to do so?。
Should I go out with my friends, or should I stay home?。
Should I stay in that line of the grocery store。
or that line, which inevitably always ends up。
being the wrong one, you know, you pick that。
whenever that situation happens.。
We always make thousands of immaterial decisions a day,。
and yet there are times in life。
when you're handed a really big one,。
and in your young adult years, you get hit。
with more of these than at any other point in your life,。
in your 20s and 30s, you are faced。
with so many of these decisions.。
Where will you go to school?。
What will you study, grad program or not?。
Who will your friends be?。
Will you keep up with those friends?。
Maybe you should make new friends.。
Where will you live?。
Who will you live with?。
Do you take a job in Dallas, or do you move to Denver?。
Do you go on a date?。
Should you go on a second date, a third date?。
Maybe we should have a DTR,。
because we've been dating for quite a while.。
Oh my gosh, we're in a relationship.。
I didn't know that we were in a relationship.。
I thought we were just dating,。
but now this has gotten serious.。
Should we get married?。
Do we have kids?。
How many kids?。
Home school?。
Nah.。
Private school?。
Public school.。
Do we move back near family,。
or can we do this thing on our own?。
And it goes on and on and on,。
because in your stage of life,。
there are so many decisions demanded of you,。
and yet here's what I would say.。
Though your 20s and 30s feel like a series of pop quizzes。
that you never got the opportunity to study for,。
there is not one decision,。
but a decision every single day。
that you must make continually for the rest of your life,。
because yes, it is true.。
In most cases with big decisions,。
they are relatively rare,。
and they happen maybe once, maybe twice,。
and yet the truth of the matter is,。
the most important decision you can make in your life,。
the biggest decision that you will make,。
is not a once in a lifetime kind of choice.。
It is an every day, day by day,。
even on your worst day,。
until the day you die kind of decision,。
and it's this.。
Will you go all in with Jesus?。
Will you go all in with him?。
Because that's what Paul is talking about。
in the book of Romans.。
If you have a Bible, turn with me to Romans chapter 12.。
While you're doing that,。
we're catching the book of Romans at its hinge point.。
You see chapters one through 11,。
unpack for us all the glories of the gospel.。
It tells us about who God is, who Christ is,。
what Christ has come to do in light of who we are。
and what we needed,。
and because he has done all of that,。
we find ourselves in chapter 12 to the end of the book,。
considering what now is the product of our life.。
So here's what's important.。
You cannot consider anything。
that we're going to talk about tonight together。
if you do not first and foremost,。
have a relationship with Jesus.。
Paul is even gonna open up this chapter。
by talking to brothers.。
That's brothers and sisters,。
meaning people that are within the family of God,。
and yet he wants to unpack for us。
some very important principles that we need,。
so that way we understand what it looks like。
to take legitimate steps towards surrender.。
So here's what he says in Romans 12.。
We're just gonna look at two verses.。
Says this in verse one,。
"I appeal to you therefore, brothers,。
"by the mercies of God,。
"to present your bodies as a living sacrifice,。
"holy and acceptable to God,。
"which is your spiritual worship.。
"Do not be conformed to this world,。
"but be transformed by the renewal of your mind,。
"that by testing you may discern what is the will of God,。
"what is good and acceptable and perfect."。
So how do you give your all to Jesus?。
How do you actually surrender yourself to him?。
Well, in order to understand that,。
you have to understand something about sacrifices.。
Probably didn't see that coming,。
but that's what Paul is unpacking in Romans 12, one and two.。
He is talking to your life now。
on the other side of the cross,。
having professed your faith in Jesus,。
and standing with him today,。
and journeying with him through the rest of your life.。
He is looking at you and he is saying,。
"Hey, your life is to now, forever,。
"and always be known as a living sacrifice."。
Which means we've gotta understand。
some things about sacrifices.。
What do we need to understand about sacrifices?。
We, I did this on Tuesday.。
What we have to know about sacrifices is,。
number one, that we offer ourselves entirely.。
You gotta offer yourself entirely.。
Because here's the thing, in the Old Testament,。
burnt offerings, which is what Paul。
is specifically talking about。
when he describes living sacrifices.。
Burnt offerings, they were the only whole offering。
that the people of God gave.。
Whole offering, meaning there was nothing left。
for leftovers.。
It was the whole thing offered at a single time.。
We see it over the course of Scripture.。
It says in Deuteronomy 33, 10,。
"They shall teach Jacob your rules, and Israel your law.。
"They shall put incense before you,。
"and whole burnt offerings on your altar."。
Psalm 51, 19 says, "Then will you delight。
"in right sacrifices, and burnt offerings,。
"and whole burnt offerings.。
"Then bulls will be offered on your altar."。
Exodus 29, 18 says, "And burn the whole ram on the altar."。
It is a burnt offering to the Lord.。
It is a pleasing aroma of food offering to the Lord.。
I could give you more, but hopefully。
that gets the message across.。
Burnt offering is a whole offering,。
which means it is offered entirely.。
When it comes to your life as an offering to God,。
He doesn't just want half of you.。
He doesn't want some of you.。
He doesn't want most of you.。
He wants all of you, the entirety of who you are.。
When Paul says, "Present your body,"。
that word body literally means the complete totality。
of whoever you are, like the whole of you right now。
in this room as you are,。
even if you wish things were different.。
Like He wants the things that you pride yourself on at work,。
the things that you conceal when you look in the mirror,。
the things that you committed to doing this year,。
and the things that you failed to do this year,。
the things that you joke about with your friends,。
the things that you regret when you think about your past,。
the thing you refuse to tell anyone else.。
He wants all of it, all of it.。
That's why Paul uses the word present.。
It's interesting, that word present carries the idea。
of bestowing upon somebody something else,。
bestowing upon somebody something that you have.。
And it doesn't mean that it comes。
from a place of swagger or pride.。
There's no ego involved.。
It's not like now presenting best living sacrifice.。
That's not the idea here.。
The idea instead is birth and humility,。
because when you consider what present actually means,。
it means to hand something over to someone。
of superior status or rank.。
It comes from a place of humility.。
So I remember when I graduated college,。
like some of you in the room, I graduated with debt.。
And the reason why is because college is expensive.。
I did my best, had some scholarships,。
tried to earn grants, and even worked。
to make some money on the side.。
And yet at the end of the day,。
I walked out with some debt in my name.。
And so I graduated and started to work a full-time job.。
And yet somewhere along the way,。
I remember my dad sitting me down.。
And as he sat with me, he just asked,。
hey man, I don't wanna be invasive,。
but would you be cool if we opened up your bank account。
and we looked specifically at the debt。
that you owe from school?。
And I was like, sure, man, like,。
it doesn't bother me if we look at it together.。
And so we opened up my debt,。
and then he proceeded to ask me,。
hey, would you let me have that?。
Would you give me all of the debt that is left to you?。
And I remember in that moment feeling so humbled.。
I wasn't proud.。
It's like, about time you recognized.。
That would have been the most inappropriate response.。
Why?。
Because it wasn't his fault.。
It was my fault, and yet he was making it his problem.。
He wanted to take it onto himself,。
but it required me present it to him,。
offer it to him, give it over to him.。
And he was of superior rank to myself.。
He actually was better suited。
to handle the issue than I was.。
Now, as I say that, some of you are sitting here。
thinking to yourself, yeah, man,。
I would totally present a problem to God,。
but this isn't necessarily just talking。
about giving him my problems.。
This is talking about giving him myself, my whole life.。
And yet the truth of the matter is,。
the disbelief that Jesus deserves your all。
actually implies the belief that you think。
satisfaction is found someplace else, and it's not.。
He is asking you to give him all of yourself,。
the good and the bad.。
Why?。
Because he knows as you present it to him,。
he will be able to return to you。
what you have actually wanted for,。
which is genuine satisfaction.。
You see, we're called to surrender everything to Jesus,。
and yet that's the issue for so many of us in here.。
We think we're surrendering our lives to Jesus。
when we're really just sharing our lives with Jesus.。
Like, Jesus, you can have my Sunday mornings,。
you can have my Tuesday nights,。
and I'll even give you my Wednesday nights。
'cause we got a group at that time,。
and maybe a 20-minute devotional in the morning,。
but I need to keep Monday afternoon happy hour。
because Monday's tough and the rest of the week's coming,。
and I need to just unwind a little bit, you know?。
Or my favorite show, it airs every Thursday night,。
so maybe I can keep that one。
'cause I really wanna keep up with that show.。
It's about to drop, and I need to make sure。
that I'm tuning in alongside, or maybe it's not that,。
maybe it's Friday night, I've got softball league,。
and so we've actually got a chance to win this year,。
and they need me, man, I gotta show up,。
and I gotta be a part of it.。
Every weekend, those are for my friends,。
so Jesus, you can have some of this,。
but you can't have the rest of this.。
Now, hear me on this, I just want you to know,。
I'm not villainizing any of those things。
because the truth of the matter is, in the Christian life,。
it's not all fasting.。
There is some feasting involved.。
Like, there should be the genuine enjoyment。
of things that we've just described,。
and yet the reality is, the more of yourself you give away,。
the less of yourself you have to offer,。
and so this weekend, there's gonna be a chance。
for some of you to take yourself back。
so you can give yourself to God。
to actually offer all of who you are to him。
because that's what he wants.。
You see, we live in a world。
that has branded following Jesus。
with a calculated sort of devotion,。
a cultural Christianity that many of you are aware of,。
a celebritized sort of faith。
that says Jesus is fine with whatever you wanna give,。
to which I wanna say no!。
No one is in a position,。
no one finds himself in a relationship。
with someone they love that's like,。
he loves me most of the time,。
but some of the time, he loves somebody else.。
Nobody would have any sort of interest in that.。
It's funny, I've even, I've read the article,。
I've talked to people in open relationships,。
polyamorous relationships, and they all, in the same way,。
even if they advocate that that is best,。
the truth of the matter is。
they always end with people jealous.。
Why?。
Because nobody wants to share their beloved's affection.。
Guess what?。
Your God is jealous too.。
Your God is a jealous God.。
Exodus 20, verses four and five says,。
"You shall not make for yourself a carved image。
"or any likeness of anything that is heaven above。
"or that which is in the earth beneath。
"or that is in the water under the earth.。
"You shall not bow down to them or serve them。
"for I, the Lord your God, I'm a jealous God."。
So hear me on this.。
What does it mean that God is a jealous God?。
It means that God will not be king at all。
if he cannot be king of all.。
God will not be king at all if he cannot be king of all.。
That's why the offering is consumed completely.。
It is offered whole.。
And we should be too.。
So let me ask you, what have you withheld from the altar?。
If your life is meant to be lived on the altar,。
living sacrifice unto God, what have you withheld from him?。
And I don't ask that in a condemning way.。
I don't ask that in an attempt to guilt you.。
I ask that in a way to release you, to free you,。
to invite you into the sort of wholehearted devotion。
that Christ went to the cross to give you.。
So what have you withheld from the altar?。
Is it your relationship?。
Is it your health?。
Is it your family?。
Is it your career?。
I get it, I talk to people all the time down here.。
They'll come up and they'll talk to me about。
a relationship that they dearly love。
and yet they know there's something about the relationship。
that isn't quite right.。
And yet they're willing to compromise on that relationship。
because they want to be loved.。
And in the process of doing so, they dismiss the fact。
that they already have been loved.。
And the one who loves them has so much more for them。
than they actually want for themselves.。
Or I'll talk to people that will visit with me。
about their families.。
That will look at me and will tell me about。
marriages that are a mess between their parents。
or siblings that have just gone rogue。
or generational sin that has abounded for so very long。
and yet despite all of their effort。
and all of the prayers they've prayed。
and all the times that they've shared,。
it feels like God never actually shows up.。
And yet what they've done is they've counted out a God。
that has never failed to be faithful to his promises.。
Or it's in people's career.。
They got big dreams.。
They want to be a millionaire by 25.。
Me too.。
And yet in the process of doing so,。
they're willing to make genuine compromises。
that forego their convictions。
because that's what it takes to sit in the halls of power。
and at the table of influence.。
And yet as they do so, they forget the fact。
that they've already been bestowed。
with an immense amount of approval。
and they need not worry about anything。
because if he so clothes the field,。
will he not much more clothe you?。
If he so feeds the birds, will he not much more feed you?。
We do this.。
We withhold from the altar.。
But here's the thing.。
Tonight,。
we can put it all on the altar.。
We can offer ourselves entirely.。
I visit with people often who tell me。
they're so burnt out on Christ。
and the truth of the matter is they have burnt out。
because they've never actually burned up.。
They never gave all of themselves to God.。
Why wouldn't you?。
Why wouldn't you give all of yourselves to God?。
Only you know the answer for that.。
I've got ideas of why that might be。
because you love Love Island。
and you don't know that you could ever go a day without it。
but maybe you should go a day without it。
or you think about your life。
and you consider the friends that you spend time with。
and man, you don't wanna break those friendships。
and yet the truth of the matter is。
you probably should break those friendships。
because there's plenty of people out there。
and they're better friends.。
In fact, to find that those friends。
are asking you to compromise your convictions in Christ.。
There's so many things that I could tell you。
but you know why you're actually,。
why you're actually not giving all of yourself to Jesus,。
why you're not going the whole way.。
So let me just ask you,。
instead of begging the question,。
how far do I need to go, Kylan?。
What if you asked instead, how far can I go, Kylan?。
How much can I do?。
What would it look like to be the most radical person。
in this room as opposed to calculate my devotion any longer?。
You see, Christ lived that way.。
He went the whole way.。
You see, he did it because he knew。
in order to present a sacrifice to God,。
what had to be true of that sacrifice?。
That sacrifice had to be spotless.。
It had to be guiltless.。
It had to be completely blameless, unblemished。
and the truth of the matter is not a single person。
in this room apart from Christ。
can say that that is true of who they are.。
Every one of us is marred by sin.。
The stain goes so very deep。
and no matter how hard we try to clean,。
it cannot be removed。
and yet the only way we can present ourselves。
the whole of who we are as an unblemished sacrifice。
is through Christ.。
How did he do it?。
By offering the entirety of who he is。
so that way we might be made clean。
and we could do so likewise in response.。
Friends, offer yourself entirely。
because Christ has offered himself entirely.。
That's the first step of surrender.。
The second step is you have to offer yourself。
consistently.。
You offer yourself consistently。
which sounds crazy, right?。
Consistently.。
What do we mean by that?。
Once a week?。
Twice a week?。
Three times a week?。
No, every single day, every single moment。
for the rest of your life.。
That sounds insane.。
That sounds crazy.。
Who would even do that?。
You wanna know who does that?。
Christians do that.。
It sounds crazy but whoever said you were called。
to a normal kind of life?。
You offer yourself consistently.。
Leviticus six verses eight through nine says,。
"The Lord spoke to Moses saying,。
"Command Aaron and his son saying,。
"this is the law of the burnt offering.。
"The burnt offering shall be on the hearth。
"on the altar all night until the morning。
"and the fire of the altar shall be kept burning on it."。
Verse 12.。
"The fire on the altar shall be kept burning on it.。
"It shall not go out.。
"The priest shall burn wood on it every morning。
"and he shall arrange the burnt offering on it。
"and shall burn on it the fat of the peace offerings.。
"Fire shall be kept burning on the altar continually.。
"It shall not go out."。
Why shouldn't it go out?。
Because this is no ordinary fire.。
This is holy fire.。
It's interesting, when you study fire in the Bible,。
what you realize is fire is representative。
of the presence of God.。
You see it in the life of Abraham。
as he covenants with God.。
God is represented as a flaming torch in a smoking pot.。
You see it whenever Moses encounters the burning bush.。
God's presence is in the bush。
that is ablaze and yet not burned up.。
You see it as the Israelites make their way。
through the wilderness out of Egypt.。
They're led by a pillar of fire by night。
and a cloud of smoke by day.。
And then you see it whenever they get to Mount Sinai,。
Mount Sinai, which means Mount Fire.。
And when they get to Mount Sinai,。
what is the mountain wrapped within?。
It is wrapped in smoke and fire.。
God's presence is represented by fire.。
And not just that, God himself identifies as such.。
Deuteronomy 4, 24 says,。
"For the Lord your God is a consuming fire, a jealous God."。
Fire is always representative of God's presence.。
And what's fascinating is that when you look at the times,。
when the places, the tabernacle, the temple,。
and the people of God are erected。
to receive the presence of God in their lives,。
what is his presence represented as?。
Fire.。
It literally falls from heaven。
and it comes down here to earth.。
Every time, it's fire that fills the place。
because the presence of God fills that place,。
which is really kind of God if you think about it.。
Because anyone knows, particularly those survival experts,。
that the hardest part of fire building in the open world。
is always the process of getting the fire started.。
I don't know if you've ever tried it.。
Just like no materials, no light or fluid, that's cheating.。
You and some sticks make fire.。
It is impossibly difficult.。
Why?。
Because it requires so many variables to go right.。
Like you have to have like really dry kindling.。
And if you're in an environment。
that's extremely moist or windy,。
then that makes it super difficult。
because those things are not conducive to building fire.。
You gotta have the right amount of oxygen.。
Too much oxygen, it'll blow out.。
Too little oxygen, it won't catch flame.。
And you need small enough fuel。
that you can add to the fire。
so that way when it begins to catch,。
it has something small enough to catch on。
'cause you might smother it。
if you put too big an item upon it.。
It is a difficult process.。
It's the reason Tom Hanks goes ballistic。
whenever he makes it in "Castaway."。
You think you would do no different?。
Then I dare you try.。
It is so very hard, and yet it is kind of God to say,。
"I'll take care of that, everybody.。
"I will literally whoosh,。
"blow up the altar with heavenly fire."。
You wanna know what the easiest part of fire building is?。
Keeping it lit.。
That's our job.。
He sends the fire.。
We tend the flame.。
He has done the heavy lifting,。
and he has left the reasonable portion to us.。
How do you tend the flame, friends?。
You stay on the altar。
because as necessary as it is to commit your life to Christ。
in a single moment,。
it is equally necessary that we recommit our lives to Christ。
in every moment.。
Why is that?。
Because this isn't just about making yourself。
right before God.。
That's not what we're talking about.。
Again, this is written to believers,。
people that have placed their faith in Jesus.。
We are not talking about you making yourself right。
in the eyes of God.。
What we are talking about is you making God。
right in the eyes of yourself.。
This is about your perspective on God changing,。
ever increasing, actually growing better.。
So early in my life, I was a legit altar call.。
Anybody else in the room, like that's how you came to faith,。
was a legitimate altar call?。
Nobody else, just me.。
I was 14 years old, and I remember it like it was yesterday.。
I was at this youth retreat in a room way bigger than this。
with thousands upon thousands of young,。
with middle school and high school kids.。
There was this cheesy 2000s youth skit happening on stage.。
Literally, like there was a guy in a white bathrobe,。
like pulling this girl with an imaginary rope。
out of her sin and towards himself.。
And I looked at that and I was like, that's me.。
Like, I've got to go and I've got to place my faith.。
And I got up and I went down front。
and I surrendered my life to Jesus,。
and it was the greatest decision I've ever made.。
But here's the thing, listen to me.。
(congregation applauding)。
While that was the greatest decision I've ever made,。
to commit my life on the altar that day,。
an equally great decision,。
is to recommit my life on the altar every single day,。
that I might continue to walk with my Jesus,。
not one foot in, one foot out,。
but both the all the way in,。
in the direction that he is heading.。
Life with him is better than life at its best.。
I want to go where he is going.。
Do you want to do the same?。
Because here's the tricky thing about living sacrifices.。
Are you listening to me?。
They want to crawl off the altar.。
Living sacrifices want to crawl off the altar.。
They do not want to stay there.。
So every day we have to make the decision。
to surrender to Christ, to surrender to Christ,。
to trust his ways and not our own,。
to trust his truth and not our own,。
to trust his plans and not our own.。
Because when we don't, when we crawl off the altar,。
when we stop tending the fire,。
when we become inattentive to God's presence,。
guess what the cost is?。
You become unaware of God's presence in your life.。
You begin to put the fire out.。
Now, I don't want to endanger you.。
You're not at risk of losing your salvation,。
but you are at risk of losing your sensitivity to his spirit.。
That's why Paul says in 1 Thessalonians 5, verses 19 to 21,。
he says, "Do not quench the spirit."。
Do you hear it?。
Don't quench the spirit.。
That's fire language.。
Don't despise prophecies, but test everything.。
Hold fast what is good.。
Why does he use fire language in this moment?。
Don't quench the spirit,。
because he knows there are two ways。
in which you can put a fire out.。
Yes, you can walk up and you can just dump。
a bucket of water on it.。
But most typically, the way that fires go out。
is through neglect.。
They're neglected until what was once a bright。
and a burning flame becomes a small,。
smoldering set of embers.。
We must do everything in our power。
to ensure we do not neglect him.。
Because the cost of one mismourning。
or one compromised conviction or one more excuse。
or one unconfessed sin is more detrimental than we realize.。
That's why Paul says in this chapter in Romans 12,。
he says, "Don't be conformed to the world."。
Because he knows if you're not being intentionally shaped。
by Christ, you will be inevitably shaped by something else.。
Either Christ will intentionally shape you。
or something else will inevitably shape you.。
The difference in being conformed and transformed。
is conformed is I am changed by the pressures。
outside of me.。
To be transformed is to be changed by the power within me.。
There's a power within you known as the Holy Spirit.。
It's not an it, it is a he.。
He is a person of the Godhead and he wants to shape you.。
He wants to mold you.。
He wants to change you, conform you,。
or he should transform you into the image of his son.。
And yet the truth of the matter is,。
you've got to stay on the altar for it to happen.。
So let me ask you, have you crawled off the altar?。
Have you crawled off the altar?。
Like if so, what for?。
Tim Keller was the one who talked to us。
about four primary idols that all people succumb to.。
The desire for power, a desire for approval,。
a desire for comfort, a desire for control.。
You will crawl off the altar for one of those.。
And the truth of the matter is,。
every one of us will crawl off。
for each of those at some point.。
The question is, which one have you crawled off for today?。
The minute you identify it is the minute you're able。
to repent of it and come back to the altar.。
You're able to cease quenching the fire。
and you can do what Paul tells his protege Timothy。
later on, fan into flame the gift of God。
that is in you through the laying on of my hands.。
Some of you, you need to fan into flame tonight.。
You got to get back on the altar.。
And the final step of surrender。
is that you offer yourself willingly.。
You offer yourself willingly.。
Because a truly surrendered life is not coerced.。
It's volunteered.。
It's volunteered.。
You see it from the very first words.。
I appeal to you.。
I love that.。
The word there in Greek that Paul is using。
is the word parakaleo.。
And the idea is to urge someone towards something.。
It's what I did at the beginning of this.。
I didn't even realize I was doing that.。
But as I'm urging you to come with me,。
I am appealing to you.。
I am parakaleoing you to jump in。
with what God has wanted to do at Awaken.。
You've done this yourself.。
Anybody ever try to get a baby to smile?。
Yeah, that takes some serious effort.。
Anybody try to work an angle to make a sale?。
That takes some effort.。
Beg a friend to come out and be a part。
of whatever that thing is that you don't wanna go to,。
but you know you gotta go to?。
That takes some effort.。
You're urging someone, appealing someone,。
persuading someone to come with you.。
You are doing exactly what he is describing here.。
And what's crazy, track with me on this.。
It's a little bit nerdy.。
But what's crazy about parakaleo。
is that when you take it from its verb form。
and you make it into a noun,。
it turns into parakletos,。
which is another name for the Holy Spirit,。
which means the one。
that is calling you alongside。
is the one。
that has already been called alongside.。
You see it?。
The Holy Spirit inside of you,。
the fire from heaven himself,。
is the same one that is begging you to stay on the altar。
so he can keep burning within you.。
It is an immense kindness of God。
that he is saying, "I am the fire,。
"and I want you to stay close to me。
"so I can continue to burn bright in your life."。
But you gotta continue to give yourself willingly.。
It's why, because the Spirit does this work so often,。
that feeling you have that you're supposed。
to come down front or the prompting you get。
to go and pray or the conviction you feel。
to confess your sin or the urgency you get。
to raise your hands in worship,。
even though you're fighting it so hard,。
that is a prompting from the Spirit.。
That is a work of the Spirit,。
stirring in your life so that way。
you would actually burn brighter。
as he is inflamed further within your life.。
That's what's happening.。
Why does he do this?。
Why does God go to the trouble of appealing to you?。
Literally, he could just coerce your obedience.。
The guy spoke, and creation popped out.。
It was just the most insane thing.。
He does not need to have your compliance。
in order to become a good Christian.。
He could just make it so.。
He could force you to do whatever he wanted,。
and yet he doesn't do it.。
Why?。
Because there's no surrender without choice.。
There's no surrender without choice.。
Like God, he could force obedience if he wanted to,。
but he doesn't want your obligation.。
He doesn't want your compliance.。
He wants you to choose him.。
He wants you to want him.。
He wants you to desire him above anything。
and everything else, because here's the thing.。
Paul says that we should respond with spiritual worship.。
There is no spiritual worship without desire.。
Like you cannot sing the praises。
of something you do not enjoy.。
If you don't believe me,。
just look at any dad at the mall.。
Every dad at the mall is so unhappy to be there.。
Why?。
Because they're not there shopping for themselves.。
They're there buying for everyone else.。
They're so discontent.。
They cannot sing the praise of the experience。
'cause they do not want to be there.。
I know there's some exceptions to this,。
but by and large, you don't see women。
normally geeking out about smoking meat.。
They don't just like show up to Home Depot。
and buy a power tool because might need it just in case.。
Like they're not admonishing the value of their VA.。
I'm not talking about vegetable juice.。
Like normally what you see is you see。
that we have a tendency to praise the things。
that we actually legitimately enjoy.。
I can't believe I'm actually gonna admit this.。
I went and I saw Barbie in theaters.。
And the reason I did was not by way of my own choice.。
I didn't wanna go.。
No part of me wants to be in that theater。
watching this and wearing pink.。
And yet I'm in that theater。
because a group of friends wanted us to be,。
and I was legitimately coerced into going.。
It was not by way of my decision.。
I was not there because I desired to be so.。
I am saying that to you。
because I need you to hear me on this.。
So many Christians,。
they have confused their worship with God。
in the same way that I,。
let me clarify what I wanna say.。
So many Christians today are trying to worship God。
the way that I watched Barbie.。
They don't wanna be in it.。
They feel totally obligated.。
They're having to comply because it's part of the job.。
They're being obedient because that is what's necessary.。
And yet God does not want that from us.。
Psalm 63, five through six says,。
"My soul will be satisfied as with fat and rich food.。
"My mouth will praise you with joyful lips。
"when I remember you upon my bed。
"and meditate on you in the watches of the night."。
That's not someone who is begrudgingly logging。
their next quiet time.。
That's someone who can't get any sleep。
'cause they can't stop thinking about God.。
That's what it looks like to desire him.。
They are just doing their Christianity.。
They legitimately desire Christ.。
John Wesley said, "Light yourself on fire with passion。
"and people will come from miles to watch you burn."。
Light yourself on fire.。
That is a totally voluntary decision.。
No one is offering themselves up for that to happen.。
Everyone willingly says, "I will light myself on fire。
"for the very purposes of gathering people。
"to see what God is doing in my life."。
In the Bible, burnt offerings, this is what's fascinating.。
They were not just whole offerings.。
They were not just daily offerings.。
They were the only voluntary offering,。
which meant they had to be given willingly.。
Are you willing in the same way?。
To go when no one else has, to move when no one else will,。
to stand when no one else does.。
And here's the thing.。
I know as I say all of that,。
some of you are unsure of what God is asking,。
to confess that sin, to forgive that friend,。
to take the risk, to seek some help,。
to approach that person, but here's what I would tell you,。
and this is so important, I need you to listen.。
You do not have to want what God is asking of you,。
but you can trust the one who is asking of you.。
You don't have to want it.。
You don't have to want whatever he's asking you to do,。
but you can trust the fact that he is the one asking you.。
How do I know that?。
Because I know Jesus was in the exact same place.。
We see it in the garden.。
Like Jesus in a position where。
he doesn't want to go to the cross.。
He doesn't want to suffer that indignity.。
You know he even asks God,。
"Hey, if we can find another way, I'm up for that."。
And yet, though he was unwanting to go,。
he was never unwilling to go.。
He was willing to voluntarily offer himself.。
He says this himself in John 10.。
He says, "For this reason the Father loves me,。
"because I lay down my life,。
"that I might take it up again.。
"No one takes it from me,。
"but I lay it down of my own accord."。
You see, Christ voluntarily gave his life for us,。
so we voluntarily give our life for him too.。
God is not interested in a sacrifice。
that comes to the altar kicking and screaming。
because it doesn't want to be there.。
God is interested in sacrifices。
that say, "Jesus, whatever you ask,。
"wherever you lead, whatever you want, you have me."。
Does he have you?。
I'll close with this.。
You know, it was one thing for me.。
To realize that I not only wanted to date Brooke,。
that I wanted to marry Brooke.。
And at the cost of doing so would mean。
all of me for all of her.。
And yet it was a different thing entirely。
for me to actually take this step, to make the decision.。
And yet, I remember it.。
Standing next to her on our wedding day。
before our closest family and friends。
on a cool October evening.。
Making the decision to willingly surrender all of myself,。
the entirety of who I was,。
every day of my life consistently for her sake,。
by way of my own choice, willingly.。
In an altar, wouldn't you know?。
(gentle music)。
And as I did so there, it was out of the recognition then。
in the increasing realization every day since。
that she was worth it.。
She was worth it.。
Friends, Jesus is worth it.。
Jesus is worth surrendering everything for.。
Why?。
Because he surrendered everything for you.。
Jesus offered himself entirely。
for all people that would place their faith in him.。
He offered the whole of who he was.。
He did not hold back any part of himself.。
No, he came from heaven to earth。
and he offered everything he had,。
the totality of the son of God,。
given for the totality of a sinful people, he did it.。
But he didn't just offer himself entirely.。
He offered himself consistently, every day, day by day,。
one choice after the next, the next step until the next.。
He kept going with this conviction。
that they're worth whatever the price.。
And he chose to offer himself willingly.。
No one, no one, but he would do what he did.。
And no one, no one could do what he and he alone did.。
He voluntarily put himself upon the cross,。
offered himself willingly for your sake.。
Not because there's anything in you or in me。
that would bait him to do so,。
but merely because he chose to lavish upon us his love,。
because he wanted us to be returned to right relationship.。
So that way God, who wishes to dwell amongst his people,。
may in fact be able to dwell amongst his people.。
And so in fact, he might dwell amongst us here.。
Everything we experienced this weekend,。
it is the by-product of Christ surrendering himself.。
And hear me, look, everything you experienced this weekend,。
one by one, individual by individual,。
everything you experienced here this weekend。
will be the result of you surrendering yourself in kind.。
Jesus put himself on the altar for your sake.。
Will you put yourself on the altar for his?。
Let me pray that you would.。
God, we're moving into a time now。
where we are about to do business with you,。
because God, this is what I know is true of this room.。
I'm grateful that it is true of this room.。
These are the hungriest of young adults in this room.。
People, God, that say,。
"I don't want a minor meager sort of Christian life.。
"I want all the way in, all the way up,。
"all I have to give kind of faith in God,。
"and I will do whatever it takes to get as much of Christ。
"and all that Christ has come to give."。
(gentle music)。
You say, God, that the sacrifices of God。
are a broken spirit, a broken and a contrite heart.。
Oh God, you will not despise that.。
That is the proper sacrifice unto you.。
So God, would we do that now?。
Would we do that now, God?。
Not because we're performative Christians,。
not because there's a pressure around。
to respond the way everyone else is.。
That would be conforming to the world,。
and you've told us not to conform to the world,。
but God, do you want to transform us from the inside out?。
And so God, in this moment,。
would we do everything we've discussed。
with brokenness and contrition?。
Would we come before you, God, back to the altar,。
bringing whatever it is, God, we need to give?。
If we've withheld something from you, God,。
if we've not given the entirety of ourselves,。
would we come and would we give it all tonight?。
Think about that for you.。
Is there anything in your life that you know,。
God has had his finger on that for a long time,。
and I just have not wanted to give it over to him?。
But tonight, you can have it, God.。
You can have it, God, because you can have me.。
Would you work, God, to reveal if there's any area。
where we're not consistently giving of ourselves?。
If we've quenched your fire,。
if God, we have indulged willful sin,。
if there is unconfessed sin,。
if God, we have done anything to douse。
the flame of your indwelling,。
would we, God, do everything we can。
to move as far away from it。
as we move as close to you as we can?。
And then God, we're going to be tested now。
if we will willingly offer ourselves.。
(gentle music)。
If we will volunteer ourselves into the awkward,。
volunteer ourselves into the uncomfortable,。
volunteer ourselves into that which costs.。
But it's worth doing 'cause we trust you.。
Lord, we need you now.。
Minister to us.。
A life on the altar, oh Christ.。
That's what we come to give.。
A life on fire, oh Christ.。
That's what we come to give.。
Fan the flame.。
Have us all.。
Meet us here in your name, amen.。
Space is open.。
Altar is free.。
These team members to my right and to my left,。
they'd love to pray with you.。
And the good news is you know there's no need to rush out。
because you're here all weekend.。
But why wait another moment。
when Christ didn't wait a moment to come for you?。
Come to him and let him have yourself, please.。
