(upbeat music)。
- How we doing Porch?。
(crowd cheering)。
All right, welcome friends in the room,。
friends in Porch.。
- All right, let's do it.。
What's up Porch, how we doing tonight?。
- How we doing Porch?。
Hey, hey, Porch, how we doing tonight?。
(crowd cheering)。
- It's Tuesday night, these are the days.。
- What's up Porch?。
(crowd cheering)。
Dude, I'm so glad you're here.。
Porch, I am so excited to introduce to you,。
if you do not know him already,。
this is my predecessor, the former director of The Porch,。
David Marvin, give it up for him everybody.。
(crowd cheering)。
Hey, I'm so thankful that he made the trip。
to be here with us this Tuesday.。
God has done an incredible work over the last 20 years。
here at The Porch and David is a huge part of that.。
So with that said, bro, thanks for being here.。
You guys have a blast learning from this guy。
and I'll get out of the way for it.。
- All right, what's up guys?。
Hey, like he said, my name is David。
and I am currently the teaching pastor。
at Prestonwood Bible Church.。
(crowd cheering)。
Get excited.。
But I'll share a little bit more of my time here,。
really throughout the message.。
But most importantly, I've been married to my wife, Callie,。
for coming up on 14 years.。
We've got four kids, three on earth, one in heaven.。
We've got a 10 year old boy, I think we have a picture too.。
10 year old boy named Crew.。
Oh, there it is behind.。
Seven year old daughter named Monroe。
and a three year old, no, four year old boy named Bear,。
who is a bear at times.。
And we prior to joining at Prestonwood,。
man, we spent a lot of time at this place.。
I had the chance to serve at Watermark from 2009 into 2022.。
And I am so proud of both the incredible work。
Kylan and his team are doing.。
And I love this church deeply.。
This church profoundly changed my life.。
And I will, for the rest of my life,。
be grateful and thankful and continue to root it on。
from afar.。
Some of my closest friends were formed here.。
A guy who spoke a couple of weeks ago。
is still one of my best friends, Jonathan Picluda.。
And we got the chance to lead and teach at the porch。
from 2009 to end of 2022.。
And it is awesome just to see the work that God is doing.。
You have been prayed for for years and years.。
In fact, some of you, your names may even be on the stage.。
Before the stage had all the black things。
that are put on top of it,。
we spent time in here just writing out names。
and writing out big prayers that God would do。
and that we would see him show up.。
And one of them was just continue to see him reach。
in the next generation.。
So I'm pumped to be here and we're gonna continue this.。
Is Siri still in?。
This moment you guys are in.。
And before we do that, let me pray.。
And then we'll dive in to God's word.。
Father, I do thank you for the work that you were doing。
for the lives of young adults surrendered to you.。
I pray that you would multiply their kind。
and that you would multiply in all of our lives。
the kind of things that are consistent。
with Christ and his word.。
Father, would you decrease the things that are not.。
We give you this time.。
We ask that you would speak to us.。
You'd encourage us.。
Thank you for the worship。
and just the already experience。
that we've got to share together.。
I pray that we would all leave,。
not encouraged by a message or a sermon,。
but by your scripture and your truth,。
encountering you in a fresh, new, deeper way.。
Pray all this in the name of Jesus, amen.。
In 2009, I got a phone call from Watermark。
and they asked if I would come up and interview.。
And they had this role that didn't exist。
or it doesn't exist now, kind of morphed into the Institute.。
But basically they pitched,。
hey, if you come here for a year,。
we will pay you and disciple you,。
which sounds like a pretty sweet gig.。
And so I prayed about it, thought, man,。
I didn't even know if I wanted to be in ministry.。
But as I prayed through it, thought,。
man, I think I'm supposed to do that.。
And so I had a chance to join here and get paid for a year.。
And they also said, we're gonna give you free housing,。
which is good because they didn't tell me。
how much they were gonna pay and it wasn't much.。
And, but they did hook me up with free housing.。
So they said, this is the family。
that you're gonna live with.。
And here's the back house that you're gonna stay in.。
And so I didn't know this family.。
I show up at their house, get to meet them and I pull up。
and you guys, this reference is gonna be lost on you,。
but there used to be a show called Fresh Prince of Bel Air.。
Anybody know that song?。
There's a song that is a part of that,。
where he talks about pulling up to the house。
about seven or eight and him just being mind blown。
at the house that he was pulling up to.。
I lived that experience.。
The street that I pulled up to is a street in Dallas。
known as Billionaire's Row.。
It's straight lane.。
And I'm looking at these houses like,。
the people who own this,。
will you just adopt me as your new child。
and me be a part of your family?。
I don't ever wanna leave here.。
It's all downhill from here.。
I mean, we're not talking about houses.。
I've never seen houses like this.。
Like to give you some reference,。
one of our neighbors was a guy named Dirk Nowitzki.。
Anybody ever heard of Dirk Nowitzki?。
Another neighbor, there you go.。
Big Mavs fan, rest in peace, Luca.。
All right, another neighbor was a guy named Ross Perot.。
Now you don't know him, but your parents do.。
Big ears, ran for president, billionaire.。
Another one of our neighbor, you don't know his name,。
but he founded something。
and created something called the Hefty Bag.。
I mean, these homes were unlike anything I've ever seen.。
And I'm sitting there talking to the son。
who lives in the house, getting to know him.。
And I'm trying to break down like,。
does he know this is not like。
what the real world is like out there?。
People don't have batting cages in their side yard。
and their own basketball court,。
which two of our neighbors both had.。
And I'm talking about these houses and he goes,。
man, none of those houses compare to the one two doors down.。
And he begins to describe this gigantic home.。
I mean, he lists out some of the things。
that this house that was built in 2002。
for today's equivalent of $85 million.。
It's the most expensive home ever built。
in our country at the time.。
It was 70,000 square feet.。
Now the average American home is 2,000 square feet.。
This was 35 of those combined all together.。
This was a home that the master suite,。
the master bedroom alone was 3,000 square feet.。
That's bigger than my house.。
Complete with two marble tubs。
made from a single block of Carrara marble。
in Verona, Italy, two of them matching.。
In case you and your wife want to take a bath。
at the same time, but you want to be in your own bath,。
which is not a problem I've ever had once,。
but they had it.。
They had a 17,000 square foot basement,。
a 16 car garage with its own indoor car wash,。
which is crazy when the cars are dirty,。
but going outside is simply not an option。
because the weather's not cooperating.。
So your cars deserve better than that.。
We got it right inside.。
A wine cellar that held 20,000 bottles of wine。
in its own dedicated tasting room, 20,000 bottles.。
This man could have drank a bottle of wine every day。
and it would have taken him 54 years。
to finish his wine cellar.。
This man won wine.。
He had, this is my favorite one.。
The house has a gift wrapping room.。
Now stay with me here because the reason this hit me。
is it's a room in the house, four walls, door, ceiling,。
dedicated exclusively to wrapping gifts.。
What level of wealth do you have to achieve。
before you look around at your family and you say,。
"We can't wrap presents in the living room.。
"What are we, animals?。
"We need a gift wrapping room."。
Whatever that level is, this man had already reached it.。
Four pool table rooms, not one pool table room,。
not one room with a pool table,。
four separate rooms, each with their own pool table.。
The grand staircase alone costs $300,000,。
its own 21 seat home theater.。
So you can have 20 guests over to watch a movie。
and nobody has to sit on the floor.。
And he's describing all this and I'm like,。
"Dude, that is crazy."。
It's like, "You wanna see it?"。
'Cause our property line backs up.。
We can go behind and we can go see it.。
I'm like, "Yeah, why not?。
"What does 70,000 square feet even look like?"。
So we walk over there to see it.。
And the reason I couldn't see it from the street。
was it had these giant walls,。
like it was a part of Buckingham Palace or something.。
You couldn't see over.。
And we walk behind the property line。
and pull up to the house and he points。
and there's nothing there。
but a slab with just this intense fire mark。
that had been there.。
Turned out two weeks before anyone ever moved into the house。
they were putting 50,000 gallons of stain, wood stain,。
on the top third floor of the home。
and these giant windows acted like magnifying glasses。
and the entire thing went up in flames.。
The largest single resident loss in Dallas history.。
Now, what does that have to do。
with the one I'm talking about tonight?。
Well, what's so tragic about that scenario。
is that home is amazing as it is to hear about。
and gawk at and hear different aspects of it.。
What's tragic is that home never fulfilled the purpose。
for which it was created.。
In fact, to this day, they've never rebuilt.。
It got lost in a legal insurance battle。
but that home was never created。
just to be gawked at at a stage.。
On a Tuesday night it was created。
and those rooms were created to be lived in.。
That car wash was created to have cars that would wash.。
The pools, by the way, it had two,。
a lap pool and a volleyball pool。
'cause you can't do laps in the volleyball pool,。
but it was meant to have people swimming in it.。
It never fulfilled its purpose.。
Well, as tragic as that scenario is,。
there's a far greater and more prolific tragedy。
as it relates to purpose。
that permeates all throughout this room。
that is far more common。
and that's not a house not fulfilling its purpose,。
it's a person.。
I mean, reality of the home is you can get another home.。
You don't get another you.。
You don't get another shot at your 20s or your 30s.。
You don't get another life.。
And sadly, many people who sit in churches。
just like this one and attend church。
and would call themselves Christians,。
they go their entire life。
and they never actually experience。
and fulfill the purpose they were created for.。
You could say in the words of Piper, another pastor,。
they wasted the life.。
And I don't think that you wanted to do that.。
I think you wanna experience it.。
And I know God wants you to experience the purpose。
for which you were created and are on the planet.。
And so tonight I wanna give you three truths。
that we find from 1 Peter 2 verses one through 10。
as it relates to experiencing。
and fulfilling your purpose in Christ.。
If you're gonna experience all that God intends。
and wants you to experience as a follower of Jesus,。
I know not everyone here is a follower of Jesus,。
but for those of us who are,。
it's gonna involve you living out these three things.。
No matter if you've been a Christian for an hour,。
for a decade, for five decades,。
these are connected to experiencing your purpose in Christ.。
1 Peter is a book written by Peter。
and he's writing to these Christians.。
And in chapter one,。
which we're gonna not have time to go through,。
he basically lays out the new salvation that they have.。
And they're trying to figure out。
how to live out this new faith in Jesus that they have.。
And he writes this letter and he's explaining。
and unpacking it.。
In chapter two, he pivots by going,。
hey, in light of the new faith that you have,。
here's how you're to now live.。
And he gives us one aspect of experiencing our purpose.。
He says this.。
Therefore, rid yourselves,。
therefore in light of this new faith that you have in Jesus,。
rid yourselves of all malice, all deceit, hypocrisy,。
envy, and slander of every kind.。
Like newborn babies, crave pure spiritual milk,。
which is his way of describing God's word.。
So that by it, you may grow up in your salvation。
now that you have tasted that the Lord is good.。
One of the aspects of experiencing your purpose in Christ。
is growing in Christ.。
You personally growing in Christ.。
You wanna experience more of your purpose in 2026,。
it's gonna involve you personally growing deeper。
in your relationship with Jesus.。
He just laid out as a light of the new faith you have,。
there's some things you need to get rid of。
and some things you need to prioritize consuming.。
He says, you need to get rid of malice.。
That's when you wanna see somebody hurt.。
Get rid of deceit, that's lying.。
He's saying, you're a follower of Jesus.。
You get rid of those things.。
You get rid of hypocrisy, of envy, of slander.。
That's talking bad about someone behind their back.。
You can still slander even if it's true.。
He says, you're a follower of Jesus.。
You get rid of those things.。
And here's what you do.。
You crave the pure spiritual milk.。
And he says, crave it like a newborn.。
My wife is a nurse, three kids.。
Every one of those newborns does not politely request a snack。
when it's milk time.。
They turn into milk monsters and you better give me。
that milk right now.。
They go after it with an intensity that is shocking.。
And Paul, I'm sorry, Peter uses that analogy.。
He says, just like you guys have all seen nursing mothers,。
just like you see that infant craving。
that pure spiritual milk,。
that's how you to crave and prioritize。
the posture that you have towards scripture,。
not casual, not when it's convenient, a craving.。
Because here's the truth.。
You are guaranteed to grow older this year.。
You are not guaranteed to grow more spiritually mature。
this year.。
You are guaranteed.。
In other words, this time next year,。
if Jesus doesn't come back and you're still alive,。
if you're 25, you're gonna be 26.。
I know, mind blown.。
I went to seminary.。
If this time next year, you're 27 right now,。
you're gonna be 28.。
You're guaranteed to grow older.。
You are not guaranteed to grow spiritually more mature.。
And there are Christians that sit and I've seen thousands。
and they've been in church for 50 years,。
but there's still a baby, spiritually speaking,。
because they did not prioritize learning God's word.。
And the great thing about a place like Watermark。
is there's so many resources and ways。
for you to learn your Bible,。
sign up and be a part of join the journey,。
attend equipping classes that are here,。
but prioritize what is your plan?。
You don't have to have the same plan.。
You do need to have a plan.。
And Peter says, crave and pursue that pure spiritual milk,。
which is the scriptures of God.。
Now, and he gives the reason.。
Now that you have tasted that the Lord is good,。
that as you begin to live and follow Jesus。
and you live according to what God's word says,。
you experience a superior way of living life.。
When you begin to date and handle finances。
and live according to what the Bible actually says,。
you begin to experience,。
oh, this is a better way of approaching my life.。
It's a better way of handling mental health,。
anxiety, conflict.。
It's a better way.。
It's a superior way.。
So it's like this.。
And when I was growing up in my house,。
if you came over and we were young kids together。
and we were gonna have lunch,。
you had two options at my house for lunch.。
We were either gonna have bologna and ketchup sandwiches。
or bologna and mayonnaise sandwiches.。
Now at the time, I know everyone's like looking down on me.。
At the time, I loved it, man.。
I was here for it.。
I'm taking that little ring off.。
I don't know what this is, but this is delicious.。
You don't want yours?。
I'll take it.。
Great, more for me.。
I loved it until I was introduced。
to something called real meat.。
Things like turkey, ham, roast beef.。
My life has changed.。
I'm a new man.。
And from that moment on, even the sight,。
even today, the smell of bologna, it makes me nauseous.。
Now, why was that the case?。
Because I'd found something superior.。
It made giving up something that was inferior。
a whole lot easier.。
And that's what he says.。
He said, now that you've tasted a better way,。
you've tasted that the Lord is good.。
And as you continue to taste it,。
you experience more and more of that life.。
Are you growing in Christ?。
If not, you're not experiencing the fullness of the purpose。
God has for you.。
Then he brings up another idea。
or component of our purpose in Christ.。
He says this, verse four.。
As you come to him, the living stone rejected by humans,。
but chosen by God and precious to him.。
He's speaking about Jesus.。
He's using a lot of analogies in this passage.。
So as you come to Jesus, he's like a living stone.。
He's rejected by God, but precious to God.。
You also are like living stones。
being built into a spiritual house。
to be a holy priesthood together,。
offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God。
through Jesus Christ.。
For in scripture, it says, see, I lay a stone in Zion,。
a chosen, a precious cornerstone.。
The cornerstone was a stone that all the rest。
of the building leaned and relied and rested upon,。
saying that's Jesus.。
And the one who trusts in him will never be put to shame.。
Now to you who believe the stone is precious,。
but to those who do not believe。
the stone the builders rejected has become the cornerstone.。
It's quoting Old Testament verse.。
A stone that causes people to stumble。
in a rock that makes them fall.。
They stumble because they disobey the message,。
which is also what they were destined for.。
And there's so much rich stuff in the text.。
I wish we had time to go through,。
but there's one thing I wanna highlight。
'cause it connects directly to experiencing your purpose.。
It says, you come to Jesus and it says,。
Jesus, it's like, he's a living stone.。
He's the cornerstone that all the other stones。
are meant to rest in.。
And not only that, but it's like every believer,。
you're also a living stone that are meant to be connected。
to one another and be built up together.。
It says, you're a part of a spiritual house。
that God is building together, not with a single stone,。
but when he takes a bunch of stones。
and connects them to one another,。
ultimately built upon Christ.。
Second thing that we see Peter instructing。
and the Bible over and over instructs on。
is part of our purpose and experiencing it。
involves building together on Christ.。
It says, God is constructing something.。
As a believer, you are the material.。
You're meant to be connected to other stones。
resting on the cornerstone, which is Jesus, built together.。
The church is not a building you attend.。
It's something you are if you're a follower of Christ。
and you are meant to be connected。
to other believers in your life。
that the New Testament over and over and over says。
that you're to be connected。
to have relationships in your life.。
This idea of, man, it's just me and Jesus.。
That's not a biblical idea.。
In fact, there's something that young adults,。
really any person could say all the time.。
I've heard it from almost any age of person。
that, man, I love Jesus.。
I just don't like the church.。
Here's what I think that's such a foolish thing to say.。
The Bible describes the church as the bride of Christ.。
What guy who's engaged to his fiance。
would wanna have a deep and good relationship with you。
if you went up to him and you were like,。
dude, I love you, man.。
It's just your girl, bro.。
She's a lot and I don't like being around her.。
She's kind of weird and she's got a weird lip thing.。
It's just not, I just don't like her.。
What guy would be like, yeah, bro, me too, man.。
And you would go, that's a healthy,。
man, that's an engagement I wanna have.。
Of course not, that's crazy.。
It's this idea of, man, I love Jesus.。
I just don't like his bride.。
Flies in the face of Jesus.。
Jesus died for his bride.。
Don't give up on the local church.。
And that's not to say it's perfect。
'cause it's filled with imperfect people,。
but Jesus loved the local church so much。
that he gave his life for it.。
But you were created and connected.。
A part of your experience involves being connected。
with other believers that hold you accountable,。
that provide encouragement, as Hebrews 10:24 says,。
that hold you accountable and are a place。
that he can pray and confess sin to,。
as James chapter five, verse 16 says,。
that are a form of protection in your life,。
as Hebrews chapter three says,。
that none of you would be hardened by the deceitfulness。
of sin, but exhort one another day after day.。
As long as it is called today,。
you're meant to be connected to other believers.。
This place does an amazing job at doing that.。
And if you don't have a home church,。
man, I'd say, welcome home.。
Get plugged into a community group.。
Is it gonna be perfect and all rainbows and butterflies?。
No, but it is one of the means by which God grows。
and allows us to experience our purpose.。
Christianity is a team sport.。
You know what I mean by that?。
Like I did track and field at A&M and I, thank you.。
And I never really loved track and field。
because it always felt like an individual sport.。
If you're at track and field versus like,。
well, technically, technically it's not,。
but it always felt the way,。
'cause it's just kind of your event that you're all alone。
versus other team sports like football, baseball,。
basketball, where you are part of a team.。
The Bible depicts Christianity and following Jesus。
as a team sport, that if you're not connected on a team,。
you're not playing like it was intended to be played.。
And maybe you're thinking, yeah,。
but you can play some team sports without a team around.。
Like I can go shoot free throws in my driveway。
playing basketball.。
That's not playing basketball, that's practice.。
If you're gonna play the game of basketball,。
there's a certain way that game is played。
and it involves a team.。
And the same is true when the Bible depicts。
the Christian faith.。
It says, you'll be connected to one another。
and then together you build your lives on Christ.。
You build your life around shapes, everything.。
And most people, honestly, they never actually decide,。
here's what I'm gonna build my life around.。
It just happens.。
Like some people, they build their life around the weekend.。
Sunday through Thursday is just prep。
and the weekend warrior is when I shine.。
Some people build their life around money.。
Every relationship decision,。
every hour runs through that filter.。
Some people build their life around a person。
and a codependent relationship,。
which can work for a season,。
but when that person leaves or changes or moves,。
the whole structure falls.。
As a living stone, he says, you're to build your life。
with other believers on Christ.。
And then he lays out a third aspect。
as it relates to experiencing our purpose in Christ.。
It says, but you, you are a chosen people,。
a royal priesthood, a holy nation,。
God's special possession.。
Chosen that you may declare the praises。
of Him who called you out of darkness。
into His wonderful light.。
Once you were not a people,。
but now you are the people of God.。
Once you would not receive mercy,。
but now you have received mercy.。
I'm gonna come back to verse 10。
because it brings up something really powerful。
that it'll take a minute to unpack.。
But the third aspect of experiencing our purpose in Christ,。
the first was growing in personal relationship with Christ,。
growing in Christ, building together on Christ,。
and then declaring the message of Christ.。
Peter just handed out four titles.。
He says, you're chosen people,。
chosen in spite of your history, not because of it.。
A royal priesthood, there's no middlemen,。
you have direct access to God.。
There's no professional Christians.。
If you work part of a church, you're not at a higher level.。
We are a kingdom of priests, he says.。
A holy nation set apart,。
belonging to a different nation, place,。
God's special possession.。
In the Old Testament,。
priests exist so that people could come in to God.。
Priests went in, people waited outside.。
Now he says, with this new priesthood,。
the priesthood goes out, like the direction flips completely。
and they go out with one message,。
to declare the praises of him who brought you。
out of darkness, not of yourself, not of this place,。
not of anything other than of Jesus,。
that part of you experiencing your purpose in Christ。
involves sharing the message of Jesus.。
You live in a world and work in environments。
and live in apartments and are surrounded by people。
who don't know what the Bible actually teaches。
and what it means to actually be a Christian.。
And God has put you in place to intentionally where he has。
so that you would be a means of sharing。
and that you look for opportunities to share your faith.。
That Jesus, Matthew chapter five,。
he's teaching his very first sermon.。
And he looks into the audience of a group。
that had started to follow him and he says,。
as my followers, you're the light of the world.。
And he says, just as nobody lights a lamp。
and puts it under a bucket,。
so God doesn't randomly put lights in random places,。
he places them very intentionally.。
This was Jesus humor 101 in the first century。
'cause his audience would have heard it like,。
of course, that's crazy.。
We hear it in like a bucket, that's random.。
His point was in that day and age,。
a home was not very big.。
It typically had one room。
and every home had typically one lamp.。
So whenever you lit that lamp,。
you would be very intentional to put it in the place。
within that home to maximize its ability to spread light.。
And Jesus uses that and says,。
my father is really good at placing lights.。
He doesn't put them intentional。
or he doesn't put them without intention.。
He doesn't put them randomly.。
He doesn't want them concealed and hidden up.。
That he has put you here to shine。
and be a light to the colleagues you have,。
people that maybe you're a student in the classrooms。
or in the dorm rooms and wherever you go。
to share the message of Jesus, that there is a God.。
Let me quickly just give you the message of Jesus。
because maybe you were hearing,。
you're curious about the whole Christian thing,。
a lot of confusion around what it means to be a Christian.。
A lot of people think the Bible teaches,。
hey, just be a good person.。
If you can do these good things, God will love you.。
And you gotta be a Christian and go to church and tithe。
and not drink, cuss or chew or date girls who do。
and do everything right.。
And then you can have a relationship with God.。
It's not what the Bible teaches at all.。
Bible doesn't teach, hey, good people go to heaven,。
bad people go to hell.。
The Bible teaches forgiven people go to heaven.。
And there's only one way to get forgiveness.。
It's not through earning and working and doing more for God.。
It is by trusting and realizing I am incapable。
of earning a relationship with God, but I don't have to。
because that's why Jesus came 2000 years ago。
and died in my place after living the life。
I could not live and died the death that I deserve.。
And I'm trusting in his death and then his resurrection。
of proof that the payment was more than enough as my savior.。
And believing that if I'm just good enough,。
then God will accept me.。
Or here's an incredibly common one.。
I'm too bad for God to accept me.。
Those are two sides of the same coin.。
You know, who's at the epicenter of both of them?。
You.。
I'm good enough.。
God will accept me.。
No, I'm too bad.。
There's no way he could.。
Those are the same belief and then not a biblical belief.。
And you live in a world that is surrounded by people.。
I think one of the most common lies that people believe。
that think they're Christians is that one.。
That I've done enough and I'm good enough.。
And the Bible says God has placed you intentionally。
to go open your mouth and share.。
There's a God who knows your name,。
who wants a relationship with you.。
And he's put me in this place, in this position at work。
with my colleagues and coworkers。
'cause he wants you to know that.。
Now I know in the room,。
anytime you talk about evangelism,。
immediately some objections come up.。
Like, well, I don't know if I can.。
I mean, I'm not a perfect person.。
Correct, that's the point of the Bible。
and the teaching of Christianity.。
You're not a perfect person.。
That's kind of the whole point.。
That you don't have to have it all together.。
Have life perfect.。
That the message is not, I'm great.。
It's I found a perfect savior.。
Those are two very different things.。
Maybe a more common one is,。
oh man, even me bringing this subject up,。
your hands and palms are sweaty,。
knees weak, arms are heavy, and you're an introvert.。
And man, let me just say this.。
Man, I want to help you.。
I want to hear you and help you.。
The Bible does not make a distinction.。
And Peter doesn't say,。
hey, this applies the whole royal priesthood thing。
and declare the praises of God to the extroverts.。
Introverts, you're good.。
Stay home, we'll cover it.。
We got it.。
It doesn't say that.。
It honestly would be unloving for me to sit up here。
and go, man, if a part of experiencing。
the purpose God has you for on the planet。
is to be someone who shares the faith。
that you have with the world around them.。
And for you to hear me say, oh, but you're an introvert.。
Oh, you don't need to have a life filled with purpose.。
Just waste your life.。
You're introverted.。
It's ridiculous.。
And as crazy as it sounds,。
and as intimidating as it may be,。
God has called you here to share.。
It doesn't say you have to be loud,。
but it does say you're to share the faith that you have。
to the world around you.。
Maybe a more common one.。
This was certainly one in my life at one point of,。
and I just don't know how to get into the conversation.。
That was me.。
Candidly, my life changed by seeing。
some of the pastors here on staff.。
I was at lunch one time at a restaurant in HP。
called Kubie's, Kubie's, Kubie's?。
Whatever it is, it doesn't matter.。
We're sitting down at the table.。
The waiter comes up and I'm sitting with this pastor。
who I'm just getting to know.。
And he is talking to the waiter and the waiter's like,。
"Oh, I'm hi, I'm Bob."。
And the waiter brought up some vitamin that he was taking.。
And the pastor I'm sitting with immediately goes,。
"Oh man, well, we'll just have some coffee.。
"And when you get back."。
The man said, "Oh, these vitamins changed my life."。
And the pastor in front of me says,。
"Yeah, well, that's awesome.。
"We'll have some coffee.。
"And when you get back, I wanna tell you something。
"that changed my life and has the power to change yours."。
Got one, got coffee, came back, shared the gospel with him.。
But I just had never seen anything like that before.。
It was like, I was watching Jordan in that moment,。
go to the free-throw line.。
I was like, "Whoa, man, you just went there."。
Like, for me, the hardest thing was,。
how do you get in the conversation?。
Like, I don't want it to be weird and awkward.。
And I'm just getting to know this person。
and he's sitting at work and man, this coffee's hot.。
You know what else is hot?。
Hell, has anyone ever told you about Jesus?。
Like, I just, oh, that feels tough, man.。
And so I wanna help you.。
I wanna help you.。
These were game changes for me, game changes for me.。
Two different questions.。
You're in the conversation.。
You're talking with your crazy uncle at Thanksgiving.。
You're talking with your colleague.。
You're talking with your roommate.。
You're talking with anybody about anything.。
You're getting to know him.。
You're talking with the waitress at Torchy's。
after this tonight.。
There's not a waitress at Torchy's.。
Wherever you go that there is a waitress.。
(congregation laughing)。
And you're talking with him, getting to know the name,。
ask their story, how are they, where are they from?。
And then at some point in the conversation,。
here's what you say.。
Hey, can I ask you a question?。
Do you have a faith?。
Do I have a faith?。
Immediately you're in.。
They'll go, a faith?。
Yeah, like, do you have a belief or religion?。
Yeah, you're in.。
And they'll say, man, you know, I was raised Catholic,。
but you know, I just kind of think all roads lead to God.。
They'll give their answer or no, I don't really have one。
or my family's Buddhist or Islam。
or no, I don't really have one.。
Boom, you're in.。
And here's where you go next.。
Man, that's awesome.。
Hey, can I share what I believe?。
'Cause candidly, I think the reason I'm even sitting。
at this table with you as my waitress。
is because God loves you so much.。
He wants a relationship with you.。
He loves you so much that 2,000 years ago,。
we entered into our world.。
And I don't know about you, I'm not perfect.。
I bet you're not perfect either, 'cause they're not.。
And because of that, God came to die in the form of Jesus.。
And he died, and then he rose again from the dead,。
and everything changed.。
The calendar was reset.。
In fact, Mary, or whatever their name is,。
today, you will date everything that you do。
based on the life of that man who died.。
And he sent us here to tell you, he hasn't forgotten you.。
He sees you, he loves you,。
and he wants a relationship with you.。
If you'll just trust in him.。
If you don't like to do it that way, man, I don't know.。
You do it your way, but the Bible says。
we are called to have a way to share our faith.。
Another question that has been helpful for me。
is you're in the midst of conversation.。
Maybe you lay that out, and they're explaining how,。
no, I don't wanna be a part of a church,。
and you can just ask this.。
Hey, can I ask you, you're a smart person, clearly.。
Do you know what the central message of the Bible is?。
You're in.。
Oftentimes, they're gonna respond with,。
oh, man, you gotta work your way,。
and you gotta be a good person, and just try to be a good.。
Man, that is such a common answer, but it's not true.。
Can I tell you what it is?。
You're in.。
However you do it, God has called us to look,。
and if you wanna experience your purpose,。
it's gonna involve looking for ways to share your faith.。
Last one, I'll give you.。
This one's just for free, not even my notes.。
We live in a culture that has been so impacted。
and influenced by Christianity, we don't even know it,。
and one of the many, many examples of that。
is how many names are biblical,。
that you'll get into a conversation,。
and this is gonna be less and less for Gen Z,。
as kids are being named like cubic zirconium,。
but for a lot of people, their name is John,。
or Nathan, or Anna, or this happened to me.。
I was at Chewy's with some friends.。
We were having dinner recently,。
and you guys ever seen "The Chosen"?。
You know what that is, like a TV show, "Chosen"?。
All right, five of you, awesome.。
You guys should check it out, it's pretty good.。
We're sitting there, and our waiter looks exactly like Andrew。
from "The Chosen."。
I mean, like, shocking.。
Like, I'm like, are times tough for them?。
Like, does he work in another job at Chewy's?。
I mean, it was shocking, and he's our waiter, nice guy,。
and here's the best part of all of it.。
His name was Andrew, and I'm sitting there going,。
man, this is crazy, he's gotta know.。
I'm sure I'm like the 80th person to tell him that.。
Turns out I'm not, 'cause none of you guys watched "The Chosen,"。
but I'm sitting there, and I begin to ask him,。
hey, have you ever seen "The Chosen,"。
and we're trying to explain it to him, and he's like, no.。
And I said that, man, a guy in there,。
he looks exactly like you, and his name is Andrew.。
In fact, do you know where your name comes from?。
And almost always, they don't.。
I've done it with Anna, I've done it with John,。
I've done it with, and now that you have heard this,。
you'll see the names all around you.。
And it's an easy segue into,。
your name comes from the Bible.。
In fact, Andrew was one of the closest followers of Jesus.。
In fact, arguably the leader of the early church,。
his baby brother was Andrew.。
And I think God put us here to share the same faith。
that your named patriot shared,。
that he wants you to experience and share.。
If you don't like any of those ways, man, that's great.。
Leo Moody said, after somebody came up。
and he was explaining how to share the gospel,。
and the woman said,。
man, I don't like how you share the gospel.。
And he said, man, I don't really like how I share the gospel.。
You tell me your way, I'd love to do that.。
She said, well, I don't really share the gospel.。
He said, well, I like my way of sharing the gospel。
a lot better than your way of not sharing the gospel.。
So until we get a better path here,。
I'm gonna stick with what I know.。
If you're gonna experience your purpose in Christ,。
it's gonna involve you growing。
in your personal relationship with Jesus,。
not just attending a weekly gathering or two gatherings,。
you growing personally.。
It's gonna involve you being connected to other believers.。
Man, so much of your life, your dating relationships,。
your huge decisions, your greatest and deepest regrets。
are gonna be connected to the people that you run with.。
'Cause who you run with determines what you run to.。
And if you're running with the wrong crowd,。
you're running to the wrong place.。
And being connected to a body。
or being connected in a body with other believers。
is a part of experiencing your purpose.。
And finally, it involves sharing the message of Jesus。
to the world around us.。
Let me close and land the plane here.。
I said, I'd come back to verse 10,。
where he references a book of the Bible。
that's in the Old Testament.。
The verse is verse 10.。
He says, "Once you were not a people,。
"but now you are the people of God.。
"Once you had not received mercy,。
"but now you have received mercy."。
Now, if you read that without digging,。
most people can blow right past it.。
But when you know the full story。
of what God actually promised,。
verse 10 becomes one of the more staggering verses。
in the New Testament.。
It comes from the book of Hosea.。
Now, let me explain Hosea.。
Hosea was an Old Testament prophet.。
It's called a minor prophet,。
not 'cause less important, but just smaller ones.。
And it's a smaller book in the Bible.。
A prophet was somebody God would show up and say,。
"I'm gonna speak to the nation of Israel through you."。
And most people wouldn't want that job。
because if a prophet said, "God told me this,。
"thus saith the Lord,"。
and what the prophet said didn't happen, they kill him.。
You're not a prophet.。
But God showed up and Hosea was a legit prophet.。
And Hosea was called by God。
at a time where the nation of Israel was running from God.。
And so God says, "I have an assignment。
"that's gonna be an illustration to the nation of Israel。
"of my love for them, despite their disobedience."。
He tells Hosea, "I've got an assignment.。
"I want you to get married."。
Now, on the surface, it's not a bad assignment.。
Probably some of us in the room were like,。
"I wouldn't mind signing up for that."。
He says, "Not only that, I've already got her picked out.。
"She's a prostitute named Gomer."。
Now, at this point in the story, if I'm Hosea,。
I'm going, "Marry a prostitute named Gomer?。
"Am I sure this is God right now?。
"She's a prostitute and her name is Gomer?。
"She didn't have like a cool prostitute name。
"like Cinnamon or Destiny or something, like, you sure?"。
He says, "Yeah, you're gonna marry her."。
Destiny's a beautiful name,。
if anybody's named Destiny or Cinnamon.。
Then Cinnamon is too, man.。
I love Cinnamon.。
Cinnamon Toast Crunch, I love it.。
He says, "You're gonna marry her,。
"and she's gonna be unfaithful to you, Hosea.。
"She's gonna over and over cheat on you,。
"and you're gonna raise children that are not your own.。
"You're gonna have children out of whoredom," he says.。
Hosea does what God asks, and God says,。
"I'm gonna do this in order to display。
"the unending, unbreakable love that I have for my people。
"that are unfaithful to me,。
"that I never stop chasing after them."。
Hosea obeys God, he marries her,。
and just like God said, a little time goes by,。
she starts cheating on him, she's unfaithful.。
He comes home, and he discovers that she's pregnant.。
She's pregnant with another man's baby.。
She goes to give birth.。
She gives birth to a little girl,。
which if you're sitting there, and you're Hosea,。
and you're like, "God, why?"。
And you're so heartbroken.。
Now I've got this baby that I gotta raise,。
and it's a little girl, and God comes to him again,。
and he says, "I want you to name the child Lo-Rumah,"。
which means not received mercy.。
That says, "Name her No-Mercy."。
This child born of adultery is named now No-Mercy.。
It's not a nickname, not a stage name, that is her name.。
Every day, she is identified as No-Mercy.。
And sadly, now he's got a newborn, and Gomer doesn't stop.。
Continues to be unfaithful, just like the nation of Israel.。
She sleeps around, she gets pregnant again.。
This time she's pregnant with a little baby boy,。
and God shows up and says,。
"I want you to give him the name Lo-Ami,"。
which means not my people.。
These kids wake up every day carrying rejection。
as their identity.。
Hosea is heartbroken, sitting there with his two children,。
not received mercy, not my people,。
and Gomer keeps running.。
And one day she doesn't come home,。
and Hosea goes out to look for her,。
and he's told by somebody else that she has sold herself。
to be the property of another man.。
And God shows up again,。
and he gives another command to Hosea.。
It's command in Hosea chapter three, verse one,。
"Go again and love a woman who is loved by another man,。
who is committing adultery.。
Even as the Lord loves the children of Israel,。
though they turn to other gods."。
And Hosea goes and he finds his wife,。
and it is true, she's been sold into slavery.。
She's sitting on an auction block,。
and he goes up to the man, he says, "That's my wife."。
And he says, "I don't care who she is.。
This is her price."。
So Hosea doesn't have enough money.。
So he goes home, he gets all the money that he has,。
which was 15 shekels of silver,。
and then he gets some supplies from the pantry,。
and food, and barley, and anything that he has to barter,。
and he goes, "Whatever the price, I will pay it.。
It's my wife."。
It's a beautiful story.。
Also, it's a foreshadowing of Jesus' unbreakable,。
unending love for the church.。
Whatever the price, even the life of my son, I will pay it.。
It's amazing.。
But in the book, there's a prophecy given,。
where the Lord appears and says, "There will come a day。
where I will look at those who are not my people,。
and I will say to not receive mercy,。
you are now the people of God, and I am your God.。
And you who have not received mercy。
have received my mercy."。
In Hosea 2, verse 23, "I will have mercy on no mercy.。
I will say to not my people, you are my people,。
and he will say, you are my God."。
He says, "There is a day coming。
when I will rename the illegitimate and undeserving ones。
that are born in shame, the ones named after rejection,。
the ones who had no standing and claim。
and right on anything."。
God says, "I'm gonna rename them。
and redefine my relationship with them."。
And Peter, what's fascinating is Hosea。
was written to the Jewish nation,。
but Peter is writing to Gentiles who become Christians now.。
And he takes that prophecy, this beautiful prophecy。
of these people who were grafted in。
despite the fact that they weren't deserving of it,。
and he says, "This is now yours."。
That God has done this for you,。
that you were not receiving of mercy。
or deserving of mercy, and you have been given mercy.。
You are not a part of God's people,。
and now you are the people of God,。
which is why all the different phrases,。
the royal priesthood, a holy nation,。
those are all descriptive terms from Exodus 19。
for the nation of Israel.。
He says, "Those now apply to you."。
And then he ends with saying,。
"And now we can tell the world,。
there's a God who calls people out of darkness。
and calls the darkness out of those people,。
like me and like you and like everyone you've ever met."。
And he wants a relationship with them,。
and he says, "Now you go tell people,。
go tell the message of Christ to the world around him,。
tell your coworker at work who's sitting next to you tomorrow,。
tell the person on the plane that God has put you。
sitting with for the next hour,。
tell the family member who thinks they're too far gone。
and too far broken, there is a God who rewrites names,。
who changes stories, who adopts the undeserving,。
did so most clearly and emphatically at the cross,。
where he redefined humanity's ability。
to have a relationship with them,。
and now he's invited us to be part of sharing that。
with the world around you.。
And when you do, you experience your purpose.。
Let me pray.。
Father, I thank you that the staggering love。
modeled by Jose to his wife pales in comparison,。
is an incomplete depiction of your unending,。
unbreakable love for your bride, the church.。
Tonight, anyone who's never trusted in you with that change,。
for those of us who have, God,。
would you help us have the courage,。
the intentionality to grow in our faith,。
to grow and prioritize pursuing you,。
to walk deeper in our relationship with you,。
every one of us.。
God, we just, we declare we wanna be more like you。
a year from now than we are right now,。
and we need your help.。
Father, would you allow us to move towards community。
if we don't have it yet,。
to be connected to other believers,。
and experience how you designed life to function。
as image bearers, created the image of the Trinity.。
And God, would you give us courage to open our mouth,。
share that there is a world that is bound for hell,。
and we've been given the keys of eternal life。
to use the New Testament language of Matthew 16,。
that we're now to extend to a world。
in desperate need of them.。
And we just confess sometimes, God,。
we're distracted, we're cowardice,。
and we need your help.。
So would you enable your servants to speak your word。
with great boldness, as you say in Acts chapter four,。
as you stretch your hand out and do wonders in amidst.。
I pray for this ministry.。
God, continue to bless it.。
Thank you for the way you are.。
Strengthen and raise up the next generation of men。
who will say, "Though none go with me,。
"I will follow Jesus."。
Father, would you help us?。
We love you.。
We worship you now in song.。
Amen.。
