[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
All right, Porch, how you doing tonight?。
We are about to start four or five weeks together.。
My name is Todd Wagner.。
Some of you guys don't know me.。
I get to hang out with everybody here on staff.。
I spend more time probably with large groups on Sunday mornings。
than I do on Tuesday nights.。
But every now and then, they let me dive in here with you all.。
Can't wait to dive in with you at the launch retreat。
this year for the 1,000 or so of you that are going to join me。
there.。
Get on the waiting list if you're not,。
because it always opens up in some way.。
You'll never be surprised on that.。
But we're about to take four or five weeks here.。
And we're going to talk about questions that all of us have.。
If you've got any kind of intellectual integrity,。
you're going to ask questions.。
One of the things that absolutely frustrates me。
to no end is that people think that faith is believing。
something you know not to be true.。
And people think if you're really。
going to be a person of faith, that you've。
got to be an individual that commits intellectual suicide.。
But if you're a thinker, man, if you're a skeptic,。
if you challenge this supposed reality。
that this idea that has been passed down。
by men who want to rule you and control you and just kind。
of help you in your imbecilic state,。
kind of limp through life, then you'll ask questions.。
And when you ask questions, man, you'll。
find out it's not what you think.。
And you'll start to learn and live on your own。
and make your own reality.。
That's what the world often tells you.。
That's what the intellectual elite wants you to believe.。
Let me just tell you something, man.。
The fact that the world thinks that faith is believing。
something you know not to be true isn't surprising.。
But the fact that so many people who hang out。
around a place like Watermark or a church。
still believe that is tragic.。
I want to tell you guys something.。
If something is true, then no amount of scrutiny。
can affect it.。
People that have something to hide don't like questions.。
I was talking to a guy who is part of a Hindu heritage.。
And he told me that when he was 10,。
he started asking questions.。
And his dad said, we don't ask questions.。
And they sent him to some different leaders。
within that specific expression of faith.。
And they go, hey, no one asks questions.。
It's a sign of disrespect to ask questions of your elders.。
Nobody's asked questions for 5,000 years.。
And this guy started asking questions.。
And as he started asking questions,。
he found out that the faith of his Hindu belief system。
didn't hold up.。
But he asked questions.。
And he found out that the explanation that。
was provided by the God who reveals himself。
through the scripture, the God who reveals himself most fully。
through Jesus Christ, did make sense.。
And that brother is no longer Hindu.。
Let me just say something.。
The opposite of faith is not reason.。
You know how you know that?。
Let's just work our way backwards, OK?。
What is the antonym of reason?。
It is irrationality.。
It is not faith.。
The opposite of faith is disbelief.。
Now, here's the question.。
We all believe something.。
The question is, have you asked yourself,。
why do I believe what I believe?。
Is it reliable?。
Is it true?。
If something is true, no amount of scrutiny will affect it.。
So we're going to dive in, man.。
We don't dance around stuff here,。
because we believe we live in reality.。
We believe we live in truth.。
Now, I'm going to tell you as we go that I。
can't prove everything to you.。
I mean, there's people who are going to argue with you about。
whether or not I'm really here, or if I'm just。
a figment of your imagination, and you're not。
in some Leonardo DiCaprio movie, and this is all an illusion.。
And you're going to have to sort that one out on your own.。
What I'm going to tell you, though,。
is that you can make a decision based on the preponderance。
of the evidence.。
And what you're going to find out。
is that we've got a faith, if you're。
a believer in Jesus Christ, and you follow his ways,。
and you understand the Bible as God's revelation,。
you're going to find out that you have a faith that。
does not go against reason.。
It is super rational.。
It goes beyond reason.。
It does require some belief.。
But I'm going to show you that your belief--。
we're going to talk about it in these weeks ahead--。
is we're going to show you that what you believe in。
is the most logical, and consistent, and congruent。
philosophy that you can have.。
It is the right way to perceive reality。
because it's real and true.。
Now, what we're going to do tonight。
is we're going to ask ourself this question.。
How in the world can we believe in a God that is good。
and a God that is God if this world is so screwed up?。
In other words, it's what's called the problem of evil.。
Theologians will call it theodicy.。
It makes up two Greek words-- the problem for justice。
and the problem of God.。
In other words, God is not just if he。
is sovereign over this world.。
Because if you haven't been paying attention,。
this world is rather screwed up.。
Amen?。
Amen.。
Watch this video.。
This is the world that the gods got in his hands.。
Check it out.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC - "THE WORLD IS FINE"]。
[MUSIC - "THE WORLD IS FINE"]。
[MUSIC - "THE WORLD IS FINE"]。
[MUSIC - "THE WORLD IS FINE"]。
[MUSIC - "THE WORLD IS FINE"]。
[MUSIC - "THE WORLD IS FINE"]。
[MUSIC - "THE WORLD IS FINE"]。
[MUSIC - "THE WORLD IS FINE"]。
[MUSIC - "THE WORLD IS FINE"]。
[MUSIC - "THE WORLD IS FINE"]。
[MUSIC - "THE WORLD IS FINE"]。
[MUSIC - "THE WORLD IS FINE"]。
[MUSIC - "THE WORLD IS FINE"]。
[MUSIC - "THE WORLD IS FINE"]。
[MUSIC - "THE WORLD IS FINE"]。
[MUSIC - "THE WORLD IS FINE"]。
[MUSIC - "THE WORLD IS FINE"]。
[MUSIC - "THE WORLD IS FINE"]。
[MUSIC - "THE WORLD IS FINE"]。
[MUSIC - "THE WORLD IS FINE"]。
[MUSIC - "THE WORLD IS FINE"]。
Well, that's the kind of movie you。
would expect for a skeptic to show before he stands up here。
and tells you why you are a fool if you believe there。
is a loving God who created this place, who cares about you。
and cares about this world.。
How are you going to answer that?。
What's your answer to that question?。
I mean, follow the logic here.。
If God is good, he would get rid of evil.。
If God was God, he could get rid of evil.。
Evil still exists.。
Therefore, either God is not good or he is not God.。
And quit wasting your time.。
And JP and Wagner and anybody else。
can stand up here and tell you all day long how good he is。
and how he's your shepherd, how he。
wants to leave you behind beside still waters and green pastures.。
But you are kidding yourself, and you've。
got your head in the sand if you believe that God is good。
or God is God.。
Right?。
Well, I don't think so.。
I'll take the other side of that position.。
What I want to do tonight is just give you。
what is called an apologetic, a reasonable explanation。
for believing that God is good and God is God,。
even while evil is still here.。
In fact, I want to let you know that God would tell you。
to not be surprised at the fiery ordeal among you.。
God has said when he was here, hey, listen, in this world,。
you will have trouble.。
God explains where trouble comes from.。
And what I want to say to you is that I。
believe in a sovereign God who created everything.。
And evil is real, but God is not the author of evil.。
Now, wait a minute, Todd.。
That sounded logically inconsistent.。
I thought you told me that my faith didn't go against reason.。
You just told me that God created everything。
and that evil is real, and it's not an illusion。
like the Eastern mystics say.。
And yet, God didn't create evil.。
If evil is something and God created everything,。
therefore, God is the author of evil.。
And why would I want to worship a God who。
is the author of evil?。
One man said, if God is there, then he is my devil.。
What I want to do is let you hear from Thomas the Engine。
for just a second.。
That's an abrupt shift, right?。
No, from Fillmore in the movie Cars, right?。
You know who that is?。
From Rufus in Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure,。
you with me?。
All the same guy, his name is George Carlin.。
George Carlin, to a guy like me, when I was buying albums,。
yes, and was listening to great comedians,。
George Carlin was one of the great comedians。
of my generation.。
And I love George Carlin.。
He was hilarious.。
And he also prided himself in helping people in his humor.。
And he exposed government.。
He exposed corruption in his humor.。
And he exposed religion.。
Now, I want you to hear for about a minute 30。
from George Carlin.。
George also was very famous for a little bit。
that he did called Seven Words You Cannot Say on Television.。
And he was fond of all seven of those words.。
And so we have demarved this video,。
if you know what I mean, if you were here for the announcements.。
And so follow through.。
I think you'll follow the logic.。
But what I'm going to do is answer Thomas the Engine.。
I'm going to answer Rufus.。
I'm going to answer Fillmore.。
I'm going to answer Mr. Carlin.。
And I'm going to provide answers for you,。
because you're going to run into these questions.。
And frankly, the truth is, you've probably already got。
them.。
And here's the deal.。
You might just say, well, I just believe in God, man.。
The Bible says that I believe it.。
That settles it.。
That's wonderful.。
But you're going to run into an atheistic, nihilistic person。
someday.。
And they're going to look at you and belittle you.。
And what's going to happen is, if you。
don't have good answers to their good questions,。
it's going to create doubt.。
God says in the scripture, come, let us reason together.。
God says, I don't mind you asking me questions.。
It's OK.。
In fact, let me just say this before I get to Mr. Carlin.。
God's always had people asking questions.。
If you're a country music fan, right, you know Clay Walker.。
I don't think God was angry with Clay Walker.。
Walker wrote his song, "A Few Questions."。
That song starts this way.。
How in this world can we put a man on the moon。
and still have a need for a place like St. Jude's?。
I don't know if you know it or not, but this last week,。
about 150 kids from Watermark went up and worked。
at a place called Camp Barnabas.。
It was Adult Disability Week, where they cared for people,。
many of them nonverbal, who had been a wheelchair。
their entire life.。
My little 15-year-old girl was given stewardship。
over a 225-year-old, 225 pound--。
that would be really amazing.。
[LAUGHTER]。
In fact, you probably wouldn't have to care for her very much,。
right?。
No, a 225 pound, 30-something-year-old woman。
that she fed, they had to put filler in her water。
because she had swallowing issues.。
She had to use a hydraulic to lift her up out。
of her wheelchair, put her in bed, put her in the shower.。
She had to help her every time she used the restroom.。
And I went up there, and I was watching those kids work。
and serve, and I looked at that camp full of people。
who their entire life has been very, very broken.。
And you go, man, I don't need a chaos video.。
I see chaos right here.。
Where are you, God?。
How in the world can this be if you're a loving and good God?。
You know, we took care of those kids for a week,。
and then all the parents that cared for them 24/7,。
51 weeks out of the year, showed up.。
You think they asked this question?。
Well, let me just tell you this.。
The very first guy that I know asked the question eloquently。
was not a country-western writer.。
He was a Middle Eastern writer.。
Listen to this.。
This is the words of a guy named David in Psalm 13.。
He says this.。
"How long, O Lord, will you forget me forever?"。
Have you ever felt like that?。
"How long will you hide your face from me?。
How long shall I take counsel in my own soul,。
having sorrow in my heart all the day?。
How long will my enemies be exalted over me,。
that evil people are prospering, while me,。
who tries to do good, is suffering?。
Consider and answer me, O Lord, my God, and light my eyes,。
or I will sleep the sleep of death."。
In other words, despair will so overtake me。
that it's going to kill me.。
My enemies will laugh and will say, we've overtaken him.。
My adversaries will rejoice.。
Now, what you don't see behind me。
is that right here in that Psalm,。
there is this little Hebrew word, silah, which just basically。
means interlude.。
And what David did is he played on his harp at that moment.。
What I'm going to do tonight is play on the harp for you.。
We're going to take a musical interlude.。
And I'm going to speak to you with some melodious sonnet.。
I'm going to speak to you words of truth。
that I want you to meditate on, because God doesn't mind。
when you ask him questions.。
But here's the deal.。
God doesn't want you to rail on him.。
There's a difference between coming to him。
and asking questions and railing on God。
and telling him what you know about what he should be doing。
and giving God orders, because you know better than God。
what's going on.。
What David did is he asked the question,。
and then he just took a little time.。
And he meditated.。
And he went back over the character and nature of God.。
And he basically ended that little Psalm, and he said this.。
"I have trusted in your loving kindness,。
and I will rejoice in your salvation.。
I will sing to you, because you have doubt bountifully with me."。
And so there's a lot I don't understand,。
a lot that's going on I don't see.。
But at the end of the day, when David really。
considered all that God said and all that God had done,。
he said, "I will trust you, and I will follow you."。
And my belief is if you pay attention tonight with me,。
you'll end up in the same place that David ended up and not。
Thomas the Engine.。
But let's listen to the questions。
that sometimes we wish we had the permission to ask.。
Roll this.。
If we follow that as a humor bit,。
he says he believes in Joe Pesci, right?。
Because Joe Pesci always gets the job done,。
is what Carlin goes on to say.。
Now some of that's just funny.。
And a lot of it just rings true.。
We look around, and there's not a lot。
to argue with him when he says that.。
But let me just take some time with you,。
and let me just tell you what we're going to answer tonight.。
We're going to answer the question,。
is this the best that God can do?。
This world that we're in is evil on God's resume.。
Remember how we said that?。
This looks like the work of a bad office temp,。
an office temp with a bad attitude.。
Is evil on God's resume?。
Is God incompetent?。
Why doesn't God give a rip?。
Are you mindless if you believe in God。
with so much evil continuing under his rule?。
And is God short on compassion?。
You know, another movie that deals with this。
is a movie that Robin Williams is in.。
Robin Williams has a rant very similar to that.。
The movie's Patch Adams.。
I don't know if you've seen it.。
But in the movie Patch Adams, this guy。
who's a real figure in history, who loved people,。
was compassionate, and broke through some。
of just the stoic nonsense that's。
associated with so much of our medicine,。
was a really caring, compassionate person,。
who brought joy to people in the midst of suffering,。
loved this little girl, and she was tragically。
raped and murdered by just some expression of evil。
that he couldn't get his arms around.。
And there's this moment where Patch Adams,。
and the person of Robin Williams,。
stands on the edge of this cliff, and he says to God,。
what do you want from me?。
Answer me.。
Tell me what you're doing.。
Let's look at the logic.。
You create man.。
Man suffers enormous amounts of pain.。
Man dies.。
Maybe, just maybe, you should have。
spent day seven on compassion.。
Maybe you should have brainstormed just a little bit。
before you rolled this thing out.。
You are not worth it, he says.。
And he walks away.。
So again, there's the problem, right?。
And so we want to deal with this.。
And so I want to walk you through just。
some basic syllogisms, some logical constructs,。
and I want to answer them.。
People start by saying what Carlin says.。
Look, I reject God.。
If this is the best that you can do,。
I want nothing to do with him.。
And they start by saying things like this.。
There is no good purpose for evil and suffering.。
And they say that because they say。
that an all good, an all perfect, an all powerful God。
must have a good purpose for everything.。
And since there's no good purpose for evil and suffering,。
therefore there cannot be an all good, an all powerful God.。
That's another way to get at what I said a little bit。
earlier.。
Let me just tell you how to answer this.。
Carlin said, I tried.。
I really tried.。
I just couldn't do it.。
And for you to say you really tried,。
you've got to start by acknowledging something。
that's true about yourself.。
If you're really going to try, you've。
got to really acknowledge your limitation, right?。
Which basically starts with this.。
I don't know everything.。
There are some things outside of my scope of knowledge。
that I can't get my arms around because I'm a finite creature.。
I've got 70, 80, 90 years to figure this thing out.。
Look, Einstein, who clearly was one of the brightest minds。
that ever lived, he understood that he didn't even。
access all the brain that he'd been given,。
but he knew he didn't know everything.。
He, though, did reject the character of God。
as revealed in the Bible.。
And here is why.。
Einstein was what is called a determinist.。
He did believe in a creator.。
Einstein looked around and he goes, look,。
this world that we're in, creation and design。
demand a designer.。
There is a mind.。
He understood that every effect has a cause,。
and he believed in a divine causer.。
But he had a real problem.。
Understand, Einstein was a Jew.。
He saw what was happening in his lifetime to his Jewish people.。
He saw wicked men have immense power.。
He saw incredible suffering.。
And what Einstein became was a person。
who rejected the mind or the character。
of the God of his people.。
And he became what's called a determinist.。
And he believed that men were just basically wind-up toys.。
And we did exactly what we were just。
created to do by this God that he rejects because he doesn't。
have a good character because God would never wind up。
people to do this.。
He believed that men basically did what they did for the same。
reason that rocks lay where they lay,。
that somebody placed them there to do it,。
and that's just the way it is, and you just。
got to make the best of it.。
That's what a deterministic or fatalistic。
or a person who would take that philosophical explanation。
for evil, that's where they would come out.。
And that's really what I want to do.。
I want to start by just saying this.。
Look, you've got to start, if you're going to really try,。
you've got to start by acknowledging--。
I don't care if you're Einstein-- that you are not God.。
It's like in the movie Rudy.。
Remember that?。
When Rudy was struggling with why he wasn't getting。
to Notre Dame, why his body wasn't big,。
why he wasn't strong, he went to that little priest。
and he was wrestling.。
And the priest said, look, Rudy, I only know two things.。
There is a God and I'm not him.。
And I might suggest to Mr. Carlin,。
and I might suggest to Mr. Einstein,。
and I might suggest to you that that's not a bad place。
to start.。
Look, if I can explain everything God does--。
in other words, if my mind gets around everything that God。
does and why he does it and when he does it,。
then I don't need to worship him.。
I can explain him.。
I, in effect, own him.。
I don't worship my watch, even though I don't really。
understand how to build it.。
Somebody does, and if I spend enough time,。
I could figure it out.。
But it's arrogant of me to say to a Nobel laureate。
that his mathematical equation can't be true。
because I can't get my arms around it.。
And therefore, his math is science.。
I mean, his math is nonsensical because it。
doesn't make sense to me.。
And he's not a Nobel laureate.。
He's a Nobel idiot.。
What would you say to me if that was my reasoning?。
You would go, well, Todd, there's a possibility。
that maybe you don't know what he knows.。
And what looks like just a bunch of numbers and letters。
up on a chalkboard is really brilliance.。
And it looks like nothing to you because you。
don't have that mind.。
See, I need to take a position of humility。
because I'm not a Nobel laureate.。
And I want to tell you what, Nobel laureates。
need to take a position of humility。
because they're not God.。
There is no way that I can pour my five decades of learning。
into the mind of a three-year-old.。
Six-year-old, it starts to get a little close for me.。
But a three-year-old, I don't expect for them。
to understand it.。
And it would be crazy if that three-year-old said,。
I reject what you're saying because I can't understand why。
you wouldn't feed me ice cream for breakfast, lunch,。
and dinner.。
Therefore, you are a bad God.。
And I reject you.。
And I will worship the God of Blue Bell。
and serve him with all my heart.。
Now, I don't understand why a three-year-old would。
want to do that, the God of Skittles and Mountain Dew,。
if you put that in a sippy cup.。
But we would say the problem with a three-year-old。
is he's not taking a position of humility。
because there is nutritional value。
to what that 50-year-old father is saying.。
If you're really going to try, you。
have got to start by acknowledging that just maybe,。
maybe, there's somebody who knows more than me.。
And I'm not God.。
And just because I can't see the purpose for evil and suffering,。
it doesn't mean there is not a purpose for evil and suffering.。
If you're going to really try, what you need to do。
is go and look at what the other explanations for evil are.。
Let me just give you a few of them, OK?。
I'll take some of the major views.。
I've already talked about Einstein's determinism,。
that he believed that evil was here because people were。
made to just do what they do.。
There is a God that's out there.。
He just didn't want to worship him。
because that God clearly created wind-up toys that。
did nasty things.。
And Einstein was glad that he didn't。
get created to do nasty things.。
He was created to build things that blew up nasty people。
and that helped others.。
But some people are what are called nihilists,。
that they believe-- or rather, naturalists and atheists.。
They believe in a closed system.。
They're really the reason that we're here.。
Einstein didn't say this, but many people。
believe that we're here just because of time and nothing。
and chance all of a sudden turned into something。
and order and design.。
And they're saying it just happened.。
We don't know why.。
It just is.。
And what they say basically-- and this。
is what Richard Dawkins, who is a Nobel Laureate, or at least。
is a well-known prof at one of the leading schools in all。
of England, says basically this to you.。
He says that you need to know that DNA just is.。
It neither knows or cares.。
It just is.。
And we dance to its music.。
And so atheistic or naturalistic people。
who think that there is no real explanation,。
it's just time plus nothing plus chance,。
and somewhere in there some matter came from somewhere。
that they don't know why.。
They can't explain.。
Dawkins, by the way, who's one of the leading。
new atheists of our day, when really pressed and asked。
where something came from, his best explanation--。
and I kid you not, go get the movie expelled。
if you don't believe me-- is aliens.。
To which, listen, maybe, maybe, but I would just。
say to Mr. Dawkins, what is your evidence for aliens?。
And let's talk about whether or not your faith,。
that that's your best explanation,。
is rooted in reason.。
Or maybe there's a better explanation for the God。
that I say that I love and serve.。
But third basic solution to evil is just shut up and take it.。
Survive if you want to.。
By the way, can I tell you, if I wasn't a Christian,。
I would be close to this.。
And what I would really be is a hedonist.。
And here's the problem.。
There's not enough intellectually consistent。
atheists, an intellectually consistent atheist that。
says DNA just is.。
It doesn't know.。
It doesn't care.。
You dance to its music.。
My question for them is, why are you putting up with any pain?。
That's why I would.。
I would be a hedonist.。
I would do everything I could to milk all the pleasure I。
could out of life.。
I would abuse people, hurt people, take from people,。
use you for my own pleasure and my own advancement。
as long as I could in a way that I probably in some way。
govern so that you wouldn't lock me up or want to kill me.。
And then when it just got too hard for me,。
I would just check out.。
I would just check out.。
And by check out, I mean I would just。
move back to be food for the worms。
and get in whatever naturalistic cycle is coming next.。
I mean, why suffer at all if we're not here for any purpose。
and we don't really have any reason to hang around?。
Now look, Ernest Hemingway is an intellectually consistent。
atheist.。
Ernest Hemingway was an atheist.。
And that's exactly what he did.。
When wine, women, fame, and song no longer satisfied him,。
he put a shotgun in his mouth and he pulled a trigger.。
And he just moved on.。
But here's the problem.。
Is Ernest was making a wager that he。
was right in his philosophy.。
And I would have begged him to listen to his heart that。
told him there was more to this life。
than just wine, women, and song.。
And that in fact, death is not an end.。
It's an eternally fixed beginning.。
And I would have told Ernest, don't do that.。
By the way, that's why suicide is the greatest。
lie of the deceiver who doesn't want。
you to know the God that created and the God that is good.。
Because what he'll do is he'll tell you, don't listen to God.。
Don't follow God.。
Look at all the chaos in the world.。
Look at all the narrowness of God's claims.。
Look at some of the inconsistencies.。
He says this in the Old Testament.。
No one does that anymore.。
And now he's got these new ideas and all the different kind。
of stuff we're going to deal with.。
With you, science is much, much more reliable than his faith。
system and everything that we'll try and help you。
with in the weeks ahead.。
But here's the deal.。
What he'll do is he'll tell you to do what you want to do.。
Right?。
The Satanic Bible, the main idea in it is do what thou wilt.。
Right?。
Jesus would tell you that the golden rule。
is do unto others as you want them to do unto you.。
By the way, Confucius said it backwards.。
Confucius said, don't do to others what you。
don't want them to do to you.。
In other words, don't be a mean person.。
Jesus said, no.。
You be a lover, because I made you in my image.。
And I'm a lover.。
And you must care for others.。
So don't not do.。
I want you to do to them what you wish they would do to you.。
Serve them.。
Love them.。
Care for them.。
Be compassionate.。
Help them.。
But what happens when you don't do that, you live your life,。
and you get filled with a lot of despair.。
OK?。
And you start to find out that this life that you thought。
you would have by making yourself God。
and doing what you wanted didn't work out so well.。
That the Bible was true when it says。
that those who despise the word will be in debt to it.。
That the way of the treacherous is hard,。
like it says in Proverbs 13.。
And you'll start to want to go, well, what am I going to do now?。
Because now I'm filled with guilt and shame.。
Maybe I've got a long history of pain around me.。
Maybe there's some consequence coming to me。
I don't want to face.。
And then the enemy lies to you one more time and says,。
well, I'll tell you what you should do.。
You should be sovereign over your life.。
And don't believe that God's numbered your days.。
Why don't you just play the role of God?。
And why don't you check yourself out right here?。
And the reason he does that is because he。
wants to destroy you.。
He has come to kill, steal, and destroy you.。
Now, what I'm not saying right here。
is that suicide is ultimately the sin that you。
can't be forgiven from.。
But what happens is the scripture。
does say that it's appointed for man to die once.。
And after this comes judgment.。
And if you're a person who's made a decision。
that there is no God, and you shouldn't follow him,。
and you're going to do what you want right down to checking out。
when you are experiencing pain, then what he's trying to do。
is close the deal on the destruction。
that he has in mind for you.。
Which is why God is always saying, he who confesses。
and forsakes his sin will find compassion.。
But he who conceals it will not prosper.。
And so come.。
The solution to the atheistic naturalistic mindset。
is just, hey, grin and bear it.。
Hope you get more good than bad, but shut up and take it.。
That can be one solution for evil.。
They don't have a problem with evil,。
because in many ways, there's some。
of that Einsteinian idea of just deterministic evil。
that's in this world.。
And off they go.。
The second group is a deist.。
I'll do this very quickly.。
One of the things that you could say if you really try。
is you could evaluate the deistic idea.。
A deist is basically, in my mind, it's a chicken atheist.。
They really don't want to be an atheist.。
But what they say is, we may as well be here without God,。
because what God did is he created the world,。
and then he just left it.。
Determinism has some relationship to this.。
But it's the idea that what goes on out there。
is just what's going to go out there.。
And they wouldn't necessarily believe, like Einstein,。
that men are like wind-up toys, and some do this。
and some do that.。
What they would say is that men were here,。
and they've just got to figure it out.。
And so the idea of the enlightenment or rationalism。
would fall up underneath this.。
And the solution that they would offer for evil。
is education and advancement.。
And what we really need to do is we work our way。
through this, that the God who was good,。
who created us and left us in a good place,。
we screwed it up, and now we just got to figure it out。
on our own, okay?。
We're just here in this lab of life by ourselves.。
There's no one to rescue us.。
And so education and advancement is the best way。
to go about this.。
Some people might even say what we got to do is get rid。
of people that are not perfect and manage it that way.。
And so we get into eugenics and other kinds。
of things like that.。
Here's the problem.。
Would you guys agree with me just for a second。
that we've advanced in technology and science and industry?。
That we've advanced intellectually over the last。
couple of thousand years?。
How many of y'all think this is a better place?。
Is it working?。
Can we create our own utopia?。
Or do we just keep using more industry and technology。
to just further destruction and pain?。
Frankly, we use some of it to numb ourselves。
from the reality that pain is there,。
and that's one of the most dangerous things。
that you can do.。
Because pain is a gift, and I'm gonna explain that.。
I'm gonna tell you that there is a purpose to evil.。
Remember the very first little syllogism I said。
in this little section right here,。
which is that there is no good purpose for evil。
and suffering, I'm gonna tell you,。
there is a good purpose for evil and suffering.。
And some of you are in this room tonight,。
and you're very empty, and you're very alone,。
and you're suffering, and you're angry at God.。
And I'm gonna tell you, this is not God's problem.。
Pain and suffering is God's gift to you.。
This is what it says in the Proverbs.。
It is not good for man to be without knowledge.。
He who makes his haste with his feet errs.。
The foolishness of man subverts his way,。
and then his heart rages against the Lord.。
Some of you guys are here and go, why am I pregnant?。
Why do men use me this way?。
Why is my life filled with despair?。
Why can't I get out of bed?。
And God's saying, because you're living a life。
that's gonna always steal joy from you,。
because you're not listening to the one who loves you.。
And that pain that you're experiencing is a gift.。
It means something isn't as it should be.。
By the way, I'll just prove this to you.。
When something's working, you don't think about it.。
How many of you guys got here tonight, had no car trouble?。
Right, a bunch of you guys.。
You didn't think about your car at all.。
You didn't think about your tires.。
You didn't spend any time thinking about it.。
Anybody here have a flat on the way here?。
Anybody here have car trouble today?。
Raise your hand in this room.。
Okay, a couple of you guys, right?。
You thought about your car, didn't you?。
You worried about your car.。
You spent time, because my car isn't right.。
When you are focusing on something,。
look, if you stub your toe,。
what all of a sudden you think about?。
Everything in you, like, I am thinking right now。
about my pinky toe.。
That's all I'm thinking about is my pinky toe.。
That pinky toe, the one that's going,。
(grunting)。
That one, I'm thinking about it,。
because it's not working correctly.。
So let me just tell you something.。
Do you know why you're thinking about yourself so much?。
Because your self is broken.。
It's not operating the way it was designed to operate.。
You focus on yourself, your ego is wounded.。
And so you're trying to fix it.。
And what God is going to say is,。
hey, it is broken, and it is wounded,。
but why don't you not think about how to fix it?。
Why don't you listen to the one that created it?。
I didn't break it, you broke it,。
but I can fix it, because I'm a gracious God.。
If you want to say you really tried,。
you would have to study pantheism or monism,。
and see if that's the solution that you want to go into.。
Pantheism and monism is just basically。
the idea that not that God created,。
but that all creation is God.。
Okay, that all is God, and God is all.。
Eastern mysticism has some attachment to this,。
and there's many religions that have this idea。
that really God, though, is mind.。
God isn't real, and you can't touch God.。
God is spirit, they would say,。
which is consistent with what the scripture says.。
But they would say that all matter is illusion.。
And they would have something like this.。
They would say, God is mind, okay?。
Or they would go, no material thing exists.。
So you say, what is mind?。
They go, no matter.。
And what is matter?。
They would say, never mind.。
Mark Twain, who I love, said that he came across。
an Eastern mysticist who believed。
that all reality was illusion.。
And so that means they think evil is an illusion.。
It's not really real, which is why one of their solutions。
for you to overcome evil is to meditate。
and get yourself out of this world that's broken。
that is an illusion, and just go ahead。
and move yourself to a nirvanic higher state。
where you can find peace, not subject。
to all the illusion of evil that you're in.。
Mark Twain said he came up against somebody。
who believed that, and he wrote him an imaginary check,。
and they sued him for very substantive dollars.。
In other words, that's a nice philosophy.。
I mean, one of the options you guys have tonight。
is to say that evil's not real,。
that none of this is real, it's just an illusion.。
And so you're gonna just kind of move。
to a higher state and get beyond it.。
And I'm gonna say to you that that's a fine philosophy,。
it's just not livable.。
Nobody lives like it's not real.。
You write me an imaginary check,。
and I'm an Eastern mystic, I'm gonna sue you。
for real dollars.。
You tell me that that hot oil you're pouring。
over my head is an illusion, and I don't care。
how much I'm meditating, I'm gonna have。
to do bidness with you at that moment.。
So pantheon and Moses, if you're gonna really try,。
you're gonna say I've looked at naturalism or atheism,。
I've looked at deism, I've looked at pantheism, monism,。
I've looked at finite godism or fatalism.。
This, by the way, is what Harold Kushner did.。
Harold Kushner's a rabbi.。
Harold Kushner's son was born with this disease。
called progeria, it's a terrible disease.。
It is a rapid aging of the human body.。
And Kushner, who loved God and wanted to serve God,。
looked at his son, who was rapidly aging beyond his years,。
and said no, a good God wouldn't let this happen.。
And so he wrote a book called。
When Bad Things Happen to Good People.。
You ever heard of it?。
He is a finite goddest.。
And what he basically believes is that there is。
a God that's there, he's just not really God.。
He's creator, but he's not infinite in his power.。
God loves us, but he can't stop evil。
from either existing or affecting us.。
Kushner's the one that said this,。
just because you're a vegetarian,。
it doesn't mean that the lion's。
not going to still attack you.。
And so basically, you've got a good God。
and you believe in him, but there's still this force。
that's out there that's gonna attack you.。
And so basically, Kushner's solution in all of this,。
the finite goddest solution is brace yourself.。
And it goes really to the other option that's out there,。
it's the polytheistic or the dualistic idea,。
which is there isn't just one God,。
there's a bunch of gods and they're at war with each other.。
There's good gods, there's bad gods,。
and they have conflicting plans,。
they're coextensive, they're coeternal.。
Evil is a necessary presence to struggle against,。
a force that we must reckon with.。
And you look at Greek mythology and Roman mythology,。
and what people basically do is they'll just say,。
look, what we gotta do is worship the good guys,。
cheer for them, feed them, and hope that they have。
more good days than bad days.。
And I would just tell you that none of those。
offer a logical construct that is congruent with our reality.。
What I wanna offer to you is this.。
There was another guy who I've been in the room。
with a guy named Christopher Hitchens,。
who wrote a book called God is Not Great.。
Christopher Hitchens was having a discussion。
with some friends of mine, and Christopher Hitchens。
listened to these guys give 10 logical reasons。
for the belief in the existence of God,。
including reasons that answered the problem of evil.。
And Christopher Hitchens, who wrote the book。
God is Not Great, much of it is filled with stories。
like in that little video, Chaos,。
that caused him not to believe.。
Hitchens said basically this, guys,。
can I just tell you this?。
What you said I cannot refute.。
What you said is congruent and consistent。
with the reality that I see.。
I can't argue with the resurrection。
as a historical, reliable event.。
I can't argue with divine stamp in creation.。
I can't argue with the cosmological,。
which is basically what I just said,。
the cosmological argument for the existence of God。
and a series of others.。
He said, but I just choose not to believe in it,。
even though I can't refute it.。
It's congruent with reality, it is consistent with logic,。
and it is supported by reason.。
But he just said I reject it,。
because I don't want to believe that.。
And so what I would say to Christopher Hitchens,。
and I would say to Mr. Carlin, is you're really not trying.。
You're what's called an obscurantist.。
You just want to suppress truth and unrighteousness.。
Now here's what we want to do.。
I just walked through some of the other solutions,。
but what about the Christian solution?。
I mean, what is that logical, congruent explanation。
that Hitchens heard?。
Because we've got to answer these questions.。
I just basically said this, this is the best God can do,。
and here's the answer.。
No, it's not the best God can do.。
God doesn't think this is the best that he can do.。
It's not what he intended.。
What the story of the scripture is。
is that we messed up what God intended.。
What God said was best for us, we jacked up.。
We didn't go his way.。
And he told us, listen, trust in me, I'm good.。
I've created a place that is called Edenic.。
It's paradise, it's perfect.。
You don't need to know good and evil,。
not because I'm afraid if you know good and evil,。
you're going to somehow run for mayor against me.。
But the reason I don't want you to know good and evil。
is because even when you know good and evil,。
you're not like me, you're not intrinsically good.。
You're made in my image.。
And I'll talk about why that's important in just a moment.。
But you're not me, you need me.。
I am the author and giver of life.。
Look, I created you, look around you.。
Is there anything that you lack?。
And the enemy said, oh yeah, there is.。
Is that good and evil thing you lack?。
And God said, there's a reason for that.。
And the reason is because if you know good and evil,。
you won't always choose what I choose.。
Let me guys ask you a question.。
Some of the pain you've caused yourself,。
you know the fifth time you slept with a guy。
to find support, encouragement, and meaning?。
And you thought he really did love you this time,。
and it just didn't work out again?。
And that because you called it an embryo or a fetus,。
you could just abort it,。
and you would maybe get away with it,。
and you realized, no, it wasn't an embryo or a fetus.。
I am haunted by what I did to my child.。
It didn't work out again.。
See, yours is not an information problem, right?。
You know the right thing to do.。
You know overeating makes you not like yourself,。
feel lousy, and be filled with despair.。
You know that drugs and alcohol don't really deal。
with a hole in your heart.。
I mean, it numbs you for a while,。
but it doesn't make you feel powerful.。
In fact, you do things that make you feel。
even more powerless, and yet you keep making those choices.。
That's not an information problem.。
Knowing good and evil is not our problem.。
The problem is is that we aren't able。
to not do what we don't want to do,。
because we're not intrinsically good,。
but we have a God who loves us.。
Now listen.。
God does not have evil on his resume.。
Do you remember what I said?。
I said earlier this little statement。
that God created everything.。
This is James chapter one, verse 17.。
James 1, 17 says this.。
Every good thing and every perfect gift is from above,。
coming down from the Father of lights,。
with whom there is no variation or shifting of shadow.。
So wait a minute, Todd.。
You just said that every good and every perfect thing,。
but you said God created everything.。
You told me not to believe in Eastern mystics,。
where they tell me that evil's an illusion,。
because even evil is very real, so what do we do?。
Follow me on this.。
Here's the logic.。
God is the author of everything.。
The Bible teaches that.。
The Bible talks about God's sovereignty.。
It talks about how God's sovereign over kings,。
or all people.。
He's sovereign over nature.。
He's sovereign over demons.。
He's sovereign over history.。
He's sovereign over nature.。
There's nothing he's not sovereign over.。
So I can't say he's not powerful,。
because the Bible claims God's powerful.。
The Bible claims it's good.。
God created everything.。
Evil is something.。
Therefore, God must be the author of evil, correct?。
No.。
I'm gonna tell you that God is not the author of evil.。
There's a guy named Augustine, and he said this to you.。
He said that what evil is,。
it's an ontological parasite that exists because God exists.。
And you're like, okay, Todd, that's really helpful,。
except I have no idea what ontological means.。
Ontological is the study of being.。
What's it mean to exist?。
And what he's saying is that God,。
who is eternal and always good,。
if God exists eternally and is good,。
there must necessarily be,。
at least in the beginning where there was nothing but God,。
eternally is good, the possibility of evil.。
In other words, if God isn't good,。
if God is just blah, then there is no anything but blah.。
But because God is good,。
the possibility of evil must exist.。
If you say something is big,。
what does that absolutely necessitate?。
That there must be something of a different size.。
And so what happened is there was a moment in history。
that the Bible explains that evil moved。
from a philosophical possibility to a practical reality.。
Now, follow me.。
Those of you guys that have studied physics understand this.。
How do you create cold?。
(audience mumbling)。
See, cold is not really something.。
It is the absence of something.。
It is the absence of heat.。
How do you create darkness?。
Darkness is not something you create.。
Darkness is the absence of light.。
What's hatred?。
It's the absence of love.。
What's rebellion?。
It's the absence of obedience.。
What evil is is the absence of what should be.。
When you take away God, what you have is non-God.。
If God is good and God is life and God is light。
and you say, "I don't want God.。
"I want to go my own way,"。
you have the absence of what should be.。
So evil is not nothing, but watch this.。
Evil is a no thing.。
It's like the hole in the sweater that the moth ate.。
We look at that and go, "That shouldn't be."。
And I'm gonna say, "Yes, it shouldn't be,。
"except there's these things called moths."。
And what I'm gonna make a case for。
is that moths, who have always existed。
because God created them, didn't always eat holes in wool.。
God, when he created, there was perfection。
and light and love and there was no death.。
What is death?。
It is the absence of life.。
What evil is, God is the author of everything,。
and evil is something, but what it is,。
it is the absence of what should be there.。
Now, we still gotta ask ourself, where did it come from?。
And the answer is, it came from,。
the story goes, that God created because God is a lover。
and one of the things that lovers must do。
is share its goodness with others.。
And so God created creatures。
that he could share his goodness and glory with.。
This is the story of the scripture.。
Initially, he created the angelic realm.。
And he shared his glory with them.。
He even created provision for them。
to be in the midst of his glory and not be consumed by it。
because his glory was so wonderful。
that it would be, they would be consumed。
if he didn't make provision for them.。
And yet, one of those creatures whose job,。
if you'll study and look at the scriptures,。
what theologians would say,。
probably was even to reflect the glory of God。
so other angels could see the image of God in them,。
started to say, "They're not worshiping。
"the image of God in me, they're worshiping me.。
"And frankly, I think I can do better than God."。
And so he tried to exalt himself above God。
and over the rest of creation,。
and God in that moment cast him out.。
Now when God did that, the scripture says,。
there was no question about his sovereignty and power.。
But there might have been a whisper in heaven。
with the two thirds of angels。
that weren't cast out during the rebellion,。
that maybe he's not really as good as Lucifer was.。
And so what God did is he said he created again.。
He went into that chaos and void,。
into that area of judgment.。
He created beauty and order and life.。
And he placed into that beauty and order and life。
creatures made in his image.。
And he told those creatures,。
"Enjoy me, walk with me, be blessed by me.。
"There's nothing here that you lack.。
"Just know that I am good.。
"You don't need to know good and evil,。
"you just need to know me.。
"And I want you to love me.。
"But I'm gonna tell you, there's gonna be an enemy there。
"and he's gonna try and steal your heart from me.。
"And the day you move away from me,。
"you're going to move to death.。
"The day that you don't believe that I am good,。
"you will experience non-good."。
The story of the scripture is that we bought that lie.。
We believe that we could do better than God。
because the enemy told us we could。
and it fed our own little prideful self.。
Instead of enjoying God, we started to create our own world.。
And into that world comes all the things。
that you saw in that video.。
And it's not God's world, it's the world that we get。
when we leave God.。
This is not on God's resume.。
In fact, God even says that all of creation,。
which is now subject to us。
because we were made in the image of God,。
so he's given us a right to rule over this creation.。
When we fell, creation fell with it.。
And God said, "My creation is longing for redemption."。
Now follow me on this.。
You might say, "Well, God shouldn't have created。
"creatures that would rebel against him."。
And I'm going to explain to you why he did that.。
Are you ready?。
Follow this little syllogism.。
Every creature God has made is perfect.。
Perfect creatures can't do what's imperfect.。
Therefore, if God created perfect creatures,。
perfect creatures must only act perfectly.。
You just told me God created angels,。
they rebelled against him.。
You told me God created man, they rebelled against him.。
Those aren't perfect creatures.。
Yes, they are.。
Here's the solution to that little problem.。
God made everything perfect.。
One perfect thing that God created is free creatures.。
Why did he make free creatures?。
Because free creatures have the ability to make choices。
and they have the ability specifically to love.。
And let me say it this way.。
One of the things that perfect creatures must do。
is love.。
In order to be able to love, you've got to choose.。
You're not a robot.。
I can remember when I was talking to my little girl。
and she asked me when she was four years old,。
"Daddy, why did God let us sin?"。
And I just said, "Because he loves you。
"and because he wants you to love him."。
I said, "Ally, let me ask you a question.。
"You got lots of stuffed animals in your room.。
"You're the first kid, so all you got。
"is more stuffed animals than any kid could ever need.。
"Look around your room and I can tell you。
"that you play with your little stuffed animals.。
"You got names for all of them, don't you?"。
And she went around the room and she talked about the names。
she has for her stuffed animals.。
She has for them.。
I go, "What if I left you in this room。
"and I told you that you could be God。
"over these stuffed animals and you could always。
"make them sing songs to you,。
"you could always make them love you,。
"you could always make them hug you.。
"When you wanted to sleep with them and cuddle,。
"they would always do it.。
"They would never say no.。
"They would be at your beck and call。
"and they would never, ever once disappoint you.。
"But Ally, you need to know something.。
"They're not real.。
"They're just stuffed animals.。
"They can't really love you.。
"They won't hurt you, but they won't really love you.。
"But you can imagine they'll love you.。
"Or you can be friends with Sally, the street.。
"You can be friends with Maggie.。
"You can be friends with Susan。
"and you can be friends with Ginger.。
"But you need to know something.。
"Ginger and Susie and Sally, Megan,。
"they can really love you,。
"but they're also gonna maybe hurt you。
"and disappoint you and let you down。
"and not wanna spend time with you。
"and say mean things to you.。
"But which one do you want, Ally?"。
And she says, "I want friends.。
"I want real friends.。
"I love my stuffed animals,。
"but my stuffed animals don't really love me.。
"What I really want is real interaction."。
They go, "That's because you're made in the image of God.。
"And that's why God gave you the right to choose."。
See, one of the things perfect creatures must do is love.。
In order to be able to love,。
you've gotta be able to choose.。
So to follow this little syllabus,。
one perfect thing God made is free creatures.。
Free will allows for the choice to not love.。
We call that hate or rebel or evil.。
Therefore, it is possible that a God。
that created something perfect。
out of that imperfection could rise.。
I'm gonna move a little quickly with you here。
and wrap this thing up.。
What I wanna do is just share with you。
just this little excerpt that explains。
a little bit about why there is evil.。
Because remember at the beginning,。
I said to you that there's no good purpose。
for evil and suffering?。
I'm gonna tell you there is.。
But let me just deal with this issue of power and love.。
This is from a book by a guy named Philip Yancey.。
It's called "Disappointment with God."。
"Is God unfair?。
"Is he silent?。
"Is he hidden?。
"Such questions must have troubled the Hebrews。
"until in Moses' lifetime, God took off all the wraps.。
"He punished evil and he rewarded good."。
Just like we kinda want God to do.。
"He spoke audibly.。
"He made himself visible, first to Moses in a burning bush,。
"and then to the Israelites in a pillar of cloud and fire.。
"The response of the Israelites to such direct intervention。
"offers an important insight into the inherent limits。
"of all power."。
Power can do everything but the most important thing.。
Power cannot control love.。
"The 10 plagues in Exodus show the power of God。
"over a pharaoh.。
"But the 10 major rebellions recorded in Numbers。
"show the impotence of power to bring about。
"what God desires most,。
"the love and faithfulness of his people.。
"No pyrotechnic displays of omnipotence。
"could make them trust and follow him."。
We don't need the ancient Israelites。
really to teach us this fact.。
We can see it today in societies where power runs wild.。
In a concentration camp, as so many witnesses have told us,。
the guards possess nearly unlimited power.。
By applying force, they can make you renounce God,。
curse your family, work without pay, eat human excrement,。
kill and then bury your closest friend。
or even your own mother.。
All this is within their power.。
Only one thing is not, they cannot force you to love them.。
"The fact that love does not operate。
"according to the rules of power may help explain。
"why God sometimes seems shy to use his power.。
"He created us to love him,。
"but his most impressive display of a miracle,。
"the kind we may secretly long for,。
"does nothing to foster that love."。
As one guy put it, "God's problem is not that God。
"is not able to do certain things."。
Watch this, "God's problem is that God loves.。
"Love complicates the life of God,。
"even as it complicates every life."。
Let me tell you the purpose and beauty of evil.。
Because we have seen evil, it makes us love what is good.。
Pain is a gift.。
At the beginning, we talked about this idea,。
there is no good purpose for evil and suffering.。
I'm gonna tell you, I don't ever drop on some persons。
who are really in the midst of suffering,。
hey man, all things work together for good。
to those who love God and are called。
according to his purpose.。
By the way, that is very true.。
But the Bible does not deny me the right。
to mourn with those that mourn.。
In fact, it commands me to.。
It just tells me not to grieve as those who have no hope.。
It tells me to do what David did,。
to tell God, God, this is a beating.。
How long is this gonna go on?。
And then just to stop and rest.。
And for him to go, I'll tell you how long it's gonna go on.。
And I'll tell you why I haven't wrapped up。
judgment against evil completely yet.。
It's because I love people.。
And if I'm gonna get rid of evil,。
it's gonna be all evil, Todd.。
Not just the evil you want me to get rid of.。
In fact, everybody in this room would come in and say,。
I wish God would get rid of evil.。
And what you're really doing is if you have not。
had your evil atoned for and covered,。
you are wishing for your own destruction.。
Because evil is not what you think is evil.。
Evil is less than perfection.。
Anybody here still wanna get rid of all evil?。
If you're a fatalist or a nihilist, you should.。
But see, God has made you in his image.。
He said eternity in your hearts.。
And that's why you don't put a gun in your mouth。
and pull it like Ernest Hemingway,。
who was very drunk when he did it.。
Because you know something is true,。
and that is that life is not over at the grave.。
It's an eternally fixed beginning.。
And what God says, I don't want life。
to have to start for you at the grave.。
That's why I want you to start experiencing life right now.。
And pain is a gift.。
It tells you something is not as it should be.。
There's a guy named Paul Brand。
that I recommend you guys do some research on.。
And Paul Brand is the world's leading expert on leprosy.。
Leprosy is a really interesting disease.。
Do you know, by the way, if you go back and read。
in Exodus where it's talking about skin issues,。
it talks about leprosy and a disease。
where it has to be put outside the camp.。
When you see lepers in the Bible, it's a picture of sin.。
Let me tell you why.。
Leprosy is not a flesh-eating disease.。
Leprosy is a disease that attacks the nerve endings.。
And what it does is lepers can't experience pain.。
What happens to a leper is they don't do what you do.。
If you're sweeping a floor, you don't even know it,。
but you just are constantly manipulating。
that broom in your hand 1,000 little times。
so it doesn't wear a groove into your hand.。
Lepers don't care.。
They never have to adjust the broom。
because they can't feel it.。
And what eventually happens is they rub their skin raw,。
but that doesn't hurt.。
Usually when you rub your skin raw,。
you get a blister and you kind of go, that hurts.。
And you address it.。
Lepers don't address it.。
And it gets infected.。
And they don't even care that it's infected.。
That infection is kind of ugly and slightly,。
they'll just wrap it up, but they'll let it go.。
Once it's out of sight, it's out of mind。
because it doesn't hurt.。
And what eventually happens, that infection then。
starts to not just go into the flesh,。
but eventually makes its way into the bone.。
The only time a leper will call for help。
is when the stench overwhelms them.。
Then they'll go to somebody and say, this just stinks.。
Would you address it?。
And usually at that point in lepers,。
it has gone all the way down to the bone.。
What literally happens is it affects the structure。
of the body and the skin pulls back.。
And what you see is that the body literally eats itself.。
It shrinks back.。
You become less of a person.。
Is that not a beautiful picture of sin?。
That disease affects you and you just pull back。
and you become less and less of who you were intended to be.。
That's what it means when it says in the scripture。
that we all become less than the glory。
that God intended for us.。
And see, when we see that happening,。
God says, let me heal you.。
That's why the only person that could heal a leper。
in the Bible wasn't a doctor, it was a priest.。
That's why the very first healing。
that Jesus went through was a leper.。
'Cause God has made new what no one else can make new.。
What God does is he brings back。
into our dead hearts feeling.。
If you don't have pain, you don't know something is wrong.。
And God gave us the gift of pain and chaos and suffering。
so we would stop trying to create a utopia。
through philosophers and some new political movement。
or some new government messiah.。
And we would pay attention to God.。
Now what did God do in this world that turned away from him。
that he brought judgment to?。
Just like he said, that's omnipotence.。
But what did we never see before evil entered in?。
We never saw the love of God.。
We knew nothing of mercy.。
We knew nothing of kindness.。
We knew nothing of rescue and redemption.。
And God is revealing his goodness and his glory。
in a way that we can go, rightly do we love you.。
And rightly do we run away from this thing。
that brings pain, this sin, this death, this deceiver。
who tells us you're not there.。
When in fact, the reason we're here。
is because we've acted like you are not。
what you claim to be from the beginning.。
And in your kindness, you let us and our world。
experience pain and death and child abuse and rape。
and this beautiful creation to have chaos。
because this world is not your home.。
Now you might say this.。
If God is all good, he would destroy evil.。
If God is all good, he could.。
Evil's not destroyed, therefore there's not an all good.。
If God is all good, he could.。
Evil's not destroyed, therefore there's not。
an all good and powerful God.。
But there's another way to look at this.。
If God is all good, he will defeat evil.。
If God is all good, he can defeat evil.。
Evil is not yet defeated, therefore God will one day。
completely defeat evil.。
That's the story of scripture.。
Scripture says that God does hate evil.。
He's done something about it.。
When he was here, he wept over the grief and suffering。
that we experience.。
He was tempted in every way as we have been.。
He made provision for evil.。
He became sin on our behalf and that he might。
give us his righteousness.。
The story of scripture is this world is broken.。
God knows it's broken.。
He wept at the effects of sin and he wept over those。
that rejected him as the solution to their sin。
because he loves men.。
Do you know why God has not wrapped up judgment on evil yet?。
The answer is in 2 Peter chapter three verse nine.。
And it says this, God is not slow as some count slowness.。
But is patient towards you, not wishing for any to perish。
but for all to come to repentance.。
I'm gonna tell you why God has not gotten rid of evil。
because there's some people in this room tonight。
that have never had their evil covered, atoned for.。
And God loves you and the pain that's in your heart。
and the pain that's in your world is screaming to you,。
this is not God's world.。
It's a world spun out of control away from him。
and he loves you personally in it.。
One day he's gonna redeem the world。
and he's gonna take redeemed people with him into it。
but for now, he is saying let me redeem you。
and then he does this.。
This amazing thing when you're redeemed by the God。
who rescues you from sin and death is he says,。
hey, now that you know that I'm good。
and now that you can trust me,。
I'm gonna leave you here in this world filled with cancer。
and loneliness and rejection and adultery。
and rape and poverty。
and I'm gonna ask you to do what you can do about it.。
I'm gonna ask you to be my hands and feet。
and when you do it, I'm gonna tell you to tell others。
that you do it not because you're doing some random act。
of kindness but because you're worshiping the God。
that wants them to know of his goodness。
and you are here as his messenger.。
And so Jesus says to you who have come to him,。
hey, in this world you will have trouble but take heart,。
I've overcome the world, this is not my world。
but you are my people if you have accepted my grace。
and provision for your sin and evil and suffering and death。
and I'm gonna ask that you serve me for a while。
and I'm not so unjust as to forget your kindness。
that you've shown to the saints。
and still ministering to the saints。
and there's gonna be a forever where it's gonna make。
this 60, 70, 80 years look like nothing。
and I know it's really hard for you。
and maybe your story is a wheelchair,。
maybe your story is barrenness,。
maybe your story is an abusive daddy,。
I didn't want abusive daddies and wheelchairs and barrenness。
but that's the effects of sin。
and my grace is sufficient for you。
and I wanna forgive you and I wanna make you heroic in it,。
a messenger of hope.。
That's the story, gang.。
Evil not only does not disprove God,。
it proves that there is a God。
who's doing exactly what he said would happen。
if we left him and God didn't just throw out some philosophy。
he anchored his story in the context of history,。
go check it out, the Bible isn't just some poetic idea,。
it is a historical narrative of what God is doing。
in revealing his glory so that you would want to know him.。
The story of the Bible is not behave。
and you might be saved,。
the story of the Bible is God loves you。
and is gonna rescue you from your disobedience.。
Don't perform for me, let me provide for you.。
I hate evil, I judge evil,。
I pour out all my wrath on evil。
and guess what, I know what it's like。
to feel like I've forgotten, been forgotten by God.。
Check this, God, why have you forgotten me?。
Why have you forsaken me?。
Because Jesus was found in the likeness of a man。
and being made in the appearance of man,。
humbled himself and became obedient。
even to the point of death, death on a cross, why?。
Because God hates death and suffering。
because he's a God of love。
and he wants you to accept his provision.。
He wants you to join him in declaring to the world his love.。
And he promises that one day he's gonna roll this thing up。
and there will be forever evil。
where there's nothing that will ever remind you of God again。
if you choose not to worship him。
and there will be forever good。
where we know that he's sovereign and good。
because the rescue has happened.。
Do you love him?。
Do you want to know him?。
Tonight can be your night.。
You just got to acknowledge that you're part of the problem。
of evil in this world。
and that you need rescue and atonement and provision。
and you're gonna find it in the person of his son,。
Jesus Christ, who was there in the beginning。
with God and was God.。
And because he loved you,。
entered into the sin and death of this world。
and he provided what only God can provide。
which is a perfect and complete sacrifice。
which appeased his perfect nature。
so that he might be just in judging sin。
and the justifier of those who love him.。
And so you can have a logical construct.。
Don't be surprised by the evil among you.。
It's exactly what you think you would get。
in a world that's run away from God,。
run with God and declare hope to others.。
Father, thank you for this night with these porch friends。
and I pray that they would be the rest of their life。
learning more about you and your character and your nature。
and I pray that you would rescue them。
from lies and sin and death.。
Thank you, Lord, that we can come in here。
and we can reason together。
that you're not afraid of our questions。
but you want us to really listen when we ask.。
And so God, tonight we ask this,。
that you would open the eyes of our heart。
and let us see you.。
We ask that you would allow those of us。
who don't know you to know you if you're that good.。
Would you let us not go to bed tonight?。
Would you let us not leave this room。
until we do business with a God who rescues。
and if we came in this room knowing you,。
may we love you more.。
May we turn to the person to our left and to our right.。
Are you suffering?。
This is a beaten down world.。
How can I help you?。
How can I encourage you?。
How can I be a friend for you in a friendless world?。
How can I offer you hope in the midst of your hopelessness?。
I pray that believers in this room, Lord,。
would love as you love, do as you did,。
suffer as you suffer until that day。
when they will move to that world。
where they'll just receive your goodness forever.。
While we're here on this journey,。
help us to take on evil with the declaration of good news,。
the doing of good deeds by the power of your spirit。
because we live in relationship with you,。
not so you'll love us but because we love you.。
For the glory of God, the salvation of others,。
and for joy to our own hearts, I pray.。
Amen.。
God is powerful, but he's not a rapist.。
You know, money can buy you a good dog,。
it just can't buy you the wag of his tail.。
And what God has done in expressing his goodness to you。
through the redemption of this world,。
through the crucifixion of his son,。
is show you his love and he just says, "Come to me."。
But he's not gonna force himself on you.。
You're free to choose to follow him。
or you're free to choose to make this your heaven.。
But one day, mark my word,。
there's gonna be two kinds of people,。
people that says God to them, "Have as you want.。
"There'll be nothing that will ever remind you of me again."。
That means nothing but pain, no rest.。
Death would even be a gift。
and that's why there won't even be that.。
Just eternal loss.。
And then there's people that will come to him now。
and say, "God, your will be done.。
"Redeem me from death and sin."。
And to you he'll say, "Your will be done.。
"Let me give you all of me.。
"And there'll be nothing that will ever remind you。
"of the absence of me again."。
God's story is he wants you to start。
to live in that reality right now.。
That's why there are crazy people like me。
who sing in the midst of chaos and cancer.。
'Cause I'm not surprised by it.。
I know why it's here.。
I do what I can to mitigate it,。
but my God's sovereign over it.。
And if this is the end for me, I just move to glory.。
But while I'm here, I'm gonna be faithful。
and filled with hope.。
(gentle music)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
