- For freedom in the history of our nation.。
(upbeat music)。
- Dallas and Fort Worth.。
- We're advancing the state of the art in every aspect.。
(upbeat music)。
- All right, well, welcome back for week two。
of revolution or new year revolution.。
I'm gonna start off by opening up a little bit about my life.。
Yes, sir, thank you for being excited mom on the front row.。
It's not my mom.。
When I got married about four and a half years ago,。
I moved in with my wife, Callie.。
It was exciting times.。
I was immediately exposed to some things I was not aware of。
as it related to what it looked like to live with a woman.。
And they were numerous,。
but the ones that are relevant to tonight。
was specifically around wardrobe or clothing.。
One of the first things that I realized。
was the vast volume of clothes。
that women bring into their life。
and that they're gonna carry with them for like forever.。
There's clothes and shirts that I still to this day。
have never seen anywhere。
other than just hanging in the closet.。
And I have never, we've been in three different homes.。
I've never actually made it to where my clothes。
are in the closet inside of our bedroom.。
I have all my clothes in like the hallway closet。
with a vacuum over there.。
And she's like every square inch I need.。
And the second thing was not just the volume,。
but was more the accessories that women wear.。
And this was interesting to me。
because women will wear these accessories that are not,。
they're, I don't know how else to say this,。
they're pointless.。
They don't actually provide any value。
or any functional value.。
They just kind of, they're to look pretty。
and they're just kind of like, oh, this is fun.。
Here's what I mean.。
Like my wife has these things called summer scarves.。
Have you heard of this?。
It's a scarf you wear in the summer.。
What's a scarf for?。
It's for keeping your neck warm in the winter。
when it's snowing outside.。
But why do we, I think this is a Texas thing。
and anthropology thing, but we wear summer scarves。
so that we don't feel like we're missing out,。
I guess, on what's up north.。
Another thing was like she would,。
when we would go to nice events,。
she brings something called a clutch.。
I've never heard of this before.。
I didn't know what this was.。
I actually thought it was a grab。
and called it a grab for a while.。
I was like, where's your grab?。
She's like, what are you talking about?。
[congregation laughing]。
A clutch, for those of you men。
who are in the room who don't know what,。
this is a smaller version of the purse。
that you bring with you whenever you're going。
to a formal activity, a formal event。
that you're attending together.。
Is there anything in the clutch?。
No, you just put your phone in there,。
but you bring it as an accessory.。
It's like, what, this makes no sense at all.。
She has these belts that she wears。
on the outside of her clothing。
that are holding nothing up,。
which is the purpose of a belt.。
They just kind of like are around a dress.。
It's like, that's like wearing suspenders。
that are not attached to anything.。
You know that, right?。
[congregation laughing]。
Sleeveless turtlenecks,。
where it's like, I'm confused right now.。
Are we hot?。
Are we cold?。
You can't, this can't actually be functionally helping you。
because if you're wearing it because you're hot,。
you know that your neck is covered up.。
If you're wearing it because you're cold,。
you know that you have nothing on your,。
there's just these items of clothing,。
accessories predominantly, where I was like,。
man, what is that?。
What's a bangle?。
What is a bangle?。
Bangles, bracelets, these different things。
that I was exposed to that were accessories,。
definitely not a necessity,。
and they really didn't add any functional value。
if you were to take them away.。
Now, here's where I start there,。
because I think for a lot of us,。
as it relates to that idea of like,。
man, they're accessories,。
they're definitely not a necessity.。
That's how the Christian faith is.。
That in our life, or in your life,。
or in the lives of many people,。
that they see Christianity,。
they see their Christian faith,。
they see Christ as kind of an accessory.。
It's a component that I add to my life.。
It's part of who I am.。
You know, I'm a white guy who's X number of years old.。
I'm a girl who's African American.。
I'm a Republican or I'm a Democrat.。
I'm from Dallas or I'm from, you know,。
South Carolina or wherever I am,。
and I'm a Cowboys fan.。
I've got all these kind of different components.。
I'm an accountant, I'm a teacher,。
and one of those components,。
or one of those accessories。
that's kind of a part of it,。
that's fun to have is Christianity, or Christ.。
And what I wanna talk about tonight。
is as we continue this series of revolution。
is what the Apostle Paul's gonna say,。
as it relates to you and I,。
that Christianity is no accessory.。
It is a necessity.。
If you were going to experience。
the abundant life that God has wired,。
designed, created you to experience,。
that Christ is not some component to add to life,。
but without him, you will not experience。
the life that you want.。
Some of you, because of not listening。
to the Apostle Paul's words tonight,。
your marriage will not last.。
Some of you are going to fall into addiction。
because of not listening to the Apostle Paul's words tonight。
as he talks about the importance of Christianity,。
that it is not an accessory that you add,。
it's not just some component of life,。
it is where life itself is found.。
And it is knowing that,。
and understanding how we walk in that,。
that the Apostle Paul says。
is gonna be the dividing line to determine the life,。
and really what your life is going to produce。
in terms of the pain, the death, the destruction,。
all that you're gonna bring into it,。
or the life, joy, peace, all of those things.。
So we're gonna be in the book of Galatians chapter five,。
we'll pick it up in verse 19.。
If you have a Bible, you can flip open to Galatians.。
Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, Roman, Corinthians,。
Galatians, so if you hit Matthew,。
flip the Bible open halfway.。
The easiest way to get to any book of the Bible。
is this thing called a table of contents, all right?。
That's our little secret, don't tell anybody else.。
But that's in the front of the Bible.。
And if you turn there, it'll tell you where Galatians is.。
But we'll be in chapter five.。
If you don't have a Bible, we'll have it up on the screens.。
And we also have Bibles in the Welcome Center。
as a free gift to you.。
So if you don't have one, feel free to go out there。
and just say, "Hey, I wanted to take you guys。
"up on the free Bible that you guys have here."。
So we're gonna be in Galatians chapter five.。
We'll start in verse 16, really 19,。
but I'm gonna read 16 'cause it'll set us up。
kind of for where we're going.。
The Apostle Paul is right into the church of Galatia.。
Paul, artist or apostle formerly known as Saul,。
went and spent his life for the first half。
trying to kill Christianity, trying to stomp out Christians,。
meets Jesus, his life is radically changed,。
and all of a sudden he becomes one of the best missionaries。
the world has ever seen, or the best missionary.。
And he writes all these different letters。
to these churches in these different areas or cities。
in the ancient world.。
And so many of those are what's in the Bible,。
is those different letters that Paul wrote.。
This one he wrote to the churches in Galatia,。
and he wrote regarding how they're to now。
live out their Christian life.。
And in it he gives them an insight into what's at stake。
if they don't properly understand the life。
and the access to life that they have in Christ.。
Before we start, let me just say this.。
What he's about to dive into is related to the sin nature.。
And in order to give you a better understanding。
is what we're about to read, what the Bible says,。
and what experience testifies as you look around the world.。
Is there all is not as it seems。
because sin entered the world, death entered the world.。
When sin entered, disease came with it,。
and everything was broken and everything was fractured.。
In other words, when Adam and Eve。
are the beginnings of the human race,。
disobeyed God, sin entered the world,。
and everything was fractured.。
Human nature was fractured.。
The animal kingdom was fractured.。
Your DNA, your ability to fight off disease was fractured.。
And human nature was fractured.。
And that all of us have this broken sin nature。
that he's about to tell us what takes place。
as it relates to that sin nature.。
So verse 16 says this.。
So I, Paul says, live by the Spirit,。
and you will not gratify the desires,。
or you won't fulfill the desires of the sinful nature.。
So Paul's saying, hey, if you wanna avoid。
living by the sin nature, you've gotta live by the Spirit.。
In order to avoid that self-destructive thing inside of you,。
you gotta live by the Spirit.。
What's so bad about the sinful nature, Paul,。
which is human nature?。
You could insert human nature.。
He begins to tell us, here's what it is.。
Now the acts of the sinful nature, verse 19, are obvious.。
In other words, everyone, if you look around,。
it's easy to see people are messed up,。
left to themselves, without law,。
they're gonna just gravitate towards evil.。
Here's some of 'em.。
Sexual immorality, impurity, debauchery,。
idolatry, or worshiping anything other than God.。
Witchcraft, which is manipulating the supernatural。
for selfish reasons.。
Hatred, discord, jealousy, fits of rage,。
selfish ambition, dissensions, factions, and envy.。
Drunkenness and orgies, or living for the weekend.。
These and the like, which is a Greek word。
for just et cetera, et cetera.。
I warn you, as I did before, that those who live like this。
will not inherit the kingdom of God.。
Paul just laid out the symptoms of the sinful nature.。
If you take notes, you can write down。
the symptoms of the sinful nature.。
Why is the message of Christianity,。
why specifically is Christianity being a necessity。
so important?。
Well, the first idea that Paul gives us in this text。
and the Bible teaches is that you and I on our own。
without the presence of Christ or the spirit of God。
in our life left to ourselves, naturally, we're sinful.。
Like in other words, in neutral,。
all of us gravitate towards sin.。
It's so huge 'cause it's such this big idea。
that's being taught in the world。
and that maybe you're like, yeah, I kind of agree with that.。
You don't agree with that if you would say,。
yeah, I think everybody's pretty much a good person.。
You know, I was told that growing up。
and I think everyone inherently is a good person.。
That is not a biblical idea.。
That doesn't even make sense。
when you look outside of America.。
In America, we can kind of get away with that。
'cause we're like, yeah, you know, everything.。
We live in the Disney world of the world.。
When you look outside in the world around us,。
it's the wild, wild west.。
It becomes very, very clear。
that mankind is not good inherently.。
And Paul says, let me tell you why.。
You were born with the sin nature.。
You were born with a nature inside of you。
that naturally moves in the direction of sin.。
And he lays out some of the things that like,。
really, it makes it clear.。
This is why it's easy.。
No one had to work at sexual morality in here.。
Nobody's like, no, I've been really trying。
to up my porn game this year.。
No one had to work at that.。
No one had to work at jealousy.。
No one was like, man, I'm just so like,。
I'm so happy for you how thin you are.。
And look at me, I'm not, but I'm so happy for you.。
Everyone's easily bent towards like,。
oh my gosh, you're so skinny.。
You must be anorexic, I hate you.。
And that comes naturally, Paul says, hatred, racism.。
Paul says, man, you wanna know the biggest problem。
that mankind has.。
You wanna know the biggest problem that you have,。
the world has, is sin nature.。
I mean, we kind of know this intuitively.。
It's why we have laws, right?。
Like imagine if there was a day where,。
just that we're not laws.。
You can watch "The Purge."。
It gives you a movie of what it's like。
if there weren't laws on the land.。
The reason that we even have laws is 'cause we know,。
man, without these, if we just,。
if people could get away with whatever,。
there's no end to the evil that they would do.。
And so we have laws that kind of restrain。
and restrict the evil on our land.。
Because for a lot of us, I think the reason why。
a lot of husbands don't cheat on their wife。
is 'cause they think they'll get caught.。
And Paul says, you have sin nature.。
You're not a good person for not cheating on your wife.。
You wanna cheat on your wife.。
The reason a lot of people don't commit crime。
is because they're afraid of getting caught.。
Paul says, look, you have a sin-broken nature.。
These are the symptoms of this broken thing inside of you。
that you by yourself, in neutral, gravitate towards sin.。
You and I do.。
It's the reason why addictions take place.。
Think about that.。
People self-destruct themselves.。
I mean, I'm not even trying to cast judgment on that.。
I'm saying, think about that.。
Why would people do things that only hurt themselves?。
And Paul says, look, I can tell you why.。
It's because you and I have a sin nature.。
Human nature is sin nature.。
The Bible teaches all throughout it that, man,。
God looks down, people are not inherently good.。
Psalm 14, two and three says this.。
The Lord looks down from heaven on all mankind。
to see if there are any who understand,。
any who seek God.。
All have turned away.。
All have become corrupt.。
There is no one who does good, not even one.。
If you have ever been around even infants or toddlers。
or young kids, that's the easiest,。
clear illustration of seeing this.。
We're in this stage right now。
where all of our friends have toddlers.。
And so everywhere I look, there's little kids。
around us right now.。
A little toddler and they're all around us。
kind of all the time.。
Here's what I've never seen。
from any of these little rugrats running around.。
Never one time, whenever they're together。
and they're playing with little toys,。
never has any of them ever said,。
oh my gosh, they have my toy.。
No, yours, it's yours, you take it first.。
But constantly they will say, mine, mine, mine.。
And it's not even their toy.。
We're not even in our house.。
It's someone else's stuff.。
I'm like, that is not yours, that's not mine.。
Because they are from the womb。
able to have selfishness come out of them and say, mine.。
They weren't ever taught that.。
We don't go around our house, at my house,。
where I'm like, hey, oh my gosh, my wife, that's my pillow.。
Mine, that is mine, that's my pillow.。
You didn't see that from someone.。
It's natural.。
It comes naturally.。
Paul says, so it does with you.。
So it does with me.。
Sin nature, left to ourself.。
What comes is immorality, is sin.。
But he continues, and he really gives us。
the solution to the problems of the symptoms。
of this disease of sin.。
Here's what he says.。
But the fruit of the Spirit, that's the Spirit of God.。
The fruit is the same word for produce or offspring.。
What is produced in someone's life。
is love, is joy, is peace, patience, kindness,。
goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control.。
The Apostle Paul says that when the Spirit of God。
comes into someone's life, that's what happens。
when you become a Christian, when a person puts their faith。
in what Christ did on the cross for them.。
Hey, I'm putting my faith that Jesus died in my place。
on the cross for my sin.。
He paid for it, and he came back alive。
to show the payment was more than enough, check cleared.。
When a person puts their faith in that,。
all of a sudden the Spirit of God comes into their life。
and begins to change and form their character.。
And the Apostle Paul says, hey, you know what happens。
when a person is led or governed by the Spirit of God?。
Something is produced.。
Love, what's love?。
Love is, the word here is used almost more like charity,。
'cause if you look around, you're like,。
man, a lot of people in our world。
are really passionate about love.。
This isn't like the flowery, like,。
hey, everything is love, man, you do you.。
This isn't that love.。
This is a love that's self-sacrificing.。
It's the word agape that says, man, I'm gonna die to myself,。
put you in front of myself.。
He says that's what the Spirit of God。
brings into someone's life.。
They all of a sudden, they begin to want to love people.。
Kindness is brought into their life.。
Joy is brought into their life.。
Peace, the supernatural peace,。
not like this just kind of temperamental surfer guy。
who's like, yeah, man, everything's gonna work out.。
It's gonna be good.。
But the supernatural peace comes into someone's life.。
Kindness, self-control.。
The Apostle Paul says, look,。
the remedy or the solution for the sin nature,。
which is our second idea, is the Spirit of God.。
For you and I to experience freedom from that sin nature,。
freedom from the symptoms of the sin nature。
that come into our life, Paul says,。
hey, there is a remedy.。
It does not come from within you.。
It comes from the Spirit of God inside of someone's life.。
I mean, how attractive are these qualities?。
I mean, think about it.。
Like, that is like, if you had a list and you were like,。
man, I'm looking for a spouse.。
This would be the amazing list to have.。
Nobody's like, nobody's going back to that other list。
of like, you know what I'm looking for?。
Someone who's a witch.。
I'm looking for a witchcraft.。
Hello.。
No one's looking for like a guy who's like,。
he's got an anger problem.。
I know a lot of you are like, no, I like, you know,。
tough, bad Barry.。
You don't like bad Barry when you marry Barry。
and he keeps punching holes in the wall.。
That's not the guy you wanna marry.。
Like, how attractive is this list of like,。
love, joy, peace, patience, you know,。
and it's kind of, that's what Paul says。
is what the Spirit wants to bring about。
in the life of a person.。
He wants to lead them in the direction of life.。
Lead them away from the direction of what's natural.。
He wants to come in and supernaturally bring about。
these things in your life and in my life.。
I mean, if you, if you think about how amazing。
the world would be if for like,。
imagine a world where everyone was governed。
by the Spirit of God.。
Just go with me on this.。
Every person on the planet, tomorrow we wake up,。
all of them underneath the governance。
of the Spirit of God.。
So they're not robots, they just have this fruit,。
this lifestyle being produced in them。
where love, joy, peace, patience, you know,。
it's kind of all this.。
I mean, think about it.。
We wouldn't have to have laws.。
Like, we could do away with the Constitution,。
do away with laws, do away with all of this.。
Is that bumping on me?。
Clearly it is.。
Oh, let's go, dude, okay.。
No more Britney Spears, Mike, I like it.。
I mean, seriously, stay with me.。
Imagine a world where you don't have any of those things.。
The sin nature no longer exists,。
or everyone's governed by the fruit of the Spirit.。
You guys talk amongst yourselves for a second,。
'cause this thing.。
Hey, how about Billy Wand?。
This guy, he is single, ladies.。
Kidding.。
Imagine a world, like, you wouldn't have to have laws.。
Think about that.。
Like, you wouldn't have to be worried about,。
like, oh my gosh, there's greed going on.。
Oh my gosh, someone's gonna murder.。
You could open up all the prisons and just say,。
hey, everybody out, 'cause we're all gonna be fine.。
Everyone's governed by the Spirit of God.。
Like, you don't have to lock your car.。
You don't have to lock anything anymore,。
because the world around you is governed。
by the Spirit of God, not the sinful nature.。
Even the reason that we have to lock everything,。
or there is prisons and all of that,。
it's a testimony to the fact that sin nature is real.。
It's behind this destruction in our own lives,。
the destruction in the world around us,。
and the Apostle Paul says there is a way。
to experience freedom from it,。
but it does not come from within you.。
It comes from the Spirit of God working inside of your life.。
And once he begins to work inside of life,。
it produces that fruit.。
And here's what I get so passionate about.。
This idea from this text,。
is like this is a not natural, a life governed by love,。
patience, joy, peace towards other people, kindness.。
Those are not natural things.。
The church of Jesus Christ, supernaturally, by the Spirit,。
brings to the world qualities。
that they will not find anywhere else.。
Like, we live in America, and we think,。
yeah, everyone thinks that kindness is a good idea.。
Newsflash, no, they don't.。
Go to countries where there isn't。
a Judeo-Christian value set up.。
Women, you don't have rights.。
You can't drive a car in Saudi Arabia.。
They're our biggest oil trading partner.。
Think about that.。
I mean, there's 100 million more men in Asia than women。
because of selective abortion, because you know why?。
They don't think like the Spirit of Christ。
that says, hey, look, every single person matters.。
They think men are more valuable than women.。
So selective abortion has killed 100 million less women.。
The values, the perspective, the love,。
the qualities introduced by the Spirit of God。
to the church are unique.。
You will not find them anywhere else.。
And Paul says, man, they are a necessity for life。
if you're gonna experience it.。
They're a necessity for the world。
if they're gonna experience life。
because it's only there that you're gonna find it.。
And it's not inside of yourself.。
It's not inside of myself.。
It comes from the Spirit of God at work in someone's life.。
And we're gonna get to how he works in someone's life。
or how we can experience that in a second,。
but more than anything, I hope to overestimate。
or the fact that I cannot overestimate the importance。
of what you as the body of Christ, which is a Christian,。
which is someone who has the Spirit of God。
leading them in life, what you bring to the world。
that does not exist anywhere else.。
I mean, think about the 58 million lives。
that have been lost in this country since 1973。
through O.V. Wade, through abortion,。
which did not take place because of those will not acts。
that were underneath the governing。
of the Holy Spirit of God.。
The Holy Spirit does not say, "Kill this child."。
Well, you and I, as the Church of Jesus Christ,。
when we say we are bringing what is necessary for life,。
it's the life or death,。
and it's the Church of Jesus Christ all over the world,。
all over the centuries behind us,。
that has over and over and over again stood up。
and said what no one else would say,。
what you can't say apart from the Spirit of God,。
which is, "Hey, look, hey, I have a dream.。
"Every, or one day, people will be known。
"not by the color of their skin,。
"but the content of their character.。
"I'm a pastor who has a worldview informed。
"by the Spirit of Christ that every person,。
"red, yellow, black, white,。
"they're all precious in his sight.。
"Men and women, they're all valuable."。
That's a Christian perspective.。
That is the Spirit of God speaking into someone's life.。
That is not a natural view.。
Nature and natural human thinking is racism.。
Slavery, that's natural.。
It's the Spirit of God that worked。
when William Wilberforce in Great Britain。
in the early 1800s said way ahead of the game,。
"We're gonna shut down the slave trade over here。
"because I'm a follower of Christ.。
"What I'm seeing is that every person,。
"based on what God's Word says,。
"based on what the Spirit of God says,。
"has value, dignity, and this is not acceptable anymore."。
Over and over and over again,。
the Spirit of God has drove and impacted legislation.。
People were able to endure incredible suffering。
because of the way that they said,。
"Hey, I'm gonna stand up for what's right here."。
And it's not natural.。
Man, if you are a part of the body of Christ,。
I could not, even if I tried,。
overestimate how important you are。
because you bring the supernatural work of the Spirit。
to a world that needs it, that will not have it,。
will not find it anywhere else.。
I read an article not long ago that we shared,。
I guess it was a while ago now,。
and in a series a few years ago at the porch,。
but it was by this atheist who was writing。
about the importance of Christianity in Africa.。
He's a guy named Matthew Paris,。
and he writes for the London Times,。
which is like the New York Times.。
He's basically a reporter for them,。
and he had spent time in Africa,。
and he basically wrote, and he was like,。
"Look, I'm an atheist,。
"but I can't deny how important Christianity,。
"we need more missionaries over here."。
And so I just wanna read it。
just 'cause it's such a powerful,。
what he says from an atheist who looks around and says,。
"We are not gonna make it without these guys."。
Here's what he says, in the London Times.。
"As an atheist, I truly believe Africa needs God.。
"This confounds my ideological beliefs,。
"stubbornly refuses to fit my worldview,。
"and has embarrassed my growing belief。
"that there is no God.。
"Though I'm an atheist,。
"I've become convinced of the enormous contribution。
"Christian evangelism makes in Africa,。
"sharply distinct from the work of secular NGOs。
"and government projects and international aid efforts.。
"These alone will not do."。
Come on, dude, this'll preach.。
"Education and training will not do,"。
says this atheist reporter。
for one of the largest newspapers in the world.。
"In Africa, Christianity changes people's hearts."。
The change is good.。
"Christians, black and white,。
"working in Africa do heal the sick,。
"do teach people to read and write,。
"and only the severest kind of secularist or atheist。
"could see a mission hospital or a school。
"and say the world would be better。
"without that Christian school or hospital.。
"Missionaries, not aid money,。
"are the solution to Africa's biggest problem.。
"Removing Christian," hold on,。
"removing Christian evangelism from the planet,。
"from the African equation may leave the continent,"。
listen to this.。
Dude, this is so crazy, he's an atheist going,。
hey, look, guys, if we get these Christians out of here,。
hold on, don't let 'em leave yet.。
Here's what he says, the final words.。
"Removing Christian evangelism from the African equation。
"may leave the continent at the mercy。
"of a malign fusion of Nike, the witch doctor,。
"the mobile phone, and the machete."。
Matthew Paris, the London Times,。
that this atheist looks on and he says,。
look, let me tell you something,。
Christianity, there's something super,。
there's something, I don't even believe in God,。
but it changes people's hearts.。
It changes the way that they act,。
the way that they think.。
In this place, this continent needs it.。
The thing that he left out of that,。
as amazing as it is, is that this world needs it.。
Matthew needs it, whether he realizes it or not.。
Apart from the Spirit of God,。
we all drift towards self-destruction.。
We all drift towards pride, towards anxiety,。
towards anger, towards depression.。
That's why substance abuse is out of control,。
and the Apostle Paul says,。
that's 'cause you have the sin nature.。
That's where the problem is.。
There is a solution.。
It is the Spirit of God producing。
and working in someone's life.。
And as you read that, you go, man,。
well, how do I access that?。
How do I experience, if that's a necessary thing for life,。
not an accessory, how do I have the Spirit of God。
produce that in my life?。
Which is where Paul goes next.。
Those, verse 24, those who belong to Christ Jesus。
have crucified the sinful nature,。
or they've already said they put it to death.。
Whenever Jesus died on the cross,。
they were like, hey, I'm leaving the old life behind.。
That's dead.。
Along with his passions and desires.。
Since we live by the Spirit,。
let us keep in step with the Spirit.。
Now, this little word for keep in step,。
it literally is the word for walking dependent on,。
or step-by-step moving with someone,。
as if it was like a three-legged race,。
or someone walking on your shoes.。
It's a little word for like, hey,。
every move that they make,。
we're gonna keep stepping with it.。
The Apostle Paul just said,。
the way that you and I live the Christian life。
is not by trying to follow a bunch of rules,。
not by trying to produce fruit in our own life.。
You really gotta get that.。
It's not you, just hey, go try to be kind.。
You can't go try to be supernaturally kind。
any more than right now you could grow an orange on your arm.。
You get that, right?。
Like, it's like, hey, just grow an orange.。
You're like, well, I'm not an orange tree.。
Yeah, you can't grow supernatural because you're natural.。
And he says, the way that you and I。
access the supernatural in our life,。
the way that we experience the supernatural fruit。
growing inside of our life is by dependence,。
step by step by step dependence on the Spirit of God.。
That we walk with Him every moment,。
every day in ordinary moments,。
as we face temptation, as we face anxiety,。
whatever it is, God, I can't, but you can.。
Will you help me right now?。
I'm tempted right now because my boss, again,。
is doing that thing that all I feel is anger and rage,。
and I hate this place.。
And God, I can't, but you can.。
Will you help me to be faithful and loving?。
I'm totally dependent on you, God.。
Will you help me right now?。
That in moment by moment, we cry out to Him,。
call out to Him.。
One of the ways that that looks like is prayer.。
We say, God, will you help me right now?。
I'm overwhelmed, I'm anxious.。
I know you don't want me to feel anxious.。
That's a sin.。
Will you help me, Lord?。
I know you love me.。
You're in control.。
Will you help me?。
Keeping in step with the Spirit。
also involves other people around you,。
which is where Paul goes next.。
We don't have time to cover it tonight.。
In Galatians, where he says,。
bear one another's burdens.。
You do this together.。
When you find yourself in that temptation。
where you're dating that girl,。
and all of a sudden, it's like,。
oh, man, this is, hey, how you doing?。
And you're all of a sudden under the temptation。
of taking things farther。
than God's word says you should sexually.。
You say, God, I can't, but you can.。
Will you help me?。
I'm gonna loop other believers in.。
Hold us accountable to help me, Lord.。
I'm tempted to go back to the bar scene.。
I'm tempted to go back where it is.。
God, I can't, but you can.。
Will you help me now?。
I'm moment by moment walking in dependence on you.。
That's what Paul says is the Christian life.。
That's how we'll always be lived.。
It's not just like, hey, here's a list.。
Follow these rules.。
It is follow this person.。
Step by step, dependence on God.。
It's like my son.。
My son is 13 months old right now,。
so he's learning to walk,。
so he's in this phase where he's like,。
he just leans on stuff when he's trying to walk,。
so it's like Spider-Man up against the wall,。
touching things at all times.。
And he's recently taken ground where he'll like,。
he can walk with us holding his hands.。
Like, he'll take steps,。
and he'll like put both of his hands in our hands,。
and he'll walk and take steps with them.。
He didn't always love it, but hey,。
sometimes you gotta play hurt, buddy.。
So we're learning how to walk,。
and he's walking dependent on his father,。
dependent on his mother.。
Step by step by step.。
This is how the Christian life is lived.。
Unlike in that scenario where like eventually,。
he's hopefully gonna walk without me like holding his hands。
where it's like, hey, buddy, we're going to prom.。
Let me hold your hands.。
He's gonna learn, hey, I don't have to be dependent.。
The Christian life from beginning to end。
is I'm totally dependent on you, God.。
Will you help me?。
That's how you get saved, right?。
The way you become a believer is not by going like,。
hey, God, I've attended church, I'm gonna commute.。
It's like I'm totally dependent on you。
if I'm gonna get in, God.。
I'm not a good enough person.。
I'm a broken person.。
I need a savior, not a second chance.。
Will you help me?。
Paul says that is the same way。
that you live the Christian life.。
The way you get in is the way you finish.。
Moment by moment, dependence.。
You wanna bring about the fruit of the spirit in your life.。
It won't happen by you just trying harder.。
You can try to be kind,。
and I'm gonna really be patient today,。
but to want to be patient or to want to be kind,。
it's just overflowing out of you.。
It doesn't come from within you.。
It doesn't come from within me.。
It comes from dependence on the spirit of God,。
and when people throw their hands up and say,。
I surrender, I'm dependent on you,。
I'm gonna keep in step with the spirit,。
which is our third point.。
Their life begins to change.。
Moment by moment, ordinary moments.。
You know what?。
Even what's going on across this city,。
in El Paso and in Fort Worth and in Tulsa。
and in Houston and in the woodlands and in spring。
and really all over the place。
where people of God are gathered in different churches。
in different places where people are pursuing Jesus,。
walking in dependence on him.。
You know what's beginning to take place?。
An everyday, think about this,。
in everyday ordinary moments,。
moments that don't even look spectacular,。
people are walking in dependence on God.。
They're dating differently than the world around you.。
They're revolutionary in their dating.。
They're saying, I'm gonna honor how this girl,。
I'm gonna honor the way that I think about her,。
the way that I talk to her,。
the boundaries that I set with her.。
Young adults are walking in dependence。
as it relates to their job and they're saying,。
I'm not gonna live for the American dream,。
it's too small of a thing to give my life to.。
I'm gonna pursue something bigger,。
which is living for Christ right here, right in this moment,。
and everyday ordinary moments.。
They're revolutionary in their dependence on him.。
And all that that looks like inside of that moment。
is nothing special.。
I'm anxious, will you help me to trust in you?。
That's revolutionary.。
While the rest of the world goes, hey, take these meds.。
Take this drink, do something.。
And they're revolutionary young adults,。
people of all ages,。
followers of Christ by the Spirit of God,。
producing fruit of them who are saying,。
I'm gonna walk in dependence on you, God.。
You're gonna define the way that I date.。
You're gonna define the woman that I marry.。
You're gonna find the man that I marry.。
You're gonna find the way that I raise kids.。
You are gonna define my life.。
You are not a component or an accessory of life.。
You are life.。
If you ever find that life,。
if you ever experienced that life,。
the degree to which you and I experience that life。
will be the degree to which we walk in dependence on him.。
He's not an accessory for life.。
Christ, the Spirit of God working in your life。
is a necessity for life, not an accessory.。
Let me pray that you know that, God.。
Father, we thank you that you are working。
in the lives of young adults all over this town.。
Thank you that you have worked in our lives,。
that you're continuing in your grace and kindness.。
You're patient with us, Lord,。
because that's what the Spirit of God is.。
He's so patient, Lord.。
And that you provide strength where we're weak,。
you are strong.。
You don't require us to do something,。
to reach deep down, like Shane said,。
to our bootstraps and pull ourselves up and try harder.。
You require us to just depend on you, to walk with you.。
We're not strong enough in and of ourself.。
We declare that and confess that to you, Lord.。
We need your help.。
We need you every moment.。
You're worthy of all of our life,。
of all of our worship.。
Will you help us to honor you。
in everything that we do, Lord?。
May we keep in step by step with you.。
You're worthy of all of it.。
And we just declare that and by faith,。
ask for you to help us continue to walk that out.。
We worship you now in song, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
