(gentle music)。
- All right, how we doing Dallas?。
(audience cheering)。
Man, he is pumped tonight.。
I love that, I love that.。
Well, welcome everybody,。
Dallas and Fort Worth and streaming online.。
My name's Adam Tarnow.。
Excited to be here with you guys tonight.。
Start off with a little question.。
How many of you guys like watching those videos。
or reading those articles about life hacks?。
Any life hack fans out here?。
A few of you guys, life hacks.。
So these are these videos.。
They're super popular on YouTube right now.。
In fact, I typed in the other day on YouTube,。
10 best life hacks, 36.3 million videos popped up.。
All right, so these are these videos。
that show you simple solutions to everyday problems。
that you might have.。
And so some of the popular videos。
that are out there right now。
with some of the highest views on YouTube,。
10 life hacks that every college student should know.。
It's got 30 million views on that。
for our college student friends in the room.。
The number one life hack video out there, ladies,。
this is free advice.。
It's called the DIY makeup life hacks.。
54 million views out there on that.。
I like these things.。
I watch these videos.。
I don't watch the makeup one,。
but I've watched some of the other ones.。
And I got some pictures too,。
'cause some of these, you'll see these life hacks。
in like in articles or something like that.。
And so here's like one of the first one.。
This is a good example of a life hack。
is if you got a strawberry。
and you wanna know how to get that little stem off the top,。
because God forbid we ever use a knife for that, right?。
That's way too much work to do that.。
So you just stick a straw through there.。
Guys, here's another one that's super helpful for you.。
I don't know you,。
but I'm willing to bet your bathroom is disgusting.。
And so that one right there would help you.。
How many of us like grilled cheese?。
But who wants to get a skillet out, right?。
If it's time to do that, just turn your toaster sideways.。
That's genius right there.。
That's gonna be for some of you, unfortunately,。
that's gonna be the most helpful thing you see。
all night tonight is that.。
And you're like, "Porch, I don't know, man.。
"That grilled cheese thing is awesome."。
Here's one of my favorites, just kind of ridiculous.。
One of these, if you look at this one, this guy.。
(congregation laughing)。
So if you just turn your hoodie around the other way,。
it becomes a horse trough for you。
or something like that, right?。
I think there's some porch hoodies in the back.。
You guys wanna Instagram that next week。
or something to make that the gift。
that you give out or so that.。
So anyway, so these life hacks, I mean, we all love them.。
And the reason we love them is because they're helpful,。
because there are little problems。
that we didn't know that we had,。
like how to eat popcorn and type at the same time.。
We didn't know we had that problem,。
but man, it is great to know。
that there is a solution to those problems.。
And so I start with that tonight,。
because what we're gonna do tonight。
is we're actually gonna look at a biblical life hack.。
We're gonna look at a life hack that is in scripture.。
In fact, one scholar would say。
that the verse that we're gonna look at tonight。
in all of the New Testament, this might be, in his opinion,。
the most helpful verse in the entire New Testament.。
There's over 7,900 verses in the New Testament.。
And one scholar would say this one,。
the one that we're gonna look at tonight。
is the most helpful.。
And the reason it's the most helpful。
is because it helps us with the situation。
that we all face every single day.。
And so we may not all face some of those life hacks。
that we see out there.。
That may not be problems that we're facing every day,。
but I promise you this,。
the one that we're gonna talk about tonight。
is a problem that you and I face every single day.。
And I would go so far as to say this too,。
that if we don't get our arms around this issue。
that we're gonna talk about tonight,。
if we don't get our arms around this issue,。
then this could be the thing that is gonna prevent you and I。
from becoming the person that we wanna be.。
This, if we don't get our arms around this,。
this could be the difference between whether or not。
we become the person we wanna become,。
or if we fast forward 20, 30, 40 years,。
we're just a shadow,。
just a shadow of the person that we wanna become today.。
And so tonight is going to be an incredibly helpful night。
looking at a life hack that will help us。
in all of these different,。
or specifically in one situation。
that all of us face every single day.。
And that situation is this,。
the situation is temptation.。
And what I mean when I say temptation is this,。
it's all these little decisions。
that you and I have to make every day。
as to whether or not we're gonna do something。
that is going to please God or not please God.。
It's all these decisions we have to make every day。
to sin or not to sin,。
making decisions every day,。
we're faced with a multiple times a day,。
these decisions to do what God says is best,。
or go our own way and do something that we think is best.。
And so every single one of us in the room tonight,。
we all face temptation and we face it multiple times a day.。
And so what we're gonna see tonight。
is we're gonna see a hack.。
We're gonna see a way that we can handle this。
so that we can get our arms around this.。
What is a way that we should think about temptation。
that is gonna be incredibly helpful for us?。
And so tonight too, I know in a room this size。
that not everybody in here tonight。
would probably claim to be a follower of Jesus Christ。
or call themselves a Christian.。
And so if you're in the room tonight。
and that's not you, you wouldn't call yourself a Christian,。
you wouldn't call yourself a follower of Jesus.。
You're just trying to figure out who Jesus is。
or you're trying to figure out who God is.。
And you're just here because a friend invited you。
or you're here because a coworker invited you.。
I just wanna let you know。
that a lot of what I'm gonna talk about tonight,。
I'm actually not gonna be talking to you.。
I'm actually gonna be talking to Christians.。
And so tonight what you get to do。
is I think you're still gonna learn something,。
but what you get to do。
is you get to watch all the Christians squirm, right?。
So you can just sit there。
and watch them and I think if you listen,。
you're gonna learn a couple of things。
and there may be some stuff that's in there that's helpful.。
But tonight we're primarily。
going to be talking to Christians。
because the letter that we're gonna read from。
was written to Christians.。
It was written to Christians。
in a specific situation that they were facing.。
So if you got your Bibles,。
let's open up to 1 Corinthians 10.。
That's where we're gonna be tonight.。
It's just gonna be one verse that we'll be in tonight,。
but it's got three sentences。
and there's a lot packed in there.。
And so it's gonna be worth it for us。
just to kind of camp out。
in this one verse tonight.。
And so 1 Corinthians 10,。
specifically we're gonna look at verse 13.。
And so let me just set up the context a little bit。
for this verse.。
So Paul, the apostle Paul,。
this guy, the apostle Paul,。
he had planted this church。
or helped start this church。
in this ancient city of Corinth.。
And then he was out planting other churches.。
And as he was out planting other churches,。
he heard some news。
about some things that were going on。
in this church in Corinth.。
And so Paul wanted to address some things that he had heard.。
He wanted to answer some questions.。
And so he did what you did in the first century。
when you wanted to communicate with somebody。
and you weren't in the same town,。
he wrote a letter.。
And so this is his first letter。
that he wrote to the church in Corinth.。
We call it 1 Corinthians.。
That's the way it is in our New Testament.。
And so here's what was going on.。
There were a lot of things going on。
in that particular city。
and that church was dealing with.。
But the situation right now。
or one of the situations that we know。
that they were dealing with is this,。
is that the church in Corinth。
had started to get a little bit arrogant.。
They had started to become a little bit lax.。
They had started to become a little bit lax。
in their relationship with sin.。
They started to think that maybe sin。
wasn't a big deal to them。
or sin just wasn't a big deal in general.。
And so their attitudes and their relationship with sin。
had started to kind of wane a little bit.。
And Paul caught wind of this.。
And he, in chapter 10,。
as he's writing about a whole bunch of things。
and he gets to chapter 10 and he's reminding them,。
hey, don't be arrogant.。
Don't be arrogant.。
Don't think that you can just automatically stand in sin。
or have this very lax attitude towards sin.。
And then what he does in chapter 10 is he goes back。
and he shares stories from their Old Testament,。
from our Old Testament about the Israelites.。
And he shares stories with them and say,。
hey, remember they too one time were lax and arrogant。
in their relationship with sin.。
And we remember what God did to them.。
And we remember the judgment that was there.。
And we remember the destruction。
that their sin brought into them.。
And we remember that God,。
God didn't want them to become arrogant。
or be lax in their relationship with sin.。
And that those stories are preserved as a warning for you。
and preserved as a warning for us.。
And so he was encouraging them to not be arrogant.。
And that's where we get to this verse.。
So after he is saying, hey, remember,。
remember God, he's gonna deal with this.。
Don't be arrogant.。
Don't be lax in your relationship with sin.。
And here's what he says in verse 13.。
He reminds them this,。
that no temptation has overtaken you。
except what is common to mankind.。
And God is faithful.。
He will not let you be tempted beyond what you can bear.。
But when you are tempted,。
he will also provide a way out so that you can endure it.。
And so the first point I wanna make tonight。
from this verse is this,。
it's in this first part of this verse,。
that no temptation has overtaken you。
except what's common to mankind.。
And so the first point is that temptation is unavoidable.。
For every single one of us, temptation is unavoidable.。
So what this means for our life is this guys,。
it means that every single day,。
every single day when we wake up,。
every single one of us,。
we are on the very edge of doing something。
that is gonna bring about a tremendous amount of destruction。
into our life.。
Every single one of us, every day,。
we are at the edge of almost ruining our life all the time.。
It's unavoidable.。
Temptation, these decisions that we have。
to either go our way or trust God。
to do what we think is right。
or do what we know that God wants us to do,。
those situations and those choices,。
we have to make those every day.。
And every day, our heart is gonna be tempted。
to go our own way, to turn our back on God.。
And that temptation is unavoidable.。
And so what that means for you and I is this,。
is that every day we are one click away,。
one click away from bringing ruin。
and destruction into our life.。
Every single day, you and I,。
we are one decision away from doing something。
that we're gonna regret for a long time.。
Every single one of us, every day,。
we're one financial transaction away。
from bringing destruction.。
We're one choice away from bringing destruction.。
We're one text message away, one phone call away,。
one email away.。
Every day, we're at this very edge。
of bringing ruin and destruction into our life.。
And it's always going to be this way.。
It's unavoidable.。
There is no temptation that's overtaken us。
except what is common to man.。
And so what this means is this,。
like we have this battle,。
this battle that's raging every day.。
And what's discouraging to so many of us。
so many times is this,。
is that even if we made a good choice today,。
that doesn't guarantee。
and mean that we're gonna make a good choice tomorrow.。
And the opposite of that is also true, which is hopeful.。
That even if we made a poor choice today,。
that doesn't mean that we're destined。
to make a poor choice tomorrow.。
So here's the way that this is kind of invading my life.。
So when I was in high school,。
I was a senior in high school.。
I was playing baseball at the time.。
That was kind of the sport I played。
there at the end of baseball。
or at the end of my high school time.。
And so I did what a lot of 18 year olds did。
when they played baseball at the time,。
is that when I was not playing。
and I was sitting on the bench,。
I had a friend that introduced me to tobacco,。
to smokeless tobacco, to dip or snuff,。
whatever you guys call it.。
Specifically, it was the Royal Blue can of Skull Mints.。
And I put that into my mouth.。
And I know some of you guys have tried that before。
and you have horror stories about how it made you throw up.。
And so you never, ever wanted to try。
smokeless tobacco ever again.。
That was not my story.。
I put it in my mouth and I fell in love.。
I was like, this, this is amazing.。
This makes me feel good.。
My spit turns all these different colors.。
I feel like a man.。
Like this is awesome.。
And so I fell in love with it.。
So all throughout my senior year。
and then all throughout my four years of college,。
one of my favorite things to do in college。
was to dip tobacco.。
And so I would go to lunch.。
I always did my classes in the morning.。
I'd go to lunch and I'd have my afternoons off.。
And I would like, right after lunch,。
I'd go up to my dorm room.。
I'd put a big old thing, a dip right there in my lip.。
And I played video games for hours。
because I was a man, right?。
And it felt so powerful.。
And I loved every moment of it.。
Well, then I become a Christian。
and then I start to learn that,。
hey, this stuff actually like maybe causes cancer.。
I have some friends that start to have some mouth surgery。
because they were dipping tobacco.。
And I'm like, okay, I'm starting to learn。
about how God has given me the gift of health。
and I need to steward this body.。
And so I make a decision that I'm not gonna dip tobacco.。
And so I can stand up here today。
and I can tell you, I haven't dipped tobacco。
for over 20 years.。
I have not done that for over 20 years.。
Hey, before, hey, listen to the rest of the story.。
It's not impressive.。
Okay, so, but here's the deal.。
So it's been 20 years, 20 years.。
But just the other day after a basketball game,。
I go to QT to buy my kids a Slurpee.。
And I'm sitting there and I'm paying for these Slurpees。
and I see my harlot back there, right?。
I see Skull Mint.。
And guys, I'm like in a heartbeat.。
I would love, I would love nothing more。
to put you in my mouth and play video games right now.。
Right?。
What's crazy to me, and guess what?。
It wasn't just a couple of weeks ago.。
Every time over the past 20 years。
that I walk into QT or 7-Eleven or Walmart。
or Walgreens or CVS, any place that sells。
this amazing tobacco, any place I walk into,。
my heart starts to leap and I go,。
man, I would love to have that again.。
It's been 20 years.。
I so bad just wanna go, you know what?。
That battle's done.。
I got a lot of other things that I'm battling in life.。
I so bad, I wish I could sit here and tell you。
that my addiction to nicotine was something in the past,。
but it's not something in the past.。
Every day I'm at the edge.。
Every day I'm at the edge。
of giving into that temptation again.。
And that's just one of like dozens and dozens。
of things in my life.。
Every day I'm at the edge of giving in。
or this battle with lust.。
Every day I'm at the edge with my battle with greed.。
Every day I have to make all these choices。
on am I gonna love people or am I gonna be selfish?。
Every day is a battle of am I gonna be joyful。
or am I gonna be depressed?。
Every day is a battle with,。
am I gonna just listen to these thoughts。
that get stuck in my head and be anxious about the future。
or am I gonna trust the Lord?。
Every single day is a battle because sin is unavoidable.。
But the other thing that we get out of this first part。
of this is that not only is every day a battle,。
but what we need to remember is that nobody is unique.。
Nobody's unique.。
Not only to every single one of us are we facing this,。
these temptation and these choices every day,。
we're not unique in that battle.。
I know for me and my shame, when I've made poor choices,。
when I've been selfish, when I've been greedy,。
when I've been lustful, when I've made those choices,。
I wanna wake up the next day or I wanna,。
the feeling that I have a few minutes。
after I've made that bad choice in my depravity,。
in my darkness, I just think I'm alone.。
I think I'm the only person who struggles.。
I wanna hide that sin.。
I don't wanna go tell somebody about that sin。
because I believe that the temptations。
that I face are unique.。
And what Paul's reminding us of here。
is that nobody's unique.。
There's no such thing as being terminally unique.。
Nobody is unique.。
So I don't know what your temptation is,。
what choices you face every day.。
I don't know if it has to do with sex or anxiety。
or depression or body image or lust or alcohol or greed。
or selfishness or lying or people pleasing.。
I don't know what it is.。
It could be some things on that list.。
Could be everything on that list.。
What I wanna remind you of is you're not alone.。
You're not the only person who battled those things today.。
There not only were people in the state that battled it,。
there were people in California that battled that today,。
people in Georgia that battled that today,。
people in Indiana that battled that today.。
There were people down in Mexico that battled that today,。
people down in Brazil that battled that today.。
There were our friends over in China that battled that today.。
And not only around the world today。
were there people that battled。
and struggled with those temptations,。
there were people back in 1980 that struggled with that,。
people back in 1970 that struggled with that,。
people back in 1880 that struggled with that。
and so on and so on and so on.。
Nobody is unique.。
Temptation is unavoidable.。
It is a battle that we face every single day。
and we all struggle with it.。
So you're not alone.。
You're not alone.。
Even the person sitting next to you。
had the exact same struggles you did.。
So I don't, again, I don't know,。
those of you that are here tonight,。
maybe it's your first time.。
Or you're here tonight exploring God.。
I don't know what your friends told you。
to get you to come into this room.。
I don't know if it's your first time here tonight.。
I don't know what you think about what's going on in here。
and how loudly we sing.。
I don't know if for you that's the first time。
you've ever heard sober people sing that loudly.。
And you're just looking around。
and you're just trying to figure out who these people are。
that are your age, seem to kind of be just like you,。
but maybe you're sitting there going,。
oh, these people seem really happy.。
I don't know why they're happy.。
I don't know why there's a lot of side hugging。
going on right now.。
I don't know.。
Everybody just seems to have it put together。
and maybe you're starting to feel a little bit of shame.。
Like, I don't know if I fit here.。
I think everybody in this room is just good.。
Let me just remind you of something,。
that who you have in this room right now,。
this room is not full of good people.。
We don't sit here and we don't raise our hands。
and sing about this amazing name of Jesus。
and have these smiles on our faces。
and hug and love one another.。
We do not do that because we've never made bad choices.。
We make bad choices all the time.。
The reason we can come in here and sing。
and the reason we can laugh and the reason we can smile。
and the reason we can love one another。
is not because we're good.。
The reason we can do that is because we have a savior。
who is good.。
You are not surrounded by good people.。
In fact, like take this opportunity,。
make sure your wallet is still there.。
Ladies, if you wanna check your purses,。
make sure they're still there。
'cause there are some criminals in this room, right?。
Some bad people who are in this room.。
But get this, get this.。
We sing not because we're good.。
This is the porch, it is not a museum for awesome people.。
This is a hospital full of sick people。
who have found the healer and their savior, Jesus Christ.。
This is a room full of people。
who understand that they're sinners.。
But sometimes they make those choices。
and they choose poorly。
and they're not just mistakes, they're sins.。
But the reason we can sing is not because we're good.。
The reason we can sing is because our savior is good.。
The reason we can sing is because we're forgiven.。
We're forgiven and we know that we have hope。
in the midst of temptation.。
And so nobody, nobody ever faces temptation。
or temptation is unavoidable for all of us.。
Let's move on, let's look at the next one.。
So he says, "No temptation has overtaken you。
except what is common to man."。
And then here's where the second part of the verse,。
"And God is faithful.。
He will not let you be tempted beyond what you can bear."。
And so the second point that I wanna make tonight。
out of this passage is this,。
is that no temptation is unbearable.。
No temptation is unbearable.。
I don't know what this is gonna be like to you,。
but this is amazing to me to think about this,。
to think about the implications of this truth.。
I mean, that means that any choice that you and I face。
in these choices, none of them are an automatic failure.。
Any choice that we face and we face every day,。
this temptation that we face,。
none of those situations are so unbearable。
that the cards were stacked against us that we have to sin.。
None of these choices that we make are automatic failures.。
And so here's the way this is kind of invading。
the Tarno household right now.。
I mean, this is a very real conversation。
that we're having in my house right now.。
In fact, as early as Sunday night, last night, even today,。
again, we were talking about it.。
And so I've got an eight-year-old and a kindergartner,。
my eight-year-old named Jake,。
they both go to the school in the neighborhood.。
We live up in Richardson.。
And so the second grade year, Jake, the second grader,。
we are in this phase of shepherding and parenting right now。
where Jake is starting to come home。
and repeating certain words。
that he has been hearing at school, okay?。
And so over the past two or three weeks,。
it seems like every day there's a new word.。
He comes home, "Hey, dad, hey, dad, what's the H word?。
"Hey, dad, hey, dad, what's the B word?。
"Hey, dad, what's the A word?。
"Hey, dad, I heard the S word, what's the S word?。
"Hey, dad, what's the F word?。
"All right, you know.。
"Hey, dad, what's the R word?。
"R, I think somebody's lying to you there.。
"I don't think there is an R word," right?。
So all these words are coming up。
and he's learning all of these things。
and we're trying to talk him through all of this.。
And so here's what my son has been doing。
is he knows that he himself should not say these things.。
He knows it's a heart issue,。
it indicates what's going on in his heart,。
we're trying to talk to him through all that.。
But what he has had fun doing lately。
is trying to get other people to say these words.。
So he'll do things like this,。
he'll go to his friends and kind of be like,。
hey, what rhymes with bell but starts with H?。
And he's trying to, and then if his friends say the word,。
he goes and tells on them.。
So bad, right?。
He's grounded right now because he did that this weekend.。
And so this weekend, we were playing Scrabble Jr.,。
playing Scrabble Jr.。
I think you guys can see where this is going.。
And I'm watching him over across the table。
and I noticed he's got three tiles turned upside down.。
And then he's got four tiles that he's trying to work with.。
And he keeps asking, "Who has a K?。
"Who has a K?"。
And I'm like, oh, he's just trying to spell duck。
right there on the board.。
That's an actual word in Scrabble Jr., look it up.。
And so finally, like towards the end,。
he pulls, he goes, "Yes, I got a K."。
And he turned over that tile, those four,。
and he looks at his brother and he goes,。
"Joshua, turn these over."。
And I'm like, no, no, no, Joshua, do not turn those over.。
Do not do that right now, don't.。
And I mean, like, it's just his mind, he's got these words.。
I mean, last night, right before he went to bed,。
he was like, "Dad, did you know,。
"we've got some friends with the last name Schmidt."。
He's like, "Do you know that if you take the word Schmidt,。
"if you take the M out, it's the S word."。
And I'm like, son, I've been alive for almost 42 years,。
and I've never thought of that.。
[congregation laughing]。
But technically, you're right.。
If you take that M out, it's the S word.。
Don't say that, okay?。
And so we're talking to him about this,。
and we're trying to let him see that,。
hey, if you get your friends to say it,。
and all these words, and trying to talk to him.。
And here's the part that I think we can all identify with.。
I was telling him Sunday night,。
I'm like, Jake, when you lead your friends。
to say those words, that's just as bad。
and just as destructive as saying it.。
And he just looked at me, and he just goes,。
I can't help it.。
These words are just in my mind,。
and I just have to say them.。
And there's a part of me that's like, I get that.。
I think if we're honest, all of us would say we get that.。
That's the way it feels so often with these choices。
that we're facing every single day.。
And this is the way that so many of us approach temptation.。
We just feel like we're gonna fail.。
Like I can't help it.。
These ideas are just in my mind.。
The only thing I know how to do。
is to give in to these impulses.。
And so I'm just like, I've always struggled with lust.。
I'm always gonna struggle with it.。
You know, Adam, I can't go 10 days。
without looking at pornography, let alone 10 years.。
This is just who I am.。
This is just what I'm gonna struggle with.。
You know what, Adam?。
I've been struggling with anxiety since I was nine.。
It's just a part of who I am.。
It's just a part of who I am.。
And I would just say,。
that's not what scripture tells us.。
God is faithful.。
He's faithful, and he will not let you,。
not let me, not let Jake, not let Joshua,。
not let anybody be tempted beyond what they can bear.。
Some of us have seen these commercials for pickup trucks,。
seen commercials for pickup trucks.。
Pickup trucks have these classes.。
There's a one ton, a two ton, a three ton pickup truck.。
And what that means, a one ton pickup truck。
means that that truck was designed。
to have a payload or a towing capacity of one ton,。
meaning you can put one ton of materials in that truck。
and that truck will be able to function normally and safely.。
But if you put two tons in a one ton truck,。
it won't be able to function normally.。
And so basically what Paul is telling us。
is that we're kind of similar to pickup trucks.。
God knows if we're a one ton, a two ton,。
or a three ton pickup truck,。
he knows how much you and I can bear。
and still function within his will。
and still make the right choices.。
And so what Jake is doing when I tell him,。
"No, no, no, listen, you're not defeated.。
You're not defeated.。
God is faithful.。
Jake, he will not let you be tempted。
beyond what you can bear."。
What Jake is learning as a little eight year old。
is what a lot of us in this room have learned.。
He's learning to exercise a muscle。
that he's gonna have to use for the rest of his life.。
And that muscle is resisting temptation.。
And understanding that you're not overwhelmed with this.。
It's not, you're not just guaranteed to lose.。
He's faithful.。
He's there, it's not unbearable.。
And so this is comforting to us as we face our choices.。
But it's also sobering guys,。
because here's what this means.。
This means that none of us,。
none of us can ever pass the blame.。
You can't pass the blame to anyone.。
If you're not forced to sin, if it's not unbearable,。
if temptation is not unbearable,。
then what that means is that you and I,。
we can't blame the culture.。
We can't blame our friends.。
We can't blame our parents.。
We can't blame the way that people dress.。
We can't blame the way that people act.。
We can't blame our friends that are just,。
that's the way they are and this is what we do.。
You cannot blame anybody for your choices.。
What that means for you and I。
is that every time we choose to do something。
that's contrary to God's best for our life,。
that's our choice.。
That's our choice.。
We weren't forced to do anything.。
So temptation is unavoidable for all of us,。
but no temptation is unbearable for any of us.。
It's not unbearable.。
And let's look at this last point that he makes here.。
But when you are tempted,。
so no temptation's overtaking you。
except what's common to man.。
God is faithful.。
He not let you be tempted beyond what you can bear.。
And in this last part of verse 13,。
he says this, but when you are tempted,。
not if, when.。
But when you are tempted,。
and look at this, this is the life hack.。
He will also provide a way out。
so that you can endure.。
So we see that temptation is unavoidable。
and that no temptation is unbearable.。
And the third point I wanna make。
from this passage tonight is this,。
is that no temptation is unescapable.。
You're never stuck.。
You're never stuck.。
Whatever situation you're facing,。
he has given us an amazing promise.。
He's given us an amazing promise.。
And this is what is so helpful for us。
is that whatever temptation we're facing,。
whatever choice that we're facing,。
there is always a way out。
so that we can choose the right path.。
There's always a way out。
so that we can choose following him.。
We're never, ever, ever stuck.。
We're never stuck.。
So let me illustrate it this way.。
Let's say you're sitting in here tonight。
and you know that the temptation that you face。
or the destructiveness that can come into your life。
a lot of times, let's say you're sitting here tonight,。
it's a Tuesday night,。
and you know that the temptation。
that you struggle with is alcohol.。
Abusing alcohol, giving into that,。
you like the way it makes you feel,。
like the way it makes you act,。
but if you really think about it,。
alcohol has really been a source of robbing you of life.。
It's brought a lot of shame.。
You've made some choices.。
You've said some things.。
You've done some things that you regret.。
You know that your relationship with alcohol。
is not healthy right now and you wanna change it.。
This is not who you wanna become.。
It's something that you wanna change,。
but you're struggling.。
So let's say tonight you're hearing this。
and you're going, great.。
I've got this renewed.。
I'm gonna fight this temptation against alcohol.。
I'm gonna do this differently.。
And so Tuesday night, you go home, you're all excited.。
Tomorrow, Wednesday, you're still excited.。
Thursday, you're still excited.。
Friday, you're like, that's it.。
This is gonna be a different weekend.。
I'm not gonna go to work on Monday feeling bad.。
I'm not gonna wake up Sunday regretting what's happening.。
I'm not gonna wake up Saturday regretting.。
I have a new relationship with alcohol.。
So the phone rings on a Friday night and it's your friends.。
It's the same thing.。
They're getting ready to do the same thing。
that Friday night that they do every Friday night。
that you always do with them on Friday night。
is, hey, we're going out to the bars.。
We're gonna go hit two, three, maybe four of them.。
We want you to come along.。
And you're sitting there and you're going, I don't know.。
Like that's gonna be hard, but all right.。
No temptation sees me except what's common.。
None of it's unbearable.。
There's always a way out.。
I wanna be with my friends.。
I got nothing else to do on Friday night, so I'm gonna go.。
So you go over there, you meet your friends。
at the first bar.。
They sit down, they start ordering drinks.。
You are tempted by it, but you order a Dr. Pepper.。
You start drinking the Dr. Pepper.。
It's a lot of fun.。
Everybody's excited.。
You're in a good mood.。
Everybody's laughing.。
You're talking about your week.。
You're making fun of the Oscars for that whole snafu.。
It's just everybody's light.。
You're having a good time, all right?。
So you go through, your friends have two or three drinks.。
They're like, all right, we wanna go to the second bar.。
Let's go to the second bar.。
And you're like, well, I made it through the first bar.。
I bet I can make it through the second bar.。
And plus I'm having fun hanging out with them.。
So now you go the second bar with them.。
They order another round of drinks.。
They won, another round goes down, another round goes down.。
And now, now it's not really as much fun anymore.。
Now they're just getting loud.。
They're getting bold.。
They're talking about what a fool their boss is。
and what they would do if they ran the company。
and whatever business they're gonna start.。
So there's a lot of boldness that's starting to come out.。
But you just, you keep pounding Dr. Peppers.。
You're feeling good.。
You're like, all right, this is different.。
They get bored with the second bar.。
They're like, we're going to a third bar.。
And you're looking at your watch and you're just like,。
well, I've had 17 Dr. Peppers.。
I'm not sleeping.。
These are my friends.。
All right, let's go to the third bar.。
So now you go to the third bar, they order more drinks.。
You get another Dr. Pepper.。
Now their tune changes a little bit.。
You know, they were happy and then they were bold。
and now they're sad.。
They're getting sentimental.。
They're telling you, I love you.。
You're like always my best.。
Two of your friends are crying, you know.。
One is calling the guy that she's broken up with nine times。
and you know, it was my fault and all that kind of stuff.。
But you're still drinking Dr. Peppers.。
They want to go to the fourth bar.。
Like, hey, I've been doing fine.。
This is good.。
So you go to the fourth bar.。
They order more drinks.。
So they were happy and then they were bold.。
And they were sad and emotional.。
At the fourth bar, something happens。
because now they're just angry.。
They're angry and now they're angry with you.。
They realize that you've been drinking Dr. Peppers all night。
and they're not okay with that.。
They start asking you questions.。
Why are you drinking Dr. Pepper?。
You better than us?。
Are you better than us?。
Like, this is what we do, right?。
We're friends.。
This is what we do.。
We go out and we drink and we do this.。
And now you're drinking Dr. Pepper.。
Like, why are you messing with what we got?。
So now they're starting to get angry。
and then they get you cornered。
'cause you're sitting in a booth。
and you're over there in the corner。
and they've got you cornered.。
And you're wondering, oh no, I don't know.。
I haven't tried.。
I don't know what's gonna happen right now。
because then what happens is they order a pitcher。
and they put it right in front of you.。
Pitcher a beer right in front of you.。
They get a clean glass.。
They set it right in front of you。
and all of them are looking at you and they go, drink.。
You're drinking that.。
You're drinking that.。
You're not getting out of this booth until you drink that.。
And it looks like a hopeless situation.。
But God is faithful。
and he will not let you be tempted beyond what you can bear.。
And when you are tempted, he will provide a way out.。
There's a way out of that situation.。
And the way out of it is to do this.。
You take that glass and you take that pitcher。
and you pour some beer in that glass.。
And you say, guys, let's have a toast.。
And you raise that glass and you say,。
let's toast to a great night 'cause I'm about to go home.。
And you take that glass of beer and you turn。
and you throw it as hard as you can against that wall.。
And I mean, I want like, there's beer going everywhere。
and there's glass going everywhere.。
And you take that pitcher。
and you smash that against the wall。
because guess what happens when you do that?。
The bouncer's gonna come over and he's gonna rescue you.。
And he's gonna take you and throw you out.。
And you're gonna call Uber and you're gonna go home.。
And you won.。
Now let's be honest.。
That's a way out.。
But that's like a really tiny, tiny door to go through.。
There were other ways out that night, right?。
There was a little bit bigger door。
before you walked into the fourth bar.。
The door was a little bit bigger。
before you walked into the third one.。
It was a little bit bigger。
before you walked into the second one.。
It was pretty big size。
before you walked into the first bar with them.。
But I'm telling you what, the door, the way out,。
the door that was just massive。
that you could just drive a Mack truck through.。
The biggest door was when they called you.。
And they said, we're going out。
and we're gonna do the exact same thing we always do.。
That was the big door.。
And so some of you may be sitting there going,。
so what, Adam, are you telling me。
that I shouldn't go to the bars anymore?。
I don't know, maybe.。
If your relationship with alcohol is unhealthy,。
if it's never just one drink for you。
and it's a source of shame and guilt in your life。
and you have a bad relationship with it,。
then yeah, guess what?。
You probably shouldn't go to the bars anymore.。
That's probably gonna be something。
that's getting in the way of you becoming the person。
that you wanna become.。
Well, Adam, so if you're telling me。
not to go to the bars anymore,。
you're telling me I need new friends?。
Probably, maybe.。
'Cause if those friends think。
that's the only thing you have in common。
and they don't care that you wanna break free。
from being enslaved to that,。
and they don't see that。
and they just think that,。
oh, they're loving you by being around you。
and they don't see or want what's best for you,。
then guess what?。
You probably need some new friends.。
So they're going, so what?。
It's like following Jesus, I just gotta,。
like he's gonna start messing。
with all this stuff in my life?。
Yeah, yes.。
But here's the deal is I'm willing to bet。
he's gonna mess with all the stuff。
that you want changed in your life.。
It's all that stuff that you know。
is in the way of you becoming the person。
that it is that you wanna become.。
It's that stuff that you feel enslaved by.。
When you're alone, when you're alone。
and you're looking at yourself in the mirror,。
you know he's gonna mess with all the stuff。
that you want out of your life anyway.。
You may be sitting there going,。
Adam, that's nobody's story, nobody does that.。
Really?。
It's mine.。
It's my story.。
I didn't follow Jesus for years。
and I wish it was because I had this intellectual objection。
to whether or not he was really rose from the dead。
or if the Bible could be trusted。
or something that sounded intellectual or good like that.。
No, no, no.。
The reason I didn't follow Jesus for years。
after somebody shared the gospel with me。
is because I just wanted friends, social reasons.。
I was just afraid.。
I couldn't imagine what life with him,。
the cost seemed too great.。
But what's amazing is I know my story.。
I'm not alone.。
I know there are hundreds, if not over a thousand,。
very similar stories.。
And we all have the exact same message, which is this.。
Is that the cost?。
Yes, is there a cost of following Jesus?。
Yes, there's a cost of following Jesus.。
But it is infinitely less expensive。
than the cost of not following Jesus.。
So temptation is unavoidable.。
No temptation is unbearable。
and no temptation is unescapable.。
He will always provide a way out.。
So it's just, my ask tonight is simple.。
If you're in the room tonight。
and you are one of those who claim。
to be a follower of Jesus, the life hack,。
the life hack is this.。
The life hack is to start looking for the big doors.。
Wake up tomorrow morning。
and just go, all right, Lord,。
I know today I'm gonna face choices.。
I know today there's gonna be temptations.。
I know today my heart is gonna wanna go。
in a direction that is contrary to your best.。
But I just wanna remind myself of the truth, Lord,。
that nothing will overtake me today。
except what's common to man.。
The battle is out there and I'm not unique.。
And I know that no matter what I face today,。
you are faithful.。
You are faithful。
and I will not be tempted beyond what I can bear.。
And Lord, I know that no matter what,。
when I'm tempted, that you are gonna find。
or provide a way out.。
And so Lord, help me see the big doors。
'cause Lord, I'm done making a living。
climbing through small doors。
and climbing through small windows.。
I've got scars and pain and that's just, that's hard.。
I don't wanna do that anymore, Lord.。
I wanna go through the big doors。
and so you help me tonight.。
And so if you're following Jesus,。
that's my ask for you tonight,。
my encouragement, my challenge for you tonight。
is to start looking for the big doors.。
And if you're in the room tonight。
and you would not claim to be a follower of Jesus,。
then my ask is a little different.。
My ask for you is this,。
is to consider walking through the door.。
And that door is Jesus.。
So Jesus in John chapter nine,。
or excuse me, chapter 10, verses nine and 10,。
this is what he says.。
He says, "I'm the gate, I'm the door.。
I'm the gate, whoever enters through me will be saved.。
They will come in and they will go out。
and they will find pasture.。
The thief comes only to kill, steal and destroy,。
but I have come that you may have life。
and have it to the full."。
So if you're in the room tonight。
and you're thinking about who Jesus is。
and contemplating who God is,。
I just wanna be a friend and I just wanna tell you。
that you have done things like we have all done things。
that are contrary to God's best for our life.。
And these decisions, these attitudes,。
these actions or these thoughts,。
these things that we've done,。
they're not just mistakes.。
They're not just learning experiences.。
Scripture would say they're called sin。
and they carry an eternal consequence,。
meaning we are separated from God eternally.。
And there's no amount of good behavior。
that we could ever do to bridge that gap。
and bring that relationship back between us and God.。
We are stuck and we need a rescuer.。
And that rescuer is Jesus.。
Jesus says he's the door.。
If you want to be in a relationship with God,。
you've gotta walk through him.。
You've gotta trust him.。
You've gotta recognize that you are a sinner。
in need of a savior and that savior is Jesus Christ.。
And all you do is you just receive the gift,。
the gift that Jesus offers, which is salvation,。
the forgiveness of your sins.。
You just receive that gift。
and you just walk through the door.。
You just say, "Lord, I'm a sinner.。
I'm in need of a savior.。
I recognize I've done things。
that have separated me from you.。
And I believe that you love me so much。
that you sent Jesus to take the punishment for my sins,。
to take the payment for my sins.。
And I wanna trust in you."。
And there's a cost.。
There's a cost to following him.。
But it just looks so minuscule。
compared to the cost of not following him.。
Come and know this Jesus.。
Let's pray.。
God, we just thank you for your word.。
(pages rustling)。
We thank you that you love us, Lord.。
We thank you that you haven't left us alone.。
We thank you God that even though you know。
that we are so prone to just wander。
and we wanna go so many different directions。
and we wanna choose things。
that we know are not gonna bring us life,。
but you, you are faithful.。
And so we just declare that tonight, Lord,。
that you're faithful.。
And we praise you God in your grace and mercy。
that you will not let us be tempted beyond what we can bear.。
Yeah, we praise you that no matter what situation。
in life we face, you provide a way out.。
And so I ask for my brothers and sisters。
and myself in this room tonight,。
God, I ask that you will help us to see those big doors,。
that we will stop just trying to walk up to the edge。
and see how far we can make it.。
We've got scars, Lord.。
We know that doesn't work.。
And so we need your grace and your mercy。
to help us walk through the big doors.。
And my friends in the room tonight, Lord,。
that don't know you, I pray they'll walk through the door。
and they'll come to know you, Jesus.。
And so I pray, Lord, that you will open their eyes.。
And we ask this in the name of Christ.。
Thank you.。
