Welcome to the porch and thanks for tuning in. We're seeing God move。
powerfully in our generation, throughout the country, and across the world. And。
that's why this Labor Day weekend we're inviting any and every young adult here。
to Dallas, Texas for AWAKEN, a national gathering hosted by us for you. If you。
want to learn more, go to awaken.live. Now let's dive in.。
Testing 1, 2, 3. Can you hear me? Well hey everyone and welcome to the porch. We're。
going to be diving into the question that's been on everyone's mind. Why in。
the world are women so hard to understand? I think what you meant to say。
was why in the world are men so confusing? Okay, so it seems like both。
genders may have some difficulty understanding each other. Which is why。
each week we're spotlighting a different side of the room to dig into issues we。
face within our own gender while growing an understanding for the opposite sex.。
One night, we're putting the guys under the microscope. The next night is for the。
girls. But don't worry, everybody's invited every night. Because here's the。
thing we figured out. We're not actually short on opinions about men and women.。
He's saying this. She's saying that. But what does God have to say about all of。
it? Welcome to the debate that culture can't settle. Welcome to what's actually。
true about him and about her. Welcome to your favorite Tuesday night series, He。
Said, She Said. Well guys, first of all, you are welcome here. We are so glad you。
are here. In fact, I think tonight is gonna make you a better boyfriend, a。
better husband one day, a better son, a better brother. Tonight is going to help。
you. I believe that this is a worthwhile investment for you. And while I'm going。
to speak to the women, believe me there is plenty that is similar and there is。
so much crossover to what we struggle with. I love, I need to start here, I love。
being a girl. I love being a girl. Like, I'm in a very male-dominant world. Like, I。
live in a world where many times I'm sharing the stage and I'm the only girl。
there. Many times I'm at a table, I'm the only girl there. I'm in a very male。
dominated world. But let me tell you, I love being a girl. I love watching。
Gilmore Girls with my daughters. I love putting on high heels to be with you。
tonight. I love getting my nails done. I am so glad I'm a girl. I love going up to。
my husband and cuddling up and his arm getting around me. I love him opening the。
door for me. I love him paying for things and taking care of me. I just like being。
a girl, okay? I love it. And I need to start there because I think sometimes we're。
really hard on our genders. We're really hard on our genders. And, and let me just。
say, some of you just listened to what I said and you thought to yourself, "That。
does not represent me at all." Like, I am a tomboy and I am proud of it and I do。
not like it. And you know what? That is what makes this whole series so。
dad-gum-heart. Because none of us can even agree on what it means to be a guy。
or what it means to be a girl. And then I've heard, I've heard y'all been。
debating about everything from should Jenny even be up on stage and I talking。
in front of guys? And should, should there be, you know, women issues like porn more。
dressed because they struggle with the same? I've heard that y'all have had。
debate and wrestling and all these things. And let me just say, yes, because it is。
not simple. You cannot define everything and put it all in a box, okay? So let me。
just start there. Just start the night and say that I have been blessed to get。
to listen to a lot of what Kylan has shared in the last few weeks. And let me。
say this, last week he spoke to the men and I struggle with pride, I struggle。
with anger, I struggle with lust, I struggle with all of these things, amen?。
Like we are not necessarily siloed off into our corners struggling with our own。
struggles. What it means to be in a girl's head though has been a mystery。
for men for a long, long time. And so women, I want you to pull out your phone。
and I want you to let the men into your head. Now guys, if you are sitting next to。
a woman, I want you to close your eyes for a minute. Just take a little nap and。
all the women, I want you to say, tonight we are talking about what women struggle。
with. And so before I sit there and tell you what you struggle with, I thought it。
just wise to start with you all having a voice and you tell us what you struggle。
with, alright? So I'm gonna give you some prompts, here's a few, but I don't care。
what you say. I want you to write in, I think about this all the time, I worry。
about this, I fear this, I wish people knew this. This is what I struggle with.。
So I want this to be personal, not what you think women struggle with, but what。
you personally struggle with. So text it in to that number. Do y'all have the。
number? You on it? Okay, they're gonna put up your answers live with your name. I'm。
just kidding.。
Just kidding.。
[Silence]。
[Silence]。
[Silence]。
[Silence]。
I want you to yell out, as this is loading, what you typed in. Because some。
poor guy is in the back typing as fast as he can.。
Yell it out.。
[Laughter]。
[Silence]。
[Silence]。
Yeah.。
[Silence]。
[Silence]。
[Silence]。
[Silence]。
Good.。
[Silence]。
How many women in here would say, "Comparison jealousy creeps in." Yeah.。
[Silence]。
As these keep filling the screen, I just want to hear from the men for a minute.。
And when you hear those words and you look at the words on the screen, like, I。
want to genuinely know, like, what do you feel? What? Heartbroken. Compassion. Say it。
again. Relatable. Empathy. Who said hurt? Can you tell me why you said that really。
loud?。
[Silence]。
Yeah.。
[Silence]。
Yeah.。
[Silence]。
So, these words, how many of you relate, guys, to a lot of these words? Yeah. So,。
these words have given women a really bad rap. These words have made us feel like。
we're too much, we're too emotional, we feel too big, we want too much, we're too。
much in a room, we are isolating ourselves because we feel constantly like there is a。
war in our head and we don't exactly know what to do with it. And I'm just going to。
ask you to be very charismatic tonight, especially the women. If I say something。
that is true that you relate to, will you just say, "Amen"? Because I'm going to be。
real. I'm letting you in to some of the things that are in my head, and I am。
trusting that I'm not alone. Amen? Thank you. So, together, we are going to work。
through this as best we can, knowing that not one of us is the same. I cannot speak。
on behalf of all women, which is why we had to start this way. I can just tell you。
that I know what it's like to be up at 3 a.m. and have 8 million thoughts competing。
for each other. I know what it feels like, even tonight, to wonder, before I get up。
here, if I am enough, if I am a front. I know what it's like to fight a battle in。
my head before I even got on stage to talk about a battle in your head. And we。
think we're crazy, and guys, you think we're crazy, and let me just say that we。
aren't crazy. We're under attack. There's an enemy, there's a scheme, there's a。
strategy, there's a plan, and it is to shut down the church. And if he can't shut。
down the whole thing, he'll shut down the half he can get to the best. And last。
week, you know how he's coming after men. Well, guys, he's coming after women, too.。
He's coming after women. 2 Corinthians 10, there's a war in our head, and we have。
weapons that demolish strongholds. And until we recognize the war that is in。
our heads, the fight that we are fighting, it is going to feel like we're so broken.。
We're a pathology to be solved. We're diagnosis. Something is broken with me。
rather than I am under attack and I need help. And guys, I want to speak to you。
just for a minute. How you can listen to tonight is this. My husband is here on。
the front row. He wasn't supposed to be here. He flew in from a business trip。
early to get back and surprise me and was here. But let me just say that when he。
walked in, when he walked in, my heart went from anxious to at ease. And I am not。
saying that I need him to be here for me to obey God, for me to be bold, for me。
to do what God's called me to do tonight. I'm just saying that he is my brother。
in Christ and the man I sleep with. And it feels good. It feels good for him to。
be here beside me. And guys, you may not be married yet. Many of you, most of you。
are not. But you are a brother in Christ. And there is a way to support the women。
in your life. And I want to pause and just, I want to speak to something that。
Kylan brought up so boldly last week about pornography. The problem with。
pornography for women, one, let me be clear. I get to hear the confessions of a。
generation. I get to stand in the fronts of college campuses and of young adult。
rooms all the time and I get to hear people confess to me. And there is the。
same number of women confessing to me lust, masturbation, pornography as there。
are men. So this is not siloed to men. So let me be clear because some of you may。
wonder, like this message was about pornography to men. That is the struggle。
of a generation. Why? Because we are so sexualized. Never has a generation。
observed and seen more sexualized content on earth ever. And so all of our。
minds have learned to view each other as sexual objects rather than brothers and。
sisters in Christ. And let me just say though, specifically to men, the struggle。
with porn and what it does to us as women is now instead of being our cheerleader,。
instead of standing next to us and being able to support us and see us and help。
us, all of a sudden we're objects to be used, consumed. That's the problem with。
porn for us is you don't see us as a human with empathy, with compassion. Like。
what the room just did. I'm going to tell you right now how many women's hearts。
were so blessed just by hearing you yell out words like compassion, empathy. I。
mean, women are like, "I needed to hear men say things like that." We need you to。
do this. There's this word that I love in the Bible. It says, "Encourage each。
other as long as it's called today, so that our hearts are not hardened by sin's。
deceitfulness." The lost art of encouragement, men. Like you want to be a。
great husband one day. You want to be a great brother in Christ right now. Learn。
to encourage women. Not, very key, fix them. But encourage them. Because I'm。
going to tell you how, even as before your boyfriend, before your husband,。
before anything, I have a girl that I mentored this week that looked at me with。
tears in her eyes and talked about her body image to me. She described how。
insecure she was about a certain body part. I said, "Where did that come from。
for you?" She said, "My guy friends were talking about that body part of mine.。
I don't think they meant it as negative, but I haven't been able to get it out of。
my head." And what a group of guy friends said to a girl in passing, laughing, not。
thinking anything about it. Six months later, she's crying to her mentor about。
it. Your words matter to us. And I'm going to give you another little piece of。
wisdom. Just never talk about a girl's body. To them, behind their back, just。
don't do it. Like, ever. Good or bad. Women, do we agree? All right. That just。
helps us out. Because even if you're being positive, now all of a sudden, we。
wonder what you mean. And we wonder if we're an object. And so just avoid it.。
There's so many other things to notice. So many other things to notice. So this。
is where I want to give you a vision of why this matters. If you've ever followed。
me on Instagram, if you've ever seen me speak, you know that I have been blessed。
to sit on the front row of Revival that is happening across the world. Not just。
in the US, but all over the earth. I have seen it. It is happening, and it is just。
getting started. And I believe, like many people, that we could be at endgame.。
Like, I don't know, but we could be. And so let me tell you the cost of all of。
these words in your head spinning, looping, over and over again, and the。
cost of habits and addictions, men, where we don't co-labor together. We are。
divided. We are consuming each other. We are defeated. We are discouraged. We don't。
trust. We're not safe. And the mission of God is thwarted on earth because men and。
women together, in the name of Jesus Christ, co-laboring, believing in each。
other, encouraging each other, speaking life and truth over each other, seeing。
the best in each other, that causes trouble to hell. It just does. It is so。
rare. Do you realize how rare it is? And yet the Bible is full of it. People。
co-laboring from Genesis on. You look at Genesis 1. It's Adam and Eve. He gives。
them a mission from day one. Multiply. Be fruitful. Fill the earth. Care for the。
earth. Be on mission together. Obey me. Surrender to me. Walk with me. Talk with。
me. It was a co-laboring mission, and it wasn't one that was supposed to be。
defined just by marriage. They just happened to be the first man and wife on。
earth, so they were married. But this is not a story primarily about marriages or。
families, although God uses that mightily. This is a story about all of the church。
leaning in with all of their heart, with all of their gifts, not distracted by all。
of these words, not distracted by all the addictions, and causing trouble as long。
as we're here. That's where we're going. And God, that is, and I just want to say。
this clearly, that is what is at stake. Like, that is the cost. I feel like so。
much in my life, I use it to pull everybody back together, to remember that。
this is not the point. It's just not the point. I'm going to tell you another。
thing. Marriage, ending up with a ring on your finger, not the point. Great thing.。
Not the main point. And so our minds are full of many, many things, and our minds,。
I'm going to just say this, and again, this gets an amen if it's true, our minds。
are really tired. And I pray that tonight, tonight, your mind gets to rest a little。
bit. Here's what I know. Women can get a bad rap. And I'll say this, there are。
plenty of women in scripture, it is fair. Eve was a bit of a troublemaker, and。
there were plenty of others, and you end up in the New Testament, and you see。
Paul, and he's calling us busybodies and gossips. So, you know, we have been。
causing trouble for a long time. I am well aware. But this book, I just read it。
in a month. In April, I read the Bible in a month, and that was an awesome。
exercise. If you've never done that, you need to do that. It is so powerful.。
You've done it. It is so good. It changed my life. It's so different than reading。
scripture, because you just see it all, just boom, boom, boom. It's moving really。
fast. And let me tell you what was a clear takeaway for me, is women were also。
unbelievable in the Bible. There were so many heroes of women doing amazing。
things in the Bible. You have Rahab, who risks her life because she believes in。
the God of Israel. You have Esther, who risks her life because she wants the。
welfare and the good of her people. You have Mary Magdalene pouring out, or no,。
Mary Bethany pouring out perfume on Jesus' feet before he goes to the cross.。
You have Mary Magdalene, who was with Jesus constantly in his ministry and。
doing incredible works beside the disciples. And what you see is she's the。
very first person that Jesus appears to when he comes back, and she goes and。
tells everybody. She preaches the first gospel. You see Deborah, the judge and。
prophetess that rides with confidence and strength and with grace. And this。
book is a book about a lot of amazing women that have done amazing things for。
God as well. And so I want to look at just one of them tonight. Mary, Jesus'。
mother. She's a teenage girl in Nazareth. She's about to be asked to carry。
something that she can't even imagine. But what she can imagine is she's a。
teenage girl that is unmarried, and an angel shows up and tells her she's。
pregnant. Luke 1, 28. "And he came to her and said, 'Greetings, O favored one.。
The Lord is with you.' But she was greatly troubled at the saying and tried。
to discern what sort of greeting this might be. And the angel said to her, 'Do。
not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God.'" Before God gives us an。
assignment and a mission and a vision for the earth and using our gifts and。
all the things that he wants to do to co-labor with us, God gives us his。
presence. God wants us to know him. God wants us to know our identity with him.。
And you look at Mary and she was afraid. I love that it says it. That she was。
troubled. She's not sure about this. But the angel starts with, "I want you to。
know you are God's favorite. He loves you. He likes you. He's with you. He's not。
going anywhere." And, women, if we are going to fight the enemy that is coming。
for us, that is trying to dismantle us, our lives, our thoughts, all of this, then。
we have to begin with who we are in Christ. And when we believe that we have。
the spirit of God inside of us, when we believe that God knows us and sees us。
and walks with us in every single circumstance that we will walk with on。
earth, something about that gives us strength and confidence and we are not。
shut down anymore. And Mary was not shut down long. She was troubled.。
She hadn't obeyed yet. She hadn't sacrificed anything yet. She hadn't。
believed yet. But the angel said, "You're favored." She hadn't done the show.。
She hadn't done the mighty work. And the angel said, "You're favored. I see you.。
God sees you." Do you believe that? Because until you settle who you are。
before God, the fear, the insecurity, all of it will consume you. But when you。
know how he views you, it starts to shift. Luke 1, 34, "And Mary said to the。
angel, 'How will this be since I'm a virgin?' And the angel answered her, 'The。
Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow。
you, for nothing will be impossible with God.' And Mary said, 'Behold, I'm the。
servant of the Lord. Let it be to me according to your word.'" Now, I want to。
address one of the things I saw up there a lot. As women who long to be married,。
which is a beautiful and good desire if that is you, we have very little control。
in this story. And it is paralyzing and can feel helpless and hopeless. And I。
have walked with dozens and dozens of my sisters in Christ who have wrestled with。
that feeling. And I want to say this very clearly, whether it is that you are。
longing for a boyfriend, for a husband, whether it is that you are longing for。
more security in your life, whether it is you are longing for respite from the。
mind that has tormented you, whatever it is that you are longing for, one of my。
favorite lines in this book I just read to you, Mary says to God, "Let it be as。
you say." She has no idea she's going to watch that baby die. She has no idea what。
it is going to feel like when people find out she's pregnant and not married.。
She has no idea the pain and the suffering that she is going to have to walk。
through. She just says, "Your will, not mine. Amen." I don't know what it is like。
to be 35 and single. I don't know. But I do know what it is like to suffer, to。
suffer in ways I can't share on stages or on Instagram or anywhere because it's。
not mine to share. But I know what it is like to long for something about my。
circumstances to change. And I can tell you that those words are the scariest。
freaking words you can pray. Not my will, but your will. Let it be whatever you。
say, God. But I'll tell you a secret. Every time I repray this prayer, seek ye。
first the kingdom of God, and somehow all these other things get added to me, and。
somehow all these other things get healed, and somehow as I lay down my life,。
there is this freedom and this peace that comes even though none of my。
freaking circumstances changed. And I wish, and I prayed, and I've asked, and I've。
begged, and they don't change. And yet, somehow there is a supernatural peace。
that floods my soul, my mind, my life, my relationships because I just say, "Let it。
be as you say, God." I just, I can't control it, and I'm done trying.。
When we say it, when we say it, things do not magically happen. The guy does not。
get down on the knee. He doesn't ride in in a white horse. The baby doesn't。
come right away. Like, it doesn't get fixed right away, but I can tell you。
that's not the point. That's not our point. We exist for purposes beyond what we。
imagine on a given Tuesday. And so Mary knows it. Little teenage girl has some。
grasp, some grasp that there is something bigger happening than her comfort,。
something bigger happening than her circumstances, something bigger。
happening than her reputation. And she says this, "And in those days, Mary。
rose and went with haste into the hill country, and Elizabeth was filled with。
the Holy Spirit, her cousin, and exclaimed with a loud cry, 'Blessed are。
you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb. Blessed is she who。
believed that she would be a fulfillment for what was spoken to her from the。
Lord.'" At that point that we know of, Elizabeth is the first person that Mary。
goes and sees. And I want you to think about your life, and I want you to think。
about the things that you shared or the things you didn't, that you wouldn't。
type, that you need to share. The fears, the worries, the overwhelm that you。
regularly are fighting on a given 2 a.m. night, I want you to think about those。
things, and I want you to think, "Am I a girl? Am I a guy who runs to tell。
someone?" I've done all this therapy, and let me save you all the money.。
You can't live in your head by yourself. You can't work it out by yourself.。
You can't solve it by yourself. You can't get well by yourself. You can't get。
healed by yourself. You can't get whole by yourself. You can't find what you're。
looking for by yourself. Mary knew she needed a friend. So cute. It's really。
darling. Like, she just finds out she is impregnated with God, and she's like,。
"I'm going to go see my cousin, you know? I'm going to go pregnant and see my。
cousin." And she gets to her cousin, and her cousin's like, "Let's have a party.。
This is unbelievable." And there's a perspective I know that she gets just。
because she's with Elizabeth. I can't wait to get to heaven and talk to Mary.。
When I get there, I'm going to be like, "Were you afraid? Were you filled with。
faith? Did caring God make you just crazy full of faith? I bet you she was a。
little bit anxious and a little bit worried and a little bit fearful about。
what was about to happen. I'm just banking that she was still human." And。
then she goes all the way to her cousin, and her cousin gives her what? Her。
cousin gives her perspective. Her cousin gives her hope. Her cousin gives her a。
vision. Her cousin gives her a way of thinking about the world and the。
situation that she needed. Her cousin gave her encouragement. Her cousin spoke。
life over her. Let me just tell you, if your mind, if you feel in bondage in your。
mind and you have never shared it out loud, there is a reason that you have not。
started to get free. I watch it all the time, these college kids. They yell out。
their sin. It's unbelievable, and it's, I mean, it's brazen sin, you know, and。
they're just yelling it out. "Abortion!" from the back of the room. "Abortion!"。
And the room breaks. They break. Something begins to heal when we say it out。
loud to our brothers and to our sisters. And last, Luke 1, 46, 49, "And Mary said,。
'My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior, for he。
has looked on the humble estate of his servant. For behold, from now on, all。
generations will call me blessed, for he who is mighty has done great things for。
me, and holy is his name.'" She magnifies the Lord. What are you magnifying?。
What are you magnifying? Because what you magnify, what you make great in your。
life, what you care about most, the scrapbook you build that you need to have。
accomplished by the time you're 30, whatever it is that you magnify, that is。
what your life is becoming. You can't aim at one thing and hit another. You aim at。
one thing, you hit that thing. You aim at getting rich. You aim at getting the。
husband or the wife. You aim at getting the respect of everybody. You aim at。
getting everybody to like you. You aim at control. You aim at the body. You aim at。
fixing everything about yourself. You aim at making sure you look good. You will。
hit that, maybe. And that is why this is a central message to your soul. This isn't。
about men and women. This is about God and you. This is about an enemy that。
hates you. This really isn't he said, she said. This is he said the devil, he said。
God. That's the war for all of us. Because the enemy is talking and we're not。
really talking back. We're letting him tell us whatever he wants to say and。
we've let our lives be defined by it and we're completely shut down. And so we're。
afraid. We're numb. We have self-doubt and we think it's a diagnosis and so we。
take a drug. We are fans of the counseling world. We are fans of doctors。
and medicine when needed. But church, we are also fighting demonic realms. We are。
also fighting dark cosmic forces that hate us. We are fighting an enemy that。
John 844 says is a liar. He says it five different times, five different ways in。
the same sentence so that we will know there is an enemy. He hates us and the。
way he's gonna get to us is he's gonna lie to us. And so he will make you swing。
for the wrong fences all life long. And there's a war. And we're living for。
things that look good and sound good but never fill our soul. Because let me just。
tell you, those of you that think your soul will be filled when you find the。
man, let me tell you what. I don't always feel the way I did about him today.。
Because if I don't fill my soul with God and I look to Zach Allen to fill my soul,。
I will kill our marriage. So get this right now. She's not gonna fix it. He's。
not gonna fill it. Your porn addiction isn't gonna go away when you get married.。
Do the business today that God is calling you to do today. Magnify the Lord. Set。
your heart and your mind on the mission and the glory of God on earth. And I'm。
telling you, it goes well with you. Somebody asked me the other day, their。
ministry was not thriving and they were feeling like it should be bigger and。
they were asking me like, "How do I deal with this? I want it to be bigger. I。
think it should be bigger." And I looked at him and I was like, "What games are。
we playing, man?" He was like, "That's easy for you to say. You're leading this。
big thing." And I was like, "Whoa, if I cared that I was leading a big thing, my。
soul could never lead the thing." Like we got to deal with this stuff before we。
have the responsibility. You got to get free before you are in the family。
managing it. You've got to get free now. I have these men in my life. I want to。
paint a picture for you guys. JP, a lot of y'all know him. JP is one of my。
dearest friends. We have been together a long time. And we've been on the road。
together ministering beside each other. He pastored me when we were at Watermark。
years ago. And that man, all the time this happens. All the time. People say to。
me, "Man, JP was talking about you the other day. Man, he respects you. Man, he。
likes you. Man, he's proud of you." That happens to me all the time. And that man。
and I, I mean, we're in rooms. He's deferred. He's going, "What do you think?。
What do you think?" We are co-laboring for Jesus on earth that revival would come。
and that souls will be saved. And we're not really stopping and thinking about。
like, "Oh, wow. I don't want to offend you. I don't want to offend you. You're a。
boy. I'm a girl." We're just running our guts out as fast as we can. And he。
believes in me and he speaks well of me. I've got another man here. His name is。
Timothy Atik. That man is my pastor. And can you imagine being an elder and a。
pastor of a girl like me? Like, this is a lot. And they've never acted like it.。
The elders and TA have been like, "Jenny, we are for you. We are behind you.。
Whatever God is calling you to do, we believe in you." I have submitted. I want。
you to know as a woman, I believe the scriptures that say submission. Submission。
has gone well for me. Submitting to them has been a protection in my life.。
Submitting to my husband has been a protection in my life. You know why?。
Because one day we're going to get to heaven and God's going to say, "Hey, you。
did that wrong." And I was like, "Well, Zach and the elders said I could do it."。
Love submission. Then I have this other man, Zach Allen. Y'all, let me just show。
the pictures of what this man does when I am speaking. When I am on the stage,。
what he is, he is backstage always crying. Crying like a baby. He's already crying.。
I can see it. His eyes are glistening down here. And praying for me. And you。
know what he does? The reason I feel less anxious when he walks in the room is。
because he's my biggest fan. He sits down right beside me, he prays over me, and。
he's like, "Go have fun, baby." I mean, you talk about a sexy man. Like, that is。
a sexy man. Showing up for me. You know why he does that? Because he truly。
believes that whatever is best for the kingdom of God is best for us. And if。
putting me on a stage, on a plane, wherever, and he, you know, might have to。
do this sometimes, he is like, "Go, baby girl, because we are in this for those。
fences, not the world. We're in it for the kingdom." And so we are colaboring.。
And sometimes that man gets on stage and it's everybody's favorite. He's like my。
most listened to podcast. Like, everybody wants him on stage. But that man often。
is saying, "Jenny, you need to do this thing that scares you. You need to obey。
God." That is a man of God. Amen. I'm going to close with this. I'm going to。
close with this. And as I do, the band's going to come out. And here's what I。
want to happen, guys. Let's do business tonight. Okay? Let's do business. Like,。
what is the thing that you need to say no more? I'm not giving my thought life to。
that thing anymore. Because 2 Corinthians 10 tells us that we can take every。
thought captive. So we don't have to be a slave to our body image anymore. We。
don't have to. We don't have to give our mind to small things. My daughter this。
week, she was home alone and she called us and said, we were together, a lot of。
people in our family, and she said, "Mom, I'm scared. I hear these noises and I've。
been watching these murder shows. And I want you all to come home. Like, come。
home." And I turned to her older brother and I said, "This is what happened." And。
he goes, "Caroline, play silly games, get silly prizes." We've been playing silly。
games and getting silly prizes. We've been giving our lives and setting our。
minds on things and then we're afraid and we're so surprised. So we stop playing。
the game. We just say no more and that is the business tonight I want us to do. We。
spit in the enemy's face. We don't just let him speak to us. We don't let him。
just play the game. We say no more. I'm going to honor women in my life. If。
there's one thing men say about you, let it be that you honor women. It's a great。
thing. That goes a long way. In every way, in private, in public. And women, let it。
be said of us that we didn't play silly games. That we didn't give our mind, our。
thoughts, our words, our time, our energy to silly games to win silly prizes.。
Because there is an enemy. And if I were him, if I were your enemy, I would use。
whatever works to shut you down. To her, I'd start the loop. You're behind. You're。
too much. You're not enough. You're too sensitive. You're too harsh. You should。
have texted back sooner. You shouldn't have texted back at all. Everyone's。
getting married. Everyone's getting promoted. Everyone's fine without you.。
Fix your face. Don't eat. You shouldn't have eaten that. Work out. Work out. Work。
out. Did they mean something by that? They meant something by that. You're being。
dramatic. Pray about it. You should be past this now. You're still not past this.。
I wouldn't need to say any of this twice. I'd just leave the loop running and go to。
work on him. To him, I wouldn't start with a thought. I'd start with a habit. A tab。
open too long. A scroll that doesn't end. A drink that becomes too, becomes normal.。
I'd give him a screen to disappear into instead of a room of community to walk。
into. I'd let him call it stress relief. I'd let him call it just how guys are. I'd。
let porn do quietly what shame does loudly. Teach him a woman is something to。
consume, not something to labor beside. I'd let his silence pass as strength. I'd。
let his anger pass as passion. I'd let him go a whole year without one friend who。
actually knows what he's carrying and let him think that just, that's what a man。
does. That's what it costs. And don't think I only work one way. That would be。
lazy and I'm not lazy. Some of you men lie awake, running, her exact same loop,。
afraid, behind, not enough, still not past it. You just haven't said it out loud.。
And some of you women are exactly as hooked as he is, just quieter, better at。
the same tab, the same shame. It's doing its work. It's doing it quietly. And I。
don't care which sin you go for. I don't care what gender you are. I only care。
that it works. Her mind, a war she's fighting, alone in a crowd, his life, a。
war he's not fighting at all. I'd let her mistake his numbness for not caring. I'd。
let him mistake her spinning for too emotional. I'd let them walk past each。
other a thousand times, both convinced the other one was the problem. Neither one。
realizing they'd both already lost to me before they even spoke. That's the real。
win. Not just her alone. Not just him alone. A whole generation of men and。
women, each fighting a private war, too depleted to ever fight side by side. An。
entire room like that? Missing the call of God in their life? What if an entire。
room was free, awake, done being afraid of each other, turning outward instead of。
inward, turned a mission bigger than either of them. Men and women wholly,。
completely surrendered to God. That is the one thing I have never figured out。
to stop, so I'll keep doing what's worked. Her loop, his habit, your loneliness in a。
room this full, small things, quiet things, things you would never call spiritual。
warfare because they just look like a normal Tuesday. We're in the middle of it.。
We're in the middle of it. He hates us. I think it's endgame. I think the Avengers。
need to get in the game. I think we need to care enough to fight back against。
these things that have consumed us for too long. And compassion grows, and。
empathy grows, and understanding grows. I mean, I love the verses. You want to know。
what makes a great man? My husband, he lives with me in an understanding way,。
Scripture says. Peter wrote, "Live with your wives in an understanding way," and。
he lays down his life as Christ laid down his life for the church. That is what it。
means to be a good man, to honor women. Live with us in an understanding way. I。
know right now it may not be your wife. It's probably your sister in Christ, but。
live with her in an understanding way. Be curious. Be angry that she is getting。
beat up because it may not be. It likely isn't physical, but spiritually she's。
getting beat up, guys. Pray for her. Fight for her. And women, tonight is really for。
you. Like, we are going to open the altar, and the band is going to play, and what I。
want you to do tonight, I want you to come down, and I want you to, I mean, this is。
so old school camp, you ready? I want you to leave it here. Like, what is the thing。
you put up there and say, "I don't want to obsess about this anymore. I don't want。
to be addicted to this anymore. I don't want to think about this anymore." And I。
also, throughout the entire room, and in the overflow room as well, in fact, you。
guys feel free to come in here. Come in here, fill the aisles, just wherever you。
are, in the chapel, come on. And what I would say, fire hazards, okay, I don't。
know what's going to happen, but just come on. It'll be fine, they tell me. But。
what I know, what I know is that we need to be sharing with each other what it is.。
You don't need to just text it in. You need to say it to a friend. You need to。
say it out loud to somebody. So all over the room, what I want to happen is you're。
coming forward, you're surrendering it to God, and you're saying it out loud to。
someone. And you're praying for each other. Because we are fighting spiritual。
forces. And guess the greatest weapon we have against the spiritual forces? It is。
to pray. They cannot stand against surrender, against prayer, against a。
people wholly and completely surrendered to God. So we surrender. We lay it down.。
Whatever you need to do to do business tonight, to get in the game, because it。
matters. So God, I bless this room. In fact, right now, God, I pray that you。
would reveal to every single person that can hear my voice, whether it's through。
the camera in their living room, whether it's in the overflow room, whether it's。
up in the back of the balcony, in the very back on the back row, I pray right。
now that every single heart would feel conviction rising up in them from your。
Holy Spirit. And God, you know what each person needs to feel, what each person。
needs to confess, what each person needs to lay down. Only you can show that. And。
God, I pray if it is the thing they are afraid to do, would tonight be the night。
they do it. God, I pray that if it is the shadow, dark thing that they're afraid to。
say out loud, would tonight be the night they say it. God, we don't want to miss。
all the good works that you prepared in advance for us to do. We want to run our。
races, co-laboring, not stuck, but free. Show us how to get there. In Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
