[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
All right.。
All right.。
Welcome to the porch.。
Hey, help me welcome my friends all across the nation.。
We got the Porch Live, Austin, Texas, Midland, Texas,。
Indianapolis, Indiana, Greater Lafayette, Indiana, Boise,。
and Scottsdale.。
And there's a whole host of more.。
Help me welcome my friends all across the nation.。
[APPLAUSE]。
And of course, my friends right here in Dallas.。
Anybody watch the Super Bowl?。
[CHEERING]。
Chiefs!。
[CHEERING]。
Hey, hey.。
I'm not a bandwagon.。
I lived in Kansas City almost eight years,。
moved to Dallas 3 and 1/2 years ago,。
but grew up in the motherland right here in Texas.。
Let's make that clear.。
No, I love the Super Bowl.。
Like, I love it.。
Like, I love a lot about the Super Bowl.。
I love the fact that there's two teams, the best。
two teams of the year.。
They're facing off, and you hope to be this epic showdown,。
right?。
Like, I love the food.。
Anybody, like, just a foodie?。
Like, I'm a foodie.。
Got to watch what I eat, because, you know,。
I'll just go to town.。
Like, there's all kinds of food at Super Bowl parties.。
And, you know, I love the commercials.。
You know, you never know what's coming, right?。
Better guard your eyes, man.。
But I love the creativity of commercials.。
I love the halftime.。
Some of you, you thought the main show was Rihanna.。
You still don't know the score of the game.。
Oh, somebody, somebody excited about Rihanna.。
The halftime show.。
But here's what I like the most.。
I love the fact that the Super Bowl brings people together.。
Like, your friends, like, maybe coworkers, neighbors,。
you know, just people, you know, in church.。
Like, it just brings people together.。
And, you know, let me just show you a pic of my people.。
That's my people.。
So this is who I watch the Super Bowl with, right?。
This is my crew, my people.。
I got my kids.。
I got the best man of my wedding, my boy JD, his wife,。
and, you know, best man of my wedding's wife.。
Like, we just had a blast together.。
And, you know, what I know about that picture。
is that picture, the people in that picture,。
they're way more important than the game itself。
and everything that surrounds the Super Bowl。
because they're a part of my community.。
And when I think about this word community,。
there's these two root words that come to mind,。
commune and then unity.。
And so community is this idea that you commune,。
you gather with people around something。
that you're unified on.。
Here's what I mean by that.。
Like an event or a place.。
So say it'd be the Super Bowl, a birthday,。
maybe it's the gym, you know, happy hour,。
your coffee shop, like that coffee shop,。
maybe it's Merritt, I don't know what your coffee shop is。
in Indianapolis, but it's your coffee shop.。
And then you gather with your people,。
like it might be a coworker, a friend, a neighbor,。
it might be a date.。
And then it's, you know, you're doing some type of activity,。
you're grabbing a meal together, you're eating,。
you're grabbing some drinks together,。
you're working out, you're going on that first day.。
Like some of you came in this place,。
you're like, man, I hope I get that first date tonight.。
You know, and I would just say, you men,。
hey, shoot your shot, bro, if you're in it, you know,。
if you're in the game and the game is Christianity,。
like you're following Jesus, you're healthy, go for it, man.。
Some of y'all need to step up anyways.。
So that's your encouragement.。
But no, this is what I mean.。
Here's why I say that.。
Because if we had to be honest tonight,。
like our community is comparable。
to what we had on Sunday night.。
It starts and ends with just that.。
Like the things that maybe you do,。
if you had to be honest tonight,。
it just starts and it ends with only that.。
That thing you do with the people that you gather with,。
the people that you're unified with.。
We were created for so much more.。
Although this type of community isn't bad in and of itself,。
it's not the only thing we were created to do.。
Like we were created for deep, intimate relationships.。
And like, you know this to be true,。
like don't you like,。
how come the moment you leave that social event,。
you're hit with a wave of loneliness?。
You have this social anxiety,。
maybe sometimes when you're in the crowd.。
Or you are filled with anxiety,。
like you have a lot of acquaintances,。
but you go home and you're just plagued with this anxiety。
that so much so you have to take sleeping pills。
just to go to sleep.。
Or when you're around those so-called friends,。
like something about that group。
doesn't really sit well with you。
because they don't know the true you.。
Like they still don't know you.。
No one really knows you.。
Could it be that the way that we're doing community。
is not at all how God intended for us?。
In the quietness of your own heart,。
I just want you to ask yourself these questions, okay?。
Just do an evaluation of where you are right now。
with your people.。
Who in this world really knows you?。
With whom in this world are you fully known,。
but also fully loved?。
Who in this world knows your positive qualities,。
yet they get to see behind the curtain of your life,。
and they see your insecurities?。
They see your hangups,。
your unhealthy tendencies, your weaknesses.。
With whom in the world are you fully known and fully loved?。
See, God has wired us with deep-meaning relationships。
with each other.。
Unfortunately, many of us, we just go through life,。
and we never really experience this.。
So maybe we even settle for isolation.。
Like some of you, man,。
you just wanted to be at a Super Bowl party,。
but the Super Bowl just reminded you that you're alone.。
Or you come into a place like this,。
and there's just a big place,。
and there's a lot of young adults,。
and yeah, you got some acquaintances,。
but you don't really have your people.。
And listen, we can escape these feelings of being alone。
because today we come into this place,。
and it just happens to be Valentine's Day。
on a Tuesday night.。
Gosh, the last thing I needed to be reminded of。
was maybe I'm alone.。
And so tonight, I wanna talk to you。
not about dating.。
Many of you probably come into this place thinking,。
not about your singleness.。
Maybe you thought we were going singleness route.。
Not about sex, not about that relationship。
that you're thinking about, that dating relationship.。
No, I wanna talk to you。
about the most important relationship。
outside of your relationship with Christ,。
and that's the relationship that you have with,。
if you're a guy, man,。
those are the closest men in your life.。
If you're a woman, those are the closest ladies。
that you're rolling up your sleeves with,。
that you're really doing life with,。
that you're spending time with.。
I'm talking about your gathering.。
I'm talking about this sense of community。
that you don't just gather around a place。
and the people and the activity.。
I'm talking about you gathering。
around authentic relationships。
that actually lead to spiritual transformation.。
Do you have that in your life tonight?。
We're gonna be in the book of Genesis,。
the very first book of the Bible.。
So if you have your Bible,。
feel free to open it to the book of Genesis.。
If you don't, that's cool.。
We want that to be our gift to you.。
You can head out to the town center after the service。
and just go to the welcome desk。
and just say, "Hey, I would love to have。
"a copy of God's word.。
"I would love a physical copy of that."。
And so tonight we're gonna be in the book of Genesis,。
the very first book of the Bible,。
and then we're gonna be in chapter two,。
starting in verse 18.。
Y'all remember what God said to Adam。
before he made Eve?。
This is what he says in verse 18.。
The Lord God said, "It is not good for man to be,"。
come on, come on.。
- Alone. - Alone.。
Alone, someone's fired up down here, thank you.。
Yeah, he said, "It's not good for man to be alone."。
Like the first point of tonight's message is,。
you're called to community, called to community.。
God calls us to community.。
He said it, "It's not good for man to be alone."。
And I think the most natural way to apply this statement。
is to marriage, but I don't think it's just true。
about marriage, I think it's just true。
about life in general.。
It's not good for you and I to be alone,。
right now, in this moment, whether you're married or not.。
And you see this rhythm, like in Genesis one,。
one chapter before where God's creating。
and he says it's good, and he creates。
and he says it's good, and he does this six times。
over the course of six days,。
and on the seventh day, he rests.。
And so there's this incredible place of perfection,。
there's this paradise, and God just finished。
creating everything, and he created Adam,。
and sin hadn't come into existence yet,。
and Adam is ruling over everything that God created。
in this one-on-one harmonious relationship。
which is Adam and God.。
And it feels like there should be this amazing connection,。
but then something interrupts the creation story。
and God says what?。
He says it's not good for man to be alone.。
Like what could be wrong with perfection。
after God created?。
Being alone was the very first thing in all creation.。
I know I'm drilling down on this point,。
but we have to start here.。
This is the foundation in which we're building。
the entire message around tonight.。
I find this to be fascinating 'cause nothing is fallen yet.。
Everything is perfect, and you know,。
I talk to men every single week and they're just like,。
I'm good, man, just Jesus and I.。
Like I'm straight, like it's good,。
like him and I, I don't really need his people,。
I don't really need the church,。
and although that might sound good in theory,。
the Bible would just say that that's not true.。
It's not true.。
Psalm 92, 13 says those who are planted。
in the house of the Lord shall what?。
What's the promise there?。
It's not rhetorical.。
Shall what?。
Shall flourish.。
Do we have that up there?。
Yeah, shall flourish.。
And so the way that you and I flourish in this life。
is to be planted in the house of God,。
doing life, connected, embracing people。
that maybe don't look like you or dress like you,。
or have the same hobbies as you,。
but you know what they have?。
Point North is focused straight on Christ.。
It's this idea of solitary confinement.。
Like people in prison, man,。
they dread the punishment of solitary confinement.。
Like it's one of the worst things that you can do。
for a person in prison.。
Like one person said, being locked up in a place。
where you have zero human interaction with others。
literally psychologically destroys them.。
It cuts them off from the rest of the world.。
Another person said keeping prisoners totally isolated。
from the living world comes dangerously close。
to the penal tomb.。
In other words, it's a slow death.。
And listen, you know, you're not in a prison。
of solitary confinement tonight,。
but you might be in a prison of loneliness.。
You might be in a prison of anxiety, depression,。
pornography, alcohol, a prison of lying or cheating,。
or, you know, a prison of just gossiping.。
Like you just gossip because you just want。
to be elevated in this life.。
And when you do that, it just makes you look better。
than the other person.。
And I would just say,。
if we stay in those prisons。
and we never connect with God's people,。
then it's gonna be hard to get out.。
Here's the other truth in this room.。
Like some of us, we're just comfortable in that prison.。
Like we kind of like it.。
Like we've just grown numb to it.。
And it's just like what we do.。
And God said, it's not good.。
There's Proverbs 14, 12 says,。
"There's a way that seems right to man,。
"but that way ends in death."。
And some of you tonight, you don't even know it,。
but you're slowly dying.。
And God has you on this day, Valentine's 2023,。
to hear a message that hopefully might change。
the trajectory of your life for all of eternity.。
And not just all of eternity, but for now.。
Some of you are like, "Josiah, I got relationships.。
"I got the people in my life."。
But let me ask you something.。
Are they the right people?。
Are they the people that you can lock arms with。
that are gonna sharpen you and encourage you。
and challenge you in your faith?。
Bible says it like this in 2 Corinthians 6, 14,。
"Do not be yoked together with unbelievers.。
"For what do righteousness and wickedness have in common?。
"Or what fellowship can light have with darkness?"。
So when the Bible says not to be yoked with unbelievers,。
it doesn't mean you quit spending time with unbelievers.。
Like that would be insanity.。
Like that would be impossible for you to, you know,。
share the gospel with them, point them to Christ,。
and just encourage and influence them.。
That's not what it's talking about, but it's saying,。
hey, where do you spend your closest time?。
And who do you spend your closest time with?。
Where are those places?。
Where are those people?。
And what kind of activities are you doing?。
Are they stirring your affection for Christ?。
Or are they drowning that out to a point where you just。
kind of said, hey, man, it is what it is.。
This is just life.。
And you're just kind of on the treadmill of stupidity.。
Like a dog returns to his vomit, the scripture says,。
a fool returns to his folly,。
and you have no one there to pick you up when you fall.。
You have no one there to be a truth teller.。
They just tell you what you want to hear.。
They don't tell you what you need to hear.。
22 years of my life, that's how I spent it.。
Here's what I know, man.。
The more we spend time with the wrong community,。
you catch the symptoms of those you run with.。
You tracking?。
Like you wonder why you can't defeat the sin in your life.。
It's because the people you hang out with entertain that.。
You wonder why you listen to what you listen to,。
you go where you go, you do what you do,。
you drink that, you smoke that,。
you hook up with that person,。
because that's just what you do.。
That's just your people.。
That's just who you guys hang out.。
That's what y'all, that's what you spend your time doing.。
And God's saying, "Hey, you keep doing what you're doing.。
"You're not gonna change.。
"But if you keep doing what you're doing,。
"you're not gonna like it at the end of the day.。
"It's gonna lead to bondage.。
"It's going to lead to death."。
Like I feel for some of you,。
because there's actually people trying to pursue。
the right kind of community,。
but part of the reason why your community。
might not be hitting right,。
because in 2023, it's harder and harder to know。
who's actually following Jesus.。
Like I like the Superbowl, man, it just makes it easy.。
Who's cheering for the Chiefs,。
who's cheering for the Eagles,。
or really any sport events, right?。
Because you got the jersey.。
I mean, I was repping that Patrick Mahomes,。
number 15 jersey, like let's go, right?。
And so that's just, man, I was repping that.。
Like people knew who I was cheering for, right?。
You know, people, like there's just so many distinctions.。
You got your chants, right?。
The city that you're from, or you know,。
whatever that thing is, there's just so many distinctions。
that separate people on who they're cheering for.。
But when it comes to the things of Christ,。
like it's just so blurry in 2023.。
You got the cultural Christianity,。
you got the soft preaching,。
you got people who won't share the hard truths of Scripture.。
And so people just think that they can continue。
to do what they're doing,。
and there's no ramifications for their sin.。
It's a mess.。
And God's saying, hey, there's hope.。
When you look at this book, it's your compass,。
it's your guide.。
Like you know what I'm talking about, man.。
You dated someone who said they're a Christian,。
and they were taking you out,。
but then they began to, you know,。
mismanage information about you,。
and they began to manipulate you,。
and they weren't the godly example。
that you thought they were, Bio's lie, right?。
Like you listen to what they said with their lips,。
but you didn't watch how they lived their life.。
And you're holding that against God.。
And God's like, man, you,。
greatest test of time is you just observing their life.。
Like that's the greatest test,。
is you watching their life over a period of time.。
You know that person that was lukewarm,。
and maybe he invited you to church,。
and you came to church, right?。
And you were kind of cold,。
like just kind of dead to the things of God,。
but then you started getting on fire for the things of God,。
and then you started calling out that person。
that was lukewarm, and they didn't like it, right?。
And you're like, man, why are you getting mad at me, bro?。
I'm just pointing you to the truth,。
the place that you brought me to.。
Or maybe you grew up in a family。
that sat in the pew Sunday after Sunday,。
but then when you jumped in the car,。
it was like all hell broke loose.。
Like, did you even hear what they were saying?。
And bro, it just sends you spiraling.。
2023, man, is a mess.。
It's hard to figure out who's in and who's not.。
It's getting harder and harder to know。
who's worth locking arms with, and I get that.。
So in 2023, here at The Porch, man,。
we've made a commitment to make a big place。
feel really, really small.。
Like, we wanna help filter the people。
that wanna go all in and still create a space。
for people to come examine the evidence of Christ。
and love the people that aren't fully bought in。
and wanna commit their life to Jesus.。
Like, that will always be what marks The Porch,。
but we also wanna create a place。
for people who wants to go all in,。
and so what we do is we stand up here every week,。
and we just said, hey, there's gonna be a team of people。
down here up front in the front of the stage。
that would love to talk to you,。
whether you're a skeptic。
or whether you're a seasoned believer.。
We've created another environment up in the loft.。
You just go up the town center,。
go up the stairs in the loft, and it's called Next Steps,。
and that's just a place to help you discover。
what is your next step, community, serving, membership,。
and then there's a process where you can go。
and you can meet other men or other women。
that are pursuing the same thing you're pursuing。
and want to gather with other women。
in a smaller group or other men in a smaller group。
and wanna start doing life together.。
That's community, and then it's like,。
do we have a really easy win every week。
is up in the chapel, where it's like,。
you go up these stairs, go out those doors,。
and there's the chapel, and it's just a place。
for you to process what you just heard and pray,。
and so there's a lot of different connecting points。
no matter where you find yourself.。
Once a month, we got great questions。
where you can go and ask anything.。
Nothing's off limits, and we'll do our best to answer that,。
and so this is our heart here at the porch。
that we wanna help get you connected.。
God is calling you to community, and tonight is the night.。
I believe some of you will step into that。
and experience life and life abundantly.。
Point number two, if you're taking notes,。
call to confess.。
You're called to confess.。
Like, this is what marks people that are in community,。
so if you're like, man, I'm in community,。
and as I'm going throughout this message,。
you don't hear these things actually playing out。
in your life, let's talk after the service.。
I'll be down here as long as it takes.。
First John 1:9 says, "If we confess our sins,。
"he's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins。
"and cleanse us from all unrighteousness."。
I love that.。
Like, nobody can out-sin the grace of God.。
It doesn't matter where you've been, what you've done.。
Oh, you don't know my story, just saying,。
oh, you don't know my story.。
No, if you confess your sin, he's faithful and just。
to forgive you of all your sin。
and cleanse you of all unrighteousness.。
That's your vertical relationship with Jesus.。
I love Psalm 32, three through five.。
It just says, "When I kept silent, my bones wasted away。
"through my groaning all day long."。
It's like, hey, man, when you keep silent。
and you suppress your sin and you don't confess it,。
like, your body gets sick.。
I mean, that's just, I'm just reading the text.。
That sounds right.。
I mean, I think that's what it says.。
Verse four, "For day and night, your hand," whose hand?。
"God's hand was heavy upon me.。
"My strength was dried up as by the heat of the summer."。
But then it says in verse five, look at their term.。
"I acknowledged my sin to you."。
I didn't cover my iniquity, my sin.。
I said, "I will confess my transgression to the Lord。
"and you forgave the iniquity of my sin."。
You know, let me ask, like, have you prayed。
and asked God to forgive you of your sin?。
Like, have you recognized,。
if there have been a time in your life。
where you recognize, hey, that you are a sinner。
separated from a holy, perfect God,。
there's no one righteous, not one.。
The only thing you need to come to God is need.。
Like, so often, we don't even realize we have a need.。
If you're like me, man, I just compared my life。
to other people, even people in the church,。
and when I did that, I could always find someone worse。
than me, which gave me security in the fact that I was,。
gave me security in the fact that I wasn't that bad.。
And so I just kind of did whatever I wanted.。
I can always find someone worse than you.。
You know, that's the mentality。
that some of us have in this place.。
And God's saying, "Hey, man, there's no one righteous,。
"no, not one, but my grace is sufficient.。
"My grace can cover that."。
Like, some of us, man, we've confessed our sin to God,。
but we're still not experiencing the healing,。
the victory that comes with that.。
Like, we've done the vertical relationship with God,。
but outside of that, man,。
we have not confessed that to anyone else.。
Like, we haven't experienced the true healing.。
Like, we've experienced forgiveness,。
but I always say forgiveness and healing。
are two different things.。
Like, forgiveness is what you get in 1 John 1:9 in Psalm 32,。
but healing, look what it says in James 5:16.。
Therefore, confess your sins one to another.。
That's vertical, or excuse me, that's horizontal.。
That's not vertical, it's horizontal relationships,。
and pray for one another that you may be what?。
Come on, what's the promise?。
Healed.。
Healed.。
The prayer of a righteous person has great power。
as it is working.。
See, the best version of you and I exists。
on the other side of community, the most healed,。
the most whole version of you and I exists。
on the other side of community.。
It's where you share and confess those dark areas。
of your heart.。
So many Christians are forgiven of their sin。
because they pray and ask Jesus to forgive them。
of their sin, but they're not walking in full heal,。
healness, they're not walking in complete victory。
because they've suppressed their sin。
instead of addressing it, instead of sharing that。
with people that are either men of integrity。
or women of integrity, either men that can be trusted。
or women that can be trusted.。
Do you have that in your life?。
There's some of us that we know this to be true.。
Like we have made a declaration to ourself。
that there's things in our life that were taken。
to the grave and I'm not going to let anyone。
know about that thing.。
And God's saying, okay, well then it's going to be。
really hard for you to experience complete healing.。
There's things that you said, I'm just going to go。
to the grave and I'm not going to let anyone know about it.。
And I would just say, hey, the power of sin。
is always in secrecy.。
If you want sin's power to weaken,。
then you'll begin to confess it.。
That's what he's called us to do tonight。
is to confess that sin one to another.。
The power of sin grows strength when it's suppressed,。
when it's in darkness.。
But if you want that sin to be weakened,。
then you'll confess it.。
Several months ago, my wife, Kathy and I,。
when you saw in the picture, we got in a pretty big。
argument, like we just, you know, we weren't seeing eye。
to eye with some things and, you know,。
we weren't necessarily angry at one another.。
And the Bible says, do not let the sun go down。
in your anger, but it doesn't say, hey,。
you can't let the sun go down on your conflict, right?。
So I was like, all right, man, we just need to go to bed.。
Right?。
So we're just going to go to bed.。
We'll put this on the shelf and we'll come back。
and address this tomorrow morning.。
So she goes to bed and I kind of, you know,。
stewing a little bit.。
I'm not angry, I'm just frustrated that we,。
that we're just in this conflict.。
We can't, we can't seem to get eye to eye.。
We can't seem to talk and to work through it。
and to be like-minded in this issue.。
And so in that moment, I just felt tempted。
to look at pornography.。
Like the temptation became so strong in that moment.。
And I had a choice.。
I could pick up my phone and I could text out the men。
that I've been talking about tonight that,。
that, hey, I gather with and I can say,。
hey, hey fellas, listen, listen, listen.。
There's this temptation that's come over me.。
I know what I need to do.。
I need to flee it, but, but it's,。
but I'm fighting it right now.。
And I, and I, and I want to click on that.。
I want to go to that website.。
I want to go to this social media handle.。
So I'm sure you're already sleeping, but when you see this,。
well, you asked me when you wake up,。
if I won the battle tomorrow morning,。
and I reconciled with my wife and by God's grace,。
I won the battle over lust, porn.。
And by God's grace, we reconciled with my wife.。
You know what it did in that moment with my wife?。
You know what it did in that moment?。
It, sin's power began to weaken.。
But the moment that you decide, hey,。
I'm just going to kind of fight this on my own.。
And I got this.。
You're done, man.。
You're toast.。
Like some of us, like we just wait to confess things。
on an action level when God's saying, no, no, no.。
It starts with your mind.。
Sow a thought, reap an action.。
Sow an action, reap a habit.。
Sow a habit, reap character.。
Sow character, reap an entire destiny.。
The battle is always in the mind.。
So what would it look like if thousands of young adults。
all over the nation that are listening to this tonight。
decided, hey, I'm not just going to confess。
on the action level.。
I'm going to start confessing on a thought level。
when the temptation hits me.。
Do you have men like that?。
Do you have women like that?。
And some of you are like, man, I ain't doing that.。
Like, you don't know, bro.。
Like people are going to mismanage that information about me.。
And I'm just like, well, hey, let them.。
Because you're not defined by people.。
You're defined by the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords.。
And my Bible says that there is therefore now。
no condemnation for those that are in Christ Jesus.。
And so I can confess it.。
Even in this moment, I'm like, man,。
what are they going to think about me?。
The pastor boy, he's got temptations。
to look at things, I don't really care.。
Because the power is always weakened。
when you address the sin.。
And so you have a chance tonight。
to have sin's power weakened.。
Galatians 1.10 says, am I trying to win the approval of men。
or of God?。
If I was trying to win the approval of men,。
I'd never be a servant of Christ.。
I'm not trying to win your approval.。
I'm not trying to win other people's approval,。
even my community group's approval.。
But by faith, I step out, I send the text.。
Even if I would have gone and fell into that sin,。
I know how they're going to respond.。
They're going to extend grace and say,。
all right, Josiah, let's talk.。
Let me remind you of Romans 8.1.。
You don't have to live with condemnation.。
You don't have to live with shame and guilt。
because Christ defeated that when he died on the cross。
and rose again on the third day.。
That's the power that is available to you and me.。
Do you have that power?。
Do you have those men?。
Do you have those women in your life?。
Tonight's the night where you remove the mask。
and you show your true self.。
Like, listen, we come into this place。
and we're wearing masks.。
Like they're invisible, of course,。
but they're a mask nonetheless.。
The mask represents hiding.。
It represents shame.。
It represents, I don't want people to see。
that area of my life.。
And I'm just saying, hey, if you don't remove that tonight,。
it's going to be hard for you to walk in victory.。
It's going to be hard for you to experience freedom。
that Christ is offering.。
The mask that I'm not wearing is the four other men。
in my life that I pursue and they pursue me。
every single week.。
These are men that I've grown to love because they know me。
and they still love the real me.。
No matter where I've been in thought, word and action,。
they open up this book and they say,。
hey, lust, I got a verse for that.。
I got a battle plan for that.。
Anxiety, I got a battle plan for that.。
Oh, you got a big decision that you need to make?。
I got a verse for that.。
I got a game plan for that.。
Oh, you're struggling with anger.。
Oh, your tone at home,。
that your posture towards your wife and your kids.。
Hey, I got some verses for that.。
And the more and more they just remind me of God's word。
and it gets in my mind and it gets in my heart。
and then it just begins to ooze out of you.。
But some of us tonight, man,。
we're not hiding the word of God in our heart.。
We're saying I'm too busy.。
But look at the time you spend on your phone.。
You know, those smartphones can track it now.。
And I'm not here to shame you, man.。
I had to do the same thing 'cause I was making excuses。
for not spending time with the Lord, for not praying.。
If you're too busy to be a Christian, man, you're too busy.。
God's calling some of you to step up,。
to draw a line in the sand, nail stake in the ground.。
Tonight's the night you find community.。
Tonight's the night you become fully known.。
I like what Tim Keller says.。
He says, "To be loved but not known。
is comforting but superficial."。
To be known and not loved is our greatest fear.。
But to be fully loved, excuse me,。
but to be fully known and truly loved,。
well, it's a lot like being loved by God.。
The men in my life are some of the greatest expressions。
of God's love for me in a real tangible way.。
Those four men that I meet with, I see Christ in them.。
It's like, "Where's Christ, man?。
Why can't I see God?"。
You got community?。
You got people in your life that are in the trenches。
with you, that are responding to you。
in a way that's gonna point you to Christ。
and not make excuses for your sin,。
but they tell you the hard things.。
And they say, "Come on, let's go.。
I got you."。
(smacks lips)。
Proverbs 28, 13 says,。
"Whoever conceals his transgressions will not prosper,。
but he who confesses and forsakes them will obtain mercy."。
You know, the secret to life。
is to live a life without secrets.。
Why?。
Because it brings healing and mercy.。
Do you want healing tonight?。
Do you want mercy tonight?。
You might be asking, "Joseph, how does this look like?"。
Well, I tried to share with you.。
Let me just kind of go one step deeper.。
I'm not saying you gotta go before 10 people。
and confess your sin.。
I'm like, "Hey, do you know someone。
who's a, if you're a lady in the room,。
she's a strong woman of God,。
that you can pick up the phone and you can call.。
If you're a guy, you know a strong man of God,。
just one person that you can just begin to walk this out。
and flesh this out.。
And you might not be able to give all the details.。
Like you gotta start somewhere, right?。
You gotta build trust somewhere,。
but you gotta go first in this.。
If you're waiting for community to find you,。
it's not gonna find you, you gotta find it.。
You gotta pursue it.。
And you just pick up the phone and you just say,。
"Hey, I've been looking at that two-dimensional image.。
I can't give you all the details, but there I said it.。
Hey, listen, I've been overeating and under eating。
because life, my life just feels out of control.。
It's the one thing I can control.。
Hey, I've been managing information.。
Haven't been being honest with you.。
I've lied to your face plenty of times there I said it.。
Hey, I was literally heading to the strip club tonight."。
I mean, maybe this is one of your stories.。
Maybe you go there weekly。
because your greatest desire is to be wanted.。
Your greatest desire is to be pursued,。
but you took that detour and you came to the porch tonight.。
You just need to confess that.。
I don't know what your thing is,。
but you just need to go first and you need to say,。
"Hey, I need help.。
I need to get this off my chest.。
I need to start doing life with people。
that are gonna love me for who I am,。
but are gonna love me enough。
to not allow me to stay in that thing."。
God calls us to confess our sin,。
to carry each other's burdens, to pray for each other.。
We have trusted friends that come alongside of you。
and help you fight against your sin.。
Proverbs 18, one says,。
"Whoever isolates himself seeks his own desire."。
In other words, it's the opposite。
of what we're talking about.。
You just kind of do your own thing, you go your own way.。
And it's like, you just want your desires.。
Okay, you just told us you just want your desires.。
But then look at the next part.。
He breaks out against all sound judgment.。
You don't even have wisdom now.。
I can't tell you how many times I've showed up。
on a Friday morning at 6 a.m.。
And I've just said, "Hey, I don't know what to do with X."。
Whether it's a sin struggle or a big decision。
or financial insecurities.。
And I just said, "Guys, I need help."。
And they begin to walk with me。
and point me to the truth of God's word.。
Like some of you tonight, man,。
God is also saying like,。
"Hey, it's not good to be alone in the crowd."。
Like you might think, "I'm not alone,"。
because you have something to belong to.。
But belonging has to do with becoming fully known.。
Like you might think, "Hey, you're belonging。
because you do that CrossFit thing。
or SoulCycle or barre classes."。
Like my wife, man, she loves that barre stuff.。
I don't even get it, man.。
It's like a whole nother world.。
I'm like, "Body weight?。
Nah, I'm out."。
You know, and then she shows me some exercise。
and your boy can't even do them, right?。
But that's neither here nor there.。
But people just think they're belonging to something。
because they're a part of just that activity。
or it's the happy hour thing.。
But people don't know the real you.。
And here's why it's not good.。
Because you and I will never be fully loved。
until we're fully known.。
It's what Tim Kelly was saying.。
And it's liberating, man, to be fully known,。
but then also to be fully loved.。
Some of us, man, we've gotten so comfortable。
in just showing this false view of ourself.。
Like we just, we're hanging out with these people。
and they don't know you.。
And so it's just the false version of you.。
And it's not good.。
It's not how you were created.。
It's not how, it's not what you were made for.。
And I'm just thinking like,。
what would it look like tonight if we took this serious?。
What would it look like in 2023 if we took this serious?。
Like if we created a place where we could truly。
be fully loved as we were being fully known。
no matter where we'd been.。
I don't get scared, man.。
The world doesn't operate like this.。
The world has performance-based acceptance.。
You do this and then I'll accept you.。
And the gospel is the way different.。
It's acceptance-based performance.。
God's accepted you right where you are.。
We've accepted you right where you are.。
Not so that you go perform,。
but so that you would experience the love。
and the intimacy of Christ and his church and his people.。
I want that for you tonight.。
God wants that for you tonight.。
This is my story, man.。
Jesus got ahold of me as I was wrapping up college。
and my life came to a screeching halt, man.。
Everything I'd worked so hard for was falling,。
you know, starting to fall into place.。
I was playing college baseball。
and, you know, just thinking I had life by the coattails.。
And I remember finishing up a game。
and going back to my apartment that night。
and I just asked the question, is that it?。
'Cause if these things aren't gonna do it anymore,。
what's gonna do it?。
And sin was just ruling my life.。
And I finally saw my sin for what it was。
in light of a holy God.。
I always say, hey, you'll never appreciate。
the cross of Jesus Christ.。
You'll never sing loud.。
You'll never get on mission.。
You'll never open up this Bible。
if you don't really see your need。
for what he's done for you.。
And I finally had lived enough life。
to know that life is broken apart from him.。
And the God of the Bible stepped out of heaven。
and said, I'm gonna stoop down and become a servant.。
You tell me another religion out there that does that.。
There isn't one, man.。
That's what separates Christianity from all other religions.。
And so God met me all in my mess,。
a 10-year battle of porn,。
taking advantage of one woman after another。
and the life of the party and alcohol and drugs。
and you name it.。
And he just said, Josiah, I want you.。
I want you to experience life, man.。
These manic highs and these manic lows that you have,。
man, none of that anymore.。
I got you, man.。
I've given you a roadmap.。
Follow me, trust me.。
It's not gonna be easy, but I got you, man.。
You can be forgiven, set free, healed, and walk。
in all that you were made to walk in.。
And you'll be purposed.。
You'll have purpose.。
Purpose will mark your life.。
Not just this silly game that's gonna end someday.。
Not just making a million dollars by the time you're 30.。
I didn't do that, by the way.。
But you know what I'm saying?。
I went into ministry, help me.。
But God has given me this purpose, man,。
that is way bigger,。
that's gonna outlast anything in this world.。
And I love my people that are in the business world,。
and you're hustling, that's awesome, man, do it.。
But for whose glory?。
For your own?。
Man, that's a dead-end road, bro.。
It ain't gonna last.。
And so God began to show me that He was calling me。
from that life, He was calling me to Himself,。
and I began to learn that, hey,。
God never calls you from something。
without calling you to something.。
And what He called me to。
was to change my playground and my playmates.。
He called me out of those playgrounds。
and those playmates, and not just to ostracize them.。
A lot of them were my closest boys, man, I love them.。
But I just said, hey, guys,。
I can't just be going back to those old stopping grounds,。
man, we can still hang,。
but I'm gonna be telling you about Jesus,。
you can tell me about what you do,。
but I'm gonna be telling you about Jesus,。
so if you can accept me for who I am, let's go.。
And God just began to change my life,。
and the people that I spent my quality time with,。
the majority of my time with were like-minded people.。
Do you have that tonight?。
Last and final truth,。
God's calling you to commit, called to commit.。
Tonight's the night.。
People come up to me all the time and say,。
man, I feel like your story is my story.。
What'd you do?。
I said, apart from the grace of God,。
I went all in with men that said they wanted to be about it.。
I'm not talking about people。
that just wanna check the Tuesday night box,。
or the Sunday morning box.。
I'm talking about people that were real.。
They struggled with sin, but they struggled well.。
They didn't just sit back and make life about them,。
they served.。
I was 31 when I got married.。
Do you think I forgot what it's like to be single?。
Year after year, eight Valentine's days passed by,。
and your boy was single.。
Tears and laying in bed at night,。
thinking God, what, is this is how it's gonna be?。
I can go get a woman.。
He's like, that's not the kind of women you want, Josiah.。
Okay, okay, all right.。
Center me, center me.。
Bring me back to reality.。
And God just started showing me, man,。
that this is where life is found.。
That following Him is adventurous, man.。
If you got some crazy idea。
of what it looks like to follow Christ,。
and you just sing songs and listen to messages,。
and you never do anything with it, man, you're crazy, man.。
Just go back to the Porch Podcast archive。
and listen to the messages.。
This life is way different than my BC days before Christ.。
More joy.。
So I locked it in with men that wanted to go all in,。
and they walked with me through the highest of highs,。
the lowest of lows.。
The destructive divorce that plagued me。
and had anger and bitterness in my heart for years,。
they began to unpack that layer by layer by layer.。
The stage four cancer that my sister-in-law went through,。
they began to walk with me through that.。
Like, what is the world's solution to those problems,。
to those pains?。
Ah, let's go get a six pack or a 12, let's go to the bar,。
let's go numb ourself, come on.。
You know there ain't no life there,。
and you keep lying to yourself week in and week out.。
And they began to give me real solutions。
for real problems that I was going through.。
When I lost one of my best friends。
in a tragic plane accident,。
they showed up.。
When I finally got married, come on somebody,。
they celebrated me.。
When I had my first child, they were there.。
They showed up for me, man, in the highest of highs。
and the lowest of lows.。
Call to commit.。
Tonight's the night that many of you,。
you pass from this world of superficial,。
lacking depth of relationship,。
to truly going all in, not just with Christ,。
but with his people.。
And I always wonder, man, what my life would look like。
if I never went all in with his people.。
I always wonder, I'm like, man, what would my life look like?。
Like, would I still be living in my parents' house,。
playing video games at an unhealthy level?。
Like just maybe at a tailgate,。
Dallas Cowboys in the parking lot,。
talking about how I never made it drunk.。
Just addicted to pornography,。
addicted to myself, just a poser,。
like just telling people one thing and doing another.。
I always wonder, what would your life look like?。
What would your life look like if you never stepped out。
in what we talked about tonight?。
Like there's a countdown right here.。
That's a long time, it feels like, but that's just a year.。
Like if Jesus showed up a year from tonight。
or three weeks ago, four weeks ago,。
when we launched the porch, is he gonna be cool。
with just like, oh, just me and Jesus, just me and you?。
Or is he gonna be like, man, what?。
I've given you a church, man, I've given you people.。
What are you gonna do with it?。
You're gonna go all in?。
A call to community, a call to be fully known.。
And lastly, a call to commit.。
Let me pray that you would tonight.。
God in heaven, go before my friends.。
There's nothing I say or said。
that can change the trajectory of their heart。
and the trajectory of their life.。
Would you help the unbelief that plagues this room?。
And would you turn that into belief?。
Would you help the fears and the insecurities。
that we have to step into a community。
that we talked about tonight?。
And would they just go all in?。
And would they experience the richness of your blessings。
through the tangible expressions of grace and mercy。
and peace and love and wisdom and discernment。
that your people are marked by?。
And no matter what kind of experience they've had。
growing up in the church。
or even in their young adult years, God,。
would they continue to pursue it?。
And would they continue to pursue you?。
And God, would you meet them where they are。
for your glory, our joy, and the world's good.。
It's in Christ's name we pray, amen.。
