Good evening and welcome to the porch.。
I'm here to guide you on your journey through the complex world of relationships.。
Can we cue some music please?。
From our friendships to our romantic endeavors,。
we'll explore our family bonds, estranged relationships,。
work dynamics, and perhaps even the relationship with oneself.。
So how do we relate?。
To answer this, we'll look to scripture and find exactly what God has to say about our relationships.。
This is, after all, the Relationship Series.。
Porch, how we doing? We doing okay?。
Great to see you.。
Man, you know, if I could express the same sentiment in return,。
with that sort of enthusiasm, I would.。
It's so good to see you.。
I'm so glad that y'all would join us here this evening.。
Not just those of you here in the room, of course we're glad to see you,。
but also all of you that are tuning in with us online.。
Porch Live Nation, everywhere you are, we're so glad that you're here with us this evening.。
I've said it before, I'll say it again, and you'll hear it at some point in the future.。
We believe that God can meet with any person at any time and in any place, and that includes you.。
So thanks so much for being a part of it.。
Special shout out to Porch Live, Tulsa, Boise, and Indy.。
So grateful for what God is doing there.。
Well, it was eighth grade when I experienced my first official year of basketball tryouts.。
Anybody play basketball in here?。
Grade school, high school?。
All right.。
For the first time in mine and my peers' lives, not everyone would make a team and be slotted to play,。
but only those that were talented enough to make the roster.。
And listen, okay, those of you that cheered, I'm not delusional.。
You know, at the time, I knew that I wasn't the best guy on the court.。
Like, I wasn't the star-studded playmaker.。
I wasn't the bona fide starter to the team.。
Just to be frank, like, I genuinely deserved to ride the pine.。
Like, that's just kind of the level of my ability at the time.。
But what I wanted was to make the team.。
Like, I loved the sport.。
I desperately wanted to make my way on, and I decided to game the system.。
And so I asked a good friend of mine who was a year older than I was,。
"Hey, when you tried out for the team a year ago, what did y'all do?。
Like, what did tryouts look like?。
And that way I can learn what to do, so that way I can make sure to get on the team."。
He told me they did three things.。
They did something called the "mic and drill,"。
which is where you're standing underneath a hoop,。
and you work your right hand and left hand.。
You just put the ball into the basket.。
Left-handed and right-handed layups, which I had no experience with left-handed layups,。
so I had to learn how to use my left hand very quickly.。
And then lastly were shots from the elbow.。
And so I learned the three things that I was supposed to do.。
He told me what I needed to know, and I'll just cut to the chase.。
Like, I became a master at all three of these things.。
And so the day of tryouts come, and I crushed it.。
Like, I don't think I missed a single shot.。
I made every single layup.。
I looked like a savant with my left hand.。
And because I did, to my coach's surprise and my own, I made the A-team.。
Yeah, man.。
[applause]。
Everything was going incredible.。
That is until the season began, and we started playing real games.。
You see, it didn't take long for my coaches to realize that I wasn't all that I appeared the day that I showed up to tryouts.。
That although I knew what to do in tryouts,。
I didn't know how to actually play the game in the heat of real competition.。
I was exposed.。
And I suffered the consequences of that exposure.。
I was unceremoniously demoted from the A-team to the B-team.。
And then I was demoted from the B-team to the C-team.。
Now, why do I tell you that?。
Because in life, we often want someone to just tell us what to do.。
And we minimize the importance of learning how to play the game.。
In no area of life is this truer than in the area of work.。
You see, just like me asking for the secrets to crack the code on tryouts,。
we often want someone to help us crack the code on what we need to do so we can be successful。
and actuate our potential and achieve our dreams and make some kind of difference and leave a mark on the world.。
And if you look at the data, it actually backs this up.。
Like, Deloitte recently did a report in 2024 that said millennials in Gen Z in the workplace。
are mostly driven by a purpose-driven mentality, that we want purpose-driven work.。
And this is, by and large, for every one of us in here, this is what we desire.。
Just under 90% of young adults agreed, "I want purpose in my job.。
I don't want to just be performance-oriented. I want to be purpose-oriented,"。
which isn't a bad thing.。
Like, I actually think that that's a good thing.。
If you read the Bible, it's actually even more so. It's a God thing.。
Because if you're a follower of Jesus, what you often consider when you think about your work。
is that God does have purpose for you wherever it is you spend your time, 9 to 5, Monday to Friday.。
And what you probably think if you're a follower of Jesus is that your purpose on the job is to fulfill the Great Commission.。
It's to make disciples of every cubicle.。
You know, like, that's kind of your mentality, which is spot on and correct.。
And yet, I would say, though it is correct, it's actually not complete.。
Because we not only have one mandate for our work, we have two.。
You see, God, He does care about the people that you work around.。
But He also cares about the work you do.。
Because in the very first chapter of the Bible, He tells us that we should rule over all the earth.。
That as His viceroy, His image bearers, those made in the image of God, we should go and subdue the earth.。
That we should cultivate culture, and we should build structure, and we should produce beauty.。
Like, it's good that you want a job that's filled with purpose.。
But God's looking at you and He's saying, "Hey, I've already filled your job with purpose. You need look no further."。
That's why, whether you're a teacher, or an IT guy, or an attorney, or an accountant, or a plumber, or a carpenter, or a construction worker,。
you can be convinced that in God's eyes, it matters far less what you do, and much more how you do it.。
So then, how are we supposed to work?。
Well, that's what I want to talk to you about tonight.。
And to do so, we're going to be in the book of Ephesians.。
If you have a Bible, you can grab it. Turn to Ephesians chapter 6.。
If you don't have a scripture, that's okay. We'll have all the text up on the screens for you.。
But here's what I want to do. I just want to walk us through a passage of scripture。
where the apostle Paul is going to help some subordinates learn how to honor their masters.。
By this point in the book of Ephesians, what you need to know is that he has already unpacked this idea of a divine and radical grace of God.。
That any person, Jew and Gentile, can place their faith in Jesus, and they can be forgiven of their sins in a moment.。
That you can have salvation by simply professing him as Lord.。
That it was dark for you. You were facing a difficult day.。
You had no hope on your own, and yet Jesus stepped into your story.。
And he saved you, but he didn't just save you by yourself.。
He saved you into his family.。
Because as you keep reading, you see that Paul talks about not just the purpose you live for, but also the unity of the body.。
Which is what we find as we come through chapters 5 and 6.。
He talks about parents and children and husbands and wives.。
And as we come to the section we're in tonight, he's going to talk about masters and bond servants.。
It says this, Ephesians 6 verse 5.。
Okay, let's park this for a second.。
Anybody in here have a different translation that doesn't say bond servant?。
Yeah, what's it say?。
Slavery.。
Which for some of us, if we read that, immediately we get hung up on.。
And there's good reason for that, because that word is loaded with so much historical context.。
Even personal context for many of us.。
So it's important for us to clarify.。
Is Paul condoning slavery?。
No. Far from it.。
In fact, if you study through chapters 5 and 6, you will see these other relational constructs that God has ordained.。
And what you see is you look at the way husbands relate to wives and parents relate to children.。
As you see that Paul references in each a creational order to things.。
He takes it back to God's original design as he unpacks those two different relationship structures.。
He does not reference a creational order when he is talking about bond servitude.。
What does that all mean?。
This was never a part of God's design.。
Slavery was never a part of God's plan.。
It was not something he schemed up and then unleashed on the world.。
It's far from within his realm of reason.。
Now, I don't have time to unpack what slavery looked like in the first century.。
Nor give you a dissertation of the differences between it and what we see in the 1800s, 1900s, and then in human trafficking today.。
But what I will say very briefly, just to give us some handles to hold, is that this looked very different than what we understand as modern slavery.。
You see, in the Roman Empire, many slaves, not all, but many of them, they would enter into bond servitude voluntarily.。
Whether through debt bondage, where I had money I owed and so I would choose to enter into an agreement where I could work my way out of debt.。
Or through a process they called self-selling, where I would sell myself into your servitude.。
That way I could ascend up the social ladder.。
I could find my way into Roman citizenship.。
I could avail myself to new opportunity.。
I could eventually get free of the Roman tax system.。
What you see is that many people would enter into bond servitude by way of their own self-selection.。
They would choose to do so.。
Now, this isn't a comprehensive explanation of what you see bond servitude is in the Roman Empire.。
But it is important for us to understand because it is contextually relevant to why we're talking about work from this passage in specific.。
I'm not defending bond servitude.。
Again, we can talk about it through a podcast or something different at another time.。
If you have questions, you can come and visit with me about it.。
This is not a raving endorsement for it.。
Are you all clear on that?。
But what we do need to know is it has some similarities to an employer-employee relationship.。
It's, when agreed upon, mutually beneficial for both parties, according to what we see in this text.。
There is a definitive end date.。
It's not something that perpetually goes on and on and on.。
It will eventually end.。
What you see is that both report to an authority and they're contractual.。
So Paul's instruction for them is a useful instruction for us.。
Because he talks to them, he knows that many of these people, they serve in jobs of medicine or accounting or business or philosophy or civil service, even the emperor's own household.。
They're in positions that would look really similar to some of the positions that we're working in here tonight.。
And so he's going to instruct them on what it looks like for them to interact in their relationship.。
And it's helpful for us because we need to know how to interact with other people in our working relationship.。
So what does he say?。
What's the way to work?。
Well, it tells us, starting in verse 5, we'll read it again.。
It says, "Bond servants, obey your earthly masters with fear and trembling, with a sincere heart, as you would Christ."。
He gives them the command to obey, which if you study in the Greek just means to come under the authority of someone else.。
That I am positionally subordinate to someone.。
And the way that I'm supposed to engage with them is fear and trembling.。
What does that mean?。
Does it mean that you should be nervous and anxious at the fact that your boss is reigning and ruling over the top of you?。
No, that's not what you should feel.。
When you see those words combined throughout the scripture, it always is pointing to a mentality of reverence or respect.。
Which brings us to our first point, that we respect those we work with, even if they don't deserve it.。
We respect those we work with, even if they don't deserve it.。
You see, you shouldn't be afraid, nor should you tremble at the sight of your boss.。
You should respect them though.。
So think about it like this.。
If Michael Jordan walked on to the court of your local LA Fitness,。
there's not a soul in here that would be like, "Mike! What's up, dude?"。
And then casually go about their business.。
No one would do that.。
No. It would demand some kind of response.。
You would start to feel your heart beating really fast in your chest, and your palms begin to get really sweaty,。
and your voice starts to get really high-pitched because you've never talked to someone of this sort of caliber.。
You see, because he is an authority in that domain, you don't just recognize him.。
You respond to him.。
You put some respect on his name, because he's earned it.。
Because he is the greatest, whether you disagree or not.。
It's important to point out here that Paul doesn't say anything about your boss, or manager, or supervisor deserving your respect.。
It can be a really hard pill for some of us to swallow.。
Like some of you, you're sitting under the supervision of someone that--。
Man, they belittle the people that work for them.。
They speak demeaning to those that report up.。
They take credit when they actually didn't do the work.。
You have people that you report to, that you look at, and you're like, "Man, they don't deserve my respect whatsoever."。
And yet Paul's saying, "No, that's not the problem."。
Because according to Paul, we know that they're still deserving our respect.。
Peter says this in 1 Peter 2:18, he says, "Servants, be subject to your masters with all respect, not only to the good and to the gentle, but also to the unjust."。
I remember one of my really good friends reported to a boss that was the epitome of evil.。
And to top it off, they claimed to be a believer.。
But this was the type of boss that would bang tables and throw papers and get crazy eyes whenever something would go wrong.。
And yet what I saw my friend do as they engaged with their boss is I saw they did not indulge the temptation of their coworkers.。
Where everybody was standing around the water cooler and plotting a coup, how to overthrow this evil dictator, they wouldn't do so.。
They decided instead to show respect, even when respect wasn't deserved.。
And the thing that was crazy for me is this friend of mine, they were the subject of this person's greatest animosity.。
And yet they chose to consistently and persistently honor them.。
You see, this friend of mine, she respected the Lord's lead in her life.。
And so she respected the leader over her life.。
She knew that God was the one calling the shots.。
Daniel chapter 2, it says this, "Blessed be the name of God forever and ever to whom belong wisdom and might."。
Catch this, he changes times and seasons.。
He removes kings and he sets up kings.。
He gives wisdom to the wise and knowledge to those who have understanding.。
What is Daniel saying? God is the only one in control.。
So let me ask you, are you working like you believe that is true?。
Like, are you working like you actually believe God is in control?。
Or better yet, are you working in such a way that other people might believe that he's in control?。
That he's the one calling the shots? That you're so willing to walk with a kind of humility and servant heartedness?。
That as things do go haywire and decisions do go sideways and you become the subject of someone's scrutiny,。
you continue to find that man, you're unshaken, you're immovable, you're a constant fixture of faithfulness.。
Is that true of you and your story?。
Because that's going to lead people to believe something about the authority over your life.。
Not just the visible authority, but the invisible authority in your life.。
You see, if you don't respect the visible authority, they're not going to respect the invisible authority in your world.。
They're not going to believe in him.。
Your witness depends on this. It's critical.。
You see, people won't want to believe in Jesus if you don't work like you believe in Jesus.。
That's why when everyone else is gossiping in the break room, you don't hop in there,。
throw in your two cents, make sure that they hear that you agree,。
that you deserve to be sympathized with because of the hardships you faced.。
No, you choose to walk the other direction.。
That's why whenever you find a man, your boss comes down hard on you,。
like they're delivering harsh criticism, you don't get defensive, you don't bow up.。
How dare you? You don't just respond and retaliate.。
Instead, you choose to listen to the things they say, respond with great grace, and then seek to be better.。
Or when your boss makes a really bad call or a decision becomes disastrous,。
you don't choose to relish in their failure.。
Serves you right.。
You don't celebrate their defeat.。
You offer to help.。
You seek to support even when others may not be willing to themselves.。
Now listen, does that mean that if you're in a tough work environment, you should just stay there?。
I don't know.。
Maybe.。
Maybe not.。
But what I do know is that God is the one in control of your story.。
You can rely on him.。
Like you continue where you are until he makes clear you should go somewhere else.。
You be steadfast in your work.。
You be respectful to your boss.。
You continue to pray and ask God for his guidance.。
He will lead you where he wants you.。
And here's the thing, Porch, many of us want desperately to be out of where we are.。
When God has put you there on purpose and he's waiting for you to fulfill that purpose before he moves you elsewhere.。
Have you considered it?。
Or are you just so unsettled?。
This is horrible.。
I can't believe this is my reality.。
My circumstances could not get worse.。
Or have you registered to the fact that, man, God, you probably have me here for a reason.。
I should probably stand where my feet are set.。
I should probably be ambitious about today and leave you entrusted with tomorrow.。
What is it, God, that you want from me right now?。
Let me be diligent to accomplish whatever that is.。
This is the first way that we work.。
The way we work matters and our work should be marked with respect for others even when they don't deserve it.。
The second way we work is seen in verse 5.。
Again, it says bond servants obey your earthly masters with fear and trembling.。
And then it says with a sincere heart.。
That's the second thing as you would Christ.。
You see, the second thing that Paul tells us is that we give our best at work even when we don't feel like it.。
We give our best at work even when we don't feel like it.。
That word sincere means single.。
Which means that you work with a singleness of heart.。
That you don't have a job over here, but you really want a job over there.。
Because that would be a divided affection.。
That would be a divided heart.。
That's not how we work.。
We work with a singularity of affection.。
All of our being is pointed and all of our feeling is pointed at what God has given.。
We work where we are.。
We work wherever God wills.。
Why is that?。
Because we can trust him.。
Romans 8 tells us that God works all things together for the good of those that are called according to his purposes.。
Which can be a really tough pill to swallow.。
Can we just level with each other?。
Like some of you are in here and you hear that.。
Like man, God works for my good.。
And he's purposed it.。
Yet despite the fact that it's so miserable.。
Like that doesn't make any sense, Kyle.。
And like my job couldn't be any worse.。
How is it that God could put me in such a horrible situation and yet he could stand on the promise that this is actually for my good.。
That this is according to his plan and purpose.。
How is that true?。
Well, I will just tell you this.。
If that's you in the room, you're in really good company.。
Because the Bible is filled with people who could agree to that set of circumstances.。
That was their reality.。
Just think about it.。
Daniel had a horrible boss in King Nebuchadnezzar.。
Joseph was abused repeatedly by people in power over him.。
And David was hunted down by the guy he was supposed to succeed.。
And yet what you find is that as these brothers continued to trust the Lord and do the best they could with where they were.。
God provided for them.。
He even promoted them.。
Like Daniel, he becomes the ruler over the entire province of Babylon.。
He even becomes the chief over Nebuchadnezzar's wise men.。
Joseph, who we talked about last week, you see he becomes the CFO over Egypt.。
And David is the king over all Israel.。
Now, that does not necessarily mean that if I trust God and I work hard, I'm going to be promoted into sea level status.。
No, that's not what this is saying.。
That's not what these examples are pointing towards.。
But what it is saying is that he will take care of you.。
He'll provide for you.。
Which some of you need to hear because you're so desperately trying to provide for yourself.。
And yet you just need to know in the face of your hardship, in the face of your difficulty, as people use you and abuse you.。
And they wring you for all your worth, but they never give you anything in return.。
You need to know God sees you.。
And he's at work in the waiting.。
He has a plan.。
He will bring it to pass because he works for your good.。
Proverbs 16.3 says, commit your work to the Lord and your plans will be established.。
Do you hear the promise in that?。
You commit your work to the Lord and your plans will be established.。
God will take care of you.。
He loves to use those that work hard.。
That give their best effort.。
They try when other people wouldn't.。
So that's why we as the people of God, we're not one foot in and one foot out.。
We're best foot forward.。
Like we're giving everything we have to wherever God has us.。
We don't just pass the time until 5 o'clock hits and praise God, happy hour somewhere and now I can finally go to the gym.。
That's not our mentality.。
No, we're making the most of the time we have.。
Like we don't grumble and complain when we're asked to do something meaningless.。
This is the worst.。
They always ask me to do this.。
I wish I didn't have to do these things that they perpetually and consistently ask.。
No, that's not our response.。
We find meaning in the mundane.。
That's the people of God's response.。
Why?。
Why do we do this?。
How is it that we can have such a radically reoriented perspective from the rest of the world?。
The world doesn't do this.。
They don't respond like this.。
How can we do it?。
That's not our reality because we're not bond servants to any man.。
We're bond servants to Christ.。
We're bond servants of Christ.。
That's what Paul says in verse 6.。
He says we don't do these things by way of eye service as people pleases but as bond servants of Christ Jesus doing the will of God from the heart.。
That word for eye service is really funny.。
Paul probably made it up.。
He's trying to communicate to us that we don't just work hard when other people are watching.。
Like you don't give your best effort whenever your boss is around.。
That's not the mentality.。
No, we work when no one is watching.。
We give our best even when we're in solitude.。
We find ourselves in isolation when no one is around.。
So here's the thing.。
If you've ever opened a spreadsheet at your computer just to make it look like you're really busy so that way your boss doesn't realize that you're actually checking Instagram on the side, you might be guilty of eye service.。
If you're the person that has opened up a dozen different tabs on your browser to hide the fact that you're online shopping but they'll never know because you can't actually read what's in the tab.。
It's so shrunken and small you laugh because you've done this.。
I remember watching March Madness and there was this feature called the boss button.。
If you're watching the 2 o'clock tip off you can hit the boss button and a spreadsheet will pop up.。
Your boss will have no idea that you were actually watching basketball instead of working diligently and doing the best you can for the good of the rest of the company.。
If you've done any of these things, you're guilty of eye service.。
You're guilty of people pleasing.。
Here's the thing, Porch.。
That's really dishonest.。
Recently, Brooke and I were picking up a rental car in Colorado.。
We made our way to the rental car agency and the attendant is so nice.。
He's engaged with us.。
He's interested in what brings you to town.。
He's laughing at all my jokes.。
I love this guy.。
That is until he tries to sell us on rental car insurance.。
I say, "Man, we're okay."。
I refuse to opt in to the toll tag service that they use and I don't really want to prepay for gas.。
I saw his attitude immediately shift.。
He went from being my best friend to just being a cold, hard salesman.。
Someone that just was running me through the queue and trying to get me out the door so that way he could pull the next person forward.。
And I realized in that moment, "Man, you don't care about me.。
Like I'm just a path to your paycheck.。
Like I'm just a figure for your commission."。
And listen, I have no disrespect for the fact that the guy's doing his job.。
But where I take issue is that he's doing his job not out of concern or care for the customer.。
He's doing it out of concern and care for himself.。
So much so that he was adamant about me leaving him a review.。
He like wrote his name down.。
Like, "Hey man, don't forget my name's Dan.。
It's spelled D-A-N.。
I know how to spell Dan, you know, or Bob or Jim, whatever it was.。
I know.。
I've got it, brother."。
He was that adamant about getting something out of this exchange.。
And too often we do the same thing.。
But that shouldn't be the case because if you're a follower of Jesus, you don't angle your way into some kind of role or finesse yourself into some sort of new opportunity or maneuver your way to be a part of that conversation in that room, a part of that board meeting.。
That's not what we do.。
That's duplicitous.。
It's not singular at heart.。
You see, we don't just work hard whenever other people can see us because here's the thing, and you better hear me on this.。
The one that assigned you the work never loses sight of you.。
Like you think you're taking job orders from some boss?。
No.。
Your life is carefully orchestrated by a sovereign God.。
And he has put you where you are.。
And I promise there is good in it.。
There is redemptive purpose behind it, even if it is difficult.。
But if you think no one's watching, you are grievously mistaken.。
Because he's always watching.。
He sees everything.。
Which I know can feel really intense.。
Dude, it's not that big of a deal.。
Like doesn't everybody do this?。
But here's the thing.。
We don't follow everybody.。
We follow Jesus.。
Like we don't live like the crowds.。
We live like Christ in that his pursuit of you and me, it was not motivated to impress the opinions of other people.。
It was motivated to express the love of God.。
That's how we live.。
We live in light of the way he has cared for us.。
How did he express the love of God?。
He lavished it upon a people that were unworthy.。
He gave his very best effort.。
He was perfect.。
And he gave so much that he would lay down his own life for you and me.。
A people that were unlovely, unwelcoming, undesirable, underwhelming.。
If he cared that much, if he's willing to go that far, go that hard, we should do the same.。
We should do the same.。
But that's not the only way we work.。
Yes, we give respect to those that we work alongside.。
And yes, we give our best effort when we are at work.。
But also we care about our work.。
Even if we don't love it.。
We care about our work even if we don't love it.。
That's what Paul points to when he gets to verse 7.。
It says...。
We render service with a goodwill asked of the Lord and not to man.。
Render service with a goodwill asked of the Lord and not to man.。
I remember when my dad first taught me to cut the yard.。
He was adamant about us doing it a very specific way.。
We would cut it in straight lines.。
Edge it very carefully.。
And then we would go to blow and make sure everything was picked up at the end.。
Which was always the most frustrating part for me.。
I get it.。
The grass is tall.。
We have to cut this thing down.。
It's hanging over the edge of the line.。
We have to edge this thing up.。
But why do we have to blow all of the grass into piles and pick it up?。
No one does that.。
Let's just blow it out into the street like everybody else does and let the traffic take care of our problem.。
Why do you care so much, Pop, about blowing this stuff into piles, sweeping it into a dustpan and throwing it into a trash bin?。
Because where I was just focused on getting the job done, he was focused on getting the job done right.。
You see, he cared.。
He cared about our house.。
He wanted it to look nice for my mom.。
He cared about our neighbors and that he didn't just want to blow grass and make it a problem for someone else to deal with.。
And he cared about me.。
And that he wanted to show me the way that I should work.。
That if I'm going to apply myself even to something I don't love, like cutting the yard, it doesn't mean that I can't do it well.。
It doesn't mean I don't do it well.。
Why do I tell you that?。
Because that's what Paul is talking about here in this verse specifically.。
That we should render service with a good will.。
Which can be confusing.。
If ever you're struggling to understand something in the scripture, here's a good strategy.。
Go grab another translation of the Bible and read it instead.。
See what another translation says about a passage of scripture you find difficult.。
I didn't know what a good will was.。
And so I pulled up a different translation.。
And I saw that it's a good attitude.。
And if you go and study the Greek, that's exactly what it means.。
It's to be enthusiastic or wholehearted in what you're doing.。
Which means that we don't just give our best effort when we work.。
We mean our best effort when we work.。
We mean it.。
But here's the thing.。
When I say that, I know that the reaction to some of you in the room is like, but Kylan, I don't love my job.。
I really don't.。
I'm in for more.。
This isn't what I signed up to do.。
This doesn't meet my passions.。
It doesn't actualize my potential.。
It's not leading me into the sort of joy and satisfaction that I want to be true of my life.。
I don't love my job.。
But here's the thing.。
It doesn't mean that you can't care about it.。
It doesn't mean that you can't care about it.。
Again, God is less concerned about what you do.。
And he is far more concerned about how you do it.。
It's fascinating.。
When Gen Z was first entering the workforce in 2017, if you read any of the literature that was out there about this new generation that was arriving into the workforce, what you would read is that the hopes were really high.。
The potential was really great.。
That everybody expected this to be the next hardworking generation.。
And it was the product of things like our social sensitivity and our emphasis on ethics and our individuality and our entrepreneurial spirit.。
People were even so bold to say that Gen Z looks like the greatest generation, that generation from 1901 to 1928, 1930, that really made America what it is, that advanced our society technologically and fought in World War II.。
Those are some big shoes to fill.。
And yet there was the high hope that, man, the young adults of America would do it.。
And yet what's fascinating is if you go and you read in the last couple of years articles about our generation and the present workforce, what you find is that current American bosses, they've changed their tune.。
That instead of seeing us as the hardest working generation, they've instead found many of us to be the hardest generation to work with.。
Why is that?。
Well, there's a lot that we could say about it.。
And I won't give you all the specifics of why that is the synopsis.。
But I will give you just a blunt answer as to why that is the ultimate finding.。
And it's this.。
If we don't love the work we do, then we're really unwilling to do it.。
That's why we're seeing some pretty alarming data on workplace disengagement within young adults.。
Gallup Consulting, and this is your last statistic.。
But Gallup Consulting, they looked at the level of engagement amongst millennials and Gen Z, and what they found is that just under a third, less than 32% of us are actively engaged on our job.。
That's alarming.。
We're disengaged.。
We're deeply detached from our work.。
Now, let me be really clear in saying all of this.。
I always think it's strange to try and define an entire generation of people by one set of characteristics.。
That feels like we're painting in two broad strokes.。
Like it's a really wide array of people to paint under one set of values or descriptors.。
And so I'm not convinced that this is totally true.。
And I'm not convinced that it's totally true of those in this room.。
I know many of you, and you are hardworking people.。
You struggle in difficult jobs, and yet you burn the midnight oil.。
You give your very best effort.。
You show up and you offer respect to the people you work with.。
I know that this isn't conclusively true nor universally true in any sense.。
And yet, I do think it's just, it's so interesting.。
Because it points to the reality that, man, if we don't love our work, we're willing to disengage from it.。
And yet we've not been called to love our job.。
We've been called to care about our job.。
That's God's mandate for us as we see it from his word.。
You see, loving one's job is not a sufficient reason for whether we do our jobs well or not.。
We need something of more substance.。
So what sort of substance do you lean on to help you when the days grow long and the times get tough?。
What substance undergirds your motivation to keep caring about your work?。
Well, it says in this verse, "We work for the Lord and not for man."。
We work for the Lord and not for man.。
Not for some other man.。
And catch this.。
Not for you either.。
You don't work for yourself.。
You work for him.。
Like, you can care about a job that is unworthy of your affections。
because you work for a God that cares about a people unworthy of his affections.。
You want to learn how to do this well?。
Then you need only look to Jesus.。
Like Christ, he cared about us when we were riddled in sin, despicable with reputation.。
And yet he still chose to care for us.。
It was his heart to care for us when we were unworthy.。
And so we can have a heart to care for those and those things in life that we deem to be unworthy.。
This is the response for those that have placed their faith in Jesus.。
That once you see him and you see him rightly, you can see them and see them rightly.。
You can move into the world the way that he would have you move.。
Paul, in a different letter, but saying a very similar idea, says in Colossians 3, 23-24,。
"Whatever you do, work heartily as for the Lord and not for men,。
knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as your reward,。
which is really similar to what he says in verse 8,。
knowing that whatever good anyone does, this he will receive back from the Lord,。
whether he's a bond servant or is free."。
Why do we work heartily, with sincerity, as if we truly care?。
Because we know this, porch, and this is where we'll end.。
If your job's hard, if your boss is difficult, if your coworkers are crazy,。
and somehow your working reality never got better,。
you can be assured that you have an inheritance in Christ Jesus, and it will get better.。
That the moment you live in now, it is but a blip on the grand spectrum of your eternity,。
if you've placed your faith in Christ.。
That today, whatever your situation is with Jesus, it's the worst day you can ever know.。
Because tomorrow it will get better, and the day after it will get better,。
and the day after it will improve,。
because not your circumstances just get better and better and better and better,。
but you walk with Christ.。
You behold King Jesus.。
You become like him yourself.。
You belong to his people, and you believe what he's doing in the world.。
That he's saving it.。
That he's rescuing folks.。
He's pushing back darkness.。
He's setting captives free.。
And he's invited you to be a part of it.。
What work is as worthy as that?。
No work.。
And yet the beauty of it is, everything that Christ has come to do,。
which he has brought you into the fold of, he has called you and commissioned you to join in,。
all of those things, it happens wherever it is you work right now.。
That yes, you do get to help save souls, push back darkness.。
You get to establish God's kingdom on earth as it is in heaven.。
Like that's the beauty of the scripture.。
If you study the Bible, what you realize is God has big plans for work.。
Like everything starts in a garden state, but everything ends in a city state.。
Like he's working the world through you and I to a place where culture is vibrant。
and society bursts with life and people are advanced, not to their own glory,。
but to the glory of God.。
And the reason we know that this inheritance is promised to us is because we know that our peace in life,。
it's not found in our satisfaction on the job.。
It's found through our satisfaction in God.。
We know it's not found in our performance for our boss, but it's found in the performance of Christ on the cross.。
And we know it's not found in the approval of any other person, but it's found in the approval of your king.。
That king that respected you when you and I were so unworthy of respect, he chose to pursue us anyways.。
He chose to leave the halls of heaven and move into our neighborhood and become like you and I。
and love an unlovely people, riddled in sin, marked with depravity, separated from God,。
and yet sought after by a God that wanted to bring us close again.。
He respected us.。
And what you see in Christ is that he gave his best in life.。
Like he came to work to do his utmost, to lay out as much as he could,。
to provide for as many as he could by way of his own life.。
That he didn't just come to be perfect on your behalf, but to lay down that perfection upon the cross,。
absorbing the full consequence of God's wrath towards sin in himself,。
that any that place their faith in him wouldn't receive condemnation, but would receive salvation and be saved.。
And we know that he cared about us.。
He cared about a people that were unlovely, undesirable, and so very underwhelming to pursue.。
And yet he cared enough to lay down his life, yet take it up again and invite us to go with him where he now is.。
Friends, Jesus has shown you the way to work in that he has worked the way himself.。
Now place your faith in him and work in a way that's worthy of him too.。
Let me pray.。
God, we love you.。
Lord, I know there's so many people here that come from such a wide array of work complications, God.。
Like there's so many people in here where, man, like their reality at the office is horrible.。
Their bosses are difficult. Their coworkers are chaos.。
And yet, God, they don't know the way through it.。
I know, God, there's so many in here that, man, they've looked to their job to give them all the satisfaction they could want for in life, God.。
I know there are some in here that have looked to their work and they've said, "It'll be in my work that I'll finally feel like enough, that I'll finally measure up.。
Not for anybody else, but really just for myself, I'll finally feel like I'm worthy of the kind of love that I've always wanted."。
God, I pray that people would know here the fullness of life is found in one place, in one place alone, and that's your son.。
And the deepness of soul satisfaction will not be curbed by some job or performance review, but it will be curbed only by you, King Jesus.。
And the enoughness that so many long for has already been attested to through the life and the death and the resurrection of our Savior.。
We love you, God. Would you work here in this time, please, I pray.。
Amen.。
