(upbeat music)。
- All right, Porch, how we doing?。
We doing okay tonight?。
Let's go.。
Hey, it's so good to be back here with you。
this Tuesday night.。
Special shout out to everybody tuning in with us right now.。
Wherever it is that you're watching,。
whether it's here this evening,。
at some point in the future,。
we're so glad that you would choose to be a part。
of what God is doing.。
Man, it happens in Dallas,。
but it is happening around our nation。
and across the globe within your generation.。
We love that God is, I mean, right now,。
like he is spiritually surging within the lives。
of young adults all over.。
And we feel it, like I just felt it.。
Did you feel that?。
Like in worship, there's something palpable in the room,。
and that's something that we want to be true in this space,。
that we would come,。
and we wouldn't just intellectually ascend。
and learn great things,。
and we wouldn't just get all caught up in our feels。
because it feels good to come in and emote a little bit,。
but we would actually find the unification。
of those two things,。
and we would experience God together because he's here.。
Often, it's just a matter of us waking up to that reality.。
So thanks for being here.。
Special shout out to all of our Porch Live locations。
that are tuning in,。
Porch Live Indy, Porch Live Boise, and Porch Live Midland.。
Special shout out to you guys.。
Midland, we love them.。
Hey, I'm really excited for tonight.。
I don't want to waste much more time.。
Obviously, this setup is different than normal,。
and because last week, we cued。
that we're gonna do a little bit of a round table,。
a little, that we're gonna spend an evening。
just conversating about a topic。
we think is really important.。
And to help me with it,。
we've got a couple of special guests.。
We've got both Timothy Atik, TA, who you know,。
elder lead pastor here at Watermark Community Church,。
and then we have a very special guest。
returning to the Porch stage, Miss Brenna Blaine.。
Porch, would y'all do an excellent job。
of helping welcome both of them to the stage at this time?。
[audience cheering]。
Don't be shy.。
Y'all come on up.。
It's amazing.。
Great to see y'all.。
Y'all grab a seat, please.。
Porch, here's where we're going this evening.。
We set this up last week for you。
that we wanted to take some time tonight,。
and we wanted to really have a conversation。
about something that is deeply relevant to our current day.。
We want to talk to you about sexuality.。
And the reason why we want to do it。
is because here at the Porch,。
we not only want to be relevant。
because we want to be cool or we want to be current,。
we want to be relevant because we want to be heard,。
and we want to be helpful to you.。
We realize that this is a subject。
that meets many of you right where you are.。
And so we wanted to take an evening。
to really dedicate specific time。
to working our way through it.。
And in order to do so,。
I thought it'd be really helpful。
to have some friends join me.。
TA is here because we believe that this subject。
is one that shouldn't just be preached about from the stage,。
but it should be pastored from the floor.。
And he's here as an expression of Watermark's love。
for those of you in the room。
that maybe this is a part of your story。
or it's the part of someone's story that you know.。
And this is just our declaration to say,。
man, we want to walk with you through these types of issues.。
We don't want to just preach about them.。
We really want to shepherd you along the way.。
So TA, thanks for being here.。
And then Brenna is here。
because this is very much an authentic part。
of her experience.。
And so Brenna, if you would,。
I know that some people are familiar with you already.。
It was awesome to see that there's some response。
just because you were here not even six months ago or so.。
And we had the joy of spending time with you then,。
but would you mind just catching everyone else up。
that hasn't had the chance。
to just learn a little bit about who you are。
and what your story is。
and why this subject is specifically something。
you've steeped yourself in study over。
and you've spent time looking at the scriptures for?。
- Yeah.。
- Awesome.。
- Well, like Kylan said, my name is Brenna.。
I'm 29 years old.。
And I think one of the two most important things about me。
is that I am a wife and I am a mom。
to two little but big energy boys。
that I just deeply love.。
And in my job, I get to be a contemporary theologian.。
And that's such a crazy thing to say.。
But I did not get there easily.。
I had to wrestle through some pretty significant suffering。
and complex things to get there.。
And one of the most informative things。
that I walked through was I was born into a pastor's home.。
I'm a PK.。
And that would have been really great for me,。
except I realized in my early teens。
that I am in fact attracted to the same sex.。
And I knew that made me incompatible。
with the person of Christ,。
or at least that's what I thought in that place.。
And so it took a lot of questioning。
and I think even running from God。
that the Lord used that to bring me back to him.。
I still struggle with same sex attraction.。
That's a temptation that has not been taken away from me.。
But I believe in the faithfulness。
and the goodness of the Holy Spirit.。
And so I sit humbly before you all today。
that the Lord has allowed me to be here。
to share parts of what I've learned。
and what I've gone through.。
The very first song we sang tonight,。
I actually became super overwhelmed emotionally。
because I ran far away from God。
and I kind of physically ran away from God.。
When I graduated, when I was a high schooler,。
I moved to Maui, Hawaii,。
because all I wanted to do was smoke weed,。
date hot women, and surf.。
And so I went there to do that,。
but I went there under the guise of being a missionary。
because I couldn't afford to get myself to Maui.。
So I applied for this missions program,。
got accepted 'cause I grew up in the church。
and knew how to use Christian language,。
flew into the church,。
knew how to use Christian language,。
flew under the radar, ended up there,。
and got radically saved by the Lord.。
And I remember I had to go home for my brother's wedding,。
not very far into that stay.。
I flew home and I remember thinking,。
my parents and everyone around me。
are going to be shocked.。
Um, because I'd faked it for so long。
and was so convinced that everyone else was faking it too.。
And the moment that I met the Lord,。
that was so transformative.。
And I remember being home,。
about to go to my brother's wedding,。
I was upstairs in my bathroom and that song came on.。
And I felt full of the Holy Spirit。
for the first time in my life.。
And so to have that song play and be standing there。
and thinking about what God has done。
over the last 10 years has just been incredibly humbling。
and blows my mind.。
So thanks for letting me go on a tangent there.。
(congregation applauding)。
- I mean, I think that even that is just a testament。
to the fact that like this,。
yes, we have planned for this moment.。
And yet, as we were talking about earlier,。
like we really want to be sensitive。
to the way in which the Spirit of God moves in this space.。
We wanna be in inviting people to His work here.。
And the fact that that connects so like,。
it connects to such an important and pivotal moment。
in your story of grace is really amazing.。
It's as if the Spirit sees what we're doing right now.。
So I'm really eager to get into this a little bit more。
and I'm really glad you're here.。
Brenna, I think that your story probably resonates。
with someone in the room.。
And if it doesn't resonate with someone personally,。
it will resonate with someone in the sense。
that they know someone that it resonates with.。
So there's really no one here that can see,。
can feel in themselves, this is irrelevant.。
Like this is a wildly relevant issue,。
not just in our culture, but to us at an individual level.。
For those that are resonating with it, I'm just curious,。
can you speak to, is their sexual orientation a sin。
or is it part of how God created them to be?。
- Yeah, I mean, my first thing,。
and to just be transparent with everyone,。
I'm a huge manuscripter.。
I take notes, so we talked through these questions。
beforehand, so I'm gonna be reading through my notes。
so I can give you my absolute best.。
But my first question is, who's asking the question。
and what are they struggling with?。
You can have a sexual orientation。
that is part of how God created you。
and parts of that orientation can be sinful.。
So an example would be a young woman。
who is attracted to men.。
That is the God-created and ordained model of attraction。
that we have been given.。
However, post-fall, sin enters the world and lust does too.。
And I think something that's interesting。
when I was thinking through this question。
is a world without lust is so foreign to us。
that I think even as Christians,。
especially single Christians,。
we do not recognize the microforms of lust。
in our life as lust.。
Like, I often wonder where attraction would stop。
or what the depth of attraction would be。
as a single person pre-fall, if that makes sense.。
And so people with God-created orientations。
can still struggle with sin within that.。
And then another example is a sexual orientation。
that exists as a result of the fall.。
So your sexual desires have been disordered。
because of what has happened.。
So those orientations would be any attraction。
that falls outside of the marriage mandate,。
which is one man, one woman for life.。
So examples of this would be,。
like myself attracted to the same sex.。
I don't believe God created me that way.。
It's a result of the fall.。
And if, I mean, it feels cheeky saying this,。
but I actually believe it.。
If you are a serial dater, God didn't create you that way.。
And that is a result of the fall.。
And if you find yourself bored of your spouse。
after 15 years, God still did not create you that way.。
And that's a result of the fall.。
So if your sexual appetite tells you,。
I need a new experience or a new person。
or new experiences with new people。
or with a screen or a book to light up my imagination,。
God didn't create you that way.。
And that is a result of the fall.。
- So would you say that it's right to say。
that a same sex orientation or a same sex attraction。
is not sin, but it is a result of the fall?。
- Yeah. - Okay.。
But we would say that same sex lust。
or same sex action would be sin.。
- Yeah. - Right?。
- Yeah. - Okay, that's really helpful.。
Now, Tia, I'd love to speak with you for a moment。
and ask you, 'cause I think this is,。
it's helpful to know, okay,。
my same sex orientation is a result of the fall.。
Then what is the result in our identity through redemption?。
Does that make sense?。
Even what we were visiting about earlier today,。
now that we're in Christ, what is the impact of that。
when it comes to the way we look at our life。
and the things that we actually identify with。
and how we process the circumstances。
or feelings that we have?。
- Yeah.。
Well, I think, you know, the thing,。
the wrestle that I feel when I'm trying to talk to people。
about what God believes about them and their sexuality。
is that the message that people believe。
is the truest thing about me is my sexuality.。
Like, that's the truest thing about me.。
And I would say that in Christ,。
that is not even close to being the truest thing about you.。
Like, the truest thing about me。
is not that I am a heterosexual married man.。
The truest thing about me in Christ。
is that I am a child of God.。
Like, there is nothing that is truer,。
and there is nothing more definite and constant。
than that truth.。
Because here's the reality.。
I might not always be married.。
Let me clarify what I'm saying.。
My wife could, my wife, heaven forbid,。
my wife could die tomorrow, and I am now a widower.。
So, like, that status changes.。
The thing that is truest about me,。
my identity, is that I'm a child of God.。
That's what Christ has done.。
He didn't just come to save us from hell.。
He came to save us into a family。
where we now know God as Father.。
Not everyone is a child of God.。
You're either a child of wrath or a child of God.。
Christ makes us children of God.。
And so, I think the lie that people believe。
is that the truest thing about me is my sexuality.。
Therefore, my sexuality must define me,。
and my sexuality must drive me.。
And that's just not true.。
Like, as a child of God, that's what defines me.。
So, the question that I have to ask and answer。
is what does it look like for me to take my orders。
from my heavenly Father?。
What does it look like for me to embody。
the family values of God?。
And what does it look like for that to define me。
and to drive me?。
And as a heterosexual married man,。
like, that requires consistent surrender to that identity.。
Like, Brenna and I, we're on the same journey every day。
with the same decision if we're going to live within,。
if we're gonna live out the truest thing about us.。
- That's good.。
- I think there are a lot of people here。
that wherever they are with respect to this issue。
would say, "Yes, like, I want that.。
"Like, I want to live out the truest aspect of my identity,。
"but God, why won't you make that easier?"。
Like, there's some people here that have surely prayed,。
Brenna, what I'm sure is the prayer you've prayed yourself,。
which is like, "God, why won't you take this away?"。
What would you say to the person that is praying。
for God to take this away and it hasn't happened yet?。
- Yeah.。
With all the examples I gave about broken orientations,。
in those orientations with those desires,。
you can have those temptations without it being a sin,。
right, like we talked, we touched on that.。
You can have a disordered sexual desire。
without giving into this.。
And I think it's first really important to ask,。
where do we see that in the biblical text?。
If it's true, where do we see that?。
In both Matthew 4, one through 11,。
and then Luke 4, one through 13, it says,。
"Then Jesus was led by the Spirit into the wilderness。
"to be tempted by the devil."。
So the first question is, did Jesus sin?。
No.。
The second question is, was Jesus tempted?。
And in Galatians, it says, "But the fruit of the Spirit。
"is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness,。
"faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control.。
"Against such things there are no law."。
And so there's this argument that lives。
within some faith cultures that say,。
same-sex attracted people need to see a decrease。
or a complete removal of their same-sex attraction。
or temptation in order to lead in the church。
or even to be seen as spiritually healthy or mature.。
And I don't see that in the text.。
What I do see is this sign for spiritual health。
and maturity that is the Holy Spirit。
is taking over more of your thoughts。
and more of your actions,。
and that is what we define as self-control.。
And so I think it's interesting that in this case,。
with this thought, the fruit of the Spirit isn't。
and the diminishing of temptation, but self-control,。
indicating that if these things persist,。
so if you've been praying for your same-sex attraction。
to be taken away and it hasn't been and it persists,。
or even if there are seasons where the temptation grows,。
that in itself does not disqualify you.。
The question doesn't lie in what is the percentage。
of your current temptation,。
but rather what is your dependence on the Holy Spirit?。
Christ was greatly tempted.。
Now I love, in Philippians, it's 2, 6 through 8,。
it says, "Who being in very nature God。
"did not consider equality with God。
"something to be used to his own advantage.。
"Rather, he made himself nothing。
"by taking the very nature of a servant。
"being made in human likeness,。
"and being found in appearance as a man,。
"he humbled himself by becoming obedient to death,。
"even death on a cross."。
So there's this complex theological idea happening here。
that Jesus, while retaining his full divinity,。
set aside the privilege of his divinity and deity,。
and Christ assumes humanity to his divinity.。
So the reason why this matters is that people hear。
that Christ was tempted,。
and it's easy for us to assume。
it didn't have any weight on him because of his deity,。
but here Christ sets that aside.。
And so Christ not sinning when he was tempted。
is not like an athlete using steroids.。
I think that's often the thought.。
He has this superhuman extra boost,。
but Christ not sinning, what it's actually like。
in the face of temptation, is more like an athlete。
who has chosen not to consume ultra-processed food.。
He didn't use a superhuman ability.。
It's actually that he chose not to participate。
in the sin that degrades humanity,。
doling out and dampening the leading。
of the Holy Spirit in our lives.。
And so if that's true, if Christ being fully God。
stepped into being also fully human,。
we have to ask how did he face such horrific temptation。
and do it faithfully?。
And the answer we see is in the beginning。
of all four Gospels, which is when Jesus is baptized,。
he comes out of the water, and what happens?。
The Holy Spirit descends on him.。
And the crazy thing is that gift is available。
to all of us, and so if you have been praying。
for God to take this temptation away from you,。
and Kylan already said it, but I have prayed that prayer.。
There were four years of my life。
where I prayed that prayer every single night.。
You need to know that if his answer is no,。
or if his answer is not yet,。
that the Holy Spirit was not just sufficient,。
but immeasurably more for Christ,。
and therefore is immeasurably more for you,。
no matter what your temptation is.。
And I love in Corinthians, Paul addresses temptation.。
In the first part, he just says,。
"No temptation has overtaken you。
"except what is common to man."。
And in that part, he's saying,。
"If you are tempted, no matter what it is, it's normal."。
You might have the thought in your brain。
that you're like, oh, no one else struggles with this.。
And that is a tool of Satan to keep you isolated。
from sharing in community.。
Your temptation is not unique to you.。
Everyone has struggled with something.。
And then Paul goes on and says,。
"And God is faithful.。
"He will not let you be tempted beyond what you can bear,。
"but when you are tempted,。
"he will also provide a way out so that you can endure it."。
This is written to the church in Corinth.。
Corinth is a huge port city。
that is inundated with sexual misconduct.。
One of the main things that took place in Corinth。
was temple worship.。
And one of the main temples there。
was the Temple of Aphrodite.。
And the way you worshiped in that temple was through sex.。
Any and every sexual engagement you can imagine。
was taking place in the city.。
Now, also, this was not frowned upon.。
This was widely known.。
And if you came into money in this point in time,。
it would be a very normal brag and thing to do。
to say, I am going to worship at the Temple of Aphrodite.。
And everyone knew what you were talking about.。
But Paul is talking to a church。
that has been established in this very city.。
And he's saying these things。
because earlier he talks about this list of sins。
that I think many of us have heard,。
including sexual immorality and homosexuality,。
and he's saying,。
as some of you once were,。
and I love that phrase。
because it's like Paul is writing to this church。
remembering before you loved God,。
you were worshiping at this temple every single night.。
And so you can imagine,。
we've all struggled with temptations。
that we needed to seek accountability for.。
And I think a lot of the times accountability for us。
includes removal or distance.。
You can imagine being people in Corinth。
who struggled with those things,。
who came to know the Lord,。
and then decided we have to be Christians in this city.。
And what temptation that would present itself.。
That every single day you are seeing。
the people of your past life that you used to live with.。
And they're probably saying,。
hey, why don't you just come join us again?。
Hey, what happened?。
Hey, why aren't you going out with us?。
And Paul doesn't say,。
yeah, get up and leave the city.。
He says, the Holy Spirit is sufficient for you.。
So I think we have to understand。
that our temptation is understood。
because Christ was tempted.。
And we are not left to ourselves to battle ourselves.。
We have the Holy Spirit to lean on in that.。
- I can imagine the thought of。
daily surrendering, right?。
Constantly, consistently, continually taking my desires。
and putting them at the altar can feel like,。
okay, here I go again.。
I'm always having to give something up。
in order to get you, Jesus.。
I'm always having to give something over。
in order to receive the kind of life you want.。
And it can feel really taxing.。
TA, we were talking a little bit about this earlier today.。
And so I'd love to just ask if you could speak briefly。
into why is, surrender is not,。
it's not a disincentivizing proposition.。
Like it's actually a great invitation.。
Why is that?。
Like why is it that when I surrender myself to Jesus,。
it's not just I'm giving over, I guess what I want.。
It's actually instead a really beautiful exchange.。
- Yeah, we always think of surrender as giving something up,。
which it is.。
It's laying our lives down.。
The call is to come and die.。
And yet so often we're looking at what we have to give up。
and we're never looking at what we actually get to embrace.。
And so, like if you struggle with some same sex attraction。
in Brenna, this is where you can help,。
but you're not just constantly saying,。
I don't get to have that.。
Like there has to, and this isn't just。
for same sex attraction.。
This is for any desire that is contrary。
to what God wants for you right now.。
So it's so easy to just focus on what God is asking you。
to give up instead of what he's inviting you to embrace.。
And I think the reality is that,。
the reality is that God wants us to be satisfied in him.。
He wants us to be satisfied in him.。
I was talking with a friend earlier。
and we were talking about this,。
we were talking about same sex attraction,。
same sex relationships.。
And one of the ways he put it was,。
in this circumstance, God has told us no.。
And he related it to his kids.。
Like if his kids ask for something。
and he tells them no, like,。
hey dad, I wanna go and spend the night。
at this person's house.。
I know you want to, but you can't.。
The answer is no.。
But dad, I really want to.。
Yeah, but the answer is no.。
But dad, you don't understand.。
No, I do understand, but the answer is no.。
And a question that he's asked his kids is,。
what is keeping you from letting me tell you no?。
Which I think is a really interesting question.。
Like, what's keeping you from letting me tell you no?。
And I think what it comes down to,。
and this is just the Christian life.。
One of the reasons that we have a hard time。
letting God tell us no is that we aren't convinced。
that if we let him tell us no,。
that in the end he will be good enough in himself for us.。
And that's for all of life.。
Like, there's gonna be times in our lives。
where God tells us no.。
That you might be battling chronic pain,。
and you pray for healing, and God tells you no.。
And we, our tendency is to say,。
well then God isn't good because he doesn't heal.。
And yet, what if it is through that pain。
that God wants you to taste and see that he's good。
in a way that you wouldn't if he did just。
heal you like that?。
And so that's where we all, as followers of Jesus Christ,。
that's what faith looks like.。
If we just wanna boil it down,。
faith in Christ is believing that God is good enough。
to tell you no and to give you himself,。
and it makes that no good.。
- Yeah, that's right.。
I remember I had a seminary professor。
who once said, and I think I've shared this in here before,。
but God will lead you places you would not go。
to teach you things you need to know.。
And I was like, well that sounds horrible.。
Can't you find another way to teach me, God?。
There's a litany of things that he wants to teach you.。
Some of you, it's not even in this issue,。
but it's in some area of suffering or difficulty right now,。
and you need to know, man, God is trying to teach you。
more about himself by way of whatever that thing is.。
But, and I think, T.A., you just summarized it perfectly,。
what God is trying to lead you to。
is the knowledge that he's better.。
It's not even like, I guess he's good enough.。
It's that he is better.。
He's better than whatever else it is you want.。
Now, some people here that are struggling。
with same-sex attraction or finding themselves。
in even potentially a same-sex relationship would say,。
okay, but can't I have my cake and eat it too?。
Can't I walk with Jesus and also continue。
to be in a same-sex relationship?。
And Brenna, I would love if you could speak to that question。
'cause I think that that's probably。
the most important question we could ask tonight。
is is it possible to be in a same-sex relationship。
and still live a Christian life?。
And I just wanna give you permission.。
You can take as much time as you want on this one。
because I think that this one is,。
it deserves as much time as you think it actually needs.。
So what do you think?。
Is it possible to be in a same-sex relationship。
and still live a Christian life?。
- Yeah, this is where I took the most time with my notes.。
So we're gonna go down a rabbit trail。
because I think it's extremely important。
that we actually do the work.。
- We're good with that, yes?。
All right, let's go, let's do it.。
- So I would wager a high percentage of people in this room。
already had an answer to that question。
in your head when you asked it.。
What I would not wager is the percentage of yes versus no。
because for those of us in this room。
who are between the ages of 20 and 30,。
we've already established that this is a personal question.。
We either love someone who's same-sex attracted,。
we are someone who is same-sex attracted,。
or we've been confronted about our beliefs on sexuality。
because someone knows that we at least frequent church.。
And so already there are layers to this question。
that I think deserves walking through.。
So the first layer is what is a Christian life?。
What is a Christian life?。
There are plenty of Christians who are in。
what I would call habitual sin.。
They're having sex outside of marriage,。
they are chronically domineering,。
they're intrinsically greedy.。
We all have heard the stories。
or maybe have been personally impacted by pastors。
who are harsh or quarrelsome or abusive.。
And what's confusing is that you can appear on the outside。
as someone who loves Jesus.。
You can go to church every Sunday,。
you can know the Bible, you can even preach the Bible。
and talk about what it says, but so deceive yourselves,。
as it says in James, into thinking that Christianity。
is a list of actions weighed.。
It's a checklist that you have to go through。
when really that thought that I just have to show up。
to church, read my Bible, do these things,。
is either just a product of religious guilt,。
which is not a fruit of the Holy Spirit.。
We are compelled by love and relationship。
to do those things, not compelled by guilt。
or something you were taught or shamed into.。
Or those actions are the guise of moral superiority。
and both groups miss the fact that it is not。
about prescriptions but compelled by Christ's radical love.。
So you can be a cultural Christian and reasonably。
or even unknowingly unsubscribe to whatever parts。
of the text that don't satisfy or serve your flesh。
because you are not being ruled by the Holy Spirit,。
but rather being deceived that relationship。
with Christ is only moral obligation.。
But to follow Jesus, that's a whole 'nother story.。
I love in Mark chapter two, Jesus is walking。
with a crowd and he's teaching them.。
And up along the way, they see Levi, the tax collector,。
and tax collectors were greatly hated。
by the Jewish majority because they were seen as traitors。
because they were raised Jewish。
and decided to start working for Rome。
and they would often use their power of working for Rome。
to abuse their fellow Jews by taking more money.。
And so I can imagine as this crowd is walking with Jesus,。
they see this tax collector up in front of them。
and they're thinking, Jesus is going to call this guy out。
because he is living in sin.。
He is daily abusing the people of God.。
So that thought makes sense when they're walking。
with this teacher who's known。
for some pretty radical interactions.。
But what happens I think is not only shocking。
to the Jewish people who were with Jesus at the time,。
but probably deeply shocking to Levi as well.。
And Christ walks to him and says two words, follow me.。
And when you read ahead, you get to this part。
where it says Jesus is eating with sinners。
and tax collectors and you have to be thinking,。
how did he get there, right?。
Like, how did he get in this company?。
And I can't help but think that when the people in the town。
who were also on the outskirts of the religious majority,。
the people who have been shamed and beaten。
or mocked or disregarded,。
when they saw that Jesus approached Levi with compassion。
and not condemnation, that maybe they thought。
maybe this Jesus also wants to see me too.。
And so they have a meal together。
where Jesus gets to present himself the light。
and truth to these people.。
Now, the interesting thing is that following Jesus。
required Levi to decide to never go back to the church.。
He decided to never go back to that tax booth.。
The tax booth that he built,。
that was a place of comfort and ease。
and a good life that served his flesh.。
Levi could not follow Jesus。
if he did not leave that life behind.。
That was the decision.。
It's not just for those who are same-sex attracted.。
I think we've all built tax booths that we've dwelt in,。
that we've found comfort in, that we've benefited from.。
But to follow Jesus means to leave our self-desires。
behind us, understanding that following Christ。
on the narrow road leads us away from self-satisfaction,。
self-reliance and self-worship.。
But it also leads us closer and closer to the object。
of our affection and devotion.。
And the way that this walking, the narrow path,。
is described in the biblical text is first self-sacrifice.。
In Romans 12, when it says,。
"Therefore, I urge you, brothers and sisters,。
"in view of God's mercy, to offer your bodies。
"as a living sacrifice, holy and pleasing to God,。
"this is your true and proper worship."。
And it is also self-crucifixion.。
Luke 9, 23 says, "And he said to all,。
"if anyone would come after me, let him deny himself。
"and take up his cross daily and follow me."。
And then in Galatians 5, it says,。
"So I say, walk by the Spirit,。
"and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh."。
I find that people are commonly willing to accept。
that life with Jesus includes some amount。
of personal sacrifice, especially in places。
that match areas of secular moralism,。
like expending your time or your money。
or your talents for other people.。
But it is much harder to accept the idea。
that sacrifice in a crucified life。
would mean denying self-pleasure.。
So that's the second layer, is in your life,。
who gets to define right and wrong?。
Oftentimes, there's this interjection。
that says, "I'm caring for the oppressed,。
"I'm loving my neighbor, I'm even turning the other cheek."。
But these verses couldn't possibly mean。
denying myself the desire I feel。
if it isn't harmful to any other person involved.。
Right, if it's monogamous and loving,。
it can't mean that I would have to deny myself that.。
And Dr. Preston Sprinkle says,。
"The same Lord who said, 'Love everyone,'。
"also said, 'Don't lust, don't worry, don't hate,。
"'don't fornicate, don't be greedy, don't retaliate,'。
"and a whole host of other things that confronted,。
"not reaffirmed our desires.。
"The love everybody argument rightly prioritizes love,。
"but wrongly defines it.。
"Jesus tells us to love one another as I have loved you."。
And that last part is important.。
When Jesus loved his disciples,。
he didn't always or usually affirm。
their behaviors or desires.。
It's worldly love, not Christian love,。
that says, "Because I love you,。
"I'll affirm everything you desire to do。
"and everything you believe to be true about yourself."。
So the true recognition within these scriptures。
that talk about a crucified life。
is they aren't being spoken vaguely.。
They are attached to an entire body of God-breathed,。
inerrant, infallible scripture.。
So that means God makes it known to us。
what walking on the narrow path looks like.。
In John 14, Jesus tells his disciples,。
"Hey, if you love me, keep my commands."。
And James, I love how frankly James writes.。
He says, "Do not merely listen to the word。
"and so deceive yourselves.。
"Do what it says."。
So now we ask, what does the text say。
about sex, about romantic relationships,。
and about fornication?。
That's the third layer.。
And one of the answers I often hear is,。
Jesus had no framework。
for loving, monogamous, same-sex relationships.。
And so that's why Jesus never mentions。
same-sex relationships,。
but only mentions same-sex abuse.。
And the first thing to note。
is that adult men abusing teenage boys was common。
and also clearly condemned in ancient Jewish writings.。
However, there is also evidence in Jewish authors,。
that Jewish authors disapproved of all forms。
of same-sex sexual relations,。
not just exploitative ones.。
We have a handful of ancient letters that say that,。
that reference also consensual same-sex acts。
without any indication of coercion or pedophilia。
showing a broader disapproval.。
And then often in the church,。
pastors will quote Josephus.。
So for example, Josephus condemns same-sex relationships。
in the context of marriage,。
emphasizing a natural male-female union.。
So one,。
the Bible's not just talking about abusive relationships。
or harmful relationships.。
And two, the question of same-sex monogamy in marriage,。
Jesus doesn't name that。
because whenever he's talking about marriage,。
it's assumed that he is upholding the God-ordained covenant。
that marriage inherently involves。
what has been cited and said in Genesis.。
In other words, Jesus is always affirming。
what God has already spoken.。
So we can see that same-sex relationships。
were known in Jesus's time.。
It was not uncommon within the Roman Empire culture.。
There was Roman emperors that,。
two of them specifically during Jesus's time。
that had very public wedding ceremonies with men。
and many historical sources that talk about this.。
So all that means Jesus's rejection。
of same-sex relationships was not limited。
to abusive and non-consensual acts。
because all of it existed in his time.。
He would have specified if there was one facet。
of a same-sex relationship that was God-ordained.。
And while Jesus doesn't explicitly name。
same-sex relationships when you look through the text,。
first of all, Paul does.。
It's in there.。
He talks about it in Romans.。
He talks about it in Corinthians.。
And he also talks about it in 1 Timothy.。
And then in Matthew and in Mark,。
Jesus, we see him use the Greek term porneia,。
which generally means sexual misconduct。
that is outlined in Leviticus, talking about moral law.。
So porneia is a catch-all term translated for us。
in our Bibles as sexual immorality.。
And then while Jesus doesn't explicitly。
name same-sex relationships,。
we see that God does in Old Testament law.。
He does that in Leviticus 18.22 and Leviticus 20.13.。
So the text does address same-sex desires.。
And this is where we often hear about the next question,。
which is, okay, they talk about it in the Old Testament,。
but didn't Jesus show up and do away。
with Old Testament law?。
So there's some nuance to be understood here.。
'Cause I think when we see arguments in the public space。
about same-sex relationships, we often see people say,。
well, you eat shellfish and you wear clothes。
that have different kinds of material woven into them.。
And so there's an understanding of what the laws are。
and what is continued.。
So Christ fulfilled the sacrificial system。
through his death and resurrection.。
So ceremonial sacrificial laws have been met,。
but that doesn't mean they have been undone.。
They've been fulfilled through Christ's actions,。
which is why we no longer slaughter animals.。
Moral law is a different kind of law.。
And moral law is an expression of God's very character.。
That when we look at the moral law,。
it's for those of us who serve him,。
we need to represent his character.。
So we should not be falling into adultery。
or idol worship or murder or theft.。
And God expands on this with the Israelites,。
specifically in Leviticus.。
And so the question is, what did Jesus do。
with the moral law?。
When you read through the gospels,。
you can see in the three years。
of Jesus's earthly ministry,。
he consistently pulls out and represents。
Old Testament moral law,。
often clarifying the misintentions。
by the Jewish majority.。
So he says, hey, you've taken this thing。
and you've twisted it and you've created loopholes。
because you do not understand that this is for your benefit,。
therefore carrying over a decent amount。
of Old Covenant morality and obedience laws。
to the New Covenant.。
In Matthew 19, Jesus improves upon divorce.。
And in Matthew 5, Jesus is preaching the Sermon on the Mount。
and we get a deeply clarifying picture of this。
because he says, this whole entire time,。
you've thought that it is only about murder,。
but I actually care about the hatred。
welling up in your heart.。
And this whole time, you thought it was only。
about intercourse and I actually care。
about how you look at someone。
and what you think about in your head。
and in your heart towards other people's bodies.。
And you only go so far as to love your neighbor,。
but what it's actually about is the radical love。
that transforms you, that would make you able。
to love your enemy and pray for those who harass。
and mistreat you.。
Jesus takes the moral law and says,。
you've missed the point.。
It's not about the checklist, it is about the heart of God。
being conveyed to the people around you.。
And I think it's pretty incredible。
that the way Christ fulfills this moral law。
is again by giving us the Holy Spirit。
so that we can actually have the ability to obey,。
not set aside.。
This is foreshadowed in Ezekiel.。
He says, I will give you a new heart。
and put a new spirit in you and I will remove。
from you a heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh。
and I will put my spirit in you and move you。
to follow my decrees and be careful to keep my laws.。
So the moral laws given in the Old Testament。
surrounding sexuality and marriage not only carry over,。
but Christ both raises the bar and enables us。
to be obedient to them by sending the Holy Spirit.。
So after we've walked through all of this,。
the question is, is it possible to be。
in a same-sex relationship and still follow Jesus?。
And the answer, and I need you to hear this again,。
that this is a girl who realized she was gay。
when she was 14 years old, who prayed for four years。
to be made straight, who realized。
that probably isn't going to happen.。
The answer I've found myself unearthing。
from the biblical text is no.。
I cannot bow to the God of my sexual desires。
while also bowing to Jesus.。
It doesn't work.。
Every time Paul talks about the sin of same-sex relations,。
he clearly communicates that habitual,。
unrepentant pursuit of our desires。
results in separation from God.。
But we also have to acknowledge。
we are quick to forget every other person。
listed and named by Paul.。
And the church has unequally called out。
those in same-sex relationships outside of the church。
while it has also placated those who are greedy,。
who cope unhealthily, who habitually gossip,。
who are harsh and not gentle,。
and those who abuse within the church,。
instead of also urging them to repent。
lest they go from the pews or the pulpit straight to hell.。
So while you cannot be in a same-sex relationship。
and actively follow Christ on the narrow road,。
you also cannot be a jerk and follow Christ.。
We are all in desperate need。
of the transforming work of the Holy Spirit in our lives。
in order to submit and sacrifice our desires。
in exchange for life on the narrow path with Christ.。
And I think one of the most compelling things to me。
is a relationship with Jesus is the only situation in life。
where the prize at the end also walks with us。
the entire way there.。
- That's really good, Brenna.。
Can we just respond to that real quick?。
[audience applauding]。
You know, when we were stepping。
into this conversation tonight,。
I just knew so frequently whenever this conversation。
is discussed from church platforms,。
it's often done at one end of the spectrum or the other.。
It's done under the banner of truth,。
which ends up leading to an insensitivity,。
religious bigotry, and bullying。
about people that are deeply struggling。
with something that is not just theoretical,。
it's very personal to them.。
But then the other side is a group。
that wildly advocates for grace,。
even to the point that they would redefine。
the Christian sexual ethic.。
The voice you don't often hear speaking into this issue。
is the voice that I hope you've heard tonight.。
It's a much more nuanced voice。
that grabs hold of truth in one hand。
and grabs hold of grace in the other hand。
and brings them to the center in the person of Jesus。
and says, "This is a man full of conviction。
"that there is a way to walk with God,。
"but he is simultaneously full of compassion,。
"that he, the prize which awaits you。
"at the end of your life, will walk with you。
"as you make your way towards him."。
Brenna, thank you for just helping us。
navigate the nuance of this.。
(congregation applauding)。
So beautiful.。
And not just unpacking it theologically,。
but really sharing yourself with us.。
T.A. always says, "God hasn't given us a story to hide,。
"he's given us a story to tell."。
And we're really grateful that he has given you your story。
and that you're willing to tell it to all of us.。
T.A., would you be willing to just pray for us。
as we close this time,。
and then I'll share some announcements。
and we can dismiss.。
- I'm gonna pray, but let me just say this,。
just as a pastor here who believes so strongly。
in what God is doing right now。
in the lives of young adults,。
like this right here, what's happening on Tuesday nights。
is my favorite thing that is happening on this campus.。
Like I love this place.。
Like any chance I get to come here, I wanna be here。
because I believe that what God is doing here。
is so important.。
But we have just had the privilege of sitting here,。
Brenna, how old are you?。
- 29.。
- She's 29, is a young adult.。
And did you see how her life has been shaped by God's work?。
Like I don't know how many scriptures she just shared,。
but everything she just shared。
was so rooted in the word of God.。
And I just wanna speak that into your lives。
and say that can be you too.。
Like if you want, you can know the word of God like that.。
Like your life can be transformed by the power of the Spirit。
with the word of God in your hands.。
- Yeah, that's right.。
- So I just wanna, I believe in you.。
I really do.。
Like this whole idea of the Gen Z,。
it's biblically illiterate,。
I'd say, well, I'm looking at a room full of people。
that have a hunger for God,。
so let me just say, you know what?。
Like I'll read this comment and then I promise I'll pray.。
But you know--。
- That's fine, man.。
- Just think about--。
- Do what you wanna do, you know?。
- God in his kindness has given us his word.。
But then just to speak to,。
Brenna mentioned the Holy Spirit so many times.。
And Paul says in Ephesians chapter one,。
that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ,。
the Father of glory, may give you the spirit of wisdom。
and of revelation and the knowledge of him,。
having the eyes of your heart enlightened,。
that you may know what is the hope to which。
he has called you,。
what are the riches of his glorious inheritance。
in the saints, and watch this, don't miss this,。
and what is the immeasurable greatness of his power。
towards us who believe according to the working。
of his great might that he worked in Christ。
when he raised him from the dead。
and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly place。
as far above all rule and authority and power。
and dominion and above.。
Okay, let me just tell you what that just said, okay?。
The same power that raised Christ from the dead。
is available to you.。
If you go to Romans eight, you know what it tells you?。
That power is actually the spirit of the living God。
that Christ asked the Father to give to us.。
So so often we just live with this mindset of like,。
I'm a stereotypical single young adult male.。
It's like no, if you're in Christ,。
you are a child of the God of the universe。
who has gifted you the spirit of Christ。
who just happens to be the power。
that raised Christ from the dead.。
So you have the power.。
(congregation applauding)。
And then I'll pray.。
I'm just saying, hey, hey, friends, I'm just telling you,。
fully surrender to the identity that you have in Christ,。
being a child of God, and just watch what happens.。
When you trust his word,。
and you surrender fully to God's spirit。
and his power at work in you, I'm just, I'm saying,。
that, Brenna's a model of that.。
And I just say, man, I,。
just watch what happens, you know?。
Let me pray.。
Let me pray.。
Lord, I pray for every person in this room, God, we're,。
thank you that you're a God who's very personal, God,。
that you see every person in this room,。
you know every person's name.。
Like your affection for every person in this room。
is very, very deep.。
God, that in your love for us,。
you would send your Son, and you, eternal Son of God,。
in love, would take on flesh,。
and live perfectly in the midst of temptation,。
the greatest temptation of which。
was to come down off the cross.。
And yet you endured the cross, despising the shame.。
And you conquered Satan, sin, and death。
through your resurrection.。
And I just thank you that your saving grace。
is available to every person in this room.。
I think about what John 1, 12 says,。
for as many as received him, he gave the right。
to become children of God.。
I think about what 1 John 3, 1 says,。
see what kind of love the Father has given to us,。
that we should be called children of God.。
So I pray for a generation of young men and women。
who would truly believe that the truest thing about them。
is that you, God of the universe,。
looks at us as a perfect Heavenly Father,。
and delights to call us your sons and daughters.。
And you haven't left us to ourselves.。
You haven't asked us to become something。
that you are not willing to form us into by your Spirit.。
And in your kindness, you've given us your words。
so that we can know your ways and walk in them, Lord.。
So I pray that you'd raise up a generation。
of men and women who would cling to you, Lord.。
And we're all on this journey together, Lord.。
And I pray that we all would just live surrendered,。
surrendering our sexuality to you.。
The goal isn't heterosexuality, it's holy sexuality, Lord,。
that our lives would be defined by you.。
So we need you, we love you, in Jesus' name, amen.。
- Amen, Porch, would y'all do a great job。
of helping me thank T.A. and Brenna, thank you all.。
(congregation applauding)。
Hey, we can also throw up those resources,。
if you don't mind.。
I would love for y'all to see a few books。
that we would love to commend to you on this topic。
that Brenna has shared with us specifically。
that we think could be of great help to you.。
These are listed right here behind me.。
If you want more information on this topic,。
to become more theologically informed。
on engaging this topic around sexuality,。
these are wonderful resources.。
And then I would love to commend to you another book,。
which is a book our friend Brenna authored herself.。
It's a book called "Can I Say That?"。
And it is all about asking difficult questions。
to and of Jesus.。
It's available wherever you wanna buy books.。
You also need to know that Brenna is going to be。
spending some time with us right after this。
in our equipping night, which is outstairs。
and up in the loft where she's gonna be unpacking,。
becoming a thinking and asking Christian.。
We also wanna take a little bit of a moment。
and we wanna share with you that some of you。
have been coming around for a while,。
and we previewed this last week,。
but this Labor Day, we are taking time。
and going back out to Sky Ranch。
where we're going to be jumping into launch 2025.。
I don't know how you feel about that.。
We're pretty excited for it.。
We wanted to stand here in front of you and say,。
if you don't have plans for Labor Day,。
or even if you do, you have our permission。
to bring whoever those plans are with。
out to Sky Ranch and join us for launch。
because it is going to be an amazing time.。
You can check out more information。
at theporch.live/launch to get more information,。
but go ahead and mark your calendars。
because tickets drop on June 3rd.。
Next week, we will be right back here。
continuing in our series, Revive,。
but until then, go in peace, to love and serve the Lord,。
and join us at Equipping Night.。
