[MUSIC PLAYING]。
Well, what's up, Porch?。
How are we doing tonight?。
Hey, it's good to see you.。
Welcome.。
So glad you made it.。
If this is your first Tuesday ever with us, thank you for。
trusting us with your Tuesday night.。
I'm so glad that you are here.。
The Porch really exists to help any and every young adult。
see Jesus and surrender fully to him.。
And I hope that that is true for you tonight.。
I want to say hello to everyone watching online on。
all of our Porch Live locations.。
So I'm thinking about Porch Live Fort Worth watching。
tonight, and Porch Live Tulsa, Porch Live Midland.。
Thank you for tuning in.。
Hope that all is well wherever you are.。
So about four years ago, I got a phone call from my wife。
with some bad news.。
Now, let me preface and just say that I asked my wife if I。
could share this story.。
So check that box off.。
She called me and said, hey, I hit a car in the parking lot。
of HEB in College Station.。
And she had hit a parked car.。
And so I went up to HEB, to the parking lot.。
And it turns out that all of the parking spaces were。
slanted because it's only one way, and so all the spaces are。
slanted.。
Well, instead of reversing out of her space to leave the lot,。
she decided to pull through the open spot in front of her and。
turn right.。
Well, the problem was she cut it too short, and she just。
totally caught the end of the car that was parked slanted.。
And so she cut it too close, and so the entire back half of。
our minivan got crunched.。
And then the back corner of the car that she hit。
just got mangled.。
The worst part about the story is the car that she hit was a。
Maserati.。
And if you don't know anything about cars, she just hit the。
most expensive car in the parking lot, and she did $7,500。
worth of damage to that Maserati.。
I tell you that because what my wife thought in the moment。
was this is a good path forward.。
Like this will work.。
It's not the right way to do things, but it's a way that a。
lot of people do things.。
And so I'm just going to pull forward in a way that I'm not。
supposed to, but most people do it anyway, and it's not a big。
deal.。
And in the end, that choice, which seemed like a small。
choice going the wrong way, led to a lot of unnecessary pain.。
And I tell you that because I wonder if I'm now not。
describing my wife hitting a Maserati, I wonder if I'm。
describing you.。
Because there can be this tendency in us to find our way。
to unnecessary pain.。
I want to draw a distinction tonight between unavoidable。
pain and unnecessary pain.。
Unavoidable pain is the pain that will normally and。
naturally come from living in a broken and busted world.。
You will not have to go looking for this pain.。
It will just find you.。
And so there will be days and weeks and months that are very。
painful, not because of anything you've done, but。
simply because that is the reality of living in a broken。
and busted world.。
Unnecessary pain, on the other hand, is 100% avoidable.。
It's 100% avoidable.。
Unnecessary pain comes from making what seems like small。
decisions to head in the wrong direction, but you head that。
wrong direction because you look around and everyone else。
is heading in a wrong direction.。
Because everyone else is heading in a wrong direction,。
that must make it a right direction.。
But in the end, it leads to unnecessary pain.。
This is a topic that I'm very passionate about.。
Because after I graduated from Texas A&M University, the two。
years post-college that I was living in Dallas, I would say。
that I found my way into significant unnecessary pain。
because I made a lot of compromising decisions that at。
the time seemed right because a lot of other people make。
decisions just like that.。
But in the end, it was like pulling through a space and。
cutting the corner too tight.。
And it was costly.。
And if you're like, well, what does that even mean?。
Well, what I mean is I was actually。
working at this church.。
And I had to confess sin to a staff of 50 or 60 people.。
And I lost my job.。
I stepped off staff because I was living a life that was not。
congruent with what I proclaimed to believe.。
My beliefs and my behavior didn't match.。
It was extremely costly.。
My life, I would say, hit rock bottom in a lot of ways.。
And so what I want to do tonight is I want to step back。
into the book of Ecclesiastes.。
I hope that you've enjoyed journeying through this book.。
What I hope Ecclesiastes has been for you is a pleasant。
surprise where you're like, I have spent zero time in。
Ecclesiastes.。
And now that we've been studying it, I see just how。
relevant to our lives it is.。
Like Ecclesiastes chapter 10 is where we're。
going to be tonight.。
And I would say I can't think of a better chapter that is。
more relevant to the life of people in their mid-20s, late。
20s, early 30s.。
This chapter is for you.。
And we're learning from King Solomon, who was in a lot of。
ways the richest and wisest person to really ever walk the。
face of the earth.。
And he's writing Ecclesiastes later in life.。
And so we're basically reading his journal entries as he。
looks back and just speaks from his experience.。
And Solomon was a guy who experienced some unnecessary。
pain in his life.。
And so my hope tonight is that this might be a defining。
moment for some of you.。
That some of you, as we talk from Ecclesiastes, the Lord。
might grab hold of your heart and just say, don't take。
another step forward in that direction.。
It's not worth it.。
You think it's going to lead to life, and it won't.。
And it's going to land you in a place where you find。
yourself saying, what was I thinking?。
It's not worth it.。
You don't want to get to your late 20s or your mid-30s and。
look back at your mid-20s and say, what was I thinking?。
I needed a mentor.。
I need someone who could have just spoken into my life and。
just said, nope.。
And so I want to be that person for you tonight.。
I want to take the word of God because I believe that these。
are God's words to us.。
He speaks to us when we open up this book.。
It's like we are opening up his mouth.。
And God spoke through an imperfect person named。
Solomon to us.。
So if you have a Bible, turn there.。
And my premise tonight is simply this.。
Unnecessary pain is 100% avoidable.。
It's 100% avoidable.。
And as we look at this text, I'm just going to show you。
several steps to take to avoid unnecessary pain.。
The first one, the first step to avoiding unnecessary pain。
is this, sweat the small stuff to avoid unnecessary pain.。
Sweat the small stuff to avoid unnecessary pain.。
Listen to what verse 1 says in Ecclesiastes chapter 10.。
It's a very interesting imagery.。
It says this, "Dead flies make the perfumer's ointment give。
off a stench.。
So a little folly outweighs wisdom and honor."。
What a picture.。
So I just want you to think about dead flies floating。
around in your bottle of Le Labo Santal 33.。
I don't know if I even pronounced that right.。
But, or Tom Ford cologne.。
Just imagine, like you pull it out and you look in it.。
And like there's flies in that thing that you dropped a lot。
of money on.。
And it's no longer the fragrant scent that you thought you。
were purchasing.。
There's a stench to it.。
And what Solomon's point is this, his point is a little bit。
of bad in your life can actually ruin a whole lot of good.。
And I don't know if you saw his wording.。
Look at the end.。
He says, "So a little folly," and folly is just a term that。
means to lack sense.。
He's saying a little folly outweighs wisdom and honor.。
So he says, "Guys, I want you to picture a balance scale.。
And you drop honor and wisdom on the scale.。
And it drops because that's a weighty thing."。
And then he says, "But you just drop a little bit of folly。
and you know what it does?。
It tilts the scales."。
Which is really surprising because you would think that。
wisdom and honor always outweigh.。
And they're very valuable.。
And yet Solomon is saying that is how powerful folly is, that。
just a little bit of it, a little bit of bad can ruin a。
whole lot of good.。
We moved into a house last September and we bought a house。
that had been completely gutted and redone by a guy who does。
excellent work.。
And so we moved into a house that felt completely new.。
I mean the walls were perfect white.。
Everything was so, it was immaculate.。
He did such an incredible job.。
And so we loved stepping into this brand new space.。
And then one day I'm walking down the hallway that goes to。
the garage and there's just a big puddle of water on the。
floor in our brand new hallway.。
And so like I am very unsettled.。
I'm like, "Where is this water coming from?"。
Because I'm like, "Is it coming from the washing。
machine?。
It's not coming from there."。
I'm trying to locate where this water is coming from.。
And I open up the door to our laundry space and I can see on。
the trim of the door there is a small bead of water coming down。
the trim and then on to the ground.。
And I call the guy who remodeled our house and I said,。
"I don't know where this thing is coming from."。
And so he came over to our house and you know what he。
found? What he found was there was one nail that was missing。
from a shingle on the roof.。
And when it rained, the rain was just slipping through that one。
small nail hole.。
But over time enough water was coming through the attic into。
the laundry space, down the trimming and onto the ground.。
And because the water worked its way into the trim, the brand。
new trim was cracking apart.。
And I tell you that just to say all it takes is one small hole。
in your life.。
It just takes one small leak to crack really good character.。
A mentor of mine, it might sound cheesy but I will still never。
forget this, he said it in college, he just said, "Small。
holes sink big ships."。
And for some reason that stuck with me and I wish that I had。
heeded that advice because post-college and honestly in。
college, you know what the small leak was for me?。
I was a guy that was pursuing the Lord, I was chasing after。
the Lord, I was spending time in His word, I was leading in。
ministry in college.。
But do you know what the crack was that was in my character?。
The crack was that I had this insecurity in me and I would。
fill that insecurity by leading girls on.。
And now girls are like, "I hate that guy."。
Well, the Lord has changed my life and I've called those。
girls and I've apologized to them.。
But that was my tendency is I would be extremely flirtatious。
and then when I knew that a girl was interested, then I was。
just done with it.。
And what happened was it cost me my reputation.。
I still remember calling this girl to apologize and she。
answered the phone and she was like, "Now, T.A., why would you。
be calling me?"。
And I could just hear the bitterness in her voice and I。
just said, "I just need to ask your forgiveness because I led。
you on."。
But what happened was there was a stench around my name even。
though I considered myself a good Christian guy.。
True story, one of my closest friends that's a girl actually。
warned my wife about me before we started dating because she。
said that I was, and get this, I didn't even know this was a。
thing, but she was like, "He's kind of a Christian player."。
What?。
Those two words should never be put together.。
And if that's you, come down front.。
You need a mentor.。
I'd love to help you.。
But the problem was there was a slow leak in my life and that。
slow leak led to major cracks in my character.。
And so I just want to ask you, like, what is it for you?。
Where is there a slow leak where you keep pushing play on it。
thinking that it's not a big deal?。
But if you let that leak go, at some point you're going to find。
the house of your life flooded.。
Like it might not be next week, it might not be next month, it。
might not be next year, but at some point you're going to wake。
up underwater and look back and think, "How did I get to this。
place?"。
So here's my point, to come back to the point, sweat the small。
stuff.。
Like, sweat the small stuff in your life.。
Don't just explain sin away as it not being a big deal or it's,。
you know what, it's just a little bit of porn every once in。
a while when I'm feeling lonely or it's just a little bit of。
weed on the weekends or it's just a little bit of hooking up。
every once in a while or it's just a little bit of credit card。
debt or it's just a little bit of lying or exaggerating because。
I'm trying to establish a friend group here or it's just a little。
bit of starving myself before special occasions.。
I'm just letting you know, those little bits turn into lots of。
pain.。
And so I just want to lovingly tell you, sweat the small stuff.。
Sweat the small stuff.。
Jesus Christ, he left heaven and came to earth.。
Why?。
John 10 said, Jesus actually said, "I came."。
If you want to know why I came, if you don't know what Jesus is。
about, here it is.。
Jesus actually said, "I came that you might have life to the。
full."。
Jesus actually left heaven and came to earth so that we could。
be made whole, so that we could experience fullness of joy,。
fullness of peace.。
We could flourish.。
And yet what we want to do is we kind of want to pull through。
the parking space thinking that it's an okay way to go.。
But the scriptures say that there is a way that seems right。
to man that in the end, it's the way to death.。
And so Jesus came to save us from even small things.。
So if you're a follower of Jesus Christ, why would you run back。
to the things that Jesus had to die for?。
And so let me encourage you, sweat the small stuff.。
Number two, surrender your heart to avoid unnecessary pain.。
Look at what Solomon says in verse two.。
He says this, "A wise man's heart inclines him to the right,。
but a fool's heart to the left."。
So do you see what he's saying?。
He's saying, "Look, people who walk in wisdom and people who。
walk with no sense and folly, they go in two different。
directions.。
Like one goes to the right, one goes to the left."。
And just so you know, if you're not familiar with your Bible,。
the right is the position of favor in the Bible.。
Like going to the right is always the right way to go。
in the Bible.。
So for example, Jesus is said to sit at the right hand。
of the Father.。
In Matthew 25, at the final judgment, there's a parable where God separates。
the sheep from the goats.。
The sheep, which are those who inherit the kingdom of God,。
they are put on the right.。
And so what Solomon is saying is, "Look, which way you go in life,。
whether you walk in wisdom or you walk towards unnecessary pain,。
it is actually a heart issue."。
That's why he says, "A wise man's heart inclines him one direction,。
and then a man of folly, his heart inclines him in a。
different direction."。
And in the Hebrew, that idea of the heart, it's all-encompassing.。
It's a reference to your thoughts and your desires, your motivations,。
your emotions.。
And so there is very dangerous counsel out in the world today,。
which is simply, "You know what?。
Follow your heart.。
Like the heart wants what the heart wants.。
And so if that's what your heart is longing for, you should probably。
follow your heart.。
I don't know if you should follow your heart, honestly.。
The question is, before you follow your heart, the question is,。
have you surrendered your heart to Jesus Christ?。
Because when you surrender your heart to Jesus, he actually gives you a new heart。
with new desires and new motivations.。
But if you're operating with the old operating system, then Jeremiah 79。
explains it this way, "The heart is deceitful above all things,。
and it's desperately sick.。
Who can understand it?"。
Do you hear what that's saying?。
It's saying, "Look, this idea of following your heart,。
your heart will lead you to do some really dumb things.。
Your heart will tell you that the wisest thing to do is to call your ex,。
and you know that that ex is super toxic to your life.。
Your ex is toxic.。
Not all of your exes, but some of them are."。
And this is just me lovingly saying, "Don't call her.。
Don't text them.。
It's not worth it.。
Unnecessary pain."。
Okay.。
Your heart will also encourage you to hold on to bitterness and anger towards。
someone who has hurt you.。
Your heart will convince you that that is your right.。
That's what you deserve, is to hate them.。
And yet that bitterness will swallow you up and rob you.。
Your heart will tell you that you need to spend money that you don't have so that。
you will be happy.。
So here's my point.。
Before you follow your heart, you need to surrender your heart.。
Surrender it to Jesus.。
And when I say, "Surrender your heart," you might be like,。
"What do you even mean by that?"。
Well, I just told you that the heart in Hebrew, it refers to the mind,。
the heart, the emotions.。
It's your being.。
It's to just say, "Lord Jesus, you're a king.。
You're not just savior.。
You didn't just come to save me from hell.。
You came because you have watched me be ruled by sin and you love me too much to。
leave me in that place.。
So instead of watching me be ruled by sin, you instead want to come and。
rule my life."。
And I say yes to that.。
You can rule my life.。
You're a good king.。
You came that I might have life to the full.。
So take my heart and have your way with it.。
So just be honest with yourself.。
I just want to ask you, which way has your heart been going this summer?。
Because you can't run to the right and the left at the same time.。
And so like if you feel like you've discovered some hybrid of Christianity,。
where it's like you can run in two directions and you can kind of like dabble。
in the small stuff, certain sin, you can drive in the wrong directions and yet。
still feel like you're in lockstep with Jesus, I would just say that you've found。
a form of Christianity that the Bible says doesn't exist.。
Galatians 2.20 puts it this way.。
Like when you have surrendered your heart to Jesus, Paul expresses it this way.。
He says, "I've been crucified with Christ.。
It's no longer I who live but Christ who lives in me.。
In the life I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved。
me and gave himself for me."。
He's like, "I realize Christ gave his life for me on the cross.。
So now I give my life to him and he has control of my heart."。
So if you want to avoid unnecessary pain, surrender your heart.。
Surrender your heart to avoid unnecessary pain.。
Number three, listen to counsel to avoid unnecessary pain.。
Look at what he says in verse three.。
He says, "Even when the fool walks on the road, he lacks sense and he says to everyone。
that he is a fool."。
This is so interesting.。
He's like, "Just imagine you're at North Park and you're walking down one of the hallways。
of North Park and here's a guy like, 'Just everybody, I just want you to know I'm a。
fool.。
I just wanted you to know.。
Hey, what's your name?。
Christina, I'm a fool.。
Just wanted you to know that.。
Have a good day.'"。
It's just, it's a picture of someone walking down the road declaring to everyone that they're。
a fool.。
And he's not literally saying someone's walking down shouting it.。
He's just saying that the way a person is living is so obviously, it's so obvious that。
it's foolish that everyone is able to look and see like, "What are we doing here?。
What is happening?"。
There was a time in my past where I was in college and I got into a relationship with。
a really sweet girl.。
It was just the wrong relationship.。
So I'll tell you how it didn't go well.。
She did not like how I looked.。
I know that because she told me that.。
That's how you know that.。
So she had to make a decision.。
Did she want to break up with me or did she want to change me?。
She chose to change me and I chose to let her.。
And so we drove from A&M to Houston and she bought me all new clothes and got me a new。
haircut and new shoes and my life.。
Don't judge me people.。
That was a long time ago.。
I'm being honest with you.。
And along the way in that relationship she told me that she hated my name Timothy because。
it was weak.。
And I might have told y'all this before but the real kicker was she told me, she said,。
"You could be a male model if it wasn't for your legs."。
And I was like, "Thank you?"。
Now y'all are like, "What's wrong with your legs?"。
Well, you'll never know because I only wear pants now.。
Truly, I swim in jeans.。
But when that relationship ended, when that relationship – I see some people are like,。
"Oh, it's okay.。
I didn't marry her.。
It's fine.。
She's a great person."。
When that relationship ended, all of my closest friends were like, "Yeah, dude.。
We knew she was – that was not a good relationship for you to be in."。
I was like, "Why didn't you say something?"。
But like what were they saying?。
They were saying it was so obvious.。
Like you were walking in the way of a fool.。
You changed everything about yourself.。
And that relationship began to dabble in impurity.。
And they were looking and saying like, "What is happening?。
You're in a relationship that doesn't make sense.。
You're changing yourself.。
You're compromising your standards in the relationship.。
And this thing isn't right and it's obvious."。
And then fast forward to life after college, I did have some guys that stepped into my。
life when I was making compromising decisions and they just said, "We just – we want。
to encourage you.。
This is not the right way to head."。
And I ignored them.。
And I didn't listen to them.。
And the result was unnecessary pain.。
And then this past week, I watched the Johnny Manziel, Johnny Football documentary, which。
– because I went to A&M, I love Johnny Manziel and he was a really great thing for A&M, but。
I watched the documentary.。
And if you haven't seen it, like my heart kind of broke for him because I just wanted。
to put my arm around him and say, "Dude, don't pull through the parking space.。
Don't do it.。
You are on a path that only leads to brokenness.。
And some of you are here tonight and you are bent.。
You are bent on doing things your own way.。
And I want to tell you what I have told young adults for many years.。
You are on a path that in the end will only lead to brokenness.。
And I will be here for you to help you put the pieces back together when you're ready.。
But you can make a decision right now to actually turn and pursue wholeness in Jesus.。
And so let me just encourage you.。
Some of you are in a place where you have friends speaking into your life.。
And they are doing it lovingly.。
They are saying, "Look, I don't know if she is the right person for you to be dating.。
I don't know if he is the right person for you to be dating.。
I don't know that it makes sense that you are cutting corners like you are at work.。
You are quiet quitting and that it just doesn't make sense with who I know you to be.。
And I see what you are doing on the weekends and I just know that that is in the end not。
who you say you are as a follower of Jesus Christ."。
And what they are saying when they tell you that is what they are saying is, "I love you。
enough to tell you that your life is shouting, 'I am a fool right now.'"。
And so they are just trying to say, "I love you and I want more for you.。
Don't, don't despise their rebuke."。
We have been saved, if you are a follower of Jesus Christ, one of the beautiful realities。
of the gospel is that we have been saved into a family with brothers and sisters.。
God speaks to His people through His people.。
God uses His people to speak to His people.。
Do not despise their rebuke.。
Do not reject the voice of God in your life through your friends.。
Now I want to speak to a very specific group of people in this room through verses eight。
and nine.。
Look at what Solomon goes on to say.。
He says this, and it has everything to do with the point that we are in right now which。
is listen to counsel to avoid unnecessary pain.。
He says in verse eight, "He who digs a pit will fall into it and a serpent will bite。
him who breaks through a wall.。
He who quarries stones is hurt by them.。
He who splits logs is endangered by them."。
What Solomon is talking about is he is talking about someone who is bent on doing wrong.。
How do I know that?。
Well, I know that because of this reference to digging a pit.。
Psalm seven actually gives us the commentary that helps us understand it.。
In Psalm seven, the psalmist says this, "Behold," listen to the wording, he says, "Behold, the。
wicked man conceives evil."。
He conceives evil.。
He's pregnant with mischief and gives birth to lies.。
He makes a pit, digging it out, and falls into the hole that he has made.。
What is the point?。
He's saying, "Look, you know who digs the pit?。
It's the person that's full of mischief."。
Like they're bent on it.。
They are bent on doing wrong.。
And so what I want to do is I just want to speak for a moment to a group of people in。
this room, and you will know who you are.。
But what I have seen is I have seen some young adults who have been hurt by other people,。
whether they've been hurt by their parents, whether they're bitter because of a deep pain。
that they've experienced in their lives, so maybe you're bitter at God, maybe life has。
just been really, really painful and it seems like your life has been more painful than。
other people's lives.。
And so you've just kind of leaned into it, and because you're hurt, your aim is to hurt.。
Because hurt people hurt people, and so you're on this mission right now to get back at your。
parents.。
You're on a mission to get back at that guy, to get back at that girl, to get back at the。
people who spoke ill into your life.。
And so the way that you're doing it, though, is you are just driving your life into the。
grave.。
And you're making choices that in the end the person getting hurt the most by your choices。
are you.。
And so you're sleeping with everyone you can sleep with.。
And in the end what you're trying to do is you're trying to numb your pain and at the。
same time prove something to someone else.。
Or you're drinking yourself to sleep, and you're doing it as a demonstration to someone。
who has hurt you, and at the same time you're trying to numb yourself.。
And so let me just lovingly tell you, listen to counsel to avoid unnecessary pain.。
There is healing found in Jesus.。
You might never get justice this side of eternity for whatever hurt you're carrying.。
And yet I love, I've heard pastors talking about moving from being a victim to being。
a victor.。
And I would just say that that can be your reality.。
You don't have to live in that hurt.。
You don't have to drive your life into the ground to get back at somebody.。
And I would imagine that the majority of people in this room are like, "He's not talking about。
me and I don't know who he's talking to."。
But I would imagine that there are a few people here tonight, and it's like a phone call from。
heaven to your soul.。
And God is just reaching and saying, "Look, I love you.。
And I can bring healing.。
I can be the father you've never had.。
I can be the parent you've never had.。
I can satisfy the longings of your soul."。
Number four, seek wisdom to avoid unnecessary pain.。
Seek wisdom.。
Look at what, we're going to skip over to verse 10 now.。
Look at what Solomon says.。
He says, "If the iron is blunt and one does not sharpen the edge, he must use more strength.。
But wisdom helps one succeed."。
Do you hear what he's saying?。
He's saying, "Look, if you've got a blade that's really dull, like you're going to have。
to work a lot harder to cut something.。
Smart people, you know what they do?。
They take the time to sharpen their tool so that it will be most effective when they're。
cutting."。
And so what Solomon is doing is he is comparing wisdom to a sharpened blade.。
And what he's saying is, "Take the time to seek out wisdom."。
What do I mean by seeking wisdom?。
Well, the good news is Job 12 actually tells us where wisdom is found.。
Listen to what Job 12 says.。
It says, "Wisdom is with the aged and understanding is in length of days.。
With God are wisdom and might."。
He has counsel and understanding.。
And so let me just encourage you, one of the best things you can do during your young adult。
years is to spend time seeking out older men or older women who are a few stages ahead。
in life.。
Buy them lunch, buy them coffee, come prepared with a list of questions and a pad of paper。
and a pen, and sit there and utilize the time that they have.。
Like recently, there's some older men in the church that I've just reached out to and said,。
"Look, you've been at this church for a long time.。
I'd love to get to know you."。
So what I've done is I've showed up with a list of questions, because I don't want to。
waste their time just shooting the breeze.。
Like I hate small talk.。
And so I don't want to just show up and talk about the weather.。
Like I've got a list of questions I can learn from somebody who's a few stages ahead in。
life, in marriage, in parenting, in leadership.。
So I just want to encourage you to do the same.。
Seek out older men or women.。
Just say, "Can I buy you coffee?。
Can I have an hour of your time to come with questions to learn from you?"。
And then here's what I'd tell you.。
Solomon says, "With God are wisdom and might.。
He has counsel and understanding."。
God has made known His ways through His Word.。
And so one of the best things you can do is develop a really sweet relationship with this。
book.。
And if you're like, "I don't even know where to start."。
Well, you need to know tonight in the loft, like right after the porch.。
I am teaching a 30-minute course on how to study the Bible.。
And so come.。
Come spend 30 more minutes with us on how to study the Bible.。
But this is how we find wisdom.。
We find it in knowing God through His Word.。
Solomon says in verse 11, he says something interesting.。
He says, "If the serpent bites before it's charmed, there's no advantage to the charmer."。
What's his point?。
He's like, "Look, if you don't do the work to charm the snake before it bites you, what's。
the point of like honing a craft of charming snakes?"。
So the point is like, look, don't wait until you get bitten by unnecessary pain.。
Seek out wisdom now so you'll walk in wisdom.。
You'll find a path that leads to joy and flourishing instead of to pain.。
And then the next key is watch your words to avoid unnecessary pain.。
Watch your words to avoid unnecessary pain.。
Solomon says in verse 12, he says, "The words of a wise man's mouth win him favor, but the。
lips of a fool consume him."。
Another translation says it this way, "Words from the mouth of the wise are gracious."。
So his point is like, the way you talk will either show whether you're full of wisdom。
or full of folly.。
If you want to avoid unnecessary pain, then pay attention to how you talk.。
When I was a kid, there was this PSA by this animated character, Smokey the Bear.。
And Smokey the Bear was famous for saying, "Only you can prevent forest fires."。
And there was this commercial that came out where you see this forest fire raging.。
There's this fire raging, and then it's almost like someone hit the rewind button and all。
of the fire, all the smoke come back to one moment, and it's to one match.。
And the reason I tell you that is that one small match can burn a whole forest to the。
ground just like your one small tongue can burn your life, your relationships, your career。
to the ground.。
More today than ever before, like I am amazed at the keyboard courage people have.。
Like what people are able to type and post or hit send and then go to sleep and sleep。
like a baby, that's crazy to me.。
Because like newsflash, but you can lose your job because of your social media.。
Like people will look at what you post, they'll look at what you say.。
I'm amazed sometimes.。
I've taken my kids to sporting events and young adults that are standing around us just。
cussing like crazy, knowing that there are little kids right by them.。
What it shows is just the searing of the conscience and the heart that this is just the way we。
talk now.。
People use the tongue to lead people on just like I did.。
I think about a friend who consistently lies or exaggerates, says things that are not true.。
Words destroy friendships, they destroy families, they destroy marriages.。
So Solomon's point is like, look, words from the mouth of the wise, they're gracious.。
Like you use your mouth to bring glory to God, you use your mouth to praise God for。
His gospel that He would love us so much that He would send His Son to die for us, to make。
a way for us into the family of God through His death, burial and resurrection.。
We use our mouths to encourage those who need encouragement, to lift up those who are weak。
or hurting.。
That's what the mouth should be used for.。
So I just want to ask you, is there anything you have set on fire lately with your mouth?。
You know what the good news is?。
Is by the power of the Spirit at work in you, you can use the same mouth to make things。
right.。
And I'd encourage you to do that.。
Solomon says the beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness and the end of his。
talk is evil madness.。
Do you see what that's saying?。
He's saying when you start talking it's foolish, when you finish talking it's just plain evil.。
It's like your mouth is just unraveling.。
And so I tell you that just to say pay attention to which way your speech is moving.。
The words of a fool spiral downward.。
They become more and more negative, more and more sarcastic, more and more sexual, more。
and more vulgar, more and more manipulative, more and more exaggerated, more and more gossipy.。
Verse fourteen, "A fool multiplies words though no man knows what is to be and who can tell。
him what will be after him."。
You know what he's saying?。
He's saying, "You know what a fool does?。
A fool talks about the future with certainty when there's no clarity."。
So this is like great advice.。
Don't talk about the amazing vacation you're going to take until it's actually booked and。
you have the money to pay for it and you're certain you're going.。
Don't talk about the relationship that you're in when you've only gone to coffee once and。
you really don't even know each other's last name yet.。
Don't talk about the car you're going to buy with the promotion you're probably going to。
get.。
Wait until you get the promotion to actually pull the trigger.。
The point is like fools talk about things that they know nothing about.。
And so I encourage you, watch your words to avoid unnecessary pain in them finally.。
This is going to sound harsh but grow up to avoid unnecessary pain.。
And I tell you that lovingly but because Solomon says it.。
Listen to what he says in verse 16 and 17.。
He says, "Woe to you O land when your king is a child and your princes feast in the morning.。
Happy are you O land when your king is the son of the nobility and your princes feast。
at the proper time and they feast for strength and not for drunkenness."。
And so he pictures two lands.。
One where the king is an adult but acts like a kid and just wakes up in the morning and。
starts partying with his friends.。
And then he pictures a king who's owned his responsibility and so he feasts at the right。
time and the reason he does it is for strength so that he can guard and protect his country.。
And then Solomon says in verses 18 and 19 he says, "Through sloth the roof sinks in。
and through indolence which is inaction the house leaks.。
Bread is made for laughter and wine gladdens life and money answers everything."。
Do you know what he's saying?。
He's like look, if your roof is caving in and you do nothing about it, you don't take。
responsibility, good luck with that.。
And then he says, "Do you want to know when you have bread to eat and wine to drink and。
money to buy things?。
It's when you work and you take responsibility and you move forward."。
And so I just tell you that to say like I don't know who needs to hear that.。
But like it's time to get going.。
It's time to own the fact that you're 27.。
It's time to own the fact that you're 31.。
And you can't keep acting like 16 year old when you're a 27 year old.。
And I say that like because you don't want to get to 40 and look back and like why did。
no one ever tell me?。
And so one of the best ways to avoid unnecessary pain is just by growing up and just taking。
responsibility of where you are at now.。
Do you want to know how things played out in the parking lot of HEB?。
You know it's interesting.。
I'm not proud of this.。
I showed up and I looked at how the woman parked and she parked over the line.。
And it was a parking space for parents with little kids but this woman was by her house。
and by herself.。
And so I showed up and I was like, I didn't take ownership.。
I was like, "Well, you know what?。
You see here you're over the line and so you know that's really not right."。
And I was trying to excuse the decision that had been made to pull through in the wrong。
direction.。
And so I started digging myself a hole and then finally I snapped into reality.。
And I called the lady and I said, "Look, we will do whatever we need to do to make this。
right."。
And the great news is a month or two later we got a letter from our insurance company。
saying we have paid out all the money.。
And I tell you that just to say, you know what?。
The worst place to be is in a place where you just keep trying to dig yourself out of。
a hole.。
You just keep trying to explain away why what you're doing makes sense or why it's right。
and you try and justify your behavior.。
The best place to be is just where you come to a place before God where you just say,。
"Look, the way that I'm going is wrong.。
I've pulled through the space in the wrong direction.。
I'm heading in a direction that leads to brokenness.。
The way that I've gone, it's wrong."。
And you know what the good news is?。
The price has already been paid for all of your failures.。
Jesus Christ came.。
He went to the cross.。
He paid for all of your failures to make a way for you and me to have a relationship。
with God.。
This whole passage is encouraging wisdom over folly.。
Well the writer of Proverbs who happened to be Solomon says in Proverbs 1-7, "The fear。
of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge.。
Fools despise wisdom in instruction."。
You know what he's saying?。
He's saying, "You know where wisdom is found?。
It's found in fearing God."。
And then the Apostle Paul clarifies what, who that wisdom is.。
He says in 1 Corinthians 1-30, "And because of him you are in Christ Jesus who became。
to us wisdom from God, righteousness and sanctification and redemption."。
Do you know what true wisdom is?。
True wisdom starts with you coming to a place where you realize that Jesus Christ is the。
way, the truth, and the life and no one comes to the Father except through him.。
But if you will put your faith in Jesus Christ, if you will surrender your heart to Jesus,。
Jesus Christ becomes to you redemption.。
Where all of your failure, all of your folly is taken from you, it's paid for by his death。
on the cross and his resurrection from the dead and you are given his righteousness so。
that you can live in a real, enjoyable, flourishing relationship with the God of the universe.。
If you don't know him tonight, that is where wisdom starts.。
That's where unnecessary pain stops and joy begins.。
Let's pray together.。
Lord Jesus, I pray that if there's anyone here tonight who doesn't know you, then I。
pray that right now in this moment that they would find you, Lord Jesus, to be true wisdom,。
the wisdom that their soul has been longing for.。
God, I pray that no one would leave here tonight feeling beat over the head.。
If anything, I pray that people would leave feeling loved, that they've heard truth from。
you, God, through Solomon.。
God, I pray that unnecessary pain would decrease and joy would increase in the lives of the。
people in this room.。
God, we need you and we love you.。
Do a work in our lives for your glory and for our good.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
