(soft music)。
- Love it.。
Hello, friends in the room.。
Hello, friends in Fort Worth。
and friends in Houston.。
I'm gonna start by reading the passage。
that we're gonna look at in Romans 8 tonight.。
I'm gonna start in reading a little bit。
before it in Romans 7 and then dive in。
and then I'm gonna pray and we will jump into tonight.。
So this comes from Romans chapter seven,。
verses 15 through 19, 24 and 25,。
and then one through four in chapter eight.。
We'll hang out tonight.。
Paul writing to the church in Rome says this,。
"I do not understand what I do,。
"for what I want to do, I do not do.。
"But what I hate, I do.。
"And if I do what I do not want to do,。
"I agree that the law is good.。
"As it is, it is no longer I myself who do it,。
"but it is sin living in me.。
"For I know that good itself does not dwell in me,。
"that is, in my sinful nature.。
"For I have the desire to do what is good,。
"but I cannot carry it out.。
"For I do not do the good I want to,。
"but the evil that I do not want to do,。
"this I keep on doing.。
"What a wretched man I am.。
"Who will rescue me from this body。
"that is subject to death?。
"But thanks be to God who delivers me。
"through Jesus Christ our Lord.。
"Therefore, there is now no condemnation。
"for those who are in Christ Jesus,。
"because through Christ Jesus,。
"the law of the spirit of life has set you free。
"from the law of sin and death.。
"For the law was powerless to do。
"because it was weakened by the flesh, God did,。
"by sending his own son in likeness of sinful flesh。
"to be a sin offering.。
"And so he condemned sin in the flesh。
"in order that the righteous requirement of the law。
"might be fully met in us,。
"who do not live according to the flesh,。
"but according to the spirit."。
Will you guys pray with me?。
Father, we thank you for Romans chapter eight.。
Thank you for the weeks ahead.。
And just the chance that Lord,。
hopefully, if it be your will,。
we will get to share together。
as we open and study this incredible chapter.。
Father, I pray for tonight,。
for the message that we're about to walk through,。
that anything that I say would be consistent with your word。
and your will.。
And if it's not, that it would be forgotten。
as soon as it is said from my mouth.。
I pray for friends in the room who know you,。
would they be encouraged and equipped。
and deepen in their relationship with you,。
not because of a message, but because of you.。
Pray for those who don't,。
would they encounter the living God tonight。
and the Savior who died for them on a cross.。
Will we pray for Brussels?。
And for all those who are hurting.。
And Lord, in the face of terror,。
we ask that you would strengthen your church。
in Belgium and in Brussels,。
and that where darkness is, light would invade。
and it would stomp out the darkness。
as light always does.。
As we wait for your kingdom to fully unravel,。
would we be ambassadors of hope,。
of life, of kindness in the face of evil.。
Thank you for Jesus, the King of all Kings,。
the Lord of all Lords.。
We love you, amen.。
Is anyone filled out,。
or did anyone fill out a March Madness bracket。
just by a show of hands in this room?。
Yeah?。
Not as many as I would have thought.。
Is anyone still have their bracket alive right now?。
It's still in perfect condition.。
No, no, I didn't think so.。
I filled one out.。
I filled it out every single year.。
In fact, it's actually a requirement。
or part of being on staff at Watermark.。
There's a little family thing。
where you have to fill out a bracket。
and it's a competition with consequences involved.。
But on staff, you'll fill this out.。
I filled it out every single year.。
And here's what happens with my bracket.。
Every single year, I fill it out.。
I'll choose differently depending on the year.。
And every year, I'm like,。
this year is going to be the year.。
I'm gonna go all the way.。
It's gonna be awesome.。
We're gonna get there.。
And every year, within like one round,。
some random school from generic Midwestern USA conference。
ends up beating a top school。
and the total bracket or my entire bracket is blown.。
Year after year, no matter how hard that I try.。
What was that?。
- SFA.。
- SFA, all right.。
Oh man, yeah, the SFA.。
SFA did it on Friday.。
The last perfect bracket was destroyed by SFA.。
But how about those Aggies?。
How about that?。
(audience cheering)。
That was just a shameless plug for A&M.。
Every single year, no matter how hard I try,。
no matter what strategy I take, it always breaks up.。
And here's what I know.。
I am in good company.。
And by good company, misery loves company.。
So we're all in this together.。
And I know that your bracket,。
every single year gets broken as well.。
Here's how I know that.。
Because there is never once, this is crazy.。
You can Google this later。
'cause it's about to distract everyone.。
In the history of these brackets,。
ever been a bracket filled out that was perfect?。
It's never happened once.。
Hundreds of millions of people have attempted.。
Every year, people fill them out.。
100 million people filled it out this year.。
And every single year, it has never been successfully,。
perfectly filled out.。
It's pretty crazy.。
We have all imperfectly filled this out.。
In fact, Warren Buffett has offered a billion dollars。
to the first person who can successfully fill it.。
Yeah, talk about, that's a bracket that changes your life.。
The first person who can successfully fill out this thing.。
The odds, they say, of successfully filling it out。
are one in 128 billion.。
Yeah, I know.。
I know.。
(audience laughing)。
That we've all, and so regardless,。
if you've ever filled one of those things out,。
if you've never filled out a bracket,。
I don't even know what to say to you.。
We wanna talk to you down front afterwards.。
(audience laughing)。
It is a 64 team thing where you just pick。
the different teams that you think are gonna win.。
And every single year, no matter how hard we try,。
no matter how many times we try, we've all failed.。
We all come at it and are not able to successfully do it.。
Now, the reason I start there is because I think。
this is the common human experience for all of us in life,。
that just like every single year, I come at that bracket,。
I'm like, hey, this is gonna be my year.。
I'm gonna take down this bracket.。
It's gonna be awesome.。
We're going all the way.。
And then one round in, I'm like, oh, great.。
Next year, that's gonna be my year.。
It's really the common experience as it relates to life.。
I mean, how many resolutions do all of us make。
as we attempt to live life,。
and this is gonna be my year, 2016, it's gonna be my year.。
I'm gonna stop whatever the habit。
you're trying to get rid of.。
Hey, I'm not drinking anymore.。
I'm not dating him anymore.。
I'm gonna stop dipping.。
I'm gonna stop cussing.。
I'm gonna be more disciplined with my Bible.。
I'm gonna exercise more, whatever that is.。
And then like two weeks in, we're like, all right,。
next year's gonna be my year.。
Let's live a little bit.。
Whatever the different thing is,。
hey, I'm not gonna date that guy anymore.。
I end up going back to him.。
I'm not gonna drink anymore.。
Oh, it's an open bar.。
I'll start that next week.。
Oh, hey, I'm not gonna do whatever the scenario is.。
We kind of find ourselves where no matter how hard we try,。
no matter how many times we try,。
there's something inside of us。
where we are our own worst enemy.。
And we make these goals,。
and then we talk ourselves out of keeping the goals.。
Why is that?。
Why are we never,。
or why is this consistent human experience。
where we just like unsuccessfully filling out that bracket,。
year after year, moment after moment,。
attempt after attempt,。
there's something where for most of us,。
and maybe you're the type A unicorn in the room,。
where you're like, no, I've never set a goal。
that I haven't accomplished.。
For the rest of us,。
Luke Friesen, you know what I'm talking about.。
For the rest of us,。
that's just not the case.。
And I think there's a reason why.。
And especially for those of us who are followers of Christ,。
that type of approach is something。
that we experience in the Christian life.。
Hey, I'm going to read my Bible more.。
This year is going to be the year。
that I walk totally by faith.。
My relationship with God is going to grow.。
Everything's going to be amazing and awesome.。
And I'm going to take ground.。
And then a couple weeks in,。
we stumble, we fall,。
and we go right back to, is it even worth it?。
And there's some reason behind why。
that's the common experience for all of us,。
especially on the journey of faith.。
So tonight, the Apostle Paul。
is going to explain what that is,。
why that is,。
and really offer us a solution。
to how you and I are intended to live the Christian life。
from beginning to end,。
from beginning to end.。
It's going to be found in Romans 7 and 8.。
So here's why we're doing Romans 8.。
Romans has been called that if the Bible was a ring,。
like a engagement or wedding ring,。
that the book of the Bible was a ring,。
that the book of Romans would be the center stone。
or the stone, the diamond in the middle.。
And the highest facet with the most gleam facet。
of that diamond would be Romans 8.。
It has been a book that has impacted century after century.。
The Reformation began when Martin Luther。
read a passage in the book of Romans.。
Romans chapter 8 has had an incredible impact.。
We're going to explore what many have said。
is the greatest chapter in the entire Bible。
for the next six weeks as we walk through it,。
really slowly breaking it down.。
It tells us all about the Christian life,。
all about justification, which is a big word we'll explain,。
sanctification, which is another big word,。
and glorification, what awaits us in eternity.。
And so we're going to explore that。
for the next six weeks journey with us.。
If you're going to memorize anything this year,。
this would be a great chapter to put to memory。
or pick a verse in there.。
If you're like a chapter, did he say a chapter?。
Memorize a chapter, crazy.。
Yes, put anything in this chapter to memory。
and it will be well worth your time.。
So we're going to start in verse 7,。
verse 15 of chapter 7.。
In order to explain where we've been,。
we're going to pick it up in chapter 7 of Romans.。
The book of Romans was written to the church in Rome.。
I know.。
And it was a group that Paul had never met.。
The city of Rome was the epicenter of culture.。
It is New York City.。
Paul has never met these Christians.。
It's one of the very few groups that he wrote to。
that he didn't meet and have relationship with,。
but he knew how influential they would be.。
They're in the very center.。
They are in New York, New York.。
They're there in the heart of culture.。
And so he writes the longest book that we have from Paul.。
And in it, he lays out the clearest explanation。
of the Christian faith and how to live the Christian life.。
And so in chapter 7,。
he's been talking about this persistent problem。
he has in his own life of not being able to do the things。
that he wishes he could do and what the problem is。
that all of us have in common.。
So we're going to pick it up in verse 15。
as we dive into this incredible, incredible letter.。
Chapter 7, verse 15.。
If you don't have a Bible, it'll be up on the screen.。
Paul writing, says this,。
"I do not understand what I do,。
"for what I want to do, I don't do.。
"What I hate, I do.。
"If I do what I do not want to do,。
"I agree that the law is good."。
All of us can relate to this, can't we?。
Like we've all been in a scenario where we're like,。
"What is wrong with me?。
"I do the things that I don't think anybody should ever do.。
"I don't understand myself."。
Like I do, I mean, the simplest example would be like。
driving in the car.。
I don't think people should cut someone off.。
I don't think you should honk the horn.。
If I could honk that, I'm like,。
"What, who do you think you are back there?"。
But then I find myself and I'll be on the other shoe。
being like, "Oh my gosh, get out of the way."。
Or I will get ticked if,。
or I will end up cutting someone off。
and I always have an excuse and it's always like,。
"Look, I'm on, can I just merge here?"。
I will do the things, and not just with traffic.。
We all have experienced something where like,。
we agree, hey, that's not a good way for someone to behave,。
but there's something inside of me that wants to.。
I agree that people should not be greedy,。
but I struggle to not be greedy.。
I struggle to not want just more and more and more.。
That exists inside of me.。
I don't think anyone should lust after another man's wife。
or after someone who's not their wife,。
but I'll tell you, there's something inside of me。
that wants to.。
What is that?。
Paul says, look, that's a common human experience。
that all of us share.。
There's something inside of you and something inside of me。
where we even act in a way that we would say。
no one should ever act that way, but why?。
It's still this war goes on inside of me.。
He's gonna tell us why that is.。
Verse 17, as it is, it is no longer I myself who do it,。
but it is sin living in me.。
So he personifies and gives us the answer。
that there's this sin inside of all mankind.。
And this brings us to our first idea from this text。
that your problem, any attempt to live, improve your life,。
to live out the life that you have always wanted。
to experience, the future marriage that you wanna have,。
the biggest problem you will face is you.。
You are your problem.。
And Paul says, look, the problem is there's this thing。
called sin that lives inside of me,。
this war going on between my desire to please Christ。
and yet the sin inside of me.。
He says, for I know that good itself does not dwell in me,。
that I'm not inherently a good person,。
that is in my sinful nature.。
For what I have the desire to do,。
I have the desire to do what is good,。
but I cannot carry it out, for I do not know,。
for I do not do the good I want to do,。
but the evil I do not want to do, this I keep on doing.。
Paul says, look, the reason why you make promises。
to yourself, I'm gonna stop this,。
we're not sleeping together ever again,。
and the reason you talk yourself out of that。
is because there's this war and this battle for believers.。
Paul's writing as a believer saying this war。
between what my sinful nature wants to do。
and between what Christ and my new heart,。
my new spirit in Christ wants me to do.。
Paul says that you and I are not inherently good.。
You may have heard this before,。
I just think everyone is inherently good.。
Paul says, no way, you are inherently evil is what you are.。
You have a sin nature, he says.。
What is a sin nature?。
It means sin comes naturally.。
You've thought about this?。
Like this is why babies come out of the womb。
and they don't have to be taught to say mine,。
it just comes instinctively.。
They're never like, no, this is yours,。
you take it this time.。
They're always like, mine.。
This is why people don't have to work at being sinful.。
You've thought about this?。
Nobody's resolution this year is like,。
I am really working on being a little more angry.。
No one's like, man, I just have too much peace in my life,。
I am trying to get the anxiety up.。
No one experiences that because by nature,。
we are all sinful.。
Our tendency, it comes natural to us.。
And Paul says that's because you have a sin nature.。
You don't have to work at being selfish,。
it comes naturally.。
That's why there's this war that goes on.。
And Paul as a believer, and I think this is so huge。
because a lot of times,。
especially depending on your church experience。
and background, you may hear testimonies of people。
being like, look, I used to struggle。
and then I came to Christ and I became a Christian。
and everything changed.。
And years and years and years ago, I struggled.。
And Paul says, look, I'm writing the Bible。
and I'm struggling right now as a believer in Christ.。
Because there's this war that goes on in me。
and I myself don't have the power to fight against it.。
My spirit is willing, but my flesh is weak,。
he's pointing us out.。
That the problem, my biggest problem,。
your biggest problem is you.。
The problem with the self-help industry,。
which is a $10 billion a year industry,。
man, that writes himself help books,。
is that it involves self.。
Like your biggest problem is you keep trying。
to help your self.。
And you need something outside of your self。
if you are going to make progress, as do I.。
And Paul's about to tell us that though。
our biggest problem is our self, there is a solution.。
Verse 24, he says, "What a wretched man I am.。
"Who will rescue me from this body。
"that is subject to death?"。
Verse 24, at the end of that chapter,。
that man, I keep hurting myself and I can't,。
no matter how hard I try, I can't get over it.。
My problem is me.。
And then he gives us the answer that it only gets better.。
Verse 25, "But thanks be to God。
"who delivers me through Jesus Christ our Lord."。
And the solution, there is a solution, he says,。
"But it is not in you, it is in Christ."。
And he says, "What happens when you are in Christ。
"or have faith in Christ?"。
There, there is not only deliverance,。
that Christ is the thing that can deliver you。
from that internal battle,。
but not only does he deliver you,。
he also delivers you from the guilt of sin,。
of mistakes, all of that,。
of a relationship broken with God.。
He says this in verse one of chapter eight.。
"There is therefore now no condemnation。
"for those who are in Christ Jesus."。
What may be the most beautiful verse in this whole chapter,。
that if you are in Christ,。
if you have been placed into Jesus,。
if by faith you accepted Jesus as your Savior,。
that what he, that's what it means to be a Christian is,。
hey, I'm putting my faith in what Jesus did on the cross.。
He died in my place and he was a payment for my sin.。
And then he was buried and he rose again,。
even death couldn't hold him.。
And his resurrection was evidence。
that the payment was enough, the check cleared.。
He says, "If you have put your faith in that,。
"then you have stepped into a relationship with God。
"that has no condemnation in your past,。
"in your present, in your future.。
"You are now uncondemnable."。
And I really want you to hear this tonight,。
because I think most of us in the room, that sounds great,。
but in our heart of hearts, we were really honest,。
you just don't believe it.。
Like the right now,。
if you put your faith in Jesus perfectly,。
you are righteous, clean, pure, blameless.。
When God looks at you,。
he does not judge you on the basis of your actions.。
'Cause I think that's what most of us feel unrighteous。
because of, right?。
Because of the things that we've done,。
things that we're doing maybe right now.。
And what Paul says is that,。
if you have placed your faith in Christ,。
you are uncondemnable.。
What does condemn me?。
Guilty.。
You cannot be declared guilty.。
You have been permanently declared innocent.。
The righteousness of Jesus,。
the blamelessness of Jesus,。
no matter what is in your past,。
a divorce, a sexual past, adultery, abortion,。
whatever it is, Paul says,。
"You are perfect righteousness."。
If you've put your faith in Jesus, you're uncondemnable.。
You may condemn you, your heart may condemn you.。
A religious system or a judicial system may condemn you.。
But when it comes to God,。
you are uncondemnable because you're in Christ.。
Your solution, our second idea from the text,。
is that the solution is Christ, is in Christ.。
And he transitions to why there's no condemnation.。
He explains how, why this is.。
He says this, verse two.。
Because, here's why there's no condemnation.。
Because through Christ Jesus,。
the law of the Spirit who gives life。
has set you free from the law of sin and death.。
So Paul says, when you placed your faith in Jesus,。
something was accomplished,。
something took place, and it involves two laws.。
You see what he says?。
The law of the Spirit who gives life, that's one law,。
has set you free from the law of sin and death.。
The law of sin and death.。
What is the law of sin and death?。
The law of sin and death is that every time you and I sin,。
we bring death into a situation.。
The law of sin and death is that the wages of sin。
or the return on sin is death.。
That's Romans 6, 23.。
That any time that you and I sin, we bring death.。
Some of us have eroded and put death to relationships。
because we lied, we broke trust,。
and the relationship dissolved.。
My parents' marriage was destroyed。
because of the law of sin and death.。
Sin stepped in and it killed the marriage.。
The law of sin and death is that not only eternally,。
any time there is sin, the return for that is eternal death.。
That's the law of sin and death.。
But also in this life, any time there's sin,。
there's always death.。
All of us exist underneath this law.。
You can put it back up there, Jordan.。
Underneath the law of the Spirit who gives life,。
a new law has been introduced.。
And when you put your faith, when you became a Christian,。
this new law came in and it overpowered。
the law of sin and death.。
That this new law has come in and overpowered。
the old law of sin and death.。
Here's what I mean by that.。
How can a law overpower another one?。
The other, last Thursday, JP and I got on a plane.。
JP is a pastor here on staff who teaches,。
if it's your first time joining with us.。
We got on a plane, we flew to Missouri。
to do this thing that we were a part of.。
And when we got on the plane,。
we were underneath the law of gravity.。
Our bodies were being held down, pulled down,。
the plane was being held down.。
All of a sudden, the plane began moving forward。
and a new law was introduced, the law of motion and inertia.。
And it overpowered the law of gravity.。
The law of gravity was still in existence,。
still pulling down, but a greater, more powerful law。
overpowered the law of gravity.。
And we were lifted up into the air as the plane took flight.。
In the same way that you and I,。
underneath the law of sin and death,。
the spirit who gives life comes in for believers。
and he overpowers the law of sin and death。
and he raises your life up,。
delivering you and setting you free。
from the law of sin and death.。
Setting you free from the penalty of sin。
and from the power of sin in your life.。
From the penalty that you would need to pay at the end。
and from its power in your life right now.。
That's what the law has done, Paul says.。
For what the law was powerless to do, verse three,。
he begins to explain why and how more fully。
Jesus has stepped in and done what we could not do.。
He says this, "For what the law," verse three,。
"was powerless to do because it was weakened by the flesh,"。
God did.。
What the law, he's talking about Old Testament law.。
And he says, "The problem with the law,"。
and really we can broaden it to any law,。
"The problem with all laws is they're weakened。
"by sinful people or by the flesh."。
The problem with the law is I'm a law breaker, right?。
Like the problem with it is not that it's a bad law,。
is the problem is that I can't keep it。
or I oftentimes break the law.。
Paul says, "The problem was the reason the law。
"could not save you."。
The reason religion doesn't work,。
and obedience and I'm gonna be a good person doesn't work,。
is because you're not a good person.。
And you could try, and religion in general,。
which is vastly different from relationship,。
that's what Christianity is about.。
It's not about religion,。
which is just following a bunch of rules.。
The reason following a bunch of rules doesn't work,。
Paul says, "Is because of you and because of me."。
Because of sin, weakened by the flesh.。
And I think there's part of me that thinks like,。
there's a very common belief in our culture that,。
yeah, look, the law is weakened.。
The law can't save, I guess, kind of,。
'cause it is weakened by the flesh.。
But look, if I'm a good person,。
like if I keep most of the laws most of the time,。
like that can save me, right?。
Like as long as I'm good most of the time,。
this is a very common myth that is believed.。
And I wanna do my best to remove it quickly off the table。
or to quickly attempt to remove it off the table.。
And the mentality goes like this,。
"Hey, if I'm a good person,。
"as long as my good kind of outweighs the bad,。
"then God will accept me and I'll go to heaven."。
Many of you in this room believe this.。
This is so illogical and I'm gonna do my best。
to explain why I think it's illogical.。
That essentially says that if I follow God's law,。
you know, majority, 60% of the time,。
then the scale will move in my favor.。
Then I'll be accepted, right?。
Like as long as I do good and I obey the law,。
those obedience to law or obeying the law。
will remove and discount and get rid of。
the times I broke the law.。
You with me?。
Here's why that's crazy.。
What system of justice in our universe does that work in?。
Like, think about it.。
Like what system of justice anywhere would be like,。
"Yeah, as long as you do some good things,。
"those were gonna take away some bad things."。
So like, yeah, what lawyer would stand before a judge。
and say, "Look, yes, my client shot him in the leg,。
"but he's never shot someone else in the leg before.。
"Doesn't that stand for something?"。
Or, "Yes, I intentionally defrauded the IRS,。
"but I have not frauded the IRS for the last six years.。
"Doesn't that stand for something?"。
Like seriously, think about it.。
Like it just doesn't make sense.。
We think it's a scale.。
What system, like there's no nation on earth。
where you'd be like, "Yeah, that's cool.。
"It's a scale system.。
"You can kill people as long as you're nice."。
Like that just doesn't make sense.。
But when it comes to God, that's how we think.。
We're like, "Yeah, I'll just obey the law most of the time,。
"and then it'll kind of make up for any time that I haven't."。
And it's just crazy.。
And Paul says the problem with the law,。
the law can't save 'cause you can't obey the law.。
And if you've ever broken the law, God's law,。
if you've ever not been perfect, you're toast,。
unless you're in Christ.。
The law has never been meant to save,。
and the way that God saved was not by sending an easier law。
or some new rules.。
He did it by a specific way, Paul's about to tell us,。
for what the law was not able to do, God did.。
That God stepped in where you and I had created a gap,。
where you and I had messed up,。
and God responded, and he stepped in,。
and he did so by sending his own son, verse three,。
in the likeness of sinful flesh, to be a sin offering.。
And so he condemned sin in the flesh,。
that there was this error.。
Mankind had sinned against God,。
and God's response to the rebel race that is humanity,。
to the race that had sinned, had ran from him,。
had taken what he gave them, which is life,。
and had used it for their own glory,。
for their own selfish desires.。
And he looked at that human race,。
and he didn't respond with thunder。
and lightning bolts and anger, he runs towards them,。
he sends his own son to die on a cross,。
to be brutally murdered on a cross made out of wood。
that he created, that he gave life to in form of a tree.。
The whole world to be brutally executed。
by soldiers who nailed nails into his hands,。
nails that he, by his very own word,。
Hebrews one says, was holding together the universe.。
He holds it together by the word of his power.。
Christ became a man and died.。
That was God's response to the problem。
and the dilemma of sin,。
to the error that you and I have done,。
that he steps in out of love。
for the human and the rebel race.。
You will not find other teachings。
and other religions that are like that.。
God is a God who enters into the world,。
does not demand something from,。
but gives something for people, his life.。
And that was God's response,。
that it became a sin offering not to condemn you,。
to condemn sin in the flesh,。
so that you would be forever made righteous.。
You would be totally clean,。
the perfect sinless son of God says, I will take your sin.。
I will take every mistake you've ever made,。
every intentional sin, not just a mistake, an accident.。
Every time you've ever snorted something,。
every time that you've ever intentionally thrown up,。
that you've cut, that you've got wasted,。
that you gave your body away,。
every lie that you've ever told,。
every sin that you've ever done, I will take them。
and I will take on the punishment for those sins。
so that you go free。
and I will be brutally killed in your place.。
That's the message in the place of David,。
in the place of anyone who will accept it,。
that I will send my son, he will be the offering for sin.。
He will stand in the gap that you've created。
and that I've created through air.。
And that anyone who accepts him。
will be made perfectly innocent,。
stamped, declared righteous for all time.。
The righteousness of Christ will be his。
and Christ will take the punishment that we deserve.。
He says this in the next verse where he points out,。
"In order that the righteous requirement of the law。
"might be fully met in us."。
What is the righteous requirement of the law?。
What's the requirement of any law?。
Perfect obedience.。
The requirement of the, hey,。
click it or ticket law is click it.。
The requirement of pay your taxes by April 15th, tax day.。
The requirement of that law is obedience,。
paying the taxes by April 15th.。
The requirement of God's righteous law。
is perfect obedience to that righteous law.。
And all of us who have fallen short,。
who would say I'm not perfect,。
who've created a gap, Jesus steps in and says,。
"I will live the life that you could not live。
"and I'll die the death that you deserve."。
God will step into the gap。
and pay for all the air that you and I have ever done.。
That's the message of Christianity.。
It's the message of Easter that's coming up this weekend.。
It's the message of all of Romans eight.。
That the guilty ones will be declared pardoned。
and murder my son.。
I mean, it's scandalous love。
that God expresses on a cross for humanity.。
Let the guilty one go free。
and the innocent one will pay and stand in his place.。
As I was preparing this message this week,。
I was reminded of like an illustration in scripture。
where this story,。
a scenario where like the innocent one is murdered。
and it's Jesus,。
the innocent one stands and takes the punishment。
that someone he's eyeball to eyeball with deserves.。
And that person who's guilty,。
who had actually murdered people ends up walking away free.。
It's a story that's found in Luke 23。
and it's a story that's found in all four of the gospels.。
I'm gonna read it really quickly。
because inside of this story, we find our story.。
It's a story that's found in every gospel.。
In other words, four different times this happens.。
Why is that significant?。
Because very few stories are repeated。
inside of the gospels.。
Very few stories make it into all four.。
Some make it into two, some make it into three.。
Very few make it into all four.。
Why would God say,。
"Hey, I want every single one of them。
"to have this story in it."。
And it's gonna feel like, oh, that's kind of a random story,。
but there's a purpose in it.。
There's a reason why God includes it.。
It's a story that happens minutes。
before Jesus is about to be crucified,。
during Holy Week, which is what we're in right now.。
2,000 years ago, Jesus comes riding in。
during this last week, this weekend's Easter.。
Two days ago was Palm Sunday,。
and during this week, all kinds of things happen.。
This story takes place minutes and hours before Jesus dies.。
He's arrested and he's led away and he's falsely accused.。
Men begin to make up accusations。
and basically claim this man deserves to die.。
Jesus is arrested, he's brought before Pilate,。
if you know who that is, who's the governor,。
who's gonna essentially understand here。
and give this guy a trial, Jesus.。
And he shows up and all of a sudden,。
this crowd begins to gather outside of Pilate's door.。
And Pilate is now seeing this carpenter Jewish peasant。
and Pilate's a Roman and he's a governor。
and he's like, "What is this man doing here?。
"Why are you in front of me?。
"What crime have you committed?"。
And Jesus really doesn't give him an answer.。
And Pilate goes out to the crowd。
that's now gathering around,。
it's beginning to chant out, "Crucify him, crucify him."。
And he steps inside and he goes,。
"Crucify him, he hasn't done anything wrong.。
"You're calling for the death penalty?。
"That doesn't happen just to anybody.。
"That's like giving someone the death penalty for speeding.。
"That's crazy."。
No, he's not getting the death penalty.。
And Pilate goes in and he begins dialogue with Jesus。
and say, "What could you possibly have done?"。
And then Pilate says, "Ah."。
Every single year, there's a chance where basically。
we let one Jewish prisoner go.。
And since this guy's a prisoner, I'm just gonna let him go.。
It happened at this feast every year.。
So Pilate goes out and he goes,。
"Look, I'm gonna use that get out of jail free card,。
"literally, and I'm gonna let this guy go。
"and everything's gonna be great."。
And in the midst of it, they begin screaming,。
"Crucify him, give us Barabbas."。
And the set of just what's going on is all of a sudden,。
Pilate's in front of this crowd。
that's screaming for the death penalty。
for a man that he continues to say is innocent.。
And then there's this other man who's a murderer。
standing near him and the crowd begins to scream,。
"Give us the murderer and release him to us."。
Here's what happens in Luke 23.。
Pilate basically says, "I've examined Jesus thoroughly."。
This is in verse 15.。
"And I find him innocent.。
"Nothing this man has done calls for the death penalty.。
"I'll have him flogged and released."。
And the crowd roared.。
And they shouted with one voice, "Kill him。
"and release Barabbas to us."。
Barabbas, Luke wants us to know, was in prison。
for taking part in an insurrection against the government。
and for murder.。
Who's Barabbas?。
He's not just the nicest guy on the block.。
He was an insurrectious and by the way, he's a murderer.。
And the crowd is screaming, "Release Barabbas,。
"but execute Jesus."。
And Pilate's going, what?。
Pilate argued with them because he wanted to release Jesus,。
but they kept shouting, "Crucify him, crucify him."。
For the third time, he demanded why?。
Like, what has this man done?。
Why would you want to kill this man, Jesus?。
What has he done?。
As Pilate looks out into the audience of a crowd。
who no doubt as Jesus did miracles in Jerusalem,。
had experienced family members, friends,。
people in their circle of connection。
whose eyes had been opened.。
Literally, they were no longer blind because of Jesus.。
What had he done?。
He healed blind people.。
What had he done?。
He restored lepers to their family.。
When he healed them, he allowed lame people to walk again.。
He opened deaf ears.。
What has Jesus done?。
Showed compassion for the weak,。
raised to life sick people.。
What has Jesus done?。
And Pilate's going, you're gonna demand this man be killed?。
And you want to set free this murderer?。
I mean, very clearly there's guilty and innocent.。
Why would you ask for the innocent to die?。
And he continues as the crowd continues to release.。
"I find no reason to sentence him to death.。
"I will release him."。
But the mob shouted louder and louder,。
demanding him be crucified.。
Their voices prevailed.。
So Pilate sentenced Jesus to die as they demanded.。
And he released Barabbas, the man in prison,。
for insurrection and for murder.。
And he turned Jesus over to be crucified.。
And they led him away, the innocent, righteous son of God.。
As Barabbas has chains taken off of his hands,。
off of his feet, and he's set free.。
Now, why is that significant for you and for me?。
Not just does it give an indication,。
an illustration of an innocent one going to his death,。
dying the death that a murderer deserved.。
It also tells us a little bit about our story.。
What does Barabbas mean?。
What does the word Barabbas mean?。
This is why I think it was included in every single gospel.。
Because though God is sending us a message,。
I want you to see this.。
What does the word Barabbas mean?。
Bar-abbas.。
Bar, Simon, Bar, Jonah.。
Simon, Bar means son of, Jonah.。
What does Barabbas mean?。
Bar, son of the father.。
I wanna paint the picture again.。
Barabbas, the guilty murderer,。
the one who deserved death, is released.。
The son of the father who is guilty is set free,。
escapes penalty, while the perfect, innocent Jesus。
goes to the cross to be killed.。
Why does Jesus, or why does God have the story。
recorded in every gospel?。
'Cause it's your story.。
If you are a Christ follower.。
You are Barabbas, I am Barabbas.。
It's all of our story.。
It's the story of Easter.。
It's the story of the gospel,。
where the guilty one is set free。
and declared no longer condemnable.。
And the innocent one dies in his place.。
It's the story we celebrate at Easter.。
It's the story of Romans eight.。
It's your story and my story,。
and God preserved it and recorded it。
so that even in the early church,。
when they would read Barabbas,。
they would immediately go, son of the father.。
It's like Jacobson, Jacob's son,。
son of the father was released.。
And so God wants you to know that's all of our story.。
Declared uncondemnable because the righteous payment made,。
not that we deserved, but that Christ gave us.。
He finishes out the text and he tells us,。
it's a payment made for all of those。
who live not according to the flesh.。
What does it mean to live out the Christian life?。
It is to live not according to the flesh,。
but according to the spirit.。
You may have who walk according to the spirit,。
that the life lived or walked by the spirit.。
What does it mean to walk by the spirit?。
Does it mean to just live a good life?。
No.。
Paul just spent a chapter saying,。
look, I can't live a good life.。
What does it mean to walk by the spirit?。
Is it just mean to be a good person?。
Those are great things.。
People should attempt to be good.。
But honestly, if you attempt to be good in your flesh,。
you will always fail.。
Many of you are trying to be good.。
This is why you're having such a tough time。
living your faith out 'cause you're like,。
I'm gonna try harder tomorrow.。
All right, blew it today.。
Tomorrow's gonna be my day.。
And you're not living consistent with walking by the spirit.。
You're trying to live in your flesh.。
It's human effort.。
What is walking by the spirit mean?。
How do you walk by anything?。
Dependence on.。
If I said walk by this walker,。
you would put your weight on the walker。
and walk to walk by the spirit.。
And this is the way the Christian life is lived.。
This is the way that you and I not just escape。
a penalty of our sin eternally.。
This is the way we live free from the power of sin。
every single day, every single moment。
is by total dependence, walking by the spirit.。
I'm totally dependent on you.。
I'm going to live, God, moment by moment.。
I'm totally dependent on you when I'm facing temptation.。
God, I can't not lust right now,。
but you can and you can in my life.。
I need your help, Lord.。
I'm asking and I'm inviting you moment by moment.。
You know what I'm going through.。
Lord, you know how anxious I feel.。
I can't conquer this anxiety, but you can.。
And your spirit inside of me can.。
I'm totally dependent on you, God.。
I'm totally in need of you.。
I can't fight this, whatever insecurity,。
whatever addiction you're facing, but you can, God.。
I'm totally dependent on you right now, moment by moment.。
That's where the power is.。
That's where you can experience the Christian life.。
If you try to do it on your own,。
you're not going to be able to fight against sin.。
Like you're no match for sin in and of yourself.。
You can't even stay on a diet and neither can I.。
Think about that.。
And you think we're going to be like,。
no, I'm going to conquer this right now, right here.。
The only way to access the power。
that Christ has given each of us who are Christians,。
to access the ability to experience that freedom from sin,。
freedom from comparison, from envy,。
even freedom from shame and guilt。
and all the things that rob you of experiencing life,。
is to walk in dependence moment by moment.。
God, I can't, but you can.。
I'm totally dependent on you.。
It's the same way you become a Christian。
is the same way you live as a Christian.。
And here's what I mean.。
That's not just like a pithy statement.。
It's a fact.。
The way you get into heaven is you go, God, I can't.。
I need you to save me.。
I need a savior, not a second chance.。
I can't do it on my own.。
I need you to die on a cross in my place.。
I'm accepting.。
Not that I'll ever be a good enough person。
because I think I'm pretty good.。
Like I'm nicer than these people.。
I'm not Hitler.。
But the reality is I'm not good enough to get in。
because you require perfect righteousness.。
I'm totally dependent on you。
if I'm gonna get in at that standard.。
And that's the standard.。
I'm totally dependent on you, God.。
That's the way you become a Christian.。
In total dependence, you cry out。
and accept his provision in Jesus.。
That's totally dependent.。
I'm totally dependent on you.。
That's becoming a Christian.。
Living the Christian life is the same way.。
I'm totally dependent on you, God.。
Will you help me?。
I can't, you can.。
I need your help.。
I'm not strong enough to fight the demons in my past.。
I'm not strong enough to have the type of marriage。
that I want, Lord.。
I'm totally dependent on you.。
I feel this every day.。
Very practically, you're like,。
man, it's still like ethereal.。
I promise you, this practically happens to me。
every single day.。
As I look down the past of just the examples that I've had。
as it relates to parenting, as it relates to marriage,。
as it relates to just any types of sin struggles,。
and I have to confess this constantly,。
God, I can't, but you can.。
I can't get up here and teach a message。
and not be obsessed about what you're gonna think about me,。
but you can, God, and your spirit inside of me。
can release me from that.。
I'm crying out, I need your help.。
Because you're a God who rushes in。
when we humble ourselves and just ask for your help.。
Whatever you're facing right now,。
the way you live and experience freedom。
is by moment by moment.。
It doesn't happen in a minute,。
or it doesn't happen like today and everything changed.。
It's gonna happen tomorrow.。
You get up, I can't, God.。
You can, will you help me?。
I'm surrendered and dependent on you,。
and I'm gonna walk by the spirit,。
and that's where the power is.。
That's where you can live out the Christian life.。
Our posture is dependence,。
was that third whole section that I forgot to announce.。
Our posture is dependence,。
but man, that would've been really great had I.。
Posture is dependence, and I'll close with this.。
Last week, I got a text during Garrett's message,。
and he did such an awesome job, Garrett.。
And it was somebody, yeah, get excited.。
It was texted by someone who said,。
"Hey, do you wanna go to the Mavs game tomorrow?"。
And I was like, "Yes, duh, but stop interrupting me。
"'cause I'm listening to the Bible right now."。
And I sent back, "Yes, of course,"。
and I had no idea what I was about to get.。
I go and I pick up the tickets,。
and it was like a date night, and it was awesome.。
This is great.。
Man, I haven't been to a Mavs game in so long.。
This is exciting.。
This is gonna be awesome.。
Go to the stadium, and I realized,。
oh man, there's a parking pass in here.。
This is awesome.。
I had pulled out cash to be able to park,。
and park at one of the lots,。
and I was like, "This is great.。
"There's a parking pass."。
Not only any parking pass, it's the Lexus parking pass.。
Holla at your boy, okay, right next to the stadium.。
We're gonna walk in, park, go into the stadium.。
This is gonna be awesome.。
This is so cool.。
This free gift that I had accepted。
came with way more than I thought.。
And so I go inside, we're looking.。
I don't know where the seats are,。
and we go to the gate that we're gonna be at,。
and I find the gate, and I'm like,。
"Oh, this is great, 108, this is awesome."。
And we start walking down to find our seats。
inside of the gate that we're in,。
and we keep going down the steps,。
and I'm like, "Okay, okay, this is not us."。
We keep going lower, and lower, and lower,。
and we are on the second row.。
Dirk is like six inches away from me,。
and a place that I've never been in all my life,。
ever sat anywhere near this.。
We are right in front.。
It was crazy.。
I was like, I had no idea.。
All that what I was accepting when I accepted this free gift.。
Do you have these free gifts more often?。
And I'm sitting there, and I'm watching this game.。
Never had anything like this before.。
It's so awesome.。
And I look around, and it's like such a different experience。
than I'm used to.。
Like, these are not my people.。
I am among like the who's who of Dallas right now,。
and I'm like, they know this is an imposter in here.。
What is this man doing?。
And everyone's like really pretty, and a little plastic.。
(audience laughing)。
And I'm like, that's so wrong.。
And I'm like, I'm sitting there,。
and the person next to me, like I just feel like,。
I don't even know, they have concessions.。
Like, you don't go to the concession stand.。
The concessions come to you, and I'm like,。
oh, I just feel like so, like I don't belong here.。
Like, these people, I don't even know how to order,。
and I don't wanna ask them,。
'cause I'm like, my wife doesn't know how.。
How do you order here?。
Believe this?。
Come on.。
I'll have what she's having.。
Oh man, it's just so like, man, I don't,。
at any moment, they're gonna be like,。
hey, who is this guy, Bill?。
Like, he does not make enough。
to sit down here with all of us.。
And it just felt like such, I did not belong.。
And then it hit me.。
Wait a second.。
I do belong here.。
And it's not because like I'm as pretty,。
or anything else as these people.。
It's not because I earned it to be down here.。
I belong down here for one single reason.。
I got a ticket.。
It's true.。
Like, that's the only single reason。
that I deserve to be down there,。
was that I had a ticket.。
It wasn't that I had tried hard enough.。
It's that I had been given this free gift,。
and I had accepted that free gift,。
and it gave me access to all kinds of things。
that I did not earn.。
But in accepting that free gift,。
it opened up and placed me in a place where I do belong.。
And I was able to access and experience all types of things。
that came along with that free gift.。
Now, here's why I say that,。
because many of us in the room,。
as it relates to your Christian life,。
you think that you either deserve to be down there,。
sitting in those rows because of the things you've done,。
because of the type of person that you are,。
and you have deceived yourself.。
The only reason why you can stand before God。
and have a relationship with him,。
why you belong to be called righteous,。
you belong among those who are called redeemed,。
saved, forgiven, forever forgiven,。
forever declared God's child,。
heirs of all eternity, heirs of all that is.。
The only reason why you deserve that。
is not because of anything you've ever done,。
because of the gift that you've been offered。
and you have received in Christ.。
If you stand before God,。
and I really wanna draw this home,。
if you stand before God,。
or if you were to die today,。
and you stood before God,。
and you were asked the question,。
"Hey, why do you think you would get into heaven?"。
And you began to go, "Well, I've been a good person.。
"I pay my taxes on time.。
"I always donate.。
"I try to be nice to people.。
"My grandma loves me."。
If you do anything that involves I, I, me,。
anything other than Jesus, the righteous one of God,。
who I was allowed to go free,。
he was murdered in my place, I did not deserve it,。
but I am accepted, and I belong among the redeemed,。
because I've been accepted,。
because Christ has died in my place.。
If you say anything, that is like me。
trying to sit on that front row every single night,。
saying, "Look, I'm a nice person.。
"I deserve to be up here."。
And the reality is you do not belong up there。
based on your behavior, based on your performance.。
But you are given access up there。
if you will just accept it.。
That's the free, that's why the message of Christianity。
is unlike any other message.。
That's why we take this message。
to the streets of Dallas every week,。
because the world thinks that God。
wants good people in heaven and bad people in hell,。
and the message is only forgiven people go to heaven.。
You are not good, and neither am I,。
and the only way to be forgiven is Jesus,。
and anyone who will just say,。
"God, I'll accept you died in my place.。
"I'm just not good enough, and I'll never be good enough."。
Any person who says that, who accepts that,。
who believes that, will spend all of eternity。
among the redeemed, the righteous, the saints,。
the uncondemnable, and any person。
who is totally dependent like that,。
and totally dependent moment by moment,。
will experience the life God wants。
for the redeemed, the righteous,。
those who are his children, but you will never get there.。
You do not deserve to sit on the second row。
except for one reason, Christ,。
and he's giving you a ticket if you'll just accept it.。
I'm gonna pray that we would.。
Father, thank you that you are the God。
who allows Barabbas' like me。
to become sons of the Father who walk free.。
You're not a God who wants religious action.。
You're a God who came to establish relationship.。
I pray for friends in the room, God, Lord, please,。
there is no message that can save someone.。
There is no message that can convince someone。
that they are living a life。
dependent on their own actions,。
even if they're feeling guilty,。
like, man, I'm just such a bad person.。
They've bought the lie that you look at them。
based on how they behave,。
and the truth is it's not about whoever behaves,。
but whosoever believes will have eternal life。
and accepts that, and from that, all of life is changed.。
Thank you, you're a God who's given us access。
to more than we could ever imagine,。
to eternal life and the ability to live this life。
by walking in dependence on you, God.。
We worship you.。
You lived a life that we couldn't live.。
You died the death we deserved,。
and we sing that and worship you now through song.。
