(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
- All right, Forge, how we doing?。
We doing okay?。
It's good to see you.。
Welcome back, week two.。
It's been an amazing night already.。
I'm really looking forward to where we're going。
this evening and I'm really glad you're here for it.。
Genuinely, I believe this every week。
and yet there's just something in my soul tonight。
that thinks God has something special in store.。
Before we get going, it wouldn't be a typical Tuesday。
or a regular night at the porch if we didn't say hey。
to some special friends that are tuning in with us online.。
So, special shout out to all of our Porch Live locations。
that are tuning in with us wherever it is you are.。
Will y'all put your hands together for Porch Live?。
Yes, we love the Porch Live.。
Special shout out to Porch Live Wheaton,。
Fort Worth and Fresno.。
Man, I love the fact that God is not just doing。
something here, he is doing something in other places。
as well and we're a part of it.。
Like sometimes we can get trapped in our moment。
here in Dallas and think that God's really working here。
but what we need to know is, man,。
we're a part of a greater movement。
which is happening all over, I mean really,。
it's happening all over the world。
and it's an incredible gift that we get to be a part of.。
So, love the fact that we're here,。
really excited for tonight but to set things up,。
I'd love to just start with a quick story。
and I'd like to try and help out some of my brothers。
in the room and do you a solid in the event。
that no one ever has.。
So, if you're a guy in the room,。
then I just wanna look at you and tell you straight up。
that the minute a woman enters your world,。
it's going to fundamentally flip upside down.。
Like everything is going to change for you.。
I know this was my experience.。
When Brooke and I got married, I was 25 years old,。
meaning that I had a quarter century of life。
under my belt by this point.。
Like I felt pretty confident in my ability。
to navigate the ways of paying my bills。
and getting my groceries and providing for my needs.。
I wasn't super settled in my ways but I was comfortable.。
Like I felt really good, really confident。
about the way that I was walking through the world,。
navigating my reality.。
That is until we eventually moved in together.。
You see, but before we did,。
Brooke and I, we went in and we got an apartment.。
She moved in first.。
I waited until we said the I do's and then we came together。
but she moved in first because she wanted to nest.。
You see, ladies like to take a house。
and make it into a home, which I was great with。
only until I realized that upon moving in,。
she wasn't just making a house into a home.。
She was actually gonna take a simple man。
and make him into a family man.。
Because when I moved in after we got married,。
what I learned is the dryer was not a suitable place。
to store my clothing.。
Guys, anybody willing to admit that that's what you do?。
Like your clothes are sitting in the dryer in this moment.。
Don't do it.。
It's not gonna work for her。
because she's gonna want it all folded and hung up。
and sorted appropriately.。
I realized pretty early on。
that my meals couldn't simply consist of the chicken rice。
that I had prepped the week before.。
Tupperware wasn't suitable serving where instead,。
we were gonna follow whatever recipe。
Half-Baked Harvest had recommended at that time.。
I don't know about you, but I know for myself,。
my come and take it flag was sufficient decor。
to be pinned on my wall.。
Any guys with some flags hung in their apartments。
or townhomes or bedrooms right now?。
It's not suitable decor.。
Like when you get married and you move in,。
she's going to want to frame photographs and hang artwork。
because she is going to try to actually make you into more。
than you are right now.。
She's going to want to make you into a family man.。
You see, I felt like the minute she and I got married,。
everything changed for me.。
Like my whole way of thinking was confronted to the core.。
My whole way of feeling was like called out and called up.。
My way of doing was challenged forever.。
Now, if you asked me, Kylan, do you regret it?。
I would say no.。
I actually recommend marriage.。
I think it's pretty great.。
You see, I realized that there were some old ways。
of doing things that I needed to unlearn.。
And yet there were some new and better ways。
of doing things that I needed to learn instead.。
Now, why do I tell you all of that?。
Because some of you are here tonight,。
and if you're honest, you feel like this is your current。
state of circumstance.。
Instead, you're not trying to figure out。
how you should behave at home.。
You're trying to figure out what you should believe at heart.。
Like some of us feel like our old way of doing things。
spiritually are no longer working.。
And so we're wondering if there's a better way。
of doing things instead.。
If that's you, then I'm really grateful you're here。
and excited to tell you that this series is meant for you.。
Because over the course of the next five weeks,。
we want to help rebuild your spiritual reality.。
Like we want to reboot your belief.。
We want to help you reconstruct whatever it feels like。
is deconstructed.。
And it's not because we're just trying to generate。
some clickbait, like pick a subject that's going to。
have a lot of hype.。
It's really because we want to be helpful.。
We want to be helpful.。
We know that this idea of deconstruction。
is massively widespread within our generation.。
So we want to attack it head on.。
And yet in order for us to do that,。
what we have to do is we have to set a really firm。
foundation because you can't construct something。
unless you have a good basis to build on.。
It makes me think of several years ago。
when I was at the beach with my niece.。
My niece, she wanted to build a sand castle,。
which I'm all about.。
That sounds like a great time.。
And so she pulls out her sand tools and her sand toys。
and her castle cups and we start packing sand。
in those things.。
And she's turned them over and sets them down.。
And what she realizes is every time she flips the cup,。
the structure's not standing.。
Because she didn't know that she should clear the sand。
and level a foundation.。
That's what we have to do.。
Before we get into this idea of deconstructing。
and really evaluating how we rebuild our reality,。
we have to lay a good foundation to build on,。
which is what we're going to do here tonight.。
So where do we start?。
What's the right place to begin。
in the work of rebuilding reality?。
I think we need to establish a really good working。
definition for deconstruction,。
because I don't know about you,。
but in my world, as I've done research,。
what I've found is people fall in all manner。
of different places when it comes to this topic.。
You see, some people look at deconstruction。
and they treat it as more of an intellectual renovation。
of sorts, like you take one thing from your life。
and you're just trying to freshen it up a little bit.。
Other people, they look at deconstruction。
and it's really synonymous with disenchantment.。
Like I used to believe that,。
man, it's just not really working for me anymore.。
While others look at deconstruction。
and they equate it to demolition.。
That I'm not just trying to overhaul a couple of things。
with respect to my faith.。
I'm trying to blow everything up with respect to my faith.。
People, they fall all over the grid。
with respect to their understanding of deconstruction.。
And I'm sure that's the case for some of us here tonight.。
And the reason for that is because deconstruction。
is notoriously difficult to understand。
if you actually go back to its origin.。
I don't know if you knew this,。
but deconstruction is not a new thing.。
It actually was created by a French philosopher。
named Jacques Derrida in the 1960s.。
He was a young adult himself,。
and he created this concept。
that even he was unwilling to summarize。
when asked how to explain it。
because it is annoyingly nuanced.。
Just take my word for it.。
If you want more information,。
you can come talk to me down to the front。
at the end of our service.。
And yet, because we're going to be spending。
the next five weeks on this,。
we need to come up with some kind of definition.。
So I have done the hard work of figuring out a definition。
that will work for us.。
Are you ready for it?。
It's nothing original to me.。
It was actually quoted by a guy named Brian Zand。
in his book, "When Everything Catches Fire."。
And this is what he said.。
He said, "Deconstruction is a crisis of faith。
"that leads to either a reevaluation of Christianity。
"or sometimes a total abandonment of Christianity."。
Meaning the process of deconstruction。
doesn't begin with dismantling your belief.。
The process of deconstruction。
begins with doubting your belief.。
That's the precursor.。
That's where things have to begin.。
And the reality is most people that say,。
"I'm deconstructing,"。
they're really just wrestling with doubt.。
And so that's what I want us to talk about tonight.。
You see, often when we hear the idea of doubt,。
when it comes to the faith,。
we assume that means a really bad thing.。
And yet, I actually think within doubt,。
there's a really great opportunity.。
So let me explain it to you like this.。
When Brooke and I were in the market to buy a house。
after first moving here to Dallas,。
we knew that we wanted to buy a place。
that needed some renovations.。
We knew it.。
We wanted to invest in a property, increase its value.。
And so as we searched the market,。
we knew we need to find a place。
that is requiring some renovation.。
Now, when we bought our house,。
the house we bought fit the bill.。
It needed to be updated.。
Do you think we walked in。
and just started swinging hammers all over the place?。
No, that would have been very bad。
because as we did a careful evaluation of the property,。
we realized, man, there are certain things here。
that are in great shape,。
but there are other things here that do require attention.。
Upon inspection, there were certain things。
that inspired our confidence to leave them as is,。
but there were other things that upon inspection。
inspired our concern that needed to be addressed.。
That's how we have to approach our faith.。
We have to consider as we carefully evaluate。
what areas of our faith are great as they are.。
We don't need to touch them in the slightest.。
And yet what other areas may feel,。
may feel somewhat out of date behind the times。
as if we potentially outgrown them.。
You see, the beautiful thing about doubt。
is it's not a sign that Christianity is flawed.。
A doubt is a sign that our understanding。
of Christianity is flawed.。
If you're here and you're wrestling with doubt,。
it's not an issue with Christ,。
it's an issue in your understanding of who Christ is,。
which is actually really encouraging news。
because it means that God, He is just as unsearchable,。
He is just as unfathomable,。
He is just as uncontainable as He claims He is, right?。
If God was actually able to be pinned down by you,。
the Almighty, when you were in your teenage years,。
is that a God worth following?。
No, like no one here is rocking Nike Elites。
and Sperry's tonight, I wouldn't guess.。
And the reason why is you've likely outgrown them.。
But with that said,。
does that mean that you've outgrown the need for shoes?。
No, I'd guess that your shoe game。
is at its very best right now.。
The same has to happen when it comes to our faith.。
We have to be willing to look at our doubts。
and not allow them to lead us further from God,。
but allow them to lead us further into God.。
And so I'm really excited because some of you are here,。
you're wrestling and yet God's like,。
"Oh baby, we're about to go deep.。
"I'm about to take you to a new level of understanding.。
"I'm about to take you to a new place of faith.。
"I'm about to stir up something new in your spirit."。
Are you ready?。
That's what God wants to do.。
That's his heart and I love the enthusiasm.。
A.J. Swoboda in his book "After Doubt" said it like this.。
He said, "There's often no greater act of faith。
"in fidelity to God than bearing one's deepest held beliefs。
"to divine criticism so that God might be loved more."。
To put it simply, kicking the tires。
doesn't mean you hate the car.。
You see, doubt, it's not the enemy of your affections。
for God.。
Doubt is the opportunity to love God more,。
to find answers that not only satisfy your questions,。
but satisfy your souls.。
That's what I wanna talk to you about tonight.。
And in order for us to do it,。
we're gonna look at a passage in the gospel of Luke.。
So if you have a Bible, you can pull it out。
and turn with me to Luke chapter 24.。
As you do that, I wanna set up some context,。
not just to fill the gap as you flip the pages,。
but to really set something up。
that I think will be helpful to you。
because this idea of deconstruction。
is not an idea that is new to Jesus.。
It's something that he actually dealt with repeatedly。
over the course of his ministry.。
And he cared a great deal about。
because when we come to this passage in Luke chapter 24,。
what we need to know is Jesus is right on the heels。
of his resurrection, yet he has not yet gone to the father.。
He has not yet ascended back to heaven.。
And all throughout this 40 day window。
that he has between the resurrection and the ascension,。
Jesus keeps making special guest appearances。
all across the Holy land.。
He makes cameos in the most unlikely of places。
because if you were him and I were him,。
what would we likely do?。
We'd probably show up and rebuke the religious elite.。
Hey, you guys, what were you thinking?。
We would probably show up and we would confront the Romans.。
You crucified me, man.。
What were you thinking?。
Jesus doesn't do that.。
He doesn't go to the religious elite.。
He doesn't go to the Romans.。
Instead, what Jesus does is he pursues the doubtful.。
That's his mission in this 40 day window.。
It's to restore the faith of the faint hearted.。
He goes to Mary.。
He comes to Thomas.。
He restores Peter.。
He appears in the upper room.。
And right here, he walks with two disciples。
down a road to Emmaus.。
So it says this in Luke chapter 24.。
We'll pick it up in verse 13.。
That very day, two of them were going。
to a village named Emmaus,。
about seven miles from Jerusalem.。
And they were talking with each other。
about all these things that had happened.。
While they were talking and discussing together,。
Jesus himself drew near and he went with them.。
But their eyes were kept from recognizing him.。
And he said to them,。
what is this conversation that you're having。
or that you're holding with each other as you walk?。
And they stood still looking sad.。
Then one of them named Cleopas answered him,。
are you the only visitor to Jerusalem。
who does not know the things。
that have happened here in these days?。
And he said to them, what things?。
And they said to him, concerning Jesus of Nazareth,。
a man who was a prophet, mighty indeed,。
and word before God and all the people,。
and how our chief priests and rulers。
delivered him up to be condemned to death and crucified him.。
But we had hoped that he was the one to redeem Israel.。
Yes, and besides all this,。
it's now the third day since these things have happened.。
That comment at the end, it's now the third day,。
it means that they're at a moment of incredible discouragement。
because it was the point at which the Jewish mind。
thought that the soul would leave the body upon death.。
Day three.。
So it's interesting.。
Whenever you read the resurrection appearances of Jesus。
at the end of the gospels,。
what you find is he not only repeatedly appears to people,。
but he constantly conceals his identity.。
He's got a flair for the dramatic.。
He likes a grand entrance.。
We find that three different times,。
he conceals his identity.。
He comes to Mary and he presents himself as a gardener.。
He comes to Peter and the seven disciples,。
and he looks like a man sitting on shore beside the fire.。
And then in this moment,。
he looks like a fellow wanderer。
to both Cleopas and his companion on the road to Emmaus,。
which begs the question, why?。
Why does Jesus conceal his identity in these moments?。
Well, scholars, they have a variety of different answers。
that no one knows for sure.。
Some scholars look at it and they say,。
this is going to be the method of Jesus's primary ministry。
once he ascends to heaven.。
It's going to be communicated through common men.。
And so he wants to be a common man。
that is communicating to other common men.。
That's why he conceals his identity.。
Other people look at it and say,。
it's because of the disbelief of those。
that he's appearing to.。
He's looking at them and they cannot see him for who he is。
because they don't believe completely.。
Others say that he is supernaturally concealing his identity.。
He's throwing up a spiritual mask。
to conceal himself from these others.。
Others look at him and say,。
it's just a physical obstruction.。
He's too far away.。
They can't make out the details of his face.。
We don't know why he conceals his identity ultimately.。
And yet, as I peeled through these pages。
and poured over and study,。
I think I arrived at a hunch that's pretty unique.。
I think that Jesus conceals his identity repeatedly。
in these moments because he wants to,。
he wants to engage with people。
at the level of their rawest emotion.。
Like that's what you see.。
Like Jesus conceals his identity and he comes to Mary。
and what he sees is that she's sorrowful.。
He conceals his identity and he comes to Peter。
and he sees that he's shameful.。
He conceals his identity and he comes to these two guys。
and he sees that they're disappointed.。
By way of him hiding who he is,。
we can actually see who they are.。
He wants to engage people at an emotional level.。
So much so that it says in this passage。
that they stood still looking sad。
because they had hoped that he was the one to redeem Israel.。
And yet, because he did live up to that expectation,。
according to their estimation,。
they are walking away from him entirely.。
Their doubt has descended to such a place。
that they're bailing on this whole way of Christ altogether.。
And yet Jesus comes to them and he reveals to us。
the very first thing he does is he restores the doubtful.。
Jesus walks with those who are walking away.。
Jesus walks with those who are walking away.。
That's the first way he pursues those downcast in doubt.。
These guys are sad, they're disappointed.。
They're probably headed to Emmaus。
for a little bit of self-care.。
The city was known for being a place of natural hot springs.。
And so they think that's probably nice。
after everything that they've lived through.。
And yet what we know is because they're on the way to Emmaus,。
they are not huddled with the other disciples。
in the upper room.。
They're not gathered with the women by the tomb.。
They're not even hiding in Jerusalem。
or waiting for some new development in the story.。
No, they have given up.。
They are walking away.。
They have chosen to move on with their life.。
And while it would be easy for us on this side of the cross。
to look at them and shake our head and wag our finger,。
how dare you guys?。
We do this ourselves.。
We walk away from Jesus for all sorts of different reasons,。
even good reasons.。
Like some of us, we walk away from the faith。
because we've been hurt by the church.。
Others of us walk away because we've been slandered。
and belittled by other Christians.。
We walk away from the church because we look at the pulpit。
and think it's become a place of political theater。
over the course of the last two election cycles。
and eight years altogether.。
We walk away from the church because God claims to be good。
and yet he let me down.。
He didn't show up when I needed him most.。
We walk away from the church。
because there are other truth claims out there。
that seem to make better sense of my reality,。
that seem to help explain my experience.。
Like we all have our reasons for walking away,。
even good reasons for doing so.。
And yet Jesus is anything but reasonable.。
He's anything but reasonable.。
That's what Paul says in Romans chapter five.。
He says, "For while we were still weak,。
"at the right time, Christ died for the ungodly.。
"For one will scarcely die for a righteous person,。
"though perhaps for a good person, one would dare to die."。
Do you see, do you hear Paul reasoning?。
But God shows his love for us。
in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us.。
He does the most unreasonable thing.。
Like he loves his enemies and he forgives his adversaries。
and he gives of himself without any expectation。
of anything in return.。
He dies a death he does not deserve.。
He rises from the grave.。
Who does that?。
He tells us, "Hey, seek after me,"。
when none of us are worthy of seeking after him.。
And ultimately he walks with us when we walk away from him.。
This is who our Jesus is.。
So let me ask you, if you're here tonight。
and you're doubting Jesus, then what are you walking towards?。
Like they're not just walking away from Jerusalem。
and all the doubt and all the disappointment。
that was there behind them.。
They are actually walking towards Emmaus.。
So it begs the question for us,。
where is it that we're walking?。
Where are you going?。
Are you walking towards romance?。
Are you walking towards success or comfort,。
power, approval, money?。
Like what is it that you're walking towards?。
And I don't ask you that because I want to shame you。
with respect to where you're walking.。
I ask you that because wherever it is you're walking,。
there it is that Jesus is going to find you.。
He meets them on this road and he will meet you。
on whatever road it is you're walking.。
Not because he wants you to get there,。
but because he wants to get you back to him.。
That's what he's gonna do.。
He walks with those who are walking away.。
But it's not just that.。
He's good company.。
He talks along the way as well,。
which is what we read if we keep going.。
It says in verse 22 through 27,。
"Moreover, some women of our company, they amazed us.。
"They were at the tomb early in the morning,。
"and when they did not find his body,。
"they came back saying that they had even seen。
"a vision of angels who said that he was alive.。
"Some of those who were with us went to the tomb,。
"and they found it just as the women had said,。
"but him they did not see.。
"He said to them," talking about Jesus,。
"O foolish ones, and slow of heart to believe。
"all that the prophets have spoken.。
"Was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer。
"these things and enter into his glory?。
"And beginning with Moses and all the prophets,。
"he interpreted to them in all the scriptures。
"the things concerning himself."。
When Jesus happens upon these two disciples,。
it says in verse 15 that he sees them。
talking and discussing, which to us,。
as we read it in English, just feels like。
they're a couple of chatty Cathy's.。
Like it just feels like these are synonymous verbs。
that describe the fact that they are really。
in some sort of intense dialogue,。
and yet when you go and you read it。
in the original language, you see that they are talking。
and they're debating.。
That's what they're doing.。
Why do we debate?。
Because we don't agree with one another.。
You see, conflict is always preceded by confusion,。
some misunderstanding, and yet it is into their conflict。
that Jesus enters, and the reason for it。
is because as he comes to us in our doubt,。
Jesus repeatedly seeks to calm our confusion with his word.。
Jesus calms our confusion with his word.。
I love that Jesus doesn't just jump straight。
to fixing their problems.。
Like he doesn't interject in their conversation,。
he doesn't correct their misunderstandings,。
he doesn't direct them, "Hey guys,。
"y'all better get back to Jerusalem."。
Instead, what he chooses to do is something。
that the church fails to do so very often.。
He creates conversational space for curiosity。
and perplexity and even uncertainty。
because Jesus knows that when it comes to spiritual matters,。
doubts and questions, they're an inevitable part。
of the process.。
So let me just speak to the believer in the room。
for a moment.。
If our churches look and talk and act and believe。
the same way, then we are not as welcoming。
to the watching world as we think we are.。
You see, we have to cultivate spaces。
that we find not only the right answers given,。
but we see the real questions asked.。
We're skeptics and critics and misfits and outcasts.。
They can come and they can honestly process,。
they can sincerely seek and they can hopefully find。
the same Jesus that found us.。
That's what we have to do.。
So I remember my freshman year,。
probably a similar experience to some of you。
if you were there at 18, 19 in your first year of college.。
Like it was the first year that I found。
my greatest singular season of spiritually seeking.。
For the first time in my life,。
nobody was forcing me to go to church.。
Nobody was looking at me and pressuring me。
to go to Bible study.。
Nobody was coercing me with pizza and video games。
to go to youth group on Wednesday night.。
Like I could choose to do what I wanted,。
when I wanted, how I wanted.。
Like it was totally up to me.。
And yet, despite the fact that I had unlimited freedom,。
I still had this massive curiosity about Christianity.。
Like there were some things for sure。
that I had questions about, I don't know, man.。
And yet there were other things within the faith。
that I had a real interest in.。
I found a fascination with.。
And so as I'm navigating the complex waters of Christianity。
because they are complex waters,。
I was so fortunate to have an older friend of mine。
spend hours with me at a coffee shop.。
Not driving the conversation,。
but just clarifying my questions.。
Just helping me along the way.。
That's what Jesus does with the disciples in this story.。
Like he welcomes them where they are.。
Like he doesn't narrow their discipleship。
to a strict set of doctrinal distinctives。
that double as a source of tribal identity and pride.。
He listens to them.。
He walks with them.。
And eventually he does speak to them.。
What does he say?。
Oh foolish ones.。
Which can sound really biting to our English ears.。
And yet, in the original language,。
it's actually just a statement that's more matter of fact.。
He's looking at them and after everything they've unpacked,。
he simply says something along the lines of,。
you guys, you know better.。
You know better than this.。
And he patiently proceeds to show them。
how all of the scripture from Moses。
to all the prophets are pointing to him.。
In 2 Corinthians, it says it like this.。
For to this day, when they read the old covenant,。
the same veil remains unlifted because only through Christ。
is that veil taken away.。
Yes, to this day, whenever Moses read,。
a veil lies over their hearts.。
But when one turns to the Lord, the veil is removed.。
You see, they thought they understood.。
They thought they had it figured out.。
They thought they connected all the dots.。
They thought they had cracked the code.。
But they were wrong.。
Which is actually really good news.。
Doesn't sound like good news.。
None of us want to be wrong.。
And yet it's such good news for the doubtful,。
for the disappointed.。
Because what it does is it tells us there's hope.。
Disappointment's not the end of your story.。
Doubt's not the end of your story.。
There's a better explanation for your reality。
than the things that have spoken in already.。
But the way you find that hope,。
if you start listening to Jesus,。
then whatever it is caused your confusion。
in the first place.。
And I think that this is gonna happen。
for some people in this room tonight.。
Like I think maybe for the first time in a long time,。
some of us are gonna,。
we're gonna stop listening to what other people say。
about God from our podcasts or from our families。
or our friend groups or from platforms or from social media.。
And we're gonna start listening。
to what God has to say himself.。
Like rather than letting the culture weigh in。
on our spirituality,。
we're gonna let the scripture weigh in on our spirituality.。
We're gonna redignify the voice of God in our lives。
because it is his voice and his voice alone。
by way of his word that leads us to greater hope.。
And so I think it's gonna happen.。
Like I think some of you, you're gonna open his word.。
You're gonna listen to his voice.。
You're gonna watch the way he lives.。
You're gonna observe the way he engages with other people.。
You're gonna have the chance to see the miracles。
he performs and then you're going to seek his kingdom.。
And by the grace of God, you're gonna find your faith again.。
Because this is what Jesus does.。
He comes to calm confusion with his word.。
Where's the word at in your life?。
How fast do you hold to it?。
It's an anchor for the doubting soul.。
And it's a sure way to consistently provide a beacon of hope.。
Why do I think all that?。
Because that's how this story ends.。
We'll pick it up in 28.。
It says, so they drew near to the village。
to which they were going.。
And Jesus acted as if he was going farther,。
but they urged him strongly saying, stay with us.。
It's toward evening and the day is now far spent.。
So he went in to stay with them.。
And when he was at table with them, he took the bread。
and he blessed and he broke it and he gave it to them.。
And their eyes were opened and they recognized him.。
And he vanished from their sight.。
Don't you love it?。
They said to each other, did not our hearts burn within us。
while he talked to us on the road?。
While he opened to us the scriptures.。
Like I love the way the story ends.。
Like Jesus walks with them for seven miles.。
He talks with them through all their doubts.。
He unpacks with them the entirety of the scripture.。
And yet it isn't until he breaks bread with them at dinner。
that they realize this is no ordinary guy.。
This is Jesus.。
Like Jesus could have restored their faith theologically.。
He could have restored their faith apologetically.。
He could have restored their faith philosophically.。
He could have restored their faith historically.。
And yet Jesus chooses to restore their faith relationally.。
He sits at table with them.。
He breaks bread.。
He has a meal.。
Like he chooses to use relationship as the means。
through which he brings them back to himself.。
Because Jesus doesn't just want your allegiance.。
He wants your affection.。
He wants your affection.。
That's why Jesus, as our third point,。
rekindles the flame of a heart grown cold.。
Jesus rekindles the flame of a heart grown cold.。
Do you have a cold heart here tonight?。
Then listen, you're in good company.。
Not because of the people around you,。
but because of the God above you.。
He's a God that seeks to reignite the fainting flame。
of faith in the lives of his people.。
And he wants to do it through relationship.。
Like it isn't until he breaks the bread。
and he extends it to them with the nail pierced hands。
that he and only he has that they realize.。
Those are the hands that stretched wide。
on the cross for me back then.。
And they're the same hands which reach out。
in relationship to me right now.。
They realize that in Jesus,。
he wants more than a theological commitment.。
He wants more than their moral conformity.。
He wants more than their religious observance.。
He wants a real relationship with them.。
Like, do you want a real relationship with God?。
Like not a phony, fake relationship,。
but not the kind of relationship where it's like,。
I know some facts about the individual.。
I can fire off a bunch of information that I've learned.。
That's not the kind of relationship he wants.。
He doesn't want the kind of relationship。
that distantly knows each other from afar.。
He doesn't want the kind of relationship。
that even just enjoy spending some time together。
at different moments.。
No, Jesus is not in for that.。
He wants a real relationship.。
He wants a face-to-face, all the time together,。
personally knowing, intimately acquainted。
kind of relationship with you.。
He wants to be close to you.。
That's the kind of heart that Jesus has for his people.。
Yeah, we often don't have the same sort of heart in return.。
He takes them back to the place where relationship began,。
where he breaks bread as a symbol of his broken body.。
He says, I would give everything to have you.。
I'd do anything to get you.。
I will give all of myself to get all of you。
because I don't just want your soul, I want your heart.。
I want your heart.。
Maybe you hear that and you think,。
yeah, man, that sounds nice.。
I bet that that is Jesus's perspective.。
I bet he does want relationship with these people,。
but I don't look anything like them.。
I don't act anything like them.。
I don't come from the same places as any of them.。
I don't believe any of the same things as them.。
Like, yes, Jesus wants a relationship with them,。
but I look nothing like them.。
And so therefore, Jesus wants nothing to do with me.。
If that's you and you hear all of this。
and you know all your doubt。
and you feel like you don't fit into the story,。
then you need to know.。
While we know the name of one disciple, Cleopas,。
we do not know the name nor identity of the other.。
That disciple, he or she, is known as the unknown disciple.。
And the reason it is is because Luke wants those。
that feel like this could never be their story。
to find themselves in the story.。
He wants you to know there's no one that Jesus doesn't want.。
There's no person that Jesus doesn't desire.。
Doesn't matter the depth or the degree of your doubt,。
this story is telling us that Jesus。
doesn't just want to build in us an unbreakable belief.。
He wants to build in us an unbreakable bond,。
one that can never be broken.。
So several years ago, I learned this lesson very personally。
when I endured what felt like the greatest。
personal challenge of my life to that point.。
It was one of those dark nights of the soul sort of moments.。
Some of you get what I'm talking about.。
I was standing at the precipice of a new job opportunity。
that was the stuff of my dreams.。
Like it was the very thing that I had secretly wished for,。
journaled about, prayed to God,。
yet never admitted allowed to because it was so ridiculous.。
It was so audacious.。
And yet like I found myself in the throes of a new,。
in the throes of actually attaining it.。
And so I found in that season,。
like I was closer to God than ever。
because I needed God more than ever.。
Like I was religiously, regularly going。
on prayer walks with God.。
Get out of the house and I would go。
for long stretches of my day.。
And I would just, I would talk to him.。
I would ask his help.。
I would seek his favor.。
I would declare my trust and I would pray for his will.。
Again and again and again,。
I prayer walked the walls of Jericho down on that thing.。
Which is why it was so shocking to me。
when in the 11th hour,。
the subject of my dreams。
was like a rug pulled out from underneath me.。
What I thought I was to attain。
was ripped away from me.。
And all I felt like I had were no more dreams,。
yet only doubts.。
Everything I'd longed for,。
everything I prayed for,。
everything I aimed for,。
all that I had been trying to set myself up to acquire,。
it was taken away from me in a moment.。
And all I felt in that instance。
was frustration and doubt and a faintness of heart。
that led me to a place in my spirituality。
I never thought I would find myself.。
It was late one evening, about a month or so later,。
that I was so depressed,。
I'm sitting in the center of my driveway。
at probably midnight.。
And I have nothing left to say to God.。
I've grumbled against Him,。
I've warred with Him,。
I've raged against the heavens,。
I've expressed all my disappointment.。
Some of you get what that feels like.。
And yet as I sat in the center of my driveway,。
I heard that still small voice。
that is so unmistakably God。
ask me this question,。
are we still gonna go for walks?。
All of my belief was broken,。
but my bond was not.。
No one can take away those。
that are in relationship to God.。
And no amount of doubt,。
no amount of disappointment,。
no amount of despair can wring you from His grip.。
It is far too strong to ever let you go.。
And you may feel,。
I'm so far away though,。
His arm is so very long.。
He wants a real relationship with you.。
Because He not only wants your soul,。
He wants your heart.。
For which God wants your heart.。
And what we learn by the end of this text。
is He wants it hot.。
And He will pursue you in the coldness of doubt。
until the flame of faith is rekindled again.。
Is your heart burning tonight within you?。
As you hear these words,。
as this truth washes over your faint spirit,。
is it burning again?。
John Wesley, he famously said at his conversion。
that his heart was gently warmed,。
strangely warmed.。
Friend, if your heart is warming here,。
it's because Jesus is wanting here.。
He is wanting for you.。
And we have such confidence that that's the case。
because what we know is when our hearts。
have grown darker than doubt in the dead of our sins,。
Jesus passionately pursued us anyways.。
Like He walked towards us。
and we had all walked away.。
Like all of us, we had abandoned God.。
Like sheep, we had gone astray.。
And yet Jesus said, "You'll never outrun me.。
"Doesn't matter how far away you walk from me,。
"I'll chase you down.。
"I'll race forward.。
"I will pursue you still because you're my people.。
"You may not want me, but I want you.。
"I'm gonna bring you back.。
"I'm gonna put you in my family。
"because I'm a God, I'm a Savior.。
"I'm a Lord that walks with those that walk away from me."。
Jesus, He calmed our confusion with His words.。
Like into the misery, in the madness of our sin,。
He spoke the words of life.。
Like He didn't just come to teach you some nice things,。
to increase your academia,。
to help you learn some new platitudes.。
No, He came to speak into you life.。
And He rekindled the flames of hearts grown cold.。
How cold is a dead heart?。
It's the coldest of all.。
And yet Jesus said, "I will take their cold heart。
"into my chest by dying their death。
"that they might have my living heart。
"and they might go free instead."。
It does not matter the degree of your doubt.。
What matters is the extent of His love.。
He wants relationship.。
Do you want it in return?。
Let me pray for you.。
God, I pray my friends here know。
that you really want them.。
It's impossible, God, for you to need us,。
for you are all sufficient.。
Therefore, God, for you to do what you've done。
in the person of your Son。
is a staggering declaration that you want all of us.。
Not because of anything we've done,。
not because of anything we've earned,。
not because of anything we deserve, God,。
but simply because you choose us.。
I pray, God, that for those in this room。
that feel like they are on the precipice of deconstruction,。
that think doubt is all that dwells ahead。
in their future, God, they might know it's not my doubt。
that awaits for me in the future,。
it's my Jesus that awaits for me instead.。
We love you, God, and we sing to you now。
the worship that is only worthy of you.。
It's in Christ's name we pray, amen.。
Hey, porch, you can stand to your feet.。
We're gonna jump back into worship.。
And for a God like that,。
we're gonna blow the ever-loving roof off of this place.。
(congregation cheering)。
Like it is week two, it is the beginning of a year,。
and yet we are going to go hard here in the final stretch.。
We believe that God's worth it, amen?。
- Amen.。
- So we're gonna sing like we believe it.。
Sometimes what you have to do to a doubting heart。
is you have to declare to it the hope it's forgotten.。
That's what we're gonna do as we sing together here.。
Some of you, you need to process with somebody.。
We've got a team down here to my left and to my right。
that would love to engage with you,。
but listen, the band has led, I have led,。
Now you get to lead the moments yours lets me with them together.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
