(upbeat music)。
- Porch, what's good?。
How we doing?。
(audience cheering)。
Hey, it's so great to be with you.。
Great to worship with you.。
I wanna welcome those who are tuning in。
just through the stream and at other campuses and whatnot.。
And so it's just been a dream to be able。
to give you an alternative to the world,。
to the bars, to the clubs,。
to whatever else you might be doing on a Tuesday night.。
And so when I trusted Christ,。
like listen, I was a complete mess.。
And it's just, as I was worshiping,。
I was reflecting on God's grace in my life。
and the addictions that owned me,。
the drug use that owned me,。
the sexual addictions and perversions that owned me,。
and then got to experience His grace and forgiveness,。
came into the church.。
I was bored out of my mind at church growing up。
and didn't have a relationship with Jesus.。
And thought like really Christians were kind of weird。
and they were just kind of acting like,。
God was good, but really like, is God really good?。
And so as I came into a relationship with Him,。
I began to experience life for the first time.。
I'm not crazy, I'm not naive.。
I'm not just saying that because I'm up here.。
I truly began to experience life as it was intended.。
And a part of that was getting to share my faith with others。
and a part of sharing my faith with others。
was getting to travel all over the world。
on what you may have heard as called mission trips.。
We call them international discipleship trips.。
And so going to Africa and to Haiti and to different places.。
One of the places that I went to, in fact, my favorite,。
most memorable was to Brazil and getting on the Amazon River。
and going down the Amazon River, sharing the gospel.。
And the challenge with this particular trip。
is you stay on a boat the entire time for eight days.。
And so you got to pack for about 10 days, eight days。
in a bag about this size, okay?。
And that's honestly not the problem is packing,。
you know, for eight to 10 days in a bag this size.。
The problem with this particular trip。
is you've got to pack in a bag like this for 10 days。
and it has to weigh under 50 pounds.。
You guys done that thing where you get up there。
and you're like moving blow dryers around。
and switching shoes and hey, can I put this in your bag?。
And so you can't do that.。
Like we're going there, we're flying into Manaus, Brazil.。
We stay the night in a hotel and the next day。
we're on a boat and we're going down the river。
for seven or eight days and we're getting off at villages。
and we're sharing the gospel.。
And so you got to be packed up,。
the bag's got to be under 50 pounds.。
And so we're there with this team of young adults。
and you can imagine my confusion。
and a little bit my frustration。
when I see one girl pulls this out of her bag.。
It's a bag of rocks.。
In Brazil, she brought a bag of rocks to Brazil.。
I'm like, what are you doing?。
Like, how did you get that past customs first of all?。
And why, like they have rocks in Brazil.。
You don't need to bring American rocks to Brazil.。
Like, why are you doing this?。
And what did you not bring because of that?。
And we're having this conversation。
and she begins to tell me that she's in this Bible study,。
her and another girl on the trip are in this Bible study。
and they're working through forgiveness.。
And so what they had to do is for every person。
in their life that they had not forgiven,。
they had to put a rock and carry it with them。
until they were choosing to forgive them.。
And so as we're moving through Brazil,。
as we get on a boat, I think we have a picture of the boat,。
I don't know if we've shown that to you,。
but as we're on this boat traveling down the Amazon River,。
she's with this bag of rocks。
representing every person in her life。
that she hasn't forgiven is my friend, Ali.。
And so it's just this,。
it's a great example of the weight of bitterness.。
It's a great example of the weight of unforgiveness.。
A great example of the things that we carry,。
every one of you, when you came in here tonight,。
you're carrying some anger.。
You may not even see it, you may not even know what it is.。
And so we're in this series called Vice and Virtue.。
We've covered pride and humility, laziness and discipline,。
entitlement and gratitude, greed and generosity.。
And tonight we're talking about anger and forgiveness,。
really how the solution to anger is forgiveness.。
And I'm not talking about just regular, generic,。
you're angry that the Patriots lost.。
I'm not talking about that.。
I'm talking about an anger that's targeted towards someone.。
Call it bitterness, call it unforgiveness, if you will,。
but it's anger that you carry toward someone.。
And so I wanna ask you some questions.。
Who are the people in your life that have wronged you?。
Maybe it was a parent that abandoned you.。
Maybe it was an ex-boyfriend or an ex-girlfriend。
that hurt you.。
Maybe it was parents that broke their promise。
to love each other for the rest of their life.。
Maybe it was someone who made fun of you,。
or bullied you,。
or abused you.。
Those thoughts that you've suppressed。
that you promised never to bring up again.。
Has anyone betrayed you?。
I want you to think of their name.。
If revenge were possible right now,。
who would be the top person on your list?。
See, when I realized I was talking about anger,。
I'm like, do I really struggle with anger?。
You know, now that I've become,。
when I was, before I became a Christian,。
like, yes, anger was a tool that I would use.。
You know, it was something that I would,。
I thought I was displaying my masculinity.。
And I was either yelling at a girlfriend。
or in a basketball game, you know,。
getting hit with an elbow, and then, you know,。
next thing I know, I'm in a fight。
right in the middle of the court, displaying my anger.。
It was a tool.。
I thought it was something that I would use to win debates,。
something that I would use to lead people,。
something that I would use strategically。
to get the attention of others.。
And show that, hey, don't mess with me.。
And I was a child.。
I was a child.。
And I know some of you feel completely justified。
in the anger that you brought in here this evening.。
Maybe you resent people who seem to have an easy life.。
There, maybe there's conversations。
that are replaying in your head when you're alone.。
Americans, we've never been more angry than we are right now.。
You can just go on Google and search outraged。
and see the results, how many different groups。
of people are outraged.。
And there's these movements like Me Too and Time's Up。
and Black Lives Matter and all of the other hashtags。
that are out there that really just represent。
either an angry person or an angry people group.。
And some of them completely justified。
in the way that they were hurt by someone.。
All of those hashtags, all of those movements。
represent one person hurting another.。
Who are you angry at?。
Who hurt you?。
And so we're carrying rocks.。
If you're here in Dallas, I want you to hold your rock。
through this message.。
When you came in this evening, you got a rock.。
Some of you at campus has got a rock.。
I want you to pick up that rock.。
I want you to hold it in your hand throughout the message.。
As we dive into the scripture,。
we're gonna be in Matthew chapter 18.。
Listen, if you're listening somewhere else。
and you don't have a rock in your hand,。
here's what I want you to do.。
I want you to write down the name of a person。
that you're angry at,。
or I want you to write down an experience that you had。
that when you think back, it causes you some anxiety.。
It causes you to be overwhelmed with anger.。
So as you hold that rock, now moving to a serious moment,。
okay, as you hold that rock right now,。
I want you to think of what that is.。
What is that experience?。
Who is that person?。
What is the bitterness, the unforgiveness,。
the anger that you brought in here this evening?。
In research, this comes from everydayhealth.com,。
indicates the way that anger damages our health.。
It says that anger can cause damage to your heart,。
increases your risk of a stroke,。
it weakens your immune system,。
anger increases anxiety and stress,。
anger is linked to depression.。
It literally damages your lungs and respiratory health,。
and that people who are habitually angry。
are sick more often, and anger shortens your life.。
From a separate source, this comes from the Mayo Clinic.。
Doctors listed the benefit of forgiveness.。
They said that people who can forgive people。
have healthier relationships, improved mental health,。
less anxiety, stress, and hostility, lower blood pressure,。
people who forgive people have fewer symptoms of depression,。
stronger immune system, improved heart health,。
and improved self-esteem.。
And I know that you think, or some of you think,。
that the anger that you have, it's a righteous anger.。
That it's an anger that God's okay with.。
To that I say, maybe it is, maybe it is.。
Maybe.。
But for most of us, the anger that we carry most of the time。
it's simply sin that leaves us alone and bitter.。
And a God who loves you doesn't want that for you.。
And so we're gonna look at how you've been given,。
how you've given God a reason to be angry at you.。
Secondly, how God deals with his anger towards you.。
And how our anger against others is confusing,。
and what we are to do about it.。
I told you we'd be in Matthew 18.。
Matthew 18 is a chapter known as church discipline.。
And so this is literally how we deal with someone。
who sins against us.。
It says that we're to go to that person。
and we're to tell them.。
Such a novel idea that we don't practice.。
When someone hurts us, we don't suppress it,。
we don't ignore it, we don't flippantly just move on.。
We go to them and we look them in the eyes。
and we say, "Hey, you hurt me, bye."。
And if they don't listen to us,。
then we take a friend with us.。
So that they might listen to both of us.。
And they don't listen to the both of us,。
then we would go to the church.。
And we would say, "Hey pastors,。
"can you help us work through this conflict?。
"This person hurts me and they don't care."。
And it says if they don't listen to the church,。
then you treat them like an unbeliever.。
That is, assume that they don't have。
a relationship with Christ.。
And so you would share the gospel with them.。
You would live this out.。
Jesus is telling Peter this.。
He's instructing his disciples,。
which warrants this question.。
Peter comes back and he says this.。
Then Peter came to Jesus and asked,。
"Lord, how many times shall I forgive my brother。
"when he sins against me?。
"Should I do it up to seven times?"。
See, it was Jewish tradition that a good Jew。
would forgive someone up to three times.。
And so Peter's speaking in hyperbole.。
He goes ahead and takes that number,。
he multiplies it by two and adds one for good grace。
and says, "Should I do it up to seven times?"。
And Jesus says, "Not seven times, but 77 times."。
Or seven times 70 times.。
And what Jesus is doing, he's matching his hyperbole.。
He's not saying 77 times or 490 times.。
He's saying there's no limit to your forgiveness.。
When does God stop forgiving you?。
That's when you should stop forgiving someone else.。
Therefore, the kingdom of heaven,。
now Jesus is gonna tell us what heaven is like.。
He's gonna speak in a parable.。
A parable is a story that is told to illustrate a point.。
That's all it is, a story that's told to illustrate a point.。
So Jesus, he's gonna start preaching。
and he's using an illustration.。
He says, "Hey, the kingdom of heaven,。
"it's like a king who wanted to settle accounts。
"with his servants.。
"As he began the settlement,。
"a man who owed him 10,000 talents was brought to him.。
"Since he was not able to pay,。
"the master ordered that he and his wife and his children。
"and all that he had be sold to repay the debt."。
10,000 talents, a talent equals 75 pounds of gold.。
10,000 talents was 150,000 years worth of wages.。
Jesus is saying, "Hey, there's a servant。
"who had an impossible debt to pay to a king."。
A debt equal to $12,500,000,000.。
That would be today's equivalent of 10,000 talents.。
12,500,000,000.。
He's just saying, "Hey, it's an impossible debt.。
"I'll never pay it back."。
So the king says, "Hey, give me your wife,。
"give me your children, and give me everything you have,。
"and I'll cancel the debt."。
The king is angry.。
He has an anger toward this servant.。
And the servant fell on his knees before him.。
"Be patient with me," he begged.。
"And I'll pay back everything."。
No, he can't.。
What a joke, he can't pay back everything.。
The servant's master took pity on him,。
canceled the debt, and let him go.。
What?。
Did you hear what just happened?。
Some dude owes a king $12,000,000,000,000,。
and the king says, "Hey, I'm gonna take your family,。
"and I'm gonna take all your stuff."。
And the guy goes, "No, please don't take my stuff.。
"Please have mercy on me."。
And he says, "Okay, you got it, I will."。
And you'd be like, "Man, I'm so glad I asked."。
Is that not salvation?。
That every day we're marching against God,。
that every day we're wanting to be God,。
every day we're going our own way,。
we're doing our own thing,。
and then we come to a place in his mercy。
where we say, "God, have pity on me.。
"I know that you sent your son Jesus."。
And he says, "Okay.。
"Come and have an inheritance with me,。
"not because of what you've done,。
"but because of what I've done."。
My first point this evening is God's anger。
towards you was canceled.。
That God was angry.。
He's the king in the story.。
You're the servant in the story.。
You have an impossible debt to the king,。
and in a moment, if you've acknowledged Christ,。
his debt was canceled.。
See, our sin created a huge debt against God.。
We were created to be in relationship with him.。
So you can just think, right?。
You were created to live for God's glory.。
So what is sin?。
Sin is every moment that you live。
for anything other than God's glory.。
Every time you do that, so you can just see, right?。
I'm tripping over it.。
That time that you thought about yourself too much,。
that relationship you went too far,。
and that time you smoked that bowl, snorted that line,。
got drunk, hugged that toilet, went to the strip club, right?。
Okay, that you spent your money on you, right?。
You're just racking up all this impossible debt.。
Every moment, every second, every minute,。
you'll never pay that debt.。
You can't carry that weight.。
That's your debt against God.。
You see that?。
Every time the clock ticks,。
and you're living for anything other than his glory,。
it's sin against him.。
It's an impossible debt.。
It is a hopeless debt that you've created against God.。
You might've seen a video。
or seen that Larry Nassar in the news lately,。
a serial abuser.。
Many, many coming forward who was a victim。
to this man who did wicked things,。
and there was a dad who spoke up in court。
and just said, "Hey, can I have five minutes with him?。
I'd love to have my way with him.。
Hey, can I have five minutes?。
No, okay, judge, one minute.。
Can I have one minute with him?"。
And the judge says no, and the dad lunges forward。
to try to have his way to this,。
with this man who abused three of his daughters.。
This man abused three of his daughters.。
This is the rage of a father.。
And we look at that and we're like,。
man, that guy's my hero.。
What a wicked man.。
Do you know who you are in that story?。
You ever abused one of God's daughters?。
He watched every second of it.。
He says, "Hey, don't go past there."。
You ever gone on the internet。
and watched God's daughters naked,。
God's sons naked performing for you?。
You ever done that?。
He saw you.。
And a father, the rage of a father。
that could come against you,。
how dare you abuse one of my children in that way?。
And you were like, "Boy, that was consensual.。
It wasn't okay with her dad.。
It wasn't okay with his father."。
And so what do we do about it?。
I want you to understand。
that your sins are against a holy God.。
David, who slept with Bathsheba。
and had her husband killed,。
writes, "Against you alone, oh God,。
have I sinned."。
Your sins are against a holy, righteous God.。
And who your sins are against, it really matters.。
I was driving with my daughter this week in the truck。
and she was asking me just questions,。
just spit firing me with questions,。
which are sweet moments as a dad.。
And she said, "Daddy, if somebody walks on our property,。
is that against the law?"。
And I said, "Well, if they don't have permission,。
it's trespassing and it's against the law."。
And so she goes, "So they go to prison?"。
Like, that's a little harsh.。
You know, we probably would just tell them。
maybe to get off the property。
or invite them in and share the gospel.。
I don't know, something.。
And she goes, "So you don't go to prison if you trespass?"。
And I said, "Well, it depends.。
It depends who you trespass against.。
See, if somebody trespasses on our yard,。
I probably get angry.。
You trespass on the president。
of United States of America's yard,。
you jump the fence, you're dead.。
They kill you.。
You get shot at, right?。
Do you see who the offense is against matters.。
Let me go one more with you.。
You tell me a lie, I might be angry.。
You lie to a judge, it's perjury, 10 years in prison.。
You see who the sin is against matters?。
Your sin is against a holy God,。
the highest office that is imaginable.。
Every day you've sinned.。
You've sinned since you've been sitting here。
in your thoughts during worship。
as we're singing praises to God.。
You're sinning against the holy God.。
Where's the hope in that, JP?。
Your sin is bigger than you can imagine,。
and it costs more than you can pay.。
And if you don't think so,。
what you're really saying in your heart。
is that God wasted his payment.。
If you don't think that you're that big of a sinner,。
then why did Jesus have to die?。
And so God, he's that angry father.。
He looked at you and despised your sin.。
And so what did he do?。
He took the weight of your sin,。
and he took his wrath that otherwise would be against you.。
But if you've acknowledged his payment, right,。
he comes over here,。
and he puts it on Christ.。
(thudding)。
It says in Isaiah that he was pleased。
to crush the son on your behalf.。
Why would a father be pleased to crush his son?。
Because he loved you.。
And when he looks at you, he doesn't see your sin.。
He sees his payment.。
Isn't that a beautiful truth?。
That when he looks at you,。
he doesn't see the stacks of rocks.。
He sees what he paid for them to purchase you to himself.。
It says in the scripture,。
"No longer counting your sins against you."。
Do you feel that?。
That $12,500,000,000 in debt canceled in a moment.。
Canceled in a moment.。
We've sinned more against God than you could imagine,。
and his grace is so overwhelming。
that your sin is no match for it.。
It is no appropriate competitor for his grace.。
And so this is how a worldly master in the story,。
this king releases the dead.。
Imagine how much more a father who loves you。
and who controls all things erases your sin.。
It says in Psalm 103, verse 12,。
that he's removed them as far as the East is from the West.。
How?。
By you humbling yourself before him。
and acknowledging your need for mercy,。
your need for a savior, he wipes away your debt.。
And here's the deal.。
You can't pay a debt that's already been paid.。
Okay, if a debt has been paid,。
you can't go to the bank and say,。
"Hey, I wanna pay it again."。
They say, "No, it's already been paid.。
"It's clean."。
So you can't live your life。
trying to earn your way back to God。
when he's already erased the debt and said, "You're mine."。
What are you doing?。
He's paid the debt.。
What are you doing?。
Do you wanna keep going and racking up the debt?。
All your debt has been paid past, present, and future.。
It's been forgiven.。
And so when God looks at you,。
he doesn't see your sin, he sees his payment.。
It says that he delights to show you mercy.。
It's Micah 7, verse 18.。
"Who is God like you, who pardons sin。
"and forgives the transgressions。
"of the remnant of his inheritance?。
"You do not stay angry forever,。
"but delight to show mercy."。
How beautiful is that?。
He delights.。
He takes pleasure in showing you mercy.。
Let's back to the story.。
But then, so the servant,。
he's had his debt canceled by the master, by the king.。
And so he goes out,。
and he found one of his fellow servants。
who owed him 100 denarii.。
And so he's been forgiven $12 billion,。
but he finds someone who owns him a couple dollars,。
and he grabbed him and began to choke him.。
"Pay back what you owe me," he demanded.。
His fellow servant fell to his knees。
and begged him, "Be patient with me,。
"and I will pay you back."。
See, Jesus is putting in the script.。
This guy said the same thing that other guy said,。
and the master forgave him of $12 billion.。
But this guy, he's angry.。
He's angry because what's happened to him,。
it's not fair.。
It's not fair.。
It's not something he wanted.。
It's not something he chose.。
And he feels that someone's come in。
and infringed upon his territory,。
trespassed against him,。
the sins against him.。
Now he says, he chokes him.。
"You give me back what you owe me.。
"Pay me back."。
But he refused.。
The guy asked for mercy, and he refused.。
Instead, he went off,。
and he had the man thrown into prison。
until he could pay the debt.。
When the other servants saw what had happened,。
those around there, they were like,。
"Man, this is just confusing."。
He says they were greatly distressed。
and went and told their master。
everything that had happened.。
That guy that you forgave, $12 billion,。
he found someone who owed him $100,。
and he choked him and had him thrown into prison.。
Master, something's off with that guy.。
It's just confusing.。
My second point is that forgiven people。
are forgiving people.。
That forgiven people are forgiving people.。
Keep holding your rock.。
Keep thinking of that person。
who has a debt against you,。
the one you'd like to choke in the story,。
the one who did that unspeakable thing to you。
or hurt you, or they did something unjust to you.。
It's a crazy story, but so relevant to 2018。
that we would forget God's abundant grace towards us。
and focus more on those who have hurt us.。
Now, I wanna make some things clear here.。
Forgiving someone does not mean forgetting。
what they've done.。
That's impossible.。
Outside of a lumbotomy,。
literally removing that part of your brain,。
you can't just erase a memory, okay?。
And so forgiving someone is not forgetting。
what they've done to you.。
It is not also, it's not allowing them。
to continue to hurt you.。
That's not loving to anybody.。
To allow them to continue to act out against you,。
you may have to create healthy boundaries.。
It's also not just flippantly。
writing off the wrong and moving forward.。
That's not what forgiveness is, okay?。
So what is forgiveness?。
Here's what it is.。
You ready?。
Listen.。
Forgiveness is you taking into true account。
the damage that they've caused you.。
You looking at the debt that they created.。
See, their hurt towards you,。
it caused you a debt.。
They took something from you.。
That debt, it could look like, you know,。
you driving down the road。
and wasting time thinking about it.。
It could look like you not being able to function for a day.。
It could look like a physical injury.。
It could look like any number of things.。
It could look like years of your life。
that you look back on and despise。
because of what they did.。
That's a debt.。
And so you take into true account that debt.。
You write down that debt.。
This is what they cost me.。
And forgiveness is saying,。
and they don't have to pay me back.。
I'm wiping that debt clean.。
They don't owe me anything.。
Because you don't win by carrying the bitterness.。
You need to know that.。
You living the rest of your life angry at them。
does nothing to them.。
They say that bitterness is like drinking poison。
and expecting them to die.。
You don't win.。
No one wins.。
So you take into account the hurt that they caused。
and you acknowledge that it's been paid for.。
About a year ago, Monica and I,。
we were going on a date.。
I love date nights.。
Date nights are fun.。
And so she and I, we were driving down a road。
right by our house, long straightaway road,。
going the speed limit in the middle lane,。
just minding our own business, having a conversation.。
And this person turns right in front of us.。
I mean, just right in front of us in the turning lane.。
And they just turned right in front of us.。
And I broadside them, hit them.。
And then we pull into the parking lot。
of the grocery store right there.。
And it's a girl.。
And she's on her phone.。
Of course she is.。
And so I get out to engage and make sure that she's okay.。
And she's erratic.。
She's going crazy.。
And I know that's an offensive word,。
but it's the most appropriate word.。
She's going crazy.。
Okay, she's like, "This MF here, this MF here."。
I mean, lots of curse words, okay?。
I'm like, "Hey, calm down.。
"You know, you calm down."。
And she's like, "He came out of nowhere.。
"He came out of nowhere."。
I was like, "Not really nowhere.。
"I came from my house.。
"I was driving the speed limit in the same lane.。
"You kind of came right in front of me."。
And she's like, "He came out of nowhere and just hit me."。
I was like, "Well, you kind of hit me."。
And I'm like, "Can we talk?。
"Do you mind getting off the phone?"。
And she just like turned around and was like,。
I was like, "Okay."。
And so I get in my truck and I call the insurance company.。
And so I'm on the phone with my insurance company。
and they say, you know, the first thing they ask,。
does she have insurance?。
And I rolled down my window, "Do you have insurance?"。
And she's like, "This is my boyfriend's car.。
"It's my boyfriend's car."。
I was like, "Oh no."。
I said, "Hey, it's her boyfriend's car."。
And so they were like, "Does her boyfriend have insurance?"。
Roll it down.。
"Hey, does your boyfriend have insurance?"。
And she didn't wanna talk.。
And so I'm keep going with the insurance company。
and Monica's calling the police and the boyfriend comes.。
And I thought she was crazy.。
(congregation laughing)。
No, this dude was crazy.。
He gets there and he falls to the ground。
and starts punching the concrete.。
And he's yelling, like crazy yelling, lots of words.。
I'm learning nouns, verbs, and adjectives.。
(congregation laughing)。
And I'm on the phone with the insurance。
and he comes to my truck window and he goes,。
"Get the F out of the car!"。
Did you hear that?。
(congregation laughing)。
Yeah, what was that?。
Do you need to go?。
I think I need to go.。
(congregation laughing)。
So I get out of my truck and yeah, that was foolish.。
He's a little guy.。
(congregation laughing)。
Yeah, you were picturing a big guy.。
He had a lot of anger.。
Why are you yelling at me?。
(congregation laughing)。
Why are you doing that?。
And he's like, "You're gonna tell the police。
"that I was driving that car."。
I was like, "Let me tell you why that's not gonna happen.。
"And I need to let you know that you hurt me。
"with your words in front of my wife。
(congregation laughing)。
"and the anger that you displayed."。
And he's like, "I'm sorry."。
I was like, "That's good, thank you."。
You know, your girlfriend really pulled in front of us。
and he was like, "Well, it doesn't matter whose fault it is."。
I was like, "It kind of matters."。
(congregation laughing)。
'Cause let me show you why, come here.。
You see that damage?。
Somebody's gotta pay for that, right?。
You caused some damage and someone has to pay for that.。
This is an auditing of the transgression, if you will.。
I'm happy to forgive you for the hurt。
that you caused with your words earlier.。
Let me ask you a question, do you have a faith?。
He said, "Yeah, I'm a Christian."。
I said, "That is so confusing."。
(congregation laughing)。
Let me tell you, sir, why that is so confusing.。
There is nothing in your life right now。
that remotely resembles Jesus。
in the way that you're handling this situation.。
And so if you're saying you believe in a God,。
listen, let me tell you, we can trust him in this moment.。
Okay, and it was sweet, we got to pray。
and got to talk through the gospel。
and around why that was so confusing.。
But what happened was their insurance company intervened。
and paid for the damage.。
And see, what happened is Christ has intervened。
and he's paid for the damage.。
That's true, for God so loved the what?。
The world, the cosmos.。
Even the person that hurt you,。
and I know that might be hard to hear right now.。
God loves that person.。
And when Christ died, he paid a payment。
that they need to acknowledge, they need to accept.。
But he died for them too and he died for you.。
He canceled your $12 billion and their $12 billion.。
And so when we have that, right?。
We are able, when we understand how we've been forgiven,。
we forgive others.。
And so I know right about now,。
you're like, can I ever be angry?。
Listen, anger in and of itself is an unproductive emotion.。
You take your anger and you figure out。
what you need to do because of it.。
Is there an injustice that you need to act upon?。
Is there someone you need to forgive?。
Anger in and of itself, it's only killing you.。
I told you about the health, how it affects your health.。
It's only hurting you.。
You need to figure out what you need to do with your anger.。
It's simply an unproductive emotion.。
And so what happens when you carry it around。
is it shows up at really inopportune times,。
like car wrecks or when your boss says something。
you don't agree with, a relationship that goes sideways,。
and that anger that you're actually carrying。
towards someone else, it shows up.。
My friend Allie would talk about。
how she was carrying those rocks in her purse。
and she'd be at dinner and she'd reach in her purse。
to grab something, she'd pull out a rock。
and then she'd have to explain to everybody。
why she had rocks in her purse.。
And that's what anger does, is it shows up。
at really inopportune times in our life.。
It rears its head.。
Can I tell you something?。
You don't wanna marry someone who's angry。
because what's gonna happen is you're gonna be。
the target of that anger at some point.。
Okay, they're gonna take that anger out on you.。
And so I hate the stories, some of the stories。
that have been written on your lives.。
The abandonment, the hurt, the abuse,。
I truly, I hear them over and over and over all the time.。
God hates it.。
But you have something to do now with it.。
You've gotta figure out what you're going to do with it.。
It's only hurting you.。
Like that guy that was exploding with anger。
outside my truck, that's not like a one-time thing.。
That's something that marked his life.。
That was a pattern that showed up in that moment。
'cause he carried it.。
Verse 32, "Then the master called the servant in."。
So now the king's talking again, okay?。
The servant went and said, hey, that guy that you forgave,。
$12 billion, he wouldn't forgive somebody $100.。
He had him thrown into prison.。
And so the king shows up now and he says,。
you wicked servant, he said,。
I canceled all that debt of yours because you begged me to.。
Shouldn't you have had mercy on your fellow servants。
just as I had on you?。
Why would Jesus be telling us this story?。
Why would God preserve this for thousands of years。
that we might read it this evening?。
I forgave you of your debt.。
Shouldn't you forgive them of their debt?。
In anger, his master turned him over。
to the jailers to be tortured.。
The Greek there is literally,。
he was handed over to the torturers。
until he should pay back all he owed, which is impossible.。
That would take eternity, forever.。
And then Jesus says this,。
this really controversial statement.。
Listen, listen, this is how my heavenly Father。
will treat each of you。
unless you forgive your brother from your heart.。
Okay, he says that he threw him in to be tortured。
until his debt was paid, that's forever.。
This is a clear allusion to hell.。
God is the master, we are the servants.。
God has forgiven us of an impossible debt.。
We don't forgive others of their minor debts against us。
that may not feel minor, but they're in this world offenses.。
And he says, you don't understand how you've been forgiven.。
And so where is God's wrath going to be satisfied?。
It was satisfied on the cross,。
or it will be satisfied in eternity.。
So why, why would we continue to be angry。
when we say we are forgiven,。
but we don't act as forgiven people?。
We choke people with our words, our actions,。
or the hate in our heart, or just what we feel.。
It's confusing to a watching world.。
It belittles the gospel.。
And so it says, it almost says, does it not say like,。
hey, if you don't forgive others that you're not forgiven,。
doesn't it seem to say that?。
But it's probably just some weird text, right,。
that if we get into the Greek,。
it really means something else.。
Let's just look at a few others, okay?。
Matthew 6, verse 14 through 15.。
For if you forgive men when they sin against you,。
your heavenly Father will also forgive you.。
But if you do not forgive men their sins,。
your Father will not forgive your sins.。
We can go Mark 11.。
And when you stand praying,。
if you hold anything against anyone, forgive him,。
so that your Father in heaven may forgive you your sins.。
Ephesians 4, be kind and compassionate to one another,。
forgiving each other, just as in Christ God forgave you.。
Colossians 3, bear with each other。
and forgive whatever grievances。
you may have against one another.。
Forgive as the Lord forgave you.。
Luke 6, but I want you to love your enemies。
and do good to them.。
Verse 36, be merciful just as your Father is merciful.。
Do not judge and you will not be judged.。
Do not condemn and you will not be condemned.。
Forgive and you will be forgiven.。
And so you hear all of that.。
And some of you may be really confused。
and you're like, is this works-based salvation,。
Lordship salvation?。
Are you saying the gospel plus something else?。
And I'm saying, no, no, no, no.。
I believe with all my heart, what God is teaching here。
is that when you understand the forgiveness。
that he has given you freely through his Son,。
you did nothing for it.。
When you really get it, you pass it on.。
And when you cannot give it to someone else,。
you may have to go back to the beginning and say,。
okay, did I really receive it from God?。
Did I truly acknowledge God's payment for my sins?。
Do I fully understand that 2018 years ago,。
God became a man in the form of Jesus Christ,。
lived a perfect life, the most notorious individual ever。
to walk on the planet, more books had been sold。
in his honor than any other books。
that have ever been written.。
And he died for you and he erased your sins.。
And he came back from the grave, making him world famous.。
Someone that people would talk about.。
Our forgiveness of others is evidence。
of a right understanding of God's forgiveness of us.。
We love God not because of what he might do for us,。
that's superstitious.。
If you're here, kind of leveraging,。
well, if I go to the porch, then maybe I'll get that job。
or maybe he'll ask me out.。
It's karma, guys.。
That's another religion, okay?。
I hope you're here because of what God。
has already done for you.。
He sent his son, Jesus Christ, to die for my sins。
and raise him from the dead.。
And by that, I'm healed, I'm forgiven, I'm set free.。
See my friend Allie, we were on that boat。
and she got this, like in the middle of the trip,。
she got it and she went onto the roof of that boat。
and in the middle of the Amazon, she grabbed those rocks。
and she said, "Forgiven, forgiven, forgiven."。
And she starts throwing them in the Amazon River.。
And then in a way that God would write a story。
so beautifully, we climbed down from the roof of that boat。
and we went into that same water and she got baptized.。
We have a picture.。
She was baptized in that very water,。
symbolizing that she had been buried with Christ,。
that her sins had been buried with Christ。
and she would raise up as a new creation。
that God had forgiven her.。
It's a story only God can write.。
And so your forgiveness, my third point,。
demonstrates God's forgiveness.。
Your forgiveness demonstrates God's forgiveness.。
It displays God's forgiveness.。
He desires to make himself known。
and he does this through each of you.。
It's why you live, why there's breath in your lungs,。
why your heart beats in your chest.。
It's not to make much of you,。
see how much fun you can have in this life.。
What you can experience is to live for his glory.。
And so when you leave here, you have an opportunity.。
You're gonna walk through those doors.。
And through those doors are tubs。
and you can make a choice.。
That rock, it can be a burden that you carry with you。
into tomorrow.。
You sleep with it by your side, put it under your pillow,。
you carry it everywhere you go,。
in your pocket, in your purse.。
You can have it tomorrow.。
Okay, you can have it the next day.。
You can continue to carry that.。
Or when you leave here and you pass that tub,。
you can drop it and say the word forgiven.。
I forgive you.。
I'm releasing this debt.。
But as you hold that rock right now,。
I want you to count the cost.。
I want you to consider what they cost you.。
I want you to take a true inventory。
of the bitterness that you've carried。
or whatever the infraction cost you,。
whatever the transgression,。
whatever the trespass has cost you.。
And you choose when you leave here。
if you're going to release that, wipe that debt clean,。
or if you're gonna continue to carry that debt against them.。
It's your choice.。
You can make that choice.。
I want you to know that God's anger against you。
was satisfied in Christ.。
In summary, as forgiven people, we are forgiving people.。
And that our forgiveness demonstrates God's forgiveness.。
I know that some of you are carrying some big rocks.。
They wouldn't fit in that bag right there.。
I want you to know that God desires。
to make himself known through your forgiveness.。
And I know that sometimes your anger,。
it comes out of a fear that what happened might happen again。
or it comes out of love that you have something。
that you love so much that it was removed from you。
that it brings up as anger,。
comes up in your life as anger.。
I want you to know that Jesus takes away your excuse.。
When they hurled insults at him,。
he did not retaliate.。
When they spit on him, he didn't spit back.。
When they insulted him, he did not shout back at them,。
but he humbled himself.。
Says, "For the joy set before him, he endured the cross."。
For you.。
For you.。
He was publicly tortured and humiliated.。
You know the last thing he did before he died。
in his ministry?。
You know the last thing he did?。
Forgive them, Father.。
For they know not what they do.。
He modeled that for us.。
And maybe you would say, yeah, but that's Jesus.。
I get to see incredible examples of forgiveness。
all the time, amazing examples of forgiveness.。
And so for you women, maybe your worst nightmare,。
the worst thing that you can imagine。
is that a man would break into your home,。
a strange man you don't know.。
And that he would take something from you,。
that he would abuse you, that he would forcefully rape you,。
maybe taking your virginity from you.。
And you think, how?。
But then in that moment, I'm justified, right?。
I don't have to forgive him, right?。
I want you to watch my friend Rachel's story.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
On a Friday night, I was just coming home from work,。
was home by myself and started getting ready for bed,。
was taking a shower, and I heard just some noise.。
It was through my window in my bedroom.。
I turned off the water, and when I came back up。
on the left side, there was this strange man。
just standing right next to me.。
He was there to rape me, to sexually assault me.。
And I just had just this moment of panic,。
and I was scared to death.。
I wanted to see if I could maybe convince him to stop.。
It's my first time.。
I don't know what I'm doing.。
I just kept saying that and saying that,。
hoping that he would stop, and he didn't.。
(gentle music)。
It happened in worst, worst moment of my life.。
He left, immediately called my roommate in panic。
and just said, "You need to call 911 'cause I can't do it."。
About a couple weeks later, the police called me。
and said that they had somebody in custody,。
and to come in, I saw his face.。
And that was the first time since that night。
that I'd even seen a picture of him.。
The monster that I had in my head。
wasn't what I was seeing right in front of me.。
He decided to plead guilty for the rape.。
I became more hateful towards him。
because now I was seeing the product of what he had done.。
After the rape, I considered myself damaged,。
unworthy of a man's love in the future, just a sad person.。
All the precious things that I had held。
for so long in my life, he took that all from me,。
and I just started to see my future just going up in flames.。
I couldn't be whole again.。
It frustrated me that he could have such a hold。
on my life and how I felt.。
Why me?。
Why did I have to go through this?。
It was such a weight on my shoulders,。
and I just fell apart.。
I needed to do something。
because I knew that forgiveness needed to happen.。
It seemed so daunting, and it seemed so heart-wrenching.。
When I was walking through,。
I just thought maybe I would get an out.。
Like, I don't have to forgive this guy.。
He's done the worst of the worst.。
I had just never thought of forgiveness as a benefit to me.。
It's really hard to know the extent。
of what God does for us through forgiving us。
until you go through something like this.。
It just changes your thought on what forgiveness looks like.。
God has been softening my heart since that day,。
and even through my breakdowns,。
even in my times where I just yell at him。
and just get mad at him, what he's allowed in my life,。
and he's still bigger than all of that.。
He has been with me this entire way.。
I'm letting him heal every part of me。
that was broken that night.。
I feel joy.。
I feel incredible love when I shouldn't,。
and that is total surrender,。
and I have to do it every single day.。
Christ forgave me of my sins.。
If he can do that, I can do that for one man,。
and that is enough to stand on.。
- I want you to meet a hero of mine, Rachel Duncan.。
(congregation applauds)。
I want you to know, and Rachel, you don't know this,。
but I think about you all the time.。
There are times in my life where I feel。
like someone has hurt me,。
and I feel justified in my anger toward them.。
I think about revenge, and I think about,。
hey, how do I wanna get even?。
I think about you, and I think about。
your example of forgiveness,。
and the way that that has been displayed in your life.。
I think about the community of friends。
that God has raised up around you.。
I want you to know you're one of my heroes.。
I wanna thank you that you would allow us。
to share your story here.。
I just wanna ask, would you close us out in prayer?。
- God, Heavenly Father,。
just thank you for who you are,。
for how much you love us,。
and have forgiven us of our sin, God,。
and you took away our debt through your son, Jesus.。
And man, it is good to just reflect on that。
and remind ourselves daily of how much。
we have been given in you and your son.。
God, just thank you for this message,。
for reminding us of who we are.。
We are followers of Christ.。
We are called to live more like Jesus,。
and that includes forgiveness.。
It's not easy.。
It's difficult.。
It can be overwhelming sometimes, Lord,。
but gosh, there is freedom when we are able to forgive。
and to trust you and to surrender it。
all at the foot of the cross.。
And I pray that, man, everybody in this building,。
everybody in this church,。
everybody listening online, God,。
tonight would just, would surrender it all,。
would give you the glory by just forgiving。
those that have hurt us, that have wronged us,。
and even asking for forgiveness ourselves。
and reconciling with our brothers and sisters in Christ, God.。
I just pray that these young adults。
would be a light in this city,。
that they would do something different,。
that they would radically give their lives to the Lord,。
and that you would give them the power。
and the strength to forgive the unforgivable.。
You did it with us, and I pray that these people,。
these young adults, all of us, God, would do the same.。
Just thank you for your son, Jesus,。
what he did on the cross,。
and I pray these things in his name, amen.。
- Amen, thank you, friend.。
