[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
All right.。
Hello, friends in the room.。
Hello, Fort Worth.。
Any Disney World fans in this room?。
Anyone been to Disney World recently, like in the last year?。
There you go.。
OK.。
Is Disney World still awesome?。
Is it?。
Yeah?。
I definitely was when you were a kid, but it's like,。
this is amazing.。
So I'm going to tell a story that will kind of give us。
tracks forward.。
We're going about my one and only Disney World experience.。
We went as a family, family vacation.。
I was seven years old.。
I have three siblings.。
So me, the three siblings, and my two parents。
all went to Disney World.。
And it was amazing.。
Epcot, Magic Kingdom, whole nine yards.。
And on one of the days, we went to the Magic Kingdom.。
And the Magic Kingdom, stay there the whole day,。
stay there until the night.。
And Magic Kingdom is like the epicenter of Disney.。
They do this unbelievable fireworks show at night.。
Has anyone seen this before?。
It's like NASA gave them fireworks or something.。
They're like, are we still doing shuttles to the moon?。
Send this stuff to Disney.。
And they have these unbelievable,。
like things you've never seen before, light show fireworks.。
So we're there.。
It's at night.。
We gather.。
We're with all the people, huge crowd around us,。
me, three siblings, seven years old, watching the fireworks.。
It's awesome.。
And I look around.。
And there's these different little light fixtures。
in the ground.。
They're lights that would shoot up into the air.。
And they were like different colors.。
And you could walk around.。
And as you're seven, you're like, this is amazing.。
Purple.。
And it would make all your clothes purple.。
You'd send another one.。
Blue, make them blue.。
So I'm like walking over these lights,。
because I've always struggled with ADD.。
And the fireworks didn't keep me in check.。
And so I'm walking--。
I know, big shocker.。
So I'm walking over these lights.。
And I'm looking down at them.。
I'm standing there.。
And I'm like, this is amazing.。
And all of a sudden, someone comes up from behind me。
and pulls down my pants.。
And I mean everything.。
I'm exposed in front of Mickey, Minnie, and all of Disney World。
combined to see everything.。
And when you're seven, what else do you have to live for?。
So I look around.。
My older brother is taking off.。
So I begin running after him in that direction.。
He clearly had done this.。
So I'm chasing him.。
And now we're moving through the crowd of people,。
pushing women and children.。
And I'm trying to retaliate, get revenge on him.。
So you're going, where are we going with this?。
Can we talk about the Bible?。
And I'm running after him, pushing himself away.。
And I see him begin to run towards my parents.。
And I'm like, perfect, back into the arms of justice.。
Perfect.。
So we show up, get to my parents.。
And of course, my dad is upset.。
But dads are always upset on vacation.。
And so he's like, everyone in the car.。
Let's go.。
We're leaving.。
We get in the car, all four of us.。
And I'm like, just waiting for the punishment that。
is going to be relinquished on my brother.。
How could he do that?。
He's a bad apple.。
I agree with you.。
And so I'm waiting for this to happen.。
And my parents were not like the time out people.。
These are before that.。
They were the laying on of hands and a firm hand.。
You got the belt if you got in trouble.。
And so I'm waiting for this.。
How many spankings are we going to get, is what I'm thinking.。
How many is he going to get?。
One, two, maybe three to commemorate this experience.。
And all of a sudden, my dad says, David,。
you're going to get it.。
And I'm like, wait, time out.。
I go into seven-year-old lawyer mode.。
Wait a second.。
Just to make sure we have the facts straight here,。
I got pants in front of everybody.。
Remember that?。
Mickey, Minnie, everybody saw everything around us.。
And I'm the one in trouble.。
And he says, I don't care.。
You ran through the park, pushed people around.。
You embarrassed your parents.。
You're getting a spanking.。
I'm going, wait a second, Tom.。
I'm the victim here.。
Me, pantalones, on the ground.。
Me, not him.。
Why am I being punished?。
He says, you're the one who's getting a spanking right。
when we get back.。
I continue to try to duke it out.。
And I go, this is so unfair.。
This is so unjust.。
You know what happened?。
And finally, he agrees--。
I can't believe this actually happened.。
He agrees, I will let you not have a spanking,。
but you have to write a letter, a letter,。
to everyone in the family apologizing for ruining。
the magical kingdom.。
And I still to this day remember writing, I'm sorry.。
I got pants that did nothing wrong。
to everyone in the family.。
And it was just like, this is so unjust.。
Honestly, that's the earliest experience that I remember,。
of feeling like this is just an injustice.。
This is so unfair.。
This is wrong.。
I was the victim here.。
And there's something inside of us.。
Anytime that we are the victim in a situation。
where we want justice, we want retaliation,。
our natural response.。
And the reason I start there is because tonight,。
as we continue this series through the Sermon on the Mount。
and our series this summer on the Mount,。
Jesus is going to tell us what he says all Christians。
everywhere are to do in the face of injustice against them.。
In the face of when someone else hurts them,。
when someone else harms them, when someone else hates them,。
he says, this is what you are to do.。
Because I know that situation is kind of funny,。
but all of us in the room have one thing in common.。
Throughout our life, there will be various points。
where you are wrongfully hurt by someone,。
where you are the victim of other people's decisions,。
where someone hurts you, maybe someone hates you.。
Maybe it's at work with a coworker who always seems。
to like intentionally try to make you look bad.。
Or it's that one friend who spoke bad about you。
behind your back and now you don't trust anyone.。
Maybe it's a boss who just runs over you,。
neighbors who are always living, or who live above you,。
who are like always partying and you're like,。
it's a Wednesday, what are you doing up there?。
Maybe it's a parent who just walked out。
and they weren't what a mother or a father。
was supposed to be.。
Maybe it was a spouse that hurt you, that cheated on you,。
that all of us will face this.。
Honestly, probably the most clear place in this stage。
that we'll face it is like in the dating。
and relationship realm, where someone goes from,。
hey, they were calling me their bae before anyone else,。
and now they don't call me at all.。
And when I do see them, they're hurtful, and mean.。
But all of us will face just different circumstances。
where we are wrongfully hurt or wrongfully harmed,。
and so how are we to respond in those situations?。
So tonight, Jesus is gonna explore that,。
and we're gonna see some of his most radical teachings。
on relationships, and here's what I know。
just before we dive in.。
What Jesus is going to say, this is just a guarantee。
for you guys and for Fort Worth.。
What Jesus is about to say about how you and I,。
or how Christians, are to relate to those who hurt us,。
how we're to really exist in relationships,。
if you and I embrace it, if you embrace it,。
it will change your world.。
The teachings we're gonna talk about,。
your circle, your relationships, and if the church,。
if every person in our country or in our world。
who claims the name of Jesus embraces。
what Jesus is about to say, it will change our world.。
So we're gonna pick it up in Matthew chapter five.。
If you have a Bible, you can flip open there right now.。
Matthew chapter five, Matthew's the very first book。
of the New Testament.。
If you hit Mark, Luke, John, or really anything。
with Ippians on it, you need to flip back。
and go back to Matthew, and we'll be in chapter five。
as Jesus just continues this teaching。
on the Sermon on the Mount.。
If you don't have a Bible, we've got some。
in the Welcome Center, and those are our gift to you,。
so you can take that afterwards.。
It's gonna be on the screen, I believe, if not.。
So we'll pick it up in verse 38, and here we go.。
You have heard that it was said, Jesus speaking,。
to this crowd in front of him on a hillside.。
You have heard that it was said, an eye for an eye。
and a tooth for a tooth.。
But I tell you, do not resist an evil person,。
and if anyone slaps you on the right cheek,。
turn to him the other cheek also.。
So Jesus just quotes an Old Testament verse。
about eye for an eye, which is a metaphor。
for a justice system.。
It's essentially, it was common in Jesus' day。
that the punishment needed to fit the crime,。
that basically if someone caused you to lose an eye,。
they need to lose an eye.。
If someone caused you to lose a camel,。
they need to lose a camel, that there needs to be。
a repayment that fits the punishment of the crime,。
that getting even was a part of an allowance。
inside of that law.。
It's really, I mean, when you think about it,。
it's like, yeah, it's a pretty good law.。
We would all say that today, even today.。
We think, as it relates to relationships,。
we are about getting payback, aren't we?。
I mean, when it comes to someone who hurt me。
or someone who did something, and I may not do。
the exact hurt against them that they did against me,。
but my mind runs to, I need to pay this person back.。
I need to be mean to them because they were hurtful to me.。
And the way that I want to treat them。
is about getting payback.。
That's my initial reaction, or really all of us。
in the room have that reaction.。
With that girl who breaks girl code。
and starts braiding, dating your, braiding?。
Braiding your old boyfriend.。
They're braiding his hair.。
And starts dating your old boyfriend.。
It's like, I'm gonna cut you off from my life.。
Jesus may love you, but I do not.。
That coworker who makes you look bad,。
we begin taking opportunities to get payback.。
And eye for an eye, I'm going to,。
and it may not be a perfect eye for an eye,。
but I'm going to do something to make you pay for it.。
Maybe it's apparent that we're just,。
I'm gonna cut you off relationally。
to make you be punished for what you've done.。
Or the girl who broke up with you。
because she wasn't ready to date,。
and then on Facebook, a week later,。
it's like, she's ready to date with someone else,。
apparently, and we're just going,。
I'm just gonna talk bad about you.。
And Jesus says, I want to give you。
an entire new way of relating to people,。
and it's not to hit them back,。
and he uses the metaphor of turning。
the other cheek when struck, but it's still a metaphor.。
He says, don't hit them back.。
Don't hit replay on the situation。
and just drive around in your car,。
listening to Taylor Swift like,。
♪ Now we got bad blood ♪。
♪ We used to have ♪。
Oh man.。
(audience laughing)。
♪ Now we ♪。
I don't know, I just keep singing up here.。
It's like, is this a concert?。
Where are we at right now?。
It's not to do that.。
It's not to listen around,。
driving around listening to Taylor Swift.。
He says, I don't want you to hit replay,。
and I don't want you to hit back,。
but here's what I want you to do.。
Turn the other cheek if someone strikes you,。
and he introduces this metaphor,。
and really, essentially, here's what Jesus is saying.。
I don't want my people,。
if you wanna know what a Christian response。
to someone who hurts you is,。
it's not to be about hurting them back or retaliation.。
It's about reconciliation.。
What do Christians do when they're hurt?。
They don't seek on getting retaliation,。
but on reconciliation.。
He says, I want to introduce how you were to relate。
when someone hurts you.。
Our first point is a Christian's response。
to those who harm them is forgiveness,。
that he describes just like in turning the other cheek,。
eye for an eye is a metaphor, so is turning the other cheek.。
It's not just, oh yeah, come on, keep it coming.。
It is starting new with that person,。
removing the hurt and starting over,。
forgiving that person, Jesus says.。
Anytime that someone hurts you, someone hurts me,。
the response, a Christian's response。
to someone who hurts them is forgiveness.。
It's like, Jesus, that's a little extreme.。
In every situation, no matter what they've done,。
I'm supposed to forgive them?。
And he says, yes, to every hurt and to every harm,。
to the person who lied about you behind your back,。
to that parent, the response is to turn the other cheek,。
to start new, to forgive them.。
To DeAndre Jordan, when he says, I'm coming,。
and then says, just kidding, to forgive.。
That our response in every situation,。
from big and small, is that you are to forgive them.。
Don't take a step back and plot revenge。
or take a step back and replay the tapes on how could they.。
Take a step forward towards reconciling the relationships.。
And I think where I get stuck is I begin to think,。
look, if I do that, I'm going to look weak。
or it's going to appear weak or that's just weak.。
I'm just letting them run all over me.。
And the Bible teaches this crazy thing.。
Retaliation is not a sign of strength.。
It's a sign of weakness.。
God, in fact, says, don't retaliate.。
I want you to trust me.。
In Romans 12, retaliation is a sign of weakness。
'cause it says, I don't trust that you, God,。
who say vengeance is yours, are going to do what is right.。
And Jesus says, it is a sign of weakness if you retaliate.。
I want you to turn the other cheek, forgive that person,。
and to trust God that there will be a day。
where there is reckoning, where God says, vengeance is mine,。
and he doesn't look at you and me。
and all the hurts that you experience and say,。
it's not because I don't care.。
It's not because what they did wasn't wrong.。
All of it was wrong.。
That hurt, that abuse, that pain, everything was wrong.。
And it's not because I want them to get away with it。
or I don't care about how you're feeling.。
That's not why God does it.。
It's because I care about you and there is a day。
where I am going to have a reckoning for every abuse,。
every pain, everything that's ever been done wrong.。
And I'm inviting you now to forgive。
and to turn the other cheek.。
That I don't look lightly on the pains of my children,。
but now I want you to forgive.。
God is like the ultimate father。
that's like sitting on the front porch with a shotgun.。
You know what I'm talking about?。
He's like in a wife theater like, have her home by 10.。
And you're like, I'm just gonna have her home now, okay.。
That's who God is, that he says that to all of his children.。
There will be no wrongs that do not get made right。
or there will be no wrongs where there isn't a reckoning for。
and I'm inviting you now to forgive.。
The Christian response in every situation。
which feels extreme, Jesus says,。
is to turn the other cheek or to forgive.。
And let me say this really quickly.。
This is a side note on physical abuse in marriage.。
More conversations probably in the last 10 days。
have I had or our team had with people。
who have been a part of an abusive relationship.。
And so what I wanna make really, really clear,。
'cause this has been something that's come up a lot.。
Are you saying that Jesus' teaching on divorce。
and remarriage and is the teaching on turn the other cheek,。
does that mean that God wants them to go back。
into an abusive environment?。
No.。
If someone is in a violent environment,。
we based on the character of God would say。
they need to step out of that environment。
because it's not loving.。
Jesus' whole point is be about reconciling the relationship。
and it is all to be done in love。
and it's not loving to stay there。
and be abused.。
The most loving thing is to get out,。
pray for that person, pursue reconciliation。
by just praying for them.。
Call the police if they're in an abusive environment.。
But as a church, if someone is in your community group,。
if that's a question you need to know,。
how you would answer that.。
We would never say to stay in a place。
where you are potentially in danger。
and we do not believe that God would.。
And the most loving thing in that scenario。
is not to stay there and just turn the other cheek,。
but to remove yourself 'cause his point。
is reconciliation of a relationship.。
So inside of marriage, that would be the answer。
that Jesus keeps going and really addresses。
what to do if we harm someone.。
Verse 40, if anyone wants to sue you。
and take your shirt, hand over your coat as well.。
So anyone sues you, that would be a time。
where you've done something wrong.。
So they're gonna sue you and he essentially says,。
hey, don't just do the bare minimum.。
If you wronged that person, don't go,。
hey, what's the bare minimum I can do here?。
Make it right.。
Be about restoring the relationship,。
reconciliation, verse 41.。
If anyone forces you to go a mile,。
go with them two miles.。
Give to the one who asks of you。
and do not turn away from the one。
who wants to borrow from you.。
Now here, when we read that, everyone's like,。
what, Jesus is concerned about how far I walk?。
What Jesus just said, everyone in his audience。
is now sucking air because what Jesus just said。
pointed to something that was very a part。
of their every single day life.。
Here's what he just said.。
If someone asks you to go a mile, go with them two.。
Here's why that was a part of everyday life.。
Inside of where they were right now,。
which is in Jerusalem and in Judea, which is that area,。
the entire area and really the known world。
was ruled by this one army, Rome,。
by the Roman army, by the Roman Empire.。
And so everywhere that you went,。
anywhere inside of the empire,。
there were soldiers everywhere。
because Rome was ruthless and they wanted to make sure。
you don't mess with, you mess with the bull,。
you get the horns.。
And so if you mess with Rome, you're going to pay for it.。
So they put soldiers everywhere.。
How did they pay for those soldiers?。
They taxed their people 80 to 90%.。
Imagine that.。
We're like, Obamacare, and they're 80 to 90%.。
80 to 9%.。
And so of course, everyone is,。
it's not a statement or official stance on Obamacare.。
That's more just like taxes.。
Save the email.。
Okay, so everyone in this time is going,。
we hate Rome because we're giving everything。
we have away to have soldiers around。
that basically have hurt our siblings,。
have hurt our cousins, some of them been killed。
and crucified, all by these Roman soldiers who we hate.。
And they had this one law that said any,。
this is the mile thing, any Roman soldier, Roman law,。
and if you step out of line with Roman law, you die.。
And any Roman soldier can come up to any civilian they want。
and say, carry my armor for a mile.。
It was a Roman law to give soldiers a break.。
So any civilian, any Jewish person,。
they could come up and say, I want you to carry the weapons。
that were used to kill some of your family members。
for a mile.。
And they had to do it.。
And so of course, they're going, we hate this law.。
We hate that.。
And Jesus looks at them and says,。
I want you to carry it two miles.。
I mean, think about that.。
Think about it today if there was a law like that。
and the police were like, yeah, I need you to drive me。
for the next mile.。
Or if you're living in the first century,。
how do you even make plans with people?。
And you're like, yeah, you wanna meet at Petalicious。
in Jerusalem and we'll go down there.。
And you're like, they never show up.。
They got caught.。
They had to walk a mile and then they had to walk。
a mile back.。
And every single day and everywhere they looked,。
this would be enforced.。
And Jesus just said, even to your enemies,。
I want you to go above and beyond in loving them.。
And it's as though they're going, Jesus,。
how can we do that with our enemies?。
And he says, on the note of enemies, let's go there next.。
You've heard that it was said, verse 43,。
love your neighbor and hate your enemy.。
Finally, Jesus, these audiences, thank you,。
you're saying something we agree with.。
Love your neighbor, hate your enemy.。
But I tell you, love your enemies and pray。
for those who persecute you,。
that you may be children of your Father in heaven.。
He causes the sun to rise on the evil and the good。
and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous.。
That no longer, Jesus says, for my followers,。
is the standard, love their neighbor and hate their enemy.。
I don't want there to be any boundaries on love.。
All people, you are to not love.。
And really, what's crazy is pray for your enemies.。
Think, to us, you may have heard it before。
and you're like, yeah, it's so beautiful.。
To them, they're hearing it for the very first time,。
they go, Jesus, pray for your enemies.。
Enemies to us is kind of abstract.。
To them, it was this guy in the Roman armor.。
And they're going, pray for our enemies?。
You want us to pray?。
Jesus, we don't even pray for our friends.。
You serious, pray for our enemies?。
I mean, most of us, we pray for like grandma。
and this food and one sick guy that we know.。
And you're telling us to pray for our enemies?。
How radical is this?。
And Jesus says, yes, even them, I want you to pray for.。
That I want no boundaries to be put on love.。
And I think as an American, where I get caught in like,。
how do I apply this?。
Like, who are my enemies?。
ISIS, Time Warner Cable?。
Like, who is my enemy?。
AT&T?。
And I think what Jesus would say,。
if you don't think you have enemies, great.。
The standard is love all people.。
Love the people who on social media。
call you a bigot for what you believe.。
Love the people who hate you。
because the color of your skin.。
Love the people who treat you poorly at work.。
Love every single person.。
Your response is to be loved and to pray for them.。
And I love the next verse, which says in 45,。
that you may be children of your Father who is in heaven.。
That you will look in doing so like your Father.。
Like, what do children do as it relates to their parents?。
They look like them.。
My wife is pregnant right now.。
She's 18 weeks pregnant.。
And every time that we go to the doctor,。
they do a sonogram, which is a really interesting experience。
but save that for another time.。
And so while we're there,。
they will show us the baby inside of her.。
And it looks like a little alien right now,。
but here's what I know.。
The more that it grows and develops,。
and the older and more mature that it gets,。
the more it's going to look like its parents.。
Hopefully its mother.。
But the more that it continues to grow,。
the more it looks like its parents.。
Because children look like their parents,。
just kind of the way things work.。
And Jesus just said, here's what I want you to do.。
I want you to be the kind of person。
that even in the face of hatred,。
the Christian response toward those who hate us,。
which is our second point, is love.。
I want you to do that.。
And when you do that, here's what you look like.。
You look like your Father in heaven.。
He's a God who loves his enemies.。
He's a God who loves those who run from him.。
He's a God who loves bad people.。
As bad as you may be in the room, if you don't know that,。
God is a God who loves you right now where you are.。
He's a God who loves every person that's ever lived,。
ever been born, made in his image.。
And he says, when you love like that,。
you love and you look like your Dad in heaven.。
There's actually a story of someone in the Bible。
who in dying, prays for those persecuting him,。
or prays for those who are killing him.。
You know who it is?。
Jesus, there you go.。
Safe church answer, I like that.。
(congregation laughing)。
It's Jesus on the cross, Luke 23.。
Says that even in the Son of God's last breaths,。
he knows everything, he knows everything。
that they would ever do, and he looks out。
at those who just drove nails through the palms of his hands。
and he says, Father, forgive these men.。
Have mercy on these men.。
Forgive them.。
That even in his dying breaths, he loves his enemies.。
But there's actually another place in Scripture。
and another man who says something eerily similar。
to what Jesus said.。
Anyone know who it is?。
Stephen, man, we have the most educated crowd, I love it.。
Stephen, so let me tell you about Stephen。
if you're new in the room.。
Stephen, who says something very similar.。
Here's who Stephen is.。
Stephen is the very first martyr of the church.。
No one's ever been killed, no one had been persecuted。
other than Jesus.。
The church movement begins and Stephen would become。
the very first martyr, but here's how it begins.。
Jesus goes back to heaven and really,。
the movement explodes.。
There's like thousands of people getting saved,。
things are taking off, they're going well.。
And there's so many people that they begin to realize,。
oh my gosh, the 12 dudes, they're not gonna cut it.。
We need a details guy.。
Peter, you're not a details guy.。
We need somebody who can execute around here.。
So they bring in a guy named Stephen.。
Stephen is a details guy.。
Anyone, anyone, any detail people in the room?。
God bless you people.。
Anyone who's like Excel spreadsheet,。
holla at your girl, that's me, okay.。
That's Stephen.。
Stephen is a guy who's like, I'm a details guy,。
I'm an executor, I love Excel, that's who he is.。
And Stephen is put in charge inside of thousands of people。
of caring for the widows and the orphans,。
making sure they get food, making sure they get all this.。
And that's who Stephen is.。
And shortly after that, Stephen really begins going around。
and his new faith, he begins sharing his faith everywhere.。
He begins going around the city of Jerusalem saying,。
hey Jesus, if you trust in Jesus, you can have eternal life.。
If you believe in Jesus, he's the Messiah.。
And he goes all over the city and pretty soon,。
this Sanhedrin or the like court system,。
Jewish religious leaders found out。
that Stephen is preaching?。
Nah, Stephen is going around.。
We were okay with the 12 dudes, they're a little off it.。
We're okay with that.。
But Stephen, we know Stephen, he's going around telling,。
Jesus is the only way?。
Uh-uh, that's bad for business.。
Bring Stephen in here.。
They bring Stephen, they drag him and they throw him。
in front of the Sanhedrin, which is the court of the day.。
And they throw him in front of the court.。
And they say, Stephen, we hear that you've been telling。
people Jesus is the Messiah, is it true?。
And this is in Acts 6, 7, and 8,。
if you wanna go read it later.。
And he says, yes, Jesus is, he's the only way。
to eternal life.。
And they bring in these different people,。
some men in the crowd bring in different people。
to make accusations, to make up accusations,。
lies about him.。
Well, I saw him do this, I saw him do this.。
And Stephen says, I didn't do any of that.。
All I did was say, Jesus is the only way.。
And anyone who believes in him will not perish,。
but has eternal life.。
And they look at Stephen and he begins to give。
this incredible speech.。
You can go read it later.。
And at the end of the speech, which culminates in him。
saying, Jesus alone, trust in Jesus,。
they rip their clothes.。
And the Sanhedrin says, this man deserves to die.。
And they drag him outside of the city.。
And they prepare to stone him.。
Outside of crucifixion, stoning was one of the worst ways。
to die.。
They pelt you with rocks until you're dead.。
And Stephen looking at these men who are beginning。
to stone him says two last things.。
The last two things or sentences he would ever say.。
And the first one is eerily similar to what we just read.。
He looks into the eyes of the men who were pelting him。
with rocks.。
And he says, father, forgive these men.。
Have mercy on them, God.。
They don't know what they're doing.。
He looks like Jesus.。
And then he says something else that only appears here。
in all of the Bible.。
It says in one of his last statements,。
he's sitting there on the ground and they say his face。
shunned like an angel.。
And all of a sudden they see Stephen looking up。
at the heavens.。
And he says, I see the heavens open.。
And the son of God is standing at the right hand of God.。
Standing, Stephen, you see Jesus standing.。
Standing, why is that significant?。
And every other place in the Bible,。
Jesus is always seated at the right hand of God.。
And there's a lot of them, Old and New Testament.。
And it's as though in Stephen's last breaths,。
Jesus who looks down and says,。
I'm gonna see you in a second.。
But he rises like the crowd when a bride enters the room。
to give a standing ovation to this man。
who looks like his daddy.。
That's my boy.。
And he looks like Jesus.。
Father, forgive these men.。
The only time we see the son of God rise,。
kings don't rise.。
They're always seated victorious.。
And Jesus stands as he sees the son or a man。
who looks like his father in heaven,。
loving even his enemies, even in his last breaths.。
And he calls all of us that the response to those。
who hate us and hurt us is love.。
And he finishes up and really gives our final response.。
He says this in verse 46.。
If you love those who love you, what reward will you get?。
Are not even tax collectors doing that?。
And if you greet only your own people,。
what are you doing more than others?。
Don't even pagans or people who don't believe in God。
at all do that?。
Be perfect, therefore, as your heavenly father is perfect.。
You and I are to treat others like God treats his enemies。
or like God has treated us.。
Essentially what he just said, be perfect.。
I want you to be in the way you respond to others perfect.。
That's the goal.。
And by perfection, I mean the same way God responds。
to his enemies, the same way God responds.。
In other words, a Christian responds。
the way Christ has responded to them.。
A Christian responds to all people, all their enemies,。
the way God responds to his enemies。
or the way God has responded to them,。
that we as believers in Jesus, he says,。
are to treat others who hurt us, not as they've treated us,。
but as God has treated us.。
That you and I are to treat in the response,。
regardless of the situation, which is such a tall order,。
are not to treat them the way they treated us。
or even the way others say, yeah, I would do this,。
but the way God has treated us。
or the way God has treated his enemies,。
of which we were a part.。
Probably the clearest portrait of Jesus loving his enemies,。
I read this past week and it was so powerful to me。
'cause I've never noticed it before.。
It's in Jesus's last day on earth.。
Like he's got one more day left。
and what he decides to do with his time。
is he gets all of his boys together。
at what's called the last supper.。
And he doesn't do what you and I would wanna do,。
hey, what can we do on the last day?。
I've got one day left.。
Doesn't do what we do.。
He begins to get down on his hands and knees。
and do what only a servant did.。
Here's what it says in John 13.。
The evening meal was in progress, verse two,。
and the devil had already prompted Judas,。
who's at the meal, so it's Jesus and the 12 boys,。
including Judas, who's already decided。
I'm gonna betray this man for 30 shekels of silver.。
I'm betraying him.。
Luke 23 says that Judas had some way,。
in some way, been inhabited by Satan,。
that he'd given his heart over to the point。
where Satan was a part of it.。
And now Jesus sitting there with his 12 boys。
and Judas, who's already inhabited。
or given himself over to Satan,。
to betray Jesus, is sitting there with him.。
And what does Jesus do?。
The devil had already prompted Judas,。
the son of Simon Iscariot, to betray Jesus.。
Jesus knew that the Father had put all things。
under his power, that he could do anything.。
I could blink and Judas would just disappear.。
And that he had come from God and was returning to God,。
so he got up from the meal,。
he took off his outer clothing,。
he wrapped a towel around his waist,。
and after that he poured water into a basin。
and he began washing the disciples' feet,。
drying them with the towel that was wrapped around him.。
That Jesus, in his last moments,。
he gets down on his hands and knees.。
The Son of God, perfection in sandals,。
gets on his knees and he begins washing the feet.。
Here's why that's significant.。
Rabbis didn't wash feet.。
Normal people didn't wash feet.。
That was only for a servant.。
This would only be something that would happen。
when you'd go into the home of someone。
who had means enough to have a servant.。
It's like going to the home of someone today。
that has means enough to have a valet or something.。
You're like, you have a valet?。
Really, where does he sleep?。
It's like showing up at a house like that。
and only rich people would have this。
and Jesus takes the role of a servant and he gets down。
and he begins taking off the sandals。
and washing these feet that are caked with dirt。
from being in a desert climate。
and he begins doing what only a servant would do.。
God begins washing and he doesn't just choose the 11.。
He looks his enemy, Judas, who's inhabited by Satan。
and he looks him in the eyes。
and he begins washing his feet。
that even in his last moments, he would have a Judas.。
He still loves, I love Judas.。
I'm gonna die for him in all of humanity.。
That's how God responds to his enemies。
and tonight, what I wanna make really clear。
is the invitation that Jesus calls all of us to。
is he says, I want you to love like that.。
I want you to treat others who've hurt you,。
not the way that they treated you,。
but the way God has treated you。
or the way God treats his enemies。
and the message tonight is not just,。
hey, go love like that because outside。
of realizing that inside of that story,。
who you are, that's impossible.。
In other words, in that story,。
you're not called to just go love the Judases in your life。
or be Jesus to the Judases.。
You are Judas and so am I。
and the God of the universe got down on his hands and knees。
and he washed your feet, came to serve。
and he died on a cross for his enemies。
and outside of first encountering that,。
if you leave here and you're like, yeah,。
I'm gonna go just try to love the Judases in my life,。
if you don't realize you are Judas,。
and you don't encounter that God's love。
for you in that moment, despite everything you've ever done,。
every silver that you've ever turned to,。
every pain pill, every pornography。
or pornographic image you've looked at,。
every time that you've slept with that guy or that girl,。
that all of those things that he said,。
I know they're coming and I'm gonna die for you。
and it's encountering that,。
that we're able to both be loved。
and then to give that same love that we received.。
John, who was known as the,。
he called himself the disciple Jesus loved.。
You think about that?。
Like how weird would that be?。
I'm the guy that JP loves.。
He's calling himself, he was so familiar。
and so in belief that Jesus loves me.。
Well, am I driven by the fact of how much I love Jesus?。
No, I'm driven by I'm the one Jesus loves.。
He saw himself that way。
and it would be like all of us。
should see ourselves that way, he would say.。
I mean, if you're reading what John,。
his gospel, in the gospel he says,。
the disciple Jesus loved.。
If you're the other disciples, you're like,。
John, take it easy, buddy, you loved all of us.。
But John's like, he loved me.。
And John would write in his last years,。
you know how we love, you know why we love?。
In 1 John 4, we love because God first loved us.。
That's how we love and that's why we love.。
And God's invitation is not just go love。
the Judas's in your life.。
Realize you are a Judas and he's loved you.。
And in encountering that,。
you'll be able to extend that love to others.。
I think the application in this room,。
like what does it look like to apply this radical。
relationship, love driven message?。
For all of us, as we look back in our past,。
there's probably relationships hurt,。
things that were done against you,。
relationships today that are broken,。
parents who walked out,。
relationships in dating that just didn't end well,。
mistakes that you made, mistakes that were made against you.。
And I think there's two responses that all of us,。
as we work towards reconciliation, not retaliation,。
as we forgive like we've been forgiven,。
and love like we've been loved,。
the first application is some of you in the room。
need to extend forgiveness to someone who's in your past.。
Maybe there were a parent who hit your mom.。
Maybe they hit you.。
Maybe it was someone you were dating。
and she got pregnant and they went and had an abortion。
and they never involved you in that,。
you still carry pain from it.。
Maybe it's just someone that you thought。
we were definitely getting married.。
They took purity from you and you still carry scars。
and pain when you think about them.。
When you even hear their name.。
That all of us, as we look behind us,。
who are the people that you're still carrying pain,。
that you haven't forgiven, and Jesus's invitation。
is to turn the other cheek, extend forgiveness.。
You may need to leave tonight and go。
and one of the best things you can do。
for many of you who are carrying pain。
that is from past things done against you,。
you were the victim, is to go and get alone。
and begin to work through that forgiveness。
and here's what I mean by that.。
To get alone, to write down the things。
that were hurt, that were taken from you,。
that were stolen from you.。
Anytime there's sin, there's a debt created.。
To write those things down, you took from me this.。
And I'm choosing to forgive you, I'm canceling the debt.。
Like God canceled my debt.。
Despite how much it hurts and despite how hard it is,。
we sit down and begin to work through that pain.。
And the second group is some of you may need。
to just call and ask for forgiveness。
or meet up with and ask for forgiveness.。
Probably the most healthy habit you can now develop。
as you date someone is to begin the process。
of like anytime you think I hurt someone。
or you know you hurt, you call and you say,。
will you forgive me?。
And you very specifically say,。
for hurting you when I did X.。
Maybe you just, you told a girl you were gonna call her back。
and you didn't call and you need to call and say,。
will you please forgive me, that was wrong.。
And I lied to you, will you forgive me?。
Or across the board, things maybe that much,。
at a much deeper level, you need to call and say,。
will you forgive me?。
And ask for forgiveness, seeking reconciliation。
with that other person.。
And as you prepare, I mean, this is like。
the biggest determiner for marriage.。
And because every day there's a hurt.。
My wife and I have conflict only like one time a day.。
And when that happens, it happened today,。
will you forgive me?。
And as you begin to develop that habit right now,。
so asking forgiveness and extending forgiveness。
or canceling the debt, I'm not gonna hold this against you.。
How do we respond to those who harm us, we forgive.。
How do Christians respond to those who hate them, we love.。
Our response is God's response to us, to everyone.。
That's what we're to do, respond in the same way。
that God responded to us.。
I had to do that first step personally,。
a few years back when I was in school。
and I had to just work through the process。
of forgiving someone.。
I realized I was carrying pain from my father.。
And my dad, and just for whatever reason,。
I was at A&M, woo, and I beat you to it.。
And I was there and I just realized I just had some pain,。
I was carrying around from my past.。
My dad, I was raised almost exclusively by a single mother。
and had struggled with alcoholism as long as I know.。
Is to the best of my knowledge, not a believer.。
And he was never around, I have very few memories。
of him being around and the ones I do aren't good.。
Abusive to my mom.。
And I realized there came a day。
where I just had to deal with that, I'd never forgiven him,。
I'd never taken that step.。
And I don't even know that I would've been like,。
yeah, I'm holding a grudge, I'm holding this,。
I'm not letting it go.。
I think it just, I began to realize I've never forgiven him.。
And I began to sit down and I went and got away。
and I sat down and I began writing。
all the things that he had taken.。
They were sins ultimately against God,。
but as his son, they were hurts or things taken from me。
and I began to write down, you took from me.。
You took from me a dad who was there.。
You took from me the chance at a normal childhood.。
You took from me Monday nights, every other Monday night。
where I had to drive across town to your terrible apartment。
because that's what the custody court ordered.。
You took from me holidays where you were wasted.。
You took from me a chance to see someone love my mom.。
You took from me the example of a father.。
And I wrote them all down and at the end of the list,。
I said, I'm not holding those things against you.。
I'm canceling the debt like my debt has been canceled.。
Holding onto these will only hurt me。
and I'm making the decision,。
I'm not gonna hold those against you.。
And it wasn't easy, but there was this unbelievable feeling。
of freedom that came from the God who says, I love you。
and holding onto these things will only hurt you.。
I'm inviting you to forgive as you've been forgiven。
and I didn't do that because I'm a good person, I'm not.。
I just came to the realization that。
if what Jesus says is true,。
if I've really been forgiven like that,。
how can I not forgive him?。
And I decided to cancel the debt。
and some of you may need to do that.。
Because you're holding onto things。
inside of your heart from hurts。
and things wrong that happened to you.。
I love this message because。
what if the church got this?。
Like in Dallas and in Fort Worth,。
what if like every person in this room really did this?。
What if they really loved like this?。
Has there ever been a time in our nation's history。
in the last maybe few decades,。
arguably the civil rights era,。
where hatred was so common or hatred is so common?。
Bigotry is so common.。
Racism.。
There's wounds all over our country。
and if there was ever a time where people in our nation。
needed to see a group of people。
who loved like their father in heaven,。
who said no matter what you do to me, I'm going to forgive.。
I'm making that decision like I've been forgiven.。
And that's how I'm gonna conduct my relationships.。
Was there ever a time where people so desperately。
needed to encounter that kind of love?。
A love more powerful than hate, more powerful than racism,。
more powerful than the divides of how much money you make。
or the color of your skin?。
In the church, we have a chance to do that now。
and you and I get to do that.。
And when we do so, individually, it will change your world.。
It will.。
And if we do it, it will change this world.。
If you're not a Christian,。
this message really isn't for you.。
But Jesus is and forgiveness is.。
And as we just work through those pains tonight,。
if you don't know the God who forgave you,。
I don't know honestly what to tell you.。
Because it's only in the shadow of the cross。
that I'm able to forgive.。
Like if I just look in the shadow of my pain against my dad,。
I'm not able to forgive.。
But in the shadow of that cross,。
all that I'm doing is extending forgiveness。
like I always extended.。
And that's what he invites us to.。
And if you don't know that God,。
we'd love to invite and talk to you about that.。
And if you do, we'd love to call and invite you。
to go extend and ask for forgiveness.。
I'm gonna pray that we would.。
Father, thank you that you are the God。
who washes the feet, metaphorically,。
of us in the room and actually。
of those men in that room 2,000 years ago,。
including one who you knew would betray you.。
Thank you that you're the God who dies on a cross,。
who loves your enemies like me。
and through your love changes us.。
Would you make us more like our Father in heaven,。
more like Stephen?。
I pray for hurts in the room that are deep,。
even ones that maybe have been offended。
or felt like I was belittling pain。
through just things that I said,。
of calling them to forgive.。
Would you do what only you can do,。
move on their heart, move on all of our hearts。
to seek forgiveness and ask for it where we need to。
and extend it.。
And I pray for those who don't know you,。
that they would experience your forgiveness tonight。
for the very first time. We love you.。
We thank you for Jesus, the man of sorrows,。
acquainted with grief, who died for all of us。
and gives us new life.。
In his name we pray, amen.。
