Good evening and welcome to the porch.。
I'm here to guide you on your journey through the complex world of relationships.。
Can we cue some music please?。
From our friendships to our romantic endeavors, we'll explore our family bonds,。
estranged relationships, work dynamics, and perhaps even the relationship with oneself.。
So how do we relate?。
To answer this, we'll look to scripture and find exactly what God has to say about our relationships.。
This is, after all, the Relationship Series.。
Alright, Porch, how we doing? We doing okay?。
Great to see ya. Welcome back to the Relationship Series.。
So glad that you would choose to be with us.。
Not just those of you that are here in the room, but especially those of you that are here online with us.。
A special shout out to Porch Live Dayton, Porch Live Indianapolis, and Porch Live Scottsdale.。
We're so grateful that y'all will be a part of what's happening here at the porch.。
I've got some very special friends with me here tonight.。
And we've got a very special evening prepared for you.。
But first what I want to do is I want to introduce my friends here to my left.。
This is Kaitlyn Van Wagner and this is John Cox.。
Everybody say hello.。
Yeah. Okay.。
So here's what we're doing tonight.。
We are continuing in our series, the Relationship Series, where we're talking about God's design for connecting to one another.。
And what we did a couple of weeks ago is we basically walked through a theology of work.。
Which is important because if you consider the average adult life, roughly a third of your life is going to be committed to the office space.。
I don't know if you know that.。
I did the math.。
And it's going to be roughly 30% of your life.。
Your waking hours are going to be spent on the job.。
And so knowing that that's the truth, we thought we would bring in some very special authorities on the topic of work.。
Here's what would be helpful before we just get things rolling.。
Kaitlyn, John, would you all just do a quick introduction of yourself, what your role is here at Watermark, and a brief bio on your work experience.。
Awesome.。
Hey, y'all.。
My name is Kaitlyn Van Wagner.。
I get to serve as the Senior Director of Communications here at Watermark.。
Before I took a hard left turn into ministry, I was in the corporate world.。
So I was a branding strategist at an ad agency here in Dallas for several years before I came to work here at Watermark.。
And I'm John Cox, and I'm the Executive Pastor here at Watermark.。
And I have spent about half my life in ministry and about half in business.。
And so Stanford undergrad, did ministry for a while, went back and got an MBA from Harvard, moved to Dallas.。
Did you hear that?。
Oh, no. Yeah.。
He was like, should I share that?。
Hold on, hold on, hold on.。
I went to Texas A&M.。
[CHEERS]。
See, Aggies get the whoop.。
Yeah, much better.。
You get the--。
Much better.。
Yeah, we're fear of the tree.。
That's what this--。
Stanford is.。
So after I got my MBA, I moved to Dallas.。
And so I had grown up as a Navy kid, never lived in the middle of the US, but moved to Dallas,。
went to work for a strategy consulting company called the Boston Consulting Group.。
Worked for them for about five years, then went to a hedge fund in town,。
which they had a strategy just for HBK Investments, and did that for about five years before I came on staff.。
And so been on staff for about the last 14 years, minus a three-year break back in investments.。
That's awesome.。
Listen, I don't know what your work situation is, but we got you covered here tonight.。
I hope you brought a big pad, because you're going to want to take some notes.。
They were unpacking for me very briefly some of the things that they were wanting to share this evening,。
and I was like, where's my journal?。
Like, I need to take some of this down for myself, because they truly have an experience that's going to be really beneficial to you.。
Here's why we're doing this.。
We know that work is a big part of your life.。
But we also know that the truth of God's word is not just meant to be intellectualized.。
It's meant to be practically executed.。
You're supposed to take the knowledge in your mind, and you're supposed to live it into existence.。
And so we wanted to give you some really good handles to hold as you consider your work experience,。
as you consider what your professional endeavors are today, tomorrow, and then into the future.。
And so we polled the porch public, and we asked you guys, hey, what are your questions?。
And so we've taken those, and we've synthesized them, and we've prepared some questions for John and Caitlin to walk us through.。
The first one I think is really appropriate, because so much of the topic around professionalism is connected to purpose.。
A lot of people look to their job, and they want to find purpose or fulfillment within it.。
They want to do that.。
They want to find whatever it is their passion, and they want to pursue that in their career.。
And so the first thing that I want to ask you guys is just how can we be faithful in our jobs when it doesn't feel purposeful,。
or we're not necessarily passionate about it?。
What would you all say?。
Absolutely.。
I would say the first thing I would say is faithfulness isn't dependent on your circumstances,。
including what job you have or how passionate you are about that job.。
I think obviously there is a desire to be passionate.。
That's an ideal we want to ascribe to, but that's not always the case.。
In fact, there is a lot to be said about working at a job that you might not necessarily be passionate about.。
You can learn a lot from being placed in a job that you might not be as well suited for or maybe not passionate about.。
You can learn what you're not good at.。
There is a lot to be learned, and really smart people know how to redeem every single experience in their life。
for essentially creating a greater work acumen, a greater work resume.。
So you don't necessarily have to be working in your -- especially right out of college.。
I think there's a myth that you'll find your dream job, and until I find my dream job, I'm going to keep job hopping.。
There can be a lot to be said by staying and being faithful where you have been placed to make an impact wherever you're at.。
That is a news flash.。
I worked in college ministry for a long time, and then I jumped into young adult ministry shortly thereafter, and it's true.。
Some of you would nod your heads in agreement that your hope coming out of your undergraduate degree or grad school。
was to find that thing that I'm burning up with unbridled passion for, and let me leverage all of my life to it.。
And that's just not the way it goes.。
I think Kaitlin is speaking to something really important.。
I also think if you're expecting your job to fulfill your purpose, you're expecting your job to fill a role it was never meant to do,。
which it cannot fulfill.。
Only Christ can give you your purpose.。
So if you are waiting for your job to feel filled with purpose, you're going to be waiting forever because it just isn't going to happen.。
Your purpose should come from Christ, and don't put your job in a position to fill a role it's not ever going to fill.。
Yeah.。
Yeah, I think one other thing is, you know, when you think about jobs, you think about where you're going to work,。
and then you think about how you're going to work, right?。
And the Lord is much more concerned with how you work than where you work.。
And so lots of people get wrapped around the axle, "Am I in the right place?"。
And the question you should be asking is, "Hey, how am I doing my job?。
Am I doing it with faithfulness?"。
You know, in the book of Colossians, it just says, "Whatever you do, work it out with all your heart.。
It's working for the Lord, not for men, because you know that you will receive an inheritance from the Lord as a reward.。
It is the Lord Christ you're serving."。
And he's much more concerned with how we're working in the job that we're in.。
And any job is not perfect, right?。
And so at Watermark, I often say to myself, "Hey, when the days are really hard, I'm getting paid double.。
Those days I'm getting paid double.。
And the days that are easy, I'm working for free."。
And it generally balances out, you know?。
So that's just what I'm telling myself.。
I'm working--I'm getting paid double today.。
That's really good.。
Some of you needed to hear that.。
You're like, "I'm getting paid double for this one."。
Yeah, you know, I think the both of you just alluded to something that I think is really important.。
And we've actually--we've said this from the stage before, but I know this is probably true for you all.。
I know as I've visited with young adults, often what I hear is, "Man, I'm just--I'm not getting life from my job."。
But here's the newsflash.。
Your job was never meant to give you life.。
Like, it was never intended to accomplish that end.。
No, it is a part of what God has called you to do here in this world as you walk with him.。
But the only one that gives life is Jesus Christ.。
In him is life and life to the full.。
That's where you'll find it.。
And so I think it's really important that that's known here from the outset.。
One thing that I was looking at, which I thought this was fascinating.。
I don't know what you all think about this.。
Recently, Gallup, they did a study, and it showed that 30% of Americans are disengaged.。
Excuse me, only 30% of Americans are actively engaged on the job.。
Which would mean that 70% are somewhere underneath active engagement, trending towards disengagement.。
This is the lowest level of engagement recorded in the last decade.。
Which is fascinating when you consider that many of us are pursuing jobs according to our passions.。
It means that your passion is actually not leading to fulfillment.。
It means that you're pursuing that which is going to make me feel amazing in life.。
Like, I'm going to choose the job I love, and I'll never work a day in my life.。
And yet what's happened is you're actively disengaged, though you have pursued your passions.。
And it's because that's not meant to give you life.。
It's not meant to engage you.。
I thought this was also very interesting, and I'll just have you all speak to it.。
Because I'm curious.。
The main reasons why people are disengaged on the job are -- the main three categories were remote employees,。
those that are in hybrid work situations, and young adults under 35.。
So, John, you and I were talking about this earlier.。
Because there's a lot that's heaped up in this idea of, like, I'm supposed to pursue my passion.。
And yet we were talking about, well, there's a difference between pursuing a job according to my passion。
and pursuing a job according to my gifts.。
Would you mind speaking to that?。
Yeah, so I think any time you're looking at a job, you're looking at four factors.。
The first one is, where do I want to work, like, geographically?。
Where do I want to live?。
The second one is a specific industry.。
Are you passionate about oil and gas or consumer retail or medicine?。
And the third one is really, what are you doing every day?。
Like, when you show up at 8 o'clock, what are the tasks you're doing?。
And do they fit with how God has wired you?。
And then the last one is the culture.。
Like, do I like the people I work with?。
And what I see consistently is the younger you are, the more likely you are to emphasize,。
where do I want to live and what industry would I want to work in?。
And the truth is, is what most impacts your satisfaction on your job is,。
what am I doing every day?。
And am I good at those things?。
And then correspondingly, am I working with people that I genuinely enjoy being around?。
And so, you know, the thing about me is that I never had a 40-year vision for what I was supposed to do.。
Like, one of the greatest lies is that if I only find the right job,。
then everything is going to fall into place.。
And what I would say is, is if you asked me ever since I was 21 years old。
where I was going to be in five years, okay, I would now be wrong 39 consecutive years, right?。
Predicting where you're going to be or finding the perfect job is just an illusion.。
And so, what I've learned is, is hey, when you're in a job, right,。
what you want to do is get into a spot where you're using the things that God has gifted you to do。
and surround yourself with people that you genuinely like seeing, right?。
Like, that's important.。
And then you've got to understand that life is difficult, okay?。
Because if you don't understand life is difficult, what happens is the first time you have a setback。
or there's some dissatisfaction with a job, okay, you begin to think something's wrong.。
And if on the other hand, you just go, hey, life is difficult, right, that's normal, okay?。
Then you don't get unsettled when, you know, when things aren't working out exactly the way you want them to.。
- I think that's such a--we've talked about this before, John.。
There's freedom in--I'm the same way. I've never had a five-year plan for my life.。
I've always just gone, hey, what's God have for me in the next season of my life?。
And there's a lot of freedom in that.。
You don't have to put pressure on yourself to know where you're going to be in five years。
to make all these things line up to make sure you're knocking them down in a row.。
And so, it's like you can take a minute to breathe.。
I think some people do get calls on their life and they have a vision of like, you know,。
I'm not going to be--I know I'm not going to be a doctor in five years.。
That's for sure. I know I'm not going to be--but some people have that.。
But like you can also give yourself some room to exhale to go, what would God have for me?。
And I want to be faithful with what opportunities he's bringing me today for this next season.。
- Okay. So, y'all both alluded to I want to excel at what's revealed.。
Like where God has me today is where God wants me today.。
It matters less what I do and it matters more how I do it.。
People are really familiar with the idea of someone being called to ministry.。
Is it possible to be called to a career, to a specific job?。
And how do you make sense of that? What would y'all say to that?。
- Yeah, I think I would say, does that happen? Yes. Okay.。
But I think a much more likely path is that it is a process of investigation.。
And I think really in your 20s, one of your main goals is to try and figure out,。
what am I good at and how can I deploy that? Right?。
Because I think that when you think about work, you're thinking about,。
you want to go to a place where you add value. Okay?。
That's much easier to do if you are naturally good at it.。
Second, you want to go to a place where you can impact people.。
Because at the end of the day, it's all about relationships. Okay?。
And then the third thing that you want to do as you're thinking about that kind of stuff。
is how am I developing my gifts today so that I can be even more valuable tomorrow?。
Right? What am I doing to develop myself?。
And so that's how I think about if I'm doing those three things,。
then I'm moving in the right direction.。
I tell people all the time, your 20s are for learning.。
Everybody's expecting to arrive in their 20s.。
And it's just not the way it works.。
I talk to so many young adults right out of college。
who genuinely just don't know what they're good at.。
And that's okay. That's an okay place to be,。
to not know exactly what your gift sets are.。
There's tons of assessments you can take to help you figure that out.。
But honestly, that's why it can be useful doing jobs that you don't like。
because you learn that you are not good at things.。
And that's just as valuable. Right?。
So also give yourself a little bit of grace.。
If you don't quite know what you're good at,。
just keep going and trying and asking for different types of projects。
on the work that you're on.。
Hey, try to flex some new muscles.。
You fail at it, we maybe go in a different direction. Right?。
So give yourself a little bit of grace.。
So how do we learn what we're good at?。
How do we discern what our God-given gifting is?。
I think about it in two categories.。
I think about drains and gains.。
So what are some of the tasks that when I'm doing them,。
they give me energy.。
Like, I love, if you hang around me,。
my favorite place in the entire world to be is at a whiteboard.。
Like, it is my comfort animal, is a whiteboard.。
And I love any task. And it gives me energy.。
I get like a weird little buzz when I'm whiteboarding or problem solving。
or that sort of thing.。
And it's like, if you put me in front of an Excel document, my soul dies.。
And so, and like, but that's taking--。
So you're like, amen.。
Yes, the lights go out.。
Preach.。
And but I think just having a sense for what is giving you naturally energy。
when you're doing those tasks and what seems to be draining energy from you.。
Sometimes you still have to do those tasks.。
Because sometimes being faithful means I still have to do Excel.。
I still have to do my budget every single year.。
And so you have to do some of those.。
But where are you naturally gaining energy and getting energy drained from you?。
And then honestly, ask people around you.。
Like, your parents probably have a good sense,。
might have a good sense of what you're good at and what you're not good at.。
Ask trusted people around you.。
Where do I seem to excel?。
Where do I seem to not seem to naturally be a skilled?。
Yeah, yeah, I think feedback is great.。
Because sometimes it's hard to see in yourself.。
And so what I would say is it's not always obvious.。
So you've got to try a lot of things. Right?。
And it's practice where you begin to find that groove.。
And you just need to be patient with yourself.。
If you don't know, that's okay. Right?。
I was 35 years old before I began to figure out what I was really good at.。
I think that there's two things that I always point people towards.。
John, you just took one. And Kaitlyn, you took the other.。
We didn't even plan it.。
But I'll put it in alliteration for you.。
Feedback from others and its fruitfulness in my labor.。
That's how you discern if I'm gifted.。
From the Lord for a specific task.。
You see the Apostle Paul, when he's appointing Timothy to the work of pastoring the church at Ephesus,。
they lay hands upon Timothy.。
They affirm him that he is gifted for the work of pastoring there.。
There's feedback. Good feedback that you're gifted for this.。
We've all watched American Idol.。
And we've seen people betrayed by a lack of honest feedback.。
That's not your gifting.。
Don't go on the show. Don't sing in front of those judges.。
Some of you need some honest feedback in your life.。
You need people to help you learn what am I actually gifted and good for.。
And you also need to discern where's the fruit in my life.。
Like if God's given me a gift for it,。
then the nature of God is that the things that he applies his hands to, they burst in life.。
And so as you apply your hands through God's gifted provision,。
they'll burst forth in life as well.。
And he will do so for his glory and for the good of other people.。
Now, let's turn a corner because y'all have both kind of spoken to this,。
which I think is important.。
How do we know when it's time to search for another job?。
Because I think there's something good that y'all have pushed on,。
and it may be worth pushing a little bit more.。
Like hey, just because it's hard doesn't mean you get out.。
And so I want us to speak to that.。
But at the same time, we do need to be discerning of when it's time to move。
and transition into a new job or a new career or something along those lines.。
So what would y'all say to that?。
I think I could speak to the pushing through.。
I think for me, impact has often come to me through longevity.。
And so when somebody comes onto my team, and it was the same for me in the marketplace。
as it was in ministry, I say the same -- we give them the same speech on day one.。
You are not going to know how to do your job for a solid year.。
It takes a solid year to understand how to do a job.。
For me, my pattern has been in both places.。
It takes a year for me to learn how to do a job.。
It takes another year for me to get semi-good at it.。
And then the third year is where it gets really fun,。
because I've built up the relational and professional equity。
where I can start to make an impact on the organization.。
So there is something to be said for longevity.。
When I worked in advertising, it was pretty known that the quickest way to get a pay bump。
was you jumped agencies every 18 months.。
And that could make sense, and there are times when you would want to job hop like that。
if you have bad workplaces or things like that.。
But man, it got really good at like year three,。
and that's when I started to make an impact and see --。
and that's when I started to find even more purpose in my work,。
because I was seeing the fruit of that.。
So there is something to be said for longevity.。
Yeah, and I think about it a lot like I think about dating.。
So taking a job is not like getting married.。
You are not stuck there for the rest of your life.。
On the other hand, taking a job is not like a first date.。
So somewhere between I'm going to switch jobs every three months。
and I'm never switching jobs is probably the right path.。
So I've been in six different companies over the course of my career.。
And one of the things is there are lots of times I've been in jobs where I'm frustrated。
or where I feel like it's painful in certain parts of my job.。
And as a general rule for me, right, when I'm thinking about taking another job,。
what I want to do is you don't want to move away from things.。
You want to move toward things, right?。
So if you're in a job that is frustrating, right,。
the wrong thing to do is leave a job because it's frustrating.。
The right thing to do is to begin to get your antenna up,。
see if the frustration is lasting, and think about what can I move toward.。
Right, so you move toward things, not away from things.。
And so what have I learned here?。
And now knowing that, what do I want to move towards next?。
What about if it's a toxic or abusive work environment?。
Well, then you start to think about you're starting to pay a cost, right?。
And so I think that's where, especially as Christ followers,。
your faith becomes really important for how you work through that level of conflict。
in order to, if you're going to leave, something like that,。
my charge to you would be like, how can you leave well?。
How can you leave honestly?。
How can you leave with your integrity intact, not having gossiped。
or burned the place down on your way out, right?。
So what does that look like?。
So I do think that that could be a reason to leave.。
My charge to you in that would be, how do you leave well?。
That's really good, yeah.。
I think that toxic work environment is thrown around a lot in our generation.。
And what we need to do is we need to qualify what we mean by toxic.。
Just because it's difficult, just because it's hard,。
just because it's uncomfortable doesn't necessarily equate with toxicity.。
So just think about it like this.。
A toxic work environment will feel something like a toxic physical environment.。
What would be true of a toxic physical environment?。
It would promote danger to your physical and mental, emotional, spiritual well-being.。
Recently I was out walking.。
There's a trail that goes behind where Brooke and I live,。
and there was an armadillo rummaging in the brush right off to the side of the path.。
That's a really safe environment for that guy to be in.。
What's not a safe environment for him to be in,。
and is extremely toxic to his survival, is the road.。
That would not be a good place for him to be. Why?。
Because he is in danger. It is a deadly place for him to be.。
If you find that your physical or emotional well-being is taking shots,。
I think the first thing you must do is you have to consider counsel.。
There's safety in a multitude of counsel.。
You talk to people and you evaluate your state of affairs.。
But then you also reckon with the reality that you don't just pull the ripcord。
and eject out of that situation.。
You be prayerful. You consider, "Is God calling me to leave?"。
1 Peter 2, 18-19, it says,。
"Servants, be subject to your masters with all respect,。
not only to the good and the gentle, but also to the unjust.。
For this is a gracious thing.。
When mindful of God, one endures sorrows while suffering unjustly."。
And he gives the reason for it.。
Peter says in verse 21, "For to this you've been called,。
because Christ also suffered for you,。
leaving you an example so that you might follow in his steps.。
He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth.。
When he was reviled, he did not revile in return.。
When he suffered, he did not threaten,。
but he continued entrusting himself to the one who judges justly."。
What you see there is Jesus was willing to be persevering。
in the face of injustice.。
And he finished really well, to Caitlin's point.。
- Yeah, and let me address just like work-life balance.。
- Yeah, that's good.。
- That seems to be a huge topic these days.。
And what I would say is, I think when you are in your 20s,。
that's really where you're figuring out what you're good at。
and you're becoming highly confident at your job.。
And if you want to be great at work,。
you can't be great at like a dozen things, right?。
You can be great at a couple.。
And so one of the decisions each of us has got to decide is,。
what are those things that you want to be great at?。
And then I'm going to prioritize that.。
So for me, for much of my work career, it was my walk with Jesus.。
That was first.。
Then second was being a husband and father.。
And the third was being very good at what I worked at, okay?。
So if it touched one of those things, it was priority A.。
Everything else was optional.。
And so what that meant was is, you know,。
I'm not a single-digit handicapper at golf, right?。
I'm not a nationally ranked pickleball player, okay?。
There's lots of things I'm not because one of the ways to be good at something。
is to do less of other things, right?。
And so being great at it is taking stuff off the plate.。
Now, having said that, what I would say is,。
look, anybody in a job can sprint like 100 yards.。
No one can sprint 60 miles, okay?。
And so there are jobs where you're asked to go sprint 100 yards or 200 yards.。
That's okay, okay?。
There are other jobs where you're sprinting 60 miles, okay?。
I had a job one time where over a three-month period,。
on Mondays and Tuesdays, I was in London, England, okay?。
Wednesdays and Thursdays, I was in Tulsa, Oklahoma.。
And Fridays, I was in charge of the recruiting。
for the consulting company I was at,。
so I was all over the business schools in the country, okay?。
Now, that's something you can do for a little while.。
That is not a sustainable life, okay?。
And so there was a point at which it's like, look,。
what's very clear to me is that it is making demands。
that that's not how I want to live the rest of my life.。
And so when we got pregnant with our second child,。
I'm like, okay, in eight months, I'm going to be doing something else。
because I just can't sprint like that.。
Okay, but John, like, I've got goals.。
Like, I have ambitions.。
I have certain marks I need to hit.。
I've got a difference I want to make in the world.。
I've got to leave an impact with this short life that I have.。
What does it look like to trust the Lord。
while still being ambitious in my career?。
Yeah.。
I think ambition in and of itself is not a bad thing.。
When you make ambition your identity,。
you are setting yourself up to be disappointed.。
So from my perspective, my story is I, when I,。
I made ambition my idol in my 20s.。
Like, advertising girl was my whole personality,。
and it was not a good look.。
And I just chased that for, and I was one of those people。
that did self-imposed 80-, 90-hour work weeks,。
and everything about me was my job.。
I placed my entire identity in my achievement and my performance.。
And the issue is, is that is a moving target,。
and that target never stops moving.。
And for me, I chased that and chased it and chased it.。
And then the cost was that my health eventually came out.。
So I gave out.。
So I had a two-year-long health battle。
because I had worked myself so, so hard.。
And I had to rebuild not just my body but my identity.。
And man, I'm so grateful for the gospel。
that says that we don't have to earn anything.。
He earned it all for us because, man, I was an earner。
and not used to that message.。
So I would say ambition, in and of itself,。
is not a bad thing.。
I mean, the Proverbs are filled with Scripture about diligence.。
And so, "In excellence we think honors God and inspires men."。
And so I would say there's nothing wrong with ambition,。
but if ambition is your idol, if it is your only motivation,。
you are setting yourself up to be disappointed.。
It makes a really bad master.。
- Yeah. - That's awesome.。
- Yeah, or if your value really comes from what you do.。
Like, I've lived around the US in a lot of different cities,。
and different cities value different things, okay?。
So when I lived in Washington, D.C.,。
the very first question people wanted to ask you。
was, "Who do you work for?"。
Okay?。
Because that is a city that is all about the power.。
And it's like, "Do you work for somebody who's somebody?"。
Right?。
And then, you know, I lived in Boston.。
And in Boston, they care a lot about where you went to school.。
Right?。
Like, Boston has more schools per capita than anywhere in the US.。
And that's how they're deciding the pecking order.。
Right?。
And then I lived in Los Angeles.。
Okay?。
What do you think Los Angeles values?。
Okay?。
It's how you look and what you drive.。
Okay?。
And what I would say to you is Dallas is more like Los Angeles。
than any city I've ever lived in.。
And so when you step back, you've got to say,。
"Where am I getting my value?"。
And if you're trying to get your value from work,。
okay, that is not a stable place.。
We want to get our value from the fact that God loves us。
and He's for us and He's with us.。
Right?。
And if you don't get your value from there,。
you're setting yourself up for a big fall.。
So is it wrong to pursue riches and fame and impact。
and influence in the world?。
Are those wrong things to pursue?。
I would say your gifts are from God for God.。
And so my question is, why are you pursuing those?。
Is it for your glory or is it for God's glory?。
You are made with a purpose,。
and that purpose is not to bring yourself glory.。
It's to bring God's glory.。
So I would have a lot of questions about your motivation.。
I don't think that it's wrong to want to make an impact,。
but why do you want to make an impact?。
Do you want it to bring your glory or God?。
- Yeah, and I think, you know, Matthew,。
Jesus is very clear in the book of Matthew,。
where He just says, you know,。
"Do not store up for yourselves, you know,。
temporary treasures, where moth and rust destroy。
and thieves can break in and steal,。
but store up for yourselves treasure in heaven."。
So the focus is, is that's the treasure。
we're trying to build up,。
'cause that's the only thing that's gonna last.。
And so you want to think long-term, right?。
You want to invest in long-term things.。
And the one thing that's long-term。
is your relationship with Jesus and doing eternal things.。
- 1 Timothy 6, 9 says,。
"But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation."。
In the operative word there is desire,。
"who desire to be rich, fall into temptation,。
into a snare, into many senseless and harmful desires。
that plunge people into ruin and destruction."。
And then y'all know this famously,。
"For the love of money is the root of all kinds of evil."。
See, it's not that money or wealth or influence。
or difference-making, whatever it is,。
it's not that those things are inherently wrong.。
They are morally neutral.。
I think what Caitlin and John are saying is。
your love is not intended for those things.。
Your love is intended for God and God alone, right?。
His love has been lavished upon you。
and in response to a love embraced。
becomes a love that we return to God。
and we extend to other people.。
Now, God may give you wealth.。
He may give you fame.。
He may give you influence.。
Truthfully, believers are the best to steward those resources。
because God doesn't give to you,。
He gives through you, right?。
He's not impacting by you.。
He's impacting through you.。
This is the way that God works.。
He works through His people。
and it's a delight for Him to partner with those。
that are subject to Him first and foremost.。
One thing that I think in the vein of ambition。
that I think is worth talking about in this moment。
is a lot of people,。
they'll fall prey to, Caitlin, your story of workaholism.。
Right? Like they will--。
- I think it's glamorized in America.。
- Yeah, it totally is.。
Especially amongst young adults, hustle culture's a thing.。
- Absolutely.。
- So what does it look like for us to both hustle on the job。
while being healthy in life?。
- Mm-hmm.。
You know, my first boss, when I worked in advertising。
and I was in that season that I described to you of working,。
a lot of it was self-imposed, 80, 90,。
'cause my entire identity was on my performance.。
He said to me something that I'll never forget.。
He said, "Caitlin, there's a cost to working as hard as you do,。
"and the problem is you won't know what the cost is。
"until you've already paid it."。
And for me, it was my health, but for others,。
I think it could be community, it could be your spiritual life,。
it could be friendships.。
So my question, especially if you're caught up in this hustle culture,。
is are you paying attention to what it's costing you,。
not just what you're getting out of it,。
and is it worth the cost?。
And then I think on a really practical side,。
God has given you a body to steward,。
and it's very important to steward your body,。
and I mean to pay attention to your health。
and the health of your relationships,。
emotionally, spiritually, and physically,。
in the midst of your job.。
And so when you start to get really off balance,。
something is wrong, and so if you can orient yourself。
to your purpose in the Lord,。
often those things kind of right themselves,。
but it is so important to pay attention。
to your physical, emotional, and spiritual health.。
That's great. John, would you add anything to this?。
Yeah, I would say a couple of things.。
One, it's your job to keep yourself healthy.。
In general, bosses do not do a good job。
of checking out on your health.。
So Caitlin's boss, that's an exception.。
Most of them are happy if you want to stay later and do more stuff.。
And what I would say is when you are looking at a job,。
the boss sets the tone for the culture.。
And that's how long you work,。
what kind of values you pursue,。
whether it's a competitive environment or a collaborative one.。
And so that's who's going to set the pace.。
And so if you're thinking about a job,。
that's who you want to look at。
to decide is that going to be a good fit in that culture.。
And you're looking for someone who's going to value that.。
And it's not just looking to churn you up and spit you out.。
So how do we know when too much is being asked of us on the job?。
You want to take it, John?。
Yeah, well, here's what I would say is you know it at the extremes.。
And again, what I would say is sprinting for 100 yards,。
anybody can do that.。
And there are times in all of our jobs。
when we're asked to stay late.。
Or there's an urgent project that needs to get done.。
The challenge is when that moves from being the exception to the norm.。
Because now you're trying to sprint six miles or 60 miles.。
And nobody can do that.。
And so it's okay to sprint,。
but you just want to have this, not this red line at the top.。
Totally.。
And that's where knowing yourself is really important.。
Knowing if you are prone to overwork。
or if you're prone, to just be honest, y'all, to prone to underwork.。
Like you should take an -- you owe it to yourself。
to take an honest assessment of where you fall on that scale.。
And let others into that to go, hey, that's just --。
like they're both just as damaging to underwork or to overwork.。
And so I would encourage you to take an honest assessment of yourself。
and let your community into knowing like, hey, this is my ditch.。
My ditch is actually to overwork.。
And in that scenario, you might want to have people lean into the pride。
you might be getting from that overworking.。
If it's underworking, you might want to take assessment to see --。
has entitlement crept into your heart somewhere。
that you feel like you're entitled to take a two-hour lunch break。
because you're working remote today and nobody will notice, right?。
And so just -- you owe it to yourself now to take an honest assessment。
and invite others into helping you maintain that balance.。
That's really good.。
One of my favorite verses, which you may think is funny,。
but it's from the Bible, is Proverbs 6.。
It says, "Go to the ant, O sluggard, and consider his ways and be wise."。
What's the author saying in that verse?。
Consider the ant who's productive.。
Like the ant knows when to work and when to rest.。
I think that that is such an important concept for us to grasp。
because we tend to go one way or the other.。
We'll burn the candle at both ends or we won't light the candle at all.。
And yet what you see is that God has set a precedent for us.。
He worked for six days.。
He accomplished a lot in six days.。
He was maximally productive.。
And then he rested on the seventh.。
I think a lot of us will see that God worked,。
and so I'm going to work, I'm going to put it out.。
And yet you just probably need to take some time and rest.。
You probably need to take a day, and you need to rest, you need to reflect,。
and you need to do something recreationally.。
And yet others of us--and I've seen this within the church。
over the last couple of years.。
We have idolized this idea of Sabbath.。
We've looked at it and we've said, "Man, I must have rest in my life,。
and so I'm going to really pull things back."。
And it's like, well, God took a day to do it,。
and so let's not take this thing further than it should.。
Let's be really well-balanced as we consider working and resting.。
We're coming here to the end of our time,。
and so what I want to do is I want to just turn--。
because one thing that we know--and we unpacked this again two weeks ago.。
We talked about, "Man, when we consider work on the job。
and what's God's purpose for it,"。
so often we're prone to just think, "I'm supposed to disciple。
the people that are around me.。
I'm supposed to invest and share the gospel with my coworkers."。
That's a big part of it.。
The other part of it, though, is what Genesis 2:15 would say,。
"We're supposed to have dominion and work the earth.。
We're supposed to take what's true of the garden.。
We're supposed to make it true of the rest of the world."。
We've spent a lot of time talking about that,。
but it is still true that there is a witnessing component。
to being on the job.。
And so I'm just going to ask the simplest of questions here,。
and I'd love for you all to speak to it.。
What does it look like to represent Jesus on the job?。
As you look back at your corporate experience,。
how did you all do it in those environments?。
For me, it was a lot more about the small moments。
than I think the little moments.。
And what I mean by that, I think--the big moments, excuse me.。
So I think the big moments come in that you think of a time。
where you shared the gospel or you said no to when your boss。
was asking you to do something immoral.。
Those are important, big, dramatic moments of sharing the gospel.。
Absolutely important.。
But the little moments, I think the concept there of being set apart,。
Colossians 3:12, that you're God's chosen people set apart。
and sanctified for his purpose.。
How can you be set apart in small things?。
Things like your tone of voice, your tone when you communicate.。
Are you being passive aggressive?。
Gossip, which I think in the workplace a lot of times we say,。
"I just seen an event about my boss."。
No, that's gossip.。
So being set apart there, right?。
Are you taking part in a culture of crude joking, of drinking?。
How can you be set apart in those?。
And then taking an opportunity when people ask you。
why you don't partake or why you're set apart。
to relate it back to your faith.。
So for me, it's often been about the small things.。
When people ask me why I'm not excessively drinking at a happy hour,。
well, it's because I'm a person of faith.。
Can I tell you about that, right?。
So capitalize on those small moments.。
Yeah, and I think the great thing about faith and work。
is you get to see most of those people consistently, right?。
So it's not one conversation.。
It's more about a lifestyle.。
And I think what I've learned is, one,。
you want to be authentic about your faith.。
Just be authentic about it.。
And when people know that about you and you're trying to live it out,。
there will be a respect that comes from that.。
So that's part of it.。
Second, you just want to share what God's doing in your life。
because it's your story.。
Hey, let me tell you what God's doing in my life.。
And that is a way of pulling them in。
so that they can be a witness of how God is at work in you.。
And then I think the third thing is。
a lot of times when we share the gospel with somebody,。
they'll say something like, "Oh, that's really interesting.。
I'm really glad that works for you."。
And what I would say is that's not the end of the process.。
That's the start of the process.。
Because your job, once you have that conversation,。
is you want to love that person in such a way。
that when something goes wrong in their life,。
you're the very first person they call.。
And that just means you love them, you care about them,。
you encourage them.。
And look, life is difficult.。
Sooner or later for all of us, things go wrong。
and people begin to question.。
And you want them to call you.。
You know, 'cause that's the path into a life of faith.。
- I had a professional mentor tell me one time。
that on the job, you bless people。
as far as they will let you bless them.。
Because at some point,。
they are going to come looking for your blessing.。
Like there is something deeply infectious。
about the gospel,。
the way it impacts the lives of God's people.。
It leads us to be kind when other people are not kind.。
It leads us to work hard when everyone else is phoning it in.。
It leads us to be patient when no one else has patience。
for that person or that situation.。
It causes us to speak words of wisdom。
whenever a problem arises and no one else has a solution.。
The impact of walking with God。
will make you a better employee.。
And here's the thing, people love to work alongside,。
advance, and promote good employees.。
But that's not why we do it.。
We do it because we have a Savior。
that has gone above and beyond.。
He has worked to a great degree。
to satisfy that which we could not satisfy ourselves.。
John, Caitlin, thank you so much.。
You are a great job of helping.。
Big thanks to John and Caitlin.。
Thank you all so much.。
Thank you guys.。
You know, over the course of this evening,。
we really took the questions that you asked。
and we boiled them down to three different categories.。
And the categories that they boiled down to。
were really purpose, balance, and witness on the job.。
Like that's the broad strokes of everything that y'all asked.。
We didn't get to every single question,。
but that's really at the heart of you。
and the people sitting alongside of you。
is this question of, man, what does it look like for me。
to have purpose on the job?。
How do I find balance between working really well。
while also still being healthy,。
not succumbing to something toxic or difficult or dangerous?。
And then how is it that I can witness。
and be faithful to the faith that I carry,。
that I claim?。
I stake my eternity on Jesus,。
so how then do I stake my job on Him as well?。
These are the questions y'all have been asking.。
Here's what I would end our time with by just reminding you.。
Your purpose at work,。
it's secured and it's solidified。
when you consider Christ's purpose in life.。
That His purpose was to seek you out。
when you were unworthy of being sought.。
Like He was willing to go the distance to get to you。
when everything around Him said, "It's not worth it.。
"They're not worth it."。
His purpose was even still,。
"I want them to be with me where I am."。
As you think about balance,。
Jesus endured the most toxic of environments.。
He stepped into a world that was not habitable。
for a perfect loving God,。
and yet He in His perfection came to a people。
that were totally imperfect,。
that He might restore to you。
a balanced relationship with God Himself.。
How did He do it?。
He did it by embracing all of our imperfection.。
He lived the life we couldn't.。
You could not be perfect,。
and so He came and He was perfect in your place.。
He absorbed the full weight of your consequence,。
your sin, in dying the death you deserved upon the cross.。
And then He rose forth from the grave,。
and He witnesses to the watching world。
the same way you should witness at your watching work,。
that He is alive,。
that He didn't just die and stay dead,。
but He rose forth from the grave,。
and He has made not just eternity out there forever。
and in the future available to any。
that would place their faith in God,。
but purpose and relationship and meaning.。
It's available right here, right now, even this evening,。
if only you would place your faith in Him.。
Do you know Him?。
Before you can work well,。
you've got to work things out with Him.。
He's come that you might work those things through tonight.。
Let me pray for us.。
God, we love you.。
So grateful for an evening where, God,。
we can just take the truth of your word,。
and we can apply it right to our lives.。
Every person in here, God, is wrapped up in a work situation.。
And yet, God, though this is true for all of us,。
I know there's a broad spectrum of circumstance in here。
that some of us love our jobs,。
and others of us hate our job,。
and some of us are,。
we're stuck in the mundanity of our career,。
and others of us have deep meaning in the things we do.。
God, there is a broad array of experience here in this room,。
and yet, God, you have come to declare。
there is purpose in what you do.。
I've come to give you balance while you work there,。
and I've also called you to be a witness。
to save the world the same way I have saved you.。
God, would you work amongst my friends here?。
Would you lead us, Lord, to know you more?。
And would we make a difference in our workplaces。
for your glory and the good of others?。
It's in Christ, and we pray.。
