(upbeat music)。
- All right, well, welcome friends in the room,。
friends in Fort Worth, friends in Houston,。
El Paso, Tulsa, Cedar Springs, wherever you are, tuning in.。
We are continuing this series, Vice and Virtue.。
I'm gonna start with a story that'll give us。
some direction for where we're going.。
A few years ago, at something we call staff prayer,。
once a week, our staff at Watermark,。
couple hundred of us get together and meet Tuesdays,。
and it's usually almost exclusively staff,。
and every once in a while, someone who has a relationship。
with a member on staff will get invited to be a part of it.。
And so, there was a guy who was a missionary in Russia,。
who had been there for the last eight years,。
he was formerly in Dallas, had some connections。
and relationships with people on our staff,。
and he was back visiting, and so he came。
and he joined us for staff prayer.。
And so, we're sitting around in this circle,。
and he's sharing about what God is up to in Russia,。
and then there was a chance for just kind of like。
a conversation that took place with him,。
and one person asked him, hey, you haven't been here。
in eight years in Dallas, what has changed?。
And I'll never forget his answer,。
'cause he like immediately had an answer.。
He said, oh, all the storage units,。
or all the storage facilities.。
And our response was a lot like your response.。
All the storage facilities?。
What are you talking about?。
All the storage?。
Yeah, all the storage facilities, they're everywhere.。
These little like facilities where you store stuff。
and where you put your stuff, like they're popping up,。
they're exploding, and we all, almost as a staff,。
everyone that was there that day,。
we would laugh about it now, 'cause we all。
had the same experience.。
What are you talking about?。
And then we left and we would go drive around,。
and then it was like, there are storage units。
everywhere around here.。
This is crazy.。
I mean, you drive up 75, 635, I'm certain it's the same。
in Fort Worth and in Houston, and there really are.。
As he just said, man, Americans have so much stuff。
that they are running out of places to even put it。
in their house.。
Most people are concerned about,。
will we even be able to have a house?。
We are concerned about, are we gonna have a house。
for our stuff to put in?。
And really, it's not just something where I'm inviting you。
to, hey, now you'll drive around and see it,。
though now you will.。
It is a, as I looked into that idea this week。
or was studying this week, it's crazy。
how many storage unit facilities we have in America.。
Like if there was a gold medal sport called hoarding,。
America is gonna win first, second, and third every time.。
Like here's what I mean by that.。
There are 58,000 storage unit facilities in America.。
Not storage units, not like, oh, one little box counts。
as one, facilities or different locations for these places.。
58,000, that is more than McDonald's,。
number of McDonald's, Starbucks, Walmarts, Walgreens,。
CVS, and 7-Eleven combined.。
In other words, it's like, man, this is Starbucks。
in every corner.。
There is 10 times as many storage unit facilities,。
look it up, as there are Starbucks, not right now,。
but look it up.。
I mean, if you combine all of those, Walmart, 7-Eleven,。
Walgreens, CVS, Starbucks, McDonald's,。
those golden arches you see everywhere,。
they pale in comparison to the number,。
there's almost four times as many storage unit facilities.。
It's crazy.。
In all of Europe, this is going to where I promise,。
in all of Europe, if you were to guess,。
how many storage unit facilities, like, you know,。
Europe's really big, it's bigger than America.。
How many do they have over there?。
America has 58,000, Europe has 2,400 total.。
I mean, it is an American phenomenon.。
We are the world-class best in sport at accumulating stuff,。
stuff, stuff.。
And the reason I start there is because we live in a culture。
that we're so inoculated to this idea。
that it's almost hard for us to believe。
that we are really pursuing more and more stuff.。
And the Bible has a name for a group of people。
who pursue accumulating more money and more wealth,。
greedy.。
Tonight, we're gonna continue the series Vice and Virtue。
and look at what Jesus says about the topic of greed,。
vice and virtue is essentially where each week。
we've been taking a cultural vice,。
so laziness, entitlement, pride,。
and covering it with a biblical virtue to replace it with.。
And everyone who came in the room tonight,。
here's the hard thing about greed,。
'cause it's gonna be almost impossible for me。
to convince any of us that we struggle with greed,。
'cause you're like, I'm not greedy.。
I mean, greedy is like the top billionaires,。
1% out there, taken from everybody else.。
They've got a basement full of coins。
that they're just swimming in at night,。
and that's the greedy people.。
That's not me.。
And what we're gonna see is Jesus says。
that greed has nothing to do with how much you have。
and everything to do with your heart.。
And it's complicated by the fact that greed。
really is one of those things that hides,。
it's hard to see in the mirror,。
because it hides behind kind of other things。
or other good things, we would say.。
Oftentimes, people who are greedy say things like,。
I'm not greedy, I'm just cautious, okay?。
I'm a saver.。
Or, hey, I'm not greedy, which is, by greed,。
I just mean the desire, the preoccupation。
with accumulating wealth or stuff.。
They'll say things like, dude, I'm not greedy.。
It's like, I was raised poor.。
I am never going back there.。
I'm gonna make it in life, I'm gonna get more money,。
and I'm gonna set myself up and be successful.。
Or it'll hide behind anxiety.。
Or it'll hide behind just like, I'm not greedy,。
I just appreciate the finer things in life, okay?。
And it is almost impossible to see in the mirror,。
but the effects that it has are really much easier to see.。
I mean, people will sacrifice their family。
on the altar of greed.。
They'll sacrifice their marriage.。
And it just looks like working a job。
and pursuing, climbing the corporate ladder,。
they'll sacrifice relationships with their children.。
They sacrifice their health.。
People commit suicide over greed.。
I mean, it is clear, it is causing a wave of destruction.。
And if any people on the planet, and maybe in history,。
are in danger of what Jesus says is an epidemic of the heart。
that will turn you away from God,。
it's gotta be the richest people。
in the history of the world, which is you and me,。
as Americans.。
And so tonight, we're gonna explore what Jesus says。
about really what is the source of greed。
and what greed is going to lead to,。
and what are the side effects,。
one of the side effects that Jesus points to,。
and where the solution for greed is.。
So we're gonna be in Luke chapter 12.。
If you have a Bible, you can flip over to Luke chapter 12.。
If you don't, it'll be up on the screens.。
Luke chapter 12, we'll start in verse 13.。
And let me say one last preface before we dive in.。
Money and church is weird.。
Can we all agree?。
I mean, it just is.。
I mean, if you're here, and maybe you invited a friend。
for the first time, you're like, oh my gosh, really?。
I chose the money night?。
My friend finally came with me,。
and you guys are gonna talk about money?。
'Cause people associate like, oh, the church,。
for whatever reason, God always needs my money.。
We don't ever pass a plate here, we never have,。
we don't want your money.。
And what's challenging as a preacher or a pastor。
is if I talked about money as much as Jesus。
talked about money, no one would come.。
Jesus talked about money, you may not know this,。
more than heaven and hell combined.。
I mean, think about that.。
It was in his top list.。
He talked about money four times。
as much as he talked about prayer.。
Prayer's a big deal, prayer's important.。
Jesus was like, yeah, let's hit money again.。
'Cause he knew there's something about it。
where unlike nothing else almost,。
it fights for your heart and it fights for my heart.。
And it can build this like, man,。
I find security and identity in money.。
And so he hits it head on over and over and over again.。
And so we're gonna hear from him。
on one of the dangers of it, and we'll start in verse 13.。
What's going on in Luke chapter 12。
is there's this big crowd that's gathered around Jesus.。
If you look in verse one of chapter 12,。
a few verses before, it essentially says。
thousands of people are gathering around,。
and one of them asks a question of Jesus,。
and it leads to our teaching tonight.。
So here we go, verse 13.。
Someone in the crowd said to him, that's Jesus,。
"Teacher, tell my brother to divide。
"the inheritance with me."。
So in this culture, brothers would split the inheritance.。
It was exclusively went to the brothers。
because it was assumed that a sister or a daughter。
would marry into another family。
and receive the inheritance kind of of that brother。
or son, and so the sons were to divide the inheritance.。
Apparently someone's dad had died,。
and the older brother was not dividing it。
according to his younger brother fairly.。
Jesus says this, "Man, who appointed me judge。
"or arbiter between you?"。
Then he said to them, "Watch out.。
"Be on guard against all kinds of greed."。
He says emphatically, hey, you need to be on guard.。
It's almost like be careful.。
Everyone be on alert and watch out for greed.。
Why would you have to have such alert?。
Because Jesus knew that greed is one of those things。
that it's so subtle, it's not like other sins.。
It's difficult to see.。
It's not like adultery where you're like,。
I'm not sure, am I committing adultery?。
I'm not sure, that it's difficult to see.。
No one ever comes down, I've never had this conversation。
where somebody comes down front afterwards,。
happens every week, someone will come down front。
and wanna talk about something going on。
that they're walking through their life。
or a struggle that they're having.。
Often they'll be like, hey, can I just pull you aside?。
Can we talk just for a second?。
And never once has anyone ever pulled me aside。
and been like, hey, I just feel like I'm,。
is this okay to talk?。
I feel like I'm struggling with greed.。
And like it never happens.。
People will pull aside and hey, I'm struggling with porn,。
I'm struggling with pot, I'm struggling with insert,。
whatever, but it's almost a sin。
that we really don't even know how to feel guilty about it。
or how to identify it, and Jesus is about to tell us.。
But the second thing he also points to,。
if you notice, is that he says, look,。
be on guard against all kinds of greed.。
Like there's more than one type of greed, Jesus?。
And he's gonna tell us what that is.。
For life does not consist in the abundance of possessions.。
Verse 16, and then he told them this parable.。
The ground of a certain rich man。
yielded an abundant harvest.。
He thought to himself, what shall I do?。
I have no place to store my crops.。
Then he said, this is what I'll do.。
I will tear down my barns and I will build bigger ones。
and there I will store my surplus grain.。
And I'll say to myself, you have plenty of grain。
laid up for many years.。
Take life easy, eat, drink, and be merry.。
Now if the story ended right there, if we hit pause,。
if you're sitting out in the audience,。
so basically Jesus says, hey, let me tell you a story.。
We're gonna talk about greed.。
There's a guy, rich man.。
Rich man had this crop, or he had a harvest,。
and the crop, I mean, it was incredible.。
This very plentiful harvest, so much so。
that the guy was like, dude, I can retire early.。
I mean, I just made it.。
I've got more than enough to live for the rest of my life,。
so you know what I'll do?。
I need to find a place to put it,。
so I'm gonna tear down my barns, build bigger ones,。
and kick my feet up and take it easy。
for the rest of my life.。
I mean, I have arrived.。
God just blessed me with this incredible crop and harvest.。
And if the story ended there, I mean,。
what do you think his audience is thinking at this point?。
I mean, they're thinking, what would you think。
if you're sitting in an audience and someone's like,。
okay, let me tell you about, there's a rich man.。
He's a billionaire, and all of a sudden,。
his stocks all explode, and God blesses his life,。
and he's millions and millions.。
He never has to work ever again.。
They're thinking what you're thinking.。
Gotta be nice.。
Oh, man, I would love to be that guy.。
That's someone to look up to.。
Maybe he's a role model.。
Is this a parable on retirement?。
And Jesus takes the story in a very different direction.。
Here's what he says next.。
But God said to him, so he's making this story up,。
you fool, this very night,。
your life will be demanded from you.。
Then who will get what you have prepared for yourself?。
This is how it will be with whoever stores up things。
for themselves, but is not rich towards God.。
This is the only person or only time in the Bible。
that God calls someone a fool.。
And Jesus looks and he says that the person。
who has really essentially lived the American dream。
has lived a nightmare according to God.。
If you live and spend your entire life like this man,。
pursuing only what is in this life,。
or pursuing being rich only towards yourself。
and not towards God, by being rich towards God,。
Jesus says, or Jesus would elaborate on later,。
is essentially, there's two ways to be rich towards God.。
Give towards the furthering of God's mission,。
which is the ministry of Christ,。
giving out to the world, or giving to the poor.。
He says if you're not rich in that way。
and you spend your whole life just accumulating stuff。
for yourself, you are a fool.。
And he gives us really the first indication。
or the first look at what greed is and the source of greed.。
The source of greed, if you take notes,。
you ran to the source of greed is the consumption assumption.。
Now what does that mean?。
The source of greed is the consumption assumption.。
Here's what the consumption assumption is,。
is that the idea that assumes everything I earn。
is mine to consume.。
The assumption consumption, what's your junction,。
is the idea that everything, it just assumes。
that hey, everything I earn is mine to consume.。
A person who's greedy, Jesus would say,。
is someone who looks at everything that they made last week,。
everything they made last month,。
everything that they have in general,。
and they're like, dude, I work hard, I hate my job,。
I sit there all day and I punch in numbers.。
I earned it and I can spend this however I want to.。
He says that man's a fool when he's greedy.。
Greed, Jesus would say,。
has nothing to do with how much you have.。
I mean, there's a myth that hey, only the richest people。
are greedy, and for only rich people are greedy,。
Jesus would say, no, there's rich people。
who are very not greedy,。
and there's poor people who are greedy.。
You can make $25,000 and be greedy,。
and make a million dollars and not be.。
And the inverse is true.。
Greed has nothing to do with how much you have.。
It has everything to do with what you do。
with what you have.。
And Jesus would say, if you're in this room,。
if you're listening, and you have bought。
the assumption consumption, you assume。
that everything you have has been given to you。
and he says, you are greedy.。
You have bought the lie and you have greed in your heart.。
The idea that everything I have, or that assumes。
everything that I have, everything I've earned is mine.。
God has given for me to consume.。
He says, you are a fool.。
And Jesus says, if you live your life this way,。
where you only pursue things in this life,。
at the end of your life, you will be like this man.。
Will you have, he says, this will be the way it is。
for whoever stores up things for themselves。
and is not rich towards God.。
He says, the truth of this, that this is that。
at the end of your life, if you live this way,。
you will experience what he experienced,。
total loss, you lose everything.。
If at the end of this life, all that you've ever。
spent your life devoting is accumulating。
and accumulating stuff, at the end of this life,。
you lose everything, total, it's kinda like,。
yeah, duh, at the end of this life,。
if all you have to show is what you did in this life,。
you never are rich towards God,。
you never give towards others,。
you have experienced total loss.。
Steve Jobs, when Steve Jobs died,。
he left the exact same amount as everyone else。
who died any time around him.。
Everyone else who died that same day,。
everyone else who died around him, which is everything.。
And Jesus says, if you spend this life。
pursuing, getting stuff in this life, you're a fool,。
if you do that exclusively.。
It's almost like, and here's why I think this is so crucial,。
is in America, there's like this cultural message。
that goes out that almost can convince us。
that the goal of life, or what it looks like to win,。
is like playing the game of Monopoly.。
Like, you know how there's multiple types of games,。
when you play games, and certain games are all about,。
hey, how much can you acquire?。
The game of Monopoly, the game of Risk,。
it's about like, hey, spending the game,。
the way you win the game, or at the end of the game,。
the biggest winner is the one who's accumulated。
and acquired the most stuff.。
Then there's other types of games,。
where the goal of the game, or the objective,。
is not to acquire the most stuff,。
and go around twice, and pass go,。
the objective of the game is to get rid。
of whatever cards, or whatever tokens that you have,。
and whoever has given away the most at the end of the game。
is the one who wins, or whoever is holding onto the most。
is the one who loses.。
Like, we all know these games, Uno, Speed, BS, Go Fish,。
insert whatever you want in the blank,。
where the objective of the game,。
in other words, Uno, if you're playing Uno,。
does anyone play Uno anymore?。
If you're playing Uno,。
it's like you wanna get rid of your cards,。
you're not like, oh, I'm taking these,。
and I'm taking these, and I'm taking,。
if you do that, you're like, yeah, you're losing,。
you don't understand the game,。
the objective is, hey, I wanna get rid。
of the cards that I have.。
Jesus says the Christian life is a whole lot more like Uno。
than it is Monopoly, and if you spend your life,。
and I spend my life just chasing, accumulating stuff,。
the goal is to get rid of it.。
If you are holding things at the end of this life,。
it's just wasted potential, he would say.。
And he looked at this man, and he said, you're a fool.。
And then he goes from the source of greed,。
which is bought the lie that everything。
that God has given me is mine,。
like in the last month,。
when you look at the way that you've used。
everything that God has given you, your income,。
whatever your story is, whatever he's put in your hands,。
have you used it exclusively for yourself,。
or have you been rich towards God?。
If you haven't, he would say, there's a good chance。
you're greedy, and it's hard to see,。
but that's what it looks like.。
And then he goes to what greedy leads to,。
or greediness leads to in the next passage.。
Here's what he says.。
Then Jesus said to his disciples,。
so then he turns from the crowd,。
where he's telling the story,。
and then he just looks at his 12 boys.。
"Therefore I tell you, do not worry about your life.。
"What you will eat, or about your body,。
"what you will wear, for life is more than food,。
"and body more than clothes.。
"Consider the ravens.。
"They do not sow or reap.。
"They have no storeroom or barn, and yet God feeds them.。
"Are you not much more valuable than birds?。
"Who of you, by worrying, can add a single hour。
"to your life?。
"Since you cannot do this very little thing,。
"why do you worry about the rest?。
"Consider the wildflowers and how they grow.。
"They don't labor or spin, yet I tell you,。
"not even Solomon in all of his splendor。
"was dressed like one of these.。
"If that's how God clothes the grass of the field,。
"which is here today, and tomorrow is thrown in the fire,。
"how much more will he clothe you,。
"oh you of little faith?。
"And do not set your heart on what you will eat,。
"or drink, or don't worry about it.。
"For the pagan world runs after all such things,。
"and your father knows that you need them,。
"but seek his kingdom first,。
"and these things will all be given to you as well."。
It almost seems like, man,。
did Jesus just change the subject on us?。
And it's clear that he doesn't,。
if you read back through the text.。
He goes from greed, and the idea of,。
here's what greediness looks like,。
here's the source, it's the consumption assumption,。
hey, whatever I have is mine to consume,。
and he says, "Therefore, do not worry about your life."。
He immediately draws a connection。
between the idea of greed and worry,。
which honestly makes sense when you think about it,。
because there is a connection between greed and worry.。
Greed is the idea that I'm worried,。
hey man, I may not have enough.。
Worry, especially financial worry,。
is the idea that I'm worried I will not have enough.。
And Jesus says, "I just want to invite you to a place。
"where you could experience,。
"in seeking my kingdom first,。
"freedom from financial worry."。
I want you to know that there is a relationship。
between the greed that you have and between worry,。
and I want you to invite,。
or I want to invite you to a place。
where you can experience freedom from financial worry.。
'Cause here's what I know about you,。
'cause I know it about me,。
and I know it really, just 'cause study after study shows it,。
one of the top things that people in general。
are worried about is money.。
Money and future spouse would probably be the two things。
that inside of this room all of us are worried about,。
or those of us who aren't married are worried about.。
And Jesus says, "Hey, I just want you to know,。
"when it comes to the topic of greed,。
"there's a freedom from greed and a freedom from worry。
"that you can experience if you will learn。
"to put or prioritize my kingdom first,。
"my kingdom above your kingdom."。
And he looked out into an audience。
that unlike the worries that we have,。
was not worried about our wants,。
which is really as Americans,。
that's kind of what we worry about.。
Like, "Hey, will I get to upgrade my phone?。
"And can I get a better car?。
"And where am I gonna live someday?。
"And my kids go to college?"。
We don't worry about like,。
"I don't know if I'm gonna get a meal later today.。
"I don't know if there's gonna be water for me.。
"I don't know where I'm gonna sleep tonight."。
That may be the case for very few of us。
inside of the room, but by and large,。
most of us aren't like,。
"Gosh, I'm just storing up those Arca bottles。
"'cause I'm worried I'm never gonna have a drink again."。
Most of us worry about the wants we have.。
He looks into an audience that's worried about like,。
"Jesus, our clothes are wearing out."。
And he says, "There is a place。
"that God wants to bring you to,。
"wherein, seeking his kingdom first,。
"you will experience freedom from worry."。
Freedom from worry.。
The side effect of greed is anxiety.。
The second point that we have tonight。
that Jesus leads us to in his teachings。
is that there's a side effect that comes from greed,。
and it is anxiety.。
And here's how I think, generally speaking,。
like anxiety plays out for most of us。
inside of our life.。
Is for those of us who are financially anxious,。
because it is related to our wants,。
and I think there's legitimately people。
who are financially anxious inside of the room,。
it generally happens, here's like the road。
that we experience anxiety on,。
is that you make a certain amount of money,。
you make $40,000, you make $80,000,。
you make 50,000, whatever it is,。
and regardless of kinda how much you make,。
the line that you draw for your spending。
is right up, and sometimes even right above,。
whatever salary that you make, or whatever I make.。
I mean, it just goes without saying,。
the average American kinda does this,。
where hey, if I make 50,000,。
I end up spending almost exactly up to $50,000.。
And so, of course I have anxiety,。
because it's an anxiety-filled place。
to live at the limit of my money.。
And Jesus says, if you allow greed,。
or excessive consumption, because again,。
I think there's resistance to being like,。
dude, I'm not greedy.。
If you are someone who is spending。
every single dollar that you have。
that's coming into your hands,。
you are someone that Jesus would say。
is being driven by excessive consumption,。
and of course you're gonna experience anxiety.。
And if you will learn to seek my kingdom first,。
you will have less anxiety.。
And I think, let's just talk real.。
Inside of the room right now,。
the emotional response to this is,。
dude, are you kidding me?。
We're talking about money right now,。
and you're telling me I need to put God first,。
and be rich towards God, and give towards his kingdom,。
and seek his kingdom first,。
and I am barely making it.。
That sounds great for you up there, preacher boy,。
but pretty much all this is going in this year,。
and out this year, and I'm like,。
really, you got the God wants my money again,。
and the church, what?。
This place feels pretty nice, and I'm barely making it.。
And so I've got like a car lease that I have,。
I have an apartment that I have to pay for,。
I have bills that I have to pay,。
and I'm like, I'm drowning over here,。
and you're telling me that in the midst of everything。
that I have on my expenditures,。
I'm supposed to somehow be like,。
man, prioritize God first, and make sure that you,。
when it comes to your money,。
you're spending towards his kingdom, above and beyond.。
That sounds amazing, but there's only one problem.。
I can't afford it.。
And so if you will just talk to God,。
or maybe God, you can just hear me now,。
and you'll give me more money,。
I would love to be generous towards you and to your kingdom.。
I would love to give you money,。
and seek your kingdom first, and prioritize it above mine,。
but right now, I just can't do it,。
because I don't have enough money.。
And Jesus would say, the problem is,。
and you're not gonna believe me,。
that it's not a lack of money.。
It's not that you need more money.。
It's that you have to put his kingdom first.。
And the truth and reality, even study after study shows,。
if you were to get more money,。
you're like, hey, I make 50 grand.。
If I made 70 grand, I would love to be generous towards God。
and put his kingdom first.。
Study after study shows that whenever someone。
goes from 50 to 70, their lifestyle just moves up with it.。
It's almost like this.。
Like, here would be the illustration。
that may help bring some clarity to it.。
Whenever it comes to, like, our spending,。
let's say this is our income.。
So whatever your income is, if it's $20,000, $50,000,。
let's say it's $30,000.。
Generally speaking, when it comes to what's in,。
what we're using our income towards,。
and if we have, over here, it's things for ourself.。
This would be your rent.。
This would be your cell phone.。
This would be a combination kind of of needs,。
and of, you know, let's just be honest, wants.。
This is like, hey, I, you know, have a car.。
I have insurance to pay for.。
This is a, I got in a wreck last week,。
and I just have all these different things。
that I'm mounting up, and I'm trying to pay for,。
and this is my Netflix subscription.。
Let's just insert any of those things。
that don't fill in giving towards God and His kingdom.。
And so really, when it comes to our income,。
the reality is most of us feel like,。
dude, I'm doing everything I can,。
and it's overflowing right now.。
Like, I'm not just drowning in my own income.。
I'm reaching into the future.。
I'm not just drowning in trying to make ends meet。
with the income that I have.。
Like, I'm having, I have $3,000 in credit card debt.。
I don't have enough, and you're coming over here,。
and if this represents God, and you're like,。
dude, you should really try to like jam those in there。
a little bit more.。
It's just not gonna happen, okay?。
And what Jesus is saying is that if you will learn。
to prioritize my kingdom first, what do I mean by that?。
Do I just mean, hey, if you will tithe。
and have an automatic withdrawal,。
then all of your money problems are gonna go away?。
No, if you will learn how to prioritize my kingdom first,。
it's going to shape everything that you put,。
or every other part of the income that you use.。
So whenever your life posture is,。
hey, God, at the end of the day,。
my life is here to seek your kingdom first, not my kingdom.。
My life, my money, everything is for your kingdom.。
Jesus says when you begin to live that way,。
begin to think that way, begin to use your money that way,。
something begins to change,。
and it will then become a filter。
that the posture of your life and your heart,。
'cause you're like, I'm here,。
and again, I'm not saying tithe,。
and I'm not saying, hey, if you give,。
all your money problems are gonna away.。
What I'm saying is Jesus is saying。
if you begin to seek my kingdom first,。
you will have less anxiety。
because you will not spend all the way up to the limit.。
And again, I'm not saying if you tithe,。
you won't spend all the way to the limit.。
There's plenty of people who tithe。
who are terrible with money。
and max out their credit cards every single month.。
People who begin to say, God, everything I have is yours.。
And so I'm seeing through the filter of your kingdom come.。
I'm seeking your kingdom with my life.。
And so every decision as it relates。
to what purse I'm gonna buy,。
what car I'm gonna drive, where I'm gonna live,。
everything I'm gonna be,。
everything's gonna be touched and impacted。
by the fact that above everything else,。
I'm here to seek your kingdom.。
And that may look like you giving $1 a million dollars.。
I don't know what that's gonna look like,。
but if you can come to a place。
where you truly, Jesus says, do that,。
you'll have less anxiety, you'll have less worry,。
you'll have more money and more margin,。
and you will experience freedom from greed.。
Or you can live like everyone else does。
and you will max yourself out。
and you live in a culture。
that is trying to get you to max out.。
I mean, think about the credit card industry。
where they're like, hey, let's reach into June。
and get it on loan and you can use the money.。
You're good for it, right?。
And you'll be in golden handcuffs until you pay it off.。
And Jesus is saying, I want you to be at a place。
where you put my kingdom first,。
you put the rocks of being rich towards God in,。
and everything else will be impacted。
in your life and in mine.。
And if not, you will experience the side effect of greed,。
that excessive desire for more, which is anxiety.。
Anxiety.。
He then goes into really the clearest solution。
as it relates to greed in verse 32.。
Do not be afraid, little flock.。
Oh, it's just funny.。
(laughing)。
What are we, pastor?。
For your father has been pleased to give you the kingdom.。
So he says, seek first his kingdom。
and then know as you do so, don't be afraid.。
And here's what that looks like.。
So sell your possessions, give them to the poor,。
provide for yourselves purses or money。
for yourselves that will not wear out,。
treasure in heaven that will never fail,。
where no thief comes near and no moth destroys.。
For wherever your treasure is,。
there your heart will be also.。
Jesus says that greed ultimately can be resolved。
and is resolved, there is a solution for it.。
But it comes whenever you begin to generously give。
towards God's kingdom, something happens in your heart.。
Your heart begins to shift.。
He just said, hey, wherever your treasure is,。
your heart's gonna be there also.。
We live in a culture that says,。
put your money where your mouth is.。
Jesus says, you will put your money where your heart is.。
And your heart will shift.。
There's something where greed begins to be remedied。
and a solution is given for greed。
whenever you begin to give and be rich towards God.。
Our third idea from this text。
is the solution to greed is storing in eternity.。
Jesus just said, hey, look, I'm telling you,。
the God who is there in heaven。
wants to give to anyone who will trust him.。
Anyone who's willing to invest in his kingdom,。
he wants to generously give it to you, little flock.。
And so invest, sell your stuff, give it to the poor,。
give towards God's kingdom。
and store up for yourselves treasure that will never fade,。
that will never wear out.。
It's the safest place you can use and invest。
any money that you have, he says to his crowd.。
And he would say to you and he would say to me.。
Essentially, Jesus is given like insider trading information。
and this life, you go to jail for it.。
Jesus is saying, and the next, it's A-okay。
and I'm telling you, you want to go all in with your money.。
Here's why I think most of us don't.。
Most of us don't really like radically give。
or have a posture of like, dude, whatever I have,。
even if I don't have very much right now,。
I made $1,000 this month, but I really wanna make sure。
that I'm investing something in eternity.。
At the end of the day, the reason why we don't。
is not because we don't have enough money.。
And that's kind of like the felt need。
or the smoke screen we hide behind.。
The reason why we don't is faith.。
I mean, that's the reason why I don't.。
Like if I really believe like Jesus,。
anything you tell me, like any dollar that I give,。
anything that I sacrifice for your kingdom,。
there's gonna be an eternal reward。
that awaits me forever and ever.。
I mean, if I really, if that really gripped。
and I was without any doubt convinced of it,。
how would that change the way that I spend?。
I'm a pastor.。
And Jesus says, man, the moment you,。
the more you begin to believe that,。
the more it's gonna change and shape。
because if you will come to really grasping that,。
you will understand that it is the safest place。
that you can put your money.。
Here's why I know that it's a moment of faith.。
I mean, think about, let me use a dumb illustration.。
So most likely if you're in this room,。
you've heard about Bitcoin.。
Bitcoin, anyone know what Bitcoin is?。
Okay, Bitcoin, apparently I'm the only one.。
So let me educate everybody.。
Bitcoin apparently is like this sort of cryptocurrency。
that sounds like it's out of Star Wars。
and it's some sort of, I don't even fully grasp it,。
I won't even attempt to because somebody's。
gonna come up after and be like,。
actually, sure, there's actually a statistical analysis.。
Anyways, okay, so Bitcoin is somehow this cryptocurrency。
or people think, oh man, this could be a currency。
of the future, it's a one world currency.。
I don't personally own any Bitcoin,。
this is not a sponsorship ploy.。
It is this money or sense of currency。
that some people think, oh man, this is the future,。
you should invest in this, it's gonna explode.。
It's the future of money.。
If I really believed or if you really believed,。
if someone came from the future and they said,。
they came and they were like, dude, hey,。
I'm from the future, I'm the future you,。
I need to talk to you about Bitcoin。
in a very short amount of time,。
all American money will be worthless.。
Literally, it'll just be what it is,。
little green pieces of paper with dead presidents on it.。
No one will use it for anything.。
Bitcoin is the future.。
You want to go all in right now on Bitcoin.。
I'm telling you, I'm promising you,。
if you really were like, man, this guy's wearing。
a shiny suit, he's from the future, I guess,。
and I really think that this is gonna happen,。
Bitcoin is gonna be the future if you really,。
like you were convinced of it, follow me,。
what would you do?。
You'd go all in with Bitcoin.。
I mean, if you were convinced that like,。
all of the money in my bank account。
is gonna be like monopoly money.。
And Bitcoin is really, I mean, I should trade。
that stuff that is losing its value。
and not gonna be worth anything and go all in。
on what I know 'cause I have future information。
is going to be worth exponentially more.。
I mean, of course you would.。
You'd be like crazy if not.。
Jesus is saying that that is what's gonna happen.。
And right now, you need to eat, you need to live indoors,。
you need to have all those different needs,。
if you will, met, but there's gonna come a day。
much sooner than you and I think where everything。
that is passed through your hands will either be something。
that you stewarded for an eternal reward。
or it will be something you're just left holding。
in the end and lose and me too.。
And this is not a, man, the church here,。
we're gonna ask and pass a plate at the end。
'cause we need your money.。
God doesn't need your money, we don't need your money。
and not because like, we're like, dude,。
we got a vault back there, it's huge, it's unbelievable.。
I mean, we're, not because of that,。
because I wanna make sure inside of this room,。
nobody hides behind the smoke screen of thinking,。
oh my gosh, the church just wants my money again。
and you use that to talk yourself out。
of the best financial advice you could receive,。
which is from Jesus saying, invest in my kingdom.。
Every other kingdom that you invest in is fading away.。
It will not last.。
The solution for greed is investing,。
it's storing up in eternity.。
So here's what I'm gonna press.。
If you are a member of a church, not this church,。
any church, if you are a member, you're all in,。
I'm not talking to non-believers,。
I'm not talking to people who are like, you know,。
still trying to figure out the faith thing。
or just, you know, just starting to take steps。
in that direction, if you are a member of a church,。
you should be giving regularly somewhere to Christ's kingdom.。
You should be giving somewhere.。
If you, whatever home church you're at,。
I'm not telling you to give it here,。
if you go to another church, you should give to that church。
that all of us, if you're a follower of Christ。
and you're all in with Jesus,。
you should be connected to a local body。
and you should be contributing there。
or contributing to Christ's mission in some sense.。
So if you're like, can I give to a missionary?。
Sure, give to a missionary, give to anything。
that's gonna spread the mission of Christ。
or Jesus says, you can give directly to the poor.。
That you and I should be regularly contributing。
and giving towards God's kingdom.。
What do I mean by regularly giving towards God's kingdom?。
With regularity, you should be giving。
towards God's kingdom.。
That means every two weeks, every week,。
whatever that looks like, maybe it's annually,。
maybe it's quarterly, I don't know what,。
you know, how that would work for you.。
But I know that as I was preparing this week,。
I felt a check because I don't think。
that I've waived this banner hard enough。
for young adults here.。
And I felt like I was not putting in front of them。
the best investment advice that they could ever have。
because I was like, man, I just don't have much money,。
I don't wanna create insecurity and create people。
being like, oh, I guess church wants my money.。
And I needed to repent because it's not loving to you,。
it's not loving to anyone who claims the name of Jesus。
to say, look, there's an eternal reward.。
Anything that you give in this life,。
anything that you sacrifice will be something。
that forever and ever and ever,。
Christ is saying you'll be repaid a hundredfold.。
I mean, that's crazy.。
And for me to hide behind like, gosh,。
I just don't wanna give people the wrong impression。
is stupid and wrong on my part.。
And so you do with that whatever you want to.。
Jesus says, you invest in my kingdom,。
it's the only place that's safe.。
Bitcoin's not, the American dollar's not,。
whatever Apple stock, Bezos' stock,。
none of it is gonna last.。
The only kingdom that will last is mine.。
And so if you are a believer,。
I want to not challenge or encourage you or guilt you,。
I want to give you like the best advice you're gonna get.。
You should be investing in the only kingdom。
that lasts regularly.。
And so if you have a home church,。
I would incredibly encourage you,。
you should be investing in your home church.。
And Jesus says, you will never regret it.。
How much should I be investing?。
I think the answer is probably based on what I read,。
you tell me what you read,。
how much do you wanna have in heaven?。
I mean, at the end of the day,。
it's not, is it dollar for dollar?。
I don't think so, 'cause Jesus says with the widow's mite,。
hey, this woman who gave her one coin,。
she only had one, gave more than everybody else.。
And so there's something, clearly Jesus says like,。
dude, if you only have one coin,。
like you're in here like, I only have one coin,。
Jesus is like, dude, you should go all in,。
'cause you get 80 times more than any of the rest of us.。
And I'm so angry, I'm throwing my papers up here.。
(congregation laughing)。
You guys just talk amongst yourselves for a second here.。
This is gonna be really good.。
So you should be given regularly.。
(congregation laughing)。
Man, it's always terrible, you kill a moment, Shane.。
It's the worst.。
To some ministry or to some church.。
Should I give if I'm in debt?。
If I have student loans?。
Man, I don't know, you should have a community group。
around you who helps walk you through that.。
Where should I give?。
Towards Christ's kingdom, either a ministry or a church,。
or towards directly towards the poor.。
Jesus said it's ultimately an issue。
if you're unwilling to give,。
your hands are gripped around it,。
which I know a lot of you guys are gonna leave here tonight,。
you're not gonna do anything with what I'm saying.。
And you're gonna miss out.。
And you're gonna continue investing。
and building your own kingdom.。
And Jesus says, man, the problem ultimately。
is a matter of the heart.。
And the good news is, the more you give,。
the more greed's grip gets released.。
It's just something that happens.。
'Cause where your treasure is, your heart will follow.。
The source of greed is the idea of assuming。
that everything I have is mine to consume.。
What greed is gonna lead to in your life,。
and the reason why many of you are experiencing it right now。
is anxiety.。
And the solution for greed, the freedom from the grip。
of greed comes from giving, from storing up in eternity.。
Jesus would say.。
I'll close here.。
When I was younger, my family,。
I had cousins that had a condo in Seaside, in Destin,。
in Florida, and we would go.。
And I remember staying at the condo,。
and I was like seven years old, and you wake up,。
and there are all kinds of different fun things。
about the condo that I won't go into.。
But one thing that you do, I had three siblings,。
and so of course, if you are on a beach,。
and you're not ever really at the beach,。
you run down, if you're like, oh, I'm gonna run down.。
And you're like, oh, I'm gonna run down.。
And if you're not ever really at the beach,。
you run down, if you're a little kid,。
and you begin to do what?。
You begin to build sandcastles.。
And so you take whatever kind of tools and resources,。
and this cup, and this bucket, and these knives,。
and anything that was at the house, this plate,。
and you begin to build whatever sort of ultimate sandcastle。
that you can.。
You're building a moat around,。
and your imagination's going wild,。
so there's fireproof alligators in the moat。
that are driving around, and you're pouring water in,。
and you're looking at your siblings,。
and you're kicking over their tower,。
and you're just building it,。
and you spend the entire day building。
this incredible, elaborate sandcastle,。
this incredible thing, this home.。
And then what happens the next day is you go to sleep,。
and because to make a sandcastle,。
it's gotta be close somewhat to the water。
in order to get the right consistency,。
and keep things compact.。
You go outside, and it's gone.。
'Cause the tide comes in, and it sweeps it away.。
And you do it again, and it doesn't last.。
What Jesus says is that your life,。
if all that you're spending it on is this life,。
you are building a sandcastle,。
and it's gonna be here today, and it will be gone tomorrow.。
And just as crazy as it would be for someone to go out。
and be like, this is where I'm gonna sleep,。
I'm making this sandcastle,。
I'm putting all of this energy into it,。
Jesus would say, you're a fool,。
and you're a sandcastle king, or a sandcastle queen,。
but you are wasting your life.。
But if you will seek the only kingdom,。
it's not your kingdom, it's not my kingdom,。
and at the end of the day, you and I,。
that's the fact, as silly, as dumb。
as that illustration may be,。
you'll be a sandcastle king,。
or you'll live for his kingdom, that's the truth.。
And Jesus says, will you invest in my kingdom,。
it's the only one that will last,。
with your money, with your time,。
will you put me first, and prioritize me,。
or are you gonna be a sandcastle king or queen?。
Let me pray.。
Father, I need your help as much as anyone in this room.。
I live in one of the most materialistic cities in our world,。
and every single day, I feel the tension and the lie,。
and just the message fighting from my heart。
that I don't have enough, I need more,。
I need more stuff, I need more money,。
like that would fix my problems,。
would you help me, God, to not waste my life。
building sandcastles, building my own kingdom,。
consumed about where my kids are gonna go to school,。
what house I'm gonna live in,。
what kind of car I'm gonna drive,。
how much I'm gonna have in my 401k,。
how much I'm making, and not waste my life, God.。
And I sit before a room of young adults。
who honestly, many of them are wasting their life,。
and they're running after any kingdom but yours,。
or they're running after their own, let's be honest.。
And the same thing is fighting from my heart, Lord,。
would you help that to not be the case today,。
but even if it isn't today,。
I'll run after my kingdom tomorrow,。
so God, we need your help, Lord.。
(gentle music)。
Would you please help us to see with an eternal perspective。
and store treasures in heaven,。
and be radically generous, Lord,。
and trust that as you say,。
anything given for your kingdom。
will have eternal reward,。
and anything held onto will be eternal regret,。
Father, thank you for dying in our place,。
for giving your life,。
for being the God who was rich,。
who for our sake became poor.。
You are worthy of every dollar we make,。
everything that we do, every breath that we breathe,。
every song that we sing,。
and we worship you now in song, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
