(upbeat music)。
Let me dive in to thou shalt。
as we continue this look at the 10 commands.。
We're gonna read from the fourth commandment tonight.。
And then I'm gonna pray and dive in。
as we look at the commandment that is given more airtime。
or there are more words on than any other command。
as God just goes through the list of,。
hey, these are the things that I want my people。
who were just set free from slavery。
but don't know how to live free。
to be able to do inside of their life.。
So this comes from Exodus 20, verse eight through 11.。
It's where we'll be tonight.。
And I'm gonna read that。
and then we will pray and dive right in.。
It says this, God speaking in the nation of Israel says,。
remember the Sabbath day by keeping it holy.。
Six days you shall labor and do all of your work.。
But the seventh day is a Sabbath to the Lord your God.。
On it you shall not do any work,。
neither you nor your son or your daughter,。
nor your male or female slave or servant,。
nor your animals, nor any foreigner residing in your towns.。
For in six days, the Lord made the heavens and the earth。
and the sea and all that is in them,。
but he rested on the seventh day.。
Therefore, the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and made it holy.。
Let me pray, we'll dive in.。
Father, would you teach us from your word?。
Would just these instructions。
that were given thousands of years ago to your people。
minister today to the hearts of your people。
and lead and instruct our lives?。
Would you break through just the distractions。
fighting for our attention,。
break through the hardness of heart。
that our own sin and just the reality。
of having a sinful heart can create?。
And would you give us eyes to see。
and encounter the living God。
and the life and abundant life,。
the free life that he wants for us to experience?。
We love you, amen.。
Well, when I was in college,。
I had a chance to be a part of the track team。
where I went to college and I did,。
I was a part of the field part of track called javelin,。
which is not very impressive.。
There's like four people who do it.。
So not a lot of competition if you know anyone。
who wants to be in a collegiate sport environment.。
So I was a part of this team and every single year,。
one of the things that we would do as a training。
or a part of training was this day would come。
called the obstacle course day.。
And it was my freshman year,。
I'd never heard of the obstacle course。
or didn't know much about it,。
but as the semester progressed,。
everyone would talk about, oh man, the obstacle course,。
it's the worst day of the entire year.。
Just get ready to have your entire body。
filled with lactic acid and it's just gonna be miserable.。
It's the hardest training thing that we do.。
And so I'm like, man, how hard can it be?。
What's it gonna look like?。
And so the day finally comes。
and I begin to see what the obstacle course is.。
We're there at the track stadium。
and the coach begins to say, here's what you're gonna do.。
Each one of you will essentially do two laps。
of this obstacle course where you will perform a series。
of running and jumping over these different hurdles。
and you will run over to the stadium bleachers。
and you will snake four sets of bleachers。
carrying a 16 pound weight。
and then carrying a 30 pound weight.。
So you'll finish it, you'll drop the 16 pound weight up,。
run back, run around the lap, around the track,。
jump it over the hurdles, grab the 30 pound weight,。
carry it with you and jump over the hurdles again,。
carry it over there and snake the bleachers.。
He looks at me, says, David, you're gonna set the pace.。
So I was a young, new guy, didn't exactly know。
what this would look like but he's like,。
you're gonna set the pace, you're gonna kick it off。
and start it for all of us.。
And I'm like, man, all right, well, showtime, here we go.。
Gotta show 'em who's boss, okay.。
And so I get ready, I'm mentally trying to think through。
what my strategy is here and he says, go.。
And all of a sudden I take off and I am just like,。
I don't know if it was adrenaline or nerves。
but I'm just in a full out dead sprint.。
And I'm carrying this shot put and I'm going over the hurdle。
and I'm snaking the bleachers and I'm running up things。
and I'm like, oh my gosh, I think maybe I was born。
to be a sprinter, I was made to do this.。
I'm breaking records, I can see the coach over there。
showing stopwatch and I can tell, man,。
things are really going good.。
Set down the shot put, begin to snake the bleachers again。
which just means to run up 'em and run down 'em。
in case you're not following me.。
And I go back, pick up the 30 pound weight。
and I begin to start lap number two。
and all of a sudden it's like everything in my body。
was like, we gave it all we had, shut her down, okay.。
And like I couldn't move, I'm climbing up stairs。
and my legs are beginning to wobble out。
and I can barely feel anything.。
And I go from a dead out sprint like Usain Bolt。
to just, I'm just walking and carrying the weight。
and like literally to the point where I mean,。
like crowds, the track team is now gathering around。
being like, oh my gosh, they're having a pity party。
for like somebody put him out of his misery.。
What is this man doing here?。
He clearly doesn't belong here.。
And I'm running and I had to walk the entire thing。
and I finally finished and I get over there。
and I just collapse on the ground。
and the coach comes over and he goes,。
man, that was the fastest first lap I've ever seen.。
And he had like this thick accent, I won't even try it.。
But that was the slowest second lap I've ever seen.。
(congregation laughing)。
And I got last place.。
I mean, I got last beyond every, all the shot put people,。
everybody, I came in like minutes and minutes behind them。
because my pace had caught up to me and it cost me。
that I hadn't thought through and just the pace。
that I had ran at eventually caught up to me。
and it cost me.。
And the reason I start there is because tonight。
we're talking about this idea of Sabbath and kind of rest。
and we live in a culture that just like that,。
I mean, it is no mystery that us as really a nation,。
a society, just in our generation,。
we are running at a pace like no one has ever run before.。
I mean, with technology and with the advancement in work。
and with the ability to kind of constantly be on。
and checking email and constantly be available,。
you and I are running at a pace that if we are not careful,。
we like much of America is experiencing right now,。
it is going to catch up to us and it is gonna cost us.。
I mean, stress, being overwhelmed is the number one cause。
of health and mental issues in our country.。
Think about that.。
America is the most overworked,。
developed nation on the planet.。
I mean, we just as a people, we just like,。
we run at this pace and here's the challenge。
or here's the problem 'cause I think all of us,。
nobody's like, yeah, I wanna run at a pace where I,。
you know, it eventually comes up to me and cost me.。
I don't think anybody wants to,。
but it just feels like everything,。
like the world around us is just running at this pace.。
Like I'm barely even keeping up with everybody.。
You know, life is just so crazy and hectic and work。
and you know, everyone around me is climbing。
the corporate ladder and doing better。
and so I'm not keeping up in any arena,。
let alone, I can't slow down, I need to do more.。
I mean, I'm not making enough money,。
I don't have enough time to, you know, exercise,。
I don't have enough time to eat right,。
I don't have enough time to, you know, focus on,。
I can't keep up on Twitter and Instagram, posting enough。
and all these other people have side businesses like Etsy。
and they're selling some pyramid scheme thing。
and man, I'm just like missing out on life。
and I can't slow down.。
I feel like if anything, I need to speed up。
and it feels like the pace,。
though none of us wants to be driven towards the edge,。
is something that, man, it's just almost unavoidable.。
And tragically, I mean, we live in a day and age。
where it is just normal to be overworked。
and just stressed out.。
I mean, it's become, think about it,。
it's become commonplace to, when you ask somebody。
how they're doing, it used to be good,。
the common universally accepted response is,。
I'm doing good, it's just busy, just busy, gotta go, okay.。
And you never hear, at least I never have,。
hey man, how you doing, I'm just rested,。
I feel great, rested.。
I've never heard that, it's just not something,。
and if you did hear it, you'd be like,。
he's going nowhere, you believe this guy?。
I mean, it's like almost a trophy that we have。
and so what does it look like in a world。
that pushes us to the edge, to find rest and find,。
I mean, think about this, and then we're gonna dive。
into the text, the word stressed, if you,。
and we've all heard that word stressed,。
of hey, I'm just stressed right now.。
100 years ago, someone saying I feel stressed。
wouldn't even make sense.。
Until the 1920s and 1930s, it was never used。
to describe how someone's emotions feel,。
it was a physics term.。
Like, it was only used inside of physics。
when you're talking about like, oh, this bar bending。
and there's tension on it, the stress amount。
that's on there, and someday, some guy was like,。
that thing's about to snap, I feel like that's my life。
right now, and everybody else was like, me too,。
and it just caught on.。
I mean, that's a fact, and now everyone would say,。
I'm stressed, and so how in a world that feels impossible。
to find rest can the people of God,。
who are commanded to find rest, find it?。
And so tonight, we're gonna explore this incredible command。
God gives to the nation of Israel, the fourth command.。
They're in the order of priority.。
I mean, before he goes into you shall not kill,。
shall not steal, he says, you are going to take a day off.。
And so we're gonna talk about why that is。
and explore what it meant then, what it means now,。
and really, what it's always been about.。
So we're gonna be in the book of Exodus.。
If you have a Bible, you can flip there.。
The book of Exodus is about the exiting。
of the nation of Israel from Egypt。
into heading towards the promised land.。
So the nation of Israel has been slaves,。
they've only known slavery 400 years, they're slaves.。
God looks down, says, hey, I'm gonna send someone,。
I need to deliver 'em, Moses, and Moses goes,。
let my people go, the nation of Israel is set free.。
And though they had been set free,。
all they'd ever known was slavery.。
So they didn't know how to live,。
they didn't know how to conduct their life,。
they didn't know how to do really anything。
other than what they were told.。
So God looks down and says, hey, I'm gonna give you laws。
to lead you to life, not to earn a relationship with me,。
but because you're in relationship with me.。
And I love you, and I wanna give you laws。
that will lead you to life.。
Those are the 10 commandments,。
and really the law in the Old Testament.。
So number four is this, we read it a second ago,。
but we'll read it again.。
Remember the Sabbath day by keeping it holy,。
which is a word that just means set apart,。
different from the other days.。
Six days you shall labor and do all of your work,。
but the seventh day is a Sabbath,。
the word Sabbath is a word that just means cease work.。
That means stop your work, stop from working.。
It's a Sabbath day, stop from your working,。
to the Lord your God.。
On it you shall not do any work,。
neither you nor your son or your daughter,。
nor your male or female servants,。
nor any of your animals.。
So you can't be like, yeah, I'm just riding the donkey。
and he's pulling things out there.。
God says nobody's gonna work,。
neither any foreigner residing in your town.。
So God took it so seriously that even if you weren't Jewish。
and you're like, you know, here's pagan Paul,。
he's living with us and he can go out there and work,。
God says if he's amongst my people, he shall not work.。
I want everyone to stop.。
For in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth。
and the sea and all that is in them,。
but he rested on the seventh day.。
So it points to God's example.。
Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day。
and he made it holy.。
We're gonna come to that,。
or come back to that verse in a second,。
but essentially God looks, tells the nation of Israel,。
in my top 10 list, I want you to take a day off.。
I mean, the unprecedentedness of this。
is almost hard to put into words.。
In other words, there'd never been any nation。
that we know of, no culture.。
If you study ancient civilization,。
no one else had ever done this before.。
No one else really would do anything like this。
for centuries and centuries and centuries。
where God would say, hey, you're going to stop working.。
Now this first idea that we're gonna pull from the text。
of these three ideas that we see。
of how we can experience a life that experiences rest。
is that we, like the nation of Israel,。
have to stop maxing out your life.。
That's what he looked down and he said,。
I don't want you to max out your life.。
I don't want you to fill, you could work seven days,。
but I don't want you to fill your life to its max capacity.。
I want you to step back from the edge.。
Wherever you're maxed out is,。
I want you to step back from the edge.。
Don't go all the way to the limit.。
And I want you to trust me。
with the gap that is created there.。
And you might be thinking, why would you have to trust him?。
I mean, think about in this time,。
what's on the line is you're living in a very different age.。
So when God says, hey, I don't want you。
to stop working entirely, everybody stops.。
I mean, at this point in time, it's dangerous to do that.。
There's no refrigeration, there's no, you know,。
hey, our water system just comes right out of the ground.。
They live in a day and age where you think you're busy.。
You don't have to milk a cow this morning.。
You don't have to pluck chicken and, you know,。
cook it up in order to eat it.。
You don't have to dig a well to get water.。
You don't have to build your own house by hand.。
In this day and age, they're going, man,。
if we don't work, we may not eat.。
We may not have a place to stay.。
You're asking us to pull back from the edge。
and just trust you with that?。
And God was saying to the nation of Israel,。
every week, I want you to stop.。
And I want you to show yourself and showcase to the world。
that my confidence doesn't come from my ability。
to make things happen, but from my God。
who can make things happen.。
In other words, the Sabbath day was not primarily。
about recovery and about rest.。
It was about trust.。
I want you to trust me.。
I want you to pull back from the edge.。
I know you could go seven days.。
All the other nations are gonna go seven days.。
I want you to pull back from the edge and trust me.。
And so your animals don't work, nobody works.。
And it's not just, hey, you have, you know, your muscles,。
they need a day off and tension.。
While that may be beneficial,。
clearly it wasn't the primary reason.。
I mean, shortly after this, in case you're like,。
really, huh, shortly after this,。
the nation of Israel is headed towards the promised land.。
And they're walking towards it,。
and they're out in the desert, it tells us,。
and there's no food.。
And God says, hey, I'm gonna provide for you food。
six days a week.。
Every single day, you're gonna wake up,。
there's gonna be bread on the ground.。
How crazy is that?。
And they'd wake up and there'd be this, you know,。
these flakes, the first frosted flakes, if you will,。
were out on the ground.。
And you would go out and you were told,。
hey, you could pick up one bucket.。
That's what God said.。
Hey, each person gets one bucket,。
you get one day's worth of food.。
So they go out every single day, they're like,。
oh my gosh, it's here again.。
And they would pick up the food,。
they'd put it in their bucket,。
and God said, hey, you only get your daily bread,。
you can't get two days worth.。
If you get two days worth, it's gonna rot.。
In other words, if you try to be like,。
oh my, store it all up, make sure that we get enough,。
then you, everything that you don't eat that day,。
you're gonna take it home,。
and it's gonna get filled with maggots,。
which is what happened, we're told, if you read the story.。
So every day they'd go out, get their bread,。
it would be enough.。
On one day a week, though, things were different.。
The sixth day, the day right before the Sabbath, the seventh,。
where God said, hey, you are gonna go out,。
and it says this in Exodus 16,。
that the Lord has given you the Sabbath,。
which is why on the sixth day,。
he gives you bread for two days.。
This is verse 29 of 16.。
Everyone is to stay where he is on the seventh day。
and to not go out, not go out and pick up bread.。
So God says, except for one day a week,。
you're gonna go, you're gonna pick up two buckets.。
If the Sabbath, and then they would go out,。
they'd eat, and it wouldn't rot,。
it would last for the Sabbath.。
Now, if the Sabbath, think about this,。
if the Sabbath was just about recovery and your body,。
they're not doing any work.。
Like, they're picking up a bucket.。
It's not that challenging, and think about it even further.。
I mean, if it was just about recovery,。
God, you're doubling up the workload.。
If the bucket thing is really, really hard,。
so hard we need a day off, you're doubling it up.。
On Saturday, it clearly wasn't about,。
man, you need a rest from your morning bucket pickup.。
It clearly was about, I want you to trust me.。
I want you to know that I'm a God who provides,。
and I want your confidence to come,。
not from your ability to work,。
your ability to make things happen,。
but I want you to weakly be reminded, I provide.。
Your confidence, trust, is in me, not in you,。
not in your work, not in what you can provide。
and you can do, and the nation of Israel。
is given this constant, week in, week out reminder from God.。
You are to depend on me.。
That God wanted his people to be free。
from just the lie that we still believe today,。
let's be honest, of, man, I need to get after it。
'cause nobody's looking out for me but me.。
And he says, man, I want you to be a people who know。
I'm the heavenly Father who cares for you,。
and I will meet your needs.。
I may not meet your wants,。
but I will meet the needs that you have。
and have the father-like relationship with his children.。
It's the same relationship he still wants to have today.。
I mean, think about it.。
I mean, let me tell you who's the least stressed person。
in my life that I know.。
I have a two-year-old son.。
He's not worried about anything.。
He's not worried about what he's gonna eat.。
He's not worried about, like, do we have enough milk?。
Can I have more, is this okay?。
Wait, he's not worried about, you know,。
I mean, we have to force him to take naps。
where it's like, oh my gosh,。
I would kill to be in your shoes, my friend.。
And he's just not worried about anything.。
The only thing he thinks about is,。
am I gonna get a Kit Kat today?。
I hope so, and I feel like this tyrannical father。
is not loving if he doesn't give me one,。
but he's not focused, he's not worried about anything.。
He has all of his needs met,。
and as silly as that sounds,。
that is the relationship that God。
invited the nation of Israel into.。
I don't want you to carry the burden and stress。
that if you don't, no one else is looking out for you,。
because I'm a God who loves you, you can trust me,。
and I want you weakly to know。
your confidence is found and comes from me.。
Inside of this room,。
I know that the temptation for most of us。
is to max out your life.。
And whether you're like, man, I mean, we can all,。
if you think about, like, why do we do this?。
Why do we just jam-pack our life。
and go from one thing to the next,。
and we work these crazy schedules,。
and we fill our life with one thing after the next,。
and being at Watermark, it can be just as easy。
to go from, hey, I'm at Watermark,。
to I am waterlogged, and have something to eat。
every single night.。
And if you think about, why do we do this?。
Some of us may say, man, it's just a season。
that I'm in.。
You may say, hey, this is just kinda how it works。
in my company.。
You may say, I just like it, I like being busy.。
But I think the reason behind, for many of us,。
why we do it, is there's this deeper issue.。
There's, like, a search for significance.。
Like, there's something inside of me,。
and something inside of maybe you,。
where it's like, man, I just want to be seen。
as someone who, like, is valuable.。
I wanna see as a go-getter, someone that they look at,。
and be like, man, that guy just, he gets it done.。
He gets after it over there.。
I wanna be seen as someone who can handle it。
high capacity.。
Someone who does have the, like, you know,。
I got these side hustles going on over here,。
and I'm working really hard and thriving here,。
and yeah, my Etsy company, would you like to see it?。
And I'm a photographer, would you need some pictures?。
And we just fill up, and fill up, and fill up,。
because there's something inside of us。
that wants to feel like we matter.。
And God says, I want you to work into the rhythm。
of your life, pulling back from the edge.。
If you are living a maxed out life,。
in an effort to fill your life with the most,。
you will cut out what's most important.。
And so why?。
Our relationship with God and others.。
Let me say it again.。
If you live a maxed out life, you will cut out,。
you will, in an effort to maximize,。
or to get the most out of life,。
you will take out or push out the things。
that are most important.。
And God said to the nation of Israel,。
I want you weekly to remember, I'm the Lord your God.。
I'm the one who provides.。
So what does it look like today to practice the Sabbath?。
Well, we know that, so the first idea is that you and I。
are to not max out our life or to stop.。
The Bible also tells us, based on that principle。
and based on other teachings,。
there's some things we need to start doing.。
But let me say this, in case you're like,。
wait a second, isn't this all the Old Testament?。
Are we underneath the Old Testament?。
Do we even need to keep the Old Testament law anymore?。
What does it look like to obey the Old Testament?。
What impact does that have on our life?。
The Bible says that you and I as believers。
are no longer underneath the law of the Old Testament.。
We're no longer underneath the laws,。
in other words, in the same way that they were,。
the nation of Israel was underneath the law,。
you and I have graduated from that system.。
But inside of the Old Testament, though we're not,。
we don't have a relationship with God。
based on keeping the law, and we're not under the law,。
there are still rules and still laws。
that apply or are applicable,。
there's principles inside of the laws。
that relate to our life.。
In other words, like when I was in elementary school,。
there were different laws that I lived underneath。
at my elementary school, so I couldn't, you know,。
run in the hallway with scissors,。
I couldn't throw food at the cafeteria lady,。
I couldn't go to class late, I had to, you know,。
be respectful of the teachers。
and just all kinds of different rules.。
Today, I stand before you as someone。
who has graduated from my elementary school, and--。
(audience applauding)。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Good night, everyone.。
(audience laughing)。
And I am no longer underneath the laws。
of my elementary school, I have graduated from that system.。
But there are still things inside of the,。
or still rules that were a part of my elementary school。
system that are applicable to me today.。
I don't have to be at class on time or I'll get a demerit,。
I, or have to change my color or whatever it is,。
I, but it's still a bad idea for me。
to run in the hall with scissors。
or throw food at the lunch lady.。
There are still things that are just principles。
that still apply to God's people,。
so it is with the Old Testament.。
Though you and I have graduated, Paul would say,。
we've been set free from the law,。
we are no longer under the law.。
Galatians 5, verse 19 says that you and I, verse 18,。
if you are led by the Spirit or follow of Christ,。
you are not under the law.。
Despite the fact that we have graduated from the law,。
there are principles or there are laws in the Old Testament。
and the principle behind them is still relevant。
to our life because it was given for a purpose。
to lead us to life.。
And so, it's really every single law,。
they're not all the same and they each,。
it depends on the law.。
Are you and I underneath the Old Testament law?。
Certainly not to be saved,。
but there are laws that there's still a principle。
that God gave that we are to obey。
and doing so it leads us to life.。
So you and I, as it relates to the Sabbath,。
are people who, from the principle of the Sabbath,。
now start intentionally slowing down our life.。
What does it look like to live out the Sabbath。
in the modern day?。
Paul says in Romans 14 that it's not really about a day.。
So in other words, if you ever heard people like,。
is it Saturday, is it Sunday, is it like any day?。
Is it, you know, I went to Cancun and that was a Sabbath,。
is that, like what does it look like to live,。
Paul says, hey, it's not about a specific day。
in Romans chapter 14.。
But the principle of slowing, intentionally slowing down。
is still relevant to the lives of the people of God.。
The best way that I heard it said this week。
is that it is a action that,。
what does it look like to practice the Sabbath?。
We start intentionally slowing down our life.。
You start intentionally slowing down your life。
to experience the rest God wants for you。
in a world that feels like there's no place to find it.。
You stop maxing out your life。
and you start intentionally slowing down your life.。
And this involves two things.。
It involves the action of, hey,。
I'm actually gonna pull away for these few hours。
and be intentional with this time,。
or for this 24 hours, or for this amount of time,。
and be intentional with this time。
to do things that slow me down。
and that stir my affections to the Lord.。
I'm gonna do actions, I'm gonna intentionally stop,。
I'm gonna plan it into my calendar,。
and I'm gonna say, on this afternoon of this weekend,。
or at this time, I'm gonna pull away。
and do things that slow me down。
and things that stir, to use a Christian phrase,。
that begin to stir my affections to the Lord,。
which is not a one-size-fits-all thing,。
but for each of us, it is pulling away。
and turning our mind on the things。
that cause us to worship.。
The reason I say it's not one-size-fits-all。
is for some of you, it may be like,。
man, I just wanna pull away and read a book。
in a hammock by the lake.。
And for others of you, that sounds like homework.。
You're like, I do not wanna do that.。
And so it's just finding and building。
into your life and my life。
things that stir your affections to the Lord.。
Is it binge-watching on Netflix?。
I don't think that it is.。
(congregation laughing)。
And here's why.。
Though that may be like, I mean,。
the problem is we run at such a fast pace。
that we're like, oh my gosh, I just wanna numb my life。
and just sit on the couch, eat Butterfingers and Blue Bell,。
and binge-watch on Stranger Things right now.。
And I think, (laughing)。
oh man, I think that the God,。
not that any of those things are necessarily bad,。
this is not an official endorsement of Stranger Things,。
I haven't seen it.。
(congregation laughing)。
Season two, I haven't seen.。
But I think that the God who's there is not just saying,。
hey, I just want you to tune out。
and numb yourself to the world around you.。
I want you to intentionally tune your mind into me.。
I mean, even the idea that it's not just amusement.。
The word amusement comes from the word amuse,。
as in a meaning ah, to not amuse,。
meaning to think, to not think.。
And the Bible says that Sabbath。
is not just where we amuse ourselves,。
but where we do things that intentionally,。
God says, worship the Lord.。
So for you it may look like pulling away,。
reading, journaling, walking.。
I don't know what that's gonna look like。
inside of your life.。
Maybe it's going on a run, hiking.。
But it's times where you intentionally say,。
I'm gonna do things that deepen my love for the Lord,。
deepen my appreciation for who he is.。
And then the other idea that comes from that。
is not just the action, or the slowing and stirring,。
which came up from Daniel Crawford,。
who heads up our college,。
but the other, beyond the action,。
is this idea of attitude.。
That you and I maintain the attitude.。
I think this is honestly the most important,。
in case you're like, oh, the action,。
what does it look like?。
Okay, go to the lake this Friday.。
I think above everything else,。
in the Sabbath and the modern day context,。
is the idea of the attitude of Sabbath.。
That it involves the action and the attitude.。
What do I mean by the attitude?。
God, to the nation of Israel, was saying,。
I want you to have it ingrained into your head.。
Your mind sees yourself as dependent on me, the living God.。
I don't want you to think,。
I don't want your mind to buy the lie。
that you're dependent on yourself,。
or dependent on what others think,。
what others, you know, the job that you have.。
You are dependent on me,。
and I want you to live dependent on me,。
moment by moment, day by day.。
That I want you to go through your life。
and walk in a dependence on me.。
You can take off a day, a week,。
and not live out the Sabbath.。
If you don't go through life saying,。
God, I'm dependent on you.。
Like, you can take off a day, a week,。
and it just becomes a thing to do.。
Like, off the checklist, here we go.。
All right, and I have to do that.。
And God says, I want you moment by moment。
to see yourself dependent on me.。
God, I can't, you can.。
That means in everyday, ordinary moments,。
Lord, I'm headed from this meeting to the next,。
and I feel overwhelmed and stressed.。
I'm turning to you.。
Will you help me, the God of peace, to guard my mind?。
I'm gonna pray to you the things that I'm anxious about,。
and I trust in you.。
I can't handle it, but you, my God, can.。
I'm dependent on you.。
God, you know that I'm going to this party,。
and I'm gonna see that friend that deeply wounded me,。
and my temptation is not gonna be to love them。
or care about them, but I want to be。
what Christ would have me be,。
which is compassionate and forgiving,。
and all the different things you call me to.。
Will you help me in this moment?。
Because I can't, but you can.。
It's this constant attitude of Sabbath, of dependence.。
That's what the Sabbath is all about.。
Hey, I'm depending, I'm dependent on you,。
and I'm gonna trust in you,。
both in the action that I have。
and in the attitude that I'm gonna live my life with.。
So today, it looks like intentionally carving out time,。
and that you and I would intentionally maintain the attitude。
of Sabbath, and dependence, and trust on him.。
But ultimately, let me say this。
before we go to the third idea.。
I think the way that we often think about it。
is like the Sabbath is kind of this recharge.。
It's like, hey, when I plug in my phone at night,。
I plug it in, and then it's all charged up,。
and then I'm good, and I'm headed off, and I'm good to go.。
The Bible doesn't present the idea that,。
hey, Sabbath is just this one-time charge,。
and once you run out of battery, come back here.。
It presents this idea that you're never meant。
to run out of battery, but you're constantly plugged in.。
You're always abiding with him.。
You're always walking in dependence on him,。
and that's what he wanted the nation of Israel to get.。
He wanted them to get it so badly。
that he said, every six days, we're gonna do this again.。
So you see yourself as dependent on me.。
Do you see yourself that way?。
Putting your life, God, I'm trusting in you.。
I see you as the source of my provision.。
I see you in control of the circumstances of my life.。
I'm gonna walk in dependence, constantly connected to you.。
Finally, the Sabbath, I mean, it's clear,。
has never been just about recovery.。
We said that earlier, but if you even think about the fact。
that the way the Sabbath is introduced is in creation.。
I mean, it's clearly not because God needed。
a day off to recover.。
Think about that.。
Like, he says, look, I'm God.。
I don't grow weary.。
I work six days, and then I took one day off,。
and you're going two, too.。
Not because I need to take off a day,。
because man, oh gosh, that really took it out of me。
at that time.。
I'm God, I never grow weary.。
I'm omnipotent, I'm all powerful.。
And yet, I'm going to do it not 'cause I need recovery,。
or I need rest, but because I want to model for you。
something that I'm pointing all of creation towards.。
That the Sabbath has never been just about recovery.。
It's honestly not just simply about rest.。
It's about dependence, and ultimately,。
it's all about Jesus.。
Why do I say that?。
Years later, years later, the author of Hebrews。
would write about Sabbath.。
In the New Testament, there's a book called Hebrews.。
And inside of the book of Hebrews, he basically writes,。
and he says, look, hey, God gave them this rest,。
but all the rest was ultimately pointing to a later rest。
that God would give his people.。
Like, there was gonna come a day where he said,。
I'm gonna give them not just a temporary day off。
on a weekend, but an eternal rest,。
and the way they're gonna access that is by ceasing。
from their works and trusting in me alone,。
trusting in the God who works on their behalf.。
The message of the gospel, the New Testament,。
all rings throughout the Sabbath.。
In fact, in Hebrews chapter four, it says this。
in verse nine and 10 that the author of Hebrews,。
if you read the chapter, he's talking about how。
in weaving the Sabbath into Israel's history,。
God was sending a message.。
He was giving them a picture that the Sabbath。
would point to, a person, and a rest that he,。
that person would one day bring, that person being Jesus,。
where he writes in verse nine, there remains then。
a Sabbath rest for the people of God.。
For anyone who enters into God's rest does so。
and also does so by resting from their works。
just as God did.。
That the idea of the Sabbath, meaning cease from your works,。
was always meant to be a picture pointing to Christ,。
always meant to be a foreshadowing of the day。
that would come when Jesus would say, cease from your work.。
I will come and die on your behalf,。
and I will do what no person's work could ever earn them。
the right to experience a relationship with God。
for all of eternity.。
The Sabbath has always been pointing to God,。
always been pointing to God who works on your behalf,。
doesn't demand work from you.。
It's always been what the Sabbath has been about.。
And the author of Hebrews says it's like this picture。
that God early on gave his people。
that would point to a person.。
It's like I brought up here my favorite picture。
of my wife that sits on my desk.。
And there's a number of reasons.。
I'm not crazy about the frame, but I love the picture.。
And I love her smile in it, and it's from our wedding day,。
and I think she looks beautiful,。
and I just see it every day.。
But this picture, you know what it can't do?。
It's like, it can't talk back,。
it can't go on a walk and hold your hand, or my hand.。
It doesn't laugh at my jokes,。
even when they're not very good.。
It doesn't-- (audience laughing)。
But he does. (laughing)。
And it just, it's not gonna give you a hug back.。
It's not gonna, you know, it's just not gonna,。
it's gonna fall and pale in comparison to a person.。
Like a picture, it's as good as,。
it's only as good as its ability to point to a person.。
And it pales in comparison, like contains a part,。
and it kinda gives you a look at what it,。
a look at what she looks like,。
but it pales in comparison to her, the person.。
So it was with the Sabbath,。
that God said to the people of Israel。
that God has woven into creation,。
hey, I'm gonna give you a picture.。
And it was always meant to point to a person, which is Jesus.。
Like the very gift of, on the seventh day,。
you're gonna rest, is so that for years and years。
and millennia, and as long as there are humans alive,。
that they will know that there's a God who's out there。
who doesn't demand that they work for him,。
he demands that they trust the God。
who has worked on their behalf, who's given their life.。
The Sabbath has always been pointing to Jesus,。
the one who said, hey, will you come to me?。
I will give you the rest your Sabbath days。
will never be able to give you.。
In Matthew 11, he looks out into this crowd and says,。
come to me, I'll give you the rest for your souls.。
Your souls are crying out for rest,。
and you're not gonna find it anywhere else.。
You're not gonna find it in a dating relationship,。
in a job, in a bank account number that you have there.。
You're not gonna find it in the ability to have children,。
or whatever pursured future you see for yourself.。
You're not gonna find it there.。
Will you come to me, Jesus said,。
and you'll get rest for your soul.。
The Sabbath was always pointing to that.。
If you are not a believer inside of this room,。
the worst thing you can leave here and do is take off Sunday.。
But the best thing that you can do is to come and trust。
in the one who gave his life for you, Jesus on the cross,。
who accessed or gave you access and me access。
and anyone who will trust in Jesus's death and resurrection。
on the cross, that he died in your place。
for everything evil you've ever done,。
every abortion in the room, every look at pornography,。
every evil act, every hit that you've taken。
of whatever drug, every sip of alcohol,。
or drink of alcohol, anything you've ever done。
was laid on Jesus on the cross.。
He saw all of it in advance, said, I'll die for them.。
And if they will cease from their work,。
they'll have eternal life.。
They'll have eternal Sabbath.。
I don't demand that they work for me.。
I'm gonna cause them to stop because one day。
I'm gonna send my son the fulfillment,。
the person that the picture of the Sabbath was pointing to,。
to showcase I'm a God who works on their behalf。
where they trust in me.。
If you are a believer,。
I mean, the best thing for you to leave here and do。
is leave and fall in love, continue to walk with。
and have a relationship with not the picture,。
but the person of Jesus.。
And sometimes it can feel like, man, I'm even overwhelmed。
by I'm not doing good enough at keeping a Sabbath.。
It just becomes something else I need to do。
and ain't nobody got time for that.。
And man, help me, Lord.。
I think the invitation that God is there says,。
man, will you come, will you walk with me,。
take my yoke on me, he says.。
Walk and step with me and you'll see that my burden is easy.。
My burden is light.。
And you're just sitting around people, man,。
if you're not a believer, you're sitting around Christians。
and their life isn't perfect, it's got challenges.。
We live in the same broken world that you do,。
but our life is not, we're not better than you,。
but we're better off than we used to be。
because we have stepped into the Sabbath relationship.。
And we found the only source of life,。
the only source of rest in a world that is broken,。
in a world where there is no peace。
other than the peace that comes from the person。
the Sabbath pointed to.。
Let me pray.。
Father, as it's been said,。
our souls are restless until they rest in you.。
I pray for my friends in this room that live in the same,。
busy city that I do,。
and that live in the same busy city of Fort Worth.。
They feel overwhelmed, they feel anxious,。
they feel stressed, they feel insecure,。
they feel unworthy, they feel like they're not good enough.。
Father, would you allow just the truth of who you are,。
a relationship with you to break through from all the noise?。
Would you allow just people inside of this room。
for the very first time to come into a relationship。
with you by trusting not in how good of a person they are,。
but by trusting with Jesus,。
trusting in the sacrifice that was made for them?。
Would you help us in the room who,。
Lord, we don't feel like your burden is easy。
and your yoke is light.。
Would you break through to that, Lord?。
And would you give us that rest for our souls?。
Would you begin to experience that?。
And daily put our trust in you, daily go back to that well.。
Daily go back and experience having our thirst quenched。
at the only place that's possible to be found,。
or quenched, which is you.。
Father, we come now to the altar, we worship you in song,。
and we thank you that you're a God。
who doesn't demand that we work for you.。
You worked for us unlike any other God,。
any other religion, any other thing that we've ever known,。
that you're a God of great love,。
and that love moved you towards your people,。
not away from them.。
We worship you in song.。
