[Music]。
Well, how we doing porch?。
Come on, let's go.。
Hey, we are so glad that you are here tonight at the porch.。
My name is Josiah Jones, I have the privilege of being on staff。
here leading our 200 leaders that make up this Tuesday night。
gathering that we call the porch.。
Can we just give a round of welcome for our leaders?。
Yeah, come on.。
The ones that are in the parking lot sweating, although we got a。
cold front, praise God, right?。
Those that are in the town center greeting you and those。
that are ushering you to your seat, even in this moment.。
Man, we are so grateful for the leaders that serve here at the porch.。
Well, hey, we want to welcome you.。
You could be anywhere on a Tuesday night, especially if this is your。
first time, thank you for choosing to be right here with us at the porch.。
It's a real honor and we know you could be in a lot of different places.。
I want to give a shout out to our Porch Live locations, watching online,。
Porch Live Boise, Idaho, Scottsdale, Arizona, Tulsa, Oklahoma, Midland,。
Texas, and a whole host of others.。
Can you give it up for our Porch Live locations?。
Tonight is a really special night because you're going to get to hear。
from a friend of ours at the porch.。
His name is Luke Lefevre.。
And Luke is a friend, like I just said, of the porch.。
He's with his wife Rebecca tonight.。
And here's what you need to know about Luke and Rebecca.。
Luke is 26 years old, lives in Nashville, Tennessee.。
Anybody from Nashville in the room tonight?。
Okay, a few of us.。
And they have a daughter, Evelyn, who is 1 1/2.。
And, man, they are here tonight because I believe that Luke has a call on。
his life for this generation.。
He leads a young adult movement called Consecrate.。
And God is using his voice all across the nation, I would even go as far。
as to say all across the world, to call this generation to radical。
holiness, to deep devotion to Jesus and his call and audacious faith.。
And I believe he has a message tonight for us here on a Tuesday in。
September that's going to call us to take next steps in our faith.。
So before Luke comes up and gives the message, I want to pray.。
And here's what I'm going to ask you.。
I'm going to invite you to pray with me.。
And I'm going to ask you first to pray for yourself as you ask the Lord。
wherever you are in your faith or if this is your first time or your 50th。
time that you just say, God, I'm available for the next 30 minutes.。
I just want to hear from you.。
And so would you take the next 30 seconds just to pray and say, Lord,。
I'm available and I want to hear from you.。
And help me to not have any distractions so I can be laser focused on what。
your word has to say tonight.。
Take 30 seconds and pray for that.。
Then I'm going to ask that you would pray for Luke as he gets ready to come。
up here, opens up God's word, that you would just ask the Lord to give。
him his words, that any word that comes out of Luke's mouth would be words。
from God.。
And that he would give him boldness and courage to proclaim what he has laid。
on Luke's heart.。
God in heaven, thank you for this night, a Tuesday in September 2023,。
that you have destined us to be at tonight.。
There is no chance that just people are here randomly.。
God, but you have divinely put them in this seat in Dallas, Texas,。
and all across the nation to hear a message from Luke Lefevre.。
And I pray, God, that you would use him mightily,。
that his words would be your words.。
And God, that you would remove any distraction in this place.。
And that we would grab on to everything that you would want us to grab on to。
tonight.。
And we would walk out of these doors ready and available for any call that。
you would have on our life.。
And God, you would use him in a way where you get much,。
much glory as a result of him being here.。
And God, we would leave with a higher view of you and a lower view of。
ourselves and it would cause an incredible response in our life.。
In Christ's name we pray, amen.。
Y'all give it up for Luke Lefevre.。
Man, honored to be with you guys tonight.。
Like Josiah said, my name is Luke.。
I feel like we're just in a room of a few thousand of our closest friends.。
So you can consider me a friend.。
Because I want to talk to us just as a generation tonight.。
Because I believe that God -- man, guys,。
do not let anybody tell you that God is not moving in our generation.。
God is moving in incredible ways across the earth right now.。
And I wish I could just take you in.。
I don't have time tonight.。
But I wish I could take you in to just conversations, phone calls,。
meetings that I've had in the past two weeks alone.。
I am convinced that I think the next ten years are going to be ten of the。
greatest years of global revival that the world has ever seen.。
God is moving in that type of way.。
In our generation.。
I think what God did at Asbury and things he's been doing across the。
nation, I think that was just like the cloud the size of a man's hand.。
But I hear the sound, like Elijah prayed,。
I hear the sound of a heavy rain coming on our generation.。
On our nation.。
And God wants to use us to do -- I mean,。
think about the miracle that is in this room right now.。
I mean there's a few thousand of us in this room.。
So many of you watching online.。
And I know you're watching at the porch live locations.。
That there's this many young adults gathered together on a Tuesday night。
in the United States hungry for God.。
That you came here because you're hungry for God.。
Like that doesn't just happen.。
That's a miracle of the grace of God.。
Like God is moving in our generation.。
And I grew up with a grandfather who was a pastor.。
And so I used to -- he used to live around the corner from me and I would。
hop on my bike and ride over to my grandfather's house and he would tell。
me stories about revival.。
He would tell me stories about moves of God throughout history.。
And one of his favorite stories to tell is this move of God that took。
place off the coast of Scotland on a small group of islands called the。
Hebrides.。
And on the Hebrides islands the church was dying.。
There were no young people in the churches.。
The church was dying out.。
It was basically at risk of completely disappearing.。
And there were these two elderly ladies that got together.。
They were in their 70s, 80s.。
And they began to cry out to God for revival on their islands.。
And they cried out to God and cried out to God and cried out to God and。
enlisting others to cry out to God for revival.。
And suddenly something broke open over the islands.。
And they said it was like people became -- the words they used was。
God-conscious.。
It was like heaven opened over the islands.。
And there were people plowing in the fields and falling to their knees and。
giving their lives to Christ.。
And the pastor tells the stories of 300 young people at a party and the。
presence of God hits the party.。
They run from the party to a church where services have been going until。
11 o'clock at night.。
And the pastor comes out, sees 300 young people standing outside and。
going, hey, we don't even know why we're here.。
Something drew us to this place.。
Can you talk to us?。
And he shares the gospel.。
They all get saved.。
Story after story after story like that.。
And the man who led that revival, his name was Duncan Campbell.。
He said God sets to empowering a people, he first sets to purifying a。
people.。
And he used to say this, he said the crying need of our day, this was in。
the 1950s.。
He said the crying need of our day is a baptism of holiness.。
Of holy living.。
And he said when that move of God was beginning to come to a close, he。
began to understand that holiness and revival would always be。
interconnected.。
And so tonight I think there's something, if we want to see a move of。
God in our generation, if we want to see, like, we're hungry for God to。
move.。
There's something in our generation that's just not common.。
There's a sovereign thing that God is doing in our generation of a hunger。
for God, of a move for God.。
But if we want to see revival, we have to lay hold of a hunger for。
holiness.。
Holiness isn't about being better than the person next to us or trying。
to do a bunch of good things.。
It's about a hunger for God himself.。
It's about a hunger for God.。
The Bible says in Hebrews pursue holiness without which no man will。
see God.。
It is a hunger to run after holiness because we want to see God.。
And guys, tonight as I was praying into tonight, there were so many。
things that I wanted to talk about.。
Like, man, can I take him into some of the things that are happening。
around the world right now.。
And I want to talk about what God has done in our generation to stir。
faith for what he wants to do.。
And as I prayed for you all, I was just praying for you these past。
weeks.。
And I kept hearing the verse in Matthew 24 that says as it was in the。
days of Noah, so will it be when the son of man comes.。
As it was in the days of Noah, so will it be when the son of man。
comes.。
And that's in Matthew 24.。
And as we get into this, I want to give us a working definition of。
holiness.。
Because I think there's a lot of confusion around what that is.。
And I would say a pursuit of holiness is this.。
It is actively ridding from our lives anything that might hinder。
intimacy with Jesus.。
And I want to give you a definition of holiness.。
It is actively removing, cutting loose from our lives anything that。
might hinder intimacy with God.。
So if you're in Matthew 24, verse 37, we're going to start there.。
And it says this, but it says...。
But as the days of Noah were, so also will the coming of the son of。
man, Jesus, be when he returns.。
It says...。
For as in the days before the flood, they were eating and drinking,。
marrying and giving in marriage until the day that Noah entered the。
ark, and did not know until the flood came and took them all away.。
So also will the coming of the son of man be.。
Then two men will be in the field, one will be taken and the other。
left.。
Two women will be grinding at the mill, one will be taken and the。
other left.。
Watch therefore, for you do not know what hour your Lord is coming.。
But know this, that if the master of the house had known what hour。
the thief would come, he would have watched and not allowed his。
house to be broken into.。
So also be ready, for the son of man is coming at an hour you do。
not expect.。
So we need to ask the question, what was happening in the days of。
Noah?。
What was this overarching characteristic as it was in the days。
of Noah, so will it be at the return of Christ?。
What was happening in the days of Noah?。
And I think the overarching characteristic, we know that story,。
right?。
I have a 1.5-year-old daughter, she has this little book about Noah。
and the story, right?。
But what was this overarching characteristic of that generation?。
I would say it was widespread complacency towards the wrath of。
God against sin.。
There was a flood coming.。
And no one took it seriously.。
No one cared.。
No one paid attention.。
There is one guy building an ark and going, listen, I'm going to。
pursue righteousness and holiness and an entire generation is going,。
God doesn't really care about the way I'm living my life.。
And as I prayed for us tonight, I felt like there was a warning for。
us as a generation that we need to lay hold of.。
That I think there is a couple people that I'm talking to in the。
room tonight.。
And I think first, there is maybe a few of you in the room, hopefully。
there is a lot of you in the room, maybe you got invited here and。
you don't know Christ or maybe you think you know Jesus but you。
don't know the way to Jesus.。
Maybe you randomly found your way in here and maybe a friend。
invited you after lunch and you are here tonight and you have a。
date with the destiny of God for your life tonight.。
That he brought you into this room because he has eternal plans。
and purposes for you.。
That he loves you and he wanted you to be here tonight to hear。
about the only thing that can change your life and that's Jesus。
Christ.。
Come on, somebody believes that.。
I don't know if anyone does.。
And I think there is another group of us in the room.。
Maybe you surrendered your life to Christ, you have given your。
life to Christ, you have been following Jesus but there are。
areas of compromise and unconfessed sin in your life。
you have been unwilling to give up.。
And Jesus is calling you to repentance and to turning。
tonight.。
And so what are the things in this passage, what do we need to。
know?。
And I think the first thing is this, as it was in the days of。
Noah, so will it be when the son of man comes.。
I think the first thing is this, we cannot mistake God's patience。
with us as his passivity towards our sin.。
God is so patient with us.。
He is so kind.。
He is so loving.。
He is so merciful.。
But I think there is a danger for us as a generation when we see。
the patience and the love and the kindness of God to assume that。
that also equals his passivity towards our sin.。
God's patience is not his passivity.。
Sin isn't cute.。
It's not a guilty pleasure.。
It's what crucified the son of God.。
Stop playing with it.。
Listen, we have become playful and made pets out of the things。
that crucified the man we claim to love.。
Something doesn't add up there.。
We get entertained by and consume the things.。
We watch the shows and listen to the music and say the things that。
put the son of God on the cross and we claim to love and follow。
and we champion it and cheer for it.。
Something doesn't add up there.。
And God is calling us to change.。
Listen, it says until the day Noah entered the ark, they thought。
God had forgotten.。
And I think that's the case of some of us in the room.。
We're thinking either God doesn't see what I'm doing.。
God doesn't care what I'm doing.。
Or at least he doesn't care enough for me to do anything about it.。
He doesn't care enough for me to change.。
But let me say this, God does not take lightly in the lives of his。
people that which killed his son.。
I have a guy that I have been discipling for the past couple of。
years and we were having a conversation the other day.。
And he's getting his degree in philosophy and he was in his。
philosophy class the other day.。
And his professor goes, hey, I want to challenge you guys.。
Take your religion, whatever religion you believe.。
Whatever that God says is a sin, go do it.。
I dare you.。
Go do it.。
See if there is any wrath.。
See if there is any judgment.。
There won't be.。
And then do it again and see if anything happens.。
He goes, then you will come to know that everything you believe。
is a lie.。
There was this famous message that was preached in the early。
1700s by a man named Jonathan Edwards and it was attributed to。
being one of the things that sparked one of the greatest。
revivals in American history.。
And I laugh because this message is getting a lot of bad rap。
online.。
People keep posting about it.。
And anybody who is giving it a bad rap probably hasn't actually。
read it.。
But when he preached this message, so many people started。
getting saved.。
And it was this message that was called "Sinners in the Hands of。
an Angry God."。
And has a very deceiving title.。
Because it makes it feel like, oh, God is this angry person that。
can't wait to get his hands on sinners and crush them.。
That's not what he's talking about.。
Because what he's talking about is this.。
He goes, the Bible says that the wages of sin is death.。
And it also says that all have sinned.。
And there are so many people going around, one day I will。
stand before God and he'll pronounce me guilty or not。
guilty for sin.。
That's not how it works.。
He goes, the pronouncement of guilty has already gone out over。
every man and woman who has ever lived.。
And God has no obligation to keep us from separation from him.。
And you know what the only thing is that is keeping us at any。
moment from separation from God for eternity?。
The patience of a gracious God giving us time to repent and。
turn.。
His patience in holding us.。
In going, this thing is after your destruction.。
This thing you're entertaining in your life that is coming after。
you.。
He's going, I'm giving you time.。
But it is not -- his patience is not his passivity.。
We serve a kind, gracious, merciful, unthinkably loving。
God.。
Let me say this quickly.。
You may have had -- so much of our view of God is determined by。
the dad that we had.。
And some of you may have had an abusive, controlling father.。
And that is not who God is.。
But let me say this, he's also not the passive father who lets。
his kids do whatever they want even though it's destroying。
them.。
Like I have a 1.5-year-old daughter and the hardest thing。
for me to do is to discipline her.。
Because I'm like, man, I want you to love me.。
I want you to like me.。
I don't want you not to like me.。
I want to give you good things.。
I want to be kind to you.。
But as a dad, loving her is helping her see the things in。
her life that are destroying her.。
That's the kind of father that God is.。
We serve a loving God.。
But I think we can also easily forget that we serve the Jesus。
who the book of Revelation says his eyes are like flames of。
fire.。
That a two-edged sword comes out of his mouth.。
That the prophet Isaiah when he saw God, the angels cried out,。
holy, holy, holy.。
We took my daughter to the zoo like last week.。
And I was super excited to actually take her.。
I know it sounds -- I was more excited about the zoo than she。
was.。
But I was super excited because there was this new tiger exhibit。
they built at our zoo.。
It won a ton of awards.。
Pretty cool.。
We go and I'm super excited.。
Please let the tiger be there where we can see it.。
We pull up and got our daughter in the stroller.。
The tiger is sitting two feet from the glass.。
It's right there.。
My daughter wants to get out and see it.。
We take her out and she's up on the glass, two feet from this。
tiger.。
I was super excited to get there and see it.。
But when I saw the tiger, I felt sad.。
I was like -- this isn't how this relationship was supposed to。
be.。
Because the zookeeper is telling us, this thing is 250 pounds of。
pure muscle.。
500 pounds per square inch bite.。
They feed it bone because it crushes bone with its teeth and。
can literally just swallow bone whole.。
I'm sitting there and going, this isn't how this relationship。
was supposed to be.。
This thing cooped up in an enclosure for people's。
entertainment.。
Like he's wild.。
He's dangerous.。
And that's beautiful.。
And part of me looked at that tiger and thought, I want to。
have reverence for you.。
Like I want to have a reverence for you.。
That's how this relationship is supposed to work.。
I shouldn't have my 1.5-year-old daughter playing around a tiger.。
Like I should have come up on you in the wild.。
Where there's no glass enclosure for my entertainment.。
I'm coming up on you in your territory and I'm terrified and。
in awe of the side of you.。
And I give you honor and respect.。
And there is -- that's what this relationship is supposed to be。
like.。
Listen, our God is described in scripture as a lion.。
And many of us are trying to put him in our cute little。
enclosure so that he's nice to look at but no longer wild.。
No longer dangerous.。
No longer has wrath towards sin.。
I think there's this danger for us in our generations.。
Like we want to make Jesus into like this nice, like Middle。
Eastern Mr. Rogers.。
Like that's what we're trying to do.。
Look, I love Mr. Rogers.。
I think there's a ton of amazing Jesus-like qualities in Mr.。
Rogers.。
But he's also the lion of the tribe of Judah.。
And it's time we start treating and remembering him as such.。
There's this temptation for us to shave the mane off the lion of。
Judah and take his teeth out and put him in an enclosure we come。
to for entertainment.。
Or when we want something.。
Listen, you can't tame God.。
He will not be a mess.。
He will not be put in our cute little enclosure for our。
entertainment.。
He is sovereign.。
He is holy.。
He is the I am who I am.。
And nobody approaches a lion in the wild casually.。
We have lost our reverence for God as a generation.。
We need our reverence back.。
We need our holiness back.。
We need our fear of God back.。
In the words of R.C. Sproul, a God who is only love.。
Only grace.。
Only mercy.。
No sovereignty.。
No justice.。
No holiness.。
No wrath.。
Is an idol.。
It is something we've made in our own image to try to make God。
like us.。
I think one of my favorite descriptions of Christ actually。
comes from C.S. Lewis' book, "The Lion, the Witch, and the。
Wardrobe."。
And that story, there's four children and they're going to meet。
this lion named Aslan who is a depiction of Christ.。
And they're going to meet him for the first time.。
And one of the oldest children named Susan, she finds out for。
the first time that he's not a man, he's actually a lion.。
And she goes, wait, wait, wait.。
She goes, he's a lion?。
I thought he was a man.。
And she goes, is he safe?。
And their guide who is getting ready to take them to see Aslan。
looks at her and goes, he's a lion.。
Of course he's not safe.。
But he's good.。
That's our God.。
He is good.。
He is loving.。
He is merciful.。
But he is not this Middle Eastern Mr. Rogers that we've tried to。
make him into.。
He is bold and powerful as a lion.。
We cannot mistake God's patience with us as his passivity towards。
our sin.。
But there's something I think we need to grasp here.。
Because I think we can get this twisted in our minds.。
And the second thing we need to know is that Jesus at the end of。
the day, he's not as preoccupied and focused on your sin as he is。
on your sanctification.。
We think Jesus, like we get this idea that Jesus, that the father,。
that they're just sitting up in heaven nitpicking at our sins.。
He's not.。
He's passionate about your holiness.。
He's not sitting up there going, man, one, two, there's another one.。
He's going, I'm passionate about you being everything that I've。
created you to be.。
About you living the fullness of life.。
I'll get into this later.。
But in John 16, Jesus has been telling his disciples to keep his。
commandments.。
And then he gets into John 17 and says, listen, I have told you。
these things so that my joy may be in you.。
And your joy may be full.。
See, holiness is not this straight jacket that leads to dead,。
lifeless religion.。
It is actually one of the greatest keys to life-giving joy in Jesus.。
Jesus is not as focused on your sin as he is on your sanctification.。
The only reason Jesus points out our sin and is calling us out of our。
sin is because he's trying to take us into a place of sanctification.。
Now, what is sanctification?。
Sanctification is growing in holiness and in Christ-likeness.。
It's learning to love what he loves, to hate what he hates, and to。
live how he lived.。
I once heard this story, whether it's true or not, it's up for debate,。
but I think the principle is powerful.。
There was a man who claimed that one night he was asleep in bed and he。
opened his eyes to an angel being right in front of his face.。
And he opened his eyes and said there's this angel literally right in。
his face.。
And he looked in the eyes of the angel and he goes, what are you。
looking for?。
And the angel looks into his eyes and he said, God is looking to see。
how much of his son he sees in you.。
The father isn't sitting up in heaven counting your sins going one,。
two, three, four.。
He's going, how much of my son do I see in you?。
Man, and I want the answer when God looks at me, when God looks at us。
to be a whole lot.。
Like I want God to be like I see so much of my son in you.。
Perfect?。
No.。
Improving?。
Yes.。
I want God to look at my life and go I see so much of my son in you.。
That the image of Jesus in me isn't marred and muddied and confused by。
sin and compromise in my life.。
I heard this song last week and I just haven't been able to get it out。
of my head.。
It's a song called I'm Not My Own by Skye Peterson.。
And she says in the verse, she says my body is a temple of the living。
God.。
I will worship in this house that his blood has bought.。
As I bear his image, I love this, may I not profane the holiness I hold。
in this earthly frame.。
And then she goes on in the course to say I belong to the Lord.。
I am not my own.。
At the end of the day, Jesus is not as interested in your sin as he is。
in your sanctification.。
Why?。
Because nothing destroys intimacy with God and effectiveness for the。
kingdom of God faster than unconfessed, unrepentant sin.。
Listen, Jesus desires your holiness because he desires your joy.。
Jesus desires your holiness because he desires your joy.。
He is after our intimacy, our joy, and our effectiveness for the mission。
and the kingdom of God.。
If you would turn quickly to 2 Timothy 2, verses 19-21.。
I will go through this quickly.。
It says this, it says...。
But in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and silver but。
also of wood and clay.。
Some for honor and some for dishonor.。
What is he saying there?。
Like when you go to like your grandma's house, I don't know if your。
grandma is like mine but she had this fine china that was used for。
special occasions.。
He's going there are things in a house that are used for special。
purposes.。
And he says...。
What is Paul saying in this passage to Timothy?。
He's saying, listen, God wants to use all of us.。
But have you ever wondered why does God use certain people to send。
revival to nations?。
Why does God use some people to turn cities and history upside down。
and not use us?。
Is it just a random sovereignty of God?。
Paul says here it's not.。
He says he uses those who have consecrated, who have set their lives。
apart to God.。
Does God use perfect people?。
No.。
Because none of those exist except for Jesus.。
But purified people, yes.。
I think John Tyson when he was commentating on this passage said it。
best.。
He said, listen, if you're not living a consecrated life, God won't。
love you any less.。
But he will use you less.。
The power of God flows unhindered through a holy life.。
In the words of Ian Bounds who wrote a book called "Power Through。
Prayer."。
He wrote in the 1800s, he led a move of God not far from where I。
live.。
One of the incredible moves of God of the past several hundred years.。
And he wrote this in his book "Power Through Prayer" in the 1800s.。
He said, God doesn't need great talents nor great learning nor。
great preachers that God needs.。
Like what's -- not claiming I'm a great preacher.。
I'm saying God doesn't need just more preachers.。
He doesn't need more people to talk into a microphone.。
He says what God is looking for are people great in holiness, great in。
faith, great in love, great in fidelity, great for God.。
People always preaching by holy sermons in the pulpit and by holy。
words.。
He said, God is looking for people who are great in holiness, great in。
faith, great in love, great in fidelity, great in faith, great in。
love, great in faith.。
And he said, God is looking for people who are great in holiness,。
great in faith, great in love, great in faith.。
And he said, God is looking for people who are great in holiness,。
great in faith.。
And he said, God is looking for people who are great in holiness,。
great in faith.。
And he said, God is looking for people who are great in holiness,。
great in faith.。
And he said, God is looking for people who are great in holiness,。
great in faith.。
And he said, God is looking for people who are great in holiness,。
great in faith.。
And he said, God is looking for people who are great in holiness,。
great in faith.。
And he said, God is looking for people who are great in holiness,。
great in faith.。
And he said, God is looking for people who are great in holiness,。
great in faith.。
And he said, God is looking for people who are great in holiness,。
great in faith.。
And he said, God is looking for people who are great in holiness,。
great in faith.。
And he said, God is looking for people who are great in holiness,。
great in faith.。
And he said, God is looking for people who are great in holiness,。
great in faith.。
And he said, God is looking for people who are great in holiness,。
great in faith.。
And on either side of this road you have two ditches from the pit of。
hell that are called legalism and lawlessness.。
Now what are both of those?。
Legalism says I can be as good as God.。
Lawlessness says I know better than God.。
So legalism, perfect example in the scripture is the Pharisees.。
They're going, I don't need Jesus.。
I can earn my way to God by keeping laws.。
And everyone has sinned and fallen short of the glory of God.。
There is nothing you can do.。
Growing up and this is something in my own life that I battle with。
and I go, Lord, rid this from my heart.。
My temptation is to think God had to save me just not from that much.。
God had to save me just not from that much.。
And it is like we have fallen so far.。
Like we think we're not that bad because we live among a bunch of。
other really bad people.。
And I think I'm not that bad of a basketball player because I play。
with a bunch of mediocre people.。
And if I play LeBron one-on-one, I'm a horrible basketball player.。
When we compare ourselves with the glory of God we realize how far。
from him we are.。
And legalism says I can be as good as God.。
But I think our temptation more so in our generation is to fall into。
the ditch of lawlessness that says I know better than God.。
I know better than you that this thing isn't good for my life or。
displeases you or I shouldn't be walking in this.。
But I know better than you because I'm getting fulfillment and joy。
out of it and I think it's going to be all right.。
I'm going to keep walking in this because I like it and I think I。
know better than you do.。
But God is looking at the long game and this is out for your。
destruction.。
And it's the twin ditches of legalism and lawlessness.。
And in Matthew 24 earlier in that chapter in verse 12 it says this,。
and because lawlessness will abound, the love of many will grow。
cold.。
Love for Jesus grows cold in an atmosphere of lawlessness.。
We cannot say that we love God and yet have no desire to obey God.。
Those things are incongruent with the scriptures.。
We cannot say we love God and have no desire to obey God.。
What is lawlessness?。
It's contempt for or violation of or disregard for the commands of。
God.。
And lawlessness in the end, you might be able to entertain a。
little bit of it now.。
Like you may be able to have a little bit of fire and a little。
bit of lawlessness in your life but in the end that thing is going。
to kill.。
It will smother the flame of fire and passion for Jesus in your。
life.。
It will take it out.。
And lawlessness is a fake liberty.。
It is counterfeit freedom.。
See, liberty and freedom in Jesus, this loving obedience to。
Jesus, liberty in Jesus is not the freedom to sin however we。
want, do whatever we want and still be covered by the grace of。
God.。
Liberty is the freedom to choose to obey God.。
Not simply out of obligation but because we love him.。
It's liberty because it's no longer forced but rather out of。
freedom.。
In John 14, 15, Jesus is speaking to his disciples, if you love。
me, you will keep my commandments.。
The evidence of love for God is a desire to keep his commands.。
He says again in John 14, 21, he who has my commands and keeps。
them, it's he who loves me and he who loves me will be loved by。
my father and I will love him and manifest myself to him.。
I will reveal myself to him.。
He says in 15.10, if you keep my commandments, you will abide。
and live in my love.。
Guys, I think if some of the people in our generation, like。
if some of us were around at the time Jesus was preaching that。
message in John 14 and 15, I think some of us would be going。
up to him after service and hey, Jesus, can I talk to you for a。
second.。
Great message.。
It was good.。
It was pretty good.。
But I don't know if you know this.。
I do.。
That's why I am telling you.。
Is all of that like obedience to command stuff, it's kind of。
legalistic.。
Like I don't know if you know that.。
But it's kind of leaning towards legalism.。
But he's going no, no, no.。
He goes, I have told you these things so that my joy may be in。
you and your joy may be fullest.。
And I think our generation if we were back in the days of King。
Josiah and the Old Testament, maybe some of us would have said。
the same thing.。
Where Josiah becomes king at 8 years old.。
His dad is an idiot and leads the entire nation of Israel into。
sin and corruption and is tearing the nation apart.。
Josiah becomes king at 8 years old.。
And when he's a teenager, they uncover the word of God that his。
dad had buried under a bunch of junk in the temple for decades.。
Like it had disappeared.。
And he gets a hold of it.。
He reads it like in one sitting.。
Reads the Old Testament essentially.。
Not all of it because not all had been written by the point he。
was alive.。
But he reads the scriptures for the first time and sees how far。
they are from how God called them to live.。
And he starts going from north to south in the kingdom of。
Israel and tearing down every single idol in all of Israel.。
And some of you are going, Josiah, calm down bro.。
Every idol.。
Every one.。
Listen, okay, you can have the big ones.。
Take the big ones.。
Those are great.。
Like take those.。
But let us keep our household gods.。
Let's just keep the little ones.。
Okay, not the household gods.。
Let us at least keep the high places.。
And the high places in Israel weren't even necessarily places。
of worship to false gods.。
They were attempts to worship God how people wanted to worship。
God.。
They were altars to Yahweh built in a way that was not prescribed。
by the word of God.。
That they are going, I'm going to worship God and do it how I。
want.。
And no king in Israel's history had ever torn them down.。
They had torn down the other idols and taken the household。
idols down.。
But they had never taken the high places down.。
And Josiah goes, no.。
No compromise.。
Not in my day.。
And listen, I think there are some of us, I think we are in。
danger of a generation of not even realizing how far we are。
from God because we haven't been in the book enough to know.。
Like Josiah uncovers the word of God that's been hidden for。
generations and he weeps and he's like, where was this?。
Nobody told me this.。
Nobody told me that God wanted to bless our nation.。
That he wanted to live among his people.。
That he wanted to dwell in our midst.。
That the manifest presence of God could be in our nation and。
in our lives.。
And we could be a beacon of hope to the world.。
And this is what he tells us to live.。
And we have completely squandered it and we have。
completely neglected God.。
And look, if we will get into the word of God, it will expose。
the idols in our lives.。
I think God is looking for a generation that is going no。
compromise.。
We want God.。
Listen, sacrificial obedience isn't legalism.。
It is evidence that there's nothing in your life that you。
love as much as nearness to God.。
You know, one of the other things that we learned when we。
were at that tiger exhibit, obviously you can tell I really。
liked the tiger exhibit.。
My wife actually pointed this out so I'm going to pretend like。
I came up with this.。
One of the other things we learned at the tiger exhibit,。
they have three tigers at this one exhibit.。
But they will only put one in the enclosure at a time.。
And so some people were asking the zookeeper who was standing。
there explaining, why do you only put one at a time?。
Will they fight?。
He goes, no, no, they won't fight.。
And at that point he starts to explain to us the territorial。
nature of big cats.。
Like tigers and lions.。
He goes, they won't fight.。
He goes, you would just never see them.。
He goes, because one would go to one corner of the enclosure and。
one would go to the other corner of the enclosure.。
Why?。
Because big cats don't share territory.。
The lion of Judah is not content to share the territory of our。
hearts with idols and unrepentant sin.。
He won't do it.。
He'll go, you want to live that way?。
It will smother your love and our intimacy.。
He's not going to share the territory of our hearts with。
idols.。
Sacrificial obedience is not legalism.。
It is evidence of true love for Jesus.。
And I want to say this lastly.。
We're talking about in the days of Noah, as it was in the days of。
Noah, so will it be when the son of man comes.。
I was meditating on that passage as I was preparing for tonight。
and just thinking about that, I'm going, really, Lord, like one。
righteous man?。
One righteous man and his family were saved out of all of those。
people, really God?。
And I just felt him just remind me.。
Yes, Luke, only one blameless man, as it said of Noah.。
But Noah was a picture of the only one righteous, sinless man。
who would come to save the world of sin.。
And now his family.。
See, Jesus is the ark that we run into in the flood of the。
wrath of God.。
And we say, Jesus, save us.。
It is a prophetic picture of going there is displeasure of。
God against sin.。
And we run in and go, Jesus, only you can cleanse me.。
Only you can change me.。
I love what Charles Spurgeon said, you want to live a holy。
life, live near to Jesus.。
Like we can't live in holiness in our own strength.。
It is nearness to Jesus, the Holy Spirit empowering us to。
live how he has called us to live.。
Jesus is the ark that we run into in the midst of the flood.。
Listen, God's work on the cross through Jesus didn't simply。
erase the wrath of God against sin.。
I think we can think that, Jesus came and now poof, God no。
more.。
That's not what happened.。
What Jesus did on the cross didn't erase God's wrath against。
sin more than Noah building an ark erased the flood from。
coming.。
What Jesus did on the cross rescued us from God's wrath。
against sin.。
But I think there's this danger for us.。
That I see in our generation, we don't see Noah when the flood。
comes and ark is built and lifted up on the flood water and。
getting on the deck and wonder how close I can get to the。
railing without falling into the flood.。
I wonder how close I can get.。
And the rain starts to stop a little bit and flood water。
coming from the springs of the deep as the word says was。
happening.。
And the water starts to calm a little bit.。
I will take a quick dip in the flood.。
I will take a swim in the water.。
How close to the line can I get without falling into God's。
displeasure?。
And I think God is looking for a generation that's not going。
how close to the line can I get without sinning.。
He's looking for a generation that's asking how close to God。
can I get without holding anything back from him.。
Jesus isn't looking for a generation that's asking how。
close to God can I get without sinning.。
He's looking for a generation that's going this is a gray。
area so I will dive into it.。
We're not looking at gray areas and going it's gray so the。
Bible isn't clear so I will run for it.。
I will jump into it.。
We're not asking is it sin.。
We're asking does this thing actively draw me to Jesus?。
Does this actively draw me closer to God?。
Does this look like the pursuit of righteousness?。
The pursuit of holiness?。
And tonight I think there's a couple responses for us.。
And if you want to go ahead and stand to your feet.。
I think there's a couple responses for us tonight.。
And like I said at the beginning, I think there's some。
people that are asking what is it that you do in here?。
That you don't know Jesus.。
Maybe you grew up in church.。
Maybe you thought you knew what it meant to follow Jesus.。
Maybe Christian was just a label you used because you grew up in。
a Christian home.。
But you never heard that the wages of sin is death.。
That all have sinned.。
That what we are rightfully owed for the choices we have made to。
rebel against God is separation from God for eternity.。
And it's the good news that God became a man in Jesus Christ.。
That he lived the life that we couldn't live.。
That we've tried to live.。
But we couldn't.。
That we've all sinned.。
And then he died the death that we deserve for our sin in our。
place.。
And not only did he die the death we deserve.。
But three days later he rose from the dead proving he was who he。
claimed to be.。
The son of God.。
And now he offers the gift of salvation and forgiveness of。
sins to all who will repent and believe in him.。
And there are some of you here tonight who you need to make the。
decision to say I'm going all in.。
I see that there is the wrath of God against sin.。
The flood coming.。
And I will not live in indifference towards it.。
I see the ark.。
Listen, if you were living in the days of Noah and you could see。
the raindrops falling and the ark door was still open,。
wouldn't you run?。
Wouldn't you run to go save me?。
I don't care what the stipulations are.。
I don't care what the qualifications need to be.。
And good news, the qualification is just this, Jesus, I have no。
qualifications.。
I need you.。
And I surrender everything in my life to you.。
Wouldn't you run?。
That's some of us in the room tonight.。
And then there's some of us in the room tonight that I think we。
need to pray as the psalmist prayed in Psalm 139.。
God, search me and know me.。
And see if there's any wicked way or unpleasing way in me to。
you.。
And lead me in the way everlasting.。
God, is there anything that is hindering closeness with you?。
Like you've just been coming off of launch, talking about the。
love of God, the desire that he has to be near to his people to。
live with you, to love you, to transform you.。
And the pursuit of holiness isn't about going, well, I got to。
clean myself up to come to God.。
It's going, God, help me.。
I need you.。
Lord, I want to live close to you.。
Would you shine a spotlight on any area that's compromising that。
in my life.。
Like listen, even recently I've been praying, Lord, is there。
anything in my life.。
And I felt like he was highlighting a TV show that we。
watched and it was like super clean.。
Except for a few pieces of this one part of it.。
I felt like, Lord, listen, like nothing in your life that could。
compromise intimacy with me.。
How many of y'all have heard the verse draw near to God and God。
will draw near to you?。
Have you heard that before?。
Did you know that that verse is actually in the context of。
repentance?。
We think, draw near to God in worship.。
Draw near to God in the word.。
Draw near to God in prayer.。
But actually it says in James chapter 4, it says, cleanse your。
hands, clean your hands.。
Purify your hearts, you double-minded.。
Weep and mourn.。
Draw near to God and God will draw near to you.。
You want to know what the key to drawing near to God is?。
It's repentance.。
It's going, God, I turn from anything that hinders intimacy。
with you according to your word.。
And I am running into full surrender to you.。
And so we're going to take a moment to respond to that in。
just a second.。
One thing I wanted to do tonight is I know we've been talking。
about holiness and there's so many practical pieces, so much。
misconception around holiness in our generation.。
So I recently wrote a book on this, it's actually super short.。
It's like 70 pages.。
I made it short on purpose.。
JP, Jonathan McCloud, wrote the main endorsement for it.。
But I wanted to give it to y'all.。
You guys can download it for free.。
Actually if you scan this QR code, you can download it for。
free.。
I just encourage you to read that.。
Here are the keys that God is calling us to walk into.。
And the subtitle of this book is rediscovering the joy of。
holiness.。
That God desires our holiness because he desires our joy.。
So if you're looking for some practical next steps, that's a。
great place to start.。
I want to go ahead with every head bowed, every eye closed.。
If you are here tonight and you feel the Holy Spirit drawing you。
to Jesus, you're going, man, I didn't know that my sin had。
separated me from God.。
I thought Jesus was just like this guru guy, this nice guy to。
kind of powder my life after.。
I didn't know that he was saving me from the righteous judgment。
of God against sin.。
And you're going, tonight is my night.。
I am surrendering everything to Jesus.。
I'm putting my faith in Jesus.。
I am turning from the way I've been walking.。
I'm giving everything to Jesus.。
Just on the count of three, I want you to raise your hand and。
look up at me.。
If that's you and you feel your heart beating out of your chest,。
I want you to look up at the Holy Spirit saying, that's you.。
One, two, three.。
Come on, praise God.。
Praise God, come on.。
Praise God, praise God.。
Come on, thank you, Jesus.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
Come on, praise God.。
If you're at the porch live location, same thing.。
Just put up your hand, just this physical response going, I'm。
surrendering everything to Jesus.。
Praise God.。
And then with every head bowed, every eye closed, if there is --。
if there are those of us in the room, we're praying, God, search。
me, know me.。
See if there is any wicked way in me.。
Lead me in your way.。
If there's anything unpleasing to you, shine a spotlight in my。
heart, Holy Spirit, because I want to be near to you.。
I want to draw near to you.。
I'm not going to call for response, but what I'm going to。
do is we go back into worship.。
If that's you, there's going to be a ministry team down here.。
If there are things you need to confess your sin, the Bible says。
to confess your sins to one another.。
Listen, I have been walking in this.。
This is the key to your freedom of confessing openly what you。
have been walking and going.。
I'm going to go to a leader, I'm going to go to one of the porch。
team members, I'm going to go, hey, this is something I have。
been struggling with, I'm walking in this, I'm confessing。
this, I'm turning from this, would you pray with me.。
I would encourage you to come down, find a team member, pray。
with them.。
And the Bible says that if we confess our sins, he is。
faithful and he is just to forgive us our sins and to。
cleanse us.。
Guys, there is nothing like the feeling of the fresh cleansing。
and washing of the Holy Spirit.。
When we come and we confess sin to God, he doesn't go, been。
waiting for you to tell me that, should have done that a long。
time ago.。
He says, man, I have been waiting to wash you.。
All that guilt you have been feeling, all that confusion。
you have been feeling, all that grasping for something that。
you thought was going to satisfy you but didn't, I have been。
waiting to cleanse you.。
I have been waiting to wash you clean.。
Let Jesus do that for you tonight.。
And if you gave your life to Christ for the first time, I。
would encourage you to come down and pray with the porch。
and we will do this quickly.。
If you gave your life to Christ for the first time, we will。
pray this together.。
This prayer does not save you.。
Putting your faith in Jesus does.。
What this prayer is, is helping to give you words to say I am。
giving my all to Jesus.。
I encourage us to pray this together.。
Let's pray this.。
Lord Jesus, I know that I have sinned.。
That I have fallen short of your glory.。
I know that I need you.。
I know that I have been separated from you by my sin.。
And I ask that you would come into my life.。
And change me from the inside out.。
I give you every part of my life.。
The big parts.。
The small parts.。
And everything in between.。
And I commit to seek you with my whole heart.。
From this day forward.。
In Jesus' name I pray.。
Amen.。
[Music playing]。
(gentle music)。
you。
