(upbeat music)。
Come on, Fortch, how we doing?。
(audience cheering)。
Come on.。
Come on, come on.。
Tonight, yes, tonight we are talking,。
I'm talking to the men.。
Hey ladies, you can leave.。
No, I'm kidding, I'm kidding.。
Hey, are there any dudes here anyways?。
Do you guys show up?。
(audience cheering)。
I love it, I love it, I love it.。
Well, I wanna say hi to our campuses,。
El Paso and Fort Worth and Houston and Tulsa。
and wherever you're at around the world,。
if you're listening, welcome to the porch.。
We're glad you're here.。
We're talking to the men, what to look for in a woman.。
And so to find out what you guys are thinking,。
we went to the State Fair of Texas here in Dallas。
and we were asking some guys.。
And so we caught some video.。
Why don't we start just by watching this?。
Hey guys, Josh and Elaine out here at the State Fair。
and we're here trying to figure out how people navigate。
life, love, relationships.。
Dating, their dream guy, their dream girl,。
do you believe in the one, soulmate, all that stuff.。
Yeah, come along with the ride, let's figure it out.。
Describe to me your dream girl.。
You know, she gotta like be into the same stuff。
that I can be into, 'cause like if we ain't into the same stuff。
we're not gonna click.。
Probably have to be like a Mexican, nice body, tan.。
She got a nice smile, some cute eyes.。
You know, the body doesn't have to be perfect,。
but you know, a little, a little curviness.。
Funny I guess.。
Yeah, what do you think?。
Yeah, someone who's quirky like me, I don't know.。
Just instant connection I guess.。
Like he said, beautiful smile,。
that's like the first thing, smile.。
If she has a good personality,。
I never really was big on the body, so like.。
(laughing)。
All right, all right, all right.。
So that's what we're thinking.。
So my family and I, we went to the state fair as well,。
and a very different experience, right,。
when you got three kids with you,。
and so you know, we're riding the ladybugs and stuff.。
And we go through this like, that warehouse thing。
where they, it's not the car show,。
but that area by Big Tex, if you've been there,。
you've been to Dallas.。
And in there they like sell hot tubs and mattresses.。
You guys been in there?。
You probably don't even go in there,。
but we go in there 'cause we're those people.。
And we're walking through,。
and there's this guy selling a Vitamix, a blender.。
Like and so we, our family, we get sucked into this guy.。
He's got the microphone on, and he's just making the sale,。
talking about how amazing this blender is.。
And so I don't know if you have blenders。
where you're into like juicing celery or something,。
but this dude's just getting after it.。
And it's an amazing blender, right?。
Like it weighs the stuff that you put inside.。
It tells you the recipe, and then it tells you。
if you're putting enough of it in there.。
And he's mixing it all up, and he's pulling some spinach,。
and some kale, and some grapes.。
I'm like, man, I don't want anything to do with that.。
But as he adds, he adds some like ice and water,。
and it keeps telling you it will be green。
until you put just, or actually it's red, I'm sorry,。
it'll be red until you put just enough in,。
and then it turns green, and it says,。
okay, switch to the next ingredient.。
And he's just mixing it up.。
And as I was thinking about that with my family,。
as this guy's adding stuff in there,。
this is what I think guys do when it comes。
to trying to find the perfect woman.。
You know, they want these different ingredients, okay?。
Like I want her to be really fun, okay?。
But not too much drama, okay?。
I want her to love football, but not too much football,。
like not more than me, 'cause that's weird.。
And I want her to be like really hot, you know,。
add the cayenne or whatever.。
I want her, she needs to look like Gigi Hadid。
or Megan Fox, but also serve like Mother Teresa, okay?。
But, and so I want her to love to work out,。
because I like to look at people who love to work out,。
and so you're kind of throwing that stuff in there, right?。
This is what you're thinking,。
and you're trying to mix up the perfect woman.。
And it leaves you looking, and wanting, and searching.。
Because if I'm honest, as I've met with guys。
over the past decade, here's what I,。
here's been my big takeaway。
of what you guys are looking for.。
You don't know what you're looking for.。
You don't really know what you're looking for.。
You're thinking, oh, you know, I'll just,。
when I find it, I'll have this feeling,。
this emotional response.。
That's what's going on, like it'll be perfect,。
it'll be just the right mix of everything,。
so I have a little bit of this, a little bit of that,。
and everything is gonna blend together perfectly,。
throw me into her life,。
and we're gonna mix together perfectly.。
And that's just not how it works.。
And what it does is I see guys get into relationships,。
and everything seems right,。
but then anxiety kicks in, fear kicks in,。
cold feet kicks in, all of these questions。
begin to consume them, they go,。
well, I don't know if she's the one,。
or if we're gonna make it work,。
or if I should take that, you know, go further,。
take that step.。
And what if?。
What if I could help you tonight?。
What if I could give you from the scriptures,。
the things to look for in a woman,。
just to keep it really simple,。
hey, here's some things that you can look for in a woman.。
So this evening, we're talking about the fantasy girl,。
as we move through this series called Fantasy,。
Finding Real Love in a Fake World.。
And the reason we say finding real love in a fake world。
is because that's the big felt need。
that everybody came in here with,。
everybody's listening with, you want to be loved,。
you want to experience love, you want to give love.。
But the problem is, is the world says,。
hey, this is how you do that,。
they have no idea what they're talking about.。
They're awful at it.。
They're really, really, really bad at it,。
and yet they're your teachers.。
Be it social media, be it Tinder, be it movies,。
be it TV shows, be it airbrushed magazines, it's fake.。
And it leaves you not knowing what you're looking for.。
And you end up thinking about a wife like she's a smoothie,。
with all the perfect ingredients in there.。
And you don't even know what ingredients you're looking for.。
I'll say it in a different way,。
kind of throwback to last week,。
you're looking for the wrong ingredients.。
And so what can we do about it?。
I want you to know I understand, like I empathize with you.。
When I was looking for a wife, I mean,。
here's the truth about where I was at,。
wasn't in a relationship with Jesus.。
I was entrenched into an addiction to pornography and sex.。
I loved going to the strip clubs.。
So what did I want in a wife?。
I wanted someone who looked like a porn star,。
who I could tolerate.。
Like, honestly, like I could just put up with her.。
And I think the reason I say that is,。
I think that's a lot of you,。
men, you came in here,。
you've been brainwashed by the same teacher I was.。
And you may not say it like I did,。
but subconsciously, that's what you want.。
You want someone who's hot by your standards。
and that you can tolerate.。
And that's gonna lead to tragedy, disaster,。
despair, divorce, and a lot of hurt.。
And it may just leave you,。
you might just keep looking and looking。
and looking and looking.。
I want you to know, men, marriage is a good thing.。
Proverbs 18, verse 22 says,。
"He who finds a wife finds what is good。
"and receives favor from the Lord."。
And so if you are here or you are listening。
and you are well and you want a wife, find one.。
Like, find one, I wanna help you.。
Like, we could do this before you go home tonight.。
Like, I'm telling you, we can make it super simple.。
All right, we'll just do some arranged marriages,。
mix it up, it's gonna be awesome.。
But you gotta start by knowing what you're looking for.。
And so I think the scripture's gonna do this.。
So we're talking about the fantasy girl。
and it's interesting because there's a scripture,。
an entire chapter of the Bible。
dedicated to the fantasy girl,。
or the gold standard, if you will.。
Do you know what it was, what it is?。
Proverbs 31, Proverbs 31, woman.。
I probably referenced Proverbs 31 50 times。
in the past 10 years, and I've never taught this text。
in the way that we're going to do it tonight,。
verse by verse, looking at it.。
And it's really an interesting text。
because you know who wrote it?。
So it says King Lemuel.。
King Lemuel, there's some debate around this,。
but leading scholarship believes。
that there was no King Lemuel of Israel.。
We don't see that in history.。
We should encourage you because the other kings。
we see in history, the history books,。
show us who they were.。
We don't see this one.。
King Lemuel means devoted to God or the fruit of my vows.。
So people think that it's Solomon, talking about Solomon,。
but it says really who wrote it。
is actually King Lemuel's mom, which would be Bathsheba.。
And so this scripture would have written by Bathsheba.。
And here's why, it's a loving mother, a wise mother,。
giving instruction to her kid of,。
hey, this is who I'm praying that you end up with.。
Proverbs 31, verse 10 through 31,。
is actually a poem, it's an acrostic.。
And so there's 22 letters in the Hebrew alphabet.。
Every line starts with one of those letters.。
If it was written, if it was done in English,。
it would be like, you know, A is for apple, B is for,。
and so that's an acrostic.。
As you go down, it's the first letter。
of every letter of the Hebrew alphabet.。
And so this is a mother giving instruction to her children.。
Hey, this is what you look for.。
And here's the promises that it makes,。
that if you find this woman, it says,。
her husband is respected at the city gates。
where he takes his seat among the elders of the land.。
Every man here, ladies,。
I'm gonna give you some good advice here.。
Every man here wants to feel respected.。
He has a deep desire inside of him to feel respected.。
And specifically when he gets married,。
he wants to feel respected by his wife.。
This text says, hey, you find the right woman。
and you're gonna be respected not only by her,。
but all of the people of the land.。
It goes on to say the promise to the woman,。
it says that her children arise and call her blessed,。
her husband also, and he praises her.。
Many women do noble things, but you surpass them all.。
This is the words of her husband.。
Many women do noble things, but you surpass them all.。
And it says, and then the command to the guy,。
because this text was not written to women.。
This text, this is not the,。
hey, here's what you must be women.。
This is, hey guys, here's what you should value.。
Here's what you should look for.。
And it ends with an instruction to the men.。
It says this, honor her for all that her hands have done。
and let her works bring her praise at the city gates,。
which was not something that was done in Israel.。
And so this is extraordinary praise。
for an extraordinary woman.。
It is the gold standard.。
Ladies, can I tell you something?。
For the next few minutes,。
you're really gonna have to fight something.。
Comparison.。
All right, so let's resolve your heart right now。
that you don't let it turn downward,。
that you don't grow discouraged。
because there's hope in this text.。
So hang in there with me as we move through this text。
that it would not beat you down.。
And so Proverbs 31, we're gonna look at seven qualities.。
Yes, seven from this text.。
I've read commentaries that listed 31.。
I read commentaries that listed 10.。
I looked at here, I think we can dumb it down。
to seven qualities to look for as you're dating someone.。
What is dating?。
My friend Daniel Crawford next door,。
he gave me this definition, I love it.。
It says assessing someone's suitability as a spouse.。
How do I assess someone's suitability as a spouse?。
This text, men, this text will help you do that.。
Verse 10, let's go.。
A wife of noble character who can find,。
she is worth far more than rubies.。
Where it says a wife of noble character,。
it could also be translated in the Hebrew, a capable wife.。
Okay, it's saying, hey, this thing,。
you have to seek her out.。
She is difficult to find, but if you find her,。
she's more valuable than rubies.。
Right off the bat, you have an application,。
men, you have to find her,。
which means you have to look for her,。
which means you're going to have to take a risk.。
You're going to have to get out there and search for her.。
She is not, while you're watching the Cowboys game,。
gonna fall through the roof and land on your lap.。
That's not going to happen, all right?。
You have to seek this woman out.。
Her husband has full confidence in her。
and lacks nothing of value.。
She brings him good, not harm, all the days of her life.。
And so it says right off the bat,。
what we're looking for, one of the qualities,。
you are looking for someone who is faithful.。
That's the first quality, faithful, you can write that down.。
She should be faithful.。
Now let's make that practical.。
What does that mean?。
It means she's trustworthy.。
It means that she does what she says she's going to do.。
You can ask yourself that question, what does she do?。
How do I know if she's faithful?。
Well, does she do what she says she's going to do?。
Does she use her words to build up?。
Does she gossip?。
Because that breaks trust.。
And you have to trust this woman.。
This is your life partner we're talking about.。
Like a marriage has to be built on trust.。
If there is no trust, there is no marriage.。
And so this woman should be known for her integrity.。
You know this is true if you've ever been。
in an untrustworthy relationship.。
It is miserable.。
I've been in one, you guys are nodding your head,。
getting whiplash back there.。
It is terrible.。
Causes you so much pain, you feel trapped in a prison,。
but you can't get out.。
And so this is a big problem.。
It's really interesting.。
Fox News two weeks ago actually asked me to write a response。
an article about this girl who made a list of 22 things。
that her boyfriend had to do.。
Did anybody see this?。
Yeah, here's a picture of this list.。
And so it's like, hey, you are not to have。
single girls numbers.。
If I text you, you have to get back.。
You have to respond within 10 minutes.。
If I catch you with another girl, I will kill you, okay?。
Wow.。
She says you can't hang out with these particular friends.。
All right, I'm looking at that.。
So I read it.。
They say, hey, we want you to write a response to this.。
I'm reading it.。
I'm like, man, my response is that that relationship。
is no longer intact.。
Okay, the way they found this list is this guy traded。
in his car and whoever got the car,。
the list was still in there.。
He posted it on the internet and said, oh, this poor soul.。
And it went mega viral, like worldwide viral.。
And so they said, hey, respond to this.。
And I said, listen, that marriage is doomed。
because there's no trust there.。
That's not healthy.。
You have to be able to trust each other.。
Now, listen, let me say this to you guys.。
Just because you don't trust her doesn't mean。
she's not trustworthy.。
(congregation laughing)。
Little subtle rumble there.。
Mm, a lot of, hey, just listen, dear in this message,。
let's not elbow each other, point, okay?。
Don't do that.。
Just because you don't trust her doesn't mean。
she's not trustworthy.。
It may be your issue.。
You may not be trustworthy.。
Untrustworthy people don't trust people.。
That's a fact.。
Untrustworthy people don't trust people。
because they're afraid that someone's gonna do to them。
what they're already doing behind their back.。
And so I'm talking about if you have evidence or proof。
that, hey, she is not trustworthy or she is not faithful.。
And so if she's faithful, how does she care for her home?。
Verse 13, she selects wool and flax。
and works with eager hands.。
Flax is used to make a really fine linen.。
And where it says she's eager to use her hands,。
what it's actually saying is she enjoys it.。
Like she finds joy out of doing these things.。
In context, it says she is like the merchant ships。
bringing her food from afar,。
which is such a beautiful text because what it's saying is。
she's like the people, people who are around her。
are like the people standing at the docks.。
And when food comes in from all of these lands,。
it's exciting things.。
It's things they've never seen.。
It's saying that when you sit down to a meal。
that she's made, you don't know what it is.。
You don't know what to expect.。
It could be anything.。
She's not serving you hamburger helper.。
Like she's coming up with creative things,。
which I just love that that's in the text.。
It says she gets up while it is still night.。
She provides food for her family。
and portions for her female servants.。
What this text is saying is she's able to assess。
the needs of her family.。
And so my second quality to look for is,。
is she attentive to the needs of her home?。
Attentive to the needs of her home.。
This is something that you're going to want。
in someone that you're going to spend。
the rest of your life with.。
What does that mean?。
Practically speaking, it's talking about。
her caring for her family.。
Does she love children?。
You're like, well, how do I know if she loves children?。
Well, she wants to be around them.。
You know, I'm gonna babysit,。
I'm gonna keep so and so's, you know,。
I just love their kids, you know.。
Love when they're around.。
Why is that important?。
Well, because a huge part of marriage is raising children.。
And what I've seen in the generations that are,。
my generation and the generation behind me,。
Gen Z, is we get self-absorbed and selfish。
and we start to think, you know,。
I don't, kids kind of get in the way.。
I mean, I do weddings sometimes where we're talking。
with people, they're like, well, you know,。
yeah, we're gonna travel the world and then we'll have kids.。
And I'm like, what I would tell you is travel the world now。
because marriage is about family.。
And what God's view of kids is,。
he says they're a blessing from the Lord.。
Have lots of them.。
That's what the Lord says.。
And so if you don't view kids as a blessing,。
you don't view children like God does.。
And you should consider that.。
Now, listen, if you can't have kids,。
that's not a disqualifier at all.。
You can adopt, you can decide.。
I've got a friend in ministry that he and his wife,。
they never had children, but they have poured their life。
into millions, literally millions of kids.。
That's a life well-lived.。
And so what does it look like to love children?。
This woman has skills, you know, to make a house a home.。
Homemaker is such, like it has negative connotation today.。
I reject that because I think God's word rejects that.。
It is a compliment.。
It is a gift.。
And so here's the encouragement to you, ladies,。
is if you're like out there and you're like,。
yeah, but that's not me.。
You know, this is a great time to work on those skills.。
It's not a non-negotiable for you.。
I'll just say, like my wife, she doesn't love to cook.。
It's, she has a ton of gifts, like a long list of gifts.。
Cooking's not like on the first couple of pages.。
And so we eat out a lot and that's okay.。
I like to eat out and so we've got a budget, we stick to it.。
It works, we've had a great marriage.。
And so I'm not, don't be discouraged if that's not you,。
but this is something that is straight from this proverb.。
And so I'm putting it before you.。
And so right now there's some women in the room,。
they're like, oh, but you know,。
he's against, you know, working outside the home。
and you know, this and that.。
No, not at all, no.。
This woman works outside the home.。
This text goes out of its way to show。
that this woman works outside the home.。
She works outside the home, she works inside the home.。
She does a lot of work.。
That's this woman, Proverbs 31 here.。
But let me show you that she works outside the home.。
It's 16, she considers a field and buys it.。
Out of her earnings, she plants a vineyard.。
She sets about her work vigorously.。
Her arms are strong for her tasks.。
And so men, what you're looking for,。
a woman with big arms, okay?。
That's gonna be important.。
She sees that her trading is profitable。
and her lamp does not go out at night.。
In her hand, she holds the distaff。
and grasps the spindle for her fingers.。
A distaff is something for sewing or knitting.。
And then also in verse 24, it says,。
she makes linen garments and sells them。
and supplies the merchants with sashes.。
This lady is getting after it.。
She has jobs upon jobs outside the home, okay?。
That's the truth.。
And so my third quality that you're looking for,。
that you would consider is that she's not lazy.。
That she's not lazy.。
She's going to have to do a lot of work.。
Men, here's why.。
Because being married to you is a lot of work.。
(congregation laughing)。
And I know from experience,。
being married to me is a lot of work, okay?。
A lot of work.。
And so it's, listen, marriage is hard.。
You guys ever heard that, marriage is hard?。
You ever heard that?。
Anybody sick of hearing that?。
I'm so sick of hearing how marriage, how hard it is.。
Let me tell you the truth.。
Let me tell you the truth.。
Life is hard.。
That's the truth.。
Men, let me talk to you for a minute.。
Men, life is hard.。
That's why you need a helper.。
That's what the scripture calls a wife, a helper.。
Can I tell you something before you get offended。
and walk out?。
It's what the scripture calls the Holy Spirit, God,。
a helper.。
And I'm not saying that you can't be a helper.。
You can be a helper.。
And do you know why you need a helper, men?。
Because we need help.。
That's simple, right?。
We're just some dudes that need some help.。
And so God in his kindness is like, hey, let me help you.。
I will not only give you my Holy Spirit to help you,。
but I will create an amazing, beautiful creature。
that is as incredible in the way that he's wired her。
to come alongside you.。
And so, you know, it's going to be important。
that she is not lazy,。
because the job before you, and it's not just marriage,。
it's life, is hard.。
Like I've got a hard job.。
You know, I love my job.。
I love where I work.。
I love who I work with.。
But I write a term paper every week.。
I listen to, in the form of a sermon,。
I listen to people's problems every day.。
You know, there's some difficulties with it.。
Let me tell you something.。
I couldn't trade my wife for her job, not for one second.。
I am not one of those dudes like,。
my job's harder than hers.。
No, her job is so much harder than mine.。
It's so much harder than mine.。
And so as you think about marriage,。
you need to know what the job is in order to find。
the person that you're going to partner with.。
Okay?。
Like, let me just tell you,。
'cause I know you're thinking, well, you know,。
I just want someone who's fun and hot.。
This actually comes from the book, if you've read it.。
And so when I was in high school,。
I had this huge crush with this girl in my class.。
We'll call her Kelly.。
It's a made up name.。
And we were being partnered up,。
guys and girls being partnered up.。
And so I'm sitting there and the teacher's going around。
and I'm like, please, please put me with Kelly.。
Please.。
I'm like, I don't even believe in God,。
but I'm like, God, please put me with Kelly.。
And at the time, and I believe in God now,。
just in case you were wondering.。
Big, big fan of God.。
And so she's going around and she's like, okay,。
we'll do Jeff and Elizabeth.。
All right, we're going to do John and Jennifer.。
And then she's like, all right, we'll do Jonathan.。
And I'm like, please, please, Jesus, please.。
Kelly, I'm like, yes.。
You know?。
And because I was attracted to Kelly, she was attractive.。
And the assignment was,。
I just didn't consider what the assignment was.。
The assignment was we were going to dissect frogs.。
And Kelly was cute, but she hated frogs,。
especially the dead kind.。
And she didn't want to touch them at all.。
And that was challenging。
because I wasn't very good at biology.。
And I was really hoping that she was going to be smart.。
And, you know, and so now we are in this partnership。
and she's not very good at the assignment.。
And that describes more than half of the marriages I see.。
I just chose someone.。
I didn't consider what the assignment was, right?。
I just were hoping they would be good at sex.。
Not the 99.4% of all the other stuff。
we talked about last week.。
The sex, if you have a lot of it,。
a lot of it is 0.6% of the time.。
What about the 99.4% of all the other stuff?。
You want to make sure that you both are good at that.。
It's interesting.。
Like we make so much decisions.。
I'm talking to you guys.。
So much decisions around sex.。
I just think that's true in dating.。
And a big driver for that is like,。
I want her to be attractive.。
Is sex better with attractive people?。
Don't answer out loud.。
I mean, just, just think about it.。
I'm just gonna let you think about it.。
I'm just gonna let you think about it.。
She opens her arms to the poor。
and extends her hands to the needy.。
Another quality, my fourth quality that marks this woman。
is that she's tender to the needs of others.。
Keep in mind, this is the gold standard, all right?。
These are not all non-negotiables.。
These are good ideas if they're there.。
This is what a mother prayed for her son.。
She's tender to the needs of others.。
And so is she tender to the needs of, JP, how would I know?。
Does she text encouraging things to people。
when they need it?。
Does she lift their spirits?。
Is she writing notes?。
Is she thinking about the needs of others around her?。
Does she desire to give?。
Is she serving, right?。
This is so big.。
Is she serving?。
That's like half the battle.。
Is she involved in a church?。
And serving there, giving of her time there.。
This is huge.。
It comes from Genesis chapter 24.。
Here's what's going on.。
Abraham, you guys heard of Abraham?。
Abraham is looking for a wife for his son, Isaac.。
And so what he does, and we can learn a lot from this,。
he gets his servant, Eleazar, and he says,。
"Hey, I want you to go and find my son a wife."。
Right, now this is crazy that Eleazar。
can find Isaac a wife when they haven't met or anything。
because he knows what he's looking for.。
That's the difference between us and them.。
See, in Bible times, you literally could just。
leave the house with a list.。
You could go up to somebody like,。
"Check, check, check, check, I do."。
You know, I mean, you could do that then, right?。
And we've complicated things since then.。
And so Eleazar leaves, and he's looking,。
and he's like, "So where does he go?"。
He goes where servants hang out.。
He goes to the well, and he prays.。
He says, "Lord, would you send someone to me。
"who is a servant, who would not only give me water,。
"but also water my camels?"。
Now, a well in those times, it was like a flight of stairs。
that went into the ground.。
It was hard work to fill up buckets of water。
and then walk those stories of stairs.。
And then Rebekah comes up and says,。
"Here's some water, and let me go。
"and also get some for your camels."。
And so he's looking for someone who serves.。
He goes where servants go,。
and he chooses someone who served.。
This is such a novel idea.。
And then they get married.。
And it was that simple.。
Why is it not that simple anymore?。
Gotta have chemistry, JP, chemistry.。
So important.。
(JP sighs)。
My bride, she has this in spades.。
Super sensitive to the needs of others.。
Like she goes, she comes into a room,。
and it's like her superpower, okay?。
She's a kindergarten teacher,。
and she just like walks into a room,。
and she finds the most vulnerable person。
and just moves to them.。
It's like a magic trick she does.。
Like whether it's a baby or an elderly person。
or someone who had a bad day,。
I mean, she can just smell it from across the room。
and move to 'em and just love on 'em。
and encourage 'em like crazy.。
I mean, she is nurturer through and through.。
And so our marriage faced a really big challenge this year.。
I mean, probably one of the biggest challenges。
in 14 years of marriage.。
We got a puppy.。
And so just, I thought,。
you know, we're gonna let the puppy inside,。
and it's gonna be all good.。
And I didn't consider how nurturing she is.。
And she likes to put ice in the bowl。
and make sure the water's of a good temperature。
and that it's comfortable and that the TV's on。
when we're not there so they're entertained.。
And that's all lost on me.。
I'm like, we're not doing any of that.。
You know, we're not, no.。
Okay, fine.。
And so, you know, and if I'm honest with you,。
if I'm just putting it all out there,。
I'm jealous of the dog.。
I'm like, stop showing her so much attention, you know?。
I'm over here, you know?。
And,。
and I know that I need a little bit more。
of that in my life.。
Like, I think Christ would walk into a room,。
I know he would, in fact,。
and be finally in tune with the greatest needs。
and move to the person who is most vulnerable.。
And so, you know, are they tender to the needs of others?。
Do they tend to the needs of others?。
Are they tender to the needs of others?。
It goes on to say, verse 21,。
when it snows, she has no fear for her household,。
for all of them are clothed in scarlet.。
She makes coverings for her bed.。
She is clothed in fine linen and purple.。
I want to focus on the clothed in scarlet。
and she's clothed in fine linen and purple。
and she makes coverings for her bed.。
And so this is kind of a strange one,。
but if I, I just, I see it clearly in the text.。
And so number five, aesthete.。
Okay, anybody heard of this word, aesthete?。
I hadn't either.。
Is she aesthete?。
Here's what it means.。
It's where we get the word aesthetics.。
Does she care about making things pretty?。
And you're like, really?。
That's like on the list of non-negotiable,。
dude, it's from Proverbs 31, all right?。
You argue with the scripture.。
But here's why I think the Holy Spirit。
preserved this text for thousands of years。
so that we can read it and apply it to our lives today.。
It's because if I'm honest,。
like as I just think through the sexes and the genders。
and the roles that we play,。
you know, a lot of guys don't care if things are pretty.。
And God's like, I like things to be pretty, I'm a creator.。
And so if you're gonna have a home,。
I want things to be pretty.。
Guys are kind of like function over,。
I'm sorry, function over form.。
Like we just want things to work, right?。
And we don't care if they're pretty.。
And girls are like, no, I want it to work。
and I want it to look good, right?。
And so you make your home pretty.。
And so you know that if you think I'm lying, right?。
Like you know that you went to some guy's apartment。
and you had to go to the bathroom。
and you went somewhere else.。
You're like, I am not going in there.。
It is a biological experiment in there。
and I'm not setting foot in his bed.。
He's growing mold in there, right?。
And that's just what some guys do.。
And I'm telling you, these aren't non-negotiables.。
And so Monica and I had the opportunity to build a house。
and you know, people will walk in and say,。
oh, is that Monica?。
Oh, did she do?。
And I'm like, nope, that was me.。
And so I tend to be the one in the relationship。
that cares more about this.。
And so that's okay.。
Like if that's where you're at,。
you're finding balance, you know how God made you,。
how God wired you up and you're looking for someone。
to compliment that.。
And so that's all right.。
Again, these aren't non-negotiables,。
not all of them anyways.。
And so it says she is clothed with strength and dignity.。
She can laugh at the days to come.。
She speaks with wisdom and faithful instruction。
is on her tongue.。
She watches over the affairs of her household。
and does not eat the bread of idleness.。
Another quality is she's sensible in preparation.。
That's number six.。
She is sensible in preparation.。
Sensible means chosen in accordance with wisdom.。
She makes choices according to the knowledge that she has.。
It says that she speaks with wisdom.。
She's clothed in strength and dignity.。
And it says that she can laugh at the days to come。
because she's prepared.。
So as she looks at the challenges that they're facing,。
she has a plan for that.。
She's prepared for that.。
And she watches over the affairs of her household.。
She is not idle.。
She shows care for the future.。
This also comes from verse 18 where it says,。
"Her lamp does not go out at night."。
Like the virgins who stopped preparing。
and they let their lamps go out in the New Testament,。
that phrase in the Hebrew, lamps do not go out at night,。
means she's prepared.。
She has a plan.。
Now I'm not saying that she's OCD.。
I'm not saying that she's super high strung,。
like constantly planning.。
I'm just saying that she's not given to manis and pettis。
and happy hours and spray tanning。
over actually getting ready。
for what she needs to be getting ready for.。
Like being aware of what is coming at her.。
And this preparedness, it leads to confidence.。
It says she laughs at the days to come.。
And so on our kitchen table,。
you walk into my house at any given time,。
and right there on the kitchen table is my wife's chair.。
And on her chair is a purse.。
And in the chair is her Bible study bag,。
which is like books and books.。
And then on the table is an old school calendar。
that she buys every January from Barnes and Noble.。
And she, at night, we put the kids down。
and she sits down in that chair and she just goes to work.。
Man, she's got colored markers.。
She's got a marker for every color of her thoughts,。
you know, and just like writing down on Tuesday.。
Tuesday, you're going, where are you traveling?。
Okay, and you're speaking, okay.。
And then Thursday, what are we doing?。
This weekend, we got soccer games and this.。
And she's just, you know, marking stuff up,。
grabbing the yellow and the red and the green.。
And she just does it every night.。
I'm so glad she does 'cause I'm awful at that.。
And so here in Dallas, it's been raining since 2012.。
And so we've like rescheduled all of the soccer games,。
the kids' soccer games.。
Basically, we have to play a whole season of soccer games。
in two weeks, that's a true story.。
And so that's just meant, that's changed everything.。
So the sun came out and so did soccer games.。
And so she's just writing, okay, we can't do that.。
We've got a soccer game, soccer game, soccer game.。
And it's like playing Tetris, moving this stuff around,。
but she's great at it.。
And it's so helpful.。
And so I'm not saying that your wife can't be spontaneous.。
I'm not saying she can't be artsy and fun,。
but I am saying that what this mama prayed for her son。
is that he would find someone who's sensible in preparation.。
And then it says, verse 30,。
"Charm is deceptive and beauty is fleeting."。
My daughters say this verse every day to me。
before they get out of the car for school.。
"Charm is deceptive and beauty is fleeting,。
but a woman who fears the Lord is to be praised."。
I love what the author is doing here.。
They juxtapose chemistry with the fear of God.。
And so you say, what does the Bible value?。
I would say the Bible values the fear of God。
infinitely times more than chemistry.。
That's the truth.。
And I use infinitely more.。
That's not, I'm not even over speaking.。
Like I could say a hundred times more, a thousand times more,。
infinitely times more, the Bible values,。
the wisdom of God and the Holy Spirit values。
the fear of God over chemistry.。
And so my seventh quality is she yielded to God.。
Ladies, I want you to be encouraged。
because this is really the only one that's a non-negotiable.。
The other ones are, they're nice to have.。
They may help you be prepared.。
But as I said last week,。
what if it's as simple as finding。
the most godly person you can,。
being the most godly person you can。
and finding the most godly person you can and marrying them?。
What if it's that simple?。
What if we've complicated things?。
And so number seven, they have to be yielded to God.。
Here's what that means is there's people listening right now。
here in Dallas and Fort Worth, El Paso, Tulsa,。
driving in their car, streaming on the internet,。
sitting in their apartment,。
and you don't even know God and you're not dateable.。
You're not marriage material.。
Followers of Jesus should run from you as fast as they can。
unless they're seeking to share the gospel with you.。
And even in that, I'd encourage you。
to find someone of the same sex.。
And so what you need to do, the good news is,。
it's very simple.。
What you need to hear is that Jesus Christ,。
that God loves you so much,。
he sent his only son, Jesus Christ, to this earth。
to die for your sins, to pay the price for your sins。
so that you don't have to go to hell。
and pay the price for your sins.。
Your sins have been paid for on the cross.。
And that God, to show his infinite power,。
he raised his son, Jesus, from the dead.。
It really happened.。
That's how he became the single most notorious character。
in the history of history.。
He rose from the dead.。
Paul says there's 500 people who saw him.。
They're still alive.。
Go ask them, he writes to the Corinthians.。
And when we trust in him that he died for our sins,。
God raised him from the dead,。
his Holy Spirit comes in our lives.。
And here's the other good news, ladies.。
What that Holy Spirit does is it makes you godly.。
So if you're sitting out there and you're like,。
man, I'm just not there, I'm not perfect,。
you don't need to be perfect.。
You have a savior who's perfect,。
and his Holy Spirit is working inside of you。
to one day complete you。
so that you would be perfect before Christ。
until then you live in an imperfect world。
and you don't need to be perfect.。
Guys, I'm talking to you now.。
Gentlemen, I'm talking to you.。
You're not looking for perfect,。
you're looking for practical.。
You're not looking for someone who's perfectly made for you。
because she doesn't exist, because you are so messed up.。
You're looking for someone who practically compliments you。
so that you can marry and serve God together.。
They love God, you love God, you come together,。
you love God together, and you raise children to love God.。
You have them, you adopt them, you disciple them。
however you can.。
This is God's plan for the world.。
At some point we moved away from it.。
When did we move away from it?。
When did our selfishness infiltrate this plan?。
Are we more happy?。
No.。
Are we happier?。
No.。
Are we more depressed?。
Yes.。
Are we despairing more?。
Yes.。
Are suicide rates at an all-time high?。
Yes, they are.。
What if we just went back to the basics?。
What if we just started to learn from the creator?。
We went back to his design, and we said,。
okay, I'm gonna scrub out all the trash。
that Hollywood taught me, and I'm just gonna go back to this.。
Listen, my wife and I, we weren't following Christ。
when we met.。
We were idiots.。
I was a bigger idiot than she was,。
but both of us were not following Christ.。
And around the same time, God in his mercy。
introduced us to him through his son, Jesus Christ,。
and our lives began to radically change.。
And marriage was not an option for us until then.。
You know what our relationship looked like before then?。
We would get together, we'd break up,。
we'd get together, we'd break up.。
I love you, I hate you, you walk home,。
I never wanna see you again.。
You did what with who, when, where, why?。
Talking to me.。
And then God came into our lives and began to sanctify us,。
that is, making us like him.。
And as we began to pursue him together,。
he did a work in our relationships.。
And this work is available to you.。
Man, you're not looking for the perfect,。
you're looking for practical.。
Chemistry, biblically speaking, how important is chemistry?。
It's not.。
Some of you, you haven't experienced chemistry, men,。
because you've experienced chemistry。
with thousands of two-dimensional images on your iPhone。
for the past six years, or 16 years.。
And so chemistry, long-term, is not available to you.。
You need to get well, gentlemen.。
You need to heal.。
You need to return to the gospel.。
But if you are well, and you desire marriage,。
it is available to you.。
There are godly women all around you right now.。
Just because she's here doesn't mean she's godly,。
but I know there are godly women all around you,。
sitting in front of you, and beside you,。
and behind you, take notice.。
And so I get it all the time.。
Let me just address this.。
It's like, what if I'm not attracted to her?。
What if I'm not attracted to her?。
Your friend told me last week, lovingly, just said,。
you know, I feel like you're saying,。
like, if I'm dating someone who's godly,。
like, they're really godly, they have a God-fearing heart,。
but I just not feeling it, and I break up,。
I feel like you're saying something's wrong with me.。
So here's how I responded to that.。
That's exactly what I'm saying.。
There is something wrong with you.。
It's called sin.。
It's wrong with all of us.。
And we're not attracted to yet。
the things that God's attracted to.。
In 1 Samuel 16, he says,。
"I do not look at the outer appearance.。
"I look at the heart.。
"I'm attracted to the heart."。
And so you say, well, what do I do?。
Am I just supposed to marry them?。
No, absolutely not.。
No, no, you break up, and you work on you.。
And you go, and you say, God, why am I not attracted。
to the things that you're attracted to?。
Would you grow me spiritually to the point。
where I would be attracted to the things。
that you're attracted to?。
Right, what role does chemistry or attraction play。
in an arranged marriage,。
which is our example in biblical times.。
I know it's not much today anymore,。
but in biblical times, Eliezer,。
Isaac had never seen Rebekah.。
He didn't have a choice。
whether he was physically attracted to her or not.。
He just entrusted that huge decision to someone else。
because that someone knew what they were looking for.。
Gentlemen, you gotta know what you're looking for.。
It says in verse 31, honor her。
for all that her hands have done,。
and let her works bring her praise at the city gate.。
Honor her.。
To love and to cherish, we say at a wedding, honor her.。
Okay, what if I'm not attracted?。
You have to, you ready, gentlemen?。
There's the answer to that question.。
You have to be able to cherish her.。
If you can't cherish her, don't waste her time。
for two seconds, but for the rest of your life,。
you have to be able to choose to cherish her。
because there will be times when she's not attractive。
to you, there will be times。
where you don't find her attractive.。
That's the truth.。
She's not gonna find you attractive either on days,。
seasons, months at a time, that's going to happen,。
but you have to choose to cherish her in those moments.。
In fact, there's a ballet guy,。
are they called ballerinas too?。
They are, you sure?。
Okay, 'cause this is going on the podcast。
and I don't want, it's like forever on there.。
Okay, dude ballerina, that's what they're called.。
And he said, he just said, hey, ballet is about the woman.。
And he said, my job as her partner is to highlight her.。
He said, to make the beautiful more beautiful.。
And he said, she's amazing on her own,。
but with me, she can fly higher.。
And people come to see her display the art and the beauty.。
And when I say cherish, man, that's what I'm talking about,。
that you would get with that woman。
and that you would highlight her beauty。
'cause you know who's beautiful?。
A woman who is well-loved is beautiful.。
When someone is loved well, they become more beautiful。
and more beautiful and more beautiful.。
George Strait was right when he said,。
you look so good in love.。
And that was George Strait, right?。
Okay, good, I thought it was ludicrous, but.。
(congregation laughing)。
Oh, he's a fantasy guy.。
Anyways, here's the reality.。
You show me a woman who's been loved well,。
and I will show you someone who's beautiful.。
And so if you wanna be married。
to someone who's hot, gentlemen,。
you marry someone and you love them like crazy.。
You cherish them, that's the truth.。
That's the reality.。
I've seen a lot of beautiful women jump into marriages。
and fade like flowers, cut from their source。
because they didn't marry cherishing husbands.。
And so what's not in this list, right?。
Age isn't in this list.。
She's, you know, that doesn't value.。
If she's older than you, she may be an amazing wife.。
It doesn't say, is she a virgin?。
Doesn't say, does she have kids?。
There's some amazing women here who have children。
that would be incredible wives to you.。
Can she have kids?。
That's not on the list.。
Is she a good kisser?。
It's dumb, I know, you're gonna laugh 'cause it's stupid.。
Does she come from a good family?。
What does she look like?。
None of this stuff's on there.。
Are you asking the right questions?。
I know you think through the lens of sex, I get it,。
'cause I do too.。
Here, let me say something crazy.。
If she has all of these things,。
but y'all can't even have sex,。
you can't experience intimacy,。
your marriage is going to be better。
than if she has none of these things,。
but she's amazing in bed.。
Get your head around that.。
That's true.。
You say, well, how do you know?。
'Cause I talk to a lot of people.。
They'll talk to pastors about anything.。
In summary, is she faithful?。
Is she attentive to the needs of her home?。
Is she not lazy?。
Is she tender to the needs of others?。
Is she aesthete?。
Is she sensible in preparations?。
And is she yielded to God?。
(congregation applauding)。
- After you.。
(congregation laughing)。
- And hey, that's a fantasy girl.。
That last one, that's the most important one.。
You get that last one, that's the non-negotiable.。
There's other things, those are good.。
You take 'em, you get a little more, a little less,。
you're mixing up the smoothie,。
give me more of that, a little less of that.。
Those things, you know, you want her to be faithful, right?。
They're not all created equal, okay?。
You might be able to get by with her not being aesthete,。
right, but she needs to be yielded to God.。
And then to find someone yielded to God,。
you need to be yielded to God, right?。
And that's the truth.。
It's funny, we just think about this all wrong.。
That guy was making that smoothie up there.。
I'm like, dude, I don't want anything to do with that, right?。
I'm out on that.。
He mixes it up and he pours me a little Dixie cup。
and hands 'em out to my kids and to me,。
and I'm like, I don't even want it.。
I'm like with my nine-year-old, she's like,。
I'm not drinking that.。
I'm like, I'm not either, I'm with you.。
(congregation laughing)。
And the guy's like, no, just taste it.。
And I tried it, I was like, oh my gosh, that's amazing.。
When did you sneak in like a pound of sugar or something?。
Like, what, it was incredible.。
Like, all I saw you put in there。
was stuff that's good for me.。
And that's, like, you want her to be fun and attractive,。
but if you go after the things that are good for marriage,。
the fun and the attractive is gonna come.。
It might surprise you, but if you go after the fun。
and attractive and chemistry as the top priority。
and you leave out those other things,。
it's gonna mess you up.。
Your marriage is gonna die before it started.。
And if you don't believe me, look behind you.。
Not literally behind you, I mean, like,。
look at your past dating life and what you valued。
and how did that work out.。
Guys, would you just consider if I'm right?。
Don't even stoop to consider if I'm right.。
Would you consider if he's right?。
God loves you, he knows, he wants something from you.。
I'm not just saying, like, don't just hear me say,。
hey, suck it up and eat your vegetables.。
That's not what I'm saying.。
I'm saying, hey, you start your list with what God values.。
If you do that, you're gonna be okay.。
You're gonna be okay, guys, I know you're confused.。
I know you've believed lies,。
but guys, if you're well and you wanna get married,。
I can help you.。
I'd love to help you, let me pray.。
Father, thank you for just loving us enough。
to even care about these little things,。
who we would partner with.。
God, as we consider the ingredients。
that we would seek out,。
would you just help us in our foolishness。
to love what you love,。
to long for what you long for,。
to seek what you seek out in us,。
really the things that you create in us, God,。
by the power of your Holy Spirit.。
You're the king of hearts.。
You direct them wherever you please.。
So Lord, would you be the king of our hearts。
and would you direct them to someone。
whose heart you already have。
and help us to live out your will?。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
