[MUSIC]。
[MUSIC]。
>> Good evening, Dallas.。
And hey to our friends in Fort Worth as well down in Houston.。
And the rest of around the country and even around the globe as you guys tune in.。
It's so fun to be together, gathered around God's word tonight.。
I'm gonna start with a little bit of a shameless update.。
So I'm gonna be married in three weeks.。
I'm really excited about that.。
>> [APPLAUSE]。
>> Man, thank you guys for。
celebrating that like that.。
I thought it was gonna kind of be an eye roll, like, man, here he comes.。
Now he's gonna tell us how hot she is and all that.。
I'm not gonna make that stop.。
She is starable, I promise.。
But anyway, that's not where I'm going.。
As, that was stare-able, not terrible.。
So anyway, when a relationship begins,。
it's usually based on the similarities that you have.。
And you kind of have that first time, maybe it's first date, maybe it's fourth,。
fifth, or sixth.。
But there's that moment where it's like you have the me too moment, or。
you have several me too dates.。
It's like, me too, me too, me too, let me guess, you too.。
Me too, and it's just me too, me too, me too.。
And then as the time progresses, and you get to know each other a little more.。
Now we're close to the wedding date, so we've dated for nearly a year, and。
well, six months of dating, six months of engagement,。
gonna get married in a few weeks.。
And as we, too fast for some of you guys, man, what happened?。
>> [LAUGH] >> Man, so I talked to our community。
group and our parents, I promise.。
So anyway, but as the wedding date gets closer,。
we have learned more and more about our differences.。
We are so different.。
There are just, and there's like morally neutral stuff.。
It's not like wrong, it's just different things that we discover about each other.。
Different ways that we spend our leisure time.。
Different ways that we connect with God.。
Different ways that we spend money, namely I do, too much,。
without looking or thinking.。
And different ways that we think, different ways that we communicate.。
There's just more and more differences that the me too phase could have never。
foreseen.。
And here's the thing about a difference.。
Anytime a difference approaches you, you can see it, and。
you've got a choice at that point.。
You can either have a discussion, or you can have a division.。
Those are pretty much your two options.。
So anytime a difference comes at you, you've got a little fork in the road.。
You can have a discussion, or you can have a division.。
You can go through it, or it can go through you.。
Those are the two options that you have whenever a difference comes your way.。
And so tonight, we're gonna talk about how to deal with differences.。
Dealing with our differences.。
But I don't mean in a relationship context.。
I mean in a human being, societal, earth-wide, city-wide context.。
Because it would seem that we are not excellent at dealing with our differences,。
and the world is one huge bag of differences.。
Would you agree?。
Here's some that I just came up with off the top of my head.。
I didn't look up diversity.。
I didn't Google anything.。
I just started thinking, and I came up with different belief systems,。
upbringing, skin color, appearance, race, ethnicity, nationality,。
gender, political affiliation, tax bracket, income level, sexual views, age,。
marital status, education level, entertainment choices, religions, and。
a bunch of other things.。
So that's what I came up with just thinking, and you could think of more.。
Somebody in here's like, you left me out.。
I'm sorry.。
But we could go up and down the rows, and you couldn't even make it one row before。
you met somebody who is very different than you, even if just in upbringing.。
Right?。
We are one big roomful, rooms full, world full of differences.。
And the unfortunate thing is, is we do not seem to be good at dealing with them.。
So you could remember recent news posts.。
There's high racial tensions in the region, in the nation,。
because of differences.。
Simple reason.。
Differences, complex pain, complex fallout, but simple reason why.。
It's because we haven't handled our differences well.。
Some of us personally carry pain as an individual because of the way someone。
handled a difference poorly.。
And it might have been from years ago.。
It's like somebody you don't even remember.。
And it was something that you wouldn't even allow someone as an adult now to。
separate themselves from you on the basis of.。
But for some reason, there was some person that harmed you because of the way you。
looked or the way you appeared or the way you talked.。
Or something like that.。
And they did not handle their difference well with you.。
And that's left an imprint on you and the way that you think.。
Some of us carry anger because people in history,。
people that we've never even met before,。
people in history have failed to handle their differences well.。
They handle them poorly, famously poorly.。
And some of us carry hurt because two people, namely a mom and a dad,。
were not able to handle their differences and make them reconcilable.。
It is imperative that we deal with our differences.。
When you notice a difference with someone, you can do one of two things.。
You can discuss or you can divide.。
And the church has always been a place.。
I'm gonna say this again.。
The church has always been a place for discussion and not division.。
And so tonight we're gonna continue that work.。
Because like a married couple getting ready for the road ahead,。
if we don't, as human beings, learn to share this place called earth together,。
in a better way, the results will be catastrophic.。
They will continue to be what they've been.。
And we will see entire communities of people separate from one another。
because of the same headline, irreconcilable differences.。
And so if there are Christians in the equation,。
if there are people who claim the name of Christ in the conversation,。
that's actually not an option.。
And so what we're gonna do tonight is we're gonna look for a method。
on how to handle differences.。
So I can't go into all of the sociological complexities。
of all the categories that I just named.。
There's no way we could cover that.。
We couldn't even cover one of them.。
But what we can do is we can look to Jesus Christ for a method,。
a way of thinking that's transferable to any kind of difference。
that puts a fork in your road.。
Any kind of difference that you meet.。
And so we'll go to John chapter four to talk through that with Jesus。
and let him see and his company see the example that he is there.。
So John chapter four, if you recognize that,。
that is actually a famous story for a different reason.。
It's because there was a certain woman, a well-known woman.。
It was the woman at the well.。
And so the woman at the well became famous because she had a broken past。
and she came thirsty physically and Jesus came with a solution。
to fix her spiritual thirst forever,。
which transferred all the way over to her village.。
And so that's why the woman at the well became famous.。
But what we're going to do tonight is we're going to focus。
on this little narrow slice of the story,。
this one little part of John chapter four.。
And it's the way that Jesus and this woman handle their differences.。
And so if you love John chapter four,。
because of the woman at the well getting that living water,。
you're going to get to see that,。
but we're kind of going to pass by it a little bit more quickly tonight,。
because what we're going to do is we're going to examine closely。
the way Jesus handled those that he is radically different with,。
different from, I should say.。
So we'll start in John chapter four, verse four.。
Here we go.。
Now, Jesus had to pass through Samaria.。
So that's a different region.。
Jacob's well, which Jacob's well was put there.。
Jacob is like the old Testament figure.。
So 2000 years prior, Jacob lived,。
he dug a hole in the ground and that's verse six。
and Jacob's well was still there.。
So this is a very old well where people went to get water.。
So Jesus, wearied as he was from his journey,。
Jesus is fully man and fully God, Jesus gets tired.。
So wearied as he was from his journey was sitting beside the well.。
It was about the sixth hour, which means high noon.。
So this is Texas, August.。
This is Middle East, high noon.。
We understand each other.。
Verse seven, a woman from Samaria came to draw water.。
So picture Jesus sitting beside a hole in the ground。
that was highly celebrated。
because of who it had belonged to 2000 years prior.。
And then this woman comes along at high noon.。
Now, you've got to know why they were so different。
because that's what brings tension to the story.。
So they've got a few differences.。
I'm gonna give them to you before they start to talk.。
I want to pause here and tell you how they were different.。
Number one, race.。
So Samaria used to be part of Israel,。
but they were conquered by a foreign nation。
hundreds of years prior and produced a region,。
a nation of people who were half Jewish.。
Now, I don't know if you know your Bible well,。
but at this point in time, there is no half Jewish.。
In the Jewish mindset, there's like Jew。
and then there's everybody else.。
And so there was no almost, there was no close enough.。
At this point in history,。
the racial lines were very, very clearly drawn。
and the Samaritans were just not included.。
In fact, it was an insult to be called a Samaritan.。
But one time Jesus was in an argument。
with the religious leaders and they said,。
"Isn't it true that you are a Samaritan and have a demon?"。
And so that's like a first century insult.。
It didn't really pop to us.。
But that would have stung.。
To be called a Samaritan was an insult.。
People actually went around Samaria.。
It said Jesus had to pass through Samaria.。
Now, whether that was the quickest way。
or whether that was the plan of God or both, I'm not sure.。
But I know that this was a region that was walked around.。
It would be like, if you need to take off from Dallas。
and walk to Fort Worth and you had to walk around Arlington,。
it's like, I just won't go there.。
I refuse.。
You guys aren't from Arlington.。
So people went to great length。
to avoid even going to that place.。
Secondly, they had a religious difference.。
So Israel had a special place in the plan of God.。
God himself founded the nation of Israel.。
And it had a special purpose.。
It was to save, at one point in the future,。
was to save the entire world by opening a way back to God.。
That's Jesus Christ.。
Jesus, God founded the nation of Israel。
with the goal of launching an entire movement。
from which would come one man。
that would save the whole world.。
So the nation of Israel had a special priority place。
in God's plan and they knew it.。
And the Samaritans were considered the worst。
of the everybody else.。
And then thirdly, gender.。
So men literally ignored women in this culture.。
And by ignored, I mean like you don't see them,。
like you don't speak to them.。
And so here, if you've ever felt like,。
man, I feel, I feel like I'm ignored because of my woman.。
In this context, you didn't just feel like it,。
that was reality.。
Your word wasn't permissible in court.。
It is an embarrassing level of separation.。
And so they've got all that working against them now.。
Okay, so there Jesus is sitting beside the well,。
he's tired and here comes a Samaritan woman。
and the awkwardness of all the history。
just weighs down on them.。
And Jesus starts the conversation by saying,。
give me a drink, which I love.。
That would be as if, picture in the 1960s,。
like right in the heat of all of the civil rights movement,。
a white person and a black person come。
to the same public water fountain。
and they just look at each other.。
And then somebody says, you know what?。
Let's share a cup.。
That's the way Jesus starts this conversation,。
except the dividing lines are even more broad。
than they were for us in the 60s.。
They wouldn't even share land, Jews and Samaritans,。
let alone a water bottle.。
But that's what Jesus starts with.。
He says, give me a drink.。
For his disciples had gone away in the city to buy food.。
The Samaritan woman, whose name we never know, said to him,。
she just drags the, I love this,。
she just drags the awkwardness。
like right into the middle of the room.。
She has no pretense, she has no tact.。
She just says, how is it that you, a Jew,。
in case you forgot, ask for a drink from me, a woman?。
From Samaria.。
And then, they're so different,。
she just can't get away from it.。
And the narrator even gets in on the deal.。
So your Bible probably has parentheses right there。
that says, for Jews have no dealings with Samaritans.。
[congregation laughing]。
This is the first really good idea that we see in the text。
when it comes to dealing with our differences.。
And it actually doesn't come from Jesus,。
though he models it later.。
It's this, point one, don't dismiss differences.。
Don't dismiss them.。
Don't ignore them.。
A positive way to say that would be to say,。
acknowledge them.。
Don't dismiss differences.。
She just says, hey, I'm not sure if you noticed,。
but I'm a woman and you're Jewish.。
So we can just kill the elephant in the room,。
we can kill the awkwardness, and then we can move on.。
The narrator does the same.。
Hey, parentheses, these people don't deal with each other.。
That is a really simple first step for us,。
but it is so crucial.。
Just say the obvious out loud, please.。
You cannot reconcile differences if you ignore them.。
That is impossible.。
There's no such thing as a reconciled and ignored difference.。
That does not exist.。
And we fall into this so easy.。
Some people, some of us will go,。
particularly white people, will go so far.。
I'm going there.。
So we'll go so,。
somebody's nervous, like, please don't do this.。
You will go so far and so long。
without just saying someone else's ethnicity。
who's not white.。
It's like you're describing every other attribute.。
It's like, you'll talk about what their height is,。
you'll talk about what their weight is,。
you're down to their dietary habits。
and where they've been in the word,。
and you just will not say, yeah, he's Mexican.。
Some of you are nervous right now because you're like,。
isn't he supposed to say Hispanic?。
He's from Mexico.。
(audience laughing)。
You can say that.。
Don't dismiss differences.。
This happened last week.。
Last week before the porch,。
I'm in Fort Worth every single Tuesday。
where people are actually over in the Ridgewood Theater。
right now gathering, doing this very same thing.。
And before the porch last week,。
we were training some new volunteers.。
So we were, I was in a small circle, probably 10 of us,。
and it struck me that someone from the group was missing.。
There's like a seven-week training process,。
and it's like week four.。
And so I knew the group fairly well, but not really well.。
And I could just sense that someone was missing.。
And so we're like in the circle,。
and I'm like, hey guys, who's missing?。
Everybody's like, oh man, somebody's missing.。
Who is it?。
And we can't figure it out.。
And then my friend Brittany says, oh, I know who it is.。
She's got dark hair.。
I was like, okay, dark hair, yeah.。
Two thirds of the porch, got it.。
And then she says, and she's short.。
And I'm like, dark hair and short.。
I don't know, I still don't know who it is.。
She said, well, she's quiet too.。
I'm like, oh, I still don't know who it is.。
And then she like leans in and covers her mouth,。
and she says, she's Asian.。
I said, I'm glad we kept that between us.。
Don't want that getting out.。
Hey Brittany, at least you spoke, well done.。
Isn't this silly?。
Hey, I just want to tell you something.。
You can't be friends with people you're afraid of.。
You can't do that.。
You can't, it just gets silly.。
Like we cannot have real camaraderie。
if we're scared of each other to that degree.。
It just gets a little crazy.。
Ignore differences, make for cheap camaraderie, okay?。
If you can't acknowledge someone else's ethnicity,。
your trust is on E, okay?。
Ignore differences, make for cheap friendship.。
So don't dismiss differences.。
All right, let's go back to the text.。
Verse 10, John chapter four.。
Keep an eye right here on this next section.。
Keep an eye on the differences that this woman sees.。
And I want you to see Jesus' unwillingness。
to let those differences divide them.。
Keep an eye on that.。
Jesus answered her, if you knew the gift of God。
and who it is that's saying to you, give me a drink,。
you would have asked him。
and he would have given you living water.。
And so he comes up and says, hey, share a drink with me.。
And she says, we're way too different for that.。
And he says, hey, if you knew who I was,。
you would have asked me first.。
I promise.。
I'm here to give you water that will satisfy you forever.。
Which is a little bit unusual.。
Just so you get a picture of this.。
This would be like walking out of like a grocery store。
and there's a guy, like a homeless guy,。
like sitting outside the door。
and he like swats you as you go by.。
And he says, hey, what if I told you。
that I had food for you and you would never be hungry again?。
And you'd be like, what if I told you。
I'm calling the police?。
And so this is like a little bit strange and that's okay.。
So Jesus is saying something a little bit strange.。
She has no idea.。
She has no idea that he's talking about a spiritual reality。
of living water, of soul satisfaction.。
She does not know he's saying that.。
So she's confused.。
The woman said to him, sir,。
you have nothing to draw water with and the well is deep.。
Where do you get that living water?。
And then here she comes and she's gonna be religiously。
and ethnically proud right here.。
So if you wanna see ethnic pride, here it comes.。
Are you greater than our father, Jacob?。
Highlight our, our father, Jacob.。
Are you greater than him?。
He gave us this well.。
You hear that?。
He gave us this well.。
And he drank from it himself。
as did his sons and his livestock.。
So there's another divide.。
Jesus will not let them be divided.。
Jesus said to her, everyone who drinks of Jacob's water。
is going to be thirsty again.。
You notice how you come here every day,。
but the water that I give you will never be thirsty,。
will make us sure that you are never thirsty again.。
End of 14.。
The water that I will give you。
will become in you a spring of water,。
welling up to eternal life.。
I will give you water.。
It's not liquid.。
It is spirit and it will never stop.。
It will satisfy you from now.。
It starts right this minute。
and it will never go away ever, ever,。
not even an earthly death.。
And she finally starts to come around,。
but there's one little difference that she's carrying。
that she is even afraid to bring up.。
And that's the fact that, if you know the rest of the story,。
she's been divorced five times。
and she's living with her boyfriend at the moment.。
Now, if that doesn't win you social favor here,。
it really didn't at this time.。
That's where she is.。
And so Jesus, unwilling to be divided。
because of their differences,。
exposes and acknowledges the difference.。
He won't let it be dismissed.。
Jesus said to her, "Okay, you want the living water?。
"Go call your husband."。
And the woman answered him, "I have no husband."。
Which is kind of a conversation in her, right?。
It's like a half truth.。
It's like, "Hey, go call your husband.。
"If you want the living water, I'm sure he does too.。
"Why don't you bring him?"。
And she's like, "Oh, no husband, fresh out."。
And then Jesus is not toying with her.。
Like, he's not playing with her.。
He's not trying to make her feel ashamed.。
He's trying to give her life.。
And he knows that life goes through the differences.。
And so he says, "You're right in saying,。
"I have no husband.。
"You've had five.。
"And the one you now have is not your husband.。
"What you said is true."。
He is trying to show her love and life。
and satisfy her soul by satisfying everything that she needs.。
And she is bent at this point.。
She did it right the first time.。
She acknowledged the difference,。
but now she is letting the acknowledged difference。
divide them.。
She is not wanting to allow Jesus。
to go where he wants to go.。
But Jesus would not have it.。
So the second point is this,。
right after Jesus' model in the previous nine verses,。
don't let differences divide us.。
Do not let differences divide us.。
Differences can divide us.。
You can discuss them or they can divide you.。
They do not have to divide you.。
Look at all the...。
She's gonna run through these divisions。
that she was willing to stop for.。
I'm a man, you're a woman.。
Jesus is like, "That's not a problem today.。
"That's not gonna divide us anymore.。
"I'm a Samaritan, you're a Jewess.。
"That's not gonna divide us today.。
"Hey, the water well, the water well's ours.。
"It's not yours."。
Jesus says, "Okay, you wanna talk water?。
"Let's talk water, real water, living water,。
"satisfying to your soul, water.。
"It's not gonna divide us today.。
"I've been divorced five times.。
"How could that come up?。
"It's not gonna divide me from you.。
"I'm after you."。
He is relentless, Jesus is.。
He will not allow himself to be dissuaded by your past.。
He won't allow himself to be dissuaded by your ethnicity.。
There is nothing about you, your gender, your job,。
your upbringing, your cultural belief.。
There is no condition that can make Jesus get cold feet。
when it comes to his pursuit of you.。
Don't let differences divide us。
'cause that's not what Jesus does with us.。
Unfortunately, we're not good at this either。
because when we see differences,。
we start to make assumptions.。
And assumptions have the ability to divide.。
Here, I'll run a little experiment.。
You can pick on me.。
So if I told you right now that when I was in junior high,。
I lived in deep East Texas down a dirt road。
in a trailer house and my stepdad was a truck driver.。
(congregation laughing)。
Would you make assumptions?。
What if I told you at that very same time,。
I had a fade haircut。
and I wore all white Air Force Ones to school。
and I had an affinity for 90s rap music。
and I had a poster of Aaliyah on my wall?。
This does not feel like a safe place, guys.。
What's happening?。
(congregation laughing)。
That's all true.。
Every bit of that's true.。
That's a fact, all of it.。
Did you get caught assuming?。
Careful.。
Don't let differences cause assumption.。
Don't let them cause division.。
You don't know who you're dealing with。
till you know who you're dealing with.。
Don't let differences divide us.。
We're gonna go back to the text one more time。
and I want you to watch really, really closely。
what Jesus does in this next part.。
Don't miss this.。
Verse 19.。
The woman said to him,。
"Sir," which is the most obvious statement of the chapter,。
"Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet."。
And so what better time。
to pick another religious fight with you?。
Here she comes.。
Verse 20.。
She's laying it on thick.。
"Our fathers, our fathers worshiped on this mountain."。
So now she's got geography thrown in there.。
"But you," that's a plural you, that means you guys.。
"But you people say that in Jerusalem。
"is the place where people ought to worship."。
You see that ethnic, culturally-based priority。
she's got going?。
And Jesus said to her, don't miss this,。
"Woman," he leaves the distinction alone.。
He's not gonna try to change her gender.。
He created her gender,。
so he's not gonna get rid of that.。
"Woman, believe me, the hour is coming。
"when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem。
"will you worship the Father."。
To which she probably would have thought, what do you mean?。
Not on this mountain nor there?。
Everybody knows that either here or there.。
Those are the only argument points in the conversation.。
Where else would we go?。
He says, "You worship what you don't know,。
"but we worship what we know for salvations from the Jews."。
So Jesus is not shy about doing number one,。
which is don't dismiss the differences.。
So he's not afraid to do that.。
He knows she's Samaritan, he knows he's Jewish.。
He knows that she's woman and she knows that he's man,。
and he does not blur the distinction.。
But he's getting ready to say。
that the distinction might be reality,。
but it is not priority.。
Verse 23, "The hour is coming."。
By the way, as if I could build this up anymore,。
this is the most profound word I have ever found。
in the scriptures about race and gender。
and differences in general。
and how they relate to our relationship with God.。
The number one verse that I can think of.。
"But the hour is coming and is now here。
"when true worshipers will worship the Father."。
In Jerusalem, no.。
In Samaria, no.。
"In spirit and truth."。
There is a transcendent way to connect with God.。
There is a way to connect with God。
that goes above and past whatever your skin color。
or gender or past or geographic location。
or politics or anything.。
There's a new way to connect with God,。
and it's not location or culturally conditioned.。
In spirit and in truth.。
"For the Father," listen to this, why?。
'Cause God's looking for people like that.。
"The Father is seeking such people to worship him."。
God is spirit.。
God's not Samaritan or Jewish.。
God is spirit.。
He has no ethnicity.。
He created them all.。
They've all got value,。
every single one of them, just as they are,。
but he doesn't have one.。
God is spirit.。
"And those who worship him,。
therefore you must worship in spirit and truth."。
Now, don't miss this.。
Jesus is not saying,。
"If you're gonna worship God, you can't be you."。
He's saying, "If you're gonna worship God,。
you can't be about you anymore."。
The ethnic distinction, the ethnic pride is out.。
So he looks at this woman right in the face and he says,。
"Hey, here's what you already wanna hear.。
Anti-Samaritanism is out,。
but you gotta go a step further.。
Samaritan pride is out."。
There is no distinction that can hinder you。
from worshiping God,。
and there's no ethnicity that will help you worship God。
any more than any other, spirit and truth.。
It's not about Jewishness, non-Jewishness.。
It's not about gender anymore.。
It's not about who's divorced and who's not.。
It's not about who's slept with someone and who hasn't.。
There is a higher priority now.。
And so are you ready, woman at the well,。
are you ready to stop thinking like a Samaritan。
and start thinking like a Christian?。
So my third point, and before I say it, let me say this.。
If you don't worship Christ。
more than your own distinctions and differences,。
you will stumble over this next point, predictably.。
If you don't love Jesus Christ。
and the simple designation of being a Christian the most,。
more than anything else that makes you you,。
more than all the things about you that make mama proud,。
more than anything else about you。
that you have or wanna be,。
if you don't love Christ more than that,。
you will stumble over this next point.。
Don't let our differences define us.。
Don't let differences define us.。
What I mean by that is don't let the distinctions,。
which are good and have value,。
don't let them be your definition.。
Don't let them be your highest identity.。
Don't let your own differences。
and the things that comprise who you are。
take priority over loving Christ,。
or you're not worshiping in spirit and truth anymore.。
What starts to happen is you start to make Jesus。
in your mind look a little bit more like you.。
And when you worship a Jesus that looks like you,。
who you really worshiping, not Jesus, you.。
You've got to lay down what you're really worshiping.。
You've got to lay down the distinctions that make you you,。
not because you got to get rid of them,。
but because you got to value Christ so much by comparison。
that they seem like they're nothing to you.。
That's what Paul meant when he said,。
"I compare everything a loss compared to knowing Christ."。
And so you will always, I want you to hear me very clearly.。
You will always have certain distinctions and differences。
that make you you.。
And there are many ways to divide up the world。
from your clothing size to your tax bracket.。
Some of them are God made and some of them are man made.。
And when you become a Christian,。
you keep all of them except sin, you're still you,。
but you're not about you anymore.。
Spirit and truth that rises above,。
it rises above your cultural conditioning。
and it rises above the kind of face you see。
when you look in the mirror.。
And so like, I don't know what this would look like for you,。
but like there's a host of identities that we all have.。
There's a host of differences or distinctions.。
I'm using all those words to mean the same thing right now.。
There's a whole host of attributes and traits that you have.。
And if you are not ready to line them all up and say,。
"Those are garbage compared to just the simple designation。
of Christian.。
Those are nothing to me compared to simply。
being a Christ follower."。
You are not yet worshiping in spirit and truth.。
And so here, I'll just do mine.。
Here are a few, male, Texan, American, Southerner,。
white, Aggie, church staffer, fiance, husband real soon.。
All that sounds really great.。
I think God created all that, even Aggie.。
And so I think God, I'm just kidding.。
Don't let me lose you.。
I'm just kidding.。
I think God creates all that.。
I think man creates some of that.。
And I think to worship in spirit and truth,。
I don't have to stop having that.。
I gotta stop worshiping that.。
That can't be who I am and who I'm about.。
It's a matter of priority.。
And so all of the things that make you, you,。
they might, maybe you are black, maybe you are Asian,。
maybe you are middle Eastern, maybe you're middle class.。
I don't know what you are.。
I don't know the things that make you, you,。
but my guess is you could list them all out.。
And here's what Jesus is trying to tell you loud and clear.。
Those things may be reality,。
but they are just not priority anymore.。
And so if any one of the things about you。
could be a role that you have,。
could be a personality trait that you have or want,。
but if anything about you and your conception of yourself。
comes higher than simply being connected to God。
through spirit and truth,。
you are not yet with Jesus。
where he is right now in this text.。
So maybe it's not even your ethnicity.。
It could be your job.。
Maybe you love the designation executive,。
doctor, lawyer.。
Maybe a role that you have or want, wife, husband.。
You know?。
Oh Lord, if anyone regards me,。
let it be as a wife one day or as a husband.。
Paul didn't say that, 1 Corinthians 4, 1.。
If anyone regards me, let it be as a servant of Christ.。
Maybe it's a personality trait.。
I don't know.。
Fun, successful, beautiful, hardworking, smart, driven.。
If anyone regards me,。
let everybody know that I am ambitious.。
If that is on the throne of your heart,。
you do not know what it is to worship in spirit and truth.。
If there is anything about you that you have or want。
more than just Christ,。
you are not worshiping in spirit and truth.。
You are playing a game called this mountain or that mountain。
just like this woman.。
Maybe it's a reputation, self-made man.。
I wanna be a self-made man.。
Well, what's wrong with that?。
Nothing, as long as it comes second to being a Christian.。
What other kind of man would you wanna be?。
How about independent woman?。
You're like, oh, don't go there.。
(congregation laughing)。
What, hey, hang on, I'm serious.。
What other kind of woman would you wanna be?。
Would you wanna be weak and dependent?。
No.。
I'm not saying you lose it.。
I'm saying it loses priority.。
Do you see that?。
Christ is more than that to you.。
You love Christ more than that ideal.。
You love Christ more than that persona.。
And let me tell you why this counts.。
You may be like, hey, what does this have to do。
with deal with differences?。
Now you're talking about me.。
Let me tell you why.。
Because as long as you love something about you。
more than you love Christ,。
you can't love people who aren't like you.。
You have no ability to love people。
if you are in a love affair with your own traits,。
whether it be the way you look。
or whether it be anything from height, weight, appearance,。
skin color, money, some fraternity that you're a part of。
or an employer that you're a part of.。
If you love one of your traits more than you love Christ,。
you can't love somebody who doesn't have that trait.。
It is impossible.。
It is impossible to love with a love from heaven。
if you are obsessed with the particulars of earth.。
There is no way that you can do that.。
It is impossible.。
And people will not understand it.。
I promise.。
I know there are people in here right now。
that don't understand it.。
And I am telling you, when they look at you,。
when someone misunderstands,。
and maybe it's a family member,。
and they tell you that blood runs thicker than water,。
I can tell you from John four。
that blood does not run thicker than living water.。
Nothing does.。
Nothing brings people together.。
Nothing can bring someone together。
like the banner of Christ.。
And we will not gather under it。
if another banner is competing for our affections.。
It will be impossible for us to love people。
who aren't like us.。
If we love something about us more than we love Christ,。
there's no way to love one another。
if you're in love with just the one.。
There's no way.。
And so Jesus looks this woman right in the face.。
And he says, listen, you're still you.。
You didn't lose your ethnicity today.。
You'll always be a woman and a Samaritan.。
That's not a bad thing.。
It has value.。
Remember, I created it.。
Don't be more politically correct than God.。
I created you as you are.。
That is who you are.。
I am asking you to fall out of love with that above me。
and worship God in spirit and truth。
because God is seeking people like that.。
And she believed him, guys.。
She believed him.。
And people in that village believed him.。
They bought it.。
They decided, you know what?。
This is always gonna be a Samaritan region,。
at least as long as we're around.。
And we're always gonna be Samaritan people.。
And the people who are men are gonna be men.。
The people who are women are gonna be women.。
And people who have positive personality traits。
are gonna always have those.。
And some people who have their jobs。
are gonna keep their jobs.。
And other people who have their jobs are gonna leave them.。
But no matter what our distinctions are,。
what we are gonna do is we're gonna let the priority be。
the God who does not have a distinction.。
And so this mountain or that mountain is over.。
And people are in heaven today, today,。
because they were able to hear with this woman。
that it no longer matters what your ethnicity is.。
Not because God didn't make it。
and not because it's not beautiful the way you are,。
but because it is not the object of your worship。
at this point, only Christ, only Christ.。
I'll close by sharing this with you.。
I'm about to pledge my life to a woman,。
I told you in three weeks.。
And I did not tell you purposefully, but she is black.。
Jamaican to be exact.。
Black did not get a woot, but Jamaican did.。
So. [audience laughing]。
This is the least politically correct night。
at the porch history.。
All right.。
[audience laughing]。
So anyway, I'm gonna marry her in three weeks。
and I'm so excited about that.。
And that difference is not one we found out down the road.。
We knew that one right at the start.。
[audience laughing]。
Yeah.。
So I brought it up, I mean, the first few dates,。
not because of race or any difference at all,。
but the first few dates, it was kind of a,。
get to know each other。
and it hadn't really like taken off at this point.。
But about the sixth date, not about,。
I know when it was, it was the sixth date.。
The sixth date, we sit down and I brought it up。
and I said, "Hey, we've got this difference。
and I don't know if you'd noticed, but。
[audience laughing]。
you like lattes and I like cappuccinos。
and I don't see how this deal is gonna work."。
[audience laughing]。
We started to talk about race。
and I wish I could tell you the particulars。
of that conversation to make it more interesting for you.。
But I know this, we talked for a good while,。
just at a restaurant, sitting down,。
about halfway through the meal, we start talking about this.。
And I asked her some questions。
about how she felt about this in our relationship。
and just to explore her heart a little bit myself.。
And it was obvious to me,。
after about half an hour of being with her,。
that she didn't care about anything that she was。
except being a Christian.。
Like there is one priority, Christ.。
That was it, that was on the throne of her heart.。
It was obvious.。
She didn't say it in those words.。
I don't even remember the exact words she said,。
but I know exactly what she communicated to me.。
And it wasn't 'cause I was looking。
and it wasn't 'cause I talked first.。
She loved being a believer in Christ。
more than anything else.。
And that is the day that it became a pursuit for us.。
I held her hand for the first time that night.。
I was certain that she wanted to be a believer in Christ,。
just simply known by that.。
If anyone regards me, let it be as a servant of Christ.。
And guys, she had plenty.。
Here's what I'm trying to tell you.。
She had plenty of distinctions that she could boast about.。
There was plenty of attributes and traits。
and things about her, her differences.。
They didn't define her.。
Don't let our differences define us.。
She didn't do that.。
And she could have, guys, successful, well-connected,。
beautiful, strong black woman, for sure.。
But that was not her boast.。
Do you see that?。
Christian was who she was.。
And it became a relationship for us that night。
and very soon thereafter.。
She borrowed my attention and she has not given it back.。
Because when people come together,。
when people come together。
underneath a banner of Christ first and nothing else,。
all of a sudden you'll be shocked。
where you had the same agenda。
with people that you never thought.。
I never thought.。
I never thought that that would happen for me.。
And I didn't proactively force.。
You're like, "Oh, it was the Air Force One's thing."。
It was not.。
Like, I didn't, like.。
It was not that.。
Like, I didn't grow up thinking,。
like, I really, really would like an interracial marriage.。
I always knew I was open to it.。
But I didn't want to marry anybody。
who wasn't completely devoted to Christ.。
That's the priority.。
An interracial marriage is not gonna keep me warm at night.。
We're not gonna be in some big fight.。
And I'm like, "Well, she's got a great complexion."。
(audience laughing)。
You gotta be devoted to Christ.。
That's what's attractive.。
That's what wanted.。
All right?。
That's the only thing.。
I never, I never asked her on an additional date。
because I hoped my Christmas card。
would look like a Target ad.。
And I hope it does.。
I'm serious.。
I hope it does to the glory of God.。
I hope it does.。
And I've got a whole new host of questions。
I gotta answer and probably ask forgiveness for.。
She's watching over in Fort Worth.。
But I wanna tell you this.。
When you decide that the things that make you you。
are no longer gonna run your agenda,。
and when something goes wrong,。
you aren't gonna run to any banner other than the church.。
When you see some racism break out。
or some sexism break out,。
you don't need to run to your earthly camp.。
You need to run to the church.。
Because we can't love each other.。
The love that's from heaven,。
if we are obsessed with the particulars of earth。
that God's given us and that have value,。
they just don't have top value.。
And so if you're ready to worship God in spirit and truth,。
that will involve not denying who you are。
because God made you who you are,。
but adopting a new top priority。
and a new first designation。
and a new first identity, just Christian.。
Jesus, only Jesus.。
Let me pray for us.。
Father in heaven, will you please,。
will you please just do a little bit of the work tonight?。
There is so much work that this planet needs in this area。
because we are in love with the way you made us。
instead of in love with you.。
And so God, will you do just a little bit。
of the work tonight, God?。
Will you do a little bit of the work。
that you did in that village in Samaria。
where you told people,。
"It is no longer this mountain or that mountain。
"or this job or that job or this gender or that gender,。
"but it is simply about spirit and truth。
"that governs it all."。
And so God in heaven,。
will you please allow that in these cities?。
Will you please allow that in this country?。
Will you allow the identity Christ follower。
to be first in our heart,。
not because we're in denial。
and not because we wanna lose the gifts you gave us,。
but because compared to you,。
there's no gift that's as good as the giver.。
That includes our distinctions.。
Give us, God, a presence。
to give a simple pursuit towards you,。
made simple because we have laid down。
every other thing that we could possibly boast in.。
And we've said with Paul,。
"Far be it from me to boast in anything。
"except the cross of Christ."。
And we can say with him,。
"If anyone regards us,。
"let it be as servants of Christ,。
"not by any other banner or no other name."。
Give us that grace, God, in Jesus' name, amen.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
