Well, Porch, how are we doing tonight?。
Come on, man.。
Hey, I'll never forget the first time that I went to a maximum security prison to visit,。
okay?。
Some of you were judging.。
Hey, not in church.。
Let's go.。
I remember the first time I went, though, and I've talked about this before, it was。
a marking moment, and in fact, this wasn't in my notes, but even as we were worshiping,。
I remember the morning that I went to the maximum security prison, I'm just reading。
the Bible, and I read Revelation chapter 7.。
In Revelation chapter 7, it's the end of the age, and it's every tribe, tongue, and nation。
gathered in white, singing, "Salvation belongs to our God and to the Lamb who was slain."。
I remember reading that in the morning and then praying to God, "God, I'd love to see。
this in my lifetime."。
Every tribe, tongue, and nation gathered together.。
I put my Bible away, I go drive to the maximum security prison, drop off my phone, you know,。
go in there, it's dark, dungy, go into the chapel, and they start singing a song, older。
song called "This is Amazing Grace."。
And as they sing the song, the bridge says, "Worthy is the Lamb who was slain.。
Worthy is the King who conquered the grave."。
And I'm sitting in the back, I start tearing up, thinking, "Wait, wait, wait, wait.。
Every tribe, tongue, and nation is in this room, and they're all wearing white jumpsuits。
right now, in prison, singing, "Worthy is the Lamb."。
God, you fulfilled my prayer four hours later in a maximum security prison.。
I remember from there going and talking to different people, and as I'm talking to them,。
I remember just being blown away by all their stories, and one guy in particular, he had。
worked at a church before going to prison, and he was living a double life in the most。
heinous kind of way, and it ended up in this place.。
But I remember talking to him, and he was so joyful, and he was so alive, and he was。
so free.。
And as I'm hearing him tell his story, finally at one point, he gets real serious.。
He goes, "Tyler, you just need to know."。
He said, "I am way more free in here than I ever was out there."。
And I tell you that because I think for many of you tonight, that statement that that man。
said in a maximum security prison is actually true of you in here.。
That though you came in on your own volition, and you can leave whenever you want, you are。
actually in prison tonight.。
And the craziest part about it is for many of you, you don't even know.。
You feel so free.。
You feel like, "I don't have any chains on me.。
I'm so good."。
And yet my prayer tonight, this is a bold prayer, this is a strong way to start, but。
this is my prayer, is that you would know that you are in prison and that by God's grace,。
you can be free tonight.。
That's my prayer.。
If you have a Bible, turn in your Bible to Genesis chapter 45.。
We've been walking through the book of Genesis, and we're wrapping it up tonight with shout。
out to you here in Dallas or online, PortsLive, if you've been tracking with us this whole。
time, shout out especially PortsLive locations in Fresno, in Wheaton, and Fort Worth.。
Thanks for tracking with us.。
But we're in the last week of our series on Genesis where we've been highlighting 10 iconic。
moments in this book, and tonight we're looking at the last one.。
We're looking at the story of Joseph.。
Let me pray for us, and then we're going to dig in to this story together.。
Let's pray.。
Father, I've just, even during worship, just looking around going, "God, we're worshiping。
you, hands raised."。
So seemingly free, yet Lord, I know, I know many of us are enslaved.。
So I pray by the power of your Holy Spirit, God, that you would open our eyes to see reality。
tonight like heavenly reality would come to us tonight by the power of your Spirit.。
And I pray Psalm 86 11, "Teach us your way, O Lord, that we may walk in your truth.。
Unite our hearts to fear your name."。
Come Holy Spirit, inhabit this place in this time.。
We need you.。
We love you.。
We trust you.。
In Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
All right.。
I want to give some background on Joseph because we're actually going to pick up at the end。
of his life, and if you spend any time in church, you know Joseph's life.。
You've learned about it from a young little kid, but I want to make sure we're all cut。
up to speed when we actually dive in to Genesis 45.。
So Joseph is born into a dysfunctional family of at the time 11 brothers, and he's the youngest.。
And not only is he the youngest brother, he's the most favored brother.。
Like his dad doesn't even hide the fact that he's the favorite.。
Some of you are the favorite in your family, but your parents kind of pretend that you're。
not.。
You walk around at Christmas, you've got the best gift, but you try not to rub it in.。
Well, this guy, he's the favorite.。
Everybody knows it.。
Then he gets a dream from God that all of his brothers are going to bow down before。
him.。
And he's so brilliant, he tells them, "One day you guys are all going to bow down to。
me."。
And they go from jealous, you're the favorite one, to we hate you, we want to kill you.。
Real fast.。
Some of you, if you relate to that, let's talk after.。
But he goes there, and then after he reveals that, we see three injustices happen.。
This is over the course of chapters, but we'll have it on the screen.。
There's three moments of injustice in his life.。
The first is that he's forced into slavery.。
We see in chapter 37 that the brothers, they plan to kill him, but then they go, "Wait,。
we can't earn any money if we just kill him.。
Let's sell him into slavery, we can make some dough, and then we'll just tell everyone he。
died."。
Brilliant.。
Then after that, there's the second moment of injustice where he's falsely accused.。
After he's sold into slavery, he finds himself in Egypt.。
He's in Potiphar's house.。
And at Potiphar's house, he works his way up, he's successful, and Potiphar's wife propositions。
herself for sex with him.。
You just think, this hit me studying, he's all alone, away from accountability, away。
from his family, feeling abandoned by God.。
What's one night with this girl's propositioning me?。
But what does Joseph do?。
He flees.。
He runs away.。
I can't sin against God.。
What good does that do him?。
It ends up with she falsely accuses him of rape, and he ends up in prison.。
Think about this.。
This guy can't catch a break.。
And then the third injustice is he's forgotten about, chapter 40.。
It happens that two of Pharaoh's employees end up in prison, and he interprets both their。
dreams, and one of them, the cupbearer, he says, "You're going to go back into the service。
of Pharaoh, and when you do, remember me."。
And sure enough, the dream comes true.。
The guy goes into Pharaoh's house, and he forgets.。
For two years, he forgets about the dream, and Joseph's waiting in prison.。
And all this happens between the ages of 17 to 30 in Joseph's life, in his young adult。
years.。
And I just think, this is what I love about the Bible, as horrendous and extreme as Joseph's。
story is, think how relatable so many of these things, these injustices that he endured are。
to the modern young adult life.。
I mean, I was just thinking, one in four girls and one in six guys will be sexually abused。
by the time they hit their young adult years.。
It's crazy.。
I mean, cancel culture now, and slander and bullying online is at an all-time high.。
And then it feels like we're fluent in the language of ghosting and breaking promises.。
And this is the world that Joseph's living in, and no doubt he experienced it as a human。
being.。
And yet, when we read his story, we never hear of him taking revenge, and we never hear。
of him cursing God.。
It's amazing.。
Fast forward through the rest of the story, through a miracle of interpreting the dream。
of Pharaoh, God reveals a famine's coming to the land of Egypt, and Joseph is promoted。
to second-in-command in Egypt.。
And finally, the moment comes when his brothers, the ones who enslaved him, the ones who sold。
him, they come and they stand before him because they need food, and they don't know who he。
is, but he knows who they are.。
And they bow down before the second-in-command in Egypt, and Joseph remembers his dream.。
And you've got to think, I mean, this is the moment of revenge.。
For you Princess Bride fans, this is the moment of, "My name is Inigo Montoya.。
You killed my father."。
What?。
"Prepare to die."。
This is the moment.。
This is Taylor Swift, right, punching her pen, going, "I've got a list of names and。
yours is in what?"。
Really?。
Yeah, thank you, Taylor Swift fan.。
Red underline, right?。
And yet we know what happens.。
Joseph does something different, and that's what we're going to unpack today.。
But here's the reality.。
As we look at this story, Joseph is unlocked from the prison that many of you are in, and。
this is the prison.。
The prison is one of bitterness and unforgiveness.。
He's free.。
He's unlocked from the cage of controlling the bitterness in his life, because here's。
the reality.。
Bitterness feels like control, but it's a cage, and unforgiveness feels like power,。
but it's prison.。
So here's how we're going to spend the rest of our time.。
We're going to look at three keys to get out of this prison of bitterness and of unforgiveness.。
And I'll just give them to you up front.。
The three points, the three keys are this, to remember, to know, and to ask.。
To remember, to know, and to ask.。
So look again, look now at Genesis chapter 45, and we've skipped a lot.。
Joseph has tested his brothers, and now he's face-to-face with them, and we're going to。
watch as he shows us the secret behind his ability to forgive his brothers.。
Look at Genesis 45, starting in verse 4.。
It says, "So Joseph said to his brothers, 'Come near to me, please.'。
And they came near, and he said," he reveals himself, "I am your brother Joseph, whom you。
sold into Egypt.。
And now do not be distressed or angry with yourselves because you sold me here, for God。
sent me before you to preserve life.。
For the famine that has been in the land these two years, and there are yet five years in。
which there will be neither plowing nor harvest.'"。
Verse 7.。
"And God sent me before you to preserve for you a remnant on earth, and to keep alive。
for you many survivors."。
Verse 8.。
"So it was not you who sent me here, but God.。
He has made me a father to Pharaoh, and Lord of all his house, and ruler over all the land。
of Egypt."。
The first key that we see Joseph is able to get out of his bitterness and unforgiveness。
is this, to remember if God allowed it, there's purpose in it.。
If God allowed it, there's purpose in it.。
Did you catch three times in the passage we just read, he said, "God sent me.。
God sent me.。
God sent me."。
Not, "You ruined my life.。
You did this to me.。
How could you?"。
He says, "Ultimately, you didn't do this.。
God did."。
Now, that sounds nice, but think about what happened to him.。
He's forced into slavery.。
He's falsely accused.。
He's forgotten about.。
And is Joseph in this moment going, "God is the one who authored all this evil in my life."。
Is that what he's saying?。
We know throughout the whole of Scripture, no, that's not true.。
God is not the author of evil, and this is important.。
We got to know this.。
James 1, verse 13 says, "Let no one say when he's tempted, 'I am being tempted by God,'。
for God cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself tempts no one."。
And then John 1, verse 5 says, "God is light, and in him is no darkness at all."。
So what then is Joseph saying?。
If it's not that he's the author of evil, Joseph's saying he's not the author, but he。
is the redeemer of evil.。
He is sovereign, and he's in control, and he understands, "Nothing touches my life that。
doesn't pass through his hands."。
I know it.。
So the past few weeks for me and my family have been kind of crazy.。
I think the last time I came up and talked to you, I showed a picture of my pregnant。
wife.。
I'm like, "She could pop at any minute."。
Well, over the past few weeks, she popped, and we had baby number four.。
I think we have a picture of him, little Jet Paul Moffat.。
There he is, right there, the little baby doll.。
And yeah, four kids.。
So those of you who are up at 2 a.m., because you still do that, I'm with you.。
Actually, my wife.。
She'll get mad at me if she thinks it's me.。
She's the one that's up.。
I got to keep moving.。
Here we go.。
But everything about the pregnancy was great, and it was fast, and we went in at 2 a.m.,。
driving down.。
And when the hazard's on, on 75, it's 2 a.m., but it was my moment.。
You know, hazard's down 75, I'm like, "Try to pull me over," you know.。
And anyway, we get to the hospital, everything's great, Jet comes out quick, but he swallowed。
a little fluid when he came out, and it took him about 45 seconds to start breathing, which。
I don't know if you've seen that moment, but that little baby's got his mouth open just。
trying to breathe.。
We're all just like, "Come on, dude, go."。
They finally start suctioning out some of the fluid, and eventually, he kind of coughs。
and starts breathing.。
We're like, "Okay, he's breathing."。
But we watch his little lungs.。
There was something called retractions where you could see his chest, like, really working。
hard to breathe.。
And so they're monitoring him, and then they send us up to postpartum, and everything's。
good.。
And then the pediatrician comes around.。
She's like, "You know, I don't love how he's breathing.。
I want to monitor him in the nursery, and then we may need to send him to NICU."。
And when I heard that, some of you know my story, like, our second-born had to spend。
the first few weeks of his life in the NICU, and I'm just like, "No, Lord, please no NICU.。
Like, please.。
Like, you were faithful then, but please don't do it again," you know?。
And sure enough, they monitor him for a little bit, and they go, "We don't like his numbers.。
We're sending him to the NICU."。
And guys, I've preached on this stage about the sovereignty of God and the goodness in。
that moment, but I'm just being honest with a few thousand of my best friends.。
I was not happy.。
I was angry.。
I was frustrated.。
I was mad.。
I was mad at the medical field and the NICU and God, and I was just angry, and so they。
take him to the NICU, and Jen and I go back to the hospital room, and she's crying, and。
I'm mad, and my wife said something that I needed to hear.。
It was hard to hear, but I needed to hear it, and she just said, "Tyler," in tears,。
"I just need to know you're being led by the Spirit right now," is what she said to me.。
That's a good wife right there.。
Find a wife like that, guys.。
She said, "Tyler, I need to know you're being led by the Spirit," and it's like sobriety。
came back.。
It's like, "Man, I'm not paying attention to you.。
I'm just ticked at my circumstance because I don't want my baby to have to go through。
that.。
They're going to stuff a feeding tube down his throat.。
They're going to hook him to machines.。
I don't want that.。
I want him to meet my other kids and have this great time," and this threw off all my。
plans, God.。
We had to surrender again, and I'm just wondering for some of you, God has thrown a wrench in。
many of your plans, your relationships, of your job, of your friendships, your roommates,。
right?。
You're frustrated, and you're not thinking about God, and you're not thinking about being。
led by the Spirit.。
You're not thinking about His sovereign hand working all things together for good.。
No.。
All you can see is your little piece, and you're ticked about it, and I would just say。
the reason why Joseph was able to do profound things for God is because he could see God's。
hand in the midst of it, and even when he couldn't see His hand, he could trust His。
heart.。
It's like the song we were singing earlier, I love Charles Spurgeon.。
He says this.。
He says, "God is too good to be unkind.。
He's too wise to be mistaken, and when we cannot trace His hand, we must trust His heart."。
Our God is in heaven, and He never sleeps.。
He never slumbers.。
God is intimately aware of what's going on in your life, and if you trust Him, He's working。
it together for good, even what feels like pointless, vain, ridiculous suffering.。
Some of you, it is your roommates.。
You're so ticked.。
Why do they always leave their dishes in the sink, right?。
And you're just frustrated, and it seems so pointless.。
God doesn't care about dishes in the sink.。
He does, because He cares about your heart, because He's doing something in the midst。
of the mess.。
What feels meaningless to you is momentous in the kingdom of God.。
Momentum in it.。
Few months ago, when I slipped on ice and broke a rib in my back, I told you guys about。
that the last time.。
I remember sitting in bed just thinking, "This is dumb."。
Like I'm not even old yet.。
I'm getting there, but not yet, and I can't even sleep because my ribs broke, and God,。
what's going on?。
And God, in that moment, is reminding me.。
I just, I wouldn't plan on saying this, but I put together this little acronym for pain,。
because I'm just feeling so pain.。
Pain, P, it pushes me to dependence on Christ.。
This is so good.。
P, A, A, I can spell, A, it's an amazing reminder that this world is temporary.。
I, I can do all things through Christ who gives me strength.。
And N, never give up.。
Never give up.。
Never give up.。
I probably said that to myself a hundred times that night, and some of you, in the midst。
of your pain, you need to say that.。
It pushes me to dependence on Christ.。
It's an amazing reminder this world is not my home.。
I can do all things through Christ who gives me strength.。
Never give up.。
Never give up.。
Never give up.。
The first key for Joseph to get out of the prison that is unforgiveness and bitterness。
is to remember if God allowed it, there's purpose in it.。
And then there's the second key.。
It's maybe the most important one.。
The second key is this, to know, to know forgiveness is given, but trust is earned.。
Forgiveness is given, but trust is earned.。
If we backtrack a little bit, in chapters 42 through 44, Joseph puts his brothers through。
a series of tests, and as you read it, it's, they're intense, it's like a soap opera.。
He's weeping at different times.。
He's hiding things from them.。
You see, he calls them spies, he throws them in custody for a little bit.。
He keeps behind one of the brothers.。
He shows favoritism to Benjamin.。
He sets them up.。
He watches them respond, and you go, "Dude, what's with all the drama, man?。
Chill out."。
And you realize, here's why.。
Because Joseph had already forgiven his brothers.。
We know that.。
We know it because at no point in this drama does he go, "All right, now I will forgive。
you."。
Forgiveness happened years before.。
While he had forgiven his brothers, he did not trust them yet, and for good reason.。
This is huge.。
Don't miss this.。
Joseph is not testing them to see if he can forgive them.。
He's already done it.。
He's testing them to see if they've changed.。
And this is so important, and I hope you get this tonight, because I believe for some of。
you, it's going to set you free if you actually realize the difference between forgiveness。
and trust.。
A few years ago, I read a book called "Trust" by Henry Cloud, and he separates.。
He said there's a distinction between forgiveness, reconciliation, and trust.。
I think we have his definitions on the screen.。
He said forgiveness is vertical.。
It's a command by God in every situation.。
You must forgive.。
Why?。
Because it's between you and God.。
He said reconciliation, though, is relational.。
It's something you pursue, and it requires both people.。
And then trust is built slowly, but it's the currency of relationship.。
It's the desire of every relationship.。
It's not just to always forgive one another and be reconciled and good.。
It's the trust.。
It's the currency of relationship.。
And so when I talk about this, I like to tell a little analogy that simplifies this.。
I'm not making light of what your forgiveness situation is.。
I just want to illustrate it.。
So let's say, so I'm married.。
My wife's name is Jen.。
Let's say I tell my wife, I say, "Jen, I will be home at 5.30 tomorrow night.。
I'll be home at 5.30."。
And then let's say I walk in the door at 6.15, hypothetically, okay?。
If I walk in the door, if I said 5.30 and I walk in the door at 6.15, I have technically。
sinned against her, and I lied.。
It doesn't matter how little it was, that was a lie.。
Now remember, forgiveness, reconciliation, trust.。
Forgiveness is primarily vertical between you and God.。
When someone sins against you, I can forgive because God, you forgave me.。
So even when I have sinned against my wife, I'm in the wrong, forgiveness for her happens。
before I own anything because it's God, you have forgiven me, and I can forgive Tyler.。
But reconciliation in my marriage can only happen between me and my wife when I own what。
I've done.。
So Jen has to forgive me because it's between her and God, but reconciliation can't happen。
until I own what I've done.。
And reconciliation gets you back to net zero, which is we're good.。
It's not the currency of relationship, it's not flourishing, it's just we're good.。
But trust happens when a track record is built over time.。
So the next time I tell my wife, "She's forgiven me, we've reconciled," but the next time I。
say, "Hey Jen, I'll be home at 5.30," she would be a fool to trust me because she needs。
to see me act on that and build a track record of, "Tyler, my husband does what he says he's。
going to do."。
Forgiveness, reconciliation, trust.。
See what Joseph's doing here is he's not testing, he's not seeing if he can forgive.。
He's seeing if they've changed so that he can reconcile with them and build back trust.。
I just need some of you to hear this.。
Some of you are confusing forgiveness and trust in your life.。
And you're continuing to trust people who've done nothing to earn that trust.。
And so you keep getting hurt over and over and over and over, thinking, "I'm just supposed。
to forgive and forget."。
So they said, "I'm sorry, so I got to just go back."。
Some of you, and this is hitting close to home, but there's that guy who continues to。
hurt you, hurt you, hurt you, but he's the chief of excuses and he's amazing at apologies.。
And so every time he goes, "Oh, I'm sorry baby, I know I was wrong, I shouldn't have。
done that."。
And so you're a good Christian, so you forgive, "Yeah, you're right, okay, I forgive you."。
And then you run back and trust him again, and for a few weeks, it's good until he breaks。
your heart again.。
You should not trust until you've seen a track record and it's earned in your life and his.。
But forgiveness is a gift.。
Forgiveness is between you and God, and it's separate of what's happening in trust.。
Because here's the reality, we've all heard this quote, "Unforgiveness is like drinking。
poison hoping the other person dies."。
It never works.。
You think you're imprisoning them and you're imprisoning yourself.。
And so in the situation where the guy continues to try to come back, "Oh baby, I'm so sorry."。
You can in full conscience forgive him before God, "God, I'm forgiven."。
You don't even need to say it to his face, you just say, "God, because of what you've。
done for me, I can forgive."。
And yet reconciliation can't happen until he's owned it.。
And even when he's owned it, I need a track record to show me change in his life.。
That will set you free.。
It will set you free.。
And that's what Joseph was able to do here, which is why he puts his brothers through。
this test, and by the end in chapter 45, he's able to go, "Come near me.。
Come near me.。
Hug me.。
I want to be near you.。
Come to Egypt with me," because he's seen a track record of change.。
You got to know that forgiveness is given, but trust is earned.。
That's the second thing.。
And then there's the third key, the last key.。
And the third key is this, is to ask, "Am I in the place of God?"。
Ask, "Am I in the place of God?"。
If you have your Bible, go a few chapters to the right, to chapter 50.。
In chapter 50, a lot's happened in the narrative, and Joseph, he forgives his brothers.。
That's happened a long time ago.。
He reconciles with them.。
He trusts them again.。
He actually tells them, "Move to Egypt.。
I want to provide for you."。
And for 17 years, they've lived in Egypt together.。
And then Jacob, Joseph's father, dies, and at the funeral, after Joseph's father Jacob。
has died, the brothers start freaking out because they go, "Oh, no.。
Now that Jacob's dead, he's going to get us back now," 17 years later.。
And look at what it says.。
Go to Genesis chapter 50, verse 15.。
It says, "When Joseph's brothers saw that their father was dead, they said, 'It may。
be that Joseph will hate us and pay us back for all the evil that we did to him.'。
So they sent a message to Joseph, saying, 'Your father gave this command before he died.。
Say to Joseph, 'Please forgive the transgression of your brothers in sin because of the evil。
that they did to you.。
And now please forgive the transgression of the servants of the God of your father.'。
And Joseph, when he heard this, he wept when they spoke to him.。
His brothers also came and fell down before him and said, 'Behold, we are your servants.'"。
Verse 19.。
Look at this.。
"But Joseph said to them, 'Do not fear, for am I in the place of God.。
As for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good, to bring it about that。
many people should be kept alive as they are today.。
So do not fear; I will provide for you and your little ones.'。
And then he comforted them and spoke kindly to them."。
So 17 years later, Jacob dies.。
His brothers are worried.。
And so they make up another lie, 17 years later.。
And they try to manipulate the situation because of fear to go, 'Man, just in case he decides,。
you know, the Taylor Swift moment of redline revenge is actually good now, we want to make。
sure your dad told you to forgive us.'。
And Joseph sees right through this, but he doesn't lose their mind, his mind on them.。
He weeps.。
And the first words that he says to them is, 'Am I in the place of God?'"。
See, in Joseph's life, he was not the main character of his own life.。
And the other thing is, in Joseph's life, his brothers were not the main character in。
his story.。
God was.。
God was weaving something together in his life, and Joseph was so sure of it that he。
was not able to give that kind of power to his brothers, to have that kind of weight。
in his story, in his life.。
Some of you are giving other people way too much power in your life right now.。
Everything in your life and your story wraps around the hurt and the injustice that was。
done to you.。
I know this because I sit down with a lot of you, and the first thing I always love。
to do, I bring a journal and I go, "Hey, tell me your story.。
Tell me your story.。
I want to know about you."。
And as I start to write, I'm not judging you.。
If you sit down with me and you tell me your story and you got hurt, I'm not judging you.。
I'm just saying, it's very obvious when someone has given the main character of their story。
to another human being.。
They go, "Man, you'll never believe the home I grew up in, the parents that I had, and。
they did all this to me and this toxic this, and because of all the relationship history。
and I've been abandoned, and I've been..."。
And you just boom.。
This isn't just being honest.。
Honesty is great.。
We all got brokenness in our story.。
This is giving the power to another person to be the main character in your story.。
And the irony is, you're not just giving them power in your story when you're doing that.。
You're giving Satan power.。
I mean, look at this scripture, Ephesians chapter four, verse 26.。
Have you really thought about this?。
It says, "Be angry and do not sin.。
Do not let the sun go down on your anger and give no opportunity to the devil."。
When you harbor bitterness, when you allow somebody else to be the main character in。
your story, you're giving them power in your life and you're giving Satan power in your。
life, opportunity.。
Another scripture says, "A foothold in your life to work his will."。
While you're thinking, "Oh, I've got all this trauma and this hurt in my past," and we do。
get there, I'm just saying so many of us allow ourselves to let somebody else have that kind。
of power.。
And Joseph said, "Sorry guys, you don't have that kind of control over me.。
There's a God in my life and it's not you and it's not me, and I know who he is.。
And what you meant for evil against me, my God, who's more powerful than you could ever。
be, was weaving it together for good."。
He's weaving it together for good.。
So I think there's two potential groups here tonight.。
I think one potential group is you are the brothers in this story.。
Some of you, even at the beginning when I said, "Some of you are enslaved," you're like。
the brothers where you're hiding some sin in your life and you have such a guilty conscience。
that if someone even comes up to you and they say, "Hey, I heard something about you," you。
freak out because you're living in secrets and shame and darkness and guilt.。
And so what you do in every sphere that you're in, any community group that you're in, any。
Christian sphere, any roommates, is you constantly try to manipulate the situation so that the。
secret stays hidden.。
As long as I can take that thing to the grave, then I'm good.。
And you will manipulate and lie and do whatever you need to do to keep that thing hidden because。
it's got mastery over you.。
And for you, Jesus has a word to you.。
Jesus says in Matthew chapter 5 verse 23, look at what Jesus says.。
He says, "If you're offering your gift at the altar," what does he mean?。
"If you're at a worship service, if you come to the porch and you're singing songs about。
O praise the name," that's what he's saying, he said, "If you're offering your gift at。
the altar and there you remember," oh, I'm guilty, "that your brother has something against。
you," I've sinned against someone, "leave your gift there before the altar and go.。
First be reconciled to your brother and then come and offer your gift."。
I mean, this is Jesus in the Bible.。
He goes, "I don't really want you showing up to a place like this, giving me a bunch。
of praise while you know you've done things against other people.。
If you've got conviction in your heart, then don't sing the last song.。
Get out of here."。
In fact, I'm just going to assume if after the message, the last song hits, there's an。
exodus of you, you're all guilty, okay?。
So that's what's going to happen.。
Just kidding, but maybe.。
But he's serious.。
You know, there have been times I've read that scripture, in fact, every time I read。
that scripture, I try to be sober minded enough to go, "God, is there anything that I need。
to go reconcile?"。
Just a month ago, just a month ago, I'm praying that and someone came to mind.。
It was a couple, an older couple from my last church that we had led a class together and。
the way things ended just didn't end great, and I said some things in our last meeting。
that it's like the toothpaste coming out of the bottle, you're like, "Oh, I wish I could。
get that back."。
And this was three years ago, four years ago, and it came to mind.。
I'm like, "Man."。
So I text them, I give both their numbers, I text them, "Hey, this is Tyler.。
You came to mind today, thankful for you guys, praying for you.。
And also, I'm thinking about those words I said in our last encounter, and I just want。
to say I'm sorry.。
I apologize.。
Will you forgive me?"。
Hey, you know, close, send it, a few hours later, I get a call from the husband.。
I went to voicemail because I'm millennial, you know, I pick it back up, then I call him,。
and I'm like, "Hey, what's up?"。
He's like, "Man, it's so wild that you called me today," he said, "I am driving on my way。
to bail out my son from prison, and I think that's why God brought you to mind today."。
And we, I got to pray for him, I got to hear about what's going on, we got to reconcile。
from what happened years ago.。
And I'm just telling you, some of you, you've got that nagging thing, you know what it is,。
you're the guilty conscience, you're the brother, and rather than deal with it, you're manipulating。
and lying and sweeping it under the rug, and God may have, not just reconciliation, blessing。
beyond what you can imagine, if you would take the step of obedience and go, "I'm reaching。
out to him.。
I'm owning what I've done.。
I'm taking full ownership and saying I'm sorry, and leaving the results up to them."。
No expectation.。
Some of you are the brothers, and that needs to happen tonight.。
Oh God, that in a place like this, and everyone watching online, there would be freedom and。
healing as we own the things, no secrets, no shame.。
But the second group is, you are not the brothers, you are in Joseph's seat, but rather than。
saying like, "Joseph, am I in the place of God?"。
You're actually playing God, and you're holding other people in debt.。
And just like we were talking about earlier, every time you tell the story, they're a character。
in it.。
I just wonder if tonight, God would begin to release your grip on the hold they have。
on your life.。
Not that you don't tell the story honestly, no, this needs to be a safe place to talk。
about traumatic, toxic, difficult, hard things.。
Oh, would we not be the Christians who pretend like everything's fine in our lives?。
Because it's not fine.。
But would we also not be like so many in this generation, who allow other people and situations。
in our life to write our story for us, rather than allowing God to rewrite it with his redeeming。
power?。
Oh, that that would happen tonight, I'm praying that it would.。
I believe that the prerequisite for revival in our day will be surrender to every aspect。
of our lives to Christ, including our bitterness, our unforgiveness, and the things that have。
happened to us in the past.。
I really believe revival will begin to grow to spark when that begins to happen.。
I heard someone once say, "Revival does not break out where bitterness is being babysat."。
I've never forgotten that.。
Revival does not break out where bitterness is being babysat.。
Is bitterness being babysat in your life?。
So the three keys to remember, if God allowed it, there's purpose in it.。
To know forgiveness is given, but trust is earned.。
And to ask, "Am I in the place of God?"。
And I want to wrap up our time ending with something Jesus said about forgiveness.。
Jesus gave a parable that he called "The Unforgiving Servant," the parable of the unforgiving servant。
in Matthew chapter 18.。
And he tells the story of this king who had a servant who owed him 10,000 talents.。
And to this guy who owed him 10,000 talents, he finally goes, "All right, man, it's time。
to pay up."。
And the servant comes, and he goes, "Man, I just can't have more time.。
I need it.。
I can't pay right now."。
And the king does something crazy.。
The king looks at him, and he says, "You know what?。
You're forgiven.。
The debt is paid.。
Be released."。
And then that servant goes, "Wow."。
And he gets up, and he walks along, and he sees one of his servants.。
And this servant, the servant of the first servant, owed him 100 denarii.。
And this servant says to that servant, "Hey, man, it's time to pay up."。
And the second servant begs, he goes, "Oh, please, give me more time."。
And the first servant says, "Nah, time's up, man."。
And he throws him in prison.。
Well the king hears about this, and he goes to the first servant, he goes, "Bro, what。
the heck?。
I forgave you all that debt, and you won't forgive him?" and he throws that guy in prison.。
And then Jesus says this, in Matthew 18, verse 35, he says, "So also my heavenly Father will。
do to every one of you if you do not forgive your brother from your heart."。
It's a wild story, but what makes it even crazier is how much each of these values were。
worth.。
See, the second servant, the guy who owed 100 denarii, a denarii is about one day's。
wage.。
Call it $120.。
So 100 denarii is about $12,000.。
And I love that.。
Yeah, you whistle, because $12,000 is not pocket change.。
I mean, can you imagine if, imagine, today, someone owed you 12 grand.。
You wouldn't be like, "Nah, it's 12 grand," but like, whatever, you know.。
And if you are that person, tithe to Watermark Community Church, you know.。
Right?。
That's a lot of money.。
That's a lot of money.。
And I love Jesus doesn't make it seem little, but here's the thing.。
The crazy part is what 10,000 talents would be in modern dollars.。
A talent, one talent, is worth 20 years' wages, about $600,000.。
So when the guy owed 10,000 talents, it would be the equivalent of $6 billion, $6 billion.。
What is Jesus saying?。
This is so key.。
Jesus is saying, "I'm not trying to downplay your $12,000 hardships and difficulties in。
your life.。
Forgiveness is hard.。
Some of you are going to have to forgive $12,000 debts against you.。
But do you realize that you owed a debt of $6 billion to God?"。
When you understand that, the $12,000 still hurts.。
But yet you have perspective to go, "God, I get it.。
I understand.。
Lord, it hurts to forgive.。
And yet when I stare at the cross and the reality of the debt that I owed God, then。
I can, with glad-hearted submission, forgive $12,000 debts against me."。
Last two things and we'll rock.。
Two questions.。
First, have you reckoned with the $6 billion debt that you owed God?。
I'm serious.。
See, the only one that could actually call himself a true victim, in the truest sense。
of the word, volunteered to get up on that cross and take everything that was due you。
on himself.。
Think about that.。
He could have sat in bitterness at his creation going awry, and yet he forgave at great cost.。
So I was preparing this.。
A song came on that I hadn't heard in years, from Judah.。
The song, "Remember What It Cost."。
I was writing these words, listening to this song, and the last part of the chorus says,。
"Though you made it easy for me, how heavy was the cross.。
Jesus, this life you've given, I'll remember what it cost."。
The bridge says, "Right when the devil thought he'd won, all my shackles came undone, 'cause。
you've risen for the grave and now I'm free forever.。
Right when the devil thought he'd won, all my shame has come undone.。
Now you've risen from the grave and I'm yours forever."。
Do you realize you have $6 billion in debt against God and your sin?。
You've sinned against a holy God, and yet because of the cross, the payment that Jesus。
paid, 1 John 1:9 is true of you, which says, "If you confess your sin, He is faithful and。
just to forgive all your sins and cleanse you from unrighteousness."。
Some of you, the burden that's keeping you in bitterness and unforgiveness is because。
you've never stared at the reality of the cross.。
It's never weighed on you.。
You sing the songs, you go, "Yeah, big deal.。
God loves me."。
'Cause of course.。
And you've never thought, "Wow, I owed $6 billion in debt against God."。
Oh, that you would understand God by the power of the Holy Spirit, would you open eyes to。
the reality of our sin and our brokenness?。
That's the first question.。
And then the second, last one is this, where do you need to forgive $12,000 debts against。
you tonight?。
Some of you are convinced that, "Oh, I've forgiven everyone in the past."。
And yet while forgiveness is one time, it's also a process.。
So there's depth to all of the things that have happened to us.。
And so I want to do this.。
I'm going to read some things over us, and maybe we can bring the lights down just a。
little bit.。
And if you're in the live location, lock in with us.。
But I want to read some things over us, some potential $12,000, or I'll be honest, $120,000,。
$12 million debts that have been pulled, that have been taken from you.。
And I just want you to ask God, "God, is there anything in my life that I'm still holding。
onto?"。
And I'm praying that maybe tonight God would release your grip.。
I just want you to think any of these.。
Maybe it's a friend who stabbed you in the back, betrayal.。
You thought they were ride or die.。
You thought they were going to be with you, standing next to you in your wedding, and。
they hadn't talked to you in six months.。
Maybe it's a breakup or heartbreak.。
Someone promised everything to you only to break up with you and go after someone else.。
Maybe it's your parents' divorce that continues to come up in your story, or maybe it's your。
own divorce.。
Maybe you experienced infidelity in your relationship, and you got cheated on.。
It just hurts so bad to think that someone you trusted so much would cheat on you.。
Maybe you were abused.。
Talk about $12 million debts.。
Someone stole your innocence from you.。
A room this size, watching online, one in four, statistically, one in six guys, which。
is absolutely wrong, stripped from you.。
Maybe someone you love committed suicide, and you're left picking up the pieces.。
Maybe you were let go from your job.。
Maybe you were lied to by someone you trusted, bullied, made fun of for how you look.。
Now every time you look in the mirror, all you can see is that thing that everyone pointed。
out about you.。
Maybe it's a teacher or a coach or a parent who had harmful words that they said to you,。
and you just, at night, two in the morning, those words come back.。
Maybe it's racism or stereotyping where it's just unfair.。
That's not true of me.。
Maybe it's church hurt, pastors, people in authority you were supposed to be able to。
trust who hurt you.。
Maybe it's something else.。
So I just want to do this to end the time.。
If you'd close your eyes just where you are, and I want to pray over you as we end, both。
here in the room and online, but I want to do this, just all eyes closed, just thinking。
about God, what is it?。
I just want to ask, this is a bold step, but if there's anything I just said or anything。
else where you go, yeah, that's my story, man, I need to forgive tonight.。
God, help me take that next step.。
If you would just do this, this is bold, but I believe the step to revival, the step to。
freedom.。
If you would just in here in the room or online, if you just stick your hand in the air and。
we're eyes closed, just stick your hand in there.。
I just want to pray over you, I want to pray over you that you, God would give you the。
power by your spirit to forgive.。
Man, if there's someone in your life, something that happened that you need to forgive, just。
raise your hand, raise your hand.。
All right, keep it up.。
I just want to pray.。
Father, I just pray over each of these hands that are raised in this room and online.。
Lord, I am so sorry for the hurt that has happened in each one of these.。
It's wrong.。
It's unfair.。
It's not their fault.。
And yet God, we believe that if you've allowed it to happen, there's purpose in it.。
And so Father, I pray by the power of the Holy Spirit, you would help the miracle of。
forgiveness happen tonight.。
Not trust, not even reconciliation yet.。
Just forgiveness.。
God, you've forgiven me $6 billion worth of debt.。
I can forgive.。
Oh, Lord, would the shackles come off tonight?。
Would freedom be found tonight?。
Would burdens be lifted tonight?。
Would worship happen tonight?。
Because God, you've forgiven me.。
Help me in the process of healing to forgive.。
I pray that that would happen tonight.。
God, would you be glorified?。
Would you be lifted up?。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
Amen.。
