One time when he went to the bathroom for a few minutes。
I may or may not have stolen his Bible and saw that everything is highlighted. It's so worn out. Oh my gosh。
Well the guy I'm into I just love the way he worships。
I wouldn't get closer to him so our Holy Spirits can worship together。
All right, I don't even know what that means I。
Feel like they should run these videos by me or something。
Man it's good to be with you guys this evening. I just got back today this this morning or I guess around lunch。
I got back to work from a fishing trip。
I went out with my brother and my dad and two brother-in-laws who went to the bay。
out to the coast about six hours from here and。
Went Saturday and Sunday and so we go out Saturday my dad takes us out and and。
You know you wake up. I don't know if you've done this before saltwater fishing, but you wake up early and。
Get all the poles fishing poles ready pack the ice chest you know get everything geared up。
You got your fishing gear on and then you you get the boat already loaded up on the trailer。
And then you drive it still dark outside the Sun hadn't come up。
And then you you back it up。
And you put the boat in and then you go out there in the ocean and and you're fishing you know you're casting and reeling。
And and then the Sun comes up, and it just gets hot okay like South, Texas crazy。
Hades kind of hot and so。
We're doing that thing and and we don't catch anything。
Nothing, I mean like we move around like hey, let's go try over here. You know hey。
Let's let's try this they cast over there in the weeds. Let's go open ocean. You know I'm like you know that boat over。
There's catching something why don't we go by them?。
You know and so we just don't catch anything my dad like caught a flounder。
That's all we caught all day long and and so we come back in and then we go out the next day。
Which was Sunday and this time we go with a guide so we hired a guide and we go out。
But then which is a lot better because you just show up you wake up you show up you get on a boat。
I mean he does everything he's baiting the hook everything and and so before the Sun comes up we limit out on redfish。
18 redfish and and five trout. I mean that's that's a good day of。
Fishing and here's what I learned through this whole experience。
Okay, I mean we were back in before lunch done can't catch any more fish right and I learned。
That I hate fishing okay。
I。
really enjoy。
Catching that's fun fish on the hook. You know reeling it in fighting it getting it in the boat。
Catching is a lot of fun fishing on the other hand is。
Miserable okay now now right about now。
You should be rolling your eyes because you're like all the pastor talking on dating and he's got a bit fishing metaphor。
You know and I get it I get it okay. It's cliche。
But it's cliche for a reason right it's cliche for a reason because we say things like oh。
She's a good catch, and he's a keeper and there's plenty of fish in the sea。
and the reason。
It's a good metaphor. I mean it works it carries so that you're gonna hear some of it so but here's the deal。
Some of us are completely content with dating。
And we've we've lost this whole idea that dating is this not the end of itself like dating is supposed to lead somewhere。
And so some of us like we bought into this lie from the world and we've been dating since the fifth grade or fourth grade。
Or some of you second grade right some of you preschool, and so here's the deal right?。
We've been doing that this whole time we forget that the dating is just a means to it's a means to marriage。
God did not invent dating God invented the finish line。
Marriage was his invention dating was our invention not even that long ago as a euphemism for prostitution。
That's honestly where it came from I'm not kidding when dating came on the scene it meant prostitution true story look it up。
history of dating and。
So dating is supposed to lead to this thing and so if you're like hey。
I like day you're like those guys that man. I love fishing like you catch eating no nothing。
But we were out there just casting and reeling. I was great. I'm like that's stupid. That's not great。
That's miserable can't eat anything. No fish. You know what it was that about right?。
Dating if you're having fun in。
Dating like if you're completely satisfied in it. You're doing it wrong。
That's the truth like if you're just like I'm not dating that's that's that's great man date the rest of my life。
No, no in the scripture. We have two options. There's a there's a call to singleness。
sometimes。
Our desire sometimes God's desire for us, and then there's marriage. There's no call to dating。
All right now girls stop elbowing your boyfriend. Okay, that's not we're not about that. It's not that stay with me。
Okay, I see you and so。
Dating is supposed to lead to this thing。
And so tonight I want to talk about getting caught up in dating right we're weak to。
Save the date this series and we're just talking about this idea that that the goal is not dating in and of itself。
The goal is to go somewhere and if we don't know what the goal is like if you don't know what kind of fish you're trying。
To catch right then you don't know how to do it。
You've got to know what the goal in what the end is mine。
And the end is you got to keep the end in mind in order to get there。
And so in this series save the date we call it that it has a double meaning, right?。
It's not just a reminder that you get that somebody else is getting married and you wonder if you'll go with someone or go alone。
It's actually also a call to this idea that the world is doing it wrong。
Like what if you get up there you meet God? He's like, oh man you。
You did that thing all wrong。
Like we could have saved you a lot of heartache and a lot of time had you just read this book。
You're like, but it doesn't say anything about dating in there。
exactly。
That will be his point. Okay?。
And。
So last week we talked about dating detours。
Those detours were looking outside of God's people。
Giving into lustful desires and playing games if you missed it go back and listen to it online or via the porch app。
And so this week we're talking about getting caught up in dating last week。
We kind of looked at the life of Samson。
We looked at the life of Sanson and we and we basically focused on things that primarily men do now。
I'm not I don't mean generalizations。
I mean men and women make the same mistakes in dating but last week I focused a lot on the men。
I said hey, this is Samson's mistakes this week。
We're gonna look at the three women and I'm gonna talk to you ladies now men. You're gonna learn something, too。
You're gonna learn what's and what to avoid what not to look for in a woman women。
But women you're going to look at things that get you caught up in dating stuck。
stuck in singleness。
Stuck in discontentment as we look at the three women in this story of Samson judges 13。
14 and。
15。
And so let's dive in just to set this up right Israel is ruled by the Philistines this evil people。
Okay, they are ruling God's people。
And so God raises up a man that says the angel the Lord said verse 5 judges 13 verse 5 you will become pregnant。
He's talking to his mom who's barren who's never had kids。
Angel the Lord shows up says you're gonna become pregnant and have a son whose head is never to be touched by a razor。
Because the boy is a Nazarite dedicated to God from the womb。
He will take the lead in delivering Israel from the hands of the Philistines. So Samson is coming on the scene。
He's gonna be set apart by God for an incredible mission, but he keeps getting hung up in this topic of dating。
He keeps getting stuck in relationships that cause him to lose sight of God's mission for his life。
And so just a quick disclaimer that I said last week in case you missed it. I don't think this story is about dating. I。
Don't think God preserved this story for thousands of years to teach us about dating。
I think this story is to teach us about God's faithfulness to use broken to people to bring about his will。
however, I think as we look at some of the poor choices Samson made we can learn a lot about dating as we apply it to。
our own lives and。
So where I'm headed we're gonna talk about fear control and desires that can get us caught up in dating fear。
Control and desires and so judges 14. Okay, Samson is now on the scene。
He goes to a neighboring area called Timna to God's enemies。
It says he sees a woman there and he likes her. He goes back to his parents mom dad. I saw a woman。
She's hot mom and dad say hey, you can't date her. That's not God's people。
Samson, why don't you find someone among God's people? He says God's people who cares. She's smoking hot。
It says in the Hebrew. She's no it says in the Hebrew。
Get her for me she looks good to me。
That's what it says says she looks good to me get her for me。
So him and his dad go and he takes her to coffee and he runs some game and he comes back in the scripture says。
That he enjoyed talking to her. He enjoyed the conversation。
He goes back to his people and then he goes back to marry her. So he travels back to her land。
He shows up. He says he throws a keg party or a big drinking party。
We know he's not supposed to drink as a Nazarite, but he does he throws this big party. He's gonna marry her。
They give him 30 groomsmen true story the Philistines assigned 30 groomsmen to him。
And so Samson being this man's man tap out MMA, dude。
Like he's he's there and he's like, hey guys want a bet wanna bet something? Hey, I got a riddle。
You ready? And so he gives him this riddle and he makes a bet he's starting he's gambling at his own wedding。
I mean, that's what he's doing, right? And so he gambles with these 30 companions from the Philistines。
He gives him the riddle and he gives them seven days to solve it。
It's a bet, you know, they win or he wins who wins whoever wins get something。
Well, they go to his wife and they say hey。
You need to find out the answer to this riddle. And if you don't we're gonna set you on fire。
Okay. Yeah, it's pretty rash. Well anyways, so she goes to him。
She nags him to death until he tells her the answer and I'll jump into the scripture verses 16。
Then Samson's wife threw herself on him sobbing you hate me. You don't really love me。
You've given my people a riddle. You haven't told me the answer and you're manipulative. Okay, but let's go back。
I haven't even explained it to my father a mother he replied. So why should I explain it to you?。
She cried the whole seven. She cried the whole seven days of the feast。
Miserable so on the seventh day he finally told her because she continued to press him。
she in turn explained the riddle to her people and。
So the groomsmen come to him. They answer the riddle。
Samson calls his wife a cow。
Goes kills true story goes and kills 30 people takes their stuff and pays off his debt。
And so let me ask you a question。
This woman is。
Married to Superman. I mean, he's got super natural superhuman strength。
He's able to leap over tall buildings in a single battle。
Like why didn't she just go to him and say hey, by the way, Sam。
Sam shine these guys over here。
They said that if I don't tell them the riddle they're gonna set me on fire we can just handle that。
I mean, that's what she should have done. That would have solved all the problem. But what but why didn't she?。
Because this woman's ruled by fear。
It's my first point fear causes us to get caught up in dating。
Fear causes us to get caught up in dating。
her whole life is。
Being determined by men. Do you see that? She's being tossed and fro from the desires man。
She's sitting there helplessly waiting for some men to come into her life to determine her destiny。
And when he does and these other men come into her life and say no。
Let me tell you what to do so much so that this is what happens next judges 15 1 & 2。
Later on the time of the wheat harvest Samson took a young goat and went to visit his wife if you're looking for a Valentine's。
Day gift there's one a young goat and so。
He said I'm going to my wife's room, but her father would not let him go in。
I was sure you hated her. He said so that I gave her to your companion。
Bomp-bomp-bomp. I mean what I mean is ladies. Do you ever feel this way?。
Like you're just sitting there helpless and vulnerable like man。
I have no idea what my future holds and it is completely up to some man that would come into my life steal my heart and。
Then tell me where we're gonna live what I'm gonna do。
How many kids we're gonna have where we're gonna go to church all of that。
Like I'm I don't I don't know what I'm do you ever feel this way just me. No, I'm kidding。
Some of you are shaking your head. No, I don't feel that way good. I'm glad I'm relevant. Okay, so。
Or even worse。
you live in fear that you that he will never come and。
your life will just pass you by and。
You'll just sit waiting like hey, what if God doesn't what if he's called me to singleness and I didn't know it and。
And so here's what I'm saying to you stop waiting。
Do you hear me start living your life。
Marriage is is an awesome thing. It's a great thing and it is completely okay to want marriage. God says it's a good thing。
It is not okay。
to need marriage。
It is not okay to be in a place where you。
absolutely need marriage and you live in fear of not getting married so that someone would come in your life and and because。
You are led by fear will lead you to terrible places like Samson has done here。
And so when your desire to be married materializes in discontentment。
You have fed an idol and it has grown to a terrible thing namely unhappiness。
or。
discontentment and。
So you're left living a vulnerable helpless life, which is completely unnecessary。
Because you can live God's desires for your life right now. I。
Mean you can begin to change the world right now. You can begin to live out the gospel right now。
You can begin to live God's calling on your life right now。
Not when Prince charming comes into the picture but completely right now。
And so what I want to tell you ladies is be careful what you're feeding your heart because your heart is an idol factory。
Meaning it's producing idols and when you feed those idols in your heart, they grow they get bigger and bigger and bigger。
And so this is why if you go to your Pinterest account and you have this, you know。
This file the wedding day, right?。
Okay, I would cancel that you have this this file called dream wedding or one of these days exclamation point, but。
Would you delete it that I'm assuming that's nervous laughter right now delete it。
Like if if all you're feeding your heart and this is a big one, okay, I want you to lean in on this ladies。
if you're feeding your heart romantic comedies。
If you if you love your favorite TV shows feed your discontentment, you know。
if everything。
That you're doing. I mean you kind of live that backstreet song。
I want it that way and so if that's if that's what you're if that's what you're doing everywhere you go。
Those are the things that consume your heart and your mind. Would you stop?。
Would you stop I?。
Mean like like what? What are you asking me to do? Like what am I not supposed to do that watch romantic comedies?。
I mean you really mean that I mean am I not supposed to watch TV? Are you is that what you're saying?。
Yeah。
That's literally what I'm saying。
Could you imagine your girlfriend calls you hey。
You want to go see the notebook of 27 dresses of single in Seattle sex in the city, whatever。
Now。
Why what's wrong with you why why not just doesn't do good things to my heart. Oh。
It。
Doesn't do good things to my heart either I。
Mean unless it does。
Like some of you like now this stuff doesn't mess with my heart. You're lying。
No, it does be careful。
That's the angle. I mean these girls didn't even have that temptation。
Right. And so if you already have a subscription to bride magazine or you're reading these articles, right?。
Like just just watch out man。
You're feeding something and you're walking around you're just content and be careful audit the conversations。
You're having like if you guys get around as a community group and it's holy and it's good。
You got your Bible open and just like man, there's no good guy all the good guys. They don't like us girl。
They don't like good girls, you know。
And and you just kind of spinning that up and you're getting all angry and then all of a sudden it's like no。
They don't like you because you're the angry single girl, you know。
like。
Like be be careful. All right, like that's what it is. Like you you're getting all worked up. You're walking around。
It's like big chip on your shoulder like calm down。
Okay that you don't realize that conversation you keep having is。
feeding something。
Even under an umbrella of righteousness. Well, you know, we just we're just talking as girls. Yeah. Yeah, you're feeding something。
Be careful。
Be careful。
And so when you live in fear。
You forfeit your ability to make wise decisions。
think clearly and。
Trust others that you should trust right like like Samson's parents for example, they come up and they like Samson. You don't want that girl。
Yes, I do。
You know me. Yeah, she's hot. You know, I want it's like no you don't say yes, I do。
And he's not listening to the wise counsel in his life。
Like I see this happen all the time that people isolate themselves. There's a reason we caught fish that second day。
We had an expert with us。
We had someone who had been there with us。
We had someone telling us where to go and how to navigate those waters and where to cast and where the fish were。
You've got to have this in your life. And I see it where where people they're like, oh, I love this community group。
They're amazing and I can trust them and then you start dating some guy or some girl and then they say hey。
I don't think he's any he's good for you. He's like, well, what do you know?。
I can't trust you, you know。
And he's just isolate yourself when you find yourself on an island where you've alienated yourself in the church。
Why because that feels like the church is holding something from you that you really really really want。
Be careful. I。
Trust myself the least when I really really really want something。
When we were out there fishing what the first day didn't catch any what we kept catching was crabs。
I promise this is not an inappropriate sex joke。
I。
Kept catching crabs and。
I'm serious. Stay with me. Okay, and I'm going somewhere deep and theological with this。
And so we we cast and and I don't know what it's like to be a crab, you know sitting there in the ocean。
Like oh man, look at this fish just hanging out。
Launch, you know grab it and the interesting thing about reeling in a crab is they're not hooked。
Do you realize that they're not hooked on anything? They're just holding on so one minute。
He's like, oh fish take it and next minute. He's like, oh, I'm water skiing what's going on? And so。
And so I remember like this kept happening to me. I'm sitting there。
I'm reeling in and I'm looking in the beady eyes of this little crab who's just holding on for dear life。
And I'm like all you got to do is let it go buddy。
but you're about to be bait, you know, cuz that's what we would do is we take the crab and then make them bait for。
the fish and so。
They just kept coming in to death. All they had to do was let go。
But in the same way like some of you are stuck into a relationship being led by fear, well, I don't want to start over I。
Don't what do I know? I don't know what else is out there. What if there's nothing better out there?。
What if I in this and then I'm single the rest of my days and you're holding on to something out of fear。
When the girls will email me I'm like, well, how do I know?。
and I just I think he you know, and he seems like a good guy and he has a Bible and you know, and。
And I just don't know and I just don't know and about the sixth time they tell me they just don't know an email。
I just want to I want to respond with like just a few words like you do know, you know。
It's like it's it's very clear to me. You do know and that's why you're emailing me。
Because you want me to affirm that thing in the back of your heart that's telling you it this guy's not gonna marry you。
He's wasting your time。
And I'll do it I don't mind yeah, I get hate emails all the time guys are like you told my girlfriend。
It's let me just ask you a question before we go further。
What dating outcomes are you afraid of?。
That's a good question to tell your girls tell your community group what dating outcomes are you afraid of is it hurt?。
Is it not being asked out? Is it singleness?。
Is it divorce?。
Is it not liking marriage is it sex?。
Is it wasting time?。
Is it being the crazy cat lady? Like what what is the thing that you're afraid of?。
And so in this story it actually turns out come back with me。
It turns out that this woman's worst fears are realized。
Because she didn't bring them into the light if she would have just brought them into the light everything would have been fine。
But because she doesn't okay, they actually set her on fire. Here's what happens。
Is Samson is so angry that they've given his wife away to his companion that he sets their crops on fire。
They're so angry that he set their crops crops on fire that they set her and her father on fire。
Okay, and so then Samson goes into hiding and his own people the Israelites come and hand him over to the Philistines。
He's tied up with new ropes and they're there about to kill him and it says the Spirit of the Lord came on him。
His strength was there and he slayed the Philistines. He slayed the army that was in front of him。
He killed a thousand men. Okay, and I want you to remember this place is called Rameth Lehi。
That's gonna be important in a minute. Okay, and so he literally kills them and it says he's dying of thirst literally dying of thirst。
He cries out to God and God provides a spring we see God's mercy over and over and over again。
And then it says he leads the Israelites for 20 years. And so finally he's doing his job。
They're free from this Philistine oppression until。
he sees。
another woman。
Judges 16 one day Samson went to Gaza where he saw a prostitute。
He went in to spend the night with her。
The people of Gaza were told Samson is here。
So they surrounded the place and lay and wait for him all night at the city gate。
They made no move during the night saying at dawn will kill him。
My second point this evening is control causes us to get caught up in dating。
control。
Control a desire for control causes us to get caught up in dating now。
Why would I say control when we're talking about a prostitute and Samson, right? Here's why。
Because I've talked with enough women coming out of prostitution to understand. There's only one woman。
There's only one reason rather a woman uses her sexuality。
to get a man。
One is because she's controlled by men and。
Two is because she wants to be in control of men。
There's only two reasons and they both include this word。
Control and so she's either under the control of a man or she desires control and realizes that she can do that with her sexuality。
and so women。
when you begin to use your。
Sexuality to control your destiny in dating you've moved outside the will of God。
Let me say that again。
When you begin to use your sexuality to control the outcome in dating you've moved outside。
the will of God。
That that is not our goal that is not God's best for you。
And so I just I will ask you is sex outside of marriage an option for you。
It's sex not outside of marriage an option for you and women will say when no, it's not even an option。
Are you on birth control? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Oh。
Why safety net I mean I get it like listen to be clear if it's complexion doctor prescribed regulate your period。
I get that but if you're on birth control。
Because well just in case。
What do you got a safety net?。
Let me ask you a question。
What would God have to do or say to you to move you to a place where you would say?。
Sex outside of marriage is not an option。
Like let's just say he shows up face to face with you he says hey, hey friend, I want you to flee sexual immorality。
Do you not know your bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit who is in you?。
You've been bought by a price. You are not your own therefore honor God with your body。
What if he showed up to you and looked you in the eyes and he said hey。
I want you to keep the marriage bed pure and undefiled。
Would that be enough? I mean he said both of those things in case you wanted both of those。
And a whole lot of other things。
And so what would he have to do?。
Where you say he sex outside of marriage is not an option for me because he puts these rules in place。
Because he cares for you for your protection. He wants to protect you in ways that you can't even see it。
He desires a godly relationship for you, and he will not settle see God's bar is a healthy marriage。
He's like sweet princess。
sweet daughter of mine I。
love you and。
I have something better for you。
And if you want to pursue。
Those things outside of my desires for you。
I will let you you have the freedom to do that。
But that's not my best for you and it's gonna hurt you and it's gonna pain me to watch you do that。
And you know what happens as girls do that they get to a place and they say why God?。
Why did you do this to me?。
He said no, I was up in my kingdom jumping up and down waving my arms saying don't go that way I was saying flee。
sexual immorality。
Because I love you。
And I want my very best for you, but you didn't listen to me。
Man you didn't listen to me。
You ran into that prostitutes house, and you were trapped and they waited outside to kill you。
Because it's a trap it's always a trap。
When we were fishing。
You know we wanted to catch two kinds of fish redfish and trout。
And the guide he he had this fish finder this thing where you could see what's swimming underneath and there was so many。
Fish underneath the boat I mean and there are these porpoise or these dolphins。
You know swimming around the boat is pretty amazing and there was shark there。
And there were jackfish there and there were hardheads there。
And there was this other kind of jack something fish Jack Clavel fish there。
There were all these kinds all these types of fish。
But we just wanted to catch redfish and trout and so what we did was we only used bait that redfish and trout。
will take。
We didn't use bait that the other fish would want the other fish would try to take and and so this is very simple。
It's very logical. It's very practical, and it will save you a lot of pain if you are fishing with your body。
If you are fishing with your low-cut blouse and your cleavage and your short skirt, right?。
I know you're 14 carats and all that but listen if you're using that to attract a man。
You're going to get someone that is going to only like you for your body now。
He's going to say amazing things to you。
You know you're a marquee diamond. He's going to say stuff like that to you。
He's going to look you in the eyes and whisper sweet nothings to you and tell you that you mean the world。
But really he means he loves your boobs。
Or you're behind。
Or your waistline or your tight shirt or your short skirt。
And I'm just I'm trying to in that so practical。
You're going to catch with whatever bait you use。
It's so practical。
This is one of the first things that changed in the wife in the life of my wife like we would we dated if you don't。
Know our story we dated as non-christians。
And then God came and just kind of dropped this bomb in our relationship。
And we both began to pursue him with reckless abandonment。
And I can remember dating Monica, and she would be so uncomfortable like。
unimaginably。
Uncomfortable at the lake in a one-piece like that would just be crazy to her like she'd be like man everybody been staring at。
Me because I got this one piece on you know and that just would be outside the realm of possibilities for her。
And then when the holy spirit came into her life likewise what changed was this really beautiful thing where she was just like I'm。
Uncomfortable and we got married. I'm uncomfortable。
Being in a place showing off my body like that to anybody, but you I would be so uncomfortable。
Being at the lake you wearing something that's equivalent to my underwear。
That's just outside the realm of possibilities. It was this beautiful thing that shifted in her as God just。
You know came in and consumed her life in her desires and her boundaries。
And I was so honored by that as her husband。
So honored by that。
Not not not at first like as a brand new green believer that still smelt and looked and taste。
I mean just reach of the world I。
Was like what are you doing? Hey show that off?。
Why are you doing that? Why are you covering up?。
But where that little spaghetti strap thing with the shelf bra where that like why not?。
And she's like no, I'm just being real guys. Okay. I'm just shooting you straight. That's all I know how to do okay。
And so and she's just like I'm not comfortable in that anymore。
God's changed who I am。
And now I look on that and with our two little girls. I'm like what a beautiful thing. What an incredible example for them。
What an amazing woman。
What an amazing examples. I know you're like, what am I supposed to do? You know?。
What am I supposed to walk around in a cardboard box? I can't help God made me curvy, you know。
What am I supposed to do? Okay angry single girl calm down. All right。
listen。
Listen, okay, you may have to get creative. I don't know if the less clothes or even cheaper。
You may have to spend more money. I don't know what you're gonna have to do, but it's okay. You can dress classy。
You can do that。
now if you're at a place where you're like。
Well, I don't even believe in God and I'm not down with the Bible and when it says in first Peter 3 to dress modestly。
I reject that as true. That's okay. We're so glad you're here. You don't to feel weird. No one's staring at you。
No one's thinking well, she didn't dress very no you're in a safe place。
But if you're here and you follow Jesus。
Then dress like you follow Jesus. That's all I'm saying dress like a Christ follower。
And sexuality will allow you to control a relationship in ways that you should。
You can actually protect yourself from guys who chase sex by trusting in God's commands of modesty and celibacy。
And just to say this as I show you what I'm about to show you is using sex to get a guy。
Will actually cost you marriage。
Let me say that again, okay using sex to get a guy or using sexuality。
to get a guy may actually and most often does。
Cost you marriage you guys watch this。
Tell me we're getting better at this I。
Mean, I mean tell me that that from your grandparents generation. We we got this thing down divorce is going down marriage。
Marriage is happening earlier more often people are staying together. Tell me that we're getting better at this。
So tell me you know it all tell me he's wrong。
Tell me he doesn't love you. Tell me he doesn't have your best interest in mind。
Tell me that you've come up with some science. That's so much smarter than than God's Word。
And that you crack the code and and I know because you really love each other and it's gonna be amazing。
He's gonna propose one day, you know。
And I know that you're gonna propose to him and you're gonna be like, oh, I'm gonna propose to him。
He's gonna propose one day, you know。
Tell me。
You can't tell me that。
It wouldn't be true we're getting so。
Terrible at this and and and what what grieves me。
Is it's it's not just the world. It's those of us saying yeah, we're following Christ. We're Jesus followers. We're not following Jesus。
following our hormones。
We're following our fears our control。
Following our desires。
We're left with technique. I mean love doesn't even have a role。
I mean guys some of you would rather marry an amazing prostitute。
Than an amazing mom。
Or an amazing caregiver。
Amazing woman who's gentle and kind。
You。
Know that's true left to your own devices, you know, that's true。
So Samson, you know God's mercy intervenes yet once again, and so he's sitting there. He's sleeping with this prostitute。
They aligned the place and he breaks out yet again。
He escapes not only does he escape but he takes the gates off their cities that estimates theologians estimate that these would have weighed。
700 pounds he runs 30 miles with them up to Mount Hebron and puts them on the top。
It's just this thing that he does to mock them saying hey, you're not safe. Your city is vulnerable to my strength。
But this really really strong man。
Is so weak in his willpower。
So weak in his willpower so strong so weak。
Verses 16 verse 5 sometime later then he fell in love。
With a woman in the valley of sorak whose name was Delilah the rulers of the Philistines went to her and said see if you。
Can lure him into showing you the secret of his great strength and how we can overpower him。
So we may tie him up and subdue him each one of us will give you。
1100 shekels of silver now before you go hating on Delilah. This is the equivalent of 15 to 18 million dollars today。
I'm not saying she's a gold digger。
And。
So the first wife the woman of Timna was driven by fear what will happen if I don't?。
That the last wife Delilah is driven by desire. What will happen if I do?。
So my third point is desire causes us to get caught up in dating。
Desire causes us to get caught up in dating, right?。
If a healthy marriage is the goal a goal is not marriage。
The goal is not a man or a woman the goal is a healthy God honoring Christ centered marriage。
And so to define a healthy marriage, it's two selfish people。
being determined to act。
unselfish。
towards one another。
for a lifetime。
Just said otherwise, it's two selfish people because we're sinners selfish。
coming together in a covenant before God agreeing with him as your witness to be determined to。
everything within your power to yield to his spirit so that you might be selfless towards one another and。
So you're not driven by your desire。
You're not driven by your fear or your control see most。
People fail at this very very high call of being selfless towards one another, you know。
Selfishness is the only cause of divorce。
You show me a divorce I will show you someone acting selfishly。
Selfish people。
Make miserable spouses。
They can't live out the call of Ephesians 5 lay down your wife or your life for your wife。
Consider her more important than yourself。
Strive to live with her first Peter 3 in an understanding way。
Treating her fragile。
Delicate。
Gentle and so Delilah is driven by her desires for security and comfort. And so let me just ask you this question。
for you to think about。
Why do you or don't you want to be married?。
And I realize some of you feel right now the do and the don't I do want to be married and I don't want to。
Be married at the same time. So let me ask you in all sincerity. Why do you this is a great question。
To put in front of your community group. Why do you or don't you want to be married?。
Why do you or don't you want to be married。
Let me give you three good reasons to desire to be married。
Because God says it's good。
And so maybe that's why you say, you know what the reason I want to be married is because God says it's a good thing。
It's Genesis 2 18 and Proverbs 18 22。
Second reason because it's a unique opportunity to make disciples in your children through birth and adoption。
That's Proverbs 22 verse 6。
Deuteronomy 6 6 through 7 Ephesians 6 4 and Psalm 127 3 through 5 and。
Lastly because it is the picture of God's commitment to us。
Ephesians 5 32 and 33 in John 3 29。
These are good reasons to desire to be married。
There are selfless reasons to desire to be married。
A German Shepherd white picket fence。
control fear security。
not great reasons。
Verse 18 when Delilah saw that he had told her everything right he she goes through this whole thing of hey, you know。
Tell me he doesn't tell me he doesn't tell me he doesn't now he does he tells her everything。
She sent word to the rulers of the Philistines come back once more。
He has told me everything so the rulers of the Philistines returned with the silver in their hands。
After putting him to sleep on her lap. Oh my goodness。
She called for someone to shave off the seven braids of his hair and so began to subdue him and his strength。
Left him it says then she called Samson the Philistines are upon you。
He awoke from his sleep and thought I'll go out as before and shake myself free。
But he did not know that what the Lord had left him enough Samson。
You've been disobedient. You have missed my call on your life enough。
Then the Philistines seized him gouged out his eyes and took him down to Gaza。
Binding him with bronze shackles. They set him to grinding grain in the prison。
But the hair on his head began to grow again after it had been shaved. What just a beautiful verse of God's mercy。
Now the rulers of the Philistines assembled to offer a great sacrifice to Dagon their God。
And to celebrate saying our God Dagon has delivered Samson our enemy into our hands。
While they were in high spirits. They shouted bring out Samson to entertain us. He's a clown now。
He's a clown. So they called Samson out of the prison and he performed for them。
Then they stood him among the pillars Samson said to the servant who held his hand put me where I can feel the pillars。
That support the temple so that I may lean against them。
Now the temple was crowded with men and women all the rulers of the Philistines were there the people that God said I want you to destroy。
And on the roof were about three thousand men and women watching Samson perform。
Then Samson prayed to the Lord sovereign Lord remember me, please God strengthen me just once more。
And let me with one blow get revenge on the Philistines for my two eyes。
Then Samson reached toward the two central pillars on which the temple stood bracing himself against them。
His right hand on one and his left hand on the other Samson said let me die with the Philistines。
Then he pushed out with all his might and down came the temple on the rulers and the people in it。
Thus he killed many more when he died。
Then while he lived。
Let me jump to application and then I'll come back and cover what we just read。
Men I'm going to start with you。
Men you got to hear this okay I care about you I've got no other motive。
Then I care about you so listen Samson couldn't see until he was blind。
Remember he saw the hot girl remember he was attracted to the prostitute he saw her and he went to her and he went into her the Hebrew says。
And remember says he was in love with Delilah what was he in love with Delilah。
Track record she's hot。
And then they gouged out his eyes and for the first time he could see God's call on his life。
You be careful what your eyes lead you to。
You be careful what you're feeding your heart through your eyes man。
I know that a lot of you a great tragedy in the room as many of you are going to pass up women who would make amazing moms and amazing wives and you will pass them up for somebody with a banging body and about one year of good sex。
And then they gouged out his eyes and for the first time he could see God's call on his life。
You be careful what your eyes lead you to。
You be careful what you're feeding your heart through your eyes man。
I know that a lot of you a great tragedy in the room as many of you are going to pass up women who would make amazing moms and amazing wives and you will pass them up for somebody with a banging body and about one year of good sex。
And then it will be boring and that's the truth。
Let me go one more with you men。
You want them to help you with your problem you can help them with their fears even though that's their problem by simply being honest。
And anticipating their questions and being wise with what you say and what you do。
Knowing you are leading their heart with every text message late at night。
With everything that you say when you say I'm going to call you call her otherwise you're a liar。
So be careful what you say follow only speak what is honest and true building others up。
So that it might benefit those who listen。
Be careful with your words they're taking you somewhere and they're taking her heart somewhere。
And leaders remove confusion people ask me all the time what does it look like to lead in a relationship。
And I'm not saying that I'm not leading what she's wondering and speaking to it。
That's what great leaders do I wonder where she's confused and how can I address that confusion。
Can I get an amen ladies。
Samson was an awful leader he followed his desires he didn't lead in purity what does it look like to lead in a relationship。
If you think you're a good leader and you're not leading in purity I'll be right here afterwards。
Let's have a conversation I would love to have that conversation。
He didn't protect the woman he was involved with he's looking around like when we were fishing。
If we caught the wrong fish we throw it back and before we were done there's a bunch of dead fish floating around belly up。
It looks like Samson's life every woman he's dated is left in tragedy dead。
In bad places he's using and abusing people。
If you're not leading well in relationships he played games。
And so ladies let me talk to you for a second I want you to confess your fears。
And ask the Lord to protect you and to help you take thoughts captive。
And don't feed thoughts of discontentment with what you watch or talk about。
You begin to take those thoughts captive every time you begin to start wondering。
Will I have lace will I have beads what will my bridesmaids wear thoughts captive。
It's okay to want to be married it's not okay to need to be married and begin to feed that idle factory that's not okay。
And ladies you are not waiting to get married you're actively pursuing Christ。
And there is no better time to pursue a healthy marriage to him to Jesus a right relationship with Christ。
Some of you here you want to be married so badly but you don't know the word you don't know the Bible。
You've been discipled you're not discipling others I mean honestly your faith has very little implication on your life。
And there's no better time like the present than to change that and so then lastly men and women don't go at this alone。
Point your friends in the right direction and they may hate you okay but don't go at this dating thing alone。
Help each other out speak truth to one another。
I want to show you something awesome we're going to wrap up with Samson this is just it's just incredible see life。
I showed you before like this book it's it's so much more about marriage all the marriages it's just a couple pages maybe five pages total out of all of these pages。
Because this book is about another relationship you're living in a narrative listen closely you're living in a narrative that's another relationship。
That's the ultimate relationship it's why you're breathing it's why you're alive this is why you're here this other relationship that you would right now today before you leave here。
Be rightfully married in right relationship with Jesus Christ who gave his life for you。
And so we look at Samson and God says hey I want you to you're gonna be born to save my people but he was an imperfect Savior。
He was an imperfect Savior if you go after Samson if you chase Samson he's gonna leave you wanting and hurting and desperate。
He's an imperfect Savior but he points his life points to a perfect one can I show you something beautiful。
An angel the Lord shows up to a woman and says you will have a son who will be set apart who's gonna set these people free。
Later that angel tells her husband an angel comes to Mary the mother of Jesus and says hey you're gonna have a son。
His name will be Jesus and he's gonna set the people free from oppression and sin。
And later that angel the Lord goes to her husband Joseph and says hey your wife's gonna be with child and it's gonna be special。
Samson was born to set God's people free from the rule of evil in the land Jesus came to set us free from sin and death。
Samson was betrayed by his own people and handed over to his enemies。
And Jesus was betrayed by his own people and handed over to his enemies。
Samson slayed a thousand Philistines at Rameth Lehi in the Hebrew it's Jawbone Hill。
In Greek it's Galgotha in Latin it's Calvary。
Jesus went to the hill of the skull and slayed evil once and for all saying it is finished。
And Samson was thirsty and as Jesus hung on the cross in John 19 verse 28 he said I am thirsty。
Samson tore down the barrier of God's enemies showing them vulnerable to his strength。
And through the death of Jesus Christ God tore the veil in two saying there is now no barrier between you and me we can have right relationship。
Delilah betrayed Samson for 11,000 shekels of silver。
From each person Judas betrayed Jesus for 30 pieces of silver。
And in one act of vengeance with evil present Samson stretched out his right and left hand。
Sacrificing his own life to set God's people free from the oppression of evil in the land。
And in one moment Jesus without stretched hands died for your lust and your control and your fear。
And the fact that you've done this wrong and you can't get it right。
Because you're fearful instead of trusting him you're controlling instead of surrendering to him。
You've been driven by your desires instead of his you've searched outside his people。
And you played games with the hearts of his children and so if you've heard anything you're like man he's talking about me。
Christ died for that that's the beautiful message of the gospel。
And this life is not about marriage it's about Jesus it's not about finding Mr. Right。
It's about living in right relationship with Christ it's not about the white picket fence in Frisco。
It's about being in right relationship with Jesus and knowing his desires for your life。
Because you're gonna go and be there forever and there's no husband there's no marriage in heaven did you know that?。
Nobody's married in heaven not one person is up there married except for the church。
God's people married to their bridegroom Jesus Christ that's it。
That's it。
Don't you see there's another narrative that's so much more important than the narrative that you've been pursuing with everything。
And he loves you and he's calling you right now he's like man I know you got some gifts and some talents and some game。
And I know you've royally screwed this up my words not his but I died for that。
And I love you so much my arms outstretched on the cross I love you so much。
And I've given my life and I did so purposefully and intentionally because you didn't get it right。
And I don't even hold that against you if you trust in that payment。
And I've defeated death so you have a promise that you can be with God the father in his kingdom forever and ever and ever。
Let me pray that you would。
King Jesus。
Father whom we can talk to only because of the blood of your son Jesus。
Father we confess our sins to you we've pursued pornography we've pursued prostitution in the way that we date。
We've not cared for your children we've not protected hearts God we've chased our feelings we've given in to our lustful desires。
Father we've sat in discontentment looking at our lives and wanting the life of another。
Wanting the significant other of another wanting someone else's boyfriend, girlfriend, husband, wife, children。
Wanting something else than what we have God we have lived discontentment。
We have loved men more than Jesus women more than Jesus。
We've loved magazines, articles, movies, shows, the temptations of our flesh more than Christ。
Thank God we repent。
Father capture our hearts and our minds and turn them back to our first love。
That we would spend every second of the rest of our life running with reckless abandonment after you。
Pursuing you in ministry learning your word writing it on our hearts being disciples making disciples。
Being connected to the church contributing using every gift and talent we have to lift up the name of Jesus。
Thank you for Jesus。
Thank you that we don't have to pay for our sins。
Thank you that you paid for our sins。
It's in his precious name。
Amen。
I know you have。
I missed it too。
Man I messed the thing up real bad。
I just listened to the world。
Love movies, TV, shows, love dating。
Love the thrill。
What I could get someone to do。
Love the feeling of newness。
Love the wondering honestly in some sick kind of way。
Wondering if I'd ever get married or if anyone would ever love me enough in that way。
All the while I was already loved。
All the while that's a secondary narrative。
To a bigger story that I was called to live a part of。
Let me address the elephant in the room。
I'm a married guy。
I'm married。
I get it。
You're married。
Just do it。
If something happened to Monica I don't know。
I don't know what I would do。
I have no idea。
But I know that I would want to pursue God with reckless abandonment。
I know that I would find。
If I chose to get married again I would find the godliest woman I could。
And I would ask her if I wanted to get married to spend the rest of my life with me。
And right now through God's grace and mercy。
He's given me the godliest woman I know。
But he did that in his grace and mercy。
It's a poor strategy not one that you can replicate。
I want to help you。
We want to help you。
But you've got to understand。
We're just going to point you to the source of truth。
And I get so excited and so amped。
When I look out there and I see thousands of you。
And I just think, man, if they just got this right。
And put their selfish desires aside。
And begin to pursue God's desires for each other。
How amazing and powerful。
I mean there would be revival。
There would be great awakening。
Disciples would be made in the home。
Christianity would spread like wildfire。
The world would be saved。
And Jesus would come back home。
To a new heaven。
One you helped to create。
Because you understood your purpose and your mission。
And so there's going to be a lot of folks moving around with red shirts on。
And if we can pray for you, listen to you, help you。
We would love to do that。
If you're looking for community。
You're like, man, I have no guide。
I have no person to help me know or hold me accountable。
Guys, you walk down this hallway。
There'll be a room full of guys in there。
If you've wondered if you should ever go in there。
Tonight's your night, you go in there。
Girls, you walk down this hallway。
There'll be a room full of girls there。
If you've ever wondered, man, should I go in there?。
That could be weird, there's a bunch of girls。
Do they know?。
Listen, there's a bunch of girls in there。
Looking for the same thing you're looking for。
Walk in there, it won't be a big deal。
It won't be scary, nothing。
Go check it out。
If we can serve you in any way。
We're willing and ready。
I love you guys so much。
Go in peace, to love and serve the Lord。
