[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
>> Porch, how we doing?。
We doing all right tonight?。
Great to see you.。
Thanks for making it out to all of our Porch Live locations.。
We're so glad you're streaming with us.。
Hey, really excited for tonight.。
First, I'll just say this because some of you in the room。
are here for the very first time.。
And you're probably wondering what this is.。
And so it's helpful for me to look at you。
and just give you a little background on who we are.。
The Porch exists to call any and every young adult。
to see Jesus and surrender fully to life with him.。
That's who we are.。
That's what you're a part of tonight.。
And when we say any and every young adult, we mean it.。
We really do.。
I was talking to the Lord earlier this morning。
and I was like, God, I know that your heart is one。
where you want saints and sinners and skeptics。
and seekers to all gather into this space.。
So if you're here and you have questions,。
you're in the right place.。
If you're here and you've been walking with the Lord。
for a long time, you're in the right place.。
And if you're here by mistake,。
I promise you're in the right place.。
So we're really glad that you would join us。
here this evening.。
And I'm really excited for where we're going。
because tonight we have a very special guest。
in the room with us for the second time this year.。
We've got Mr. Nate Hilgenkamp in the house.。
Give it up for Nate, if you would.。
Nate is one of the teaching pastors at Harris Creek.。
He's a co-host of Becoming Something podcast.。
But way more than all of that, that's awesome.。
Nate's just an incredible human being.。
Like he's someone that we dearly love here at the Ports。
that I'm grateful to call a really good friend.。
And I genuinely believe,。
and I need y'all to hear me when I say this,。
'cause I'm not just paying him empty lip service.。
I genuinely believe is one of the leading voices。
when it comes to Bible teaching for our generation.。
And so we're really blessed to have you here, man.。
Thanks for making the time to join us tonight.。
Would y'all do a great job of welcoming。
Nate Hilgenkamp to the stage.。
(congregation applauding)。
- Thank you, brother. - Appreciate you.。
- Love you, brother.。
Well, I wanna start with this.。
Recently, my wife and I, we had a disagreement。
that's still unresolved.。
And I thought, you know,。
there's no better way to resolve this conflict。
than to let you decide who was right or wrong,。
which is just great marriage advice.。
Like whenever you and your wife disagree,。
you and your husband disagree someday,。
just ask other people who's right or wrong.。
So would you help me out?。
I'm gonna tell you what the disagreement was。
and let me know who was right or wrong.。
The disagreement was this.。
I saw a picture of a shoe online。
and the disagreement we had over this shoe。
wasn't whether or not this shoe was cool.。
The disagreement we had was over the color of this shoe.。
So I think we've got a picture of it.。
Check out this shoe.。
Yeah.。
So I've got a question.。
How many of you, how many of you like me。
see this shoe and you see it as teal and gray?。
Yeah, yeah, yeah.。
Keep those hands raised.。
Those are the saved people in the room tonight.。
Now how many of you, like my wife,。
see that shoe and see it as pink and white?。
Yeah.。
Crazy, crazy.。
Like this makes no sense to me.。
How can it be that all of us are looking at the same thing。
and see two different things?。
Now let me tell you who's right.。
Let me tell you who's right。
because I did some research on this。
'cause I couldn't believe it.。
My wife saw one thing, I saw a different thing。
and it just blew my mind so I did a lot of research。
and I found out that Vans, the type of shoe that is,。
they don't make a teal and gray shoe.。
Yeah, yeah.。
So unfortunately my wife was right.。
They are pink and white.。
And you see, it just blew my mind.。
Like I think it just has blown yours.。
Like how can two people look at the same thing。
and come to two very different conclusions?。
And as I've been thinking about that,。
I've realized this happens all the time,。
that two people look at the exact same thing。
and come away with two different conclusions.。
The thing is most of the time,。
it's not just about the color of a shoe.。
Like that's a very low cost to get wrong.。
But there's a lot of other situations。
where two people look at the same thing。
and they come to two different conclusions.。
For example, maybe you've had two people in your life。
each go through a breakup。
and they each saw it very differently.。
One of them goes through a breakup。
and they see that breakup and they go,。
this is the worst thing that has ever happened to me.。
I'm unlovable, I'm undesirable.。
The other person can go through a breakup,。
see that breakup and go, this is really, really hard.。
And yet I know I'm still loved.。
I know I'm still desired。
and I can't wait to see what happens next.。
You see, how can two people each see the same thing。
and come to two very different conclusions?。
And here's how, and I'm just gonna give away my message.。
It all comes down to who you trust.。
Who you trust changes the lens you view your life through.。
Who you trust changes the conclusions。
that you will come to in your life.。
And I just want you to know tonight, Porgs,。
most people will come to the wrong conclusion.。
Most people will see their life the wrong way.。
Friends, I just don't want that to be you.。
So tonight, what we're gonna do。
is we're gonna do a little study of scripture。
to try to figure out how we can see things in our life。
the right way.。
And we're gonna do that by opening up the word of God。
to the book of Numbers.。
Kylan said I could teach on really anything。
and I'm like, let's do the book of Numbers.。
I bet they haven't listened to that or read that in a while.。
So the book of Numbers is the number four book。
in the Bible, Numbers 13 and 14。
is where we're gonna be Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers.。
And we're gonna read a story。
where 12 men all saw the same thing,。
but they didn't all come to the same conclusion.。
12 men saw the same thing,。
they didn't come to the same conclusion.。
So Numbers chapter 13, that's where we're gonna be.。
And just to set up where we're at in the book of Numbers,。
because I bet a lot of you are like, man,。
I have no idea what's going on。
leading up to this point in scripture.。
Well, Numbers 13 is about a year and a half。
after the Exodus.。
So the Exodus was whenever the Israelites。
were enslaved in Egypt,。
God appeared to a man named Moses and he said,。
Moses, I'm going to use you to lead my people。
up out of slavery and into freedom.。
So Moses goes to Pharaoh and says,。
let God's people go and Pharaoh says, no.。
So what happens next is God brings plague。
after plague after plague upon Pharaoh and the Egyptians。
until finally Pharaoh says, okay, fine, get out of here.。
And as the Israelites are getting out of there,。
they come up against the sea.。
And once they're up against the sea,。
they think they're free only to turn around。
and see that Pharaoh had changed his mind.。
And Pharaoh and his armies are tracking them down。
and they're up against the sea and they go,。
Moses, we're gonna die.。
And then Moses goes to God and says,。
God, have you brought us out here to die?。
And God says, absolutely not.。
So he splits the sea and the Israelites。
walk through on dry ground.。
And then the Egyptians pursue them into the sea.。
God closes the sea and then they perish in that sea.。
So the Israelites walk onto the other side of the sea。
only to appear in a desert.。
So this isn't like some exciting type of freedom.。
They're like, man, we want to go back to Egypt。
because we have no food to eat here.。
So they go, Moses, have you brought us out here to die?。
And Moses goes to God and he goes,。
God, have you brought us out here to die?。
And God says, absolutely not.。
And then he provides manna, which was a form of bread。
every single day for them in this desert.。
Then they continue to journey through the desert。
and we pick up on this story when they're on the edge。
of what we know as the promised land.。
The land that God had promised them way back in Egypt。
that he would eventually give to them.。
So they're standing on the edge of this promised land。
looking over into it and Moses decides to do one thing.。
He takes 12 men, 12 men from each of the 12 tribes of Israel。
in Genesis, there was a man named Jacob,。
later renamed Israel.。
He had 12 sons and Moses picked 12 men。
from the 12 tribes of Israel and sends them。
into the promised land as spies.。
And he tells them, figure out all you possibly can。
about this land.。
Survey the people of the land,。
survey the cities in this land,。
survey the fruit of this land, the terrain of this land.。
We want to know everything we possibly can about this land.。
So these men go into the promised land。
and spend 40 days in this land.。
And they look at the people, they look at the terrain,。
they look at the cities and they even cut down some fruit.。
In fact, scripture says in Numbers chapter 13。
that they cut down clusters of grapes,。
but the grapes were so large,。
they had to carry them back on poles,。
which sounds like an exaggeration.。
But here's a picture of the clusters of grapes。
grown in this region today.。
It is like the perfect region for growing grapes。
and other fruits.。
So these are the types of clusters。
that they're bringing back to the people of God.。
It also says that they cut down pomegranates。
and figs as well.。
And after surveying this promised land for 40 days,。
they come back with a report for the people of God.。
And they say this in Numbers 13, verse 26.。
They came back to Moses and Aaron。
and the whole Israelite community at Kadesh。
in the desert of Paran.。
There they reported to them and the whole assembly。
and showed them the fruit of the land.。
They gave Moses this account.。
We went into the land which you sent us。
and it does flow with milk and honey.。
In fact, here's its fruit.。
But the people who live there are powerful。
and the cities are fortified and very large.。
We even saw the descendants of Anak there.。
The Amalekites live in the Negev.。
The Hittites, Jebusites, Amorites live in the hill country。
and the Canaanites live near the sea and along the Jordan.。
So they go, this land is amazing.。
There's pomegranates and figs and grapes。
and it's flowing with milk and honey.。
Like the land itself is phenomenal,。
but there's some really, really big bad guys there.。
And I don't think they want us to live there.。
So we shouldn't try to live there.。
And the people of God, the Israelites,。
they're all thrown into a panic.。
And this happens next in verse 30.。
Then Caleb, who was one of the other spies,。
silenced the people before Moses.。
And he said, we should go up。
and take possession of the land,。
for we can certainly do it.。
Now the other spies, they start to get nervous。
that the people might believe Caleb's report。
over their reports.。
They just start to make stuff up。
about the land that they've just seen.。
They say this next.。
But the man who had gone up with him said,。
we can't attack those people.。
They are stronger than we are.。
And they spread among the Israelites。
a bad report about the land they had explored.。
They said the land we explored devours those living in it.。
Not the people, but the land.。
It'll just swallow you alive if you go in.。
All the people we saw there are of great size.。
Or your translation may even say we're giants.。
We saw the Nephilim there.。
The descendants of Anak come from the Nephilim.。
And we seemed like grasshoppers in our own eyes.。
And we looked the same to them.。
So they go, guys, trust us.。
We cannot do this.。
Don't listen to Caleb.。
This land is gonna kill us.。
The people will kill us.。
We've spent 40 days there.。
We've seen it all.。
We don't want to go into this land。
because this land is not best for us.。
Now my question after reading this text is this.。
How can 12 men all see the same thing。
and come to two different conclusions?。
10 of them see this land and they come back saying,。
we've got a really, really bad report.。
Two of them, Caleb, and we'll later see Joshua,。
comes back and they say,。
no, we've got a really, really good report.。
How can it be that 12 men saw the same things?。
They all saw the same people.。
They all saw the same cities.。
They all saw the same terrain.。
They all saw the same fruit.。
And yet they came to two very different conclusions.。
How is that?。
Well, it's 'cause they weren't looking at the same thing.。
You see, 10 men, all they were looking at was a problem.。
Two men, all they were looking at was a promise.。
10 men, all they were looking at was the giants in the land.。
Two of the men were just looking at the God。
who was overseeing this land.。
And here's how they came to two different conclusions.。
And it's the first thing we can learn tonight.。
Point number one, who you trust。
changes how you perceive your problem.。
Who you trust changes how you perceive your problem.。
And this is important for us。
because all of us are gonna have problems in our life.。
Well, like problems are inevitable.。
We're gonna have health problems.。
We're gonna have job problems.。
We're gonna have relationship problems.。
We're gonna have family problems.。
We're gonna have financial problems.。
Problems in this life are inevitable.。
The right perspective of those problems is not.。
And these 10 men came to the wrong conclusion.。
And I wanna show you from the text again。
what it looked like.。
At the end of their report,。
after they saw all these really big, bad people,。
they come to this conclusion.。
We just read this in verse 33, and they said this.。
We seem like grasshoppers in our own eyes。
and we look the same to them.。
So they go, in light of our problem,。
we seem really, really small.。
They're going, y'all, we stood back to back。
against these guys and we look like grasshoppers。
compared to them.。
They're gonna ruin us.。
Now, the thing is, they were actually right。
in assessing the difficulty.。
History shows that the people in the land were strong.。
The armies were large.。
The cities were fortified.。
Like, they technically came to the right conclusion.。
There was a real problem.。
But why did these 10 men come to a different conclusion。
than the other two?。
And it's because of this.。
They looked at their problem。
and they compared their problem to their power,。
while they should have compared their problem。
to God's power.。
Because this text says, in light of our problem,。
we seem like grasshoppers.。
When they should have gone, in light of my God,。
this problem looks like a grasshopper to him.。
Because you see, while we stand no chance。
on our own against this army,。
this army stands no shot against my God.。
And you see, they came to the wrong conclusion。
of this problem because they thought。
that this problem was their problem to solve.。
It was never about them.。
It was about someone else.。
And just to illustrate it another way,。
let's imagine if today, rather than driving up I-35,。
I got on a plane from Waco to Dallas.。
I hopped on an American Eagle flight。
from Waco to the DFW airport.。
And let's just say I got in my seat, 14B,。
and I settled down before the flight takes off,。
and I get really, really nervous.。
And I start going, "Oh my word.。
"Like, this is gonna be a nightmare.。
"I've never taken a single hour of pilot classes.。
"I didn't go to flight school.。
"Like, how in the world is this plane。
"gonna get from Waco to Dallas?"。
Why would that be a ridiculous thing to think?。
Because that wasn't my job.。
My job was to sit there and allow the other person,。
the pilots, who were there to take me。
from one place to the next.。
I didn't have to worry that I didn't have what it took。
because I know someone else had what it took.。
This is what's going on in this text.。
They're going, "How are we gonna get。
"from this place to another place?"。
And meanwhile, there's another guy in this story.。
There's another God.。
There's a God in this story going,。
"Hey, it's not about you.。
"It's about me.。
"I'm the one who promised we'd take you there."。
In fact, this is how this chapter starts。
in Numbers chapter 13.。
Just to show you this, it says this.。
The Lord said to Moses,。
"Send some men to explore the land of Canaan。
"to see if you can overtake it."。
And that's not what it says.。
It says, "Send some men to explore the land of Canaan,。
"which I am giving to the Israelites."。
He's going, "You don't need to send spies in。
"to determine whether or not you can do it.。
"You don't need to take a vote.。
"I've already decided what I'm gonna do.。
"This isn't up to you.。
"It's up to me."。
But then the spies go in and they come back。
and 10 of them say,。
"But guys, the Canaanites live there.。
"And the Hittites live there.。
"And the Jebusites live there."。
And God's going, "Yeah, I already told you that they did."。
In fact, he told them this in Exodus chapter three.。
Just to read it for you, this is what it says.。
As he's promising them the promised land, he goes,。
"And I have promised to bring you up out of your misery。
"in Egypt and into the land of the Canaanites,。
"Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hittites, and Jebusites,。
"a land flowing with milk and honey."。
So I think God's looking at these spies and he's going,。
"All you've done on this super secret mission。
"is figure out what I already told you."。
You came back saying,。
"Hey guys, it's a land flowing with milk and honey.。
"I already told you that."。
You came back saying, "The Jebusites and Hittites。
"and the Canaanites live there."。
"Yeah, I already told you that."。
But they also go,。
"But we cannot enter into this land."。
And God goes, "Oh, no, buddy.。
"I already told you that you would."。
And you see, here's how Caleb came to the correct conclusion.。
Here's how his perspective differed from the other 10.。
He made a decision to focus on God's promise。
rather than his problem.。
And he decided that he was gonna trust what God said。
rather than what he saw.。
And Caleb here goes,。
"Hey guys, I see the same problem that you do.。
"I saw the same cities, I saw the same army,。
"I saw the same people.。
"I'm not ignoring your problem.。
"I'm not ignoring this problem.。
"The only difference though between me and you is。
"I'm not ignoring my God.。
"And I just know that even though it seems like。
"it'd be really, really hard for us to overtake this land,。
"he's told us that we are going to overtake this land.。
"So if he said it, I'm just gonna believe it."。
And that's what faith is.。
Faith is simply believing that God is telling the truth.。
And that's how Caleb came to the right conclusion.。
So to summarize this point,。
there are two ways of looking at this problem.。
The first is we are really, really small.。
This enemy is really, really big,。
therefore we're gonna lose.。
The second is we are really, really small.。
This enemy is really, really big.。
Therefore, I can't wait to see what God's gonna do.。
Because if he said it, I'm gonna believe it.。
And I'm just gonna sit back, put on my seatbelt,。
and watch this thing take off.。
Because I'm trusting him, I'm not trusting me.。
And it's the first thing that we can learn from this point.。
Who you trust changes how you perceive your problem.。
Okay, let's flip over to chapter 14.。
We just finished reading chapter 13.。
Let's see what happens next.。
The people of God have just received a bad report。
from the majority and a good report from the minority.。
And let's see who they choose to listen to.。
It says this, chapter 14, verse one.。
"That night, all the members of the community。
"raised their voices and wept aloud.。
"All the Israelites grumbled against Moses and Aaron,。
"and the whole assembly said to them,。
"if only we had died in Egypt or in this wilderness.。
"Why is the Lord bringing us to this land。
"only to let us fall by the sword?"。
That right there is an accusation。
against the character of God.。
They're going, God wants us to die.。
And more than that, He wants our wives and children。
to be taken as plunder.。
"Wouldn't it be better for us to go back to Egypt?"。
And they said to each other,。
"We should choose a leader and go back to Egypt."。
Then Moses and Aaron fell face down。
in front of the whole Israelite assembly gathered there.。
Joshua, son of Nun, and Caleb, son of Jephunneh,。
who were among those who explored the land,。
tore their clothes.。
And in that day, this was a sign of grief and mourning.。
And he said to the entire Israelite assembly,。
"The land we passed through and explored。
"is exceedingly good.。
"If the Lord is pleased with us,。
"He will lead us into that land."。
And if you notice, the other 10's report。
makes no mention of God.。
Here they say, "No, the Lord will lead us into a land。
"flowing with milk and honey, and He will give it to us.。
"Only do not rebel against the Lord。
"and do not be afraid of the people of this land。
"because we will devour them."。
I love this next phrase.。
"Their protection is gone, but the Lord is with us.。
"Do not be afraid of them,。
"but the whole assembly talked about stoning them."。
Which that sounds extreme, but here's what's going on there.。
They're thinking, "Hey, we're gonna kill you guys。
"before you kill us.。
"Because Caleb and Joshua, if we listen to you,。
"we're gonna die.。
"So we're gonna put you to death。
"before you put us to death."。
Then this happens next.。
"Then the glory of the Lord appeared。
"at the tent of meeting to all the Israelites.。
"And the Lord appears and is angry with the people,。
"and He says, 'How long until you trust me?。
"What else do I gotta do?'"。
In your life right now, what else does He gotta do?。
I mean, think about the history lesson I gave you。
before we jumped into this text.。
Think about it specifically for the Israelites.。
Think about what they saw God do.。
They were enslaved in Egypt,。
thought they would die in Egypt,。
and God brought them up out of slavery and into freedom.。
God did it.。
And then they're standing on the banks of the sea,。
thinking that they're gonna get overtaken again,。
thinking that they're gonna die,。
only for God to make a way,。
and they walk through on dry ground.。
God did it.。
And then they're in the desert,。
thinking that they're gonna die once again。
because there is no food,。
and then manna is provided for them every single day.。
God did it.。
And here, once again, they're going,。
"We don't think God will do it."。
And God's going, "What else do I need to do?"。
Friend, what else does He need to do for you,。
for you to trust Him?。
And here, this time, He says that their disbelief。
is deserving of punishment.。
And skipping ahead to verse 19,。
Moses goes to God and says,。
"In accordance with your great love,。
forgive the sins of these people,。
just as you have pardoned them。
from the time they left Egypt until now."。
And the Lord replied, "I have forgiven them, as you asked.。
Nevertheless, as surely as I live,。
and as surely as the glory of the Lord。
fills the whole earth,。
not one of those who saw my glory。
in the signs I performed in Egypt and in the wilderness,。
but who disobeyed me and tested me 10 times,。
not one of them will ever see the land I promised。
on oath to their ancestors,。
and no one who has treated me with contempt。
will ever see it."。
And since they disbelieved God,。
they were sentenced to wander in the desert for 40 years,。
and not a single person who disbelieved God。
got to see the power of God,。
as he could have brought them into the promised land.。
And this is point number two,。
second thing we can learn.。
Disbelief will make you miss out on what God can do.。
Disbelief will make you miss out on what God can do.。
You see, if they would have just believed God,。
they would have gotten to see God。
bring them into the promised land.。
But since they didn't,。
they spent the rest of their life in the desert,。
and they died in the desert,。
and their disbelief had consequences.。
And if we're to look at this story。
and learn all we possibly can about this story,。
and learn all we possibly can about the character and person。
of God, I think we can learn this from this story.。
And it's this, our disbelief has consequences.。
If we spend our life disbelieving God,。
there will be things in our life。
that we will miss out on simply because we didn't believe。
that they could actually happen,。
because our disbelief has consequences.。
Now, I also wanna be clear that I do not believe。
that every single consequence in your life。
is a result of disbelief.。
Not every pain in your life,。
or every challenge in your life is a result of disbelief.。
But I do believe that disbelief has consequences。
because disbelief will make you miss out。
on what God can do.。
And here, their disbelief had a consequence.。
And this consequence was for them。
to wander in the desert for 40 years.。
You ever wonder why?。
Well, like if you grew up in church,。
maybe you've heard this story a lot.。
You know, the Israelites, they were enslaved,。
and then they got into freedom,。
but then they had to wander in the desert for 40 years.。
Why did God make them wander in the desert for 40 years?。
Like, that feels like a really extreme punishment。
based on this scenario.。
Why did God say, okay, you're going to have to wander。
in the desert for 40 years?。
Here's why.。
It's because they asked for it.。
This is what they wanted.。
And in fact, this is what we actually just read in the text.。
Let's read it again.。
Look at what the Israelites said to God.。
They said, "All the Israelites grumbled。
"against Moses and Aaron,。
"and the whole assembly said to them,。
"if only we had died in Egypt or in this wilderness."。
So God's going, I want to lead you into a promised land.。
And they go, we don't want to go into the promised land.。
We either want to die in Egypt or we want to die here.。
And God's going, well,。
you're certainly not going back to Egypt.。
So if you want to die here, go for it.。
And he just gave them what they asked for.。
Why did they ask for this?。
Like what a lame request of the Lord.。
Why did they ask for the wilderness?。
Here's why they asked for the wilderness.。
Because the wilderness was safe.。
This is what they knew.。
And what they knew was good enough.。
Ports, I don't know about you.。
I don't think we serve a God of the good enough.。
I think we serve a God who's able to abundantly more。
than all we ask or imagine.。
So we don't need to go, God just keep me safe。
because he can do still more.。
And I want to show you two things。
that are really, really important here.。
And two implications for this on your life.。
See, not only did these 10 men, these 10 spies。
miss out on what God could do through their life.。
They caused many, many, many, many others。
to miss out on what God could do in their life as well.。
You see, these 10 men came back with a report of disbelief。
and this disbelief was contagious。
and it got on the people of God.。
And as they received this disbelief from these 10 men,。
it caused them to miss out on what God could do。
in and through their life.。
And that right there has two implications in your life.。
The first of this, who you hang out with really matters.。
Who you hang out with really matters。
because what they either believe or disbelieve about God。
is likely getting off on you。
because belief or disbelief is contagious.。
So think about the people in your life.。
Like are the people in your life the 10 or the two?。
Are they the people in your life who are coming back。
saying God can't do it?。
It's too big, it's too challenging.。
Oh, you're always gonna struggle with that.。
Oh, that's never gonna change.。
Or are the people in your life the two going,。
hey, God can do it.。
He said he would and if he said he would,。
then I believe he can.。
Of course God would.。
Are the people in your life the 10 or the two?。
Are they the disbelieving, critical, cynical people?。
And if they are, I just want you to know。
that they are likely causing you to miss out。
on what God can do in and through your life.。
And if that's cool with you, keep hanging out with the 10.。
But for me, I wanna be found with the two。
because I wanna see all that God can do。
in and through my life.。
So the first is this, who you hang out with really matters.。
The second is this,。
you're not just receiving belief or disbelief,。
but you are giving belief or disbelief.。
So as I was writing this message,。
I was thinking about a specific moment。
that happens in our house every single day.。
I'm married and I've got two girls.。
They're three years old and eight months old.。
And every single day in our house,。
I was gonna say we make dinner.。
I have never made dinner.。
(laughing)。
It's just how it works.。
My wife is amazing at this.。
She makes dinner and then we sit down at the dinner table.。
And then what happens every single time。
is I pray over our family and over the meal.。
And when something happens at the same spot。
every single day, it could just get really,。
really repetitive.。
And I've just found myself praying something like this.。
God, thank you so much for this day.。
God, thank you so much for this food you provide.。
And I just pray you keep us safe.。
It's in Jesus name I pray, amen.。
And as I was looking at this text。
and I was looking at my life, I was like,。
oh, I look like the Israelites.。
And oh, I don't want my little girls。
to look like the Israelites.。
I was just thinking about what I've been passing on。
to my two little girls.。
And I do not want their faith in God to be,。
God, would you just keep us safe?。
Would you just keep us right here in what we know?。
We're thankful for what we have。
and would you just allow us to keep what we have。
and God, just keep us right here in what we know.。
Would you keep us safe?。
I don't want my girls to believe that about God.。
I don't want my girls to pray that to God.。
But think about you.。
Think about when you get around the people in your life.。
When you get around the community group。
or the people that you drove here with.。
Like when you're with your friends,。
what do they hear you say about God。
and what do they hear you say when you talk to God?。
Like, let's just picture this.。
Let's picture that you and your community group。
are sitting down for dinner and you're chosen to pray.。
Do your prayers sound like,。
God, thank you so much for today.。
And God, thank you, man, for these people.。
And thank you for this meal.。
Would you bless this food to our bodies。
and keep us safe, Lord.。
In Jesus' name I pray, amen.。
Or do you sit down around that table to pray。
with your community group and do you go,。
Father, I pray that you'd save every single young adult。
in Dallas, Texas through the people at this table.。
Would sin be far from us?。
Father, may we never watch pornography,。
not just this week, but never again in our life.。
May we never struggle with materialism ever again。
in our life.。
May our struggle with body image be gone.。
And may my friend who has a strange relationship。
with his dad, may that be reunited tonight.。
And God, may you kick Satan in the teeth。
through this community group.。
And may you be on the move in Dallas through us.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
I tell you what, that prayer sounds a whole lot different。
than this prayer.。
My question is, which prayer are you praying and why?。
What do you believe about your God?。
Because I think your prayers say a lot。
about what you believe about God.。
And one is a defensive prayer, Lord, just keep me safe.。
One is an offensive prayer, Lord, let's go.。
Let's storm the gates of hell。
and let's see lost people be found.。
Let's see dead people come to life.。
And let's see sin not reign because the spirit does.。
So my question is, what are you giving。
to the people in your life?。
Are you giving off faith or are you giving off fear?。
If it's fear, stop it.。
By God's grace and God's power, stop it.。
Let's pray bigger things because we got a bigger God.。
So point number two, second thing that we can learn。
from this passage is this, disbelief will make you miss out。
on what God can do.。
I wanna finish this passage by rereading verse 23。
and then we're gonna read verse 24.。
God says this about the people who didn't trust him.。
Verse 23, "Not one of them will ever see the land。
"I promised on oath to their ancestors.。
"And no one who has treated me with contempt。
"will ever see it.。
"But because my servant Caleb has a different spirit。
"and follows me wholeheartedly,。
"I will bring him into the land he went to。
"and his descendants will inherit it.。
"And you see, since he had a different spirit,。
"he had a different experience.。
"And since he had a different belief,。
"he had a different life."。
And this is point number three,。
third thing we can learn from this text,。
a different spirit brings different results.。
And poor child, I just want you to know,。
in fact, you probably already know this.。
Most people will complain.。
Most people will grumble.。
Most people will disbelieve.。
Most people will just wanna stay safe.。
And most people will miss out on what God can do。
through their life.。
I don't know about you, porch.。
I don't wanna be most people.。
I want to be filled with a different spirit.。
I want to be filled with the Holy Spirit。
because I want a different experience.。
I want to see different things。
because a different spirit brings different results.。
And since Caleb believed God would do it,。
he got to see God do it。
because a different spirit brings different results.。
And I could give you many examples of this.。
Here's one that feels the most relevant to me.。
Some of you, in fact, maybe many of you。
know about something called Passion Conference.。
It happens every single January.。
And it was started by a pastor named。
Pastor Louis Giglio in Atlanta, Georgia.。
And I have a picture of, yeah, from this previous year,。
they met in the Atlanta Falcon Stadium,。
Mercedes Benz Stadium.。
And this is specifically for college students.。
And there's 65 college students。
from all around the country in this stadium,。
all to lift up the name of Jesus.。
And he hasn't always met here.。
Like it's grown year after year after year after year,。
and they haven't always met in the Atlanta Falcon Stadium.。
And one year, they did rent out the arena。
and a few months before,。
apparently like ticket sales weren't necessarily。
where they needed to be.。
Like it looked like they had bitten off a lot more。
than they could chew,。
and there was gonna be a bunch of holes in the stadium.。
And it just, it was incredibly disheartening。
for the people who were putting on the conference.。
And a couple of months before the conference,。
they got together as a team,。
and Pastor Louis walked into that meeting,。
and he said, "Guys, in two months,。
"whenever we walk in to the Benz,。
"and whenever I see every seat full,。
"I don't want my response to be,。
"I can't believe God did it.。
"Instead, I want to be praying right now。
"and believing right now,。
"so that when I walk into that arena two months from now,。
"and I see every seat full, I go,。
"Of course God did it, because I believed he could,。
"because I've been praying that he would."。
And friends, I've just realized in my life,。
there are two different types of believers in Jesus.。
God will provide in a miraculous way,。
and there is a group of Christians that will go,。
"I can't believe God did it."。
And there's another group of Christians that will go,。
"Of course God did it, because I believed that he would,。
"because I've been praying that he would.。
"Of course God did it, because I knew he could."。
Now, porch, I also want to make it clear.。
I'm not trying to communicate,。
"Hey, if you just believe God more,。
"you'll get all you possibly want."。
Like, "If you believe God more,。
"you'll be engaged by 10 p.m. tonight."。
That's not what I'm saying.。
Not what I'm saying.。
But what I am saying is, as followers of Jesus,。
we have reason for great hope.。
As followers of Jesus, we have reason for big belief.。
And let me tell you why.。
It's because as followers of Jesus,。
we have received a better report。
than the people of God did in Numbers chapter 13.。
(congregation applauding)。
And let me tell you what it is.。
Let me tell you what it is by showing you。
what's otherwise kind of an obscure verse.。
Like, in the beginning of Numbers chapter 13,。
it just lists out all the people who were sent in by Moses。
into the promised land as spies.。
And it lists out all the 12 tribes of Israel.。
And in Numbers chapter 13, it tells us who Caleb was.。
This is one of those verses that you typically skip over.。
It seems like there's not a whole lot there.。
There's a whole lot there.。
Let me read it to you.。
From the tribe of Judah, Caleb son of Jephunneh.。
From the tribe of Judah, Caleb son of Jephunneh.。
In Numbers chapter 13, the people of God feared death.。
So Moses picked a man from the tribe of Judah.。
He picked Caleb and he told Caleb,。
"Hey, go into the heart of enemy territory.。
"And your job is to go into the heart of enemy territory。
"and to survey these people, to survey this enemy.。
"And your job is to determine whether or not。
"we should fear this enemy.。
"Your job as a spy is to determine whether or not。
"this enemy will put us to death."。
So this man from the tribe of Judah, Caleb,。
goes into the heart of enemy territory.。
He surveys the land, he surveys the people,。
he surveys the cities, and he comes back with a report。
for the people of God.。
And he said, "We need not fear this enemy.。
"We need not fear death for our God will win the victory."。
A little bit later in scripture, a lot later in scripture.。
Once again, the people of God feared death from an enemy.。
This time, God, not Moses,。
chose a man from the tribe of Judah.。
And he sent him into the heart of enemy territory.。
Revelation calls him the lion of the tribe of Judah.。
You know him by the name of Jesus.。
And he chose this man,。
and he sent him into the heart of enemy territory.。
This time though, he wasn't sent in as a spy,。
but as a warrior.。
And he did not go in to survey our enemy,。
he went in to slay our enemy.。
And he died on the cross.。
Three days later, rose again,。
and he came back with a report for the people of God.。
And he said, "You need not fear death,。
"for death has been destroyed.。
"You need not fear judgment,。
"for your sin has been forgiven."。
And remember that snake back in Genesis chapter three,。
I just stomped on his head.。
And you need not fear anything,。
for I am alive and with you and for you.。
And he said, "Report, my question is,。
"what report are you gonna believe?。
"What report are you gonna trust?"。
You see, we as the people of God have an opportunity.。
In Numbers chapter 13 and 14,。
the people of God had an opportunity.。
They failed the test.。
May we not fail the test.。
You see, there's gonna be a lot of people.。
A lot of people are gonna say fear, panic, anxiety.。
We're gonna lose.。
There's gonna be people within the church that say that.。
You don't need to listen to that report,。
'cause that report is not true,。
because we've heard from the man from the tribe of Judah.。
We've heard from the lion of Judah,。
and he's given us a better report.。
The question that you have to answer tonight is,。
what report are you gonna believe?。
And who are you gonna trust?。
Because who you trust changes how you see your life.。
And I don't know about you.。
I just know that for me.。
I do not want to get to the end of my life。
and have it be said of me that I trust God for too little,。
that I ask God for too little.。
I would much rather get to the end of my life。
and meet my Savior face to face。
and have Jesus look at me and go,。
"You know, Nate,。
"you kinda overshot some things down there."。
Like, "You thought I could do more than I actually could."。
I would much rather lean in that direction,。
because I would much rather believe for things。
and pray for things。
that make me look like a fool in front of you,。
than believe for things and pray for things。
that make me look like a fool in front of Him.。
So what I want us to do right now, yeah,。
is I want us to spend time in prayer,。
and I want us to do two things.。
The first is, I just want us all to repent。
of the ways in which we have not believed God。
in the ways in which we should.。
All of us, myself included,。
have not believed God in the way in which we should.。
So let's just go to Him and repent of that.。
And the second thing I wanna do is,。
I just want us to ask God,。
"God, what's the one thing in my life。
that seems too big,。
that seems too hard,。
that seems too far gone?。
What's that one thing in my life。
that you want me to start praying for?"。
And I don't know what it is for you.。
Maybe it's that your mom would be freed from alcoholism.。
Maybe it's that you'd begin。
to have a relationship with your dad.。
Maybe it's that you'd be freed from a certain sin.。
Maybe it's that God would provide financially.。
And honestly, I don't even wanna keep giving options。
because I would rather have the Holy Spirit。
bring it to mind than have me bring it to mind.。
So right now, let's go before God.。
Let's do those two things.。
Let's repent and then let's ask Him.。
God, you are a holy God.。
You are a big God.。
You are so much bigger and so much stronger。
than what we know you to be.。
(gentle music)。
And Father, I know that at least for me,。
at least for me,。
I come before you right now with a repentant heart。
and a repentant spirit.。
And I just wanna tell you,。
God, I'm so sorry for the ways。
in which I've looked like the 10 and not the two.。
In the ways I've just wanted to be safe,。
in the ways I've just wanted to complain,。
in the ways I've just wanted to stay stagnant.。
Father, I'm sorry for the ways in which I've missed it.。
You know, God, we are a funny people as followers of Jesus.。
We can say things like we believe Jesus conquered death,。
but we don't think He can do this smaller thing.。
May that be far from us.。
And now, God, I just come before you right now。
on behalf of all my friends here in this room.。
And I just pray that you bring something to mind。
by the power of your Holy Spirit,。
that your Holy Spirit would bring something to mind.。
A unique thing in every single person's life right now.。
Something that seems too hard, too difficult,。
too big, too impossible.。
Something where it's like,。
unless God moves, it can't get done.。
Father, maybe it's something that they prayed for years ago。
and stopped praying for years ago.。
Maybe it's something that they've never even had。
the courage to pray, or maybe it's something。
that they've just thought for the first time right now.。
God, I pray that every single one of those things。
would happen tonight.。
We believe you can do it.。
We pray that freedom would happen tonight,。
that reconciliation would happen tonight,。
that salvation would happen tonight,。
that provision would happen tonight.。
Whatever it is, Father, we know that you can do it.。
So God, we ask that you would do it now.。
By the power of God, we ask that you would do it now.。
And God, if you don't do it tonight,。
may we still be found praying tomorrow,。
and the next day, and the next day, and the next day.。
And may we be found like beggars at your door,。
knocking on your door, asking for bread.。
Day after day after day, asking for you to do it.。
And God, I also wanna declare。
that even if you never do it, you've already done enough.。
Because you sent your one and only Son。
because you loved us so much,。
and he lived the life we should have lived.。
He died the death we should have died,。
and three days later, he rose again。
so that we could have life and freedom for all of eternity.。
So even if you don't do another thing,。
we know you've done the thing that we need.。
And Father, we're here tonight for one reason.。
We wanna worship you tonight for one reason.。
We have hope tonight for one reason, and one reason only,。
and it's because of the fact that Jesus is alive,。
and with us, and for us.。
We wanna worship him with all we've got now.。
It's in Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
