[Music]。
Well, hello porch friends. It is awesome to be with you. My name is Todd. I'm on the。
pastoral staff here at Watermark and I love dropping in with you at the porch。
and we're coming to you right here from Dallas, Texas. Not balmy Dallas, Texas.。
Frozen ice over Dallas, Texas and that's why we wish we were with our friends out。
there in Scottsdale and that nice balmy weather you have in Arizona. We got。
friends up there in Boise who are always cold so they've got no sympathy for us。
and our friends up in Indianapolis we know are getting hit and certainly all。
our friends around Texas, Houston and other places we're in the middle of a。
pretty significant weather event right now and so I'm not in the room with all。
my usual friends here in Dallas where we're just a local church trying to be。
and make disciples and loving folks and we know that you're doing that in。
locations that are out there but everybody's online tonight and so it's。
awesome to be with you and we are in a series called fortune-telling and。
fortune-telling what we're doing is basically taking words in the past the。
only words in the past that are reliable God's Word and seeing what it has to say。
about our future and I want you to know we're committed to you because we are。
giving you this message at great peril to ourself because there's been a break。
in our sprinkler system here the pipes have burst and so they've told us that。
if there's a fire in this room and there's no sprinkler system there's no。
alarm it's gonna go off so there's a good chance like a fire is just gonna。
come in the middle of this thing so you want to hang around and watch and just。
see what in the world is gonna happen to us but we're committed to you and so。
we're just we're willing to be here because we've already answered the。
question from God's Word in our own life that you're gonna want to get answered。
tonight and so tonight's question is relevant to all of us all the time and。
certainly to those of us who are teaching you at great peril and the。
question is this will I go to heaven when I die now I do want to just。
preface that a little bit before we dive in a little bit and just tell you that。
we're not really talking when we answer this question about fire insurance only。
right because that's why some people look at this thing man I gotta get good。
with God so I can have fire insurance no what we're really talking to you about。
is if you can answer this question well and by the way we're all gonna die we're。
either gonna die or we're gonna be here when Christ himself returns and brings。
judgment to the earth all right and so you want to be a person who knows you're。
at peace with God and if you're at peace with God and you know where you're going。
to spend your eternity there's gonna be a resurrection the Bible tells us some。
to everlasting life and some to everlasting judgment and if you're an。
individual who affirmatively answers the question I know I'm gonna rise to。
everlasting life that means you're gonna get to live and enjoy that God now so。
we're really talking about is not how can I go to heaven when I die but how。
can I experience God's abundant life now how can my 20s be free not from the fear。
of sudden death and judgment but free from hopelessness anxiety despair。
leaning my ladder against the wrong wall and trying to find success in all the。
wrong places if you'll just track with me and let me answer from old words the。
ancient words that foretell our future it's going to change your 20s not just。
your forever but look man the Bible does say that this life is a vapor that if。
we're given to strength our life will be somewhere just a little bit north of 80。
and so it's crazy to live with a sense of indifference about eternity because。
you think you can have more fun today and I'm just gonna tell you you will not。
have a greater 20s if you rebel against God and put this question off till you。
need it and by the way none of us knows when we're gonna need it there's all。
kinds of folks in their 20s they're gonna face the end of their life in a。
way they never expected but what I'm concerned about tonight is how you can。
attract to experience life right now in your 20s that will allow you also to。
have a great sense of peace that when you die you're gonna continue the。
relationship with God you've already been enjoying so let me just start this。
by saying this to you you can know the answer to the question you can know the。
answer the question because God is kindness has has given us in his Word。
okay this is what his Word says in first John chapter 5 verse 11 and following it。
says and the testimony is this that God has given us eternal life and the life。
is in his Son now watch this he who has the Son has the life he does not have。
the Son does not have the life these things I have written to you who。
believe in order that you might know that you have eternal life so I just。
want to make it really clear as we get started that you can know the answer to。
this question God's Word doesn't want you to have to kind of wander through。
life hoping you got it right the Bible says you can know but here's the deal so。
many folks get distracted by life and maybe by the promise of all the wonder。
of youth right the Bible says the glory of a young man is his strength which。
means hey man I'm good to roll I I'm I'm pretty certain I know where to find life。
I'm pretty sure I know how to get the most out of this life and so a lot of。
times we've bought the lie that God's not good and his words not true and the。
disobeying it was not that big a deal and so a lot of us we got to go down。
some long and winding and dark roads to find out that maybe this way that seems。
right to me is gonna end in death and not in life and I know a lot of my。
friends that listen to us at the porch have experienced a living death you have。
not experienced the life that you thought following your own way and。
following your flesh would give to you and you're sitting there not just。
wondering what'll happen when you die but if life is worth living while you're。
alive well track with me because I think you'll find that it is this last week。
just a little bit pre Valentine's Day I took my Valentine my wife of 30 years。
away to a place south of the border in sunny Mexico and it was amazing and while。
we were there we you know were some friends and there were some other folks。
that around this one little nice resort pool that we were at and there was one。
gal that wouldn't be at the porch if she was hanging around with us she was。
probably your grandmother and she was clearly very wealthy because it became。
obvious to us that she was pretty doggone comfortable at that place and。
the reason she was comfortable is because she had been at this resort。
since September she had been there since September the gal cruises for a living。
she basically lives on cruise ships because the cruise ships were shut down。
she found the nicest resort she could and she just made it home and so she was。
hanging out by this pool and I hadn't known this about her yet I hadn't talked。
to her but I'd seen her and you know honestly she was alone and she didn't。
have the benefit of a spouse like I did and she had benefit of friends like I。
did and I was I was in engaging with a bunch of folks engaging a lot of folks I。
saw she was just kind of alone and so I waited till there was a moment that kind。
of fell into my lap when she was the only person at the pool what had happened。
is the Sun has started to set my wife and I ran up we grabbed a shower and we。
changed and we're getting ready to walk to dinner and there she was my friend。
Robin sitting by a pool all by herself and so as my wife and I walked by I。
turned to her not knowing her name yet or anything I just turned around I said。
hey you win you got the whole thing to yourself right you win this this place。
is yours you were the longest out here today and she turned and she started。
talking to me and she didn't stop I mean she talked for about 12 to 15 minutes。
before I could say another thing because she was obviously so alone and hadn't。
talked to anybody she lamented a little bit about and told us a little bit of。
her story and lamented a little bit about how you know normally it's more。
social on a cruise but a lot of people come here just for a little bit of time。
and they want to be alone and they're relaxing like we had been for the last。
two days before I'd really engaged her and I just told her I said hey listen。
I've got a couple waiting for me at dinner literally about 12 minutes into。
her just sharing about her story and I said hey will you be out here tomorrow。
let's catch up tomorrow so I went to dinner with my wife and came home she。
and I prayed for Robin and the next day as we were by the pool I looked for the。
right opportunity to just say hey Robin you know let's talk a little bit and we。
just got to talk to her and she shared a lot about her amazing travels and they。
were amazing she'd been doing it for quite some time and had the means and。
resources to do that but I turned to her and I just said to her at one point I go。
Robin one of the things that you do when you're with friends is at some point you。
tell them the most important thing about you if I was gonna get to really know。
you and you were gonna tell me this is the most important thing about me what。
would you tell me about you and she went on to say well you you probably know I。
like gardening when I'm home and I love to travel which I had figured out by。
that point I might throw in she also loved to talk but who doesn't when。
you're alone a lot but but anyway she told me that and so she never asked me。
though what was the most important thing to me but what happened in her continuing。
to talk is she shared with me a little bit about a trip that she had taken at。
one point to Cuba and in the midst of this she mentioned the fact that she。
went by Fidel Castro's very expensive grave and that's where I jumped in said。
let me stop you for a second and let me ask you this do you think when Fidel。
Castro was living he ever thought about that grave and do you think that he was。
living in such a way all his years that he was experiencing everything that a。
guy wants to experience and she thought well I don't know he certainly was。
powerful he was powerful at the expense to a lot of other people and by the way。
so many times when men apart from God trying to find life they exert their own。
will and way and and live according to their own power in a way that they don't。
really care what happens to women that are in their path or other emotions at。
hearts that are in their path and a lot of times they do it in a way that's even。
reckless to their own soul not so with living according to God's power it leads。
to blessing for so many people but what I said to my friend was this I'm gonna。
share with you I I said let me just let me just tell you a story all right。
because you know I hear Rob you've you thought much about your own grave and。
she goes well I just you know I don't like to talk about those kind of things。
and I said well let me tell you a story and this was a story I told her I said。
this is a story about a guy who was himself very wealthy and very learned。
and and he ruled over a lot of people but he had this one specific servant。
that wasn't very sharp in fact he was the dumbest guy he had ever met in fact。
he was so annoyed him that eventually one day he came up upon the servant when。
he had asked him to do something the servant forgot what he was supposed to。
do and got to it even late when he did finally get pushed to do it again and he。
did it wrong she didn't remember how he was supposed to do it and he called his。
servant over there and he was a likable servant but he was just stupid and he。
just said to him hey come here I want to tell you something I love you all right。
I mean you're my servant and I think you're doing the best you can but you。
are the dumbest person I've ever met you're the greatest fool I've ever known。
and I'll tell you what I'm gonna give you a stick all right and I want you to。
carry this stick and hold on to it the rest of your life until you see somebody。
more stupid and foolish than you now I told this story my friend Robin she was。
that's awful just hang in there it's just a story Robin all right and so。
anyway so this this fool's got this stick and he's walking around with it。
for a couple of decades now as it happens with all of us this master of。
his was getting to a place where he himself was no longer going to be a。
master over anybody he was going to die and so he was calling people into his。
presence that had lived with him for a while he said go get that that dumb。
servant of mine because I just want to tell him you know I want to make sure he。
hears me say something nice to him because the last thing he maybe heard。
from you say was here's your stick don't give it to anybody till you die and he。
goes well he's still got the stick so anyway he calls for that servant that。
servant comes in carrying his stick and his master says hey I just wanted to say。
goodbye to you because he was just dumb he tried to dumb down the fact that he。
had an impending death and he said I'm not gonna see you anymore in a very。
short period of time and the servants of well why is that master he said well。
cuz I'm going on a trip he goes oh you're going a trip where's your trip。
and I said well I'm not really sure where my trip is you're not sure where。
your trip is well how long have you known that you were gonna go on this。
trip and the master looked at the dumb servant said well I've known my entire。
life I was gonna take this trip well master what will you need on this trip。
that you don't know where you're going that you've known your whole life that。
you're gonna get there what will you need to have it be a successful trip。
what provisions will will make your journey one of peace and the master said。
you know I don't really know and so the dumb servant looked at him and said let。
me ask you a question master you've known you were gonna go on this trip。
your whole life he said yes and you've you don't know where exactly it is or。
how to get there and and you don't know what you need to take that's gonna make。
your trip prosperous and successful and the master goes yeah and the servant。
looked at him said master here's your stick see if you know that you're going。
to die and all of us know that we're going to die the statistics for death if。
you haven't noticed are pretty impressive all right for every one person。
that's born there is a corresponding death to that person death is I don't。
know how many folks have been on earth since the beginning but it's in the。
teens of the billions but there have been 17 ish billion people born and that。
many people die there is one outstanding example one outstanding exception to。
that rule and he is the answer to how to live your 20s the way you want to and。
how to have peace with God his name obviously is Jesus there are few others。
if you know your Bible that were removed in a rather spectacular way and stood。
before God and still face judgment and they had to be ready to answer this。
exact same question which is how can I a piece with God so let me remind you that。
you're gonna benefit from this answer not just on your judgment day but you're。
gonna benefit from the answer to this question right now because you're gonna。
learn about the character and the nature and the goodness of God so you can begin。
to walk with him today and Jesus didn't come so you'd have fire insurance Jesus。
came but you might have life and have it abundantly so I'm gonna read you a。
little story just to kind of set this up because I'm gonna make a bit of a。
disclaimer and that is this you can know as to whether or not you're going to。
have it I already read to you first John chapter 5 verses 11 through 13 you can。
know but only the Father knows for sure about you now why do I say that because。
sometimes people come to me and say hey man Todd will you give me assurance that。
I'm saved okay and and I think I would say to you what other prophets of God。
you know men who bring forth the truth of God have said to people in the past。
and I would say hey well why don't you bear fruit in keeping with whatever。
repentance you have professed in your relationship and knowledge about the。
goodness and the holiness of God that's what John the Baptist said to the。
Pharisees actually but the Bible says that God has given you his word so that。
you can know that you have eternal life but only God knows for sure who those。
people are God's not gonna call me and say hey Todd those folks that are。
members of watermark should I let them into heaven he doesn't need my opinion。
my job is not to see through people to find out if you're really saved my job。
is to see you through to greater faithfulness and my job tonight is to。
help you see what God's Word says these ancient words that will lead you on a。
path of not just security at the grave but what the Bible describes as。
prosperity not fleeting prosperity like fame and materialism but a life that。
prospers a soul that is at peace and filled with life and joy here's the。
parable that Jesus told it comes in Matthew chapter 13 where Jesus is。
telling a lot of stories just to teach us about the kingdom of God and this is。
what he's saying about how we'll know at the end who is and who isn't his okay so。
I'm reading this parable because I'm answering the question is why do I say。
you can know first John 5 11 through 13 but only the Father knows for sure about。
you here's why Jesus presented another parable to them saying the kingdom of。
heaven may be compared to a man who sowed good seed in his field Matthew 13。
now I'm in verse 25 but while this his men were sleeping his enemy came and。
sowed tares among the wheat tares are a form of plant that look like wheat but。
they're not fruit bearing okay that's what a tare is it says these guys these。
enemies came in and they sowed the seed if you will that leads to tares amongst。
the wheat and when the wheat sprouted and bore grain then the tares became。
evident also the slaves of the landowner came and said hey sir did you not sow。
good seed in your field how then does it have tares how is there some fake wheat。
kind of tares are to wheat what pyrite is to gold it's fool's gold all right it。
looks like gold but it's not really gold all right so he says an enemy has done。
this and the slave said him do you want us then to go and gather up the tares。
but he said no for while you're gathering up the tares you may uproot。
the wheat with them allow both to grow together this is so important allow both。
the grow together until the harvest and at the time of harvest I will say to the。
Reapers first gather the tares and bind them in bundles to burn them up but。
gather wheat into my barn and then Jesus goes on to close up the story by saying。
hey so will the end of time be when the Son of Man sends his angels out and。
he'll gather his true children to him in other words we are not to walk around。
going save not save save not saved but we are to be individuals that spur each。
other on the love and good deeds we are to be people that admonish the unruly。
encourage the faint-hearted help the weak we are to be friends that remind。
each other of what God says is true and that is just like wheat bears fruit that。
leads to life people that have a relationship with God and that are rooted。
and grounded in their relationship with him the expectation is that they will。
too bear fruit in keeping with their repentance in other words it's not just。
going to be that they say something it's going to be true of them that they do。
something that there is a life change a transformation that God produces let me。
just give you an example of what should not give you any assurance and I do want。
to make a little distinction right here is when I talk to you about assurance of。
salvation I want to separate that from what the Bible teaches is true about。
those who do have a relationship with God which is eternal security so we are。
secure because of what Christ has done and because of Christ calling and。
choosing us and Christ providing for us and working in us a repentance that。
causes us to see our need and trust in him and we become secure in our。
relationship with him this is what the Bible says in in John chapter 10 verse。
14 right after he says I've come that they might have life and have it。
abundantly he also says I'm the Good Shepherd and I know my own he says a。
little later he says and none that the Father have given to me will I lose when。
people say you can lose your salvation if you have it that's not a comment。
about your inability to maintain your salvation the reason I am so offended by。
that idea it's because it really is an assault not on you the sheep who might。
wonder but on the shepherd who says that he won't lose even one now here's what。
is true is there gonna be some people that say Jesus is my shepherd Jesus is。
my shepherd that we're gonna find out Jesus was not their shepherd I。
introduced this right here because I want you to listen closely to how you。
can have assurance because you truly should know that you are secure in your。
relationship with God and not be filled with delusion that is going to cost you。
your very soul it's also by the way an answer to a question that so many of you。
have which is hey I said I believe that Jesus is Lord I I said I was a sinner。
but where's this abundant life where's where's the goodness and the richness of。
life my life has only gotten worse since I've trusted in Jesus I don't sense it's。
abundant life I have people ask me this all the time it's probably a question。
that you've got like how do I experience the abundant life the answer is you know。
the Son and you walk with the Son the Son is the visible image of the。
invisible God and God is filled with loving kindness and truth no good thing。
does he withhold from those who love him if you knew that Jesus is the source of。
peace and life and goodness why would you ever do anything except keep your。
eyes fixed on him the the author and the perfecter of your fate if you knew that。
walking with him and letting him inform your heart and your soul about where to。
live was gonna lead to the good and acceptable and perfect life why would。
you ever leave his ways and so there are some people they're gonna say that they。
know Jesus but then they don't walk and abide with Jesus and that should make。
you question your certainty or your assurance that you really know the。
goodness of God let me just start by introducing you a guy that that we bring。
up a lot frankly around the porch and he's known in scripture as the rich。
young ruler all right I'm not gonna read you the whole story about the rich young。
ruler you can do that in Mark chapter 10 and he shows up in Matthew 19 other。
places in your New Testament but in Mark chapter 10 verse 17 I'm just gonna take。
you to the very first verse and I want us to make some observations about what。
happens with this guy okay because this this Jesus this one who is the source of。
life was setting out on a journey and a man ran up to him this is not a story。
this is an actual interaction that Jesus had and a man ran up to maybe you ran up。
to the porch tonight and you you have got some of the exact same questions。
that this guy did the guy walks up to Jesus and he knelt before him and he。
asked him after addressing him with nobility and truth he called him good。
teacher that word good isn't just mean better than others the word he used for。
good right there is a very specific word that says without air perfect teacher。
which is why Jesus says to this guy why do you call me perfect no one's perfect。
except God alone but he says he on his knees he calls Jesus perfect and then he。
says the porch isn't around yet they're not doing a fortune-telling series yet。
they're not answering the question how I know if I go to heaven when I die so I。
got to come to you and I want to know what do I do to inherit eternal life。
now let me just make three quick observations just from this one verse。
because I think this will help you number one outward signs of pure of。
piety outward signs of piety remember this brother got on his knees are no。
assurance of inward surrender we're gonna find out that this guy was doing。
something very religious right when someone takes a knee before somebody it。
looks like I'm showing you honor and I'm I'm even doing what you see a lot of。
people who do stuff like this and take a knee before an altar but that outward。
sign does not necessarily always equate itself to inward surrender we're gonna。
find that this rich young ruler thought he was as good as Jesus secondly correct。
professions of faith now this one you got to really listen closely to correct。
professions of faith are not to be confused with somebody who because they。
say something that it's a correct profession necessarily has a correct。
position in terms of their reconciliation with God before the Father you can say。
things about God that are right and true and still not be reconciled to God when。
this man called Jesus a good teacher just like some of you might say yeah I。
think Jesus is Lord I'm not I'm not a Muslim I don't say he's just a man I'm。
not a Hindu I don't say he's just one of many men that have actualized into gods。
I'm not a Mormon I don't believe that Jesus was you know the brother of。
Lucifer and and any other of the different ideas that have been falsely。
attributed to who Jesus is you might reject all of those you might go no。
Jesus the Son of God he is he was with the Father in the beginning in the。
beginning was the Word and the Word was with God and the Word was God you might。
say all the fullness of deity dwells in him you might say he is the intrinsically。
good one and the exact representative nature of God and all that would be true。
but just because you say those things it doesn't mean that you are reconciled to。
the Father in a correct position of being restored because of your。
sinfulness which separates you from God saying what's true of God and even true。
of yourself doesn't give you salvation I'm going to give you the best example I。
can of this before I come back to the third thing and and that is demons if。
you ever really want to know and study about who exactly Jesus is a good thing。
to do is to go look at eternal well not eternal because they were created but go。
and created spirit beings that were already in the presence of God the。
Father God the Son and God the Spirit in all eternity they're called demons in。
the scripture all right and what I want to just make really clear right here is。
that you want to be an individual that's got a dynamic faith the rich young。
ruler did not have a dynamic faith he had what the demons had and there's a。
difference between a dynamic faith which brings the power of transformation and。
healing and reconciliation to God and a demonic faith which has a correct。
profession associated with it and words that say something but do not have a。
life that actually responds to it so just let me give you a few verses here。
in James chapter 2 verse 19 it says this you believe that God is one in other。
words I do you hold to the Trinitarian view of scripture that says that there。
is one God who is eternally existed in the form of three persons who relate to。
each other in mutual subjection love and honor that there's distinction within。
the Godhead but there is also unity and subordination they're all co-eternal。
they're all all omniscient all-powerful you can have a right understanding of。
the Godhead a Trinitarian view and still be deluded because the scripture says。
you believe that God is one that there's only one God and he is who he's revealed。
himself to be well that's good you do well but I want to remind you James says。
even the demons believe that in fact they're so convinced it's true that they。
shudder when they think about the nature and the holiness and the reality of God。
because they've rebelled against the nature and the holiness and the reality。
of God and they know that judgment awaits them so they say the correct。
profession but they're not in a correct position before the Father let me just。
show you a couple of other verses in Matthew chapter 8 verse 29 this is。
demon interacting with a spirit being that's part of the demonic angelic realm。
and this is what they cry out to him they say what business do we have with。
each other meaning holy Son of God what business do we have with you have you。
come to torment us before our time this the same group of demons was interacting。
with Jesus in in the gospel of Mark in chapter 1 in verse 24 this is what it。
says it says again what business do we have with you Jesus of Nazareth God made。
man have you come to destroy us we know who you are you're the Holy One of God。
now what I read to you those two verses because if you want a really good sense。
of who God is listen to spiritual beings who have seen God enthroned in the。
heavens demons biblically have the most accurate theology in almost all the。
Bible from an information perspective their theology is right which is the。
study of the Godhead their Christology is right like who is Jesus he's the Holy。
One of God their angiology is correct they know that that they are not God and。
they know that certain angels are going to be judged because they rebelled。
against God their hermitology is correct which is that but there is salvation。
only in Christ alone that they are separate from which gets to the theodicy。
which is the study of the justice of God their eschatology is right which is the。
study of last things and ultimate days demons nail it in every one of those。
categories and they are not in a correct position before the Father why am I。
telling you this because this is not an informational issue with you your。
salvation is not determined by a propositional true/false statement in。
other words I can't just say to you are you a sinner is God holy has God made。
provision for your sin is the way that men can be reconciled to God only。
through Jesus Christ and you go yes I'm a sinner yes God is holy yes my sin。
separates myself from him yes Jesus died on the cross in order that I might be。
saved yes there is no other way to the Father except through Jesus there is no。
other name you would repeat what Peter said not long after the resurrection。
under heaven by which men must be saved except for Jesus Christ if all you do is。
say those things but it's not accompanied by an abiding belief then。
you're gonna miss heaven by 18 inches you got the right information but it's。
not seated if you will and I point to my heart because the Bible speaks about the。
heart as the seat of human emotion the seat of human understanding not the。
organ the heart but what makes up in effect the true belief of the soul of。
man it is possible to have a good theology solid doctrine and be a demon。
now listen I like to tell people that there's nothing more important than。
solid doctrine except solid doctrine isn't the most important thing do you。
hear that paradox in other words you've got to know truth because truth is what。
sets you free but knowing truth is only the first part that's why the Bible says。
acquire wisdom and all your acquisition acquire understanding because。
understanding is wisdom applied this is the problem with so many porchies this。
is the problem with so many churchmen this is why so many of you are now just。
returning to church through this ministry called the porch and you're。
like you know what my mom and dad said they love God but man my mom and dad are。
divorced my mom and dad was let our home in a way that did not make our home。
filled with peace because so many of you maybe grew up in homes of people who。
were churchmen who knew truth and had solid doctrine and dogma that they would。
attest to but they did not abide with walk with remain with Jesus in their。
walking they didn't bear fruit in keeping with their professed confession。
how can you know you're going to heaven well as I already told you it's not。
because you're gonna be somebody who just walks up to Jesus and takes a knee。
it's not gonna because when you walk up to Jesus and take a knee you say the。
right things and I'm just gonna tell you you're even being interested in how I'm。
gonna answer this question is not a guarantee here's the third thing I would。
show you is this guy said how do I know I can inherit eternal life and so I。
would tell you a concern for spiritual things does not ensure that there is a。
condition of spiritual trust I'm glad you want to know in this fortune-telling。
series the answer to the question how can I know I have eternal life or I'm。
gonna go to heaven when I die I'm glad you're not a fool who just doesn't。
really care about this journey all of us think about it I guarantee you Fidel。
Castro did I know my friend Robin did when we finally got into it and we。
talked about it she had thought about it she knows that this cruise through life。
is gonna come to an end as some of you guys know that you're not cruising。
through life the way that you want to right now in your 20s and you're。
wondering how to get off the ship of despair that you're on and the answer is。
Jesus but it's not just doing spiritual things religious activity locking in on。
the porch on Tuesday nights it's not just saying Jesus is Lord it's knowing。
Jesus is Lord there is a world of difference between believing about and。
believing in there's a difference between a said faith and a saving faith。
there's a difference between professing Christ and possessing a relationship。
with his spirit now I'm going to tell you one of the greatest assurances that。
I've got that I'm saved is because of what happened in my life when I came to。
understand who I was and who God was in fact one of the things we love to do and。
I had this conversation with somebody just this week is is that when we are。
engaging them sometimes we'll just go okay let's just say that you're at the。
end of your life okay and and and you stand before the Lord how confident are。
you that you would go to heaven right are you at a point in your spiritual。
life where if you die today you know you'd go to heaven and most people when。
you ask him that will kind of go well yeah yeah don't say with a lot of。
confidence but they kind of say it that way in which you want to follow up with。
them and just say okay well how about this on a scale of 1 to 10 how sure are。
you that if you die you'd go to heaven a lot of times people are just trying to。
be humble and they'll they'll go I don't know I mean you know I'm not gonna say。
I'm perfect you know but I'm not Fidel Castro you know I haven't brought people。
into atheistic communistic oppression and sold him a bill of goods under the。
idea of socialism what really became just self elevation and oppression of。
the masses no I'm not Fidel Castro I'm not Hitler but I'm I'm not sure I'm。
mother Teresa either so I don't know seven maybe an eight and I want to tell。
you that if your answer is anything other than a zero or a ten you're a very。
arrogant person in fact I can remember the last time I had this conversation。
with somebody I just go man that's interesting can you tell me why you were。
a seven and they basically went through something like I just shared with you。
they they they gave some explanation of their own life they started to build。
their own resume I'm not Castro I'm not Hitler right and I'm not gonna say that。
I'm you know perfect I'm not Billy Graham you know I'm not mother Teresa so。
I'm not a ten so I want to get over here to be like you know a seven and they。
think they're being humble what they're really doing is being arrogant when I。
look at them and I tell them well I'm a ten they often say to me that's arrogant。
and I go but let me just explain to you why I'm a ten I'm not a ten for the same。
reason you think you're a seven because if I was putting together my resume I'm。
not gonna tell you I'm pastor of a church in Dallas Texas I'm not gonna。
tell you I've memorized a ton of scripture I'm not gonna tell you that I。
say correct things about God I'm gonna tell you that left to myself all I。
deserve is judgment I'm a ten because my future fortune is told by some ancient。
words which tells me that the wages of sin is death but the free gift of God is。
eternal life through Christ Jesus it's a gift I'm gonna tell you I'm a ten。
because I know that I've been saved not as a result of my own works but by the。
gracious gift of God for by grace we have been saved through faith and even。
our own faith is not of ourself it's a gift from God nothing we do is a result。
of works so that no man should boast my ten is not my boasting in my resume my。
ten is boasting in the righteousness of God and what he has done for me this is。
the difference gang between religion and having a right relationship with God。
religion is what man does Christianity is a declaration of what Christ has done。
now what you have to ask yourself is do I just know the facts some of us haven't。
even dealt with the fact that when I lean in my own understanding and go my。
own way it's that bad yet and I would just tell you if you like what you got。
keep doing what you're doing but if you keep doing what you're doing you're not。
gonna like what you got and I'm gonna guess you're gonna not like what you got。
even a long time before you meet ultimate judgment you're gonna live。
under the judgment of your own rebellion against God the Bible says the way of。
the treacherous is hard but I got great news for some of you guys that are。
already scarred that have already lived hard lives because you didn't know the。
goodness of God he is gentle and kind and he's made provision for your sin。
and he wants to heal you and make you whole good works is not good enough the。
Bible makes that clear in Matthew chapter 5 verse 20 Jesus says I say to。
you unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and the Pharisees。
who had all kinds of correct God language and did all kind of correct God。
things and said they were really concerned about spiritual things it。
wasn't good enough that was like saying Billy Graham and mother Teresa。
exponentially combined aren't good enough a man who is filled with the。
preaching of truth and a woman who is filled with good works combined together。
don't make you save what makes you saved right with God is faith in the work of。
God alone Matthew chapter 5 verse 48 says here's the standard you got to be。
perfect like your Heavenly Father is perfect that's why Billy grandmother。
Teresa and the Pharisees don't make it that's why no resume building could ever。
get the job done and it's why if you understand the kindness and the goodness。
of God that all of us as humans have left and rejected and saying in our own。
ways you know I don't need you I'll manage my relationship with you I want I。
don't really want to tick you off but I'm certainly not gonna order my life。
the way that you want people that say that are people that don't know the。
kindness of God if you know that God left the comfort of heaven and took on。
the form of humankind and being found the flesh being made in the appearance。
of man he humbled himself became obedient to the point of death even。
death on the cross to redeem you and me what else do you need to know about the。
nature of God to turn from your own sin and to run to him and then say I want to。
know more of you and follow more in your ways I want to live my 20s for you not。
just have an answer to a test。
the thing that I want you to walk away with tonight is not that you need fire。
insurance now that you need to know information right I mean all of us you。
know I don't have a hard time convincing anybody the fact that left to ourself。
life isn't all that we want our life to be but here's the question what are you。
gonna do about the fact that this way that you thought would lead to life is。
not leading to the life that you wanted if you're missing out on the abundant。
life it's because you're not abiding with God see people on earth sometimes。
their pipes freeze and break I don't care if you're a church I don't care if。
you have a building that's used to broadcast the gospel message out there。
sometimes your pipes freeze but there is peace and a prosperous hope even in。
the midst of despair when you know the kindness and goodness of God because。
he's told you why pipes freeze on earth because this is not the world that he。
created it's a world that's been marred and affected by sin just like yours and。
just like mine do you know what the greatest assurance is that I know that。
I've been saved is now when I sin I hate it I'm just gonna close with this if。
there has not been a transformation in your nature。
Proverbs 26 says just like a dog returns to its vomit so does a fool to his。
folly I think that's Proverbs 26 11 Proverbs 26 I think 16 says this a。
righteous man falls seven times and yet rises again when I first came to。
understand who Jesus was and what he had done for me I can remember saying God I。
know I'm a sinner that's the easiest thing in the world for me to say I just。
can't believe you're that good that you love me and pursue me anyway but I've。
got no other option first of all I did my work I looked at this idea of a。
resurrection I looked at why the Bible can be trusted I looked at why the the。
fact that Jesus is the only way to God made sense it was a source of grace and。
not even mean spirited by God and I I did some study and I worked through。
these questions and I came to a place where I was certain that Christianity。
was true and made sense I didn't commit intellectual suicide and I trusted in。
him and I remember waking up the next day and still being a man that struggled。
with lust and anger and still being a man that struggled with control and。
still being a man that struggled with how people perceived him and I go oh I。
must not have really prayed to receive Christ because the Bible says therefore。
if any man is in Christ he's a new creature the old things have passed away。
and new things have come and and I I didn't feel like anything was new my。
flesh still desired things that I know that weren't gonna lead to life but。
here's what changed prior to my coming to know Christ I didn't really hate sin。
I hate when sin cost me something I hate when I was caught I hate when it caused。
shame but I kind of liked it and I thought that if I just had the。
opportunity to sin the way I wanted to when I wanted to without consequence。
life would be great that's a foolish way to live deserves a stick and you get one。
that you beat yourself with right a fool's folly brings his own pain to him。
it's why it says a fool will fall you know a hundred times whereas a wise man。
or get beaten a hundred times and not come to his senses whereas a righteous。
man one rebuke will turn him around what it changed in me was not that my flesh。
still was foolish but what changed me is that in my flesh now was a right。
understanding of God the old thing that was gone was that I wasn't just a slave。
to my flesh the enemy who lies about God in my world which lives in rebellion。
against him now what dwelled inside of me was the Holy Spirit a spirit of truth。
that knew God was good that God was loving that God was kind and I felt。
conviction for my sin if you are an individual that when you see vomit sin。
and you don't just want to eat it but that you eat it and only concern is that。
you'll get caught that should trouble you that means your nature hasn't changed。
that means you're still dog and not a sheep who knows the Good Shepherd who。
sometimes sheep do stupid stuff but you know the whole time like what am I doing。
my master leaves me beside green pastures why do I keep returning to this。
vomit of sin I no longer have to because I now know the goodness of God if that。
conviction is not happening in you if you continue to move towards immorality。
and don't flee it it should bother you now I want to remind you righteous men。
fall but they rise they rise in repentance and they flee in morality and。
they pursue righteousness faith love and peace with those who call on God with a。
pure heart this is the last verse I want to give you I'm gonna read to you first。
Corinthians first Timothy 6 11 and 12 first Timothy 6 11 and 12 and then we're。
done it's really basically what I'm saying how can you know well I'm gonna。
keep these verses ready for you but you can know because you say the right thing。
and you believe the right thing the Bible uses the word confess the exact。
same way and what's actually the exact same word in the Greek as profess it's。
homo legio which basically means the same well-spoken word in other words。
what you say is the same as what you really believe that's called a。
confession it's called a profession when the Bible says if you confess with your。
mouth that Jesus is Lord what it's saying it's not just a one-time statement。
like the rich young ruler it means that your life is continually professing I。
know who God is that's why I live the way that I live I'm not saved because of。
how I live but I live this way because I'm saved we are saved by grace through。
faith alone but the faith which saves is never alone it's always accompanied by a。
longing for and an increasing righteousness first Timothy 6 11 and 12。
says this flee from these things but these things if you just go back up and。
read is just covetousness and foolishness and harmful desires you no。
longer want to do what seemed right to you before you're out of the porchy way。
and you're into the way of the Prince of Peace so flee from these things you man。
or woman of God and pursue this is how you know you're saved you pursue the。
Savior that you say is good and that you love you don't just call him a good。
teacher and then go your own way and say my way is good enough you follow your。
good teacher your flesh is not changed your flesh is still fallen that's why。
God's gonna replace it that's why Jesus says deny your flesh take up your cross。
and follow me so you flee from immorality you men of God and pursue。
righteousness godliness faith love perseverance and gentleness now watch。
this verse 12 fight the good fight I tell you know you're saved you make war。
against sin and immoralities which wage war against your soul you take hold of。
and you grasp you don't just make a profession one night after a message but。
you take hold of the eternal life to which you were called and you made watch。
this the good confession that word good means it's different than the word good。
teacher but it means sound excellent powerful a life-changing statement about。
who Jesus is not demons who say truth but humble men and women that speak a。
profession or confession that is powerful in their life to affect change。
and you don't do it in isolation you do in the presence of many witnesses so。
that they can continue to spur you on in loving good deeds and help you follow。
your Good Shepherd that's why Christianity is not an individual sport。
all of us are gonna stand and sing solo before the Father but he calls you to be。
a part of a body at watermark we call him to be members of this community in。
church be in community and pursue righteousness faith love and peace with。
us and wherever you are whether it's Indianapolis or Boise or Joplin or。
Houston or Scottsdale or wherever you're at you find God's people who have found。
the goodness of God who are sick of the vomit of what seems right to 20 and 30。
year olds and lives by the ancient words which lead to life when you do that。
you're justified by faith and you have peace with God through Jesus Christ our。
Lord he who has the Son has the life not just them but right now father I pray。
tonight there might be somebody that is sick and tired of being sick and tired。
and they decide to give you their life and they do it not just by saying these。
words but by having a constant confession profession a good confession。
that they agreeably live by running towards that which you call them to。
father will you forgive us that so many times in church pulpits we've just said。
just say these words and you're saved as if some magic abracadabra happens because。
you say some little rhyme we know father that that's not at all what your。
scripture teaches us your scripture teaches us that we should turn and it's。
an about face of living according to our will and way and we don't just say you're。
good we follow you in your goodness and we're not saved because we follow we。
follow because we're saved so Lord if there's somebody out there that just。
says Lord I'm sick and tired I'm weary and heavy laden and I want to come to。
you the gentle kindness of God who by no means will let the guilty go unpunished。
that the wages of our sin is still death and we know that we deserve it we come to。
you we say father you forgive us will you give us mercy the mercy that was。
poured out on the cross would you make it mine and now that I see Lord that you。
love me even and demonstrate your love for me even in my sinfulness may I in。
this newness of right understanding this newness of life begin to run with you。
learn your ways walk with your people trust in Jesus fleeing immorality and。
fleshly lusts which wage war against my soul and begin to follow your kindness。
and live in your peace we thank you for all the ancient words that if we just。
live according to them will lead to good fortune will lead to as you've said a。
life that is agreeable to our soul that is good and acceptable and perfect the。
human condition we thank you father though we could never be perfect and no。
we could never be good in your sight you make us good through him who knew no sin。
but became sinner in our behalf help us now to walk with him in righteousness。
and peace in Jesus name amen。
