[MUSIC PLAYING]。
Happy Valentine's Day.。
[CHEERING]。
This is lame, man.。
[LAUGHTER]。
Happy Valentine's Day.。
[CHEERING]。
Come on.。
Come on.。
Hey, we love you.。
We love you, Fort Worth and Houston and anybody else。
driving down the road, spending their Valentine's Day with us。
here at the porch.。
Man, if you do not like photos of couples,。
I hope you stayed off Instagram today, man.。
[LAUGHTER]。
It was like an overload.。
Yeah.。
I mean, it was--。
even I was a little grossed out by it.。
I was like, I'm not going to fall into that trap.。
It was everywhere.。
And man, this day, it can serve as a reminder,。
as an incredible blessing to some for the relationship。
that we have, and for others, it can just kind of be this heavy,。
I hate it, and it keeps coming back around。
and reminds me that I'm single and don't even。
have a prospect, and I hope it never comes again.。
So I don't know where you're at, but I'm glad you're here.。
I'm glad you're here.。
And so let me pray for us.。
I know John just did, but we need extra prayer tonight.。
Father, inform our hearts tonight.。
As we dive into a topic that is so relevant to so many of us。
and has impacted so many of our lives,。
Lord, would you please speak to us from the scriptures?。
Would you please undo what culture has done。
in our hearts and our minds?。
And would you give us a biblical worldview of dating,。
and marriage, and relationships, and what。
you would have us do?。
And would you just kind of remove the cynicism,。
the any callous nature of our hearts,。
and opinions, and predispositions?。
Would you just kind of level the playing field as we dive in?。
Protect them from my opinion, God.。
And would your Holy Spirit supernaturally。
move through these words and this ancient story。
to show us what you value and what you desire from us。
in Jesus' name, amen.。
Amen.。
When my wife and my family, we moved into a house,。
we actually had the opportunity to build a house,。
we moved into a new neighborhood.。
And so that meant new neighbors.。
And my neighbor lady across the street,。
directly across the street from my house,。
she was always in her yard.。
And so she was a divorced empty nester,。
and she had a full-time job,。
but whenever she would get home about five o'clock,。
from five o'clock to sunset,。
she was working in her flower beds.。
And there was no flowers there,。
she was just kind of prepping the beds.。
And I watched as the months rolled by,。
she would bring in this organic soil and reshape the beds.。
And then a few months later,。
I saw these incredible plants begin to grow.。
And then when spring hit,。
there's no exaggeration in the story,。
I mean, it just exploded with roses.。
I'm talking hundreds, maybe thousands of roses,。
so much so that every single person。
that came to see us would comment,。
they'd walk in our house,。
anybody that came to our house for the first time,。
they would say, "Wow, did you see that rose garden。
"across the street?"。
I'm like, "How could I miss it?"。
Yeah, it's like right there every time.。
It was like, when I'd sit at the sink,。
I'd look through the windows。
and it was just this explosion of bright red.。
And they grew up to about half the height of her house,。
and it was just beautiful.。
It was breathtaking.。
I'd watch cars drive by and slow down in front of her house。
because of these roses.。
And she would spend all weekend out there.。
She'd have these pruning shears.。
She was always, she'd wear these knee pads,。
and she was just out there constantly working.。
If she was home, she was outside.。
If she was at home and the sun was up,。
she was outside working on this rose garden.。
And so she was relocated through her work。
and had to move to Atlanta.。
And so I watched her put her house for sale.。
I watched people begin to view the house。
and everybody would stop and they'd walk around。
and just kind of blown away by the rose garden.。
It didn't take the house long to sell.。
In about a week, had a contract on it。
because again, the rose garden.。
And a newly married couple moved in.。
And so they purchased the home, they moved in,。
and loved the roses obviously.。
But their newly married couple both had jobs, very busy.。
And I watched as the months rolled by,。
the roses began to get neglected, to be neglected.。
And lo and behold, started to wither and die.。
Weeds crept into the beds.。
And that which was beautiful was no longer.。
Because the beauty took work.。
The beauty took preparation.。
The beauty took forethought.。
The beauty took prioritizing things。
that some people don't have time to prioritize。
or desire to prioritize.。
And so that which was beautiful withered and died.。
And in the same way, everyone here,。
the vast majority of you,。
that's who I'm gonna speak to tonight.。
If you're here and you don't wanna be married,。
we're so glad you're here.。
I hope that you are, as the scripture says,。
a eunuch for the sake of the kingdom,。
meaning single for the sake of the kingdom.。
But if you're here and you desire to be married,。
I imagine that's the majority of you.。
And you want a beautiful marriage.。
But as I've spent the last decade。
meeting with single friends,。
I don't think we realize the work。
that a beautiful marriage takes now.。
Like today, like you can start on this work today.。
And so on this very day, Valentine's Day,。
America, Americans will spend 18.。
What if I told you Americans spent $18 million today。
telling people they love them?。
I would be about $18 billion off.。
It's $18 billion spent on this day by Americans.。
$2 billion on roses and flowers alone.。
$2 billion with a B that we spend on this holiday。
being exploited by Hallmark.。
[congregation laughing]。
As we've fallen into the traps of our culture,。
and it's so easy for us to say I love you on a day,。
it's so difficult for us to show someone。
that we love them with our lies.。
Because again, we've bought into the lies of culture.。
Culture is what is informing you on how to date.。
It's the people who are terrible at it.。
That's where you're learning.。
That's where you're learning how to date from Brad。
and Angelina and 50 Shades of Stupid and The Bachelor.。
This cultural phenomenon, 21 seasons strong saying,。
hey, this is what dating looks like,。
that there would be a man and he'd choose。
from these 25 girls as he goes on a date with all of them.。
And the 21 seasons strong and the success rate so far is two.。
But that's where you'll learn it from.。
And do you know why it resonates with us so deeply?。
Because that's how we feel.。
You either feel like a man trying to figure out。
who you're going to choose and you wanna choose right。
and will you accept this rose?。
Or you feel like a woman, like this commodity among many。
that you're just waiting to be chosen.。
And it's a wrong perspective.。
The reason that this resonates so deeply with us。
is because we can laugh at it,。
we can think it's silly,。
but in reality, it resonates deeply with us。
'cause it's what we feel like we are living.。
Manic highs and manic lows of relationships.。
Not the service that a real relationship takes.。
And so maybe you're here and maybe you're one of those。
that are cynical and you think, well, who needs marriage?。
If marriage is so much work,。
well, I don't really need to be married.。
You don't understand what marriage is.。
Like you almost have to read this book。
like you're on a deserted island。
and you have to unlearn some things and say,。
okay, God, what do you want for me in regards to marriage?。
Do you know that marriage shows up in the scripture。
in the first chapter of Genesis。
or really the second chapter of Genesis。
where he says, "Be fruitful and multiply,。
"fill the earth and subdue it."。
He's saying that the first great commission, listen,。
God's first great commission is simply this.。
I've created man and I've created woman。
and I've created them in such a way that they fit together。
and when they fit together, life is brought forth。
and if she loves God and he loves God,。
they would create babies that love God。
and that they would cover the earth。
with babies that love God, that have babies that love God,。
that have babies that love God.。
This is God's original plan.。
This is the first great commission。
that we would produce disciples through reproduction。
but we've moved so far from that.。
We've taken this plan and captured it for our pleasure。
and excitement and the manic highs and the manic lows。
and friends, culture's model is so broken.。
It's so flawed and it's not just flawed and broken,。
it's damaging you.。
It's hurting you.。
It's wound, I don't, it's very easy for me。
to prove this to you that culture's model,。
which is self-focused, that it prepares you for divorce,。
not commitment and it's ultimately one of the biggest。
failures of the 21st century。
and the vast majority of those cute Instagram pictures。
that you saw today are going to end in flames,。
in disaster, in devastation, they will not make it。
and I know that's not the uplifting message。
you wanted right now but it's just the truth.。
It's just the facts.。
So you gotta do something different.。
You gotta do something revolutionary.。
You gotta do something incredibly different。
than what the world would have you do。
because the fact of the matter is 80% of you。
are going to get married at least one time in your life。
and God really cares about marriage。
and so you cannot afford to be influenced by the culture。
on this topic anymore.。
It's in desperate need of a revolution.。
And ladies, I've spent enough time with you to know。
that when I said 80%, all of you felt like the 20%。
that aren't gonna get married。
and you just thought oh no, that's gonna be me.。
I'm gonna be a part of that, stop it.。
Okay, that's my most loving advice to you right now,。
stop it, okay?。
Stop dwelling in that, start trusting God,。
believing that he has a plan for you。
and that his plan is better than yours。
and pursue that plan。
and ask him to help you know that plan.。
And if you're here and you wanna be married,。
I want you to know I want you to be married。
and not just married,。
I want you to have an incredible marriage.。
I take great delight in watching couples come in here。
and get married and really have a ministry。
that is produced out of that covenant relationship.。
It is one of my greatest joys。
and one of my greatest honors to watch that every week。
and I see it happen all the time。
and it truly is, it's one of the key reasons that I do this.。
So I hope that you would have an incredible marriage,。
an incredible ministry together。
but to do so you're gonna have to learn what God says.。
So we're talking about revolutionary dating,。
we're in this series New Year Revolution,。
we subtitled it Changes People Make That Change The World。
and I will tell you we didn't just cram this topic in here.。
This is one of the key things that I think you can do,。
a change that you can make。
that will actually change the world,。
go back to God's original great commission。
and so we know that dating is not in the Bible。
and here's why it's not in the Bible.。
Maybe you know it's not in the Bible。
but maybe you don't know why.。
Dating is a very new idea.。
Now when I say new idea, I don't know what you think.。
Dating is about 100 years old.。
So only about a century old, that's it.。
Like in the early 1900s, the late 1800s,。
dating was a euphemism for prostitution.。
That's where the word shows up in our language。
and if you said in the late 1800s, I'm gonna go on a date,。
what that meant is you were going to solicit sex。
from a prostitute and pay for it.。
Now that's not a joke.。
That I'm serious, that's where we get the word dating from.。
Now you can see what has happened in the past 100 years。
that we would use it, throw it around。
and it would be very normal。
and we think that we're getting better at this。
because we have apps and personality profiles。
and we have all of these matchmaking tools。
but statistically, friends, I need you to wake up,。
we're getting worse at it.。
We're getting married less, we're getting married later。
and then those marriages are failing more.。
Can we all just open our eyes and see。
that we are getting a whole lot worse at this?。
We've got to return to the original intentions.。
The one who invented it, the one who made it up,。
you're going to have to unlearn some things tonight,。
to undo some things tonight.。
Test everything I say,。
see if it's consistent with the scriptures,。
see if you desire to apply it.。
I'm gonna be in Genesis chapter 24.。
If you wanna turn there, Genesis chapter 24.。
First book of the Bible, 24 chapters in.。
It's gonna be the story of Isaac and Rebekah.。
The Old Testament is full of love stories。
of Ruth and Boaz and Jacob and Rachel,。
Esther, Samson and Delilah.。
All of them have weird things going on。
and so we don't tell these stories as prescriptive,。
like hey, you should do it just like Samson and Delilah,。
don't get a haircut.。
No, it's descriptive of an actual relationship。
but inside that description, there are eternal truths。
and principles that the Bible repeats。
that we can begin to apply into our own relationships.。
So tonight, I'm going to give you three things。
everyone can do today to begin to revolutionize dating.。
Whether you have a prospect or not,。
everyone can start doing these three things tonight.。
You can begin and it will help you in this adventure.。
So let me summarize this very lengthy text.。
Abraham's wife, Sarah, has just passed away。
and there's kind of like this,。
oh no, I've got a son and he's single。
and his mama's no longer around to help him be sensitive.。
Like I've got to find this man or woman fast。
and so he calls his servant, his main servant,。
his lead servant over, Eleazar, and he says,。
I need you to go find a wife for my son.。
But here's the deal, like I'm surrounded by non-believers。
here in the promised land, surrounded by the Canaanites.。
You're going to have to go to my hometown。
and find a girl from there。
and so can you travel to my hometown?。
You would often see in the Old Testament。
people married within their family.。
Today that's weird and even gross, okay?。
Different things going on at this time.。
Keep in mind, if you're going to marry a believer,。
she's going to come from your family.。
Very few believers on the planet Earth at this time.。
And so this was God's plan to purify the faith。
and again, as I told you,。
roll out that original Great Commission.。
So he sends his servant to his hometown.。
Eleazar goes to a well, a water well,。
and he prays and says, God,。
would you show me a woman for my master。
who would not only get me a drink,。
but also for my camels, that she would be the one.。
He prays that prayer, lo and behold,。
Rebecca shows up on the scene, offers him some water.。
He goes home to meet her family,。
tells her of the mission that he,。
tells them of the mission that he's on.。
And then he and Rebecca return back to the promised land,。
back to Abraham's house,。
where she can meet his son, Isaac,。
who is in the field praying。
as he's waiting on them to return.。
And they meet, they get married,。
they have sex or intimate, I should say.。
And then it says, he loves her.。
He loves her the rest of his life.。
And so the very first practical thing you can do。
starting tonight is you can pray.。
Super practical, super easy,。
you can do it right now where you're sitting.。
It says in verse 12,。
then he prayed, Lord God, my master Abraham,。
make me, Lord God of my master Abraham,。
make me successful today。
and show kindness to my master Abraham.。
See, I am standing beside this spring。
and the daughters of the townspeople。
are coming out to draw water.。
May it be that when I say to a young woman,。
please let down your jar that I may have a drink.。
And she says, drink and I'll have water at drink。
and I'll water your camels too.。
Let her be the one you have chosen for your servant Isaac.。
By this I will know that you have shown kindness。
to my master.。
Now there's clearly something supernatural happening here.。
I'm not encouraging you necessarily to pray this specific.。
Lord, as I walk into this Starbucks,。
I pray that a woman would come up to me。
and offer me a venti nonfat white chocolate frappuccino。
and some for my dog.。
And that she would be the one。
that I'd spend the rest of my life with.。
And Father, I pray that she is a believer。
and a supermodel.。
And that's how she raises money for charity.。
But consider what he did pray.。
Please provide someone and make it clear who it is.。
Simple prayer.。
Please provide someone and make it clear who it is.。
And so why wouldn't you pray every day for your spouse?。
And when I say pray for your spouse,。
I don't mean like a request, like a Christmas present,。
like I pray for that new car.。
I mean pray for them in the sense of,。
Lord, I pray that you're protecting them.。
Lord, I pray that you're preserving them.。
Lord, I pray that they know you and walk with you,。
that you would protect their innocence and their purity.。
Help them in this broken world.。
Father, help them.。
Should I live long enough to meet them?。
I pray that they know you and walk with you。
and be saved by you and filled with your Holy Spirit.。
You could pray for them every single day.。
See, I think one of the first revelations。
that we're gonna have in heaven is this, prayer works.。
One of the first things that we're gonna get up there。
and realize is like, wow, you were really listening.。
And me talking to you was really doing something。
and there was an alignment of your heart and mine。
and your desires and mine.。
And man, I wish I would have done that more.。
There was just a part of me that doubted。
that you were actually listening, that you actually cared,。
that you actually asked me,。
that you wanted me to ask for things.。
I wouldn't tell you to do this。
if I didn't practice it every single night.。
I pray for my kids' spouses.。
Every single night I go into my daughter's room,。
Presley and Finley, and I go into my son's room.。
And with my daughters, I say,。
Lord, I pray for their husbands.。
They would know you and fear you,。
that they'd walk with you,。
that you'd protect their innocence,。
that you'd preserve their purity.。
Father, that they would know your word,。
that they would treat these women well,。
that they would meet each other in your perfect timing.。
Father, would you align their hearts with your will。
and with what you're doing?。
Amen.。
And then what happens is usually they,。
this has happened both times,。
they turn to me and said,。
Daddy, what's a spouse?。
(congregation laughing)。
And so we have to work through that.。
But every night I do that.。
Can you consider how profound that is?。
That there is two men out there that I've never met,。
but I prayed for every day.。
Every day I pray for their faith。
and their relationship with God。
and the way that they're going to treat my daughters.。
Every day I pray for them.。
I don't think that so many of us。
want a God-honoring marriage,。
we just want a relationship.。
We just want someone.。
Like our goals for ourselves。
are so much lower than God's goals for us.。
And so the gifts that we give ourselves。
are so much lower than the gifts God has for us.。
We just want a relationship.。
And sometimes that causes us to take shortcuts,。
to settle for the fake roses, if you will.。
I remember when I went to,。
had the privilege and honor to do David's wedding,。
David and Marvin.。
And I remember being at his rehearsal dinner。
as his mom stood up and looked at his beautiful wife,。
very godly, God-fearing wife.。
And she just had this opportunity to tell her,。
"I've prayed for you, for my son, for decades now.。
"Long before we met, I prayed for you,。
"that he would meet you."。
It's just a crazy thing to look someone in the eyes。
who is the answer to your prayer.。
Why wouldn't you do that every day?。
If you desire marriage,。
why would you not pray for your spouse every day,。
not just to meet them, but that God would align your heart?。
And sometimes girls are like, "Can I do that?。
"Are you sure?。
"Is that gonna feed my control?"。
Listen, you could pray for whatever you want。
'cause God knows you want it, right?。
I mean, it's not like he doesn't know。
and you're trying to play some mind tricks with God.。
He's like, "God, I really wanna marry him,。
"but I wouldn't dare ask you."。
That's crazy.。
Ask him for what you want.。
Just ask him for what he wants.。
You can ask God for whatever you want.。
Just ask in line of asking him for what you want.。
Say, "God, would you show me what you want?。
"And would you give me a greater desire in my heart。
"for what you want than for what I want?。
"If what I want is not what you want,。
"would you change that in me?"。
You can pray that every single day relentlessly.。
Pray for what you want while seeking what he wants.。
The next very practical thing that you can do。
beginning tonight is pursue purity.。
Tonight.。
Guys, think about how crazy this would be.。
Think about from this moment on to the day you're buried.。
What if you never saw another woman's breast。
other than the woman you married?。
How amazing would that be?。
I mean, I'm talking you screen movies,。
you go to Kids in Mind or Plugged In,。
and you see if there's nudity there,。
and if there is, you avoid it like the plague.。
And you tell her, "On your 60th wedding anniversary,。
"your breast is the only breast I've seen。
"for the past 60, 65 years."。
I think that's God's desire and design even.。
And it's beautiful.。
You pursue purity, verse 15.。
"Before he had finished praying,。
"Rebecca came out with her jar on her shoulder.。
"She was the daughter of Bethuel, son of Milcah,。
"who was the wife of Abraham's brother Nahor.。
"The woman was very beautiful, a virgin.。
"No man had ever slept with her."。
Pursue purity.。
You can do this with no prospect in mind.。
You can pursue personal purity.。
You can pursue the content,。
or you can withstand from the content。
that you put before your eyes.。
Abstain from any sexual content.。
You can pursue personal purity.。
I don't think we have any idea。
what a big deal purity is to God.。
We're so far from his values when it comes to this.。
And I don't know if we know each other.。
You may be a guest here for the first time,。
and so you may not know my story,。
that I was a sex addict and a porn addict for a long time.。
And have found freedom through my relationship。
with Jesus Christ in the context of community。
within the church.。
And so I'm very passionate about this。
'cause I've experienced the heartbreak,。
the heartache, the pain, and the devastation。
that sex outside of marriage and pornography。
and masturbation causes in the context of marriage.。
Not only have I personally,。
but then I've counseled hundreds and hundreds。
and hundreds of couples in a very same。
and similar situation.。
And so I just got one message for you.。
It's the world is lying to you, man.。
You are being duped.。
You are being defrauded.。
And I really need you to believe this。
or test it or wrestle with it。
or get your stats and your facts。
and your proof and your evidence.。
You try to argue against what I'm saying right now。
because I'm telling you those small decisions。
that you're making right now at 18, 21, 35,。
they are costing you a healthy marriage。
long before you even meet a prospect.。
It's hurting you.。
It is not helping you in any way.。
No one has ever said in the history of all creation,。
man, my marriage is so much better。
because of porn and masturbation.。
I'm an amazing lover。
because of the time that I spent looking at porn。
and masturbating。
or the ways that I got to practice sex outside of marriage.。
No, you are poisoning that flower bed.。
Beautiful things will not be able to bloom from that bed。
unless you put in work right now.。
And I say that out of love.。
And so some of, I hear every now and then,。
I was like, JP, does the Bible really say explicitly。
not to have sex?。
I mean, does the Bible really say,。
those are the words of Satan.。
Does the Bible, did God really say?。
In Deuteronomy 22, verse 21,。
it actually says that if you could not prove。
that a woman was a virgin, she could be stoned.。
Now, praise God for Jesus and the new covenant and grace.。
We don't live under that law anymore.。
But the reason that I tell you that。
is because you have to understand the context。
of which the scriptures were written into.。
God's line for you is not to not have sex.。
It's so far before that,。
that you would flee sexual immorality.。
That's 1 Corinthians 6, 18 and 20.。
Flee sexual immorality.。
All other sins a man commits are outside his body.。
But whoever sins sexually, sins against their own body.。
Do you not know that your body is the temple。
of the Holy Spirit who is in you,。
whom you've received from God?。
You are not your own.。
You've been bought at a price.。
Therefore, honor God with your body.。
If you are running toward Jesus,。
you're running from sexual immorality.。
It's not how close can I get?。
It's not make out sessions or anything like,。
hey, anything but sex or what kind of sex is okay.。
None of it's okay.。
Sexting, texting, none of it's okay.。
You're so far from where God's ideals are.。
Every one of those actions is hurting you, costing you.。
And you're like, man, that's crazy.。
That's so far from the world.。
You better believe it is.。
Keep taking advice from the world.。
You wanna get married five times?。
Keep taking advice from the world.。
Man, you want the world's track record?。
Marriage?。
Keep going.。
Could you just lean in a little bit and listen。
and consider what you're doing?。
Consider who you're taking advice from.。
Hebrews 13, verse four says,。
"Marriage should be honored by all。
"and the marriage bed kept pure,。
"for God will judge the adulterer。
"and all the sexually immoral."。
Now listen, I know that,。
'cause I've given this message and I've talked to people。
and I've had 'em weep up here.。
And again, I want you to remind you of my story.。
I know that you feel condemnation with those words.。
Listen, you can't restart tonight.。
That's the beauty of the gospel.。
It's God's no longer counting their sins against them.。
He's removed their transgressions。
as far as the east from the west.。
These are all scriptures I'm giving you right now.。
That you can go right now and say, God, I've been a fool.。
I've done some really stupid things。
and I wanna start over.。
I believe your spirit is powerful.。
Can you help me start over?。
Satan is a liar and he's telling me。
that I'm guilty right now.。
Can you set me free from that?。
Can you help me stop feeding the desires of my stomach。
and begin to flee sexual immorality?。
What is sexual immorality?。
How do you know when I'm moving towards sexual?。
And when your body begins to prepare itself for sex。
outside of marriage,。
because that's what it is outside of marriage, it's sex.。
And there's some of you here tonight,。
there's some of you listening to this,。
all you will ever have is sex.。
But when God talks about intimacy within marriage,。
that's not the word he uses.。
It's so much better than that.。
That's the world's word.。
He has something for you so much better than that。
and it comes with work.。
Like any five-year-old can paint a picture,。
but it ain't gonna be pretty.。
And any two-year-old can strum a guitar,。
but it ain't gonna be pretty.。
And in the same way, I can plant flowers in dirt,。
but they ain't gonna be pretty.。
To make things pretty takes work and discipline,。
effort, patience, perseverance,。
not doing what you wanna do, seeking God's desire.。
And so how profound is this that practicing purity。
is equipping you for real marital intimacy?。
Practicing sex is preparing you for disaster.。
And we've trained for sex outside of marriage,。
so we will never be, the person who's training。
with sex outside of marriage will never be satisfied。
by sex inside of marriage。
because they're two different things.。
If you've trained for sex outside of marriage,。
you will not be satisfied by intimacy inside of marriage。
because you have fed yourself。
for an appetite of something else.。
They are different.。
That comes from a man who's had both.。
And if you're looking at porn,。
it's a university for how to be a miserable lover.。
Pornography is a college, a classroom to teach you。
how to be a miserable lover.。
You need to stop now.。
But consider with me for just a moment。
how brilliant God's design is.。
That God gifted this act to us that He made the parts。
and He made them work the way that they do.。
He made them male and female。
and He put the reproductive organs inside of her。
so that she can grow human life.。
And then as just a bonus and a gift to us,。
He made it feel good.。
Thank you, God.。
The masterful designer.。
And the scripture said the two become one flesh.。
And what God has brought together, let man not separate.。
They can't be separated because they bonded.。
And now modern science tells us, modern science says。
that when an adult experiences sex,。
more specifically orgasm,。
that their brain is creating a synapse。
that bonds them to their surroundings.。
Let me say that again in case you missed it.。
Whenever a human being experiences orgasm by themselves。
or with someone else,。
their brain is literally sticking themselves to an object.。
That they are bonding to that object.。
That their body is training them,。
hey, that thing that you just saw,。
that you just looked at,。
made you feel really, really good, pursue it.。
Now you can imagine that if that only happens。
between a man and a woman for a lifetime,。
when her body changes shape and she ages,。
that she remains the epitome of attraction to Him.。
How beautiful is God's design?。
But that when you take that design。
and you bond to two-dimensional images。
and computers and magazines and things and Instagram。
and anything else that you would look at,。
that you're not growing an addiction to sex,。
you're growing an addiction。
to two-dimensional counterfeit images,。
things that will never satisfy you。
in a marriage relationship,。
they just won't happen.。
And I don't mean it because I know I just like,。
like the vast majority of you,。
I'm talking to you like you're talking to me,。
I'm talking to you.。
You gotta stop.。
You got to stop!。
Like now, behind you, never again,。
whatever it takes, remove access,。
get rid of the phone, get rid of the computer,。
do anything 'cause it's killing you。
and it's killing your marriage.。
And I'm not playing.。
I'm so sick and tired of having someone。
stand in front of me, weeping from the devastation.。
Why didn't you tell me?。
I told you, I've been there.。
I've been there and you're gonna be there。
unless you stop.。
And you can choose today or next week,。
but all you did between now and next week。
is fed an appetite so that next week。
it's going to be more difficult.。
That's it.。
Or right now, you say I'm done.。
You could text somebody right now and say,。
hey, I'm an addict, I need help.。
Right, there's some of you in relationships。
and you're sitting beside each other。
and you know you're sexually active。
and this is extremely awkward.。
Thank you for trusting us with your Valentine's Day.。
And stop.。
Like love each other so much that you say,。
hey, I'm gonna persevere.。
I'm gonna show you that I only want intimacy。
within marriage.。
I care about you that much.。
And we're gonna stop.。
(breathing)。
The next very practical thing you can do。
today is practice serving.。
Today, you can practice serving.。
You can practice serving.。
She went down to the spring, filled her jar,。
and came up again.。
The servant hurried to meet her and said,。
please give me a little water from your jar.。
Drink, my Lord, she said, and quickly lowered the jar。
to her hands and gave him a drink.。
After she had given him a drink,。
she said, I'll draw water for your camel too。
until they have had enough to drink.。
So she quickly emptied her jar into the trough,。
ran back to the well to draw more water,。
and drew enough for his camels.。
Without saying a word, the man watched her closely。
to learn whether or not the Lord。
has made his journey successful.。
There's something really crazy happening。
when we read it like this.。
We don't realize that this well,。
and I saw it was in Israel,。
and I've seen wells, cisterns like this.。
There's flights of stairs that she would be going down,。
that she would come and say, are you thirsty?。
And she doesn't just say, oh, if you're thirsty,。
let me get water for your camels too.。
This is a servant woman that she would go。
and take these jars down these flights of stairs,。
deep into the cistern, fill them up, come back up,。
pour them for the camels, then go back down.。
Come back up and then pour.。
That this was happening, and it says that he sits back。
and that he observes her first of all, right?。
He goes where women who serve hang out.。
Like these women, they're not there.。
It's not like a water fountain.。
They're not there to get water for themselves.。
They're there to serve others in their family。
and others around them.。
And so there's just some practical takeaways for us, right?。
Like if you're looking for a godly woman or a godly man,。
go where godly women or godly men hang out.。
That, and listen, just because they're here。
doesn't mean they're godly, right?。
Like they may have a Bible and have memorized some verses,。
and yet they're just a bad boy looking for a good girl.。
That's happening right now tonight, okay?。
So just because they're here doesn't mean they're godly.。
You're gonna have to observe them.。
Don't just take that Bible verse at face value.。
And minute that's you, if you're here for the wrong reasons,。
we'll find you.。
We will find you.。
That's all.。
And so if you want to meet a bar fly,。
you know you go to the bar.。
If you wanna meet a girl that likes to party, right?。
You go to the club.。
And a guy, it goes both ways, right?。
But if you wanna meet a godly man or a godly woman,。
go where godly men and godly women hang out, step one.。
And there's a reason that Abraham can send his servant。
to find a wife for his son.。
He doesn't need an app or a personality profile or anything.。
He's just like, hey, make sure she loves God,。
make sure she's kind, go find her.。
It's just this really practical thing.。
Hey, go find someone who loves God,。
and see if she'll be a good mom and a good wife.。
That's what you're looking for.。
Will they be a good mom?。
Will they be a good wife?。
Will he be a good dad and a good husband?。
Not does he have a six pack?。
That's gonna be practical for about six months,。
that six pack.。
And then it's going to be a novelty,。
like a worthless commodity, that six pack.。
I'm saying that, I love you guys, please.。
Who will be a good mom?。
When she leaves in verse 60,。
they actually pray that she would have lots of children,。
and then they pray for her children, her family does.。
To be a good mom, you gotta be a great servant.。
That's what motherhood is, it's serving a lot.。
And so he's looking for someone who is kind and who serves.。
And so he observes her action, right?。
He's there at the well.。
He observes her as she's serving.。
This is so much less awkward than observing her。
when she's sunbathing or when she's playing volleyball。
or anything else out there, right?。
Like you wanna go and be in an environment。
where Christians, followers of Christ, are serving,。
where they're caring for others,。
and you wanna see how people do。
not just what they feel like doing,。
but they push through their own desires。
to pursue God's desires against what they may feel.。
That they're pursuing their calling and their purpose。
as a follower of Jesus Christ,。
that they're actually following Christ,。
and this takes some time.。
I love the way that it just describes。
that he kind of sits back and he just watches her.。
He's not just taking her word for it.。
Like imagine if Eleazar would have showed up on the scene。
and said, "Excuse me, ladies.。
"Excuse me, ladies.。
"Yeah, my master's very wealthy.。
"Far away land.。
"He's got some estates and stuff.。
"And he's looking for a wife,。
"but she's gotta be a servant.。
"Any of you servants?"。
Like they're all gonna be like,。
"Uh, I am, I'm a servant."。
And he doesn't do that.。
He doesn't just take their word for it.。
He says, "Hey, I wanna see your track record.。
"I wanna see, you're not impressed by me.。
"You don't owe me anything."。
Like so much like when we're dating,。
we're just like on this incessant interview。
and putting our best foot forward and stuff.。
Proverbs 31 says, "Charm is deceitful。
"and beauty is fleeting.。
"But a woman who fears the Lord is to be praised."。
Every single morning as I take my children to school,。
my kids, my girls rather, three days a week,。
before they get out of my truck,。
they have to say this verse from memory.。
Every morning, three days a week, I take them to school.。
Girls, tell me Proverbs 31, 30.。
"Charm is deceitful."。
'Cause I want them to know charm is deceitful.。
And I want them to know beauty is fleeting.。
And I want them to be above all things。
a woman who fears the Lord.。
And so my friends, I'm asking you to serve and observe.。
I think the reason that so many marriages fail today。
is because we're looking at it in regards。
to what can I get from it?。
What can marriage do for me?。
But the number one job, your number one job in marriage。
is to serve.。
You can write down these verses if you want.。
Ephesians 5, verses 21 through 33.。
Colossians 3, verses 18 through 19.。
And 1 Peter 3, verses one through seven.。
I'll give them again.。
Ephesians 5, 21 to 33.。
Colossians 3, 18 to 19.。
And 1 Peter 3, one through seven.。
All show God's desire in a marriage relationship.。
All talk about serving each other.。
Ephesians 5, 21 says, "Submit to one another。
"out of reverence for Christ."。
So let's have some real talk real quick。
as if we haven't already.。
And so I'm talking to Monica,。
I got a couple of weeks ago, my wife.。
This is marriage talk now.。
And I just say, "Babe, what makes you wanna be intimate?"。
Told you this is real talk.。
What makes you want to be intimate?。
And I think like as a single person, you think,。
"Well, I know, you know, if you wear that thing。
"and the light hits you just right。
"and you got boys to men on and rose petals."。
(congregation laughing)。
That's not what she's, she did not hesitate.。
She didn't think about it for two seconds.。
This is her, I love her answer.。
It's so true.。
She says, "When you remove responsibilities."。
When you remove responsibilities,。
because during the day there's three kids tugging at me。
and I'm making lunches and I'm cleaning the house。
and I'm doing this and I'm doing that.。
And when you come on the scene。
and you're taking out the trash and you're helping out,。
that makes me want you.。
And I will tell you something,。
that she's not alone in that.。
I've heard from a lot of women。
and read books on the topics。
and they all feel the same way.。
It turns out foreplay for them is taking out the trash.。
(congregation laughing)。
And it really is.。
And you think, "No, it's not, not for me.。
"It's gonna be, we're gonna be on the."。
Yeah, maybe not on the honeymoon.。
Like maybe not for two months,。
but I'm telling you six months in,。
what you're going to be doing in marriage。
is a lot of serving each other.。
And so you better be really, really, really good。
at serving people.。
And you can practice that right now.。
The weight of responsibilities is an enemy to intimacy.。
Verse 66, "Then the servant told Isaac all he had done.。
"Isaac," they've returned home now,。
"Isaac brought her, Rebekah,。
"into the tent of his mother Sarah。
"and he married Rebekah.。
"So she became his wife and he loved her.。
"And Isaac was comforted after his mother's death."。
The word loved her there is interesting.。
You got two words to choose from in the Hebrew.。
Could be hesed, which is the covenantal love.。
You might even think that would go there,。
but the word that they chose is ahava.。
Ahava, it means he gave himself to her.。
Like an ongoing, continually sacrificial love,。
he gave of himself to her.。
This is God's, and this is the beginning of them。
becoming one, starting a family.。
This is God's brilliant design that in the family unit。
there'd be a mom and a dad and they would love him。
and they'd produce offspring that would love him.。
And you think, well, what if I didn't have that?。
You are in a beautiful place to tell the world。
how important it is if you didn't have that.。
And to make sure that your children have that。
as best as you can.。
What a beautiful place that you would be here。
in hearing this.。
And God is the God of grace.。
He moves in, the Holy Spirit moves in。
and covers a multitude of wrongs.。
I praise him that he did in my life,。
that I've experienced his grace in the most real ways.。
But I think that so many of us here this evening,。
we view marriage as the capstone and not the cornerstone.。
See, historically speaking, you go 100 years ago,。
marriage was a cornerstone,。
you would build your life on top of it.。
It was this very practical thing.。
Now, right, you were kind of like, you know what?。
Life is hard and I need someone to go through life with me。
and I can't have children on my own and working is hard。
and there's just this thing that it's gonna be easier。
if I can find this other creation,。
this opposite sex that God created to compliment me。
so that we would go through life and ministry together.。
It was a cornerstone that you'd build your life on.。
Now, in the 21st century, we think of it more as a capstone.。
We have to go out there and make money and become something。
and then after we become something,。
then we can pursue marriage just like the cherry on top。
because that's the only time we're gonna be able。
to afford a wedding, right?。
And that's broken.。
Like stop taking marriage advice from the world.。
That's broken.。
You're missing out on one of God's beautiful blessings.。
Of marriage and I know some of you hear that。
and you feel so helpless and I'm praying。
that the opposite sex would hear it too.。
I asked a friend of mine who was actually on The Bachelor.。
He was one of those two still together.。
I asked him some questions this week。
and I've been impressed with his authenticity。
and I know he seeks to honor Christ。
and it's imperfect like all of us。
but I said, where do you feel like we miss it。
in the dating culture of 2017?。
And Sean said, I feel like so many people,。
particularly women, have this bachelor。
or fairy tale view of dating and marriage.。
In other words, they're waiting to find Mr. or Mrs. Right。
and when they do, they'll know it,。
fall in love and spend the rest of their life。
with that euphoric feeling.。
Truth is, God never tells us。
that there's one right person for us.。
God shows us how to love, how to treat our spouse。
and how to run our household.。
I think many who are dating need to realize。
that their fairy tale ending will only be achieved。
after putting in the work and following God's desire.。
And I said, what has been the biggest surprise in marriage?。
What has been the biggest surprise in marriage?。
And he says this, the biggest surprise in marriage。
has been just how much work it's taken.。
Unprompted.。
I always heard that marriage was work,。
but I didn't truly understand the challenges。
that come from melding two worlds together.。
We were raised differently, handled conflict differently,。
had differing political views at times,。
had different ways of handling finance.。
The list goes on and on.。
Together, we have to learn how to meld。
those two ways of living together.。
Yes, you do, it takes work.。
Two selfish people coming together,。
to being committed to being unselfish towards one another.。
That's what marriage is.。
Two selfish people coming together,。
committing to being unselfish towards one another.。
It takes work.。
You can start right now.。
Even if you don't have a prospect, you can start right now.。
You have a role to play in marriage.。
You can even consider what are the qualities and the skills。
that would make me a good husband or a good wife,。
and how can I go and pursue them?。
'Cause we're all becoming something.。
And good wives and good husbands don't just happen.。
They start when you're 18, when you're 22,。
when you're 35, that you would pray,。
that you would pursue purity,。
and that you would practice serving.。
That is my prayer for you, that you would pray,。
that you would relentlessly pursue purity,。
and that now, that you would begin serving。
and observing as you consider who you might spend。
the rest of your life with.。
This is a rose.。
Today, this is how we show people that we love them,。
particularly on this day.。
What I want you to know about this rose,。
as beautiful as it is, and it's beautiful, it's dying.。
And there's nothing that you can do。
to make it stay beautiful.。
There's nothing that you can do to preserve this rose,。
to give life back into it from the moment。
that it was cut from the source, it is dying.。
And friends, if I have any message for you this evening,。
your relationships are the exact same way.。
All those Instagram photos, all those cute couples,。
if they have removed themselves。
from the source of love, those relationships are dying。
and will soon be dead.。
And really, the sooner the better,。
because all that's gonna happen between now and then。
is a lot of heartache.。
And it doesn't have to be that way.。
You can work, even now, you can begin to prepare。
the flower bed, you can begin to tend the garden,。
you can pray, ask for God's desires,。
you can relentlessly pursue purity,。
you can take out all the weeds,。
you can practice serving, putting in the work。
that I'm telling you, and anybody else who's married。
would tell you marriage is, it's work, it's a lot of work,。
it's beautiful, it's a gift, it's a blessing.。
And if you want it, I want it for you.。
But you can't just go into it like it's this novel idea。
or you will be like the 50 plus percent。
that fail miserably.。
And I hope, if you're here and you're hearing this,。
I hope you want a beautiful marriage.。
And Jesus says, I am the vine, they are the branches.。
And that if you're gonna bear fruit,。
if there's gonna be something that's beautiful,。
you must remain in him, you must stay connected。
to the source, the scripture says that God is love.。
You cannot love in the way that it was meant,。
you cannot ahava, apart from God.。
It's my prayers that you wouldn't even try.。
Let me pray for you now.。
Lord, I pray that we would never see a rose the same.。
That we would know it's just a dying expression of love.。
And that we would love to learn in a different way.。
Not just sitting and waiting and hoping to be chosen.。
But Father, preparing and working and pursuing。
and praying and practicing.。
Father, that we would seek you and that we would find you。
and that we would stay connected to the source.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
Man, I love you guys.。
I have seen preachers kind of lose it on stage,。
like lose control and like start yelling and stuff.。
Kind of like promised I'd never do that.。
Afraid I did that.。
Please forgive me, especially if that would hinder。
your view of Jesus in any way or your view of the church.。
That comes from a place of internal pain,。
not eternal pain, internal pain.。
Of the own devastation that I brought on my life。
and my wife's life through my own pursuit of pornography。
and sexual addiction.。
And I have found true freedom.。
Not that it's not a struggle today in the sense。
that I'm not tempted to click on hashtags。
or things on social media, sometimes click on a thumbnail。
like what is that, what I think it is?。
And I have certainly done that in the past 10 years.。
But in regards to pursuing pornography,。
like searching out for a naked picture, I've been free.。
I have found freedom and I say that to offer you hope.。
That you would have hope in that.。
And I've talked about this enough to know。
that what's gonna happen tomorrow。
is I'm gonna get dozens of emails.。
And it reads something like this.。
Hey, my story's similar to yours and I need help.。
And I'm grateful that you'd reach out to me.。
But I'm gonna tell you now, in case that's you,。
I'm just gonna, I'm gonna tell you what I'd say.。
Then I'm gonna tell you right now.。
You need to find some believers in your life.。
You need to reach out to them.。
You need to confess in a James 5, 16 way。
the last time you looked at porn and/or masturbated.。
You need to tell them, hey, I wanna be set free from this.。
Will you please keep asking me how I'm doing?。
In fact, would you meet with me weekly。
so that we can talk through this and experience community。
and that I can find freedom?。
And would you hold me accountable to praying for myself,。
for my own victory in this struggle?。
And would you help me to remove access。
to the ways that I access that filth?。
Would you help me?。
Man, that is as working in the dirt, man.。
That is pulling out the weeds.。
That's bringing in the organic soil, the good stuff.。
And so that you might see something beautiful bloom forth.。
And do not leave this place overridden by guilt.。
Guilt is from the enemy.。
Guilt is Satan's language.。
Christ has set you free.。
He's paid for it.。
God does not see a debt he paid for.。
He does not see a debt he paid for.。
You can be free from debt and the penalty of sin。
and one day the presence of sin in his presence.。
