[MUSIC PLAYING]。
You guys good?。
Look, amazing.。
Isaiah, phenomenal job, bro.。
So, so proud of you.。
Well, guys, it's a huge honor to get。
to be back here with you guys.。
I really do love, love the porch,。
love Watermark, this church, and everything。
that God is doing here.。
So it just means a lot to get to come and spend。
some time with you guys tonight.。
And to just invite you into my world.。
A lot's changed since the last time。
we had a chance to hang out.。
If we haven't met, like I said, my name is Drew.。
I live in San Antonio.。
I live there with my wife, Jane.。
And we have a seven-year-old daughter named。
Matilda, who we call Tilly.。
And then we have a 4 and 1/2-year-old little boy。
named Lyndon, who's quite the heartthrob because。
of his little glasses.。
And then we just welcomed, like a little over a month ago,。
baby number three into our world.。
And so we have a picture of--。
yeah.。
Thank you.。
I did all the work.。
This is Penelope, or we call her Penny.。
So yeah, that's my family.。
Well, tonight, here's what I want to do.。
Before we dive into the text and we just。
look at what God wants to invite us into,。
I want to do something for you, a little bit more creative。
and kind of going back into the magic and the illusions roots.。
Because I think it'll set us up for where。
we're going to go tonight.。
So real quick back story for those of us。
that are new friends.。
For the last 20 years of my life,。
I've gotten to tour all over the world as a touring performer.。
Specifically in the world of mentalism,。
which is just the psychological side of magic and illusions.。
And so I am curious tonight-- if you have a phone with you,。
I'd love for you to take it out.。
And I want you to take a look at it.。
Open it.。
And I'm curious.。
If you had to guess-- and this is。
going to take a little bit of crowd participation--。
if you had to guess, just by looking at your phone。
and the different apps, what do you think。
is the most recognizable--。
use that word important, not most used--。
the most recognizable app worldwide?。
No matter if you're on iPhone or if you're Android.。
But just if you're glancing, what。
would you say is the most recognizable app?。
Out loud.。
Instagram?。
No.。
WhatsApp?。
Great guess.。
That's not right.。
Yeah, OK.。
We got it right here.。
Whether you believe it or not, the most recognizable app--。
man, hundreds of millions of dollars。
have gone into the design of this little bitty square--。
is the Facebook app.。
Now, here, real talk.。
Listen, I'm not saying it's the most used app.。
I'm just saying that for some reason,。
whether you have it or not, that little blue square。
with the lowercase f on all of those apps, you see it,。
and you're like, ah, you catch it.。
You see it.。
Your attention is drawn to it.。
Now, the reason that I share that with you tonight。
is because companies like Facebook and Google--。
these two specifically-- when they started,。
they said that their whole focus, their whole purpose,。
was all about connection.。
It was about connecting you and I to ideas.。
It was about connecting you and I to family or friends。
across the globe.。
But in recent years, they've openly。
admitted that their focus has completely shifted。
and that their focus is now all about influence,。
that they're trying to influence.。
That's their vision, to influence you and I,。
where our attention goes, what we click on, what we double tap,。
what we buy, and even so far, to say what you believe.。
They've admitted this.。
Now, so here's what I want to show you.。
I want to pull back the curtain tonight。
and use this kind of as a segue before we get into the text.。
And I want to show you how this works, OK?。
So like I said, I'm going to expose all of it,。
but I'm going to need somebody that would be。
willing to help me out up here, OK?。
So here's what we're going to do.。
We'll get somebody up close.。
Sir, tell me your name.。
Yeah, yeah.。
What's your name?。
What's up?。
What's your name?。
Wesley.。
Wesley, would you join me up on stage?。
Would you guys give Wesley a huge round of applause?。
Yes.。
Come on up, bro.。
Wesley, tell us a little bit about you.。
Where are you in life?。
I'm about to be in paramedic school.。
About to be in paramedic school.。
Yes.。
I'm a volunteer firefighter.。
Volunteer firefighter.。
Hey, thank you so much for how you serve the city.。
It means a lot.。
And man, I'm just grateful for you, OK?。
Wesley, tell me any hobbies, anything that you do for fun.。
I like to play guitar.。
You're a guitar player.。
Of course you are, OK?。
Love it.。
You sing as well.。
Yes, sir.。
OK.。
Are you single?。
Yes.。
Yes, OK.。
Got to ask.。
Everybody was thinking it.。
Everybody was thinking it.。
Wesley, we got this.。
We got this.。
We can do it.。
We're going to be together.。
Sorry.。
That was not fair.。
I didn't mean to put you on the spot.。
But OK.。
You and I, we're going to work together, OK?。
Pull out your phone.。
And I want you to open it up.。
And I want you to go to Safari and open up a new tab, OK?。
And tell me when you got an open one.。
Got it?。
OK.。
Now, here's what we're going to do.。
We're going to go to--。
we're going to go to a really popular website, OK?。
At least I'm assuming it is, OK?。
But this website, are you familiar with it?。
It looks like Google.。
Yes.。
The kids call it the Google, OK?。
Here's what we're going to do.。
In a moment, Wesley, what I want you to do。
is I'm going to try to influence you, OK?。
But what I want you to do is--。
one thing that I'm not able to influence is your history.。
And I'm not talking about this.。
I'm talking about your past, your story.。
So here's what I want you to do.。
I want you to think about--。
I want you to think about someone who's special to you,。
OK?。
That there's absolutely no way that I could know this person,。
OK?。
Like, I couldn't get on your Instagram or TikTok and go,。
oh, OK, obviously, this is who Wesley would pick.。
There's no way that I could know this person.。
Just tell me when you got somebody in mind.。
You got someone?。
OK.。
Here's what I want you to do.。
Wait, do I have to know him personally?。
Yeah, yeah, someone special to you.。
Not just like in your imagination.。
Like, yes, you know him.。
You got someone.。
OK.。
Oh, my gosh.。
I felt like that kind of was implied, right?。
Here's what I want you to do.。
OK, Wesley, what I want you to do。
is I want you to type in their first name.。
Don't say it out loud.。
Just type it in.。
Don't hit search.。
Don't hit search.。
And tell me when it's there.。
Look here at me once you got it in there.。
OK?。
Look here.。
Here's what I want you to do.。
Just use your creative imagination.。
If, if tonight you were to put search--。
don't do it-- but if you were, with just that first name,。
would there be famous people that would pop up,。
like celebrities or other people that share this name?。
Yes or no?。
Yes.。
OK.。
Let's move to what's a little bit more common.。
OK, that's all I need to know.。
We're going to switch it up.。
Here's where I'm going to influence you.。
Look right here, Wesley.。
Look right here.。
I'm going to try to influence you.。
What I want you to do is I want you。
to think about this special person.。
I want you to think about somewhere。
that you would go on vacation, maybe a holiday with them.。
OK?。
Don't say it.。
Just want you to think there.。
Got it?。
It could be anywhere in the world.。
It could be a city.。
It could be a country.。
It could be a location.。
It's your choice.。
OK?。
Got one?。
Yep.。
Here's what I want you to do.。
I want you to delete the name.。
And I want you to type this location there.。
OK?。
Hit search.。
Then look here at me.。
Once it's popped up-- is it popped up?。
I want you to go to the Image tab.。
OK?。
And I want you to scroll.。
And don't touch anything, but I just。
want you to kind of look at any one of those images.。
I want you to make this as vivid as you possibly can.。
You got it?。
Oh, yeah.。
You got it?。
Hold it close.。
Hold it close.。
Hold it close to you.。
Hold it close to you.。
Hold it close to you.。
Take a step forward here.。
Tonight, this has been all about influence.。
I've been trying to influence where--。
hold it close-- where Wesley was going to land.。
OK?。
Location.。
You can pick anywhere you wanted to.。
Now, tonight, to make this interesting,。
I'm going to invite all of you to help me influence him.。
If you still have your phone out, I want you to grab it.。
And here's what we're going to do tonight.。
We're going to put a QR code.。
And this is going to be, I think, very impressive.。
Oh, getting a call.。
I want you to go to this QR code.。
OK?。
And we'll get it here.。
Perfect.。
And once it's-- once it--。
try to slide over the way.。
OK?。
Got it?。
And once-- perfect.。
Once you've got it, you should have something pop up.。
It should look like this.。
OK?。
Once you've got it, I want you to hold it up really high,。
facing Wesley.。
OK?。
This is going to feel like a little bit like a Taylor Swift。
concert.。
I love it.。
I love it.。
OK.。
Hold it here.。
Here's what's going to happen.。
In a moment, you're going to keep your phone facing you。
and I. Feel free to look back like this,。
but keep it facing this direction.。
If-- once again, the QR code, you're welcome.。
If you're watching online and it's live,。
you can do this from anywhere in the world.。
OK?。
But here's what we're going to try to do.。
I just want you to look at these hearts.。
So we do this together.。
We're going to try to not just influence you earlier,。
but we'll try to influence everyone in this room.。
Here we go.。
Just like this, your phones start to shift.。
Some of you are shifting just like this.。
Starting to see each one of the phones shift.。
Some of them are a little bit delayed.。
It's OK.。
All of a sudden, now there's letters.。
Think about location.。
Think about the location.。
Don't say it out loud.。
See the letters here?。
See the letters here?。
You're going to start to see them come together just。
like that.。
What?。
And it spells the word Florida.。
Come here, come here, come here, come here.。
Be honest.。
You could have thought of any place in the world,。
any country, any location.。
Be honest.。
Say it out loud.。
What did you think of?。
Florida.。
Florida.。
If you guys would, give him a huge round of applause.。
But wait, wait, wait.。
Keep your phones, keep your phones, keep your phones.。
This is crazy.。
This is crazy.。
You're not going to believe me.。
And many of you are like, ah, well,。
maybe this was just technology and somehow you。
could influence your phones.。
Check this out.。
Before we started tonight to make sure this was concrete。
and that it was before any of this started,。
on my Instagram, inside of the bio, I put one thing.。
Each one of you have access to that right now.。
Take a look.。
But before we started, if you could read this out loud,。
Wesley, starting here, what's it say?。
Tonight at the porch, I will meet。
a person who would be influenced to think of Florida.。
Be honest with me, Wesley.。
We have not taught beforehand.。
We didn't preset.。
No one walked up to you, told you。
this was completely in the moment.。
What about 10 minutes ago when you--。
10 minutes ago.。
Got jokes.。
It's my show, Wesley.。
You just smile and play your part.。
I'm just kidding.。
But here's the deal.。
This is truly-- we did not have anything planned.。
Influence.。
Now, here's what's really important.。
I'm going to pull back the curtain tonight。
to show you how this works.。
Really was, there was no plan.。
There's no conversation or talk.。
But here's what I've known.。
From the moment that he gets up, and I。
start to assess different parts about him.。
Certain details of his information.。
That lets me know how I'm going to steer the story.。
Me telling him to think of someone special.。
Someone close to him.。
Kind of leads him in a certain direction.。
It leads him into a place that he would probably more likely。
want to vacation with someone to create memories.。
Shared experience.。
What I could guess pretty quickly from you。
is you probably thought of a close friend.。
So very easy than just navigating.。
With posture, stuff like this.。
But I'm going to pull it back even more.。
There are lots of different layers with psychology.。
But I want you to show this.。
Remember earlier tonight, that I made a really big deal。
of talking about Facebook.。
And I made a big deal that you recognize Facebook.。
And so are you even on Facebook?。
Yeah.。
You are.。
OK, cool.。
You and my grandma.。
And so, but here's where this is crazy.。
Come here Wesley, come here.。
I want you to be able to see this tonight.。
And maybe we'll get this camera right here.。
I took my phone.。
And before we started, I rearranged all of my apps.。
And what we don't realize is that when。
we focus on one thing, we're influenced by all。
the information surrounding it.。
And I'm going to do this real slow.。
I don't know if you'll be able to kind of--。
but if you get close, you can see that this first part here,。
it spells the word you.。
You see that Wesley?。
Underneath it, it says will.。
It says think.。
It says of.。
And it says Florida right there.。
And it was there the entire time.。
If you guys would give Wesley a huge round of applause。
so you can have a seat, bro.。
Well done.。
Ta-da.。
Cool, cool, cool.。
Now that's how we do influence.。
But wait, pause real quick, just out of curiosity.。
Wesley, you thought of someone that there's no way possible。
that I could know.。
If you would, I want you to imagine just--。
when was the last time you saw this person?。
Yesterday.。
Yesterday.。
I want you to imagine that yesterday in this meeting,。
that all of a sudden, you both walk into the same space,。
into the same room, and that you see each other,。
and you go in for a greeting.。
And the moment that you shake each other's hands,。
the name pops into your mind.。
Does that make sense to you?。
If you would, I want you to come here real quick.。
And I want you to imagine that all of a sudden,。
you reach here just like this.。
And when we touch, I want you just to think about the name.。
Are you ready?。
Here we go.。
Carson.。
If you guys would, one more time, give it up for Wesley.。
[APPLAUSE]。
Oh, my gosh.。
OK, that was-- here's the point.。
Why do all of this?。
Well, I want to take us somewhere.。
And there's a purpose, and there's a reason.。
And here's the reason tonight.。
Because I wanted to take a second。
to illustrate the point that I think。
is going to drive the next few moments that we have together.。
And here, I'm going to go and just kind of share it with you.。
Here's kind of one of the points.。
That I believe with all of my heart。
that we live in a world that is constantly。
trying to influence you and myself towards discontentment.。
That we live in a world that's trying to constantly influence。
you and I towards discontentment.。
We know that.。
We live in a world of influence.。
And when we say the word influence,。
it's easy to think of things like influencers,。
or the growing popularity of brands, algorithms,。
social media trends, targeted ads that somehow know exactly。
what you were thinking of earlier today.。
It's like right now, it's crazy.。
I can whisper into my iPhone, new shoes.。
And Instagram's like, say less.。
Like, we got you covered.。
It's wild.。
But it's influence is deeper than marketing.。
Influence is about discipleship.。
It's about formation.。
It's about shaping our desires.。
And every single day, whether you or I realize it or not,。
there are messages that are coming。
from every single area and every single angle telling you。
and I what it thinks should matter to you and I,。
what you should want, what you're missing,。
what would finally make you happy.。
And underneath so much of this messaging is this.。
You need more.。
You're missing something.。
Life is not enough yet.。
And right now, that's the sermon that the world just。
keeps preaching to you and I over and over.。
And if we're not careful, what I'm seeing in our culture。
is that many of us are slowly being discipled into more。
and more discontentment.。
That many of us in this space that we've。
started living with this low-grade ache in our soul。
that just thinks, if I just had, if I just could get there,。
if I was just in a different season, if my life looked。
a little bit more like theirs, then maybe I'd be OK.。
Then I'd be settled.。
Maybe then I'd be content.。
And I don't think that I'm alone in this.。
And so tonight, what I want to do。
is I just want to look and maybe ask this question,。
does the Bible have anything to say about this condition?。
So if you have a copy of your scripture, and I hope you do,。
I would love for you to turn with me to Philippians 4.。
Philippians 4.。
As you turn there, I know that you guys。
have been in a sermon series walking。
through the book of Genesis.。
And Kylan, last week, did an amazing job.。
I told him this over man coffee this afternoon.。
I thought, man, was such--。
I mean, the way he faithfully handled the text,。
I was so, so proud of you.。
You unpacked in teaching, you and like all of us,。
like that testing that leads to a greater trust in God.。
And just as a side note, I love that you。
shared that huge, formative, slightly embarrassing moment。
in your journey, and that I got to be there that night。
at breakaway when all that happened.。
So when he says that it felt like it。
was a couple of seconds, I mean, it was maybe like 30 seconds,。
which on stage, it might as well have been like 15 minutes.。
It was a lot of seconds.。
It was a lot of seconds.。
But God has used that to form you,。
and I love you so much, you and Brooke,。
and grateful for your leadership.。
And yeah, phenomenal job.。
I just want to tell you in front of all of your people, amazing.。
But what I want to do tonight is what。
he started in Genesis chapter 2, talking about this testing。
leads to trust.。
I want to talk about the other side of the coin,。
the other side of trust, and what that is, it's contentment.。
And here's the one thing, I'm going。
to go ahead and give you just the focus tonight.。
So if you only remember one thing,。
if you leave the porch and somebody's like, hey,。
what was the teaching about?。
If you say this one thing, everybody's。
going to be like, oh, you got it.。
You nailed it.。
So I'll go ahead and give it to you right out of the bag.。
But the focus, that contentment is not。
found in better circumstances, but rather in a deeper。
closeness to Christ.。
I'll say this again, and I'm just。
going to say it over and over again,。
and I pray and hope that you and I would start。
to believe this towards the end.。
That contentment is not found in better circumstances,。
it is found in a deeper closeness to Christ.。
And that's what the Apostle Paul is。
going to try to show us in Philippians chapter 4,。
starting in verse 10.。
This is what it says.。
Paul says, "I rejoiced in the Lord greatly,。
because once again you renewed your care for me.。
You were in fact concerned about me,。
but lacked the opportunity to show it.。
And I don't say this out of need,。
for I have learned to be content in whatever circumstances。
I find myself.。
I know both how to make do with little,。
and I know how to make do with a lot,。
in any and all circumstances."。
I love this.。
"I have learned the secret of being content,。
whether well-fed or hungry, whether in abundance。
or in need."。
Verse 13.。
"I am able to do all things through Him who strengthens me."。
And then skip down to verse 19.。
He ends it with this, "And my God will supply all your needs。
according to His riches in glory in Christ Jesus."。
Tonight, here's what I want to focus on.。
If you're going to give the message a title,。
it's just "The Lie of More."。
Because I think one of the greatest threats。
to our contentment as we journey through life。
is the lie that more is what you and I need,。
that we need more.。
We need more attention.。
We need more money.。
We need more romance, more success, more freedom,。
more control.。
But Paul is leaning in tonight and speaking to you and I,。
and he says, "I've learned that in whatever situation。
that I'm in, that I can be content."。
In other words, I'm learning something deeper than more.。
I'm learning something deeper than more.。
So if you're taking notes tonight,。
here's point number one, that the world in which we live。
is shaping us, whether you believe this or not,。
towards discontentment.。
That's like the default setting of our culture.。
And if you don't believe me, let me just give you。
a couple of examples.。
And I want to start here before we do,。
because I believe that many of us。
underestimate how this is actually shaping our day to day.。
For example, ads, commercials, Instagram sponsored,。
like whatever, like all of those.。
One of the core messages in every single one of them。
is having to sow seeds of discontentment in your heart。
for it to work.。
The ad does not work if you're not discontent.。
And so ads are not selling you products,。
they're selling you a vision for the good life.。
They're not selling you shoes, they're。
selling you significance.。
They're not selling you skin care,。
they're selling you confidence.。
They're not selling you a vacation,。
they're selling you an escape.。
Now listen, I'm not anti-ads, I'm not anti-marketing,。
I don't think it's all evil.。
I'm just saying that almost every commercial and all。
of advertising that the number one principle in play。
is feeding off of your discontentment,。
awakening the sense of lack in you.。
And that there's this gap between where you are。
and where you should be.。
Or maybe there's a gap between what you have。
and what you need, or a gap between who you are。
and who you could be.。
And this is important, and I don't want you to miss this.。
If we're not careful that you and I,。
we start using that same exact logic in our relationship。
with God.。
We start assuming that if God was really good,。
then life would look different than it does now.。
If God was really kind, then that door。
would have opened by now.。
If God was really faithful, I wouldn't feel so behind。
in life.。
And I want you to hear me.。
The desires of your heart are rarely the problem.。
It's not wrong to want to be married.。
It's not wrong to want more meaningful work.。
It's not wrong for you to want a healing,。
or do you want more friendships?。
A lot of those are good desires.。
The problem is when desire slowly becomes distrust.。
When your desires slowly become distrust,。
then what we want starts rewriting。
what we believe about God.。
When our longings start to turn into quiet resentments。
toward God, or maybe when it's that ache that。
starts to whisper to our heart, maybe, just maybe,。
God's holding out on you, that He's forgotten you.。
He's missed you.。
He doesn't care.。
And don't miss this.。
That's not a new lie.。
It's a very, very old lie.。
If you just want to go back to page 3 of the scripture。
in Genesis, the enemy's strategy in the garden。
is not just rebellion.。
It was discontentment.。
That's where it started, that he plants suspicion。
in the hearts of Adam and Eve.。
Did God really say this?。
Can God really be trusted?。
Is He really good?。
God's holding out on you.。
It's the same lie.。
And suddenly, Adam and Eve, surrounded。
by the goodness of God, start fixating on the one thing。
in their life that they're missing.。
And I want you to watch this.。
That's the pattern of discontentment in our hearts,。
that we go blind to the thousands of yeses。
that God has given us.。
Adam and Eve, thousands of yeses, thousands of trees。
to pick from the garden, thousands of ways。
to be satisfied and complete and content.。
And the enemy shows up and goes, but let's focus on the one。
no.。
Let's focus on the one thing that you。
feel like you're missing, so that you miss out on the life。
that God is offering.。
And that's why this is so dangerous.。
This isn't just a pep talk.。
This discontentment has the ability to completely erode.。
Your joy and your relationship with Christ.。
It takes a life full of grace, and it turns it。
into a list of what's missing.。
And here we are, thousands of years later,。
and that ancient lie just has better branding now.。
It now comes with filters and sponsored content.。
It comes with a comparison that fits in your pocket,。
and it comes with an algorithm that knows exactly where。
you're most vulnerable.。
And it keeps preaching the same sermon.。
You need more.。
You're missing out.。
You should be further now.。
And Paul, in verse 11, what he says。
is he says, I've learned in whatever situation that I'm in,。
I am to be content.。
Which here's the good news.。
This means that contentment is possible even in a world that。
profits off your restlessness.。
So that leads us to the main focus of this message。
and point number two, and here it is.。
Contentment is learned in Christ.。
So yes, we see that we live in a world that's naturally。
pushing us towards discontentment.。
But here Paul's going to tell us that contentment is learned。
in Christ.。
And I love that.。
I love that word learned.。
Because watch this.。
Paul does not say that I was born content.。
I was born content.。
No, and he doesn't say that the moment that I met Jesus,。
that I stopped struggling with contentment.。
No.。
He doesn't say that contentment came easy for him.。
He says, I learned it.。
I learned it.。
And that means contentment usually--。
don't miss it-- doesn't come naturally.。
It's not our default setting.。
It's formed.。
It's forged.。
It's fought for.。
But that's actually really good news, Porch.。
Because if it can be learned, then it can be taught.。
It can be grasped.。
It's something within our reach.。
And it means that contentment's not just for the spiritual。
superheroes.。
Contentment's not reserved for monks or missionaries。
or people who journal with cool calligraphy pens.。
It means that contentment can be learned by normal people。
like you and I.。
And Paul says, he says, I know how to make do with a little.。
I know how to make do with a lot.。
What he's saying is this.。
He says, hey, on all sides of the spectrum, I've lived.。
Like, I know what it's like to live in a pithouse.。
And I also know what it's like to sleep on prison floors.。
I know what it's like to be able to buy all of my friends。
a meal at a nice restaurant.。
But I also know what it's like to live off ramen noodles.。
Like, I know what it's like to live with open doors.。
And I know what it's like to live in prison cells.。
I know what it's like to have experienced ease.。
And I know what it's like to experience suffering.。
And somewhere in the middle of all of that,。
I learned a secret.。
And that secret is contentment in Christ.。
That's where it's found.。
Which, what I hope, is that tonight there。
would be some part of you that would。
want to lean in to the invitation。
that the Apostle Paul is extending to you and I.。
To go, Paul, if that's true, I need to know.。
Paul, if that's legit, I need you to show me how this works.。
Before we do that, I want to just highlight a few things。
that contentment is not.。
And the first is this, that contentment is not comfort.。
Contentment is not comfort.。
Paul is writing this letter to his friends。
that are part of the family of God while he's in prison.。
He's saying, I've learned the secret。
of what it means to be content.。
And he's content while being shackled in a prison cell.。
So he's not at a beach.。
He's not in a cabin in the mountains.。
He's not on some season where everything's finally。
working in his favor.。
He's in chains.。
So therefore, contentment cannot mean ease.。
It cannot mean convenience.。
It can't mean the absence of pain.。
Which means contentment is-- watch this-- not pretending。
like life doesn't hurt.。
Like your contentment is not pretending or putting。
on a show for everyone around you。
that life is just hunky dory.。
It's not faking a smile through disappointment.。
It's not spiritual denial.。
It's not saying everything's fine when everything。
is very much not fine.。
And I think, listen, just as a sidebar,。
I don't know how many of you guys are single.。
I was single until I was 30.。
And I remember one of the number one bit of advice。
that I would hear in the church world towards single people。
was it was some form of this.。
It was like, hey, as soon as you get content,。
as soon as you get content, God's。
going to bring you a spouse.。
And so what it created in our church--。
probably not here at the porch.。
I don't know.。
But at our church, it was just a bunch of single people。
walking around just going, God, I'm so content.。
Where is she?。
Where is she?。
And so it just caused a bunch of us。
to pretend, to put on a show, and act。
like we weren't really affected.。
And I don't know if you find yourself。
in that performative nature, but that's not contentment.。
Contentment is not pretending you don't feel the ache.。
It is the settled confidence that Christ is enough。
in the middle of the ache.。
Second, contentment is not complacency.。
I think that a huge fear for many of us。
is that we think that the moment that we get content where。
we are currently in our life, that moment。
that we get content, God's just going to leave us there.。
And one, that's just not who God is.。
So contentment does not mean that you。
stop wanting good things.。
It doesn't mean that you don't stop praying。
or that you stop growing.。
You can listen.。
Hear me.。
You can still want marriage and be content in singleness.。
It's a radical idea.。
And listen, tonight, I'm about to just free some of you.。
Two things can be true--。
that you can still pray for a healing。
while being content in weakness.。
That you can still pursue growth and be。
content with where you are.。
Contentment is not the death of your desires.。
It's surrendering the demand that life。
must happen on your timeline in order for God to be good.。
Contentment is surrendering the demand。
that life must happen on your timeline in order for God。
to be good.。
The third thing that contentment is not。
is that it's not circumstantial.。
And this one is massive.。
And so I'm just going to speak from my heart tonight.。
But Paul is illustrating through this scripture here.。
He's saying that my circumstances--。
that there are things around me.。
There are the things that are changing around me.。
But my contentment is not built on what surrounds me.。
It's built on who sustains me.。
And I want you to hear this.。
That's a massive difference, that our contentment is found。
in who holds us, not in the circumstance that surround us.。
Because if your peace, if your contentment,。
is built on your circumstances, then all of it will be fragile.。
Because jobs change.。
People leave.。
Money fluctuates.。
Bodies break down.。
Doors close.。
Dreams get delayed.。
If your contentment is built on things that move,。
then your soul will move with them.。
So let me say it this way.。
Contentment is not a condition around you.。
It's a condition within you.。
And I know that this may seem very obvious,。
but I want to explain it this way.。
And I love you enough to tell you this.。
That right now, if you step into this room,。
and if you were to be honest with me--。
and I know church is not really a place to be honest.。
It's where we pretend.。
But just let's break that wall and just。
pretend that we're going to be honest with each other.。
And I would ask you, how are you doing?。
And tonight, if you were to be honest and be。
like, yeah, I feel I'm discontent。
in this stage of my life, whatever it may be.。
I thought that I'd be married by now.。
I thought maybe I'd have kids by now.。
And I feel discontent with this.。
And I love you enough to tell you this.。
And you're not going to believe me,。
but I'm going to try my best anyway.。
That right now, if you are discontent。
with your singleness, I will promise you。
that you will carry every bit of that discontentment。
into your marriage.。
And then all of that discontentment。
will follow you into your parenting.。
If you're discontent in your job right now,。
it will follow you to your next job.。
And maybe now more than ever, we have built up。
a generation that is constantly discontent with every situation。
and we just find ourselves chasing thing after thing。
to find out that discontentment's。
at the bottom of all of it.。
Because watch this, discontentment is not。
about your circumstance.。
You're not discontent because you're single.。
You're not discontent because of the job that you have.。
Discontentment is a heart condition。
that's been a part of the human journey since page 3.。
And it's found its way all the way to 2026.。
So I know that it's hard to believe because every one of you。
are like, Drew, no.。
The moment that I get married, it'll be gone.。
And can I just say this as a way of illustration?。
If you're in this space and you know Jesus,。
like you have a relationship with him, like you would say,。
yes, Drew, I know him.。
I love him.。
I'm not just like playing the game, like actually know him.。
Then let me kind of just explain it this way.。
You are already in a relationship.。
And if that relationship does not satisfy you,。
what makes you think that some broken woman or some broken man。
will somehow be able to do what Jesus can't do in your life?。
You're already in a relationship.。
So what you're saying is, no, no, no.。
Like what I need is I need more relationships.。
Then I would be happy.。
I need more money.。
Then I'd be happy.。
I need more.。
I need more.。
I need more of all the things that already don't satisfy me.。
And if I get more of those things,。
then somehow I think that maybe they'll satisfy me.。
And it doesn't work.。
And it's a lie that plugs us into the matrix。
and just lets us live with the illusion.。
Isn't that the big meme right now?。
It's like the big joke is that all of adulting。
is just saying, it's a season until you die.。
That's our culture's way of kind of like poking to the matrix.。
And it's like, ah, I think we just say,。
I'm discontent until I die.。
And contentment is--。
it's not about your circumstances.。
It's about your heart.。
And that's why Paul, he shifts the gears.。
And he's going to go.。
This is where he's going to go next.。
And so in verse 13, he says, "I can do all things through Him。
who strengthens me."。
Now pause.。
This is one of the most quoted and most misunderstood verses。
in the entire scripture.。
We put it on coffee mugs.。
Athletes ride it on their tennis shoes.。
People quote it before big job interviews, or CrossFit。
workouts, or leg day.。
Now listen, I'm not mad about it.。
I'm just saying that's not what Paul is talking about.。
Paul is not saying that Jesus helps me crush my goals.。
All of this, Philippians 4, 13, "I。
can do all things through Christ who strengthens me."。
All of that is built around the context。
or in the context of contentment.。
He's saying, listen, I can endure the lack of all things。
through Christ because He's what sustains me.。
I can endure abundance and overflow through Christ。
because He holds my heart, not my circumstances.。
I can walk through disappointment through Christ.。
I can suffer through Christ.。
I remain steady no matter what happens around me。
through Christ.。
Paul is not saying that Jesus makes me impressive.。
Paul is saying that Jesus makes me steady.。
And I think that's what some of us。
need tonight because I think a lot of us。
are asking Jesus to make us impressive,。
make me more successful, make me more visible,。
make me more admired, make me more accomplished.。
And Jesus is saying, I'm not trying to make you impressive.。
I'm trying to make you anchored.。
I'm trying to make you rooted.。
I'm trying to make you steady because a steady soul in Christ。
is worth more than a spectacular life without Him.。
And Jesus is inviting you and I into something so much bigger。
than just a fancy life with more.。
He's inviting us into a world that。
is steady no matter what storm comes our way,。
no matter what circumstances are thrown, that you and I will。
be able to go, no, I'm content.。
That I'm trusting God with what He's doing right now.。
Because a steady soul, like I said, is more spectacular.。
Paul says the secret is not self-sufficiency.。
It's Christ-sufficiency.。
That Christ in me gives me strength。
for what life is doing around me.。
That when the outside world is unstable,。
I can have stability on the inside because Jesus is near.。
So I just want to kind of land the plane tonight.。
And I want to ask you this.。
What are you asking circumstances。
to do that only Christ can do for you?。
What are you asking a relationship to do for you。
that only Christ can do for you?。
What are you asking a paycheck to do。
that only Christ can do for you, a future to do for you?。
Because if you put ultimate weight on temporary things,。
hear me, they will crush you.。
They'll crush you.。
Because only Jesus can hold the weight of your soul.。
The secret's not more.。
The secret is Christ.。
And so there's a lot more that I would。
love to share with you tonight.。
But I just kind of want to wrap it up with this.。
In my 20-year journey with Jesus,。
it has been only in the last maybe three years。
that I've started to actually really lean into this.。
Because listen, I'm giving you a cautionary tale.。
I can say with confidence that I carried my discontentment。
into my marriage because I was discontent with my singleness.。
I can tell you that that's been my story。
for a majority of my life.。
And even as a pastor, it has only。
been in the last two or three years。
that I've kind of come to this place。
where I'm starting to realize that Paul's words are true.。
And here's why.。
Because this thing with Jesus, it's not like a relationship.。
It is a relationship.。
And that subtle difference has started to make。
a huge change in my own heart.。
As I've started to realize that this relationship with Jesus,。
that's not a metaphor.。
That's not an analogy that we try。
to help us make sense of this big spiritual cosmos.。
No, no, it's not like a relationship.。
It is a relationship.。
That Jesus is inviting you and I into intimacy with him,。
to walk with him, to wrestle with him,。
to share the things that we're really going through.。
To go, God, listen, I really, really desire a new job.。
Or I really desire to be married.。
Or I thought that I'd have kids by now.。
But I trust you.。
I trust you.。
Because of the heart behind all of our discontentment。
is distrust.。
That, God, I think you're holding out on me.。
That every bit of your discontentment。
with where you are in the journey right now。
exposes that underneath what's really going on,。
you go, God, you missed me.。
I don't think you're actually good.。
I don't know if you love me.。
And I think the secret is in verse 9, 19.。
When Paul says this, he says, "My God."。
He says, "My God will supply all your needs."。
There's intimacy there.。
There's this familiarity there.。
Paul's not just talking about a distant deity.。
He says, "My God can be trusted."。
And my God's a really good father.。
I think I shared this story with Watermark not too long ago,。
but I think it's worth repeating.。
My daughter Tilly is just--。
I mean, she really is just a magical little human,。
seven-year-old.。
And she just has this ability to see people.。
And if you were to come over to our house in San Antonio。
and hang out with her, maybe play, like, Barbies,。
or she just, like, is constantly looking for, like, your needs.。
And so she might see that you're hungry.。
She's like, "Ah, I got fruit snacks."。
She'll just give them to you.。
But if you spend the afternoon playing,。
and you're going to leave our house,。
and we give you the goodbyes, and you walk out,。
and Tilly noticed that you had a really good time。
playing with her, she'll run up to you,。
and she'll give you one of her Barbies.。
And it's happened enough to where。
we've had this conversation.。
We have to pull Tilly aside.。
I'm like, "Hey, sissy, like, give all the fruit snacks。
you want away.。
Those are super cheap.。
But Barbies are expensive, so let's hold on to those, OK?"。
And true story, Tilly's response was, "Dad,。
you can always buy me more."。
Which I thought was cute, until I felt like the Lord just。
shared this with me.。
As broken and as sinful as I am, my daughter。
is growing up in a home where she。
knows that she has a daddy that loves her and sees her.。
And not for one minute has ever let her go without.。
And that she can live a life of contentment。
with Barbies, without Barbies.。
Why?。
Because daddy's always going to take care of me tonight.。
Is that the God that you know or claim to know?。
Because what Paul's inviting you and I into。
is that we have a daddy who loves us, who sees us.。
There's never, ever been a moment in your life。
that he's missed you, that you've gone without,。
that he hasn't wanted to take care of you,。
and that he gives good gifts in his timing.。
And if we don't have it now, it may be his loving kindness。
that says, "You're just not ready."。
Or, "I want to use this season for something else."。
I know I've been using the example of singleness a lot,。
but I think sometimes it's the most applicable.。
Why?。
Because listen, many of you, that's the season。
that you're walking in.。
That's the season that you find the most discontentment。
in your heart.。
And God may be going, "This is a season like no other season。
before or after where you'll get to love me, and serve me,。
and do my will like it is right now."。
When you get married, it's going to be a little bit different.。
But tonight, we can go on so many adventures together.。
May you not wish that away.。
May you trust that whatever season you're in right now,。
he sees you, he knows you, he cares,。
he's not leaving you there.。
But it will take trust.。
And it won't always be easy, but he's good,。
and he's always been good.。
So Jesus, tonight I pray that we fill that invitation.。
For our lives to be completely centered around you,。
and not the circumstances in our world,。
or not the things that we hope would shift or change.。
But Jesus, that you, that we would see you as the treasure。
that you promise that you are.。
That we would, we'd find so much contentment in your presence.。
Not because we're pretending, just because we're close to you。
and it's real and it's true.。
So Jesus, tonight, just open our eyes.。
And to see you, to be captured by you.。
Father, I feel so limited tonight.。
And so I'm just asking you to do what only you can do.。
And speak to your people, invite us into more,。
more of you, and more of your presence.。
And may tonight we leave forever changed.。
Not because of anything that was mentioned from this stage,。
but because you spoke.。
We love you.。
