(drum roll)。
- We need to all pray for Eminem's salvation.。
How awesome would that be?。
To do as a believer, sick.。
In 2009, Chris Brown faced felony charges.。
The reason he did is he was at the very height of his career.。
It was the night before the Grammys.。
He's on a date, or out with his girlfriend。
but he's also at the height of her career.。
In fact, Ryan Seacrest said she may be the greatest artist。
that ever lived, said that about her at this time.。
She was, of course, Rihanna.。
They were in a rented Lamborghini in Beverly Hills。
and they got in a fight.。
She threw his keys out the window。
and he began to choke her, as one witness said.。
And then he began to beat her。
until she was nearly unconscious,。
which sent this picture viral over the internet.。
This is a picture of Rihanna after her fight。
with her boyfriend, Chris Brown.。
The reason that he faced felony charges.。
And what's crazy about that,。
some of you may have known that story.。
It happened a little while ago.。
What was insane about that to me。
was not just the fact that he beat her up,。
it was the fact that she then went back。
into a relationship with him after that.。
I remember watching the news and reading the articles。
and I was like, what?。
How could she get back with that monster?。
How could she get back with someone。
who would do that to her?。
Now, every sense of logic, as you watch on,。
would say, wait a minute, no, no, no, no,。
he abused you, don't go back to him.。
That's what logic would say,。
but then emotions would say, but I love him.。
And we would say, Rihanna, you're crazy, except for,。
we do the same thing.。
Logic, logic, unbiased parties would say,。
no, no, that's not, no, you shouldn't,。
you shouldn't poison yourself until you throw up.。
But emotions say, but I like having a good time.。
You ever been somewhere, you ever been hugging a toilet?。
I'll be like, I'll never drink again.。
Evidently you have.。
And then you do, right?。
Or ever been in a relationship,。
or maybe it's like logic says,。
I shouldn't have sex with a picture of a girl。
I don't know by myself.。
But emotions say, man, I need that release.。
I wanna seek that pleasure.。
There's something broken inside of us.。
We look at Rihanna and we're like,。
how could you pursue that which is going to hurt you?。
And then we look at our lives and we're like,。
oh, wait a minute.。
Why do I do the same thing?。
Why do I do what I don't wanna do?。
The good I wanna do, I don't do.。
No, it's the evil I don't wanna do.。
This I keep on doing.。
It's a little verse David covered a couple weeks ago。
when we talked about being a Christian hypocrite.。
Paul says it like this.。
For I do not do the good I wanna do,。
but the evil I do not wanna do.。
This I keep on doing.。
One republic in a song called Counting Stars。
and it goes this way.。
I feel something so right by doing the wrong thing.。
So let me ask you a question.。
What do you do that you don't wanna do?。
What are you doing in the season that you don't want to?。
What is that thing in your life that you're like,。
man, I just don't wanna do?。
I want you to think about that for a second.。
What is it for you?。
What is the thing for you?。
Is it a relationship?。
Is it spending?。
Is it sex?。
Is it porn?。
Is it drinking?。
Is it partying?。
What do you do that you don't wanna do?。
Is it a sense of jealousy?。
Man, jealousy's so dark.。
I don't like her 'cause she's pretty.。
How gross is that?。
How dark is that?。
I don't like her 'cause she's with him。
and he was mine but he wasn't really mine.。
I mean, I've never even talked to him,。
but I don't like her.。
When someone fails, you celebrate it.。
How dark is that?。
Like in your heart, not publicly,。
but in your heart, you're entertained by their failure.。
Or is it greed or materialism?。
You're like, man, maybe if I just buy this one more thing,。
it's gonna fill the void in my heart。
even though my closet full of purses。
and my closet full of jeans,。
my last car, my last apartment,。
it didn't fill that void.。
Maybe it's sex for you.。
Maybe you believe the lie one last time。
which actually feeds the monster。
so that that last time won't be that last time。
because that's the lie you keep on believing.。
One last time, I'm gonna look at that image.。
I'm gonna do that one last time.。
One more time at 2 a.m. by myself in bed.。
I'll do it one more time.。
Last time.。
I'll go back to him one more time.。
Is it discontentment,。
just wanting badly to be in another season?。
I'm just not, I just can't rely.。
I'm just not content.。
I just, I don't like my body.。
I'm discontent with my body.。
I'm discontent with the way God made me.。
I'm just not happy with it.。
I want something else.。
Is it anxiety?。
I say that I believe in God.。
I say that I'm saved by grace through faith,。
trusting God,。
but I can't really trust God。
because I'm marked by anxiety.。
I'm afraid that he's gonna give me what is not good.。
(congregation mumbling)。
Is it just loving the party?。
Weekend warrior, man, can't wait 'til Friday.。
Just can't wait.。
Go back out there.。
It's when I feel alive in the club, JP, in the bar.。
That's when I'm alive, running up that bar tab.。
That's what it is.。
Or maybe it's not just drinking.。
Maybe it's getting high for you or whatever that is.。
Love not feeling normal.。
Maybe it's returning to old relationships like Rihanna.。
Going back to that, what you know was not God honoring,。
and you think, well, maybe this time it is.。
Maybe he changed.。
Maybe she changed.。
Maybe she's different.。
What are you doing that you don't wanna do?。
And the question that I seek to answer tonight is why?。
From the scripture.。
See, the monster that Rihanna felt victim to。
is not Chris Brown.。
The monster that Rihanna felt victim to。
was, she appropriately says today, within her.。
It was something within her that she followed,。
and it's the same monster you and I follow today.。
It's the same monster Paul regrets following。
thousands of years ago.。
It's the same monster that has marked humanity。
since the garden, and it's not Satan.。
It's something within us, and so today we're talking。
about the monster that kills from within.。
As we move through a series called Lyrics and Lies,。
we're looking at the message that music that we listen to。
tells us what is the truth from that message,。
what is the lie from that message,。
and what is the theological truth that we can pursue。
in the scriptures, in God's words,。
around the message that that song kinda touches on.。
And so the song today is The Monster by Eminem。
featuring Rihanna, where she just says,。
I'm friends with the monster that's under my bed.。
Get along with the voices inside of my head.。
You're trying to save me, stop holding your breath,。
and you think I'm crazy, yeah, you think I'm crazy.。
And so what I hope to do this evening is,。
one, I wanna define the monster.。
What is this monster that Rihanna's singing about?。
And two, I hope to define how we can be saved。
from this monster through the scriptures.。
Why is it that we've trusted in Christ,。
but we keep on sinning, and then before we leave here。
this evening, how do we kill the monster?。
How do we put to death the monster?。
How do we stop doing that which we don't wanna do?。
I'll be in Romans 7 and 8, as Shane said,。
to set this up, Romans was written in around 57 AD.。
It was written to new Gentile and Jewish believers。
in the city of Rome.。
They were gathering their new in their faith,。
and they have all these questions that Paul,。
the apostle Paul, is trying to answer.。
Like, why do I sin?。
And like, if Christ saved me from sin,。
what does it look like that Christ saved me from sin,。
but I keep on sinning?。
I mean, I'm supposed to be a new creation,。
but I don't really feel like a new creation。
'cause I'm falling into the same things。
that I did before I was a new creation.。
That feels like an old creation.。
And so they have these questions,。
and Paul's attempting to answer these questions。
through some very theological-heavy texts,。
Romans 7 and 8.。
And so we'll start right after that scripture。
that David touched on.。
He says this in verse 20, in 7, verse 20.。
Now, if I do what I do not wanna do,。
it is no longer I who do it,。
but it is the sin living in me that does it.。
Underline that, sin living in me that does it.。
So I find this law at work,。
and when you see law there, it's a principle.。
So I see this principle at work.。
Although I want to do good, evil is right there with me.。
For in my inner being, I delight in God's law,。
God's rules, God's instructions.。
But I see another principle at work in me,。
waging war against the law of my mind.。
Rihanna says, I get along with the voices inside my head.。
Paul says, hey, there's a war waging in my mind。
and making me a prisoner of the law of sin。
at work within me.。
Again, underline within me.。
And so my first question this evening is,。
who is the monster?。
And verse 20 and verse 22 says,。
it is the sin living in me.。
Verse 22 says, the sin at work within me。
that I've become a prisoner to.。
Okay, some other terms that you might have heard。
this labeled as your flesh.。
That's just my flesh, man.。
Your sinful nature.。
I have a sinful nature.。
Do I still have a sinful nature after Christ?。
You have a sinful nature.。
There is a natural predisposition to humans to sin。
or original sin.。
You have something in you that desires to seek。
that which is not good for you.。
And so stop blaming Satan.。
Satan plays a role, but it's not that role.。
His job's not that hard.。
It is your own natural desires that cause you to sin.。
It says in the scripture over and over.。
And everyone has had this monster inside of them.。
Spurgeon says it like this,。
beware of no man more than of yourself.。
We carry our worst enemies within us.。
This has been in everyone since the garden.。
Worst of all my foes, I fear the enemy within,。
John Wesley says, to men of faith from the past.。
And so as you think, well no,。
but it's Satan that makes me sin.。
No, no, no, no.。
Satan only presents to you that which you already want.。
Okay, let me, Satan and the world and your sinful nature,。
these are three forces that work against you this evening.。
Okay, there's this desire within you that wants something.。
There's the world that presents to you what you want。
and then Satan speaks lies to you.。
Yeah, you can get away with it.。
God says, God wants to rip you off.。
God wants to withhold good for you.。
That's why he says he doesn't want you in that relationship.。
Is it really what God says?。
I would go ahead and get in that relationship.。
Let me, it's confusing, so let me say it again.。
You have a desire within.。
The world presents that desire to you。
and Satan says, yeah, go ahead.。
But what causes you to sin?。
It is your desire, the desire within you.。
James 1, verse 14 says, but each person is tempted。
when they are dragged away by their own evil desire。
and enticed.。
And so Satan, he presents to us what we naturally want,。
be it sex or thrills or the party or pleasure.。
But here's the problem.。
A lot of those things are not bad things.。
Sex, for example, it's not, like God invented sex.。
I told you that over and over throughout the years.。
Sex was God's idea.。
He created the parts.。
He made them work the way that they do.。
It's his brilliant creation, his invention.。
It's a good thing.。
No one is more pro-sex than God,。
but he says, hey, there's a way to it.。
And so you have this desire within you。
that you think, mistakenly, that that desire is for sex.。
It's not.。
It's for intimacy.。
It's for real love.。
It is to give yourself to someone.。
But what happens is you start to pursue shortcuts.。
You turn that act into just an act of pleasure.。
And when you begin to pursue those shortcuts,。
all of the sudden, now listen, this is the important part,。
all of the sudden, you can no longer enjoy that thing。
that God gifted to us the way that he intended.。
Listen, let me say it again.。
There's sex as God intended in marriage。
between a man and a woman, committed to each other for life.。
And we say, hey, I wanna experience that before that。
or in some other way.。
So we start to experience that and pursue that.。
We begin to feed that monster and that monster grows,。
and then all of the sudden, that's not available to us.。
You know why?。
Because now we don't want love and intimacy.。
We want sex.。
We want pleasure.。
We want release.。
And that's different than love and intimacy.。
In fact, we don't even know how to have love and intimacy。
because we've become addicted to the monster within。
that which is just sex.。
Do you see that?。
God loves you.。
He's not trying to withhold something from you.。
He's trying to give you something greater,。
something better than what you think it is that you want.。
And so you want sex.。
The world says, hey, there's all kinds of sex.。
You can have any kind of sex you want.。
Satan says, yeah, you should have sex.。
But it all started with you want sex.。
Now, maybe that's not what you want,。
and so insert your sin struggle, right?。
Maybe it's like, no, I don't want sex.。
I want a purse.。
Okay, I want Tory Burch, all right?。
And so you're like, I know what it is.。
No, it matches my shoes.。
It's gonna be awesome.。
And this is gonna be the ultimate end all, be all.。
I just want this.。
And then all of a sudden you open your closet。
and you realize it's full of purses。
that didn't fill that void.。
But this one Tory Burch, this is gonna be the deal.。
This is gonna be the game changer.。
And it won't be.。
And you just feed that monster.。
It's like, okay, it's the party.。
Dude, I just love just kind of, man, just getting loose,。
just feeling relaxed.。
Couple shots of Patron.。
Then a couple shots of Patron don't do it anymore.。
I need something out of a little Xanax.。
Maybe a line or two.。
I need something more.。
I gotta fill that void more.。
And you're chasing that thing.。
And God says, no, man.。
You have never felt the goodness。
of being in an intimate relationship with me.。
It's greater than Coke.。
It's greater than Patron.。
It's greater than a couple tabs.。
It's greater than anything you could pursue in the world.。
I'm literally out of the world.。
This is what he's telling us here.。
But once you partake your desires for that perversion grows。
and you feed that perversion and the perversion grows。
and you get stuck in this cycle。
and sexual perversions or any kind of sinful perversions。
are real and they grow when they're fed.。
That's the lie of one last time.。
When you feed it one more time, it gets bigger.。
So the next time it's actually more difficult。
to abstain from that.。
Whether it's being addicted to cocaine。
or addicted to negative attention from men.。
It could be any of that thing.。
I want attention from guys and I realize。
when I wear my shirt low, they give me attention.。
And so I'll just wear it lower and lower.。
And then all of a sudden I'm doing something。
that I promised I never would do.。
Because I'm an addict of attention from men.。
I fed the monster.。
And so what can we do?。
Where's the hope?。
We carry our worst enemies within us, Spurgeon said.。
So what is it that we need to do。
if we become friends with the monster?。
Eminem actually knows the answer.。
He articulates it very well.。
Let me give it to you.。
I think it went wandering off down yonder。
and stumbled onto Jeff Van Vonderen.。
Does anybody know who that is, Jeff Van Vonderen?。
He's the host of the reality show on A&E, The Intervention.。
Eminem's a genius.。
And I stumbled onto Jeff Van Vonderen。
'cause I need an interventionist。
to intervene between me and this monster。
and save me from myself and all this conflict。
'cause the very thing that I love's killing me。
and I can't conquer it.。
My OCD's conking me in the head, keep knocking.。
Nobody's home, I'm sleepwalking.。
I'm just relaying what the voice in my head's saying,。
don't shoot the messenger.。
I'm just friends with the monster that's under my bed.。
Get along with the voices inside of my head.。
Did you just hear Eminem preach the gospel?。
(congregation laughing)。
He just said,。
there's me and the monster,。
which we've defined is our sin, the sin within us.。
Paul says it's the sin within us.。
He says there's me and there's the sin within us。
and I need someone to go between。
and fight this battle for me.。
I need someone to intervene for me.。
Who will save me?。
Paul says this, Romans 7, verse 24.。
What a wretched man am I.。
Who will rescue me from this body that is subject to death?。
Thanks be to God。
who delivers me through Jesus Christ our Lord.。
He's the interventionist you're looking for, Eminem.。
Romans 8, 1, the next chapter says,。
therefore there is now no condemnation。
for those who are in Christ Jesus。
because through Christ Jesus the law。
or the principle of the spirit who gives life。
has set you free from the law of sin and death.。
For what the law was powerless to do。
because it was weakened by the flesh,。
this is what this means,。
is that the law can't save me because I can't keep it.。
See, if I could keep the law perfectly,。
then the law could save me,。
but the law is these instructions from God。
I can't keep, therefore it can't save me.。
It was weakened by what?。
My own sinful desire.。
My own sinful desire made it to where the law。
couldn't save me because I couldn't keep it.。
God did, so what the law was powerless to do。
because it was weakened by the flesh,。
God did by sending his own son。
in the likeness of sinful flesh to be a sin offering.。
This is the intervention.。
And so he condemns sin in the flesh.。
In order that the righteous requirement of the law。
might be fully met in us who do not live。
according to the flesh, but according to the spirit.。
And so the second question is,。
who will save me from the monster?。
And the answer is Jesus Christ.。
The answer is the gospel.。
The text says, Romans 8, 1,。
for there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ.。
What is that no condemnation?。
I get lost in that.。
And so in the Greek, what it literally translates is,。
there is now no punishment for sin,。
for those who are in Christ Jesus.。
Now it's talking specific, of course, eternal punishment.。
God does not punish eternally。
those who have trusted in Jesus Christ.。
There's no punishment for them.。
That's good news, guys.。
You will not be eternally punished for your sin。
because Jesus was punished in your place for your sin.。
Jesus paid the price for when you followed the monster.。
The times you followed the monster,。
the times you become friends with the monster。
under your bed, as Rihanna says,。
he actually has paid the price for those times,。
and he not only has paid the price,。
but he gives you something new to follow.。
He gives you something new to follow.。
Okay, so there's two things。
absolutely true about Christians.。
Every Christian in the room,。
every person here who has trusted in Christ。
for the forgiveness of their sins,。
they're gonna be with God forever.。
There's two things that are true for you.。
One, you will eternally get away with your sin.。
What I mean by that is you will not have to pay。
for your sin after death, past, present, and future sin.。
Eternally, you get away with it.。
Christians get away with it.。
Why, why do they get away with it?。
Because Christ paid for it in their place.。
It's a great exchange.。
He got what you deserve, therefore you get what he deserves,。
being a perfect God, eternity with God.。
That's good news for sure.。
Okay, the second thing that's true for Christians,。
now listen to this part.。
So first thing that's true。
is eternally you get away with sin.。
Second thing that's true。
is you will never get away with sinning。
because the Spirit of God is going to pursue you。
and chase you and convict you。
and tell you it's wrong.。
First thing, you eternally get away with sin.。
The second thing that's true, eventually,。
at some point, now or in the future,。
the Spirit of God is gonna taunt you down。
in the most loving way he can and say, "Hey, that's wrong.。
"I've been telling you that's wrong.。
"You just have not been listening to me.。
"You've been listening to the voices in your head.。
"You've gotten along with a monster that's under your bed."。
And so Jesus did not just give his life for you,。
he gave his life to you.。
Let me say that again.。
Jesus did not just give his life for you,。
he gave his life to you in the form of the Holy Spirit.。
And this Holy Spirit, this is our other interventionist.。
It's the same one as Jesus,。
but now it's Jesus' Spirit who stays with us。
and shows us the way.。
God's Spirit is with you.。
If you're a believer in the room,。
God's Spirit lives with you and directs your path.。
The world has always been trying to show and display。
this reality, this theological reality that exists。
in the world that it has created.。
Atheists have tried to understand this.。
Buddhism tries to give an understanding of this.。
Hinduism tries to give an understanding of this.。
The Islamic faith, Jewish faith,。
all faiths that exist out there try to explain。
this reality of good and evil.。
I'll give you another example.。
When I was 18, well, when I was 16 years old,。
there was a brand called Mossimo.。
Anybody heard of Mossimo?。
It was the real deal when I was 16.。
And so Mossimo had this angel and this devil on the shirt.。
You guys remember this?。
There was an angel and devil.。
I desperately wanted to get that angel tattoo, okay?。
That was a dream that came true on my 18th birthday.。
I got it right here.。
I got the Mossimo angel right here.。
Now, it wasn't just the Mossimo angel, though.。
There was a Mossimo angel and a Mossimo devil.。
Okay, I lost some of you on Mossimo.。
And then what happened is then Target bought the brand。
and it became the most uncool tattoo anybody could have.。
And so I've got it.。
(congregation laughing)。
Sad day.。
I'll go Disney with you for a minute.。
Goofy.。
There's this cartoon.。
It keeps playing in my head.。
And it's like where Goofy has the opportunity。
to do something bad.。
And this angel pops up and this devil pops up.。
And the angel says, "No, you can't do it."。
And the devil says, "No, you can.。
"Go ahead, it's no big deal."。
And what he ends up doing, and he sits there。
and you see this kind of, this trial.。
And he ends up knocking off the angel。
and then becoming friends with the monster.。
And he says, "Let's go, partake."。
And then later on, he puts the monster in a cage。
and the angel and they go and do good together.。
This is how the world has portrayed this.。
Except for that breaks down, that's dualism.。
It's not a devil and an angel.。
It's a devil or a demon.。
It's actually, it's not even that, I'm sorry.。
That's terrible theology.。
It's your flesh, your own desires,。
and the God, the creator of the heavens and the earth。
who formed you in your mother's womb,。
who made even Satan.。
Who made all things.。
The most powerful thing that you could ever think of.。
He invented power.。
All power is his, he's sovereign.。
It's not dualism, it's not good and evil at war。
and who's gonna win.。
It's evil and then it's God.。
That's good news, okay?。
And God wins.。
We've read the back of the book.。
We know how this goes.。
God wins, okay?。
And so, but the reality is, is some of you like Goofy,。
and I know that's Goofy,。
but some of you like Goofy have said,。
"Hey, God, I just wanna be friends。
"with the monster for a little while."。
I had someone tell me today,。
"You know, I don't really feel bad。
"about what I do on the weekends."。
To which I said, "As lovingly as I possibly could,。
"that should really concern you。
"because the spirit will always convict you of sin。
"and so if you're doing something。
"that the scripture has said is sinful。
"and you don't feel a conviction,。
"that in and of itself is evident。
"that the spirit of God is not at work in your life."。
And that's the most loving thing I can tell you.。
If you're sinning and there's not a conviction there,。
the spirit of God may not be at work in your life,。
meaning you may not have actually trusted in Christ。
for the forgiveness of sin。
so that the spirit of God is deposited with you。
in your life to guide and direct you。
because that is the evidence of the real believer。
that the spirit of God would direct their steps.。
Not that you don't sin, but that when you do sin,。
the spirit of God convicts you of that sin.。
When you do follow your flesh instead of the spirit,。
that you would feel a conviction there.。
And so you literally have God inside of you directing you.。
And so your course of action then。
is to tune out the monsters,。
to have a sinful desire and to listen to the spirit.。
And so what does it mean when it says。
the righteous requirement of the law。
might be fully met in us who do not live。
according to the flesh but according to the spirit?。
Here's what it means.。
It means that as you live by the spirit,。
you pursue a holy life.。
As you live and listen to the spirit,。
as you feed the spirit of God。
through the fruits of the spirit in your life,。
he is making you holy.。
He is making you like Christ.。
Christ's spirit is in the process of making you like him.。
That's called sanctification.。
Okay, so how am I sanctified, JP?。
It is simple as listening to the right voices。
and tuning out the wrong ones.。
This weekend, girls were about to start school.。
And so we kind of had one last hurrah at the pool.。
We went to the neighborhood pool.。
We're hanging out there.。
My son, he's 23 months old.。
He can't swim, and so he has to wear。
this goofy little puddle jumper.。
It's what it's called.。
It's like a big life jacket.。
And so he has to put that on before he gets in the water。
so that he can just kind of float around and chill.。
And we hadn't put it on him yet.。
And we set him down.。
We're kind of unpacking the bags.。
And he's running.。
And so this pool is like full of people.。
And so just picture like 100 people at a pool.。
And so he's kind of, he begins actually slowly walking。
towards the side of the pool.。
He sees the water, and then he kind of increases his step,。
to which I responded kind of poorly.。
And I just go, "Weston, stop!"。
I'm there with the community guy,。
and he's like, "Whoa, dude."。
And so what it looked like, it literally looked like。
if you're watching a DVD and someone pushed pause.。
I mean, the entire 100 people at the pool。
just stopped what they're doing and looked at me.。
I mean, there were kids in the air just frozen。
looking at me.。
(congregation laughing)。
And so they looked at me, and except for,。
there was one thing moving, little Weston.。
He kind of looked, and he's like,。
"No, I don't think so," right?。
And so here's what's happening.。
Is Weston going to listen to his desires, he wants to swim,。
or is he going to listen to a father who loves him。
and doesn't want him to die?。
I mean, that's, and it's funny, it's funny, okay?。
But it's the same thing that you're in the middle of。
right now.。
Are you going to listen to that,。
what you really, really, really, really, really, really want。
called your desire?。
Are you going to listen to a father who loves you,。
sees the future and the past, and doesn't want you to die?。
He loves you, he's for you.。
But I really, really, really, really love him.。
I know you do, and I really, really, really, really,。
really love you.。
And I have paid a price so that you don't have to follow。
what you really, really, really, really, really want to do.。
That you can follow something else,。
my spirit inside of you.。
My spirit that lives with you.。
Paul says, verse five,。
those who live according to the flesh, i.e. the monster,。
have their minds set on what the flesh desires.。
But those who live in accordance with the spirit。
have their minds set on what the spirit desires.。
The mind governed by the flesh is death,。
but the mind governed by the spirit is life and peace.。
Jump to verse 12, he's going to say that same idea again.。
And then in verse 12 he says,。
therefore, brothers and sisters,。
therefore, believers, therefore, porch,。
therefore, watermark, therefore, the village,。
IBC, Christians, the saints, we have an obligation.。
But it is not to the flesh to live according to it,。
for if you live according to the flesh, you will die.。
But if you live by the spirit,。
you put to death the misdeeds of the body.。
You will live, you will find life.。
And so my third question is simply this,。
tonight, who are you going to listen to?。
Who will you listen to?。
It says when you feed your flesh,。
your mind is set on what it desires.。
Tell me this isn't true.。
Tell me this isn't true.。
Tell me you don't look at pornography,。
go to work and think about pornography.。
Tell me you don't get drunk。
and then can't wait to get drunk again.。
Tell me you don't meet some dude。
who you know is not good for you,。
but you can't change your mind.。
You just keep thinking about him.。
Tell me when you feed the flesh,。
your mind is not stuck on that which you fed your flesh.。
Paul said it thousands of years ago.。
This is what's going to happen to you.。
When you feed it, it's gonna spin around.。
You're going to listen to the voices inside your head.。
Rihanna says.。
But when you live by the Spirit,。
your desires are conformed to what the Spirit desires.。
Do you see why we say read your Bible?。
Because it's the word of God.。
God's words, God's voice become familiar to you.。
I hear you, I see your commands, I see your desires.。
God, I have a greater understanding of who you are.。
I'm listening, God.。
It's not just to check the box.。
It's not a punishment.。
Hey, you better read a chapter of Romans today.。
No, no, it's like God, I want to know you,。
who you are and what you desire for me.。
God, I want to hear you.。
You've got to speak louder to me。
than the monster inside my head.。
This is why we pray.。
God, I want to hear you.。
This is why you're in community,。
because God speaks to you through people。
who are yielded to his Spirit in your life.。
Friends, I really want to date her.。
And they're like, no, but she's no good for you.。
I don't know, this thing inside me says she is good for me,。
but we're telling you, yielded to the Spirit of God,。
that she's not.。
But it seems like she is.。
I know, but she's not.。
Right?。
This is what's going on.。
This is what's happening.。
And so the world's, what happens when you have。
the Spirit of God inside of you,。
the world's ways become difficult.。
It actually becomes more difficult to sin.。
You can still sin, but you desire to follow God.。
There's something else in you at war within you。
when you have the Holy Spirit saying,。
hey, no, sin is not bad.。
I'm not talking about your conscience now.。
I'm talking about the Holy Spirit.。
Some of you have mistaken your conscience。
for the Holy Spirit.。
Those are two different things.。
I'm not just talking about your natural conscience,。
which exists as evidence that there is a God creator.。
I'm talking about his Spirit within you。
making you like Jesus.。
And so you may still desire to sin,。
but there's something competing with that desire.。
It says we have an obligation to live by the Spirit.。
What does that mean, we have an obligation?。
Think about it like this.。
If I've paid for you to go somewhere,。
I purchased your ticket, you have an obligation to go。
because it's been paid for, but you still have a choice.。
Do you see that?。
So Jesus has said, I have paid for you。
so that you no longer have to follow the monster,。
but you still have a choice.。
I have paid the price so that you don't have to,。
but you do still have an option.。
See, the non-believer, the non-Christian in the room,。
you don't have an option.。
You only follow the monster.。
You have no Spirit to follow.。
That's why non-believers, when they sin,。
that should never surprise you.。
They're just fulfilling their job description.。
Sinners should sin.。
Non-believers, those who do not know Christ,。
non-Christians, they should sin.。
It's the only thing that their flesh can do is sin.。
But for the believers, Christ says,。
no, I have given you an obligation not to sin.。
I have paid the price so that you don't have to sin.。
I purchased your ticket, but you still have a choice.。
And so believers now have a choice。
as His Spirit finishes His work within us.。
And He says this, verse 13,。
"But if by the Spirit you put to death。
"the misdeeds of the body, you will live."。
And so the command there is live by the Spirit,。
put to death the deeds of the flesh.。
And so how do you put to death the deeds of the flesh?。
You kill the monster.。
How do you kill the monster?。
Stop listening to Him.。
Stop feeding Him with deeds.。
Stop listening to Him.。
Stop obeying Him.。
Stop being His prisoner.。
Stop being His friend, as Rihanna would say.。
Stop listening to Him.。
There's a movie that I love called "A Beautiful Mind."。
I don't know if you've seen it.。
If you haven't, heads up, I'm about to ruin it, okay?。
And you may wanna see it, so close your ears or something.。
At the end of "A Beautiful Mind,"。
the movie's about this man who's brilliant,。
but he's also schizophrenic.。
What that means is he actually sees this other guy。
who talks to him and tells him to do bad things.。
And so he sees the dude and the guy's no good for him,。
and the guy convinces him to do things that are not good,。
things that appear crazy to other people,。
'cause they were.。
And so at the end of this,。
and he takes medication for schizophrenia,。
but the medication has other side effects in his life。
that he decides the medication's not worth it,。
the side effects are not worth the medication.。
And so what he has to do is he has to learn。
not to listen to the guy who he still sees。
and tells him to do things.。
And so at the end of the movie,。
you see him, Russell Crowe, and he's there,。
and the guy is there, the guy who the whole movie's。
been telling him to do things,。
and the guy is there, and Russell Crowe sees him,。
and then he asks someone else,。
he goes, "Let me ask you a question, sir.。
"Do you see a man over there in the corner?"。
To which the guy says, "No."。
And he goes, "I didn't think so."。
And he moves on.。
And so what he does is he's never healed of schizophrenia,。
he just stops listening to the voice in his head.。
He says, "It's still there, I'm just,"。
he just stops trusting his feelings and his emotions.。
That's the same thing for us, right?。
Like some of us, we have these strong feelings and emotions。
that surpass logic, he beats me, but I love him.。
Okay, that hurts me, but I want to.。
That's not good for me, but I really, really,。
really, really want to.。
And we just stop trusting our emotions and feelings,。
and we begin to trust the Spirit as he conforms。
our emotions and feelings to what he desires。
as he makes us like Jesus.。
That's what we're doing.。
And so you stop listening to the monster,。
you start listening to the Spirit.。
And so what does this look like?。
Let me try to make this more even practical.。
My two little girls, every now and then,。
they're afraid of monsters.。
And so what this looks like is I'll be in bed,。
usually sound asleep, and I'll hear, "Daddy!。
"Daddy!"。
And they will not stop until I get up.。
And so I eventually get up, and I go in the room,。
and it's like, "I'm afraid!"。
What are you afraid of?。
"That thing, it's a monster!"。
I'm like, "Okay, what do I do?"。
I turn on the light, like, "It's not a monster,。
"it's a towel hanging on the door."。
You see, it's not a monster, it's just a towel.。
And so I turn on the light, and I show them。
that it's not a monster, and then I sit down on their bed,。
and it works like, it looks like this every single time。
this happens, about once a week.。
I say, "Hey, listen, there are no monsters.。
"They're demons."。
No, that scared them.。
(congregation laughing)。
I did that.。
Truth be told, I did do that once,。
and then I realized that was not wise.。
(congregation laughing)。
She didn't sleep for weeks.。
But no, no, just let me reel you back real quick.。
I say, I turn on the lights, I expose it,。
and then I tell the truth.。
And so when you have a strong feeling or emotion,。
you expose it.。
Hey, friends, I just wanna tell you,。
I really, really wanna buy that purse.。
Hey, I just wanna tell you, I really, really,。
really wanna date that girl.。
I really wanna date that boy.。
I really, really wanna go out this weekend.。
Man, I just feel like getting wasted this weekend.。
Yeah, I really, really wanna do that.。
You turn on the light, you expose it,。
and you won't want to.。
Like, I just wanna give you a heads up,。
you won't want to do that.。
Satan will be right there like,。
hey, you don't need to expose it.。
You don't need to tell them.。
You don't need to say that.。
Hey, justify, justify, justify, justify.。
Rationalize, rationalize, rationalize, rationalize.。
And you say, hey, guys, I wanna tell you right now,。
I really wanna do that.。
Right?。
And so you turn on the light,。
and then you pursue the truth.。
What is the truth?。
What does God want for me?。
That's better than that.。
And that's how you kill monsters.。
You turn on the light, you expose them,。
and you pursue the truth.。
You listen to the Spirit.。
And so here's the truth.。
As a believer, you have the truth inside you.。
You're learning to listen to it.。
And Spurgeon again says,。
"Beware of no man more than of yourself.。
"We carry our worst enemies within us."。
And so in summary,。
the monster within us is our sinful nature.。
But Christ saves us from the consequences。
of following the monster,。
and gives us his Spirit to follow instead.。
For Christians, those who have trusted in Christ,。
for the forgiveness of their sins.。
And we put to death this monster by not listening to him,。
but rather listening to God's Holy Spirit within us.。
And so in closing, I read this,。
and I just thought I'd read it to you.。
It's a old Native American tale。
about a Cherokee Indian talking to his grandson.。
He says this.。
An old Cherokee is teaching his grandson about life.。
"A fight is going on within me," he said to the boy.。
"It is a terrible fight, and it is between two wolves.。
"One wolf is evil, he is anger, envy, sorrow, regret,。
"greed, arrogance, self-pity, guilt, resentment,。
"inferiority, lies, false pride, superiority, and ego."。
And he continued, "The other wolf is good.。
"He is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness,。
"goodness, gentleness, faithfulness,。
"self-control, benevolence, empathy, generosity,。
"truth, and compassion."。
The same fight, he said, is going on inside of you。
and inside every other person, too.。
And the grandson thought about it for a minute。
and then asked his grandfather, "Which wolf will win?"。
And the old Cherokee simply replied, "The one you feed."。
The one you feed.。
Everyone here is feeding something.。
Paul says it like this in Galatians,。
"Whoever sows to please their flesh,。
"from their flesh will reap destruction.。
"But whoever sows to please the Spirit,。
"from the Spirit will reap eternal life."。
So I'm asking you this evening,。
what are you feeding that's growing?。
Let me pray.。
Father, we can't fight the monster by ourselves.。
As you know and you see,。
we can't overcome our sinful nature without you。
and we desperately need your help。
to kill the monster within us,。
to put to death the deeds of the flesh,。
to yield to your Spirit at work within us.。
Help us to hear you, God.。
Help us to separate your voice from the rest.。
Help us to have the courage to walk in obedience.。
Thank you so much that you sent Jesus Christ。
to die for our sins, to pay the price for our sins,。
and that you overcame death on our behalf。
so that we could be with you forever, God.。
That we don't have to listen to our sinful desires anymore.。
We don't have to follow them.。
We have an obligation that is not to the flesh,。
but to your Spirit.。
Would you help us follow that obligation, God?。
You're such a good God to us.。
Thank you for the ways you lead us.。
Thank you for the ways you desire to give us life。
like a loving father desires to give life to his son.。
You desire life for us.。
We applaud not the performance, not the singing.。
We applaud that incredible truth.。
Jesus, we long to be like you.。
Some of you are here and you're like,。
man, I wanna put to death the deeds of the flesh.。
I wanna stop following that sinful nature.。
You said expose it.。
Expose it, too.。
I don't even know.。
Everybody I know in my life's doing the same things。
I'm doing and not feeling bad about it.。
We wanna help.。
Every week we say this idea about open community group,。
which means right now for men, right down this hallway,。
there's a room full of guys that say,。
hey, we'd love to get to know you and run with you。
and share Christ with you and talk more about that.。
We call that here community.。
You might have heard it small groups。
or cell groups or home groups.。
Here we call it community groups.。
You can hear more about that in that room.。
If you're a girl, you walk down this hallway,。
it's right in that room, right outside the hallway,。
there's something going on in there.。
It's the same thing for ladies.。
We're glad you're here.。
I love running with you and enjoying this series with you.。
I've been stretched by the scriptures as well.。
Super excited about this weekend.。
I do wanna invite you to pray.。
Just give you a heads up that if you didn't get in,。
that in just a few months, we'll open registration up again。
and we hope you'll join us then.。
But please do partner with us in prayer.。
We would love that.。
And for the rest of you, I can't wait to be with you。
in just a few days.。
I love you guys.。
Go in peace to love and serve the Lord.。
(congregation applauding)。
(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
