(phone ringing)。
(phone dialing)。
- You have seven unheard messages.。
- Hey, sorry I haven't texted.。
I'm just not really sure what I'm feeling right now.。
- Hey yo, Danny!。
Where are you at, bro?。
I'll see you soon, all right?。
- Hey, so I have moved on,。
but I feel like the word keeps putting you back。
on my heart for a reason.。
So please call me back.。
- Hey, bro, hey, I know you're going through it right now,。
but listen, I found another girl at the farmer's market now.。
She's not a farmer, but she is on the market, okay?。
So hit me back, love you, bro.。
- No, I'm sure this is the right number,。
but last night was a mistake.。
I was just hoping we could keep that between us.。
- Hey, just wanted to say,。
I don't think I can make it tonight.。
Yeah, I've just been thinking about us a lot lately,。
and we need to talk.。
- Well, porch, how we doing tonight?。
(congregation cheering)。
Man, I don't know, we kind of gotten used to this。
over the past couple of weeks,。
but this is special, what's happening in this room.。
Some of you are like, yeah, I like a little elbow room,。
and I haven't had any this summer, what's going on?。
And it's not just in this room,。
it's people tuning in all over the country online.。
It's our overflow that's packed out.。
Welcome to the overflow, we love you guys.。
And all of our Porch Live locations,。
shout out to Springfield, to Midland, and to Boise, Idaho,。
the land of the potatoes.。
Hey, we're so, so glad that you're here.。
Hey, if you have a Bible,。
go ahead and open your Bible to the book of Luke.。
We're gonna be in Luke chapter 22 tonight.。
Well, when my wife and I were dating,。
my wife's name is Jen, when we were dating,。
we literally, I'm not kidding with you,。
we had no conflict during the time that we dated, zero.。
And it was like concerning to us.。
We were like, man, we would ask friends and mentors,。
like, we never fight, like we just never, we've tried.。
We've tried to be like, I think that looks weird,。
and it's like, ha ha, we laugh, we just don't fight.。
And I remember one time going to a mentor in particular,。
and a mentor couple, and saying,。
hey, is it weird that we never fight?。
And they said, no, y'all will probably never fight.。
We never fight, y'all will never fight.。
And we're like, awesome, high five, this is great.。
And so we get engaged, and we get married,。
and we go on the honeymoon, and we come back,。
and it's bliss for two weeks.。
And then we start fighting,。
like conflict started in our relationship.。
And there was one morning in particular that just,。
it especially, that the conflict just really boiled up.。
And I remember my wife, she was a teacher up in Frisco,。
and I was a youth pastor out in Grapevine.。
And I remember I was supposed to go。
to a conference in Austin, and I was running late,。
and she was running late, and we're just having a fight,。
like a legitimate fight.。
And finally, she just leaves,。
kind of, she's frustrated, leaves the house,。
and I go, and I'm getting my stuff together real quick,。
and then it hits me, oh no, I don't have my phone.。
And I don't see Jen's phone.。
She took both of our phones with her to work.。
'Cause we had the same cover, and whatever,。
we've changed that.。
And she took both, and I remember,。
guys, I'm just being real with you,。
I remember in that moment thinking in my head,。
if we were dating, I would break up with her, right now.。
That's a weird feeling to have when you're married.。
And I knew, no, I made a covenant,。
like I'm in this thing, and I'm just being honest,。
I felt stuck two weeks in to my young marriage.。
And I remember, in that moment,。
I'm wallowing in the midst of my self-pity,。
I remember it felt like I heard from God,。
"Tyler, your real marriage starts right now.。
"I don't care about all those vows you said,。
"I know that was nice, it's this moment now。
"where you look at your bride, and you say,。
"Regardless of what I'm feeling, I choose you, I love you."。
And what God did in that moment is peeled back for me。
a pattern in my life.。
When things got hard in my dating relationships,。
I tended to run.。
And part of that was my personality,。
part of that was growing up in a big family, five kids,。
when things would get chaotic,。
I'd just run to my room and kind of get away.。
And now in my young marriage,。
God was forcing me to deal with me.。
Now, why do I tell you that?。
Because we're in the midst of this series。
called "We Need to Talk,"。
where we're covering some of the topics,。
the questions that you guys have asked。
about dating and relationships。
that most people don't talk about it,。
but we're talking about it here.。
And tonight we're talking about the topic in particular,。
why does this keep happening to me?。
And I'll be honest, when I heard that topic,。
we were going through all the different questions,。
when I heard it, I had some mixed feelings.。
I know many of you have asked this very question,。
looking at the horizon of your dating life and going,。
why does this keep happening to me?。
And there's one part of me that loves that question.。
Because it's forcing you to look at your situation。
dead in the face and going, what is going on?。
And looking at yourself and going,。
why do I keep ending up in these toxic relationships?。
Why do I know there's nothing but trouble for me,。
but yet that text at 1 a.m., I see it buzz,。
and all of a sudden, like a gravitational pull,。
I start reaching out, we get back together,。
I know it's destructive, but it's pulling me in.。
Why does this keep happening?。
Some of you is, why do I keep leading people on?。
Like I'm just trying to be friends,。
and then all of a sudden we're just goofing off,。
hanging out, and then I get another text,。
and it says, hey, can we go to coffee?。
And we sit down, and it's a broken heart.。
On the other side, as I go, I'm just, I'm sorry,。
I thought we were just friends.。
Some of you, it's you're stuck in sexual sin,。
and you thought you had made it through。
just to see that thing rearing its ugly head again.。
Others of you, it's that you finally found someone。
that actually is interested in you,。
and now your family and your friends。
and your community disapprove,。
and you're going, why, why?。
See, this is a good question to ask,。
but on the other side,。
if I'm just being completely honest with you,。
this question, why does this keep happening to me,。
it just reeks of victim mentality.。
Of just looking at yourself going, why me?。
It's everything's going on to me,。
and I'm concerned, honestly,。
for some of you who everybody, the world is against you,。
and why is this happening?。
And if I was sitting down at coffee with you,。
and you were bemoaning about your situation。
and your problem,。
I would start to ask some questions to diagnose this.。
What is it in your life that are some bad habits。
that you're locked into that you need to be set free from?。
So the reality is, I don't want to bait and switch you,。
but actually the topic that I'm going to cover tonight。
is why do I keep getting stuck in bad dating habits?。
How do I break free of the dating habits。
that are keeping me down?。
And that's what we're going to look at tonight.。
See, this is not a message,。
I just want to, right at the beginning,。
this is not a message for those of you。
who are in an extended season of singleness,。
you're trying to faithfully follow after God,。
this is not for you.。
This is not for those of you。
who had horrible things happen against you。
in the relationship, we've talked about those.。
This is for those who you are stuck in a cycle。
of constantly having the same thing happen,。
and it's time to turn the mirror on yourself。
and go, what am I doing that's causing this chronic pain。
to creep up in my own life?。
And some of you, I believe, you're here tonight.。
Some of you have been excited,。
it's dating series, some of you are like,。
why am I here?。
I had to park a mile away,。
I'm sitting next to somebody who stinks,。
like what is going on?。
Why am I here?。
I believe for some of you, you're here。
because God wants to speak to you tonight.。
And he needs to share some things to you。
out of his word that might hurt, but it's good.。
Let me pray, and then we're going to dig into this passage.。
Let's pray.。
Father, we come to you tonight,。
and there's an excitement, there's an energy,。
there's a passion, even as we worship,。
I'm just going, God, we want you, we want you.。
And yet the reality of our Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,。
normal life is that we are stuck in a cycle。
in our dating and relationships that God, by your spirit,。
I'm just asking you would break us out of tonight.。
So come Holy Spirit, do whatever you need to do。
to speak to us.。
We are listening to you, in Jesus' name, amen.。
All right, Luke chapter 22, we're looking at Peter's life。
as a case study of your dating life.。
And you go, what?。
Just follow me.。
Peter, if you're familiar with Peter,。
Peter, one of the disciples, who's just awesome.。
You got to love Peter,。
because Peter was a ready, fire, aim kind of person, right?。
Some of you are like this.。
You have the best intentions,。
but you're just all over the place.。
And this was Peter.。
And Peter is a fisherman at the beginning of his life.。
And Jesus comes to him, he goes, hey, you,。
come and I'll make you fishers of men.。
And Peter goes right on.。
He ditches the boat, he gets rid of the business,。
and he follows Jesus.。
You go, all right.。
And Peter, throughout his life,。
is constantly acting before he's thinking.。
And he's constantly overreacting。
to things that are happening in his life.。
And we see this on display in Luke chapter 22.。
In Luke 22, this is Jesus' last day before he dies,。
before he's arrested, before he dies on the cross.。
And Jesus has gathered up his disciples,。
and he tells them, he says, guys,。
I'm about to go to the cross, and I'm about to die.。
And Peter pipes up and he goes, oh, you might,。
but if you're dying, I'm dying with you.。
And Jesus says to Peter, just imagine this.。
He's like, yeah, you're my boy, I'm with you.。
And Jesus says, yeah, by the time the alarm,。
your alarm goes off tomorrow,。
by the time the rooster crows tomorrow,。
you'll have denied me three times.。
And Peter goes, no, no, no, there's no way.。
And then we get to the text we're looking at today.。
Look at Luke 22, go down to verse 54.。
Here, Jesus has just been arrested,。
and we're gonna see three things。
that happen in this passage that if you stick with me,。
will diagnose the issues and the problems。
that often show up in your dating life.。
Look at verse 54, start in verse 54.。
It says, "Then they seized him," this is Jesus,。
"and led him away, bringing him into the high priest house.。
"And Peter was following at a distance."。
Well, stop there.。
The first thing that we see of what Peter's doing,。
the first thing is his position.。
Peter followed Jesus, did you catch it, at a distance.。
Now, this is odd for Peter,。
because Peter was a disciple of a rabbi,。
and they used to say of disciples,。
they were covered by the dust of their rabbi.。
Peter in particular was always right by Jesus,。
just annoyingly so.。
I mean, he's that kid, just always there, just always there.。
And yet now in this particular situation,。
he's following him at a distance.。
See, at this particular moment in Peter's life,。
following Jesus came with a cost, and he knew it.。
See, he knew the closer in proximity,。
in position that I get to Jesus,。
it may cost me if people associate me with him.。
So I'm just gonna put him at an arm's length.。
Let's keep reading, look at verse 55.。
It says, "And when they had kindled a fire,"。
if you write in your Bible, circle fire, so important.。
We're gonna come back to that.。
"And when they had kindled a fire。
"in the middle of the courtyard and sat down together,。
"Peter sat down among them."。
The second thing we see is that Peter。
not only had a position away from Jesus,。
he had pressure on him to fit in.。
Peter wanted to fit in.。
It's very interesting, at the end it says,。
"Peter sat down among them."。
The last thing that Jesus had said to his disciples。
had prayed for them in the garden as he said,。
"God, I'm praying that they would be, yes, in the world,。
"but not of the world."。
And Peter's doing the opposite here.。
He's associating, going, "I just wanna fit in.。
"I don't wanna be different, I just wanna fit in."。
And let's keep reading, verse 56.。
"Then a servant girl, seeing him as he sat in the light,。
"looking closely at him, said,。
"This man was also with him," was also with Jesus.。
"But he denied it, saying, 'Woman, I do not know him.'。
"And a little later, someone else saw him and said,。
"'You are one of them.'。
"But Peter says, 'Man, I am not.'。
"And after an interval of about an hour,。
"still another insisted, saying,。
"Certainly this man was also with him,。
"for he too is a Galilean."。
Verse 60.。
"But Peter said, 'Man, I do not know。
"what you are talking about.'"。
The last part here is Peter's posture,。
and we see that he lies and he hides.。
In this particular situation, when people,。
regardless of their motive, start questioning,。
"Hey, what are you doing here?"。
Rather than being up front, Peter hides and Peter lies.。
And in Matthew's account, it says on that last lie,。
he invokes a curse on himself.。
Okay, so we're gonna stop.。
We're gonna read the rest,。
but let's just use this as a diagnosis。
of your own dating life.。
You'll see where we're going.。
Many of you, your dating life。
follows a similar pattern to this.。
So let's start with position.。
Do you follow Jesus, but only at a distance,。
like Peter here?。
Do you follow Jesus, but only with a distance?。
Rather than being covered with the dust of your rabbi,。
do you hold Jesus at an arm's length?。
Some of you are so down to be associated with Jesus,。
as long as it works to your advantage.。
So on your Instagram bio, you got that verse in there.。
You know, you can't quote it.。
You don't know what it says, but it's in there。
because it gets me the kind of rapport,。
the kind of people I wanna be associated with.。
Man, some of you, it's that,。
man, I'm down to go to church or the porch。
if it's convenient, if it works out.。
Others of you is, man, I'll pray。
before that big presentation, but push come to shove.。
When your reputation is on the line,。
then Jesus is just at an arm's length.。
If you're in a relationship。
and you're wanting it to be associated with Jesus,。
but then the other person says,。
ah, if you're into all that, I'm gonna break up with you.。
You go, ah, that's not worth it.。
Some of you, you would say, man,。
if Jesus were to change how I live my weekends。
or my mornings or my evenings, then no, it's not worth it.。
Or if being associated with Jesus。
would make me odd or weird, arm's length, arm's length.。
And oftentimes in dating relationships,。
we find this the most.。
I remember when I went on my first date with Jen, my wife,。
I had the whole thing planned out.。
I took her to dinner in Lower Greenville.。
It was amazing.。
Then we went down to coffee and we're in the coffee shop。
and we're talking to the barista。
and the barista is honest.。
And she just said, hey, I'm struggling.。
I said, how are you doing?。
She's like, to be honest, I'm just struggling.。
Like, it's been kind of a hard day.。
And I felt in my head, been following Jesus for a while.。
I felt in my head, pray for her, like out loud right now.。
I'm like, oh man, it's a busy coffee shop.。
Like I'm on this date with Jen who I don't really know.。
Like I know she's a Christian, but this is weird.。
Can I pray for you right now?。
Pause, church in the coffee shop.。
You know, but I remember thinking, all right,。
I'm gonna do it.。
And I just tell this barista, hey,。
is it cool if we pray real quick right now, 30 seconds?。
And she's like, yeah, absolutely.。
And I pray for her and then we go sit down。
and to be totally honest, I forgot about it.。
And months later, as Jen and I are talking。
and we're considering getting engaged,。
she said, you know, Tyler, that moment right there。
was the turning point for me in how I thought about you.。
Because it didn't feel like a show。
and it didn't feel like you were trying。
to do something to get me.。
It felt like it was just real and it was you.。
And I've never seen somebody do that before.。
And it made me wanna be with you.。
And it was interesting for me, that was such a wrestle.。
And then I forgot about it, but for Jen,。
it was something that set me apart.。
I'm curious for you, in that kind of situation,。
would you lean in or would you push away?。
The first thing is position.。
The second is pressure.。
Do you purely wanna fit in?。
When it comes to dating relationships,。
do you purely wanna fit in?。
Are your dating convictions set primarily。
by the environment that you're in?。
Does every person you date, you change like a chameleon。
a little bit who you are to try to woo this person,。
to try to fit in with their friend group,。
and you're constantly changing?。
Some of you, every time you date someone different,。
everything about your wardrobe, your sports teams,。
your desires, your affections, your food choices,。
your dietary restrictions change because of this person.。
And you go, man, you're a shape shifter.。
You're just constantly changing to kind of get this person.。
And some of you, it's beyond just that.。
It goes into your convictions.。
Where you walk in with a pure set of convictions。
and then that person doesn't align.。
You go, ah, okay, not a big deal.。
I'll go with what you have.。
I remember when I was a youth pastor,。
which is wild 'cause some of my youth ministry kids。
are now young adults.。
Many of you are here, which is like insane.。
But I remember when they were freshmen in high school.。
And you got some of these freshmen boys。
who they don't even know what cologne is.。
Like they've never even, they don't know what it is.。
Showers are optional.。
Clothing is like I can wear the same exact thing。
seven days in a row.。
And all of a sudden everything starts to shift.。
They're smelling good.。
They're changing their clothes.。
In fact, you can smell them walk into the building。
'cause the Axe Aroma, a body spray,。
is just following them.。
And you know that dude's got a girl.。
And he's starting to change who he is.。
And there's elements of that that are funny.。
There's elements of that that are good.。
But some of you, some of you so much of your convictions,。
of your beliefs, of the things that you would die for,。
of the things that you would worship Jesus with。
can change like that with that person.。
And you're very much like Peter here where you'll change.。
And I just wanna say, if that's you, I would be concerned.。
I would be concerned.。
Right now, all you can see is the positive of that person.。
But if you will give up your convictions that quickly,。
what else will you be willing to give up?。
And I would just caution you, make sure your eyes are open。
and you are not being manipulated.。
And you will look back months and years later。
and go, what was I thinking?。
And that goes into the third one, the posture.。
Is your relationship built on lies and on hiding?。
See, are there people in your life。
who you know love you that you're not listening to。
and you're not being upfront with?。
Because in reality,。
you don't wanna know what they have to say.。
Some of you, there are people in your life。
who are looking at your relationship。
and they're trying to give you advice,。
but all you wanna hear is, we're for you, we're for you.。
You don't wanna know the truth.。
And so you begin to push them away.。
And I would be careful.。
If this is what you're doing in your relationship,。
you're digging yourself into a hole。
and you're not heeding the wisdom。
that Proverbs 11, 14 says,。
where there is no wisdom, a people falls,。
but in an abundance of counselors, there is safety.。
Rather than heeding that proverb,。
you're becoming a proverb.。
Proverb 18, verse one says,。
"Whoever isolates himself, seeks his own desire,。
he breaks out against all sound judgment."。
If you're constantly sneaking around,。
if you're constantly keeping secrets。
from those who love you the most,。
living in the dark, you are not really living.。
If your mantra in your relationship is,。
man, it's us against the world,。
you're not living a fairy tale,。
you're living a nightmare.。
That's where you're living.。
I remember as I look back on my dating relationships,。
there were a number of relationships in my life。
where as I look back,。
my family and those around were not for it.。
And it wasn't so much because of the other person.。
It was really, they were looking at us together。
and they're going, "God, Tyler, it just doesn't make sense."。
And it's funny, you know, as they would do that,。
every time I'd have that conversation,。
I'd be so excited, like, "Hey, what do you think?"。
And they'd be like, "Man, I'm not sure."。
I would get so offended.。
I'd get so offended, like, "How dare you?。
How dare you think I, this is what my heart wants。
and you're against me?"。
And I'd start hearing those lies in my head, like,。
"Well, if they're not for me in this,。
then are they for me in anything?"。
And I'd start pushing them away.。
And I'd start looking for people。
who would affirm my relationship.。
And so all of a sudden I got new friend groups started。
with new community who are for me。
because I'm pushing away the people who are going,。
"Tyler, I'm just trying to tell you good advice.。
And I can tell you in hindsight,。
100% of the time, that was a mistake, 100%."。
Instead, the way, what Kylan's talked about。
is to win somebody who you know loves you,。
goes, "Hey, I'm concerned."。
Coming to them and not being defensive,。
but being curious and saying, "Can you tell me?。
Can you tell me more?。
What is it that you're concerned about?。
What is it that doesn't make sense to you?"。
And leaning into that.。
See, everything was different when I dated my wife, Jen.。
See, right from the beginning, Jen and I,。
we wanted our relationship to be in public.。
We wanted our families in at the very beginning。
and we didn't want them to give us fluff.。
We wanted them to give us the truth.。
Our families didn't live nearby.。
We were in Dallas.。
They lived in Oklahoma and in Tennessee.。
But within the first three months, we had visited both.。
'Cause we're like, "We just want you to see.。
We want you to be all aware."。
And I remember taking the drive to Tennessee。
and hanging with my parents。
and they're giving me like behind her back.。
They're like, "She's great."。
You know, and I'm like, "Cool."。
And we go out to dinner.。
I didn't know if I was gonna share this,。
but it was just so funny.。
We go to dinner and we're three months。
into this relationship and I'm just,。
they're just getting to know her.。
And my dad goes, "So what's your timeline on marriage?"。
You know, I was like, "Dad, it's been three months.。
Like we haven't talked about this."。
And Jen's like, "What?"。
You know, but my family was just going,。
"Hey, we've seen it and we're in."。
And I'm just telling you, there's something so life-giving。
to being like, "Oh, community knows us.。
They're aware, they're speaking into our life。
and they're for us."。
Not just in our family, but in the way。
that we spent time together.。
Jen and I just decided right from the beginning.。
She was a teacher, I was a youth pastor.。
We were like, "We don't wanna live in such a way。
where as we date, if we spend time together,。
you know, one night and then we see one of our students。
the next day and they go, 'Hey, I saw you last night,'。
that we'd have that sinking feeling of like,。
"Oh no, what did you see?"。
So we just decided, this is radical to some of you.。
We decided in our dating relationship,。
we will never be alone.。
We will never be alone.。
And even when we said it, we're like,。
"I don't know how this is gonna work.。
'Cause like, what if we're hanging。
and then your roommates leave?"。
But we're like, "We're just never gonna be alone."。
And you know what it did?。
As we took all of that potential hiding,。
potential like alone time, and we just were in public a lot.。
We were intentional dates.。
It forced us to be creative rather than just to go,。
"Hey, you wanna go watch a show?。
You wanna go to your apartment?"。
And we just hang and then find ourselves in a situation。
where Netflix and chill just happens.。
And we just said, "That's off the table.。
It's not happening."。
And I can just tell you here on this stage,。
no regrets, zero regrets.。
Because Jen and I just said,。
"We're not living with lies。
and we're not living in hiding.。
We're gonna be radical."。
And yet in doing that, we believe God's way is better.。
We believe it's better.。
Proverbs 14, verse 12 says that,。
"There is a way that seems right to a man,。
but in the end is the way of death."。
I'm just curious for you,。
as you diagnose your dating relationships,。
do you go, "Man, there's a way that feels right.。
There's a relationship I'm trying to make happen.。
My community isn't for it.。
We're doing some things that I've got some bad feelings。
about, but I enjoy this person.。
I enjoy being with them."。
And yet God goes, "There's a way that seems right,。
but the end is the way of death."。
So diagnose, how is your position?。
What is the pressure that's on you?。
And what is your posture right now?。
And we just wanna keep,。
let's keep looking at the story with Peter。
of what happens next.。
So Peter is in the midst of this moment。
where his position, his posture, all of these things,。
the pressure is on him.。
And then let's pick it up in the second half of verse 60.。
It says, "And immediately, while he was still speaking,。
the rooster crowed.。
And the Lord," this is Jesus,。
"turns and looked at Peter.。
And Peter remembered the saying of the Lord,。
how he had said to him, 'Before the rooster crows today,。
you will deny me three times.'。
And he went out and wept bitterly."。
The rooster, the very thing Jesus said would happen,。
happened here.。
And I've been thinking,。
what was so big about the rooster crowing?。
Some of you, you've been in church, you know this story.。
What was so big with Peter,。
with that rooster crowing that made him go,。
"Okay, I think I'm good, I'm good, I'm good,"。
to all of a sudden he's weeping bitterly.。
And it's because when that rooster crowed,。
the eyes of his heart were open。
and he realized what he had been doing.。
And I've just been praying leading up to tonight。
that for some of you, the rooster would crow tonight.。
For some of you in the midst of the sexual sin。
that you're living in, the relationship that is not healthy,。
the way that you treat people that leads them on,。
the way you're pushing out community,。
that all that tonight, the rooster would crow.。
And some of you, it's not just tonight,。
it's the season that you've been in。
where the rooster has been crowing,。
where the eyes have been open and you've wept those tears.。
We sing the songs, we have the energy, the excitement,。
and yet relationships, I remember talking to people。
as a youth pastor in college ministry。
and nothing causes more pain。
than a relationship gone wrong.。
And some of you have been there.。
And so I wanna spend the end of our time。
looking at two things that happens。
from this moment on in Peter's life.。
This could have been the end of Peter's story, and it's not.。
It is not the end.。
There's two things that happen that Jesus does。
that makes the reputation of Peter completely different.。
If you have your Bible,。
just flip a little bit over to John chapter 21.。
John chapter 21.。
The first thing that happens in Peter's life,。
remember the last scene that we've seen of Peter。
is the rooster crowed, Jesus looks at him,。
he's filled with what feels like condemnation,。
he hits the ground, he's weeping, I'm undone.。
And the next thing that we see is John chapter 21.。
Now in John chapter 21, Jesus has already died,。
he rises again, and notice what Peter's doing.。
Look at John chapter 21, verse three.。
It says, "Then Simon Peter said to them,"。
he's talking to the other disciples,。
and he says, "I am going fishing."。
And he said, "Then they said to him, 'We will go with you.'。
And they went out and they got into the boat,。
and that night they caught nothing."。
This is interesting, Peter, after this moment,。
he thinks to himself and he goes,。
"Man, I'm just gonna go back to doing the thing。
that I know I'm good at.。
I tried the whole apostle gig, that didn't work out,。
and so I'm going back to fishing."。
I was thinking, this is some of you。
where you tried doing dating God's way,。
you tried doing it right, and yet that failed miserably,。
you get broken up with, your heart is in pieces,。
and you go, "You know what, I'm just not good enough,。
I'm just gonna go back to what I know,。
because that's all that I'm good for,。
that's all that I got."。
From there, they still, they catch nothing,。
he goes back to what he's good at, he still catches nothing.。
Then look down in verse seven,。
then it says, "The disciple who Jesus loved," that's John,。
"Therefore said to Peter, 'It's the Lord.'"。
So Jesus, as they're out there, they're catching nothing,。
Jesus comes up, tells them to throw the net。
on the other side, and John sees it, he says,。
"It is the Lord."。
When Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord,。
he put on his outer garment, for he was stripped for work,。
and he threw himself into the sea.。
I just love this, Peter's out there,。
he's hanging with the boys, he's got his shirt off,。
son's out, guns out, he's just out there,。
just living life, right?。
And he realizes it's Jesus,。
and then he puts on his clothes and jumps into the water,。
I don't know who does that, that's our boy Peter,。
he jumps into the water, and he swims,。
and he goes onto the beach, and we see Jesus is there,。
look down in verse nine.。
"And when they got out on land,。
they saw a charcoal fire in place,。
with fish laid out on it, and bread.。
And Jesus said to them, 'Bring some of the fish。
that you have just caught.'"。
Peter hears Jesus is on the shore,。
he swims over there, he gets up,。
and he sees a haunting image.。
So remember I told you earlier to circle where it said fire,。
in John's account of this story,。
the fire that Peter was sitting around。
when he had denied Jesus was a charcoal fire,。
that's what it says in John chapter 18, very specific.。
And a charcoal fire was not just some normal fire,。
back in their day it was very expensive,。
and it was very rare to have a charcoal fire.。
And yet Jesus very intentionally,。
there on the beach has a charcoal fire going,。
and you know Peter, he's just gone through this,。
he sees that fire and he goes, "Oh man,。
here comes the I told you so speech."。
I mean, he's got the prop, he's got the moment,。
you've been fishing, give me some of your fish,。
look at this fire, and I told you,。
I told you that toxic relationship。
was gonna lead to your downfall, I told you.。
I told you if you took the filters off your phone,。
you were gonna end up right in the same place, I told you.。
I told you that if you went away from the advice。
of your family and your community, this was gonna happen.。
I told you, and what does Jesus do?。
This is wild, what does Jesus do?。
Look at verse 15.。
When they had finished breakfast,。
Jesus said to Simon Peter, he takes him aside,。
"Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these?"。
He said to him, "Yes, Lord, you know that I love you."。
He said to him, "Feed my lambs."。
He said to him a second time,。
"Simon, son of John, do you love me?"。
He said to him, "Yes, Lord, you know that I love you."。
He said to him, "Tend my sheep."。
He said to him a third time,。
"Simon, son of John, do you love me?"。
Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time,。
"Do you love me?"。
And he said to him, "Lord, you know everything,。
"and you know that I love you."。
And Jesus said to him, "Feed my sheep."。
What is Jesus doing here?。
Notice he's reversing the denial.。
The three things that Peter had done。
in the midst of that denying Jesus in front of people,。
Jesus reverses it here in this moment.。
His position, he singles Peter out.。
He says, "No more following at a distance.。
"I want you close."。
He, the pressure, he appoints Peter as a leader.。
He says, "I don't want you just among people.。
"I want you a leader of them."。
And then the posture, he reverses his lies.。
Three times he asks him, "Do you love me?。
"Do you love me?。
"Do you love me?"。
And Jesus reestablishes relationship with Peter,。
and he reminds him of his calling.。
Just thinking of some of you in this room,。
how many of you has your past dating relationship。
in one way or another, something that happened,。
something that you did, something that you are a part of,。
the toxicity that you got led into。
has led you to the spot where you're broken,。
and you're there like Peter was.。
And your Savior tonight,。
tonight the reason why you're here。
is Jesus is looking at you, forget all of us,。
he's looking at you with the charcoal fire,。
with the very thing that brings so much shame in your life,。
and he's saying, "I want you to look at this.。
"Why does this keep happening to me?。
"Why is this going on?"。
He goes, "I want you to look at it right in the face."。
He says, "The very thing that brought so much shame。
"in your life, I want you to know。
"that I've come to redeem that thing。
"and bring relationship back with you.。
"I'm not here to condemn you,。
"I'm here to restore relationship with you."。
Even looking at the line of Jesus,。
God doesn't, he's not scared of the messed up people.。
He's not afraid of the ones who are going,。
"Oh man, I've gone too far."。
He goes, "Man, think of the line of Jesus.。
"You got Rahab, who's a prostitute.。
"You got David, who's a murderer and adulterer。
"in the line of Jesus.。
"It doesn't matter how far you've gone."。
Jesus says, "I wanna use you."。
God's not scared of your broken past.。
He wants to redeem you and set you on the path of life。
such that you start tending what you used to be taking.。
I remember someone once telling me,。
they said, "Every guy, every guy in the world。
"is one of two things.。
"They're either a predator or they're a protector."。
And some of you guys have been living。
as predators, you've been just trying to take, take, take.。
And tonight is the opportunity, the moment to go,。
"No, I don't wanna take.。
"I wanna start tending.。
"I wanna start giving.。
"I wanna start protecting.。
"I wanna see the image bearers around me,。
"not as people to take from, but as people to protect."。
Some of you ladies, you live constantly going,。
"Man, if I can just get that relationship,。
"then I'll have a rock and all the hard things in my life,。
"it's me and him, and then I could just be together."。
And I would say, read the Psalms,。
where David is constantly going,。
"God, lead me to the rock that's higher than mine,。
"that's higher than me.。
"I need something that's deeper, that's greater than you."。
The first thing Jesus restores, relationship with Peter.。
The second thing, the last thing, we're gonna end with this,。
is Jesus empowers Peter with the Holy Spirit.。
Not only is Peter forgiven and restored with Jesus,。
he's empowered by the Holy Spirit.。
And in the book of Acts,。
we see that Peter becomes a leader in the church.。
And Acts chapter four says that the Holy Spirit。
actually fills him such that he begins to speak。
in front of people and a very mouth,。
his very mouth that caused him so much downfall。
becomes the instrument God uses to spark。
the early church, the movement of the early church。
throughout the world.。
And not only that, but in Acts chapter four,。
the Jewish leaders come and they threaten Peter.。
And they say, "Hey, you're not allowed to talk anymore。
"in the name of Jesus."。
And I love it, one of my favorite verses in the whole Bible,。
Acts chapter four, verse 19 and 20, Peter says to them,。
he says, "Whether it is right in the sight of God。
"to listen to you rather than God, you must judge,。
"for we cannot but speak of what we've seen。
"and what we've heard."。
Not only has Peter been forgiven,。
but he's been empowered by the Holy Spirit。
to do what he could have never imagined.。
And Peter became a person that now we look at。
as a person of conviction and of wisdom。
and of boldness and of courage.。
And I just believe for some of you, don't buy the lie。
that you're too broken, that you've gone too far,。
that you're too messed up, that you're too anything.。
God looks at you like he looks at Peter and he says,。
"I understand, I know what I purchased.。
"And I'm looking at you saying,。
"if you will come into relationship with me。
"and be empowered by my spirit,。
"then don't put limits on what I'm able to do."。
I wanna end with two questions.。
Two questions that we're just gonna take a minute。
before we go back into worship to just think about.。
Number one is this, is Jesus wanting to meet with you。
around a charcoal fire tonight?。
Not to condemn you, but to restore his relationship with you.。
To stare at that thing that has so often stolen from you。
and to say, "No, no, no, I wanna redeem you。
"in the midst of that."。
And then number two, the second question is this,。
is do you have the Holy Spirit?。
Do you have the Holy Spirit?。
Some of you have been trying and failing。
and trying and failing and trying and failing.。
You're going, "Man, is there any hope?"。
And I would just say, don't assume that the answer。
to do you have the Holy Spirit is yes.。
And instead, maybe tonight it's the opportunity to go,。
"God, I want, I need a power inside of myself。
"to do beyond what I can do."。
I believe God is inviting some of you。
for this to be a moment of surrender to say,。
"God, I need the Holy Spirit.。
"I need a spirit inside that leads me on a direction,。
"on a path that's different than what I've been living。
"up to this point."。
That maybe the way to live and to date。
is not by just trying harder,。
but it's by surrendering to His Spirit.。
Let's pray together.。
Father, we just confess that we need you.。
And Lord, I just pray for some who've come into this place。
going, "Man, if I can just overlook all that,。
"I'm gonna carry that thing to the grave.。
"I don't want to have to deal with the messiness。
"and the shame and the guilt in my life."。
And if I know anything about you, God,。
it's that you force us in your grace to stare right at it,。
to look at that thing that's brought so much shame。
and guilt and say, "No, no, no.。
"What the enemy meant for evil,。
"I am going to use for good."。
And God, like you took, even with Peter,。
so much of a sporadic story of his life and used it.。
You course corrected him and you set him on a trajectory。
to be used by you for things he could have never dreamed.。
God, I believe tonight you want some of that for us.。
And so God, would you restore to us。
the joy of your salvation?。
God, would there truly be,。
in the midst of our broken relationships,。
a restoration of our relationship with you?。
And be set free to be filled with your spirit。
to do what you've called us to do.。
God, we love you and we trust you.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
