(upbeat music)。
- What's up, Porch, how we doing tonight?。
(audience cheering)。
Hey, it's good to see you, I hope that all is well.。
Happy Tuesday to you.。
My name is Timothy Atik, I'm one of the teaching pastors。
here at Watermark on Tuesday nights as well as on Sundays.。
If this is your first time ever with us on a Tuesday night,。
thank you for trusting us with your Tuesday night.。
I do wanna give a shout out to all the Porch Live。
locations watching, especially wanna say hello。
to Porch Live Midland, Porch Live Tulsa,。
Porch Live Boise, so glad that you're tuning in tonight,。
I hope all is well.。
So here's the deal, I've got three boys。
and all three of my boys have birthdays at some point。
in the month that we are in, which is not great financially。
but it's just a reality for the Atik family,。
which means that we are thinking a lot about gifts。
that we are giving and the third kid's birthday。
is on October 12th and then right after that,。
like our kids are gonna be thinking about what they want。
for Christmas, so for the whole fall,。
we are really thinking about presents。
and something that I've learned over the years is this,。
when you give a gift to someone,。
you care about their response, the response matters.。
Like I remember when my oldest son Noah。
was three years old at Christmas,。
he got a lot of gifts 'cause he was the first grandkid。
and I remember him on Christmas, this was his rhythm,。
he would take a present, he would unwrap it,。
he would look at it, he would not say thank you。
and he would put it to the side,。
he would grab the next gift, he would unwrap it,。
he would look at it, he would not say thank you。
and he would put it to the side.。
After he unwrapped all of his gifts,。
he looked at my wife and me and said,。
what else you got for me?。
I was like, we're gonna need to work on that,。
you're a pastor's kid, that's not gonna fly,。
Jesus is the reason for the season, anyway.。
It's not the response we were looking for.。
Your response matters when you're receiving a gift.。
I remember when my wife and I, in our first year。
of marriage, I remember the first time。
we were exchanging gifts as a married couple,。
this is a big moment and I did not win in this situation.。
She gave me for Christmas, she gave me three shirts。
that I would consider to be super basic.。
Now, here's what you need to know about me, guys,。
I'm an Enneagram four, which means that。
I think I'm really special and I need to be special。
and I need everything to be unique,。
so I need the clothes that I wear to be unique。
and I know what you're thinking,。
you're wearing a polo in jeans,。
I don't wanna talk about it.。
But on this particular Christmas,。
I opened these three shirts and I just,。
it's not that I responded poorly, I just didn't respond,。
I was like, oh, okay, well, there's that.。
You know, like, I don't remember what I said,。
I don't remember if that was the moment。
that Cat threw a blanket at me。
or if that was another fight,。
I just remember it didn't go well.。
But then I think about a time when I was in sixth grade。
and I received a gift and we still have the video of it。
to this day, when I opened that gift, this was my response.。
I kid you not, this is what I did, I go.。
Because at that time in my life,。
there was a band out called New Kids on the Block。
and I was kind of into it。
and so they kind of fueled my response.。
That was the right response to the gift that I had received.。
Your response when you're receiving a gift,。
it really matters.。
And the reason I tell you that is because tonight,。
we are starting a new series。
that we're gonna be in for a lot of this fall。
where we are journeying through the gospel of John.。
And the gospel of John was written to help you and me。
have the right response to God's gift of Jesus Christ.。
The gospel of John has the most famous verse。
in the entire Bible.。
Even if you're not familiar with the Bible,。
you're most likely familiar with this verse.。
John 3:16 says, "For God so loved the world that he," what?。
"That he gave his only son,。
"that whoever believes in him should not perish,。
"but have eternal life."。
Jesus was a gift from God to you and to me.。
How you respond to the gift that God has given you matters.。
John, in his gospel, he uses the word believe。
about 84 times.。
That's the whole goal of the book.。
The goal of the book is that you and I would believe.。
Now, if you're sitting there saying,。
"I've believed in Jesus for a long time, so next,"。
like, I get it.。
Well, what you need to know is if you aren't a Christian,。
the goal is that you would move towards basic belief.。
And if you've been a Christian for a long time,。
my hope is that this book is gonna move you。
toward bold belief in Jesus Christ.。
This book is my favorite gospel out of the four。
that are in our Bible.。
I love this book.。
It's a powerful book that is going to drive us。
towards the right response to the gift of Jesus Christ.。
Just so you know what we're calling the series,。
we are calling it Glory.。
And that is very clear behind me.。
So it's called Glory, and you're gonna find out。
in a little bit what we mean when we say Glory.。
But the goal of this series is that you would behold。
Jesus Christ in this book,。
and it would lead to the right response.。
Just so you know how important this book,。
the Gospel of John is,。
one commentator referred to it。
as God's love letter to the world.。
Martin Luther, the German monk。
who sparked the Protestant Reformation said this.。
He said, "Should a tyrant succeed。
"in destroying the Holy Scriptures。
"in only a single copy of the Epistle to the Romans。
"and the Gospel according to John escape him,。
"Christianity would be saved."。
Why does he say that?。
He says that because this book is so instrumental.。
It is so essential to us understanding the beauty。
in the person of Jesus Christ,。
and it drives us toward the right response to him.。
We are learning from John.。
If you're new to the Bible,。
and John really isn't on your radar,。
John was a fisherman before he laid down his life。
as a fisherman to follow Jesus Christ full-time.。
Jesus had three guys that were kind of in his inner circle.。
It was Peter, and then John and his brother James.。
John was so tight with Jesus。
that Jesus gave him and his brother a nickname.。
He referred to James and John as the Sons of Thunder,。
which is a pretty baller nickname.。
Like, no one has ever referred to me as a Son of Thunder.。
Like, I just don't put off that type of vibe,。
but like, that was a killer nickname for James and John.。
John is the guy on the night that Jesus has his last supper.。
Do you know what John's doing?。
He's reclining on Jesus's chest。
because they're that tight.。
John refers to himself as the one that Jesus loved.。
John was the guy that when Jesus。
was being led to his crucifixion,。
he entrusted his mother to John.。
John was the first disciple to reach the empty tomb.。
He was the first disciple to believe。
in the resurrection of Jesus.。
John went on to write five books in the New Testament,。
and John played a key role。
in the establishment of the church.。
That's who we're learning from.。
This is a guy who had a very,。
very tight relationship with Jesus.。
He's a guy who had the right response to Jesus,。
and he writes 21 chapters in this book。
so that you and I would have the right response to Jesus.。
So tonight, here's what I wanna do.。
I wanna speak to three different groups。
of people in this room.。
I first am going to speak to those in the room。
who aren't Christians.。
You don't have a relationship with Jesus.。
The only reason you're here tonight。
is because a friend invited you,。
and you've told them no so many times,。
you finally felt like they needed a win.。
And so for you, the response that I wanna encourage。
in you tonight is to investigate Jesus.。
I also wanna speak to a group of people in this room。
who are not Christians yet,。
but you're gonna become a Christian tonight。
because God is doing something miraculous in your life。
and something deeply important in your life.。
And something deep inside of you is like,。
I need to be here tonight.。
And the response that I wanna encourage you toward tonight。
is to receive Jesus.。
And then I wanna speak to a group of people。
who've been following Jesus for a long time.。
Jesus is your savior.。
Jesus is your king.。
And the response that I wanna encourage in you。
is that you would behold Jesus tonight.。
Three responses.。
Those are the right responses to the gift of Jesus Christ.。
First, I wanna speak to the group of people in this room。
who would say, I am not a Christian.。
Maybe you're an atheist.。
Maybe you're an agnostic.。
I'm so glad you're here.。
This is a place where you can come。
and evaluate what we believe is the word of God.。
Please come back.。
But if that's you,。
I wanna invite you to investigate Jesus.。
There's a famous pastor named A.W. Tozer,。
and he said, what comes into our minds。
when we think about God。
is the most important thing about us.。
And I would just encourage you to evaluate that.。
What comes to mind when you think about Jesus Christ,。
that is potentially the most important thing about you.。
Yesterday on Instagram, we asked what you thought of Jesus.。
And some of you said, he's my best friend.。
Someone said, he's like an older sibling to me.。
One of you was super honest and just said, I love him,。
but I get frustrated with him。
and don't understand his plans most of the time.。
That's real.。
So I don't know what you think of Jesus。
when you think about him.。
But I would imagine that many of you here。
who are not Christians, if I were to ask you,。
what comes to mind when I mentioned the name Jesus,。
you might say, not much.。
Or when you think about Jesus,。
you think about the people that you know。
that claim to be following him.。
And the people you struggle with most in this world。
are the people who seem hypocritical,。
but they claim to know Jesus.。
Or maybe when you think of Jesus,。
you think about the miracles you've heard。
that the Bible claims that he did.。
Or you know about the fact that Jesus is said。
to have been crucified on a cross.。
And there are billions of people around the world。
that would subscribe to his religion.。
The chances are, when you think about Jesus,。
what comes to mind, it's the 33 years。
that he lived on earth.。
But if that's all that comes to your mind,。
what you need to know is that you are cropping out。
eternity from Jesus's identity and his activity.。
So I want to invite you to investigate Jesus.。
Like, let me ask you, have you ever thought of Jesus as God?。
Have you ever thought of Jesus as God?。
Look with me at the Gospel of John chapter one.。
The Gospel of John chapter one.。
Here's how it starts in verse one.。
It says, "In the beginning was the word,。
"and the word was with God, and the word was God."。
John here is referring to Jesus as the word.。
Why would John refer to Jesus as the word?。
Well, think about what a word is.。
A word is a thought expressed.。
A word makes known something hidden.。
It makes something unheard heard.。
It makes something invisible visible.。
Here's what that means.。
Why is John referring to Jesus as the word?。
Because what he's trying to communicate。
is that Jesus is God's greatest communication。
to humanity about himself.。
So if you want to know God,。
then the best thing you can do is know Jesus Christ.。
If you want to know more of God, then investigate Jesus.。
If you have some working knowledge of the Bible,。
if you've even just read the first verse。
of the entire thing, it's Genesis 1.1,。
think about how it starts.。
It says, "In the beginning,。
"God created the heavens and the earth."。
Did you hear how John chapter one, verse one started?。
"In the beginning was the word,。
"and the word was with God, and the word was God."。
According to John, Jesus's story doesn't start。
in a manger in Bethlehem.。
John is placing the eternal word,。
the eternal son of God, who would take on flesh。
in the person of Jesus Christ,。
he is placing him before the creation of the world.。
The eternal word that we now know as Jesus。
is in fact God.。
He's not just a wise teacher.。
He's not just a prophet.。
He's not just a significant religious figure.。
He is God.。
And to believe that he's just a good man。
or a wise teacher is crazy because Jesus claimed to be God。
and all of his followers claimed that he was God.。
So if someone is claiming to be God,。
but he's just a man and not God,。
that either makes him a liar or a crazy person.。
And so the reality is Jesus is God.。
The God of Christianity is the God where Jesus is God.。
If Jesus isn't God, then it isn't Christianity.。
Have you ever thought of Jesus being God?。
What about this?。
Have you ever thought of Jesus as the creator of all things?。
Look at what John says in verses two and three.。
He says, "He," referring to the word,。
who we now know as Jesus,。
"He was in the beginning with God.。
"All things," watch that,。
"All things were made through him.。
"And without him was not anything made that was made."。
So according to John, the word Jesus。
that we now know as Jesus,。
he was the agent of all creation.。
So when you think about Jesus,。
do you think to give him credit for his work。
in everything that has been made, including you?。
Or what about this?。
Have you ever thought of Jesus。
as the one sustaining your life?。
Listen to what verse four says.。
John says, "In him was life.。
"In the life was the light of men."。
So I want you to think about this.。
John refers to Jesus as the light of men.。
I think we can all agree that life on the earth。
is impossible without the sun, which provides us light.。
Physical life needs the light that the sun gives。
in order for us to live.。
And yet what John is proposing is that even more important。
than the physical sun is the eternal son of God, Jesus Christ.。
In him is life, meaning that apart from Jesus,。
it's actually impossible for you to live physically,。
but it's also impossible for you to live spiritually.。
Some of you might be sitting there wondering,。
what has God ever done for me?。
I just want to invite every person in here。
to just take a breath, just breathe in, breathe out.。
There's your answer.。
Like that breath you just took is the best rebuttal。
to the belief that Jesus is irrelevant to your life.。
Because according to John,。
Jesus is not only the creator of life,。
he's the sustainer of life.。
You have oxygen in your lungs today。
because the eternal son of God is the agent。
through which that breath has come.。
And then verse five, what does John say?。
He says, "The light shines in the darkness。
"and the darkness has not overcome it."。
There's this shift in this passage。
in the first five verses.。
Verse five marks a shift, and it's subtle,。
but John is shifting from talking about the physical。
to now talking about the spiritual.。
See, darkness wasn't just a reference。
to the absence of light in life。
at the beginning of creation.。
It was actually to symbolize evil within humanity。
in the absence of spiritual life.。
So what John is saying when he says,。
"The light shines in the darkness。
"and the darkness has not overcome it,"。
is he is saying that not only is Jesus。
the sustainer of physical life,。
but he is our only hope for spiritual life,。
life with God.。
So the reason that I tell you this,。
if you are not a Christian in the room,。
and when you think about Jesus,。
all you think about is either the people。
who claim to follow him or the few details。
that you know about his life on the earth,。
what you need to understand。
is that you are cropping out eternity。
from Jesus's identity and his activity.。
Why do we use the crop feature on our photos?。
It is to remove things that are either unattractive。
or unimportant.。
Here's what you need to understand.。
If Jesus feels unimpressive or irrelevant to you,。
do you know what's happened?。
You've cropped out what you think is unimportant.。
And what you've done is you've cropped out。
so much of Jesus's identity and activity。
that you are no longer actually dealing with the real Jesus.。
You're actually just dealing with a Jesus。
that you have fabricated in your mind.。
Our world says that you get to decide who God is,。
but we don't get to decide who God is.。
We only get to decide what we do with who God is.。
And so if you're here tonight and you're not a Christian,。
my invitation to you,。
the right way to respond to the gift of Jesus。
is to investigate Jesus.。
Let me explain it this way.。
My wife and my three boys and I,。
we have a standing tradition that Friday night each week。
is pizza and a movie night.。
So we get a cheap pizza from Costco,。
which is surprisingly good for the price.。
You young adults should know about Costco pizza.。
If you don't, go get a membership.。
It's worth it.。
[audience applauding]。
But we get a cheap pizza from Costco。
and every Friday night we watch a movie.。
Well, we have done that so many Friday nights。
that it's getting harder and harder。
to decide what movie to watch,。
because it feels like we've gone through。
so many of the good ones.。
But there's this weird thing happening with my boys,。
and I don't know if it's just that they're getting older。
and they're beginning to reach that point。
where nothing that their dad says is cool,。
and if dad suggests it, we should definitely not do it.。
I don't know if that's what's happening.。
But there's this weird phenomenon happening。
where I can name a movie.。
I can say, "Hey, we should watch this movie."。
And it can be one of the classics,。
one of the greats from the '80s or the '90s。
that is on like lists of top movies for families.。
And my boys could have never heard of it,。
never seen a trailer for it, and be like, "Nope."。
So just think about it.。
Here's what they have said, "Nope," to "Princess Bride."。
Remember the Titans.。
Hook.。
Angels in the Outfield, y'all know that?。
Maybe not really.。
Stuff like that.。
I'm sure that there's more.。
There's one of my favorites, it was called "Short Circuit,"。
which was about a robot,。
and they're probably justified in saying no to it.。
But it's this weird thing。
where it's easy for them to reject something。
that they have no knowledge or any familiarity with.。
And I tell you that just to say,。
"Don't be like my kids when it comes to Jesus."。
It's often easy to reject something。
that you have no familiarity with.。
My encouragement to you is if Jesus is。
who this book says He is,。
now you might internally be like,。
"No, I don't believe that book."。
Well, but just because you don't believe it。
doesn't mean that it's not true.。
Your opinions have no bearing on truth,。
but truth should have a lot of bearing on your opinions.。
And so my encouragement is to at least investigate。
so that you can come to a place where you can say,。
with full confidence and full integrity,。
"I have investigated the person of Jesus Christ,。
the one that people claimed was God,。
the one that people claimed was the creator。
and sustainer of all things,。
the one that people claimed was the only way。
to have a true life with God, and I reject it."。
You wanna be able to say that with full integrity,。
that you've done the hard work to investigate,。
but don't reject a person。
that you have zero familiarity with.。
Investigate 'em.。
And we would love to help you do that.。
The second group of people that I wanna talk to。
is I wanna talk to a group of people in the room。
that a miracle is happening in your life.。
There's no other way to say it。
besides there's a miracle happening in your life.。
Like you're here tonight。
because something deep inside of you was like,。
"I need to be there."。
Like something's going on with you。
where you've been contemplating your life more and more,。
thoughts of God are popping into your head more and more,。
you've been thinking about eternity more,。
you've wondered more and more。
what the purpose is in your life.。
The things that you've been looking to。
in this world to satisfy you。
just don't seem to be doing what you hoped they would do.。
And so in your quest to feel satisfied,。
you feel lacking and empty.。
And what has happened is God is drawing you to himself。
and tonight he is introducing himself to you.。
And he's inviting you into a relationship with him.。
If that's you, a miracle is happening in your life.。
And the right response to the gift of Jesus。
is to receive Jesus.。
Look at what John says in verses nine through 13.。
He says, "The true light, Jesus,。
"which gives light to everyone,。
"was coming into the world.。
"He was in the world and the world was made through him,。
"yet the world didn't know him.。
"He came to his own and his own people did not receive him.。
"But to all who did receive him,。
"who believed in his name,。
"he gave the right to become children of God,。
"who were born not of blood nor of the will of the flesh。
"nor of the will of man, but of God."。
What I want you to see is the terminology in these verses.。
It turns relational.。
Do you see what it says?。
It says that Jesus came into the world,。
he made the world, and yet the world didn't know him,。
which means he moved in.。
God in the person of Jesus moved in close enough。
for people to be able to know him.。
Watch what verse 11 says.。
It says he came to his own.。
There's relationship.。
He came to his own people。
and his own people didn't receive him.。
Like he moved in close enough。
that people had to make a decision。
either to receive him or reject him.。
And here's the crazy thing.。
Jesus, the world was made through the eternal son of God,。
who we know to be Jesus.。
And yet what do we do?。
We give credit to other gods。
because we subscribe to other religions。
or we give credit to random natural forces.。
That would drive you crazy.。
Like have you ever been at work。
and you work really hard on a project at work。
and yet your boss gives credit to a group of people。
when you're the one who's done all the work。
and something in you is like,。
"No, no, no, I'm the one who did it."。
Like flashback to high school。
when you were in group projects.。
Some of y'all loved group projects。
because you let other people do all the work.。
And then there were those of you who hated group projects。
because you did all the work.。
How maddening is it and frustrating。
when other people are given credit for something you did?。
Jesus came into the world,。
the world which he had made。
and yet people didn't know him or receive him.。
What grace and love.。
This is how good God is that you can live your entire life。
on the earth that he made and not receive him.。
That is grace.。
That's grace.。
And if you do receive him,。
do you know what the result is?。
If you do receive him,。
the result is that you have a place。
in the family of God for all of eternity.。
That's why Jesus says,。
"But to all who did receive him,。
"he gave the right to become children of God."。
Which is amazing to think about this.。
There's 8 billion people on the planet。
and the God of the universe doesn't just know your name.。
He actually calls you his son or his daughter.。
And so what is the right response to the gift of Jesus?。
According to John 1, verse 12, it's to receive him.。
That word in the Greek,。
the original language of the New Testament,。
it carries the idea of welcoming intimate connection.。
It's like when a man or woman receives someone in marriage。
or when a host receives a house guest.。
On October, or I'm sorry, on June 2nd, 2006,。
I proposed to Kat.。
And I'll save you the story,。
but it culminated in me getting down on a knee in a rowboat。
and asking Kat to marry me.。
And she said yes, which I praise God for to this day.。
But here's the reality.。
When Kat said yes, she wasn't just saying yes。
to me putting a ring on her finger.。
She wasn't just saying yes to the most expensive party。
that we would ever throw in our lives.。
What she was saying yes to was life with this guy.。
She was saying yes to living together。
for the rest of her days on earth.。
She was saying yes to eating the majority。
of her meals with me.。
She was saying yes to raising three crazy boys with me.。
She was saying yes to the good times in life。
and the low times in life with me.。
She was saying yes to a lifetime of connection.。
To receive Jesus is to welcome。
intimate connection with him.。
So we need to be careful that we don't overcomplicate。
receiving Jesus.。
And at the same time, we have to be careful。
not to water it down.。
When we talk about receiving Jesus。
or welcoming intimate connection,。
I'm not talking about you signing up。
for a lifetime supply of requirements。
that you have to check off every day of your life.。
But it's also not just receiving information or ideas.。
It's receiving Jesus.。
It's welcoming intimate connection with him.。
Remember, your response matters.。
And the nature of the gift should drive。
the nature of your response.。
What do I mean by that?。
Here's what I mean.。
Often people treat Jesus like a ticket.。
That the reason to believe in Jesus。
is so that you get entrance into heaven.。
But think about a ticket.。
A ticket is only useful for one second。
when it's being scanned for entrance.。
It's useless before and it's useless after.。
Jesus is not a ticket.。
He's not only useful for just entrance into heaven.。
Jesus isn't a ticket.。
He's God, he's savior, he's rescuer, he's king, he's friend.。
To receive Jesus is to welcome a lifetime。
of intimate connection with him.。
And it begins with a prayer to God。
in which you acknowledge your sin。
and your need and desire for a savior and king.。
So if you're here tonight and you're like,。
I think he's talking about me.。
I think that a miracle is happening in my life.。
And I think Jesus is calling me to himself.。
Then say yes.。
Like what is keeping you from receiving Jesus tonight?。
Receive him.。
And then the third group of people I wanna speak to。
is the people in the room who have considered themselves。
followers of Jesus Christ for a long time.。
The right response to the gift of Jesus is to behold Jesus.。
When I talk about beholding Jesus,。
I'm talking about seeing Jesus.。
I'm talking about the idea of spiritual sight。
that we find in the scriptures.。
Like the apostle Paul in Ephesians 1:18 says,。
"I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened。
"in order that you may know the hope。
"to which he has called you."。
Jesus, after he feeds 5,000 people。
with a little kid's lunchbox,。
he then feeds 4,000 people.。
We don't think about the feeding of the 4,000。
like we think about the feeding of the 5,000.。
But after he feeds the 5,000 and then he feeds the 4,000,。
he gets on a boat with his closest friends, the disciples,。
who actually had helped distribute the miraculous food。
that Jesus had just made.。
And when they get into the boat,。
they start arguing with each other.。
Do you wanna know why they're arguing?。
Because they forgot to bring bread.。
And it's like, guys,。
like if there's one thing you don't need to be worried about。
when you're with Jesus,。
it's bread.。
Like he just fed 9,000 plus people bread.。
Some of y'all are gluten intolerant,。
you're like, I don't get this at all.。
I don't know what we're talking about right now.。
Listen to what Jesus says to them, Mark 8.。
Jesus, aware of this, said to them,。
why are you discussing the fact that you have no bread?。
I love this.。
He says, do you not yet perceive or understand?。
He's like, what are we doing here, people?。
You were there for the 5,000, you were there for the 4,000.。
Do you not get it?。
You don't perceive?。
Now watch what he says, this is so important.。
He says, are your hearts hardened?。
Having eyes, do you not see?。
When I talk about beholding Jesus,。
I'm talking about spiritual sight.。
It's the reality that it's possible to see Jesus。
without seeing Jesus.。
It's possible to come to the porch。
and to go to all the effort, to park in a parking garage。
and literally get all of your steps for the day.。
Like if you show up with zero steps,。
you're going to leave with your exercise ring closed,。
just coming to the porch.。
And you can go to all that effort。
and leave here without seeing Jesus.。
When the night is all about Jesus,。
why does the porch exist?。
The porch exists to call any and every young adult to what?。
See Jesus and surrender fully to life with him.。
You know what spiritual blindness is?。
Spiritual blindness is simply seeing Jesus。
without being captivated by his goodness。
or being compelled to worship him.。
It's going to all the effort to be here tonight。
and leaving here unmoved.。
So what I want to do is I want to show you。
where I'm getting this from John chapter one.。
I'm going to read you right now the most important verse。
in the entire book of John.。
There's 21 chapters.。
This is the most important verse.。
Actually, the next 20 chapters of the book。
seek to unpack this one verse.。
Here's what it says.。
It says in verse 14, it says,。
"The word became flesh and dwelt among us。
and we have," say it, what's that word?。
We have seen or beheld his glory.。
Glory is of the only son from the father,。
full of grace and truth.。
I just want to break this verse down。
because I want you to see Jesus.。
And remember, I'm talking to the Christians.。
And what I'm doing is I am inviting those of you。
who have known Jesus for a long time.。
I want you to hear what I'm saying。
like you have never heard it before in your life.。
Listen to what it says.。
The word became flesh.。
Do you know what that's saying?。
It's saying God became man.。
Rip off the calluses of your heart。
to the reality of the incarnation。
that God stepped out of heaven and put on skin.。
Blood flowed through his veins.。
God became a man.。
That is crazy.。
It's crazy.。
Why?。
Because man spends his life。
trying to ascend to the place of God.。
That's why Jay-Z nicknamed himself Hova,。
which is short for Jehovah, name for God.。
That's why Kanye West has a song called "I Am a God."。
Why?。
Because man wants to ascend to the place of God.。
What we're talking about is God。
descending to the place of man.。
Now watch John's wording.。
He says, "And the word became flesh and dwelt among us,。
"and we have seen his glory."。
We have seen, we have beheld his glory.。
What does John mean when he says we've seen his glory?。
What does glory mean?。
Well, commentators believe that when John。
is writing these words, most likely,。
he has Exodus chapter 33 in his mind.。
And what's great is Exodus 33。
helps us understand what glory means.。
Moses says this in Exodus 33.。
Moses says to God, "Please show me your glory."。
It's a great prayer to pray.。
Please show me your glory.。
And what does God say?。
He says, "I will make all my goodness pass before you,。
"and will proclaim before you my name, the Lord."。
Do you know what the glory of God is?。
The glory of God is the supreme goodness of God.。
It is everything praiseworthy of God。
wrapped up and bundled and manifested to humanity。
so that humanity can taste and see that the Lord is good.。
Let me ask you, if you're a follower of Jesus Christ,。
when's the last time you were captivated。
by the beauty and the goodness of God?。
When's the last time you tasted and saw that God is good?。
What does it mean when John says we have beheld his glory?。
Well, what you need to understand is God's supreme goodness。
has been revealed to us in the person of Jesus Christ,。
specifically through the grace and the truth。
that Christ brought into the world.。
That's why John says, "We have seen his glory,。
"glory of the only Son from the Father,。
"full of grace and truth."。
I'm inviting you to behold, once again,。
the grace of Jesus Christ.。
Behold his grace because through receiving Jesus,。
we have complete forgiveness from our worst moments.。
We have healing and relief from our greatest shame.。
We're loved despite our most unlovable flaws.。
We are pursued with a perfect love,。
even when we wander in our imperfection.。
We can live near to God now and for all of eternity。
as loved, accepted, delighted and children of God.。
We did nothing, he did everything.。
We deserve nothing, and yet we get everything。
because of him.。
He's full of grace, but he's also full of truth.。
What does it mean that Jesus is full of truth?。
It means that Jesus has come and he has shown us。
the one and only way to have a real relationship。
with the God of the universe.。
Jesus says in John 14, six, "I am the way, the truth,。
"and the life.。
"No one comes to the Father except through me."。
You don't find your own way to God.。
Jesus says, "I'm the true way, I'm the truth."。
And all of this grace and truth has manifested itself。
in Jesus, who went to the cross, bore our shame,。
and rose from the dead.。
That's why Revelation 19, 13 says about Jesus,。
"He is clothed in a robe dipped in blood,。
"and the name by which he is called is," what?。
"The word of God."。
The word of God, God's greatest communication to us。
about himself was God who took on flesh,。
and the reason that his robe is dipped in blood。
at the end of the Bible is because Jesus went to the cross。
and endured the wrath that was for our sin.。
He was punished so that you and I wouldn't have to be.。
He was buried and he rose from the dead as a demonstration。
that the God of the universe, a holy and perfect God,。
had accepted his payment on behalf。
of very unholy, imperfect people.。
So I just wanna ask you, Christian,。
when was the last time that you beheld Jesus?。
When was the last time you were captivated by his goodness。
and compelled to worship him with your life?。
If you're here tonight as a Christian。
and your heart feels cold to Jesus right now,。
I wanna help you.。
If there's a lack of worship, it's due to a lack of sight.。
And so let me just ask you, is there sin?。
Is there sin in your life?。
Listen to what Matthew 5, 8 says.。
"Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God."。
Sin hinders sight.。
Do you understand that?。
Sin hinders sight.。
It's hard to be captivated by the goodness of God。
when you are captivated by the pleasure of sin.。
If you wanna see Jesus, I wanna say this with love,。
but repent of your sin.。
Don't walk out of here and live with one foot in。
and one foot out.。
Don't cling to sin thinking that it's not a big deal。
and it's really not hindering sight.。
When you release that sin, you're gonna see。
just how blurry your vision has become.。
And when you see Jesus clearly,。
you know what you're gonna see,。
you're gonna see something that is far more satisfying。
than your sin ever could have been.。
Repent.。
Another question to answer is, are you settling?。
Are you settling?。
What do I mean by that?。
Here's what I mean.。
Is it possible that you are living vicariously。
through someone else's sight?。
You know what drives me crazy about my kids' generation?。
Is that my boys, one of my boys will watch。
20 minute long YouTube videos。
of other people playing Minecraft.。
And I'm like, bro, you have Minecraft yourself.。
Why would you watch someone else play a game that you have?。
Makes no sense.。
Who has the greater enjoyment of playing Minecraft?。
It's the people playing Minecraft,。
not the people watching the people playing Minecraft.。
And so here's the reality.。
Some of you guys are just trying to live through,。
live vicariously through other people's sight.。
Like you just, you watch reels。
of your favorite Christian influencers。
who are seeing Jesus。
and you're trying to draft off their sight.。
You know you can meet with the Jesus。
that they're meeting with.。
Like you can just go see him for yourself.。
You can sit and meet with him.。
You can hear from him yourself.。
You don't have to hear from him vicariously。
through someone else who is experiencing all the intimacy.。
You can experience the intimacy that they're experiencing.。
See Jesus for yourself.。
So what does that mean?。
What do I mean, see Jesus for yourself?。
I'm just saying, meet with God yourself.。
Make time tomorrow to sit down and open up his word。
and say, God, if this is your word,。
would you speak to me as I read?。
I want to hear from you.。
And then talk back to him, pray.。
And when you pray, believe he is listening.。
He cares, he is with you.。
He is in the room wanting to meet with you.。
Another question to ask yourself is, are you distracted?。
This weekend I took one of my boys。
on a father-son trip to San Diego。
and we rented a Tesla through Turo, which was amazing.。
But this Tesla had a video screen in the back。
and it had YouTube on it.。
And so he was watching YouTube videos。
of guys playing Minecraft in San Diego.。
And we left the airport and we're driving into the city。
and I'm looking out and it is gorgeous.。
I mean, I left concrete Dallas。
and I see water and there's boats。
and there's hills and classy architecture.。
And I'm like, hey dude, look at this.。
And he looks up, he's like, okay.。
And then he looks back at his screen.。
I'm like, dude, like this is, he's missing beauty.。
Why? Because he's distracted.。
I just wonder if that's our lives.。
Like the reason you're not seeing Jesus。
is 'cause you're seeing everything else.。
And God loves you too much.。
To show you all of himself。
when you're watching everything else.。
And so what does this look like?。
Maybe it just means, look, if you're meeting with God,。
why would you want to be accessible to anyone else?。
Like turn your phone off.。
It's like for 20 minutes.。
Like why would you care about hearing from any influencer。
when you can meet with the God who made the influencer?。
And if he wants to meet with you, who cares?。
If anyone else wants to meet with you.。
So just shut it off.。
Like don't sit at your kitchen table。
when all your roommates are trying to cook breakfast。
and get out of the place.。
Like be alone, get alone with God.。
Drown out the distractions so that you can see him.。
And then the last question I'd encourage you to answer。
is are you glancing instead of gazing at Jesus?。
This is a wording from A.W. Tozer.。
Like are you just kind of quickly glancing at him。
or are you seeking to gaze at him?。
Like no one's love story is you know what,。
I pass by her running on the Katy Trail。
every Monday, Wednesday, Friday afternoon。
and I said hey to her every time。
and now we've been married for 20 years.。
Like whose story is that?。
No one's.。
'Cause no one meets and falls in love by a quick glance.。
Hey, I don't know your name, hey.。
No, you gotta ask someone out.。
This isn't even a dating talk.。
You should ask someone out, maybe.。
You ask someone out, you take them out.。
You go to dinner.。
Like you look at them in the face.。
You get to know them.。
You ask them questions.。
And as you gaze at them, you know what happens?。
Is it cultivates your heart for them.。
And so I'll just tell you this to say like。
I've shared this before but。
quality time comes from quantity of time.。
Like my relationship with my kids,。
it's not based on me hanging out with my kids。
for five minutes a day.。
Like no dad is like you know what,。
I'm crushing it for just five minutes a day.。
I'm a great dad.。
I feel super connected to my kids.。
Kat and I's marriage, man, it is soaring.。
Why, five minutes a day?。
Just hang out five minutes.。
It's amazing, best five minutes of my day.。
No, quality time, it's birthed out of quantity of time.。
So my encouragement is just look at your schedule.。
Change your priorities and just create more space for God.。
Why, so you can see Him.。
Like get where you can see Him.。
Sit until you see Him.。
And so what's your response gonna be to Jesus?。
What is the right response to the gift of Jesus?。
If you're here tonight and you're not a Christian,。
I wanna encourage you to investigate Him.。
Maybe it's you just take the next 21 days。
and you read one chapter of John a day for 21 days。
just to investigate Him.。
Don't be like my boys on movie night.。
Don't dismiss something。
that you have never become familiar with.。
If a miracle is happening in your life tonight,。
would you receive them?。
Like don't leave here.。
If God brought you here for you to know Him, receive Him.。
And then behold Jesus.。
If you're a follower of Jesus Christ,。
I just wanna encourage you to behold Him.。
Maybe you just stay right where you are tonight.。
You don't rush out.。
Maybe you go up to the prayer chapel。
where we're gonna have extended worship tonight.。
Maybe you go out and you go to the loft。
and you go to next steps because you just want to know more。
how you can take next steps with Jesus in His church,。
but behold Him tonight.。
The gift of Jesus deserves the right response.。
Investigate Him, receive Him.。
Behold Him.。
Let's pray together.。
Lord Jesus, my hope and prayer is that every person。
in this room tonight would take a step with you.。
God, that no one would leave here unmoved.。
God, for the person who's not a Christian,。
Lord, I pray that you would just take them。
on a journey of investigation.。
And as they investigate, I pray that they would find you.。
God, for the Christian, I pray that even now。
you would open their eyes to see you more clearly.。
And then for the person who doesn't know you,。
but is here because you have drawn them here.。
Miracle is happening in their life.。
If that's you right now,。
just wanna invite you in this moment。
to just repeat after me in the quietness of your own heart.。
This isn't a rabbit's foot prayer.。
I'm just trying to help you articulate to God。
what you know to be true.。
You can just say, "Lord Jesus,。
"would you come into my life tonight?"。
Just say, "I want a relationship with you.。
"Thank you, Jesus, that you died for me.。
"Thank you that you rose from the dead for me.。
"Would you forgive me of my sins?。
"And would you lead me in a new life。
"with you as my savior and my king?"。
Lord, we need you.。
We love you.。
God, I pray that over the coming weeks,。
we would be a people who behold your beauty.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
