[MUSIC PLAYING]。
All right, all right.。
It's good to be with you guys.。
Nothing like starting a little series with some Beyonce.。
This is Cupid.。
And the reason we're calling it Cupid,。
because we're covering dating myths.。
And so Cupid is a Roman mythology.。
You know, Cupid was Venus' son.。
And anyone he would shoot with magical arrows。
would fall in love with the first person they see.。
So as I thought about kind of where we're going to go tonight,。
this weekend I renewed my CHL.。
If you don't know what that means, it's--。
[CHEERING]。
Wow.。
OK, man.。
Laura, make note, CHL illustrations.。
More of those.。
OK.。
I'm scared all of a sudden.。
So that stands for-- so those in the dark.。
Concealed handgun license.。
Hopefully that's what you guys were cheering about,。
not some other CHL.。
So I went and renewed--。
that's something my community group did about a year ago.。
Or I guess it was more than a year ago.。
Anyways, it just expired.。
And so we had to go back and renew it.。
And so we met up.。
And I was reminded of this story.。
We were kind of talking back the first time that we did it.。
And so if you don't know, we're shooting at a target.。
The target looks like this.。
You have to go and do a field trial.。
And so this was mine.。
And so kind of that's not impressive.。
Everybody's looked like that.。
And you're not shooting that far off.。
You're kind of this close.。
And they're like, OK, fire five rounds.。
Like boom, boom, boom, boom.。
One, two, three.。
Yeah.。
Anyways, and then fire two more.。
Boom.。
And then you go and load it up again。
and then fire some more rounds.。
And kind of at the end, you fired 50 rounds.。
And you get graded.。
They have to pass.。
And everybody's kind of target looked like this.。
But there was this girl there that。
was helping the coach, the teacher of the class,。
the instructor.。
And she was a professional shooter.。
And they had told us that.。
And we had kind of heard about her all day long.。
People were telling stories about how great she was.。
And so kind of towards the end of that time, I was like, man,。
all of us were like, hey, we want to see her go.。
Can she go?。
And the guy, the instructor, was like, yeah, sure.。
Hey, you up for it?。
And she's like, yeah.。
And so they put the target-- they're。
on these electronic things.。
And they put the target way back.。
And so she's like this way, like this far, even farther back。
than this from the target.。
And so she kind of takes aim.。
And they're like, you ready?。
And she's like, yeah.。
And she starts shooting at it.。
Boom, boom.。
And while she's shooting, she's walking like this.。
Boom, boom.。
And they kind of sidestep and boom, boom, boom.。
And just rapid firing these rounds。
and walking towards the target.。
And I'm watching.。
And I'm looking at the target.。
And I'm thinking, oh, no.。
She's missing every time.。
And so I'm in my mind.。
I'm thinking what I'm going to say.。
I'm like, well, hey, that's really hard.。
You were moving.。
You know?。
And it's harder than it looks, isn't it, sweetie?。
You know, you're thinking kind of these things.。
And I'm like, what am I going to say?。
Like, we're all sitting there like, this is embarrassing.。
And so they kind of--。
you could see the target plain as day.。
There's no holes in it, right?。
And we're like, oh, no.。
And so they bring the target.。
She's like, OK, bring the target back.。
I'm like, you don't have to do that.。
I can see there's no holes in it, you know?。
And they bring it back.。
And I don't know if you can see from where you're at,。
but there's a little target up here.。
You know?。
There's a little one up here.。
I didn't know.。
That's just how they score it.。
And evidently, evidently, she was shooting at that one.。
Yeah, I had no idea.。
We're like, whoa.。
Wow.。
So they brought it up there.。
Ellie, you're good.。
Look at you.。
You've done that before, huh, sweetie?。
I'm just teasing.。
I'm just kidding.。
Yeah, and so here was the problem.。
What was the problem, right?。
We were watching this.。
We were looking at the wrong target.。
We were looking at the wrong target.。
And as I thought about you guys, you're considering someone--。
you're in this season of life where。
you're starting to think about someone you might。
spend the rest of your life with.。
And you guys know my heart's burning for you.。
I love young adults.。
I trusted Christ as a young adult.。
Man, I just made so many mistakes in my life,。
bad decisions, not mistakes, but bad decisions.。
And the cry of my heart, I think,。
is to spare you as much as I can.。
And I think all the time, I'm like,。
what would I have listened to?。
What would I have listened to?。
Like, what would have got my attention?。
Because I think as you guys are looking for someone。
or considering someone that you might spend the rest。
of your life with, I think so many of us。
are looking at the wrong target.。
We got the wrong target in mind.。
And the reason that's so important。
is because this is something that。
is going to affect the destiny, the destination,。
of the rest of your life.。
And you know, everyone here knows,。
people who've done it well and people who haven't done it。
so well.。
And I just think, I think, if we can just reset,。
if I can get you to believe me, not so much me,。
but the wisest man ever lived, not so much the wisest man ever。
lived, but the one who created all things,。
if I can get you to trust it, I think。
that we can redirect our sights to the right target.。
And everyone can leave here tonight。
with just a little bit better of a trajectory。
as we consider what might be next.。
And so we're covering myths every week.。
And I think this first myth is just。
the idea of love at first sight, the dating。
myth of love at first sight.。
And you're like, oh, no, you haven't。
heard my parents' story, or my cousin's story,。
or my Uncle Bob's story.。
Just hear me out.。
But I want to show you tonight just this idea of what happens.。
Because love at first sight, what is that?。
It's trusting in a moment our feelings。
and following our hormones instead of logic.。
And moreover, logic, actually God's word,。
what God says, the one who created all things, who's。
crazy about you, who wants what's best for you,。
what he says about this.。
And so tonight, my hope is I'm going。
to take a real logical approach at this.。
If you're here and you're married, I'm stoked you're here.。
I need your help.。
Because you're going to be the one with the perspective that。
can say, hey, he's right.。
No, trust me.。
We just know there's some things.。
Like I remember there's just some things I would not。
listen to as a single person.。
I'm like, yeah, that's cute.。
Yeah, but you're married.。
You don't get it.。
And so I need your help.。
If you're here and you're thinking, hey, you know what?。
I might be called to a life of singleness.。
If that's you, great, I'm glad you're here.。
Listen and learn from the scriptures。
so that you can minister to those around you.。
But if you're here and you're single,。
over the next four weeks, we're going。
to open the word of the creator of the heavens and the earth.。
And we're going to read about what some really wise people。
have written.。
And all I'm going to ask of you is that you would trust it.。
And if you will, it will help you the remainder of your days.。
And not only that, but I think you'll love God more.。
And have a greater understanding of how God loves you.。
So right now, so here's the problem as I see it.。
The way that this deal, dating, originally started--。
so a guy would pursue a woman for a reason.。
So I want to show you how we got so far off.。
Because right now, we are so far off.。
And you see the lens of dating through the world。
that you were born in, which is very different today。
than it was even a century ago.。
Very, very different, even two decades ago.。
And so this is how we got here.。
Originally, a man would pursue a woman for one reason.。
Do you know what that reason was?。
Not love, but a family.。
He would pursue a woman so that it was a means to a family,。
to pursue a relationship with her.。
They would get married, and they would have a family.。
This is God's first commandment of man.。
It's Genesis 1, "Be fruitful and multiply.。
Fill the earth."。
This is the first thing God asked man to do.。
And so man would pursue a woman for the sake of a family.。
And so in 1896, the word dating is introduced.。
And dating is actually, in 1896,。
introduced as a euphemism for prostitution.。
Okay, it literally means exchanging things。
or money for sex.。
And so if you went on a date with a girl,。
that meant that you sought out a prostitute.。
That's where the word comes from.。
In the first century, I'm sorry,。
in the turn of the 20th century,。
so in the beginning of the 1900s,。
if a girl was caught alone with a guy,。
through that event, she would earn a reputation.。
Okay, people would think that she was either loose。
or working.。
True story.。
Okay, so then we go into the 1900s,。
and now you have the introduction of media,。
which is a major influence now.。
And so over one million ladies。
subscribe to Ladies Home Journal.。
And that begins to influence the way women dress,。
the way they saw themselves, and the definition of beauty.。
And then in the 1930s, the date outside the home was born。
with the invention of the automobile.。
Here's what this means.。
Prior to the 1930s, a man, if you wanted to pursue a woman,。
you would start with her father,。
and you would ask if you could come into the home,。
and then you would date her in the living room.。
That's where the dates happened, prior to the 1930s.。
Now, with the invention of the automobile,。
this idea of this euphemism of prostitution,。
it really takes off, because what happens。
is wealthy guys have cars,。
and so wealthy guys can go on dates.。
And so there's this understanding,。
the more money you make, the nicer you dress,。
and the nicer car that you have,。
the more beautiful girl that you can get,。
okay, an idea that has been magnified today.。
And there was an understanding that the greater the date,。
you could expect some sexual favor in return.。
True story.。
This is the history of dating.。
And then in the 1940s, this was like full blown out.。
There was just an understanding of an exchange,。
if you went on a date, basically what I just said.。
In the 1960s, the dating lifestyle of society。
led way, the greatest social decay of morality。
in the history of singleness in the Western world.。
Anybody know what it was?。
The sexual revolution.。
You and I still stand under the consequences。
of the sexual revolution.。
This radically altered the sexual landscape of our nation.。
And now sex is seen as an experience.。
And so what happened now is people began。
to date for an experience.。
This should sound really familiar to you.。
'Cause people don't date for a family anymore,。
they date for an experience.。
Manic highs, manic lows, an adrenaline rush,。
or some sexual pleasure.。
In the 1970s, Playboy is placed out in plain sight,。
in convenience stores, abortion is legalized,。
and now this is allowing for reproduction。
to be removed entirely from sex.。
We talked about seeking pleasure。
without the consequences in a message,。
the problem of pleasure.。
That's what's going on now in the 1970s.。
In the 1980s, the internet is introduced,。
and pornography is made available to everyone.。
And again, sex begins to change,。
which in turn begins to change dating.。
And now in the 2000s, everyone has a mobile device,。
a smartphone in their pocket.。
Pornography is no longer two-dimensional images,。
it's videos.。
Of the act.。
And this perversion is magnified.。
And beauty is changed.。
What is beautiful is now different.。
It has evolved.。
With the turn of every decade, beauty has changed.。
Do you understand what I'm saying?。
Like this is the simple truth I'm hitting you with,。
a very logical truth.。
You've been told what is beautiful.。
You didn't decide on your own.。
You don't know what is beautiful.。
You've been told what is beautiful.。
Do you get that?。
And so now the reason that we date is for an experience.。
Girls often date for emotional acceptance,。
to feel that someone wants them.。
Guys often date so that they can feel that adrenaline rush,。
even if there's no sex or any kind of physical thing。
involved, just feel that adrenaline rush around a girl.。
And so we date, not for a family, but for an experience.。
And so I'm just telling you this tonight,。
if we could change this target,。
what we put our sights on, we'd be better off.。
And so the way that we combat myths is with wisdom.。
The way that you combat lies is with truth.。
And so we're going to turn to the book of wisdom.。
This is the book written by the wisest man。
who ever lived, the wisest man in the history of the world.。
And so these were Proverbs that he wrote down,。
but also Proverbs that other people wrote,。
other kings wrote, that he kept for himself.。
This particular Proverb was written by King Lemuel.。
And specifically, King Lemuel is reflecting on wisdom。
that he learned from his mother.。
So this is wisdom from a woman.。
We're gonna be in Proverbs 31.。
Ladies, I know that many of you have a love-hate。
relationship with Proverbs 31, okay?。
I get it.。
Some of you are like, if a pastor ever recites Proverbs 31。
to me ever again, I'm gonna throw up.。
And others of you are like, oh, look,。
it tells me exactly, this is great.。
And so I know there's all kinds of mixed emotions,。
but I'm just telling you, it's God's word.。
And so we're gonna look at one verse,。
we're gonna camp on one verse tonight.。
It's this, Proverbs 1:30, 31-30.。
Ready?。
All you gotta do tonight is believe this verse.。
That's it.。
Believe it's true.。
Charm is deceptive, beauty is fleeting,。
but a woman who fears the Lord is to be praised.。
If everybody in here believed this verse,。
if every, you'd save yourself a lot of time and heartache,。
frankly, you'd save me a lot of time and heartache,。
if everyone in here just believed this verse.。
And so let's start, my first point is charm is inaccurate.。
I say inaccurate because we're aiming for the right target.。
Charm is going to take you off target.。
Charm is inaccurate.。
And so if something is inaccurate, you can't trust it.。
The scripture says charm is deceitful.。
What does that mean?。
Deceitful means to be misled by false appearance, okay?。
So it looks good, it looks appealing, but it's deceitful.。
It intentionally deceives, okay?。
I can remember, I was brand new married,。
that was my first year of marriage.。
Green is all get out.。
I was a Christian.。
I did believe that Christ died for my sins。
and God raised him from the dead,。
but I was a brand new baby Christian。
and I still had a lot of old habits on me, okay?。
My wife goes out of town and I go to dinner with a friend.。
And so he and I are sitting there at dinner。
and these two girls approach us,。
two very, very beautiful girls,。
something that I was not accustomed to,。
beautiful girls approaching me.。
There I am and they say, "Hey,"。
and I talked to one and she says, "Can I buy you a drink?"。
To which, and so I'm like, "Wow, aggressive, okay."。
"Can you buy me?"。
And so to which I say, "I'm married."。
To which she says, "I don't care."。
And I'd love to tell you right now what I did。
is I like jumped up from the table and ran to my car。
and burned out of the parking lot.。
(congregation laughing)。
But I didn't.。
I didn't.。
My heart was flattered.。
I was like, "Huh."。
Still very green, still very immature.。
I was like, "Huh, you don't care."。
Still got some old habits.。
And I believe as I reflected in that moment,。
one thing saved me.。
And it was something that somebody had told me.。
And they said, "Hey, that woman,。
"she wants to destroy you.。
"She doesn't care about you, man.。
"She's just looking to feel loved.。
"She needs someone to help her feel loved.。
"And so she wants your wife to hate you,。
"your parents to hate you, your friends to hate you,。
"your wife's parents to hate you,。
"your brother-in-law, also your best friend to hate you。
"because you would have one moment of fleeting pleasure.。
"Do not be deceived by her charm."。
And that message rang true in my head.。
And I thought for a moment, I thought,。
"Oh, you just need to feel wanted."。
And I remember, "Oh, you want to destroy me."。
And that memory, I believe, saved me from that moment.。
Proverbs 6 says it like this, verse 21.。
For these commands are a lamp, this teaching is a light,。
and the corrections of discipline are the way of life,。
keeping you from the immoral woman,。
from the smooth tongue of the wayward wife.。
Do not trust in your heart after her beauty, I'm sorry,。
do not lust in your heart after her beauty。
or let her captivate you with her eyes.。
And so I'm telling you, ladies,。
the charming guy can't be trusted either.。
You do not trust charm, right?。
They want to destroy your marriage。
before your marriage ever happens.。
So I don't care if he's calling you。
and leaving voice to men on your voicemail。
and singing "Usher" to you and reciting "Romeo and Juliet"。
and he wrote a poem to you, okay?。
You don't trust charm, right?。
You don't trust charm.。
That's not what you trust.。
You don't trust your feelings,。
your emotions, or your hormones, okay?。
Charm is deceptive, it is fleeting,。
and it is the selfish pursuit of an experience.。
So when someone comes up to you,。
and remember, it's no longer about the family,。
so when they come up to you and they're charming,。
just say, respond with this thing.。
Let me ask you a question, how many kids you want to have?。
That will usually solve the problem right there, okay?。
(congregation laughing)。
That's free, man, that's free.。
Let's talk about dating websites for a minute, okay?。
I won't be here long, but evidently it's a hot topic.。
A lot of people say, hey, will you talk about this?。
So let's talk about it for a minute.。
Matt, I don't know.。
I mean, there's not, there's not a thou shalt not。
e-harmony, you know, in the scripture, all right?。
So what do I do?。
Here's what I would tell you.。
Be wise, make sure your community is aware,。
those around you are aware, and here's what I would tell you.。
This is a game where you want to remove the disadvantages.。
Okay, as quickly as you can, any kind of disadvantages。
between you and where you're going,。
you want to remove those disadvantages.。
And I'll just tell you that everyone is cooler。
on the internet, right?。
And so everyone is cooler in their profile。
than they are in real life,。
and technology puts advantages between you.。
And so let me say this to you guys.。
Stop asking girls out by text, amen?。
(congregation cheering)。
Yeah, I got that, I got that article sent to me。
like 16 times this week, so I read the article.。
We're good, and guys, we're good.。
Like, just don't do that anymore, okay?。
'Cause that's lame, we're good.。
We're gonna move past it.。
That has nothing to do with my talk, that's free too.。
(congregation laughing)。
Okay, my second point tonight,。
love at first sight is a miss.。
Remember, we're talking about this target,。
and so love at first sight, like I saw her and I loved her,。
I saw him and I loved him, he had this six pack。
that's not gonna be there very long.。
(congregation laughing)。
Okay, love at first sight is a miss.。
The scripture says beauty is fleeting.。
That's all it is, listen, all you gotta do is trust that.。
Beauty is fleeting.。
By the way, that's true.。
Historically, biologically, scientifically,。
beauty is fleeting.。
You tracking with me?。
What am I saying?。
We're all getting uglier.。
(congregation laughing)。
No, no, no, see, I just get paid to speak truth.。
Like, it's just true, guys.。
Everybody thinks they're here,。
no, I'm gonna be the hot 50-year-old.。
No, you're not, not one of you.。
(congregation laughing)。
Statistically, not, no, you don't understand,。
I'm gonna work out.。
No, you're not, you're not gonna work out,。
you're gonna hurt your joints in the gym。
and you're not gonna be able to work out anymore.。
That's what's gonna happen.。
It happens over and over.。
No, no, no, I'm gonna get plastic surgery.。
Okay, listen, that worked out maybe for a little,。
yeah, about 10 years on that, okay?。
It's fleeting.。
It's going away, it's diminishing, okay?。
And so what if you, who are you?。
What does this say about the guy who walks through the porch。
who sees the girl, goes up to her,。
the hot girl, right, goes up to her。
and asks her for her number.。
What does that say about you?。
It says you're a sixth grader.。
(congregation laughing)。
Okay, you're a sixth grader.。
It says that I know that what you have is vanishing.。
I'm not looking for a long time,。
I'm looking for a good time.。
That's what it says about you.。
I'm not looking for a long,。
I don't know anything about your character,。
I don't know if you love Jesus,。
I don't know who you are or where you come from,。
but I know you look good。
and so I was wondering if I could have your number.。
Okay, I used to do that in the sixth grade,。
walking through the mall.。
(congregation laughing)。
Just being authentic here.。
So if you invest, if you invest in fleeting things,。
like anybody, some of you are in the financial world,。
if you invest in things that are fleeting,。
it's diminishing returns.。
Like you're losing money from day one.。
But if you invest in godly character,。
it pays dividends the rest of your life.。
The rest of your life.。
It's just good investment.。
That's just good investing, okay?。
And so ladies, this is what I would tell you,。
you want looks that last.。
And what I mean, I'm not talking about Botox。
or facelifts or boob jobs,。
I'm talking about looks that last,。
looks from him that last.。
A guy who looks at your character,。
he's going to look at you like you're beautiful。
the rest of your life.。
When your beauty fades, and it will fade,。
he's still gonna look at you like you're beautiful.。
You want looks that last.。
So don't attract him with Botox and a boob job。
and a facelift and a butt that looks good in those jeans,。
okay, because those things are gonna go away,。
and when they do, he's gonna go away.。
And you don't have to trust me.。
See, there's like a part of me going into the night。
that I'm just like, man, they're just not gonna believe me.。
And I actually prayed through that,。
and I was like, God, they're not gonna believe me.。
He said, oh, they're gonna believe you.。
Maybe just not tonight.。
So that's the piece I have in this message.。
Every single one of you are gonna know it's true one day.。
Every one of you are gonna know it's true.。
And so ladies, you get a guy with your good looks,。
you're gonna lose him when those looks fade,。
and the problem with that is,。
is I think a lot of you ladies,。
when you hear me say that, you think,。
you don't think, oh yeah, he's right.。
You think, no, I'll just stay looking good.。
Good luck with that.。
First Peter 3:3 says,。
your beauty should not come from outward adornment, period.。
You tracking with me?。
See, your beauty should not come from outward adornment.。
It's just in the scripture.。
It's black and white.。
It's not even complicated.。
Like, I don't need to exegete the Greek on that.。
Your beauty should not come from outward adornment.。
You're gonna leave here and like,。
does my butt look good in these jeans?。
No, it shouldn't come from outward adornment,。
but from something inside, and I know,。
you're tired of waiting on those guys。
and you see the girls getting ahead.。
I get it.。
You're tired of always being the bridesmaid,。
never the bride.。
I get it.。
I don't really get it, but.。
(congregation laughing)。
See, like I said earlier,。
you've been told what is beautiful,。
and it's just true because like in researching this message,。
like it's evolved.。
Like there was a day, you know,。
even when Song of Solomon was written,。
when like super fair skinned,。
what was most attractive,。
like the fairer your skin,。
no matter what your ethnicity was,。
the fairer your skin, the more attractive,。
and slightly plump, and I don't know how else to say that,。
but that's what was attractive, okay?。
And so like in that day, in Solomon's day,。
if you'd have told him there's gonna be a Palm Beach tan。
on the corner, they'd have been like, what?。
That's crazy.。
They'd pay you to get uglier, you know?。
'Cause that was just the day, right?。
It's evolved.。
You've been told.。
You've been duped.。
Media has told you what is beautiful,。
and so it's evolving.。
Do you remember the anorexic look of the '80s。
and the early '90s?。
And now where it's headed, and I want you to hear why.。
Where it's headed, I think the more of what is going to be。
the epitome of beauty is now kind of the porn star, okay?。
The huge kind of unnatural curves, if you will,。
if you're tracking with me there.。
That's what's gonna be the epitome of beauty.。
Why?。
Because men are telling you what's beautiful.。
Why?。
Because you're letting them.。
Okay?。
Because as they say, hey, this is what we like,。
you say, okay, this is what we'll give you.。
And you say, but JP, that's 'cause I'm tired of waiting,。
and they're winning.。
You can trust God.。
Okay, if I didn't know anything else about God,。
I know one thing.。
I know that we can trust him.。
You can be with him a lot longer than you're here.。
And you can pursue him and love him。
and find satisfaction in him,。
which I know can be difficult in seasons.。
But I'm just telling you, he's just telling you,。
a relationship built on beauty won't last.。
How do I know this?。
We can pursue this with logic, like God said it,。
but I can answer, I can respond with logic.。
Because who are the most beautiful, sexiest,。
wealthiest people alive?。
Where can we look for that?。
Hollywood.。
Who also has the highest divorce rate?。
Let me just read a few.。
Ryan Filippi, Reese Witherspoon, Brad Pitt,。
Jennifer Aniston, Tom Cruise, Katie Holmes,。
Chris Robinson, Kate Hudson, Seal, and Heidi Klum,。
Usher and Tamika Foster, Chris Humphries and Kim Kardashian,。
Charlie Sheen, Denise Richards, Guy Ritchie and Madonna,。
Mark Anthony and Jennifer Lopez.。
It's a really long list.。
Ashton Kutcher and Demi Moore, Katie Perry,。
Russell Brandt, Peter Wentz, Ashley Simpson,。
Jessica Simpson, David Arquette, Courtney Cox,。
Tony Parker, Eva Longoria.。
I can go on and on.。
It's a really long list.。
I'll stop right there.。
You track with me?。
How does that work?。
Who are the sexiest, wealthiest,。
most beautiful people on the planet?。
How's it working out for them?。
Like if it was about that,。
we would turn to them and say,。
look how great their marriages are.。
Like that's what I want, right?。
See, sometimes people are beautiful。
because they're at the center of their world.。
Like sometimes he's got everything kind of stacked up right。
'cause he's worked really hard for that.。
The reason he's worked really hard for that。
is 'cause he likes the way it looks in the mirror.。
He's at the center.。
Sometimes she has everything stacked up just right, right?。
'Cause she's at the center of her world.。
I'd be really cautious about that, okay?。
And then sometimes,。
sometimes we pursue that。
because we want the experience.。
Let me ask you a question.。
Just gonna throw it out there.。
Is sex better with a beautiful person?。
Don't shout out your answer.。
Okay, my guess is the room would be divided.。
You can just think on it.。
I'll tell you, here's what I tell you.。
This is the truth I lean on.。
Marriage is better with a faithful person.。
Marriage is better with a committed person,。
with a person of character all day long.。
Some of you are so addicted to the experience。
that you've got some really bad habits.。
And so you watch the soap opera and you say, I want that.。
I like the drama.。
It's really crazy, but I met with enough of you to know this.。
Your life, in a way that some kind of subconscious。
or a way you can't help, you are addicted to drama.。
So you have what's called a savior complex。
and you see him and you know that he gets in fights。
and he's no good, but some reason,。
you wish your heart wasn't, you're attracted to that.。
And in some people, maybe he even gets in fights with you.。
Maybe he gets physical with you and you're attracted to that.。
And I'm just saying, hey, something's broken,。
something's off, and I'm not calling you out.。
I'm saying, hey, we're here to help you.。
All I need you to do is get the courage and say,。
yeah, man, something's a little off in me, man.。
I'm attracted to these guys, no good for me.。
Will you help me?。
And we will.。
And guys, like you go after the drama queens.。
Okay, most of you know, you run from the drama queens,。
but some of you, you're like, I like that.。
She's crazy, that's what I like.。
(congregation laughing)。
Eminem says it like this.。
One of my favorite theologians.。
(congregation laughing)。
I can't tell you what it is.。
I can only tell you what it feels like.。
And right now, there's a steel knife in my windpipe.。
I can't breathe, but I still fight while I can fight.。
As long as the wrong feels right, it's like I'm in flight.。
High off of love, drunk off of my hate.。
It's like I'm huffing paint, and I love it。
the more I suffer.。
I suffocate, and right before I'm about to drown,。
she resuscitates me, she really hates me, and I love it.。
Some of you, you heard that song, you're like, yeah.。
(congregation laughing)。
That's true.。
But this is, this is what the scripture says.。
This is what the wisest man ever lived.。
This is what he wrote.。
It's gonna be, I'm gonna go in order, okay?。
Starting with Proverbs 19, verse 13.。
A quarrelsome wife is like a constant dripping.。
Proverbs 21, verse nine.。
Better to live on the corner of a roof。
than share a house with a quarrelsome wife.。
Proverbs 21, 19.。
Better to live in a desert, this is straight from the word,。
okay, better to live in a desert。
than with a quarrelsome wife and an ill-tempered wife.。
Proverbs 25, verse 24.。
Better to live on the corner of the roof。
than share a house with a quarrelsome wife.。
It's in there twice.。
Proverbs 27, 15.。
A quarrelsome wife is like a constant dripping。
on a rainy day.。
And then we get to this proverb, where we're at today.。
It's Proverbs 31, it's called a wife of noble character,。
and it says this.。
A wife of noble character, who can find?。
She is worth far more than rubies.。
And so when I'm calling you to,。
what God's word is calling you to,。
what someone who loves you very much is calling you to,。
men, women, aim at godly character.。
Aim at godly character.。
Put your crosshairs, put your sights on godly character.。
And so what does noble mean?。
It's not a word we use a lot.。
It means having or showing qualities。
of high moral character, such as courage,。
generosity, or honor.。
Okay, these are what you look for.。
Last Thursday, I picked my little girl up from school,。
Presley, she's in kindergarten, she's five.。
And she's telling me about her friend Avery,。
and she's like, "Daddy, Avery taught me this,。
"and Avery taught me that,。
"and do you know what infinity means, Daddy?。
"Avery told me what infinity means,。
"and this and that."。
And I was like, "Well, cool.。
"How long have you been friends with her?"。
And she goes, "No, Avery's a boy."。
(congregation laughing)。
Oh man.。
Okay, it sounded like y'all talked a lot.。
Is Avery your boyfriend?。
No.。
Presley, do you have a boyfriend?。
Yes.。
I can't breathe.。
(congregation laughing)。
What's his name?。
I don't know his name.。
It's funny when you're five,。
you don't know that names are important in relationships.。
But what I'm saying tonight is I think when we're 25,。
we still don't know what's important in relationships.。
When we're 35, we still don't know。
what's important in relationships.。
Like God's word just says, black and white,。
it's just like it's plain as day, right?。
Charm is deceitful, beauty is fleeting,。
but a woman who fears the Lord, that's what you want.。
Find you a woman who fears the Lord.。
What does it mean to fear the Lord?。
It means to obey his command.。
That's what it means, to obey his command.。
It means to follow his command.。
Let me tell you like this.。
Ladies, a guy, the reason that he'll put his hand。
up your shirt or down your pants, it's for one reason.。
He's not scared of God.。
That's it, it's the only reason.。
You tracking with me?。
The reason he's saying, hey, can I come in?。
And you're saying, no, he's like, come on, what's the--。
It's because he doesn't fear God.。
Okay?。
And ladies, that's back on you too.。
If you're saying, if you're inviting that in,。
like it's only one reason.。
It's like, God, I'm not scared of you.。
I don't need to obey your word.。
You don't know what's best for me.。
All it means to fear God is to trust。
that he knows what's best for you.。
That he sets you here and he's giving you rules。
that leads to life.。
And so, but a woman who fears the Lord is to be praised.。
Guys don't believe this.。
One of the reasons that guys don't believe this, ladies,。
okay, I don't mean to come on hard at the ladies.。
I mean, guys, I could yell at you all night,。
but ladies, one of the reasons that guys don't believe this。
is 'cause you don't believe this.。
Like you can nod right now.。
You can be like, oh yeah, fears the Lord, yeah.。
And then you're like, man, I wish I had her body.。
So you don't believe it.。
Man, I wish I looked like her.。
Comparison, the thief of all joy.。
Let me say it again, comparison is the thief of all joy.。
You look at her, man, I wish I had her hair.。
I wish I had her eyes.。
I wish I had her chest.。
Wish I had those legs.。
You don't believe it.。
You ever, man, I wish I feared God like she does, you know?。
I wish I knew the word like she,。
I wish I was committed like she is.。
So let me just clarify some things and we'll wrap up.。
History doesn't disqualify you, okay?。
So I don't care if you've had 127 sexual partners,。
had abortions, that doesn't disqualify you.。
Christ makes you know, we know that.。
And so history doesn't disqualify you,。
but your reputation does, okay?。
And reputation's not today, right?。
Reputation's a season.。
And so you wanna walk faithfully for a season.。
Okay, I'm talking to you guys too.。
Like I don't give you, man,。
maybe you've been a player, a cheat.。
You're not disqualified,。
but it's time to surrender everything,。
to set the crosshairs on Jesus.。
Say, Jesus, I wanna follow you.。
I believe you died for my sins.。
I believe you covered them, they're behind me.。
That's not who I am anymore.。
My identity's now in you and I'm gonna walk。
as a new creation, Paul writes.。
I'm gonna walk in a new life.。
I'm your son, I'm your daughter.。
And so some of you, you hear this and you wanna date,。
but you don't need to date.。
You need to take a season and you need to pursue Jesus.。
And as I say that, your heart might be saying to you,。
I hope he's not talking about me, and I know he is.。
So let me just say this again.。
Some of you, you don't need to date right now.。
You need to go out and kind of mark。
in your Microsoft Outlook calendar,。
like six months or a year, and say,。
hey, I'm gonna take this time。
and I'm just gonna pursue you.。
And I trust in your timing.。
You know, that you'll ignite that in me。
or allow me to do that again through the context。
of community and the wisdom from others.。
Okay, but some of you, if you are ready,。
this is what I want you to do.。
It's a real simple application.。
It's a fun application.。
I think you're gonna like it, okay?。
It's this simple, guys.。
If you're here and you're like, man, I love Jesus,。
I'm ready to date, this is what I want you to do, okay?。
This simple.。
I want you to think of the most godly woman you know.。
This simple, think of her.。
Who is she?。
The most godly woman you know.。
Now, this is assuming you're not in a relationship.。
I know some of you are.。
And so if you're in a relationship,。
you can kind of audit your relationship。
based on these values.。
And so if you're here and you're not in a relationship,。
you think of the most godly person you know, okay?。
The most godly person you know.。
Guys, I'm talking to you, and I want you to ask her out.。
That's it.。
I'm not asking her to marry you.。
Just ask her to coffee.。
And you can ask her for this purpose.。
I mean, I wanna know kind of what,。
you know, how did you get godly?。
Like, what makes you godly?。
And how do you trust God?。
And just get to know her.。
And ladies, this is for you now.。
If you're here and you're not in a relationship,。
if a godly guy asks you out, okay?。
If a godly guy asks you out, and you know he's godly,。
I want you to say, okay, yeah,。
we can go and coffee one time.。
We can do that, I will get to know you better, right?。
And so what I'm saying, like guys are like,。
well, I want a tall girl, a short girl,。
blonde girl, brunette girl, blue eyes, right?。
I want you to throw that out the window for a minute。
and set it on godliness.。
Okay, godly character.。
If a godly guy asks you out, I just want you to give him。
a shot, it's one date, okay?。
Now, if he's not godly, okay?。
Let me say this first.。
If you don't know if he's godly, like you say,。
well, how do I know, he's at the porch,。
that does not mean he's godly, okay?。
And so if you don't know, you say this,。
you say, you know what?。
This tall, goofy guy told me that if you're godly,。
that I'm supposed to say yes.。
And so I don't know if you're godly,。
so I just need some time to kind of figure that out.。
That's it, it's that simple.。
You look him in the eyes, you say, hey, you know what?。
I don't know you well enough to agree to that.。
And so I just need some time to kind of。
check your references, if you will.。
He'll love that, okay?。
(congregation laughing)。
All right, now, if he's not godly, what do you do then?。
You make up an excuse, you say, well, I can't。
because I gotta go change my sock drawer.。
No, you don't, okay?。
You don't do that.。
Now, listen, this is important, ladies,。
'cause a lot of you have missed this.。
So I'm gonna give you some good, sound wisdom here.。
If you don't think he's godly, you tell him that.。
Whoa, what a, no, you want me to be truthful?。
You look him in the eyes, and you say no,。
and you say, here's why.。
I've seen some things in your character。
inconsistent with that of Jesus,。
and so I'm not interested.。
I can't say that, you couldn't be honest?。
That's what you're saying, I can't be honest.。
That's crazy.。
Ladies, you can be honest.。
I think we've taken this word submissive。
to mean, like, I can't be truthful.。
I wanna empower you to be truthful, okay?。
You can be truthful.。
That's it, that's the application tonight.。
I'm serious, this week, every guy here.。
Like, next week, y'all should be on a date.。
Everyone here should be on a date at the porch.。
(congregation laughing)。
Okay, if you're here, you're ready to date,。
you ask, you think of the godliest girl you know,。
and you ask her out.。
And you say, JP, I want both.。
I want beautiful and godly.。
You say, like, maybe it looks like this.。
You're like, well, I mean, I need to be attracted to her。
to spend some time with her.。
No, you don't, you need to spend some time with her。
to find out if you're attracted to her.。
Remember, like, I'll tell you,。
some of the healthiest marriages I know,。
their story's like, man, we were serving together,。
and I wasn't interested in him at all.。
(congregation laughing)。
But now, it's like this crazy healthy marriage.。
Sometimes God just does something, okay?。
Let me say it like this.。
Let me just invite you into the Pucluta household, okay?。
So we'll go last night.。
So my wife, she's sick, okay?。
It's kind of been going around, this flu-like thing,。
and so my wife is sick, my three-year-old is sick, okay?。
And so, like, I'm being stopped up,。
like, just no energy, running a fever.。
Okay, we got a four-month-old at home, okay?。
And then we got a five-year-old at home,。
and so my five-year-old, right,。
like, she has to, she's in kindergarten,。
she has a homework assignment, she has to write a book.。
I'm like, what, write a book?。
Literally, she has to write a five-page ABC book。
on animals, draw the animals, illustrate it, and everything,。
and so I'm sitting there,。
I'm sitting there trying to help her do this.。
Monica's like, hey, can you pick up Weston?。
Weston's crying.。
I pick up Weston, I'm like, hey,。
you know, I'm doing that beatbox thing。
that sometimes I'll post on Facebook.。
I'm doing that, and he just,。
bleh, projectile vomits all over me, okay?。
Like, the nasty, sticky, white stuff。
hits me right here and runs down my shirt and my jeans,。
and I'm grossed out by that, by the way, okay?。
So, like, I'm not the cool dad.。
I'm like, oh, take him, take him, take him!。
And so Finley's crying because she's sick,。
and Monica's not feeling well, and Presley needs help,。
and now Weston's crying.。
This is all happening last night, okay?。
And then we go to bed.。
Let me tell you something, Weston's teething.。
So he's up four times last night, four different times,。
and when he wasn't up, my sick three-year-old, she's up.。
And so they were trading off.。
It's like they communicated, hey, I'll get up,。
and then when I go back, when they go back to sleep,。
then you start crying, okay?。
And so then she's like, okay, Finley, you okay?。
And then, Weston, okay, you okay?。
Now, Finley, you okay?。
And so we're doing that.。
Let me tell you something.。
I don't need a trophy wife.。
I need someone to go to war with me.。
You tracking with that?。
(congregation laughing)。
I need someone to step into battle with me.。
Like, that's cool and all, you know?。
Hey, that was fun, you know?。
You looked good in a bikini,。
but now it's time to go to war, okay?。
I just got vomited on, you know?。
And I'm just telling you, it's logic.。
That is where you're headed, okay?。
And it's funny because the family,。
we no longer value that.。
I'm telling you, in America,。
people are getting married exponentially less。
than they ever have, and they're having less kids,。
so much so, they're saying America won't sustain itself。
because people aren't having children.。
Why?。
Because we're selfish and self-absorbed。
more so than we ever did.。
We're pursuing pleasure more than we ever have,。
and listen to this one.。
This was the most interesting.。
We're the most depressed we've ever been.。
Do you get that?。
It's logic.。
We've shifted off of God's values.。
It's that simple.。
We say, man, I wanna be about me.。
And it ends tragically.。
See, some of you guys,。
some of you guys know guys pursuing godly girls.。
You're like, man, what's he doing?。
She's not that hot.。
What's he doing with her?。
You think he's missing the target.。
You don't know, man, he's drilling it.。
He's hitting that little character。
to the up and to the left, just killing it, okay?。
Let me pray.。
, God, I think they're wrestling with this right now.。
You love 'em more than I do even.。
And so, Father, in your Holy Spirit, in your power,。
would you take that what is true。
and would you stir it in their hearts。
and not let 'em shake it?。
Like some of them, they know that they're dating。
someone no good for 'em, and so would you give 'em。
the courage to have that conversation tonight?。
Say, hey, man, we're done here.。
Some of them have made compromises。
that they need to ask each other's forgiveness,。
and I pray that you let them do that.。
Confess it in context of community。
and move on to higher ground.。
Some of them know that they've been pursuing。
the wrong things, and I just pray that in your power,。
you would help them reset the sights, reset the scope.。
Aim at the right target.。
And Father, for all of us, I pray that we would pursue Christ。
more than a spouse, even my married friends,。
even us, help us to pursue you more than our spouse,。
that you would be ultimate.。
Father, I thank you that we are all gonna be。
well married one day to your perfect bridegroom,。
to your perfect son.。
Help us to hope in that.。
Man, that's just what you guys need to hear.。
Some of you, I know that you're forgiven.。
Every stupid thing you've done,。
every wicked thing you've done,。
if you've trusted Jesus died for it,。
that's what it takes.。
I know there's some whack theology out there。
saying some other things, but it's this simple.。
He died for all your sins, or he died for none of your sins.。
He purchased your way to God.。
And if you trust in that, then you're a new creation.。
And the crazy thing about new creations。
is they do new things.。
And so instead of being tempted to pursue yourself。
and tempted to pursue those things。
that have brought death to your life, pursue new things.。
Pursue the abundant life Christ came to bring.。
It's John 10, 10.。
It's from the scripture.。
And so I just want you to leave here.。
Remember the application, don't forget it.。
Move the crosshairs to the right thing.。
Godly character, okay?。
Godly character.。
Remember you guys can ask questions on Twitter。
and we'll try to address them in the next four weeks.。
We'll do our best to.。
I love you guys.。
Go in peace to love and serve the Lord.。
Amen.。
(silence)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
