I mean, he's practically dating a model.。
She told me they went to Cabo and he paid for the whole thing.。
Dude, she does his laundry and cooks.。
He proposed at the Eiffel Tower in Paris.。
Bro, she plays in his fantasy football league and knows more about the Cowboys than he does.。
She's got the husband, the house, she's got it all.。
What more could you ask for?。
So, welcome everybody to The Porch. My name is Adam.。
Welcome to everybody in Fort Worth, everybody in Houston, downtown.。
Really excited to be here with you guys as we continue this relationship series.。
So, anyway, I want to start off with a story tonight.。
And I want to tell you guys a story about the first time I ever told a girl, "I love you."。
Alright? It was 8th grade.。
And her name was Julie.。
And so, I'd been going with Julie for a couple of weeks.。
Honestly, I knew at the time and I know it now.。
Julie was a rebound. It was a rebound relationship.。
Because I'd had another incident a few weeks earlier with a girl named Jessica.。
But anyway, so I'm going with Julie.。
And so, going together for us in 8th grade, I don't know what it was like for you in 8th grade.。
But for me in 8th grade, it just meant like holding hands in the hallway.。
Maybe hugs before second period or something like that.。
And it meant a lot of conversations on the phone, late at night, talking about nothing.。
Okay? And so, in this one night, it was a Friday night.。
And Julie and I are on the phone.。
And we're talking about, I mean, we're just talking about nothing.。
I mean, we're talking about TV and all that kind of stuff.。
"Oh my gosh, you like Full House too?" "Yeah, me too. Uncle Jesse." Right?。
And so, we're talking about that.。
And so, somewhere in that conversation, I just decided, "Hey, now it's time to get off the phone.。
We've got to go to bed." All that kind of stuff. It's getting late.。
And I'm going to tell her I love her.。
Because I feel like I love her.。
And so, we're on the phone.。
And I'm like, "Hey, I've got to go. It's 11.30. I've got to get up tomorrow."。
And she's like, "Hehe, okay."。
And so, I was like, "Julie, I love you."。
It's like a bold move for an eighth grader, right?。
So, there was like a little bit of silence.。
And then, she was like, "I love you too."。
And we hung up the phone.。
And then, like three weeks later, we broke up.。
I mean, I can't blame myself, really.。
Like, I think about it.。
I mean, even at eighth grade, I was throwing that word around all the time.。
I mean, I had no clue what the word meant.。
And I was just throwing that love word around for everything.。
And I mean, honestly, I still do that today.。
I still throw that word around a lot today.。
I mean, just this week, I would talk about my love for baseball, my love for coffee,。
my love for Blue Bell ice cream, which by the way, the new one,。
the Cookie Two-Step, this is just time out.。
It doesn't relate to the message.。
This is just to bless you.。
The Cookie Two-Step.。
Chocolate chip cookie dough ice cream with the cookies and cream together.。
I mean, come on.。
I will not be offended if you leave right now and go get that, all right?。
Go. Yes.。
It's amazing, and I love it.。
All right, so I love that ice cream.。
I love my sons.。
I've got two boys.。
I've got a seven-year-old and a six-year-old, Jake and Joshua.。
I love my wife, Jackie.。
I love Jesus.。
I love bacon.。
I love biscuits.。
I love all this stuff.。
Okay, so I throw this word around all the time, and you guys do it too.。
You guys do it too.。
I mean, your list would be very, very similar to my list.。
Maybe a couple names would change on there, hopefully, but your list would be similar.。
And so we all go around, and we throw this word around all the time,。
and I think any reasonable person would know if the word we use to describe our love for bacon。
or our affections for bacon,。
if that word is the same word we would use to describe our affections for Jesus。
or for our spouse, like something's missing there.。
Something's missing.。
Something's off.。
And so tonight, what we're going to do is we're going to talk about love.。
As we continue this Relationship Goals series, we're going to talk about love and what that means.。
And here's why this is so important.。
The reason this is so important is because there were so many of you all that walked in here tonight,。
and you all think you know what love is.。
You think you know what it means to love someone.。
And what we're going to see tonight as we open up God's Word,。
what we're going to see tonight is that we really don't know.。
The understanding we had of love when we walked in here tonight,。
what we're going to see is it's off.。
Or maybe it's not like totally off, but it's at least, what we'll all admit, it's at least clouded.。
It's clouded.。
And so what we're going to do specifically is we are going to look at the source of love.。
We're going to look at God's Word.。
We're going to look at the source of love, because Scripture is really clear.。
In fact, in 1 John 4, verse 7, John tells us that love comes from God.。
So God was the originator of love.。
He is the originator of it.。
He is the designer of it.。
Man did not come up with love.。
Hollywood didn't come up with love.。
Television didn't come up with love.。
Man, on our best day, on our best day, we would not have come up with love.。
God came up with it.。
He's the designer.。
It's His idea.。
And so because He's the designer, He's the one that gets to define it.。
He's the source of it, and He's the one that we need to look at tonight.。
And He's the one who is going to inform what we mean when we say it.。
And so here's what we're going to see.。
We're going to see that love is a decision.。
We're going to see that it's accompanied by emotion.。
And we're going to see that love always leads to a commitment.。
And as we start to get our arms around and really understand what this definition of love is,。
when we start to get our arms around that,。
we're going to see that there are some really significant implications,。
significant implications to our dating relationships and what we mean when we say, "I love you."。
So if you've got your Bibles, let's open up.。
So there's a lot of different passages we could go to tonight to talk about God's love。
and get an understanding of God's love.。
And I want us to spend some time in the book of Ephesians, chapter 1.。
So that's where we're going to go if you've got your Bibles.。
Open up to the book of Ephesians, chapter 1.。
And so just a little setup to this.。
So Paul, the apostle Paul, planted a church in this ancient city of Ephesus.。
And he had since left that church, and then he was writing a letter to that church.。
He had some things that he wanted to communicate with that church.。
And in the first century, that's what you did.。
You wrote a letter to him.。
And so Paul, when he wrote his letters, they kind of followed a general formula.。
He would say, "Hey, this is Paul."。
And then his formula, then after he kind of introduced himself, he would then just praise God.。
At some point in the beginning of the letter, he would just say some sort of praise about God.。
Well, you get this idea, as we're going to see here in Ephesians 1,。
when Paul was writing this letter to the church in Ephesus,。
like he had a really, really good cup of coffee that morning, or he was really excited。
because his praise of Jesus wasn't just a simple statement.。
In fact, it was like the longest run-on sentence in Scripture.。
It's Ephesians 1, verse 3, all the way through verse 14 is one run-on sentence,。
no punctuation, just Paul fired up about Jesus.。
And in this one long run-on sentence all about Christ,。
what we're going to see as we go through here is we're going to see some aspects of God's love.。
We're going to learn some things about God's love.。
And so let's jump in.。
Here's where we go, Ephesians 1, verse 3.。
Here's what Paul says,。
Christ. And so the very first thing that we see here, as we start to learn,。
we have this clue about God's love.。
And the first thing that we see here is that God's love for you and me,。
it started as a decision.。
It started as a decision.。
I mean, he sat up there and he chose, he chose to love us.。
He predestined us for adoption to sonship.。
And that idea of predestination, like Paul doesn't put that in there。
to mess with our theological minds and try to confuse us with that.。
He's saying that he chose us and predestined us.。
That's in there not to confuse us.。
That's in there to comfort us.。
That's in there to like overwhelm us and to wow us and to go,。
that is amazing that before I was born,。
before I was born, before I did anything good,。
before I did anything bad, God and his sovereignty,。
God and his majesty, God and his grace,。
and in his mercy in that moment, before I was born,。
he decided to love us.。
He decided to do that.。
And so the first point that I had tonight about love that we're going to see is that love is a decision.。
Love is a decision.。
Now the culture though, the culture doesn't talk about love as being a decision.。
The culture likes to talk about love as like this force or this power or this storm,。
this thing that just overtakes you and it overwhelms you.。
It likes to talk about love like we are victims of it.。
It's just something that happened to us.。
We weren't looking for it.。
It just overwhelmed us.。
We fell in love.。
Just we woke up one day and we realized we are in love.。
You know, the culture really, it talks about love like it's the flu.。
Nobody goes out just being like, you know what?。
I think I want the flu this week.。
You know, so I'm going to go out and I'm going to look for the person who's sneezing or whatever,。
and I'm going to go shake their hand.。
No, nobody goes out looking for the flu.。
It just happens to you.。
You're just kind of a victim of those germs and you get the flu.。
And that's the way that the culture talks about love.。
We're just victims of it.。
It just overwhelms us.。
It's just this power.。
It overtakes us.。
And I think like if we're honest, if we're honest, we kind of want it to work that way, don't we?。
I mean, that's kind of the way we would really like for it to work because for crying out loud,。
that would make life really, really exciting.。
If love was just this thing that happened to you.。
I mean, every day you would wake up and you go, I don't know, maybe today is the day.。
Maybe today's the day where I'm just going to turn the corner and there she is,。
or I'm just going to get on the train and boom, there he is.。
He's right there.。
I mean, this makes waking up to get on an early morning flight to go somewhere for work.。
This makes it a lot better and a lot more exciting because maybe today on that flight,。
maybe today he sits next to you.。
Right?。
And the guy, he sits down and he looks good and he's got his tie on and he brings out a book and sets it on his lap.。
And you're like, that's a John Piper book.。
Right?。
And then he gets his phone and he's texting somebody or it's on GroupMe and you're like, I think that GroupMe is called Community Group.。
Oh, my goodness.。
Like today is the day.。
He's in community and he loves Jesus.。
Like, oh, thank you, Lord, that today love just overtook me.。
Right?。
And you just start planning your wedding.。
It's just a sailor motif.。
It's going to be awesome.。
Or maybe this makes going to weddings that much more exciting.。
Now that you're the bridesmaid and you shell out all that money for the dress, like that idea of maybe if love is this force,。
maybe this is finally going to make weddings really exciting to go to because maybe this next wedding,。
maybe this is the one that when you're up there and it's time to leave and you're paired up with the guy and you got to go back up the aisle,。
maybe this is the time you're not with the 13 year old brother of the bride.。
Maybe this is the time you're with the roommate of the groom from college who looks good and is a little rebellious.。
Right?。
Sleeve tats.。
And you're like, yeah, he loves Jesus and he loves the ink.。
All right.。
This is awesome.。
I mean, it would be so great if like love, which is it overtook us and it overwhelmed us.。
And I think we want it just to be this force.。
We want it to be this thing that we are just a victim of.。
That's not what love is.。
It's not it's not this force.。
Love is a decision.。
God didn't just like see us one day and just go, oh, wow, look, there they are.。
I'm going to love them.。
It just kind of overtook me.。
Before you were born, before you did anything good, before you did anything bad, God set his affections on you.。
He decided to love you in the way he loves us is the way we are to love other people.。
Love is a decision.。
It is a deliberate act of the will.。
It is a decision to seek somebody else's best.。
It is a decision to give of yourself.。
It is a decision that even if you don't feel like loving, you will.。
Love's not a force.。
It's not some power.。
It's not just something that happens to you.。
Love is a decision.。
But there's more.。
Let's keep going.。
So jump back into Ephesians.。
For he chose us before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight.。
In love, he predestined us.。
For adoption to sonship through Jesus Christ.。
And then look at this.。
In accordance with his pleasure and will.。
So God, before the beginning of time, before you and I ever existed, before we did anything good, before we did anything bad, God chose, he decided to love us.。
And that wasn't merely this data-driven spreadsheet decision.。
God, when he set his affections on us and when God decided to love us, he did it in accordance with his pleasure.。
There was emotion involved in it.。
He did it according to his pleasure.。
He did it because he wanted to.。
He did it gladly.。
He gladly set his affections on us.。
Look at this.。
Psalm 103.。
The psalmist tells us here that this love that God had for us, it wasn't just this mental decision.。
It also had emotion.。
The Lord.。
Psalm 103, verse 8.。
The Lord is compassionate and gracious.。
He's slow to anger and he's abounding in love.。
That word compassionate there, that's an emotional word.。
And so the second point that I have tonight for us is this, is that emotions, they play a role in love.。
But they don't define love.。
So love is a decision, but it's also accompanied by emotion.。
It's a decision, but it's also accompanied by emotion.。
And again, this is not something that the culture really models very well for us.。
The culture largely, largely talks about love like it's just this feeling and it's ruled by feelings.。
It's led by feelings.。
And as long as the feelings of love are there, then you must be in love.。
And if the feelings ever fade, then that must mean that love is gone.。
The way the culture describes the feelings of love, it's not love.。
You know what it is?。
It's a crush.。
That's what it is.。
And crushes, they are fun.。
They are exciting.。
They are thrilling.。
They are a sweet time in a relationship.。
And crushes are out there.。
And you don't want to like just plow through that.。
You just got to let that ride its course.。
But hear this, crushes are not love.。
There's a massive difference between love and a crush.。
The feelings of a crush cannot sustain a relationship for a long period of time.。
It just can't.。
You have to, and this is going to sound crazy to some of you guys,。
you have to let the feelings of a crush fade so that the relationship can progress and grow to become healthy.。
And I know that for some of you, you understood all of those words I just said,。
and I know fully well that some of you are sitting here and you're going, "I don't believe you.。
That's not what I want.。
I don't believe you."。
Or some of you, you're sitting next to somebody that you're dating and you're elbowing them right now。
and you're going, "Not us, baby."。
We're different.。
We're always going to have the feels, I promise you.。
And I'm telling you, I'm telling you as a friend, I'm telling you, you're wrong.。
You're wrong.。
The feelings have to fade.。
Now, now, hear me real clear.。
That doesn't mean that they fade and then it's just something worse.。
I'm not just sitting up here as like a guy that's been married for 12 and a half years and I'm miserable。
and I want you all to be miserable, right?。
I'm not, that's not the reason I'm saying that.。
I'm saying this.。
I'm saying those things, those feelings are not sustainable.。
They have to fade.。
They have to fade, but they will be replaced by something better.。
They'll be replaced by something better and it's something that you can't even really,。
it's not even an emotion.。
It's deeper.。
So this love, it's accompanied by this emotion.。
The emotions, they play a role, but they don't define love.。
I remember when I was dating Jackie, so we've been married about 12 and a half years.。
I remember when I was dating her, I would leave her, the house that her and her roommate were sharing,。
I would leave her house and I'd get in my car and I'd have to make a couple turns。
and then I'd get on this one road where I was about a mile away from a highway。
that would take me back to my apartment.。
And I remember just about every night there, and there was a season just about every night。
where I'd get, after we would be on a date, I'd get in my car and I'd make that left-hand turn。
and I'd be driving that mile down to the highway.。
And it felt like, it felt like just going down on a roller coaster for that full mile。
until I got to the highway.。
I mean, it felt like just that free-for-all, that excitement, those emotions were there,。
those feels were there.。
I honestly had never, ever, ever experienced a crush like that.。
I'd never felt that way before.。
And it was so tempting, so tempting, every time I had those feelings,。
to believe that now, because I feel this, that must mean I'm in love.。
And now I want to go tell her that I'm in love.。
I want to say all these things.。
I want to make all these promises.。
But that wasn't love.。
Those were clues.。
Those were clues about some emotions that I was feeling towards her.。
They were clues, but that wasn't love.。
And so what God is reminding us of here is that love is a decision,。
and it is accompanied by emotion.。
It's accompanied by emotion.。
It's not ruled by emotion, but it is accompanied by an emotion.。
And for us, too, it's not just an information decision.。
It's not just a spreadsheet decision.。
So just because two people on paper look like they'd be a good match。
doesn't necessarily mean they need to be dating or ultimately engaged in getting married.。
So just because on paper it's like, "Hey, she loves Jesus.。
He loves Jesus.。
She's in a community group.。
He's in a community group.。
They're members.。
They're both members.。
They read their Word.。
They study all the time.。
They're sharing their faith with people.。
They're serving.。
They're generous."。
It's like on paper this looks great and it looks like it should be a match,。
but when you get together with that person, there's no joy.。
There's no affection.。
There's no positive feelings with all that.。
That doesn't mean that you should just muscle through that lack of joy there.。
It doesn't mean that that's somebody that you should be marrying.。
Decisions play a role -- or excuse me, emotions play a role,。
but they do not define love.。
So love is a decision and it is accompanied by emotion.。
And look, because it leads somewhere.。
So look and see where it leads.。
So he chose us.。
He predestined us, and he did this in accordance with his pleasure and his will.。
And let's skip down now to verse 13.。
"And you also were included in Christ when you heard the message of truth,。
the gospel of your salvation when you believed.。
You were marked in him with a seal, the promised Holy Spirit,。
who is a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance until the redemption of those。
who are God's possession to the praise of his glory."。
And so Paul, as he's wrapping up this praise here,。
he's reminding us that God decided to love us,。
that that decision was accompanied by emotion, and it led to this commitment.。
Like God, when he set his affections on us,。
we were marked in him with a seal.。
We were given the Holy Spirit,。
and that was a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance until the redemption of。
those who are God's possession to the praise of his glory.。
So Paul is telling us that love is this decision.。
It's accompanied by emotion, and it always leads to a commitment.。
When God chose to love us, God wanted to love us.。
And when he chose and wanted to love us, that love is unbreakable.。
That love is unconditional.。
There is nothing, nothing, nothing that will ever get in the way of that love.。
And so the third point that I have for us tonight is this,。
is that real love, real love is always wrapped in a commitment.。
Real love is always wrapped in a commitment.。
I mean, I think again, if we just think about the culture,。
the culture, the way it talks about love makes it sound more like it's just a contract.。
Like as long as you're keeping up your end of the bargain,。
and she's keeping up her end of the bargain,。
then you guys can continue to love one another.。
But the second one of you doesn't keep up your end of the bargain,。
then you're free to go.。
That's not love. That's a contract.。
That's what that is.。
That's why every time I perform a wedding,。
anytime I do a wedding ceremony, I always remind the couple,。
I always remind them that, hey, what you're doing here today is not,。
you guys are not entering into a legally binding contract.。
You're not entering into a contract.。
That's not what's going on here right now.。
What you guys are doing today is you guys are committing your life to one another.。
You guys aren't entering into a contract.。
You guys are entering into a covenant.。
A contract is built on distrust, and that can be broken.。
A covenant, a covenant's built on trust and is completely unbreakable before man and before God.。
What you're entering into is a covenant.。
So true love, true love, like real love, it's always wrapped in a commitment.。
And I think this is the deal for all of us.。
That's what we're looking for.。
That's what we want.。
When we're out there and we're like searching for love,。
like that's honestly what our hearts are searching for,。
is we are searching for the love that leads to a commitment.。
And hear me on this.。
The reason why we want that love that leads to a commitment is because that means the love that's being experienced is unconditional.。
And that's what we all want.。
We all want unconditional love.。
And the reason why we all want unconditional love is because every single one of us in this room tonight,。
we all know we are not a 10.。
We're not a 10.。
I mean, we're out there looking for the 10.。
We want the 10.。
We think that's our standard, but we know we ourselves are not a 10.。
We all know that we've got character flaws.。
We've got baggage.。
We've got things that we bring to the table that make us not perfect.。
But here's the deal.。
It scares us.。
Because we all know that we're not a 10.。
And we are deathly afraid that if we show the true self,。
if we show who we really are to somebody else,。
if they see that we're not a 10,。
then they're going to leave.。
And what we want, we want to experience that love that's unconditional,。
regardless of the past behavior,。
regardless of the current behavior,。
regardless of the future behavior,。
that love that will be there.。
That's what we want.。
So when Jackie and I were dating, we'd been dating.。
We'd kind of progressed through the early stages,。
and we're definitely in that crush stage.。
And then we had moved on to where it was now more of a seriously dating relationship.。
And I started to experience a different emotion.。
There was definitely a lot of the feels were all still there,。
but there was also a lot of fear for me that I was starting to experience in this relationship.。
And that fear was because I knew I wasn't a 10.。
I knew that I was a man who had a tremendous amount of baggage.。
And as that relationship was progressing,。
and as we were starting to talk about a future,。
and we were starting to talk about engagement,。
and maybe talk about getting married one day,。
I also knew that I needed to share that baggage with her.。
I needed to let her know what she was getting into.。
And I was afraid that if I showed her all of that stuff,。
if I told her everything, that she'd leave me.。
And my baggage just specifically was this.。
I was bringing about $20,000 in student loan debt into that relationship.。
I was studying at that time to be a pastor full-time,。
which I didn't know income levels, if I was going to be able to provide whatever I was going to be able to provide.。
So there was just some worldly fear that was going along with that,。
just believing some lies with that.。
And so I was afraid that maybe that was going to turn her off.。
I thought that there was a tremendous amount of insecurity that I had,。
just emotional insecurity and relational insecurity that I had.。
But the biggest baggage that I thought I was bringing into the relationship was my sexual past.。
And what I mean by that is this.。
When I was three years old, I was exposed to pornography.。
And from age three until age 21, pornography was a consistent part of my life.。
And because that was a consistent part of my life for all of those years,。
and especially in those teenage years, I made a lot of decisions that I really regretted.。
That past was a constant source of shame for me.。
And so I remember that night where I sat down, and Jackie, she kind of knew the debt situation.。
She knew just some of the relational, emotional insecurities that I had there.。
The conversation that I hadn't had with her yet was what I thought was the deal breaker, was my sexual past.。
And so I sat down with her, and I just said, "Hey, I need to share this with you.。
I need to let you know everything."。
And I remember exactly where we were sitting, where I was sitting on the couch, where she was.。
And I just put it all out there.。
I said, "This is from age three to 21 to now, this is what my struggle is."。
And I thought that was going to be it.。
I thought she was going to say, "We're done."。
And that's not at all what she did.。
She looked at me, and she reminded me of God's word.。
She prayed for me.。
She said that doesn't scare her.。
She appreciated the vulnerability.。
She shared some of her past with me.。
This thing that I thought was going to drive us apart didn't drive us apart.。
In fact, it progressed and helped the relationship continue to move.。
And I drove home.。
I drove home that day.。
I got in my car and drove home that day.。
And that stretch of highway that for months had felt like I was going down on this roller coaster with all these fields,。
it didn't feel that way anymore that night.。
That night, the crush ended.。
The crush was over.。
And it had been replaced by something that was so much better than just the fields.。
That night, I drove home, and I knew that there was a God in heaven who loved me unconditionally.。
And I saw that, and I experienced that in the person of Jackie.。
So love is this decision.。
It is accompanied by emotion, and it always, always, always leads to a commitment.。
That's what it is.。
So here's my challenge.。
Here's my challenge for all of us in the room tonight.。
My challenge is this, and it's just, it's real simple.。
My challenge is do not use that word until you are ready to live it out.。
Don't use it.。
Until you have made the decision that's accompanied by emotion, and you are ready to let that lead to a commitment,。
you're ready to marry someone, you're ready to get engaged to somebody.。
Until you are ready to use and actually live out that word, do not use it.。
That's my challenge for all of us in the room tonight.。
And let me unpack that a little bit more and help you understand what that would look like for some different contexts。
that are maybe some different situations going on.。
So some of you in the room tonight are dating people.。
Like you're in a relationship right now, and that relationship is not at the point where you're maybe talking about marriage。
or not at that point where you're ready to get engaged, but you're dating.。
You've been dating for a long time, and you're using that word.。
You tell each other, "I love you."。
And my encouragement to you is to stop.。
Like have that conversation tonight.。
Tonight when you leave here, just sit down and go, "Hey, we've been using that word.。
We've been saying 'I love you' to one another.。
We really didn't know what it meant.。
Now that we know what it means, and because we're not ready to make this commitment to one another, let's just resolve now.。
We'll use any other word we can think of, but let's just not use that word."。
Because really, really what you were probably trying to do was not communicate that you were ready to commit to them.。
If you've started using that word, and you're not engaged or married yet,。
what you're really communicating is, "I just like you a whole lot.。
I like you more than other people.。
I really enjoy being around you."。
And so here's what you do.。
Just say what you mean.。
"I like you a really, really, really, really, really, really, really lot."。
Right? A whole bunch.。
Okay?。
So if you come up with any other word, just don't use that one.。
Okay? So those of you that are dating, stop using it.。
Or, get engaged.。
[Applause]。
There's some girls that are like, "I love him." Right?。
[Laughter]。
Man, you are going to have some awkward conversations tonight.。
I love it.。
Alright.。
So if you're dating, and you're using it, stop.。
There's another segment in here.。
Some of you all are dating, and you know it's about to end.。
[Laughter]。
And if that's you, if that's you, and you've used that word,。
here's what you need to do.。
If you're still talking, and you're still trying to figure it out,。
and you've said, "I love you," but you know this relationship is not going well,。
and you know it's heading towards breaking up,。
you need to take it back.。
And what it looks like is, "Hey, we said we love each other.。
I told you that. We're breaking up. I'm not making a commitment to you.。
We're now no longer dating right now.。
And so I told you that I love you, but I clearly didn't mean it.。
And so I want to take that back. Will you forgive me for using it?"。
So when I became a Christian, I was junior year of college,。
and I was dating a girl.。
Right around the time that I became a Christian,。
it was an awful relationship, terrible relationship.。
And it was not a relationship I should have been in.。
It was not healthy.。
And that relationship was heading clearly towards ending.。
And we were still in that phase where we were talking,。
but kind of not talking and trying to figure out,。
"Are we going to date anymore? Are we not going to date anymore?"。
And I'm starting to learn about the love of God.。
I'm starting to learn more and more about love.。
And so we had a conversation one night, and I just told her, I said,。
"Hey, I told you I love you, and I want to take it back because I didn't."。
And I don't want you to think,。
I don't know where you're going to go after this conversation.。
I don't know where I'm going to go after this conversation.。
But I don't want you to think that what we had was love, because it wasn't.。
And I know that sounds harsh.。
That was the last time I talked to her. Surprise, right?。
I know that sounds harsh, but get this.。
When you throw that word around, that's a weighty word.。
When you throw that word around and you don't mean it, it hurts people.。
And so if you're in that situation where you're moving towards breaking up,。
you need to probably take it back,。
and you need to ask forgiveness for ever saying it in the first place.。
And then there's some of you in the room tonight that aren't dating.。
And so for some of you guys that are not dating,。
here's the challenge for you. Resolve tonight.。
Resolve tonight that you are not going to use that word。
until you're ready to back it up.。
And here's what I mean.。
When you start dating somebody, that word is off the table.。
It's off the table until you're ready to get engaged and move towards marriage.。
So here's what that looked like for me and Jackie.。
So I had made that decision that, hey, as I started to learn that love is a decision。
accompanied by emotion that leads to commitment.。
I start dating Jackie.。
We're definitely in the DTR stage.。
Like we're an item. We're dating.。
We had moved that. We had that first DTR.。
So now it's like, okay, we're a couple.。
And I just had a conversation with her one day.。
I just said, hey, there's two things I want to talk about with you.。
One, let's just talk about where the physical boundaries are going to be.。
And two, I want to talk about this word love.。
And so here's my belief.。
Here's where the line is going to be and where I want us to be.。
Physical boundaries and with love. Here's my deal on that.。
I believe love is a decision.。
I believe it's accompanied by emotion,。
and I believe it always leads to a commitment.。
And that commitment is best expressed in the covenant of marriage.。
And so we are not going to use that word to describe our affections。
and what we think about one another.。
We're not going to use that word until we're ready to make the commitment.。
And so is that okay? That's just where we're going to be?。
And she said, that's great.。
And it just relieved so much pressure because at the end of the night,。
it wasn't like, it's tonight, tonight, the L bomb drops and all that kind of stuff.。
It was just, it just, it was relaxing.。
And then it made, it made that afternoon in July, 2003, really sweet.。
Because that, that afternoon we decided that we were going to celebrate our relationship.。
We'd been dating for a long period of time and I was ready to make that commitment to her.。
And so our first date was at a coffee shop.。
And so we were going to meet at that coffee shop. That was the plan.。
We were going to meet at that coffee shop at a certain time.。
And, and I got some of her friends involved.。
And one of her friends was waiting at that coffee shop.。
And Jackie showed up to that coffee shop and she walked in and saw her friend and was like,。
Hey, what are you doing here? And she's like, Oh, I'm, I'm here.。
And what are you doing? She's like, well, I'm meeting Adam.。
Jackie said, I'm meeting Adam.。
And her friend was like, well, Adam's not going to be here.。
He told me that he wasn't going to be here. And he gave me this card.。
And so Jackie's friend gave that card to Jackie and she opened it up and it just said,。
Hey, tonight's going to be a lot of fun.。
We're going to celebrate our dating relationship and you're going to pick up a lot of friends along the way.。
And so they left that coffee shop and they went to this other spot that was really a special place for Jackie and I.。
We were dating. We went to Chick-fil-A right there on Lover's Lane.。
Because we're Christian and that's where we dated. All right.。
So the Lover's Lane Chick-fil-A right up there.。
Walk in, Jackie's got her friend. There's another friend. I'm not there.。
She thought I was going to be there. I'm not there.。
Other friend has a card. Then, hey, now you're going to go to another spot.。
And then Jackie and I, when we were dating, we did a lot of running together.。
And so there was this one route that we would run and Jackie would run out of breath really early in the run.。
And so that was always the spot right there by that elementary school where she ran out of breath.。
And when she quit talking, I just started praying for our relationship.。
I said, so this is the spot. So she drove to that spot.。
And then there was another friend and another card.。
And then they were now the three of them were all going to this last spot.。
And that was the spot where we had one of our first picnics.。
So it was at this park. Her friends show up and drop her off.。
They get out of the car. They hug her. And then it's just her and I.。
No photographers. No videographers for YouTube. Just me and Jackie.。
So we're sitting there and I bring out my Bible and I read some scripture to her and say some things to her.。
And then I get down on one knee. And I look her in the eyes and I say, Jackie Lynn, I love you.。
And I get this ring that I had gotten from my grandmother. And I said, will you marry me?。
And she said, yes. And we just started making out right there.。
Now, she said, yes, we didn't start making out.。
Here's the deal. Hear this. So like in the in the Nicholas Sparks movie.。
That was the end. That's the end of the movie.。
That wasn't the end. That moment when I finally told her, I love you, and I backed it up with that commitment.。
Hey, now I'm pledging my life to you. We're going to move towards marriage.。
That wasn't the end. That was the beginning. That was the start of our love.。
Not the end of it. That was the start of it.。
Now I can sit here now and tell you 12 and a half years later that what Jackie and I have right now is it's real.。
It's genuine. It's authentic.。
I mean, if you were to look at the last 12 and a half years of our marriage, you would see a lot of positive emotions.。
You would see a lot of joy. You would see moments of butterflies. You would see moments of laughter.。
You would see moments of just gladness and happiness and a lot of smiling.。
But also after 12 and a half years, you would see also some dark days and some dark weeks that were in there.。
You would see some frustration. You would see some hurt.。
You would see some hurt feelings. You would see a lot of forgiveness.。
It's just it's real. I've seen a lot of the movies. I've seen the movies.。
We've all seen them. I've seen the movies. And I'll tell you what, I can stand up here before you guys and go,。
I've seen the movies and I will take what Jackie and I have every day of the week over those movies.。
Because love is a decision. It is accompanied by emotion and it always leads to a commitment.。
We love. We love because God first loved us. This wasn't our idea.。
The way he loved us is the way we are to love one another. It's a decision.。
It's accompanied by emotion. It leads to a commitment. It's not some force that overtakes you.。
It's not ruled by the emotion. And it's not a contract. It's a commitment.。
And so the way he loved us, that is the way we are to love one another.。
Let me pray for us. So God, we thank you for your love.。
God, we just confess that things that we've done in dating relationships are just such a counterfeit version of the real deal.。
God, we just confess there's so many of us in this room tonight that we're just addicted to crushes.。
We're addicted to and just believing the lies that the culture is telling us about love.。
That it's just this thing that overwhelms us. It's ruled by emotion.。
And God, for a lot of us in the room, the way we've loved other doesn't look like a covenant.。
Doesn't look like a commitment. It's just a contract.。
So God, we want to repent of that tonight.。
We thank you, God, that you set your affections on us. That love started with the decision.。
We thank you, God, that you didn't just begrudgingly love us.。
That there was affections there. It was emotion there. You wanted to love us.。
And God, most of all, we praise you that the love that you have for us is unconditional.。
There's nothing we can do to separate us from the love that you have for us.。
And so God, we come to you now and we beg, we beg, will you please help us love one another that way?。
Because we know these relationships, God, these marriages that you want us to,。
you want those to be a picture of your son's love for the church.。
So God, we need your help. Help us love that way, please. And we ask this in Jesus name. Amen.。
Thank you, God. That's awesome.。
Hey, there's probably room this size. There's definitely some people tonight that,。
honestly, the last thing you probably need to be thinking about is dating and love.。
And there's some of you guys that the first step you need to take tonight is to actually get to know the source of all love.。
Let's get to know who this God of the universe is, get to know who his son Jesus is,。
get to understand, get your mind around this fact that God set his affections on you.。
And he saw that you were stuck in your sins and he saw that you were separated from him。
and he loved you so much that he didn't want you to stay there.。
He loved you so much that he sent his son Jesus to die for you.。
And for some of you in the room tonight, that's what we need to talk about.。
And if that's you, if you don't know who this God is and you don't know about this love that he has for you。
and you don't know about who Jesus is and that he died on the cross for you,。
if you haven't made that decision to trust him and to receive forgiveness of your sins,。
and there'll be some people up here tonight that would be just thrilled to have a conversation with you.。
