- James is made up of 108 verses.。
54 of them are imperatives.。
An imperative is a command.。
(upbeat music)。
That Jesus was not just his half-brother,。
he was his Lord.。
- Yes, he is his Lord and our Lord tonight.。
Welcome back, Porsche.。
We are going into James, like she said.。
Our friends watching live in Porsche, Indianapolis,。
Porsche, Des Moines, Iowa, Porsche, Houston,。
and of course my friends tonight here in the room in Dallas.。
How we doing?。
Love it.。
So excited to be with you guys.。
And like she said, tonight, James chapter four.。
We've been navigating through the book of James.。
James is the half-brother of Jesus.。
If you haven't been tracking with us。
and we are discovering the full truth,。
what it looks like to follow Jesus。
from his literal half-brother,。
a blood relative, James himself.。
And we've just been committed to going verse by verse,。
teaching you guys what it looks like。
to navigate through an entire book of the Bible together.。
So we've been enjoying it.。
Last week, David talked about the power of our words.。
And tonight, James is gonna give us what my Bible,。
I studied the ESV translation.。
So before I prep for a message like this,。
I like to just open up the Bible。
that I do my quiet times in.。
And there's like, you know, there's like subtitles.。
And the subtitle for mine was Warning Against Worldliness.。
Any ESVs out there?。
ESV lovers, like me, yeah.。
Warning Against Worldliness.。
And I was just thinking about this idea of warning.。
And so before we read James's warnings to us tonight,。
I wanna tell you about a time where I didn't take heed。
to a man named Billy Bob's warnings.。
And I was trying to think。
as I was articulating the story out loud earlier,。
like I just need to draw pictures for you guys。
to help better illustrate it.。
So I'm not really good.。
I'm not an artist,。
but they'll come up as we tell the story.。
So here it goes.。
It was summer in college.。
I was given the task of leading about 40 leaders。
in our church to go and bond and get to know each other.。
They're like, you can do whatever you want.。
And I was like, what better way to bond。
and get to know someone than a canoe trip?。
If you've ever tried it, you should like take someone out,。
go canoeing, I don't know.。
And so we go on this canoe trip.。
We Google cheapest way to go on a canoe excursion。
for 40 people.。
And this place called Billy Bob's Yo-Yo Canoe Trip。
pops up in Louisiana.。
And we're like, do it now, do it.。
So we go, we get in the cars.。
I make everyone dress up in like Indian headwear。
and like paint and like teeth and like different,。
I don't know, it was weird.。
And we're getting in the cars, we're going.。
And then we start to get off road and go into a dirt road.。
And we're going further and further and further back.。
And I'm just looking for like a sign,。
anything that says Billy Bob's Yo-Yo Canoe.。
And then suddenly, you know, surely enough,。
we pull up on this little log cabin。
and it says Billy Bob's and this guy,。
I mean, exactly when you hear the name Billy Bob,。
and what you think, he walks out,。
overalls, no undershirt, one's undone,。
trucker hat, you know, missing teeth.。
He walks out, "Waltza, come on y'all."。
He welcomes us in.。
He's like, "Who's the leader of this here excursion?"。
And I'm like, "Me and me and my friend walk up."。
And he tells us how it's called a Yo-Yo Canoe Trip。
because you go down the stream.。
And then we're like, this is important.。
When you go down the stream and you go for four miles or so,。
and then it's lunchtime.。
And then it's really important。
where you choose to eat lunch。
because the reason why it's called a yo-yo。
is because then during your lunch,。
you're gonna hear the dam open.。
And when that dam opens, it's gonna release water。
and it's gonna shift the current back this way.。
So you'll zip back exactly the way。
that you came with the current.。
And I'm like, "Okay."。
And he's like, "But here's the warning."。
And he gets out this napkin。
and he draws a picture like this.。
He says, (congregation laughing)。
he says, "There's the dam, eat here, don't eat here."。
And so we're coming where that arrow is.。
And I'm like, we traveled for four miles.。
I dropped the napkin in like the water, it's all soggy.。
And they're like, "All right, I'm starving.。
It's time to eat our peanut butter and jellies。
and Cheetos and all of that."。
And I'm like, "Okay."。
They're like, "Where should we eat?"。
And I'm like, "Hmm."。
And I look at the napkin, I throw it away.。
And I'm like, "Here."。
So that's where I decided to take us.。
So I'm there, about 40 people,。
and I wanna be the guy that everyone likes.。
And they're like, "It's hot."。
And I'm like, "Well, the water is so nice。
and clear and shallow, go eat there."。
And so they're all happy.。
They're eating out in the middle of the water.。
And the reason why Billy Bob said,。
"Hey, you don't wanna be eating anywhere else but here,"。
is because when this dam opens,。
it releases class four level-sized rapids.。
And I'm like, we are in Louisiana.。
Like, this is not National Geographic, kayakers.。
Like, this is like, what are you talking about?。
And so they're eating out there.。
And surely enough, right on time, you hear,。
"Eat, eat, eat, eat."。
And, okay, the story's getting a little ahead of me,。
but you see where this is going.。
Maybe you don't, I'm not a good drawer.。
But they're sitting there,。
and suddenly the water starts to rise.。
And they're like, "Oh, look, JD, like class four rapids.。
Like Billy Bob, like, what's he talking about?"。
And I'm like, "Yeah, you guys."。
And then before I could say, "Look out."。
I mean, it was like a stampede.。
We look over and they're like, "JD, pfft."。
And rapids take away people that were with us。
that I barely know.。
So I'm like, "Grab the canoes."。
And so we're grabbing the canoes,。
and I'm watching girls just get swept into these rapids,。
just one by one, losing people.。
And I'm supposed to be leading these people.。
So they go, and we're just like watching people disappear。
into class four level rapids.。
And I am just, I mean,。
wives are losing their husbands in these rapids.。
They're praying.。
I look over, girls are like, "Dear Jesus."。
Like they're praying together.。
People are trying to climb up the bank to escape。
as the water is rising up our knees.。
And then we all, I look at everyone,。
and the rapids finally subside.。
And I'm like, "I don't know where half of our crew is."。
And I'm like, like a good leader, every man for himself,。
get back however you can, just get back.。
We're losing canoes.。
We lost all of our food.。
So people just get back to the destination,。
and we sit there, and guys, it is like nighttime。
before finally you just see people in a pack,。
dragging, canoes, soaking wet in water.。
Their feathers from the Indian headwear are like,。
on their face, the paint smeared.。
And they're like, I'm like, "Hey guys, what?"。
And they're like, "Uh-uh, uh-uh.。
We don't want to hear from you."。
And they're like, "Why would you do that?"。
And I'm like, and the guy's like, "I told him."。
They all look at me.。
And I'm like, "Ah."。
And I start there because just like I did not take heed。
to Crazy Billy Bob's warning,。
tonight we're gonna hear from James,。
the author of this book.。
And he's gonna list out a lot of warnings。
for young adults like you and I,。
and what it looks like to have a relationship。
with God in the world.。
And I think when we hear warnings,。
a lot of things come to mind.。
Like in our young adult years,。
we get a lot of warnings in front of us.。
Our parents, pastors, leaders, coaches are constantly saying,。
"Hey, like I wouldn't buy that new shiny car.。
Like you're gonna get in debt.。
I would go with an older car for a season。
until you get more money."。
And you're like, "No, I'll be making bank.。
It'll be fine.。
I'll pay it off.。
You get the new car."。
Or they're like, "Hey, pastors, oftentimes up here,。
like, hey, I would not have sex before marriage.。
I would really."。
And you're like, "What are you talking about?。
Everyone's doing it.。
Like you're so behind the times.。
It's a, it's a bog.。
It's like expression.。
Like it's an act of love.。
Like you're so like, what are you, it'll be fine.。
Like it's, there's no consequences from it.。
It's fine and we're not taking heed to warnings。
in our young adult years."。
And I think there's a few reasons why you and I,。
we don't necessarily listen to warnings.。
I was just thinking about one of the first reasons。
why I don't think we listen。
and why I didn't listen to even Billy Bob。
is because we don't trust the person。
the warning's coming from.。
We don't know them.。
We're like, "Hey, why would,。
why would I dictate my choices based off of what you say?。
Like you don't have any credibility with me.。
I don't trust you.。
You're out of touch.。
What are you talking about?"。
Another reason why we don't listen to warnings。
is because we think that we're outliers.。
Like this, this will pan out maybe for everyone else,。
but I'll be different.。
Like my story will be different.。
I'm exempt.。
I won't have that consequence。
or I'll work my way around it,。
or I can go past the system.。
Or the third reason is because we think that。
someone who is giving us warnings。
is not doing it out of love and care,。
but actually to keep us away from fun and a good time.。
Like they don't want us to experience their withholding.。
They're trying to like keep us back.。
And for some, whatever reason, we're like,。
"I don't want to listen to you."。
But when I think about tonight。
and the warnings we see in this passage,。
like think about the person who is giving us。
these warnings in James chapter four,。
the literal half brother of Jesus,。
someone that you can trust,。
someone that walked with Jesus, ate with Jesus,。
talked to Jesus, learned from Jesus,。
watched Jesus die for you and me.。
And he's like, "You can trust me."。
He has no ulterior motive.。
Like he's not alive.。
He died for this stuff.。
So really think about that.。
Like, why would James take the time to die for this?。
Like, why would he give his life over。
to living a life for Jesus this kind of way?。
And it's because he loves us.。
Like he loves you and I enough。
to write down these things and go, "Trust me.。
I saw Jesus.。
I walked with Jesus.。
Take heed to these warnings."。
And tonight I'm even asking you。
as the messenger of God's word,。
as I'm just reading from the book of James,。
and guys, it's a weighty text.。
It's a hard text.。
It like, this thing shifts so many gears。
and goes so many different directions.。
I'm like getting whiplash.。
I'm like, "What's going on?"。
But as I stand up here, I'm asking you,。
"Hey, as we study James together, like, trust me.。
I love you.。
You guys are my people.。
You guys are my friends.。
We are in this together.。
We are in this walk together."。
And so may we all not be people who walk。
with a blind eye and deaf ears,。
but we take heed to warning,。
which is why tonight we're gonna look at。
three warnings to prevent us from ruining our lives.。
Three warnings to prevent you from ruining your life,。
found in James chapter four.。
So here we go, starting in verse one.。
"What is causing the quarrels and fights among you?。
Don't they come from the evil desires at war within you?。
You want what you don't have,。
so you scheme and kill to get it.。
You are jealous for what others have,。
but you can't get it,。
so you fight and wage war to take it away from them.。
Yet you don't have what you don't want。
because you don't ask God for it.。
And even when you ask,。
you don't get it because your motives are all wrong.。
You want only what will give you pleasure.。
You adulterers, don't you realize that friendship。
with the world makes you an enemy of God?。
I say it again.。
If you wanna be a friend of the world,。
you make yourself an enemy of God."。
That's heavy.。
"Do you think the scriptures have no meaning?。
They say that God is passionate,。
that the spirit he has placed within us。
should be faithful to him,。
and he gives grace generously.。
As the scriptures say,。
God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble.。
So humble yourselves before God,。
resist the devil and he will flee from you.。
Come close to God and God will come close to you.。
Wash your hands, you sinners, purify your hearts,。
for your loyalty is divided between God and the world.。
Let there be tears for what you have done.。
Let there be sorrow and deep grief.。
Let there be sadness instead of laughter,。
and gloom instead of joy.。
Humble yourselves before the Lord,。
and he will lift you up in honor."。
This is a lot.。
I mean, I was reading this like, "Oof, here we go."。
So warning number one found in James 4,。
verses one through 10 is trust God, not yourself.。
Simply put, warning number one,。
hey, always, always trust God,。
and never, never trust yourself.。
Look at verse one again.。
"What is causing the quarrels and fights among you?。
Don't they come from the evil desires at war within you?"。
What does he mean,。
this like these evil desires at war within you?。
Here's what he means.。
When you were born, you had something inside of you,。
we talk a lot about here called a sinful nature,。
a sin nature.。
That is a result of the fall of man。
all the way back in the beginning of the Bible,。
the first book, Genesis chapter three,。
when Adam and Eve chose to partake of the fruit,。
disobey God, they sinned.。
They brought sin into the world,。
and there was a curse of ramifications。
because of that sin that produced a sin nature。
in every human being.。
You and I don't have to earn it.。
We don't have to work for it.。
We have sin inside of us.。
We are born with it.。
We naturally crave to satisfy ourselves。
with the desires and the things of this world.。
And because of that sin nature,。
we go chasing after the world.。
But if you call yourself a Christian tonight,。
if you're here tonight,。
and you have surrendered your life over into God's hand。
and claimed yourself as a son and daughter of God,。
you no longer are identified by your sin,。
but you're now identified by the spirit in you.。
When you accept Jesus,。
he gives you something, a gift called the Holy Spirit.。
And that is now who he identifies you by,。
no longer your sin, but now the spirit.。
The problem is, is the spirit is light。
and your sin is dark.。
And the last time we all checked,。
light and darkness cannot coexist.。
So those two things are creating this friction inside of you.。
They're at constant war.。
When you are faced with that decision。
to not choose God and to choose sin,。
and when you're there sitting there faced with temptation,。
and you're like, I really want to do that,。
even though I know it's no good for me,。
there's this war that James is talking about。
going on inside of you where your spirit is like,。
hey, you know better, don't do it, trust God, not yourself.。
But your sin is like, do it, give in, do it, do it, do it.。
And that's the war that he's referring to.。
And when you choose to not trust God。
and listen to this warning and trust yourself,。
the product of that is you fight, he says,。
you quarrel, you search,。
you're full of jealousy and hatred and anger。
and frustration and stress and striving。
and anxiety and depression and exhaustion.。
And you're going and you're going and you're going.。
And you see this, what you think。
is the right desired outcome.。
You have this like image of what life should look like。
or what you should have or what you should achieve。
or what you want, whatever it is,。
your flesh is like, hey, I want that.。
And you think that you are the means to get your solution.。
Like you think that you are the solution to your problem.。
And so you do whatever it takes to get what you want。
because you trust yourself and not God.。
You think the problem is that you don't want,。
you don't have what you want.。
So you do all of these things that result in hurt。
and frustration to get it.。
But James would say, hey, that's not your problem.。
What does James articulate is the actual problem?。
He says in the end of verse two,。
you are jealous for others have, but you can't get it.。
So you fight and wage war to take it away from them.。
Yet you don't have, listen to this,。
yet you don't have what you want。
because you don't ask God for it.。
He goes even a step further and says in verse three,。
and even when you ask, you don't get it。
because your motives are all wrong.。
You want only what will give you pleasure.。
I think a lot of times you and I, if we're real with ourself。
when you think about your prayer life。
and you think about the things that you ask God for,。
how often is it to meet your agenda。
and not to bring him glory?。
Like how often on the end of your prayers。
is this secret motive in the back of your head。
that's like, yeah, God, like I'm coming to you。
and I'm talking to you, but you better do what I want.。
Like you better do what I'm asking.。
You better give me what I want.。
But James is saying, hey,。
that's not what being a Christian is.。
The definition of a Christian is someone who is Christ-like,。
someone who has surrendered their life to God's authority.。
And you don't trust yourself anymore.。
You don't want to satisfy yourself anymore.。
You wanna live for God and God alone.。
You wanna come to God and say,。
hey God, I trust you, whatever it is.。
I know I have this idea of what I think I want.。
I know I had this idea of success.。
I know I had this idea of a relationship.。
I know I had this perfect timeline set out。
and I think I want what I want, when I want it,。
how I want it, but I trust you.。
He's a good father.。
He wants you and I, he wants his children to come。
and make the request.。
But that request can't be like this, like, okay, God,。
like, I guess, like, no, it has to be like this.。
Palms up, open-handed saying, God, I'm coming.。
I'm telling you what I want。
and I'm trusting you with the results.。
Your problem is, is yeah, you have wants.。
Yeah, your heart wants things.。
That's not bad though.。
Your actual problem is that you're not trusting God。
with the outcome of your wants.。
You're not trusting that he will actually give you。
what you need.。
And James would say, hey, here's the first warning,。
trust God, not yourself.。
I was with a friend this weekend。
and just practically in his life,。
he's just, he's memorizing the verse in Proverbs 3。
that says, trust in the Lord with all your heart,。
lean not on your own understandings。
and all your ways acknowledge him。
and he will make your path straight.。
And so when something happens in his life。
that goes against what he wanted,。
he takes a deep breath, he opens up his hands and says,。
Jesus, I trust you.。
And it's so simple, but I was like,。
dang, Matthew, that kind of hit.。
Like, that was good.。
So I wanted to do something.。
Everyone open your hands right now.。
Open your hands.。
So you're like, what's going on?。
This is kind of cold.。
(congregation laughing)。
If yoga can do it, so can we, all right?。
That's not good, sorry, take that back.。
So here we go, take a deep breath.。
Let's say, Jesus, I trust you, ready?。
Jesus, I trust you.。
Yes, it's that simple,。
but you got to believe it in every situation.。
Like, what if we woke up every day and said, God,。
whatever it is today, inhale, exhale, Jesus, I trust you.。
I trust you, not myself.。
Why can't we trust ourself?。
Because that war, that war that's going in.。
Jeremiah 17, nine through 10 puts it like this.。
The human heart is the most deceitful of all things.。
It's desperately wicked.。
Who really knows how bad it is?。
But I, the Lord, search all hearts。
and I examine secret motives.。
I give all people their due rewards。
according to what their actions deserve.。
You don't have to sit in this temptation。
or this like tension of going, man, I know I'm a war,。
like I'm in a war, my heart, my flesh, and then the spirit.。
And like, how do I know if this is like God's will。
or my will, and I'm so stressed out.。
And it's like, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,。
God is in control, open up your hands, ask him what you want,。
but trust him with the results, not yourself.。
Trust him.。
But a lot of times though, like, I know for me,。
trusting God can be really hard。
and it doesn't make a lot of sense.。
And there's things that you're like, well, I tried to trust。
him and he let me down or he didn't show up.。
And that caused a lot of pain and it caused a lot of hurt.。
I was thinking about a time in my life,。
a couple of summers ago where I, some of you,。
like, I don't know if you'll heard this or not,。
but like all my best friends,。
my senior year of college got married.。
And then they all do different times.。
They ended up pretty much in Austin together.。
They all kind of live in the same neighborhood.。
They're all in their second rounds of kids together.。
And there was this season of just such loneliness。
for a summer where I'm like, God, like, what are you doing?。
I'm so lonely.。
I'm so behind.。
I'm missing out.。
I have FOMO.。
I'm over here.。
I'm 26.。
Like, what is going on?。
I want to find my person.。
I want to find my spouse.。
Don't you say that a spouse is a good thing.。
Like a man should not be alone.。
Like, where are you at, God?。
What are you doing?。
And over time, I didn't feel like he was answering me。
according to my time.。
And so I went on my own way in the name of like praying。
and like, you know, asking God, I was like, you know, God,。
like, you know what sounds good right now?。
My ex.。
We've all been there, okay?。
You get to that point, all right?。
And I'm like, God, I know.。
I know that you wanted that door to close.。
Like you're the God who wanted that door to close.。
And I knew deep, deep, deep down。
that God did not want me to go back to my ex.。
But I thought maybe if I would knock,。
he'd surprisingly open.。
So I knocked.。
That's, I'm just being real.。
And in the name of prayer and trust,。
I went around this roundabout way。
and I didn't listen to God.。
I listened to myself and I trusted myself and I knocked.。
She opened the door and she said, no, thank you.。
And she closed it.。
Praise God.。
But I say that, I say that because after that moment,。
I remember being so frustrated with not her,。
not myself, but God.。
Because I'm like, hello, what's wrong with you?。
She's a godly girl.。
Like the breakup wasn't bad.。
Like this could work out.。
Why don't you want this to work out?。
And he was like, because JD,。
I want you to see that I am enough.。
That I will never leave you nor forsake you.。
That I am with you.。
That I can meet the deepest longings of your soul。
in a way that a human being was never created to.。
That's my job.。
Trust me, not another person, not yourself,。
not another relationship.。
Trust me.。
And I had to learn in that season。
of what was such loneliness to surrender and trust God.。
I know a lot of us are there tonight.。
What do you need to stop putting your trust in yourself in。
and start trusting God?。
Do you need to listen to James's warning tonight?。
Because if you don't,。
it'll set you up for warning number two.。
Because when you choose to not trust God。
and not trust his heart,。
you will no longer see him as good.。
And what was once this amazing loving relationship。
will start to grow stale and dry。
and you'll go looking for love somewhere else.。
Which leads me to warning number two.。
Love God, not the world.。
Love God, not the world.。
Verse four, James takes his hard left turn。
and he's like, "You adulterers,。
"don't you realize that friendship with the world。
"makes you an enemy of God?。
"I say it again."。
I find that so interesting.。
I mean, this man is sitting here with a quill and a scroll。
and all of that, and he's writing.。
And then he's like, "You know what?。
"Double tap."。
They need to hear that again.。
I'm gonna write that down again.。
"I say it again.。
"If you wanna be a friend of the world,。
"you make yourself an enemy of God."。
And I don't know about y'all,。
but when I read the scriptures,。
a lot of times I like to see things that feel really good。
and be like, "Yes, Lord."。
Repost on the gram.。
But when I see verses like this,。
I'm like, "Mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm."。
And I turn the page.。
'Cause I find myself deep down super convicted。
'cause I'm like, "An enemy?"。
Like friendship with the world to be an enemy of God,。
what does that mean?。
An adulterer?。
Like a cheater?。
Nobody likes a cheater.。
Nobody likes a cheater.。
And he says, "You're an adulterer."。
Why does he use that language?。
Like think about how adultery takes place.。
No one wakes up that's in love with their spouse。
and is in a good, healthy marriage。
and wakes up one day and is like, "You know what?。
"Today's the day I commit adultery on that person."。
No one does that.。
No one just wakes up and decides that.。
It's this slow, gradual process。
where you begin to forget about your love。
that you've committed your whole life to,。
that you said you and I ride or die 'til the end.。
You begin to look at that person,。
the things that once attracted you to them。
are kind of annoying.。
That laugh when she snorted, now you can't tolerate it.。
All these different things.。
You begin to fall out of love with this person.。
The things that brought you in。
are now kind of getting dry and stale,。
and you just don't feel the thing you once felt.。
The sex hasn't been as passionate.。
The things aren't that good.。
And so you start to slowly drift away,。
and it's like a slow, gradual process。
where you're arguing more, you're fighting more,。
and then one day you're at work,。
and you're at maybe like a happy hour function or something,。
or you're relaxing,。
and you meet a cute girl from the fifth floor.。
She's vibrant, she's new, she's fun, she makes you laugh.。
She doesn't snort.。
And at the end, you're like,。
"Hey, we have that function in the spring.。
"How about I get your number so we can talk about work?"。
And you get the number,。
and then you find yourself talking about work,。
forcing the conversation,。
and then now without your spouse knowing,。
you're talking to them, and you see it on Netflix.。
Like, they start talking, they start emotionally connecting,。
they find themselves alone at the office,。
and the next thing you know, boom, adultery's committed.。
And then this process begins。
where this person now has to live。
in this tension of two worlds,。
where they're a father or a wife, a mother.。
They have kids looking up to them, needing them,。
and yet there's this scandal going on,。
and they're living in both worlds.。
And you know how the story goes.。
Every single time, you can't do it.。
You can't be married to two people,。
you can't live two lives, you get caught.。
And James is saying, "Hey, warning.。
"When you begin to love the world。
"and fall in love with the world。
"and leave your first love,。
"that commitment you made with God,。
"it's gonna result in so much hurt, so much pain,。
"because that's what you and I do.。
"You have that camp high experience.。
"You all remember that moment。
"where you were at youth camp and you went with a friend。
"and you decided to surrender your life to God,。
"or you had that moment in college,。
"that night of amazing worship that hit you,。
"and you're like, 'I'm going all in.。
"'I'm going all in with you, God.。
"'Take my life.'。
"You found yourself at rock bottom,。
"and you're like, 'I'm never going back.。
"'I'm never going back.'。
"And you enter into this covenant with God,。
"this surrender to God, this like,。
"what James would say, like a marriage.。
"We are the bride of Christ as the church.。
"He is the bridegroom.。
"And you enter into this deep,。
"intimate relationship with God,。
"and then slowly but surely,。
"when he doesn't seem as good,。
"when he doesn't seem as faithful,。
"when you can't feel him,。
"when you're quiet times,。
"when you're reading the Bible and it just isn't hitting,。
"when your prayers feel like they're hitting the ceiling,。
"when you come here time and time again,。
"it's just stale and it's stagnant,。
"and you're like, 'This isn't as fun.。
"'I can't go out and do the things I once did.。
"'I've lost my friends.。
"'I've lost everything.'。
"And you slowly start to drift。
"into friendship with the world.。
"And you go back,。
"and you fall out of love with God。
"and back in love with the world.。
"And James would say,。
"'Hey, you're committing adultery on your first love.。
"'And if you wanna make yourself a friend of the world,。
"'you're knowingly making yourself an enemy of God.。
"'I'm warning you.。
"'I'm showing you.。
"'You cannot be a friend of the world。
"'and in love with God.'。
And you might be wondering right now,。
"What do you mean by a friend of the world?。
"What does it look like to be a friend of the world?。
"We always say around here,。
"Hey, you are the sum of your five closest friends."。
Like when you look at somebody,。
you are looking at the sum of their five closest friends,。
because when you hang out with people enough,。
you start to talk like them, act like them,。
walk like them, laugh like them, dress like them.。
You become the people that you hang out with.。
How you doing?。
And when you ask yourself,。
"Hey, what does it mean to be a friend of the world?"。
Well, in the same ways, I would look at a person and go,。
"Well, how do their friends dress?。
"How do their friends act?"。
I would look at you。
and you can just do a self-evaluation right now。
and ask yourself, "Hey, how do I dress?。
"How do I dress?。
"Do I dress how culture tells me to dress?"。
Like, fellas, do you wear things with like brands。
or to look a certain way。
to give off a certain image or confidence?。
Like, ladies, do you dress a certain way。
because the world says, "Hey, like celebrate you.。
"Life's all about you."。
Or, "Hey, I'm gonna reveal this。
"so guys want to come up to me。
"and seek, I want to get affirmation from them。
"and validation.。
"So I'm gonna show a little more skin than usual。
"when I go out on the weekends."。
Like, what dictates how you dress?。
Is it your friend, the world?。
Do you do it the world's way?。
Or what God would say is best。
as you honor Him with your body。
and with your clothes and with your decisions?。
How do you talk?。
Do you talk like the world says to talk?。
Are you one of those like hard users of the F word?。
Like, you're not talking about this people.。
You're like, "Ah, Lord."。
Do you talk inappropriately?。
Do you use vulgarness, slaying?。
Do you gossip?。
Do you complain?。
Do you just talk and talk and talk and never listen?。
Do you talk the world's way or God's way?。
How do you act?。
How do you live?。
What do you do?。
What do you listen to?。
What do you watch?。
How do you spend your time?。
How you spend your time says what you care about.。
And do you care about the things of the world。
or the things of God?。
Do a self-evaluation.。
Do the hard work to do the proper hard work。
and ask yourself right now, "Am I a friend of the world?"。
Because if you're a friend of God,。
if you're around other friends of God who are saying,。
"I don't care what the world says.。
We are gonna do it God's way。
because we have lived and experienced。
and seen that God's way is the best way."。
You should not look like the world.。
We have produced in the church today a lot of Christians。
that you cannot tell the difference。
between the church and the world.。
You could not tell the difference。
between Christ followers and world followers.。
They have blurred the lines and it looks a lot alike.。
And James is saying here is you cannot do both.。
You can't.。
And guys, when I read this, I mean, I was convicted。
'cause I thought about the songs I listened to,。
the Netflix shows I watched, the conversations I partake in,。
the things that I do.。
And I'm like, "Man, I don't wanna be a friend of the world.。
I wanna be in love with God.。
I wanna do things God's way.。
I wanna look different.。
I wanna be set apart.。
I wanna walk like God calls me to walk。
because I love Him and He loves me."。
So take heed of the warning.。
Love God, don't love the world.。
Don't be an adulterer.。
Don't cheat on your first love.。
Stay in love with God, not the world.。
The last warning,。
because here's was a, just before we get to that,。
a verse, verse five.。
I thought this was so interesting.。
It says, "Do you think the scriptures have no meaning?。
They say that God is passionate,。
that the spirit He has placed within us。
should be faithful to Him."。
A lot of your translations there where it says passion,。
they say that God is passionate.。
Your probably translates to jealous.。
Like God is jealous for us.。
And what a wild concepts that we commit adultery on God.。
We cheat on God with the world.。
And His response, like our response to like a cheater。
is like divorce, rebuke, push away, exile, cancel.。
Everyone around you is like, how dare they?。
They pushed them, they unfollowed them,。
they get them out of their life.。
But God's response is jealousy.。
He has this, like how God can have a righteous anger.。
He has a righteous jealousy.。
And why is that?。
Though we abuse His love,。
though we go to the world and forsake Him,。
why would God be jealous in one us after all we do?。
And after we cheat on Him time and time again?。
It's because He wants us.。
He's like, "Hey, that's mine.。
That's my son.。
That's my daughter.。
That's my child."。
And He wants a better way for us.。
He wants a better life for us.。
He wants life and life to the full.。
And He's like, "I love you too much to leave you out there.。
I'm not divorcing.。
I'm not canceling.。
I'm not going anywhere.。
I'm jealous for you.。
I want you come back to me.。
Come back."。
And some of you tonight,。
as you've done your self-evaluation,。
you might be like, "Oh, I've been a friend。
with the world, therefore I've been an enemy of God."。
And the invitation tonight is, "Hey, He's jealous for you.。
He wants you back.。
So come back."。
Come back.。
But when you come as you are to God。
in the midst of all your,。
maybe the shame and the guilt that you feel,。
and you're like, "I'm so sorry, God,。
for leaving and abandoning you."。
And you come back to Him.。
Yes, He invites you to come as you are,。
but He does not want you,。
'cause if He loves you,。
He does not want you to stay as you are.。
He wants you to change.。
No one goes back to a relationship。
and is like, "I'm so sorry I cheated on you.。
Let me just continue to cheat on you,。
and cheat on you, and cheat on you."。
That's not love.。
You never came back.。
So you come back and you acknowledge who you are。
and who you've been,。
but then, because you recognize that He wants you back。
and that love for you,。
you have no choice but to wanna change out of love for Him.。
You don't change to get His love,。
you change because you've been loved.。
And when you do that,。
you have no choice but to wanna lift Him higher,。
and higher, and higher in your life。
which would be warning number three,。
exalt God and humble yourself.。
Exalt God, humble yourself.。
What do I mean by exalt?。
I just mean to elevate Him in your life as Lord and as King,。
that you go to Him with decisions,。
you go to Him with your love,。
you go to Him with the things that you cherish,。
the things that you want,。
you lift Him higher above everything else in your life.。
He gets more time from you,。
He gets all your affections from you,。
He gets everything.。
You surrender yourself to Him and you exalt Him,。
and then you humble yourself,。
you lower yourself and you're like,。
God, I need you, I need you.。
That's what humility causes you to do.。
And I think most of us,。
why James has to warn us。
because we spend our young adult years。
doing everything we can to exalt ourselves.。
Like think about it,。
even the best Christians in the room,。
you want the resume, you want the influence,。
you want the followers, you want the sidearm candy,。
you want all these different things。
to raise yourself up higher。
'cause you wanna exalt yourself.。
But when you recognize God's love for you。
in the midst of your sin, He calls you back to Him.。
You wanna come and then you wanna change,。
you wanna lift Him higher and lower yourself.。
Romans 6 says this,。
"Well then, should we keep on sinning。
"so that God can show us more and more。
"of His wonderful grace?。
"Of course not.。
"Since we have died to sin,。
"how can we continue to live in it?"。
Read James 6, it says,。
"And He gives grace generously,。
"as the Scriptures say,。
"God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble."。
So James is articulating,。
hey, you've cheated on God, you've ran from God,。
you recognize that He's jealous for you,。
He wants you back, you come back,。
He gives you grace generously.。
But the problem with that is I think a lot of us,。
we abuse that grace.。
We abuse God's love.。
When you're faced with temptation,。
you're rationalizing with yourself,。
you're like, "Well, I could do this.。
"I could do this bad thing.。
"I could forsake God and satisfy myself。
"because grace, grace abounds.。
"More love, I get to experience more grace."。
And that verse we just read in Romans says,。
hey, so should we keep on sinning。
so we can get more grace?。
Absolutely not, that's ludicrous, that's crazy.。
How can someone who says they died to sin still live in it?。
What does he mean by that?。
Well, he's referring to our parallel。
with the story of the gospel, the good news.。
That when Jesus came and left heaven。
and came down to earth because of our sin。
and its separation between us and God,。
he paid our penalty, our price on the cross.。
He was the perfect sacrifice because he never sinned。
knowing that you and I would, and he hung on the cross.。
And he died, they buried him, and he rose again.。
And he defeated sin, he conquered sin.。
And now we get to experience freedom.。
We get to experience grace.。
We get to experience love.。
And I think a lot of us like to experience the risen Lord.。
We like to be the same with Christ。
and experience freedom and grace and love,。
but you can't experience the benefits of the resurrection。
without sitting in the reality of the death.。
Like so many of you want to experience,。
like we want to experience,。
I want to experience grace and love from God,。
but I don't want to sit in the reality of why I need it,。
of my sin,。
because I continue to disobey him。
and go back to the world and trust myself.。
I don't take heed of these warnings.。
And so Paul and James, what they're saying here is,。
"Hey, when you come back to God,。
"there should be a change in you."。
Like I said, you get to come as you are,。
but there's nothing loving that would allow God。
to want you to stay as you are.。
There should be a change in you。
because of the realization of his love for you.。
And so how does that change come to be?。
Well, like he lays it out,。
like he closes out the section,。
which is going verse by verse,。
of when you recognize God's love for you。
and it produces that change in you,。
when you take heed of these warnings,。
when you don't trust God,。
or when you don't trust yourself and you trust God,。
when you don't love the world and you love God,。
when you begin, because of his love for you,。
exalting him and lowering yourself,。
the changes, they look like this.。
What does he say?。
"Humble yourselves before God."。
What does that mean?。
Like what I've been saying, it's like putting a posture,。
it's getting up every day and like Matthew saying,。
"Jesus, I trust you."。
Creating that posture of dependency。
where you get down on your knees and you say,。
"God, I need you, I want you.。
"I invite you into my life every day.。
"I need you, I want you, I trust you,。
"I need you, I want you, I trust you.。
"I have no good apart from you.。
"I'm gonna try and try again to make life about me,。
"but I wanna decrease, I want you to increase.。
"I wanna exalt you above everything that I have."。
And then he goes on to say, "Hey, resist the devil。
"and he will flee from you.。
"Don't forget that you have the power to resist the devil.。
"And I know the temptation seems hard.。
"I know the sin seems great.。
"I know it seems fun and you'll get a quick fix。
"and a short time satisfaction.。
"But I know that you also know。
"on the end of that sin is guilt and shame。
"and you know you don't wanna do it,。
"but it feels so heavy and so hard.。
"But you can resist the devil。
"because you have the power。
"of the Holy Spirit inside of you.。
"You can say, no, I resist you.。
"I'm not giving in.。
"I'm choosing God, I'm loving God, I'm trusting God.。
"I'm taking heed of these warnings and I'm not giving in.。
"I resist you, Satan."。
And it says, he will flee.。
He'll flee.。
And when he's gone,。
you now get to come in and come near to God.。
That's amazing.。
That God would want adulterers, cheaters,。
lovers of the world to come near to him.。
Because of Jesus, we get to come near to God.。
And what's even crazier is he then comes near to us.。
When we exalt him, he exalts us.。
He comes near to us and begins to listen, meet our needs,。
give us our wants because we are choosing。
to make him Lord of our lives.。
He says, wash your hands, purify your hearts.。
He's talking about confess, be changed,。
be transformed, be healed.。
Let your life begin to change.。
Put off the old self of sin。
and put on a new life with Christ.。
Wash away.。
By the blood of Jesus, be pure, be clean before him.。
And then this is the part that I was like,。
man, this is like a Debbie Downer.。
Like to end on this is like, really James?。
Here's what he tells us to do.。
Let there be tears for what you have done.。
Let there be sorrow and deep grief,。
sadness instead of laughter, gloom instead of joy.。
And I was reading that, I was alone in a room。
and I was prepping and I read that.。
And I'm like, but wait, I thought that like following God。
and like grace and freedom and like love。
was supposed to be just as happy life of blessings。
and favor and like happiness all the time。
and joy all the time.。
And like, I thought if I was obedient to God,。
like that would be the case.。
And the reality is,。
the reality is, is there needs to be a season, a time。
where before we sit in the weight of God's love for us,。
we sit in the weight of our need of God's love.。
And I think that we don't like that.。
Like I think that we like to laugh.。
I think we like joy.。
I think we like happiness.。
We like feeling good.。
And that's okay.。
But you know what will make that laughter sweeter,。
that joy longer,。
is when you truly take time to understand。
how you have access to it.。
When you take time to sit in the weight of your sin.。
And guys, as I was like writing all of this stuff,。
here's what I thought about.。
Like the Bible talks about how it was our sin。
that put Jesus on the cross.。
Like he did it for you, you, mine sin,。
like because of his love for us,。
that while we were sinners, he died for us.。
And it says that by his stripes,。
like by the whips on his back,。
you and I are healed from our sin.。
And I was thinking about how when I read these warnings,。
and it says, hey, you cannot love the world and God,。
and yet JD, you love the world,。
and then you try to love God.。
And hey, if you continue to sin,。
like it's gonna bring you further from God.。
And like you're committing adultery。
and all these different things.。
I'm like, why would I do that?。
And right now, I want you to think about the person。
in your life that loves you the most.。
Like think about the person in your life。
that loves you the most,。
and how they would do anything for you,。
how they would die for you.。
And imagine you walking up and hitting that person,。
spitting on that person, whipping that person.。
We don't like that.。
I don't like that.。
I think about my dad.。
I would never do that to my dad.。
He loves me.。
And then I was prepping and I was like, God loves me.。
Jesus loves me so much more than my dad.。
And James is saying, hey, you need to sit。
in the weight of your sins and let it produce tears。
and be okay with mourning and grieving。
how you've turned your back against God.。
And I sat, I sat in it.。
I thought about my sin and the stripes on Jesus' back。
and the price that he paid for me.。
And I thought about how some of us tonight。
will hear these warnings and still not listen。
and still not believe that God is enough。
and that he's worth it and that Jesus died for you。
and he's worth it.。
And it was just more stripes.。
And then when I sat in that,。
I then was forced to then sit in the weight of love,。
of grace.。
God was like, hey, hey, it's okay.。
This is why he died.。
There's no greater love than this,。
that a man would lay down his life for his friend.。
This is why he died, so that you could be free.。
And my mourning turned into joy.。
My tears turned into laughter.。
My sadness turned into happiness.。
I was like, thank you, God.。
Thank you, God.。
(gentle music)。
For the way that you gave me out of my sin。
and for bearing my sin on the cross that I could be free.。
And tonight, I wish that everything in me,。
I could end with this hope-filled message of like,。
so let's go and be free.。
But as I was wrestling with God。
of how to close this message,。
I think we need to actually sit,。
do that self-evaluation and sit in the weight of our sin.。
Mourn, appropriately mourn and grieve our sin.。
Not stay in it, but sit in it for a little bit.。
And let that produce obedience,。
trust, love, produce change.。
People that once neglected warning,。
we now wanna listen to it because Jesus paid for our sin.。
And so tonight, if that's you,。
if you're going, hey, I've been committing adultery,。
I've been running from God and I wanna run back to him.。
Don't wait.。
As we respond in worship, just take a moment,。
sit in it and go, God, I need you.。
I need you, exalt him, humble yourself.。
Say, God, I need you.。
Open up your hands, say, Jesus, I trust you.。
What have you not been trusting him with?。
Say, Jesus, I trust you.。
If you've been loving the world and not loving him,。
say, God, I'm coming back.。
I love you, I love you.。
Thank you for loving me, I'm coming back.。
And when you come back, say, and I wanna lift you higher.。
And I wanna be obedient and I wanna respond.。
Lay down your life, give him your life。
because he gave his life for you.。
And let that change you, let it change you.。
Take heed to James' warning.。
Don't walk out of here the same.。
Hear the warning and change, respond,。
trust, love, and exalt God, humble yourselves.。
We're gonna take a time right now just to do that.。
And I don't know if this might be weird for some of you,。
like if you need to get on your knees。
and turn in your chair, get on your knees.。
If you need to just open up your hands。
and say, I trust you, open up your hands.。
If you need to grab some people and get around and pray,。
do that, whatever it looks like.。
But tonight, I think God is calling the people。
in this room and watching to sit and mourn。
how our generation has turned their back on God。
time and time again.。
But the beauty of it is because of the gospel,。
we then get to be exalted.。
God exalts us, his children, we get to worship him.。
So let's take a time to do that.。
Father, I know that the weight of our sin。
is heavy here tonight.。
I know that the weight of my sin is heavy here tonight.。
And I know that we need you.。
I know that time and time again, we choose not to trust you.。
We choose not to love you.。
We love the world.。
We exalt ourselves.。
We don't exalt you.。
So I pray that this would be a moment where we come back,。
where we lay ourselves down and we say, God, I'm sorry.。
God, I need you.。
God, I trust you.。
God, I humble myself.。
God, I wanna honor you with my life.。
I don't wanna continue to cheat on you.。
I don't wanna continue to be a friend of the world。
and try to love you and do both.。
I'm done doing both.。
I'm done being exhausted.。
I trust you, I love you, I'm coming back.。
And that we sit in our need for you.。
And that we stand and sing with confidence。
because of your love for us.。
That you'd send your son down to die for us.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
You are who we bow down to,。
who we humble ourselves before and exalt tonight.。
May he be glorified.。
In the name that I pray, amen.。
