Good evening and welcome to the porch.。
I'm here to guide you on your journey through the complex world of。
relationships.。
Can we cue some music please? From our friendships to our romantic endeavors。
we'll explore our family bonds, estranged relationships,。
work dynamics, and perhaps even the relationship with oneself.。
So how do we relate? To answer this we'll look to scripture and find exactly what。
God has to say about our relationships.。
This is, after all, the Relationship Series.。
Porch, how we doing? We doing okay tonight? Great to see you.。
Glad to have you here with us in Dallas, Texas, but also glad to have all of our。
Porch Live locations tuning in。
from around the nation. Special shout out to Porch Live Tulsa,。
Fresno, and for the very first time, Porch Live Springfield.。
Let's go Porch Live! Love it! Anybody from the Midwest in the room?。
We love the Midwest. Hey, well there's one movie。
where the top A-list celebrities of the 1990s all assembled together。
to form what is arguably one of the greatest cast lists。
of all time. It included an acting。
ensemble with household names like Val Kilmer。
and Ralph Fiennes, who you know as Voldemort, or Sandra Bullock,。
Helen Mirren, Steve Martin, Martin Short, Sir Patrick Stewart,。
Michelle Pfeiffer. But not just that, it had an amazing。
acting ensemble, but it also had award-winning musical composition by the。
one。
and only Hans Zimmer. But not just that,。
it also boasted a title track sung by。
not one, but two powerhouses,。
Whitney Houston and Mariah Carey. You see, there was good reason why the world was。
eagerly waiting and watch, anticipating the day when this movie would launch,。
which it eventually did in 1998. What movie。
am I talking to you about? An animated。
Bible story known as The Prince of Egypt.。
If you've never seen the movie, then take the reference from your peers. It's well。
worth。
the watch. You see, The Prince of Egypt is a retelling of one of the most iconic stories in all。
of human history. It's the story of a guy by the name of Moses。
who goes to Egypt to free God's people, the nation of Israel。
or the Hebrew people. And like any good。
Hollywood historical adaptation, there's a little creative license. But what you find。
as you watch the movie is they really do a good job honoring the。
essence of the entire story. And。
they depict some very specific scenes that are just。
amazing to watch, that bring the story to life in a way。
that has touched me for a very long time. It's my favorite animated movie.。
And so rather than tell you a little bit about it, I thought I would show you one of those。
scenes in specific. So take a watch as Moses engages the burning bush.。
Now there are a lot of Moses movies。
out there and plenty of burning bush scenes you could watch. But the reason we wanted to pick。
this one specifically for you is I think it。
shows Moses wrestling with his sense of self。
better than any other film. And the reason that's important for us。
is because that's exactly what we're talking about tonight. You see, all series long as we've。
been making our way through the relationship series, we've been talking about。
what is God's design for relating to others. But tonight,。
as we bring the relationship series to a close,。
we want to talk to you about what God's design is。
as you relate to yourself. And so for us to do it,。
we're gonna be in the book of Exodus, chapter 3.。
You can grab a Bible, you can turn there with me, and what you need to know is that。
we're gonna work through three different ways in which we relate to ourselves.。
We're gonna talk about。
insignificance, insecurity, and inadequacy.。
To catch you up on the story as we find ourselves。
in chapter 3 of Exodus, we see that the Hebrews are enslaved。
to Egypt. They're under Pharaoh, and Pharaoh has feared the expansive growth。
of this fledgling nation. He's。
grown so fearful that this nation is growing so quickly。
that he has enslaved the entire population. But not just that. In order to。
exercise even further population control,。
what he orders is the death of every firstborn。
son within a Hebrew family. He decrees genocide.。
And yet, as God would have it,。
we meet Moses,。
who is a firstborn Hebrew son。
that is actually adopted into Pharaoh's household,。
raised by Pharaoh's own daughter,。
all for the purpose of eventually overthrowing Pharaoh。
through the power of God himself.。
And so what we find as we come to verse 1 is God's call to Moses to step。
into this grand purpose. And yet before he begins to unpack the purposes he has。
for Moses, he needs to write。
Moses' perspective of self. And so this is what it says in verse 1.。
"Now Moses was keeping the flock of his father-in-law Jethro,。
the priest of Midian. And he led his flock to the west side of the wilderness, and he。
came to Horeb,。
the mountain of God. And the angel of the Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire out of。
the midst of a bush.。
And he looked, and behold, the bush was burning, yet it was not consumed. So。
as a reasonable man, Moses said, 'I will turn aside to see this great sight. Why。
the bush is not burned?'。
And when the Lord saw that he turned aside to see,。
God called to him out of the bush. Moses。
Moses. And he said, 'Here I am.'"。
As we open the story, we see that God。
is moving towards Moses. And we see it in verse 1, that he moves towards Moses all the。
way。
in the land of Midian. Midian, just for your perspective,。
is 500 to 600 miles away from Egypt, meaning Moses has。
gone a long ways from where he grew up. He has journeyed out,。
he has journeyed into the land of Midian, and he's at the Mount of Horeb.。
Horeb, when you translate it directly from the Hebrew,。
means barren or desolate. That's where God finds him.。
And he's shepherding his father-in-law's flock, which means that Moses。
has no sheep to his own name. So to put this into perspective for you,。
Moses has left the halls of Highland Park, and he has traveled into the wild。
and waste。
of West Texas, where he lives nowhere of significance,。
with no one of significance, doing nothing of significance.。
And yet it's out in the mundanity of Midian。
that God meets with him. And some of you need to know that tonight.。
Like, some of you need to know, like, in the。
in the sea of sand you see within your circumstances, and。
as barrenness abounds within your own life, where you feel like, "Man, I'm。
only in an insignificant place. I'm stuck where I am. I can't get。
out of this spot." God will come to you there.。
You don't need to be within the halls of power。
or seated amongst the privilege for God to come to you,。
because God comes to Moses in an insignificant。
setting. And yet he doesn't just come to catch up with him.。
Like, if you keep reading, we'll jump down to verse 9, it says, "And now behold, the cry of。
the people of Israel has come to me,。
and I have also seen the oppression with which the Egyptians。
oppressed them. Come, I will send you to Pharaoh,。
that you may bring my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt.。
But Moses said to God, 'Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh。
and bring the children of Israel out of Egypt?'" You see, God moves towards Moses,。
yes, but he also has a mission for Moses.。
Namely, he wants to use Moses。
to liberate his people, to free his followers,。
to change the destinies of people for generations. He has a grand plan。
in store for the life of Moses. Like, this is a。
world-changing, life-altering invitation. How does Moses respond?。
"Yes! Finally! I've been waiting for this moment!"。
"No. I'm going to spring into action. I'm going to pack my bags, I'm going to load my camel, I'm going to start。
riding off。
to Egypt immediately. We're going to get there as soon as possible, God." "No.。
Finally. It's about time you figured out that I was the guy."。
"No, that's not God. That's not Moses' response. What is Moses'。
response?" He gets nervous. Like, he starts pitting.。
He starts sweating. He starts second-guessing。
that God's got the right guy. Like, he looks like that NFL draft that you don't。
want to pick.。
He's the guy that's walking across stage, and you're like, "No, don't do it! Don't pick that guy!"。
Because he's the one that's walking up to the commissioner and shaking his hand and saying,。
"Hey, are you sure about this thing? Like, did they actually pick me?。
You could have gone with someone better." What would that guy inspire。
in the mind's eyes of his fans? No confidence.。
Like, the fans don't want to cheer his name. The fans don't want that guy at all.。
And yet, porch. That guy。
is exactly who God wants. That's exactly。
who God wants. Like, just look at the way that God responds to him.。
Verse 12, "And God said,。
'But I'll be with you, and this shall be the sign for you。
that I've sent you. When you have brought the people of Egypt, or when you've brought the people。
out of Egypt, you shall serve God on this mountain.'。
Then Moses said to God, 'If I come to the people of Israel, and I say to them,。
"The God of your fathers has sent me to you," and they ask, "Well, what's his name?。
What should I say to them?" And God said to Moses, "I am。
who I am." And he said, "Say this to the people of Israel.。
I am has sent me to you." God also said to Moses,。
"And say this to the people of Israel. The Lord, the God of your fathers, the God of。
Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, he has sent me to you. This is my name。
forever, and thus I am to be remembered throughout all generations."。
Like, God doesn't respond to Moses by boosting his confidence,。
by stroking his ego, by hyping him up. He doesn't even agree with the guy. Like, he。
doesn't come to Moses and go, "Yeah, man. You're definitely a work in progress. Let's get a。
personal improvement plan together and get you in a tip-top shape, because this。
is going to be a big job, and I don't know that you're ready for it." That's not God's。
approach to Moses whatsoever. What is God's approach to Moses? As Moses。
looks at him, he's like, "You got the wrong guy. Like, who am I?"。
God looks at him and says, "Who are you? Who am I? I am that I am."。
Like, you're asking the wrong question. Like,。
I am the one that is going to be with you. Don't worry about yourself.。
Worry about me. I'm the one that's coming with you on this grand journey,。
because you see true significance. It's not found in who you are. It's found in。
who God is. True significance isn't found in who you。
are. It is found in who God is. Meaning, if you want a right view of。
yourself, then you need to get a right view of him.。
That's how you get a good view of yourself. You get a good,。
long view of him. You need to know him as he is.。
And the good news is, he gives us three descriptors for himself. He tells us。
exactly who he is. He gives us three things. What's he say?。
He says, "I will be with you." Like, what's that mean? Like, no matter。
what in your life leaves you feeling insignificant, where you come from, the。
job you have, the past you carry, the shame you feel,。
the sort of people you surround yourself with, the。
struggles that you endure, no matter what leaves you feeling insignificant, if God。
is with you, he is present in your life, then insignificance is not your story.。
Isaiah 41 10 tells us, "Fear not, for I'm with you. Be not dismayed. I am your God.。
I will strengthen you. I will help you. I'll uphold you with my righteous right。
hand." Psalm 23, a famous psalm in verse 4 says,。
"Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death,。
I will fear no evil." Why? "For you are with me.。
Your rod, your staff, they comfort me." Zephaniah 3 17。
it says, "The Lord your God is with you. The mighty warrior who saves," and look at。
what he does, "he will take great delight in you.。
In his love, he will no longer rebuke you,。
but he'll rejoice over you with singing." You see, the presence of。
one who is significant dignifies that which is insignificant.。
I remember in 2015 reading an article about someone that made $60,000。
because they sold a bag of air on eBay from a Kanye West。
concert. $60,000 for a bag of air!。
Listen to me, porch. If the presence of Kanye West。
can take something as insignificant as a Ziploc baggie of air。
and auction it for 60k, how much more valuable do you think the。
presence of God in your life will make you。
infinitely, infinitely, infinitely more valuable?。
Because he's with you. The second thing he tells us is he tells us his name.。
He says, "I am who I am." Now listen, there's an entire sermon locked up in that。
statement. That's something for another time,。
but just to give it to you very simply, what God is saying is God。
is saying, "I am." He is. He is not the God of just one thing.。
God of water, God of rivers, God of war, God of love, God of harvest. He is not the。
God of one thing. He is the God of everything.。
Like, he is self-existent.。
Like, before anything was, he is. He has always been. He will always be.。
And he is self-sufficient. He needs no one。
or no thing. Like, hello, the bush was on fire yet not consumed.。
He defies natural order because he is self-sufficient. He is self-sustaining,。
and he is self-directed. I mean, he didn't take orders from anybody.。
He's the one in charge. He's the one who makes the calls. He's the one that。
determines where and when and what he does.。
And yet, here's the thing. If God is eternally constant, totally。
independent, and supremely dominant, so transcendent。
above all other beings, yet he is with you,。
then just think about it. Though God has always been,。
he wants to be with you.。
Though God needs no one or no thing, he wants to be with you. Though God。
does not take orders from anyone, he wants to be with you。
because that's who he is. He is God powerful, yet God present.。
And thirdly, he's a God of promise because that's what he tells us. He gives。
us a promise. He says, "I'm the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, Isaac,。
and Jacob." Why is he rolling that line out? Because he wants them to know, "Hey,。
the word that I gave to your family in times past,。
I will keep in times to come. I am the same God back then。
as I will be today, as I will be in the future. I'm not just a God that。
reigns over everything. I'm a God that relates to a specific people,。
to my people, to those that call on my name and believe。
in my son." Why does any of this matter? Because when you combine a God that's。
present with a God that's powerful, with a God of promise, what you get is a。
God so significant where everything he says。
about himself changes everything you see about yourself.。
And friends, I don't know if you don't like what you see in the mirror,。
but if you don't, if you wake up and you take a hard look at yourself and you。
don't like what's staring back at you, then listen to。
me. It's time for you to stop telling yourself,。
telling God about yourself, and time to start telling yourself about God.。
That's the right step for you, and that step can begin tonight.。
Now some of you, you're here and you're like, "Listen, I get that.。
Insignificance is part of my story. Where I come from, I'm ashamed of it. The things。
that I've done, yeah, I wish I could take those。
back. My family, they're not the greatest of people, but it's not just。
insignificance that gets in the way, Kylin. I also, I've got some insecurities.。
I've done some things. I've been some places. What do you have to say about。
that?" Well, thankfully, Moses can relate to you pretty。
well, and so we'll keep reading. We're actually going to jump down to chapter。
four, and we're going to read this in verse one.。
"Then Moses answered God, 'But behold, they will not believe me or。
listen to my voice, for they will say, 'The Lord。
did not appear to you.'" Why is Moses so insecure as to think that。
the people of Israel won't listen to him, won't believe him。
when he shows up? I mean, God literally just said, "Hey, go。
and declare my name to them." When they ask, "This is who I am. I am。
that I am. Go and tell them that this is my name."。
And yet Moses, he has a rebuttal. "But God, what if they don't believe me?" Why is he。
so insecure to think that these people won't believe him?。
Because he knows, and they know, what he did in the past.。
He knows, and they know, that he already ruined his reputation,。
and he fears there's no coming back from it. So what did he do?。
Well, we don't have time to read it, but if you go and you look at Exodus 2, you。
get a story about Moses in his younger years.。
And what you see is a young man that has all this unbridled passion for the very。
thing that God's calling him to do. He wants to deliver。
his people, the Hebrew people, God's people, out of slavery. That's what he's。
burdened for. That's what he wants to do. And yet he tries to do it on his own。
strength. He tries to do it by his own power.。
And so what he does is he springs into action. He sees an Egyptian。
who's attacking a Hebrew. He says, "That's not cool."。
Jumps in. He kills the Egyptian, which is probably taking it a little bit too far.。
And then he buries the body in the sand, tries to hide the evidence.。
And yet he does such a bad job at hiding the evidence that he actually gets。
exposed in front of everybody. Like everyone knows what what Moses did.。
Everybody knows he's at the top of Egypt's most wanted list.。
And not only that, rather than becoming the deliverer that his people desired,。
he becomes a murderer that all of them despised.。
He's ousted. He's rejected. No one wants anything to do with him. He is。
ostracized into the wilderness, into the land of Midian.。
That's why this whole proposal from God feels so hard to stomach.。
Doesn't make any sense. God, you can't send me back there.。
They know what I did. Like I'm not just a nobody from nowhere. I。
actually used to be a somebody that blew it in front of everybody.。
And so I can't go back. You've got the wrong guy.。
It reminds me of a time in my life when I made the switch from corporate into。
ministry. Like I left the safety of the。
corporate work environment and I made my way into the instability。
of the ministry world. And yet I did so knowing, like man, I think that this thing。
could work. Like I believe, and I have some friends around。
me, community that have edified the fact that yeah, like you love the Bible and。
you've got some communication gifts. Yeah, they need to be worked out, but。
man, you've got some raw potential. Like get out there and go for it. And so。
I stepped into ministry and yet the thing that you need to know about teaching。
is the only way to assess fully how good you are at it is the hard launch.。
Like you just got to go for it. Okay, and so I finally got the chance to do that.。
In 2017, I stood on stage with a speaking。
opportunity for the very first time in my life.。
It was a crowd of several thousand people. It was awesome.。
Meaningful moment for me. And I remember it like it was yesterday. Like the。
evening came, the worship started, the people stood, the。
hands were raised, and worship came to a close, and the people。
applauded, and the drums washed out, and I felt my moment。
is here. At long last, this is it. This is my。
chance. This is what I've been preparing for.。
Tonight marks the journey as I move my way into being a preacher of God's word.。
And not just a preacher, but a powerful preacher。
of God's word. I'm gonna do this thing. Tonight is the night.。
And so as the drums washed, I in slow motion rose from my seat。
and began to make my way to the stage. And as I ascended the steps, and I walked。
to the center, rather than share a few announcements and。
then transition this really smoothly back into worship, I, like a deer in。
headlights, froze.。
What's my line? What am I supposed to say?。
You see, my moment had arrived, but I had not.。
And rather than proving myself to be a speaker, the likes of which all people。
would want to listen to, all I'd proven is I didn't know how to speak at all.。
Moses is in a really similar spot. He wanted to be a deliverer, but when the。
moment came, he blew his chance. He failed. He knows it. Everyone knows it.。
And he just thinks that there's no coming back from it. That's why he's。
insecure. Like he didn't just make some。
questionable decisions that led to a bad reputation.。
No, he made an irreversible decision that ruined his reputation.。
Like he doesn't think that these people will believe God sent him because he。
doesn't believe that he deserves to be sent.。
And the reason for it is because he's so preoccupied with his past.。
He's so stuck in the rear view that he can't move。
on. And the truth of the matter is, Porch, if we can be really honest with。
ourselves tonight, some of us are in that exact same place.。
Some of you look back and you know the things you did. You know the。
choices you made. You know the people that you hurt. You know the secrets that。
you hid. You know the places that you went and the。
words that you spoke. You know all of it. And as you look back, you can't even。
contemplate moving forward because of everything you've done.。
All the history behind you merely haunts you.。
And so rather than open yourselves to the opportunity that God may want to do。
something in you, what you do is you close yourself off from the possibility。
that God wants anything to do with you. You feel like Moses. You feel like a。
failure. You ruined your reputation. You wrecked。
your witness. You did that thing which cannot be undone.。
And now no one will ever believe that God actually wants to use you.。
If that's you, then listen. You won't feel worthy until God enters your story.。
You want to feel worthy? If you're here and you don't know Jesus,。
then you will find worth nowhere else.。
You won't feel worthy until God enters your story.。
That's why God gives Moses three different signs in verses 2。
through 9 of chapter 4. He does it to boost his believability.。
Not just so people believe, "Man, Moses really changed." But so people。
believe Moses was really changed by God. Like that's what God cares about. Like he。
isn't like the world that just wants to。
medicate us with self-help strategies, positive self-talk,。
improve your self-image. He's not like that.。
God doesn't just want you to become different. God wants to be the reason you。
become different because the difference he's going to make。
is a difference that no one else can make. And it'll be a difference the likes。
of which the world will look at and be like,。
"That is crazy. Did you know that guy? Did you know that girl? Like I knew them。
back in the day. They were heinous. They were wild. They。
were crazy. And yet look at them now. Like they're。
not heathen, they're holy. Like something's changed. They have a。
different pep in their step. Like they're。
walking with a new kind of confidence." Because that sort of difference,。
it won't come by way of anything in this world. It will come。
by way of only Christ.。
That's what God cares about. That's why he turns Moses' staff。
into a snake. Like think about it. The pharaohs with their headdresses look。
like what? Cobras. God is saying, "Hey, I have power。
over the powers in your story." Why does he do the whole bit with。
leprosy? Because God's saying, "Hey, I have power over life and death。
itself." The last sign he gives them is he turns。
water into blood. Like, "Hey, why does he do that? Why does he affect。
the Nile?" Because the Nile was seen as the sole source of provision。
to the fertile crescent, to the nation of Egypt. And yet God's saying, "No, no, no.。
The Nile doesn't have the power to give and take away. I have the power to give。
and take away. I am the power to provide. Do you have the power to make a mess of。
your past? Yes, but God has the power。
to make something meaningful of your future.。
He has the power to do that. A power the likes of which you will find nowhere。
else. Paul says it like this in 1 Corinthians 1,。
28 and 29. He says, "God has chosen what is insignificant and despised in。
the world, what is viewed as nothing, to bring to。
nothing what is viewed as something, so that no one may boast, only God, no。
one may boast in his presence." You see, God is the difference maker.。
He's the sea splitter. He's the miracle worker. He's the storm calmer. He is the。
grace giver. Like, God's the one that can take。
back what you feel can never be taken back. He's the one that can heal what you。
feel can never be healed. He's the one that can clean what you feel。
is too deep a stain, the likes of which no one can ever actually make it well.。
Because he gives grace like you wouldn't believe. And the reason we know it,。
this porch, the reason we know it is because we don't need to look at three。
different signs. We need only look at one singular son,。
the son of God, who stepped down into our story。
and was not merely preoccupied with our past. I've got to fix him.。
He was crucified by your past. And yet when he rose forth from the grave,。
he left all of your insecurity in the grave with him. He rose forth。
into new life. And if you place your faith in him,。
you can rise forth and have the same.。
But Kyla and I, I know I'm forgiven. I know that.。
Like, I'm not worried about my past. I've placed my faith in Jesus. It's not the。
past that I'm worried about. It's the future.。
Like, yeah, I think God wants to do something, but man, I don't have, I don't。
have the raw materials to do it. Like, I see some of the places that he。
wants to lead me. I feel some of the dreams that I want to chase.。
And I don't think that I have the ability. You see, your problem isn't。
insignificance. It's not insecurity. It's inadequacy.。
So what do we do with that? Well, Moses deals with inadequacy too,。
because we read this in verses 10 through 12.。
"But Moses said to the Lord, 'Oh my Lord, I'm not eloquent, either in the past。
or since you've spoken to your servant, but I'm slow。
of speech and of tongue.' And then the Lord said to him, 'Who has。
made man's mouth? Who makes him mute or deaf or seeing。
or blind? Is it not I, the Lord? Now therefore go, and I'll be with your。
mouth, and I'll teach you what you shall speak.'"。
You see, Moses sees all that God wants to do in his life,。
and yet he resists the call of God, not once, not twice,。
not thrice, but five times, which just feels。
laughable when you read it all the way through. Not just because he's that。
friend that keeps coming up with excuses and never is willing to commit to。
Friday night plans. No, it feels laughable because he has。
somehow forgotten the fact that he's talking to God.。
And so he starts by telling God, "But Lord, I'm insignificant, like。
I'm a nobody from nowhere." And yet God's like, "No man, like I'm the one that's。
going to make you significant, but God, I've got insecurities. Like look at the。
things that I did in my past. Like I don't know,。
everybody knows, and there's no coming back from that. Don't worry about those。
things. I can provide all the believability you。
need, the credibility gap you feel. I can fill it actually, but God, I'm not。
a, I'm inadequate. Like I don't have the the tools or the。
training to do that what you're calling me to do. There's got to be someone else.。
You've got the wrong guy." And yet here's the crazy thing.。
He's saying all of it to a burning bush, like this supernatural spectacle,。
this unfathomable phenomenon. He is staring at a manifestation of the。
presence of God, and yet he is so engulfed by his。
inadequacies that he misses God standing right in。
front of him.。
That's what happens when we can, when we become consumed by our constraints,。
when we're engulfed by our inadequacies. Like contrary to the way a lot of people。
preach this passage, Moses isn't in the middle of an identity。
crisis. He knows exactly who he is. He is well。
acquainted with all of his weakness. He is telling。
God every one of his flaws. This story is not。
about a man that is delusional about all of, about who he is. This is a。
story about a man who is disappointed by who he is.。
He knows he has problems, so much so that he can't even see past them。
to the plans that God has for his life.。
Is that happening to you?。
Like, are you thinking too much of your problems that you're willing to punt。
on the plans God has for your life while you settle into sheep herding on。
the backside of nowhere?。
Is that you?。
Like, too often we look at ourselves and all we see is like, "I'm not smart enough。
to start that non-profit, God. Like, I know there's a great need and I want。
to fill it, but I'm not smart enough to do that." Or, "God, I know my family's got。
some problems. Many of them don't even believe in you, and yet, God,。
I'm not bold enough to actually transcend being the kid young brother or。
the kid young sister. I actually am not enough to do that, Lord." Or, "God, I。
know I've got some problems and some pain that I really need to work through。
and some forgiveness I need to send, but God, I'm actually not strong enough。
to do those things." Or, "God, I'm not eloquent enough to preach。
your gospel to share Jesus Christ with my entire department, Lord.。
Lord, I'm not faithful enough to believe that you can save。
my entire department, God. I don't think I'm enough, God. I'm not。
smart enough. I'm not witty enough. I'm not pretty enough.。
I'm not funny enough, God. I'm not good enough. I'm just not enough."。
And yet, God answers Moses in the same way he answers you tonight,。
and in a way the likes of which I wouldn't have guessed.。
He says, "Don't you think I know that?。
Do you think your weaknesses or your inadequacies, all the constraints and。
limitations you feel, you think that stuff catches me off guard?。
No, I made you that way. You're exactly as I want you to be. You are。
who I want you to be. If I wanted you to be someone else,。
I would have made you into someone else. But no, you're exactly。
as I want you to be."。
You see, Porch,。
if you're good enough for God, then you're enough as is.。
If you are enough for God, then you are enough as is.。
Now, am I saying that in this point to give you license to。
seek after your sin and indulge all your desires?。
No, that's not why we're talking about this. I'm saying this because so many of。
us, we look at ourselves。
and we know what God says about us, that he says I'm enough.。
And yet that's just not enough for us. We know what God says, but we don't care。
what God says about us. We care what we say about ourselves.。
You see, too often we want to be like the dudes at the gym.。
We want to fudge our numbers and we want to make ourselves look way。
bigger than we actually are. And in the process of doing that,。
we expose ourselves for being far smaller than we actually want to be seen.。
We don't feel like we're enough. And so we feel like we need to。
get better. We need to grow up. We need to move on. We need to mature more。
quickly. We want to be smarter. We want to be stronger. We want to be。
braver. We want to be bolder. We want to be whatever it is for you.。
Whatever it is you feel is insufficient in your life,。
you want for because you believe you're not enough for yourself. And because。
you're not enough for yourself, you'll never be enough for anybody else.。
That's my story at least. Like as far back as I can remember。
and more frequently than I'd like to count,。
I have fallen just shy of sufficient for the things that I've wanted in life.。
Like whether it wasn't being popular enough in grade school or athletic。
enough in high school or impressive enough in college or smooth。
enough with the opposite sex or smart enough in the corporate world。
or even talented enough in ministry.。
I have been repeatedly confronted by the fact。
that I don't care so much what other people have to say about me.。
I care far more what I have to say about myself。
and what I have to say about myself in times past as I look in the rear view。
and I consider my story,。
is I see a life littered with limitations all pronouncing the same。
judgment。
that I'm not enough.。
I felt for so long like I was in a perpetual state of second place。
that I was nobody's first choice and as I grew older and I。
processed my past what I eventually learned is。
is because I was so dissatisfied with myself that dissatisfaction didn't just。
turn into into uh into a fear of of of。
falling short and failing along the way. No what it turned into was。
a deep-seated self-hate.。
I hated my hardwiring, hated my personality,。
I hated the way that God made me to be because I had dreamed dreams。
so great and yet I was so small and insignificant,。
too small and insecure, too small and inadequate to reach them.。
I found myself where Moses finds himself at the very end of this story like after。
he rolls out all of the excuses that he can give。
God he has nothing left to hide behind and so he just looks at the Lord and。
says God I don't even like who I am. Like God I'm not enough so God please。
just pick somebody else. Like God I've given up on myself. I don't。
want to move forward. I don't want to lean into the life you'd。
have for me God. The purposes you have they're far too big。
because my perspective of self is far too small. God please。
choose someone else and I love the way the story ends。
because it says that God is angered which feels like such a weird swerve.。
Like God why would you be angry in this moment and yet God is。
never once angered over the course of this passage. Like as Moses。
rolls out all of his resistance and he puts forward all of his pushback。
God works through every single excuse and yet the moment when Moses。
is finally willing to just give up on himself。
God's angered. No Moses don't do it. I've not given up on you. I've got。
plans for your life. I've got something I want to do.。
You may feel too small but I am too big. I can make up for whatever weakness you。
feel. I am strong enough to bridge the。
bridge the divide to fill the gap to lead you where we're gonna go.。
But don't give up. Don't say you want someone else。
because I don't want anyone else. I want you.。
And as I experienced the truth of that message in my life it changed。
everything. It unlocked me from all of these these self-deprecating。
self-shaming self-hating thoughts.。
It allowed me to walk with God。
and in a way that I wouldn't have dared dream be possible.。
I would never have thought I'd do the things I've done.。
I'd be the places I am. I'd know him like I do.。
Friends if you're here and you want to move from feeling so。
despicable to feeling so desirable desired by God in heaven。
then take it from someone who knows. You don't need to keep looking at。
yourself. You need to start looking to him. You need。
to see that Jesus Christ he came into your。
insignificance. He was seeking you in life when you were。
you were too unimportant to seek. You need to look to Jesus Christ who came。
into your insecurities who served you in a death when you were。
too unworthy to love. And you need to look to Jesus Christ who。
came into your insecurities saving you with a resurrection that has。
that has qualified you for everlasting life.。
If you're here and you want a new perspective on yourself。
then don't look inward before you look upward.。
You look to him and in seeing him rightly。
I promise you'll see yourself rightly as a result.。
And let me pray for us. God we love you. God I want this this truth so badly for。
these people because God this story feels like my。
story. My life wracked and riddled by so much self-hate.。
And I know God there are some in this room that feel the same way that look at。
themselves and and they're just disgusted. They're just。
disappointed. They just want for more. They've got a。
dream, a desire, a goal, an ambition they want to reach God. And。
it's not even self-seeking God. It's to make a difference in the world. And yet。
God they look at themselves and say I don't have the raw materials. I don't。
have the right resources. I don't have the sort of faculties required to get me。
to that place. And yet God you look at them and you say。
no I want you as you are because I'm going to use you as you are.。
The worse the odds the greater the glory for me.。
You may feel weak but into your weakness I will make myself strong. And the reason。
we know is because God into the weakness of our sin。
you made yourself most strong because you sent Jesus to save us。
forever. If you don't know Jesus Christ then you can be saved tonight.。
And you can find all of the significance and all the security。
and all the adequacy that he offers by simply receiving。
the gift of salvation by placing your faith in him.。
Others of you you're going to need to process with someone. That's what we're。
here for. That's what tonight's about and we're。
going to do it as long as it's required. But God we love you。
and we sing to you now it's in Christ's name we pray. Amen.。
