[MUSIC]。
[MUSIC]。
[MUSIC]。
Well, tonight we're continuing a series called Skeptical.。
If you're just joining us, we took a two week break.。
Ben Stewart, who was awesome, came and hung out.。
Yeah, whoops.。
And we're continuing that series tonight.。
I'm gonna give us a little traction by telling kind of a story that'll give。
indication where we're going.。
About a month ago, one of my neighbors asked if I would do him a favor when he。
was gone on vacation for eight days.。
And so I said, yeah, sure, what is it?。
And he said, will you watch my chickens?。
And chickens sit.。
And so I don't really know what that entails.。
Like, I grew up in a city, I didn't grow up on a farm, I've never been around a。
chicken before.。
And so do you chicken walk?。
What do you do with a chicken?。
And he said, no, no, no.。
All you gotta do is go over and let them out of the coop in the morning and feed。
them.。
And then in the evening, put them back in the coop and feed them again and pick up。
the eggs.。
And so this is easy, this is great.。
And so he leaves and I'm over chicken sitting and taking care of these chickens.。
And a couple of days in, I decide, hey, I'm going to bring my dog over one night。
because the chickens are protected.。
They're in this coop, fenced off area.。
This is great.。
My dog's like enormous.。
He's like 115 pounds and it was a terrible investment.。
He's the investment that keeps on needing investment because he like eats remotes.。
But anyway, so we need to get energy out of him.。
And so we brought him over there, I brought him over there, and I'm in the。
coop and I'm feeding the chickens and I'm setting the feet out.。
And all of a sudden I hear a sound unlike anything I'd ever heard before.。
And it was, "Ahh!。
Pika!。
And I'm in the coop.。
And so I leave the coop and I run outside.。
And behind the coop, my dog is sitting there with a chicken in his mouth.。
One of them had like escaped and so he's moving the chicken around and he's got。
her by the leg.。
And so I go in panic mode.。
I throw the dog off of the chicken.。
I tie him up and I go over and see this chicken who there's no visible blood but。
she's like hobbling off on one leg.。
And I'm going, "Oh my gosh, I ruined the chicken."。
And it hits me like because I don't know chickens.。
I don't know the emotional attachment you have to a chicken if you're the owner.。
Like is this a family pet?。
Does it have a name?。
Did I just ruin something?。
Should I call him?。
But what if it is like the pet and it ruins the vacation?。
What do I do here?。
So I'm thinking, "I'm sure this will be fine.。
Let's figure out what happened."。
So I take her leg and I see no wounds and I'm like feeling around for broken bones。
as though I would know what those feel like.。
And then I recognize there's a little cut on her foot.。
And so my wife brings over hydrogen peroxide and we're like trying to nurse。
this little chicken because we don't know.。
Like is this a big deal?。
Not a big deal.。
And so it doesn't get any better and we just decide, "We'll just let her sleep。
this one off."。
And so we're going to give her her own little area.。
She'll sleep.。
I'm sure she'll be great in the morning.。
We go back the next day and don't bring the dog ever again.。
And the chicken hasn't moved and so it's just, "Well, I'm sure she's going to just。
sleep it off some more."。
And so we put her in our own little area, we give her some food and give her some。
water and we go back.。
And then the next day, and she still hasn't moved.。
And so we're like confused on what's going on.。
We're worried about this chicken, still haven't contacted the owner because not。
really sure what to do.。
And we go back that evening or I go back that evening.。
And at some point between the hours of 8 a.m. and 9 p.m., the chicken went to be。
with the Lord and it was no longer with us.。
And then again, we're going, it hits me, "What do I do with the body?。
Like, do I keep it for him to see?。
Do I throw it away?。
Do I bury it?。
Do I fry it and have it?。
Do I...。
We're like, "What do you do with this?"。
And then, "What am I...。
Should I call him?。
Should I try to find a replacement chicken?"。
I'm like Googling online, "White chickens, they're out there."。
And so this seems like a pretty easy deal.。
And it was very evident that what had been left behind in peace, in the normal life。
the chickens had experienced, had been totally destroyed and totally changed。
after the owner had left.。
What had been left behind and was originally there had been changed,。
altered, and destroyed.。
And the reason I tell you that, and this feels like a jerky chicken story to go。
into a Bible story, is that the most common attack, or one of the more common。
attacks about the Bible, is that the Bible in its original form or the way that we。
have it right now, however it was originally left, has been changed,。
or it has been destroyed, or it has been corrupted.。
That the Bible is not trustworthy as it relates to how accurate it was from when。
it was originally given, whether mistakes were made, or whether errors occurred,。
or whether myths developed, how early did these people even live?。
Do what we have, is it accurate?。
And so for the next really 40 minutes or 30 minutes, we're going to dive into this。
subject of, can we trust the Bible?。
Is what we have what they have?。
Can we trust what's between the pages of the Bible?。
And so we're going to explore three little topics.。
We're going to explore the mistakes that were made, or the supposed changes that。
exist inside of the Bible.。
We're going to explore myth.。
Could it have been myth?。
Could it have been added in stories, in legends that kind of grew about Jesus。
afterwards?。
And then I'm going to give you really where I go and why I believe personally。
the Bible is trustworthy.。
So first up is the mistakes.。
Were there mistakes that were made?。
And you may be going, "Mistakes?。
How can this...this is perfect.。
How can there be a mistake made?"。
The way the Bible was written, specifically the New Testament,。
we're going to focus on that.。
We'll come back to the Old Testament at the end.。
Was the scribes were the names of the people who would take a copy of a book of。
Matthew, or Mark, or Luke, or John, and they would copy it out.。
There wasn't a Kinko's, there wasn't a copy machine.。
They would just write out, which I know is a big surprise, like, "What?。
Kinko's?"。
So the scribes would write out and they'd make different copies.。
And in that process, errors or differences occurred.。
And this may be news.。
You may have never heard about this.。
And so in the copying process of the thousands of manuscripts that we have。
from the ancient world, or from the first few centuries of the New Testament,。
errors occurred.。
And you may have heard this, you maybe have some professor who has said the。
Bible's had so many errors, who knows?。
We can't trust it.。
It's been translated so many different times.。
It's full of errors.。
Can we trust it?。
And the bad news is there are errors or differences in the original manuscripts.。
That when the scribes wrote, there were differences in each of their。
manuscripts, or in many of them.。
And so that's the bad news.。
The good news is that the differences that exist, 99% of them fall into three。
categories.。
The first one is spelling errors, that they were spelling differences.。
And so it's not like enormous things.。
It's like John, the name John is wanus in Greek.。
And sometimes it was spelled with two Ns, and sometimes it was spelled with one N.。
And so every time that it was spelled with one N or two Ns, there's a difference.。
And so that's a difference, that's an error.。
The second category, this is in the 99%, the second part of that 99% was word。
order.。
One of the common, I don't know, this is like fascinating stuff.。
It's like, there were changes.。
Oh, that's not really a change, that's a boring change.。
There were word order changes.。
One of the most common changes or errors you may hear people reference to, and this。
is what they're referring to, is word order.。
Because in Greek, word order works differently than it does in English.。
One of the most common ones is Jesus Christ or Christ Jesus.。
That some manuscripts read out, and as they're writing about it, they say Christ。
Jesus, and then someone said Jesus Christ.。
And so every time there's a difference, there's a variant, or what some people。
refer to as an error.。
The third category is the use of the article "the."。
And so in that 99%, you're going to hear people, maybe if you do some research,。
you'll hear people say there's thousands of errors, and 99% of those errors fall。
into these three, spelling errors, word order, or the use of the article "the."。
"The" is an article, and in Greek, you can use it any and all the time.。
When you read Greek, they have "the Jesus loved the John, they went to the pool,。
and the end."。
They have it everywhere that they go.。
"The," it's like continually used.。
So if someone said, "Jesus loved the John," or "the John loved Jesus," and they left。
out one, that's an error.。
So those make up 99% of the errors and the mistakes that exist.。
What about that 1%?。
In grad school, we had to study the 1% of the changes that actually have meaning.。
And you would think it would be so exciting, but I'm going to actually give you one of。
the more significant ones, and you can see how it's not as threatening or as。
exciting, even as you may even hope it would be.。
Here's one of the more common ones.。
1 Thessalonians 2, 7 says this.。
So we have some manuscripts that say this, "But we were gentle among you, like a。
nursing mother taking care of her own children."。
And then we found an earlier manuscript that said, "But we were infants among you,。
like a nursing mother taking care of her own children."。
The reason is the word for infant and gentle has one letter difference,。
napioi and apioi.。
And I promise this is going somewhere because it sounds like this is so boring.。
This is the substance of the New Testament errors or differences.。
All of them are as trivial as this.。
I remember sitting in class, studying and going, "Hey, where's like the big one?。
Where's the one that says Jesus died on a cross, and this one says he died in a。
camel accident?。
Where's the one that says he had 12 disciples, and this one says he had one。
named Pedro?。
Where are like those ones at?。
I don't want to know about infant or gentle.。
This is so boring.。
Where's like the...give us the big ones."。
And they don't exist.。
What you're seeing is one of the more trivial ones or one of the more hard ones。
that we have out there.。
And so what you and I can be confident in is that the New Testament that you and I。
have is accurate beyond 99% in the changes that are there.。
Everyone agrees on this next sentence.。
None of them affect one Christian belief or doctrine.。
None of them.。
That what you and I can rest assured in is that the mistakes or the differences that。
exist don't threaten anything we believe.。
They're all as trivial as that.。
And because we have so many manuscripts, we're able to even see when that error。
happened.。
And so the reason this is important is because as you engage with people in the。
workplace, or maybe you have a family member or someone who goes, "Yeah, but the。
Bible's been translated so many times.。
I mean, we can't really know if it's true.。
It's been, you know, there's all these interpretations.。
We can't really know.。
It's been like the game telephone.。
It's been translated over and over and over again."。
You can respond.。
When your family friend or your crazy cousin comes up and has this idea,。
you can go, "Crazy cousin, do you know that the differences...I don't really like to use。
the word error, but the differences that do exist really don't make any difference。
at all.。
They don't change anything we believe.。
Yeah, there are some differences.。
Maybe scribes spelled John with two Ns and one of them spelled it with one.。
And that's fine.。
But do you know, crazy cousin, that the differences don't make a difference at all?。
So you and I can read confidently knowing that what you have is what they had.。
So what about the idea of myth?。
Couldn't these stories have been myth?。
I mean, you read ancient history and Caesar did all kinds of crazy things,。
like was half God and slayed a dragon.。
And we read it and we know that they're myth.。
Couldn't the idea of Jesus and his deity been a myth that really came along after he。
was alive?。
Couldn't that have been what developed...I mean, just like George Washington chopping。
down a cherry tree.。
I mean, this is like the Da Vinci Code, if you saw the Da Vinci Code,。
which is a fascinating book and movie, just not accurate, and it's fiction.。
And in the Da Vinci Code, they lay out that the story of Jesus was radically changed and。
a myth began to develop.。
So couldn't it be or could it be a myth?。
No.。
Here's what we know about myth.。
And this is really historical stuff, so I'm going to do the best I can to make it。
clear.。
Myth, historians tell us, in fact, the leading historian on mythology from Oxford。
says that myth takes around 80 to 90 years at the shortest to develop.。
When it comes to the question of how long does a myth take, myth being something that's。
true to be kind of combined with something that's not really true, it had a little bit。
of truth and the story just kind of grew.。
He says it takes around at least 80 to 90 years because all of the eyewitnesses have。
to be dead.。
In other words, a story can't grow until everyone who was actually there dies off.。
The reason that is significant is because scholarship tells us that the story of Jesus。
and the writings of the New Testament all took place within 15 to 30 years after Jesus。
died.。
And you may be going, "Wait, how do we know that?"。
Here's one of the more significant ways that we know that.。
During 70 AD, there was an event that you have probably never heard about that took。
place in the city of Jerusalem.。
It's sitting in your Bible.。
You probably didn't study this in history, but in the modern era, this was the most significant。
date arguably for all Jews everywhere.。
Here's what happened.。
It was called the Jewish Wars.。
And this was a four-year war between the Jews in Jerusalem and Rome.。
Around 66, these kind of skirmishes and rebels who were Jewish said, "We don't want to be。
owned by Rome anymore.。
We're not going to have it.。
We're not paying taxes."。
And they began to gather supplies and they went into the city of Jerusalem.。
And they walled off the city of Jerusalem.。
And they basically said, "Hey, we're not going to be your slaves."。
Rome sent messengers over to the city and said, "Hey, we're going to take you all out。
if you don't open the gates."。
And they basically said, "Come and take it," Alamo style.。
And so Rome is now angry because you don't mess with Rome.。
And so Rome sends legions of soldiers over there.。
And for the next four years, there are skirmishes that take place outside of the city walls,。
but they were never able to break through the wall.。
In August of 70 AD, Rome broke into the city and they'd been sitting out for four years。
in the heat of Palestine.。
And they were angry.。
They were not happy.。
And so they go into the city.。
They slaughtered close to a million people.。
Josephus, who's a Jewish historian who was there at the time, references that they slaughtered。
one million people, were also told that they crucified men and women outside the city until。
Judea ran out of wood.。
And then they started reusing it.。
And not only that, they destroyed the temple.。
The temple.。
Everywhere that Jesus walked around and taught in the whole city in the context of the center。
of Jewish life.。
I mean, this was a huge deal.。
Sacrifice was at the heart of the Jewish culture.。
And they destroyed, they set it on fire.。
They carried away all the loot back to Rome, declaring their victory.。
And ancient Judaism ceased and has ever since.。
Now this was about 35 years after Jesus was on the earth.。
And here's why that's significant.。
Here's why I tell you all that like bloody story.。
Because the New Testament, where many of these figures lived in Jerusalem or were around。
Jerusalem and Jesus was inside of that area, and Paul and James and all these guys who。
wrote most of the New Testament and the book of Acts, where it's always referencing Jerusalem,。
people going in and out.。
They don't mention any of it.。
This was a big deal.。
I mean, this was a huge deal.。
This was the day that everything changed for Israel.。
Everything.。
The context from which all of these men who were all Jewish little boys would have grown。
up was totally destroyed.。
And the only logical explanation, history and scholars say is it hadn't happened.。
It hadn't happened.。
That the writings of the New Testament had to have taken place before that or else they。
would have mentioned it.。
How could you not?。
It was so huge inside of their history.。
I mean, in Acts, Paul's going to Jerusalem and coming back.。
There's councils that meet in there.。
How could you not mention this?。
It was so huge.。
And the only logical explanation would be it hadn't happened.。
In addition to that, if you were a perpetrator who is making up, you're not really John,。
but years later you're writing the book of John.。
How could you not mention this?。
How could you not leverage this to prove that Jesus was the guy and not say, hey, just as。
Jesus said, I'm the only sacrifice God accepts.。
He allowed the Romans to destroy the city.。
Just as Jesus said, the temple would be torn down.。
It was fulfilled, but it doesn't say any of that.。
And scholars look and they say the only logical explanation is it hadn't happened.。
All the writers had to have written before 65 or 66 AD.。
And the reason that's important is because that shoves the new Testament writings and。
do 20 to 30 years.。
Some of the writings of Paul are dated 15 to 30 years.。
And scholars remember, tell us it takes 80 to 90 years for a myth to develop.。
80 to 90.。
And the reason why that is significant is because the idea that the myth could have。
developed in that short time period would be almost like this.。
20 years ago, last month, something significant happened that led to a trial.。
Anyone know what it is?。
OJ Simpson.。
OJ Simpson trial 20 years ago.。
So that's 20 years.。
So just like the gap, hey, the writers in that 20 years, maybe the legend could have。
grown.。
No, because the eyewitnesses were around.。
Here's an example.。
OJ Simpson, regardless of whether you think he was innocent and the white glove and guilty。
and not, no one thinks Nicole came back alive or no one thinks, yeah, but OJ was really。
a superhero.。
No one thinks any of these myths, no one would believe them because everyone would go, no,。
that's crazy.。
She didn't come back alive.。
Or no one would say she never really existed because it's too short of a timeframe.。
In this room we'd go, no, I saw the white Broncos on TV.。
We would know that it happened.。
And so the idea that the myth and legend could have grown in 20 years wouldn't make any sense。
because eyewitnesses were everywhere.。
The evidence for the idea of miss and really just for the writings of the new Testament。
is so significant that you have to do something because here's what that does.。
It shoves the writings back into the hands of the people who wrote them and into the。
short period of time after Jesus left the earth.。
And in college, I was a history major at Texas A&M, which, yeah, is a terrible major if you。
have children someday, because you spend four years and you develop no tangible trade where。
you can like offer the world anything.。
You just read a bunch of books and then you forget all of it.。
And so they kick you out and you're like, you got to go.。
And you're like, I don't have anything to go with.。
And so, uh, but there was one valuable lesson that I learned sitting in class one day with。
history and here's what it was.。
When it comes to history, you can't prove anything.。
You may have never even heard this.。
When it comes to history, you can't prove something happened.。
You can only look at the evidence and conclude what is the most reasonable explanation.。
You can only look at what happened.。
The same thing in court.。
A court is judging something that happened in the past and they have to not prove anything,。
but look at what is the most reasonable explanation.。
And when it comes to the idea of Jesus and his movement and his followers and him dying。
and rising on a cross, the men who wrote these works, and it is proved that they were written。
within 15 to 30 years, the idea that it would be myth scholars would laugh at.。
And so then you got to go, well, maybe they were lying.。
Maybe they were lying as they went to their deaths for what they said they saw, not believed。
in like we talked a couple of weeks ago, what they said they saw.。
And that's a bigger leap of faith than to say, maybe it actually happened.。
And the idea of like myth and mistake, those are, are really two of the more common ones。
that people will bring up as it relates to the subject of the Bible.。
And can we trust it down front and really just as you engage out in the city, but those。
are never really the real reason.。
Cause the evidence, if you can look at it objectively presents such a strong case that。
you've got to do something with this man who showed up and changed the world, but it's。
never that.。
That's always a smoke screen.。
In other words, if you could prove, Hey, the mistakes, but you know, those mistakes weren't。
significant.。
They didn't make any difference at all.。
People generally aren't like, Oh my gosh, I want to pray to receive Christ right here,。
right now.。
It's a smoke screen.。
The problem is not that the Bible contradicts itself.。
It's that it contradicts them or it contradicts you and you can throw up smoke screens all。
day long, but the idea and the evidence behind the reliability of the new Testament is shocking.。
And every other ancient literature in history, historical ancient literature pales in comparison。
to it.。
And so that's not the real reason.。
The real reason is you don't like what it says about homosexuality or the real reason。
is you don't like what it says about hell or you being a sinner or you having sex with。
your girlfriend or your girlfriend wanting to stop having sex because she thinks it's。
true and you're going, yeah, but what about the mistakes?。
How do we know like sex wasn't added later?。
It's true.。
It's always a smoke screen.。
I think that when I doubt, none of those are the reasons that when I doubt about the Bible。
being trustworthy and can it be trusted, it's not mistakes and it's not myths.。
And honestly, when you get into like high level scholarship, all scholars would say,。
no, those are not legitimate on any side.。
Liberal and conservative would say, no, the myths thing can't be true.。
And the mistakes thing, that's what people say who just want to sleep with their girlfriend.。
Nobody says that, who actually has done the research.。
But when I doubt and I do as it relates to, are we crazy?。
I mean, when I read parts, honestly, of the Old Testament, some of the new, but just Adam。
and Eve running around naked in the garden and Jonah and the belly of a fish and people。
living to be a thousand, how did that happen?。
What do you even look like when you're a thousand?。
What do you look like past 200?。
You just turn into Yoda after that?。
How's that possible?。
Or Noah and the Ark?。
There's something I look at and it's a picture and it like reminds me of why I believe, not。
because I can explain Noah, but because something happened.。
And I'm going to show you the picture and you're going to be like less like, whoa, oh。
my gosh, I'm going to pray to receive Christ.。
But I'll explain why it means this picture is a cross in the emperor's seat in the Roman。
Coliseum.。
And the Coliseum is a place you can go to and you visit today in Rome.。
You'll see this if you go there.。
And the reason why that's like so powerful to me is because the irony, I mean, the Coliseum。
was a place where thousands of people were murdered.。
Thousands of Christians were eaten alive by wild animals where the empire tried to stomp。
out this growing movement where Rome's brutality and strength were displayed for all the world。
to see.。
And today in the emperor's seat where he would decide whether or not the fate of the person。
in the arena would live, sits not a symbol of brutality, but of God's love for the world.。
And it's not just that.。
I mean, think about like, this is why it's so powerful to me.。
And you're probably like, I guess if we could go back in time and we could speak to some。
of the men and women who lost their brother, like their actual brother, my brother became。
a Christian and he was thrown to lions.。
And we could say to some of the people who maybe they lost their parents who were killed。
in the arena or crucified outside the city walls.。
And you could say, I know it doesn't look like it, but in a few short years, the empire。
will fall.。
And where the emperor sits and looks out at the blood of martyrs dripping into the arena,。
there will sit a symbol, a cross, not a cross representing crucifixion or the strength of。
Rome, but a single cross representing a single crucifixion as a symbol of God's love for。
the world.。
They wouldn't believe it.。
They would not believe it of Jesus.。
Wait, who's Jesus?。
He's a guy from Nazareth.。
What is Nazareth?。
They could not believe it.。
If we would have told them then years from now, men and women will gather all over the。
world.。
We're telling these first century Romans and they're going, and what's going to happen?。
Well, they're going to gather and they're going to tell this story every winter time.。
They're going to sit around as a family and they're going to remember this story.。
And in the story is going to have Caesar Augustus.。
And they're going to go, yeah, of course, first emperor of Rome, but it won't be a story。
about Caesar.。
He will be a footnote in the story of Jesus, the man who changed the world.。
When I look back at history, when I look at the fact that we're here today in Rome, it。
is no longer the empire of Rome that has fallen, but now it would become over the centuries,。
the epicenter of Christianity itself.。
When I think about that, all of my doubts about Jonah and where they're dinosaurs, where。
are the dinosaurs?。
When I think about that, everything is brought back into focus because I can't explain that.。
And I can give, and there are answers out there.。
If you're wondering, yeah, but what about Jonah?。
There's answers.。
We give you books and links and sites.。
I can't explain that.。
And it changed the course of human history because it changed the lives of everyone who。
saw Jesus and believed in him and trusted him in a top world, the empire.。
I am like kind of nerdy.。
And so I like to read the church fathers, church fathers are the guys who took the baton。
from the disciples.。
So Peter and John and James, they handed the baton off to what's called the church fathers.。
And these guys were the disciples of the disciples.。
Does that make sense?。
They were the ones who sat underneath the leadership.。
And the reason I like to read them is because it reminds me, oh my gosh, Matthew and Mark。
were real people.。
Like they, they're not just like, oh, and there was a guy named Mark and Matthew, but。
they're real.。
And in these church fathers, which are the writings of about 70 AD to about 110, 120,。
they not only record and reference the new Testament, they quote it and say, as the scripture。
in Matthew says, they not only do that a million times, a million times, they've referenced。
the scriptures.。
They not only do that, but they write about their experiences with Paul and with Peter。
and with the other disciples.。
And it reminds me that these are real people.。
They write about, Hey, we, I was with Paul.。
We were traveling here and it's not in the Bible.。
This is external, extra biblical things.。
It reminds me that my faith is not rooted in a book or it's not written in a book alone.。
It's written in history and the anchor of my hope is not just a book.。
It is an event, the resurrection of a person, Jesus, the savior of the world.。
And that brings everything back into focus.。
And the old Testament, the reason I think the old Testament is trustworthy is not the。
historicity of it.。
Like it's been proven consistently to match up with what we know about history and not。
even the archeology of it.。
It's been proven to match up when they discover archeology and they dig for stuff.。
Oh yeah, this is what the Bible said.。
It's not even that.。
It's because Jesus did because Jesus did when he was on this earth, he referenced and believed。
in the old Testament.。
He indicated he thought it was inspired.。
He said he believed in Adam and Eve.。
He said he believed in Jonah and I'm not the smartest guy in the world, but if a guy can。
predict his own death and resurrection and pull it off, I just go with whatever he says.。
I'm in, right?。
And the reason we believe is not just simply because it's in the Bible.。
It was added the writings of these men who walked with Jesus and knew him and recorded。
it.。
Those writings were added later because they were trustworthy.。
That's why they were added to the Bible.。
And luckily for us, they were bound up so we could carry them around for him.。
But it's not just the Bible.。
It's because Matthew who left his wealth as a tax collector who hated religion and gave。
it all up and later wrote, I saw Jesus die.。
And then I saw him come back because Mark who wrote out, we believe mainly what Peter。
experienced.。
He wrote it out for Peter and spent time with Peter.。
He came to believe I saw, and I believe Jesus is my Messiah.。
He came back to life because Luke who said, I don't believe any of this stuff went around。
interviewing eyewitnesses.。
And at the end of his book, he says, I believe Jesus is my savior.。
He died and came back alive because John who was John.。
John was the guy who took care of Mary, the mother of Jesus.。
Who would you trust your mother to?。
That's who John was.。
He trusted Mary.。
Uh, he was trusted with Mary.。
John wrote my Messiah.。
I saw him die and he came back alive.。
Not just that Peter.。
Think about this Peter who was such a coward.。
Why would that even be included in there about him being a little coward to a middle school。
girl about whether or not he knew Jesus.。
And he said, Nope, never seen the guy.。
Peter swings around and becomes no longer Peter, the coward, but Peter, the martyr.。
After he looked into an empty tomb and he saw his resurrected savior, Paul, who hated。
Christians swings around and becomes the greatest missionary in the world.。
James, the brother of Jesus.。
Maybe you didn't know this.。
Jesus had a younger half brother named James actually had four of them.。
And James who for the longest time said, no, I don't believe it.。
And look, he's my brother.。
What would it take you to believe your brother was the son of God?。
He goes, no, I've seen the kid.。
We played Pete T-ball together.。
Not son of God.。
Great guy, but not necessarily.。
And then he comes around and says, my brother is my Messiah.。
And they all went to their deaths for what they said they saw.。
And all of their disciples who wrote about them.。
And we know it gives further evidence to the fact that all of this really took place.。
All of their disciples even went to their deaths for what?。
They'd seen and believed that others had seen.。
So the application tonight for believers in the room is not even really to do anything.。
It's just to know something that you're not crazy.。
And God has written his story, not just in a book, but in history.。
And it's anchored there.。
And you can have hope and you don't even have to be able to give a defense for Jonah, Peter。
says.。
You have to be able to give a defense for the reason you have hope, 1 Peter 3.15 says.。
And that's the resurrection.。
And the historical evidence is overwhelming.。
If you're skeptical and you're wrestling with something, we would love to talk to you about。
it.。
But you know whether you're hiding behind a smoke screen.。
You know.。
And you're just afraid.。
You're afraid that it might be true.。
That might mean you need to change.。
You might have to give something up.。
You're afraid of what that could even lead to, which is a tragedy because God, you have。
been sold a lie that God is here to rip you off and he's here to give you life.。
And he's anchored the reality of him and his love for you in history.。
Today there is a cross in the emperor seat and the Roman Coliseum.。
That is a display of that love that has changed the hearts in this room.。
The Bible has not been changed, but many in this room, our world and history have through。
the story, the power and the resurrection of Jesus.。
And you got to do something with it.。
The Bible is not just a book.。
It's way better than a book.。
And you can trust it.。
I'm going to pray and then we're going to close out.。
Father, I thank you for just how much you love us and that you have not just done something。
and written it down in a book, but you've displayed it perfectly in human history.。
You've written it on our hearts and you give us the reason for our hope that you not only。
have given us your word, which we can trust because of who wrote it and when it was written,。
but you gave us the living word, which is your son, Jesus, who was in the beginning。
with you and was God and has come to be among us and give himself for us.。
I pray that my friends who don't know that would know it tonight.。
We would trust in that.。
Pray that those who are seeking answers, that we would be a safe place to ask those.。
Father, we pray that you would change our city and that the irony of a cross in the。
emperor's seat in a Roman Coliseum and the power of the spirit that changed lives and。
made that a reality would overwhelm and overtake our city, our state, our nation, and our world.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
