(upbeat music)。
In preparing the message,。
we're always thinking through the opening story, right?。
And so my team asked me,。
we have a sermon prep team,。
as we put together these messages,。
and they said,。
"Well, do you have a story of somebody。
"doing something really stupid when they were drunk?"。
(congregation laughing)。
And like all of these slides。
start flashing through my head, you know?。
I was like, the better question,。
do I have a story of anybody doing something not stupid。
when they were drunk?。
Like that would be much more difficult to find,。
but as you know, if you've been running with us,。
I wasn't a follower of Christ in college,。
and so that really looked like every weekend。
watching somebody do something ridiculously stupid。
when they were drunk.。
Sometimes it was me,。
but the memories that flashed through my head,。
I mean, I remember one particular night,。
a really close friend of mine had too much to drink.。
I mean, have you ever seen someone。
who has had too much to drink?。
I mean, too much.。
Like, a whole 'nother level too much,。
like, okay, like cannot control themselves,。
out of control, drunk.。
And so it starts with kind of the tragedy,。
tragic events of that night.。
Start with him wanting to go to his truck to drive,。
and I'm like, you cannot do,。
I just remember trying to reason with a drunk man,。
like, you cannot do this.。
Give me your keys, you know?。
And you can't drive.。
If you drive, there's going to be casualties.。
This will not be good.。
And he's like, no, I can't, I can't, I'm good, man.。
You know, and you're like, no, you can't even talk,。
you can't even stand, much less drive down the road.。
Give me your keys.。
Then it progresses to he wanted to fight me, right?。
And I'm just like, I'm not into that.。
Like, you know, I'm not gonna drive.。
Then he wanted to fight.。
Then he wanted to jump on the top of a Porsche,。
like, just thought it was a good idea,。
it was a nice, beautiful Porsche.。
And it's like, I think I can stand on the hood.。
No, bro, that's not a good idea, man.。
Let's not do that.。
And then it progressed to he was gonna walk across 35.。
And so there's I-35 there in Waco.。
It's like traffic, just cars flying by, okay,。
eight lanes right there.。
And he's like, no, I think I can make it across.。
It's like Frogger, but live.。
And I'm like, buddy, you're not gonna do this.。
And just trying to stop him and trying to reason。
with a drunk person is never a good idea。
because when you're under the influence,。
you have this force kind of pulling you。
in another direction, usually a very ignorant direction.。
No one ever is like, dude, I did brain surgery last night.。
Yeah, I was so drunk.。
You know, it's never good, right?。
Like, yep, found the cure for cancer.。
I was wasted.。
It's always, somebody, it's always an excuse.。
It's like, dude, did you know you texted her?。
It's like, yeah, I was drunk.。
You know, did you know you said that?。
Yeah, I was drunk.。
It's like an excuse for doing something incredibly stupid.。
I was under the influence.。
Well, tonight we're talking about being under an influence。
of something else, this idea of love.。
Now, it operates really similarly.。
Some of you will do some very, very stupid things。
when you're under the influence of love.。
I have done some very stupid things。
under the influence of love.。
It is this force that is pulling us。
sometimes against our will in a direction。
we do not wanna go because of our feelings。
and emotions and our thoughts and these urges。
that we cannot bring under our control.。
In fact, they bring us under their control.。
We're actually following them.。
And so had my friend gotten in a car。
and gotten stopped by the police,。
he would have gotten a DUI.。
That's driving under the influence.。
Tonight, as we continue our series, Lyrics and Lies,。
I wanna talk about dating under the influence,。
not the influence of alcohol,。
but the influence of love, feelings, emotions,。
sexual urges, whatever you wanna put there,。
whatever that is for you, dating under the influence。
where you are no longer in control。
because that's what drunk means.。
Drunk, by Webster's definition, is loss of control。
of one's faculties or behavior.。
Simply put, you are no longer in control.。
And as I've already stated, it's never a good thing.。
No one is like, yeah, solved global warming, I was drunk.。
It's always something bad happens whenever you are drunk,。
yet some of us actually pursue that,。
and many of us pursue that reality,。
that idea in relationships.。
We wanna be out of control to our feelings.。
The world actually tells you that's a good thing.。
I'm telling you, that's not a good thing.。
It's not a wise thing.。
It's not a God-honoring thing.。
It is a going to hurt you kind of thing.。
And so we're looking at Beyonce's drunk in love,。
and I know people love Beyonce, all right?。
There's many people, girls love Beyonce.。
She might make you feel sexy,。
or there's just something in you that can relate to her,。
or maybe you love that she's this empowered woman。
and she's married to Jay-Z and they have this。
kind of crazy, you know, rock star relationship.。
But this song is a tragedy.。
In fact, it's the only one I will not read you the lyrics to.。
Too far, too far.。
It is not good for our hearts,。
and I know I sound like your parents,。
but give me a shot as I open the scriptures。
from the one who created the heavens and the earth,。
and who loves you and has a plan for you,。
a plan to prosper you, a plan to do incredible things。
for you, and what he says from the word this evening.。
So I know we live in a sexual charged culture,。
but the creator says that there is a sin。
that is different from all other kinds of sin.。
There is a sin that is against your own body,。
1 Corinthians 6:18.。
There's this one sin that is unique.。
And so if I'm the enemy, if I'm Satan,。
then I want to take out humanity,。
I want to kill you under some false pretense。
that I'm gonna give you life, but actually bring you death.。
What am I gonna go after?。
I'm gonna go after sex.。
I'm gonna go after sex,。
and I'm going to make you inoculated to it。
so that it's everywhere,。
so you no longer have these boundaries,。
because the culture for you to put any kind of boundaries。
around it, the culture might call you legalistic,。
or prude, or stupid, or foolish, or crazy,。
yet they're continually running off a cliff into divorce,。
into tragedy, into disease, into HIV, into abortions,。
into unwanted children,。
into emotional desperation and disaster.。
And they're saying, hey, this is the way, follow us.。
Let me ask you a question.。
If you were God, if you were the creator。
of the heavens and the earth, where would you put sex?。
Would you say, like you're writing the Bible,。
hey, it's fine between two consenting adults.。
Is that where you'd put it?。
Hey, it's fine as long as both people agree to it.。
Hey, it's fine in any regards.。
Where would you put it?。
As you consider disease, death, abortions,。
unwanted children, the emotional attachment that occurs。
and then breaks, the rewiring, sex trafficking,。
sex for profit, where would you put it?。
Where would you make it available to those you love?。
So as we move through this idea of dating。
under the influence, talking about being drunk in love,。
as Beyonce puts it, I thought I'd start with a story。
from the Bible, from the scriptures.。
It's a historical account, it's a true story.。
David, you guys know of David, David and Goliath, okay?。
David fought the giant or David and Bathsheba.。
Usually it's one of those two.。
Well, today we're not talking about giants.。
And so David is the king of a kingdom,。
a very powerful kingdom, it's God's kingdom.。
God has pointed David king by a really unsuspecting path.。
Okay, that means he wasn't the son of the king.。
He kind of come up, he was just, he came up,。
he was just a shepherd boy.。
God appoints him as king.。
David loves God, the scripture says he's a man。
after God's own heart.。
And one day his kingdom, his people are at war.。
Now anytime the king's armies are at war,。
the king would go with them.。
But this time in the scripture, in 2 Samuel 11,。
it goes out of its way to tell you that David stayed back.。
David was at home, okay?。
And so David did not go to war with his armies,。
he stayed back, and it says that he was walking。
along the rooftops.。
Now as he's walking along the rooftops,。
he's probably bored, his armies are in a foreign land,。
fighting, you know, a war, and he's at home,。
left to his own devices, he sees a babe named Bathsheba.。
She's bathing, she is cleansing herself。
after her menstrual cycle is actually what is going on.。
And so he sees her bathing and he's attracted to her。
and he says, hey, who is that?。
That's Eliam's wife, I mean, that's Eliam's daughter.。
Uriah's wife, the Hittite.。
To which David should say, oh, one of my mighty men's wives?。
One of the guys who's in a foreign land。
fighting a battle for me right now?。
Well, will you send her some flowers and tell her。
thank you for staying back while your husband。
does the work of the kingdom?。
We're so grateful for you.。
How different would the story be?。
What you're going to hear right now。
is one of the most catastrophic sins。
of all the scriptures, in fact.。
It's been described as the single most catastrophic sin,。
most disastrous sin in all of the Bible.。
Instead of saying thank her, he says, bring her to me.。
And David takes Uriah's wife and he sleeps with her.。
Now, Uriah was one of David's mighty men,。
so was Bathsheba's dad, Eliam,。
and so Uriah and Eliam are at war together.。
This is a match made in heaven, Uriah and Bathsheba,。
that they were both fighting in David's army.。
Hey, bro, why don't you date my daughter?。
Why don't you marry her?。
This was that kind of wedding.。
Like, this was a Jay-Z and Beyonce。
kind of relationship, if you will.。
Everybody's watching on.。
She's really beautiful.。
Women want to be her.。
And so, this is what David comes in between。
and says, she's going to be mine.。
I'll take her as my own.。
What does it mean that they were David's mighty men?。
When he was running from Saul,。
from King Saul was after him,。
these men risked their lives to come and rescue him,。
to come and find him.。
That's who this is.。
That's what the depth of this betrayal.。
Why did he do it?。
'Cause he was drunk in love.。
'Cause he was drunk in love.。
He sleeps with her.。
When he wakes up the next morning, he sends her away.。
Why?。
Because shame always breaks intimacy.。
You ever had one of those moments?。
Like, what did I just do?。
That's what Beyonce says.。
How did we get here on the kitchen floor?。
How did this happen, she says.。
That's what David says.。
Wakes up, what am I?。
What did I do?。
Go, get away from me.。
Get out of here.。
Doesn't talk to her.。
You ever been there?。
Oh, well, who are you?。
What did we do?。
She calls him, maybe texts him.。
Sends a letter.。
Says, hey, I'm pregnant.。
Bro.。
David, being a schemer, says,。
hey, bring Uriah back from battle.。
Now, if you're Uriah, you're like,。
what am I, why are you bringing me back here?。
What do you want me to do, King?。
Now, David, being a schemer, is like,。
hey, sleep with your wife。
so that you'll think it's actually your kid.。
How awful is that?。
Do you know what Uriah says?。
I can't do, I'm not gonna go home, King.。
David says, hey, go ahead, go home,。
be with your wife.。
Uriah says, no, my men are at battle.。
They're sleeping in tents.。
I will sleep outside on the palace floor,。
on the palace steps.。
Uriah's a faithful dude.。
Faithful man.。
You know what David does?。
David says, all right, come here.。
He gets him drunk, thinking that if he can bring him。
under the influence, that he will then go。
and sleep with his wife.。
But Uriah was faithful.。
Even under the influence, he slept on the palace steps.。
So David has to increase his scheme.。
Calls his first commander, Joab, and says,。
hey, I want you to put Uriah on the front lines。
where the battle is the fiercest。
so that he would be struck by the enemy and killed.。
Wow.。
Uriah goes back to battle.。
The plan is executed exactly as he thought it up.。
Uriah is struck down by the enemy.。
He is killed.。
God sends Nathan, the friend and prophet to David。
and says, you have done an awful thing,。
and because you have done this, okay,。
the sword is going to come to your house.。
There is going to be a war in your household,。
and the son that you have now created。
through Bathsheba will die.。
David's son dies, and disaster strikes,。
and the kingdom falls apart.。
And Nathan says specifically,。
someone very close to you is going to sleep with your wives.。
And David's son, Absalom,。
who saw how his father treated women,。
comes and sleeps with his wives on the roof of the palace.。
God says what you have done in quiet or in private,。
disaster will come to you in broad daylight.。
And David's son sleeps with his wives。
on the top of the palace.。
How corrupt and wicked is that?。
The legacy of this sin that comes from being drunk in love。
and making decisions out of emotions,。
following the monster inside of you。
if you were here a few weeks ago.。
David has another son.。
That son's name is Solomon.。
He was known as the wisest man in all the world。
other than Jesus.。
He wrote a book that we know as the book of wisdom。
called the Proverbs.。
And that will be in Proverbs five.。
Turn with me.。
Solomon saw this all go down.。
He saw how his dad responded in adultery.。
He knew who his father was, the wives, plural, that he had.。
And he writes this.。
He says, "Drink water from your own cistern."。
Drunk in love starts, I've been drinking.。
I've been drinking.。
"Drink water from your own cistern,。
"running water from your own well.。
"Should your springs overflow in the streets,。
"your streams of water in the public squares,。
"let them be yours alone,。
"never to be shared with strangers."。
It's talking about sex, love, emotion,。
these feelings that we have and the acts that go with them.。
"May your fountain be blessed。
"and may you rejoice in the wife of your youth,。
"a loving doe, a graceful deer.。
"May her breasts satisfy you always.。
"May you ever or forever be drunk with her love."。
Intoxicated with her love.。
The word for intoxicated right there,。
it has two meanings that actually contrast each other。
and you can understand why they fit together.。
It means either captivated or led astray.。
Captivated or led astray.。
You're gonna see both meanings in this passage.。
The first one is captivated.。
May you be captivated.。
See also committed to her in love.。
May you be stuck with her in love,。
one person for a lifetime.。
For this is your well, this is your provision,。
this is your cistern.。
My first point is a question or really a revelation,。
love, where to drink.。
So where should we drink of love?。
Verse 15, "Drink water from your own cistern,。
"running water from your own well."。
And so cisterns and wells control water.。
They give it boundaries, they hold it in place.。
They keep it where it should be kept.。
But it says, "Do not let your water run out。
"into the streets.。
"If it is broken, it can go anywhere."。
That you would follow that desire wherever it would lead.。
Just like a flowing water down the streets,。
nothing to hold it, nothing to contain it.。
Wherever it would go, you would follow it.。
And for some of you, this has happened.。
You understand what it's like to give yourself。
to someone in the act of sex,。
the sacred act of which God created,。
maybe as a Christian or as a non-Christian。
before you knew Christ.。
And then all of the sudden, it's devalued.。
Maybe the first time was difficult。
and it was like, I'll never do that again.。
And then the second time and the third time。
and the fourth time, it's easier.。
And then all of the sudden, it's a weakened sport.。
And maybe it's a way that you would feel love。
and receive love.。
Or, well, I loved him and then I loved him.。
I loved her, I loved her.。
And maybe the act isn't even with a person,。
but by yourself, with an image or a video。
that we would give ourselves,。
that we would take this act that God created。
for a very specific purpose,。
and we would enjoy it for our own fleeting pleasure。
so that we might wake up and say, what happened?。
What did I do?。
What did I do?。
So you are a place, all of you are a place。
for one person to drink from.。
That person is the person that you would be married to,。
not will be married to, but are married to.。
You're reserved for them.。
Let them be yours alone, never to be shared with strangers.。
There is one well from which you can drink,。
and that is your one solution for sexual release.。
In 1 Corinthians 7, verse nine, it's described like this.。
But if they burn with passion, let them marry.。
If they burn with passion, let them masturbate.。
If they burn with passion, let them cohabitate.。
If they burn with passion, let them experiment,。
make sure everything fits.。
'Cause as long as they're going to get married, no.。
The scripture says, if they burn with passion,。
if they're drunk in love, they should get married.。
For it is better to be married。
than to be given to passion and feelings and emotions。
and do foolish things outside of marriage.。
Plainly, as it can say.。
So the visual here is, and I hate saying this。
'cause I'm not trying to instill shame.。
If you know my story, I'm a recovering sex addict.。
It's a huge, enormous part of my story.。
I'm a person who has been shared.。
You know, I've been around.。
The picture, the image that he gives us。
is you have one place to drink from.。
And that you shouldn't share that with a stranger.。
We go to this park all the time on the weekends。
with my kids, and in the middle of this park,。
it's a public park, and it's an old park.。
And in the middle of it is a water fountain.。
And I walk by there, and I always think the same thing.。
Who drinks from that?。
Because everyone drinks from it,。
therefore no one should drink from it, right?。
And some of you here, you're like,。
yeah, I wouldn't drink after a stranger.。
I wouldn't drink after someone,。
like someone put their mouth on a, I don't.。
But yet you would lie with one.。
You would make out with one.。
You would be with one, and then another one,。
and then another one.。
I don't say that to instill shame on you at all.。
I'm telling you, Monica, Mary, my wife,。
Mary, the guide.。
That's strangers, you know?。
That's a part of my past.。
You've gotta recover from that.。
I'm not saying right now, hey, be owned by that,。
feel guilty for that, but I am saying,。
hey, if that's a part of your story,。
it's a much bigger deal than you probably thought,。
'cause it's a much bigger deal。
than the world presents to you.。
And you must pursue a path of recovery in the midst of that.。
It begins now.。
Stop hiding it, stop sweeping it under the rug,。
stop thinking it's not a big deal.。
It's a big deal.。
But God's grace is a bigger deal.。
He says, "May your fountain be blessed,。
"and may you rejoice in the wife of your youth."。
Blessed how?。
And will the Lord give you an amazing sex life。
if you wait for marriage?。
I don't know.。
I have no idea, man.。
I've met people, I've counseled people。
from the Scriptures who waited 'til they were married。
and they can't have sex,。
either because of a physical issue or a mental block.。
They're unable to have sex.。
And some of them have the maturity to say,。
you know what, this wasn't promised to me.。
Others of them are mad at God.。
They're like, hey, how dare you?。
I waited.。
You know, they've struck this deal with God.。
There was an article that went around.。
I don't know if you read it.。
It was written by Samantha Pugsley,。
and it titled, "I waited until my wedding night。
"to lose my virginity, and I wish I hadn't."。
And here's the problem.。
She waited because she made a deal with God。
that God never made.。
God, if I do, then you will.。
He didn't strike that deal.。
He said, hey, if you follow me and know me。
and seek me and trust in my Son as a revision for your sins,。
I'm gonna give you heaven, which is much better than sex,。
forever and ever and ever and ever.。
You can be with me in my kingdom.。
Can you have sex?。
Probably.。
Will it be amazing?。
You'll have to work at it.。
It's true.。
It's true.。
It's not, I know, I know that most of us in the room。
are single, and you think the honeymoon's gonna be like,。
(imitates rocket launching)。
rockets going off and birds singing.。
Beyonce and Jay-Z, something crazy.。
I don't know.。
Don't picture it.。
(congregation laughing)。
Today, Samantha Pugsley is a bisexual in an open marriage。
giving you relationship advice.。
Some of you read that and thought, hmm,。
maybe she's right, she's not right.。
God's right.。
(congregation laughing)。
I'm just telling you.。
We were meant to be content with one spouse for a lifetime,。
so what happened?。
He says, verse 20, "Why my son be intoxicated。
"with another man's wife?"。
I want you to read that as,。
"Why be drunk in love with anyone。
"except the one you are married to?"。
Why be intoxicated with another man's wife?。
Why be intoxicated with anyone you are not married to。
that's not your wife?。
If they're not your wife, they're another man's wife.。
But they will be my wife.。
You don't know what will happen tomorrow, James says.。
Oh, you know better than God.。
Let's play that game.。
Why embrace the bosom of a wayward woman?。
For your ways are in full view of the Lord,。
and he examines all your paths.。
For your ways are in full view of the Lord.。
Ray Rice didn't know that.。
For your ways are in full view of the Lord,。
and he examines all your paths.。
My second point is, love where not to drink.。
Where not to drink from anyone you are not married to.。
Okay, pastor, that's cute, man.。
You're up there, know the Bible.。
Don't be drunk in love with anyone I'm not married to.。
That's cool.。
I know that some of you are so brainwashed。
by culture, I was too, by the way.。
I get it, like there is a strong current today。
with sexually charged culture.。
Satan's winning the battle on sex, okay,。
just in case you're wondering,。
and you're a pawn in his game,。
and you're one of the methods by which he's winning,。
'cause he's won over your heart and your mind,。
and you haven't renewed it, as the scripture says,。
and you have not allowed the spirit。
to guard your hearts and your minds,。
and so you are entertained by the very things。
Jesus died for.。
You are entertained by it, and he has won you over,。
and he says this is the way, he says,。
date as the world dates, be intoxicated by love,。
follow your feelings and emotions,。
all the way to divorce court over and over again,。
all the way to sadness and despair and depression,。
and God says, my sweet, sweet little girl,。
I love you, and I've got a better plan for you than that.。
Young man, I know you, and I know there's a war。
inside your body, but will you yield to my spirit。
over your own will, over your flesh?。
Will you listen to me?。
What happened, we're so far from where we should be, guys.。
One thing that happened in our culture。
is the pursuit of variety from a very early age.。
I mean, even the way that you asked so and so。
to go around with you in the sixth grade,。
or will you go with me, whatever that was for you,。
however you said it, check yes or no, I don't know.。
We start dating really young,。
and we start exploring the opposite sex。
at a very young age, and you go back to your old life,。
your first kiss in your mind, some of you,。
if that's a part of your story,。
and it probably happened way before it should have.。
There's an explosion of hormones, an explosion of emotion,。
and now you're on a track where you are now addicted。
to attention from the opposite sex,。
constantly needing more from them, finding identity in it.。
If you are in a happy relationship,。
all is well in your world.。
If you are in a bad relationship,。
all is terrible in your world.。
If you're not in a relationship,。
all is despairing in your world.。
You've been left out.。
God has forgotten you.。
He has forsaken you.。
He doesn't love you, is the lies of the enemy.。
And he says, no, my child, I have not forsaken you,。
I have not forgotten you, and I love you more。
than you could ever comprehend.。
In fact, I'm waiting on you.。
I'm waiting to be ultimate to you.。
I am pursuing you and wooing you。
and trying to win back your heart from the world.。
Trying to win back your heart from boys,。
trying to win back your heart from porn,。
trying to win back your heart from the addiction。
of relationships since the fifth grade,。
the roller coaster that you've been on.。
And so we've been addicted to variety.。
That's what addiction to pornography is,。
is certainly not an addiction to sex.。
Porn is college for sex with multiple people.。
Do you understand that?。
Porn, from the very first interaction of it,。
is training your brain not to be attracted to one person,。
also known as monogamy, but to be attracted to many people,。
a variety of people at the same time.。
In fact, the porn addict, by scientific happenings,。
cannot be attracted to one person.。
The porn addict, it is impossible in the moment。
and in that addiction to be attracted to one person.。
They have trained and wired their brain not to,。
but before you're like, yeah, well, I'm not a porn,。
so has the fantasy addict, so has the one who engages。
and loves "Fifty Shades of Grey" or romance novels。
or any kind of fantasy of that sort.。
So has the one who is constantly dating boys。
in her mind she's never met on Facebook.。
You have also trained and wired your brain for variety,。
a fantasy that never existed,。
a standard that no one will ever meet for you.。
Prince Charming will never show up.。
Why?。
He doesn't exist as you have created him up here.。
That's why.。
You are pursuing something unreal.。
What do I do, JP?。
Get help now, tonight.。
You say, he's talking about me, I need help.。
He's talking to me, I need help.。
And you start a path to recovery tonight。
because you will not be satisfied by one person.。
That's what this proverb is saying.。
See, God's design is for one person for life,。
that you would be forever pleased by her.。
I want you to know that I don't believe。
that Beyonce and Jay-Z are describing。
that kind of being drunk in love,。
that the intoxication, that is a captivation for a lifetime.。
They're actually selling you a lie.。
I'm well aware that they're married,。
but they are selling you a lie.。
They are drunk in lust.。
Okay, if you read the words of the song,。
I don't encourage you to.。
It is very, very apparent.。
And so secondly, I want you to know。
that I know that many pastors have stood before you。
and told you not to have sex,。
but very few have explained why.。
Simply saying because the Bible has says so,。
which is a good enough reason,。
but I'm telling you there's a reason the Bible says so,。
because God loves you.。
And if you enjoy something out of its intentions,。
too often you cannot enjoy it as it was intended.。
Let me say that again.。
If you have sex outside of marriage,。
you may not be able to enjoy sex inside of marriage,。
because the type of sex you tasted,。
the type of sex you've grown addicted to。
is that which is outside of marriage.。
And so how do you continue to have that high, that thrill?。
You have to continually going outside your marriage.。
Why are adultery rates skyrocketing?。
This is why.。
If you have climbed the fence to get something,。
you will not be able to go through the gate.。
If you have eaten stolen food and you like the taste of it,。
you will not like the taste when it's handed to you.。
Do you hear me?。
God loves you.。
He has a plan for you.。
He's not trying to rip you off.。
He's trying to give you life.。
He says, "You don't understand that I created this act."。
He's the inventor of sex.。
He made the ports.。
He made 'em work the way they do.。
I'll get awkward if you want me to.。
(congregation laughing)。
He put the nerve endings where he did.。
He made it feel the way he did in her and in him.。
It's a very incredible thing。
that it would create life inside of a woman.。
Life would be created through this act,。
and God made it good.。
He didn't just make it good, he made it feel good.。
Satan says, "Hey, why don't you take the pleasure。
"for yourself without all of the purpose?"。
Let me say that again.。
Satan says, "Why don't you take the pleasure。
"for yourself without the purpose。
"so that you might enjoy it for yourself?。
"Climb in, climb over the fence, steal some of this food,。
"for you know better than God."。
You cannot replicate that kind of sex in marriage.。
There's an unsafeness to it.。
To it that exists only outside of marriage.。
See, sex inside of marriage is safe sex.。
It's safeguarded that a man would care for you,。
not beat you or hit you or hurt you,。
but be gentle to you and you to him, and it's safe.。
And if you've grown an addiction to unsafe sex,。
then you try to bring unsafe sex in the marriage.。
And I want you to know, as lovingly as I can,。
that's what Beyonce and Jay-Z have tried to do here.。
They have shown you a picture of unsafe sex。
with references to two men。
who were notorious spouse abusers,。
and one man who was a convicted rapist.。
All of those references are in this song,。
saying this is what being drunk in love looks like.。
No, man.。
No, sir.。
Some of you didn't even know that,。
and you've been feeding your heart.。
That lie.。
Telling your heart, this is what I want.。
I want it like Beyonce.。
And you didn't even know.。
Satan's at work in that, man.。
It's counterfeit sex.。
Some of us are addicted to counterfeit sex.。
Got my hair cut this week, in case you didn't notice.。
And the girl that was, I walked in, it was empty,。
and she was reading a book, and she puts away her book,。
and then she starts cutting my hair,。
and then it got full, like people started walking in.。
And she said, well, I guess, we were talking,。
and she goes, I guess I won't do much reading today.。
I said, what are you reading?。
She said, I'm just finishing Fifty Shades of Grey.。
And I said, oh, man, you don't want some man。
to love you like that.。
And she goes, you haven't read it, have you?。
You don't understand.。
And she goes, it's a love story.。
And I said, no, you don't understand what love is.。
You have redefined love in something。
it was never meant to be.。
That's what Beyonce and Jay are doing.。
You don't understand what love is.。
I said, you married?。
She said, divorced.。
I understand.。
I get it.。
I get it, there's a love, no greater love than this,。
that someone would lay down their life for you,。
Ephesians 5:25, that your husband would love you。
as Christ loved the church, man.。
Giving his life for you.。
That you would come and willingly submit。
to that kind of leadership as a man would come to you。
and say, hey, I'm putting you before myself,。
your contentment and joy before my own.。
Whatever I can do to care for you and to provide for you,。
not to steal from your vineyard, not to climb the fence,。
not to talk you into something you don't wanna do。
or give in to some emotional, passionate moment,。
saying, I don't fear God.。
'Cause that's the only reason he would do that.。
He doesn't fear God.。
God, I think I know better than you,。
here's what's happening when you have sex。
outside of marriage, okay?。
He's grabbing you by the face and pulling you close.。
And he's telling you, did you know。
that when left to my own desires or following God's will,。
I'm going to follow my desires?。
Over God's will.。
And you're dating, so it's at the very height。
of the relationship.。
I mean, he's trying to show you a false sense。
of who he really is to win your heart.。
And he's telling you right now, I am committed。
to being willing to have sex outside of marriage。
if it is what I feel like.。
And you say, no, you don't understand.。
He loves me.。
He does today.。
In fact, he loves you so much, he's willing。
to compromise God's word for you.。
In fact, he's telling you as sincerely as he can,。
and I'm picking on the guys right now,。
she's telling you, the adulterous woman is telling you。
as sincerely as she can that she follows her own hormones,。
her own desires, her own lust, her own drunkenness。
and love over the will of God.。
And she's committed to it.。
And if you marry that person, and that person goes。
outside the marriage, how can you blame them?。
They told you they would.。
They said that, they were committed to doing that.。
That's what their commitment is to, not to you,。
but to their feelings and their emotions.。
And the desires of their flesh,。
there's only one way to continue to experience。
the endorphins of sex outside of marriage,。
and that's to continue to have sex outside of marriage.。
And when that emotion fades, so does the relationship.。
It says, for your ways are in full view of the Lord。
and he examines all your paths.。
He examines all your paths.。
Some of you know that's verse 21.。
Some of you know your ways are in view of the Lord,。
and that's why you have no intimacy with God,。
because there's too much shame there,。
and you feel that God's mad at you.。
You haven't read the verses like Romans 8, 1。
that says there's no punishment for those。
who have trusted in Christ, or 2 Corinthians 5。
that says he's no longer counting your sins against you,。
that God loves you, he's not mad at you if you trusted him,。
that his son actually died because of the sex you've had,。
the porn addiction that you've had,。
the thing that even happened to you, that he died for that,。
that that went on him so that you can be free,。
that you don't have to walk in guilt,。
that the enemy's even winning by pushing guilt upon you,。
that that's the victory he has on you,。
that right now, it's not like I'm gonna change。
and I'm gonna get discipled and I'm gonna learn your word.。
It's like, ah, I can't believe I did that,。
and I'll never do it again.。
There's no plan in I'll never do it again.。
Grow in his word.。
Get to know him and how he loves you.。
Be discipled and equipped.。
Write the scriptures on your heart.。
You call yourself a Christian, like, walk.。
A Christian just means Christ follower, follow Christ.。
Follow Christ.。
And others of you, as I said already,。
read that verse that the Lord's,。
your ways are in full view of the Lord,。
and you don't care, you don't fear God.。
I have a friend that wrote that passage,。
Samantha Pugsley, or that article, rather,。
she said this, it's titled,。
I waited until my wedding night to lose my virginity。
and I wish I hadn't.。
She says, unfortunately, I can't go back,。
this is the last paragraph,。
unfortunately, I can't go back,。
but I can give you this message。
as a culmination of my experiences.。
If you want to wait to have sex until marriage,。
make sure it's because you want to.。
It's your body, it belongs to you, not your church.。
Your sexuality is nobody's business but yours.。
It's compelling.。
Let me read you two passages。
and let's just ask some questions.。
First one is 1 Corinthians 6, 18 through 20.。
It says, flee sexual immorality.。
All other sins a person commits are outside the body,。
but whoever sins sexually sins against their own body.。
Do you not know that your bodies are temples。
of the Holy Spirit who is in you,。
whom you have received from God?。
You are not your own, you were bought at a price,。
therefore honor God with your bodies.。
So let me ask you now, and I'm really asking,。
who does your body belong to?。
I'm asking, who does your body belong to?。
It seems that the scripture says God, Samantha.。
Okay, let me just read another one to you, okay?。
For my married friends or those of you that will be married.。
1 Corinthians 7, verse four.。
The wife does not have authority over her own body,。
but yields it to her husband.。
In the same way, the husband does not have authority。
over his own body, but yields it to his wife.。
So who does a married person's body belong to?。
Their spouse, their spouse.。
So your body belongs to two people right now,。
God first and foremost, and the person that you enter。
into a covenant relationship with before him.。
That's who your body belongs to, it is not yours.。
To do with it as you please.。
The scripture exhorts you to maintain your sister。
and to maintain your well,。
keep it in the confounds of marriage.。
The evil deeds of the wicked ensnare them,。
the cords of their sins enhold them fast.。
I'm sorry, verse 22.。
The evil deeds of the wicked ensnare them,。
the cords of their sins hold them fast.。
This is the lie of sexual freedom.。
You wanted the freedom to pursue something,。
and now you can't stop pursuing it.。
I wanted the freedom to look at pornography,。
and now I'm ensnared by it.。
I wasn't just led astray by it, I'm stuck in it.。
I wasn't just led astray by him,。
I wasn't just led astray by her,。
I'm stuck now in this relationship.。
I can't get out, I love her.。
It is the lie of sexual freedom.。
Verse 23, for lack of discipline they will die,。
led astray by their own great folly.。
For lack of discipline they will die,。
led astray by their own great folly.。
The other day we just moved into this house we're renting,。
and new neighborhood, and there's this guy。
that walks his dogs every evening.。
And just to paint the picture, this is a big dude,。
like he knows where the gym is,。
he's kind of, he's got muscles where they should be,。
a big man, and he's walking these dogs.。
Now here's where it gets peculiar.。
The dogs that he's walking are nine huskies, okay?。
You know what a husky is, it looks like a wolf?。
I thought they were wolves, my ignorance.。
I was like, dude, it's in our neighborhood with nine wolves,。
like we're moving, okay?。
And so, a husky's a beautiful dog though,。
I mean, blue eyes, like fur, really beautiful dog.。
These are sled dogs, you know, mush dogs, they pull sleds.。
My girls see them, 'cause there's lots of Disney movies。
made out of these dogs, and my girls see them。
and they like run outside, okay?。
They're like V-line to the dogs.。
At first I'm like, guys, they're wolves, stay back!。
[congregation laughing]。
And then he's like, oh no, it's okay, they can pet this one.。
I'm like, okay, what about the other ones, you know?。
What does that mean, they eat children for breakfast?。
Okay, and so, all's good, so you got my three kids。
in the midst of these nine huskies。
in this giant bodybuilder.。
And then the neighbor's kids, so the house next door,。
their kids run out as well, they want to see the puppies,。
vicious wolves, and what they didn't know。
is as they ran out the door, so did their chocolate lab.。
Now I think those huskies wanted to eat that chocolate lab.。
They took off, and you know what's interesting?。
That very strong man was not able to hold them back,。
for they are sled dogs, and it was really interesting.。
[congregation laughing]。
He was like, it was like that dog,。
that chocolate lab came out, and he was like, oh!。
And then all of a sudden he's running, you know,。
like they are in front of him, and he's running,。
he's like, stop, stop, stop!。
And all of a sudden he's being led。
by something that he thought he was in control of,。
but actually it was in control of him.。
And some of you, you think you're in control of your heart,。
and actually you are under its control.。
You are under its influence.。
If you look back on your life,。
you have followed it in and out of tragedy.。
In and out of terrible situations.。
In fact, your heart has probably led you。
into more disaster, some of you, than alcohol.。
Its influence in your life is actually stronger。
than alcohol or any other substance.。
The love that you have.。
And you know what the problem was?。
The problem was those dogs had not been trained。
in that scenario, and the problem。
that you came in here with tonight。
is you have not trained your heart.。
You've trusted it.。
You haven't trained it.。
You've trusted it.。
So my third and final point。
is changing your thirst.。
For lack of discipline they will die,。
led astray by their own great folly, it says.。
Led astray.。
What led them astray?。
The monster, the thirst that they had,。
for she was thirsty.。
She was drinking.。
If you were here two weeks ago,。
we talked about the monster.。
This is your own foolishness.。
This is your own desires.。
This is you following your heart.。
In fact, some of you here tonight,。
you're so thirsty you'll drink anything.。
You're that thirsty.。
And so let's talk about the most frustrating。
verse in the Bible.。
You may know what it is.。
Proverbs 4:23.。
I like how y'all just went to write down。
the most frustrating verse in the Bible.。
Guard your heart for it's the wellspring of life.。
Ladies, guard your heart.。
Don't throw anything at me.。
Guard your heart.。
What does it mean to guard my heart, pastor?。
What are you saying?。
What am I supposed to do?。
Take control of my feelings and emotions?。
Am I supposed to lock 'em up?。
Can't let anybody see it?。
Okay, your guy's unsafe.。
Guard your heart.。
You might fall in love with him 'cause he helped you.。
What am I supposed to do?。
What does it look like to guard my heart?。
First of all, I wanna apologize on behalf of the church.。
Pastors have taught this verse out of context for years.。
And I wanna show you what it actually means.。
To guard your heart for it is the wellspring of life.。
From everything out of life flows out from your heart.。
That means your heart pursues what you give it,。
what you show it, what you continue to put in front of it.。
That's what it learns.。
It has pattern recognition.。
It learns, it says, this is what I want.。
This is what I want, this is what I want.。
Why, you're like, hey, why, I can never date a good guy.。
I always date these dirtbags.。
That's because you've taught your heart to love dirtbags.。
That's why.。
I can never date a good girl.。
You know, I just, I always like these girls。
that are no good for me.。
What do you do on the weekend?。
Oh, sometimes I go to the strip club.。
You look at porn?。
Yeah.。
Cool, you've taught your heart to want a porn star, okay?。
That's what you've trained your heart to look for.。
That's what I want.。
You've trained your heart for that.。
You've conditioned it.。
Woody Allen, when he married his stepdaughter,。
came out with the famous quote,。
the heart wants what it wants.。
And I would tell you, no, the heart wants what it's fed.。
The heart wants what you tell it to want,。
what you train it to want.。
And you're like, well, how am I training?。
So what does it mean to guard my heart。
when I'm alone with a guy and we're at the coffee shop?。
How do I guard my heart?。
You guard your heart long before that.。
Okay, stop watching trash.。
Stop saying, hey, this is the kind of guy I want,。
a six pack and a doctor.。
You know?。
Nothing against the medical society, I'm just saying.。
(congregation laughing)。
Like, stop, you're like, hey, this is what I want.。
You can retrain your heart。
to actually pursue the right things.。
Stop telling your heart, hey, I want a big busted porn star.。
That's what I want.。
I want a girl who will get naked for money.。
That's what you've trained your heart to do.。
And you're like, that's ridiculous.。
No, it's not.。
It's what you,。
Satan has convinced you it's ridiculous.。
The one who speaks lies,。
the accuser has told you it's ridiculous。
and you're living it.。
You're so blind, you don't even see it,。
that you're addicted to this sex outside of marriage.。
And you're like, but I'm gonna be a great husband.。
No, you're not gonna be a great husband.。
But I'm gonna be a killer mom, I'm gonna be a great mom.。
No, you won't, 50 Shades of Grey.。
No, you won't.。
You're gonna be a bad mom.。
And I know that's so hard to hear.。
But it's true.。
Unless right now, tonight, you calibrate your heart.。
You tell it what to love.。
You tell it what to pursue.。
You show it where to go.。
What's the application?。
I'll give you a really fun application.。
You ready?。
If you're gonna date, and I would really redefine dating,。
I'm not saying kiss it goodbye or anything,。
I'm just saying redefine it。
according to what the scripture says.。
Well, how do I do that?。
You learn this book, okay?。
And you read the parts of it that are about relationships.。
First Peter three, Ephesians five,。
stories in the Old Testament.。
You look what God desires for a man and woman。
when they spend together.。
Well, dating's not in there, okay?。
Well, dating, well then we really need to redefine it then.。
It's not in there.。
Because God's told us everything we need to know in here.。
I think his intentions were actually。
that you would fall in love,。
that you would be drunk in love one time for a lifetime.。
That's crazy, JP, you sure?。
I think the world's statistics right now are crazy.。
I think the world's track records are crazy.。
I think the fact that you've bought into their way。
over God's way is crazy, ludicrous, foolish.。
That's what I think.。
In 2005, there was a,。
video was actually one of the most watched clips of TV.。
It was Tom Cruise on Oprah.。
Anybody see this?。
Talk about being drunk in love.。
I think we got a picture.。
There he is.。
Tom Cruise on Oprah.。
If you haven't seen it,。
I'd encourage you to watch this clip.。
Watch this instead of reading the Beyonce, Jay-Z lyrics.。
It's on YouTube.。
Tom Cruise on Oprah, couch, we'll pull it up.。
I mean, he's acting crazy.。
And so this is why it went viral,。
because the dude was acting crazy.。
He had just started dating Katie Holmes,。
who was 17 years younger than him.。
He had just divorced his wife.。
He's having illicit sex with a woman。
who's 17 years younger than him,。
and he's on Oprah acting a fool,。
saying, "I'm in love, Oprah."。
Jumping up on the couch, he kept doing this,。
he did that like 16 times.。
Saying, "I'm in love, Oprah."。
He's like, "I've never seen you like this."。
And he's like, "That's because I've never felt this way."。
And there was a woman, I had lunch yesterday。
with one of the leading marriage pastors in the country,。
and we were talking,。
and we were talking about that clip specifically,。
and he said, "Yeah, there was a woman。
"that came into my office,。
"and I was counseling her around her marriage,。
"and she just said, 'I wish my husband loved me like that.。
"'I wish he was drunk in love.'"。
In fact, my friend said he's never seen a marriage last。
between two people who have followed their emotions。
throughout their lives.。
And the leading determiner,。
whether they would get married or not,。
is how they felt.。
You just know, you know, and you just know.。
You ever heard that?。
And so this woman says,。
"I wish my husband loved me like that."。
And he said, "Are you kidding me?。
"Do you know that's the fifth time。
"he's never felt that way?。
"Do you know that he just divorced his wife。
"and is now having illicit sex。
"with some girl who's 17 years younger?"。
He says, "Hey, if you wish your husband loved you that way,。
"I just want you to watch how that turns out, okay?"。
If you don't know, Tom Cruise and Katie Holmes,。
they're divorced today, tragic divorce.。
Didn't last.。
And it won't last for you either。
if you follow your feelings and emotions。
above everything else.。
JP, what do I do?。
I can tell you, I see a lot of marriages.。
I know which last, which don't.。
It's all pattern recognition,。
or so much of it is anyways.。
You date someone who is fully committed to God.。
That's the application.。
I told you I was gonna give you a fun application.。
If you're gonna go on dates,。
if you're gonna date someone,。
you find people who are fully committed to God.。
A girl who has been discipled,。
a guy who has been discipled,。
a guy who has yielded to the Word.。
And so what I'm saying, you're like,。
"Wait, you're confusing me."。
I mean go on dates with.。
If you're gonna date, okay,。
and if you're gonna go on dates anyways,。
go on dates with the people who love God the most.。
What if I'm not attracted to 'em?。
Who knows, you might grow attracted to 'em.。
But isn't attraction important?。
You better be able to cherish your wife.。
You better be able to love your wife.。
You better be able to tell her。
how beautiful she is truthfully.。
That's important, absolutely.。
Okay, but it may not come on day one.。
So you may need to retrain your heart what beauty is.。
You may need to retell your heart。
and show your heart again。
to stop looking for the porn star, guys.。
And to start looking for the girl who knows the Word。
and is ready to change the world for the sake of God。
and she'll follow you anywhere.。
And she's a part of his army.。
And she'll go to war with you, man.。
And she's out there like,。
"I just, where's my stool, man?。
"I'm gonna sit down, we're way over on time.。
"I'm gonna talk to you guys.。
"Let me just shoot you real straight, okay?。
"It's a real talk, family time.。
"Fort Worth, glad you're with us.。
"Fort Worth is tuned in too.。
"Guys, I'm gonna talk to you guys for a second.。
"I'm sad for us.。
"I'm real sad for us, guys.。
"Like, I look at statistics.。
"Can I just tell you guys, I'm talking to men,。
"you're way outnumbered here.。
"If you look around, like, there are,。
"I'm just shooting you straight based on my observation.。
"There are so much more solid girls here。
"than there are solid guys.。
"As far as how many girls here or how many guys here,。
"I don't know, but I promise you,。
"there are way more solid girls here than there are guys.。
"And the reason, guys, is because you have grown addicted。
"to the wrong things.。
"You have trained your heart to look for the wrong things。
"and to pursue the wrong things。
"and to ask out the wrong kinds of women.。
"And you have to calibrate your heart。
"to tell it what to pursue,。
"to stop following emotions and lusts of the flesh.。
"You're setting yourself up for disaster, man.。
"And ladies, I want you to be patient.。
"God, you be patient.。
"I'm not gonna give you an if/then statement.。
"You may be patient and you may die in your patience.。
"I don't know what else to tell you, okay?。
"That may happen.。
"I don't wanna jack with your heart and say,。
"well, if you hold out and you wait for the perfect one,。
"God's gonna give 'em to you when you're least looking,。
"He might do that.。
"He sometimes does.。
"I've seen Him do that a lot.。
"But ladies, don't sell out.。
"Like in so many ways, you determine the value of sex.。
"And when you devalue sex,。
"the reason that guys go for cheap sex。
"is because you made it cheap.。
"So many of you have.。
"And you've given away your bodies.。
"You've left nothing to the imagination。
"by what you wear, how you dress, how you act.。
"And the Bible says that you're to dress in such a way。
"that you do not bring attention to yourself.。
"But often, when you stand before the mirror,。
"your number one motive is,。
"how can I bring attention to me?"。
And that's not trusting God.。
And so you hold out for that guy.。
You wait for that one.。
You train your heart.。
Let me tell you something.。
If you're listening to Drunk in Love by Beyonce,。
you have been really foolish with your heart.。
You have trained it to look for the wrong things,。
and it's going to set you up for disaster.。
And I know, but listen,。
no one has ever accused me of being a legalist.。
So that's not my intention,。
so I'm not trying to put big rules on you.。
I'm just saying, you need to be careful。
what you let your heart long for.。
Hear me?。
We good?。
All right?。
Guys, if you're here and you're solid,。
would you multiply your kind?。
Like, if you're here and you know the Scriptures,。
I need you to start making disciples quickly.。
All right?。
'Cause there's like two of you.。
(congregation applauding)。
You know, every lady in the house is clapping.。
And I'm serious, guys.。
Like, if you, and there's more than two of you.。
That's not fair.。
There's a handful of you.。
There's like at least 12.。
(congregation laughing)。
I need you to start multiplying your kind.。
If you know the Scriptures, if you know God,。
like, stop wasting your singleness,。
and start pouring into the lives of others。
so that they would know God, too,。
so that they would follow Him.。
Because I think it would be a great legacy of the porch。
is if we created, if God, through us,。
produced healthy marriages that produced healthy children。
who were also disciples.。
And so it's this simple.。
Be a disciple, date a disciple.。
Not someone who goes to church.。
Who doesn't go to church in Dallas, right?。
Be a disciple, date a disciple.。
What's a disciple?。
Someone who has been poured into,。
someone following Jesus, someone who knows the Word,。
someone who's committed to walking in it and living it out.。
Not someone who checked the box.。
I'm a Christian, okay, great.。
Match.com, you're a Christian, we're good.。
No, a disciple.。
Let me pray.。
As I pray, the shane's gonna come up。
and sing a song over us.。
I just want you to sit and reflect.。
There's heavy stuff tonight.。
Some of you, you know you've gotta make some changes.。
I'm not mad at you if you've trusted in Christ。
for the forgiveness of your sins.。
God's not mad at you.。
But there is a war that is being waged in you.。
And the enemy's winning in so many of you tonight.。
And I'd love to flip the script.。
I'd love to change that before you leave.。
That you would surrender your life to Christ.。
That you would trust that God pinned your sins。
to a piece of wood on his son, Jesus.。
That he killed him in your place.。
That he received your punishment so that you don't have to.。
God, thank you for that truth.。
It's an incredible thing that the most terrible event。
of the gospel is the most, or the scriptures,。
is the most beautiful event of the scriptures.。
That a bloody cross is an empty tomb.。
Father, thank you for the work that you've done。
in our hearts and in our lives.。
And Father, just as we read over your scriptures,。
the ones that are of you,。
I pray that my friends in Dallas。
and my friends in Fort Worth,。
that their hearts would be connected and stirred。
and that they would live that out in their cities.。
And the ones that, anything that I said,。
that's just wisdom for me。
and not consistent with who your spirit is.。
I pray they forget it before they stand up.。
But regardless, God, I pray we'd leave changed.。
Thank you for the truth of who you are。
and the way you love us.。
It's in Christ's name, amen.。
(music fades)。
(music fades)。
(music fades)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
