[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[CHEERING]。
What's up, Ports?。
How we doing?。
[CHEERING]。
Greetings, Dallas.。
Greetings, Fort Worth and Houston.。
And if you're listening around the world,。
we're so glad you are.。
So excited about what God is doing。
through the lives of 20 and 30-somethings.。
I'm so excited that so many of you。
are not wasting your life chasing the American dream,。
and that we can gather like this around God's word,。
and that the Spirit of God can speak to us and change us。
and make us new and give us hope for eternity.。
And so what a blessing it is to worship with you guys.。
My name is JP.。
If you're a guest with us, it's great to meet you like this.。
And I hope to meet you afterwards face to face.。
And I'll tell you a little bit about myself.。
I have, since I was little, since I was in junior high,。
I've always loved wrestling.。
I've loved to wrestle.。
You get with your boys, like, hey, let's wrestle.。
And so I've always loved that.。
And I am a like below average wrestler at best.。
But when I came to work here at Watermark,。
we hired this guy named Brandon Slay.。
And so Brandon and I met and we became friends.。
And then we worked together here。
because Brandon had a heart for vocational ministry.。
He wanted to give his life to advancing the gospel。
and building the kingdom.。
Well, the unique thing about Brandon Slay。
is he's an Olympic gold medal wrestler, okay?。
And so that, here's what that means in case you don't know.。
It means he's the best in the world, the best in the world.。
Like there is no one better than this man.。
He is one in a billion good or even more than that.。
And so he goes to launch with us,。
just to give you a for instance,。
he goes to launch retreat with us.。
And this guy's like, hey, Brandon,。
you know, I wrestled in high school, let's wrestle.。
Brandon's like, you sure?。
You know, he's like, yeah.。
And so they're just playing around.。
But Brandon's an athlete, an Olympic athlete at that.。
And so he has no 50%, he has no half speed,。
he has no kind of go slow mode.。
And so he just like first, like he jumps down, pops up.。
And on the pop up, hits my friend,。
breaks his ribs, punctures his lung.。
We got to take him to the hospital.。
His lungs 90% deflated.。
Like I didn't know, I was like, no, go back and play.。
You'll be fine.。
Lo and behold.。
And so for some reason, I don't know, pray for me.。
I was like, hey, Brandon, I'd like to wrestle sometime.。
I know, stupid.。
And so we go and we get on the mat,。
'cause I'm thinking like I'm a big guy, you know.。
And I've got a picture of him if you want to see.。
There he is.。
And he's a big guy, but not, but he, you know,。
five, eight, something.。
And so we get on the mat and like, I just,。
I remember like, man, there is something。
super human about you.。
Like he did whatever he wanted to do.。
And I almost died.。
And so I'm sitting there like after 15 minutes,。
so true story, first contact, he's just like,。
kind of does one of those and like pops a vertebrae。
out of place.。
I'm not kidding.。
I think about him every single morning of my life。
'cause my neck still hurts.。
I'm not kidding.。
And so then we wrestle 'cause I didn't know better.。
And 15 minutes, I just want to throw up all over the place.。
I've done nothing.。
And he's still smiling like, man, show me some submission。
moves or something.。
I'm like, dude, come on, what are we doing?。
And here's what I remember thinking.。
Like this guy is so powerful.。
It was just like this, this wake up call,。
like the chasm between he and I is infinity big,。
like so enormously big.。
He is so much more powerful than me.。
And the same kind of wake up that I had in that moment。
is what the disciples are gonna have in this story,。
this evening.。
It's this realization that this rabbi that we've chosen,。
oh, wow, he is so much more powerful。
than we ever could have imagined.。
The same way that I felt about Brandon,。
they felt infinitely more so being with Jesus.。
And so this evening, we're gonna look at the power。
of Jesus over evil.。
We're gonna be in Mark chapter five,。
if you wanna turn there.。
Because I think this is so important for us this evening,。
because for so many of you, if you grew up in the church,。
when you think about Jesus,。
you might picture him like this, right?。
It's effeminate Jesus.。
Sometimes he's throwing up the deuce.。
Sometimes he's holding a pet lamb, you know,。
got wavy flowing permed hair.。
And if you're anything like I was,。
like you're sitting there overwhelmed by sin,。
like materialism owning your life,。
pornography for me, sexual addiction for me,。
like me kind of going through this world,。
searching for significance,。
reaching for anything that I can,。
all of these hurts, habits, and hangups.。
And I'm like, that guy ain't gonna help me.。
Like the thing that I'm enslaved to,。
it's so powerful and it's owning me.。
And I need something stronger than it.。
And I don't know if it's him.。
And I want you to know,。
he is infinitely stronger。
than whatever is gripping you right now.。
Infinitely stronger.。
So if you're gonna fight something stronger than you,。
you need to find something stronger than it.。
And he's just the man for the job.。
I wanna show you that in the text this evening.。
We're in a new series we started last week called AD.。
AD is just an abbreviation,。
it's medieval Latin for Anno Domeni,。
which means literally translated the year of the Lord.。
The Lord in that is Jesus Christ.。
It was the year of the Lord Jesus Christ。
and they shortened it to AD.。
Here's what that means.。
Today, 2016, we are counting 2016 years from BC.。
That means before Christ.。
God shows up on the scene in the form of Jesus Christ。
and he reset the calendar.。
And it's the calendar that we use。
and that most of the known world uses.。
It's the calendar that your Microsoft Outlook uses,。
your iPhone uses.。
They count from Jesus's birthday.。
That's significant.。
And so we're in this series looking at the year of the Lord,。
interactions with Jesus.。
And tonight we're gonna look at the objective of the enemy,。
Jesus's power over the enemy,。
and the objective of Jesus.。
And if I haven't sucked you in yet,。
we're gonna talk about some demonology this evening.。
And so maybe that will intrigue you.。
And so to set this up, in Mark chapter four,。
Jesus, he's in Capernaum, he's hanging with his boys。
and he's like, let's get on a boat.。
Now this is significant。
because boats didn't have motors at this time.。
And so to go across the Sea of Galilee was quite the feat.。
Jesus is sleeping in the boat and a storm comes.。
And this storm is significant。
because these fishermen by trade,。
people who had lived on that Sea of Galilee,。
they're terrified.。
They're so afraid.。
They wake Jesus up.。
They're like, do you not care about us?。
Look at what's happening.。
And it's this comical scene.。
Jesus gets up and is like, hush.。
I mean, wind stop, seas calm.。
And it says about the disciples that they were terrified,。
not of the storm now,。
but of this man that they had led in their boat.。
They're like, oh wow, he's more than a rabbi.。
The wind and waves obey him.。
And Jesus is on a mission.。
He's going across the Sea of Galilee.。
I was just there months ago on the same sea。
where Jesus is in a very similar boat。
to the one that he's on.。
And he gets off the shore。
and we'll pick up in Mark chapter five, verse one.。
They went across the lake to the region of the Gerasenes.。
When Jesus got out of the boat,。
a man with an impure spirit came from the tombs to meet him.。
Do you see that?。
There's a man who lives in the tombs。
and he's walking to meet Jesus.。
He's coming to him.。
This is the showdown.。
This is the face off.。
Let me tell you about the man。
because the next few verses are gonna go out of their way。
to show you how bad this dude is,。
how strong this dude is.。
This man lived in the tombs。
and no one could bind him anymore, not even with a chain.。
For he had often been chained hand and foot,。
but he tore the chains apart。
and broke the irons on his feet.。
No one was strong enough to subdue him.。
Night and day among the tombs and the hills,。
he would cry out and cut himself with stones.。
Shows up in three gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke.。
And in Matthew and Luke, it says the people avoided him.。
They were afraid of him.。
The people feared him.。
This guy is terrifying.。
He's strong.。
There's nothing that can hold him.。
It goes to great details to show you this.。
And I would tell you that。
I've been wrestling with this text this week.。
I believe this man exists.。
He might be in some other part of the city。
that you don't go to often.。
He's sitting under a bridge.。
Maybe he's roided up out of his mind.。
He's strong.。
He's depressed.。
He's addicted.。
He's breaking beer bottles and cutting himself.。
He's a cutter.。
He's streaming out in pain.。
And we don't care.。
We don't care.。
We pass by him.。
We turn the other way.。
Jesus says, "Boys, get in the boat.。
"I got work to do."。
And he goes out of his way to find this one man.。
And the text tells us two things about him.。
It says he's a slave and he's strong.。
He's a slave in that he's abandoned.。
He's naked.。
He's bound.。
He's bleeding.。
He's crying out and he lives among the dead.。
He lives among the tombs.。
But the enemy's given him a benefit.。
He's strong.。
He's strengthened.。
And I don't know if he's aware。
of his spiritual state or not,。
but I can see this guy as being this。
really wealthy real estate mogul,。
this young entrepreneur who's stacked up cash for himself,。
bought properties, has cars,。
has a lot of things going for him.。
He's strong and completely blind。
to the evil he's involved himself in.。
So my first point this evening。
is the objective of the enemy.。
I want you to know the objective of evil,。
the objective of Satan,。
his game plan for you tonight as you sit there.。
He has one objective.。
That's to make you a slave to anything other than Christ.。
To make you a slave to anything other than,。
to relationships, to identity in relationships,。
to anorexia, to bulimia, to pornography,。
to self-righteousness, to legalism,。
to make you a slave to following the rules,。
make you a slave to your work.。
Now he will never come to you and is like,。
hey, you want to make a deal?。
I'm going to make you a slave to your work.。
But what he will do is give you a little bit of success。
and feed something in you,。
a search for significance in you.。
So that you find yourself in a place。
where you will sell out everything for success, for success.。
He wants to make you abandoned, bound, bleeding, crying out,。
partying among the dead.。
Says no one could bind him anymore,。
which means they once could, verse three.。
Says no one could bind him anymore.。
What's interesting about that。
is once they could tie him up,。
once they were strong enough to bound him.。
But this guy, he's grown violent and strong and angry.。
I've talked to these people.。
They come up and they're so given to their sin。
that they react violently, they act angry,。
and everybody's moving away from them.。
Everybody's shrinking back from them.。
They've been so given to the evil,。
so handed over to the desires of their heart.。
Because when you feed something, it grows.。
Whenever you feed something, it grows stronger.。
It's the lie of the one last time.。
I'm gonna look at porn one last time.。
No, that one last time strengthened that desire.。
I'm gonna masturbate one last time.。
No, that one last time fed something in you,。
an appetite that now is stronger.。
I'm gonna call him one last time.。
No, that one last phone call fed a desire of your heart。
that is now stronger.。
It's the lie of one last time.。
Sin leaves you lonely and hurting,。
but it might offer a benefit, in this case, strength.。
And the benefit could be blinding.。
Look at how strong I am.。
Look at how beautiful I am.。
I know I'm anorexic.。
Look at, I get to experience so much pleasure.。
I'm addicted to pornography,。
but there's so much pleasure there at my will.。
Whenever I want it, I know that I'm an addict to shopping,。
but look, I have style, not to mention debt.。
So it offers this benefit, but it's enslaving.。
My friend got back from Turkey last week,。
and she came over last night,。
was meeting with my wife, Monica,。
and she brought us and the children。
something called Turkish Delight,。
which if you've heard of Narnia,。
the lion, witch, and the wardrobe,。
that is something that is in the movie.。
It's evidently a real thing.。
I didn't know, but in the movie,。
and I'll just tell you the plot.。
You need to see it.。
It's an excellent movie.。
It's also a book if you prefer reading.。
And so Edmund, right, he gets,。
the witch feeds him this thing called Turkish Delight,。
and he eats it and he tastes something.。
He wants more of it and he wants more of it,。
so much so that he gets to a place。
where he will sell out everyone around him。
just to consume a little more.。
Sounds like a meth addict.。
Sounds like a heroin addict.。
Sounds like the rich young ruler,。
the man or the woman in uptown, midtown, West Seventh,。
that just can't get enough.。
Wants a little bit more and a little bit more attention.。
Right?。
See, when you begin to entertain the proposition of sin,。
sin is just an invitation to worship。
something other than Jesus.。
Write that down.。
Sin is just an invitation to worship。
something other than Jesus.。
And when you do that, you invite the possibility。
of becoming a slave to something other than Jesus.。
When you entertain that worship。
of something other than Jesus,。
you invite the possibility of becoming a slave to it.。
And I've seen this.。
It's funny when it's an allegory in Narnia,。
but I had a dear friend of mine。
who lived in uptown above a bar in a high-rise condo。
dating a swimsuit model.。
He's a financial advisor, a stockbroker,。
and everything is going right in the world,。
and he's living for the party.。
And he was in the church,。
but all of a sudden he leaves the church.。
He stops having time for church.。
He's spending time with his friends, time with his girls,。
and pushes everyone out of his life that loves him,。
anyone that would speak truth to him.。
When his family came to town, he was too busy to see them.。
Abandoned, hurting, but doesn't see it,。
doesn't realize it,。
and pushed everyone away who loved him.。
Verse six, "When he saw,"。
so this showdown's happening, the man is there.。
It says he's coming to Jesus, okay?。
This man who no one could subdue, everyone feared him.。
"When he saw Jesus from a distance,。
"he ran and fell on his knees in front of him,。
"and he shouted at the top of his voice,。
"What do you want with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God?。
"In God's name, don't torture me."。
What?。
There's no lightsabers.。
There's no duel.。
There's no sparring.。
He falls down, which is the position of worship,。
and he attempts an exorcism.。
Do you see that, what happens in an exorcism?。
"In the name of Jesus Christ, I, in the name of God, I,"。
he says, "In the name of God."。
Don't hurt me.。
Don't hurt me.。
There's no dualism.。
Dualism is a heretical theology。
that there's God versus evil.。
There's no good versus evil.。
There's no God versus Satan.。
They're not dueling on this even platform,。
and God's trying to know his moves, right?。
God is sovereign over Satan.。
It's crazy, it's mind-blowing.。
"For Jesus said to him,。
"'Come out of this man, you impure spirit.'。
"Then Jesus asked him, 'What is your name?'。
"'My name is Legion,' he replied, 'for we are many.'"。
Verse 10, "And he begged Jesus."。
He begged Jesus again and again。
not to send them out of the area.。
He begs him.。
"A large herd of pigs was feeding on the nearby hillside.。
"The demons begged Jesus, 'Send us among the pigs.。
"'Allow us to go into them.'。
"He gave them permission."。
Underline that word.。
"He gave them permission, and the impure spirits came out。
"and went into the pigs.。
"The herd, about 2,000 in number,。
"rushed down the steep bank into the lake and were drowned."。
I always saw this as the pigs。
jumping off a cliff into the lake.。
I was just there right where this happened.。
And it's actually a hillside,。
and the lake is about 100 yards away.。
So it means the pigs ran down the hillside,。
ran down the steep bank, and rushed, it says,。
into the water, which is even crazier。
than just jumping off a cliff to me.。
It kinda changed the way that I think about this.。
And so this man who was under the influence。
of 2,000 demons is no match for Jesus.。
Do you see this crazy scene?。
You have to see this.。
He's like, "Will you give us permission?"。
Could you imagine, like, so just if I'm talking,。
and I was like, "Yeah, my wife wanted to go to the store,。
"so I gave her permission."。
[congregation laughing]。
Like, you guys are gonna be like,。
"We're out on that, dude."。
Like, that's rude and disrespectful,。
and that's all, like, submissive.。
"You gave her permission."。
Like, this, Jesus is like,。
"Yeah, I guess I give you permission."。
Do you see the sovereignty over this?。
Do you see what's occurring?。
Do you see how strong and how powerful he is。
that this guy that no one could hold down,。
in act one, it says everyone was afraid of him.。
In act two, it said he was afraid of Jesus.。
Like, acting completely out of fear.。
"Please don't harm me, Jesus."。
2,000 demons versing Jesus.。
"Please don't hurt us, Jesus."。
Doesn't that change everything?。
My second point is the enemy is no match for Jesus.。
You gotta believe this.。
The enemy is no match for Jesus.。
See, Jesus versus Satan is not like me versus Brandon Slay.。
It's like Brandon Slay versus a kitten, okay?。
That's what this is like.。
It's like, he's like, "There's no problem here.。
"There's no challenge here."。
Jesus doesn't lift a fist.。
He doesn't clench a fist.。
He says a few words and the scene is done, problem solved.。
Effortless.。
What this is about, I don't know if you have 2,000 demons.。
(congregation laughing)。
But what I think this is about is Jesus heals someone。
so much worse off than you.。
And so here's the most prideful thing。
someone's ever said to me up here.。
You ready?。
The most prideful thing I've ever heard anybody say.。
"Jesus can't help me."。
What?。
No, man, you don't, I've been addicted to porn。
since I was in the fifth grade.。
There's no cure.。
Have you read?。
Jesus can't help me.。
You are a prideful, arrogant, lost in your sin,。
completely consumed by the evil that you fed。
if you think that your God is so tiny.。
And my God ain't.。
My God's so huge.。
JP, you don't understand the abuse that I've encountered.。
You're right.。
Let me tell you a couple things.。
One, I've heard it all.。
I think you're gonna be hard-pressed to surprise me.。
And there is some crazy, wicked evil in the world.。
My God is so much bigger.。
He will restore you, he will heal you,。
he will use you, he will set you free.。
And he will change the world through you if you let him.。
And if you think I'm just talking, I've seen him do it.。
I see him do it all the time.。
I mean, molestation, rape, terrible, unspeakable,。
sex slavery, heroin, addiction, methamphetamine,。
addiction, and all of those things combined.。
I've seen him set 'em free and use 'em,。
give 'em joy, restore their spirit.。
2000 demons right here.。
So this is a miracle, clearly a miracle。
just like every single conversion is a miracle,。
is an amazing, supernatural act of God。
that you were headed for hell and he came into your life。
and changed your heart and gave you an appetite for him.。
C.S. Lewis said it like this about his own conversion.。
As he looked in the mirror, he wrote,。
"In surprised by joy, C.S. Lewis said,。
he wrote, "In surprised by joy, C.S. Lewis also wrote,。
"Narnia," what I referenced earlier,。
he said about himself, "For the first time,。
"I examined myself with a seriously practical purpose。
"and there I found what appalled me,。
"a zoo of lust, a bedlam of ambitions,。
"a nursery of fears, a harem of fondled hatreds.。
"My name was Legion."。
I really relate to that.。
And so I don't have a lot of time here,。
but just quickly to try to answer some of your questions.。
Jesus casted out a demon, demons, 2,000 demons,。
sent them into pigs.。
Why into pigs?。
Why is that in here?。
Let me tell you why that's in here, because it happened.。
There is no reason in the world。
that anybody would be in a creative writing class。
like where do we wanna send the demons?。
Let's send them into the pigs.。
But no, Matthew, Mark, and Luke saw it happen。
and wrote it down and it's crazy, okay?。
And it's written down because it happened and they saw it。
and they were like, "We gotta tell somebody about the pigs.。
"This is crazy."。
And so that's why it's in here.。
And so why don't we call out demons?。
Like you probably, if you've been here long,。
you've probably never seen me say,。
"In the name of Jesus Christ, I cast you out."。
And I've wrestled with that before.。
I'll tell you, my really quick answer to this。
is because Jesus gives us a better way.。
See, I think, especially as young adults,。
like we wanna conjure up the power,。
we don't study church history,。
we come in, we think we found something great,。
we stepped into a church and we have embraced the theology。
and we love the supernatural and we're obsessed with it.。
And so we think that you can like pray。
or you can cast it out.。
You can pray, you know, boring spiritual discipline,。
or you can get loud and I was in Haiti once in Africa。
and you won't believe in it rolling down.。
I've been there, I've seen it, okay?。
Let me tell you what Jesus says, Matthew,。
I'm sorry, Mark chapter nine, verse 26.。
There's a man whose son is possessed by a demon。
and he's throwing him into fire,。
throwing him into water, trying to drown him.。
And the disciples go to him and say,。
"In the name of Jesus Christ, I call you out."。
And nothing happens.。
And so the man goes to Jesus and says,。
"They tried to cast out a demon, but nothing happened."。
And Jesus says this, it says,。
"The spirit shrieked and convulsed him."。
Jesus cast it out, "Convulsed him violently.。
"And he came out and the boy looked so much like a corpse。
"that many said he's dead.。
"But Jesus took him by the hand。
"and lifted him to his feet and stood up.。
"And after Jesus had gone indoors,。
"his disciples came to him and asked him privately,。
"'Why couldn't we drive it out?'。
"And he replied, "'Because this one。
"'only comes out by prayer.'"。
He says, "You got two options.。
"You and your power can call and say,。
"'In the name of Jesus, I,'。
"or you can go to God,。
"the one who 2,000 demons just fell down and worshiped。
"and say, 'Will you?'"。
And Jesus right here, and read it for your own eyes。
in case you are tempted not to believe me,。
says, "That's a better way.。
"That's a stronger, more powerful way.。
"And we hate that.。
"If you are like me in my flesh, you're like,。
"No, don't just give me the boring spiritual disciplines.。
"Give me something crazy.。
"'Cause I'm crazy."。
(congregation laughing)。
You can tell it to come out,。
or you can turn to the one who overpowered 2,000 demons。
and say, "Hey, will you do something over there?"。
And Jesus says, "Hey, do that."。
The really difficult kind,。
you need to call on something bigger than yourself.。
And so, whatever your addiction is,。
your body image, your pornography,。
whatever you're stuck in, whatever you can't get out of,。
you're fighting something stronger than you,。
but you're not fighting anything stronger than God.。
And you need to turn to God,。
devote yourselves to the teachings, to prayer,。
to the breaking of the bread, to the spiritual disciplines,。
to the studying his word,。
to writing his word on your heart,。
to holding fast to a better promise.。
And you say, "Is there just something quick, though?"。
No.。
I mean, God could do it quick, for sure.。
But more times than not, he says,。
"No, step into a process。
"where you actually get to know me,。
"and we can have a relationship,。
"and you're not just looking for an aspirin."。
(congregation laughing)。
You say, "Well, why, but Jesus cast it out."。
That's right, you're not Jesus.。
There is something unique happening。
with Jesus and his apostles here。
where the miracles are constantly authenticating the message.。
I mean, he's talking to evil forces.。
He's communicating with them, and they're talking back,。
and there's something unique happening here.。
And if you don't believe me,。
there's a place in the scripture where the disciples said,。
"Hey, there's this guy casting out a demon in your name,。
"but we asked him to stop."。
And here in Acts 19, verse 13,。
some Jews went around driving out evil spirits,。
tried, some Jews who went around driving out evil spirits。
tried to invoke the name of the Lord Jesus。
over those who were demon-possessed.。
They would say, "In the name of the Jesus。
"whom Paul preaches, I command you to come out."。
Seven sons of Sceva, a Jewish chief priest,。
were doing this, and so this Jewish chief priest,。
Sceva, has seven sons.。
They're going out, they're casting out demons。
in the name of Jesus.。
And one day, the evil spirit answered them,。
"Jesus, I know, and Paul, I know about, but who are you?"。
The man who had the evil spirit jumped on them,。
overpowered them all.。
He gave them such a beating, gotta love that.。
He gave them such a beating that they ran out of the house,。
naked and bleeding.。
Seven men run into a fight, seven men run out。
with no clothes on, and they're bleeding.。
They lost, that's what that means.。
Let me tell you what that means.。
In the Greek, that translates, they lost.。
They did not win the fight.。
And so I would not recommend you going around。
commanding demons to come out.。
I would recommend you pray, and you fast,。
and you share truth, because this is a truth encounter.。
This is a truth encounter.。
When the disciples came up to Jesus, and they say,。
"Hey, this man's casting out demons, your name."。
He said, and they said, "But we stop him."。
Jesus said, "You don't need to stop them."。
Not because, "Hey, I want them to do that,"。
or, "I hope that they do that."。
He never commands us to do that.。
He says, "But if he's doing that,。
"then he can't preach against me.。
"He can't come later and say, 'Crucify him.'"。
And so here's what this text is telling us,。
is that there is a condition that you cannot recover from。
apart from Jesus.。
There is a condition that exists in humans。
that cannot be recovered from apart from Jesus.。
You will never, ever be well apart from Jesus.。
When I first wrote that down, I was like,。
"Man, that's profound, and it's gonna go viral on Twitter。
"and be amazing."。
And then I thought about it again,。
and I was like, "Yeah, it's called sin."。
There's nothing profound about that,。
that the sin that we were born into,。
we cannot recover from apart from Jesus.。
This Sunday, I took my family to eat。
on Lower Greenville.。
Took the girls, Presley and Finley,。
and my wife and Weston, three kids and Monica,。
and we're walking into the restaurant,。
and there's this man sitting there in the back。
on the street near the restaurant, big dude, dreadlocks,。
tattoos on his face, and I just said,。
"Hey, what's up, man?"。
He says, "Hi," and we go in, we eat,。
and about an hour and a half later, we come out,。
and he's still sitting there.。
Tell him hi again.。
He says, "Hey, can you spare some change?"。
And I say, I go, and I'm thinking,。
I'm always trying to assess the need,。
and how do I meet the need, and what is the need?。
Is the need money, what is the need?。
So I begin to have a conversation with him,。
and if I'm honest with you, like in my flesh,。
I'm like, "This is gonna be an incredible,。
"teachable moment."。
I'm like, "Come around, kids.。
"Daddy's about to share the gospel.。
"Get a pen."。
(congregation laughing)。
And I'm like, "What's your name?"。
And he's like, "My name is Legion."。
No, he didn't say that.。
He said, (congregation laughing)。
he said, "My name is Carl."。
And I said, "Hi, Carl."。
And we're having this great conversation, Carl and I,。
and Carl has a cross tattoo right here on his forehead,。
and I say, you know, we're talking, everything's fine,。
everything's lucid.。
I say, "Carl, tell me about that tattoo."。
And he goes, "Well, you know how many rings。
"are around Saturn?"。
And I was like, "Man, science class seven, maybe?。
"I'm not sure."。
And he says, "Well, if you take the first ring。
"and you make it a screwdriver。
"and you stick it right here inside my head。
"and I pull it out, what am I gonna do with it?"。
(congregation laughing)。
I'm like, "Is this a test?"。
(congregation laughing)。
No, I'm like, "Hey, kids, go back to the car."。
(congregation laughing)。
Like, where is the screwdriver, Carl?。
And, and, and we're laughing, and it's fun here,。
but it's really heartbreaking, honestly.。
And I talked to Carl a minute longer。
and invited him here, and the conversation, you know,。
got kinda weird, as if it could get weirder,。
and we got in the truck, and my little girl, Presley,。
you know, just the innocence of a child,。
says, "Daddy, you should've given him money。
"to go to the spa."。
(congregation laughing)。
And I said, in response, I don't say that。
to doggone him at all, it's just what happened.。
And I said, "Presley, Carl needs something。
"so much more than what Daddy can do right now.。
"Carl doesn't need to be cleaned on the outside,。
"Carl needs to be cleaned on the inside.。
"Carl needs to be washed on the inside.。
"Carl's been given over to his sin.。
"He's indulged in something for so long,。
"that it's completely consumed him and overpowered him.。
"And so we just need to pray for Carl."。
And it's interesting that I wrote down in this outline,。
before that happened, and in my mind,。
I didn't connect the dots, I said, "This man exists.。
"You know, he's in Dallas, he lives somewhere."。
And I never even connected, then God placed him。
right in front of me.。
He needs something more powerful than me.。
He needs the one that was so powerful。
that he changed me on those same streets.。
I was on Lower Greenville when someone。
invited me to this place.。
I was in the bar right there beside where we ate.。
When someone said, "Hey, will you come to church。
"with me tomorrow?"。
I sat right back there.。
We met in high school at the time, hungover.。
And the Spirit of God began to make me new, verse 14.。
Those tending the pigs ran off and reported this。
in the town and countryside.。
And the people went out to see what happened。
when they came to Jesus, they saw the man。
who had been possessed by the legion of demons。
sitting there dressed in his right mind,。
and they were afraid.。
And I see this all the time.。
Like, just the other day, like a couple weeks ago,。
I'm talking to this guy, and he's like in a polo,。
tucked in, khaki shorts, like clean-cut dude,。
and we're talking, and he's like, "Yeah, I was a drug dealer。
"on the streets, and this, and that, and whatever."。
And I'm like, "Bro, what happened to you?"。
He's like, "Jesus changed my life."。
Yes, he did.。
Yes, he did.。
Those who had seen it told the people。
what had happened to the demon-possessed man。
and told about the pigs as well.。
Then the people began to plead with Jesus。
to leave their region.。
Why?。
Why did they say, "Jesus, you gotta leave"?。
Why?。
Because he cost them something.。
A couple hundred thousand dollars in pigs and swine.。
They're like, "You gotta get out of here."。
They didn't care about the man,。
they didn't care about his health.。
What about our pigs, man?。
Get out!。
(pages flipping)。
Verse 18, "As Jesus was getting into the boat,。
"the man who had been demon-possessed begged to go with him.。
"Jesus did not let him, but said,。
"Go home to your own people,。
"and tell them how much the Lord has done for you,。
"and how much he has had mercy on you.。
"So the man went away and began to tell in the Decapolis。
"how much Jesus had done for him,。
"and all the people were amazed."。
If you were here last week, you saw the rich, young ruler。
say, "Hey, what must I do to inherit eternal life?"。
Jesus says, "Come with me," and he leaves sad.。
"I can't sell everything and come with you."。
This man says, "Jesus, I wanna go with you, please."。
Jesus says, "No, you stay here.。
"You reach these people."。
And there he is, it's like,。
"Bro, is that you?。
"We went to high school together.。
"You're the demon-possessed man, right?。
"You're the crazy one, you've been living in the tomb.。
"Why are you so normal?"。
Jesus.。
Jesus, that's amazing.。
That's amazing, you've changed so much.。
Jesus, this man, Jesus came in and he changed me.。
So my third and final point is the objective of Jesus.。
The objective of Jesus.。
Jesus' objective is to save people, to set them free.。
That's what he does, that's what he's really good at.。
He's a savior, he saves people.。
He sees people in need, he runs to them.。
He's here, he's hanging out with his boys in Capernaum,。
and he's like, "Hey, we gotta go.。
"Since he's the Lord God Almighty,。
"there's a dude who needs me, we gotta go."。
You're here, he knows about you.。
He knows about right where you're at, he knows everything.。
He knows about the images on the computer,。
the date that went too far, he knows about everything.。
The thoughts, the deeds, the work, the acts, the addictions.。
He knows about it all.。
And he's coming for you.。
You're like, "No, he's not coming for me."。
Where are you right now?。
Look around you.。
He's coming for you, he's winning.。
You have no hope against him.。
Check this out.。
When Jesus wants to save people, he saves a person.。
How true is that?。
When Jesus wants to save people, he saves a person.。
You think about the apostles.。
He wants to do work.。
Hey, come here, you guys, come here, 11 guys, right?。
Come here, I'm gonna change your life, set you free.。
The apostle Paul, who was an outspoken person。
against Christianity, Jesus comes in his life,。
changes him, and he does ministry to the very people。
that he was speaking against Christianity with.。
You think about, I mean, I go on, St. Patrick, a drunk,。
goes back to a bunch of drunks and tells them。
about the man who changed his life, St. Augustine.。
I could go on and on and on.。
When often Jesus wants to save people with struggles,。
he saves someone with that struggle.。
I see it all the time.。
He takes a mess and he gives them a message.。
He takes a mess and he makes a message。
that furthers his message, which is the gospel message.。
You come up to me afterwards and you get the courage。
to say, hey, I gotta tell you something.。
There's this thing that I've never told anyone.。
It's killing me.。
I thought I'd never deal with it,。
but once upon a time, I had an abortion.。
I'm gonna say, stop, time out.。
First of all, God loves you.。
Second of all, let me introduce you to my friend.。
She's been there.。
She's done the same thing, and now God has created。
this incredible ministry around her.。
He's taken that mess and made it a message.。
He's redeeming it.。
He's gonna do that to you.。
Right?。
I mean, I talk about my pornography addiction。
that God has set me free from all the time,。
sexual addiction, alcoholism, drug use.。
And so what happens, the number one thing。
that I'm told after these messages is somebody comes up,。
the number one thing I hear over and over and over,。
dude, my story's just like yours.。
I know.。
That's why God would have me talk to you,。
and that's why he's gonna have you talk to them.。
That's what he does.。
That's the way this thing works, right?。
I mean, this is the way the gospel spreads.。
He takes a mess, he gives them a message.。
Jesus wants to save people.。
He saves a person.。
He wants to save people at your work, so he saves you.。
He wants to save people in your community,。
so he put you there.。
He saved you and put you there.。
That's what he does.。
This is the way this thing advances.。
This is the way the gospel moves forward.。
And so the application this evening。
is who did Jesus save you for?。
Who are your people?。
Who did he save you for?。
Because do you know that once the cap。
came off Jesus's ministry,。
once he's headed to the cross, listen to this,。
he never saved a single person just to save that person.。
Did you hear me?。
Jesus never saved a single person just to save that person.。
You think about just even the thief on the cross.。
Remember the thief on the cross?。
Jesus is there in the middle, guy here, guy here.。
This dude trusts Christ and shares the gospel。
with the only person he can.。
How crazy is that?。
I mean, he's got one person, he's about to die.。
Jesus says, "You're gonna be with me。
"and my father and my kingdom."。
Hey, man, do you not see who he is?。
Jesus has never saved a person just to save that person.。
He's always saved a person to save people.。
Give your life to that, family.。
Give your life to that, friend.。
That's why we're here.。
Let's see this movement take over the world.。
Let's see it consume the world.。
I don't know if you look around you, man,。
we're in a world of hurt.。
What are you doing?。
What are you doing?。
Don't just sit on this thing, man.。
Don't keep it to yourself.。
Sometimes people reject it。
based on what it's gonna cost them.。
2,000 pigs, but in Acts 19,。
you compare that to Acts 19 in the church of Ephesus,。
the same Acts 19 that I read earlier,。
seven sons of Sceva.。
It says that witches and sorcerers were coming。
with $5 million in scrolls burning them。
because they found something greater in Christ.。
There's some people that are like,。
"Nah, it's gonna cost me too much."。
Dude, I see you.。
You don't have sex anymore, bro.。
I'm out on that.。
No, man, you're not fun anymore.。
You don't go to the bar or the club with us anymore.。
Dude, I'm not into that.。
No, you're too prude these days, bro.。
You're not any fun anymore.。
But there's some people that,。
man, there's something different about you。
I gotta have for myself, man.。
What is that?。
I gotta give me some of that.。
It's like some people are gonna,。
what about the pigs, bro?。
We're out, get outta here.。
And some people are just gonna be amazed.。
I hear it all the time.。
I'm up here, I'm like, I always ask people,。
"How'd you get to the poor?"。
Dude, I went to school with this girl.。
She was a total B, and then I ran into her.。
That's your words, not mine, okay?。
Don't judge me.。
[congregation laughing]。
I'm always like, "Wow, that's courageous."。
[congregation laughing]。
And then I ran into her, and she was different.。
She was so different.。
She was kind and compassionate and joyful,。
and she invited me here, and so I came.。
Guys are like, "Man."。
I'm like, "How'd you get here?"。
They're like, "Dude, I went to school with this guy.。
"He was a bully, and they usually use some choice words."。
And then I saw him, and he was in his right mind。
and clothed, and--。
[congregation laughing]。
And he's like, "Come to the porch with me."。
I'm like, "Okay, I'm amazed, okay."。
That's what happens.。
That's what happened.。
I mean, sometimes he comes for the worst.。
You're here, and you're like, "No, I'm too far gone."。
What an arrogant, prideful statement.。
This guy, he didn't have an exorcism ministry.。
He just went and told people what had happened to him,。
that he was made new.。
He didn't go forward and be like,。
"Okay, I'm casting out demons now."。
He just said, "No, man, Jesus changed me.。
"And Jesus saved him to get them."。
How powerful is this?。
You're gonna be in heaven with this guy.。
If you're here and you're a follower of Christ,。
you'll probably meet this guy.。
And not just this guy, but a bunch of people from this city.。
You're gonna be up there, and like, "Hey, how are you?。
"How'd you get here?"。
And they'll be like, "Oh, man, the crazy demon man。
"came up to us and told us about Jesus, and here we are.。
"We've been here for 2,000 years waiting on you.。
"It's amazing."。
I talked to Brandon Slay yesterday, the wrestler,。
and just said, "Hey, can I tell the story?"。
And here's the crazy thing about that,。
as I think about it.。
So we worked here together.。
He was like, "I wanna give my life to vocational ministry."。
And as we worked here together, he thought,。
"You know what, I'd be more effective。
"doing what God made me to do."。
And so he moved to Colorado.。
He works at the Olympic Training Center,。
training Olympians and discipling them.。
I mean, some of you, I've met people here。
who have been discipled by him that now serve with us here,。
because he's like, "Those are my people.。
"I've gotta go back to my people.。
"I was a crazy, lost guy.。
"God took this athlete, he did something amazing.。
"He made me one in a billion good.。
"And so now I've gotta go back to people。
"who are one in a billion good。
"and tell them about this great God."。
And when I talked to him yesterday, he said,。
"Man, that's absolutely true.。
"And now I'm going to the University of Pennsylvania。
"where I wrestled to coach and to tell people about Jesus.。
"I've gotta use the gifts and the talents。
"that the Lord entrusted to me。
"to make this God more famous."。
Who are your people, friends?。
Who does God wanna save through you?。
Who did God change you for?。
And so, in summary,。
Satan may offer you power in order to make you a slave.。
That's his objective, to make you a slave.。
When Jesus wants to save people, he sets someone free.。
And the objective of Jesus is to set you free.。
I don't know how well you know the gospel,。
just the good news.。
It's the great exchange.。
The easiest way I know how to explain the gospel to people。
is just to say that Jesus got what you deserve,。
which is he was tortured, an eternal God in a moment.。
In eternity of torture, that's what you deserve.。
That's what your sin deserves.。
Jesus, an eternal God, is the only one on the planet,。
the only one ever created who could endure that,。
not created, begotten,。
who could endure that.。
And he endured that on your behalf.。
And so, if you trust in that, you get what he deserves.。
That's the great exchange.。
It's a very simple way to share the gospel.。
Christ got what you deserve.。
You get what he deserves.。
He traded places with you.。
He traded places with you.。
You see what happened here?。
You see what happened in this story?。
Jesus traded places with this guy.。
He went to him.。
Like, think about Jesus in Capernaum,。
and he's just like, man, I gotta go get this guy.。
Man, I gotta go to Frisco.。
I gotta go to Uptown.。
Gotta go to Midtown.。
Gotta go to Lower Greenville.。
Gotta go to West Seventh.。
Gotta go to Como.。
Gotta go to Plano, to Addison.。
I've gotta go see about someone.。
Goes, and he pursues, and he overcomes evil.。
And let me show you something amazing.。
He trades places with him.。
'Cause there, Jesus was abandoned,。
naked, bound, bleeding, in pain,。
crying out, living among the tombs.。
Do you see that?。
He traded places with him.。
There he was, bound, naked, bleeding, tortured,。
in the tombs with the dead.。
There he was, traded places with this guy.。
He did this for you.。
He endured the punishment that you deserve。
to give you the life that he deserves.。
An eternal God, a perfect being,。
someone who has never sinned, never done wrong.。
And he says, you can have everything。
that my father wants to give me。
because you trusted that I took on everything。
that is coming to you.。
And you, don't you dare think for one second。
that you're beyond his reach, or that your sin is too big.。
That is the most prideful statement you can make.。
It's the most prideful thought that you could have,。
is that a God who can, with his voice,。
take care of 2,000 demons,。
can't save you right now.。
I mean, you go home tonight, you take your computer。
and you throw it out the window.。
Take your phone and throw it in the garbage.。
You take that dude's number and you delete it。
and you block it.。
Okay, you go in the liquor cabinet。
and you throw them all away.。
You go to the magazines that you obsess over。
and find identity in, and why can't I look like her?。
And you cut them up and you put them in the garbage。
and you say, I'm a new creation.。
I trusted in Jesus Christ that he died for my sins.。
And that God, who's all powerful, raised him from the dead.。
What can overcome him?。
What can overcome him, huh?。
Nothing.。
Not a thing.。
And if you're the worst person in the room, awesome.。
That's who he's after.。
And if you're the best person in the room,。
you're self-righteous.。
And he's after you too.。
Let me pray.。
God, we need you.。
Can't do this without you.。
We can't save ourselves.。
We're cutting ourselves.。
Focused on what we're not, what we don't have.。
Can't do it alone.。
Jesus, we need you.。
Would you come into our lives?。
Would you make us new?。
We confess we're sinners.。
We ran from you.。
We've obsessed with all the wrong things.。
We've given ourselves to sin.。
We've worshiped other things than you.。
Jesus, we're sorry.。
We repent.。
We turn from that.。
Would you make our lives new?。
Would you restore in us a conviction of your Holy Spirit?。
Would you guide us and would you lead us?。
In the name of your great and holy precious son,。
Jesus Christ, amen.。
Let me answer the question.。
Nothing.。
Nothing.。
No height, nor depth, nor angels, nor demons,。
any principalities, any rulers, any authorities,。
nothing in all creation.。
Kiss that hand and kiss that God.。
Done, period.。
(congregation applauding)。
And so if you're trying to fight something stronger than you。
call on the one stronger than it, okay?。
Period.。
Don't try to walk into that ring unarmed without Jesus.。
Okay, it will not work.。
That will not go well for you.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
