[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
Porsche, let me hear from you, how we feeling tonight?。
Yeah, let's go.。
Hey, I have thought about it over the course of the last week。
and I think I am in on this Tuesday thing.。
I think I will keep coming back week after week.。
How do y'all feel?。
Y'all feel good about that?。
Hey, we have some very special friends joining us, not only。
here in Dallas but also from around the nation.。
We have some friends tuning in, Porsche Live locations, Boise,。
Indy, Greater Lafayette.。
So glad you are jumping in with us tonight.。
Hey, I am excited for this evening.。
I am excited to continue our series ins and outs.。
But before we get into the meat of what we have for tonight, I。
want to start off with a simple question.。
But I need your participation.。
So quick show of hands.。
Who in the room wants to find fulfillment in life?。
Show of hands.。
Show of hands.。
Show of hands.。
Keep them up.。
Keep them up.。
Now just take a look around.。
Like what you see as you gaze around this room is it's all of。
us.。
Like it's not just you.。
You are not the exception in your pursuit of fulfillment.。
Everybody in this room is searching for it.。
Which reminds me of a story.。
It reminds me of the time that I lost my Aggie ring.。
So every Thanksgiving my family gets together and we play a。
backyard football game.。
Anybody else do that with your families at Thanksgiving?。
We do this every single year.。
And over the course of the years the game has gotten increasingly。
competitive as my cousins and my nieces and nephews have gotten。
older.。
And so we're playing this last year and what is happening is。
we're in the backyard and it's fourth quarter and my team is。
down a couple of scores.。
And we're getting pretty heated.。
And so I do the only sensible thing that an honest competitor。
would do.。
I look at my 8-year-old nephew and I bench the guy.。
Hey, man, I have to play quarterback now.。
You can't do this anymore.。
I need to do it instead.。
Because we have a stage to come back and we start doing it.。
Like I'm throwing passes, dishing the ball.。
We've got deep fades and out routes and stop and goes.。
Like we're making our way back into the game until we're only。
at the fourth and it's the final possession of the game.。
And so knowing that we've got an opportunity here, my brother, he。
streams down the left side of the field and I launch a ball。
his direction.。
And in the process I launch my Aggie ring.。
Now in a moment like that you realize what you truly value in。
life.。
And what became immediately clear to me is that my ring meant way。
more to me than that game.。
Because I immediately shut the thing down.。
Stop!。
Like no more.。
We can't play.。
And I recruited my entire family to help.。
Help!。
Like everybody get over here.。
Oh, my God, what happened to you?。
I lost my Aggie ring.。
Okay.。
I'm sure it's around here somewhere.。
Don't worry.。
And so we go through the process of walking the yard and just。
trying to see if we can find it.。
No luck.。
And so we get strategic.。
We get together and we form a line and we start to sweep the。
yard together to see if we can find the ring.。
Still nothing.。
And so I then make everybody get on their hands and knees and。
scour through the grass trying to see if they can pick out my。
ring, my Nana included.。
It's still nothing.。
Like we had no luck whatsoever.。
And so I can feel like the cold chill of panic, like a wet。
blanket just falling over me.。
That I'm not going to find this thing until I realize I still。
had one, one more solution in my back pocket.。
I could go buy a metal detector.。
So I did.。
I got in my pickup.。
I drove to academy and I got one off the shelf.。
Immediately ran back home.。
Unboxed that thing.。
Started working through the intricacies of treasure hunting。
and started making my way across the yard to find my Aggie ring.。
And you know what I found?。
Gold.。
Because here it is.。
Now why do I tell you that?。
Because I think a lot of us are searching for fulfillment in。
the same way.。
Like we're moving through the proverbial backyard of 2024 and。
we're on the hunt for fulfillment.。
And now we may be varied in our intensity during that hunt.。
And yet nonetheless we're still looking for fulfillment.。
The reason I know this is the case is because last week we。
talked about how statistically the research shows this year we。
are in for three things.。
We are in for self-acceptance, self-fulfillment and。
self-reliance.。
And so this is something that we have prescribed as being the top。
of our list.。
This is what we are in for more than anything else.。
So if this is what we're hunting down, it begs the question.。
How do we find it?。
Well, how do you find anything in life?。
You ask someone that's found it before.。
Right now I'm on the great mission of figuring out what the。
best Mexican food restaurant is in Dallas, Texas.。
If you have any recommendations, come talk to me afterwards.。
But I'm asking the question.。
I'm talking to my team.。
I'm trying to understand where is the best Mexican food in the。
area.。
And the reason why I'm asking them is they have already。
gathered the insights that can help me to learn quicker where。
to go.。
They know better than I do.。
You see, personal experience isn't the best teacher.。
Someone else's experience is.。
Why should I spend the money when they've already spent it?。
I'm trying to ask them how do I find what it is I'm looking for?。
What we see tonight in Psalm 73 is the story of a guy that。
actually did find fulfillment.。
He goes by the name of Asaph.。
Asaph is a worship leader.。
He was appointed by David as the worship leader over the。
tabernacle choir.。
And what we see as we jump into Psalm 73 is he knows how to。
find fulfillment.。
But he doesn't know how to find fulfillment.。
It's not where we might be expecting.。
If you have a Bible, turn with me to Psalm 73.。
If this is your first time, I alluded to it but we're in a。
brand-new series called Ins and Outs.。
What we know about this series, we're asking the question, do my。
goals line up with God's will for my life?。
Here's what you need to know.。
Cards on the table up front.。
He's just in on you finding it somewhere specific.。
Psalm 73, this is what it says, starting in verse 1.。
It says...。
Right out of the gate it's pretty clear, our guy Asaph, he。
isn't fulfilled.。
He's discontent.。
He feels some sense of frustration.。
It says so in verse 1.。
He says...。
He starts praying, God is good.。
But then he gets honest.。
And he says...。
You see, Asaph, he knows that God is good.。
He has no doubt in his mind that God is in fact good.。
The question for Asaph is whether or not God is good to。
him.。
This is the question in Asaph's mind.。
In verse 2 it says...。
He looks around and you know what he sees?。
What so many of us see.。
Everybody else has everything they want.。
They've attained and achieved and amassed for themselves all of。
the things that they want in life.。
Asaph feels that way.。
Even for the wicked.。
And yet it doesn't feel like that's the case for him.。
That could not be further from his reality.。
You see Asaph is going through the ancient equivalent of a。
quarter-life crisis.。
What some of us are familiar with.。
And psychologists define as a period of uncertainty and。
questioning that typically occurs when people feel trapped.。
Uninspired.。
And disillusioned during their 20s and 30s.。
This is a feeling some of you can relate to.。
Like you graduated college.。
You moved to the big city.。
You got the job you wanted.。
You got the big checks and you picked up the guy or the girl。
you were aiming at and you started living in the high rise。
and everything looks the way you wanted.。
And yet on the other side of it you woke up one day and you。
realized this isn't at all as fulfilling as I thought it would。
be.。
I'm not nearly as satisfied with all of the trappings of a。
successful life like I thought I would be.。
I feel empty.。
Does that sound like your experience?。
This is Asaph's.。
This is what he's feeling.。
He's saying, man, I played by the rules.。
I've checked all the boxes.。
I've crossed the T's and done everything the way you're。
supposed to do it and yet I'm still missing something.。
He feels frustrated.。
He feels out of gas.。
He feels winded from all the work.。
He feels disappointed.。
Which is good.。
You may not be thinking that that is the case.。
And yet what we know in order to find fulfillment is we actually。
have to first and foremost identify what triggers our。
disappointment.。
If you want to find fulfillment, you must identify what triggers。
your disappointment.。
At first that feels like a bait and switch.。
Dude, I came here expecting to meet some people and have a。
great evening and spend time with my friends and here you talk。
about fulfillment.。
Sounds like an awesome night.。
And now you're talking about disappointment.。
So glad I came.。
Here's why we need to talk about disappointment before we get。
into fulfillment.。
Because in order to figure out how to make something right, you。
must first understand why it is wrong.。
Like you can't make something right unless you first know。
what's wrong.。
This is why it's really important, fellas.。
If you're trying to date a beautiful young lady, you need。
to listen to her whenever you've upset her.。
Listen to her as in comprehend the words she's speaking.。
Because she's telling you, hey, this is what's wrong.。
That way you can make it right.。
You can't simply do it by way of offering flowers, buying。
chocolates, taking to dinner.。
You have to understand, comprehend what is wrong in the。
situation before you can effectively make it right.。
Author Brene Brown said really well, disappointment is unmet。
expectations.。
And the more significant the expectations, the more。
significant the disappointment.。
It's kind of like the idea of an appetite.。
Like when you get hungry, what's the natural response?。
To find some food.。
Which you expect to find because you went to the grocery store。
and stocked up like a responsible young adult.。
How do you feel when you swing open the pantry and nothing is。
in there because your roommate ate all of it?。
You're triggered.。
That's what happens.。
You immediately become disappointed.。
Like you had expectations of what would be there and yet。
those expectations didn't pan out.。
So you go from hungry to hangry.。
You turn into a monster.。
You become a different person.。
And yet it's sensible because a discouraged heart produces a。
distorted perspective.。
Like your outlook on life, it becomes bleak because your。
expectations have gone unmet.。
So how do we know what's discouraged our heart?。
How do we identify what triggers our disappointment?。
What source is behind our discontentment in life?。
How do we figure that out?。
Look at verse 3.。
For I was envious of the arrogant when I saw the。
prosperity of the wicked.。
For they have no pangs until death.。
Their bodies are fat and sleek.。
They're not in trouble as others are.。
They're not stricken like the rest of mankind.。
Friends, if you want to identify what triggers your。
disappointment, then you need to recognize what evokes your envy.。
If you want to identify what triggers your disappointment,。
then you need to recognize what evokes your envy.。
If you want to identify what triggers your disappointment,。
then you need to recognize what evokes your envy.。
This is what happens for Asaph.。
Like his struggle with discontentment, it started the。
minute he looked away from God and started looking at everybody。
else around.。
And what you find is he just starts -- he starts casually。
scrolling on ancient Instagram.。
And he finds, man, hey, the prosperity of the wicked.。
They're wealthier than me.。
They have no pangs until death.。
They're healthier than me.。
Their bodies are fat and sleek.。
They're prettier than I am.。
They lack any kind of trouble.。
They're smarter than me.。
He saw they weren't stricken like the rest of mankind.。
They're happier than me.。
You think the Bible reads relevantly?。
Like Asaph deals here with what you deal there.。
He's wrestling with feelings of insecurity and inadequacy and。
insufficiency.。
No different than we do.。
The problems are the same.。
But that's good news because the solutions are too.。
You see what happens to Asaph, which happens to so many of us,。
is we walk unknowingly into the trap of comparison.。
Teddy Roosevelt, he famously said that comparison is a thief。
of joy.。
And when he was in the plane, turned that up a notch, he said。
that comparison is the death of joy.。
And the Bible has its own spin.。
In Proverbs 14.30 it says...。
The Bible wants you to know comparison is toxic to joy.。
It rots the bones.。
That's the nature.。
It's more than just looking and wanting what other people have.。
It's resenting them for it.。
They have what I want.。
And so I hate them.。
I want so badly to be where they are.。
And so I resent them.。
This is what happens to us whenever we take our eyes off of。
God and lay them upon other people.。
We stop looking for fulfillment in the right places.。
And what we find is disappointment instead.。
Friends, if you want to find fulfillment, then first you need。
to identify what triggers your disappointment.。
Where are you bitter in life?。
Like what consumes your head space?。
Even tonight.。
Because you walked in.。
What's clouding your judgment?。
Blurring your vision?。
That's what Asaph does.。
He tries to understand himself.。
He wants to get under the layers of why is it that I'm so。
embittered against all of these other people.。
And so he says in verse 16...。
But when I thought of how to understand this, it seemed to be。
a wearisome task.。
Until I went into the sanctuary of God.。
Then I discerned their end.。
Truly you set them in slippery places, you make them fall to。
ruin.。
How they are destroyed in a moment, swept away utterly by。
terror.。
Like a dream when one awakes, oh, Lord, when you rouse yourself。
you despise them as phantoms.。
You are shrewd and ignorant.。
I was like a beast towards you.。
The second step towards finding fulfillment after you identify。
what triggers your disappointment is you have to。
keep eternity in perspective.。
You have to keep eternity in perspective.。
It's interesting.。
When you go and you study through Psalm 73, you'll find。
that it actually breaks down in a mirror form.。
It's what scholars call a chiastic structure.。
The first half of the psalm mirrors the second half of the。
psalm.。
The first half of the psalm talks about Asaph's old。
perspective on life and the second half talks about his new。
perspective on life.。
And any time you see a chiasm, the way you understand what the。
main point or one of the most significant elements of that。
psalm or that narrative or that epistle is, the way that you。
learn is you look at the hinge point.。
What's the dead center of it?。
That's verse 16.。
And what it says in verse 16 is that Asaph went into the。
sanctuary of God.。
That's what changed his perspective.。
That's what solved his disappointment.。
He got close to God.。
Psalm 97 says...。
Just take that into consideration.。
The mountains melt like wax.。
Like Everest in all of its glory and greatness.。
Melts away the minute God shows up.。
Like the transcendence of God.。
It waxes away our greatest disappointments.。
This is what Asaph learns.。
He learns that God's presence, it brings new perspective.。
Like his disappointments, they had hypnotized him into。
thinking all hope is lost.。
And the minute he gets close to God, he snaps out of it.。
He realizes it's not as bad as I thought.。
Things are not as grim as they seemed.。
Because with God what you learn is that the realization of what。
you want pales in comparison to the reminder of what you。
already have.。
The realization, the attainment, the achievement of what you。
want, it pales in comparison to the reminder of what you。
already have.。
Namely who you already have.。
Like this is what Asaph does.。
He looks forward.。
He considers the future.。
Verse 17 says...。
That's a long ways out.。
He starts thinking about how all of this plays out in eternity.。
And you know what it gives him?。
The minute he adopts an eternal perspective, it gives him。
clarity.。
It gives him clarity.。
Clarity specifically about those he envies.。
That they're set in slippery places.。
That unless they come to know God, they will fall to ruin.。
And then it's gone.。
The next.。
And he also gets clarity about the condition of his own heart.。
He realizes and honestly admits...。
When my soul was in bitter.。
When it was.。
Past tense.。
When I was pricked in heart.。
I was brutish.。
And ignorant.。
I was like a beast towards you.。
Asaph acknowledges.。
I was ignorant.。
I was like a beast.。
I didn't understand.。
I thought that fulfillment was found in all of these other。
places.。
I thought it was found in my job and in my relationship.。
And in my family being healthy with one another.。
I thought it was going to be found in a vibrant community。
here at Watermark.。
And yet what I learned is fulfillment is not found in any。
of those things.。
It's found in you, God.。
Fulfillment is found in you.。
Friends, in the same way that Asaph,。
he uses an eternal perspective to deconstruct his。
disappointment.。
We have to do the same thing.。
Like we have to get underneath our disappointment and。
understand, man, why does this bother me so much?。
And how can I be restored to hope?。
That way I can find fulfillment.。
And the way you do it is you lock your eyes on God.。
You fix your gaze on him.。
Just like Davy said.。
You look to Jesus.。
You get your eyes locked upon his goodness.。
And you allow that to inform the way that you see the watching。
world.。
Lamentations 3, 37-38, it tells us why this is valuable.。
Why when we look to God he can be trusted.。
It says...。
So friends, to the disappointment you feel because。
you're not as far along as you want to be in life.。
An eternal perspective would look at that and say,。
my God is good.。
And his plans are in fact better for my life than my own.。
Like to the disappointment you feel because it keeps feeling。
like God is unnecessarily complicating your life.。
An eternal perspective looks at that and says,。
my God is kind.。
And with him my pain is never pointless.。
But always has purpose.。
And to the disappointment you feel because the world has led。
you to believe you're not enough.。
You're not pretty enough, smart enough, funny enough,。
popular enough, likeable enough, desirable enough.。
You'll never be successful enough.。
To all of that, an eternal perspective says,。
my God is perfect.。
And I'm nothing less than he wants me to be today.。
I'm exactly who and exactly where he wants me to be.。
I'm exactly who and exactly where he wants me right now.。
We're going to move forward.。
We're going to get better.。
But that happens as I walk with him.。
Not because the world tells me so.。
Listen, if God is withholding some things from you,。
it's because he wants something else for you.。
If God is withholding some things from you,。
it's because he wants something different for you.。
Namely, more of himself.。
I guarantee you, he always wants more of himself for you.。
This is the story of the scriptures.。
This is what the entire Bible is pointing to.。
God wanting to be close, near and known by us.。
He will always work for that.。
And that's exactly what Asaph finds.。
As you keep reading, it says in verse 23...。
Asaph gets close to God and his perspective changes.。
It shifts.。
And what he finds is that God is continually with him.。
Holding him by his right hand.。
Guiding him with counsel and ready to receive him into glory.。
You see, even when Asaph had lost sight of God,。
God never lost sight of him.。
Even when Asaph walked away and moved towards the world,。
God stayed exactly where he was last left.。
The same is true for you.。
God has not walked away from you.。
God has not abandoned you.。
He's not overlooked you.。
He's not forgotten about you.。
And some of you feel like the exception to that rule tonight.。
And yet that could not be further from the truth.。
God, he sees you as you are.。
And he's wanting you exactly as you are tonight.。
This is the Lord's heart.。
Asaph comes back and he says, God, you're still here.。
You never left.。
I thought you forgot about me.。
But God, you didn't.。
You stayed here the entire time.。
I walked off and I got distracted by the world.。
I allowed the strength of my heart and my portion to be fulfilled by other things in life.。
Like I thought the strength of my job would fulfill me, God.。
But it didn't.。
I thought the strength of my relationship would fulfill me.。
I thought the strength of my good reputation would fulfill me.。
But God, none of those things did.。
You're my portion.。
You're my portion.。
Not just today and not just tomorrow and not just the day after that or the week following, the month after that.。
You're my portion forever.。
You never left me, God.。
Which is why I now know that I depend on you for the fulfillment I seek.。
And that's the third point.。
If you want to find it, you must depend on God for the fulfillment you seek.。
You see, fulfillment in life is found through contentment in God.。
That's what Asaph is writing in Psalm 73.。
That's what he wants you to take away tonight.。
It's not something you achieve.。
It's something you receive from the Lord.。
Which I know really bothers some of us.。
Like we were talking as a staff earlier, but tell them what they need to do to get it.。
That's not how contentment works.。
That's not what you do.。
Contentment is a satisfaction not in doing for the Lord but in being with the Lord.。
It's in registering not what I don't have but in what I do.。
That God, you're all I need.。
And so I can wait with you.。
I can sit with you.。
I can listen to you.。
I can come close to you, God.。
You see, the reason why I think that bothers us so much is because we've mistaken what fulfillment actually is.。
You see, when we talk about searching for fulfillment, often what I think we're looking for is something full of feeling.。
We've mistaken fulfillment as something full of feeling.。
And that's not what it is.。
Like we think that, man, I've got to find something that's going to gratify and satisfy every need in my life.。
And so what we do is we start looking for ways to achieve that end.。
We want a nicer job.。
We want better friends.。
We want another beer.。
We decide that we need to take another trip.。
Like we do all of these things.。
And here's the thing that's so tricky about it.。
This is what the enemy loves to do in our life.。
He loves to scratch the itch.。
So that way you come back for more.。
He wants you to find some sense of satisfaction.。
But once it wears away, return like a dog to its vomit.。
This is what the enemy wants.。
And yet what the Lord wants is he wants to satisfy you not just today but forever.。
And this is God's heart.。
You see, Paul, he talks about this in Philippians 4.。
He says, I know what it is to be in need.。
Like I know what it is to have plenty.。
Like he's saying I know what it's like to be empty inside and I know what it's like to be full inside physically.。
I've learned a secret of being content in any and every situation.。
Whether I'm well fed or I'm hungry.。
Both ends of the spectrum.。
Whether I'm living in plenty or I'm living in want.。
Paul says that finding fulfillment is like learning a secret.。
And the secret is that fulfillment is found through contentment in God.。
That's what he's pointing towards.。
Psalm 34.。
It says the young lions, which sound like young adults, they suffer want and hunger.。
We want for so much.。
But those who seek the Lord, they lack no good thing.。
Translation, those who seek the Lord, those who are content with God are always fulfilled.。
Friends, this has been heavy.。
But I didn't want to pull punches because I love you enough to speak what needs to be spoken.。
We are all looking for fulfillment in here.。
We outed ourselves at the beginning of this night.。
If you're like, it doesn't apply to me.。
Sorry, it does.。
You admitted at the beginning of this thing that this talk is for you.。
And yet I love you enough to say this.。
And I prayed earlier, God, should I?。
And I think it's right for me to say that if fulfillment is found through contentment in God.。
You are never more unfulfilled than you are tonight if you do not know Jesus.。
Some of you are searching the world.。
You're trying to find it.。
And yet what you need to know is fulfillment can't be found.。
Because fulfillment found you.。
Because Jesus Christ is God.。
Colossians 1.19 tells us...。
Jesus Christ is not only God, he also forgives sins.。
John 1.16 says...。
But he's not only God and not only capable of forgiving sin.。
He also gives life.。
Which is what it says in John 10.10...。
You need to know that you are not only seeking the fullness of God, you are seeking the fullness of the fullness of God.。
Friend, are you seeking for fulfillment tonight?。
Then you need to know fulfillment has already sought after you.。
You walked in here tonight no doubt frustrated, discontent, dissatisfied with your job, with your relationship, with whatever it may be.。
You fill in the blank.。
But the truth you need to hear is the resolution of that problem will only leave you searching still.。
But the one that has resolved our greatest problem, our separation from God, he will fulfill you forever more.。
Do you know him?。
If you don't, then the fulfillment you seek is waiting in him.。
If you do, then I would ask you the question...。
Are you living life or are you living it to the full?。
Because Jesus has not just come to save you from your sin, he has come to save you for so much more.。
Friends, Jesus is wanting for you.。
That's what this all says.。
The question is, how much of him do you want for yourself?。
Let me pray for us.。
(Praying)。
Father, there is no life apart from you.。
And there is no life worth living apart from you.。
You God have come to give us life, but you've also come God to give us the fullness thereof.。
I pray God we would know that this evening.。
But not just know it intellectually God.。
But know it God deep into our bones.。
Feel it God instinctively from within.。
And let it drive us God to pursue an intimacy with you forever.。
God I know what it's like to search the world and come up empty.。
I've run God that direction and I've found it to be so fruitless.。
Would you God by your spirit tonight speak to each and every one of us God in the way that only you can God.。
The way that you so distinctly can.。
Would you speak to us and say life is not found out there, it's found right here.。
You will not find joy elsewhere.。
You'll find joy right here.。
Come to me, come to me, come home to me.。
I've never left you, I've never lost you, I've never forsaken you, I've waited for you all along.。
Come back to me God.。
I pray we would respond to that call tonight.。
Believer and those that do not believe God.。
I pray like let this evening God be one where we awaken to the reality that there is no life that is fulfilling apart from you God.。
No, in fact, we've never lived more unfulfilled than when we're apart from you God.。
And so quicken our feet, incline our hearts, inspire God our souls and draw us back to the one thing that matters.。
It's you God.。
It's you like you've come God to save us from sin but to new life.。
You God, you're the one that gives a life and a life worth living.。
Fulfillment is nowhere else to be found but only found right here.。
Friends, if you're in the room tonight and you do not know Jesus Christ,。
with just a loving urgency, I want to look at you and say,。
everything you're searching for, it's found in him and him alone.。
If you want to place your faith in Jesus, if you want to declare him as Lord of your life and receive the free gift of salvation,。
that gift which saves you from your sin and your eternal separation from God but brings you close to the source of life,。
all you have to do is receive it.。
That's the beauty of the good news.。
It's a gift.。
For others of us here tonight, we may hear this and it may feel like old news.。
But I want to remind you it's still good news.。
Restore to me the joy of your salvation, God.。
And let me burst forth, God, in the praise that you deserve.。
Father, we give these next moments to you and we pray, use them as you may.。
It's in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
