(upbeat music)。
- All right, ladies and gentlemen,。
we are back here live, the Porch Live Experience.。
So wherever you are tuning in from all over the world,。
literally, thank you for joining us.。
We just wanna say that we're so glad you're here.。
If we have not met, my name is JD Rogers,。
and this is honestly a first for me.。
I am sitting here under extreme measures,。
social distancing, trying to keep away from everyone,。
and everyone here just trying to be really cautious.。
And I want you guys to know that I've even asked。
a few friends to come up here and join me。
and just sit out here because I miss you guys.。
Like, honestly, it is hard to be in this room right now。
and not look out and just be with my homies, my Porchies.。
And so just know that you guys are so missed,。
but I'm so excited that the Lord has blessed Watermark。
with this kind of technology where you and I。
get to still just learn more about Him。
and open up the Word together.。
And so we're not starting a new series tonight.。
We are just talking about something。
that really has been hitting home for me。
in the midst of corona.。
And before I tell you what it is,。
corona, I just, I want to be honest, I hate it.。
I am tired of corona.。
I am ready to go back to reality.。
One reason why is because I just miss getting a haircut.。
I miss having my haircut, the fresh fade.。
I just don't feel like myself.。
I don't feel as confident walking around.。
And just right now I'm looking, I'm kind of insecure,。
not going to lie.。
But there's so many things.。
I miss going out to eat with my friends.。
I miss working in a public place。
where you can look at people and make eye contact。
and not feel like you have leprosy.。
I'm walking around right now and anytime I see a human,。
I'm like, hi, am I, sorry.。
I'm acting so weird.。
And if I'm being honest,。
I'm trying to get out of this season of corona.。
And as I'm thinking about that,。
it's really relatable to what we're talking about tonight.。
Tonight, we're talking about our season of singleness.。
Singleness.。
And of course they have the single guy up here,。
shots fired to come up here and talk about this,。
but we are talking about singleness tonight。
in the midst of the season of corona.。
And here's what I was thinking about.。
Here's the reality right now.。
The season of corona plus the season of singleness。
equals super single, but not able to mingle.。
Super single, but not able to mingle。
is the definition of my life right now.。
Normally in life, it's like, yeah, I'm single,。
but what's up?。
Going out with the homies, going to meet the people,。
going out in the town.。
And right now we have nothing to do,。
but sit at home and recognize how lonely we are.。
And to make it worse, as this singleness。
when life was normal, wasn't already bad enough.。
Now we're forced to sit at home, scroll on Instagram。
and see all of the married couples doing couple things.。
And like with my boo in bed all day, movie marathon,。
or making TikToks.。
I mean, I see like 40 year olds on TikTok.。
I'm like, what are you?。
And it's just, I'm mad at everyone.。
I'm looking out my window, eating Doritos。
and my PJs at 5 p.m. watching couples go on walks,。
but going by, and I'm just like, all right, it's just me.。
You're like, hey, how's it going?。
Just like, they're looking at me.。
And it's just, it's so real right now.。
Like it is the weirdest time being single。
in the midst of the season of Corona.。
And like I said, they kind of weirdly go hand in hand.。
Like just as I'm ready for Corona to be over,。
I'm honestly fed up with my season of singleness.。
Like I am ready for singleness at times to be over.。
And I think it's because I view singleness like I do Corona.。
Like I see singleness low key as a virus,。
a virus that I want nothing to do with.。
I will look away.。
I will do everything in my power to not have to face it.。
And it's so funny because just like I approached Corona,。
I kind of approached singleness.。
Like the beginning of Corona,。
it was kind of like the millennial dream.。
It's like, we get to all stay home。
and like all of us are being creative on Instagram。
and like all these hilarious memes and this is fun.。
Ha ha ha, a new thing.。
Like, here we go.。
In the same way, like, you know,。
let's say you're in a long relationship。
and you know, like after you break up,。
you get with your bros or your girls and you're like,。
yeah, who needs relationships?。
It's time to be single.。
And we're all like, let's go out, let's have fun.。
And then over time, actually not very long,。
you're like, all right, I'm done with this.。
I am done with this.。
And that's what I feel like a lot of us are right now.。
Not only are we done with Corona,。
but a lot of us sit in the tension。
of being done with singleness.。
The difference between the Corona and singleness。
is where Corona does have a lot of negative effects。
and it is literally a virus。
that has caused a lot of pain and hurt.。
That is in no way the case for singleness.。
And if I'm being real with myself,。
I have to know and trust that the Bible says。
that singleness is actually a gift.。
And my first instinct, if I'm being honest,。
is not to believe that.。
I think a lot of us really would address。
and admit that we struggle with viewing singleness。
as a gift.。
And it can be really confusing when it's like,。
but I thought marriage was a good thing.。
Proverbs says, he who finds a wife。
finds favor with the Lord.。
I want some favor.。
And like, God saw that it wasn't good for man to be alone.。
So he gave him a helper。
and there's all these different questions of like,。
but I don't wanna be lonely.。
Is it wrong for me to wanna be married?。
And I just wanna stop right here,。
actually to address something.。
If you are not single, and when I say single,。
I mean someone who is not in marriage,。
like you're not married.。
So even if you're dating, I still am,。
I'm classifying you as single.。
And if you're with your significant other,。
you better be six feet apart right now.。
But no matter if you're single, dating, engaged, married,。
I think there are truths that we're gonna learn tonight。
from God's word about how a single person should live。
that applies to everyone.。
I think we all have things to learn。
from what God intends for singles.。
Because no matter what, every single one of us。
know that we have an independent walk with the Lord.。
Like our walk with God is not a we thing,。
it's a me and God thing.。
It's independent.。
And there are things that if we will learn them,。
especially singles, if we would learn these truths。
we're gonna talk about tonight,。
we're gonna find so much more joy in the next thing.。
I don't know if your future is singleness,。
I don't know if it's in a relationship,。
but whatever it is, if you, every single person。
are walking in these things we're learning tonight,。
you're gonna experience so much more joy。
and happiness and peace and rest.。
And so I just wanna jump in, I wanna get started.。
And tonight we're gonna talk about succeeding。
in this season of singleness.。
Succeeding in this season of singleness.。
What do I mean by that?。
Right now, we are not only in the season of singleness,。
but like I said, we're also in this very unique season。
of all that COVID-19 brings into our life.。
A lot of people have reached out to the porch,。
letting us know, hey, I am more lonely than ever before.。
SOS, help, that's me.。
I am like, at this point, I'm like Taylor Swift,。
like putting notes to the window。
to the people across the apartment,。
like anything to get some love.。
And I know right now, if you're a physical touch person,。
you're absolutely dying.。
You can't, you're like shaking to get out of the house。
and just be able to touch people again.。
Some of you, you might be introverts and you're like,。
dude, this is a dream.。
I don't know what you're talking about.。
But I think all of us will come to a place eventually。
where we just wanna get back to normalcy.。
This is such a unique time.。
But my fear is, is that we're gonna get out of this season。
and miss what God was trying to teach us.。
'Cause I do believe that God is trying to use,。
even though COVID has brought so much stress and pain.。
I know that people are losing jobs left and right.。
I know that people are getting sick.。
Some of you might have family members and friends。
who are actually, that actually have corona。
and you're having to move back in with your family。
and, or all these different things.。
And you're going, what do I do with this?。
Like, I'm not diminishing that this season。
has brought a lot of stress and hurt.。
But I do believe that as we read the scriptures,。
we see that God is always clearly moving.。
He's always working.。
He's always trying to teach us something.。
He's always trying to bring us closer to his heart。
and what he wants for us.。
And I think he wants something for your singleness。
in this unique season of corona.。
So tonight, two ways to succeed in this season of singleness.。
Two ways to succeed in this season of singleness.。
The first way.。
The first way to succeed is to secure the right relationship.。
Secure the right relationship.。
Here's what I mean by that.。
A lot of us think, I mean, it's just,。
it's almost human nature to believe。
that relationships with people, a relationship,。
a spouse is gonna bring us fulfillment.。
It's gonna bring us satisfaction.。
It's gonna bring us joy.。
And so we spend our entire life unsettled and uneasy。
and clawing to get out of singleness。
because we're trying to secure。
what we think is the right relationship.。
But reality is, is you're trying to put all your security。
and all your significance in the wrong relationship.。
And so what does it look like to secure ourselves。
in the right relationship?。
With the relationship with Jesus Christ.。
If you have your Bibles, which I hope you do,。
open up with me to 1 Corinthians 7.。
1 Corinthians 7.。
As you turn there, just a little bit of what's going on here.。
Paul is the author, the apostle Paul。
is the author of 1 Corinthians.。
And a lot of people are new to the faith.。
A lot of people are learning what it means。
to be a Christ follower.。
And Paul spends this letter to the church of Corinth。
telling them, hey, here is what it looks like。
to follow Jesus.。
'Cause they're going, what about this?。
What about this?。
Hey, so now that I'm a Christian, what about this?。
And what about this?。
And Paul's just addressing, hey, here's what this means.。
Here's God's design for your season of life.。
And so this is the part of 1 Corinthians 7。
where Paul just tells us,。
hey, here's God's design in singleness.。
Here's what it is, verse 32.。
"But I want you to be free from concern.。
One who is unmarried is concerned。
about the things of the Lord,。
how he may please the Lord.。
But one who is married is concerned。
about the things of the world,。
how he may please his wife,。
and his interests are divided.。
The woman who is unmarried and the virgin。
is concerned about the things of the Lord,。
that she may be holy both in body and spirit.。
But one who is married is concerned。
about the things of the world,。
how she may please her husband."。
And this is it.。
This is the thesis of your singleness.。
"This I say for your own benefit,。
not to put a restraint upon you,。
but to promote what is appropriate。
and to secure undistracted devotion to the Lord."。
Paul is saying as a single person,。
he says in that chapter as well,。
hey, I wish that some of you were single like I am single.。
Paul was single and he's saying,。
because the reason, the benefits of singleness。
is it's a time in your life。
where you get to have undistracted, unbothered,。
complete, secure devotion in the Lord。
and nothing else is there to demand your attention.。
It's just you and God and what he wants for you.。
Paul's basically saying, hey,。
if I right now had to pick an army to go change the world,。
I would pick an army of young adult single people.。
That's who I'm picking.。
That's my team.。
His A team are single people, you and I.。
Why?。
Because he understood that there was so much worth。
and there was so much to learn。
from our season of singleness.。
But you're never gonna see that.。
You're never gonna really understand that。
if you're not secure in the whole object of this principle.。
Like, so what I mean by that is。
when I say secure the right relationship,。
I am saying you have to learn in this season.。
Like Paul is saying, he's saying,。
you need to be able to secure。
undistracted devotion to the Lord.。
Girlfriends, boyfriends, husbands, wives, kids,。
great things, gifts from the Lord.。
But it just comes with it.。
Every one of my friends who are married tells me,。
hey, bro, don't wish it away.。
It is such a unique time where you get to grow。
and establish such security。
in the right relationship with Jesus.。
And it's so interesting as I'm thinking about,。
okay, well, how do I find security in my singleness?。
How do I find security in just me and God?。
Like, what does that look like?。
I was reminded of this story。
of a time where I felt very insecure in college.。
I was home with all my closest friends。
back before social distancing,。
and we had a scary movie night。
and we were all piled up in the living room,。
all on a pallet and on the couches.。
And we watched the movie "Strangers,"。
which spoiler alert, if you've never seen it,。
I would advise you not to.。
It is the most terrifying movie。
I've ever seen in my entire life.。
The reason why is because there is no premise really。
as to why they're killing this couple.。
There's this couple, newlyweds,。
they are in this house in the middle of the woods,。
which was the first mistake.。
But these people come with these scary masks。
and they just torture them the entire movie.。
And at the end, she's like dragging her knife。
and the girl's like crawling away.。
And she's like, her last words are like,。
"Why are you doing this?"。
And the girl's like, "Because you were home."。
And then just stabs her.。
And you're like, "Oh my, what the?"。
And I was just so bothered。
that it kind of carried over to the next morning.。
So everyone's gone, my roommates were gone,。
I'm asleep on the couch.。
And all of a sudden I woke up to this unsettling feeling。
that I wasn't alone.。
And so I raised up me and my boxers only,。
sorry, bad image there.。
And I look through the blinds of the window。
and I see this man and he's like probably mid forties,。
too old to be in my backyard, that's the point.。
A picketed fence, no one should be in。
unless you are welcomed in, but he's in.。
And he's looking around and I'm like,。
"Oh my gosh, there's a thief in my backyard."。
And he starts walking towards the back door.。
And I'm like, "So what do I do?"。
I grab a bat and I start,。
no, I ran to the closet, I ran down the hall。
and I hid in the farthest room in the furthest closet.。
And I tucked myself behind the clothes in my underwear,。
crouched down like, "Oh my gosh, okay, what's happening?。
What's happening?"。
All of a sudden the door opens, "Anyone home?"。
And I'm like, "Nope, you know why I'm not home?。
Because in strangers last night, the person was home。
and that was enough reason for them to get killed.。
And I'm not trying to get killed, so I'm not home."。
He's gonna have to figure this out on his own.。
If he's trying to steal, he's stealing by himself today.。
And so I stay in the closet and all of a sudden。
I start hearing footsteps coming down the hall,。
right towards my direction.。
And I am tripping, I am breathing, my head is down,。
I am sweating.。
And all of a sudden out of all the rooms。
in the back of the hall, the room I'm in, I hear,。
(imitates door creaking)。
And I'm like, "Get some WD-40 on this stuff, please."。
And the door opens and he walks in。
and I'm like, "Why is this man in this room?"。
And then the doors are kind of partially,。
it's like those trifold doors.。
He opens them and I'm like, (imitates door creaking)。
And I put my head down in between my knees,。
like looking like Smeagol, you could kind of see.。
And he takes, I see him and I flinch。
and put my head back down。
and he brings the clothes towards me.。
And I'm like, "Oh my gosh."。
And then he grabs the other, he looks and I'm like,。
"What's going on?"。
And then he grabs, I look and I look up。
and I see his fingers and I'm like, "This is it."。
And I put my head down, if I can't see him,。
he can't see me.。
And he moves the clothes and I hear, "Oh my Jesus."。
And I was just, I didn't look at him.。
It was the most awkward,。
like you could cut the tension literally with a knife.。
And he's like, you could hear my breathing,。
I'm not looking, I'm not addressing it.。
Like this man never has seen my face.。
And he's like, "Oh."。
And I just hear like some noises and then he leaves.。
This hurries out, the door closes.。
I fall out and I'm like, "Oh my gosh, like what just happened?。
Why, why, what's going on?"。
And I look up and I see that I hid in the one closet。
that had the electrical breakers in them.。
And this man was the renter's electrician。
trying to come and fix our house.。
And it's so funny because I think I view singleness。
like that man.。
It comes knocking at the door, just trying to help me.。
And I'm like, "Run away, run away."。
And like, I don't want to be sitting in like loneliness。
and in singleness and I hide in the closet.。
And a lot of you I think are hiding in the closet。
and it's time to come out, okay?。
I'm just gonna say it.。
It's time to come out and embrace and find security。
in this season that we're never gonna get back.。
We're never gonna get it back.。
Like God is going, this is such a gift.。
It's such a gift.。
And I think a lot of us are missing it。
because we're seeing it as something that wants to hurt us,。
not something that's gonna help us.。
And I think singleness is God's gift to help us.。
And so how do we secure that right relationship?。
Just like Paul says, let's reread it.。
To secure undistracted devotion to the Lord.。
So if I'm thinking,。
how do I secure my relationship with the Lord?。
Well, first off, like he says, it's just so practical.。
I need to be undistracted.。
Anything that's taking my attention away。
from my intimacy and my time with God,。
I need to remove or balance or change priorities.。
And I need to make God the number one priority in my life.。
So many of you have made God like a part of this agenda.。
You've made him like this thing.。
And I know for me, if I'm being real,。
there's so many times in my life where going to church,。
reading my Bible, praying,。
it's just this thing that I do in my schedule.。
It's not something that I am.。
It's not something I believe.。
It's not even something I want.。
I'm just like, well, let me check this off the list.。
And that's no way God,。
that's not how you establish security with someone.。
The more time you spend really desiring to be with someone,。
the more security you're gonna have in that relationship.。
And that's the same with God.。
The more time you spend with him, really spend with him.。
And especially like,。
if you're looking for an undistracted time,。
I cannot think of a better one than quarantine.。
I cannot think of a better one than Corona。
and like all that it's brought.。
This is the most, this might be the most undistracted,。
nothing else is asking for your attention,。
time of your life.。
And I don't want us to waste it.。
And when I was writing this talk,。
I had to get real myself and go,。
JD, you've been wasting it.。
Like you have been wasting it.。
Those times that you watch those Netflix movies,。
you could have been memorizing scripture.。
Those times that you sat there。
and just scrolled endlessly on social media,。
you could have been reading God's word。
or praying or listening to worship music.。
And I don't think God is sitting up there like,。
how dare you?。
I think God is going,。
I want you to want me and to be secure in me.。
And so I just want you guys to know that。
if you draw near to God,。
the word of God says that,。
draw near to God and he will draw near to you.。
You wanna feel close to someone in this season,。
draw near to God, spend time with him.。
And here's just some practical things I wrote down.。
Watermark actually has a great resource。
called Join the Journey.。
You just type in jointhejourney.com。
and there is a daily Devo。
where you get to daily spend time with God.。
Memorizing scripture,。
writing scripture on your mirror, on your hand,。
on your, like picking up your phone,。
your screen saver on your phone,。
just anywhere you look。
and it's like a tendency for you to like,。
it's to distract you,。
like maybe putting a sticking note on your TV。
or on your Xbox controller or whatever it may be.。
Like choose before I do that,。
I'm gonna work on this, memorizing the scripture.。
The Bible says to hide God's word in our heart.。
Another one like prayer and worship.。
I think we don't understand the impact。
that prayer has on our life.。
Matthew talks about, I believe in Matthew 6,。
it talks about how God's design for prayer。
is that we would go away in our room,。
we would get away from everything,。
undistracted and we would pray to God.。
And it says, the God who sees you in secret。
will reward you in secret.。
He has reward, he has gifts,。
he has abundance of peace and joy and satisfaction。
when you come to him.。
And when you spend time with him,。
he's ready to give it to you,。
but you've got to want it.。
Another one I wrote down is journaling,。
just journaling your thoughts,。
journaling your prayer so you can go back and reflect。
and read what God's doing in this time.。
A tall task, maybe for some of you,。
it's like, I've never read the whole Bible.。
Like I claim to state my life on this thing。
and believe this book,。
but I've never even read the whole book.。
Just try, say, hey,。
I don't know how long this thing's gonna go,。
so I'm just gonna try to read it cover to cover.。
And there's so much resources online。
that you can go with parts that you don't understand,。
maybe investing in a study Bible。
so it can help you understand scripture。
that is harder to understand for you.。
And some of you, like,。
I know what I like to start with。
with people who are new to this。
and like trying to get really devoted。
and spending time with God is,。
I always say, hey, let's just start with the book of John.。
Let's just open up the book of John together。
and let's just read it one chapter a day.。
Let's just go through it and let's just see,。
let's just learn the story of the life of Jesus on earth.。
Read it like a movie,。
like read it like you're reading a screenplay。
and watch the life of Jesus unfold。
in this story in the book of John.。
Like some of you just need to take the next few days。
just studying the book of John.。
I don't know what it looks like for you.。
I think you can get real with yourself and go,。
what's the best way that I connect with God?。
Like, what are the things that I enjoy?。
And set aside undistracted time with Him.。
And the next thing it says is secure undistracted devotion.。
What does it look like to be devoted?。
We tend to be people that are scared of commitment,。
of being devoted to something,。
of putting our word and staking our commitment to something,。
but being devoted daily to Christ,。
saying I'm gonna wake up every day。
and spend time with God, I'm devoted to Him,。
will go so far.。
I'm reminded of in Luke chapter 10,。
there's a story of,。
I think that just perfectly illustrates this.。
It says, Luke 10, 38 through 42,。
the story of Mary and Martha.。
"As Jesus and His disciples were on their way,。
He came to a village where a woman named Martha。
opened her home to Him.。
She had a sister called Mary who sat at the Lord's feet,。
listening to what He said.。
But Martha was distracted by all the preparations。
that had to be made.。
She came to Him and asked, 'Lord,。
don't you care that my sister has left me。
to do all the work by myself?。
Tell her to help me.'"。
And Jesus, I love this.。
He says, "Martha, Martha,"。
and for me, it's JD, JD, "Shh,。
you are worried and upset about so many things,。
but few things are needed, or indeed only one.。
Mary has chosen what is better。
and it will not be taken away from her."。
I read that and I'm like,。
I wanna be, I'm often the Martha.。
I think that the things that I do for God。
are gonna make me better with God.。
Like, okay, if I read my Bible, if I do these things。
and I establish this like do relationship,。
like do, do, do.。
And now that all my work and my friends。
and the things that I used to fill my time with。
are taken away because of this season of quarantine,。
there's not really much that I can do.。
And so all that I'm left is to be like Mary。
and to sit at the feet of Jesus.。
And what I mean by that is like I talked about。
is being devoted and spending time with Him。
and trusting that that is what He wants。
and that that's what is gonna bring me actual peace。
and joy and fulfillment and satisfaction.。
And that's how you secure a right relationship。
with the Lord.。
There are so many things that we search。
to find security in, like I said,。
but if you would just trust,。
trust what Jesus says here, Martha,。
you're so concerned about so many things,。
but Mary, she's concerned about one thing.。
She's got it figured out.。
It's coming and just being with me,。
not doing and being a busy body.。
Your productivity doesn't produce more like prosperity。
with me or more favor with me.。
I just want you and I've always wanted you.。
And God wants you now in your singleness。
and He wants you in quarantine.。
And He's saying, you don't have to be lonely.。
You can spend time with me。
and I need to be reminded of that truth.。
So the first one, like I said,。
securing the right relationship,。
like just remember, it's not in a person,。
like it's not in an idea or dating or marriage.。
It's securing in this time,。
relationship with the Lord and with God.。
And the second one,。
the second way we succeed in this season of singleness。
is to surrender to God's design.。
As I'm learning more of my Bible,。
I am seeing that God is a master, like designer.。
He is the creator of everything.。
He is the gift giver.。
He has all these things that I read。
and it's like, I wouldn't go,。
if I saw a painting, like,。
and I wanted to know about the idea。
and what gave the inspiration behind the painting,。
who am I gonna go to?。
I'm gonna go to the artist of that painting.。
And we search to find design,。
what we're looking for joy and for fulfillment.。
We search in all these places。
and God is going, hey, I'm the designer.。
I designed this season of singleness。
with so much for you that I want you to experience。
but you're gonna have to trust that design.。
And this illustrated for me,。
I was reminded of the first ever relationship actually。
in the Bible, Genesis three.。
You can turn me to Genesis three, one through seven.。
"Now the serpent was more crafty。
than any other beast of the field。
that the Lord God had made.。
And he said to the woman,。
'Did God actually say,。
you shall not eat of any tree in the garden?'。
And the woman said to the serpent,。
'We may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden,。
but God said, you should not eat of the fruit of the tree。
that is in the midst of the garden,。
neither shall you touch it lest you die.'。
But the serpent said to the woman,。
'You will not surely die for God knows。
that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened。
and you will be like God, knowing good and evil.'。
So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food,。
that it was a delight to the eyes,。
that the tree was to be desired to make one wise,。
she took of its fruit and ate.。
And she also gave some to her husband who was with her。
and he ate.。
And then the eyes of both were opened。
and they knew that they were naked。
and they sewed fig leaves together。
and made themselves loincloths."。
Here's what I want you to know.。
God's design for Adam and Eve looks like this.。
He created the world, the world was very good.。
And he said, "Adam, Eve, here's the garden of Eden.。
There is fruit for days.。
There is so much for you to enjoy.。
This is a paradise on earth.。
This is the pad.。
You have everything your soul needs right here.。
I've given you a helper and a wife.。
You guys get to have so much fun.。
Here's it all."。
And you would think they would be like,。
"What more do I need?"。
Like us, a lot of us are like,。
"If I just get to marriage,。
I'll be saying, 'What more do I need?。
I finally got it.。
If I just get a significant other, finally, now I'm here.。
Now I'm satisfied.'"。
And you would think that's what they would,。
that would happen, right?。
But all of a sudden,。
they, the enemy comes like he does to us。
and he starts whispering these lies in their ears.。
And he starts telling them, "Hey, didn't,。
why do you think God is keeping that one tree from you?。
Why do you think that is?"。
And he starts to get you to reevaluate God's goodness。
and God's character.。
And he goes, "I think God's withholding something from you.。
I think God's keeping you back from something."。
You know, he doesn't want you to like have a perfect,。
like good life in paradise.。
No, he wants you to not be like he is.。
That's why he's keeping it from you.。
And I think we, in the back of our minds,。
might believe God is withholding a relationship from us,。
like trying to teach us a lesson。
or trying to take us through some hardship.。
And we start to twist God's design.。
And where God's design is, is that he goes,。
"Hey, whether you are single,。
whether you're in a relationship,。
whether you're married,。
whether you're a father or a mother,。
I have specific designs for every single stage of life.。
And I ask one thing that you would trust me。
in every single season, no matter the cost."。
And we don't like that.。
We don't like to necessarily, I know for me,。
like I'm scared to put my trust in things。
that I can't see the end result.。
It's scary to be like,。
"God, what if you want me to be single forever?。
What if?"。
And I have to wrestle with these things.。
And so when I start to see the design。
that God intended for singleness,。
it starts to open up my perspective。
on what God is trying to do in my life in this season.。
And suddenly all the negative feelings,。
all the emotions, all the feelings of loneliness,。
they slowly start to dwindle.。
And what was once pain is now turning into a greater purpose.。
I'm recognizing, you know what?。
I truly believe, like Paul was saying,。
there will never be more of a time for me as a human。
to connect with God and experience fullness of joy,。
but also to lead people, to help change the world,。
like to connect other people to God,。
to serve my church, to serve people.。
I'm so available in this season.。
And when was that ever a bad thing?。
To be available, to open up my hands to God and say,。
"God, like whatever you is, like whatever you want,。
like I don't really, I want a relationship。
and I don't really know where you're going,。
but like I'm yours."。
And my perspective starts to change.。
And I don't think that the tree,。
like a lot of people ask,。
"Well, then why did God put the tree in the garden?。
Like if he wanted everything to be perfect and very good,。
why did he put that tree there to begin with?。
Why did he put an opportunity for something bad to happen?"。
And I would say what God was doing there,。
it wasn't that, like the tree does not prove。
or disprove God's goodness.。
Like what that tree does is it shows man's lack of trust。
in God's goodness.。
Like that tree was an opportunity for God to give to man,。
for man to respond to God and say,。
"I'm gonna trust you.。
Even though I'm hearing from the enemy。
that that's gonna offer me more,。
that that tree has fruit for me to bite into。
and it's gonna make me wise and it's desirable.。
Even though I look at relationships on Instagram。
and I see them, it looks like they're thriving,。
which by the way, highlight reel,。
I won't get off on that tangent.。
When I look at all these different things,。
I think when I get my marriage,。
I'm at Culver Sack with going to church。
and becoming, having my golden doodle and successful job,。
like all of these things,。
when the enemy says,。
"That's the only time you're gonna ever be satisfied,。
I'm gonna trust you, God.。
I'm gonna trust that you say that this is a time."。
Paul, why would Paul say that?。
"I wish some of you were single like I am single."。
It's because he understood God's design for singleness.。
He understood it.。
When you understand God's design for your singleness,。
it doesn't mean that God is suddenly like,。
"Okay, now that you understand, here's a marriage."。
It's not like that.。
But you will start to experience his promises.。
You'll start to experience peace and comfort。
and confidence and purpose.。
We're gonna start to experience what it looks like。
to stop striving and trying and to start trusting。
and resting and reading and learning and changing and doing.。
And we start to be more available.。
And oh my gosh, now I can go do this.。
I can travel.。
I can tell more people about Jesus.。
I can read more of the Bible.。
I can pray more.。
I can do more.。
And when you start to see it like this,。
suddenly singleness does not look so bad。
because it's like the time is now.。
We just studied the whole story of Esther。
where he looks at her and he's like,。
"Hey, maybe for such a time as this."。
And I'm looking at you and I'm saying,。
"Maybe for such a time as this,。
God has you single in this season,。
in the unique season of Corona."。
Because he's going, "I want you to be so secure,。
so undistracted and devoted to me that when Corona ends,。
you are literally gonna go and change your world.。
You're gonna go and through this security。
and through what you're learning in this season,。
you're gonna go and it's gonna impact people。
when we get back to normal life.。
Just you wait, just you trust."。
And I know that when I start to think about these things。
and I start to read about these things,。
a couple of verses, like when it's really hard for me,。
I'm like, "Oh my God, I just saw another,。
a couple posts and all this stuff."。
They're starting to do a couple of challenges,。
they're getting bored.。
I go to some of these scriptures, Romans 8, 28, it says,。
"And we know that for those who love God,。
all things work together for good,。
for those who are called according to his purpose."。
First Peter 5, 7 says,。
"Cast all your anxieties on him because he cares for you."。
Ecclesiastes 3, go read it.。
It just talks about how God has designed。
a time for everything.。
There is so much truth found in God's word。
to combat the lies of the enemy,。
that there's something better in the next season of life.。
And I'm telling you, the time is now.。
God wants to, he wants you to be secure in him。
and he wants you to understand and trust his design.。
And when you do that,。
your singleness is gonna do nothing but thrive and succeed.。
And so I'll wrap up with this.。
I know for me, I can hear these things。
and I can write this talk and I can get all fired up。
and I can be like, "Oh my gosh, I'm gonna go."。
And like, "Let's change the world, like singles unite."。
And, but the moment this live stream is over,。
I drive home and I'm left with nothing but my thoughts.。
And I'm evaluating myself and I'm wondering,。
did that land, was that part confusing?。
And I'm thinking about all these things。
and I have no one to go home.。
Like I don't have a spouse to go home and process to.。
Like tonight I'm gonna lay in my bed。
and think about all these things.。
And it's gonna just be me and the Lord giving it to him.。
But man, would it be nice to look over and be like,。
"What'd you think, sweetie?"。
Like that would be nice.。
And so I'm telling you like, wherever you are right now,。
I know the live stream is gonna end。
and you're gonna be left back into silence。
with nothing but your thoughts of potential depression,。
anxiety, addiction, loneliness.。
Like a lot of guys right now,。
you're gonna be left with nothing but the fight of like,。
"Dude, these passions are raging.。
"I just, ah, I know.。
"Like I know all of that is still waiting for you。
"at the other end of this live stream."。
And so I just wanna tell you, I get it.。
And just really quick, last summer,。
I took the plunge, I moved to Dallas,。
but I did not know that that would result。
in me losing my two-year relationship.。
And me and my girlfriend, we broke up.。
I'm like, "Okay, God, I'm gonna trust you.。
"I'm gonna trust you.。
"I'm gonna move to Dallas still."。
I moved to Dallas.。
I'm starting the Watermark Institute.。
It's the Bible program here for 10 months.。
And then God's like, "Hey, JD,。
"I want you to give undistracted, devoted attention to me。
"in these 10 months.。
"Can you commit to being single for 10 months?"。
And I'm like, "Okay."。
But even though I'm in Dallas with a lot of new people。
and the Metroplex like, "Okay, God,。
"I'm yours for 10 months."。
And now I'm nearing the end of the 10 months。
and May is coming.。
And I think at first along the way, it's like,。
we're at April and I'm at this crossroad。
where I'm like wanting to like speed up the process。
and get out of the singleness.。
And I think a lot of it is 'cause I could not。
have expected quarantine and coronavirus。
and all of this to happen.。
And I am like, "Get me out.。
"I am so tired of being alone.。
"Whatever it takes, get me out."。
Because here's what I'm left with in these lonely moments.。
I have to wake up and ask myself, "I am super alone."。
All my best friends from college have a group text。
I'm in every day where they're all married。
and they're all in their first round of children.。
And I'm thinking these thoughts like I'm behind,。
like all their kids are gonna grow up。
and I don't even have a girlfriend.。
I'm so far behind, like vacations, all of that.。
I'm gonna be that weird single guy playing with the kids.。
And they're like, "That's your uncle, JD."。
And it's like, I'm not really their uncle.。
And my little brother, like he's in a marriage。
for a couple of years now.。
My older sister's married with kids.。
My mom is about to get married again.。
Everyone is married.。
And I sit at home and I'm like, you know what that means?。
That means that they're all committed to someone。
and that person is their top priority.。
And I sit there and I'm like, "But whose priority am I?"。
Like, I feel so alone at times.。
And I'm like, "I am no one's priority until I am married.。
I will have no one who is so about me, so for me,。
just wants me all the time."。
And I believe deep down that when I find that person,。
I'm finally gonna be satisfied and not feel so lonely.。
But I'm missing the point because in this time,。
God has been so kind to me to be like,。
"Hey, you're not alone."。
And as cliche as it sounds, I've actually recognized。
I'm in a very committed relationship。
with the God of the universe, the creator,。
the maker of my days,。
the person who calls me my friend and my father.。
And he says, "I am committed to you.。
I want all this devoted time with you.。
I'm crazy obsessed about you.。
You're a top priority in my life.。
JD, you're such a priority that I'm willing to send。
my one and only son, Jesus, to come down to where you are。
and to pay the penalty of your sin and death。
and die on a cross.。
And why did I send him to do that, JD?。
So that you and I would never have to be separated.。
So that we could be in a relationship。
that brings you fullness of joy and peace。
and purpose and satisfaction.。
We can be in that forever.。
You're in a relationship with the person。
who fully knows you and fully loves you.。
Why?。
Because I sent my son to make it so。
through his death, burial, and resurrection.。
And when Jesus Christ died for me,。
when he rose from the grave and conquered sin's penalty。
and loneliness and depression and anxiety,。
when he conquered all of that,。
it meant that I now get to wake up every day。
and find security in the right relationship with Jesus.。
I get to have undistracted, devoted time with him。
because my security's in him.。
And then I get to trust in the design。
that God has a purpose and a plan for this season。
of my life, just like he had a plan。
to send his son to die for me.。
And I wake up every day and I remind myself,。
hey, no matter how lonely you feel,。
God loves you and God is with you, JD.。
He's with you.。
And to my friends listening right now,。
I know you're lonely.。
And I know that it just seems like。
if I can just get out of this,。
all of this will go away.。
But I'm here to tell you that's just not true.。
And God has this season.。
I specifically think God wants this season of Corona。
for us to open up the word,。
spend time with him and recognize and believe and trust。
that, hey, everything you're searching for is with me.。
Nothing else, nothing else.。
You can come and just be with me。
and I will satisfy the deepest longings of your soul.。
God, I am so thankful that although I am so prone to doubt,。
so prone to fear and reject this season,。
that I am so quick to not believe。
that you're trying to work out something for my good.。
I'm so quick to doubt that you designed singleness,。
that you designed this season of my life,。
just like you designed every other season of life.。
And you want amazing things for me.。
You want me to be devoted to you.。
I'm so sorry for when I'm so prone to doubt that。
and run from that.。
And for my friends that are battling loneliness,。
are battling trying to rush out of this season。
because they don't believe like I, that you're enough.。
I pray that tonight,。
that this season would change our lives.。
That when life goes back to normal,。
when we are back to whatever the new normal is,。
when we are back to whatever the new normal。
is gonna look like, that we go sprinting in,。
not trying to sprint out of our singleness,。
but trying to sprint into your design,。
into your purpose, into your plan,。
trusting I don't know when the season is gonna end,。
but I trust that it's gonna be good。
because my creator, my father said so.。
And it's him that I wanna be with。
more than anyone else or anything else.。
So that is why we come in this moment.。
We open up our hands and surrender our life to your design,。
our father and our friend.。
In the name that I pray, amen.。
Let's respond in worship.。
