[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
What's up, guys?。
What's up, friends in the room, friends in Fort Worth, Houston,。
El Paso, Northwest Arkansas, the Loft, Chapel,。
wherever you are tuning in from.。
We are continuing the series Matchmaker.。
And if you're curious, we have not started a new dating app.。
It's all just a play off of dating apps.。
Let me start tonight by bringing you guys。
in a little bit of my world.。
As I've mentioned before, I have a four-year-old son。
and a two-year-old daughter, four-year-old son,。
into two things really primarily right in his life--。
superheroes and dinosaurs.。
That's just all we're about all the time, all day long.。
One of the ways that his superhero fascination plays out。
is he is also into superhero LEGO sets.。
You guys remember LEGOs?。
Anybody play with LEGOs as a kid?。
Yeah, they're still around, still doing fine.。
Couple of things I've realized about LEGOs--。
number one, how much pain my dad must。
have gone through when he was putting together the LEGO sets.。
In hindsight, I always remember trying to do it,。
but I've realized this is a 500-person LEGO set。
that my son has.。
He has no ability to put this thing together,。
so it's like I'm doing Ikea furniture on a very small scale。
all the time with him.。
This is one of his LEGO sets.。
Captain America and Hawkeye.。
And we'll put this thing together,。
and he's all about it.。
The other thing I've realized is LEGOs are way more expensive。
than you ever remember as a kid.。
And when you're falling on a budget, man, these things。
are not cheap.。
But all that to say, this is one of the things。
that we'll, time to time, hang out, put them together,。
and we'll work together to put them together.。
Because he's four, he will often lose the instructions。
that come with this thing.。
And this is a 500-piece, little, tiny set.。
So if you do not have the instructions,。
you are up a creek with one exception.。
You have the picture on the box to work with and try。
to figure out, how do I put this thing together?。
So because, again, like he's four, it just will disappear.。
It gets thrown away.。
I don't have the instructions, and I'm。
sitting there with him trying to put it together,。
but I do have the picture.。
So I get all the ingredients, and I'm looking at it,。
and I'm going, oh, this is how it works,。
and this is how it goes together,。
and I can continue to put it together.。
What does that have to do with dating?。
Well, it may surprise you, or it may not.。
The Bible, when it comes to the topic of dating,。
has very little, or actually nothing, to say.。
Dating is a relatively new invention.。
It's only 75 to 100 years old.。
And so just like the Bible doesn't talk about Netflix。
and Instagram, it doesn't talk about dating.。
But it has a lot to say about marriage,。
about the type of person you want to be married to,。
the type of marriage that you want to have,。
the type of spouse to not look for,。
and the type of spouse to look for.。
And it tells us what God says is the point of marriage。
and what a successful marriage looks like.。
It gives us the picture.。
And from that, we then take the truths from God's word,。
and we begin to put together all the different ways。
to build that marriage.。
So tonight, what I want to do is I want to look at,。
if you will, the way that just like in this Lego set,。
man, we don't have the instructions,。
but I have the picture, and I work from there,。
and I can put it together.。
We don't have the instructions exactly。
on everything related to dating, but we have the picture。
which allows us to take the principles and go,。
man, we can put together what God says。
is what marriage is supposed to look like。
and who you are supposed to marry.。
We're continuing this series, Matchmaker.。
We've spent like two weeks on singleness.。
Weeks ahead, we're gonna talk about marriage.。
Tonight, we are talking about that season in between。
known as dating and what it looks like to put together。
the type of marriage that God says, in his word,。
is the picture we are to pursue.。
So we're gonna look and really explore。
what it looks like to date well.。
If you're following along, we've, in this entire series,。
played off of dating apps, and so we did。
your profile week one, we did your search history.。
This is not a advertisement to do dating apps.。
We're just playing off that idea。
because increasingly common is people being on dating apps.。
And tonight, we are talking about finding your match.。
If you take notes, it's finding your match.。
We are talking about the subject。
or everything that entails going on dates,。
what does it look like to date God's way。
and be in a dating relationship God's way.。
So we're gonna look at when to begin to date。
or when to match, if you will,。
who to match with and how to match.。
So I'm gonna fly through that, or another way of saying it。
would be when to date, who to date, and how to date.。
I'm gonna fly through the first two,。
relatively quick, famous last words,。
and then we'll camp on the third one.。
But this is a crucial, crucial topic。
that we live in a world where so many people。
are carrying around scars and pain。
because of the problems that they have experienced。
related to not doing what we're gonna talk about tonight.。
Well, next to who you will worship and who will be your God,。
who will be your match or your mate。
is the biggest decision that you will make.。
And my heart and our heart for this series。
is that you would experience the picture of marriage。
that God says in his word.。
But in order to get there,。
you gotta go through the dating process,。
which is involved of the type of marriage you're gonna have.。
So tonight we are talking about dating.。
So first idea, if you take notes, when to match.。
As in like, when is it appropriate。
or when do you begin to start the season of dating?。
Because you may be thinking, what do you mean?。
When do I start?。
Could there even be a wrong time to start?。
I start whenever I find a girl who I think is so attractive。
and she's somewhat interested in me。
and we're gonna make this thing happen.。
That's when you start.。
What do you mean, when do you start?。
Incorrect.。
When you start dating involves two things.。
When you are fully committed to Christ,。
I'm gonna talk about exactly what I mean by that.。
And when you are ready to fully commit to someone.。
When you are fully committed to Christ,。
when you are ready to fully commit.。
What I mean by when you're fully committed to Christ,。
if you just, man, maybe you just came back to your faith。
and you're like, dude, I've been running and I'm back.。
I love what's going on.。
God's working in my life.。
But there's some scars you've never, you haven't dealt with.。
You haven't worked through.。
And like we talked through the past couple of weeks,。
this may not be the best time for you to start dating.。
You should start pursuing the first。
and most important relationship that you have,。
which is your relationship with Christ.。
You should make sure that is the solid foundation。
you're gonna build a relationship with someone else on.。
'Cause you will never get a relationship。
with a guy or girl right,。
if you don't first have the relationship with God right.。
If you're not in a place where you are fully committed。
or healthy and spiritually mature and ready to date,。
you do not need to be dating.。
Maybe you just got out of a relationship where,。
man, it was everything.。
It was a train wreck.。
And it ended in a way that you're still kind of。
picking up the pieces of your own heart.。
This is not the season for you to date.。
It's a season for you to heal.。
If you're not fully committed to Christ,。
and that's the priority of your life,。
the first thing you gotta get in order is that,。
or you're not ready to begin to date.。
Underneath that would be the idea。
of just being complete in Christ.。
There's so many young adults who they spend their 20s。
and they go from one relationship to the next,。
the next, the next,。
and you don't know what it's like。
to not have a dating relationship.。
And I just want you to ask yourself,。
especially if you look in the rear view mirror。
and it's kind of one train wreck。
after the next, after the next.。
Are you okay being single?。
Is there something a part of you where you're like,。
I don't feel like I'm complete。
without somebody else in my life.。
My relationship status is like my identity.。
I have to be with somebody.。
And it could be that because you're not okay not dating,。
you're not ready to date.。
In other words, if you can't not date,。
you probably should not date.。
And that's not just some tweetable thing.。
It is a truth that if you're not in a place where,。
hey, regardless of who I'm locked arms with,。
I'm holding hands with,。
I'm spending the weekend with,。
or spending my time with,。
my first relationship,。
and I'm okay whether I have someone or not。
because I have him,。
then you're not ready.。
So not just being fully committed to Christ,。
but you are ready to fully commit.。
Now this is gonna blow everybody's mind.。
You're gonna think I'm lying.。
We're gonna get somebody emailing,。
"No, I can't believe you said that."。
When you are not at a place。
where marriage is on the horizon,。
where you could actually get married,。
you should not be dating.。
I'm not saying you have to be able to get married tomorrow.。
Like, hey, if you're not ready to get married tonight,。
right now, you shouldn't get married.。
That's not what I'm saying.。
I'm saying, hey, if you're going,。
there is no ifs, ands, or buts.。
There's no way in the next 18 months I am getting married.。
I gotta finish grad school.。
I gotta get out of debt.。
I got some career priorities.。
Whatever those things are, right or wrong,。
if marriage is off the table,。
dating should be off the table for you.。
You were not meant to go in long relationships。
with someone else and mend your heart together。
for years and years and years.。
And some of you guys, man,。
you've been dating for like eight years.。
Some of you guys have been dating。
since like your freshman year in high school,。
and you're 26.。
That's like 11 years.。
There are kids in middle school today。
as old as your dating relationship.。
Think about that.。
You need to, I can't even use that gesture,。
but get off the pot.。
Make a decision.。
You're not made to be in this relationship。
where your hearts are just connected,。
and temptation is only gonna increase and increase.。
So if you're not at a place。
where you are ready to fully commit,。
you should not be dating.。
Jesus says this in Luke chapter 12,。
where he says, "Look, if you can't finish what you start,。
"you should not start it."。
Dating, as we've said, is the process。
or the path to move towards marriage.。
That's what Christians believe dating.。
That's what Christian dating is.。
It's not playing for casual fun.。
It's playing for keeps.。
And so it's a process by which I move from evaluating,。
is this a person I want to move。
and progress towards marriage with?。
That's what dating is.。
You should not start it if you cannot finish it.。
He says this, Luke chapter 12, verse 28, 14, sorry.。
Luke chapter 14, verse 28.。
Suppose one of you wants to build a tower.。
Won't you first sit down and estimate the cost。
to see if you have enough money to complete it?。
For if you lay the foundation。
and you're not able to finish it,。
everyone who sees it will ridicule you,。
saying this person began to build。
and he wasn't able to finish it.。
Jesus' principle and point there。
relates to dating in that you should not start。
what you are not willing to finish.。
I'm not saying you have to know。
that that person is who you're gonna marry right now.。
I'm saying if marriage is off the table。
in the near future for you, 18 months or less,。
you should not be dating.。
You're messing with your heart.。
You're just gonna increase sexual temptation.。
So you should make the decision.。
Man, I'm open to that.。
We may not get there, but I'm not just saying。
I'm gonna date for the next four years.。
It's foolish.。
In Proverbs chapter 24, verse 27, it says this.。
Put your outdoor work in order.。
Get your fields ready.。
After that, build your house.。
In other words, get your business in order。
and then make the decision,。
I'm going to begin to build my home.。
If you're not ready to build your home。
or you don't have your stuff in order。
in a way that you're like,。
man, I could actually see myself getting married,。
you should not be dating.。
As I said, if marriage is off the table,。
dating should be.。
This past week, I experienced an illustrator。
or really a reflection in this in my own life.。
Anyone familiar with Zillow in here?。
Zillow is like something you do with houses,。
find rent, you find different places.。
Zillow used to have this thing called Make Me Move.。
What is Make Me Move?。
You could list your house on there。
and it would be for people who are like,。
I'm not really interested in selling my house,。
but if you give me this, we'll move.。
They took it down and my old house used to be on that。
and so I went this week just kind of out of curiosity。
and maybe boredom and probably something mentally wrong.。
And I was like, man, I'm gonna put it back on Make Me Move.。
Found out Zillow doesn't do Make Me Move anymore.。
So I was like, no big, I'll just throw my house。
on the market and put on there in all caps,。
this is Make Me Move,。
even though Zillow doesn't do this anymore.。
And my wife came home and I was like,。
hey babe, I threw a house on the market.。
She's like, you put a house on the market?。
Yeah, I mean, we're not actually gonna do it,。
but if somebody wanted to buy it like at that,。
I mean, they buy it for that.。
Babe, we'll move, we'll figure it out, okay?。
She's like, that's the most impulsive thing。
I've ever in my life.。
I was like, ouch, number one.。
Two, just trying to get you a place you love。
and just blame it on them.。
That's what I result to whenever, no.。
Anyways, I wouldn't even think it.。
I was like, man, nothing's gonna happen with this.。
My phone has been nonstop ringing for the last seven days。
with people saying, hey, we'd like to come by,。
we'd like to see if we'd like to do a little bit of,。
it's the most inconvenient, foolish, what was I thinking?。
Why would I put my house on the market。
when we ain't planning to move?。
Why would you put yourself on the market。
if you ain't planning to marry?。
And so you should not be putting yourself on a dating app。
if you're not at a place, if it's off the table,。
you should not be dating.。
Because when to date is when you are ready。
to move in the direction of marriage.。
And if you're like, look, I can't do 18 months,。
I could do 19 months, fine, at least tell yourself。
what is the number that you're waiting for。
or tell the person that you're with.。
You're like, look, hey, I gotta finish grad school,。
I got three more years,。
so I'm going to make you wait three more years.。
I just wanna be abundantly clear about that。
and make sure they're okay with that.。
But you better watch out because three years。
of you growing in intimacy and hormones flaring,。
you were not made to do that.。
So when to date, first one, really quickly.。
Second one, who to match with,。
or the first one, when to match, who to match with.。
You need to know who you're looking for。
and specifically there are three characteristics。
that Bible talks about as it relates to a husband and wife。
of who you should be looking for.。
So these three would be,。
hey, this is a potential candidate.。
If they don't have these characteristics,。
they are not a potential candidate.。
The first one, they are a Christ follower.。
They love Jesus.。
Not they are a Christian, not they were raised in church,。
not they believe in God, they love Jesus.。
Listen to this verse from Paul in 1 Corinthians 7:39.。
She or he is free, he's talking about marriage and singles.。
They're free to marry anyone they wish,。
but only if he loves the Lord。
or only if she loves the Lord.。
Paul says, hey, look, here's the criteria.。
If they don't have this characteristic,。
marriage is off the table.。
They should not marry that person.。
Not they like the Lord, not that they grew up in church.。
If they don't love the Lord,。
you are not free to marry them, Paul would say,。
or you should not marry them.。
Not, it doesn't say if he loves that you love the Lord。
or if he loves or you love the Lord, enough for both of you.。
It doesn't say if someday he may love the Lord。
because you missionary date him。
and try to get him to convert.。
It says only if he or she loves the Lord.。
You should circle that if you write in your Bible,。
you should underline it and highlight it。
and circle it again five more times。
and then put it on your mirror to look at every single day.。
So you know, this is who I'm looking for.。
Only if he or she loves the Lord.。
How do you know if they love the Lord?。
How do you know if somebody loves anything?。
How do you know if somebody loves the Cowboys?。
What do they talk about?。
They're like, oh, them boys, come on, man, Dak, Zeke.。
Oh, dude, this is gonna be our year.。
I'm going to the games.。
They got only 15,000 people there.。
He's spending his time, he's spending his money.。
He's talking about it.。
He can't not.。
He loves them boys.。
If you're not from Dallas,。
you have no idea why I keep talking like them boys.。
That's what he talks about.。
How do you know if somebody loves anything?。
They talk about it, they spend their time,。
they spend their energy, they spend their money.。
They're gonna pursue it and they're gonna talk about it。
and they're gonna be about it no matter who comes with them.。
How do you know if he loves the Lord?。
If you're the person who's dragging him to church。
and you're the person being like,。
hey, how was your quiet time?。
Just keep being your accountability partner.。
If you're the person who is spiritually directing。
their life, they may not love the Lord.。
And you deserve, if you love Jesus,。
command for you and for me,。
and the best shot for the picture of marriage。
God wants to have is you to have someone who loves Jesus.。
This is so important.。
Like this one characteristic.。
Because you are picking your future family.。
When you may have heard like the expression of,。
especially when people have like just crazy family members,。
you know, the crazy uncle and there's my sister,。
she's a little off and these are my parents,。
they're a little uncomfortable, but this is it.。
That, hey, you can't pick your family,。
but you can't pick your friends.。
That's not true.。
You will pick your family.。
When you pick your spouse,。
you need to pick very, very carefully.。
You were picking the father of your children.。
As you navigate dating, think about that.。
You're picking the mother of your children.。
Think about the impact your parents' decision。
when they picked the family that you're a part of。
has had on your life,。
whether for negative ways or for positive ways.。
Some of your greatest things are traced back。
to the fact that your mom,。
I mean, none of us ever think this way。
'cause we think of our parents like they're so old。
and he's got a mustache and he has no hair。
and my dad, he's so weird.。
But your parents, once upon a time,。
it was like, you know, Tom and Barb,。
maybe that's their name.。
It was Tom and Barbara.。
They were driving around in the '70s in his Bronco。
and they were just a lot thinner。
and they were dating together。
and they struggled with like,。
oh, we're snuggling on the couch,。
only watching a giant deep TV.。
And they wrestled with all the things that you wrestle with.。
And maybe your mom saw some red flags。
or maybe your dad saw some red flags or whatever it was,。
they made the decision,。
we're gonna keep moving together and they shouldn't have.。
Or maybe they shouldn't have。
'cause they both weren't solid.。
They didn't love Jesus or maybe one of them did.。
And you can trace a thread of pain in your life。
'cause that marriage fell apart。
because when they were picking their family,。
they didn't use God's criteria for the picture.。
On the flip side,。
some of you guys may have like amazing families。
and your parents are still, you know,。
Tom and Barb and they got the mustache。
and dad's a little whatever,。
but they loved Jesus and they loved you。
and you loved being home。
because they picked their family carefully.。
You cannot be careful enough.。
You are picking your family.。
You're picking your son's daddy.。
You're picking your daughter's mom and dad.。
Choose carefully on who to date.。
The second criteria,。
so there's someone who loves Jesus,。
they're a Christ follower.。
Someone whose character attracts you.。
You may be wondering, you know, attract,。
but they have to be more than just character attracts me.。
Other things attract me.。
I'll touch on that in a second,。
but the Bible says this,。
as it relates to character,。
that's their integrity, that's their trustworthy.。
That is the invisible part of them on the inside。
is that part of what attracts you to them.。
Proverbs chapter 12 said this,。
a spouse of noble character is their spouse's crown,。
but a disgraceful wife or husband。
is like decay in his bones.。
It's like it's rotting him from the inside.。
Proverbs 31 verse 10 says,。
a wife or a husband of noble character, who can find?。
She is worth far more than rubies.。
Rubies would have been one of the most extreme,。
exquisite, valuable things you could possess.。
And this man says, far more valuable than that,。
than any riches, any amount that you make。
or your future husband or wife makes。
is their character, is part of what attracts you to them,。
your character.。
First Peter chapter three talks about two types of beauties.。
There's an outer beauty and an inner beauty.。
And Peter basically says,。
make sure you are marked and they are marked。
by an inner beauty.。
The reason this is so important。
is as hot as that person is right now.。
And I know there's, man,。
there's just beautiful people all over the room。
and in the loft and stage two and in the chapel,。
and they're here tonight.。
And you're like, dude, but she's so hot.。
You know, she's like a four character,。
but she's a 10 and you can, you know,。
you can get better character.。
You can't get better body, if you know what I'm saying.。
And that's how you think about it.。
And you are setting yourself up for a lot of pain。
because that four character and 10 body。
becomes a 10 honeymoon sex, but a four marriage.。
And the Bible teaches,。
you want to find someone who is character.。
Studies have shown that the importance or the impact。
and even the magneticness of infatuation。
and external and physical attraction,。
it fades within 18 months.。
Think about that.。
Like 18 months is how did you think they are?。
And then how does you think you think she is?。
And just, wow, we're so in it together.。
But that can only last about 18 months.。
So if that's all your relationship is built on,。
that's all the time.。
Even secular studies would say,。
it's the only amount it's gonna last.。
This is why when you look at like celebrities。
who are married to supermodels or, you know,。
celebrity girls married, I guess, supermodel guys,。
they end up having an affair.。
And you're like, you were married。
to one of the most beautiful women on the planet.。
According to like the world, how did you cheat on her?。
It's because that fades.。
All that, wow, that doesn't last.。
So a relationship that is built on that will not last.。
So you should look for someone who is a follower of Christ,。
who today character marks their life.。
And then finally, someone who you enjoy being with,。
the third C, a lifelong companion.。
One of the words the Bible uses to describe husband。
and wife and spouse is the word halep.。
Proverbs chapter 2, 17 is one of the examples of this.。
The word halep is a word for best friend.。
Marriage is a friendship.。
Lots of marriage is just ordinary moments together.。
Do you enjoy being together?。
Do you actually enjoy being around one another?。
Or is it uncomfortable?。
Like marriage, it's not just one like long sex debate.。
There's a lot of like, oh yeah, just sitting on the couch,。
you're reading a book, catching up about your day.。
And oh, how did that go?。
It's a lot of ordinary moments.。
Do you actually enjoy them?。
The word the scripture says.。
Do you see them like as a friend?。
Or is it just, man, the make out sessions are really great,。
but we really don't like each other.。
I really don't enjoy being with them that much.。
Because you're gonna spend a lot of time together.。
Are they someone that you enjoy being with?。
So they have character, they're a Christ follower,。
and they could be a lifelong companion.。
You notice I didn't say anything about someone。
you are physically attracted to.。
And I didn't for a couple reasons.。
Number one, no matter what I say about,。
hey, should or should you not be physically attracted。
to that person, you're not gonna listen, okay?。
Because you're gonna do whatever you're gonna do,。
and you're gonna be either it really matters to you。
or it doesn't really matter to you.。
So if I brought that up, it's not like anyone to be like,。
oh, hey, and you should be physically attracted to them.。
Like anyone would be like, really?。
Oh my, physically attract, I enjoy how they look.。
I had no idea.。
I was in danger of marrying.。
Sorry.。
I was gonna say a name which would not help me,。
and I would not be talking about anyone specific.。
So that's one reason.。
And two, because no matter where you came in。
and however important it is to you,。
it's as important as it should be,。
or not as it should be, as it is to you.。
It shouldn't be the most important thing in your life。
and that you look for.。
So when it follows Christ, who is character,。
and can be a lifelong companion,。
those are the who to look for。
and the characteristics that you should be looking for.。
It's like this.。
Like I mentioned earlier,。
I'm just talking about my kids' games today.。
My son also loves dinosaurs,。
so he has these like matching games.。
And I thought about trying to explain this game。
without actually doing it,。
but I knew it would be like,。
"You know that matching card game?"。
And everyone would be like, "You don't have a poker?"。
So it's these games where you have these things。
and they have a match on there,。
and they lay them out and we'll set them down,。
and he just loves the dinosaurs.。
So there's different things that you match them up with.。
And he'll go and he'll look,。
and we've had to teach him like,。
"Hey, you need to look for,。
there's specific characteristics that mark this dinosaur.。
You look and your match is one。
that shares those characteristics,。
not a match, not a match, match."。
That's how you play the game.。
When it comes to dating,。
it's not as simple as you're looking for the person。
to complete you or reflect you。
or be the perfect exactness of you.。
But you're looking for the characteristics。
that God says in his word,。
then you know you got a match,。
but you've got a potential match.。
There's someone who has character,。
there's someone who follows Christ。
and could be a lifelong companion.。
And let me just address the elephant in the room。
for anybody who's single.。
You're going, "Huh, well, that sounds great.。
Where is this land of a thousand godly men。
and a thousand godly women out there?。
Because I don't know where they are."。
Might I suggest,。
part of the reason that is a challenge。
is where you are looking for your match.。
Like, are you, is the,。
some of the places where you're finding your relationships,。
is it at the bar?。
Is it the club?。
Is it on Tinder?。
Is it on like some friend group。
of sorority sisters from college?。
They're not following Jesus.。
Is that where you're meeting your potential options?。
Or are you connected to a local church?。
Are you plugged into a young adult ministry like this one?。
Are you plugged into environments。
where godly people are gonna be around?。
Because if not, I'm not the smartest guy in the world,。
but that might be a good option。
for you to meet other godly people,。
if you're a godly person.。
And people are like, "Man,。
there's just so many fish in the sea。
and I just can't find them.。
And every guy that I end up with is not a great guy."。
It may be that you're swimming in the wrong sea.。
You're swimming in the sewer.。
And you know what's in the sewer?。
(congregation laughing)。
Fish full of crap.。
(congregation laughing)。
You're swimming in the wrong sewer of dating.。
And you know what's in the wrong sewer of dating?。
Full of crap.。
(congregation laughing)。
You gotta make sure, hey, where are you looking?。
Like, where are you connected?。
Where are you plugged in?。
Are you in environments。
where other godly people are running after Jesus?。
Because as Tommy Nelson famously once said,。
who was a pastor up in Denton,。
he said, "Look, you need to be someone。
who puts yourself in an environment。
where you're running with others alongside of you。
and you're running hard after Jesus。
and you're running and running.。
And eventually, hopefully,。
because you're around other people doing the same,。
you just look over and there she is.。
And you're going, "Man, I like the way she's running。
and the way she looks.。
Do you wanna run together?"。
And you just lock arms and run for the rest of your life.。
Are you around other Christians?。
Do you have that group?。
If not, man, you gotta get connected to a church.。
Gotta get connected to where God's people are.。
Don't assume they're at the ports.。
There's a lot of people that carry a Bible.。
There's a lot of people that look like, you know,。
they know a couple of Bible verses and they're wolves.。
And we know they're even in here.。
So I wouldn't assume anything。
unless you're connected and they're connected。
and you have other people and he's a known person.。
She's a known person.。
Not just someone you met on a Tuesday night here.。
So there's someone who has character,。
following Christ, could be a lifelong companion.。
Number three, and I'm gonna fly through this.。
This is gonna be a fire hydrant.。
I'm gonna move really quick,。
but I'm gonna go through 10 things on how to date.。
I'm gonna move really, really quick through all 10 of them.。
It's gonna be a fire hydrant.。
So these should be up on the screen if you wanna take notes,。
but these are the how to date.。
So call this the rules as it relates to dating.。
Number one on how.。
Guys, ask girls out on dates.。
(congregation cheering)。
Guys, I'm not picking on the guys.。
And I know the guys in the room。
probably feel like they're getting picked on.。
And I wanna walk through what I mean very specifically.。
Ask them on a date.。
Use the word date.。
Not, you wanna do rock climbing this weekend?。
Not, hey, what do you got going on?。
Anytime soon.。
Not, hey, I'm about to watch a movie.。
You wanna come over?。
Say, I would like to take you on a date.。
And then the second part of, man, this is so huge.。
If you do this, dude, you're gonna be in the top 10%。
of men who've ever lived when it comes to women,。
because you are gonna set yourself so far apart。
from the pack, which is not that hard to do,。
but you gotta be more specific。
and you've got to drive for clarity.。
And I promise you, you're gonna get married。
and I want credit, I wanna hear about it.。
And if you name your child after me, I'm okay with that.。
Okay, so here we go.。
Be specific, have a plan.。
You're gonna go up to her, you'd say,。
I would like to take you on a date.。
And then you tell her this Saturday night。
at seven o'clock to dinner, and then this show after.。
You are very specific, you show her you have a plan.。
Women love that, they wanna know you've thought about this,。
and you give her and you communicate,。
you drive clarity into the relationship.。
By doing so, you give her the ability to decide。
and understand what you're asking.。
When you go, hey, you wanna hang on Sunday?。
She doesn't know what you're talking about.。
So she's going, like just me?。
I have a friend?。
And you just slid into my DMs and I don't know who you are.。
No, I don't wanna hang out with you this Sunday.。
Drive clarity and say, hey, very specifically,。
here is the plan.。
By doing so, you give her the ability to evaluate。
what are you asking me to do?。
It also gives her the ability to decide。
something that you have been thinking about。
at least longer than she has.。
'Cause she's getting in the moment,。
you've been thinking about it,。
you've been asking your other guy buddies,。
like here's the plan, I'm thinking about taking Sarah out。
to like Olive Garden, is Olive,。
oh, Olive Garden's bad, okay, no, Olive Garden,。
and you're walking through it,。
you got the whole plan, you go up to her。
and you pop the question and she's like,。
oh, I don't even know what you're asking me to do right now.。
But if you give her specifics,。
she can process the information, process the ask,。
and give you an answer.。
Or say, I'd love to get back to you on that.。
But drive clarity, and if you do this,。
man, I promise you, ladies, am I wrong right now?。
Thank you, there you go.。
Drive clarity in the relationship.。
All right, I gotta keep moving.。
So two more things.。
Can you DM her?。
Sure.。
Is it best?。
No, I'm just gonna speak on behalf of ladies,。
I think I'm right here, in fact, I know I'm right,。
but I'm just gonna say I think, just try.。
Here would be the priority of communication.。
Best option you got, go up to her in person,。
ask her on a date.。
Second best option, call her on the phone.。
Third best option, text and DM,。
which are borderline not a real form。
of human communication, but you do you.。
If you're gonna text or DM, I would DM just to say,。
hey, can I have your number?。
I'd love to ask you a question.。
Then you call her on the phone and you ask her.。
And here's the hard thing, ladies,。
you don't know this about men,。
but we hate being rejected, we hate it.。
And any risk of rejection, we don't wanna do it.。
If we can avoid it, we're going to.。
But men, when it comes to this,。
step up, be courageous, flex that courage muscle,。
and risk getting rejected.。
And if you do, I am so stinking proud of you。
because you did what men do.。
You stood up, you risked rejection,。
and you should take it as a tattoo on the arm。
that yeah, I got turned down,。
but at least I'm in the game.。
All these other guys are sliding into DMs like,。
yo, you up?。
And I'm over here trying to actually be a man.。
(audience laughing)。
There you go, all right, number two.。
I gotta keep moving.。
Girls, say yes to dates.。
Pretty 101, yeah, there you go.。
Thank you, gentlemen.。
Girls, say yes to dates.。
This is twofold.。
What do I mean by that?。
Don't say yes to you up,。
don't say yes to rock climbing on Sunday,。
say yes to a date.。
If the guy says you wanna go to brunch,。
you say like as a date?。
You force him to be clear.。
You say yes to dates.。
You are so much more valuable,。
and you should not settle for anything lower than clarity.。
Number two, you should also say yes to men。
who are godly men when they ask you on a date.。
This is my humble opinion.。
You can take it or leave it.。
I think if a godly guy who you know is a godly guy。
asks you on a date,。
you should go on at least a date with him.。
You may be thinking, no, there's no way.。
I never wanna marry him.。
He's hit with the ugly stick.。
You don't know that, and character,。
I'm just kidding, there's no one I'm talking about,。
is the most important part of a person.。
So even going on a date, you'll have a chance to know,。
man, I actually enjoyed being with this person.。
Character is the most important part.。
That's my opinion.。
I would say yes to only dates,。
and I think if a godly guy,。
not the guy that you met at the porch,。
a godly guy that you know is a godly guy。
asks you on a date, I think you should go。
on a date with him.。
Number three, honor them on both sides.。
There's so much just trashing of one another。
in the midst of the process.。
The world has totally gotten this bankrupt.。
People are using and abusing one another。
in the context of dating.。
As Christians, honor each other.。
Flex the honor muscle.。
I'm gonna choose to be considerate。
of how I communicate with you.。
I'm gonna drive clarity.。
If I'm the guy, I wanna be very clear。
about where we are in terms of our relationship.。
I'd like to take you on a second date.。
If you're the girl, and you don't wanna go。
on a second date, then you honor him,。
and you say, I don't wanna go on a second date.。
Thank you for asking me on a second date.。
Thank you for the first date,。
but I'm not interested in going on a second date.。
You're kind, you're polite, you're considerate,。
and you honor one another.。
This means that along the way,。
at some point, you have a DTR.。
That means to find the relationship。
where you don't live in this no man's land。
for a while where you're like,。
you know, what's going on with you and Kevin?。
Oh, you know, I don't really know,。
and you're sitting there with the other person.。
Happens same thing every time.。
The girls are asking the one girl who's dating Kevin,。
and the guys are asking Kevin the same thing,。
and they're like, what's going on with you and Kevin?。
You're like, oh, I don't really know,。
and then she brings it up to Kevin.。
Like, people keep asking, like, what's going on with us?。
And I'm like, I don't really know.。
What would you say?。
And it drives into a DTR.。
Don't ever let it get there.。
Communicate where you are.。
Honor one another.。
Honor is such a lost value,。
and as Christians, honor one another.。
Don't lead each other on.。
Don't ghost.。
Or disappear and resurface.。
And that's on both sides.。
Guys and girls do the same thing.。
It always feels like we're hitting the guys.。
Dude, some of you girls are shady, man.。
I hear the stories of it.。
(congregation laughing)。
And it's not honoring.。
Yeah, this guy's dated one of you, apparently.。
(congregation laughing)。
But honor one another.。
Oh, man.。
All right, number four.。
I've lost count.。
Expect them to honor you.。
Require it.。
Don't settle if they don't.。
If they do not honor you, if they're disrespectful,。
if they ghost you, if they treat you poorly,。
if they talk down to you, if they are unkind to you,。
break up.。
You do not stay in a relationship。
that settles for anything less than honor.。
You should honor them, and anyone who dishonors you,。
you get out of that relationship.。
And they're gonna think, oh, man,。
you think you're better than me, you have to break up。
'cause, oh, apparently I'm not as good as you want me to be.。
Yes, you are better than that.。
You deserve better than that.。
You should get out of that relationship.。
And any guy who treats you with dishonor。
doesn't just disagree with your perspective。
of you deserve honor, he disagrees with God's,。
or she disagrees with God's,。
who says, you are a child of mine.。
And if you continue, and this, man, this makes me so sad。
because this happens, what I'm about to say.。
People stay in really dysfunctional, messed up relationships。
and they get disrespected and dishonored and dishonored,。
sometimes 'cause they have codependency problems。
or they just, like, they grew up in a family environment。
where they were disrespected all the time by something,。
but for whatever reason, they stay in there.。
And you know what happens when you do that?。
You begin to think that you are a dishonorable person。
who's not worthy or deserving of honor.。
And you begin to buy the lie。
because God says, man, they're not just disagreeing with you。
when they disrespect you, they're disagreeing with me。
'cause this is who you are.。
In fact, there's a slide we threw up.。
Here's what you are if you are a follower of Jesus.。
You're someone who's created in God's image.。
Some of you guys can take a screenshot of that.。
That's the only thing that you needed to hear tonight.。
This is who I am.。
I'm not gonna settle for any guy or girl。
who treats me less than that.。
I expect, I demand, I won't settle for not being honored.。
They're not gonna disrespect and ghost me.。
I'm out.。
Because if they do, they don't disagree with you,。
they disagree with God.。
All right, number five, guard both of your hearts.。
Guard both of your hearts.。
I know that's most Christian cliche of all time,。
but here's what I mean by that.。
Do not mentally take the relationship。
farther than verbally you have mutually agreed to.。
I'll say that again.。
Do not mentally, as in your mind,。
take the relationship farther。
than you have mutually discussed verbally.。
In other words, if you got on two dates together,。
here's who you are.。
You're a two date girl.。
Don't begin to go through your mind and be like,。
I'm picking out wedding decorations,。
I'm saying yes to the dress right now,。
and I've got it all going.。
No, you're a two date girl.。
If he has not said, I want you to be my girlfriend,。
and I'd like you to marry me, you are a two date girl.。
And that's okay.。
Everybody has to be two date girl or two date guy。
at some point in life.。
It's part of the dating process,。
but do not mentally run down that road。
and begin to territorially on the girl be like,。
I can't believe that she is not planning。
to hang out with me on Saturday.。
You guys went on one date.。
You went on one date.。
She can't have the expectation,。
or you can't that now every Saturday's yours.。
That's insane.。
Do not mentally take the relationship farther。
than mutually you have talked about。
or communicated verbally with one another.。
Guard one another's heart.。
Biblically, there is not a category for dating.。
There's two categories as it relates。
to people of the opposite sex.。
You're either their husband or wife,。
or brother and sister in Christ.。
Does not recognize anything in between.。
And so until you move from brother and sister in Christ。
to husband and wife,。
and on that path more seriously in engagement,。
do not take the relationship further。
than either of you have discussed mentally.。
Number six, date one person at a time.。
Feels pretty straightforward,。
but date one person at a time.。
Let me be clear, 'cause some of you guys this week,。
feel like I'm throwing shade at you。
'cause you went on a date with a guy from Bumble。
and then from Hinge, same week.。
I'm not saying that you can't go on a date with somebody。
and then decide I'm not interested。
in going on another date,。
and it just so happens that I got asked on two in one week,。
and I haven't been asked on any for six months,。
but when it rains, it pours,。
and now I've got multiple dating options.。
And are you telling me that I am insane。
if I say yes to both?。
No, I'm saying if you are dating,。
going on multiple dates with multiple people,。
you're not doing what the Bible says。
in Philippians chapter two,。
which is being considerate of the persons you're dating.。
It says, "Do nothing out of selfish ambition,。
"but with humility of mind,。
"consider others more important than yourself."。
So do not date multiple people,。
go on multiple dates with multiple people at the same time.。
Number seven, gotta get better at counting, good grief.。
Number seven, date in community.。
How to win at dating,。
how to make sure that you set yourself up for success,。
date in community.。
By community, if you've been around here,。
you hear us talk about it a lot.。
That means have a small group.。
That means you, if you're a girl,。
should have other girls in your life,。
they hold you accountable.。
They can talk about your relationship with you.。
You can go there to process how you're feeling,。
the emotions that you're having,。
where you guys are maybe stuck or had a conflict.。
You have girls in your life.。
If you're a guy, you have the same group,。
or you have a group of guys in your life。
that you can go to and process,。
and they can hold you accountable in purity.。
They can hold you accountable。
in terms of the next steps of leading your girlfriend,。
and they can be a place that speaks into,。
is this a good relationship?。
Should this continue moving forward?。
If you don't have a group or a small group。
or community group here at Watermark or at your church,。
you should not be dating.。
The Bible says that plans fail for lack of counselors.。
You're setting yourself up to be in a relationship。
where you're all on your own.。
In olden days, like I think we talked about it before,。
like there used to be something called arranged marriage.。
So as crazy as it was, there wasn't a time。
where you would decide to get married。
or go through the dating process.。
Your family and your community decided.。
Your dad showed up one day and was like,。
"Hey, Carl, we decided to trade two oxen and a bull。
"for Carly down the road,。
"and you guys are getting married on Sunday."。
And it was like, okay, well, there we go.。
And that had some pluses and some minuses to it.。
Today, we've swung in the entire other direction。
where instead of others in community。
speaking into who we marry,。
we make that decision all on our own.。
And it can be incredibly destructive。
to make the most important decision next to Jesus.。
You will make all on your own,。
just you and them and your heart,。
because your heart, biblically, can lie to you.。
It will make you say,。
"Look, you guys were made for each other.。
"You have that song together.。
"This is made to happen."。
When other people are going,。
"This is not a good relationship.。
"Like there's so many red flags.。
"I'm concerned about you."。
And it'll make you go, "Just the world's against us。
"because we're destined lovers。
"and you have been deceived."。
Jeremiah 17, verse nine says,。
"The heart is deceitful above everything else.。
"It will lie to you."。
Proverbs chapter three says, "Do not trust in your heart.。
"Trust the Lord with your heart,。
"His word and His people."。
That's what that means.。
So make sure that you're in community.。
Number seven or number eight, don't have sex.。
Pretty straightforward.。
Why?。
Because as the coach in "Mean Girls" says,。
"If you do, you will get pregnant and die."。
So, move on from there.。
No, why?。
Because the Bible says,。
"And all of us, if you had sex, you've experienced it."。
Sex is intoxicating.。
It was made to be that way.。
It's like putting drunk goggles on.。
And the way that it is a bad decision to drink and drive。
is a bad decision to get drunk and sex and date.。
It will lower your inhibitions。
and your ability to evaluate.。
You may be like, "What?。
"The Bible doesn't say that."。
Proverbs chapter five says this,。
"Rejoice in the wife of your youth,。
"a loving doe, a graceful deer.。
"May her breast satisfy you always.。
"May you ever be drunk with her love."。
Beyonce stole that right out of Solomon's mouth.。
Why, my son, be drunk with another man's wife。
or with a woman who's not your wife?。
Why embrace the bosom of a wayward woman?。
We've all been there before, right?。
(congregation laughing)。
It's saying sex is intoxicating.。
The reason it's dangerous。
to bring into a dating relationship。
is it will lower your inhibitions.。
You'll stay longer than you should stay.。
In a relationship where had sex not been introduced,。
you would have been like, "This just doesn't work."。
But because it was introduced, it's like,。
"Man, it was just so tingly when we touched.。
"We're just on fire."。
And then eventually it wears off。
and you find yourself walking through the heartache。
of a breakup that should have taken place。
three months in, not three years.。
Don't have sex.。
If you have already had sex,。
you're in this room and you had sex together,。
you're listening, you've had sex together,。
you need to repent.。
It's a really churchy word,。
but it means, "Man, I'm gonna confess.。
"I'm gonna bring that into the open.。
"I'm gonna have accountability in my life.。
"I'm gonna have, she needs to have,。
"he needs to have accountability。
"on both sides in a small group,。
"and we're gonna set boundaries.。
"We're gonna seek to do this God's way.。
"And if you can't keep those boundaries,。
"you should break up."。
Number nine, two more.。
Don't date forever.。
As in, if you have been dating for years and years,。
what are you waiting for?。
What more are you trying to figure out?。
What qualities are gonna push you over the edge?。
Dating should be not hasty。
and you shouldn't just meet somebody。
and be like, "Let's do this."。
You should evaluate and go through the process。
because that's what dating is.。
It's a season for you to decide,。
is this someone I wanna spend my life with?。
So there should be evaluation.。
First Timothy chapter five is basically teachings on,。
hey, when it comes to an elder,。
don't be quick to lay hands.。
And by that, it doesn't mean like throw bows.。
It means like to put in a position of leadership,。
which is what an elder is, a leader of the church.。
Don't be quick to put a new leader。
in a position of leadership without getting to know them。
and seeing an extended season of faithfulness。
and their character.。
An elder is a leader of the bride of Christ,。
that's the church.。
In the same way as it relates to you。
putting a position or moving towards marriage。
and having a leader of the bride of you。
or having a bride to you,。
you should have a season of evaluating their character。
with others around you where you can see,。
I know what I'm getting into here,。
but it should not be a season that lasts till 2024.。
If you're in it right now,。
at some point you gotta go, man,。
I feel like I know enough.。
And if you're perpetually dating, you're doing it wrong.。
Let me say it this way.。
If you're perpetually dating,。
you're probably not doing it God's way。
because dating is not,。
when you're pursuing purity,。
when you do everything the scripture says,。
it's not like the greatest thing ever.。
It's like, yeah, it's 10 o'clock.。
I'll see you later.。
Good to see you, God.。
Versus marriage where it's two and coming together。
and marriage is not any better。
and has its own challenges, but it's amazing.。
And if you're in a dating relationship,。
what are you waiting for?。
How much longer?。
Because it should not be something。
where you just are perpetually dating.。
Finally, don't be afraid to exit.。
Don't be afraid to exit.。
Dating is a road, as I started,。
that is taking you in a path towards a promise,。
towards a lifelong pursuit.。
So dating shouldn't be just perpetual,。
just aimless wandering.。
It is, hey, we are getting on this thing。
and we're evaluating as we drive along the road,。
are we gonna end up the destination of marriage?。
If along that road, you realize,。
this is not someone I can marry.。
This is not someone who I wanna be the father of my children.。
This is not a godly person.。
And I love them and I wanna stay.。
We've had so much emotional capital built.。
I'm like, I can't even imagine life without them.。
But I don't think we have the same faith。
or share the same vision for our future.。
You gotta exit.。
Every mile you keep going on that road,。
it will become harder and harder to take an exit.。
And as crazy as it sounds,。
it's not gonna get any easier in the future.。
If you know it needs to end, you need to end it.。
And being willing, man, I think we need to break up.。
Maybe it's the wrong time,。
but I need to end this relationship.。
It's the most important decision you're gonna make.。
And it is far better to have a broken heart in dating。
than a broken home in marriage.。
And God doesn't want you to experience that.。
You don't wanna experience that.。
So in conclusion, when it comes to when to date,。
when marriage is on the horizon,。
who to date, someone who has character,。
is a Christ follower, who can be a lifelong companion,。
and how to date, those 10 things,。
I'm not gonna repeat every single one of them.。
As I said, I'll close here.。
My son, he can't put this together.。
He's four.。
I could leave him for six weeks。
with all the food and candy and time that he wants。
and come back.。
He would not be able to build that.。
He doesn't have what it takes.。
He needs the help of his father.。
When it comes to the picture of marriage that you want,。
and God wants for you, and I know you want it,。
of a family and a future that's not marked by divorce。
and pain and heartbreak and heartache,。
but marked by a healthy relationship that's not perfect,。
but it's you and her or you and him,。
and you're together for the rest.。
You don't have what it takes to build that,。
to find that picture, but your heavenly father does.。
And like a father helping his son with the Legos。
and build that into it, God wants to help you.。
And the way that he does that is through his word,。
and you walking in that, and through living with his people.。
That is the only hope you have for a marriage。
that experiences everything that God wants the picture。
of your marriage someday to look like.。
It's the only hope I have for my marriage.。
My marriage is not immune and not something like,。
oh, I'm in ministry, so everything's perfect。
and it always will be, and everything's great。
and always easy.。
No, the only way that I can have the marriage。
that God wants me to have for the rest of my days。
is for me to be someone who takes the help of my father.。
God, I don't have what it takes.。
I know what sin lives inside of me.。
I know the lustful thoughts, the angry thoughts.。
I know all the different dysfunctional brokenness。
in my own life and selfishness, and God, I need your help.。
I need your word.。
I need people in my life called your people, God's people,。
to encourage me and call me to be the man that I want to be.。
Because if I'm gonna have the marriage。
that looks like the picture, you call me to in scripture.。
It's gonna take you.。
It's gonna take your help.。
And God wants you to have that.。
There's no magic formula.。
And you can.。
If you and that person that you end up dating。
or pursuing marriage together are both saying,。
we are going to put the Legos in our father's hands.。
We're gonna put the marriage in our father's hands.。
We're gonna do what our father says,。
live with our father's people.。
You can.。
That's the formula.。
Ultimately, dating is to lead us to marriage.。
You know, it's funny, and I'm gonna land here.。
Biblically, marriage is supposed to lead us to something.。
So dating leads to marriage, but what does marriage。
lead us to?。
Well, Paul, in chapter five of the book of Ephesians,。
verse 31 and 32, he says this.。
He says, here's what marriage leads to.。
For this reason, a man will leave his father and his mother。
and be united to his wife, and the two will become。
one flesh.。
Really pretty verse, probably heard it at a wedding.。
Paul says this is a profound mystery.。
For years, I read that and I was like, oh, he's talking。
about two becoming one.。
That is pretty crazy, Paul, two become one flesh.。
But I'm talking about Christ and the church.。
That's the mystery.。
The mystery is not two becoming one in marriage.。
The mystery is how marriage, just like dating leads。
to marriage, marriage was meant to lead us to Jesus.。
The picture of Jesus and his relationship with his bride。
called the church.。
And you're not gonna have the right type of marriage。
relationship someday if you don't have the relationship。
with the one whom marriage and life is all about.。
And if you're in the room and you've never put your faith。
in Jesus and what he did on the cross,。
he came into this world.。
God became a man and he died for you and he died for me.。
And he died so that every person could be in an eternal。
relationship with him.。
And it's though as it were, that's marriage.。
It's certainly, Paul would say, what marriage points us to.。
It's about a far more important, far greater relationship.。
And if you've never trusted in Jesus as the payment。
for your sin and his death on the cross paid for your sin,。
for your abortion, for your sexual sin, for your baggage。
in dating relationships, for everything, every look。
at pornography, every time you've abused another person,。
all of it, he paid for.。
That's why he came.。
And then he rose from the dead.。
You know what that showed?。
Check cleared.。
That moment when you're paying out for groceries。
at the store and you're like waiting,。
is the card gonna go through, is it not?。
And then you get back and oh man, the payment,。
I had more than enough in there.。
That's what the grave, that's what the resurrection,。
what it showed the world, more than enough.。
It's covered.。
I got you.。
It's not your decision, it's not who to date.。
It's who are you going to worship as your king, your Lord.。
Are you gonna receive that free gift in Jesus?。
That's the most important relationship decision。
you'll ever make and that you need to make.。
And you'll never get the other ones right。
or the marriage right until you get that one right.。
For the rest of us, we got some work to do。
or decisions to make, some hard ones.。
Should this keep moving forward?。
Maybe I need to pull back.。
Maybe I need to spend some time healing.。
And others of us, man, it's time to move.。
You're gonna get married and we gotta take the next step。
because you know, here's how you know,。
you and her both know, you know what marriage is all about.。
Not you, Jesus.。
Let me pray.。
Father, thank you that。
left to our own self, every relationship we have。
would fall apart.。
Every marriage, including my own, has no hope。
of being all that you want it to be。
and all that it could be without you and your help.。
I pray that you would create amazing, godly marriages。
and homes through every person listening right now.。
Some of whom, they have to first be in right relationship。
with you and they've never done that。
and they've never had a moment.。
So would tonight be their night?。
I pray for couples who know they need to break up,。
that you would meet them there as they walk through。
just the painful decision that man,。
I think this needs to end.。
And I pray for wisdom and clarity and courage。
for couples that need to take the next step。
and move in the direction of marriage.。
Thank you for sending your son the ultimate relationship。
we were made for. We worship you now and so on. Amen.。
