(upbeat music)。
- What is joy, buddy?。
- I don't know.。
- It's a dream!。
(upbeat music)。
- All right, hey, Porsch, how we doing?。
We doing okay tonight?。
Great to see ya, welcome back.。
So glad to have you in the room.。
So great to have everybody tuning in online as well.。
We do not take it for granted that everybody here。
and everybody there, wherever it is you are,。
would be a part of what God is doing here on Tuesday night。
or whatever time of the week you might be listening to this.。
Special shout out to all of our Porsch Live locations.。
We love that we're united to what God is doing。
in multiple major cities across the United States.。
Particularly, special shout out to Porsch Live,。
Springfield, Indy, and Fresno.。
Well, I am not the most seasoned traveler.。
So several years ago, when Brooke and I got the opportunity。
to go to Italy, I knew that there were several things。
that I, and we, of course, wanted to do.。
I knew that I wanted to tour the Colosseum.。
I'd heard of it, and so this was my chance。
to actually experience it.。
I knew that I wanted to drive through the hills of Tuscany。
and take in all of its majesty.。
I really wanted to go and swim in the Blue Grotto.。
We didn't quite get to swim in it,。
but we did get to kind of paddle along through it,。
which was incredible.。
I wanted to wind our way down the Amalfi Coast。
and take in all of the scenery.。
I wanted to make sure that we could go。
and we could see the Sistine Chapel and behold its glory.。
Like I wanted to take in as much of Italy as I could,。
and yet one thing that did not make my bucket list。
for this Italian trip was an authentic cooking class。
that we somehow found ourselves in the middle of.。
No shade to cooking.。
I just admittedly prefer eating to cooking,。
and so whenever the opportunity came for us。
to slide into some family friend's reservation。
that they weren't able to make in Florence,。
you know, we decided, why not win in Rome,。
or Florence in this case?。
And so we went and we took this class.。
Now, this class was awesome, truly.。
Like I'm not a cook.。
I've been working on it here recently,。
and yet this thing was incredible.。
Like we were rolling the dough。
and we were making the ravioli, getting lost in the sauce,。
and yet the class was actually not the best part。
of the experience.。
It was the location of this class.。
You see, the class itself was not located。
in some professional kitchen or a boutique restaurant。
like you might expect.。
Instead, it was located in a medieval watchtower。
on the hillside of Florence.。
So just picture a castle,。
and you pretty much have the right idea.。
That's where this class was taking place.。
And so once we finished our cooking,。
part of the experience was we got。
to actually tour the property.。
And so we finished up all of our cooking.。
We also concluded the eating,。
and as we made our way to the rooftop of the watchtower,。
bellies full, the sun going down,。
taking in the landscape around,。
the Arno River cutting through the city,。
Florence glistening in the distance.。
I noticed for the first time since we had arrived,。
because we were finally at a vantage point high enough。
that I could take it all in,。
that we were one of many other watchtowers。
littered across the landscape.。
And so I naturally look at our cooking instructor,。
and I asked her, "What's with all the watchtowers?"。
And she said, "Well, it's funny you should ask.。
"In Florence, there are watchtowers all over,。
"both within the city and outside of the city,。
"because these watchtowers exist to protect Florence。
"whenever enemies would invade the area.。
"They work like a defense system.。
"If one tower ever lit their fire,。
"it would serve as a notice to the surrounding towers。
"that danger had come."。
Similar to what you might have seen in Lord of the Rings,。
or in Mulan.。
This is what would happen in Florence.。
They would light a fire to announce。
to the surrounding area that danger was here,。
that the region was under attack, that help was needed.。
Now, why do I tell you that?。
Because in a similar way,。
our conscience works like this too.。
You see, whenever something goes wrong,。
or danger begins to arise,。
or you find that you need to be on guard,。
your conscience begins to trigger.。
And when you look at the data,。
and you consider the studies,。
when you look at some of the studies on young adults。
in the last few years,。
there is an entire generation of conscience,。
all signaling the same fire,。
that we are in danger, that you are under attack.。
You see, there is an enemy,。
one that has decided to darken your door,。
pillage your life, and plunder your pleasure.。
What do they want?。
The enemy, he wants your joy.。
Your joy is under attack.。
And tonight, what I wanna do is,。
I actually wanna teach you how to fight back.。
So if you have a Bible,。
you can open it and turn with me to Psalm chapter 32.。
Psalm chapter 32.。
While you turn there, we've been in a series called Joy.。
And the reason that we've been working through this series,。
is because I genuinely believe there is more life。
on the table than many of us are actually living.。
I've become increasingly convinced,。
as I've studied through this topic,。
that there might not be a more important paradigm shift。
for our generation than this idea。
that God is the source of all happiness,。
and all the joy that you want is in fact found in him.。
And that's not just a nice religious platitude。
for me to preach on a stage like this.。
It's actually something to be found and experienced.。
You see, I won't bore you with the research,。
and yet what we know is that in simplest terms,。
our generation is experiencing a joy crisis.。
We are experiencing historic levels of joylessness,。
the likes of which we've not seen,。
and yet we don't have to actually experience.。
Like scientists generally agree。
that while 10% of your happiness。
is circumstantially dependent,。
and somewhere around 40% is dependent。
upon your genetic makeup,。
50% of your happiness in life。
is the product of the decisions you make.。
How you choose to think, how you choose to act,。
and how you choose to react.。
Which means that, yes, 50% of your joy is on God.。
Like he has to be entrusted with over half of the joy。
and happiness you experience in life.。
And just side note, he's not going to let you down.。
The other 50% is on you.。
Like you actually have some agency,。
some control over the joy you experience in life.。
And that's an empowering reality.。
Like that's something that you probably。
should want to know tonight.。
That man, you actually do have a thumb。
on the trigger of the happiness。
you do in fact find in life.。
You see, so much of your happiness。
is not simply subject to circumstance,。
nor is it a victim to your genetics or personality makeup.。
It is the product of your decision making.。
You actually have some control.。
Which is why we talked a few weeks ago。
about how you can find joy.。
If you remember, and I'll resist the temptation。
to re-preach that message right now.。
You can find joy by way of three different steps.。
You pursue innocence, you walk in obedience,。
and you make a discipline out of celebration.。
This is how you do it.。
And yet what we know is that while we should。
make good decisions, we often instead。
find ourselves making not so good decisions.。
Decisions instead that are slightly lackluster。
and leave something to be desired.。
You see, although we know that we should pursue innocence,。
sometimes we do things that are corrupt.。
Instead of walking in obedience,。
occasionally, occasionally, we behave in disobedience.。
And when we should be making a discipline of celebration,。
sometimes we slide into making a discipline of debauchery.。
Put most biblically, we sin.。
And it's not just because we wanna be bad people。
and we delight in wrongdoing.。
That's not why you sin.。
You don't sin because you just wanna be。
the most evil version of yourself you can be.。
No one's doing that.。
Why then do we sin?。
Think about it for yourself.。
The answer may surprise you.。
You sin because you are seeking happiness.。
That's what you're looking for.。
Like when we talk about coping, what are you doing?。
You're trying to make the best。
of a less than ideal circumstance.。
Like why do you drink too much?。
Because you wanna have fun with your friends.。
Why do you stress out at work?。
Because you wanna do good at your job.。
Why do you cut yourself?。
Because you just wanna relieve some pressure.。
Why do you obsess over social media?。
Because it feels good to be approved of.。
Why do you masturbate?。
Because it releases dopamine, that happy hormone.。
Why do you talk about other people?。
Because it feels good to be on the inside of something.。
Don't you see the irony?。
We want something good, but we do something bad.。
We love the right things just in all the wrong ways.。
And the consequence is rather than finding joy, we lose it.。
Sure, sin can make you happy,。
but it will not leave you happy.。
Sin can make you happy, but it will not leave you happy.。
Instead, it only leaves you to be tempted again and again,。
that this time will be different.。
And yet what happens, that time is never different.。
It's the same as the last time.。
And the time before that, and the time before that,。
it always over promises and it consistently under delivers.。
We indulge our cravings, we gratify our insecurities,。
we oblige our carnal nature。
in the misguided pursuit of happiness。
in some place that it is impossible to find.。
I love the way that Randy Alcorn says it.。
Randy is an author, as well as a professor。
of a class called Happiness 101 at Western Seminary.。
He says this, he says, "These two premises,。
"that God is the source of all happiness,。
"and that sin separates us from God,。
"leads to this conclusion."。
Are you ready?。
Sin separates us from happiness.。
Meaning, if you want to fight for joy,。
then you have to learn to fight against sin.。
And as I even say that,。
some of you have been raised in the church,。
and you know exactly where this is going.。
You might even be familiar with Psalm 32,。
and you're like, you know what?。
I get it, brother.。
Like, you just want me to confess my sins。
that I might be forgiven.。
Yes, that's exactly what I want for you.。
And yet, what I'm trying to help you understand tonight。
is that confession is not just leading you to a place。
where you're doing the right things,。
it's actually walking you back in the path of pleasure。
that you want so badly for yourself.。
Like, that's what's on the table tonight.。
When you sin, perhaps,。
it's not just that you're doing a bad thing.。
Maybe, in fact, it's indicative that you're a sad person.。
Have you ever thought about it like that?。
That you're wanting for happiness,。
and yet you're looking in all the wrong places.。
And so God, in his kindness, through his scripture,。
is going to tell us, hey,。
there is a way to find the kind of joy you want.。
So let's look at it together.。
We're gonna see here in Psalm 32。
that David is going to teach us the path to pleasure.。
He's going to reveal to us the sadness of sin.。
And he's a really good teacher for it,。
because David, though a man after God's own heart,。
did some pretty bad things,。
one of which was he slept with Bathsheba.。
Like, he grabbed one of his buddy's wives。
that slept with her, got her pregnant,。
and had that guy killed.。
And what we know is that he confesses all of that sin。
in Psalm chapter 51.。
Psalm chapter 32 is proposed。
as being the response to Psalm 51.。
It's the relief he feels。
from having confessed those things to God.。
And so here's what it says as we get into it.。
He says this, starting in verse one,。
"Blessed or happy is the one。
"whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered.。
"Blessed or happy is the man against whom。
"the Lord counts no iniquity,。
"and whose spirit there is no deceit."。
You see, David makes it very clear。
that honest sinners have the happiest hearts.。
Honest sinners have the happiest hearts.。
Contrary to popular belief,。
it's not perfect people with perfect lives,。
and perfect homes, with perfect jobs,。
and perfect relationships, and perfect families。
that live the perfect life and have the happiest outcomes.。
That's not the case.。
You know who has the happiest outcomes?。
It is imperfect people that are acquainted。
with a perfect God that ultimately find。
the greatest happiness in life.。
But why?。
Why is that?。
Because when, not if, but when we fail,。
when our imperfections rise to the surface。
and our failures pile up。
and our mistakes are littered all around,。
it's then and it's there。
that God's forgiveness is found.。
Now, how does forgiveness impact your happiness?。
Let's just talk about that for a minute.。
Why would forgiveness ultimately matter。
and be consequential in the pursuit of your happiness?。
Well, if you think about it,。
forgiveness is about so much more than releasing resentment.。
Yes, it is about that.。
There is a lot of power in you offering forgiveness。
where you're taking back control,。
where you're releasing resentment。
and you're regaining authority.。
That is 100% true,。
but it's more than just releasing resentment.。
It's restoring relationship.。
That's the heart of forgiveness.。
And without a relationship to God,。
who is, as we've described,。
and I tell you again tonight,。
the universal source of all happiness,。
without a relationship to him,。
the richest kind of joy,。
the realist form of happiness is impossible.。
Now, you might hear that and think,。
"Kylin, I don't need God to be happy in life."。
You would be right.。
Didn't think I was gonna say that, did you?。
You would be correct.。
You do not need God to be happy.。
You see, it's interesting, Dr. David Murray,。
he defined six different kinds of happiness。
that are available to all people everywhere.。
Like regardless of background,。
regardless of history,。
no matter where you come from,。
there are six kinds of happiness。
which are fully available to you right now,。
regardless of where you are。
on the spectrum of spirituality.。
Here's what they are.。
The first one is nature happiness,。
joy that's derived from creation.。
You know that feeling.。
Why do you like to be outside so much?。
Because it feels good to,。
especially in the season we're in right now,。
to be outside when the weather is nice。
and go for a walk and hear the birds chirping。
and flying in twos.。
And nature produces some joy.。
The second is social happiness.。
Like that's joy from being with friends and family.。
How many of you, when filling out your bio,。
put something along the lines of,。
"What are your hobbies or interests?。
"Hanging out with friends, spending time with family."。
There's good reason for it。
because it actually does produce happiness.。
The third is vocational happiness.。
Ever heard of job satisfaction?。
Oh man, maybe not.。
But there is such a thing as joy in your work.。
It's worthy of searching after and ultimately finding.。
Number four is physical happiness.。
Now I know that happy doesn't necessarily describe。
many of your gym going experiences,。
and yet there is joy in being healthy, fit, and strong.。
The fifth is intellectual happiness.。
The joy that comes from understanding something,。
like putting the pieces together, right?。
The light bulb going off.。
I remember as a young boy, I loved brain teasers。
because I loved whenever I would figure them out.。
It was like the greatest rush of excitement.。
Like I knew something nobody else did.。
It was so great.。
That is intellectual happiness.。
The sixth is humor happiness, which feels really obvious.。
It's the joy of laughing.。
But really, according to the science,。
laughter is the best medicine.。
Like it boosts mood and it strengthens your immune system。
and it diminishes pain and it protects you from stress.。
And contrary to popular belief,。
you don't have to get laughed at someone else's expense。
in order to feel happy,。
but that's another sermon for another day.。
These six joys can be experienced by all people everywhere.。
Christians, non-Christians alike.。
And here's the thing that's amazing about it.。
How incredible is God that he would make this much happiness。
and this many different kinds of happinesses。
so that way we could experience great joy in life.。
That's awesome.。
What a kind God.。
What a good God.。
And yet, there is a seventh kind of happiness.。
Wouldn't you know it?。
And that happiness is known as spiritual happiness.。
This is the joy of being in relationship to God.。
Dr. Murray describes it as containing more pleasure。
and delight than the other six combined at times.。
Meaning sure, you can be a happy version of yourself。
without God, but you cannot be the happiest version。
of yourself without God.。
He is the only one who offers infinite delight,。
eternal satisfaction, everlasting joy.。
It's found in Jesus and you have to find it。
by way of relationship with him,。
which is only possible through forgiveness of sin.。
Why?。
Because there is a rift in the relationship。
between you and God.。
It is the product of your sin.。
You have sinned against a holy, just, good,。
beautiful, true God.。
And yet in his kindness, by way of his son,。
should you believe in him for the forgiveness of your sins,。
you can be reunited.。
The rift can be repaired.。
Relationship can be restored and joy can be found.。
That's why forgiveness matters.。
That's how it impacts your happiness.。
And that's what David says.。
He says, "Happy is the one whose sin is forgiven."。
But he doesn't just say that.。
He could have.。
He could have been like, "Happy are you.。
Blessed are you if you're forgiven."。
Good night, everybody.。
But he doesn't do it.。
He goes on to verbally flourish。
over the course of this couple of verses.。
How does he say it?。
He says, "Blessed or happy is the one。
whose transgression is forgiven,。
whose sin is covered,。
in whom the Lord counts no iniquity."。
Why?。
Why would you overcomplicate this?。
Why all the aspirational speaking, David?。
Just say what you mean, man.。
Preach it plain for me, would ya?。
He does it very purposefully.。
You see, it's interesting.。
Sin is so radically evil。
that there are actually 15 different words。
in the Hebrew for it.。
And yet David picks three.。
And he picks them very purposefully in this moment.。
He picks the words transgression, sin, and iniquity.。
It's a very strategic selection。
because out of all the 15 words he picks,。
these three describe the most all-encompassing form of sin.。
You see, transgression is an attack against God.。
Sin is an attack against yourself.。
And iniquity is an attack against morality or goodness.。
David covers the widest range of wrongdoing possible。
by using these three words.。
But he doesn't stop there.。
Like, he not only chooses three words to describe sin,。
he chooses three words to describe forgiveness.。
Forgiven, covered, and cleared.。
Or doesn't count, right?。
In whom the Lord counts no iniquity.。
Which are all encompassing themselves.。
Like, to be forgiven is to have the weight of shame。
on your life lifted.。
You know what that feels like。
when you've done something wrong。
and it just feels like everywhere you go,。
there's just a looming cloud over your head.。
Misery is your company.。
You can't seem to shake the fact。
that you feel perpetually sad, weighed down.。
That gravity is a little bit heavier。
wherever it is you stand.。
That's what he's unpacking.。
When you're forgiven, that weight is lifted off.。
To be covered is to have it removed from sight,。
as if it never happened.。
Wouldn't you love that?。
That man, that thing you're so desperately trying to hide,。
keep away so nobody ever sees it,。
it's actually, when covered by God,。
removed as if it never even existed.。
And to be cleared is to have the debt paid in full.。
What does all of that mean?。
It means very simply, the totality of your sin。
receives the totality of God's forgiveness.。
The totality of your sin。
receives the totality of God's forgiveness,。
which is a wild idea when the totality of our sin。
actually deserves the totality of God's wrath.。
But that's not what he does,。
for in Christ Jesus, forgiveness is available,。
not just for some of your sin,。
not just for those things over there,。
not just when you were a semi-good person.。
No, it is available for the totality of your sin.。
Everything you've done, every sin you've made,。
every ill word you've spoken, every hurt you've ever caused,。
he heals all of it。
because he offers forgiveness without discretion.。
He can forgive any sin, any time from any person.。
And the amazing news is it keeps us near him.。
Like, that's the thing.。
It's not just, you know what, you did wrong,。
now you're better.。
No, it's you did wrong, and now we're together.。
We're together again.。
You were separate from me in a land of loneliness,。
completely divorced from delight,。
and now, because of my forgiveness,。
you're brought close again, and we are united,。
not just in loving relationship, but joyful union.。
That's what's available to you by way of Christ.。
But, and there's always a but, there's a condition.。
What's the condition?。
We must have a spirit without deceit,。
meaning we have to be honest and truthful。
and genuine and sincere and transparent about our sin。
as we live our life and we walk with God.。
So put in the most simple of terms,。
we have to stop being fake,。
justifying sin because it feels good,。
and you just need a release.。
Man, you don't know what I've been through.。
Like, I just, I need this.。
It'll be okay this time.。
Like, I've been through the ringer.。
This thing's gonna give me the kind of relief I need.。
You try to justify it, and yet you are living with deceit,。
putting up a front because you don't want others。
to actually find you out.。
Because if they knew, Kylan, what I did,。
if they actually, if they knew the things that I said,。
the places I've been, the acts that I've caused,。
they would not accept me.。
They would reject me.。
And so what you do is you put up a front。
which is spiritually deceitful,。
scrolling through reels, because, Kylan, that's not porn.。
Like, they're just reels.。
Like, sure, yeah, she could wear more clothes,。
but I've seen way worse.。
You know, actually, this is progress。
from where I've been in the past.。
This used to be a huge problem for me.。
This is a step in the right direction,。
not in the wrong direction.。
That is spiritually deceitful,。
flirting with him just because。
he gets your emotional needs met.。
You know what, I'll scratch his back, he can scratch mine.。
Like, I'll text him occasionally,。
and he wants to hear from me, and you know what,。
like, I actually like to feel wanted, needed,。
desired by someone speaking a certain way。
just because we know that person。
or those people will approve of it.。
Yeah, you know what, when I'm in a religious context,。
I'm gonna speak religiously.。
Whenever I'm in my workplace, I'm gonna speak。
in a way that approves, or gains the approval。
of all of my coworkers.。
When I'm hanging out with my friends on a Friday night,。
I'm gonna make sure to talk in a way, act in a way,。
live in a way where they all approve of me instead.。
But here's the thing.。
There is no pulling the wool over God's eyes on any of it.。
There's no sleight of hand where it's,。
I'm doing good things over here, God.。
Look at this, be distracted,。
while I do bad over here instead.。
He sees it all.。
God and sin are like oil and water.。
They do not mix, meaning you cannot have life in God。
and life in sin simultaneously.。
You can't do it, which is why David goes on。
and he says in verses three through four,。
he says, "For when I kept silent,。
my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long.。
For day and night, your hand was heavy upon me.。
My strength was dried up as by the heat of summer."。
Like when David tried to hide his sin, what was the result?。
Well, the report's in, it's joylessness.。
Like God in his kindness does to David。
what he will do to you.。
He will zap your zeal, he will steal your strength。
because he knows that your secret sin。
is going to lead to lost joy.。
The second point.。
He knows secret sin leads to lost joy.。
Like God so kindly wants us to come back to himself,。
like into the presence of pleasure.。
He is the happiness of heaven.。
He is the source of all satisfaction.。
The glory of his gladness is available。
when we are close to him.。
And yet when we sin, we remove ourself from his presence。
and all that it promises.。
He's saying, "No, no, no, no, no.。
I want you here next to me."。
And yet when we do things that lead us away from him,。
he will prompt us back.。
He will command us back.。
He will tell us to come back.。
But here's the thing, he will never force us to come back.。
That would not be loving.。
God does not force your hand and cause you to return.。
Like he doesn't just forgive our sins。
and clean our conscience and wipe our worries away。
whether you ask him or not.。
Why?。
Because God knows your response to sin。
proves what matters most to you in life.。
Your response to sin will prove to you。
what matters most in life.。
What's God's response to sin?。
Forgiveness.。
Why?。
Because you matter most to him.。
Like his response to every error。
and any egregious decision you make against him。
is he lavishes forgiveness because he wants you most.。
What about our response to sin?。
At times it's like David.。
It's not confession, it's concealment.。
It's secrecy.。
Because what we want is this and not him.。
That's why David kept silent.。
Which is very different than David was silent.。
One is passive, the other active.。
The word here for kept silent,。
it actually carries the picture of engraving something.。
Like you would engrave your initials into a piece of wood.。
How do you do that?。
By way of persistence and effort.。
When I went to Texas A&M there was a tradition。
where you would go and you would carve your name。
into the wooden tables of a local restaurant。
called the Dixie Chicken.。
And so being a senior in school,。
I wanted to go and participate in this tradition.。
Yet I did not have a knife with me.。
I had a paper clip.。
So how did I get it done?。
With persistence and effort, baby.。
You know, like I went to work to make sure。
that my mark was left on the wood at the Dixie Chicken.。
That's what David is doing here with his sin.。
He is persisting in his silence.。
He is making every effort to keep his sin hidden.。
And some of you know exactly what this feels like。
because you're living it right now.。
You know what you did today or yesterday。
or last week or the week before.。
You know that you're making every effort under the sun。
to cover your tracks, to wipe your browser history,。
to rationalize the fact that I was just processing。
with a friend, Kylan.。
I needed someone to really work through the details。
of what happened with that person.。
You're justifying him staying over。
because it's just cheaper for us to stay in one room。
as opposed to paying for two rooms.。
You're telling half truths to get by the whole truth。
because if I told the whole truth,。
they really wouldn't like what they heard.。
David didn't want anyone to know, and neither do we so often.。
We don't want God, we don't want family,。
we don't want friends, we don't want our colleagues.。
We don't want anyone to know what in fact we've done。
that we should not have done.。
But here's the thing, when we start doing this,。
we start managing sin, and we start managing decline.。
When you start managing your sin,。
you start managing decline, the decline of your joy,。
the decline of your satisfaction,。
the decline of your peace, the trust you have。
with other people, the kind of energy。
that you have available to give to people。
and places in life because sin is consequential.。
David, he says that right here.。
David says, "My bones wasted away."。
That sounds pretty bad.。
You see, that's a physical effect.。
Like the stress of concealing his sin was so toxic。
that it led him to feel like, man, my bones are withering.。
Whatever I've done, it's eating me from the inside out.。
It's produced sleepless days and sick nights.。
Like through my groaning all day long,。
that's a mental effect.。
Like he's in emotional upheaval.。
All day is misery and sin for David.。
He is what many of you can relate to.。
He is anxious and insecure, and he is despairing,。
distraught, and paranoid that people will find out.。
Your hand was heavy upon me.。
My strength was dried up.。
That's a spiritual effect.。
He's in a spiritual drought.。
Do you feel that?。
Like, man, I just can't seem to find water.。
Brother, the living water is right here.。
Maybe you just need a drink of it.。
Maybe you're not actually in a drought.。
You're just choosing sin.。
His vitality was gone.。
His strength was zeroed.。
His energy was exhausted.。
You see, when we conceal our sin, we erode our soul.。
So why do we do it then?。
Because we think, if they knew what I did,。
my reputation would be finished.。
God, if they knew what I did,。
they would never wanna keep me around.。
God, if they knew what I did,。
then everything I've worked so hard to earn,。
it would be forfeited.。
Like, if they knew what I did,。
then I'm not even sure life would be worth living,。
and yet here's the thing nobody may know right now,。
and yet life isn't worth living anyways.。
You see, so often, we focus on the sin we did。
and making sure it never gets out,。
rather than focusing on what that sin is doing to us。
in the way it's eating us from the inside out.。
David is looking at you, he's saying,。
"Hey, I'm not so concerned about what you did,。
"but what it's doing to you,。
"because so long as you keep it locked up inside,。
"pushed down into the depths of who you are,。
"it will rot you away."。
We have to stop hiding.。
We have to start confessing because our joy is at stake.。
I love the way that Saint Augustine said this.。
He said that the beginning of knowledge。
is to know oneself to be a sinner.。
The beginning of knowledge。
is to know oneself to be a sinner.。
You see, so many people fear that confession,。
that'll be the end of everything for me,。
but according to Augustine,。
it's only the beginning of everything for you,。
because the freest person in the room。
is the person that has nothing to hide.。
It's the person that walks into a space like this。
and isn't trying to manage facts or control the narrative。
or monitor people's perceptions.。
It's when we're honest with ourself, with God, with others,。
that life and truth and joy and happiness and satisfaction。
actually come racing into the recesses of our soul。
for when we admit that we're a sinner,。
there awaits a Savior, Christ,。
He who is happiness Himself。
and gives without discrimination。
to any who would seek Him,。
confess their sins, and receive the love He has to offer.。
First John 1:9 says, "If we confess our sins,。
"He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins。
"and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness,"。
which is exactly what David does next.。
Verse five, "I acknowledged my sin to you。
"and I did not cover up my iniquity.。
"I said, 'I'll confess my transgressions.。
"'I'll confess my transgressions to the Lord,。
"'and you forgave the iniquity of my sin.'"。
This is the longest verse in the entire Psalm。
because it's the center, the heartbeat。
of everything David wants you to understand,。
and it's summarized very simply in this,。
that confession is never easy, but it is always worth it.。
Confession is never easy, but it's always worth it.。
Why?。
Because it is the first step on the road to rejoicing again.。
That's what confession is.。
It's the first step on the road to rejoicing.。
It puts us on the path of repentance.。
And how many of you are so disenchanted。
with the idea of repentance,。
that man, you just want me to return to where I was?。
No, I want you to go where you were always meant to be,。
not back into a life where I guess Jesus is enough,。
but into a life where Jesus is better,。
where you move into an existence。
where you can stack up anything in comparison,。
and he outclasses them all。
because the satisfaction he gives。
is greater than that than the world.。
He is more satisfying.。
He is more gratifying.。
He is more energizing than anything。
this world could ever offer.。
So how do we do this?。
Very quickly, how do we actually move。
through a process of confession?。
Because it's not just a matter of,。
well, let me just tell you what I did.。
That would be wrong.。
David gives us three steps。
on how to actually confess well, a blueprint of sorts.。
He says, "I acknowledged my sin to you."。
Like David doesn't just keep the knowledge。
of his sins pent up inside.。
He doesn't bury them down deep.。
He doesn't try to conceal them from God.。
No, he openly admits them before God。
because sin must be acknowledged.。
That's the first thing.。
If you want to confess well and return to rejoicing,。
the way that you do it。
is you have to acknowledge your sin.。
That's one.。
Two, I did not cover my iniquity.。
David doesn't hide it.。
He doesn't veil it from view.。
No, he outs it and then he owns it.。
He says, "This is what it is, and it is in fact mine."。
You see, sin, secondly, must be exposed.。
It has to be acknowledged and then it has to be exposed.。
And then he says, "I will confess my transgressions."。
That word for confess,。
it carries the idea of casting something off,。
like throwing something down.。
He says, "I will confess my transgressions.。
"I will empty it all out.。
"I've been carrying this too long.。
"The weight is too heavy,。
"and the natural result is for me to just give it over。
"and lay it out flat because sin must be released."。
That's the third.。
Sin must be released.。
It has to be acknowledged.。
It has to be exposed.。
It has to be released.。
We have to acknowledge,。
"God, I've done something wrong."。
Like, "I've been hiding this from you, Lord.。
"I've been keeping this under wraps。
"because I know it's not good.。
"And I fear God what you'll say about it.。
"And yet, Lord, I know in your word,。
"by way of your son, I should acknowledge this is in me."。
You already know, God.。
Like, it's not the fact that this is unknown to you.。
You know what I did.。
It's just that I don't want you to know what I did.。
But God, I acknowledge that.。
But God, I acknowledge it.。
And as he leans into you, you expose it.。
God, let me tell you what it was.。
Let me give you vivid detail.。
Let me confess, not generically,。
but very specifically what I did to you, God.。
Let me not use cagey language or generic terminology.。
Well, I was struggling.。
That doesn't work.。
Well, I was wrestling.。
That doesn't work either.。
Like, we have to move past。
broad blanket categorical ideas of lust and anger。
and control and pride.。
We've got to get specific.。
We've got to be willing to say what it is.。
Too often, we are processing the things。
we're confessing to God and to other peoples,。
and we're wondering, "How much should I say?"。
Why don't you ask a different question?。
How much can I say?。
Like, how much detail can I give?。
Like, let me tell you where I was.。
Let me tell you who I was looking for。
when I went to that place.。
Let me tell you what it was I searched into my browser.。
Let me tell you what I consumed and where I got it from.。
Let me tell you who I'm jealous of。
and what I'm jealous of about them.。
Let me make sure I give you。
as much specific clarity as possible,。
because what we know is that the more of this。
I can get out of my heart,。
the more of God I can get into it.。
How much of God do you want in?。
How much happiness do you want right now?。
Then get rid of the sadness.。
Like, remove the sin, that which breeds insecurity。
and paranoia and anxiety and stress。
and all those ill-rotten feelings.。
Get them out, and God will fill you up.。
That's the way this works.。
And then, like David, we have to throw it down.。
Before you can receive forgiveness from God,。
with two hands, you have got to empty those hands。
which are carrying these sins for far too long.。
Anybody hate taking multiple trips。
to the car to get your groceries?。
My men are like, "I'm vibing now.。
"I'm locked back in.。
"I know all about that."。
What do you do?。
You load up, you race inside,。
and then you throw them down because they're heavy,。
even though you don't want to admit it.。
You cast it off.。
You get rid of it.。
That's how we're supposed to approach our sin.。
Psalm 86 5 says, "For you, O Lord, are good,。
"and you're forgiving.。
"You're abounding in steadfast love。
"to all who call upon you.。
"Why then would we not confess?。
"For when we confess fully, we're forgiven freely."。
We're forgiven freely.。
Now, some of you hear that,。
and you think to yourself, like,。
"Kylin, it's too late for me, though.。
"You don't know what I've done.。
"You don't know where I've been."。
Sure, this is a good message for everybody else.。
I actually even believe that God might have a heart。
like this for all of these people,。
but that's not the heart that I think God。
would in fact have for me.。
Like, my list of sins is long.。
My past is littered with mistakes.。
My road is filled with regret.。
I've done some things,。
the likes of which I could never come back from.。
This may work for them, but it will never work for me.。
If that's you, then you need to know joy。
is never too far off,。
and it's never too late for you,。
because although your past may consist with sin,。
your future can be filled with joy.。
How do I know that?。
Well, science supports it.。
According to Jonathan Grant,。
neurologists have shown that while most brain development。
stops sometime in childhood,。
the brain's joy center,。
located and observable in the right orbital。
prefrontal cortex,。
is the only part of the brain。
that never loses its capacity to grow,。
which is fascinating.。
Like God has hardwired into you。
what's known as the emotional command center。
of your entire being,。
infinite levels of joy.。
You can have joy,。
which begs the question, then how do we get it?。
Well, this is where it gets really fascinating,。
and we part ways with the science,。
and we connect it to the scripture,。
because from a neurological perspective,。
joy is always relational.。
It's always relational,。
meaning it isn't found in what you have,。
what you do, where you go, how much you get.。
No, joy is found in who you know.。
Joy is found in who you know.。
I've noticed this with our newborn, Cash.。
I've taken it as my personal mission。
to make him the happiest boy in the world,。
and yet I have a minister's salary,。
and so that will not come by way of me spoiling him rotten。
with all manner of different things he can own,。
places I can take him,。
things he can do,。
how much he can have.。
Sure, I can give him more baby paper.。
I can even change his diaper.。
I can unwrap the latest whatever, that toy,。
which will stimulate him for a moment,。
but you know what gives him joy?。
Time with me and time with his mom.。
I've noticed his joy center fires。
when he sees me,。
when we connect,。
when we're together,。
when we relate to one another,。
when we enjoy each other's presence,。
and yet here's what I've also come to learn.。
If my goal is to make him the happiest boy in the world,。
then my presence, even my presence,。
will be insufficient for him。
because he needs a better father than I am,。
and praise God that there is one.。
There is a God that loves my boy。
and loves you too,。
and wants more than to lavish you。
with all manner of material。
that might produce something good in you,。
some feeling or excitement.。
He wants to give you the very best thing he has,。
which is himself.。
God is so loving。
that should there be anything better than him,。
I firmly believe he'd be like, "Go, get to it."。
But because there is not, he says, "You come to me."。
And it is through our relationship。
that all the joy you want and more can be found,。
for it is in his presence。
that there's fullness of joy.。
It is at his right hand。
there are pleasures forevermore.。
For in a world that wants to take our joy,。
we can be assured our Jesus came to give it back.。
He came to pursue not perfect people,。
but imperfect people to give them a happy heart,。
the kind of heart he himself had.。
He came to broach our secret sin。
and give us the very joy that we had lost,。
a joy that can only be found in him.。
And though he knows confession is never easy,。
he has made it so very worth it。
that any who would confess and believe him as Lord。
might be with him forever,。
and not just have eternal life,。
but have joy both today and tomorrow and forevermore.。
Sin isn't a bad thing we do.。
It isn't just a bad thing we do.。
It is the response of the sad people we are.。
Where then is our joy found?。
It is found in Christ.。
Look to his cross for that tells you。
how much he wanted you to have it and find it in him.。
Let me pray for us.。
God, we love you.。
Thanks for tonight.。
God, I just, I acknowledge。
that coming into this evening,。
I knew this message is heavy and it's hard.。
(soft music)。
The room might feel weighty and even worried,。
but God, I think it's too important。
to look at these people, your people,。
and tell them the road back to joy。
is found in Jesus,。
whom we not only find everlasting life,。
but the forgiveness that makes it possible.。
If you don't know Christ,。
I pray you would confess your sin。
and believe he is Lord,。
for it is in him that all satisfaction is found.。
And if you're here and you've not told somebody,。
you've not told him,。
it's time to confess and get your joy back.。
That's where the fight begins.。
And God, we want to start right now.。
We love you.。
It's in Christ's name, amen.。
