[MUSIC PLAYING]。
Well, how we doing, Dallas?。
[CHEERING]。
Welcome to the porch.。
Hey, if you're joining us for the very first time, welcome.。
We know that you could be in a lot of different places。
right here in Dallas.。
And you're right here at the porch.。
If you're joining us online, our Porch Live locations,。
y'all give it up after I say it.。
The Porch Live, Tulsa, Midland, Fort Worth, Scottsdale, Arizona,。
Boise, and a host of others, welcome them with us.。
[CHEERING]。
Yeah.。
We're so glad that you're with us tonight.。
Hey, we've been in a series titled Essential.。
And it's this idea that we're studying these one thing。
statements in scripture.。
It's the one thing that gives everything else in our life。
perspective and clarity.。
And there's five of them.。
There's five different one thing statements in the scripture.。
And tonight, we're going to be diving into Philippians。
chapter 3 to unpack another one thing statement.。
So if you have your Bibles, you can open them。
to Philippians chapter 3.。
Before we get going, I was just thinking the other day,。
I had a thought.。
In America, we love to document our successes, don't we?。
Like trophies and trophy cases and social media even.。
Like we love to document where we've been, what we've done.。
And it just kind of plays out in a way where, ma'am,。
you're hanging out with your boys, your girls.。
And for me, I know when I hang out。
with some of my best friends, we talk about the good old days.。
And the good old days consist of our accomplishments。
and our achievements.。
I remember walking down the hallways of my high school。
right there in Fort Worth, Texas.。
North Crowley High, anybody?。
North Crowley?。
Nope, no North Crowley High?。
Oh, we got some North Crowley.。
OK, let's go.。
And I remember looking at the trophy cases。
and reminiscing on the past.。
And it brought me to a point in my journey。
where I was thinking about everything。
that I had done over the last few years of my life.。
Y'all remember this?。
These patches, right?。
The letter jacket, I said it earlier.。
Yeah, y'all, you're like, yeah, yeah, the letter jacket.。
They look more like rugs.。
I don't know why, but they just do.。
But they document your successes,。
all state, all district, right?。
Or if you're like me, you didn't have any patches.。
So I had to find a young adult that had some patches,。
and this brother's just balled out.。
I mean, all state, everything.。
And there's different flavors of this, right?。
It might not be a letter jacket for you,。
but it might be your resume or your LinkedIn profile。
and everything, all of our accomplishments,。
where we've been, what we've done, our GPA,。
our education is all on one sheet or one profile.。
Why?。
Because we love to document it.。
Maybe for you, it's that big game hunting.。
You're like, yeah, yeah.。
He said, yeah.。
You're like, that's my buck.。
Yeah, I put them on the wall.。
It's my trophy.。
I killed that with my 270, my rifle.。
And you just kind of document it.。
Or there's different flavors of this,。
like in Dallas and other cities.。
And that flavor is us.。
Like we're the trophy.。
You know, we're at the gym when you're like, look at me.。
You know, you're flexing in the mirror.。
Or you know that the summer's coming,。
and you're going to be going out to the lake.。
You're going to go to that pool,。
and you're going to find that party cove,。
and you're going to take those pictures。
over 4th of July on the boat.。
Are you wakeboarding?。
Or are you showing off your body。
that was meant for your significant other,。
your wife or your husband?。
Ouch.。
That's all too real, right?。
You're like, wait, hey, get off.。
No, no, you ain't going there now, bro.。
Don't we do that though?。
Come on.。
I see y'all on the 'gram.。
But isn't that what we do?。
We document our successes, our achievements.。
And it gets really weird when that desire to be seen。
in our accomplishments overlaps in our faith,。
and maybe even in the church.。
I told you I didn't grow up in the church.。
But when I was young, I went to church for a couple years.。
And I remember doing this thing called Bible quizzers.。
You're like, man, when did you do that?。
Back in 1994, that's what it says.。
I mean, the trophy is so old, it's like yellow now, right?。
It's just, and I got a trophy for this.。
Like I got a trophy for knowing answers to the Bible.。
Like that's just kind of weird, man.。
That's just a visual award for memorizing scripture。
and being religious.。
That's crazy.。
Why do I start there tonight?。
I start tonight because we live in a culture of performance.。
Like it's hardwired in us.。
And Paul, the writer of Philippians。
is going to warn us against this.。
When you bring performance into the gospel,。
here's what it says.。
It says, Jesus Christ, you're not enough.。
It's not just what you've done for me, Christ.。
It's what I do.。
See, the gospel says, let me explain.。
The gospel says Christ performed for us,。
but dying on the cross three days later,。
raising again to defeat sin and death.。
And that alone is enough to forgive you and I of our sin。
and to be made right with him.。
But when we add some type of performance to the gospel,。
it says that Christ isn't enough.。
Question.。
Let me further explain it this way.。
If you die tonight and you stand before Jesus,。
and he says, why should I let you into heaven?。
What are you going to say?。
Like, this is in the quietness of your own heart.。
Don't blurt it back up here.。
Like, what are you going to say in that moment?。
Like it's you and Jesus, you stand before him.。
And he says, why should I let you in to heaven?。
Like, what's going to be your response?。
And if it's anything other than the life, the death,。
the burial and the resurrection of Jesus Christ,。
then you're wrong.。
If it's no, no, no God, it's because I'm a good person.。
I tried to obey you really, really well.。
I tried to do some good things, some charitable things.。
But God, I tried really hard.。
And you pull out your resume of performance.。
Here on earth, you got it wrong.。
Why?。
Because that makes it about you and not Christ.。
That makes it about me and not Christ.。
If I pull up my resume of performance。
and all the things that I think are good。
in the eyes of a holy, perfect God.。
In that moment, that hypothetical moment,。
you put all your stock in your resume.。
And you're like, God, I went to Africa every year。
to help kids that didn't have clean water,。
get clean water so their lives could be saved.。
Or God, I became a CEO of a fortune 500 company.。
Or God, I've memorized some scripture,。
all these different things that you're gonna pull out。
as your resume that points to you, not him.。
You tracking?。
This is where Paul is going tonight。
in Philippians chapter three.。
The gospel says only what Christ has done.。
Tonight we'll be in Philippians three.。
And here we find a guy named Paul。
who used to point to his spiritual resume.。
Watch this, Philippians three, verse three.。
Paul says this, "I put no confidence in my flesh,。
though I myself have reason for confidence in the flesh.。
Also, if anyone else thinks he has reason。
for confidence in the flesh, I have more."。
Sounds really prideful, Paul.。
But then he lists his resume.。
Watch.。
"Circumcised on the eighth day of the people of Israel,。
of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews,。
as to the law of Pharisee, as to zeal,。
a persecutor of the church,。
as to righteousness under the law, blameless."。
He's just, hey, he's letting them know, man, I did it.。
I've arrived.。
You're like, what does that even mean?。
Let me tell you what it means.。
Let me put it in modern day language for you.。
He says, "You want to talk about family?。
I was born to the noble parents.。
They got connections everywhere.。
You want to talk about education, Texas, Baylor, A&M?"。
I knew it.。
That's why I paused.。
He says, "No, Ivy League with honors.。
You want to talk about power?。
I have authority over my enemies.。
I can persecute them.。
You want to talk about religion?。
I've never missed a day of church,。
and I grew up in a Christian church.。
Listen, I've memorized more Bible than you have forgotten.。
You want to talk about respect?。
Older guys call me for advice.。
You want to talk about spirituality, stuff, status?。
I win, Paul says.。
Question, what are you putting your confidence in?。
That you never miss a Tuesday night at the porch?。
That you got into some Bible study,。
and now you know some verses?。
That you serve weekly in the church?。
Or maybe it's not so spiritual for you.。
Maybe you do some charity work every single weekend。
to help noble causes.。
Or maybe it's your job, your six to seven figure income,。
your car, the guy or girl you're dating,。
the promotion, your body, your good looks,。
your gifts and your skills.。
Then what Paul's going to do,。
he's going to flip the whole thing on its head.。
And he's going to say, hey,。
this is where I thought my worth was.。
This is where I thought my confidence lied in,。
in my spiritual resume, accomplishment and stuff.。
But now I know.。
Verse seven, but whatever gain I had, says Paul,。
I counted it as loss for the sake of Christ.。
Indeed, I counted everything as loss。
because of the surpassing worth。
of knowing Christ Jesus, my Lord.。
For his sake, I have suffered the loss of all things。
and count them as rubbish。
in order that I may gain Christ and be found in him.。
Not having a righteousness of my own。
that comes from the law,。
but that which comes through faith in Christ.。
The righteousness from God that depends on faith.。
See, he's reiterating what we just talked about.。
That when you stand before God,。
that when I stand before God,。
we're not going to be able to pull out our list of things。
that we've done.。
The law that we've come up in our own mind,。
that if I do this or do that, then I'm good.。
We're not gonna be able to pull that out.。
He says, no, it's not a righteousness of my own。
that comes by obeying a bunch of rules.。
It comes through faith in Christ and what he's done.。
(congregation laughing)。
The Greek word here for rubbish is scrupola,。
which literally means garbage or dung.。
All the stuff Paul gained in his life is garbage。
compared to what?。
Knowing Christ.。
Like see, the best of our best.。
Without Jesus, it looks like a pile of garbage in our life.。
But we fail to believe that, don't we?。
I fail to believe that.。
The guy standing on stage at times。
wants to go back to my resume,。
wants to go back to the list,。
wants to go back to what I do instead of what he's done.。
So Paul's saying, if you're gonna pursue righteousness,。
pursue Jesus.。
Don't let looking good on the outside be your goal。
or just being better for the sake of being better.。
He says, no, if you're going to pursue。
being the man or woman that God's called you to be,。
you got to do that by pursuing Christ.。
Question, what kind of desperation for God。
did you come into this place with?。
I know you've had a long day.。
Some of you worked 12, 13 hours.。
You fought traffic, you haven't eaten, but you're here.。
I just wonder, like what kind of desperation。
did we come into this place with。
when it comes to our yearning for God?。
Like see, ever since I came to Christ。
back in college, my junior year,。
I've always resonated with men and women。
that have a deep yearning for God.。
They desire to be drawn by a passionate pleading。
for more of God.。
Like when I read Psalm 63, one, David says it like this.。
Oh God, you are my God.。
Earnestly, I seek you, my soul thirst for you.。
My flesh faints for you as in a dry and weary land。
where there is no water.。
This is not David saying, I just want to be a better guy.。
This is David saying, I'm yearning for my depths。
with an active soul desperation.。
David's crying out to God, God, I got to have you.。
I wonder if there's any people tonight.。
That want to seek God like that.。
He continues in verse two, he just says,。
so I have looked upon your sanctuary,。
beholding your power and glory。
because your steadfast love is better than life itself.。
My lips will praise you, so I'll bless you。
as long as I live.。
In your name, I will lift up my hands.。
My soul will be satisfied as with fat and rich food。
and my mouth will praise you with joyful lips.。
For David, God isn't some distant father。
or just some intellectual ascent.。
He's near.。
He's a father that wants to dwell with his children.。
He continues on in verse six and he just says,。
when I remember you upon my bed and meditate on you。
in the watches of the night, for you have been my help.。
And in the shadow of your wings, I will sing for joy.。
My soul clings to you, your right hand upholds me.。
I resonate so much with King David。
because when you read the Psalms,。
he kind of vacillates between God, you're awesome,。
you're amazing, I just want more of you.。
And then all of a sudden he's like, God, where are you?。
Like, I feel far from you.。
God, I feel like you've abandoned me, that you've left me.。
I was 30 years old and still single.。
I remember reading this passage of scripture.。
I mean, just the part where it says,。
I'm in my bed and I meditate on you。
and I'm watching for you in the night。
and I'm crying out to you.。
And I just remember saying, God, have you forgotten me?。
Have you abandoned me?。
Have you not seen me?。
And in that moment, God was like, no, I'm right here。
where I've always been.。
I haven't abandoned you.。
Josiah, the goal is me.。
The end goal is me.。
And I hear your heart, Josiah.。
I know you want to be married and you want to have a family,。
but are you satisfied with me and me alone?。
Because if you don't get there, Josiah,。
then you're going to find out。
that spouses make miserable saviors.。
What is God doing in your yearning?。
What does God want to do in your yearning?。
What does God want to do in you thinking。
that God is some distant God that doesn't care for you。
or doesn't see you?。
He's after your heart.。
And if he would give you the thing you want,。
it might cause you not to yearn and seek and pursue him。
the same way you would if you didn't get what you want.。
David and other biblical figures who wrote。
and spoke this way were not just pursuing experiences,。
they were pursuing God.。
This is why David writes in Psalm 42,。
"As a deer pants for flowing streams,。
so pants my soul for you, O God,。
my soul thirst for God, for the living God."。
And so what we'd like to do with this verse。
is we like to cheese this verse up.。
We like to put it on a coffee mug or a t-shirt。
where there's an actual deer on it,。
and we put that verse under the deer.。
And this is crazy.。
Why?。
Because David right here is in pain.。
He's crying out and he's saying, "Why can't I get there?。
Why can't I get more of you?。
Why do you not feel near to me, God?"。
And so what do we do in those moments?。
We lean in all the more.。
And we say, "God, I'm not getting up from this place。
until I connect with you,。
until I begin to see you clearly from your word。
where I begin to see you for who you really are。
in the midst of my circumstances, in the midst of my pain.。
I want to know you in a deep, intimate way."。
You stay in it, even if that comes with tears,。
even if it comes with sadness.。
As I laid in bed that night,。
thinking that maybe I would never get married.。
And God said, "Well, am I enough?。
Will I still be enough?"。
And I had to wrestle that down.。
And I came to a place where, "God, you're enough."。
And he met me in that pain.。
Maybe for some of you right now,。
you're sitting there saying, "Well, what does that look like?。
It just looks like you crying out to God。
and say, 'God, I need you.。
I know I can't self-manufacture this on my own.。
I need your spirit to meet me in my distress.'"。
Paul goes on to say in verse eight,。
"Indeed, I count everything as loss。
because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus,。
my Lord, for his sake, I have suffered the loss。
of all things and count them as rubbish。
in order that I may gain Christ."。
Maybe for some of you, you're sitting there saying,。
"In 2024, I wanna have this desire that Paul has.。
I wanna have this mindset that everything else is lost。
compared to the infinite value。
of knowing Christ Jesus, my Lord, like the way he does."。
You wanna know how you get there?。
You believe what Paul believed,。
that nothing else in his life mattered。
except for knowing him.。
Like Jesus was ultimate.。
He knew with all of his heart。
that Jesus was the best thing for him.。
He knew that Jesus was the best thing for his finances.。
It was the best thing for his relationship.。
It was the best thing for his dating.。
It was the best thing for everything。
that he could possibly do, his job,。
everything that he spent his time,。
treasure, talent on, Jesus was better.。
This is how you get there.。
He counted everything as lost。
compared to the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus.。
Like you, you don't wear this anymore.。
Well, maybe some of you do.。
Let's talk about that after service if you do.。
But this is a picture of some of our lives。
where everything about us。
is spelling out where we've been, what we've done.。
And Paul simply just says, "I count this as rubbish,。
trash for the sake of Christ."。
You're like, "Well, man, why do you still have this trophy?。
I don't know why I still have the trophy."。
But you know what?。
I'm glad I have it because it was an illustration。
that says even my spiritual resume,。
even everything I've done for Christ is trash。
for the sake of Christ, right?。
I mean, isn't that where we're trying to get to?。
This is what Paul is pleading with us tonight。
that whatever you think you do for Christ,。
I don't know what it is for you.。
Maybe it's your car, right?。
You're like, "Bro, you can have my car, it's a hoopty."。
Not for some of you, I've been out in that parking lot.。
And Paul says, "Even my car is trash for the sake of Christ."。
Money, we're chasing this, especially in Dallas,。
the performance track, the hamster wheel of,。
"Man, if I do this, I'll get that raise, I'll go there."。
And God is saying through Paul that even money。
can't buy the satisfaction and the contentment。
that Christ can give you.。
It's rubbish.。
It's trash.。
Your resume that you fit on one page, maybe two,。
is trash for the sake of knowing Christ.。
For some of us, it's our looks, it's external beauty.。
Ladies, I mean, I'm not trying to pick on you.。
This is just from one of our staff team,。
her makeup bag, right?。
But it's the same way for you men.。
Like you don't have this, but you got your thing.。
I've been in some of the bathrooms of young adult men,。
and I'm like, "Dang, I didn't even know。
they had products like that."。
And whatever you're doing to all this stuff,。
and I'm not saying, you know what?。
I'm not saying it's wrong in and of itself,。
but some of us allow it to distract us so much.。
And Paul says, "No, no, no, no, no, no.。
It's garbage compared to the infinite value。
of knowing Christ Jesus, our Lord."。
Your job, even your job,。
whatever you're putting your stock in,。
that corner office, that promotion,。
it's garbage for the sake of knowing Christ Jesus, our Lord.。
Some of you are like, "But my education, man,。
I went to A&M."。
(congregation laughing)。
And I'm like, "Did you not just hear Paul?。
He said, 'I did Ivy with honors.'。
Good for your A&M.。
It's garbage."。
See, it doesn't even fit.。
It's garbage.。
I'll make it fit.。
(congregation laughing)。
Some of you, your phone, your social media.。
Oops, someone needed to say ouch instead of amen.。
(congregation laughing)。
Your phone, your social media, it's garbage.。
And even my family.。
I know it, but this is what God is trying。
to get every single one of you as a single two,。
that you would love Him and your love for Him。
in comparison to your love for your family。
would pale in comparison.。
It would almost look like hatred, Jesus says.。
Marriage, family is garbage。
compared to the surpassing worth。
of knowing Christ Jesus, our Lord.。
And some of you right now, you're like,。
"Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, bro.。
That's an intense exercise you just did.。
I don't feel like all those things are bad in and of themself."。
They're not.。
But He's better.。
That's the purpose.。
He's better.。
(congregation applauding)。
And you might ask,。
"Can these things not help me love Jesus more?"。
Yes, they can.。
My wife helps me love Jesus more.。
My kids help me love Jesus more.。
But here's the deal.。
Many times, those things become a distraction。
from the main thing,。
from you and I's relationship with Christ.。
This is where Paul is going into this text.。
He's just pulling the band-aid off tonight.。
And he's asking you and I to do an inventory.。
C.S. Lewis said it like this,。
"Our desire for pleasure is not too great.。
Our desire for pleasure is too small."。
Here's what he's saying.。
He's saying we pursue pleasure in the moment,。
but we hold out.。
We hold out for,。
we don't hold out for ultimate pleasure.。
We just like, whatever the fleeting pleasures of the day,。
we just give our minds attention and our hearts affection to.。
Man, I've done this.。
You've done this.。
So let's just run through some of them.。
I really, really wanna be married,。
but I want sex right now.。
I really, really wanna be married.。
I wanna find the one,。
but I wanna look at this naked girl,。
this two-dimensional image.。
On my phone before I go to bed.。
Hey, I really, really wanna get married,。
but I want his attention more.。
When you know he's no good for you.。
I want God, I want a relationship with him.。
And one day I'll pursue that。
because I know I need that before I die.。
But right now I just wanna do me.。
It feels good what I'm doing.。
And we pursue fleeting pleasures.。
One more.。
I wanna really serve God in my singleness,。
but my job has become an idol.。
I'm working 60 to 70 hours a week,。
but that paycheck that drops into my bank account。
is really nice.。
And we pursue fleeting pleasures.。
We sell out for fleeting pleasures.。
So the question that begs us tonight is this.。
Why is Christ not your greatest desire?。
Why don't we pursue him like a first love?。
Everything else is garbage compared to that pursuit.。
Several years ago, I met my wife, Kathy,。
and we started dating and she was living in Dallas。
and I was living like four hours away round trip.。
Like it was a hike to get to Dallas.。
And we came to this thing on Tuesday nights。
called the porch.。
And we used to sit right back there behind the sound booth,。
right there in the middle.。
And I just remember saying,。
man, that's a lot of hours of drive time.。
Four hours going to the porch。
and then we go on a date right after.。
And I wouldn't leave Dallas to like 1030, 11 o'clock.。
And I wouldn't get back home till after midnight, 1 a.m.。
And I have to get up at 5 a.m.。
Why did I do that?。
Why?。
Because my love for Kathy wasn't just an emotion,。
it was devotion.。
And this is what Paul is getting at,。
that our love for him pales in comparison to other things.。
And some of us, we say we love God,。
but it's no more than emotion that just kind of flees。
and it's fleeting and it comes and goes.。
And it's not this devotion that you do anything。
and everything to put him as the priority of your life.。
Paul goes in in verse 12 and he says this,。
"Not that I've already attained this。
"or I'm already perfect, but I press on to make it my own。
"because Christ Jesus has made me his own."。
Paul presses on, this present tense,。
because Christ has made him his own past tense.。
Paul's obedience to press on is directly correlated。
to God's ownership of him, of the gospel,。
of God saying, "No, no, no, you're mine, Paul.。
"I've given up my life through my son,。
"my one and only son who hung on that tree。
"so that I could make you my very own."。
And so Paul's obedience to press on。
is correlated to the gospel of Jesus Christ.。
The gospel says this, that God loves you。
and there's nothing else that you can do to earn that love.。
There's no amount of resume building。
that he came on a rescue mission over 2,000 years ago,。
Christ who left the comforts of heaven。
for a cross here on earth to pay for the sins of humanity.。
And you and I, we're bankrupt without Christ.。
There's no one that will cross over from death to life。
apart from putting their faith and trust in Christ.。
And anyone who repents of their sin。
and believes in what Christ has done for them。
will be made right with him.。
And Jesus says, "You're mine."。
I liken it to my little girls.。
I have two little girls, Camille and Isabella,。
and I love them so much.。
And anytime I can share what true love really is, I try.。
And so I was tucking them into bed last night。
and I just said, "Hey girls, I love you,"。
to which they always say, "I love you too, Daddy."。
And it's the cutest thing ever.。
And I just, it dawned on me.。
I was like, man, I wonder if they know why I love them.。
Like there's just a question that came up in my mind.。
And I just said, "Man, I'm just gonna ask them.。
"Hey girls, do you know why Daddy loves you?"。
To which they said, "Because we obey you."。
And I said, "Oh."。
And then you take us to tongue in cheek ice cream.。
That's really what Camille said.。
And I said, "Not quite."。
And I leaned over and I put their face in my hand。
and they're looking up at me and they're smiling.。
And those eyes that pierce my heart every time I look at 'em.。
And I said, "Daddy loves you.。
"Daddy loves you because you're mine."。
Like God has given you to me, to steward, to help raise,。
but he's given you to Daddy and Mommy to love。
and to care for, not because of what you do for us,。
but because of just you're mine.。
And I share that story with you because isn't it nice。
when someone's love for you is not contingent。
upon what you do?。
So it is with the love of God.。
It's not contingent upon you.。
If you could get to heaven based on your resume。
of good works, what was the point of Jesus。
down on the cross?。
He says, "You're mine."。
For everyone who puts their faith and trust in him.。
It's also helpful here that Paul says,。
"Not that I've already obtained this."。
It's comforting for us to hear this, right?。
Not that I'm already perfect.。
He's acknowledging that he still struggles。
and needs to grow.。
I love the honesty, the authenticity in Paul.。
And he said, "You must continue to follow Jesus."。
So he says, "Press on."。
Think about this in relation to your own sin,。
your own struggles, whatever that is, right?。
Kylan said last week,。
if we just put all of our struggles back here on the screen,。
like it would make us blush.。
Like we would just walk out and get out of here.。
But think about this in the context of whatever sin。
that you're struggling with today.。
And here, Paul's saying that there's a right way。
to struggle and a wrong way to struggle.。
The wrong way to struggle is to describe it like this.。
Let me control it.。
Let me manage my sin.。
Let me kind of do my own thing over here。
and act like it doesn't exist.。
And the right way to struggle is to press into Jesus.。
You know, my story of coming to Christ。
is one of real struggle.。
Like I had some things happen in my family growing up。
that produced a lot of heartache in my life.。
My parents divorced at a young age.。
And I just remember that, you know, that growing up,。
that environment that I was part of,。
it produced two things in me.。
It was kind of some generational sin.。
There was two things that I really struggled with.。
One was anger, was my temper.。
And the other one was lust。
that turned into a porn addiction for a decade of my life.。
And I remember when the light bulb turned on,。
when the veil was removed from my eyes,。
and I was playing college baseball at the time,。
and thinking that I had everything,。
the world at its fingertips.。
And I remember God revealing to me my sin。
in light of who He is.。
And I cried out to God and just said, "God, I need you.。
I can't go out, I can't go along anymore without you."。
I remember repenting of my sin。
and trusting in what Christ had done.。
And then I remember just thinking,。
"Well, surely like my temper is gonna go away。
and my lust is gonna go away.。
I'm not gonna struggle anymore."。
But that's not what happened.。
There were still struggles。
that I had to work out in my faith.。
And this is what Paul is saying,。
the way we struggle well, the way we keep going,。
the way we press on is what he says in 2 Corinthians 3.18,。
that it is by beholding, it's by seeing Jesus,。
that we are transformed from one degree of glory to another。
into the image of Christ,。
that you and I would grow in our character in Christ,。
that we would look and say,。
"Hey, what in my life is inconsistent with Christ's character?"。
And we would begin to repent of that.。
And we begin to see Jesus more in light of our sin。
and understand His grace even more.。
It wouldn't cause us to run from Him.。
It would cause us to lean into Him。
because you can't out-sin the grace of God.。
And if you've truly experienced His grace,。
then it causes you to lean in all the more.。
How do we beat sin?。
We beat sin by pressing into Jesus,。
knowing Him, chasing Him, and He knows our struggles.。
Like, it'd be crazy for us to try to hide that.。
I always say that the power of sin is in secrecy.。
And like Colin said last week,。
the freest people in the room。
are those who no longer have to hide.。
And we just come to Christ with everything that we are。
and all of our hangups and all of our sin.。
And we just say, "Here it is, God.。
"Take it, go to work."。
And we get honest with ourself.。
This is what Paul is saying.。
Paul's reminded of the tainted past。
filled with his own horrific sin.。
Like he used to persecute and kill Christians,。
but he knew the grace of God in his darkest hour of life.。
And so this is why he says in verse 13, he says,。
"Brothers, I do not consider that I've made it my own."。
I haven't arrived.。
I always say on this side of eternity,。
Christians never arrive.。
We keep pressing in.。
We keep knowing more and more about God.。
But one thing I do, forgetting what lies behind me。
and straining forward to what lies ahead,。
I press onto the goal for the prize。
of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus.。
So what do we do?。
You see that phrase, one thing.。
What is this one thing that Paul is telling us to do?。
Don't miss it.。
He's saying, "Press on toward the prize."。
What is the prize?。
It's Christ Jesus.。
How do we do this?。
We forget what lies behind and we press on.。
We strive to what's ahead.。
Those are the two things.。
So number one, forget what lies behind.。
Paul's not saying that we forget totally what's behind us.。
Like that's crazy.。
I mean, all throughout the scripture, God says,。
"No, I want you to remember what I've done in your life.。
"I want you to remember the goodness and the power。
"and the things that I've helped you overcome."。
All of us come into this room with something hard.。
Throughout the Christian life,。
we've experienced various wins.。
But Paul is saying, "Be careful。
"that you don't feast on old manna."。
Like God wants to give you new manna today.。
That's for today, new grace today.。
That's for the struggles today.。
1 Corinthians 10, 12, Paul says, he actually warns us.。
He says, "Therefore, if anyone who thinks that he stands,。
"therefore let anyone who thinks he stands。
"take heed unless he falls.。
"Be careful not to put too much confidence in your flesh。
"because those of us that have too much confidence。
"in our flesh will surely fall."。
But that we would be dependent on God.。
Don't live off the victories of yesterday.。
Yesterday's grace is inadequate for today's struggle,。
Paul is saying.。
Today comes with a grace of his own.。
His mercies are new, come on, every morning.。
This is what it looks like to press on,。
to pursue Christ.。
Second, forget past sins.。
Don't let them define you.。
And the other thing Paul says is not to be defined by shame.。
I mean, I just remember when I first came to Christ,。
I was like, how do I not define myself by shame?。
And someone looked at me and said,。
"Well, if God doesn't condemn you,。
"if God doesn't shame you,。
"if that was put on the cross when he died,。
"why would you put that on you?"。
And so God is just reminding us in this moment。
that therefore there is no condemnation。
for those that are in Christ Jesus.。
And so some of us, we've had things done to us,。
or we've done things that we can't even mention。
or talk about.。
And in the last several years of ministry,。
I've seen people heal from the prison of their secrets.。
And God is in the business of restoring and making new.。
And Paul is saying, forget what's behind us,。
but not this idea of forgetting。
in a way that you just suppress it and you don't address it.。
No, no, Paul is saying, hey, don't let this own you.。
But he doesn't say don't own up to it,。
but he is saying, don't let it own you.。
So when you confess it, receive the grace.。
Whatever your sin is, receive the grace。
so that you can take that same grace。
and give it away and forgive others.。
Why?。
Because forgiven people always forgive people.。
We also see that God's grace for our sin。
can actually be rooted in this incredible fact。
that you and I, when we see God's grace,。
we now can boast about our weaknesses.。
Paul says it like this in 2 Corinthians 12, nine,。
that, hey, I can boast about my weaknesses。
because when I'm weak, he's strong.。
He also says in 2 Corinthians 11, 30,。
if I must boast, I will boast about the things。
that show my weakness.。
Why?。
So that the power of Christ can rest upon you.。
If you always come into this place with a resume,。
like I'm good, I got this, I don't need anybody,。
everything's good, you never experience his power。
because his power is given to the people。
who have a humble and contrite heart.。
Do you have that tonight?。
Is your heart humble and contrite?。
Number two, strive forward to what lies ahead.。
I'm straining forward and I'm pressing onward。
and I'm pressing on like he's the only prize there is.。
Paul uses this language all the time.。
And I love this language.。
He says in 1 Corinthians 9, 23 through 27,。
I do it all for the sake of the gospel。
that I may share in its blessings.。
Do you not know that in a race, all runners run,。
but only one receives the prize?。
So run that you may obtain it.。
Every athlete exercises self-control in the things they do.。
And they do it to receive a perishable wreath,。
but we an imperishable.。
So do not run aimlessly.。
I do not box as one beating the air,。
but I discipline my body and keep it under control。
lest after preaching to others,。
I myself should be disqualified.。
Paul's saying that nobody runs a race to lose it.。
He says, no, we run to win.。
How do we do this?。
We have to train.。
We have to strive.。
We have to discipline ourself。
if we're gonna win against sin。
and the things that are coming after us every single day.。
Isn't this contrary to your side to grace?。
Talking about all this striving and toiling and training。
and discipline ourselves.。
No, Dallas Willard says it like this.。
Grace is not opposed to effort, but to earning.。
One of the best ways for us to get grace wrong。
is to believe it means we don't have to work。
in the Christian life.。
See, nobody just stumbles into godliness.。
Nobody just shows up a powerful person of God。
because they didn't discipline themselves.。
They didn't train themselves in God's word。
and to memorize scripture.。
See, if we truly believe that we're saved from our work,。
then we would work harder purely out of gratitude.。
If we really believe that there's nothing we can do。
to get to God and he's done everything,。
and we don't work for our salvation,。
then you and I would work from our salvation。
out of gratitude and worship。
because of what Christ has done for us.。
Is that true in your life?。
John Calvin said it like this.。
We are saved through faith alone,。
but not by faith that is alone.。
Every time you see faith in someone's life,。
it's always accompanied by works.。
James says it like this.。
Faith without works is dead.。
Wherever there is faith in Christ,。
good works will surely follow.。
So what are those good works?。
There's a change that happens in a person's heart.。
It happened to me my junior year of college。
where I never desired to get in God's word and read it,。
but then I couldn't stop putting it down.。
I had no desire to fight against pornography,。
but I couldn't stop putting up guardrails。
to not give myself access to look at it。
because I knew that when temptation。
and opportunity intersect, I was surely to fall。
and I was not gonna put any confidence in my flesh.。
So I said, no more.。
Where there's an opportunity, I'm cutting it off.。
I didn't have that desire.。
Memorizing scripture,。
connecting with other believers in community,。
guys that didn't look like me,。
dress like me, have the same hobbies that I had,。
like the same music I listened to,。
but you know what they had?。
The commonality of Christ and I needed them.。
And they held me accountable。
and they asked me the hard questions.。
I didn't have any desire for this。
apart from the spirit of God。
that sealed me at the moment of my salvation。
and began to change my desires and renew my mind.。
And we do these things, why?。
So we passionately pursue Christ.。
The prize is Christ.。
The prize we strive for is Jesus.。
And so the one thing I want you and I to do。
when we walk out of those doors,。
we get in our car and we go home tonight.。
This is the one thing.。
You ready for this?。
Press on toward the prize, which is Christ Jesus.。
How do we do this?。
Forget what lies behind.。
Address your stuff.。
It's not what I'm saying, right?。
Address it, go to counseling, get community,。
whatever you gotta do, but don't live in it.。
Don't dwell in it.。
Forget about it.。
Let God heal you.。
And this is what we do.。
We strive forward to what lies ahead.。
He's not done with you.。
Do you know that?。
He's gonna use your mess and make it a message.。
And that message is gonna go out to the whole world。
if you let him.。
And this is what he does.。
He takes the prisons that you used to sit in。
and he gives you a key called the gospel。
and your testimony.。
And you begin to share that with other people。
who are sitting in the same prisons that you used to sit in.。
And when you share it, it unlocks the prisons。
that people are sitting in, in your office places,。
in your neighborhoods, in your apartment complexes,。
at restaurants, and God begins to use you。
in a way that you've never been used before.。
What else do you wanna give your life to?。
Let me pray that you would tonight.。
God in heaven, would you help us see。
the overwhelming truth of the gospel tonight?。
Would we see that compared to the infinitely perfect。
holiness of God, our righteousness is absolutely garbage.。
Would we see that Jesus laid aside anything。
that he could have hung his hat on because he loved us?。
Would we believe that Philippians 2, 7 and 8。
says that Jesus emptied himself,。
taking the very form of a servant。
and he humbled himself by becoming obedient。
to the point of death, even death on the cross.。
And Christ has counted all as loss。
to make us right with him.。
Would we believe that God,。
not just intellectually, but from the heart?。
Would we believe that Jesus isn't asking us。
to do something that he hasn't done himself?。
He's emptied himself.。
He gave up his entire life。
so that we may become one with him.。
So would we count everything as loss。
compared to the infinite value of knowing Christ Jesus,。
our Lord, and would you help the porch。
and all the other locations that are meeting right now。
along the nation, around the nation, I should say,。
to keep pressing on, to pursue the prize, which is Christ,。
forgetting what lies behind。
and striving toward to what lies ahead.。
For your glory, our joy, and the world's good.。
It's in Christ's name we pray, amen.。
