(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
(gentle music)。
- Well, I want you to imagine with me for a moment。
that this is a picture of your life.。
And not just a picture of your life,。
but really a picture of everything great about your life.。
Everything that makes you great,。
imagine that it's right here.。
And so basically, this is a picture of your social media.。
This is your, I am the greatest album.。
This is your Instagram.。
This is your Twitter followers.。
This is your accomplishments.。
And so for you, I don't know if it's where you've been,。
you hanging off that cliff there at the Grand Canyon。
or sitting there on the beach grabbing that selfie.。
I don't know if it's the way that you look。
that you find identity in.。
Maybe you walk into a room and it's all eyes on you.。
I don't know for you if it's your athletic accomplishments,。
you know, the great things that you've done,。
clearly not mine.。
I don't know what it is that you find identity in.。
Maybe for you it's climbing the corporate ladder,。
trying to show the world how fantastic you are。
as you put that degree into use。
so that you can get to the top and tell everyone,。
"Look at me, look at what I've done.。
"Look how I took that degree and I made a name for myself."。
I don't know what it is about you。
that makes you think you're great, but it's on this.。
I want you to picture it on this screen.。
Maybe it's your fashion sense.。
Maybe for you it's the things that you put on。
that you find identity in.。
Maybe it's the things that you wear.。
But for this moment, stop thinking about just the oddity。
of this screen being up here and think about。
what you find identity in, what makes you great.。
Once upon a time it was something like this.。
Maybe it's become a resume now.。
Maybe it's a salary.。
Maybe it's a relationship status.。
Maybe it's a car.。
What is it for you that you believe。
defines greatness in your life?。
It's interesting that we've actually invented this word.。
Our generation has this word, selfie.。
They've put it in the dictionary, in Webster's dictionary.。
There was an email that went viral this week。
from the American Psychiatric Association。
that says there's a new disease, selfitis.。
I don't know if you guys saw that.。
I looked it up on Snopes, wasn't true.。
Time Magazine said about us in May 7th, 2014,。
this is not only the generation of the self,。
it's the generation of the selfie.。
It's interesting that 10 years ago。
no one took a picture of themself。
and then today we actually have phones。
with cameras on the front so that we can.。
And not only that, but we have this word,。
this phenomenon, this hashtag.。
And so I don't know if you take selfies or hate selfies。
or make fun of selfies and take them.。
But there is something interesting they're saying about us。
that I believe is rooted and grounded in truth。
that we are the most narcissistic generation ever to live.。
And a selfie life, it's not just a bad idea.。
It is actually a wasted life.。
And if you continue to pursue it。
and you continue to think about it,。
it will literally make you sick.。
It will make you ill.。
And you're feeding something in yourself。
that you can't shake.。
You continue to think about yourself。
and the more you think about yourself,。
the more you think about yourself.。
You can't stop thinking about yourself.。
And then you begin to think。
that everybody else is thinking about you.。
And then you begin to have conversations。
in your head about you.。
And then you begin having conversations in your head。
with others as they're having conversations about you.。
And then you begin to think,。
what does my boss think about me?。
What does she think about me?。
What does he think about me?。
What do they think about me?。
What do my coworkers think about me?。
What does everyone around me,。
what does that person I just said hello to。
during the meet and greet, what do they think about me?。
What does everyone think about me?。
And then what happens is our entire lives go by.。
Some of you are like, I'll tell you in a minute, okay.。
When your entire lives go by。
and you spent thinking about you。
and why while self-itis is not real,。
narcissistic personality disorder is.。
And narcissism is a real phenomenon.。
In fact, we're three times more likely。
to be narcissistic than any other generation。
that has ever lived.。
In 1992, 80% of people under 23。
wanted to one day have a job with greater responsibility.。
10 years later, 60% did.。
Millennials received so many participation trophies。
growing up that 40% of them think。
they should be promoted every two years,。
regardless of performance.。
Eight out of 10 believe they are very important.。
In 1950, that was 12% thought they were very important.。
Now it's 80%.。
Millennials' number one goal is to get rich。
and their number two goal, our number two goal,。
is to get famous.。
Most everyone here tonight is classified as a millennial,。
someone born between 1980 and 2000.。
The number one question they are asking。
when considering opportunities is what's in it for me?。
And 96% of us believe we will do something great。
with our lives.。
And so as we move through this series quarter life crisis,。
we've covered your career,。
we covered your money problems,。
and tonight we're going to talk about being self-obsessed,。
continuing to think about yourself,。
which I would argue is the root of every quarter life crisis。
but specifically what's happening is we're realizing。
that we're not so great or worse, we think we are.。
And that is causing in us and around us。
this phenomenon of a quarter life crisis,。
of stress and anxiety and worry。
and things that we can't shake。
which actually feed these thoughts。
that cause us to think about ourselves more.。
And so tonight I want to ask two questions。
from a scripture that I believe will help us。
combat self-obsession.。
And then before you leave here this evening,。
I hope to offer you a solution.。
And to set this up, we're going to look at the life。
of John the Baptist.。
Last time I taught on narcissism,。
it was the Generation Y series or Gen Y series,。
we looked at a negative example in the disciples.。
The disciples over and over and over were asking Jesus。
who was the greatest,。
to which Jesus could have easily said I am,。
but he didn't, he said no, I've come to serve.。
And whoever wants to be great among you must also serve,。
for whoever wants to be first must be last。
and make themselves servant of all, this crazy phenomenon.。
And so the disciples missed it,。
they were a great negative example.。
Today, tonight rather, I want to look at a positive example.。
And man, we don't talk a lot about John the Baptist.。
We're going to be in the book of John,。
who was the Apostle John,。
not to be confused with John the Baptist.。
The Apostle John's going to be writing about John the Baptist。
in the text that we're in, John chapter three.。
So Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John in the New Testament.。
Turn to John chapter three if you have your Bibles.。
I'm gonna set this up in Mark chapter one,。
you don't need to turn there,。
I'm just gonna read to you starting in verse four,。
and it says this,。
'cause we need to know about John the Baptist.。
And so John the Baptist appeared in the wilderness。
preaching a baptism of repentance。
for the forgiveness of sin.。
So this is his message,。
you need to repent and be baptized.。
That is, you need to turn from your sin.。
You have, up until now,。
you have lived a life obsessed about yourself,。
but when you come into a relationship with the one true God,。
you begin to live for him.。
This marks believers, this marks Christians,。
this marks Christ followers.。
You live the life for yourself,。
and then when you come into a relationship with God,。
now through the death and resurrection of Jesus,。
you begin to live a life for him.。
And so John is teaching this message,。
hey, you need to turn from your sin and turn to God.。
And so you might think of John the Baptist as an oddball.。
The whole Judean countryside, it says,。
and all the people of Jerusalem.。
So thousands of people went out to him,。
confessing their sins.。
They were baptized by him in the Jordan River.。
Now some odd things about John.。
John wore clothing made of camel's hair。
with a leather belt around his waist,。
and he ate locusts and wild honey.。
And this was his message.。
He didn't have big screens and lights, okay?。
He didn't have lots of crazy things.。
He didn't have cars on the stage or anything like that.。
His message was simply, after me comes one。
who is more powerful than I.。
The straps of whose sandals I am not worthy。
to stoop down and untie.。
This is his sermon.。
Hey, guys, gather around.。
Gather around, gather around, gather around.。
Hey, you need to turn from your sin,。
and someone's coming who's greater than me.。
The end, let's pray.。
This is what he's doing.。
Hey, come here, everybody, come here.。
You need to hear this.。
And thousands were gathering around him,。
and so you think locusts and honey and camel's hair.。
Listen, John the Baptist was the original hipster, okay?。
He invented hipster, okay?。
So while you think locust and honey,。
I want you to think like kale.。
He just bought a Vitamix,。
and he's on a gluten-free diet, this guy.。
If he was here today, he'd have horned rim glasses,。
and he'd be rocking skinny jeans。
with his top buttoned, right?。
This is this guy.。
He's the OG hipster, John the Baptist.。
And so people are gathering.。
You're like, well, that's not in the text.。
It's in the commentary.。
(congregation laughing)。
People are gathering around him.。
Thousands are coming to him.。
He's got a ministry that's rocking, man.。
And so he's doing this deal,。
this kind of strange phenomenon called baptism.。
And so baptism is just a word that we get.。
You can think of like a cucumber。
that is submerged in a dill solution。
that later becomes a pickle.。
It takes on a new form.。
This is where we get the word baptism,。
that as people go underwater and they come up, okay,。
they raise to new life.。
Not that baptism saves you.。
It is a symbol, the repentance,。
that they would turn from their sins。
and turn to God and walk in faith in him,。
that salvation comes through faith.。
But baptism is the symbol。
that people are participating with in John.。
He's saying, hey, you have lived for you.。
Now live for the one to come.。
Okay, John three, verse 23.。
Now John was also baptizing in Anon near Selim。
because there was plenty of water。
and people were coming and being baptized.。
And then it says parenthetically,。
this was before John was put in prison.。
An argument developed between some of John's disciples。
and a certain Jew over the matter of ceremonial washing.。
They came to John and said to him,。
so there's this bickering going on.。
This is some of his disciples.。
They come up and they're kind of concerned.。
They said, Rabbi, that man who was with you。
on the other side of the Jordan,。
the one you testified about,。
the one you told us about, the story you told us about,。
look, he's baptizing and everyone is going to him.。
They're saying, hey, hold on.。
His ministry's growing faster than ours.。
He's becoming more popular than we are.。
What's going on?。
And to this John replied,。
a person can receive only what is given them from heaven.。
What a crazy phenomenon that John's not threatened。
by someone more popular.。
And he just says, hey, what others think of me。
and what others think of him, that's up to God.。
By the way, the other person was Jesus, John's cousin.。
And he's just saying, hey, whatever people think of him。
and whatever people think of me, whoever he has,。
whatever is given him and whatever is given me,。
that comes from God.。
What a crazy phenomenon just to actually trust in God.。
It's one thing to say you believe in him.。
A whole 'nother thing to walk in trust of him.。
And so the first question that I want to ask this evening。
is what do you have that you have not been given?。
And that might be a strange question。
in talking about narcissism, but it's actually not.。
Because if you really trust that any gifts and talents,。
anything that's on that screen,。
anything in that album of My Greatest Life。
is a gift to you from God, what can you boast in?。
How can you boast in something you haven't earned?。
I came out with a well-decorated letter jacket.。
In fact, one of those patches says Allstate.。
And it would be crazy for me to show that off.。
I'm like, check this out.。
Why?。
Because it's not mine.。
Okay, I want to just confess something。
kind of embarrassing to you.。
I desperately wanted to make varsity my sophomore year.。
I desperately wanted to.。
And when I didn't, I came up with this grand plan。
that I was gonna wear my brother's letter jacket.。
And the crazy thing about that is。
I went to a very small high school,。
so people would come up to me and be like,。
hey, that's not yours.。
You didn't earn it.。
Why weren't you at the game Friday night?。
It's 'cause you're on JV, dog.。
And that's not your jacket.。
How can you boast in the accomplishments of someone else?。
Everything that you have, you've been given.。
Let this sink in.。
And you're like, no, man, you don't understand.。
I'm really strong.。
I've been in the weight room.。
And that came through the weight room.。
Oh, yeah?。
Well, I bet if I lifted weights as much as you,。
I wouldn't be as strong as you.。
Maybe genetically, you've been predisposed by Creator。
to be strong.。
You're like, well, I'm pretty.。
You know, I'm really pretty.。
God made you pretty.。
What did you do to get pretty?。
Well, I can dunk a basketball.。
Cool.。
You're probably tall.。
No, I'm 5'10" and I can dunk a basketball.。
Really neat.。
I bet you have some big calf muscles.。
God probably made you that way.。
What do you, you're like, well, I'm really smart.。
Cool, God made you smart.。
How can you boast in your intelligence?。
God gave you your IQ.。
No, I developed it.。
No, you didn't.。
Well, maybe you developed it, but listen,。
he's the one that gave you the potential to develop it.。
What do you have that you haven't been given?。
Man, I work hard, JP.。
You don't even know.。
Hey, God put you in a place。
where there's prosperity all around you.。
I mean, you could have been born anywhere to any parents.。
No, man, you don't even know。
the adversity that I rose up against.。
God gave you the ability to even do that.。
What do you have that you can boast in?。
What do you have that has not been given to you?。
And when you get this mindset, all of a sudden,。
in this world of eight billion people,。
you begin to come smaller and smaller and smaller。
and smaller.。
And you begin to realize that outside of God,。
your life isn't all that relevant,。
that you're a small player in a big play。
that ain't about you.。
And it's one of the most healthy perspectives。
that we can have is to believe that this is about God.。
And so you have been given some gifts.。
You've been given some talents.。
You've been put in a position of influence,。
a specific neighborhood, a specific apartment complex.。
You can do things maybe that no one else can do.。
Maybe you have a unique way of thinking,。
maybe a specific intelligence,。
maybe a hobby that you've perfected.。
And the reason that you have that is for God.。
The reason that you can do that。
is so that you can give him glory。
with whatever gifts, talents, resources, abilities,。
people you know, places of influence,。
whatever that is, you have been entrusted with that for him.。
In Luke 12, 48, it just says this really scary passage,。
to whom much is given, much is expected,。
that God expects a return on his investment,。
that he's invested something in you。
and he expects a return on it,。
not so that you can earn salvation from him.。
That's been given to you also freely from him。
through Christ, but because you've been given salvation,。
you begin to use those gifts, talents, resources,。
influences for him.。
That's what John the Baptist is doing here.。
Remember, he has thousands of followers。
and he's saying, hey man, it's not about me.。
Whatever I have has been given to me by God, whom I trust.。
First Corinthians four, verse seven, says it like this.。
For who makes you different from anyone else?。
What do you have that you did not receive?。
And if you did receive it, why do you boast。
as though you did not?。
And it says in this text, in John chapter three,。
that you can only receive what is given to you.。
And so what this means, an application here,。
is that you cannot do everything,。
that you have some very specific gifts,。
that maybe you weren't made fast,。
maybe you weren't made strong,。
maybe you weren't made pretty.。
And that's okay, because you can trust God in that.。
And so that, what's the application there?。
Well, one, you don't have to judge those who were.。
Because as you're spending mental equity doing that,。
you're not realizing what are the gifts and talents。
that have been entrusted to you to use for God.。
So you can only think about so many things,。
and so if you're constantly thinking。
about other people's gifts,。
you can't develop the ones that have been entrusted to you.。
And so here's the deal, man, I know our parents,。
mine did, Jonathan, you can do anything.。
Anybody ever tell you that?。
My parents ever tell you that?。
Man, you can do anything, you put your mind to it.。
You can do anything, anybody ever heard that?。
Man, I'm the bearer of bad news.。
You can't, you can't do anything.。
Man, there's just some things I can't do.。
There's just some things I'm not very good at.。
I'm six foot seven, 250 pounds,。
I'm not a very good jockey, okay?。
I couldn't ride a horse for a living,。
or race a horse for a living,。
I wouldn't be very good at it.。
Those guys are little and light.。
I'm the opposite of little and light, okay?。
I would not be a very good jockey.。
And there's a long list of things I'm not very good at.。
You're like, six, seven, 250, basketball's gotta be, nope.。
Nope, sorry to disappoint you.。
That's not one of them either.。
And so it's not my job to sit on the side and say,。
well, why aren't they all good at that?。
And how come he can ride a horse fast, but I can't?。
No, I say, God, what did you make me to do,。
and how can I do that for your glory?。
What gifts and talents did you entrust to me for you,。
and how can I use those for your glory,。
to honor you in the way that I do them?。
And that's a great question for you to answer.。
And so here's a question, do you earnestly believe。
that what you have comes from God?。
Do you earnestly believe that what you have comes from God?。
See, John the Baptist here, he was very influential.。
And the goal of his influence was to point others to Jesus.。
And so are the goal of your success and your desires。
to point others to Christ, how are you doing at that?。
That's why God left you here.。
I mean, you know that God could have taken you home。
as soon as he saved you,。
assuming that you're a Jesus follower.。
As soon as you trusted in Christ for the forgiveness。
of your sins, his death and resurrection。
as a payment for your sins,。
as soon as you trusted in that,。
you're gonna be with God forever in heaven,。
and he could have just said,。
hey, I'm gonna take you there to be with me now,。
but he didn't, he said, no, I'm gonna leave you there,。
right where you are, I'm gonna put you。
in some very specific places because I wanna use you.。
I want you to take the gifts and the talents。
and the resources and the places and people of influence。
that I've entrusted to you and use them for me.。
And I'll see you real soon, face to face.。
And John the Baptist got this.。
He got this really well, he's happy。
that Jesus's ministry is growing beyond his.。
He says this.。
You yourselves can testify that I said,。
I am not the Messiah, but I am sent ahead of him.。
The bride belongs to the bridegroom.。
The friend who attends the bridegroom。
awaits and listens for him and is full of joy。
when he hears the bridegroom's voice.。
That joy is mine and it is now complete.。
And then he says this beautiful prayer,。
this beautiful statement that you've heard,。
he must become greater, I must become less.。
He must increase, I must decrease.。
And so John gives a great illustration of a wedding.。
I don't know if you've ever stood。
beside someone at a wedding.。
So maybe you had a bridesmaid。
or you've been a bridesmaid at a wedding.。
Maybe you felt like I'm always a bridesmaid, never a bride.。
Maybe you've been a groomsman at a wedding.。
How ludicrous would it be if you showed up。
to the wedding in a bridal gown。
and you said, no, I'm sick of this.。
(congregation laughing)。
No, everybody's, no, this is my show, okay?。
No, give me those flowers, all right?。
This is my show.。
How ludicrous would it be if you stood up at a wedding。
that is somebody else's show.。
You're there as a supportive role。
and you said, nah, not anymore, guys.。
I'm on the scene now, right?。
You're a groomsman, you went and you rented your tux.。
You were supposed to have a different color vest.。
You switched it out, you showed up there.。
He said, no, I'm the groom.。
She's mine now.。
(congregation laughing)。
It'd be crazy.。
It would be crazy and you are a part of a wedding.。
In this metaphor that Christ gave us in Ephesians five。
and really several times in the scriptures,。
you are a part of a wedding and you are a supportive role。
and he is the groom and his church,。
of which I hope you are a part of, is his bride.。
The church, not you, not you specifically,。
but you gathered together belonging to his body。
is his bride.。
And you don't wanna stand up and distract everyone from him.。
That would not be loving.。
And so my second question this evening。
is are you stealing God's glory?。
See, you're here to glorify the Father.。
Are you stealing his glory?。
If you are living for you,。
then the reality is you have missed your purpose in life.。
Everybody's always looking for their purpose.。
Man, what is my purpose?。
Why am I here?。
If you have lived your life for your selfie,。
you have missed your purpose.。
You have, it has been lost on you why God left you here。
after he saved you in spite of you.。
And that's gross.。
Anytime someone grabs the attention,。
they're a glory thief.。
It's always gross.。
Yesterday was Memorial Day, an incredible holiday。
where we remember those who have lost their life。
serving our country for our freedom.。
And so the way that we always celebrate Memorial Day。
is we attend a parade.。
This year I was in the parade and had this,。
I rode this orange car, okay?。
It was like this orange hot rod in the parade.。
There it is, right?。
And so there we are.。
We're gonna go to the parade.。
We're gonna be in the parade.。
Well, what's interesting about this car,。
there's nothing like celebrating those。
who have given their life for our freedom。
than saying, hey, look at me, I'm in an orange car。
in a parade, I'll throw candy at you。
if you just give me some attention.。
And so we're in this parade,。
and what's funny about this car,。
okay, and this is weird, I know, so let me explain this.。
When you shift the car into reverse,。
you know how some trucks go beep, beep, beep。
when you shift into reverse?。
You guys tracking with me?。
Trucks go beep, beep, beep when you shift into reverse?。
Okay, this car, that orange one,。
when you shift it into reverse,。
it goes, attention, please, this car is backing up,。
real loud, it's got this like megaphone in the back.。
I'm not kidding, you shift it in reverse,。
and it goes, attention, please, this car is backing up.。
And so we were gonna be in the parade,。
but then it was raining and it's convertible,。
and so I didn't know if we were going to,。
and so then we showed up late for the parade,。
and we're the very last car in the parade,。
and the parade ends at a party in my daughter's school.。
And so we pull up to her school,。
and there's this parking for parade vehicles only,。
the street's blocked off,。
and so everybody's gathered in the parking lot,。
hundreds of people, and there's this soldier talking。
and saying some great things,。
and then he begins to pray.。
I don't know what happened.。
(congregation laughing)。
Huh?。
- He's thinking of it.。
- Okay, and so this soldier,。
he's talking, and everybody begins to pray,。
and I pull up, okay, and I'm shifting into park,。
and it's an old car, and he gets stuck in reverse.。
Everybody's got their heads bowed, hundreds of people,。
and he goes, "Attention, please!"。
And everybody turns around, and I'm like.。
(congregation laughing)。
Am I holding up Weston?。
(congregation laughing)。
And it's gross, man.。
It's gross because some of us live our lives like that.。
People are trying to focus on God.。
They wanna know God.。
Every person who's ever been created。
has something inside of them。
who wants to know their creator.。
Your strongest atheist friend has something in him。
that longs to be with Jesus and reconcile to God,。
and God has you there,。
and he wants to communicate that to them through you,。
and you show up on the scene, and you say,。
"Attention, please, look at me.。
"I'm fast, I dress well, I'm talented, I'm gifted.。
"I got a lot going for me.。
"Check me out.。
"I've been thinking about me all day, and you should too."。
And it's gross.。
It's just like the one who shows up to the wedding,。
who was invited to the wedding,。
but wants to be the center of the show.。
We become glory thieves.。
And so your life, it's God's wedding,。
and you're playing the supporting role,。
and I think literally the most foolish thing,。
and I weigh those words carefully.。
I know I said the most foolish thing。
beyond rejecting Jesus,。
which is really one in the same with what I'm about to say,。
is you believing that this life is about you.。
It's one of the most foolish things that you can do。
is to think that this life is all about you,。
'cause it's not.。
And that thought, when you feed it,。
it has really serious consequences.。
Really serious consequences.。
I was, I got to play, and this is such a weird thing to say,。
it's like this sermon's all about me,。
but I got to play in a movie once, okay?。
And I got to play this kind of supportive role,。
and that's not even true.。
I had this cameo, okay?。
I was on the screen for 15 seconds, okay?。
And I had two lines, and then I got to get in a fight。
with a guy much smaller than me who beat me.。
And so that was my role in this movie,。
and the movie was about, it was the story of Joseph.。
It was a modern-day telling of the story of Joseph,。
Seasons of Gray, maybe you've seen it.。
And so here's the deal.。
I'm on the screen 15 seconds, man,。
and maybe you've seen it, maybe you missed me, okay?。
But I'm in the movie, I promise.。
And so how crazy would it be if I walked away from that,。
and I went and told my family and my friends,。
"Hey, have you seen this movie?。
"It's all about me."。
No, it's about me, and I'm the main character.。
It's all about me.。
And because you know what?。
My family and friends and the ones who trust me,。
you know what, they'd believe me.。
They'd be like, "Man, that's awesome.。
"You got a movie all about you."。
But eventually, they're gonna see the movie,。
and they're gonna say, "You're stupid.。
(congregation laughing)。
"It wasn't about you.。
"I don't even think you were in it.。
(congregation laughing)。
"Oh, you were the prisoner, oh yeah, I did see, okay.。
"The tall, goofy guy, I did see you.。
"You were the 15 seconds, two lines, and you got whooped."。
Okay, it would be crazy.。
And likewise, if you live this life all about you,。
they're gonna find out.。
Every knee bows and every tongue confesses。
Jesus Christ is Lord.。
And you get to the end of this race,。
and you find out that the billions of people。
who went before you, it wasn't about them either except one.。
The one who died and came back to life.。
The one who was there at the beginning.。
The one who formed the world with his hands.。
The one who told the waters where to stop,。
mountains where to rise.。
The one who created the sky and the sun and the moon。
and the stars and the earth as we know it,。
and you and your mother's womb and every hair on your head,。
and marked out your boundaries and when。
and how you would live.。
It was made for him, and so he must become greater,。
and I must become less.。
And we, you and I, we must begin。
to take our thoughts captive.。
We must stop thinking about ourselves,。
because if you're thinking about yourself,。
you can't think about others.。
And there's some of you here, I wanna talk to the other。
half of the room, like some of you are like,。
no, I don't even want the spotlight.。
I don't ever want any attention.。
That's rooted in pride too, that's you thinking。
too much of you, because you're here to reflect。
the glory of God, and so how can you reflect。
the glory of God if you're constantly afraid of men。
and people and what they think of you?。
And you've been given a platform, you have to use it.。
And so I realize that there's this whole other half。
of you who might think, no, I'm humble,。
I never want the spotlight, that's not humility,。
it's rooted in pride as well.。
It's equally as gross.。
It's equally as gross.。
John, let's see what he does, verse 31.。
The one who comes from above is above all, it's Jesus.。
The one who is from the earth belongs to the earth。
and speaks as one from the earth,。
but the one who comes from heaven is above all,。
that's Jesus.。
He testifies to what he has seen and heard,。
but no one accepts his testimony.。
Whoever has accepted it has certified that God is truthful.。
For the one whom God has sent, that's Jesus,。
speaks the words of God.。
For God gives the Spirit without limit.。
The Father loves the Son and has placed everything。
in His hands, whoever believes in the Son。
has eternal life, but whoever rejects the Son。
will not see life, for God's wrath remains on them。
because they have not trusted in Christ。
and that God's wrath was satisfied on Jesus,。
that He got hell so that we don't have to.。
And so you were made, you were created,。
literally your heart beats in your chest,。
literally there is breath in your lungs。
so that you can point to Christ.。
That's why you're here, that is your purpose,。
that's why you are where you are,。
that's why you work where you work,。
that's why you know who you know.。
If you can run fast, that's why you can run fast.。
If you can think well, that's why you can think well.。
If you're smart, if you read, I don't care what you do,。
if you invent things, if you're pretty,。
you're pretty so that you can attract others。
not to yourself but through yourself to God.。
That is why you are here, you have to hear me。
because you're not gonna be around much longer.。
You're gonna die soon and the reason you have life。
is so that you can point others to Christ.。
And if you're not pointing others to Christ,。
you're distracting them from Christ.。
If you're saying look at me, look at me, look at me,。
they can't see Jesus.。
You've got to show them Jesus.。
This is, he's the king of this kingdom, King Jesus.。
You're a servant in the kingdom.。
He's the king, you're not the king.。
He's the king.。
And so you were made to point to Christ.。
One time I took Presley and Finley,。
this was before Weston was born,。
and we went to the greatest show on earth.。
Do you guys know what the greatest show on earth is?。
Church, that's right.。
No, not church, I'm just kidding.。
Barnum and Bailey Circus, that's right.。
Barnum and Bailey Circus.。
And so we get in the car and we go,。
man, I've been talking this up big.。
There's elephants there and tigers。
and this guy who can tame a tiger。
and they're gonna jump through hoops of fire.。
It's the girls.。
It is the greatest show on earth, okay?。
That's what you need to know.。
The greatest show on earth.。
And so we're on our way there。
to the American Airline Center。
and they set up this enormous sign.。
It was a pretty elaborate sign。
and it said the greatest show on earth this way.。
How crazy would it have been if we would have stopped?。
See, the girls saw that sign, they got really excited.。
But what if I would have said,。
hey, come on, let's go check it out.。
Let's get a closer look at the sign.。
Oh man, pull up a chair here.。
I'm gonna pull out some chairs.。
Y'all sit down, we're just gonna watch the sign.。
Look, it's the greatest show on earth.。
It says so itself.。
No, it says this way.。
It would be dumb to stop at the sign.。
But some of us, we wanna be such a great。
and elaborate and amazing sign that we're,。
no one sees our arrow.。
No one sees us pointing, no, it's him.。
No, the reason, the thing that you thought。
that was great in me, it's because of him.。
I'm trying to show you him.。
See, you are called a representative in the scripture.。
In Genesis, it calls you an image bearer.。
In 2 Corinthians 5 and Ephesians 6,。
it calls you an ambassador.。
Here's what an ambassador is.。
An ambassador is someone who represents their leader。
in a foreign land.。
This earth is your foreign land.。
You don't belong to it.。
But you're here as a representative of Jesus。
to point others to him.。
This is what John the Baptist is doing here。
in this last little section.。
The one who came from heaven is above everything else.。
And I'm not jealous of him.。
No, I want everyone to know him and see him.。
He's the greatest.。
The last thing I'd wanna do, guys,。
is distract anyone from him.。
And so some of us here, and this is the hard truth,。
is like some of us, we've wasted our life.。
We spent our life on us.。
And like no one's really gonna know Christ because of us.。
I know that's not very loving.。
But I think maybe it is,。
'cause it's the truth for some of us.。
And so we were made to show others Jesus.。
We were made to point to him,。
but we've just been so busy pointing at ourselves.。
And some of you have even experienced depression in this,。
and despair, because you're so focused on yourself。
that when things don't go your way,。
it's just like your whole world falls apart.。
Entitlement is the highest platform from which we fall.。
It is the highest platform from which we fall.。
And so I want you to know that when you live for you,。
you very literally become dysfunctional.。
I mean, you do.。
When you're so focused on you, you cannot function right.。
I've met with lots of people who were mentally ill,。
and I mean like diagnosed mentally ill,。
and very few, and I would say in the most extreme cases,。
almost every time, I can't even think。
of an exception right now, but I'm sure there is one,。
every time it's rooted in narcissism.。
It began with them thinking, much of them,。
and feeding that, and that growing to something。
that required medication, or at least someone told them so.。
When you get stuck on yourself,。
listen, we're the most narcissistic generation.。
We're also the most depressed generation,。
by far, ever to walk.。
You see how these things are connected?。
And so I don't know, man, I hate even saying this.。
I don't know if you guys know what happened this weekend,。
the Santa Barbara shooter, and I hate using him。
as an example, and prayed for his family earlier.。
We'll pray for him tonight.。
But this was just the last thing that he said in his video。
before he went on a killing spree.。
You girls have never been attracted to me.。
I don't know why you girls aren't attracted to me,。
but I will punish you all for it.。
It's an injustice, a crime, because I don't know。
what you don't see in me.。
I'm the perfect guy, and yet you throw yourselves。
at all these obnoxious men instead of me,。
the supreme gentlemen.。
They have all rejected me and looked down on me。
as an inferior man, if I have ever made。
a sexual advance toward them.。
While they throw themselves at these obnoxious brutes,。
I am in truth the superior one, the true alpha male,。
said the Santa Barbara shooter in his last video,。
and the reason I read that to you is,。
you know, they're coming out and they're saying。
he had so many selfies and he was so focused on himself,。
and he had made all these YouTube videos in his BMW,。
and he was trying to build a kingdom here for himself,。
and it had led to a place that was really, really bad.。
I mean, that's what the prince of this air does,。
is he just, he comes, he has one message to you.。
He says, hey, if you eat it, you can be like God.。
Hey, if you do that, you can be like God.。
Hey, guess what, I can make you like a God.。
And so some of you are trying to be gods。
in your little world, whether that's work。
or your neighborhood or whatever that is.。
Like, your biggest dream, your biggest fantasy。
is to be like a God.。
That's the lie of the enemy.。
And so every quarter-life crisis I've ever seen。
was rooted in self-idolatry.。
Likewise, every sin I've ever examined。
was rooted in self-worship.。
But others have to see you.。
They have to see you pass the cross.。
They have to know what it is that you live for。
and why you have life and what you're doing here.。
And so if you think that this is everything。
that's great in your life,。
there's actually something greater than you。
that should be on it, that people should see.。
Something that you should point to.。
Something that you should show the world.。
And so if you're putting things on。
to let others know who you are and who you worship,。
let it be Jesus.。
But the problem, guys, is some of us,。
we've lived for ourselves for so long,。
we have walked into a trap.。
We've continued to point to ourselves。
and continued to try to show the world ourselves。
that we've got to a place where we can't get out of。
and we're stuck.。
And we're so focused on us,。
we can't point to anything.。
We've been hugging ourselves so much。
that we've walked into a prison that we can't get out of.。
We can't show anyone else love like this.。
We're the biggest thing in our world。
and so how can we share our mind and wonder。
what God would have us do and who God would have us love。
when we're tied up like this?。
Guys, I know this sounds crazy,。
but I know this, guys, I know this sin so well,。
I know this struggle so well.。
This was it for me, I know you guys have heard me。
talk about pornography a lot and lost a lot.。
Man, I just was a guy in my own prison。
the vast majority of my life.。
In high school, I desperately wanted to be the athlete。
and I just wasn't.。
I wasn't, okay, I never,。
I couldn't put the ball through the hoop, man,。
I couldn't throw a spiral.。
I can't, truth be told.。
And I would get in the car and I would just wonder。
what everyone would think of me.。
And I would go to bed and at night I would wonder。
what they would think of me and when relationships would end。
I would literally wanna jump off a building。
because they had become idols to me.。
And I would give myself to women。
and then I wouldn't know how to live without them.。
And then later that narcissism turned into abusing them。
through relationships, not physically but verbally。
and just being manipulative.。
And I realized I was in a prison.。
I was my favorite thing in the whole world.。
And I remember hearing the gospel message。
that I can't even save myself,。
there's nothing that I can do to get to God,。
that I have to trust in Christ.。
And I asked him, I knew I was sick, man,。
I knew I was sick, I knew there was something wrong with me.。
And I said, God, you gotta help me.。
You gotta set me free from this.。
And I began to take my thoughts captive。
and the first thing I did, and it's what I want you to do,。
is I just started wondering, I just started auditing。
how much I think about me.。
Like in the car, whenever I would think about me,。
I would begin, I just would like,。
man, what am I doing right now?。
And I would try to stop and I would try to deflect。
those thoughts to God and I would say this prayer,。
God, you become greater, make me less.。
Help me transition my thoughts, God.。
Help me to think about something else.。
The next thing I did is I began to realize。
that God did give me some gifts.。
And I realized that those gifts weren't for me,。
so I started to audit those gifts.。
God, what are the gifts that you entrusted to me。
and only me and how can I use them for your glory?。
How can I use those gifts to point to you?。
God, make me a sign.。
Make me a road sign, firmly planted on Christ。
so that I would point to him.。
Would you leverage the gifts and the talents。
and the resources and the people that I influence。
and would you help me point them to you?。
And I realized this, and this is huge.。
Galatians 1:10 says, am I now trying to win。
the approval of God or of men or am I trying to please men?。
For if I'm trying to please men,。
I would not be a bondservant of Christ.。
If I'm gonna be a slave to something,。
I wanna be a slave to Jesus.。
And so I realized this one really key truth。
I wanna hit you with, that God's in charge。
of what others think of you.。
God is in charge of what others think of you.。
God can give you favor with anyone。
or he can remove it with anyone.。
And so I just said, God, you're in charge。
of what they think of me.。
If you see it fit, I pray I'd have favor with them.。
And if not, I understand, help me to trust you in that.。
If they don't like me, help me to trust you.。
But it doesn't go away, I mean, right?。
I'll be done and somebody might come up here。
and be tempted to say, man, JP, that was awesome.。
And there are nights I leave this place。
and I get in my truck and I'm driving home。
and I'm like, yes, I'm awesome.。
And it's sick.。
Because I gotta say, God, you're awesome.。
God, you're awesome.。
I pray that they would see you past me.。
And so in summary, do you believe you have nothing。
that you haven't been given?。
How have you been stealing God's glory?。
And how will you leave here。
and use your life to point to him?。
I don't know if you guys know where the word narcissist。
or narcissism comes from, but the Greek God,。
the Greeks were brilliant.。
Think of whatever you want about them,。
but they were some brilliant people。
and their stories have real life lessons.。
And so Narcissus was a God who was really gifted.。
He was a great hunter, he was a great athlete.。
And a nymph fell in love with him.。
I know that's weird, but she did.。
And he didn't reciprocate those feelings。
and so she casted a spell on him。
so that whenever he would look at his reflection,。
he fell in love with it.。
And so he actually had the first selfie.。
He looked in the water and saw a picture of himself。
and fell in love with it.。
And so whenever he would reach out to hug himself,。
the image would disappear in the water.。
And so he died of starvation in love with himself.。
He died of depression in love with himself。
because he couldn't actually reach himself.。
He couldn't actually reciprocate that love.。
And so I wanna come back here and show you what it is.。
I know I ripped this thing,。
so it's evidently for a smaller crazy person.。
(congregation laughing)。
But as we come back here, our life,。
the picture that everything displays,。
that the world sees, should be us pointing to this。
and saying, "Hey, do you see this?"。
Like you've got to see this, you've got to know this one.。
And for some of us, it's like we become so big in our lives.。
We become so big that we block the cross,。
that no one can see Jesus past us.。
And we, if we were really honest,。
we don't even want them to.。
We just want them to see us.。
And John the Baptist's message is perfect.。
He says, "Hey, I want you to turn。
"from you living your life for you.。
"I want you to realize that God saved you。
"through Jesus Christ, that all your sins went on Him.。
"All your sins went on this thing.。
"Your narcissism, it went on this thing.。
"It was nailed to it."。
And that Jesus goes in the grave,。
and He came out without them.。
And so may you spend the rest of your days,。
as you repent, as you turn from your sins。
and turn to Christ, would you spend the rest of your days。
worshiping Him, being made new,。
that you no longer live the life you live。
in the flesh, you no longer live,。
but now you live by the Spirit of Christ who lives in you,。
and you walk in Him.。
You depend fully on Him with everything you can.。
You become a sign pointing to this guy.。
Let me pray that we would.。
Father, we love you.。
Help us to live for you.。
God, help us to know everything that you've done。
in and for us through Jesus.。
Pray that we would become less,。
and that you would become more,。
that we would decrease, and that you would increase.。
That we would not run up and plead for attention,。
but we would deflect attention.。
As the moon reflects the light of the sun, God,。
that we would reflect glory to you, God.。
Thank you for all that you have done,。
just even to have us here, that we could worship you。
and sing love songs to you, Lord.。
I pray that you would stir our hearts for you now, God.。
Help us to love you more than us.。
Father, forgive us where we failed in that.。
We love you, King Jesus.。
It's in Christ's name, amen.。
Amen.。
Man, I know, like I was single here, you know that.。
I mean, if we've been hanging out long together,。
you know that.。
I was a single dude in Dallas.。
It's got like this crazy message.。
The gospel's different in Dallas.。
Like the good news in Dallas is like, man,。
you can be a king.。
You can be the rich, young ruler.。
You can have lots of stuff and keep it forever.。
Man, that's such a lie.。
You can have lots of stuff and keep it。
for a tiny little while.。
Or you can take everything that you have。
and you can store up these treasures in heaven。
where you get to be with God and enjoy them forever。
and just sit up there with him and watch the replay.。
Say, man, did you see that?。
Watch that.。
Not because you're trying to earn something from God,。
but because you've been given everything in him.。
There's a God.。
I'm certain of it.。
I've given my life to that truth.。
He's the Christian God.。
I'm positive.。
I've researched it.。
Jesus is real.。
He really lived and he really died.。
And he really came back from the grave.。
It says over 500 people saw him.。
And the reason he did it is because we're sinners.。
We can't even save ourselves.。
Hear me clearly.。
A life lived for you is a life wasted.。
A life lived for you is a life wasted.。
And it will cause something much worse。
than a quarter life crisis.。
It will cause an eternal life crisis.。
I pray that you would know the one。
who came so that you might have life。
and have it to the full.。
If we can talk to you about him, we'd love to.。
There'll be an entire team of folks up here。
ready to have a conversation with you.。
I hope you guys, as you leave,。
that you would leave with a heart to change Dallas。
and to grab the attention of Dallas and turn it to Jesus.。
Go in peace to love and serve the Lord.。
(silence)。
(silence)。
(silence)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
