[MUSIC PLAYING]。
How we doing, Porch?。
All right, we've got some friends in the room,。
friends in partner.。
All right, let's do it.。
What's up, Porch?。
How we doing tonight?。
How we doing, Porch?。
Hey, hey, Porch, how we doing tonight?。
Tuesday night, these are the days.。
[MUSIC STOPS]。
[CHEERING]。
How we doing, Porch?。
[CHEERING]。
I wanted to talk about if I could go back 20 years, what。
I would tell myself.。
And my assistant knew that I was going。
to speak about that tonight.。
And she started pulling pictures from old porches.。
And she was like, I think I know what。
you need to tell yourself if you could go back 20 years.。
You should deal with what you were wearing.。
And so she sent this.。
This is just a few little slideshows.。
She said, are you going to a track meet?。
Or like, what are you doing?。
She said, did your grandmother make that shirt?。
Like, sew something on there?。
The deep V's a little deep.。
It's a little deep.。
All right, let's hold it on this one.。
Because this is honestly the one I took the most shade for.。
When I wore that one Tuesday.。
And then I get here today.。
And I kind of feel-- like, they give me this shirt.。
You know?。
Kylan's like, hey, here's a gift for you.。
You know?。
And I'm like, oh, it's got stars on it.。
It's got stars on the back.。
I feel like it's a commemorative shirt to that moment.。
You know, 20 years ago.。
So yeah, I'm grateful to be back.。
I love you guys.。
They asked me beforehand, what's it like coming back?。
And I say, man, better in every way.。
Better in every way.。
There is a fresh-- the Spirit of God。
has been moving through young adults for a long time now.。
There's a fresh work of the Spirit.。
And I don't mind acknowledging it, because it is what it is.。
The Spirit of God does what he wants to do,。
when he wants to do, where he wants to do,。
how he wants to do, to whom he wants to do it through,。
when he wants to do it.。
And so what does it say about you。
that you would get to live in this time and space。
where we're seeing this some kind of awakening。
and outpouring, a fresh work of the Spirit,。
a revival, dare I say?。
And it is an honor, an honor to be with you.。
The reality is 20 years ago, I was still at AT&T.。
20 years ago, I was everything wrong with Dallas in a person.。
20 years ago, we lived in the penthouse of loft 588。
there at State Thomas near uptown.。
I drove an obnoxious Jaguar and a different watch。
for every day of the week and put on a suit every day.。
I wanted to be a millionaire before I was 30.。
And I had a brand new relationship with Jesus。
that was only a few years old.。
And I was recovering from an addiction to pornography。
that absolutely owned my life.。
I was trying to figure out how to pursue a woman。
in the right way, and I had no idea。
that in the next 365 days。
that I would be a part of this thing.。
No idea.。
I just read in Genesis 18, it says,。
"For what is too wonderful for the Lord?"。
For what is too wonderful for the Lord。
that you don't know what He's going to do?。
And this is what's so great about being 20-something。
or 30-something is like you don't know。
what God is going to do before the sun sets,。
how He's going to surprise you.。
For what is too wonderful for the Lord?。
And so if I could go back and speak to myself 20 years ago,。
I was 25, I would say,。
"Hey, I don't want you to be marked by what you're wearing.。
"I don't want you to be marked by who your friends are.。
"I don't want you to be marked by bottle service。
"or VIP membership on the weekend.。
"I don't want you to be marked by these particular clubs。
"or these particular bars。
"or cheering for these particular teams.。
"There's five things that I want you to be marked by."。
And so we're going to dive into the Scripture.。
If you want to turn with me, 1 Timothy chapter 4,。
that is where we are going to be.。
And I know it feels like your whole life is ahead of you,。
but what's crazy is my daughter now comes to the porch.。
Like, I just, like, the 20 years have gone by so fast,。
and everybody told me,。
but I am here before you tonight telling you。
the next 20 years are going to go by so fast,。
and right now you are training。
for the moment you're going to walk in 20 years from now.。
So train well, my friend.。
So train well, my friend.。
I would, if I could talk to myself 20 years ago,。
I would address my speech, my conduct, my faith,。
who and how I love, and my purity.。
And that follows the outline that Paul says to Timothy。
here in a letter.。
I can remember my first porch, the first porch I ever attended,。
someone said, "Hey, who wrote 1 Timothy?"。
And I looked at him and I go, "Timothy, duh."。
Like, it's his name there.。
And that just shows you, like, how, I mean,。
if you don't know, it was Paul.。
But just how green I was, where I was at in my faith.。
I mean, I just didn't know,。
and I didn't know what God was going to do。
for what is too wonderful for the Lord.。
Verse 12.。
"Don't let anyone look down on you because you are young."。
You hear that, man.。
You hear, you're like, man, yeah.。
Say that to your supervisor.。
Don't, no, uh-uh.。
You know, to your parents.。
No, no, no, no, no.。
"Don't let anyone look down on you because you are young."。
But he says how, "But set an example for believers,。
"for the church, you are the example."。
Hey, what's a Christ follower looks like?。
That's what a Christ follower looks like.。
What's a Christ, that's what a Christ follower looks like.。
"Set an example for believers in speech,。
"in conduct, in love, in faith,。
"and in purity."。
This is what the apostle Paul writes to Timothy。
when he's a young adult in that context,。
a young adult, a porchy, if you will.。
And he says, "Remember."。
He says, "Remember, until I come,。
"devote yourselves to the public reading of Scripture。
"or preaching or teaching."。
And he says, "Do not neglect your gift."。
And so, if I could go back to myself at the year,。
at the age of 25, 20 years ago,。
I would say I want you to be marked by positive speech,。
number one, positive speech.。
I'm gonna give you five things.。
And you think positive speech,。
like that's really where we're starting?。
Well, it's where Paul started to Timothy.。
And I don't think you understand what a big deal this is.。
'Cause I get, you know, Friday Q and A,。
I get asked all, "What's cussing a sin?"。
You know, "What isn't it just words and syllables and sounds?"。
And, "Well, you know, this wasn't even a word then,。
"so how is it a, you know, and what do I do with the gossip?"。
Every week, "What do I do with the gossip?"。
And, "Hey, somebody told me a lie."。
I don't think you understand.。
When God created things, he spoke it into existence, okay?。
And then he created mankind in his image.。
So, he gave us power with our words.。
In James, it says, "With your words."。
Listen, 'cause it's true, it's factual.。
You bless and you curse with your words.。
Everything you say,。
angels are celebrating or demons are celebrating.。
Who's celebrating?。
With your words, right?。
James says, James chapter three says,。
that your tongue is like the rudder of a ship.。
It takes you places.。
It's like the bridle of a horse.。
It steers and directs your entire life.。
So, your future is being determined。
by the words that you speak right now.。
Proverbs says, "The tongue has the power of life and death."。
Ephesians four, chapter 29, chapter four, verse 29 says,。
"Let no unwholesome talk come out of your mouth,。
"but only what is helpful for building others up。
"so that it may benefit those who listen."。
Let no unwholesome, hey, hey, hey.。
Don't waste your words.。
Why not cuss?。
There's not enough time.。
What's the most powerful thing you can do with your words?。
I'll wait.。
What's the most powerful thing you can do with your words?。
Say it loud.。
Real loud.。
It's a story about a man who died.。
For you, he was born 2,026 years ago in a town Bethlehem.。
You wouldn't know it except he was born there.。
It's tiny.。
He lived in Nazareth as a carpenter.。
You would have never heard of Nazareth。
except he lived there as a carpenter.。
There's a city beside Nazareth much bigger than Nazareth.。
You've never heard of it 'cause Jesus didn't live there.。
2,026 years ago, he reached that time,。
and every atheist you know acknowledges him。
by the date on their test or their checks or their iPhone.。
The most polarizing character in the history of history,。
and he says what he wants from you,。
if you have a relationship with him,。
is to tell others about him.。
Don't waste your words.。
Don't waste your words.。
In the power of the tongue is life and death.。
You can bring people into eternal life with a conversation.。
Whoa.。
I was walking in to the porch one time.。
I was walking from, you know, the building over there,。
the offices.。
I was coming over here, and everybody was, like, getting here.。
I was running late, you know, printing something,。
printing my outline, and I'm walking, and this guy,。
this guy's, like, walking at me real fast.。
And I'm like, "What's up, my man?"。
And he says, "Get the F away from me."。
Whoa.。
Okay.。
I said, "Hey, man, you okay?"。
He said, "Shut the F up."。
Walks by me.。
I said, "Where you going, bro?"。
He said, "I'm going to the hospital."。
I said, "Not that way, you aren't."。
He said, "What?"。
I said, "That's not the hospital."。
He says, "Well, where is the hospital?"。
I had about 15 minutes before the shame started.。
I'm like, "Hey, get my car.。
Get my car."。
I run him to Medical City, okay?。
I take him to the ER.。
And then I come back, hurry back, preach a sermon.。
Next day, go to Medical City.。
I said, "Hey, I dropped this guy off, is he here?"。
They take me up to his room.。
I said, "What was going on?"。
His appendix had ruptured.。
I said, "Oh, his appendix has ruptured and poison was flooding his body."。
I said, "That's interesting because poison was coming out of his mouth."。
What was on the outside was revealing what was on the inside.。
Now, this isn't a profound truth from JP.。
This is Matthew 12, verse 34.。
"For out of the mouth the heart speaks."。
If you want to know if he's marriage material, she's marriage material,。
like you want to know what's in their heart, look at their words.。
Their words are going to tell you the condition of their heart.。
If they gossip, okay, gossip ruins people's character.。
Not the person you're gossiping about, your character.。
Because you're determining your life.。
You talk about people, you're an agent of Satan.。
Demons rejoice.。
Don't waste your words.。
If I could talk to myself 20 years ago,。
I would say be a person marked by obedient conduct.。
That's what Paul says to Timothy, speech, conduct.。
Obedient conduct.。
Doesn't that just sound offensive?。
Obedient conduct.。
Before Christ, I just wanted to be free.。
Free to go where I wanted to go and do what I wanted to do.。
In full transparency, a lot of times that meant free from integrity.。
Like one of the most faithless things you can ever do in your life is this.。
See who's looking.。
Because in that moment, you doubt God's looking.。
One of the most satanic things we can do is go and erase history.。
It's like, oh, man, how do I cover up these things?。
And I would say, no, how do you run quickly to the light?。
Man, I'm speaking from experience.。
If you're like, he's reading my mail.。
I'm like, no, I'm reading my mail.。
I remember times I've done that.。
And then I'm like, I've got to bring this into the light.。
I've got to tell somebody because like David says, my bones are rotting from the inside.。
I don't want to live in darkness.。
And so what does it look like to be marked by obedient conduct?。
Every moment is training for a future moment.。
We say that every week on a podcast.。
Every moment is training for a future moment.。
Like you are becoming what you're doing right now.。
And I spend so much time with young adults and it's like everyone wants to know God's will.。
Like what is his will for my life?。
Who should I marry?。
Where should I live?。
What should I do?。
Anybody?。
Raise your hand.。
You want to know God's will?。
You leave here with knowing God's will.。
Anybody want to know God's will?。
Okay, yeah.。
Like I'm in on that.。
I want to know God's will.。
He's given us 66 books of his will.。
And sometimes I think we're like, but we want to know your mysterious will.。
And he's like, no.。
Because you don't listen to my revealed will.。
You know, like why is God going to reveal to us his mysterious will if we've forsaken his revealed will?。
Like if we've just done what we've wanted to do, you know.。
I stumbled into this place.。
I was at a club 22 years ago and someone invited me to church and I sat in the back row hungover.。
Smelled like smoke from the night before.。
And the pastor, this watermark, told a story about a horse that just wanted to be free.。
And I thought, man, I want to be free.。
And he talked about this big stallion just kind of on the mountaintops, you know, just wanted to be free.。
I was like, man, I want to be free.。
And it's freedom.。
It had to hunt for food and hunt for water and find shelter from the elements.。
And there was all these local, like, villagers trying to capture this horse.。
I was like, no, you can't tame the stallion.。
And he said there was a drought in the land and the horse got weak.。
And, you know, a cowboy was successfully able to capture this horse, get a rope around its neck, take it home, put it in a pen.。
And I'm like, no, no.。
But he said, as the story goes, he loved him, cared for him, provided for him, eventually broke him, was able to ride him, would lead him to food and lead him to water.。
And there was this line, he says, it wasn't until he was fully submissive to his master that he truly experienced freedom for the first time.。
And I mean, the Holy Spirit went.。
And I just thought if there's a God.。
Then why am I going to try to do this my way?。
My way doesn't work.。
You know, it's like I can have money and sex and parties and all and be miserable and lonely.。
And like empty on the inside.。
And I've done the weekends in Vegas, man, like I've gone hard after life.。
I was really amazing at being a pagan.。
But when I came into relationship with Jesus, like I found his word to be true that he came to give us life so that we might have it abundantly.。
And I've been experiencing the abundant life ever since.。
And it's been amazing to watch young adults do that, like live in that through surrendering in obedient conduct.。
If I could go back 20 years and talk to myself, I would say I want you to be a person marked by right affections.。
Number three, right affections.。
This is talking about love.。
Loving the right things.。
You have to teach your heart how and who to love.。
Don't follow your heart.。
Inform your heart.。
You have to tell it.。
You have to teach it.。
Instruct it.。
Who and how to love.。
And here's the reality.。
Most of us have no idea how to love.。
Biblical love is all about sacrifice.。
It's like putting someone else's desires before yourself.。
The way that we date, we train for divorce because we jump in a relationship until it no longer makes us happy.。
And then we jump out of that relationship.。
And that's why you're seeing some of the highest divorce rates in the history of history.。
Some of the lowest marriage rates.。
People are getting married less.。
They're getting married -- their marriages aren't lasting.。
And it's like, what's wrong?。
What's happening?。
What are we doing wrong while we're dating wrong?。
We don't know how to love.。
My daughters, Monica and I have two daughters.。
And when they were little, like four and six years old, they loved cats.。
Like loved kittens.。
And we never had a cat.。
But my mom, you know, we'd go see my parents.。
My mom had a bunch of cats.。
I mean, like cats everywhere, man.。
She's like the crazy cat lady.。
But, you know, she's not.。
She's amazing.。
She's my mom.。
Stop that.。
And what would happen is, like, we would pull -- like my daughters, they didn't -- like they loved cats.。
They loved cats.。
Like they would get them and be like, look, daddy, they like doing flips, you know.。
Look, they land on their feet.。
They love it.。
I can drop them from a tree.。
They land on their feet.。
Look, dad, their fur comes out.。
They don't mind, you know.。
And they're like -- they loved cats.。
Look, I love it so much, I'm squeezing it.。
And I'm like, it's not breathing.。
They loved cats.。
And so we would get to my mom's house.。
And the cats knew our car.。
And we would pull up and they would just go whoosh.。
They would go live at the neighbor's house.。
They would not show back up until our car left.。
Because my daughters loved cats.。
Because they had no idea how to love cats.。
And that's us as 26-year-olds in relationships.。
Like we never learned how.。
Because who taught you how to love?。
Hollywood.。
The movies.。
The shows.。
Can I tell you something, Hollywood has the highest divorce rate of anywhere on earth.。
And they get to be the university that you attend of, hey, teach me how to love, instruct me.。
It's like where did you go to learn how to love?。
Love Island.。
Oh, cool, man.。
That's amazing.。
That's -- yeah, amazing.。
That's going to really work out well for you.。
You've got to unlearn what you learned.。
You want to learn how to love, look at how Jesus loved the church and gave his life for her.。
It says husbands, love your wife even as your own body.。
For no one hates his body which is to anticipate her needs and to meet them.。
Putting all your desires aside.。
I'm just telling you, man.。
Reals, man, they're a terrible teacher.。
Terrible teacher, man.。
I would avoid them at all costs.。
Like if you're questioning me right now, right, I know how to love.。
Like if you don't want to date the godliest person you know, why not?。
You're like, well, because I'm not attracted to them.。
You're not attracted to godliness?。
Why is godliness not attractive to you?。
That's a you problem.。
You've got to ask the lord, lord, would you change my heart in this?。
Help me be attracted to godliness.。
You've got to inform your heart.。
Tell it who and how to love.。
If I could go back and talk to myself 20 years ago, I would say be a person marked by courageous faith.。
Courageous faith, man.。
Jesus is coming back.。
He's coming back soon, man.。
Okay.。
And you're like, man, how can you say that?。
Well, he said it.。
Jesus actually said it.。
Kingdom of heaven is before you.。
So I don't know if it's in your lifetime.。
I think it is.。
But, you know, I'm not -- I may be wrong.。
Who knows?。
You know, I'm not betting the farm on that.。
I'm just going to live like it is.。
You know?。
And so you just got to think, like, what if Jesus was coming back in a year?。
What would I do?。
Like I was trying to figure out if I should take a speaking opportunity because it was a little controversial.。
And they were like, just come and share the gospel.。
And I was like, man, I'm going to get canceled.。
But my friend goes -- like I've been canceled, so it's fine.。
But my friend was like, hey, would you do it if you knew Jesus was coming back in 365 days?。
I was like, without a doubt.。
I was like, well, then I got to do it, right?。
Like live your life like he's coming back this year.。
Like that's the courageous faith.。
And I'm just telling you, your behavior is always going to follow your belief.。
And so if you're like, man, I believe prayer works, but you look back on the past 12 hours and you haven't prayed, I'm like, no, you don't think prayer works.。
Like stop playing games.。
You're like, I believe that scripture is my authority, my conscience, and my God.。
Like that all scripture is God-breathed and useful for teaching, rebuking, correcting, and training in righteousness.。
But you look back on the past 12 hours, you haven't spent time, and I'm like, no, you don't.。
No, you don't.。
You're like, I believe that he did not give me a spirit that submitted to me, one of power, love, and self-discipline.。
I believe that I can -- you know, that there's people all around me who are going to hell, but you're not sharing the gospel with them.。
I say, no, you don't.。
Your behavior is always going to follow your belief.。
And Satan's a liar, and he feeds on fear.。
And I'm telling you, you don't have to be afraid.。
Like greater is he who is in you than he who is in the world.。
I'm tired of us being afraid.。
You don't have to be afraid.。
You can share the gospel with -- you know who?。
You know who you can share the gospel with?。
Everyone.。
Everyone you see.。
You should be like, hey, you know Jesus?。
No, I'm just like the crazy gospel guy.。
Like I just share with everybody.。
I share on the plane today, ladies, like, oh, that's personal.。
I'm like, I guess.。
I mean, I guess it's personal.。
Like I don't want to offend you, but I just know this guy who's been so good to me, and I don't want you to miss out on him.。
I just don't want you to miss out on him.。
You know?。
And so, man, I would tell myself 20 years ago, I would be like, you've got to live with courageous faith.。
James 2 says faith by itself, if not accompanied by action, is dead.。
I don't want a dead faith.。
I want a courageous faith.。
Every Tuesday, man, I had a front row seat.。
I sat right there with Shane sitting.。
And, man, I just saw young adults come in this place, like, I mean, it was crazy.。
Like they had jobs.。
Like they got off jobs.。
They finished with work, and they would just come in here.。
And they were like, they loved Dallas and the scene, you know, and it was like McKinney at the time and Uptown.。
And they just, like, loved that scene, and they were good at it.。
But they would come here, and they'd experience Jesus, and they would just trade it all in and be like, I'm going to go all in.。
Like there was this dude, Alex, and he got drunk and climbed a radio tower, and the news covered it.。
And he was, like, really successful.。
Like I'm talking, like, six figures, several times over, you know, had a great job.。
And he goes into work the next day, and they're like, you don't work here anymore.。
And he's like, why not?。
And he's like, well, we saw you yesterday on the news.。
And he comes into the porch, like, just hopeless.。
And he's like, I just lost my job.。
Like, I don't know what to do.。
I don't know where to turn.。
And, like, Jesus just got a hold of his life.。
And he went back, and he shared the gospel with that boss, and, like, they became a believer, and then their son, who was really struggling, became a believer.。
And then he became a porch leader.。
And there was this girl, Amy, and she was at this club on Knox Henderson.。
And she was there because she married young, and she got a divorce early in her 20s.。
And she had just recently had an abortion because after the divorce, she kind of, like, was wiling out and, you know, got pregnant, and then she had an abortion.。
And she was, like, sitting on that, like, hey, I can never tell anybody the decision.。
And she's at Knox Henderson just trying to, like, drink away her pain.。
And somebody was there.。
Like, I don't know what a porchie was doing there, but they were there.。
And they were, like, I guess just sharing.。
And they were like, hey, come to the porch on Tuesdays.。
And she's, like, the porch, like, oh, is it, like, oh, they have, like, drink specials on Tuesdays.。
And they're, like, kind of, like, coffee and stuff.。
But anyway, so she comes into this place thinking, like, oh, I'm going to a club or something.。
And the Holy Spirit got a hold of her heart, and she started, like, talking about her stuff.。
And, you know, growing, getting discipled, going through a Bible study.。
And she started talking about her abortion.。
And she was on Team Sidewalk, and she was praying with this girl.。
And she was, like, hey, will you pray for me?。
I've got an abortion scheduled for Friday.。
And Amy was, like, man, don't do that.。
And she's, like, well, why not?。
What do you know?。
She's, like, I've had one.。
And she goes, well, what else am I going to do?。
And she goes, I'll take your child.。
I'll raise him.。
And she adopted that baby boy.。
Yeah, it's crazy, man.。
It's crazy.。
And, you know, she met her husband here, and they just adopted their second child.。
And it's just amazing, man.。
I think of my boy Larry.。
Larry, you know, a friend of a friend connected us, and we meet, and he's, like, hey, so here's my question.。
He goes, I've got one question for you.。
And I was, like, what's up?。
If I start following Jesus, do I have to stop smoking weed?。
And I was, like, man, here's what I think.。
If you start following Jesus, the Holy Spirit is going to tell you where life is found.。
You're going to have a new heart.。
You're going to have a new appetite.。
And Larry, he threw the biggest parties in Dallas.。
Like, he would bring in the DJs from Vegas and New York.。
And he would bring them in to Dallas, and he would just rent out these warehouses, and he would throw these raves, they were called at the time.。
And so he would just throw these big parties.。
When he comes into this place, he experiences Jesus, and he's, like, man, I've never been higher than I am on the Holy Spirit.。
Like, this guy, you know, like, he's pretty amazing.。
And so he comes up, and, like, a year later, he's, like, what if we started throwing parties?。
I'm, like, Larry, we can't throw your parties.。
He's, like, no, no, no, what if we started throwing Jesus parties?。
And then he came on, and he started leading this team here.。
And so I'm just telling you, like, I've had a front row seat of people trading in their worldly success and desires and appetites for Jesus.。
And just saying, hey, I'm going all in with the courageous faith, if I could talk to myself 20 years ago, I would beg him.。
I would beg him to be marked by holy living.。
I have messed up my life so badly through my own sexual perversions and desires.。
Like, I used to call in sick to work to stay home and binge on porn all day.。
And then when that wasn't enough, you know, I'd go to the club, and I was only there for one reason, to find someone to go home with.。
And I thought it's, like, you know, this is a victimless, it's all fun.。
Like, I'm honest about it.。
I'm not hiding.。
Like, you know.。
And I didn't know the pain and the memories and the hurts that I was inviting into my own life.。
And so a loving God says, flee sexual immorality.。
Verse 6, flee sexual immorality.。
All other sins a person commits are outside the body, but whoever sins sexually sins against their own body.。
Do you not know that your body is God's house, is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you've received from God.。
You are not your own.。
You've been bought by a price.。
Therefore, honor God with your body.。
So when you're asking, is it sin?。
Ask, is it honoring to God?。
And it's that simple.。
Like, is it sin?。
Porn, is it honoring to God?。
Is it sin?。
Making out, is it honoring to God?。
Is it sin?。
Masturbation?。
Can you do it as an act of worship?。
You're worshiping someone.。
You're worshiping someone.。
And I'm not here to shame you.。
I've got scars, man.。
I'm leading out.。
I'm telling you my life.。
Here's what I know.。
And this is what you have to know.。
Jesus' grace is enough for you.。
They gave me a microphone.。
You know what I'm saying?。
They let me talk on stages about God's word.。
I'm like Paul, I'm like chief of sinners, man.。
I've done it all.。
But the reason I can be honest with you is because freedom is possible.。
I never thought freedom would be possible.。
I never thought that I would experience freedom.。
I was so defeated.。
And I can remember the moment driving down 635 not looking up at a billboard。
of a woman wearing a bikini because, you know what?。
I was like, I don't want anything to compromise my relationship with Jesus right now.。
And I passed that billboard, and I thought, I'm going to be okay.。
But you've got to remove access.。
I can remember telling a guy that.。
I was like, you've got to remove access.。
He was like, well, what do I do?。
I was like, we've got covenant eyes.。
He goes, that doesn't work.。
And I said, put something on your phone.。
He's like, I can't.。
I said, well, get rid of your phone.。
And he goes, well, I just use my laptop.。
I said, well, get rid of your laptop.。
He goes, well, I need it for work.。
I said, well, then you should quit your job.。
I mean, I woke up the next day to the most meanest email.。
He was like, how dare you call yourself a pastor?。
Your words are irresponsible.。
You just told someone to quit their job.。
Like, what are you thinking?。
I'm like, well, listen, Jesus said gouge out your eye.。
I was being easy on you, you know.。
He's like, cut off your hand.。
But he sent me this email.。
And I read it.。
And I was just like, man, I'm praying for you.。
And my words were offensive.。
You know, I'm happy to talk about it.。
And I was trying to be helpful, you know.。
And about two months later, my phone rings at my desk.。
This is when we had desk phones.。
And I'm like, hello.。
And I just hear, you were right.。
And I was like, what was I right about?。
I mean, I probably was right.。
But what was I right about, you know?。
He goes, I need you to quit my job.。
I need to do whatever it takes.。
I can't stop.。
I'm just saying, hey, remove access.。
Okay.。
Remove access.。
If you've done something in the past week, like delete numbers, get new phones, block numbers.。
You know, remove access.。
Cool?。
I don't want you just to avoid sexual immorality.。
I want you to be holy because he is holy.。
That's what 1 Peter says.。
Be holy because I am holy.。
Sometimes I think we stay on defense.。
And I'm like, no, I'm trying to call you on offense.。
You know, it's not like, oh, why don't I have sex before our marriage?。
Because there's not time.。
Because people are going to hell around you.。
Like use all the time that you would use to have sex and use it to share the gospel.。
Go on mission trips.。
Do something.。
Like who has time to look at porn?。
You know, people are going to hell.。
Like let's do work.。
Let's be holy because he is holy.。
Like go on offense.。
Like the defense, defense, defense.。
No, offense, offense, offense.。
Like get after it.。
And this is the gospel.。
I don't want to end without you knowing.。
All of your sins went on Jesus.。
And he paid for them.。
The only thing you can do in hell, listen, the only thing you can do in hell is pay for your sins forever.。
That's the only agenda item.。
So the only person who doesn't have to go to hell is a person whose sins have been paid for.。
Every sin will be paid for in hell or on the cross.。
God loved you so much, he said, I don't want you to have to pay for your sin.。
I'll pay for your sin if you'll just trust me.。
And so he defeated death.。
And you can know that you're going to be with him because of what he did for you on your behalf.。
Okay?。
Okay.。
So in summary, if I was going to go back and talk to myself 20 years ago, I would say be marked by positive speech.。
The tongue has the power of life and death.。
I would say be marked by obedient conduct.。
Because you are what you do.。
So do what makes you love God more.。
I would say be marked by right affections.。
Train your heart who and how to love.。
I would say be marked by courageous faith.。
We're running out of time.。
God is real.。
It's all true.。
Live like it's all true.。
I would say be marked by holy living.。
Not just defense.。
Offense.。
And you can remember that because tonight we're celebrating 20 years of the porch.。
And so the porch.。
There you go.。
It's not a magic trick.。
I mean you guys are like -- it's not like I pulled a rabbit out of a hat or something.。
It's just some letters, you know.。
Before I did a wedding, before I ever did a wedding, interestingly enough I did a funeral.。
And I was here as like a new pastor.。
And because I was the young adult guy, this guy died.。
This dad died.。
And they were like, hey, come.。
He has two 20-year-old sons.。
They're like 20 and 22.。
So come and talk to them because they're grieving.。
They just lost their father.。
I'm like, sure, man, I will.。
I'll go.。
And so I'm driving through Dallas.。
We get to like Highland Park.。
Man, who lives at Highland Park?。
These houses are amazing.。
And then you get to like these other houses that are like all you see is like the guardhouses, you know.。
Like estates kind of houses.。
And I'm like, oh, there's Cuban, Perot.。
I think Dirk Nowitzki lives there.。
I was like, where are we right now, man?。
And we get to this guardhouse with this gate.。
And it opens up.。
And we drive down this like cobblestone road.。
It's like we're in the Arboretum.。
I mean like beautiful like plants and stuff.。
Get to this house.。
I'm like, where?。
Like who?。
Like what did this guy do, man?。
Huge white pillars, multiple stories, big steps going up to the front door, giant mahogany door.。
I go inside.。
Like they let us in.。
They greet us, you know.。
Dudes have been crying, like eyes all bloodshot, you know, to 20-year-old, 22-year-old sons.。
Post-it notes all over the wall.。
Like I'm an art guy.。
And so I walk in and I'm like, man, I think that's a Rembrandt right there.。
But like not a Hobby Lobby Rembrandt.。
Like a real, like that is a Monet.。
Like I can't, like I'm in an art gallery right now.。
Like this is crazy.。
But post-it notes all over the place.。
Like yellow post-it notes.。
I'm like, that's weird.。
And we sit down with these sons.。
And I'm trying to like think through some stuff that, you know, what are we going to say in the funeral kind of thing, you know.。
And, you know, tell us about your dad.。
He's real stuffy, like real awkward because they're hurting.。
And the mood kind of lightens up a bit.。
And I'm getting comfortable asking them.。
Like, hey, what's -- their dad had cancer.。
And like he knew, like for 24 months he knew he was going to die.。
And so he -- they said he started taking his faith real serious.。
Like towards the end.。
And I said, what's up with the post-it notes?。
And he said, oh, man, he just wanted to be surrounded by the word of God.。
And so he'd read something in his Bible and he was just like write this down, write this down.。
And we'd write down a scripture.。
And he's like put it on the wall.。
I just want to be surrounded by the word of God.。
I was like, wow.。
Wow.。
What else?。
And they kind of looked at each other and like the mood is lightening up.。
And then they look back and they're like, oh, man, you couldn't get near this place without hearing the gospel.。
Like dad, like if somebody rang the doorbell, like bring them in, bring them in.。
And he was like in like a hospital bed in the back room, like on hospice, had like doctors and nurses there in his home.。
And he's like bring them in.。
And they were like every nurse, every doctor, every mailman, every lawn person.。
Like if he heard the lawnmower, he's like get them to stop, tell them to come in.。
I got to tell them about Jesus.。
And he would just share the gospel with them.。
Anybody that came on our property had to hear the gospel.。
I was like that's amazing.。
What else?。
And they're like, wow, dad, you know, dad, he had a lot of means.。
I was like, yes, he did.。
And they're like, but man, in his last days he just wanted to give it all away.。
And he would get so frustrated because there were like trusts and power of attorneys.。
And he's like, no, I just want to give it all away.。
Like let's give it to this ministry.。
Let's give it to this ministry.。
I just want to give it all away.。
And I was like, man, that's perspective.。
I said, what else?。
And they looked at each other.。
And they looked back at me.。
And they said, and this minister to me, he still ministers to me today.。
I mean, it was a gift from the Lord, this moment right here.。
They said, like right before he went home.。
Like right before his spirit left this earth.。
He just -- he sat up.。
And he looked straight at us.。
We were both standing at the feet of his bed.。
Like we were just sitting there.。
We just prayed.。
And he just sat up and he stared right at us.。
And he goes, don't wait.。
Don't wait like I did.。
And he laid down and breathed his last breath.。
And so I can't think of anything better to tell myself 20 years ago.。
Than don't wait.。
Don't wait like I did.。
Now is the time.。
Now is the time to repent for the futile words you have spoken.。
Any gossip.。
Any lies.。
Any cursing.。
It's a new day.。
New mercies tomorrow.。
Now is the time to repent for any actions that you have done that are not of Christ.。
You suppressed the spirit.。
You did what you wanted to do.。
Now is the time to repent for misplaced love.。
Misplaced affections.。
Loving the wrong way.。
Learning how and who.。
Ask God.。
He'll tell you.。
Now is the time to repent for saying you believe one thing but not.。
Maybe the godliest thing you will do tonight is to say, God, I don't believe in you.。
I'm realizing that.。
I haven't really believed in you.。
I've just been playing a game.。
But I want to start today believing in you.。
I understand that I am your child and I'm going to be with you forever because of what you did for me through Jesus.。
And now is the time to repent.。
For what you've looked at.。
What you've given yourself to.。
Any scoffing at the idea of purity.。
It's a new day.。
His mercies are new tomorrow.。
His grace is enough.。
Anybody here need to repent?。
I'm just curious.。
Anybody, man, I feel like I need to repent of something.。
And I love that courage, dude.。
That's amazing.。
Praise God for you.。
Okay.。
Let me pray.。
Father, we bring you, my friend, a friend said one time, it's like we bring nothing to God, you know.。
We bring our nothing.。
But honestly we bring you our sins.。
That's all we have to offer you is our sins.。
Here they are, our sins.。
So we bring you our sins.。
Do with them as you want.。
But you've already paid for them.。
So you tell us you're no longer counting our sins against us.。
That's good news.。
That's what the scripture says.。
That God is no longer counting your sins against you.。
Wow.。
So don't leave here with shame.。
Because he's no longer counting your sins against you.。
Romans 8, 1 says therefore there is now no condemnation for those of us who are in Christ.。
So there's no judgment on you.。
No punishment for you.。
It's a new day.。
Thank you for the cross.。
Thank you for the work your spirit is doing here.。
We love you, Lord, with all of our hearts.。
We love you with all of our hearts.。
Lord, help us to love you with all of our hearts.。
Stir in us affections for you, God.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
