- For freedom in the history of our nation.。
(upbeat music)。
- Dallas and Fort Worth, we're advancing the state of the art。
in every aspect.。
- Man, let's go.。
Well, hello friends in the room,。
friends in Fort Worth and in Houston。
and in El Paso and Tulsa and the Woodlands。
and Spring and all over tuning in with us tonight.。
We are gonna continue this series, New Year Revolution.。
And I'm gonna give us a little bit of story。
that'll tell us where we're going.。
Two Sundays ago was going to the bank,。
I need to make a deposit at the ATM.。
ATMs not only will give you money,。
they now give you a place where you can deposit your money.。
Had $300, needed to deposit,。
went up to the ATM driving through,。
begin to put the money inside of there.。
Thank you, Billy.。
(audience cheering)。
Oh man, stay hydrated, stay hydrated.。
So anyways, at the ATM, putting the dollar bills in there。
and making a deposit, just some cash。
that I acquired at our house。
and needed to put it in the bank.。
I'm depositing it, all of a sudden,。
the money inside of the bank begins to cause。
some sort of disturbance in the ATM。
and it begins to go error, error,。
blink, blink, blink, this noise comes on。
and it says malfunction and gives a phone number。
to call on the screen there.。
And I'm like, oh my gosh.。
And it begins spitting out the money。
and I'm trying to catch it so the wind doesn't get it.。
And I begin to take this stack of cash。
and I'm thinking, man, maybe it was like。
a crinkled dollar bill,。
what would have been the problem here?。
And I begin to count out 'cause I realized,。
I don't know if all of the money came back to me.。
So I begin counting out and the bank。
had not returned four $20 bills, $80,。
which when you're not rolling, you're like,。
hey, how's it, your boy, that's a lot of money.。
You don't need my money back.。
So I'm calling the people, I'm frustrated,。
I'm like, what just, ATM,。
this ATM that exists solely to give money to you。
or to give you a place to deposit money。
had turned into this little thief that had taken my money.。
This automated thief machine。
that Chase Bank is so excited about,。
yeah, it's gonna click in here in a second。
for a couple of you guys.。
(audience laughing)。
ATM.。
I'm sorry.。
Anyways, so I'm like, man, I can't believe。
this stoic take this thing that literally exists。
to give to me had taken from me.。
And the reason why I start there is because tonight。
we're talking about the subject of selfishness,。
of self-centered thinking, if you will,。
of entitlement or narcissism,。
of a very pervasive way of thinking for our generation。
and really just for the world around us。
of this idea of selfishness.。
And just like an ATM that I went to。
and I thought it would give to me。
or give me a place where I can deposit money,。
it would give, it took from me, selfishness,。
entitlement and thinking from an entitled perspective,。
self-centered thinking.。
It's something that often we shift into。
thinking it will give to us。
and the reality is it always takes from us.。
And tonight we're gonna learn specifically。
some of the ways that it does from that.。
I mean, you think about how much time you and I。
think about ourself on a daily basis.。
I mean, if you thought today, like,。
how much time did I spend thinking about me,。
my job, what I look like, what other people think about me,。
I mean, it's like, man, I don't know。
what else I thought about today.。
I mean, think about, let's just pause for a second.。
Think about, like, the last 10 minutes。
or the last, the 10 minutes before you got。
or the porch kicked off, from the time to the car。
to in here where you're like, oh, man,。
check the mirror before I leave the car, how do I look?。
Gotta look at this car that I'm walking past。
to see to make sure this hair's in the right place.。
Then I'm walking past the building。
with these enormous windows on the outside of it。
and these clearly provide a place。
where I can see my reflection in the glass.。
Then I come in here and I'm like, man,。
where am I going to sit?。
And then I wanna make sure that I do whatever I have to。
and I have to avoid to not talk to anyone。
before the song starts and then,。
hey, what do these people think of me?。
And I just left that conversation.。
I wonder what they thought when I said X.。
I wonder what that girl over there is thinking about me.。
She kinda gave me the smile.。
Like, the amount of time that you and I。
spend thinking about me, I mean, it's a little disturbing。
if you really stop and think about it.。
The amount of anxiety that we spend。
over just our insecurities and the way that we think about it。
and tonight, we're gonna explore what Jesus has to say。
about the topic of really selfishness or self-centeredness,。
self-focused and how it is costing you and it is killing you。
and it will kill your relationships.。
It will kill mine.。
It'll hurt your relationship with God.。
It'll hurt your ability or inhibit your ability。
to experience intimacy and relationships with other people。
and your purpose on this planet.。
So that's what's at stake.。
That's what we're gonna explore.。
What selfishness will take from you?。
What selfishness?。
We're gonna be in Matthew chapter 20.。
If you have a Bible, you can flip over。
to Matthew chapter 20.。
Matthew is the first book in the New Testament.。
It is a gospel, which just means it is an account。
of the life of Jesus.。
There's four of 'em.。
Matthew was a disciple of Jesus, spent time with Jesus.。
One of his close friends, he wrote an account。
on the life of Jesus.。
Here's everything that I observed.。
And Matthew chapter 20 takes us to inside of the story。
of the book of Matthew, Jesus' last week on the planet.。
He's about to go to the cross.。
He's about to head towards Jerusalem。
where he's gonna be crucified.。
And as he's going there, he begins to tell this parable.。
And then he has this interaction with his disciples。
right after it, and he gives us a real indication。
of how selfishness, how this me first mentality,。
what can I get, get, get, is robbing you。
and robbed his disciples from experiencing certain things.。
So that's where we're gonna camp out.。
We'll be in verse one.。
We're gonna go all the way through verse 28.。
So if you didn't have a quiet time today,。
you are about to have a quiet time.。
So we are gonna start in verse one,。
and I'll kick us right off as we look at this parable。
that Jesus launches into that'll give us our first point。
of the first thing that selfishness will rob us from.。
Here's what he says, verse one.。
Jesus speaking.。
For the kingdom of heaven is like a landowner。
who went out in early morning to hire workers。
for his vineyard.。
He agreed to pay them a denarius for the day,。
and he sent them to work in his vineyard.。
So Jesus, anytime he tells a parable,。
there's always someone who's God.。
There's always someone who's supposed to play。
like you or me.。
And in this parable, the landowner would represent God,。
and then these different workers would represent people.。
And the landowner went and he found some people,。
showed up at Home Depot, said, hey, I got a vineyard.。
I want you to come work.。
What are you doing today?。
I'll pay you a day's wages, which is what a denarius.。
So I'll pay you 100 bucks.。
Come work for me.。
Early in the morning, they head out there。
and they go to work.。
About nine in the morning, he went out。
and he saw others standing in the marketplace.。
So he goes back to Home Depot and he says, hey,。
and he told them, you also go work in my vineyard。
and I will pay you.。
He doesn't say what, he just says whatever is right.。
So they went.。
And he went out again at noon。
and about three in the afternoon,。
and he did the same thing.。
So he goes again, he goes back to Home Depot,。
gets some more guys, drops them off at the vineyard,。
goes back, gets more guys, drops them off at the vineyard.。
And about five in the afternoon, he still goes back。
and he gets another group.。
Five in the afternoon, there's one hour left in the workday.。
He went out and found still others standing around,。
said, why have you been standing here all day doing nothing。
because no one's hired us, he said, or they said,。
and he said to them, you also go work in my vineyard.。
When the evening came, the owner of the vineyard。
called them to him and called the foreman and said,。
pay them, beginning with the last ones who were hired,。
the ones hired at five, and going on to the first.。
The workers who were hired at five in the afternoon。
each received a denarius.。
So these guys are like, dude, jackpot,。
we gotta work for this guy every day,。
Home Depot, five p.m., be there.。
Because they just worked one hour。
and they got an entire day's wages.。
So everybody's lined up and Jesus says,。
he's given this parable and he gives us a principle。
inside of it that we'll get to in a second,。
but inside of the parable, the landowner says,。
hey, everybody go out, everyone work,。
if you started at nine a.m., if you started at three p.m.,。
if you started at five, I want you to all line up,。
I'm gonna pay the first or the last group to arrive first。
all the way down to the first.。
And so the people who just got a denarius,。
all of a sudden everyone else in line is going,。
oh my gosh, jackpot, we've been here since six a.m.,。
he gave the people here for one hour $100,。
he's gonna give us like $1,200, this is amazing,。
best landowner of all time, here's what happens.。
So when those who had hired first came,。
they expected to receive more,。
but each one of them also received a denarius.。
When they received it,。
they began to grumble against the landowner.。
Those who were hired last worked only one hour,。
and you have made them equal to us。
who have borne the burden of work and the heat of the day.。
So they look at the landowner。
and they begin to become discontent or angry,。
not that he wasn't fair, didn't keep up their end of the deal,。
he said, I'll pay you $100, I'll pay you one denarius.。
But over what he had given to others。
and what they thought he should have given to them.。
He continues, but he answered,。
the landowner responds and says,。
I'm not being unfair to you, friend.。
Didn't you agree to work for a denarius?。
Take your pay and go.。
I wanna give the one who was hired last。
the same as I gave you.。
Don't I have the right to do what I want with my money?。
Or are you envious, or your translation may have,。
is your eye evil?。
Because I'm generous.。
Are you angry at me?。
You're bitter towards the landowner。
and envious of others because of what I gave others.。
So the last will be first and the first will be last.。
Jesus, what are you saying in this?。
The parable, scholars have identified for long,。
has salvation implications, there's clear undertones。
with Jews and Gentiles and a bunch going on,。
but inside of it, there's also a principle for us。
that applies to the idea of selfishness.。
That applies to really our first point for tonight,。
which is selfishness will rob you of contentment.。
And inside of the story, what just happened?。
Was it really selfishness?。
No, it was comparison and envy,。
and I would've been upset too.。
They worked one hour, I worked 12.。
We got paid the same.。
That's frustrating.。
Anytime there's discontentment in your life and in my life,。
that is a result, think about it,。
not of what you have, but of what others have around you.。
That is the result of selfishness.。
It leads to comparison, leads to jealousy,。
but if you wanna know, hey man,。
do I have a problem with selfishness?。
If you look around at what others have。
makes you discontent, like, hey man,。
I wish I was married right now,。
and the fact that she just got engaged,。
it's like, of course, great.。
Always the bridesmaid, never the bride.。
If that's the response that you have,。
that is a result of selfishness.。
Selfishness will rob from you contentment.。
The first idea from the text, selfishness will rob you,。
it will rob me of contentment.。
That's what happens in the story,。
is they look around, they're the last group,。
and they would not have been frustrated。
had they not seen what the others had gotten paid.。
Anytime you and I look just like they looked at the landowner,。
look at God and grow frustrated towards him,。
or discontent because, man, he got a new Range Rover,。
and I don't even, I got a jalopy over here,。
I got nothing to get to work in.。
God, why are you blessing this person?。
It's a result of a self-seeking selfishness。
that will rob you and I of contentment.。
I mean, it's gross if you think about it.。
When other people succeed or other things go well,。
and you're like, oh, that's so great for you,。
man, I wish I was you, I'm so angry right now.。
This past week I had a breakfast with a friend of mine。
who we were getting breakfast, catching up on work stuff,。
and he works in the business world,。
and he said, man, I'm going to have this conversation.。
My dad is asking me to really take over。
or play a role in his company in hopes that, you know,。
eventually I'm gonna transition off into his company.。
And it's like a very, it was one of those like,。
dude, you are gonna be set for life, that is amazing.。
And I wish that I was just going, that's incredible.。
But in my heart of hearts, I was like,。
oh, man, I wish I was you.。
Is your dad, will he hire me?。
Is he looking to adopt?。
And it was just jealous.。
I mean, what is that?。
It's a selfishness, self-seeking, just disgusting thing。
that can pop up where you're like,。
man, I can't even be happy for you,。
really genuinely happy for you。
because of a selfishness that robs me of contentment.。
I have no reason to be jealous of him.。
I've got more than enough,。
but it's just the fact of knowing。
that that had just happened for him。
that it leads to a discontentment.。
I mean, you ever seen like someone,。
I mean, people's day gets ruined over the fact。
that they found out their roommate。
just got a raise or a promotion.。
People's day gets ruined over the fact that,。
oh my gosh, of course, he asked her out.。
I cannot believe this.。
I just need some time alone right now.。
Think about that.。
Like how dark and gross is that in all of us?。
And it's a selfishness that leads to a discontentment。
because selfishness will rob you and I of contentment.。
There is a solution that we're gonna get to at the end.。
But the first idea of what it will take from you。
anytime you and I allow ourselves to slip in there。
is contentment and an inability to celebrate。
others in our life,。
that we just like the first group don't truly trust。
that God will give his people whatever is right.。
I mean, this is also what appears whenever,。
I mean, we see this a lot of the ports。
where all of a sudden somebody would represent,。
if you will, the 9 a.m. group.。
It's like, look, I've been here at Watermark six years.。
I've been serving.。
I'm in a community group.。
I'm serving in 19 different places.。
I'm all in.。
I've been here.。
I've been faithful.。
I've been getting it done.。
And this girl showed up.。
She's been here like a week.。
And all of a sudden, she's getting married to Mr. Right.。
She's got everything going, everything.。
And she hadn't even proven herself.。
Like she just got safe,。
still smells like the world, just got here.。
And I'm--。
(congregation laughing)。
She's a 5 p.m. girl.。
I've been here since 9 freaking a.m.。
Ain't got nothing.。
I mean, that is a bitterness。
that's a result of selfishness.。
(laughing)。
I don't know what the world smells like, so.。
(congregation laughing)。
But it's a bitterness that comes from selfishness。
robbing you of contentment.。
Jesus continues and he says something else.。
And what happens next is almost comical,。
tragically comical.。
But where he goes next is so he just tells this story。
about like, man, how terrible it is.。
And so it's like me first, me first, me first,。
positioning himself and what about me, what about me?。
And he just tells this parable。
and he gives us that principle。
of just the grossness of that mentality.。
And then he goes into this really intimate moment。
with his 12 disciples.。
Stops the story and he goes。
and he's walking with his guys.。
And he goes in and he begins to tell them like,。
man, I'm about to go get killed.。
And what happens after that is two of his disciples。
in a way that is beyond my ability to understand,。
decide, man, this is the perfect moment。
to ask him for a favor right now.。
We're gonna get our mom involved.。
True story, mom involved.。
Here's what happens next.。
Now Jesus was going up to Jerusalem。
and on the way he took the 12 aside.。
So he grabs just the 12 of them and he said to them,。
we're now going up to Jerusalem。
and the son of man, that's Jesus,。
will be delivered over to the chief priests。
and the teachers of the law.。
They will condemn him to death。
and will hand him over to the Gentiles。
to be mocked, to be flogged or brutally whipped。
and to be crucified.。
Essentially killed through torture.。
And on the third day he will rise.。
So Jesus pulls, I mean, it's super intimate,。
like, hey, I'm about to go die.。
I'm about to be killed.。
This would be like someone pulling you in and saying,。
man, I have cancer。
and I only have a certain amount of time to live.。
That's what Jesus just said.。
I only have a certain few days.。
And here's where his disciples go next.。
Then the mother of Zebedee's sons,。
which is James and John, freaking mother of Zebedee,。
came to Jesus with her sons,。
kneeling down and asked a favor of him.。
What is it you want, he asked.。
She said, so the mother of James and John,。
for whatever reason, they're like, man,。
not sure what he's talking about, the whole dying thing,。
but this feels like a great time to pop the question.。
Mom, let's do this.。
And so they come, get before Jesus,。
just them and their mom, and he says,。
my mom has a request, you know,。
maybe she's elderly, you wanna give it to her?。
And it relates to us, so they're right before Jesus,。
and here's what they say.。
Grant that these two sons of mine may sit at your right。
and at your left hand in your kingdom.。
So Jesus just says, hey, I'm about to go be killed.。
This is like, hey, your best friend saying,。
I'm about to die, and they're worried about seats?。
They're worried about, hey, where,。
they're positioning themselves,。
hey, where am I gonna sit for all of eternity?。
I mean, this is like your best friend dying,。
and you being like, hey, I'm sorry about that shotgun,。
and that's what just happened.。
Or they're going, hey, can we sit here,。
and can we sit here?。
And Jesus responds, and he says,。
you don't know what you're asking.。
Jesus said to them, can you drink the cup。
that I'm going to drink, talking about his death?。
We can, they answered, so they're like,。
yeah, totally, love that idea.。
I can totally drink the cup.。
I have no idea what that means, but yes, we can do it.。
Just focused on themself.。
Jesus said to them, you will indeed drink the cup,。
talking about suffering and dying for him,。
but to sit at my right or left is not for me to grant.。
These places belong to those for whom。
it has been prepared by my Father.。
When the other 10 heard of these two boys。
taking this moment where Jesus says,。
man, I'm about to go die, and they're like,。
hey, yeah, that's great, sorry about that.。
Can we sit here and here?。
When the other 10 heard, they became indignant。
with these two brothers.。
Like, they don't come rushing to Jesus' aid and go,。
man, I cannot believe that you just said,。
just told us he was about to die, guys.。
You brought in your freaking mom, really?。
You think this is the best time?。
They're not angry at the brothers。
for being not compassionate towards Jesus.。
They're angry because they wanna sit in those seats.。
Because they too, like those, like James and John,。
had a selfishness that was taken from them.。
They couldn't even think about what Jesus was saying。
'cause they were consumed with themselves,。
with their own future, with what they would get.。
The second idea from this text that it gives us。
is just the selfishness will rob you and I of compassion.。
Like, in this side of the text,。
they're unable to be compassionate towards Jesus。
who just said, man, I'm about to go die,。
'cause all they can think about is like,。
yeah, that's pretty rough, but hey, quick question.。
Can I sit here and can we sit here?。
Just can we get your top positions?。
You can be on the middle throne,。
but how about we're kind of on each side of you?。
It'll be great.。
They're unable to be compassionate。
because of a selfishness that was robbing them。
of compassion.。
A second idea is that,。
that selfishness will rob you and I of compassion.。
I mean, it's not clear to, or it's not hard to see。
that in your life and my life,。
one of the key things that robs us of compassion。
is a self-focus.。
Like, I think it looks a lot different。
than these two guys standing before Jesus。
where you're like, man, that's so awkward.。
They're just socially unaware.。
Man, James and John, how could you do that?。
In our life, it manifests itself like this,。
a anxiety that makes us unable to care。
or be compassionate towards other people around。
'cause I'm so worried about what I'm going through。
and does God even know what I'm going through?。
Where's my job?。
Am I ever gonna get promoted here?。
Am I ever gonna get married?。
And when am I gonna get married?。
And my biological clock is ticking。
and I'm just so consumed with what other people。
are thinking about me and I wonder what they thought。
about me and what happened to my past relationship。
or is he, maybe he's not gonna,。
maybe we're not gonna get married.。
Anytime there's anxiety, it creeps in。
and leads to this focus on self where it's impossible。
when you're anxious to begin to take your eyes。
off of yourself and care for those around you.。
Or insecurity, think about how much insecurity。
has robbed our ability to be compassionate.。
You walk into a room and all you can think about。
is man, I don't, what are they thinking about me?。
Do they like me?。
Where should I sit?。
And you're unable to just look at other people around you,。
care for them, engage with them, see them as people。
who have stories, who have pains,。
who have things that they're walking through.。
I mean, just think about it in all of us, in me.。
Busyness, a focus on self.。
Some of the ways that selfishness manifests itself。
is just how busy we can be.。
Like hey, I don't have time right now.。
I'm kinda rushing to church。
and I gotta do this ministry stuff.。
I don't have time to stop and care for this person.。
That selfishness can rob you and I of being compassionate。
or the ability to be compassionate.。
I, man, I like, this one is so hard for me。
and so convicting to talk about, honestly,。
'cause this is a hard one for me.。
I can very easily be insensitive。
and those who know me well know that.。
I can be, I can frustrate teammates。
or people that I work with.。
I even asked our team today and I was like,。
hey, I'd love to know and I want the truth。
the ways that I have hurt you。
or the ways that I consistently,。
the parts of me that I just, I can hurt you.。
By the time they got done answering,。
I was like, I'd like a little less truth in this.。
(congregation laughing)。
And one of 'em, true story, one of 'em,。
I was like, I just wanna know,。
how does that manifest itself in me?。
How am I not compassionate or how am I not caring for you?。
And one, literally, she goes, oh, man, easy, got this.。
Ah, and I was like, (congregation laughing)。
maybe you take some time to think about it a little bit.。
And some of the ways that they said was,。
hey, you can be so distracted that you're not in the moment.。
You're like there, but you're not really,。
you can tell that your mind's somewhere else。
or you can cut people off and you don't listen fully。
to what they're trying to say。
'cause you think that they know。
or you think you know already what they're about to say.。
And I was like, man.。
Another one was, hey, sometimes,。
you can be distracted by your phone。
or by somebody emailing or somebody text messaging。
or something else going on.。
Another one said, you can just be insensitive。
to people with the words that you say.。
I can have a really strong first step。
in things that I don't, I'm just wired。
to where I have a strong first step。
and I don't always believe in it.。
I'm like, dude, we should get rid of these screens,。
get everything off the stage.。
And then in an hour, I'm like,。
ah, I don't even know if that's a good idea.。
But I can, in doing so, really wound people。
who put a lot of work into whatever。
my strong first step can attack.。
And it's just an insensitivity, not compassionate.。
And I, you may be like me, I need,。
this is an area where I go, thank God,。
I need you to just, I need you to take ground in my heart。
because I don't wanna be robbed。
of being able to be compassionate towards people.。
And I am, I'm insensitive and I hate it.。
We talk on our team a lot about,。
hey, the type of person that you wanna be here。
is not a James and John.。
You don't wanna be a, hey, here I am, look at me person.。
You wanna be a, man, there you are type of person.。
Like, if we divided everyone in the room,。
we said, man, there's two types of people in the world.。
There's the here I am, look at me, come on, check it out,。
holler at your girl, holler at your guy, here I am.。
This has got it going on.。
That type of person that's fighting for the spotlight,。
fighting for the attention.。
And then there's a, man, there you are person.。
Gosh, look at him, they're, oh, they're amazing.。
My whole day's made right now.。
And how we don't wanna be a here you are,。
the Bible and scripture unleashes,。
or says Christians are this type of there you are person。
unleashed into the world.。
And even that, man, is convicting as we just discussed.。
'Cause I, in neutral, I am not a there you are person.。
I'm a here I am person.。
And I hate it.。
There's people on our staff,。
there's a guy named John Elmore who's like,。
dude, he's like the best there you are person in the world.。
If you know him, you know that.。
If you don't, I can like, I can imitate him.。
He's like, oh my gosh, you're here.。
Oh, my day's made, look at it, he's here again.。
Look, he put on a shirt, this is amazing.。
He's incredible, he shaved today.。
Ah, you did it.。
And I'm like, man, that's awesome.。
Although I'm easy on the other end, I'm like,。
I am here, look at me.。
Yes, I put on a shirt, this is great.。
I'm like, gosh.。
Man, John, I wanna be more like you.。
I wanna be more like, man, there you are.。
My God is a God who's like, man, there you are.。
And even in telling that to John,。
if you tell John, man, I wanna be more like you, John,。
he'd be like, you wanna be more like Jesus.。
We all need to be.。
But a question for you is, man, are you a there you are。
or here I am person?。
And what ways do you need to surrender that?。
Like me, God, just take ground in more of our hearts.。
Jesus continues and he gives us the last thing。
that really selfishness will rob us of。
as he finishes up responding to these brothers.。
So he called all the disciples together,。
seeing their selfishness and seeing the way。
that they saw the world or sought to seek personal gain.。
He calls all of them together and he says,。
man, you're thinking wrong.。
He said, you know that the rulers of the Gentiles。
lord it over them.。
Like the rulers of this world, he essentially says,。
you know how the way that the world thinks?。
Where if you're in leadership or if you have power,。
whatever you can do to get me, me, me, me, me, you do it.。
They exercise authority over them.。
That's not how you're gonna think, not so with you.。
Instead, whoever wants to be great,。
and he introduces maybe the most revolutionary idea。
about greatness in history in the next sentence.。
That whoever wants to be great must be your servant.。
Whoever wants to be first must be your slave.。
Just as the son of man did not come to be served,。
that's Jesus, God in a bod shows up and he says,。
I'm not here to be served, but to serve。
and to lay down his life, to give it as a ransom for many.。
Jesus says, man, you guys,。
you think just like the world thinks.。
Like me first, me, me, me.。
How can I get first in line?。
What do they think about me?。
And he says, man, among my followers,。
it's not to be that way.。
You're not to be someone who seeks。
to get in the front of the line,。
you seek to serve those around you just like the savior。
that you worship and that you follow is.。
The third idea that really selfishness will rob you。
and I of is true greatness.。
The third thing that he says, man,。
if you wanna be robbed from selfishness,。
it will inhibit you to experiencing true greatness.。
You will never experience it.。
If you allow the greatness of the world to be your standard,。
or if you don't kill the selfishness inside of you,。
if you don't learn to be a servant of all,。
that selfishness will rob you and I of true greatness.。
But he says, my followers are to be revolutionary,。
unordinary in a world where selfishness is ordinary.。
They are to unleash extraordinary selflessness。
and serve the world around them just like God did。
when he showed up on the planet.。
Just like Jesus did when he showed up,。
not going in and saying, man,。
do these people know how important I am?。
I'm freaking God, I created this place.。
But he said, I came here to serve, to care.。
And so it will be for my followers that they show up。
and the mentality that they have is not to be served,。
but in every situation to serve.。
And he redefines even what greatness is,。
which is so relevant and so hard for me to believe.。
Where he says, look, you guys think that greatness。
is whenever you have the job title,。
whenever you have the future marriage,。
if you're a super mom, if you're a super model,。
if you are a celebrity someday, if you're an athlete,。
a professional sports athlete,。
if you drive a certain car, you finally bought the house,。
you look a certain way, you have certain number of abs。
that can show through, whatever that is。
that you think greatness is, he says, you're off.。
If you want to be great,。
if you wanna wake up tomorrow morning,。
and man, this is like so huge for all of us。
to know and to believe.。
If you wanna be great tomorrow, you wake up and you serve.。
You seek to serve Jesus by serving others.。
I mean, here's what I know.。
I'm not the smartest cat in the book.。
I'm not the most talented, not the wealthiest,。
don't have the most resources, don't have the most gifts,。
but here's what I know.。
I can wake up tomorrow and I can be truly great。
because it doesn't involve any of those things.。
It involves being a servant in the name of Christ.。
And you can wake up, regardless of your story,。
regardless of where you are,。
regardless of where you work or don't work,。
regardless of the classes that you're in or not in。
or the major you didn't get into,。
you can wake up and you can experience,。
Jesus would say, true greatness.。
But it won't come from you serving yourself.。
You'll never get there.。
Crazy thing is like, I think we look,。
even the people who finally arrive in Standard of the World。
of like, man, that's so great up there,。
a celebrity or whatever.。
They always look back and they say, man, this thing is empty.。
There's no life here.。
This is not what greatness is.。
And down here, you're like, oh, dude,。
I can't really believe that.。
If I was there, it would be, I mean,。
the most recent example or most relevant example。
probably comes from Tom Brady, who,。
you guys watch the Super Bowl?。
Everybody see this?。
Dude, crazy, Brady, gosh, man, retire already, buddy.。
You're over the hill.。
And Tom was, I mean, unbelievable comeback.。
If you didn't watch it, man, you gotta get a TV or something。
but inside of the game, he did what no person。
has ever done in NFL history.。
First quarterback with five Super Bowl rings.。
They're calling him the GOAT, the greatest of all time.。
They're saying, or he set records in terms of,。
hey, it's never been that big of a deficit。
that someone's come back for.。
I mean, just unbelievable.。
And you would think that him and even just like his story,。
his life, that he would be someone。
that looks around at the world and says,。
man, yeah, this is pretty, this is where life is.。
I mean, he's married to Gisele,。
who's not just like, not just any model.。
She's like the supermodel of supermodels,。
Victoria's Secret model.。
He's got the life that you would think,。
hey, $60 million.。
It's like, dude, if anybody would say,。
man, this is what greatness is, it would be you.。
And yet, in interviews that you read that he's done,。
he would say the very opposite.。
Man, this is not where life is.。
There's something else out there.。
In fact, 60 Minutes did an interview with him not long ago。
where he said this inside of the interview,。
and I just thought I'd read it.。
Why do I have three, Tom Brady speaking,。
he's been interviewed.。
Why do I have three Super Bowl rings,。
or you could insert five now,。
and still think there's something greater out there for me?。
I mean, a lot of people would say, hey, man, this is it.。
I reached my goal, my dream, my life.。
But me, I think, God, there's gotta be。
more than this out there.。
I mean, this can't be all that it's cracked up to be.。
It's got everything that everyone wants,。
and I'm still not satisfied.。
It's not that great.。
And the reporter asked him, what's the answer?。
I wish I knew, Tom says.。
I wish I knew what the answer is.。
But Tom will eventually find out,。
if he doesn't find out on this side of eternity。
is the answer to where greatness is found。
is always found in a person named Jesus.。
And if he ever experiences that greatness,。
if he ever experiences just that satisfaction,。
you can hear it in the aching of his words.。
You almost just wanna leap off the page and say,。
Tom, it's Jesus!。
It's only in him that you're gonna find it.。
It's no Super Bowl rings, no amount of success,。
no marriage, no woman, no man。
that's ever gonna satisfy you.。
It's only in knowing and serving Jesus.。
And if you ever experience that, Tom,。
or insert your name, it'll be found in knowing Jesus。
and serving him.。
By serving the world around you,。
Jesus says you wanna be great.。
You wanna wake up tomorrow and experience greatness.。
Don't fall for the same selfish lie。
the world around you of looking out for me first,。
me first, but seek to serve, and you'll experience that.。
I think a message like this, it begs the question of,。
like, man, how do I do this?。
How do I just become less self-focused?。
Like, I don't wanna be this.。
I wanna be like, oh man, that's amazing.。
I wanna genuinely celebrate stuff。
that God's doing in your life.。
I wanna be compassionate.。
I wanna be experiencing true greatness.。
My knee jerk is I just wanna serve.。
Or just try harder.。
Just say, man, I'm not gonna do it anymore.。
I'm not gonna care about me.。
I'm gonna stop looking at me。
and look over there and care for people.。
It doesn't work.。
Scripture never teaches that.。
Scripture tells us that the way that you and I。
take our eyes off of ourself is by placing them on Jesus.。
We redirect our focus.。
We take the way that we'll experience freedom。
from all of just the wants and the desires and the self,。
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, and I'm so worried about me,。
me, me, the way that we stop looking at ourself。
is not by just trying harder, shutting our eyes,。
is by redirecting our eyes or redirecting our attention。
and placing it on Jesus.。
And the more that you and I look at Jesus,。
the more we begin to look like Jesus.。
Now stay with me 'cause you're like, man,。
it's so like, it's tweetable,。
but I don't know what that means.。
Stay with me.。
Because in Jesus, we find the answer。
to the thing that we really want.。
All these different like things,。
our heart's crying out for, I want this,。
I want this, I want this.。
It's in a moment where we turn our attention。
and day by day, turn our attention to him,。
we experience the thing we've always wanted,。
the thing we most deeply want, which is him.。
My son is 13 months old and I'm gonna land the plane here.。
We are about to land the plane.。
He is at the stage where he's like。
trying to figure out how to talk and he can't talk.。
And so when he wants things, he's also going through this,。
like, hey, I want everything.。
So he will just go, ma, ma, ma, ma, ma, ma,。
whatever the thing is, whether it's like,。
hey, that's a knife, you can't have that, buddy,。
you'll poke yourself.。
Or it's this plate or these keys or milk or whatever, ball.。
And so we'll just walk around and he's constantly going,。
I want, I want, I want.。
And there's one thing that we have that like。
is the only thing that whenever it's in front of his face,。
that's the only thing that he wants.。
He always wants it more than everything else there.。
It's this like stuffed animal doll that he sleeps with,。
they puppy, it's actually a dog toy, but he loves it.。
And so anytime he's like, oh, I want, I want,。
we'll like pull out puppy and he just grabs it。
and he holds on.。
It's the thing that no matter what he says I want,。
he always wants it more,。
whether or not he even realizes it until he sees it.。
This is the way that it is with Jesus in your life。
and in my life, whatever you think like, man,。
I just want that so bad, God, give it to me.。
At the end of the day, the thing that all of us。
want more than any of that, whether or not you realize it,。
it's him, it's Jesus.。
Like a child who in a moment says, look,。
whatever I was wanting, all of a sudden,。
when I see that stuffed animal, my attention is redirected.。
I want that more.。
In the same way, you and I,。
whatever that you find yourself going,。
I'm just can't get over this.。
I'm so worried about this.。
The more that you see, the more your attention,。
once it is placed on Jesus,。
you see the thing that you've always wanted more.。
You always will want more.。
The thing that whether or not you realize it,。
you want more than anything in this world, which is him.。
And the level to which you and I will experience that。
will be found in our turning attention on him.。
Now, how do you do that?。
Because you're like, man, that sounds so good,。
but how do I actually do that?。
That's why we do everything that we do here at Watermark.。
That's why we do community groups.。
That's why we do the ports.。
That's why the Shane sing the songs that they do。
is to get all of our attention.。
We're just gonna look at Jesus.。
We're gonna help one another, look at Jesus.。
I need to look at his character, at his love,。
at who he is revealed in God's word.。
I need to be reminded of what is true,。
what he says about me, what he did on the cross,。
how he changed the world,。
and on the calendar I dated today,。
it spoke of the time that he was on this planet.。
I need to look at him, and in doing so,。
I begin to experience freedom。
from all these things that I think that I want,。
and I begin to experience satisfaction。
by looking at the one that I've always wanted more,。
that we help one another.。
That involves looking at his word,。
knowing who he is, walking day by day in prayer,。
studying his word with other people in our life,。
walking with him, and you begin to see him.。
The scripture says you begin to be changed when you see him.。
If you've ever wondered how people have changed here,。
that's the answer.。
They begin to see Jesus, and the things of this world。
begin to grow dim in the light of his glory and grace,。
and they're changed.。
And if you experience that, you will be too.。
I'm afraid that would be the case.。
Father, we love you, we thank you。
that you are patient with us,。
that you, despite our selfish,。
my selfish, self-centered heart,。
full of entitlement and pride and envy,。
man, God, you are slow to anger,。
abounding in steadfast love.。
You are patient with us.。
Thank you that you came and you died in our place,。
that you're God, man, I don't even know。
how to say thank you for that,。
that you're God who didn't come to be served,。
but to serve, you gave your life for me,。
for my friends here.。
What kind of love is this?。
What kind of God are you?。
The one who is there.。
Father, would you allow us to see Jesus more in our lives?。
For anyone who doesn't know Jesus,。
would tonight be their night?。
They step into a relationship with a God。
who doesn't want something from them,。
but wants them to know what he did for them.。
Would that happen?。
Father, we worship you now in song, amen.。
