[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
Man, it's good to be with you guys.。
I was in the back in the green room,。
and Jason and Jackie and the band are piped in there,。
so I can only hear them.。
And it was interesting, because I came out this door right。
back here just a few minutes ago as we were singing that last。
song, "It's Who You Are."。
And all I could hear was you guys, and it was incredible.。
I wish you could have heard it.。
And just this tremendous choir made up。
of thousands of young adults praising the creator。
of the heavens and the earth.。
Man, I know life's crazy.。
And I'm so proud of you just for being here.。
I'm so proud of you for wanting to know God more.。
I know there's so many distractions in Dallas。
and Fort Worth and all over our cities.。
And just that you're here, I got here just a few moments ago。
and got the last spot.。
I waited in traffic, first of all, like many of you.。
And I was like, oh, no.。
This is not good.。
I didn't think about traffic.。
And then got the last spot in this parking lot over here.。
And it was just a humbling thing to walk in here。
and to watch a movement of God and to see a perspective。
that I don't have every week.。
And so thank you guys.。
I'm so proud of you for just the way that you give of yourself.。
And you're open to knowing God more.。
I'll start here with a question, where we're headed.。
Some are on the Mount in this series.。
What do people do when they see an explosion?。
I heard run, run.。
Yeah, like when you've seen this,。
you're probably like, well, I've never seen an explosion.。
It was that Kaboom Town thing.。
But no, whenever we see something blow up,。
or whenever you're watching a movie and they see something。
blow up, you kind of see everybody turns and runs.。
And then they're knocked over by the force.。
Or somebody yells, bomb.。
And everybody takes off.。
We see this.。
Any time there's an explosion, everybody。
runs away from that explosion.。
Which is why a year ago, a dear friend of mine, Cheryl Boyd,。
a dear partner in ministry, showed me this video。
that I found curious.。
And I actually showed it to you about a year ago.。
We're committed to teaching the topic。
that we're going to cover tonight at least every year.。
Because I think it's one of the single greatest。
needs in the room.。
And Jesus is covering it as he moves。
through the Sermon on the Mount.。
And so when people see an explosion,。
they run from that explosion.。
But when my friend showed me this video,。
I saw something curious.。
And I want you to watch this video.。
But I want you to pay close attention to the last thing。
the man says.。
When he comes back up and they're interviewing him,。
I want you to listen closely to what he says.。
Watch this.。
Take a look at this dramatic scene caught on video。
released surveillance tape.。
A driver pumping gas in Harrison, New York last week.。
And then this.。
Out of nowhere, a car flies in, crashing into the pump,。
and immediately starting a massive fire.。
The man at the pump, New York State Police Senior。
Investigator John Vesio, escaping the scene just。
in the nick of time.。
The impact was very sudden.。
It was very quick.。
Take a look again.。
Within two seconds, the car hits, the pump falls,。
and the fire erupts.。
I actually went to look up and see what was going on.。
And next thing I knew, the pump was coming down on top of me.。
Now watch as more drama unfolds.。
Vesio, who'd at first darted away,。
runs back after spotting the 70-year-old driver who'd。
crashed the car after suffering a diabetic shock。
and now could not move.。
He was not responsive.。
I found when I got to the car, he was pretty much helpless.。
Vesio struggles to get him out of the car,。
finally dragging him out by his shirt,。
only to return to the fiery scene。
to get a first aid kit from his car.。
And there wasn't a moment to spare.。
Take a look.。
Seconds later, a ball of fire consumes the car,。
both men miraculously out of the danger zone.。
I think John did a very heroic thing.。
I think he starts off as a civilian.。
He becomes a victim.。
And then his police training kicks in,。
and he actually saved somebody's life.。
He said he became a victim, and then his training kicked in.。
And one thing that it said that I disagree with。
is said both men miraculously free from the danger.。
It wasn't miraculously.。
It was due to one guy being trained in a situation。
to run toward an explosion and drag。
those who are going to be hurt by that explosion。
out of the situation.。
And so tonight, the topic that Jesus is going to cover。
is anger.。
And I'm equating anger with explosions。
because let me tell you something.。
Much of my life has been marked by this topic of anger。
in explosive ways.。
And I wasn't the solution to the explosions.。
I was the cause of these explosions.。
And this looked like friendships that went south.。
All of a sudden, my words would get out of control.。
I would escalate to an explosion,。
and those friendships would end.。
I mean, there are people that I no longer talk to。
because they won't talk to me because of the way。
that I treated them when I look backwards.。
I mean, people that I still to this day。
effort to reconcile with.。
True story.。
There are relationships, girls that I've。
dated that ended because of my terrible, terrible anger.。
OK?。
There were times I could think back in competitions。
or like playing basketball.。
And all of the sudden, blocking somebody out in the key。
turns to a fist fight.。
You're like, how did we get here?。
And it's because of this topic of anger.。
And I had no idea I wasn't trained in being the solution.。
Well, the other day, my wife and I, my wife Monica and I,。
went on a date.。
It was about three weeks ago.。
Had a sitter come, watched the kids, got in.。
Excited to go see a movie.。
We're in my truck.。
We're driving down Arapaho.。
And just going the speed limit, same lane.。
And this car turned left into a parking lot right in front。
of me.。
There's a car to my right, a car to my left.。
I have nowhere to go.。
I slam on the brakes and slowly hit them.。
We pull into the parking lot.。
I didn't anticipate being in a wreck that day.。
I'm just like, man, did this happen?。
Everything happens in slow motion.。
I don't know if you've been in a wreck,。
but your world's kind of spinning.。
You're like, what just happened?。
I get out of the car to talk to the young lady that。
was driving.。
She's on her phone.。
Of course she was.。
And she's erratic, honestly.。
She's going crazy.。
And she just is like, I can't believe, oh man,。
I can't believe this guy.。
He just came out of nowhere.。
I'm like, well, it wasn't really nowhere.。
It was kind of--。
came from Hillcrest, you know?。
And I was like, hey, could we talk?。
And she's like, she's looking straight at me.。
And I'm like this.。
And she's like, I can't believe this MF.。
He just came out of nowhere.。
I'm like, whoa, OK.。
And so I call 911.。
And they're like, does she have insurance?。
I'm like, excuse me, not trying to interrupt your phone call,。
but do you have insurance?。
She's like, this is my boyfriend's car.。
This is my boyfriend's car.。
Cool.。
Does your-- I go 911.。
It's like, it's her boyfriend's car.。
So the 911 person goes, does her boyfriend have insurance?。
Does your boyfriend have insurance?。
So we kind of together go through the glove box,。
find the insurance card, get that.。
I call from the situation.。
She's still on the phone.。
And so I call the insurance company right away.。
I'm sitting there.。
You know, both of our vehicles pretty badly damaged.。
And I'm on the phone with the insurance company.。
And I'm explaining to them what happened.。
And now about 25 minutes have gone by.。
And the boyfriend gets there.。
Now, if she was acting crazy, he was that times 10.。
And so I knew he was there because I kept hearing MF,。
if you will, very loud.。
He's walking around the car.。
And he's like, oh, this MF, you know, I can't believe-- oh,。
man.。
And he kind of buries his head in his hands.。
And he's shaking.。
And I'm on the phone with his insurance company.。
And so he comes up to the window.。
And he goes-- like, puts his hands over his mouth.。
And he goes, get the F out of the car.。
I'm like-- I was on the speaker, like, with his--。
it's like, did you hear that?。
I got to go.。
And so, like, here's the deal.。
For most of my life, this would have ended in one of two ways,。
right?。
Fight or flight.。
I would have said, man, I don't want to deal with that.。
Like, there's an explosion outside my car right now.。
I don't want to get burned, if you will.。
And so I'm going.。
Or somebody needs to teach this guy a lesson.。
And I think the Lord and sovereignty just elected me.。
And so it was one of those two things.。
And a lot of you, like, if you were sitting there,。
like, you got to think, what would you do?。
Because a lot of you would be like, man,。
I have no idea what to do.。
I don't know what I would do in that situation.。
Man, I just don't know what I would do.。
You know what the Bible tells us what to do in that situation?。
Took a deep breath, said a prayer, get out of the car,。
said, how you doing, bud?。
He continues with the explicatives.。
Tells me that I'm going to tell the officer that he。
was driving the vehicle.。
Said, I just can't do that, man.。
I said, in fact, before we move any further,。
I just need to tell you that your words hurt me.。
What you said in front of my wife a second ago,。
that wasn't cool.。
And I'd like to talk this out with you.。
And he kind of looked at me and kind of goes, I'm sorry.。
[LAUGHTER]。
And I said, hey, man, no problem.。
Let's work this out, you know?。
And then we did.。
And we proceeded to talk through the details.。
I kind of talked them off that cliff.。
I asked them both if they had a faith.。
I engaged them.。
I told them about a God that I believe in,。
that I can trust in.。
I told them they could trust in the same God if they knew him.。
They said that they did.。
I said, well, then, you know, what。
is the relationship with him if we can't trust him。
in situations like this?。
And we talked through the situation.。
But I tell you that because for most of my life,。
that would have turned out very poorly。
because I wasn't trained in how to handle conflict.。
But now, as I've understood the scriptures,。
it gives us some real practical advice。
in how to handle conflict.。
So tonight, we're talking about responding to anger.。
And you might think, well, I don't really get angry.。
I mean, that hadn't happened to me.。
I haven't been in a car wreck.。
And so I don't--。
tonight's going to be lost on me.。
I wish we were talking about something else.。
Well, let me just run through some scenarios in front of you。
just to make sure that's true.。
One is, I don't know if you've ever sat or called you。
need help with your cell phone.。
And you get the press one for this, press two for this.。
And I'm like, I just want to talk to somebody.。
And they're like, due to high call volumes right now,。
your call will be answered in the order that it was received,。
which is evidently number 6,792.。
And you sit there on hold for 42 minutes。
only to talk to someone who doesn't speak your language。
very well.。
And they are incompetent in the issue which you have.。
And they begin to troubleshoot with all the things。
you've already done.。
Yes, I've already turned it off and on.。
Yes, yes, I have.。
No, you want me to do it?。
OK, I've done that though, right?。
So I don't know if that makes you angry.。
Maybe not.。
And so I don't know if you've ever。
been at a stoplight that turns green.。
But because it takes you a total of five seconds。
to remove your hand-- your foot, rather-- from the brake。
to the gas, someone lays on the horn behind you.。
I don't know what is so offensive about a honk,。
but it is just offensive.。
I mean, it just infuriates me.。
Or-- this happened last week to me-- you get takeout,。
and you get home, and they forgot your burger.。
Just me, huh?。
What traffic, man.。
Like, do you ever do this?。
You just sit in parked on a freeway,。
and you're like, this is so simple, people.。
Like, if we just all drive 70 miles an hour.。
You know?。
Like, who is the person in the front。
that decided to park their car in the middle of the freeway?。
Like, why would we do that?。
And then you drive up, and it's an elderly person.。
You're just like, somebody should take your license away.。
You know?。
And I don't know what that is.。
But I don't know how Jesus would have handled that situation,。
but I'm confident, different than I do.。
Right?。
There's just something in me that wells up.。
And so we're moving through this series, right?。
And we're talking about the things。
that Jesus addressed in the most famous sermon of all time.。
And tonight, he's going to say some crazy things about anger.。
In fact, some of you are just even uncomfortable。
with the things I said.。
And so what if Jesus stood up here, and he said, hey,。
if you ever get angry, you're probably going to go to hell.。
What if I said that?。
What if I came out here, and I said, hey.。
Hey, guys, good to be here.。
Welcome to the porch.。
Hey, if you've ever been angry, you're probably going to hell.。
Like, wouldn't you all be like, man, this dude's lost his mind.。
He's crazy.。
Tonight, Jesus is going to say that.。
That's almost verbatim what he says.。
Now, there's an interpretive challenge there。
that we're going to have to explain, and bring to the light,。
and understand better.。
And so that's what's before us.。
But he talks that-- he says, hey, you getting angry really,。
really, really matters to God.。
And so in this series, Summer on the Mount, where Jesus covers--。
if you went home, and you read the Sermon on the Mount,。
it would take you about 15 minutes。
to read it, beginning to end.。
He covers law, missions, adultery, lust, love, hate,。
judgment, marriage, divorce, enemies, the poor, prayer,。
anxiety, materialism, heaven and hell, and much more in 15。
minutes.。
And so tonight, we're just going to take this topic of anger.。
Matthew 5, verse 21.。
We're going to look at a change in perspective, a part to own,。
and a path to pursue.。
Verse 21.。
"You've heard that it was said to the people long ago,。
you shall not murder.。
And anyone who murders will be subject to judgment.。
But I tell you that anyone who--" uh-oh.。
Because I'm like, man, I haven't murdered anybody, so I'm good.。
But then he goes, "I tell you, anyone。
who is angry with a brother or sister。
will be subject to judgment.。
Again, anyone who says to a brother or sister,。
'raka,'" which just means worthless,。
which is just using your words to make someone feel。
undervalued or hurt, "is answerable to the court.。
And anyone who says you fool will be。
in danger of the fire of hell."。
Did you hear that?。
Jesus Christ on the earth said, you call someone a fool,。
you're going to be in danger of hell.。
Now, how do we reconcile that with the gospel?。
I mean, those are Jesus's words.。
Jesus said that.。
What is he saying there?。
Jesus is talking about a response to anger.。
He's not just talking about you even acting out on it.。
He's talking about what your thoughts are,。
you feeling the emotion, you giving into the emotion,。
you turning that emotion into words.。
And so being a Christian means restraining our response。
to anger and yielding it to God's spirit.。
And I think that many of us, we see anger as an opportunity,。
or we see conflict as an opportunity to display our anger,。
when really it's a very, very different opportunity.。
It's an opportunity to display the one we worship.。
Conflict is an opportunity to bring our anger。
under the Spirit's control.。
And so my first point is a perspective to change.。
He says it's not just acting out of anger,。
it's entertaining the thought of anger.。
It's driving down the road and letting that kind of wheel。
continue to turn, you taking a shower,。
the person's not even there, but you're talking to 'em。
and you're ahead and you're getting all frustrated.。
These are the things that Jesus is talking about.。
And he compares it to murder, which seems to be crazy.。
Like if we didn't have these words, and I just got here。
and I said, hey, you getting angry at traffic。
is the same as you taking a nine millimeter。
and taking someone's life.。
Like you guys would be like, that's crazy,。
but that's what Jesus says.。
And in Leviticus 27, this is Levitical law, verse 17,。
he says anyone who takes the life of a human being。
is to be put to death.。
Jesus is saying that if you get angry, you deserve to die.。
How could he say that?。
Why is he saying that at this section in the sermon?。
Why would he put this in front of the Pharisees。
and the Sadducees and his disciples?。
It's like he's gonna lose all credibility right up top,。
and he's telling them that their heart is messed up.。
He's saying, hey, your heart is messed up.。
Even if no one sees it, God sees it.。
Like some of you, you're here and you're like,。
yeah, but I don't really get angry, right?。
Like let me just show you a picture。
of Angry Andrew and Suzy's Sunday school here.。
And so there's Angry Andrew, and you're like,。
yeah, of course, of course, you know, he's angry.。
Like he might fight in the UFC or something.。
Like he's, yeah, he's angry.。
You know, he may do something crazy.。
But look at her though.。
I mean, she's got it all together.。
She's carrying her Bible on her way to Sunday school.。
I mean, she loves Jesus, and her dad's a pastor,。
and everything is amazing in her world.。
But let me, but we can't see her thoughts.。
Like what if we could see her thoughts?。
Oh.。
Oh, and Jesus says, you're just as bad as he is.。
Jesus says, Suzy's Sunday school, you're the same.。
You see, none of you are off the hook.。
No one here is off the hook.。
You've all had those thoughts.。
You have all said you fool to someone,。
at least in your mind, to God's creation.。
And he says, you're susceptible to death, the death penalty.。
And so anger is an opportunity to respond in the flesh。
or to respond in the spirit, which is worship.。
See, some of the greatest opportunities。
for Christ followers, Christians, believers,。
to display their faith is situations of conflict.。
People tell me all the time, see, conflict。
is not a bad thing.。
That's the change in perspective。
that you have to have right now.。
Conflict is not bad.。
People tell me all the time, like,。
man, we have a great relationship.。
We don't fight, we don't have conflict.。
You don't have a relationship.。
That's not a real relationship.。
You're like, oh yeah, we have a great relationship.。
We've never even had an argument.。
I'm like, have y'all talked?。
You know, I mean, do you know each other?。
What does that mean, right?。
I mean, how can you have a relationship。
and not have conflict with someone?。
Because God made us, we are all now,。
as God put us here, and after the fall,。
because of our own choice, because of our own decisions,。
now we live in this broken world,。
and relationships are frankly marked by conflict.。
Healthy relationships are marked by conflict.。
Unresolved conflict marks the lives of unhealthy people.。
Let me say that again.。
Healthy relationships are marked by conflict,。
but unresolved conflict marks the lives of unhealthy people.。
Okay?。
Now, I'm not saying that you should stay。
in that relationship where you fight all the time.。
You probably should not,。
because the fact that you fight all the time。
might mean, in reality, that you haven't learned。
how to resolve conflict,。
but it is an opportunity to display your faith.。
Ephesians 4:3 says, "Make every effort,"。
your Bible might say, "Be diligent, work hard at,。
"keeping the unity of the Spirit。
"through the bond of peace."。
This is something that we work really, really hard at.。
Hard conversations are not fun,。
but they are not optional either.。
Let me say that again.。
Hard conversations are not fun,。
but they are not optional either.。
80% of what I do on staff at Watermark Community Church。
is resolve conflict.。
80%, you might be like, "Wow, that's really dysfunctional."。
80% of what I do is working through conflict,。
which means 100% of what I do is discipleship,。
because when we do this the right way,。
it displays who we worship,。
it displays who we belong to,。
it displays who we love,。
it displays who we're controlled by.。
And so when you feel angry, that is just a warning light.。
It's the way that you respond to that angry。
that shows who you're controlled by.。
The other day, we're driving through,。
driving in Monica's Suburban, my wife's Suburban,。
and the check engine light comes on,。
which is never fun, right, just 'cause I don't know.。
But when that light comes on, I have some options, right?。
I can ignore it.。
I can just be like, "Ah, you know,。
"it's probably a sensor or something,"。
and that doesn't go well.。
I can overreact to it.。
I can be like, "What, check engine light comes on?。
"Leave your car right here.。
"We're gonna go buy a new one.。
"Let's go, you know, we'll give this thing away,。
"piece of trash."。
No, right, right?。
I can overreact to it,。
or I can work really hard to find out what it is,。
which costs money and time,。
but it's the right thing to do.。
And so your anger is the same way.。
When you feel angry, you can ignore it.。
You can try to press it down, okay?。
You can overreact, you can explode,。
or you can put in the work。
to find out what's really going on.。
When someone feels anger towards you, right,。
you can overreact, you can ignore it,。
or you can put in the work,。
"Hey, we gotta talk.。
"Hey, come here, look at me.。
"We gotta talk.。
"Let's talk.。
"Now, I know you don't want to.。
"I know you're so mad at me,。
"but I really wanna understand why."。
And this is not natural to us.。
It is not natural to many of you in the room.。
That is the most scary thing that I could possibly say.。
You want me to talk to someone when I hate them?。
Yes.。
Yes, I do.。
I want you to look them in the eyes,。
and I want you to work really, really hard。
at resolving the conflict,。
because it displays the Spirit of God at work in your life.。
And so what does it look like to respond in the Spirit?。
Verse 23.。
Therefore, if you are offering your gift at the altar,。
and there, remember that your brother or sister。
has something against you,。
leave your gift there in front of the altar.。
First, go and be reconciled to them.。
Then, come and offer your gift.。
Did you hear what God just said to you?。
He says, "Don't come to me and seek forgiveness from me.。
"Don't bring a forgiveness offering to me。
"before you've sought forgiveness from them.。
"Don't come to me and worship me."。
He says, "I'm prioritizing.。
"I'm prioritizing horizontal relationships。
"over this vertical relationship.。
"And if you have broken horizontal relationships,。
"then you have a broken vertical relationship,。
"and you need to go and reconcile those."。
Do you know what this means?。
Like, you're here, and you're like,。
"Wow, Jason and Jackie Castro were singing."。
And God says, "Stop.。
"Stop worshiping me.。
"You need to go and be reconciled to that brother,。
"to that sister, to that mom, to that dad, to that roommate,。
"to that friend, to that boyfriend, girlfriend,。
"ex-boyfriend, ex-girlfriend, co-worker, boss.。
"Stop worshiping me, and go and be reconciled to them."。
This is serious.。
Like, Jesus is saying that some of you,。
frankly, need to leave.。
Like, pretend you're going to the bathroom or something,。
and go, and get on southwest.com and buy a plane ticket,。
or americanairlines.com, and you need to go home,。
and you need to sit in front of someone,。
and you need to make it right.。
That's what he's saying.。
He says, "Hey, you're carrying something。
"that I don't want you carrying.。
"I want you to go and make it right."。
And the second point this evening is a part to own.。
What is the part that you need to own?。
As simply as I can say it, yours.。
Own your part.。
You have a part in the conflict.。
If you are a part of the conflict,。
you have a part in the conflict.。
Let me say that again.。
If you are a part of the conflict,。
you have a part in the conflict.。
Now, be very, very, very careful,。
because anger does something weird to us.。
It makes us very blind.。
We cannot see our part in the conflict.。
Whenever we feel angry,。
we can only see their part in the conflict.。
This is why Jesus says, "Don't judge the speck in their eye。
"when you're walking around with a two-by-four。
"sticking out of yours," right?。
Because when you feel angry,。
you cannot see your part in the conflict.。
Now, I'm gonna tell you a story。
that really paints the picture of what I'm talking about.。
There was a young man who was marked.。
It was a friend of mine, pastored and shepherded,。
this young man, and his life was marked。
by anger and bitterness.。
And if any of you met him, you would know why,。
and you would get it, and you would, like,。
I understand it, and I don't even hold that against you.。
The reason his life was marked by anger and bitterness。
is because his father beat him nearly every day of his life.。
Okay, this is what it looked like.。
His dad would get drunk, and his dad would beat his mom.。
He would hide behind the stove,。
and one day, his dad found his hiding spot,。
which means he stopped beating mom and began to beat him.。
And that's what marked, that was his lot in life.。
As a four-year-old, as a five-year-old,。
as a six-year-old, as a seven-year-old,。
as a eight-year-old, on until he was an adult.。
Every week of his life, his father beat him.。
And so someone came into his life。
and began to share Jesus, and he said,。
"I get forgiveness, but there's no way。
"I can forgive that man."。
And as my friend was talking to him,。
my friend just said, "Well, do you have any part。
"in the conflict?"。
And he said, "What don't you understand?。
"My dad beat me nearly every day of my life."。
'Cause I get that.。
But as you look back, is there anything that you can own?。
Like if we're looking at 100% of the conflict,。
is there anything that you could own?。
And he said, "Yeah, I mean, of course I was disrespectful.。
"Of course I ran from him.。
"Of course I said terrible things.。
"I've hated him for over a decade."。
He said, "Well, do you think you could own that 2%?。
"Do you think you could own 100% of that 2%?"。
It sounds like your dad's at 98% fault,。
like this is all him.。
But you've got 2%.。
Do you think you could go to him。
and own 100% of your 2%?。
And the Spirit of God moved in that man's life,。
and he went to his father.。
He drove home.。
And this is father was poor in health.。
And he said, "Dad, I wanna ask your forgiveness。
"for the way that I've hated you.。
"I wanna ask your forgiveness。
"for the things I've said about you.。
"I wanna ask your forgiveness。
"for the ways that I was disrespectful to you."。
And he didn't even say,。
because what's the terrible things you did.。
He just said, "I wanna own 100% of my part."。
Which is only 2%.。
But 100% of my part.。
You know what the dad did?。
Broke down in tears, fell to his knees,。
and trusted Christ right there.。
And turned and asked his forgiveness to him.。
Didn't even know how,。
but just said he was sorry over and over and over。
and over and over and over.。
And that's what God is going for here.。
If you can own 100% of your 1%, your 0.5%,。
but if you are a part of the conflict,。
you have a part in the conflict.。
No one understand, no and understand your part。
in the conflict, right?。
Like who is it?。
Like we see the explosion, we see the heat,。
we see the fire and we wanna run.。
Who runs towards the fire?。
SWAT team, bomb squad, FBI.。
People who are trained to deal with it.。
When everyone else is running away,。
we are those crazy, crazy people that say,。
"No, we know the one true God, we're running in。
and we're gonna make this right.。
We're gonna disarm this situation.。
We've been trained to do so."。
And so understand if you're angry, right?。
Resist the urge to have the conversations in your head.。
Resist the urge to gossip and talk to other people.。
Don't assume you know why they did that。
or why they're doing what they did.。
You know when I saw that guy drive into that gas pump,。
I was like, "Man, this idiot drunk, right?。
He's drunk, that's why he did it."。
Like I just assumed I knew why he drove into that gas pump.。
No, no, no, he had a diabetic, he went into diabetic shock.。
It's a 70 year old man, right?。
Don't assume anything.。
You don't know what's going on in their lives.。
You don't know the road they walked.。
You don't know why they're angry.。
You don't have the full picture.。
Go and seek to understand.。
If you have something to own, the challenge is to find it.。
Not just to find it, but to find it quickly.。
Jesus speaks towards eagerness.。
Ephesians 4:26 says, "In your anger do not sin.。
Do not let the sun go down while you're still angry."。
Go eagerness.。
And I'm gonna give you some powerful words, you ready?。
Will you forgive me?。
Not I'm sorry, right?。
You could say, "Hey, I'm sorry."。
And they could say, "You are sorry, you're right.。
You're sorry.。
You're a sorry person, you're a sorry individual."。
You go and you say, "Will you forgive me?"。
These are the words Christ gave us.。
Will you forgive me?。
Not will you forgive me but.。
Not will you forgive me and.。
But will you forgive me for.。
Will you forgive me for what I've done.。
Not will you forgive me but you did a bunch of things.。
Not will you forgive me for the ways I let you hurt me.。
Don't be strategic.。
Will you forgive me for and own 100% of your 2%.。
What does this look like?。
You know, so I left that situation with my car。
and thought we had it resolved.。
I explained to the boyfriend,。
"Hey bro, my wife and I were driving down the road。
when your girlfriend turned in front of me。
like in oncoming traffic."。
I mean, this is, you know, he was like,。
"It doesn't really matter whose fault it is."。
I was like, "It kind of matters whose fault it is.。
It's called the deductible."。
And so I left thinking we had the understanding。
but then they filed a claim on my insurance.。
I was like, "Man, that's confusing."。
And then their insurance was very difficult to work with.。
And then I got in a rental truck,。
which I'm still in today, and they called and they said,。
"Hey, we just wanna let you know your rental expires.。
We feel like it's taking you too long to fix your truck."。
And I'm like, "You know I've been emailing you every day。
asking you this very question。
and you haven't responded to me."。
And I'm feeling all these things。
and I'm hating this woman, frankly,。
and I'm so frustrated and I'm on vacation, by the way.。
I'm on vacation with my family and I get this car,。
I'm out of town and they say,。
"Hey, you need to return your rental car today.。
It expires."。
And I'm just like, "What?"。
And I feel like just crazy.。
Praise God for my wife.。
She kind of talks me off this cliff.。
And so I call this woman, I'm like,。
"Sandra, will you forgive me?。
Will you forgive me for being impatient with you?。
Will you forgive me for repeatedly emailing you?"。
I'm sure that's frustrating.。
I'm sure you've got a lot of things going on.。
And, "Will you forgive me for?"。
And we were able to work it out.。
But sometimes you're not.。
Sometimes it does not go well, okay?。
You have to trust God.。
You do not judge obedience by the outcome.。
You judge obedience by obedience.。
Do not judge obedience by what happens or how it turns out。
or you don't look back and say,。
"Well, that turned out well.。
I must have done the right thing."。
Sometimes you do the right thing。
and it turns out really, really bad。
and God makes sense of it in heaven.。
But you be obedient.。
Let's go, verse 25.。
"Settle matters quickly with your adversary。
who is taking you to court.。
Do it while you are still on the way。
or your adversary may hand you over to the judge。
and the judge may hand you over to the officer。
and you may be thrown into prison.。
Truly I tell you, you will not get out。
until you have paid the last penny."。
Okay, this is weird to me.。
Like Jesus is saying these things.。
He's like, "Hey, here's the deal.。
You know, if you've been angry, it's like murder.。
Leave your gift at the altar.。
Run and be reconciled to your brother.。
And if you're angry, you might go to hell."。
And by the way, let me give you some legal advice.。
And I'm just like, "What?。
Like, what is he doing here?"。
He's like, "Yeah, and by the way,。
if you're ever on your way to court,。
you know, this is how you wanna handle that conversation."。
What is Jesus saying here?。
He's saying to resolve conflict is costly.。
To not resolve conflict is more costly.。
To resolve conflict is hard and difficult。
and you might get burned.。
But if you do not resolve the conflict,。
you will always get burned.。
And when we're on the way to court,。
what are we thinking about, right?。
We're thinking about winning.。
We're thinking about winning.。
He says, "I want you to stop thinking about winning.。
And I want you to start thinking about what you can do。
to resolve the conflict.。
How you can pursue peace in the conflict."。
Because here's the deal, and I want you to write this down,。
tweet it out, tell everyone.。
"The person who seeks to win in conflict always loses."。
The person who seeks to win in conflict always,。
always loses.。
That person never wins.。
They may get the upper hand,。
you may feel good for two seconds.。
But then you realize you lost a friend.。
Then you realize you ruined your witness.。
Then you realize you did not respond according to the spirit。
that you said that you have.。
And so I'm calling you to be the bigger person.。
Jesus is calling you to be the bigger person,。
to seek reconciliation and not to wait on them.。
Not to sit there and think,。
"Well, if they call me, then maybe I will."。
No, no, you call them.。
You show up on their doorstep, you knock.。
You say, "I'm here, I wanna make this right.。
"I wanna work this out."。
My third point and final point is a path to pursue.。
And here's the path worthy of pursuit.。
Okay, and what is that path?。
It's the path of peace.。
Pursue the path of peace.。
And some of you are like, "Well, wait a minute.。
"Should I do this in every situation,。
"every time I'm angry?。
"Should I go and sit down and have the conversation?"。
No.。
The scripture says, "Overlook a small offense."。
Okay, and so it's specifically Proverbs 19, verse 11.。
"A person's wisdom yields patience.。
"It is to one's glory to overlook a small offense。
"or to overlook an offense."。
And so let me ask you this.。
You say, "Well, how do I know。
"if I should overlook it or not?。
"How do I know if I should overlook it。
"or have the conversation?"。
It's simple, ready?。
If you can overlook it, you should.。
If you don't overlook it, you need to have the conversation.。
What does that mean?。
Make it more practical.。
If you're driving down the road。
and you're having angry conversations。
with them in your head, you have not overlooked it.。
You gotta have the conversation, okay?。
If you're sitting there and you continue to think about it,。
you haven't overlooked it.。
If you don't think about it anymore, you've overlooked it。
and you won't have to worry.。
The overlooking part kinda happens naturally.。
But if you haven't overlooked it,。
if you continue to think about it,。
you don't go to a friend and say,。
"Hey, I just gotta vet this situation to you."。
No, no, no, you only talk to people。
who are a part of the conflict,。
a part of the problem, or a part of the solution, okay?。
You don't vet to other people.。
You don't say, "Hey, let me just get this off my chest.。
"Hey, can I just tell you if I,。
"let me ask you if I should go to them.。
"Let me just get your advice.。
"Don't turn your prayer request into gossip.。
"Hey, can we just pray for David Marvin?。
"I mean, he just, you know,。
"he really did some terrible things to me。
"and I just think we should pray for him."。
So, that's gossip.。
Okay, some of you are praying for David.。
I appreciate that.。
(laughing)。
He appreciates it too.。
Listen, that's gossip.。
You only talk to people who are a part of the problem。
or a part of the solution and you wanna know what's best?。
Do it at the same time if you can.。
Bring 'em all together.。
Guys, can I tell you something?。
'Cause I can see you out there right now.。
Like, I'm up here and I'm looking at you.。
I see you in Fort Worth too.。
You're looking at me like I'm crazy.。
Like, this is what the scripture calls you to do.。
I'm serious.。
I have seen this process change lives.。
I have gone to Africa to train their government。
in the very things that I'm talking to you.。
I've seen this change nations.。
True story.。
We went to Rwanda after the genocide。
and talked about these very things.。
Guys, I'm not kidding.。
Christ is not kidding.。
You know the number one determiner in success in a marriage。
is the ability to resolve conflict?。
The number one determiner of success in a marriage。
is the ability to resolve conflict.。
This will make you a better employee, employer,。
friend, roommate, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle,。
anything, if you can do this, like it's discipleship.。
If you can learn this and you can teach it to others,。
you sit down in a small group and you teach them this,。
it is worthy of your time.。
This will truly change your lives.。
I'm not kidding.。
You do this relentlessly.。
You hold onto it fast.。
Don't let anything change this.。
If you can overlook a small offense,。
overlook it if you can't, then have the conversation.。
And be wise in the way you act toward outsiders.。
Some of you are like, well, do I do this with nonbelievers?。
Sure, just don't expect them to respond well.。
They're pagans.。
It's their job description.。
They shouldn't respond well.。
They should yell at you.。
They should call you MF.。
I mean, they should swing at you.。
That's what they should do.。
They're controlled by some other spirit.。
So share the gospel and walk this process out of obedience.。
And it may respond really, really poorly.。
Be wise in the way you act toward outsiders,。
the scripture says.。
Conflict is an opportunity to show whose you are.。
I love the way that Jesus gives the Sermon on the Mount。
because he gives the application right up front.。
He says in the Beatitudes, right?。
And so check this out.。
I wanna show you something.。
Matthew 5, verse nine.。
He says this.。
This is in the same sermon.。
He says, "Blessed are the peacemakers,。
"for they will be called children of God."。
Do you see that the goal is just not,。
the goal is not to get angry.。
The goal is not not to get angry.。
Sorry, double negatives.。
Always throws me off.。
The goal is that you would be a peacemaker.。
That you would make peace.。
That you would be able to resolve these situations.。
And he says that's who is children of God.。
Those people are children of God.。
Like I have, I'm tall.。
I'm six foot, seven inches tall, okay?。
I have a son, he's two and a half years old.。
But because he's my son, at two and a half,。
he's about six feet tall.。
I mean, he's really, really tall, you know?。
And he's just kinda, yeah, he's just tall.。
He looks like me, he's crazy tall.。
He looks like he's six years old.。
And why?。
Because he has my DNA, he has my genes.。
Jesus is saying, if you're God's children,。
you look like God, right?。
When my children act terrible, like we're in public。
and they're like just acting crazy,。
I'm always like, whose kids are these?。
Like somebody needs to make this right, right?。
But here's the, I know why they act that way.。
I see my daughter's anger sometimes。
and I know where she gets it from.。
'Cause she's my child.。
But you're a child of God.。
And so you look like a child of God。
in the way you resolve conflict.。
That's what Jesus is saying here.。
Blessed are the peacemakers,。
for they will be called God's children.。
And God's children make peace.。
And be cautious of people who are entertained by conflict.。
Like I had a buddy that would always just kinda be like,。
ooh, he said what, did you hear what he said?。
And like always kinda turning people against each other.。
You know, he didn't know Christ.。
And so of course he's gonna do that.。
But be cautious about those people.。
I wouldn't hang out with those people if I were you.。
I mean, hang out with them to share the gospel,。
but not for any other reason.。
Some of you are those people.。
Proceed with caution.。
Go back and read the words of Christ here in Matthew 5.。
Okay?。
Be careful.。
And peace is powerful.。
Let me just talk to the men for a second before we wrap up.。
Men, any boy can turn his anger to throwing fists.。
I've got a two and a half year old。
and when he gets upset he pushes people.。
Any child can do that.。
But it takes a man to bring your emotions,。
your childish emotions,。
under the control of the Spirit of God。
and respond in peace.。
That takes a grown man.。
And ladies, you grow up in a culture。
where it's cool to be sassy and feisty。
and have attitude.。
It's not cool in God's kingdom.。
It might be cool in Dallas,。
it might be cool in Fort Worth,。
it's not cool in God's kingdom.。
Okay?。
That does not show that you're a child。
of the Creator of the heavens and the earth.。
Okay?。
And so Jesus says,。
"Whenever you're angry, it's like murder.。
"And murder requires the payment of a life."。
Now we don't resolve this。
in this little snippet of the sermon,。
but we know the bigger picture。
is that Jesus gave his life.。
Jesus gave his life for your anger.。
Jesus gave his life so that you can be。
reconciled to the Father.。
Jesus gave his life so that you don't have to be angry.。
And so in summary, a new perspective。
is to see conflict as an opportunity。
to show who you belong to.。
And this starts with you owning your part.。
Be eager to own your part。
and to overlook a small offense if you can.。
And the path that you are to pursue。
is the path of peace.。
And I've seen incredible peace be brought about。
when people do this.。
I've seen roommates reconciled.。
I've seen wives who have been cheated on by their husbands。
reconcile with the mistress.。
I've seen crazy things happen when people live this out.。
Things that the world says,。
"Who is your God?。
"How do you do this?"。
But after I gave this sermon,。
the first time someone came up,。
"What about righteous anger?。
"Isn't there a time we're supposed to get angry?"。
Anger is an emotion, right?。
Anger is a natural emotion.。
It's what you do with that anger。
and how you target that anger。
and what is the end result of what you do with that anger。
that God cares about.。
I think the thing that makes us the most angry,。
if I was to put one word on it, it's injustice.。
Like any time we feel like we've been treated unfairly。
or we've been slighted or taken advantage of,。
I had a truck and it had been in a hail storm,。
so it had all these hail dents on it。
and I bought it like that 'cause I like deals。
and it was a deal.。
And so also because I like deals, I go on Craigslist。
and I find this painless dent repair company.。
And so these guys come over to my house。
to fix these hail dents in my truck.。
And they're there, it's four brothers.。
And they're like, they're real kind, honestly.。
Like they were super nice and shook my hand。
and we got to know each other。
and we were talking and I got to share the gospel.。
Like hey, do you have a faith?。
And he asked me a lot of good questions.。
I mean, he was like, what about dinosaurs。
and where are they in the Bible?。
And I was like, well, let's talk about that.。
Some of you are like, what about dinosaurs?。
And so, we'll be up here, love to talk to you.。
And so we were talking through like his,。
as he wrestled with faith。
and he put this red stuff on all the dents。
and they worked on my truck for a couple hours。
and he came in and he was like, oh, Mr. Picluda, listen man,。
I have great news.。
You know, your truck was repaired。
and everything looks great。
and we're gonna paint the bumper tomorrow。
and so we'll be back in the morning.。
And he's like, hey, what time will you be here?。
You know, will you be here at 9 a.m.?。
That's, we really like to get started early.。
I'm like, sure.。
And he goes, I'd like for you to pay, you know,。
for the dents today, but you can pay for the bumper tomorrow。
and so, and I'm like, oh, okay, that's, you know,。
totally understand.。
So we go to the ATM together.。
I give him 800 bucks for the,。
to remove the dents over all my truck。
and which is just a ton of money, by the way, to me.。
And they leave and so the next day comes around,。
9 a.m. comes and I'm excited about getting my bumper painted。
and then 10 a.m. comes and 11 a.m.。
so I call him and I'm like, hello, you know,。
hey, this is Jonathan, you know,。
you're gonna come and fix my bumper。
and I hear a dial tone.。
I go, oh, that's weird.。
Maybe he actually hung up.。
Call him again.。
Hey, you're gonna come back and fix my bumper.。
And no one answers.。
I leave message, leave another message,。
leave another message.。
Call three days later, someone answered.。
Hey, it's Jonathan, hang up again.。
I'm like, uh-oh.。
Well, I still have this red stuff on my truck, right,。
over all the dents that they fixed.。
And so I go get my truck washed to remove the red stuff。
to see how they had fixed the dents.。
They didn't fix the dents.。
They didn't do anything.。
They just stole 800 bucks from me.。
And man, I was so angry.。
I'm a believer, I'm a follower of Jesus Christ,。
but I was so mad because they were good, frankly.。
I mean, they had took advantage of me, okay.。
We got to know each other.。
I trusted these men.。
I cared for them.。
I prayed for them.。
And now I'm in this situation where I know。
they deliberately stole from me.。
And so I, they're just like, my mind runs towards revenge.。
I'm like, I'm thinking about how I'm gonna call。
from another person's phone and hey,。
I've got dents in my car and I'm gonna meet up。
with my boys in a tire iron and we're about to do work.。
Like this, and I'm not even kidding.。
Like honestly, I'm embarrassed to tell you。
those were the thoughts going.。
I'm thinking, how can I get even?。
Like I'm smart enough to get even with these guys.。
I got a buddy that can find them.。
I've got their phone number, like I'll have their address.。
Like I can get to these guys.。
I can get back, I can get my $800.。
And all of this stuff was happening in my heart。
and I wasn't even fully aware of it.。
And then a guy in my community goes, man, how you doing?。
I go, what do you mean, how am I doing?。
I'm angry.。
She goes, can we read Matthew five?。
No!。
(congregation laughing)。
And he goes, Jonathan, he goes, why are you angry?。
And I said, because they took $800 from me.。
This was a real cost.。
I said, you don't understand, this was a real cost to me.。
The next day, I go and we had deposited a check。
and so I go on my checking account。
and there's an additional $800 there.。
And my buddy who I told this to and he saw my anger,。
he just went and he paid me 800 bucks.。
And I call him, I said, why would you do that?。
I said, don't, that's crazy.。
So why would you do that?。
He goes, bro, it's not worth your anger.。
It's not worth you compromising your relationship with Christ。
because those guys took advantage of you.。
They don't know God, of course they did.。
That's what they should do.。
He goes, but it's worth, I would pay $8,000。
so that you don't have to be angry.。
And that's what Christ is saying.。
He said, I'll give my life。
so that you don't have to be angry.。
He said, people are gonna hurt you.。
Don't trust people, trust God.。
People are gonna hurt you.。
You know you're gonna leave here.。
People are gonna hurt, they're gonna outright。
take advantage of you.。
You don't have to lay over, right?。
But you respond appropriately in the Spirit.。
Okay, if you don't know how to do that。
in this situation, you widen the circle。
and you bring others in.。
You talk to people who are part of the solution。
and a part of the problem.。
And you pursue the path of peace.。
Let me pray that you would.。
And Father, you tell us in Romans 12, verse 18。
that if it is possible,。
as far as it depends on us to live at peace with everyone.。
Lord, we're wrestling because our hearts are wicked。
right now, we're wrestling with it.。
Wait a minute, when do we do, do we always do that?。
When is it appropriate to lash out?。
When is it appropriate to respond to that hurt?。
And so Father, I pray that you would help us。
to understand what your Spirit desires in these situations.。
God, for some of us tonight as we sit here,。
the tape is playing of others who have hurt us。
or others we've hurt, and I pray that we would leave。
our gift at the altar and we would run。
and be reconciled to our brother and sister.。
Father, I thank you for your word。
and how it never returns void,。
how it stirs our affections for you,。
it gives us a glimpse into your character。
and how you love us, that you would give your life。
so that we're not angry, so that we can be with you forever。
in a place of peace.。
In Christ's name, amen.。
