[Music]。
Well, what's up Porch? How we doing tonight?。
[Applause]。
Hey, it's such a joy. It's so good to be back at the Porch.。
If we've never met before, my name is Timothy Atik。
and I'm one of the pastors here at Watermark.。
I want to give a huge shout out to all of the Porch Live locations watching tonight.。
Hope all is well with you.。
I know we've got counselors from Pine Cove in the city here with us.。
Welcome. So glad that you made it.。
We are about to jump into a very important topic.。
Tonight we are just focusing on the topic of pornography.。
You don't know whether to cheer or not.。
You're like, "If I cheer, does that mean I'm into it?。
If I don't cheer, I don't know what to do."。
So, the best thing to do is to just pray.。
Alright, everyone bow their heads and just close their eyes.。
So we can avoid an awkward moment looking at each other.。
So, hey, seriously, this is a really important part of my story。
that I'm looking forward to sharing with you about.。
But I know that pornography is a part of many people's journeys right now.。
And so I just want to invite you to pray.。
And just say, "God, would you speak to me tonight clearly?"。
And then would you pray for the other people in this room and around you?。
Just pray that God would speak clearly to them.。
And then would you pray for me?。
And would you pray that God would use me tonight in your lives?。
Well, Lord, I pray that you would have your way with us tonight.。
I pray that there would not be one person in this room that leaves tonight。
without having had an encounter with you.。
I pray that you would speak clearly to our hearts tonight.。
May our ears be open and may our hearts be receptive to anything。
and everything that you would want to say.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
Well, the summer between my eighth grade year and my freshman year in high school,。
my dad and I, we were flying to Indianapolis to go to the Indy 500 race.。
And on our way back to Dallas, we were in the Indianapolis airport,。
and I stumbled upon an inappropriate magazine.。
I don't know what caused me to do it.。
Probably it was because I was an almost freshman in high school pubescent kid,。
and I picked up this magazine without my dad knowing,。
and I hid it in my stuff, and I took it home with me.。
And I didn't realize that that one decision was the beginning。
of what would be a seven-year intense battle with pornography.。
Pornography became a very, very defining part of my story for the next seven years.。
And when I think back upon my intense battle with pornography,。
there were various things that marked that struggle.。
The first was that I just believed that everyone struggled with porn.。
Like, there was this statistic that people would float around。
that 98% of guys look at porn, and the other 2% are just lying about it.。
That's what all the guys would tell themselves.。
And so I just viewed myself as a stereotypical college guy。
because everyone looks at porn.。
Another thing that defined me was just a consistent appetite for more.。
What I would find is that there was certain images that would lose their effect,。
and I would just want more.。
I would want the material to be more explicit or more intense.。
There was just an insatiable growing appetite for more.。
And then on top of that, there was the feeling of being a failure。
because I was a Christian, and people knew me as a good Christian guy,。
and yet so often throughout the week I was looking at pornography,。
and so I felt like a hypocrite.。
And so I would go through this cycle of promising God I'm done with that,。
and then I might have a good few days or a good few weeks,。
and then eventually I would just relapse back into pornography.。
And then finally, something that marked my struggle with pornography。
was a desire to be done with it, but this fear that I never would be.。
This desire, this hope that I would be done with it,。
partnered with this fear that I never would be done with it.。
And so I share that with you just to say,。
I don't know if that feels a little bit like your journey.。
I don't know if you can identify with that at all.。
But if so, I just want you to know there is hope,。
and the reason that I can say that is because I'm living it.。
The summer before my senior year in college,。
God intervened in my life in a very clear and miraculous and supernatural way,。
and the power of the gospel began to go to work on my heart,。
and what God did, it wasn't an overnight thing,。
but what He did was He set me on a path toward healing.。
And for the last 19 years of my life,。
the Lord has led me in freedom from pornography.。
And so I tell you that to say, I stand up here as someone who can say,。
look, there is hope, because I've been in a place where I felt like there was no hope.。
And so now I stand up here, and I've shared my story,。
my journey with pornography with thousands of people,。
and the reason that I share it is because I don't have a story to hide,。
I have a story to tell.。
My battle with pornography, it's not this anchor of shame。
that I have to tow through my life.。
It's a trophy of God's grace because God intervened.。
He showed up, He moved, and it was solely because of His grace in my life。
and His power at work through me in the mighty name of Jesus to break me free.。
And so the reason that I wanted to step in and talk about this tonight。
is to kind of piggyback off of what Kylan was talking about last week.。
Y'all walked through Colossians chapter 3 in this amazing series, "Above All,"。
and I don't know if you remember last week, but in Colossians chapter 3,。
the conversation was about putting off and putting on.。
There's the old and the new self, and there were certain things。
that the Apostle Paul said that we should put to death.。
Just to remind you, in Colossians chapter 3, verse 5, Paul says this.。
I'm going to back up. He says in verse 5,。
"Put to death, therefore, what is earthly in you,。
sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness,。
which is idolatry."。
What you need to know is all of those terms are sexual in nature.。
So Paul is looking at us saying, "You just need to put it to death."。
And so the reason that I want to talk about pornography is because。
pastor and author James Emery White, here's what he said.。
"Pornography may be the greatest area of immorality。
inflicted on and pursued by generation Z."。
Do you hear what he's saying? He's speaking about your generation,。
and he's saying pornography is quite possibly the greatest source。
of sin among your generation.。
It's the greatest source of sin inflicted upon you.。
What he's saying is, "I sympathize with you.。
You live in a day where it is more difficult to walk in freedom。
from pornography than any point in history.。
It's inflicted upon you, but it's also pursued by you."。
And so I care deeply about your generation knowing that there is hope,。
so much so that when I did a doctoral program,。
I devoted all of my studies to pornography。
and fighting for freedom among your generation.。
And so what I want to do is I just want to help you take a step towards hope.。
If you're here tonight and you are in the midst of the battle,。
what I want you to feel is hope.。
If you're looking in the rearview mirror and pornography was a thing of your past,。
what I want you to feel is gratitude.。
And if you're here tonight and you're like, "Who struggles with pornography?"。
What I want you to feel is a wake-up call,。
that it's a part of people's stories all around you,。
and God might want to use you to be a source of hope and healing for your friends.。
So there's three things that I really want to address tonight.。
I want to address the reality of porn, the results of porn, and the remedy for porn.。
And I'm just going to warn you up front the way that this talk is going to feel。
because it's not going to feel like a normal message.。
The first half of it is going to feel very research-based.。
It's going to be a lot of facts and figures and quotes,。
but it's good for us to deal with the information.。
And then we're just going to spend the second half of the message。
really diving into the Scriptures, looking at the remedy for porn。
so that you can leave here knowing that there is hope.。
Okay, you guys with me tonight?。
I'll take it, all right.。
Let's start by talking about the reality of porn.。
And I'm going to share some things with you that are so obvious,。
but it might just be helpful for you to hear it anyway.。
When I talk about the reality of porn, we just have to start with the fact。
that porn is more accessible and acceptable than ever.。
Think about it. It's more accessible than ever.。
Do you know when pornography started?。
It started in the 1950s through Playboy,。
which was this magazine for middle- to upper-class white men.。
It started in print. Like, you had to go to a store to buy it.。
And then in the 1980s, pornography made its way to film,。
but again, you had to get up the courage to go to a video store。
to rent a pornographic film, take it up to the counter, and check it out.。
Then in the early 2000s, pornography began to flourish on the Internet,。
but even then, like, you had to do explicit searches。
specifically for pornographic websites, and then when you went to them,。
you would have to pay money for them.。
But now, think about it. Porn exists on 12% of all websites in the world.。
12% of them. It's on social media, it's in random text messages that you receive,。
and it's on every streaming platform in the most popular shows of our day.。
It's more accessible than ever.。
Like Pornhub, one of the largest pornographic websites in our world,。
they publish a data report on their website every single year.。
This is a stat all the way back from 2019, but just think about this.。
In 2019 alone, 6.83 million new videos were uploaded.。
And they just wanted to give us an idea of how much new content that was.。
Here's what they said.。
If you strung all of 2019's new video content together and started watching them。
all the way back in 1850, you'd still be watching them today.。
That's just from one year of uploads on one site.。
My point in telling you that is that it is more accessible than ever,。
and what Pornhub reported is that 93% of the visits to their website。
were accessed by a phone, and we all have phones.。
Here's what I'm telling you, and this might feel a little bit dramatic to you,。
but it's just reality.。
Every single one of us is carrying around pornography in our pockets。
every single day all day.。
When I was battling pornography, there had to be this intentional effort。
of going to your desktop computer to access it.。
Now it's just simply something that you access.。
You don't even have to access it.。
It will just find you through your social media.。
It's just reality.。
It's more accessible than ever, but that accessibility is combined。
within acceptability.。
Like one study found that your generation views not recycling as more immoral。
than looking at porn.。
That interesting?。
Not recycling is more immoral than looking at pornography.。
96% of young adults are either encouraging, accepting, or neutral。
when they talk about porn with their friends.。
So just think about where you're at with that.。
Are you one of those people who are like, "You better recycle"?。
Looking at porn, it's up to you, but you better recycle.。
Like I'm checking to see if that blue bag is out every single Tuesday.。
What is it for you? Where are you at with it?。
When you talk about porn with your friends, when you joke about it,。
do you joke about it in a positive light or a neutral at worst?。
We live--the reality is we live in a pornified world.。
What I mean by that is we just live in a world where it has become。
so normalized.。
I remember watching the TV show Friends.。
What a classic.。
Like I don't know how many of you all have gone back and binge-watched Friends,。
but even on Friends in the '90s, porn was like--it was just a part of their lives.。
Like there's the episode where Joey and Chandler get free porn,。
and it's just like a part of their day.。
They're like, "We need to turn it off," and the minute they turn it off,。
they're like, "Let's turn it back on to make sure we still have free porn."。
It's just normalized.。
Pornhub totaled 2.14 billion visits during a single month in 2023,。
which was more than Instagram, Netflix, Pinterest, and TikTok all combined.。
So let's just state what it is.。
Like porn is more accessible and acceptable than ever before.。
That's just reality.。
Now I know I'm not telling you anything that you don't know,。
so let's just keep moving.。
Here's more reality about porn.。
It's not just a guy problem.。
Porn is a--it's a people--it's a people problem.。
One study found that 57% of young adults seek porn out at least once a month.。
For so long, pornography was considered just a guy problem.。
But one survey of 3,000 women found that 31% of those 3,000 reported weekly porn use.。
30% indicated viewing porn a few times a month.。
And I say that just to say, "Hey, you might be a woman in this room struggling with pornography,。
and you feel even more shame because you think you're probably the only one because it's a guy problem."。
And I just want to tell you it is not.。
Like the first time I spoke on pornography was back in 2017.。
The reason that I spoke on it is I sat with a group of college students,。
and I asked them, "Hey, what do you want me to speak on?"。
Two of the ten people in the room, two girls and one guy said pornography.。
It's because women have been increasingly more prone to struggling with pornography.。
I remember when I did speak on it, there were girls in the crowd who were like,。
"Who struggles with pornography?"。
And what's crazy is that there was so many good, sweet Christian girls who were like,。
"I'm struggling with pornography."。
And so what's happened is that guys feel the freedom to be like,。
"Yeah, I've been struggling with it. I need some help."。
And then girls feel like they've got to struggle over here alone。
because it's just not something girls struggle with.。
And I just want to tell you it absolutely is.。
And this needs to be a safe place for you to come and just say, "Look, I need help. I need help."。
The next thing that I want you to realize about the reality of porn is this.。
This is very important.。
The porn industry is seeking lifetime customers.。
Do you realize that?。
The porn industry, the porn and sex tech industries are working to make you a lifetime customer。
because I want you to understand the mission of the porn industry.。
The mission of the porn industry is to convince you that sex virtually or sex in a fantasy world。
is so much better than sex in the real world.。
That's what they want to convince you of is that fantasy is better than reality.。
Here's what Pornhub Insights, their end-of-year report says.。
Listen to this. This is so interesting.。
They say users looking for a more realistic porn viewing experience could tune in and unzip。
getting everything they needed without all the real-world troubles.。
Who needs an in-real-life partner when you have point-of-view Pornhub videos on your side?。
Do you see what they're saying?。
They're saying, "Look, sex in a fantasy world is just so much better. It's so much easier.。
It's so much more customized. You can connect it with haptic technology。
that just makes it a better experience."。
What the porn industry has going for it is that there's so many people in our culture。
who are just rationalizing the benefits of porn.。
For example, a men's health article states that surges in testosterone caused by erotic films。
can improve your squat strength at the gym.。
Who knew?。
Or a woman with the Sexual Wellness Center, here's what she explains.。
She explains, "Women are increasingly viewing porn,。
which hopefully means they are engaging in some self-pleasuring."。
This is good news because it indicates that women are taking charge of their sexuality,。
discovering their bodies and identifying what they like.。
Less shame, less taboo around female sexuality equals more exploration.。
See the rationalization?。
But in addition to rationalization, there's innovation.。
So I want you to just think about the development of porn in terms of the five senses.。
So the way pornography started out in the 1950s was just through sight.。
And then in the 1980s when it moved to film, it combined sight and sound.。
But now we're moving into a day and age where there is Bluetooth technology。
that introduces sight, sound, and touch.。
And so what's interesting is, you know, in the 1950s, '60s, and '70s,。
if someone wanted to get rid of porn, it was like, "Dude, you just need to throw out your magazines."。
In the 1980s and '90s, it was, "Stop going to blockbuster video."。
In the early 2000s, it was, "Dude, get rid of your Ethernet cable."。
I know I'm saying things that you're like, "I don't even know what he's talking about right now."。
An Ethernet cable was a cable that connected your huge desktop computer to the wall, to the Internet.。
But now we're in a day and time where we are moving closer to,。
"Hey, dude, you need to get rid of your haptic technology, like your haptic suit."。
And in a matter of years, it's going to be like, "Dude, you've got to give up the sex robot.。
Like, let's just get real. It's time to get rid of it."。
And we can think, "Dude, that's crazy. That's not where we're headed."。
It most certainly is.。
Why?。
Because you have an industry that is trying to replace real-life experience.。
And so what they've done is they've taken deepfake technology,。
so that now if you have enough images of anyone,。
person you sat next to at Starbucks, person that works next to you,。
someone you see at the gym, if you have enough pictures of them,。
you can dump them into a program, and they'll take that person's--。
they'll analyze their facial features, combine it with a porn star's body,。
and you can be with whoever you want.。
Talk about a violation of your being.。
But listen to what one guy in the sex tick industry says.。
He says, "We are rapidly approaching a point where man and machine merge,。
where sex can be better and safer outside of real life."。
So I just tell you that, and some of you are like,。
"This is not what I expected from the porch.。
You got invited, and you're like, 'Don't call me next Tuesday.'"。
I can tell you from right now, it's a hard pass for me.。
So good news, we're going to be back in Colossians next week.。
I won't be here next Tuesday. Kylan will be back.。
You should totally come back next Tuesday.。
But while I'm here, I'm going to keep moving forward, okay?。
That's the reality of porn.。
Let's talk about the results of porn.。
Here are some results of porn.。
One is it cultivates unrealistic expectations.。
It cultivates unrealistic expectations.。
What's interesting is if you struggle with porn,。
just think about how old were you when you were first introduced to porn.。
The average age is somewhere between the ages of 8 and 13.。
You know what that means?。
It means that you were introduced to porn before you actually got sex ed。
from the public school system.。
And so often, whoever tells us something first becomes the authority.。
And so, so many of us grow up thinking that sex is what we have learned through porn.。
It's like a stand-in sex ed force.。
So we step into marriage thinking that sex is what we've seen in porn,。
or not even marriage.。
Like if you enter into--if you're sexually active in your dating relationship,。
there's a good chance that you expect for your sexual experience。
to mimic what you've seen in porn.。
So sex, then, it's all about you.。
It's what you like.。
It's what feels good to you.。
It's about your orgasm.。
Porn leads you to believe that your spouse exists to meet your sexual needs.。
What's so interesting is I was doing my research,。
and I came across this quote from a porn star.。
Listen to what she says.。
Some of you are going to be like, "I don't even want to know this."。
Here's what she says.。
She says, "Porn actors spend hours in the same position to get the shot.。
You're sore after hours of filming.。
Being on set, it's hot.。
Your makeup runs, and you get sweaty fast.。
You work long days and long hours filming to create a 15-minute clip of pure perfection."。
Do you see what she's saying?。
She's saying none of it's real.。
We spend hours and even days to then splice together 15 minutes。
to create this experience which convinces a generation。
that fantasy is better than reality.。
You know what?。
People in your generation, y'all are dating less.。
You're getting married less.。
You're waiting longer.。
Why?。
Because so many people in your generation are at home connecting virtually with fantasy.。
It cultivates unrealistic expectations.。
Second, it normalizes perverted desires.。
What it does is it convinces you that perverted desires are actually normal.。
There's a rule on the internet.。
It's this unofficial rule, Rule 34, which states that if it exists, there's porn of it, no exceptions.。
What they're saying is, "Hey, if you can dream it, if you can think of it,。
there's probably already porn of it."。
So you know what? There's a reason why when you start looking at porn,。
your appetite grows, your desire for things that are more novel, more intense, more extreme.。
It just begins--it's like a snowball moving down a hill.。
It just grows bigger and bigger and bigger.。
Why? Because you have all these videos that are just saying,。
"Yeah, that fantasy that you had, that's actually normal.。
There's actually already a video that exists of it."。
And so the searches that people are making,。
like which is so interesting that one of the top searches on Pornhub。
was for cartoon characters that feature cartoons that have both adult features。
and children features.。
And what it's doing is it's just normalizing this perversion。
for people to want something that is not real.。
Next, it strains and even ruins relationships.。
I have seen marriages dissolve because of pornography.。
Studies show that porn use can increase sexual dissatisfaction.。
It increases self-consciousness in women about body image,。
and it increases the probability of divorce.。
Some medical professionals have concluded that some people are--。
some men are experiencing porn-induced erectile dysfunction,。
which is--it's this kind of desensitization of men。
that they can only reach the point of feeling stimulated。
when sex is like it is on a movie.。
Next, it hinders intimacy with God because the reality is。
that it's hard to just be swimming in sin and intimate with Jesus at the same time.。
And if you've convinced yourself that you're close to God。
when you're very close to porn, you can't be close to both at the same time.。
It also hinders impact.。
One of the things that led to a change in my journey with porn。
is I just remember the church that I was attending and serving at,。
I applied to be a Bible study leader, and on the application,。
they asked, "Do you struggle with pornography?"。
And I was like, "Of course I do, just like 98% of the other dudes,。
and the other 2%, you should just ask them about their lives."。
And then I remember this guy calling me and just saying,。
"TA, we've got to talk about this,。
because it's going to be hard for you to lead a group of guys。
in studying God's Word when you're struggling with this."。
And that was a wake-up call that, you know what?。
Sin impacts your ministry.。
So those are the results of porn.。
So let's shift gears now to the remedy for porn.。
Like, what is the remedy for porn?。
Well, at the foundational level, I want to use John 8:32 as the foundation.。
What does it say? Jesus says this. He says,。
"You will know the truth, and the truth will," what?。
"Set you free."。
"You'll know the truth, and the truth will set you free."。
And so what I want to do is I'm going to rifle through these things right now.。
And it's going to feel like a lot.。
You might need to take notes the best you can,。
and then go back and listen to the message again.。
But there are several things that I want you to know。
that are going to help provide the remedy for your struggle with porn.。
And so let me just begin to roll through these.。
One, you need to know God's will.。
And what's great is that Scripture spells it out.。
Listen to what Paul says in 1 Thessalonians 4, verse 3.。
He says, "For this is the will of God."。
So I know that many of you here, because you're young adults,。
there's this wrestle right now with God's will for your life.。
Like, "God, who do you want me to marry?。
God, what do you want me to do with my life?。
God, where do you want me to work?。
Am I in the right job right now?。
Do you even want me living in Dallas?。
Is Watermark where you want me coming to church?。
Who are my friends going to be?"。
And it's all of this wrestle with God.。
"What's your will for my life?。
I need you to open up the heavens and speak audibly。
and just tell me. Is it him? Is it her?。
When's this going to happen?"。
And we can be so consumed with God's unrevealed will。
that we completely ignore His revealed will.。
So just listen to what God spells out for us.。
"For this is the will of God, your sanctification."。
We'll unpack that in a minute.。
"That you do what? That you abstain from sexual immorality."。
That word "sexual immorality" in the Greek,。
it's the Greek word "porneia,"。
which is where we get pornography from.。
"This is the will of God, your sanctification."。
What does "sanctification" mean?。
It means to be set apart.。
Listen to how this theologian explained sanctification.。
He says, "By sanctification is meant。
the continued transformation of moral and spiritual character。
so that the believer's life actually comes to mirror。
the standing he or she already has in God's sight."。
So let's hear this.。
So let me say this.。
If you're here tonight and you're not a Christian,。
everything I'm talking about right now。
comes with the assumption that you have already come to a place。
where you have realized that in God's eyes,。
without a relationship with Jesus Christ,。
you are, according to the Bible, spiritually dead.。
It's not that you're spiritually bad.。
It's not that you're spiritually sick。
and so you just need to do better and be better。
and try harder and come to church more.。
No, the Bible says that you are spiritually dead.。
What does that mean?。
It means that you are incapable of doing anything。
pleasing to God on your own.。
And the incredible news is that when you could do nothing,。
God did everything, that God in his overwhelming love for you。
sent his Son Christ, that the eternal Son of God。
left heaven and put on flesh in the person of Jesus Christ.。
Jesus Christ lived the perfect life you and I could never live.。
He was crucified. He died gruesomely.。
He rose victoriously, conquering all of your sin and all of my sin,。
so that when you put your trust in him,。
he actually puts his Spirit in you.。
God actually lives inside of you,。
and he begins to lead you, and he makes you new.。
And so that's where we have to start.。
When Miller to Erickson is talking about sanctification,。
what he's saying is, "Look, if you know Jesus Christ,。
if you've surrendered your life to Jesus Christ,。
then Christ has made you completely holy and pure in God's eyes."。
Which is amazing that positionally before God,。
you're not filthy, dirty, packed full of wretched sin.。
No, in God's eyes, you're actually clean and pure and holy.。
But when Paul says that the will of God is sanctification for your life,。
what he's saying is, "God's will is that we would be。
practically what we already are positionally."。
So if positionally in God's eyes, we are pure and holy and clean,。
then God's will is that practically we would begin to live。
pure and holy and clean lives.。
That's God's will.。
The second thing that you need to know is this,。
know God's standard.。
So we've established that God's will for you is to abstain from porneia.。
Like, that's spelled out for you.。
If you have any question in you, God made it clear.。
But like, how serious is God about it?。
What I love is that the Bible doesn't leave us guessing.。
Like, it's not like, "Well, man, I'm just not like going to Pornhub.。
I'm just like, I'm on Instagram just looking at people's random accounts."。
It's not that big of a deal.。
It's technically not porn.。
Well, listen to what God clarifies in Ephesians 5, verse 3.。
He says, "But among you there must not even be a hint of sexual immorality。
or of any kind of impurity or of greed."。
Why?。
Because these are improper for who?。
For God's holy people.。
He's saying, "Look, because God has made you new and holy,。
it just doesn't make sense for you."。
He's saying, "Not even a hint."。
I was trying to think, like, what are things that have just hints in them?。
Well, Tostitos has chips that have a hint of lime.。
You're like, "Oh, man, it's a regular Tostito."。
No, it's not.。
There's that hint of lime.。
Or there's like sparkling water where you're like, "It's just a plain Topo Chico."。
And then it's like, "No, it's the one that has the lime in it.。
It's got that hint."。
It's like you barely even notice it, but it's there.。
Paul is saying, "Hey, not even like the hint of it.。
It's not like, it's just like it's Instagram."。
No, he's like, "No, not even a hint."。
And it's so interesting the clarity he gives.。
He says, "There shouldn't even be a hint of pornea。
or of any kind of impurity."。
In the Greek, it's the idea of lustful living.。
But then the one that I really appreciate is he says,。
"Or any kind of impurity or of greed."。
So it's kind of like, what is Paul ADD?。
He's like, "Hey, man, no sex and greed."。
Let's talk about money.。
It's like, no, that greed he's talking about there, it's a sexual greed.。
It's the idea that you believe other people exist for your own gratification.。
So he's like, "Yeah, when you're at the gym and you see her or you see him。
and you just begin to fantasize like they're not an actual being,。
they actually just exist for your fantasy world."。
He's like, "No, no, no, no, that's a type of greed。
that just doesn't match who you are."。
As God's holy people, know God's standard.。
Number three, know God's commands.。
Like what does God actually command in the Bible?。
I love this because God spells it out for us.。
Like he doesn't toss us the keys to our sexuality and say,。
"I don't know, it's 2024, what do you think?"。
No, he's like, "Let me just spell it out for you.。
Know my will. What's my will for your life?。
Sanctification, abstain.。
What's my standard? Not even a hint.。
What are my commands? 1 Corinthians 6.18, flee from sexual immorality.。
Flee, like run away.。
It's like you see and you're like, "Nope," and you're out.。
Flee from it.。
In the verb tense in the Greek, it means that you make it your habit to flee.。
Flee from sexual immorality, but then y'all talked about it last week,。
Colossians 5, put it to death.。
Put it to death.。
It's the idea of like cutting off the supply lines.。
When I thought about this, any Stranger Things fans in here?。
Like a few.。
I don't know what you're doing with your life.。
Anyway, I love Stranger Things.。
I don't know if that's okay to say, but I really enjoy it.。
I want you to think about Dart.。
You remember Dartanian, Dusty's pet?。
He finds Dart.。
When Dart is just like this small little thing, what does Dusty do?。
He wants to make it his pet.。
When he takes it home, he hides it under his hat.。
He doesn't tell any of his friends about it.。
Why?。
Because he thinks that Dart is just this cute little friend that he's connected with over at Candy Bar.。
Then what does Dart do?。
He murders his cat.。
That's a problem.。
The thing that he was feeding Candy Bar to fed on his cat.。
In the end, the thing that Dusty had made his pet had to die.。
How did Dart die?。
From closing the gate.。
If you haven't seen the show, you'll just have to believe.。
You had to close the gate to the upside down where all of the power was coming from.。
You had to close it.。
You had to cut off the supply line.。
You can't make porn your pet.。
It's like, "You know what? I'm just going to stick it in the aquarium.。
It's contained.。
It's not a problem.。
I can watch all of the shows that are popular right now on Netflix where there's a plethora of sexual scenes.。
It's not a problem.。
I'm just watching this because everyone's talking about it.。
I can sit there and scroll endlessly on Instagram.。
Even though Instagram knows what you want to see, has your algorithm down, begins to consistently make suggestions.。
How about a bout with porn?。
How's that sound right now? 5 p.m.? How about some porn?。
10 p.m.? Porn sound good?。
You have to cut off the supply lines.。
Know God's standards.。
Are you willing to forsake comfort and convenience for the sake of freedom?。
Next, know God's enabled capacity.。
Know God's enabled capacity.。
Because if you hear me say, "Know God's will, know God's standards, know God's commands,"。
you might be like, "I know them. I know them, and I'm still feeling."。
"TA, you're just making me feel like more of a failure."。
This is where you have to understand how the gospel works in your life.。
Know God's enabled capacity.。
Last week, y'all talked about the old self and the new self.。
It's like wearing clothes.。
When you're wearing the old self, Bruce Demarest, a theologian, he puts it this way.。
He says, "The old nature is the capacity to serve Satan, sin, and self acquired through Adam,。
whereas the new nature is the capacity to serve God and righteousness acquired through the new birth."。
So let's just be clear.。
You need to understand who you are because of Christ.。
Because of what Christ has done, you are completely new,。
which means you have a completely new capacity.。
Without Christ, you only have one capacity,。
and that capacity is to serve Satan, sin, and self.。
If you struggle with porn, you're well acquainted with that capacity.。
You're like, "I know my capacity to not want to look at porn ever again,。
and then an hour later, I'm looking at porn."。
You know your capacity really well that, "You know what? Today, I'm going to be strong."。
And then you're scrolling, and it's like, "I'll be strong tomorrow, but tonight I can't be strong."。
But Christ is saying, "Look, you--the biggest lie you can believe。
is that I've saved you, but I haven't changed you."。
And what a lie from the pit of hell that Christ has saved you, but he hasn't changed you.。
The reality is he has made you new, and he sent his spirit.。
God himself lives inside of you, which means you have a new capacity to serve God.。
The theologian Douglas Moo, he says this, he says, "You have been brought into the sphere of God's power."。
Listen to what Paul says in Ephesians 1:18. Don't miss this.。
He says, "I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened."。
You know what he's saying? He's saying, "Look, I just want you to see reality."。
Like, if you know Jesus, open your eyes.。
See the truth about you.。
"I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened, in order that you may know the hope to which he has called you,。
the riches of his glorious inheritance and his holy people."。
Watch this. "And his incomparably great power." For who? For us who believe.。
What kind of power is it? Don't miss this.。
"That power is the same as the mighty strength he exerted when he raised Christ from the dead。
and seated him at the right hand in the heavenly realms."。
Do you understand what that's saying?。
It's saying that the same power that raised Jesus Christ from the dead actually lives inside of you.。
Like, do you realize that?。
So, if you're sitting there saying, "I have no hope. There's no way I'll ever be done with porn."。
To say there is no hope is to say that God himself is powerless over your sin.。
Know your God-enabled capacity.。
Next, know your God-given identity.。
Know your God-given identity.。
Do you know what my problem was for so long?。
I was a follower of Jesus Christ, and yet I was operating as a stereotypical college guy.。
Everyone struggles with porn.。
But that's not the truest thing about you.。
If you know Jesus Christ, you're a child of God.。
Listen to what Paul says in Ephesians 5.1. He says, "Therefore, be imitators of God."。
If we only stop there, then we're like, "Oh, here we go. Thanks for making me feel like a failure.。
How do I imitate God? It's impossible."。
He says, "Therefore, be imitators of God." How?。
As beloved children.。
Your identity should determine your activity.。
I love what Louis Giglio said.。
He said, "Be imitators of God as beloved children."。
If you break down that word "beloved," what two words does it form?。
Be loved.。
You know why so many of us run to porn?。
It's because we're trying to fill a void of love.。
Like, we feel undesirable, unlovable.。
We feel insecure, and so it's just safer.。
It's easier. It pacifies a gnawing pain in our souls.。
That Jesus desperately wants to satisfy.。
If you want to just take a step with porn and freedom from it,。
then start allowing yourself to be loved by God.。
As His child.。
We're His children.。
And then listen to what Paul says in 1 Corinthians 6, 19-20.。
He says, "Do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you,。
whom you have from God? You're not your own.。
You've been bought with the price of glorified God in your body."。
Do you know what Paul's saying? He's saying, "You know what?。
Your body, when you put your trust in Christ,。
do you know what it became? It became a temple of the Holy Spirit."。
That word in the Greek, it means that your body is a sacred shrine,。
a sanctuary, or the place where deity dwells.。
So you're not just a stereotypical guy or a stereotypical young adult woman.。
You're a child of God, but you're the temple of God.。
So when you begin to acclimate to your real identity,。
it's like, "Look, no, no, no. I'm a child of God.。
God, how do you want me to interact with porn as your child?。
Is this what your children do?。
If I'm your house, if you live in me, is this what we want in your house?。
If I'm your sacred shrine, your sanctuary where you dwell,。
is this what we want to be looking at?"。
It changes your activity.。
And then finally, know your strategy.。
Know the truth, and the truth will set you free.。
Know your strategy.。
I would encourage everyone to answer these three questions.。
Here they are.。
What do you need to start? What do you need to stop?。
And who can help?。
Someone set their alarm, they're like, "He should be done by now.。
Like, if he's not done by now, I'm going to set my alarm。
and tell him it's time to land that plane, bro.。
Heard, heard.。
Heard, chef, okay."。
Know your strategy.。
Let me just rattle off a few things.。
What do you need to start?。
Let me encourage you, start memorizing Scripture.。
David says this in Psalm 119--or the author of Psalm 119 says,。
"How can a young man keep his way pure?。
By guarding it according to your word."。
When I was making my way out of porn, I slept on a loft bed.。
If that doesn't remind you of college, I don't know what will,。
but I was sleeping on a loft, and I just wrote all these Scriptures。
on note cards, and I taped them above my head,。
so that at night I was just going to bed, meditating on God's Word.。
And when I woke up in the morning, I was just meditating on God's Word.。
And by the power of His Spirit, it began to transform me.。
Begin to memorize Scripture.。
Second, something you might need to start is you might need to start quitting every day.。
Don't quit porn for a lifetime.。
It's too big of a declaration.。
Quit every day.。
Wake up and say, "God, today, today, today,。
would you let me go 24 hours without sinning against you with pornography?"。
I would wake up every morning and just say, "God, today,。
I'm just one step away from looking at porn.。
God, would you fill me with your Spirit?。
Would your standard for purity be my purity?。
And when I'm tempted, would you help me to take the way of escape?"。
Quit every day.。
Number three, rehearse your identity.。
Wake up every morning and say, "God, look, I'm a child.。
I don't want to act like a stereotypical woman, stereotypical male.。
When I'm your child, help me to live like your child."。
Pray constantly.。
Set an alarm to go off every 30 minutes.。
That was an example earlier.。
But set an alarm, and each time it goes off, just pray.。
Say, "God, I'm your child.。
Help me to live like your child right now for the next 30 minutes.。
Would you empower me with the same power that raised Christ from the dead?"。
Next, dignify and humanize those you are tempted by.。
What do I mean by that?。
I mean, when you're scrolling on Instagram and you see someone that you just want to camp out on,。
start praying for them.。
Think about their story.。
That's someone's son or someone's daughter.。
That person is someone that needs the gospel just as much as you need them.。
Who knows what their story is in life?。
Who knows what brokenness they have in their own life that only Jesus can satisfy?。
Start praying for them.。
Dignify them.。
Humanize them.。
They're a real person.。
Get help from friends to lock your phone down.。
Like, dumb your phone down.。
Make it as unsmart as possible.。
And then I'd encourage you to rehearse the consequences.。
This might blow your mind, but after 19 years of being free from porn,。
I still get tempted to look at porn.。
Isn't that crazy?。
Like, the other day I was going to be in a hotel room by myself,。
and I was like, "Man, it'd be so nice to look at porn tonight."。
It's been 19 years, and I thought, "Man, it'd be so nice to look at porn tonight."。
But now the conversation in my head is, "That's not even an option.。
It's not even an option."。
If I look at porn, I'm going to feel like a failure because God has done so much for me.。
That'd be a rejection of His love.。
I'm going to have to tell my wife that this is what I chose to do when I'm away from her.。
I'm going to have to tell my kids that this is what their dad was doing when dad was away from you guys.。
I'm going to have to come to church and tell elders here, like,。
"Hey, let me just tell you, you can't trust me when I travel."。
So one of the things you can do is just rehearse the consequences.。
You know what you're going to realize?。
It's just not worth it.。
Just look at the backside of porn.。
Just look at the backside.。
Just walk around and look at the backside of that 15 minutes of looking, that orgasm,。
and then reality comes into view.。
It's like, "Well, there we go. Starting over again."。
Just rehearse the consequences.。
What do you need to stop?。
You might need to stop looking at social media.。
Some of you are like, "No, please, not that."。
Your phone knows what you want to see.。
Stop streaming ranch of shows.。
Get rid of those streaming services altogether.。
Make more time for reading, exercising, and being with godly friends.。
I promise you, you'll experience more life and joy and energy.。
And then who can help?。
Answer that question, who can help?。
If you're like, "I don't have anyone to help."。
Monday nights, regeneration.。
Right here in this room, 630.。
Regeneration.。
It is for people just like you and me,。
who are trying to pursue freedom from all different things in life.。
We'd love to have you here.。
Commit to walking in the light with a couple of friends.。
Text some friends before you leave tonight.。
If you're here with some friends, just be honest with them.。
Say, "Look, I need your help."。
But answer those three questions.。
What do you need to stop?。
What do you need to start?。
And who can help?。
Now I'll just close by saying,。
"Look, maybe for some of you, the place to start is just by surrendering your life to Jesus."。
Maybe you're sitting there saying,。
"Look, you're telling me that even after struggling with porn for 5 years, 10 years, 15 years,。
God would still want me to be his child?。
Absolutely.。
You're telling me after I've spent all this time using my body to look at porn,。
to masturbate to porn,。
you're telling me that God would even think about coming to live inside of me?。
Absolutely.。
Because that's what a good God does.。
The God of heaven and earth looked upon us.。
And in his love,。
he sent his Son.。
And Jesus Christ has come to rescue you and me,。
to free you and me.。
So that we could move from free porn to being porn free.。
So that we could have hope.。
So that we could have peace.。
So that we could have joy.。
So that we could find our deepest satisfaction in the one that we were made for, Jesus Christ.。
If that's you tonight,。
maybe God brought you here to hear a talk on the most random topic in your mind,。
and yet he brought you here to just say,。
"Look, tonight you're going to be mine.。
I want you in my family.。
I want you to be my child.。
I want you to experience all of my love, all of my forgiveness tonight."。
Let's pray together.。
And so,。
look, I know I've gone long tonight,。
but I'm going to ask you to engage in this moment for a minute.。
If you're here tonight, and look, I'm not trying to tweak emotions.。
I don't want anyone doing anything that isn't real right now.。
This is just an opportunity for those who are sitting there like,。
"God's doing something in my life."。
If you're here tonight,。
and you just sense that God is just saying,。
"Tonight you're going to be mine.。
Tonight I want you to give your life to me."。
God is inviting you to put your trust in him,。
to receive Christ for the forgiveness of your sins.。
Just with your eyes closed, would you slip up your hand tonight。
so I know exactly who I'm talking to in this place tonight?。
Okay, if that's you, then let me just ask you,。
right now, to tell God what you believe to be true.。
You just say, "God, I believe that you sent Jesus to die for me.。
I believe that Christ conquered sin for me.。
I want Jesus to be my Lord and Savior."。
Just tell him, say, "God, I give my life to you tonight.。
I surrender my life to you tonight."。
And then I want to...。
I just want to ask some people here,。
maybe you've been struggling with porn for a long time,。
and you've never told anyone.。
You don't have to do this if you're struggling with porn.。
I just want to give it as an opportunity.。
Maybe you just need to be known for a minute.。
Maybe this is just between you, me, and God.。
If you're sitting there just saying,。
"Look, for the first time, I just need to be known.。
I'm ready to be done with this.。
I'm tired of this. I'm tired of the secrecy."。
If that's you, it would just be helpful for you,。
with everyone's eyes closed, to slip up your hand and just say,。
"Yeah, you're talking to me. I'm tired of this.。
I've never told anyone about this,。
but I just need to be known right now in this moment,。
at least by God and that guy on the stage.。
Porn is kind of my deal right now."。
Just put your hand up real quick.。
If that's you, I just want to invite you right now to just say,。
"God, I know you see me.。
I'm just going to trust that you love me。
and that you're for me。
and that there's hope for me.。
Would you give me hope today?"。
We're going to sing in a minute.。
It's going to just be an opportunity for you to respond.。
If you need to get on your knees to confess before the Lord, you can.。
If you want to stand and praise and gratitude。
that God has moved you towards freedom,。
if you need to sit there and text a friend to just say,。
"Look, I need your help," there's just a space to respond.。
And so I pray, Lord God, I pray I speak the name of Jesus。
over this room tonight and the power that is found solely in his name,。
Lord, I pray that there would be a movement among young adults。
in Dallas, Texas, and all over this nation。
of young adults just saying, "Look, Jesus is better.。
I want Jesus. I want freedom."。
So Lord, would you come and move in our lives tonight?。
We need you and love you.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
