(phone ringing)。
(phone dialing)。
- You have seven unheard messages.。
- Hey, sorry I haven't texted.。
I'm just not really sure what I'm feeling right now.。
- Hey yo Danny, where you at bro?。
I'll see you soon, all right?。
- Hey, so I have moved on,。
but I feel like the Lord keeps putting you back。
on my heart for a reason.。
So please call me back.。
- Hey bro, hey, I know you're going through it right now,。
but listen, I found another girl at the farmer's market now.。
She's not a farmer, but she is on the market.。
Okay, so hit me back, love you bro.。
- No, I'm sure this is the right number,。
but last night was a mistake.。
I was just hoping we could keep that between us.。
- Hey, just wanted to say,。
I don't think I can make it tonight.。
Yeah, I've just been thinking about us a lot lately。
and we need to talk.。
(audience cheering)。
- Porsch, how we doing?。
We doing okay tonight?。
It's great to see you.。
You're here for a good one.。
We're really excited for where we're going。
over the course of the evening.。
So thanks for making the time to be here.。
Dallas, love that you're in the room as always.。
We never take that for granted,。
but special shout out also to everyone。
that's tuning in online.。
We love everyone that would choose to give us。
a little moment of their evening to be a part。
of what God is doing in this room and rooms all over,。
particularly our Porsch Live locations.。
Shout out Porsch Live, Greater Lafayette, Fresno,。
and Scottsdale.。
We all give it up for everybody tuning in online right now.。
Well, hey, if you were to survey my college roommates。
and myself, what you would find is we had a lot in common.。
You see, we were all business majors。
and we were serving in the same organizations.。
There we go.。
We all played sports in high school,。
which meant we were overly competitive in college。
and well past our prime at that point.。
But it didn't slow us down.。
We were all followers of Jesus.。
Like we loved reading his word and engaging with his people。
and doing the best that we could to be faithful to him.。
And we were single,。
meaning that we knew little to nothing。
about the opposite sex.。
And yet, even though we were single,。
we were like-minded in the sense that。
we really wanted to find love.。
So over the course of our college career,。
we all had our fair share of attempts.。
We took our shots and we miserably failed。
over the course of our four-year experience.。
You see, we had so much in common,。
but the minute you injected us with a little bit of love,。
we found is we did really dumb things.。
We all went a variety of directions。
because love makes people crazy.。
So just to give you some perspective,。
maybe you'll relate to some of this.。
One of my roommates, he was the hometown heartthrob.。
Like the guy, he looked good, he smelled good,。
he had great hair.。
That's not weird, I shared a bathroom with him.。
We, he had straight, perfectly white teeth.。
He was an athletic guy, built real well.。
There was not a girl that he would ask on a date。
that would not say no to him。
because, hey, he was worth a shot.。
And yet, he was a hopeless romantic.。
He didn't play the field much。
because he had an ideal that he wanted to find.。
So he didn't fall often, but when he fell,。
he fell very hard.。
You know this guy.。
Another one of my roommates.。
He was the perennial date party favorite.。
He was the guy that girls loved to take to date parties。
because he had the most disarming personality。
and they just had an incredible time.。
It was such a blast always having him with them.。
And yet, nothing ever really materialized from that evening.。
The reason why is because he's a pretty chill kind of guy.。
Romance never really rocked him much.。
Another roommate of mine, well, he was clueless.。
So clueless, in fact, that he found himself。
stringing along not one, but two girls at the same night,。
completely unbeknownst to him.。
He didn't realize that they were bringing baked goods,。
cookies and brownies and muffins。
as a sign of their affection.。
He just thought that they were being friendly,。
but they had a very different perspective。
on it all together.。
The fourth of my roommates, he was the classic party guy.。
Like he never took anything seriously except his grades,。
meaning he never took a dating relationship serious,。
but for some reason, he was the one that figured it out。
because lo and behold, one day we looked up。
and he was in a relationship.。
And then there was me.。
And I was confusing, to say the least,。
probably because I was confused.。
I had commitment issues.。
My heart would tell me one thing,。
but my mind would tell me something different.。
You see, when you injected us with love,。
what we realized is we were a dizzying array。
of different directions.。
And yet, we all wanted it.。
What was wild is we were a reliable group of dudes.。
We were consistently kind to people.。
We were trustworthy with our word.。
We tried to move with an honorable approach。
towards other people.。
And yet, the minute we found ourselves falling,。
we started crushing or catching feelings.。
We were anything but predictable.。
Sound like anybody you know?。
You see, love has a polarizing and powerful effect。
on the lives of people.。
In this room alone, there are dozens of different reactions。
to just the screen behind me.。
You hear that we're in a dating series,。
and some of you, you rolled up tonight because of it,。
that you cannot wait for what's coming in the weeks ahead.。
You've already blocked off your calendar。
because you don't know where we're going,。
but you wanna be here for every single week.。
And yet, some of you, you did not roll up because of it.。
You rolled your eyes。
because it's just another dating series at the porch.。
Others of you, you get the idea of,。
man, I identify with that hopeless romantic.。
I'm hoping that I can find the perfect person.。
Maybe they're down the aisle.。
While others of you are not hopelessly romantic,。
you're cautiously optimistic.。
Maybe there's something over the course of these weeks。
that you'll learn that you have not known before.。
Regardless of where you fall within the spectrum。
on romantic relationships or finding love,。
we all go a different and dizzying direction。
whenever it comes to this specific topic.。
Some of you, you adopt traditional relationships.。
Others, you move into polyamorous dating.。
Some of you, you're deep-liking somebody at the office,。
while others are sitting in a situation ship。
where you're reaping all the benefits,。
but you're not actually making any of the commitment.。
Others, you've downloaded。
whatever dating app there is this month,。
and you're scrolling your way along,。
trying to filter out who will。
and who will not earn your affection.。
We go a smattering of different ways。
when this thing comes up.。
And yet, the truth is,。
we all have an intrinsic longing for this thing.。
You are like me and my roommates from school.。
And so this series is meant to be a service to you.。
I'll be really clear.。
I'm not diving into this。
because I just want to generate a bunch of likes。
or clicks or approval.。
That's not our desire.。
We genuinely want to be helpful。
over the course of this series.。
And we think the way that we've crafted it,。
will be so for you.。
We know that people want to find relationships.。
There's a deep desire within you individually,。
more than likely to find love,。
no different than ourselves.。
And the reason I know that。
is because the statistics back it up.。
I'm not going to bore you with a bunch of research.。
Trust me, I have done it.。
I did not want to stand on this stage。
and talk about this topic。
and not have any credibility in the conversation,。
but to spare you all of the data,。
I'll share a couple of things,。
just so you know,。
this is something we broadly want together.。
You see one survey found,。
that within young adults, 85% believe,。
I don't need a long-term relationship。
to find fulfillment in my life.。
I don't need that.。
85%, that's like the majority of this room.。
And yet within that same survey, 83%.。
So virtually the exact same number said,。
you know what?。
I do anticipate tying the knot at some point in my future.。
That feels wildly confusing.。
What are we saying when we read that survey?。
What we realize is people are saying,。
you know what?。
I don't need love,。
but it sure would be nice to snuggle up。
to someone every single night。
and spend the rest of my life with them.。
Another survey told us, according to Tinder,。
which is the most downloaded dating app。
among young adults,。
that Gen Z signaled within their relationship goals。
on their profile,。
more than any other intent,。
that they wanted long-term relationships.。
Why is that surprising?。
Because Tinder's not the place。
where you look for long-term relationships.。
Like their interface is all about hot or not, right?。
Like you swipe depending upon what they look like。
and what their first line is.。
It is not the place to look for long-term relationships.。
And yet even people on Tinder are saying,。
no, that's what I want,。
to bring it outside of the world and into this room.。
We surveyed you.。
And what we realized is that 70% of you。
identified as single.。
Not to out you like that,。
I don't know how it leaves you feeling,。
but what you need to know is that you also said。
the one serious topic we want to learn about。
is we want to learn about romance in relationships.。
Which you put those things together。
and what you realize is I'm single and I want love.。
Help me figure out the way forward on this.。
It's clear.。
We want relationships.。
We want to find love.。
And yet, as you observe the romantic landscape of our day,。
what you see is that although we want to be。
in a relationship, we are more romantically disconnected。
and discouraged than any other group in history.。
According to Pew Research, 42% of young adults,。
people like you, 42%,。
have never been in a committed relationship.。
Now, that excludes camp crushes and summer flings。
because a committed relationship would be one。
that stands the test of time,。
that says I'm in this for the long haul.。
Roughly half have never found themselves in that spot.。
And yet, despite the fact that that's true,。
we know that nearly half of those would say。
I would commit to a long-term relationship。
upwards of driving three hours if I could find love today.。
Like that's how deep the desire goes.。
In the US Census Bureau, maybe you've heard this before。
because this is passed around a lot。
when it comes to your generation,。
but what you hear is that the average age。
of first marriage has moved further and further。
and further down the timeline.。
At one time, it was 23, 25 years old,。
and yet now it's 28 for girls, and some odd change,。
and 30 for guys, meaning it has grown。
increasingly later in life.。
Why is that?。
Like it begs the question.。
If we have a desire for marriage,。
but there's a delay in that commitment,。
what's the issue?。
What's the reason?。
Well, I think it's pretty plain.。
While we want to find love, we do not know where to look.。
Like that's the summary of those two ideas together.。
And let me just say, like that's not your fault.。
Like I'm not looking at you and pointing at the finger。
and being like, man, everybody in a bygone era,。
they figured this thing out.。
How come you haven't figured it out?。
That's not what I'm saying.。
You have been dealt an interesting hand.。
You live at a time amidst the advent of technology。
and the globalization of society,。
which has created a really sophisticated dating dynamic.。
It's interesting, particularly with Gen Z.。
I know we've got millennials in the room as well,。
but Gen Z is kind of being identified。
as the contradictory generation。
because the day in which we live is confusing.。
It's difficult.。
And yet, though that is true,。
and you can't change the circumstances of your life,。
what's going on in our world,。
it is helpful for us to discern.。
If I have a desire for romantic connection,。
why then is there a delay in my romantic commitment?。
So I wanna share a few reasons with you。
that I think could be helpful.。
The first reason is there's a tendency。
to set unrealistic expectations.。
We paint a picture in our minds,。
make a checklist of all the different things。
that we wanna find in our perfect somebody.。
He'll be this tall, he'll have this hair,。
he'll look this good.。
And yet what we realize is that we're often waiting。
for that person to magically appear in our lives.。
For you ladies, you're looking for someone。
that is ruggedly handsome.。
You want him to be emotionally mature,。
charmingly convincing.。
And yet what you're looking for。
is you're looking for someone that looks like Glenn Powell,。
talks like Harry Styles,。
and processes like Timothee Chalamet.。
And I'll break it to you, you're not gonna find him.。
Like that guy does not exist.。
He for sure is not in this room, nor is he in any room.。
Because the truth of the matter is,。
that is a unicorn and those do not exist.。
Guys, you're much easier.。
You're looking for a Christian Sidney Sweeney.。
You know, like that's kind of the thing。
that you're hoping to find.。
You laugh because you know it's true.。
And yet we have set unrealistic expectations.。
And the truth of the matter is,。
we're holding people to standards。
that we're not willing to hold ourselves。
to the same standard of.。
And because of it, we are delaying our ability。
to commit in relationship.。
I see some guys out there patting each other。
on the shoulder like, yeah, man, that's you.。
The second reason for others of us。
is we're training for variety.。
It's you right there, man.。
We're training for variety.。
We live in a day where you can,。
by just the pull of your phone,。
you can peruse through thousands。
of different romantic suitors。
with just the swipe of your hand.。
And the thing is, you can do it at any time。
and in any place you want.。
You can do it in an Uber,。
you can do it first thing in the morning when you wake up.。
I don't recommend that.。
You can do it when you're at the gym,。
sitting at the office, don't recommend that one either.。
Or, and we know this has actually happened,。
you can do it here in this room.。
We have seen people match with people。
at the porch on a Tuesday night。
that they've passed by 100 times before。
and yet they did not have the courage。
nor boldness to walk up to。
and actually ask them for their number.。
I'm not pointing fingers,。
but the evidence would say,。
long gone are the days, the dangers。
of walking up to someone because you know what?。
They might be worth initiating with face to face.。
Instead, we're worried that might be too cringe.。
And so we choose to avail ourselves。
to all of the endless options。
and we swipe our way along,。
looking at different people and evaluating。
whether or not they're worth my time.。
And we give power to our preferences。
over the dateability of someone.。
And ultimately what we're doing。
is we never commit for fear of missing out on someone better.。
But these are just a couple of reasons.。
Another one would be that we're waiting。
until you're financially settled,。
which I get, like getting married and settling down。
and having kids and buying a house.。
That's all expensive to do.。
And the reality is you're not unwise。
for wanting to be financially prepared for marriage.。
That's a good thing.。
You should be financially prepared.。
But the issue is we're not waiting。
to be financially prepared.。
We're waiting to be financially prominent.。
So many of you,。
you're not making yourself romantically available。
because what you want is you want to get that job。
or be in that department or move into that neighborhood。
or have this kind of car or take those specific trips.。
And while you want to be dating and married at some point,。
man, that is really inconvenient to my ambitions in life.。
So I'm just going to wait.。
Others of you, you're indulging sexual desire。
and you're not doing it within the confines of marriage。
as God would ordain.。
Instead, you're doing it outside.。
Now, let me be clear.。
You're not typically associated with the hookup generation.。
That was Gen Xers。
and even millennials defended that themselves.。
But what you need to know。
is you are still considered sexually positive.。
One specific researcher quoted that Gen Z specifically。
is the kinkiest generation yet.。
From hentai pornography to paranormal romance novels。
to friends with benefits.。
Sex is as much on the rise as it has always been.。
People would say, but there's a sex recession.。
There's not a lust recession。
that is still as much an issue today。
as we have seen in decades past.。
Others of you, you're living in a post-pandemic society.。
We all are.。
Like, can we just acknowledge COVID changed things?。
Like, I know that it's weird to talk about。
because that happened back then。
and we don't really like to look in the rear view.。
But the truth is it changed everything。
about the way you live your day.。
It changed so much of what we do。
and where we work and where we live.。
Today, there are more remote work arrangements。
than ever before.。
Hours spent gaming and young adults。
living with their parents than in times past.。
I'm not making an enemy out of any of that。
to be abundantly clear,。
but I just think it's important for us to acknowledge。
the fact that as we've seen an increase in those realities,。
there's likely a correlation。
between the increase of those things。
and an increase we're also seeing。
between individualization,。
sexual dormancy, and friendlessness.。
We're seeing that as we find fewer and fewer opportunities。
to engage with other people and meaningfully connect,。
so too are we losing the skillset to socialize。
in a way that will lead to relationship.。
Others, you're adopting alternative relationship structures.。
Things like poly dating and ethical non-monogamy。
and open relationships are more prevalent now than ever.。
And while it seems to make logical sense。
and get a fuller sexual experience,。
you're able to explore a variety of different forms of love,。
you're less pressured to fulfill your partner,。
what happens is when people spread themselves。
between their social circle,。
they find that they are losing the ability。
to commit and care for an individual person。
and serve their soul.。
These are just some of the reasons。
why we're seeing a desire for a romantic connection。
ultimately met with a delay in romantic commitment.。
I don't know how that leaves you feeling.。
I know that as I processed it,。
read all the articles, looked at all the data,。
studied the statistics, and I did a lot of that,。
I realized that while we're looking for a good。
and a right thing,。
we are looking at a bad in a wrong way.。
So tonight, before we dive into all the hard questions。
that we're going to investigate in this series,。
things like why am I still single。
and is dating supposed to be this hard。
and why does this keep happening to me。
and how far is too far?。
As we look at all those questions,。
I think that before we get into any of them,。
we need to answer a preliminary question first.。
And that question is, will I ever find love?。
Will I ever find love?。
Because the reality is, as we look at the romantic landscape。
it does not look encouraging.。
When you consider where people are seeking instead,。
it doesn't look like anyone is ultimately discovering.。
And so tonight I want to help you find it.。
I want you to find love.。
I think it's possible.。
But we have to look in the right place.。
And so to help us figure out where that place is,。
you can turn with me to Genesis chapter two.。
It's the second page of your Bible.。
I know that was a lot of setup.。
We'll get into the scripture now.。
I just want to make sure we make a really good case for this。
before we get in.。
While you're turning there, let me just say this.。
Fundamental to everything we just walked through,。
all that myriad of reasons for why we're doing。
the things we're doing is actually a fundamentally。
good reason to seek love.。
And it's three things.。
Number one, we have a desire for connection。
and not just casual connection,。
but meaningful connection to other people.。
We want to link arms with someone。
and journey through life, through the highs and the lows.。
We want to race forward and find great companionship.。
Secondly, we want fulfillment.。
Not just that someone makes me happy,。
but we want someone that can come alongside us。
and help us achieve and develop and grow and succeed。
in the things that we think we've been called to.。
If you're a believer, particularly the things。
that God has called you to.。
And then thirdly, we want intimacy.。
Like we want someone to accept us。
and not just us on our best day, but us on our worst day.。
We want people to move near to us.。
We want people to know us.。
We want to be loved.。
And these are good things to desire.。
But more than that, they're not just good reasons。
to seek love, they're God reasons to seek love.。
We see that in the very beginning of the Bible。
as he starts talking to the very first relationship。
in human history, he unpacks for them。
the very reasons why he has brought them together.。
And it's these reasons, this is what we're gonna see。
in that first relationship as man and woman。
find love together, what they're going to also see。
is they particularly find a love with God.。
And so here's what we'll do.。
We'll look at a handful of verses in Genesis 1 and 2.。
We'll start in two, and you can just kind of track。
with me as we go.。
We're gonna look at verse 18 first, Genesis 2, 18.。
This is what it says.。
"Then the Lord God said, 'It is not good。
that man should be alone.。
I will make a helper fit for him.'"。
Let me just ask, don't you just feel so seen by God。
when you read that?。
It's not good for man to be alone.。
Thank you, God, I agree.。
Please send someone soon.。
Like this scripture is certainly speaking。
to your longing for relationship.。
That's not a bad thing.。
But what you need to know is that in Genesis 2,。
what's in view here is actually bigger than marriage.。
What God is speaking to is he's speaking。
to something more significant that's not just available。
for the select few who find themselves。
in covenantal relationship, but for all his people。
that find themselves in God's family.。
Because that word man in Hebrew is the word human,。
which means it's not good for human to be alone.。
God is not saying it isn't good for a guy to be single.。
He's saying it isn't good for a person to be lonely,。
which many of you hear that and you're like,。
yeah, man, I get that.。
That makes complete sense to me。
because in this room right now,。
we are here for yes, a smattering of different reasons.。
Some of you are here 'cause you wanna see your community。
and others of you are here。
because you're serving here tonight.。
Others of you, you're here。
because you want to meet someone new.。
Others of you are here because you wanna meet。
that special person that's gonna be new.。
You're trying to stoke the fire.。
You know, like you're trying to make moves in this space。
and the reality is whatever your reasons may be,。
we are all here more than likely。
because we want to meet other people,。
engage with other people.。
We want to connect to other people.。
And God says, hey, that's a good thing.。
You want meaningful connection to other people.。
I want you to have a meaningful connection to other people.。
When you read this account,。
particularly when you go back to Genesis 1。
and you look at the creation account,。
what you see is God gets into kind of a rhythm。
for how he's creating the world.。
He creates day one, day two, day three,。
and every single day, it's good.。
He makes light and dark and it's good.。
He makes sea and sky and it's good.。
He makes land and vegetation and it's good.。
But when you get to the end of his creation narrative,。
what you find is that he looks upon Adam。
and he says for the very first time, that's not good.。
It's not good that man is alone,。
which begs the million dollar question.。
What makes something good?。
It's relationship.。
It's togetherness.。
And the reason we know that is because as God creates,。
you can go and track this.。
As he creates, he creates everything。
with a corresponding companion.。
He creates light and dark and to them,。
he gives sun, moon, and stars.。
He creates sea and sky and to it,。
he gives fish and birds of the air。
to land and vegetation.。
He gives beasts of the field and humanity itself.。
And yet when you get to Genesis two and you zoom in,。
you see that God, he looks at upon Adam。
and he realizes there's something not good here.。
And it's the fact that there's no good companion for him.。
So he makes Eve.。
You ever thought about that?。
Like why did God make Eve for Adam?。
Like there's a whole world of created beings,。
other creatures that Adam,。
I mean, he kind of swipes left all the way through。
and he realizes none of these are suitable for me.。
And what he realizes is that man,。
God could have set him up with a horse,。
you know, cowboys, they use horses.。
That's a good partner animal.。
Or, you know, maybe he wasn't a dog person.。
You know, I guess that man's best friend。
wouldn't really work as a suitable helper.。
It begs the question,。
what was the reason for which he needed a companion?。
Well, we see it in Genesis one,。
we get the answer, verse 26.。
And then God said, let us make man in our image。
after our likeness.。
So God created man in his own image.。
In the image of God, he created him male and female.。
He created them.。
It's interesting when you read the creation account,。
you see God, he speaks everything into being,。
but then he slows down when he comes to man。
and he actually makes man himself.。
To dignify the ladies in the room,。
everything is a voice or dust,。
but when he makes her, he fashions her from Adam.。
You see, God, he desires an intentional relationship with us。
and the reason why he brings us to one another。
is because he knows what we need to know,。
which is we reflect God's love when we connect to others.。
We reflect God's love when we connect to others.。
Like one person cannot reflect God alone.。
We need each other for that purpose.。
It's through a relationship to someone。
that this is possible.。
If you think about it, God,。
he is three co-equal, co-eternal persons。
and yet he is one in essence all at the same time.。
He is father, son, and Holy Spirit.。
And yet what he is doing is he brings Adam to Eve,。
is he brings not three in one, but two to one.。
And he says, I want you to experience the same depth。
and meaning of relationship that I myself experience,。
the kind of loving union I have in my own person。
because I want you to relate to me.。
I stand in the altar of weddings all the time.。
I get the privilege of officiating different couples。
that are tying the knot.。
And it's one of my favorite things to say to them,。
hey, what you're doing today is so significant。
for a variety of reasons.。
And yet one of the biggest reasons it's so significant。
is the two of you come together,。
you're actually getting to taste a little piece。
of what God experiences within himself.。
You see, God, he is consisting of deeply meaningful。
and intimately connected relationships.。
And that's what you get to be a part of。
whenever you find yourself in marriage.。
You see, that's why if you want to find love,。
you have to find God.。
If you wanna find love, you gotta find God。
because he made it.。
I don't know if you've thought of that,。
but he's actually the one that came up with the idea.。
It's not just that he created love.。
You actually read that God is love.。
Three times in the scriptures,。
you see that God identifies as something,。
that his very essence is something, love, light, and spirit.。
And yet when he says, I am love,。
he's saying, as I've created all things,。
I have woven love into the fabric of it all.。
And so if you want to find love in your life,。
you need to find him.。
Like, if your car breaks down,。
you're probably not just gonna pop the hood。
and just start tinkering around。
if you don't actually know what's going on.。
Why?。
Because that could be consequential.。
It could actually set you back more money。
than if you just opened the user's manual。
and asked the people that actually knew what was going on.。
That's what we have to do with love.。
God is hardwired into your heart,。
this longing for connection.。
And the reason he did is he wants you。
to experience what he experiences.。
Isn't that amazing?。
How kind of God is that?。
Now, as I say that,。
I know what some of you are wondering, Kylan,。
but I'm single.。
So are you telling me that I'm never gonna be able。
to understand the love of God。
because I don't have a spouse?。
No, that's not what I'm saying.。
Because what we realize is this is, again,。
it's not just mainly about marriage,。
it's about relationship.。
And in Christ, we have found not just a salvation from sin,。
but a salvation to one another.。
We have been intimately acquainted to one another.。
We've been united by his blood to other people.。
He's given you relationship,。
meaningful connection to other believers,。
which means, as Paul says in Galatians 3:28,。
"There's neither Jew nor Greek, slave nor free,。
"male nor female, for you are all one in Christ."。
Meaning, yes, marriage is one way。
of being meaningfully connected to someone,。
but it's not the only way。
of being meaningfully connected to someone.。
So listen to me,。
you don't have to lower your standards to feel accepted.。
You don't have to rush to the altar with the wrong person,。
which some of you are doing right now,。
just so you can feel loved.。
You don't need to move in with your boyfriend。
or your girlfriend,。
that way you can feel like you're finally adulting.。
You certainly don't need to indulge a situationship。
just to get your emotional needs met.。
That's a proliferate problem in the church.。
Because with Jesus, you're not alone.。
You have us.。
Like Jesus is gathering a people to himself,。
and we're diverse, different languages,。
and different colors, and different personalities,。
and different occupations, and different backgrounds,。
and he's pulling us together,。
not just so we can be with him,。
but so we can be with one another.。
There's meaningful connection right here.。
You can relate to the love of God。
because you can relate to our love.。
You don't have to search for it in a spouse。
because you can seek it right here.。
That's the first thing.。
And it's an amazing thing,。
but God doesn't stop there.。
Because while we see God's plan for meaningful connection,。
we also see that he has a purpose for that connection.。
You see, Adam had a job to do,。
and yet he couldn't do that job alone.。
He needed a partner,。
which he doesn't find without a fair bit of effort,。
mind you.。
Again, God set that guy up,。
he who was single for less time。
than anybody else in all creation,。
and God was like, "Hey, you better get to work, man.。
"Name all these animals."。
And he did it.。
Like he seized the moment.。
He wasn't just pining away about what might be.。
He literally, he leveraged his singleness。
to do what God was asking.。
He knew I have a purpose in my life right now,。
and I'm gonna go fulfill it.。
And yet as he did it, he realized,。
"But God, I've searched everywhere, and she's not here.。
"Please help me, God.。
"There's no one to support me, partner with me,。
"actually serve as my companion。
"on this mission that you've given me."。
And so God, ultimately, he brings him in Eve.。
Now, what does he bring him Eve for?。
Well, we learn in Genesis 1, 28, it says this,。
"And God blessed them after making both Adam and Eve.。
"And he said to them, 'Be fruitful and multiply,。
"'and fill the earth and subdue it,。
"'and have dominion over the fish of the sea,。
"'and the birds and the heavens,。
"'and over every living thing that moves on the earth.'"。
You see, not only did God make man and woman in his image,。
but he made man and woman with his mission.。
God wants us to relate to his love。
through our union to one another,。
but he also wants us to cultivate his love。
on mission to this world.。
That's what God has invited us to be a part of.。
But here's the thing, in order to achieve that mission,。
we need someone else.。
That's why it says that Adam needed a helper fit for him.。
You see, he needed someone to help him。
not just experience God's love, but express God's love,。
which is your second point.。
When we experience the love of God,。
we express the love of God.。
And so Adam, he gets a helper.。
Now, ladies, don't bristle at the idea of helper.。
I don't have time to unpack this in depth,。
but what you need to know is the Hebrew there,。
which is etzer kenegdo is used 21 times。
in the Old Testament, 16 of which are used of God himself.。
He's a rescuer, deliverer.。
He is a savior to his people, and he is a helper.。
So you are on par with the Lord's own self-identification。
in this moment, meaning that she is not above Adam。
nor below Adam, she is side by side with Adam。
'cause she is equal in dignity,。
yet distinct in nature or role.。
So it's kind of like when you go and you put up a tent.。
Anytime you start the process of putting up a tent,。
what do you do?。
We pull all the poles out, you put them together,。
and then you identify those first two cross beams。
because you know those two beams together provide structure.。
If you didn't have them both, what would you have?。
Not a tent, probably a sail,。
which isn't useful for providing shelter。
or structure for anyone.。
You need both.。
You need not just one, but two。
that are equally long and equally strong。
for the job at hand.。
And so that's what God has done in giving Adam Eve.。
He has given him someone that is opposite of him,。
but equal to him, distinct, but equal,。
because the potential of one。
depends on the presence of the other.。
Adam's potential depends on the presence of Eve.。
Now, let me be clear.。
His potential depends on her,。
not in the sense that she exists to fulfill him.。
That's a crazy idea,。
this thought that I must find her so she will complete me.。
That is not at all what this is talking about,。
and nor should it be any sort of expectation。
on your life, ladies.。
If you have a man in your life that is looking at you。
and saying, "You must complete me.。
"You must awaken all the dormant desire within my soul.。
"You must curb every craving that I have,"。
get away from that guy, please,。
because that is an unbearable expectation。
to put on another person.。
You cannot bear it,。
and so you will ultimately disappoint him.。
That's not what this is talking about.。
This is not talking about helping fulfill someone's being,。
but helping fulfill someone's calling.。
Adam had a calling on his life,。
and so God gives him Eve so that way he can fulfill it.。
That's what she's doing,。
and that's what we do for one another,。
not just as husbands and wives,。
but as brothers and sisters to each other in Christ.。
This is the amazing thing.。
This is not solely reserved for whenever you find love,。
whenever you say, "I do,"。
whenever you hear the wedding bells。
and you march forward into marriage.。
This is not reserved for that moment.。
You see, we have received Christ's love,。
and so now we can share that love with the world.。
Like, we can continue the work。
of our first father and mother.。
We can cultivate the earth.。
We can take our classrooms,。
and we can make them into environments。
where children actually flourish.。
We can make our nursing rounds,。
and as we go, we can really carefully see the people。
that we're taking care of.。
We can hop on Zoom for that one-on-one or that team meeting,。
and we can make sure that there's time,。
not just for feedback, but for encouragement.。
We can organize our teams,。
and we can make sure that within our team environments,。
there's time for celebration as well.。
We want to be people who have received love and share love,。
who have experienced love and now express that love。
and bring forth flourishing into the rest of the world.。
This is what God's calling you into,。
and yet so many of us,。
we're waiting for that partner to come along into our lives。
so that way we can ultimately do what's fulfilling,。
feel fulfilled, and yet God's saying,。
"You don't have to wait for that.。
"You already have people around you。
"that can help you in that work."。
You see, you don't have to pair off with a person。
to feel fulfilled,。
because God has already united you。
into a purpose that is fulfilling.。
You tracking with that?。
That's his story.。
Like, the world was absent of love,。
and yet Christ came to give that love,。
not just so we could hoard that love。
but so that we could keep that love,。
but so that way we could extend that love,。
we could share it to other people.。
That way, they would feel meaningfully connected to us。
the same way we are to one another,。
and they could begin to be a part of the mission。
which we ourselves have been assigned to.。
Now, as I say all of that, here's the thing.。
I know some of you are here,。
and you're like, "Brother, I thought this was。
"a dating series.。
"This feels like a bait and switch."。
Like, I showed up expecting you to give me practical help。
on how to fix what's going on over here,。
or quick solutions so that way I could find someone special.。
This isn't what I thought it would be.。
And listen, I don't necessarily disagree with you,。
but I am somewhat discontent with this.。
Sure, meaningful connection with other people。
and not particularly with one only person,。
sure, I'm okay with that.。
Well, you know what, man?。
Yeah, you know what?。
It is crazy for me to think。
that one person will ever fulfill me.。
God probably has a purpose for my life。
that is going to be more fulfilling.。
I agree to that, but here's the thing, Kylan,。
before you move to this third one。
and you start talking to me about intimacy,。
what you need to realize is I don't just want that。
spiritually speaking, I want that romantically, please.。
God gets that, because that's where the passage ends.。
He's not diminishing your desire for love.。
You're longing for romance.。
As he continues, he actually shows you a picture of intimacy。
the likes of which we should all hope be true of our lives.。
We see it in Genesis 2, 24, 25.。
Like after God creates Eve,。
he brings her down the aisle of that very first wedding。
and he hands her over to the groom, Adam,。
and the wedding bells sound and they go on their merry way.。
And we read this,。
that a man shall leave his father and his mother。
and hold fast to his wife.。
That is romantic.。
And they shall become one flesh, more romantic.。
And the man and his wife were both naked。
and were not ashamed.。
That's about as intimate as it gets.。
They were naked and unashamed.。
What a beautiful picture.。
They're fully exposed to one another.。
They have nothing to hide.。
And they're fully embraced by the other.。
They have nothing to regret.。
Don't you want that?。
It lasts all about one page for this couple.。
They don't make it very far into the marriage。
before they realize that they're not enough.。
Perfect relationship.。
Perfect connection to each other.。
A perfect purpose to fulfill with one another.。
Perfect intimacy to enjoy together.。
And yet it ultimately falls to pieces around them.。
Why?。
Because they forgot God's love。
and they found self-love.。
And when they did, sin entered into the world。
and it broke everything.。
It took their connection and it shattered it.。
It took their purpose, all the fulfillment。
they were going to find, and it stole it.。
And it took their intimacy,。
that beautiful picture of what we just read,。
and they lost it.。
If we don't find a love with God,。
then we will not find a love like we want.。
We have to start with Him.。
That's where we have to begin.。
And that's why we've started here this evening.。
I remember years ago,。
when I was working in a different young adult ministry,。
we would have these prayer and worship nights,。
and there was one evening in specific。
where we looked at the room, a room of about 500 people,。
and we said, "Hey, we want you to just write down。
"whatever you need to confess to the Lord,。
"something you need to surrender to Him here tonight.。
"Maybe you haven't told Him, you can just write it down.。
"You don't have to say it out loud.。
"You can just say it to Him and you can leave it here。
"and you can actually move forward.。
"Maybe it's the first time of honest confession。
"in your life."。
And so we watched people write them down。
and leave these behind.。
And as we took them and we prayed and privately processed,。
what we found was heartbreaking,。
because what we saw written on these confession cards。
were sins of lost love, broken trust,。
lustful addiction, and hurting heart.。
And what was wild about it, so overwhelming to me,。
is it more than doubled the second most confessed sin。
that people left behind.。
People had been hurt in their pursuit of love.。
I don't want you to experience the same.。
The truth is, many of you have.。
The truth is, many of you will.。
And yet, if you want to find love, you must find God.。
You have to find Him yourself.。
And you gotta find somebody that's found Him too.。
We have to look for love where we forgot love.。
That's the final point.。
You find love where you forgot love.。
We forgot it.。
In that we forgot God, the giver of it.。
We left Him in the garden.。
We chose our own way.。
And as we forgot Him, we lost everything.。
And yet God, in His gracious kindness,。
He looks at us and says, "I'll come for you again."。
I know that this may not have been the start to the series。
that you were thinking it was gonna be,。
but it's the place that we need to be.。
We're gonna get to how to date and who to date。
and how to break up and how to move on.。
All of that stuff will come.。
And it will be easy if we get this right.。
We have to find love, and we find it by finding Him.。
And the reason we know that is because。
when we had forgotten about God before,。
God did not forget about us,。
in that He sent Christ to come get us.。
He sent our husband, our King, to come after us,。
to fight for us, to die for us, and to rise for us.。
So that way, we might not live a life。
where we're meaningfully disconnected,。
but meaningfully connected, both to Him and to one another.。
That we might step into a reality。
where our world is one filled with fulfillment。
because we live a life that is bigger than that of ourselves.。
We're racing towards the things of God instead.。
And because of Christ, we know that we can find love again。
because love has found us.。
Have you found Christ?。
If you do not, then the rest of this is useless.。
You have to begin with Him if you want to end with love.。
Let me pray that you would.。
God, thank you for tonight, for your word,。
and the sufficiency of it, the truth of it,。
the fact, God, that it meets us where we are,。
but it pushes us, God, where we need be.。
That's how gracious you are, Jesus.。
You're full of compassion that you meet us right here。
in whatever sort of circumstance we walked in with tonight.。
You're not disappointed, you're not angry,。
you're not mad nor upset.。
You see us where we are and in compassion,。
you stoop to meet us.。
And in your care, you take us from that place。
and into one that's better.。
You move us into your likeness.。
You lead us into your love.。
And so it's to you, Jesus, that we say,。
before we do anything else,。
before we actually pursue a relationship with someone else,。
we wanna pursue a relationship with you.。
We've gotta get this right。
if we're gonna get anything else right.。
And so, God, we humbly sit here and say,。
it's you that we want.。
We have found our love again.。
And it's to you that we worship.。
We're grateful, God, that in you we have all we need.。
And we're expecting, God, that in you we'll find more。
than we could ever want.。
It's in your name we pray, amen.。
