[MUSIC PLAYING]。
How we doing, Porch?。
[CHEERING]。
All right, welcome friends to the room, friends and partners.。
All right, how's it doing?。
What's up, Porch?。
How we doing tonight?。
How we doing, Porch?。
OK, hey, Porch, how we doing tonight?。
[CHEERING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
Tuesday night, these are the days.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
All right, well, Porch, how we doing?。
We doing good tonight?。
[CHEERING]。
So great to see you.。
So great to be back, man.。
I've loved seeing what has happened here。
over the last four weeks through Porch 20,。
bringing back some of the voices that。
have just been so influential over the course of our history.。
And yet there's been this little part of me。
that's just been jealous every single week。
because I have missed the opportunity of just opening。
God's word and teaching you.。
And so I am pumped to be back tonight.。
I'm so glad we've got people all across the room.。
If you're new in the space, what's up?。
It's great to have you.。
So glad you're here.。
We hope you feel welcome.。
Like genuinely, this is a space for any and every young adult.。
We're so glad that the summer just。
gives us a chance to kind of swing open the doors。
and invite new people in.。
So welcome.。
It's so great to have you.。
And then we've got people from all over the country。
tuning in with us as well.。
Porch Live, we love you guys.。
Special shout out to Porch Live Scottsdale, Porch Live Boise,。
and Porch Live Wheaton.。
You can put your hands together for them if you want to.。
There you go.。
Boise.。
Boise's crazy.。
Whenever we give them a shout out, they like flash the lights。
and they have a good time.。
It's pretty incredible.。
Hey, I've really loved what God has been doing here。
these last few weeks.。
We were just visiting as a team in the back。
and we were talking about what a privilege it。
is for us to get to step into these Tuesday nights。
and be a part of what God is doing.。
You see, there can be this temptation in big ministry。
spheres like the one we're sitting in tonight.。
Just think that we're here and we're just。
executing a service.。
And yet, I just hope you know from my heart, our team's heart,。
we're not interested in executing a service.。
We're very interested instead in acting as servants.。
That's what we believe God has asked us to do.。
We think that our greatest service to you。
is worshiping in truth and opening God's word。
and telling you what He has to say as opposed to anything。
that I think.。
And so I am really excited to get into the text with you,。
but I think it would be helpful for me just。
to set up the evening with a quick story.。
One of the unique occupational hazards。
of being a young adult pastor is that I。
get the privilege of journeying with engaged couples。
between their engagement to their wedding day.。
I get to do a lot of counseling.。
And yet, what happens over the course of my counseling。
young adults in engagement is a really interesting phenomenon.。
Because before people get engaged, what we realize。
is oftentimes they're willing to take it slow, keep their pace,。
be prayerful, discerning, deliberate, and take months,。
if not years, and I mean years, to finally put a ring on it.。
They're anything but in a rush.。
But the minute they put that ring on it, everything changes.。
Like no longer are they trying just。
to move casually through the romantic landscape.。
Instead, they are in a rush to get to the altar.。
They know, Kylan, that wedding, it's in 170 days,。
four hours, and 12 minutes.。
I've got to get there as soon as I can.。
The change is so dramatic.。
Before, they've got Pinterest boards。
with like 437 different photos and just。
slides and slides and slides of things。
that they want to be true, like centerpieces。
and floral arrangements.。
And they've already selected their color palette.。
They want dusty sunset sage.。
But the minute they decide to get married,。
they're looking at their Pinterest。
and they're thinking, we ain't got time for that.。
You think the courthouse is open on Tuesday?。
Because they're in a rush to go ahead。
and seal the deal before the engagement.。
I walk with couples that have so very intentionally,。
purposefully pursued purity with one another.。
And yet when they get engaged,。
it's like I'm trying to keep two magnets off of each other.。
They just want to touch constantly.。
This was what happens whenever people go。
from singleness to engagement.。
They find themselves in a moment where,。
because they know what's coming,。
waiting is the hardest thing to do in the world.。
Now, why do I tell you that?。
Because this is similar to our experience.。
You see, what engaged couples experience。
is they don't experience difficulty。
through the uncertainty of what they want.。
They definitely know what they want.。
What they're experiencing is the difficulty。
of inactivity instead.。
They're stuck in a holding pattern.。
They just want to get a move on.。
And for many of us, we know what that's like,。
because when we have clarity of what we want in life,。
yet we cannot gain traction in pursuit of that thing.。
And we find ourselves waiting on God。
to move us towards our destination.。
We can grow and see ourselves.。
I don't know what it is you're waiting for.。
I don't know if you're waiting to be married yourself,。
if you're waiting for the right job to come along。
to finally land that promotion,。
if you're waiting for that family member,。
that friend of yours to actually get well,。
if you're waiting for clarity。
of what God's purpose in your life is,。
if you're waiting for your pain to finally subside,。
whatever it is, it's easy to know what you want,。
but it is a much more difficult thing。
to actually wait for it.。
Which is why society has become so proficient。
at eliminating the need for waiting.。
Historically, humans spent most of their lives。
waiting within environments。
because rewards were often delayed.。
Like crops took months to actually grow,。
travel took days in the car as a family,。
entertainment actually had to be planned.。
And if you wanted to get out there。
and actually like find information,。
if you were doing research,。
you would have to consult with an expert,。
read through the paper, go to the public library.。
Do we even still have those?。
This is what you would have to do。
if you were trying to gather information for yourself.。
For all of human history,。
waiting was a normal part of your experience,。
but such is not the case any longer.。
We don't live in a patient culture.。
We live in an instant culture.。
And what's crazy is it has happened within our generation.。
Like before, you would wait weeks for a letter to arrive.。
And yet now you're wondering,。
are those three gray dots。
ever actually going to turn into a message?。
Before, you would wait what felt like forever。
for photos to develop.。
And yet now you delete something like 47 selfies。
before you walk out of the parking lot.。
Before, you would wait for the family computer to be free.。
Anybody ever been in that spot?。
And yet now you get so annoyed。
if your Safari doesn't load a screen。
within the first three seconds.。
Before, you would wait all year。
for your favorite movie to come out.。
And yet today we get so frustrated。
if we are on the front page of Netflix。
and we're scrolling along。
and we can't find anything。
that actually engages our interest.。
Before, you would wait by the radio。
in hopes that they would play your favorite song.。
I remember doing this.。
And yet now you're so sick of that favorite song。
because you've listened to it over and over and over again.。
You're burnt out.。
Before, you would wait whenever a friend told you。
they would come by to pick you up.。
You would wait for them to do so.。
And yet now you can just track their location。
and then complain that it took them so long。
to get to your place.。
Before, you would wait days if not weeks。
for a package to arrive.。
And yet just yesterday,。
I saw Amazon dropping one off to my neighbor。
by way of drone after just a couple of hours。
of actually having made the purchase.。
This is the great irony we're facing today.。
Things are more convenient than ever.。
And yet we're more impatient than ever.。
And the reason for that is because。
we either have not learned。
or we have forgotten the secret to waiting well.。
And so tonight I wanna talk to you。
about what it actually means to wait well。
whenever God seemingly has you in a holding pattern.。
So if you have a Bible,。
turn with me to the book of Lamentations chapter three.。
While you're figuring out where that book is,。
let me just say this.。
The goal of Porch 20 has been to invite voices。
that have been influential over the course。
of the Porch's history.。
And our prompt to the guys that have been here,。
JP and JD and DeMar,。
was to have them teach a lesson。
that they felt like God had taught them。
through their time.。
Well, I've been here just short of three years.。
I have not had near the amount of time。
that those guys have had by way of their experience。
at the Porch.。
And yet the lesson that comes most easily to me,。
that which springs first to mind。
when I consider my time at the Porch。
is what it means to wait well.。
The reason why is because。
if you haven't picked up on it already,。
if you haven't heard me say it from this stage,。
I'm just not interested in playing the Christian game.。
Like it would be so easy to roll in。
and just pump a lot of smoke。
and raise the volume to 11。
and make sure the lights are dizzying。
and have incredible worship。
and make sure the teaching is relevant yet biblical。
to do all of the right industry standard plays。
to make sure we get butts in seats.。
But I'm just not concerned with that.。
Like I'm not worried about having a really,。
a really popular ministry.。
I'm more concerned with having a very powerful ministry.。
And yet what I know is there's no power found in me。
nor in us.。
There's only power in the name of Jesus.。
And yet, if you're going to lean into the power of Christ,。
you have to go where he wants,。
you have to move when he wants,。
which requires a lot of waiting.。
There are moments where we're asking him to do things。
and yet he has not given us clearance to do it.。
There are moments where we're pleading and praying。
and yet he has not provided us an answer.。
We have spent a lot of time waiting。
because waiting often feels like the most faithful response.。
Sure, we could do a lot through our giftedness,。
but I'm not concerned with that.。
I want to do things through God's greatness,。
but often we have to wait for those things.。
And so this is the lesson that I've learned.。
And this text has been especially helpful for me。
as I've learned it.。
You see, just some context on the book of Lamentations.。
Lamentations is a book you don't normally。
find yourself studying。
because it's anything but lighthearted.。
It is oft considered the saddest book in the entire Bible.。
Most scholars agree that the prophet Jeremiah。
would have written it.。
There's a little bit of debate on that.。
And yet I'm convinced that he did.。
And yet what we know is that he wrote this book。
in the days following Israel's darkest moments,。
following the Babylonian siege of Jerusalem.。
The siege lasted two and a half years.。
In Babylon, they held the city of Jerusalem in a chokehold.。
They starved its inhabitants to the point of driving them。
to cannibalistic behavior, enslaving one another,。
murdering even its own leaders.。
It was a time of disorienting psychological,。
emotional, and spiritual distress for the people.。
And the whole while through, they were wondering。
what many of us wonder.。
What is taking you so long, God?。
Why are we still waiting in this situation?。
Do you not hear me?。
Do you not see me?。
Do you not care about me?。
When will you show up and deliver us。
from this present persecution?。
They knew what we know, that God is good,。
that God is sovereign, meaning he's in control,。
and that God has made and will keep his promises.。
And yet they can't help but wonder what many of us,。
all across this room, are wondering,。
why am I waiting, and how am I supposed to do it if I must?。
Well, Jeremiah's gonna tell us.。
He's gonna teach us the secret to waiting well.。
He starts teaching this lesson in verse 19.。
It says this, verse 19.。
"I remember my affliction and my wanderings,。
"the wormwood and the gall.。
"My soul, it continually remembers it,。
"and it's bowed down within me."。
So we'll stop there.。
Because what we need to realize is that Jeremiah。
is very clearly wrestling with his circumstances.。
Like, I love it.。
He doesn't do what many Christians do today.。
He doesn't put on a pretty face.。
He doesn't try to mask his difficulty.。
He just comes honest to God.。
Like, he just approaches,。
and he doesn't pretend that everything is fine.。
He doesn't put on a strong face and carry on.。
He doesn't act like everything is okay.。
Instead, he knows that biblical, legitimate faith。
functions in such a way。
that we bring our honest lament to God.。
He's not fake about it.。
He's real about it.。
You've heard me say from this stage,。
before you ever consider praying the right prayers,。
you should pray the real prayers.。
Because God wants the real you.。
And so that's what he does.。
He comes honest to the Lord.。
He knows that my faith does not deny。
the existence of my pain,。
and yet my faith relies on God through the pain.。
He gets honest.。
And as he does, we see that he begins to express。
three effects of the cause of his waiting,。
three things that result in his life。
as he has wandered through this window of waiting。
amidst their Babylonian siege.。
The first thing is he tells us that he's discouraged.。
That's what the word affliction means in verse 19.。
The Hebrew idea there of being afflicted。
is that he's carrying a heavy load.。
Like, he's weighed down.。
He's bowed before as a result of some burden in his life.。
He's discouraged.。
What he does is he describes waiting。
like carrying a weighted vest.。
Anybody ruck in here?。
Go for ruck walks?。
I'm a young adult dad.。
It's like the thing that dads are doing nowadays.。
They put on these weighted vests。
and they kind of power walk the neighborhood.。
And what you find is that the weighted vests。
are light to begin with,。
but quickly they take what is a casual stroll。
and they turn it into a total body workout.。
Because that's what weight does in your life.。
Like, it exhausts you.。
In the same way, waiting will emotionally fatigue you.。
It will zap you of your strength.。
It will suck the life, the joy out of you.。
He's discouraged, afflicted.。
The second effect that we see is he says。
that he's been wandering, which means he's restless.。
That's what you do when you wander.。
Like, when you find yourself in a season or situation。
that you don't wanna be in, many of us,。
we don't wait on God to get us out of it.。
We just take action ourselves.。
We start wandering around.。
We see this, at least I see this,。
probably most frequently within romantic relationships.。
People will lower their standards。
and they will wander towards people。
that they should not have any interest in dating.。
And yet they will do so, why?。
Because they're sick of being single.。
Like, they just wanna get out of that situation。
and they think God has promised them they will.。
And yet because he's taking too long,。
they start to take action themselves.。
And what happens is they wander where they don't belong.。
Some of you, you've done this with your career.。
Like, you've started applying for jobs。
that you have no interest in,。
nor are you actually qualified for.。
And the reason you're doing it is 'cause。
you just wanna change.。
Like, you just want out of the very thing that you've,。
you've went out of the very job that you have.。
And yet because you're tired of waiting on God。
to make the difference,。
you're willing to make it yourself.。
And what it's done is it has led you to wander into careers。
that you have no interest, nor business, being a part of.。
I could go on, but this is what happens when we wander.。
And then the third thing that we know is,。
is the effect of waiting in Jeremiah,。
as well as our lives, is it makes us bitter.。
That's what the two words, wormwood and gall, actually mean.。
They're references to bitter herbs.。
And so waiting does to us what waiting does to food.。
It makes us sour, spoiled, bitter.。
Bitter towards God, bitter towards others,。
and even bitter towards ourselves.。
Waiting is consequential.。
It has an impressive and impactful impact。
in the life of a person.。
It was his experience, it's your experience。
for many of you, even right now here tonight.。
Like as you look back on your own season of waiting,。
maybe for some of you, it's for him to propose,。
it's for that recruiter to finally get back to you,。
it's for work to finally let up,。
it's for test results to at last come in.。
I don't know what it is for you.。
Maybe it's a break from your chronic pain.。
And yet as you're waiting for all of these things,。
you do what he does.。
You grow exhausted.。
You begin to wander around,。
turning towards different things to help you cope。
in the face of your pain,。
and you start feeling less like yourself。
and more like someone else.。
But there's hope.。
Because he says this in verse 21.。
He says, "But this I call to mind,。
"and therefore I have hope."。
We'll stop there, which is a terrible place。
to stop admittedly, because he's going to tell you。
what gives him hope.。
But before we talk about what actually gives Jeremiah hope。
in this moment, and can also give you hope in your waiting,。
we need to acknowledge something important。
that just happened here, because verse 21。
is the turning point of this entire section of Scripture.。
What just happened was a mental shift.。
He went from remembering twice, it says he remembered.。
He remembered and he remembered,。
and yet, "This I have called to mind."。
He changes his perspective.。
He stops remembering his pain,。
and he starts recalling God's truth,。
because he knows, and this is the first thing。
you gotta get if you wanna know the secret to waiting well,。
is that whatever fills your mind will fill your heart.。
Whatever fills your mind will fill your heart.。
That's the first secret.。
Like, we need to know.。
We are in control of our thoughts.。
That's why Paul says it like this。
in his letter to the church of Philippi.。
He says, "Finally, brothers, whatever's true,。
"or honorable, or just, whatever's pure,。
"whatever's lovely, whatever's commendable,。
"if there is any excellence,。
"if there is anything worthy of praise,。
"think about these things, not the other things,。
"not the less than excellent things,。
"not the things of this world.。
"Think about those things which are of God."。
And yet, he goes on and he says,。
"Because whatever you've learned, or received,。
"or heard from me, or seen in me,。
"all of those things describe a conceptualization,。
"an understanding in their mind。
"of what Paul has taught them."。
He then says, "Put it into practice."。
Because he knows your thoughts。
directly influence your actions.。
Like, what goes into your mind。
has a way of making its way down into your heart,。
and has a way of ultimately making its way。
out through your hands.。
I remember experiencing this。
when I had my very first season of fantasy football.。
I'd never played before,。
and yet, something that I know about myself。
is I have an extremely obsessive personality.。
I have to be careful,。
because I'm not a mile-wide, inch-deep kind of guy.。
I've got a few interests,。
and yet, I'm very invested in those things.。
And so, if I was gonna crack the door on fantasy football,。
I had to know that I was entering。
into a long-term relationship with it.。
So when I did, I became deeply interested,。
because I am filling my mind。
with thoughts of all these different players,。
none of whom I have ever cared about in the past.。
And yet, I now care about them deeply,。
because those thoughts have made their way into my heart.。
And I care so much that I'm giving up hours on Sundays。
watching games that don't have any geographic relevance。
to me whatsoever.。
Games that have required me。
to download alternative streaming sources,。
so that way I can check in and see how the Browns are doing,。
which is never very well.。
(audience laughing)。
And it moved me from a place of just caring。
to actually acting on it,。
because through the week, from Sunday to Sunday,。
I would track stats, I would listen to podcasts,。
I would neglect my family.。
I'm just kidding, I'm not neglecting my family。
for fantasy football.。
My thoughts directly influenced my actions.。
Do you see how that works?。
This is the way it works for everyone.。
Ben Stewart, one of my greatest influences and dear friends,。
he said, "What you think about determines。
"what you care about.。
"What you care about determines what you chase."。
That's the way that this works.。
So if you're thinking to yourself,。
"Ah, man, they probably don't like me,"。
then guess what will happen?。
You will start avoiding eye contact,。
you'll stop speaking in public,。
and you will find as soon as Irish goodbye,。
you can to get out of that situation.。
If you think to yourself, "This thing has to be perfect,"。
more than likely you're going to procrastinate。
ever beginning that thing,。
because the impossibility of giving it。
everything it deserves will keep you。
from ever actually starting the work itself.。
If you find yourself thinking, "That sounded so weird,。
"why did I text that?"。
You will inevitably reread that text message。
like 18, 19 times,。
trying to diagnose how not to do that on the next text,。
and yet you'll never actually send the next text.。
You see, our thoughts drive our actions.。
This is why it is your responsibility。
to manage your own thoughts.。
It's not anyone else's responsibility,。
it is your responsibility.。
And we know from the scripture,。
you take every thought captive.。
You have the ability, the authority,。
to consider what enters into your mind。
and whether or not it actually has a place there.。
So let me ask you,。
Porch, what are you thinking about。
whenever you find yourself in a window of waiting?。
What are you thinking about?。
Whenever life is complicated。
and your dreams are out there,。
but you're stuck back here,。
it feels like God has asked you to do that,。
and yet he hasn't delivered you to it,。
what do you say to yourself?。
What are you thinking to yourself?。
And then what does God have to say about those thoughts?。
I know for some of you, you're here,。
and you're like, man, God doesn't see me.。
Jeremiah 23, 24 would disagree with you.。
It says, "Who can hide in secret places。
"so that I cannot see them?"。
Some of you, you think to yourself, God doesn't hear me.。
But Psalm 34, 17 says,。
"When the righteous cry for help,。
"the Lord hears them and delivers them。
"out of all their troubles."。
Some of you, you think to yourself in moments of waiting,。
God doesn't care about me.。
But Psalm 55, 22 would say,。
"Cast your burden on the Lord, and he will sustain you.。
"He will never permit the righteous to be moved."。
Some of you think God doesn't have a plan for my life,。
but Ephesians 2, 10 would say,。
"For we are his workmanship,。
"created in Christ Jesus for good works,。
"which God prepared beforehand。
"that we should walk in them."。
Meaning he has a plan for your life,。
and it's a dang good one.。
Some of you, you think God's forgotten about me.。
But Isaiah 49, 15, as one reference would say,。
"Can a woman forget her nursing child,。
"that she should have no compassion on the son of her womb?。
"Even these may forget, yet I will not forget you."。
Others of you think God doesn't have good。
in store for my future.。
Romans 8, 28 would say,。
"And we know that for those who love God,。
"all things work together for good,。
"for those who called according to his purposes."。
You see, friends,。
God isn't asking you to forget your problems,。
but he is certainly asking you to remember his promises.。
So are you?。
Or are you just remembering your frustrations?。
Are you just remembering your pains?。
Are you just remembering your hardships?。
Again, this text teaches us very clearly,。
he does not belittle those things,。
but he does oversee those things.。
And his word has something to say about it.。
That's why, listen to me,。
if you don't have one of these,。
we would love to give you one.。
You can walk out to the welcome desk。
and our team would love to give you a copy of the scripture。
because you need to know what this says.。
It's easy to know what you think.。
It's another thing entirely to know what he says.。
This book, this book is not just a Christian reference book.。
Like this thing, this thing is not a theological dictionary。
that just helps you to understand。
concept theological ideals.。
This book, this book is not a moral handbook。
that's teaching you the rules of the game。
so you don't get in trouble with God.。
This book is not a moral grab bag or a devotional grab bag.。
Like it's not just something that you go to。
to kind of flip through, point a finger down。
and take something inspirational to encourage you。
and move you forward in your day.。
That's not what this is.。
This is the written, spoken revelation of God.。
It is a story about the character and nature of him。
as revealed through his son.。
And he has given it to you。
because he wants you to know him personally.。
He's not signing you up for anything。
other than relationship.。
He has something that he wants to speak to your life。
in the face of your worry and waiting.。
So will you open it and let him speak?。
It's easy to remember your pain.。
It's another thing to remember his promises.。
That's what Jeremiah does.。
As we keep going, we see he knows who God is。
and he preaches who God is to himself.。
He says this in verse 22.。
He says, "The steadfast love of the Lord never ceases.。
"His mercies, they never come to an end.。
"They're new every morning.。
"Great is your faithfulness.。
"The Lord is my portion, says my soul.。
"Therefore I will hope in him."。
Famous verses, some of you remember them。
because you've sung them in the times past.。
What's fascinating about these verses。
is they are dead center。
of the saddest book in the entire Bible.。
And they are some of the most hope-filled verses。
found in the entire scripture.。
If you're tracking theological theming。
through the book of Lamentations,。
this is the center of it all.。
This is the idea that God is trying to draw you towards.。
You think that's coincidental?。
No.。
Like he's trying to tell you the second thing。
that will give you the secret to waiting well,。
that your delay is an invitation to come deeper with God.。
Your delay is an invitation to go deeper with God.。
Like the Hebrew here for God's love, it's the word hesed.。
Hesed's a really difficult word。
to actually translate into English。
because it comprises more than just love as a feeling.。
It describes love as an action.。
So just to help give you an idea。
of what actual hesed, steadfast love looks like.。
I remember there was a gentleman that I knew from church。
when I lived in Houston and his wife had dementia.。
And what that meant is she struggled to remember who he was.。
She could not recall the memories they'd once made.。
She couldn't retell the stories that they shared.。
She was growing to become a stranger to him.。
And yet, despite the fact that this was true,。
every day he would show up and speak to her.。
He would show up and he would feed her.。
He would show up and he would advocate for her.。
He would show up and he would love her。
because he was bound not just by the feeling of love,。
but the choice of love.。
A love that is loyal, that is unfailing,。
that is unending, undying, a love the likes of which God。
is most specifically characterized by.。
This is the kind of God that loves you in your waiting.。
250 times in the scripture, it speaks of this love。
because it wants us to know。
that God is full of this kind of love.。
So if God loves us this kind of way,。
why the heck does he lead us into seasons of waiting?。
That feels pretty unloving, right?。
Like, hey, I've got a great dream for you,。
but you're gonna sit over here and you're gonna have。
to endure for a very long time until it arrives.。
Why would he do that?。
Like, God, that's not loving in the slightest.。
Like, come on, man, you say you love me,。
but this feels so unloving.。
And it feels even more unloving when we consider。
the things that we actually want as good.。
Like, it's not like God's just against the things。
you want that are bad.。
Sometimes it feels like God is against the things。
you want that are good.。
So in here, who wants to be happy in their job?。
Show of hands, anybody wanna be happy in their job?。
Is God against that?。
No, like we know God, he was the one that created work。
and he meant for you to do it unto your fulfillment in him.。
Anybody here wanna find a spouse?。
You just throw up your hand.。
It's not like we don't know you didn't come here。
for this already.。
Yeah, man.。
It's funny, some of you put your hands down,。
others got your hand up 'cause you're still hoping。
somebody will take notice.。
Scripture tells us, he who finds a wife finds a good thing.。
God's not against that good desire.。
Anybody in here need healing, experiencing pain,。
or wanting healing for someone else.。
God's not against that.。
Revelation 21 tells us that he's going to wipe away。
every tear, he's gonna right every wrong,。
he's gonna heal all pain.。
Jesus did not come for the healthy, he came for the sick.。
Anybody in here want clarity about something?。
God's not a God of confusion, not a God of chaos,。
a God of peace and order.。
Anybody want joy?。
You don't put your hand up on this one, you're crazy.。
Because this is what the world wants.。
The world wants to be happy, happiness and joy.。
They are not disconnected ideas in the scripture.。
It's the same word throughout the Bible。
for both of these concepts.。
And what we know is that Jesus in his presence。
is fullness of joy.。
He came to give you life and life abundantly.。
Anybody in here looking for community?。
If so, you're in the right place.。
Welcome to the church.。
We would love to show you that Christ didn't just save you。
from your sin, he saved you into his people.。
We would love to get connected with you.。
These are good things,。
things that we have all attested to wanting.。
Why then is God making us wait for them?。
This is important.。
Because he knows the depth of your wanting。
is revealed by the length of your waiting.。
So what I mean by that is this.。
If you came to me and you said you were hungry。
and I said, hey man,。
I'll go buy you a steak at Applebee's right now.。
Or I'll buy you a steak at Bob's in six hours.。
Chances are you're waiting for Bob's.。
Why?。
Because the depth of your wanting for Bob's。
is revealed by the length of your waiting,。
the willingness to hold off。
and get what you ultimately want.。
You see, we will wait longest for what we want most.。
And yet your impatience towards God。
reveals your idolatry against him.。
(congregation laughing)。
All throughout the Bible,。
we see people forcing God's timing。
instead of following it。
because they want the gift more than the giver。
and it never goes well for them.。
It always ends in disaster.。
Abraham was unwilling to wait for God。
to make good on his promise.。
And so he had Ishmael.。
Jacob was unwilling to wait on the blessings。
that God promised to him。
and so he stole it from his father.。
Moses was unwilling to wait for God。
to deliver the nation of Israel。
so he murdered a man and he buried him in the sand.。
Israel as a country was unwilling to wait。
for Moses to come down from the mountain。
and so they made the golden calf.。
Saul was unwilling to wait for Samuel。
to offer sacrifices before going into battle。
and because he wasn't willing to wait,。
the kingdom was torn from him.。
I can go on but the point is very simple.。
How you respond to your season of waiting is consequential.。
It's consequential.。
You trust him.。
Like you have to trust that he's at work in the waiting,。
that he's trying to take you deeper into himself,。
that he's trying to mold you into the kind of person。
that isn't just prepared to receive the very thing。
that he's offering you.。
Hear me on this.。
He's not just trying to prepare you。
to be the kind of person。
that can receive whatever he is offering.。
He is trying to mold you into the sort of the person。
that will love him if he never chooses to give it.。
He wants to be first.。
He wants to be top choice.。
He wants to be your highest and best priority.。
He does not want to be second to anything。
and so he will lead you into the waiting。
so that way your wanting is for him。
and him first and him alone.。
His mercy is in the waiting.。
Some of you need to hear that.。
You're so miserable in the waiting。
and yet it is merciful that he has you there.。
He is trying to develop within you。
a deep delight in who he is。
because while you would love for him to chop right over。
and rip you up and take you out of whatever the heck。
you're in, he dives into it and said it,。
says, "I will be with you in the suffering.。
"I will not leave you nor forsake you.。
"I am with you in the valley of the shadow of death."。
Why is it the shadow of death?。
Ever wondered?。
Because the light of the world is with you in the face of it.。
He steps into the waiting with you。
and if you've been waiting for a long time,。
it's probably because God is loving。
that level of intimacy with you。
that he's not trying to move you on。
so that way you move on from him.。
Jeremiah says right here, he says,。
"The Lord is my portion.。
"He's my choice.。
"He's my pick, so I'll hope in him."。
He declares, "God's the one that I want."。
So what portion have you chosen?。
Where have you placed your hope?。
Can we just be really honest with each other?。
Like some of you, you have placed your hope。
in some husband or wife that is out on the horizon for you.。
You think marriage is gonna make you happy.。
You think it's going to satisfy。
your deepest longings and desires.。
You think it's going to ultimately fulfill you。
in every sense of the word.。
Not possible.。
You think a dream job's gonna do it。
just so you can get into the next thing。
and realize this isn't the thing。
and so you're gonna want to find something new?。
Not possible.。
You think healing is going to ultimately save you。
from your suffering and lead you into satisfaction?。
Jesus will restore you.。
It's only a matter of time,。
whether in this life or the next to come,。
but it's not enough today.。
Your hope will be deferred。
if it is found in anything but him.。
That's what Proverbs 13, 12 tells us.。
It says, "Hope deferred makes the heart sick,。
"but a desire fulfilled is a tree of life."。
Who is the only person that can fulfill your desire?。
Say it to me.。
Then believe it.。
If you know it, then believe it.。
Act like it.。
Treat him as the ultimate source of your satisfaction.。
This world, it will offer you instant gratification。
and it will satisfy momentarily,。
but we all know instant coffee pales。
in comparison to a pour over.。
But you gotta wait.。
For the best kind of stuff,。
Jesus is asking you to wait。
because he knows he can satisfy you.。
So many of us,。
we seek instant gratification and we find it,。
but as instant as it came, it so instantly leaves.。
There's one place that will not leave you.。
But will ultimately satisfy,。
which is where he goes in verse 25.。
He says this, "The Lord is good to those who wait for him,。
"to the soul who seeks him.。
"It's good that one should wait quietly。
"for the salvation of the Lord.。
"It's good for a man that he bear the yoke in his youth."。
Which means contrary to how you feel,。
if you're in the room。
and you're currently in a season of waiting,。
it's good that you're bearing it today and not tomorrow.。
Because the waiting is preparing.。
It's teaching you something the likes of which。
you need to learn as soon as possible.。
We need to comprehend as quickly as we can,。
which is that your whole life。
should be oriented around the presence of God.。
He wants you as close to him as he can get.。
And he will use the waiting to draw you in.。
He wants you to know it is good。
that you should wait in your youth.。
And yet what he wants you to know about your waiting,。
which is gonna lead us into response in a moment,。
is that biblical waiting is active, it's not lazy.。
Biblical waiting is active, it's not lazy.。
In our cultural context,。
waiting is seldom seen as a good thing。
because it feels so very opposite。
of what a fast-paced modern society wants.。
It's inefficient, it's unproductive, it's fruitless.。
Like periods of waiting are the precursors。
in our world to periods of doing.。
If you think about it,。
you have to wait in line to buy your groceries.。
You have to wait in traffic to get home.。
You have to wait through the previews。
before you can actually see your movie.。
And because we view waiting as wasted,。
we miss out on what God sees it as.。
And yet what we learn from Jeremiah。
is waiting is not wasteful, waiting is worshipful.。
It's worshipful.。
He says the Lord is good to those who wait for him,。
to the soul who seeks him.。
Like whenever you feel stuck, like you're in a dead end,。
like when you're at a loss of what to do next in life,。
we as Christians, listen to me, believer,。
you do not lean out, you lean in.。
Like when things feel hard, when you feel stuck,。
when life isn't moving towards the place。
you want to be going, do not give up.。
Do not pull out, do not quit on God.。
You continue with the same sort of steadfastness。
that he has steadfastly pursued you with.。
You trust his timing, you trust his strategy,。
you trust his plan because you believe。
what the scriptures teach us.。
Isaiah 64, four is one of my favorite passages。
in the scripture, and it says this,。
"From of old, no one has heard or perceived by the ear.。
"No eye has seen a God besides you。
"who acts for those who wait for him."。
Do you hear it?。
The promise, the assurance, he will act for you。
if you wait for him.。
But here's the thing that's so, it's so tragic。
about Isaiah 64 is just three verses later, it says,。
"Yet there's no one who calls upon your name.。
"There's no one who rouses himself to take hold of you."。
That was written to the people of God.。
No one rouses himself to take hold of you,。
and yet we know like you answer those。
that wait for you, God.。
Why wouldn't we actually rouse ourselves。
to take hold of you?。
Why wouldn't we believe what Jacob declared。
when he wrestled with you, oh God?。
I will not let you go until you bless me.。
It's 'cause the waiting is hard.。
And we don't know.。
We don't know like what God is waiting on.。
But can I just be honest with you?。
God is looking at you, and he's asking the same question.。
He's asking, what are you waiting on?。
Enjoy satisfaction, fulfillment, happiness。
can be found in this world.。
Take your best shot at it.。
Call his bluff.。
See what happens.。
You will be left empty.。
You will be left wanting,。
and you will be left waiting all the same.。
But if you wait for him,。
you'll find everything and more。
that you have ever longed for.。
So let me speak to a few of you tonight,。
just a few groups as we come to close.。
Some of you, you've given up.。
(gentle music)。
Like you've come in here and you've given up on God。
because it feels like he's given up on you.。
Feels like he didn't answer you when you called.。
Felt like he didn't see you when you suffered.。
Felt like he didn't care whenever you cried.。
Here's the thing that you gotta know.。
You who think he has given up on you,。
listen, Jesus Christ has not given up on you.。
Jesus Christ gave himself up for you.。
When you were unwilling to wait for him,。
unwilling to look for him, unwilling to seek him out,。
he waited for you, he looked for you, he sought you still.。
And so maybe tonight, instead of giving up,。
it's time to give in and it's to surrender to the God。
that waited for you for this moment.。
Others of you in this room,。
you've taken control.。
His timing has not been your timing.。
His plan has not been your plan.。
And so you have taken matters into your own hands.。
If that's you, hear me on this.。
Human attempts do not produce divine results.。
You may get something of what you want,。
but I dare believe God wants more for you than even you do.。
Your passions, they're not too great, they're too small.。
So tonight, the response from you is surrender.。
It's to let him take over again,。
to assume his rightful place, to step onto the throne。
and let him lead you into everything。
you think he doesn't want to give you。
because he has come to give you life and life to the full.。
And in the last of you,。
it's those of you that are just weary in the waiting.。
You've been faithful, you've been persistent,。
you've been devoted,。
and yet you're just running on fumes.。
You just don't have it anymore.。
You're just not sure why it's taking so long。
and what feels like a delay that has led to disappointment。
instead tonight can be for you a delay。
that leads to determination,。
one that calls you in。
when the world would say you should bail out.。
If you're here and you have been faithfully waiting,。
but you're growing weary,。
waiting alone is so hard,。
but tonight you don't have to wait alone.。
We're gonna have a team down to my right and to my left。
that would love to wait with you.。
Sometimes it can feel like we've run out of prayers to pray.。
That's what's great about the body.。
We will pray where you don't know how else to,。
but we're gonna move into a time of worship。
and we're gonna begin to respond.。
But the point of this response。
isn't just to get the room moving and actually,。
it's not just to create an emotional moment.。
We wanna do ministry.。
We want you to be different.。
We want you to be changed.。
We want you to receive a touch from heaven。
because heaven has come to do exactly that.。
My last thought for you is this, it's funny.。
For a God to whom time means nothing。
because he stands outside of it,。
we learn from scripture。
that he chooses to be patient nonetheless.。
It says in 2 Peter,。
with the Lord one day is as a thousand years。
and a thousand years is as one day.。
And yet the Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise.。
Some count slowness.。
You might think he's slow, but he's not.。
He's patient.。
He's patient towards you。
because he's not wishing any should perish,。
but that all should reach.。
Repentance.。
God does not have to wait for anyone or anything.。
And yet he has chosen to wait for you.。
And the reason why is 'cause he wants for you.。
He wants for you.。
Let me pray that you would believe.。
Lord, I'm so grateful for tonight.。
I'm grateful for these people.。
But God, I'm grateful。
that because they've come,。
my confidence can rise all the more than you have come to.。
Because it is your people that you want.。
I think about all the things we want in life,。
all God that we wait for.。
(gentle music)。
Lord, we'll take none of it with us when we go to heaven.。
But you, you have always wanted for us。
and you have waited for us。
because you know I will take you with me.。
I will take you to heaven.。
Some of you, you need to place your faith in him.。
And you need to receive from him。
the gift of eternal life。
that is found only,。
if freely in Christ Jesus.。
Others of you tonight, you need to give up control.。
You need to surrender and lay it down.。
Some of you are so very weary.。
Come, come to me all who are weary and heavy laden.。
For in me there is rest.。
God, we wish to wait for you.。
I think the tendency now would fill。
the rush of all God that we need to get onto.。
But wouldn't that defeat the point of waiting?。
Waiting is slow.。
Waiting takes time.。
Waiting's in no rush。
because it knows all that I have already wanted for。
is here with me now.。
You are here with us now, oh God.。
And so we wait for you.。
Let's wait for him as we worship.。
Let's wait for him as we respond.。
Let's wait for him.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
