- 108 verses, 54 of them are imperatives.。
An imperative is a command.。
(upbeat music)。
That Jesus was not just his half-brother,。
he was his Lord.。
- What's up, guys?。
(audience cheering)。
Hey, welcome, friends in the room。
and in Scottsdale, Arizona, Indianapolis, Des Moines, Iowa,。
Cedar Rapids, Iowa, Phoenix, Arizona, Fayetteville,。
Arkansas, Austin, Texas, Houston, Texas,。
wherever you are joining in from and anybody online,。
we are continuing this series in the book of James,。
where we are looking at for the next handful of weeks。
and really the previous handful of weeks,。
listening to the half-brother of Jesus。
on some of the 14 topics that he covered.。
And we're gonna launch into another one of them tonight.。
I've got a two-year-old daughter whose name is Monroe.。
And one thing that we started doing。
during shelter-in-place quarantine。
was we had this creek by our house。
that we would go down to。
and we would just throw rocks in the creek.。
I think we even have a picture either of her or even,。
oh, there she is.。
Oh, man, she's just the best.。
Oh, she can't say her R's or her W's.。
So when she says, "We're going to the creek,"。
it's, "We're going to the queek, we're going to the queek."。
And her brother corrects her.。
And I'm like, "Man, I will spank you。
if you correct her again."。
I hope she's 16 saying, "I'm going to the queek."。
And anyway, so we'll go down there.。
And what we'll do, it's not exactly,。
it's actually, I think, like a sewage run,。
but it looks like a creek.。
And we'll go and we will throw rocks。
into this little like pond, creek thing that is there.。
And they just love it.。
They could do it all day.。
And anytime now that we see or pass a rock anywhere,。
including here at Watermark,。
she wants to collect them and put them in her pockets。
to bring them to go throw at the queek.。
And so we'll walk around.。
I mean, true story, anywhere.。
We're at her little brother's baseball game.。
She goes over, she like finds a rock in the corner.。
She's like, "I'm putting it in my pocket for the queek."。
And then she'll run out of space in her pocket.。
So I'll find in her laundry, all kinds of rocks.。
She puts them in our pockets.。
We just have rocks.。
True story, I got these from the laundry room。
this morning, today, because she will just load up.。
Because anytime she sees a rock, it doesn't matter the size,。
doesn't matter how colorful it is,。
doesn't matter how big or small,。
it is a potential source of something。
to throw in the creek.。
They're all incredibly valuable to her.。
So wherever she finds them,。
she is gonna take them to use them.。
What does that have to do。
with what we're talking about tonight?。
Well, tonight we're gonna talk about the subject。
of favoritism.。
And in that scenario, my daughter looks at every single rock。
that exists on planet earth and is like,。
"This all has value because it's something that I can take。
and go with my brother to throw in the creek."。
And when the scriptures talk about how you and I。
are to look at one another,。
it is to the command that you are to see。
every person you've ever met, Christian, non-Christian,。
old, black, white, brown, age, gender,。
as someone who is of incredible value.。
Favoritism, by definition, is treating someone differently,。
thinking about someone differently,。
saying or speaking to someone differently。
based on how you perceive them, how you think about them.。
And the scripture says,。
"This can be a source of tremendous division。
and is something that God hates。
and is a sin that's not to take place inside of the church."。
Now, just to get us going, in case you're like,。
"Man, do I really do that?。
'Cause I think most people walk in the room like,。
"Oh, great, talking about favoritism,。
partiality, not my struggle."。
I think in general, all of us, all the time,。
are processing information。
and we are based on our preferences。
determining how we're gonna interact with that thing.。
It doesn't even have to do with people.。
Let me use an example.。
Any dog people in this room?。
Dog moms?。
There you go.。
Any cat people?。
(audience cheering)。
Like, you are dismissed.。
And I'm totally kidding.。
I'm totally kidding.。
All right, think about, if you are a dog person,。
you walk into the dog room, no offense,。
and you walk in, somebody's got a dog,。
and they're there, and you walk in。
and you haven't met them before,。
but the dog's there, they look friendly,。
you go up, you're just gonna pet 'em,。
and especially if you're a dog person,。
like, "Oh, this is great."。
You walk into somebody's house and they have a cat,。
if the cat approaches you, it's like,。
"What is going on right now?"。
And if it comes up and begins to paw。
or like jump at you like a dog would,。
you're like, "Okay, this is not okay."。
Like, they're just supposed to kind of scurry by themselves。
and run off, and I don't know what cats do.。
But in that moment, based on your preferences,。
it's influencing and impacting how you behave.。
Here's another silly one.。
Someone's type of phone will impact。
how you think about that person.。
There are people out there called Android users,。
and they make every text group green.。
And you just got their digits, or you connected,。
and you got their number, and you go to text them,。
you're like, "Hey, what's going on,。
"or what do you got going on this weekend?"。
And then all of a sudden, a color pops up, boom,。
and it's green, and you're like, "Oh, man."。
(audience laughing)。
Maybe, maybe it's just like they're out of Wi-Fi。
right now or something, and the next one will go through,。
and it doesn't go through, it's still green,。
and we can't name our text messages groups because of you.。
And you go begin to process through like,。
"Oh, man, I didn't see you for an Android person.。
"Interesting, that is interesting."。
And not just that, it impacts how we interact。
with each other, especially people of the opposite sex.。
If there's a girl that you find attractive,。
or a guy that you find attractive, it's going to impact,。
it's just human nature, how you interact with that person.。
You're gonna be more curious, asking questions,。
you're kinda bumping up, and like,。
"Oh, hey, what's going on over there?"。
And you're just dialoguing in the conversation,。
versus oftentimes, if you're not,。
you're just kinda moving about your way,。
and he's not that into you, and you are impacted。
based on how you perceive or how you think about someone,。
how your preferences impact.。
And what becomes tragic is whenever our preferences。
or the way that I think about someone,。
based on where they're from, what college they went to,。
what education they have, what family they grew up in,。
good or bad, when I allow that to ascribe。
or begin to associate value,。
or how valuable or not valuable that person is,。
it becomes incredibly catastrophic.。
And so we're gonna talk what James has to say。
about the subject of how you and I are to treat one another,。
and how you and I are to treat every person,。
just in general.。
The reason I think this issue is such a huge one,。
think about how much a person's identity,。
their gender, their age, their ethnicity,。
is constantly being thrown in front of all of us,。
constantly thrown in front of all of us。
in a way that is oftentimes incredibly divisive.。
And the body of Christ, unlike any other group of people。
on the planet, is to be a group that is united,。
not because we are uniform in how we look,。
but because we are united through Jesus to one another.。
And James said, "If that mentality,。
"if I treat you different because you look this way,。
"or you are this way, or you have this,。
"you have begun to step into a serious sin。
"that God despises."。
So we're gonna be, in James chapter two,。
if you have a Bible, you can flip open there,。
if not, it'll be up on the screens.。
But we're gonna walk through three things.。
The command that James gives as it relates to favoritism,。
the cause of that favoritism, and then the cure。
for how you and I can experience freedom from that.。
James, if you haven't been tuning in,。
is the half-brother of Jesus.。
So Jesus grew up, had a little brother who saw him,。
likely shared a room with him,。
just 'cause everybody shared one room,。
and he likely saw the journey of his brother。
that ended with him on the cross and resurrecting.。
And after the resurrection, James came to faith,。
and he writes this book covering all types of things。
he learned from his baby brother,。
or from his older brother, Jesus.。
We've covered trials week one, temptation week two,。
last week, living according to your word,。
and tonight, we're gonna cover how you and I,。
the body of Christ, has no favorites.。
There are no favorites that should mark our life,。
and how we interact and treat one another.。
He says this, verse one.。
"My brothers and sisters,。
"believers in our glorious Lord Jesus Christ。
"must not show favoritism."。
In other words, or by favoritism,。
I mean ascribing value based on my preferences,。
treating someone based on how my preferences。
or how I think about that person differently。
than I would someone else.。
And then he gives an illustration.。
He says, "Suppose a man comes into your meeting,。
"comes into church, he's wearing a gold ring。
"and fine clothes, and a poor man comes in,。
"and he's wearing filthy old clothes.。
"If you show special attention。
"to the man wearing fine clothes,。
"and you say, 'Here's a good seat for you,'。
"but you say to the poor man, 'You stand over there,。
"'you sit on the floor by my feet,'。
"have you not discriminated among yourselves。
"and become judges with evil thoughts?"。
So he brings up the subject of favoritism.。
He says, "Among Christians, this should not ever take place,"。
showing preferential treatment to people.。
And he gives an illustration.。
And a gold ring in that day and age。
would have been very unique.。
It basically would be like the equivalent.。
And today, he'd be like, "Look, imagine a guy shows up,。
"he's got the Gucci buckle on,。
"or he's walking in with Yeezys on,。
"or he's driving a G-Wagon here,。
"and he's just got some look that gives away."。
Or a girl that shows up, she's wearing a,。
I don't know what girls wear.。
She's wearing golden goose shoes and a Birkin bag.。
Let me just take a side note here.。
When did we start making clothes。
that looked intentionally all nasty and tatted up and dirty?。
Literally, they came out of goodwill or something,。
and then we start selling them for $500.。
That concept, I just still can't get my mind around。
called golden goose.。
Men, if you don't know what that is, look around,。
and the tattiest, most tattered pair of shoes。
you probably see on a girl's feet are probably the O's。
and also the most expensive.。
Anyways, point being, just fashion right now, man.。
I just don't get it.。
Point being, this person shows up,。
and inside of the church, and then there's somebody。
who shows up, and the word that's used to describe him。
is he's dirty, he's stinky.。
It's a word that's synonymous with excrement,。
so he is dirty, and he's inside of the church,。
and then you've got this guy, gold ring,。
or wearing whatever duds today would make sense,。
and the word that is used for the guy wearing the gold ring。
is literally a word that means shiny, which is so great.。
I feel like there's a rap song。
that could have been made off of this.。
I am shiny, and there's a shiny guy, dirty guy,。
and he leads into,。
"When you begin to show preferential treatment。
"based on external appearance, based on how someone looks,。
"you have stepped into favoritism and sin,。
"whether for good or for bad."。
And he says, "Among the people of God,。
"this should not be present."。
So the first idea is the command, do not show favoritism.。
It's crazy how often, just human nature, we do this,。
where we see somebody,。
and you immediately begin to size them up,。
and you immediately begin to go through,。
and you're talking to them, and you learn more information,。
and you just run through the Rolodex。
of how important they are, how significant they are,。
how you're gonna think about them,。
and even how you're gonna interact or treat them.。
What do I mean by this?。
Tonight, afterwards, you're gonna be out in the lobby,。
you're gonna be talking to somebody.。
Let me tell you what the person。
on the other end of that conversation is gonna be doing.。
You're gonna meet them for the first time,。
they're gonna say, "Oh, man, how did you hear。
"about the porch?"。
And they're just beginning the computing.。
It's like they're Iron Man,。
seeing the stats that pop up as you tell your life.。
And they're like, "Well, my friend invited me."。
And they're like, "Oh, interesting,。
"friends that are connected to each other.。
"Where'd you go to college?"。
And their facial expression may not change that much,。
and they'll walk through, "Hey, where do you work?"。
And you respond with, "Well, I'm a teacher,。
"or I'm in law school, or I work at Deloitte."。
And again, they're sizing up, how important is this person?。
"Where'd you go to college?"。
"Oh, big one right here."。
"Well, I went to Texas Tech."。
"Must be a part of your, oh, I went to TCU."。
"Bro comes from some money."。
"Oh, I went to Harvard, woo, cha-ching."。
And they're just sizing up one thing after the next,。
after the next, after the next.。
"What are you doing after this?"。
"Well, I'm going to hang out with a couple friends."。
"Is one of them a girl?"。
And you're just going through like,。
"I wonder if he's single, is he not?"。
And they're just categorizing,。
and we just begin to ascribe and associate value,。
and that impacts how we're gonna treat that other person.。
Some of you, candidly, like you do this,。
and you do it in the negative way,。
where it wouldn't be somebody that shows up。
in poor, shabby clothes to you.。
There's just people you don't like for whatever reason,。
and it's sin.。
Like, some of you guys, you don't like artsy guys.。
Like, you don't like artistic people,。
you're just like, "They're just weird, just don't get it."。
You think it's for whatever reason, you don't like it.。
Some of you guys don't like athletic guys,。
'cause you're like, "Oh my gosh, yeah, barbell.。
"I'm so over it, it's so annoying."。
And it's sin.。
And you kind of exclude and you treat people different,。
and you judge them based on external appearances.。
You don't know anything about them.。
Some of you girls, you don't like skinny girls.。
And you get around them, and you're like,。
you immediately rub them off, unless you get to know 'em.。
You're like, "I can't believe it, oh my gosh.。
"I would never wanna look like that.。
"I mean, size two, that's gotta be horrible,。
"and this is unbelievable that she thinks。
"she can join our party."。
And you don't like 'em.。
There's people who, because of the car that they drive,。
you immediately judge and think of them differently,。
for better or for worse.。
This can also happen where you begin。
to show preferential treatment,。
in terms of the girl or guy you're dating,。
on really superficial, shallow things.。
Like, "Oh, he's a doctor."。
And that becomes the thing that makes you go,。
"Oh, I'm interested."。
And James would say, "The way that you see people。
"is off, and it's Christians.。
"We're not to see one another through the lens。
"of how the world sees us, or a value。
"that is a moving target, based on what。
"the world says matters.。
"We are to see people entirely differently than that."。
And we're about to cover exactly what I mean by that.。
Some of you think, so I'm gonna lean,。
the most important thing about a person is their ethnicity.。
Let me be abundantly clear.。
A person's ethnicity, whether it's the,。
"Here I am, and I'm so proud of this,"。
or "Here I am, and I hold that against that person。
"because they're of a different one,"。
compared to where they will spend eternity,。
does not matter at all.。
Let me say that again.。
The most significant thing about someone。
is where they will spend eternity, not their ethnicity.。
That doesn't mean they can't celebrate,。
or have ancestral heritage, or anything that they。
are thankful for that is in their life.。
But when it comes to how you see yourself,。
how you see other people, it is a sick, toxic thing。
to think that if you are a sister and brother in Christ,。
you have a deeper connection to someone。
who shares your skin color than who shares。
the fact that you are related to Jesus。
and will be with them for all of eternity.。
And you don't have to believe me now。
'cause you're gonna be together with whatever race you are,。
ethnicity you are, we're gonna be together。
for all of eternity, so you'll get there someday。
if you don't believe me now.。
But the most important thing about someone。
is not the amount of melanin in their skin.。
It's crazy.。
And that type of thinking, when it seeps into the church,。
is toxic, and James would say,。
if you treat people differently based on how they look,。
for better or for worse, it is sin.。
And I know in the room, there's people who probably are like,。
I can't believe you're, you don't have the right to say this。
'cause honestly, David, you're just some white guy。
standing up there telling me that.。
I don't care.。
The most important thing about you, you need to know.。
It's not the color of your skin.。
It's where you're gonna spend eternity.。
It's a very relevant thing to your life。
and all of our lives, but it's not the most important thing.。
And if you, conversely, if you think less of somebody。
because of their ethnicity,。
if you think less of somebody because they're Asian。
or because they're black or because they're brown。
or because they're white,。
you are doing the exact thing that James said.。
You're not to look at external appearances。
to form how you see someone.。
And this happens on all sides.。
Do I need to lean in even more here?。
And James says it is wrong.。
If you look at somebody based on how much money。
that they make and you ascribe value, it's sin.。
And you don't see like God sees.。
Further, inside of the church,。
this has never, ever been okay.。
To divide one another or to see one another。
or to focus on the differences。
and judge one another through that lens is tragic.。
And the church has not always gotten this right,。
but it has always been called to。
because God doesn't see the way that we see.。
In the 1950s, there was a guy named Billy Graham。
who led a bunch of crusades.。
He went all over the country, all over the world.。
He preached to more people in his lifetime。
than any other person who's ever lived.。
Millions and millions of people.。
In the 1950s, it was at the heart of a racial divide。
and tension in our nation that was enormous.。
Segregation was legal.。
Jim Crow was legal.。
And Billy Graham would go on crusades.。
In 1953, in Chattanooga, Tennessee,。
he showed up at a church.。
He went inside the church。
and he was there to preach a crusade.。
And he walked in and they had ropes。
that were dividing and segregating。
where different people based on their color。
would be able to sit.。
And Billy went up to those ropes and said,。
"You either lose the ropes or you're gonna lose me.。
"You either take these away or I'm going away."。
And they took him down.。
And they did not tolerate.。
This is where the people of God come together。
and they stand level at the foot of the cross.。
Any Christian in history who has not agreed with that。
is wrong and in sin.。
Mahatma Gandhi was a really influential figure。
in the 20th century.。
One of the most influential of all time.。
Tragically, he experienced something very different。
in his exposure to Christianity.。
He writes in an autobiography about his experience。
and exposure to the church.。
And he was studying and he was in college。
and he writes that he was studying Christianity.。
And man, it's so powerful what he writes.。
He basically says, when he was studying the gospels,。
he seriously considered converting to Christianity.。
I believe that the teachings of Jesus。
could find the solution to the caste system。
that was dividing the people of India.。
In other words, India, there's this caste system。
and based on kind of what caste or what group that you're in。
determines your life and where you can go in society。
and laws that are applied to you.。
And he read the teachings of Jesus in the Bible。
and he thought, man, if anybody can break down walls,。
it is this man.。
These teachings may be able to transform India。
from what it is today and break down the caste system.。
And he says, he went to a church.。
One Sunday, I decided to attend services。
at a nearby church and talk to the minister。
about becoming a Christian.。
When he entered the sanctuary, however,。
the usher refused to give him a seat。
and suggested that he go back and worship。
with his own people.。
Gandhi says, I left the church that morning,。
disillusioned, disappointment.。
I decided not to return to a Christian church again。
saying if Christians have their own caste systems。
and play favoritism, I might as well remain a Hindu.。
Think about the tragedy that was.。
Someone who impacted millions and millions of people。
who had come and attempted and interested。
in becoming a Christian,。
turned away for something as silly as a Christian.。
For something as silly as the color of his skin。
or where he was from.。
Can you imagine God in heaven when he looks down。
seeing all things for all of eternity。
who made every single one of us in his image?。
Saying, really?。
Because he's got less or more melanin than you,。
that's how you're gonna divide things?。
That's so insane.。
In any way that this line of thinking,。
whether it's around ethnicity or it's around。
where someone went to college or their background。
or their education level begins to creep into the church,。
it's toxic, it's sick, it's sin, and it is evil, James says.。
Comes from an evil place.。
That's what he says in the verse.。
So he gives the command and then he gives the cause.。
Says this, my dear brothers and sisters,。
has not God chosen those who are poor。
in this world to be rich in faith?。
He's quoting from the Sermon on the Mount.。
Jesus said, "Blessed are the poor in spirit,。
"for they shall inherit the earth."。
To inherit the kingdom, he's promised to those who love him.。
He didn't promise it to the poor,。
he promised it to those who love him.。
But you have dishonored the poor.。
Is it not the rich who are exploiting you?。
So he's talking about a group of people。
who weren't believers that were exploiting。
some of the more poor Christians.。
Are they not the ones dragging you in court?。
Are they not the ones blaspheming the noble name。
of him to whom you belong?。
So he brings up the point, and the point is not rich or poor.。
His point is, hey, it's those who love him。
who will inherit the kingdom.。
His point is, you see people wrongly.。
You see people based on this earthly, worldly perspective。
where you see you got poor people, you got rich people.。
God doesn't see like that.。
God doesn't see through the lens and the spectrum。
of the way that the world sees around us.。
There are poor people in this world。
who will live in poverty their entire life.。
Some of them will live in third world countries。
their entire life who will spend eternity。
as billionaire, billionaire, billionaires.。
Maybe it's some of the wealthiest people you have ever met。
or some of the most blue-collar, just faithful servants。
of God that you've bumped into who love Jesus.。
And there are billionaires in this world。
who will be bankrupt for all of eternity in hell.。
And James is saying, God doesn't see through the lens.。
Everything that you think is important,。
God doesn't think is important.。
All the way that you treat people based on these。
superficial, silly, dumb things。
or insignificant in the eternal perspective things.。
He doesn't see people like the way that you see them.。
And you are not to treat people。
because the reason that you and I treat people differently。
is we don't see as God sees.。
So we hold onto things that he would say。
it's just not important.。
Every single person you've ever met。
is someone of infinite value.。
Someone who the angels long to look into。
and see that person come to church.。
First Corinthians six says that humans。
will judge the angels someday.。
Think about that.。
The angelic realm looks at you。
if you're a follower of Christ。
and the wonder and the glory that awaits you。
makes them awe or sit in long to look in。
is what first Peter two says.。
Long to see.。
You have no idea how infinitely value you are。
in every person you've ever met.。
The infinite value and potential that they have。
is someone who's made in the image of God.。
A future daughter or son of God almighty.。
I mean, think about that.。
If we could for a second see how valuable,。
how every single person you've ever,。
the person who bagged your groceries,。
the person that's gonna wait your table at Torchy's。
after this or pick up your table at Torchy's after this,。
the person that you live next to,。
the person that is in the cube next to you,。
your boss, every one of them。
is someone of literally infinite value。
because Jesus was willing to die on the cross。
to give his eternal life for that person.。
And it's crazy, like if Tim Tebow was here tonight。
or whatever the girl equivalent of that is,。
there would be a huge line of people waiting.。
They're like, oh man, I wanna take a picture of Tim Tebow.。
Look, Tim Tebow.。
And again, whatever the girl equivalent of that is,。
because you'd wanna meet and see and be around that person.。
Every person you're around。
is of such infinite, extraordinary value。
because they're made in the image of God,。
regardless of what they can do。
with a ball made out of pigskin sewn together.。
They're of infinite value。
because they're someone that Jesus said,。
I love them so much, I died for them.。
Every person you've ever been eyeball to eyeball with。
is gonna spend eternity somewhere,。
either perfected and glorified with Jesus。
or in hell apart from.。
And that same wonder that you would have。
of I can't believe I get to meet that person,。
you should know that is what every person around you。
ever is.。
Uniquely in all creation, God made a lot of cool stuff.。
He made the Aurora Borealis,。
He made the Grand Canyon, He made oceans,。
He made all kinds of cool stuff.。
None of that stuff makes God say,。
whoa, this is the crown of my creation.。
None of that stuff did He give His life for.。
You, on the other hand,。
you're the one that He says, man,。
you're the apple of my eye, so to speak,。
the most valuable thing that could ever be,。
both for you and for every person you've ever disrespected,。
treated poorly, ignored, ghosted,。
and not seen as God sees.。
And He says, man, you gotta understand。
and see people differently.。
Some of you, when you think through the lens of dating,。
it's so relevant to dating 'cause you're like,。
oh, you just see, like, man, he's got a trust fund,。
or she's got a trust fund,。
or I'm marrying into this really nice family.。
And there are people who are gonna be married。
and rich in this life.。
And people get married 'cause they're concerned。
about how much is in their bank account.。
They're not concerned about how much of God has their heart,。
or how much money they have in the bank。
versus how much God has of them.。
And when you make that deal and you take that bet。
for superficial, shallow, worldly reasons, it's costly.。
And James says, that's not how people who know Jesus think.。
The idea of the image of God,。
I've referenced already several times,。
but Genesis chapter one, verse 26 and 27 says,。
"So He created mankind in His own image.。
"In the image of God, He created the male and female."。
And James says, man, you're looking at people.。
Don't see them through the worldly lens that you're seeing.。
Looks can be deceiving.。
There's a bit on Jimmy Kimmel Live。
where he has Drake and Miley Cyrus。
and different people come out and they do eyewitness news.。
And I think we may have a pic of it,。
where this is Drake in undercover。
and he's out interviewing people.。
It's honestly a genius bit 'cause he goes out。
and he's totally undercover and he just dogs Drake.。
He's like, man, what do you think about Drake?。
He's pretty terrible, huh?。
And the guy just goes back and forth.。
And the people are like, yeah, man, I've never liked him.。
And I can't believe you did that.。
And honestly, this dude has not got talent.。
That's a problem.。
And he's like, yeah, yeah, man, no talent.。
That guy needs to find another hobby or something.。
And he walks through all of that.。
And then at the end, he takes off the mask。
and the guy realizes who I thought I was talking to。
was not who I was talking to.。
There's gonna come a day in eternity.。
We're gonna finally fully see, as God says,。
and realize who we thought we were talking to。
was not who we were talking to.。
And every person you will ever see。
is someone who will spend eternity somewhere。
and is of infinite value, whether you believe it or not,。
and is worthy and deserving of respect.。
You know how frustrated I get。
when people don't treat my kids well?。
Like my son, he's on a tee ball team right now.。
He plays tee ball and it's one of the first times。
I'm not coaching a team and I'm watching it.。
And I'm like, man, why are you not putting him at second?。
Or why are you just sitting out this inning?。
You need to put him out there.。
And I'm just kind of going through the Rolodex of like,。
hey, you need to put my son out there.。
Because I care deeply about how people treat。
or how my kids are doing.。
God has called a father。
of all those who put their trust in him.。
A father who invites anyone and everyone。
to come have a relationship with him.。
How much more does he think?。
When you ghosted that girl,。
dude, you think about who her dad is.。
Anybody ever dated a girl or girl whose dad was like,。
man, have her home by seven.。
That's the God who's there.。
And vice versa on both sides.。
Jesus said in Matthew chapter 25,。
a really interesting statement.。
He says, there's gonna come a day。
where at the end of the age,。
I'm gonna separate the sheep and the goats.。
He uses this analogy and it's like sheep and the goats.。
And the sheep will be on the right side,。
spend eternity with God.。
Then the goats, and he uses a farming illustration。
'cause he grew up on a farm.。
They're gonna spend eternity away from God.。
Here's how you'll know that you were among those。
who will spend eternity with God.。
And they asked, what did we do for you?。
And he said, I was hungry, I was thirsty, I was lonely,。
and you visited me, you cared for me.。
You gave me something to drink, something to eat.。
And it says, the people of God will go,。
when did we do that?。
And he said, whenever you did this for the least of these,。
you were doing it for me.。
But Jesus says,。
man, you don't know who you're interacting with.。
And every person is someone worthy,。
dignity, respect, being treated as such.。
And the reason that doesn't happen is we see。
as the world says, not as God's word calls us to.。
Jesus was told, or was even said by some of his enemies,。
and move quickly, that they said, we know,。
this is Jesus's enemies even said,。
you just are not swayed by the opinions of people.。
You don't think about people。
the way the world thinks about people.。
It says this, Matthew 22, verse 15.。
We know that you are a man of integrity, Jesus,。
that you teach the word of God in accordance with truth.。
You're not swayed by others,。
and you pay no attention to who they are.。
When you understand and you look at people。
like God says who they are, you begin to look like God,。
looking at their infinite value。
and looking at not just their external appearance。
or their appearance, but their heart and who they are.。
Matthew, or I'm sorry, 1 Samuel chapter 16,。
verse seven says this.。
People look at the outward appearance,。
but the Lord looks at the heart.。
He doesn't see the way the world sees.。
And as Christians, we're called to not see that way either,。
but to see every person is valuable。
and to look past the superficial, skin deep things.。
Finally, he gives us the cure to the sin of partiality.。
He says, if you really keep the royal law。
found in scripture, what's the royal law, James?。
Love your neighbor as yourself.。
You're doing right.。
But if you show favoritism, you sin。
and are convicted by the law as lawbreakers.。
Whoever keeps the whole law and yet stumbles。
at just one point is guilty of breaking all of it.。
For he who said, you shall not commit adultery。
also said you shall not murder.。
If you do not commit adultery, but you commit murder,。
you become a lawbreaker.。
Speak and act as those who will be judged。
by the law that gives freedom.。
Judgment without mercy will be shown to anyone。
who has not been merciful.。
Mercy triumphs.。
Mercy triumphs over judgment.。
So he takes a lot and covers a lot there.。
He lays out first the royal law.。
He basically gives a solution and the cure。
to the problem of favoritism and the action。
and response that is to mark believers。
is that you and I are to love people.。
That's the cure.。
That's the third idea from the text.。
He says, this is what is called the royal law.。
Why would you call it the royal law?。
Jesus, who is the King of Kings, in Matthew 22 was asked,。
what's the most important commandment there is?。
And he replies, it says, love God。
with all of your heart, strength, mind, and soul,。
and love your neighbor as yourself.。
And then he says, all of the Old Testament。
can be summarized in these two things.。
It's the royal law 'cause it's given by the King of Kings.。
It's also, you could say the royal law。
because it's the law that rules over every other law.。
If you fulfill or you do that one,。
all the other ones are gonna follow inside of it.。
Romans chapter 13 says that law or love。
is the fulfillment of the law.。
All of the commands can be summed up in this one command,。
love your neighbor as yourself.。
Everything, first half of your Bible,。
all of it summed up in a sentence of love people。
and treat them the way that you would like to be treated.。
When it comes to how you think about them,。
regardless of how they look, where they work,。
where they're from, what they've done,。
that you would treat them and care for them。
and be someone who thinks about them,。
speaks about them, acts towards them。
in a way that you would want to be acted towards,。
spoken to, thought about.。
He brings up an idea that is an interesting one。
where he says, if you break any of these,。
you've broken all of them.。
He says, if you stumble at just one point,。
you're guilty of breaking all of it.。
How can you say that, James?。
Are you saying that murder is synonymous with favoritism?。
In terms of the fact that it's breaking God's law。
'cause God, who also said don't murder,。
said don't show favoritism, yes,。
in that sense it is.。
It's not the same and there's consequences。
and that in one scenario, someone dies.。
In another scenario, someone is disrespected.。
So in a immediate consequence, they're not the same.。
But in terms of breaking God's command,。
you are a lawbreaker.。
You have broken the law.。
In other words, if you were hanging off the side of a cliff。
and you held onto a chain that was holding you above。
from falling on the ground。
and a single link in that chain breaks,。
you're gonna fall.。
If you sin one time, he's just saying,。
hey, you've become a sinner, you're a lawbreaker.。
If you steal one time, are you a thief?。
If not, when do you become a thief?。
And that's his point.。
He's just saying, hey, you have fallen short.。
You have broken God's law.。
You've become a lawbreaker.。
And he equates it in a pretty serious category。
of adultery, murder, and favoritism,。
that it is a big deal to God.。
Christians, and the jersey that is to mark。
and to be on, Christians, is that of love.。
And I'm gonna explain even what I mean by that in a second,。
but what I mean by the jersey,。
Jesus said in John chapter 13,。
by this one thing,。
everyone will know that you're my follower,。
that you love one another.。
That's gonna be the thing, the world looks on。
and they're like, man, the way they treat each other。
is just different.。
Like, it's not normal, or we act in one way,。
but they act in a different way,。
and they're gonna be able to identify。
you're different from them.。
My son, last fall, was playing soccer,。
and we were doing YMCA soccer with a bunch of four-year-olds。
which is chaotic in and of itself,。
which is mass herds of cats back and forth。
waiting for Capri Sun.。
And at the end of our game,。
there was another team, or two other teams。
that were playing after us, and they came up,。
and they both had red jerseys on, like identical.。
Identical red jerseys.。
And I was sitting there watching, I was like,。
how, it's already mass chaos, like, run, Bobby, run, run.。
What is that, a flower?。
And then you're trying to, you know,。
get them to move different directions.。
When they're all wearing the same thing,。
none of the kids can tell each other apart。
and know who's on my team, and it's just total chaos.。
Because without being able to identify and recognize,。
oh, they're different,。
they just blend in with everybody else.。
How many Christians, when it comes to the way。
that they're supposed to wear the jersey。
and be marked by something that makes them stand out,。
they look like everybody else in the world around us.。
The idea of, hey, be a loving person,。
that's not a message that is unique to Christianity.。
Actually being a loving person。
is something that is a unique thing to see,。
especially when it comes to being a loving person。
in the way the Bible describes love,。
which is only those who have experienced the love of God。
through Christ can be and live a life。
that flows of love towards other people,。
not just to love them, to get a good feeling for what I did,。
but actually out of a response to God's love.。
It's something only Christians can wear.。
And how many Christians claim to be followers of Christ,。
and yet when you look at their life,。
they look like everybody else.。
They don't give generously, they don't give differently,。
they don't spend their time differently,。
they don't care for their family differently,。
they don't use their mouth differently,。
they're not different at work,。
they blend in with everybody else.。
And Jesus says the jersey that is to mark followers。
of Christ is that they are those who love people around them.。
What do I mean by love?。
The Bible actually describes and defines,。
this is what love should look like,。
'cause everybody says love.。
Ellen DeGeneres is like, you know what we need?。
Love, sweet love.。
Everybody thinks that they have the corner。
on the market on love.。
Christians have a foundation that we love。
because God first loved us.。
Everybody else, any other worldview,。
or an atheistic worldview,。
you love just 'cause people tell you to.。
And that could change any day or any moment.。
Christians have a command from God himself。
that says you are to love people。
when they can do nothing for you in return,。
because God first loved you.。
That's what 1 John chapter four says.。
1 Corinthians chapter 13 says this,。
here's how you know what love.。
This is what you and I should be wearing。
and our lives should look like,。
and strive to look like,。
and the more that you and I walk with God,。
the more that they will look like,。
love is patient.。
Love is kind.。
It does not envy.。
It doesn't boast.。
It's not proud.。
In other words, if there's ever a moment。
where I'm not being patient,。
I'm not being kind,。
I'm being envious or jealous,。
I'm boasting about, hey, do you know,。
I'm kind of a big deal.。
I'd like to tell you some of my stuff,。
me, myself, and I.。
I'm not acting in love.。
It's not proud.。
It does not dishonor others.。
Anytime you dishonor someone,。
you're not loving.。
It's a pretty powerful thing to think about.。
Who'd you dishonor today?。
On Facebook, on Instagram, at work,。
behind their back?。
Says, you're not wearing the jersey.。
You look like everybody else.。
It's not self-seeking.。
How much does our world need to hear that?。
How much do I need to hear that?。
It's not easily angered.。
It keeps no record of wrongs.。
Doesn't hold things against people.。
Love does not delight in evil,。
but it rejoices with the truth.。
It always protects.。
It always trusts.。
It always hopes and always perseveres,。
and never ends.。
Love never fails.。
But James says, you and I are to love。
and be marked by the quality and characteristic of love.。
That's the cure for favoritism,。
and that is the appropriate response。
to every person you've ever met,。
whether they're attractive to you, unattractive to you,。
whether they look like you, they don't look like you.。
That is to be the quality or the characteristic。
that is to mark your relationship with that person.。
He brings up a really interesting sentence at the end。
where he talks about justice.。
Judgment and mercy.。
He says, if you are the type of person。
that passes judgment on other people,。
instead of being merciful to them,。
and you don't extend mercy to people,。
you will not be extended mercy.。
James, what are you saying?。
I could not be a Christian,。
or I could lose my faith and relationship with God?。
No, he's saying if you have been someone。
who's received mercy from God,。
you put your faith in Jesus on the cross,。
dying in your place, rising from the dead,。
that you believe I don't earn, I don't deserve。
relationship with God, got it one way,。
because Jesus paid for me on the cross.。
He said, I will go in your place.。
Everything you did is messed up.。
Every sin that you've ever committed,。
every pornography look that you've ever had, David,。
everything that is part of a sexual past you've ever had,。
every time you've gotten drunk,。
every time that you've had an abortion in your past,。
whatever your story is, he would say,。
all of it I paid for on the cross,。
and you, by saying I have received the mercy of God,。
I'm putting my faith in what you did for me on the cross.。
He says, when a person receives that mercy,。
I don't deserve it, but it's mine.。
They are someone who extends mercy.。
They give people the benefit of the doubt.。
They care for people, they love people, they forgive people.。
How interesting, when you think about the topic。
of injustice and mercy, what comes to mind?。
Maybe the best picture of someone who extends mercy。
in the face of horrific injustice is Jesus,。
who one day, while he was out teaching,。
comes and he's with his disciples,。
he's arrested, he's brought in, he's beaten,。
and he stands before a Roman pagan named Pontius Pilate,。
and he stands there, and Pilate says,。
are you the king of the Jews?。
And he walks him through, and he says,。
basically, I can find nothing wrong with this guy.。
And he turns him back over to the people who said,。
you know, Pilate, we want you to arrest him and take him in,。
and he says, there's nothing wrong,。
he didn't do anything wrong, even while he's here,。
there's no fault I can find, I'm gonna release him.。
And they say, don't release him.。
And there's this big crowd that begins to gather around,。
and they begin to yell, crucify him, crucify him,。
crucify him, and they call for the death penalty.。
A guy who's been teaching all week。
with this group of people with the city of Jerusalem,。
and they're calling for the death penalty at this moment,。
that we thought you were gonna be different.。
Crucify him, crucify him.。
The perfect son of God,。
having the death penalty called for in his life,。
a man who had done nothing wrong, sinless his entire life,。
had given sight to the blind, allowed lame people to walk,。
allowed beggars to be lifted out of poverty,。
brought sick people back to life,。
allowed the mute to speak, healed lepers,。
transformed lives, restored families together,。
is being called for the death penalty?。
And it gets worse.。
He's taken, he's beaten, he has a place,。
or a crown of thorns placed on his head.。
He's led to be crucified on two wooden pieces.。
And his hands are nailed into that wood,。
and he's lifted up.。
In the face of the greatest injustice ever,。
what does he respond with?。
Mercy.。
He says in Luke chapter 24, 23,。
hanging on a cross for sins he didn't commit,。
you committed, and I committed.。
He looks at those who had just nailed his hands。
into that wood and says, "Father, forgive them.。
"They don't know what they're doing.。
"Father, give them mercy."。
When Christians in the face of injustice respond with mercy,。
they look like Jesus.。
Let me be really clear.。
There's a lot of calls for justice in our world right now.。
There's a lot of angry, upset, in every direction,。
with racial division, political division,。
and whatever the division is,。
and there's a lot of loud calls for justice as Christians.。
The volume which we call for mercy should be louder。
than the volume we call for justice for.。
Why?。
Because we know that according to Romans chapter 12,。
and all throughout the Bible, there will come a day。
that every sin, there will be justice for it.。
God says in Romans chapter 12,。
"Do not avenge yourself or take revenge.。
"Leave it to the wrath of God.。
"It is written, 'Vengeance is mine,'。
"says the Lord, 'I will repay.'"。
That day is coming.。
Every sin ever committed, everyone caught on camera,。
everyone not caught on camera, will give an account,。
will pay for the sin and the actions that they've taken.。
And as Christians, the volume which we cry,。
even an injustice to ourself, how crazy is that,。
should be louder than the volume。
that we cry for justice for,。
because it's what our Savior did.。
And when this happens, it's astonishing.。
Six years ago, almost exactly, or in a month or two,。
and I'm laying on the plane, in Charleston, South Carolina,。
nine people were brutally murdered。
by a racist, evil person who made God。
get ahold of his heart.。
He walked in to a church and he killed brutally。
nine different people.。
He was a white guy, killed nine different people。
who were black.。
Horrific evil.。
Almost immediately after, family member after family member。
got up and in response at the deposition said,。
I'm gonna read one of them.。
From Nadine Collier, the daughter of a 70-year-old。
Ethel Lance, who was killed.。
"You took something from me very precious,"。
speaking to the person who killed her mom.。
"I'll never talk to her again.。
"I will never hold her again.。
"But I forgive you.。
"May God have mercy on your soul."。
In the face of injustice, she called for mercy。
and in doing so, she looked like Jesus.。
We're in a weird, crazy time where there's so much division.。
But one thing that has gotta be abundantly clear。
is as followers of Jesus, no matter what is taking place。
around us, we don't listen to what the world says,。
we listen to what God's word says.。
And we call for mercy.。
In the midst of the tragedy of George Floyd,。
which is all taking place right now.。
We pray for mercy.。
That God had gotten a hold of his heart。
and he's in eternity with him.。
No matter what you think.。
That God would get a hold of his family,。
that God would get a hold of everybody.。
Derek Chauvin, you know who loves George Floyd。
and Derek Chauvin?。
Jesus.。
Whatever the worst person that you infill in the blank,。
you can't believe that, that you right now。
are thinking through your minds,。
I can't believe that you would even say that,。
and why would you call for mercy?。
You know how arrogant and bigoted it sounds。
for you to say, I would rather someone spend。
all of eternity in hell, because I'm angry。
about what someone did.。
And there's a place where the heart of God,。
there will be justice.。
Every sin will be paid for in eternity in hell,。
on the cross by Jesus Christ.。
But when any of us say for anyone, towards anyone,。
I hope that they go to hell forever.。
You think that's the spirit of Christ?。
Who says, Father, forgive them.。
They crucify me, they kill me.。
And this has gone too far into the church.。
We have to be people who say, no matter what we face,。
we're gonna love each other, we're gonna care each other,。
we're gonna call for mercy.。
That doesn't mean there's not a justice system.。
But God, would you, in your mercy,。
get a hold of their eternity and change their heart?。
And because I think that my sin is not as bad。
as someone else's sin, would you change any part of me。
that believes that?。
If you've never had a moment,。
will you put your faith in Jesus?。
The greatest gift is to receive that mercy yourself.。
You can't give it until you've received it.。
By saying, God, I believe I'm a sinner。
and I'm putting my faith in what you did。
for me on the cross.。
You died for me, you rose again,。
and I'm gonna be with you forever,。
not 'cause I deserve it, 'cause you paid for it。
and I accept it.。
Tonight is your night.。
Let me pray.。
Father, I thank you that you are a God.。
I thank you that you are a God。
who in the face of being brutally killed,。
cried for mercy.。
The insane reality of that is beyond my ability。
to even comprehend.。
We live in a time that is desperately sick,。
and the church uniquely offers the solution。
of healing and unity and hope,。
and I pray that you would help us to do that,。
that we would be people who love one another。
like we wanna be loved, like you loved us,。
that we wouldn't show favorites,。
that we wouldn't treat one another differently,。
and you would help us to see each person we cross paths with。
like you see them,。
no matter who they are, how they look,。
what they've done, where they're from.。
I pray for anyone who's never received mercy,。
a gift of mercy tonight,。
that you would allow them to take that step,。
have eternity, their eternity,。
forever changed by putting their faith in you.。
As they listen even right now。
and they know that this is the moment,。
would you grab hold of their heart?。
For any parts of our hearts。
that are not quick to extend mercy,。
would you forgive us and help us, God?。
We love you and we worship you now in song,。
thanking you that your mercy triumphs over judgment, amen.。
