[Heartbeat]。
I love it. So intense. If you weren't stressed before that, you are now.。
Welcome, friends in the room. Welcome, friends in Fort Worth. Welcome, friends in Houston.。
I'm going to start us off by reading a psalm that will give us some direction for where we're going as we continue this series X-Hail.。
So it's Psalm 139. It'll be up on the screens. If you have a Bible, you can flip there.。
I'm going to read it, pray, and then we will dive into it together.。
So here's what it says. For the director of music, a psalm of David.。
You have searched me, Lord, and you know me. You know when I sit and when I rise.。
You perceive my thoughts from afar. You discern my going out and my lying down.。
You are familiar with all my ways. Before a word is on my tongue, you, Lord, know it completely.。
You hem me in behind and before, and you lay your hand upon me. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me, too lofty for me to attain.。
Where can I go from your spirit, or where can I flee from your presence?。
If I go up to the heavens, you're there. If I make my bed in the depths, you are there.。
If I rise on the wings of the dawn and I settle in the far side of the sea, even there your hand will guide me, and your right hand will hold me fast.。
If I say, "Surely the darkness will hide me and the light become night around me," even the darkness will not be dark to you.。
The night will shine like the day, for darkness is as light to you.。
For you created my inmost being. You knit me together in my mother's womb.。
I praise you because I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Your works are wonderful. I know that full well.。
My frame was not hidden from you when I was made in the secret place.。
When I was woven together in the depths of the earth, your eyes saw my unformed body.。
All the days ordained for me were written in your book before one of them came to be.。
How precious to me are your thoughts, God. How vast is the sum of them.。
Were I to count them, they would outnumber the grains of sand.。
When I wake, I'm still with you.。
If only, God, you would slay the wicked.。
Away from me, you who are bloodthirsty. They speak of you with evil intent.。
Your adversaries misuse your name.。
Do I not hate those who hate you, Lord, and abhor those who are in rebellion against you?。
I have nothing but hatred for them. I count them my enemies.。
Search me, God, and know my heart. Test me and know my anxious thoughts.。
See if there is any offensive way in me and lead me in the way everlasting, we pray.。
Father, I pray for the next 30 minutes that we're gonna have together.。
And I pray that you would use them and use your word to allow all of us to leave here more in love with you,。
more aware of your nearness, more able to exhale in a world that seems like it's falling apart.。
I pray for my friends who came in this room tonight, and they are filled with just anxiety, uncertainty, frustration, pain,。
that you would be more real to them than all of those things, than all the distracting things.。
Father, we love you, and we thank you most of all for Jesus.。
Thank you for the words penned by David that tell us so much about you, how you feel about us,。
who we are, and how we can have a relationship with you.。
I pray that we would leave here with a deeper understanding of that。
and a deeper relationship than we came in with.。
We love you, amen.。
I don't know if you're in the room, and I won't have you raise your hand in this,。
but you are in one of those early dating seasons.。
Like, you're in the first date, second date, maybe third date.。
Maybe you're sitting right next to each other right now, and you're on that second date.。
But I remember that season of dating, and oh, man, I feel for you so much, because that is the worst.。
And here's why.。
That early dating season where you're just getting to know, and hey, I'd like to take you to dinner,。
and hey, I want to take you out, and you go on that first date, and maybe there's a second date going on.。
And it's just that season where it's like one long perpetual interview.。
You know what I mean by that?。
It's like you're both kind of getting to know each other, and everything is under the microscope.。
So I was always hyper-aware of how am I being perceived right now,。
because everything I'm going to do is going to be judged.。
They're going to evaluate, oh, he's this kind of person, or oh, she's this kind of person.。
So you're in that state where you're just very aware.。
I don't know if you can really even avoid this.。
So you go out to dinner.。
You're even aware of what you're going to order off the menu,。
because that's going to pigeonhole you into that kind of person.。
You're like, man, I'm trying to eat healthy right now, so I want to get a salad.。
But she's going to be like, he's a salad guy.。
Oh, my gosh.。
Can't do that.。
So I'm like, hey, I'll take the steak and a bucket of gravy.。
And that's just right, because I don't want to be pigeon as the salad guy, even if that's not here, not right now.。
It's not that I'm afraid to be known.。
I just don't want to get known in kind of the wrong order.。
You'd have a wrong perception of me, or maybe you're a girl, and you're like, man, I really want the gravy and the steak.。
And I feel like I have to get a salad right now.。
There's just all these -- even I remember like paying for things, and I felt like I couldn't pay.。
Like I'd have like a gift card to some nice restaurant.。
And it's like, of course, I work in ministry.。
That's why we're going here.。
But I would give it, and I'd be like, I can't pay with the gift card, because then I'm like, the gift card.。
I just want you to know this cost me nothing to take you out.。
That's what this means to me, nothing or a coupon.。
And then I'm like, hey, he's the coupon guy.。
Oh, man, that's terrible.。
If you use coupons, that's great.。
But it's just like you're underneath the microscope the entire time.。
You're like all being judged.。
And I just remember feeling that.。
And it wasn't like necessarily you're trying to even deceive.。
You just don't want to be misunderstood.。
You don't want to be wrongfully pigeonholed into that type of person.。
You're this girl, that guy.。
That's who they are.。
And before they can really get to know you at the right pace or the pace of your choosing.。
And eventually it even goes and plays itself out where I remember where we kind of established from my wife, for example, we started dating.。
And it was like very much established.。
Hey, we're in a relationship.。
It was a mutual.。
Hey, we like one another.。
And I just remember feeling like, ah, but does she even really know me?。
Like she likes me.。
But does she even really know me?。
I mean, it's impossible to really love or like someone if you don't really know them to that degree.。
And the reason I say that is because when it comes to our relationship with God, there's a part of us that in that same way where we're like always wondering, how does he feel about me?。
Does he even really know me?。
I've heard at the porch consistently.。
God loves you.。
But does God really even know me?。
Like, could he really even love?。
Oh, man, I love you if you really fully knew me.。
And the reason I even say that is because we're going to look at this song that we just read through where David is going to lay out that not only does God know you more fully than anyone else, but he loves you more fully than anyone else.。
And he not only gives us that, but he gives us how that is impacted and how that transforms David's life.。
That is a key to how David is experiencing transformation is how God sees him, how he knows how God views him, how God knows him despite all of his flaws and loves him and how that impacts David's life.。
So we're going to pick it up.。
Psalm 139.。
We're in this series, Exhale.。
We're just exploring the Psalms and how inside of the Psalms, there's these different truths that God has preserved throughout the ages.。
The Book of Psalms was a songbook that was written by these different authors, primarily David, King David.。
And in there, there's all these different truths that allow us in the midst of a world that's full of chaos and falling apart to experience an exhale.。
The first week we talked about Psalm 46 and how God is in control, that everything is underneath God's control.。
And last week, we talked about Psalm 23 and really laid out not only is he in control, but he cares for you.。
So tonight we're going to look at specifically and individually how God cares for you, how God knows you, how God loves you and talk about being known by God.。
And David's going to lay out how that impacts his life.。
Psalm 139.。
If you have never read it before, it is probably, if it's not the most famous, one of the most famous Psalms David ever wrote.。
In other words, if David, who was a musician, he's a song guy, he writes a lot of music.。
If he had an album, this would be fighting for the album cover.。
Psalm 139, and this is one of his most famous songs of all time.。
So we're going to pick it up and David lays out how being known by God and knowing that God knows him has impacted his life and leads him to be changed.。
Here we go.。
Verse one of Psalm 139.。
It'll be up on the screens.。
If you don't have a Bible, if you don't have a Bible, it is our gift to you in the Welcome Center.。
There's one waiting for you to go pick it up.。
So grab that afterwards.。
Here we go.。
Verse one.。
You have searched me, Lord, and you know me.。
In other words, God, you know everything about me.。
Who are you?。
I have been known and you fully understand all that I am.。
Verse two.。
You know when I sit and when I rise.。
You perceive my thoughts from afar.。
You discern my going out and my lying down.。
You are familiar with all of my ways.。
Before a word is on my tongue, Lord, you know it completely.。
David says our first idea introduced in this text is that God knows you right now where you are.。
You walked into this room.。
God knows everything about you, David says.。
And he's going to say how wonderful it's going to be or how wonderful this is, David's about to tell us.。
But he knows everything.。
He knows, David says, he knows the thoughts that you have right now.。
He knows every thought that you've ever had.。
He knows the words you're going to say before you even know you're going to say them.。
Whether you're an internal processor or an external processor like me who's kind of figured it out as I go, God's not figuring it out.。
He knows every single word, every single action, every single thing that you've done is fully known and fully seen by God.。
He knows what you did last night, last summer, the summer before that.。
He knows everything about you and he's about to tell us the opposite reaction that most of us assume God would have if he really knows all of that.。
He's certainly going to pull away from me.。
If anyone, I mean one of the greatest fears we have is being known.。
I'm afraid of being known despite that it's a huge desire.。
I'm afraid that in being known I'll be rejected.。
And David says it is not rejection that we meet but something else.。
Verse 5, "You hem me in behind and before and you lay your hand upon me.。
Such knowledge is too wonderful, too lofty for me to attain that God's reaction despite knowing everything about you is not to pull back."。
Immediately David says, "What do you do God? You know everything.。
You know what I think, you know what I want, you know why I want the things that I want.。
You know what I say, you know why I did that, you know what I've done, you know the thoughts that I've had, you know the number of people I've slept with.。
You know the number of times that I've gotten drunk and I've made decisions I don't even remember but you know them.。
You know the decisions that I've made regarding money, you know the way that I look in the mirror and you know all the thoughts that I have.。
Every insecurity, every feeling of pride God you know all of them.。
And your response to me is not recoiling or pulling back but it's moving in.。
You lay your hand upon me," David says.。
God's response to you and knowing you fully is not to pull away but to move towards you, surrounds you, David says.。
That God is an expert on you and he loves you.。
In other words, God is the only being, the reason God can be the God who knows you better than anyone else and loves you more than anyone else is because he knows you more than anyone else.。
In other words, you can't love someone unless you know them.。
If I was to have a friend or your best friend right now in the whole world and their name was Steve.。
And Steve, your perception of Steve was one certain way like he had this job and he had an accent because he was from out of the country.。
And all of a sudden you realize Steve's real name is Carl and it's all been a facade, it's all fake.。
Steve that you love, how tragic would that be?。
Steve that you love is not the, you never loved him.。
You love some perception, some persona, you never knew him.。
You cannot fully love someone unless you fully know them.。
God is the God who is there and when he looks at you he knows everything, David says.。
And David is overwhelmed and overjoyed going, God you see everything about me.。
And yet you don't pull away, you come and surround me, you love me.。
That's when you look at me, how do you see me?。
If you see me as your child whom you love and you don't abandon me despite knowing everything that I've ever done.。
David establishes not only that I'm known but that I am loved.。
And he continues and really helps us understand how we can be confident that God knows everything about us.。
Here's what he says, verse 7.。
Where can I go from your spirit?。
Where can I flee from your presence?。
How do I know that God knows everything about me?。
Because he's always with me.。
David just says I can never escape you.。
Everywhere that I go you are.。
And this isn't a cause for concern.。
David is ecstatic throughout this whole thing.。
Everywhere that I go you're with me.。
He says this, verse 8.。
If I go up to the heavens, I go up to the sky God you're there.。
If I go down to the depths of the earth and the lowest places, you're there.。
If I rise on the wings of the dawn, which is just a creative way for saying the sun.。
And I go to the very farthest place of the sea, I go from coast to coast.。
Or from the rising of the sun to the setting.。
Everywhere in between no matter where I go God, there you are.。
You're with me, you're for me, you love me and you know me.。
And you're there everywhere that I go.。
He says, I say surely the darkness will hide me and the light become night around me.。
Even the darkness will not be dark to you.。
The night will shine like the day for the darkness is as light with you.。
David says God is with you.。
The second idea in this text, the second stanza in the song that David sings is that God is with him.。
God is with him.。
And God answers, man, one of humanity's greatest fears is I'm alone.。
Like you look up any study and they're going to say out of humanity's fears, the human experience,。
what is one of our most common feelings and common concerns when I look out am I alone?。
And David writes this song, many people believe it.。
He wrote it at the end of his age and as he's looking back he says you've always been with me God.。
Everywhere that I go, when you came here, you, when you drove here in the car, God was with you.。
When you were doing that thing this past weekend that you're like filled with regret now from God was with you.。
When you were out on vacation, wherever you go, God is with you.。
And David says when I look back on my life and here's what I know and I've learned over the years,。
I am not alone.。
The human experience and the fear that I will not and I've never been alone, you're with me.。
When I was a shepherd, David would say out in the field, you were with me God.。
When I'm a good king, you're with me.。
When I'm a bad king, you're with me.。
When I was a good husband, David would say, you were with me on good days, bad days,。
God you're always there, you're always with me.。
That I'm not alone.。
And the reason I think this wasn't a terror for David because I think a lot of us think it's like being on a like security camera constantly with God。
and I think David would go, that's not a security camera.。
That causes me joy to know God no matter where I go, you're with me.。
And the reason is, is because David knew how amazing it was to have immediate access to God.。
In other words, if I was to ask you, hey, if you could have immediate access to anything in the world at any point in time, what would you want?。
In other words, if I was like, hey, you can have any immediate access to anything in the world, what would you want?。
You want a billion dollars at any point you can go, yeah, I've got a million dollars.。
If you want influence at any point, you can go, man, I'm going to this interview.。
I want to have influence over finding favor in these people's eyes.。
I want to have influence.。
If you got to have anything, immediate access to that thing, what would you want?。
And David would say, I have what I want, God.。
I know the one and I have God always with me, immediate access to God.。
He's the one who controls finances.。
He's the one who controls influence.。
And at all times, I can't get away from you, God, you're with me always, you know me and you love me.。
How amazing are you?。
David just proclaims as he sings this song to himself and to his people.。
God, you're with me.。
How amazing are you, God?。
And you know me and you're with me.。
And he continues and not only tells us that, but he tells us something else at the center of why God knows you and what you should know about him as it relates to his relationship with you.。
He says this, verse 13, for you created my inmost being, my soul.。
You knit me together in my mother's womb.。
I praise you because I am fearfully and wonderfully made.。
Your works are wonderful, and I know that full well.。
My frame was not hidden from you when I was made in the secret place.。
When I was woven together in the depths of the earth, your eyes saw my unformed substance.。
And David says, you were the one God, you made me.。
Not only do you know me, the reason that you love me so much is because you're the designer of me.。
You fashioned me, you created me.。
Even inside of my mother's womb, it was you.。
It was always you.。
And he says, I'm wonderfully made.。
He picks up on how amazing your creation is.。
I used to think this was like such a funny thing for David to be like, look at me.。
I'm wonderfully made.。
Have you seen the statue?。
I'm amazing.。
And this humble brag that David gave, but he's just declaring really what all of science backs up.。
How amazing you are, that God formed and fashioned, and he uses the word knit you together inside of your mother's womb.。
Our third idea from this stanza is God made you.。
He loves you because God made you uniquely you.。
That you weren't just some random act, some surprise, maybe to your parents, but you didn't surprise God.。
And he was the one behind knitting and forming you in your mother's womb.。
Some scars coming out.。
It's true that he was the one knitting.。
And I love the expression because it's literally like someone weaving together inside of the mother's womb.。
The Bible teaches how amazing the humanity and the world around us is unique in all of creation.。
That God didn't say, I'm going to make the lion in my image.。
I'm going to make this bird, and I'm going to breathe breath into it.。
I'm going to uniquely create and knit together in the womb of every single alligator in the womb of that person.。
But he does to humanity, it's humanity that he says, I'll die for you.。
Regardless, and you may go, man, I don't love me.。
And there's one being who does.。
He fashioned you, your personality, everything about you before you were even an idea in your parents' head.。
He was the one forming and fastening.。
That science, unlike science, that tells us that humanity, humans are one step above the apes.。
The Bible teaches you are one step below the angels.。
And that's temporary.。
Even that will one day be changed.。
And humanity will assume a place where even the angels will be judged by mankind because they alone are made in his image.。
And David's declaring, God, you made me uniquely.。
You saw me, God.。
I love this probably because we're having, we're like 35 weeks pregnant right now.。
And so we have a little baby boy.。
In fact, you guys want to meet?。
I'll show you the little baby boy that we have in there.。
Jordan, if that's up there.。
Yeah, little alien inside of there.。
That's at 12 weeks.。
And I can't believe I'm that dad right now.。
Oh, my gosh.。
I'm like, hey, look at this picture.。
You can't even tell what it is, but there he is.。
And I think why I love that so much is because the Bible teaches that right now, who is forming, who formed, who's knitting that child together, who knit you together.。
Who's behind creating a child is not just mother and dad.。
It's not just the parents.。
And you may go, yeah, but they play a role in it.。
The dad does the one thing that he thinks about all day long.。
And the mother is really kind of the host that carries it.。
And she carries the brunt of it.。
But who's forming it?。
Like how amazing when science.。
I didn't know how to take this message if we should even go into all the scientific stuff.。
But the scientific research around the human body is so amazing.。
And God says, look, you're fearfully, you're wonderfully made.。
It was me, always me weaving you together.。
There's no mistake when you were inside of you, inside of your mother's womb.。
It was me.。
I was the one who took one cell.。
I mean, how amazing is the human body?。
Human bodies made up of 70 trillion cells right now, 70 trillion.。
And the second that I said that, 25,000 cells in your body were replaced.。
Right now, how amazing of a work of art you are.。
Those 70 trillion cells all came from two cells, one from your mom and one from your father.。
23 chromosomes and 23 chromosomes.。
And they were brought together.。
And God was the one who united them and created you.。
And from them, they split and split and split into 70 trillion that make up your body right now.。
God is the one, he says.。
And David says, look, when no one saw me.。
Like right now we go and we get a sonogram every once in a while to get to be able to see him.。
And it's really blurry.。
It's like, is that a human?。
God sees it.。
God is the one that God says, no one else saw me, but God, you did.。
You saw, you were the one weaving together.。
You were the one creating and fashioning me.。
I praise you because you are the one behind creating all that I am.。
The 54 million heartbeats that a baby has before it exits the womb.。
God, you gave every one of them.。
You sustained every one of them.。
That's who you are.。
And he gives us one of the most interesting and incredible truths about God and the creation of humans.。
David lays out inside of this Psalm.。
He lays out, I love this verse, that all of your days, all of the days for me were ordained for me and written in your book before one of them came to be.。
That God, you knew, what did David just say?。
That God looks down at your life and he said, before you even existed,。
before you were even a fetus, an embryo, or even just like part of your parents mistake.。
Before any of that took place, I had this book and it was no mistake for me.。
I knew that you were coming.。
And he says, I have a book that holds every single day that you live.。
Like in other words, inside of heaven, there's some, some way that we don't fully understand.。
There's a book that's kept with Mary on it.。
John on it.。
It has you inside of it and has every single day that you'll ever live.。
God knows it, sees it in advance and he has it all inside of there.。
I mean, how lovesick, amazing in love with you, God is, he keeps everything about you inside of that book.。
And David is praising God.。
God, you know, everything, not only that, before I was even around, you knew what I would do.。
You know where I would go.。
You know, everything about my heart, you see all of it and you still love me.。
I'm overwhelmed by this.。
And here's how it's further overwhelming for David.。
I mean, think about what David just wrote.。
I don't know what you know about David.。
Not only did he kill a guy named Goliath, but David had a struggle with the ladies.。
And David was the guy who ended up sleeping with Bathsheba, who was out taking a bath on the roof.。
And David ended up murdering her husband.。
So inside of David's book, David just said, look out before I've done anything.。
You got this book.。
You love me.。
You know everything in advance.。
Despite knowing all of it, you still love me.。
You knew that inside of the book that I have, there's a chapter labeled murder.。
Inside of the book that I have, despite that there's a chapter labeled adultery, you didn't throw the book away.。
You didn't get rid of it.。
You didn't get rid of me.。
How rich in love you are, God, that you know everything about me.。
And yet still you love me.。
You see the depths of who I am, of who I'll be, of what I'll do.。
And yet still you love me.。
Not only do you love me.。
He says this, how precious to me are your thoughts, oh God, concerning David.。
How vast is the sum of them.。
So if your translation says, how precious are your thoughts and how vast are your thoughts concerning me.。
Were I to count them, they would outnumber the grains of sand.。
When I awake, I'm still with you.。
That David says, God, when you think about me, I mean, this is like, so I don't know why this took out.。
And I was like, David, that is a little bold.。
You should back off a little bit.。
He basically just said, God, you think about me all the time.。
Who's God?。
God thinks about me all the time.。
God's thinking about you all the time.。
That's what he just said.。
How vast, how amazing, how many are your thoughts?。
If I was to count the thoughts, the way that God thinks about you.。
In other words, you're always on God's mind.。
When you're not thinking about God, he's thinking about you.。
What kind of amazing, loving parent is this?。
That he's always thinking of you.。
How vast it'd be like picking up sand, David says.。
And trying to count out the little grains.。
That's how much God is thinking about you.。
He's like any parent.。
If you have parents that, or anything like my mom.。
Where if you were to go over to my house in Houston, where she lives.。
And you were to come over.。
I remember when I was dating my wife, for example.。
And we would go over there.。
She is the mom who's like, oh my gosh, this is my precious boy.。
He can do nothing wrong.。
Immediately, third date in, she's like, let me show you him as a baby.。
Here's him doing potty training.。
Mom, I'm naked in that.。
That's not okay.。
She's the third date in.。
You're ruining this for me.。
No, it's amazing.。
Look how cute he is.。
That's who she is.。
She keeps a book.。
She just loves.。
She's crazy about her child.。
In the same way, when God looks at you, David says.。
All that you are, he knows.。
All that you are, he loves.。
And there's parts of you that he's working to change.。
And make more look like Jesus.。
But all that you are, he sees new.。
And he loves.。
And then David takes a song and it really takes like a really weird twist here.。
It goes from like in sync to slipknot where he's like, God, you're amazing.。
I love you.。
I'm just so crazy about you.。
God, you know me kill everybody.。
And it's like easy, David.。
Okay.。
He said, if only you, if only you, God would slay the wicked away from me.。
You who are bloodthirsty.。
They speak of you with evil intent.。
Your adversaries misuse your name.。
So David's going, God, you're amazing.。
You know me.。
You love me.。
You form me.。
You fashion me.。
Despite every bad part of me.。
You still love me.。
You still don't walk away from me.。
God, will you kill ISIS already?。
Get rid of all of the bad guys.。
God, anybody who's against you, I'm against.。
Here's what he says.。
Do I not hate those who hate you, Lord?。
And abhor those who are in rebellion against you.。
I have nothing but hatred for them.。
I count them my enemies.。
I love it.。
David is doing really.。
Oh, what's he doing?。
There's just some love.。
Like he's a guy.。
He's a, he's a feeler.。
He's a poet.。
He's emotional.。
He's an emo.。
He's just in love.。
And he's expressing himself on God.。
Look, you, I love you.。
You love me.。
This is amazing.。
I can't believe how God anyone who doesn't like you.。
I hate in this.。
Just like it's really not that dissimilar from like what I think most of us do when someone doesn't like something that we love.。
And God, David's just going, look, God, I love you.。
If anyone has a problem with you, they get a problem with me.。
We see this and you may be going, no, I never do that.。
When people don't like the same sports team as you, you're like, I hate you.。
Like I'm an Aggie fan.。
And, uh, and it's really hard to be.。
It's like an abusive relationship.。
I feel like I'm in with the Aggies right now.。
And, uh, in, in that the, uh, the Aggies.。
So if you came up and you're like, man, I hate the Aggies.。
I'm like, I hate you.。
How about that?。
That's probably too far.。
Pastor.。
Um, or, or if you were like with my wife and I love my wife and you were like, Hey, I hate your wife.。
Be like, first, what's wrong with you?。
Second off, I hate you.。
Anyone that comes against you.。
David says, I hate, he's just expressing himself.。
He's just in love.。
And he finishes off and we'll land the plane right after this.。
Verse 23, where he says, not only does God, I know that you have power over all the evil in the world.。
Anyone who's against you, God, I'm on your side.。
Take them out.。
And it snaps out of it.。
And he goes back into, uh, what seems like it fits more with the song.。
Here we go.。
Verse 23, search me, God, and know my heart.。
Test me and know my anxious thoughts.。
Here comes our exhale.。
And I love David because I feel like I learn even how to pray when I read him.。
What did he just say?。
Like he goes through this whole song.。
God, you have searched me, God, you know me, you know where I've gone.。
You know where I'll go before I was ever existing.。
You knew everything about me, God.。
How amazing yet you still love me.。
You know, all those things, you know, God, you know, you're amazing.。
And then he finishes off and he goes back and he gives us this insight into David's heart and David's mind.。
We're to search me, God, try me, see if there be any anxious thoughts.。
No, my anxious thoughts.。
What is it?。
David, why does he need to know your anxious thoughts?。
You just said, God knows everything that you think.。
God knows everything that you feel.。
And David's going, look, God, I'm just inviting you.。
It's as though he's telling himself, despite the fact that I know, you know, everything about me, God, I'm inviting you now.。
Know my anxious thoughts, God.。
I know that, you know, but I'm inviting you and you know where I'm anxious and I'm inviting you into step in.。
I want to trust you.。
You know that I'm worried right now about if I'll ever get married.。
You know that I'm worried where you provide money.。
Will I be able to make rent?。
You know that I'm worried about this job.。
Am I really moving in the right direction?。
You know that I'm worried about these different circumstances, God.。
And so I'm inviting you in.。
I know that, you know, and it's as though David's rehearsing out loud this truth.。
I know, you know, you searched me, you know, everything, but God, I'm inviting you to know, well, you know what's going on in my life.。
I want to feel your nearness.。
I want to know that, you know, what I'm facing as I look towards whatever anxious things await me or whatever is pressing in my life.。
God, I just want to remind myself that, you know, that's all that I'm declaring.。
And I'm inviting you to know it more, and then it gives what is probably the most convicting part of this whole song, and maybe my favorite part of it.。
It says, "See if there be any offensive way in me, and will you lead me in the way everlasting."。
See if there's anything offensive in me, God.。
If there's anything that's not consistent with you, and will you change it?。
Will you allow me to become aware of it, and will you redirect my course and lead me in your path and your way that he does?。
And he says, "Look, God, I'm inviting you not only to know, and I want to know that you know what I'm facing, and I'll have peace because I know that you're with me, and you know you're not surprised about what's going on around me."。
But not only that, God, I want to invite you in, and I want to invite and ask that you reveal to me if there's anything offensive, anything that goes against you.。
And he takes really the opposite stance that most of us do when it comes to the dark things inside of us.。
Like, in other words, the sin struggles in my life are the dark parts of your heart.。
The common human reaction when it comes to God is not to move towards him, which is what David does.。
He moves away, or our common reaction is to move away, that we want to shrink back.。
It's those dark places, the "how can God love?" It's those things that cause me to go, "No, but you don't know what I've done."。
And David takes the exact opposite and says, "God, come into my life, God. Will you come and heal? Will you come and change?。
I'm moving. I'm not going to be afraid. I'm not going to shudder back. I want to expose, and I want you to come into my darkest places, the blackest places inside of my heart, God.。
I know who you are. You're a God who's rich in love, who specializes in changing and healing people.。
I'm inviting you now," David says. "I'm not going to shrink back like most people do.。
No, God, couldn't love me because I'm not a good enough person." David says, "I'm not a good person, God, and yet you love me. You know me.。
I'm coming to you. Will you heal me, Lord? Will you change the parts of me that don't look like your son, Jesus?。
Will you come into my life, and I'm moving towards you. I will not move back in fear.。
Perfect love is cast out fear, God, and I'm inviting you to come in.。
Where there's sin, will you come in? Where there's adultery in my life, come in.。
Where there's murder in my life, God, will you come in?"。
David models for us, and why does he move towards God?。
Why? I hope you get this. The reason he moves in is not because he feels the freedom to move towards God despite going,。
"God, it's ugly. Will you change it? Will you make me more like you?。
Anything offending you, God, will you change it?"。
The reason he does so is not because David is unique and he's the only one that gets to do that.。
It's because David knew God, and David knew that God is a God who specializes in bringing life and healing into people.。
The reason you and I recoil, and I believe this with all of my heart, mainly because the Bible teaches it,。
from God in the midst of our sin, in the midst of our shame,。
is because there's parts of us that don't believe God is really as good as the Bible says he is.。
David says, "I know the God who is there. Yahweh, the God of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob.。
He's a God who brings life from death. He's a God who changes hearts.。
I'm inviting you, God, into my life. Will you change the parts that don't conform?。
Anything that offends you, Lord, I'm inviting you. Come into my darkest places and change them."。
I was so convicted, and I was both encouraged and convicted this week in reading this text.。
Because I have... God used it, I'll say it this way, to just expose my own blind spots.。
There's just parts of my own heart that I'm going, "God, I just need you to come in and change. Will you change me?。
I don't want to live the rest of my life and be prideful and arrogant and selfish this weekend,。
even remodeling this house or gut-renovating a home that we hope to move in someday."。
I was in conflict over my wife about different stuff, and it wouldn't even make sense.。
I was like, "God, dude, explain the conflict. You would be confused."。
I'm still confused on how we got into that conflict.。
But it was just... Honestly, it was just a reflection of how selfish and prideful and hurtful I am with my tongue.。
I want to change. I see the reaction. I'm around godly men all the time.。
When they get into a situation where it's like, "Oh, man, this is about to go down."。
Their response is humility and kindness.。
In the moment, I want it to be that, but I really don't want it to be that, because you're going down.。
That's my initial response. I need to go, and I need God to come in.。
God was just like, "These are places, David, that I want to change. I want to heal.。
These are not right, and I want you, God. I'm inviting you. You're my only hope."。
David would say, "And we should say."。
What's going to change the dark places inside of your heart?。
Is it really just going to be more accountability, which is a great thing?。
But as far as your heart, accountability can help bring healing in that.。
But God, you're our only hope.。
David would say, "God, will you come in? I'm going to expose to your people.。
I'm going to expose the dark places in me.。
Then will you come in and help heal and restore? I know you can change what's dying and make it alive.。
Will you come in there?"。
It happened again yesterday with another teammate where God was just like,。
"Man, I guess you love me a lot, God, because you are really exposing some stuff in my heart."。
Yesterday, driving home, going, "God, will you search me? Will you change me?。
I don't want to be a father like I am right now.。
I don't want to be the same husband today or in 10 years that I am today.。
Will you make me more like Christ?。
You're my only hope, God. Will you help me? Will you change me?。
I'm inviting you in. Will you search me and know me?。
Will you lead me in a way everlasting?"。
I know that you're a God who specializes in taking what's sinful, what's broken,。
in the darkest parts of our hearts, and you just breathe life and light into them.。
We are renovating, like I said, this house, and I'll land the plane here.。
In that house, it was so bad.。
It was a foreclosed property that the last owner was just trying to make the next owner go through torture.。
Everything from the mold on every ceiling to raccoon poop everywhere.。
It's like a raccoon colony in here.。
There's rat stuff everywhere. It was just so bad.。
We had to rip everything out, all the sheetrock everywhere in this house.。
We're ripping it all out.。
Everything finally gets out of the home, and I look in the fireplace.。
There's this fireplace, and it has this exposed nooks and crannies,。
where you can see they took off the front brick to replace it with something cleaner and nicer.。
I don't know what they're going to replace it with.。
Anyways, you can see inside the fireplace.。
I looked inside of them, and I saw very clearly with a flashlight.。
I'm just looking around to see if there's dead bodies.。
I saw what looked like huge fossils, like a baby pterodactyl had died inside of this thing.。
Huge bones, totally fossilized.。
It was like rib cage.。
Oh my gosh, that's a big femur.。
I don't know what this was, but it was large.。
I don't know if it's a possum or raccoon or small cat or what it was inside of there.。
I pointed it out to the construction workers because I'm like, "Hey, you want to get rid of that?"。
He laughed and was like, "Oh, yeah, okay."。
That's my construction worker impression.。
I kept checking. This was a couple of weeks ago.。
I would go, and I'd check, and I'm like, "Oh, man, they still haven't removed it."。
"You're going to get that, right? Okay, yeah, great."。
They start putting up sheetrock.。
A few more days go by, and I'm like, "Hey, it's still in there right now.。
Oh my gosh, it's staring back at me."。
They don't do it, so I realize, "Man, I'm going to have to do this.。
I'm going to throw on the gloves. I'm going to be the one who goes in, and I'm going to take it out."。
They may not care because they're like, "Look, it's just bones. Just put sheetrock over it."。
But I care because I'm the owner, and I want to get anything dead and skeleton-like out of my house.。
So I pull this thing out.。
The reason I say that is because that's what God does.。
That's truly the clearest way that I know.。
He comes into our life, and he says, "Anything dead, I'm going to take it away.。
I'm going to remove it. That's who I am.。
I don't do it because I'm angry at you. I love you.。
I'm the God who loves you, and I specialize in removing what's dead, not because I'm angry,。
not because I won't love you if it doesn't get removed.。
I do that because I love you. I'm going to remove that from your house."。
You may have people in your life, just like construction workers, who are like,。
"Oh, it's fine. Come on. Just leave the bones."。
People are going to go all around your world.。
It's confusingly celebrating just bizarre things.。
We're like, "Look, you be you. Do whatever feels good to you.。
Despite how much it hurts others around you, despite how much it hurts you, just be you."。
God says, "Look, anything dead in your life, I'm not going to let continue to rest there.。
I'm going to reach in. I'm a God who specializes in reaching out my hand.。
Will you just open and follow the example of David in Psalm 139?"。
He says, "God, you know me, and you love me.。
I'm inviting you in. Will you come and remove what's dead?。
Will you come and remove what's dying?"。
Some of you are here and back in church, maybe the first time in a while.。
If you've never been to church, in some ways you're better off than so many of us.。
For some reason, the church in our nation, and it's easy for the church in any nation,。
to become a place where you don't do and follow the example of David.。
Where you walk in and you go, "Look, I'm not going to pretend.。
I'm not going to play games. God, will you help me? I'm inviting you in.。
I don't care who knows it. There is no fear. I'm going to come out, God.。
Will you come and will you change me? I'm inviting you where there is sin, God.。
I know grace abounds. Will you come in and change me?"。
The church has never been intended, it's never been a place where you come in。
and you play some game and you hide. We're all broken.。
The chains are broken. I'm broken. JP is broken.。
Everyone who's ever been on this stage, and God alone, you're a hope.。
You're the one who can change us. You're changing us right now through the power of Christ.。
And if you've never seen that power at work, that's what the church has always been intended to be.。
Not a place where we show up and we just play the game.。
Where we say, "God, will you come in and lead me in the way?。
I know there's offensive ways in me. God, I don't know where else to turn.。
Will you help me and will you heal me? And I know that's what you specialize in.。
So I'm moving in faith towards you and I'm trusting.。
Because that's who you are, God." And David would say, "You know God."。
If that's your response to him. Because he's the God who moves in。
and where dead things are, he breathes life.。
And where those of us open up and are willing to say, "God, I acknowledge where I am.。
Will you help me? I want to be more like Christ. I want to know you more.。
Sometimes I don't even realize that's the beating desire of my heart.。
Will you help me? Will you heal me?"。
And David would say, "That's the man or woman who's going to experience healing.。
And going to experience an exhale in the life and the world around him.。
As they become increasingly more like God."。
That's honestly the message of the gospel, if you didn't know it.。
And by gospel I mean good news. In other words, all of Christian faith。
is built around something called the gospel.。
It's the good news is what that word means.。
The good news is that Jesus on the cross became sin.。
That God, all that it means to become a Christian is to accept that Jesus on the cross paid for my sin.。
Everything you've ever done was nailed to Jesus.。
Everything you've ever done wrong, everything that every thought you've ever had。
was all paid for on the cross by the God who specializes in bringing life。
where things are broken and dead.。
And by just trusting in him, expressing faith, "I believe you paid for my sin, God.。
I believe that when you rose again from the dead, the payment went through.。
The check cleared. And it was enough.。
Even death could not hold the Savior of the world.。
The Savior we pray that you know.。
The Savior behind all that we do here and the Savior that brings life where dead things are."。
I'm going to pray that he'd do that more and more now.。
Father, we love you. We thank you for Jesus, our King.。
Thank you that you're a God who specializes in bringing life to dead things.。
God, I mean it. Will you change my heart?。
I have so many places that don't look like you, Lord.。
And I want them to.。
And I don't know where else to turn.。
And my friends in this room who share that same heartbeat, make us more like Christ.。
Please, Lord, use your people, use your word, and just make us look like Jesus.。
I pray for my friends who don't know you, that your spirit, the hounds of heaven itself,。
would be after them now.。
And that they would come to faith and come to trust in that God,。
and they'd accept the life that you offer them.。
And they would experience the replaced death that Jesus gives us on that cross,。
dying in our place.。
Lord, we love you. We thank you for our King.。
And we worship him now, the one who made us, created us, before we were ever alive.。
It's in his name we sing. Amen.。
