(upbeat music)。
I want to start by introducing you guys to someone, okay?。
So I want you to meet my, not my friend, but someone.。
Lesia, this is a picture of her.。
It's coming, there you go.。
She is a sweet girl.。
And so Lesia made national news this week.。
I don't know if you saw it,。
but she met a guy, okay,。
and fell head over heels in love with him.。
And within 12 hours, he convinced her。
to get his name tattooed across her face.。
Okay?。
And so I'm going to show you,。
if you are squeamish,。
you're going to want to look away。
or close your eyes for just a minute.。
But I'm going to show you the picture。
of her getting her name, his name,。
a tattooed across her face.。
It did make national news.。
This was, this went viral this weekend.。
And so there she is.。
His name is Ruslan.。
So R-U-S on one side, L-A-N on the other side.。
Five inch Gothic script letters, okay?。
Here's a picture of the beautiful couple together,。
happily ever after.。
There they are.。
His name across her face.。
What was interesting in the article,。
a couple things stood out to me.。
One is just the way that people responded,。
much like the way you responded,。
much like the way I responded, gasp,。
and then you could comment below,。
and it was just like things like,。
what an idiot, I can't believe she did that.。
She deserves to have that name across her face.。
And then people would say,。
he should be arrested for having done that,。
those sorts of things.。
And so it was just like full of comments,。
one after the other,。
kind of this, just this hateful speech.。
And what the article also went on to say。
is it insinuated that the two,。
within the 12 hours of meeting, had had sex.。
And so that got me thinking,。
that got me wondering,。
which was the worst act?。
Okay, which act was more offensive to God?。
Within 12 hours, her meeting this guy。
and giving her body to him in the form of sex,。
or getting his name tattooed across her face?。
Which of those was more offensive?。
And because in the same way, I see it,。
which of those has more consequences?。
Is it the act of sex, which you can't see on her,。
or these six, five-inch Gothic script letters。
across her face, which of those has more consequences?。
If you were to ask me that,。
everything in me wants to scream at you,。
of course, the crazy tattoo going across her jaw.。
But what I hope to show you tonight。
is that as we open God's Word,。
I don't think that's the case.。
And so before we dive in,。
I want you to know that if you know me at all,。
if we've ran together at all,。
you know sexual addiction is a huge part of my past。
that I'm in recovery from.。
I have a very spotted past as far as that goes.。
I thought about starting in the '90s.。
We're talking about sexual addiction.。
As far as that goes, I thought about starting in the '90s.。
We're talking about sexual immorality,。
and I am an expert, you know, as we open the Word of God.。
And so I want you to know there's grace and forgiveness,。
and I hope you leave with that,。
or you have an understanding of that before you leave,。
but we are gonna dive in to look at。
what the Bible has to say about this.。
And so I just thought, you know,。
sex is way more powerful than a tattoo.。
It has the potential to be way more destructive.。
It is impossible to remove its mark,。
and even more dangerous because it is so easy to hide.。
We can mask it.。
We can mask it so that the world doesn't see the act,。
and we can convince ourselves that it is just sex.。
In fact, that is the myth that we're in tonight.。
We're doing this series called Cupid, Dating Myths,。
and so the dating myth is that you would try before you buy。
that it's just sex or no strings attached,。
you know, friends with benefits.。
These things that the world tells you are,。
hey, this is just normal,。
and so we're gonna talk about just this idea。
of physical boundaries and what the Scripture has to say.。
We're gonna talk about why sex is powerful,。
how purity is possible,。
and then before you leave here tonight,。
why purity is even important,。
and not just a churchy idea.。
And so we're gonna be in 1 Corinthians 6,。
if you have your Bibles turned there.。
This is Paul's letter to the church at Corinth,。
which is a great place to start tonight。
because there is some crazy things going on。
in the church of Corinth, okay?。
Now, I can think about, as I look back in history,。
this is one of the few times in history。
that it may have been a more sex-raged culture。
than America today or even Europe today.。
There are some crazy things going on in the church of Corinth.。
In fact, many people, when they came into Christianity。
in the church of Corinth,。
their religious background would have had them。
go to a temple to sleep with prostitutes。
as an act of worship.。
And so there were temples with over 500 prostitutes。
that you would go to as an act of worship。
and you would sleep with a prostitute,。
and that is what it meant to worship.。
And so, you know, there were, as you can imagine,。
a long line for that religion.。
And so 1 Corinthians 6, we'll start in verse 12.。
He just says this, "Everything is permissible for me."。
In your Bible, that's probably in quotes.。
He says, "Everything is permissible for me,。
"but not everything is beneficial."。
And then in quotes again,。
"Everything is permissible for me,。
"but I will not be mastered by anything."。
Here's what's going on.。
The Corinthians had taken this idea。
that everything was permissible。
under the concept of grace in the Christian church,。
and they had made it this slogan,。
this tagline that they would add to their unrighteous deeds.。
And so they would do something,。
so maybe just they would get drunk and say,。
"Well, everything is permissible."。
Or they would have sex, say, "Well, everything is permissible."。
It is like the common, or it was the ancient version of,。
you know, grace abounds, or there's always forgiveness.。
You know, so, hey, it's just sex.。
Everything is permissible.。
And so they're throwing this around, and Paul is saying,。
"Hey, hey, everything is permissible,。
"but not everything is beneficial.。
"Everything is permissible,。
"but I will not be mastered by anything."。
And then this other line in quotes,。
"Food for the stomach, and the stomach for food,。
"but God will destroy them both," Paul writes.。
And so also in quotes, "Food for the stomach,。
"and the stomach for food."。
What they're saying is, this was another saying。
that they would say, is say, "Hey, if it looks good, do it.。
"Hey, if I'm hungry, if my stomach is hungry,。
"then my body's gonna move towards food.。
"So food for the stomach, and the stomach for food.。
"It's just me satisfying my sexual appetite,"。
is where Paul's gonna go.。
If you don't know the context, the historical context,。
it seems like he takes a huge left turn.。
He doesn't.。
He is addressing the sexual dysfunction。
in this church at this time.。
"The body," now, "The body is not meant。
"for sexual immorality, but for the Lord,。
"and the Lord for the body.。
"By his power, God raised the Lord from the dead,。
"and he will raise us also.。
"Do you not know that your bodies。
"are members of Christ himself?。
"Shall I then take members of Christ。
"and unite them with a prostitute?。
"Never!" exclamation point.。
"Do you not know that he who unites himself。
"with a prostitute is one with her in body,。
"for it is said, 'The two will become one flesh.'。
"But he who unites himself with the Lord。
"is one with him in spirit."。
And so Paul is combating these phrases that are abused,。
like, "Try it before you buy it," or, "It's just sex.。
"There's no strings attached.。
"There's always grace.。
"Friends with benefits."。
And he's saying, "Hey, Church of Corinth,。
"don't you understand?。
"You are representatives of the God Most High,。
"our Savior and Lord Jesus Christ.。
"You are little Jesuses walking around.。
"If you claim to follow Jesus,。
"you are his representative in a world going that way,。
"a world with a strong current saying,。
"'Hey, this way, this way, this way.'"。
He's saying, "No, man, I follow Christ this way.。
"I'm marching against the current."。
He's saying, "Corinthians, porch goers,。
"Church of Dallas, you must raise up。
"and march against this strong current。
"of a sex-crazed culture."。
And he's calling them out.。
And so my first point tonight is this,。
that sex is powerful.。
It's this simple idea.。
He said, "Sex is powerful."。
And so this is why the body is not meant。
for sexual immorality.。
Sex is powerful.。
Sometimes it feels like we're just like。
these babies playing with machine guns.。
We don't really know what we're doing,。
and we don't really know of the effects。
of what we're doing 'til much later in life.。
That is absolutely my story.。
I live today under the consequences。
of my sexual sin pre-marriage.。
Sex is powerful.。
And so sexual immorality, let's define that。
because that's one of those words I think。
we can use to justify our actions.。
And so here's the definition of sexual immorality.。
It is the pursuit of sexual pleasure outside of marriage.。
It is the, sexual immorality is the pursuit。
of sexual pleasure outside of marriage, okay?。
So it's oral sex, anal sex, regular sex.。
It can be not sex, heavily making out.。
It is the pursuit of sexual pleasure。
outside of marriage.。
It can be looking at it, thinking about it,。
acting out on it.。
And you don't have to wonder, right,。
if what you're doing is wrong,。
because Paul's command is gonna be,。
"Hey, flee from this, like run from it."。
And so we also see that we're prostituting it,。
and there's a risk that you could look at this text。
and say, "Well, I'm not sleeping with prostitutes."。
And so I'll define the Greek word there。
for prostitute is porne, and it is this.。
Any woman indulging in unlawful sexual intercourse,。
whether for gain or for lust.。
Any woman indulging in unlawful sexual intercourse,。
whether for gain or for lust.。
Here's what I'm telling you, there is not just sex.。
And the reality of it is that science knows this.。
Psychology knows this.。
In fact, psychologists have come up with this term。
called sex glue, okay.。
Sex glue is the powerful bond that God describes。
in the Bible that happens when a man and a woman。
give themselves to each other, sex glue.。
It is the building of brain synapses。
that occur during orgasm in the act of sex, okay.。
Let me explain.。
Sex glue, this thing that science has now discovered。
that God says, "Hey, a man will leave his father and mother。
"and be united to his wife, and the two will become one flesh."。
They will bond together.。
Paul says, "Hey, do not bond to someone。
"unless you're married to them," right.。
And so this idea of sex glue is that during the act of sex,。
during specifically the act of orgasm,。
that your brain would create a synapse。
that bonds your five senses to its surrounding.。
The sense of smell and touch and sight,。
whatever you're looking at.。
And so you can understand why God, the creator of sex,。
so check this out, you've gotta get this.。
God invented sex.。
He is crazy pro-sex.。
God, do you get it?。
Like he made the parts.。
You understand that?。
Like he designed them as God.。
He designed them.。
He put the nerve endings where they are.。
Like he made it feel good in the way that it does,。
but that pleasure, and this is the important part,。
that pleasure serves a purpose.。
And so what we try to do as a society。
marching and raging against God。
is we try to capture that pleasure。
and separate it from that purpose.。
We try to have sex so that there is no procreation.。
We try to have sex outside of marriage.。
We try to have sex by ourselves。
so that we can enjoy the pleasure outside of the purpose.。
You tracking with me?。
This was never God, the designers of sex, his intentions.。
And so sex glue, in fact, if you,。
I have a friend that went and saw a sex therapist。
as a married person, and she said,。
"When you do this act, look your wife in the eyes。
"and bond with her face,"。
because the reality of it, if you're looking at her breast。
or some other body part,。
there are women walking around with those same body parts。
that your brain could bond to,。
that you could say, "Hey, I want that, those body parts.。
"I wish my wife had those kind of body parts."。
But when you look at her in the eyes, right,。
her face is like a thumbprint that bonds to your heart.。
And that's not a prescription,。
that just kind of quantifies this part of just this idea。
that God created sex for the purpose of bonding.。
Sex is powerful.。
Let me explain how I know sex is powerful。
outside of my own experience.。
Tonight, every Tuesday, every single week,。
someone will come up to me,。
and they're nervous, you know.。
Maybe they're intimidated,。
or maybe they've never verbalized。
what they're about to say.。
They've never got the words out of their mouth.。
And they come up and they say,。
"Hey, I gotta talk to you about something.。
"It's big, I never told anybody."。
And I don't need to know.。
I know what it is.。
I mean, it's masturbation, pornography, sexual abuse.。
I'm pregnant, she's pregnant.。
I had an abortion.。
It is something around this act.。
Sex is powerful.。
Every single week without fail,。
if I look back in ministry,。
and I see someone being owned by this,。
and people that are like,。
"Hey, it happened to me 27 years ago."。
But I still carry it around.。
I've never told anybody.。
You see, sex is powerful.。
God created it for a purpose.。
And you go out in that world,。
you're gonna go out those doors,。
and the world's gonna tell you,。
"Hey, it's no big deal."。
And it just gets more messed up,。
and more messed up,。
and more messed up.。
And so, we know sex is powerful。
because we see that porn and sexual addiction。
requires a difficult path of healing.。
Do you understand?。
Like, if you're here,。
and you know that sexual abuse is a part of your path,。
or porn is a part of your story,。
or these things, they require healing.。
It's okay.。
But you don't wanna walk around。
and mask it like a cancer,。
and deny chemotherapy.。
Chemotherapy is hard.。
It's difficult.。
But it's necessary for survival.。
And while chemotherapy is difficult,。
it's better than cancer.。
And so, you have to go through a process of recovery。
and letting the Lord's Spirit,。
His Holy Spirit,。
the same one who created the heavens and the earth,。
begin to heal you.。
And that starts with raising your hand.。
Like, "I need help, man. Not now."。
I don't wanna scare you.。
I really don't.。
I hate that.。
You know, the scare tactics don't work.。
And so, you know, the wrong reasons not to have sex。
is because one in four of you here tonight。
have an STD in this room,。
and most of you don't know it.。
I mean, those are scare tactics.。
It's true.。
It's reality.。
It's this idea that sex will keep you。
in the wrong relationship too long.。
It certainly will.。
Sex will keep you from the right relationship。
when it comes along.。
It certainly will.。
I see that every single week.。
But frankly, the consequences to sex。
will come in forms that you would have never expected.。
Let me share with you from my own personal experience,。
and I'm just gonna be honest with you.。
Like, I just wanna be real with you.。
I don't wanna play games with you guys ever, okay?。
So sometimes, it's like, "Man, you can't tell single."。
I'm like, "Man, I'm just gonna be honest with them.。
"If that's cool, like,。
"we're just gonna have an honest conversation."。
So the season that Monica and I are in。
is, you know, we have three kids and a baby at home,。
and so she's nursing, and so that really changes things。
when you're on the schedule every two hours.。
You know, you use your body to feed this baby.。
And so we don't get out a lot,。
like, as far as dates in this season.。
And so the other day, we had a date,。
and so it was great.。
Like, she was like, "Hey, pick me up at seven."。
It's just fun to date my wife.。
Like, I'm crazy in love with her,。
and we love each other, and our marriage,。
our relationship is the best it's ever been today,。
and even in these difficult seasons of raising an infant.。
And she's like, "Pick me up at seven,。
"and hey, you play in the night."。
And I'm like, "God, that's my love language."。
Like, I love doing that stuff.。
And so I play in the night, and I'm thinking,。
I don't wanna just take her to a movie.。
You know, so I call John McGee,。
who's our marriage pastor here,。
and I'm like, "Hey, give me your best idea."。
And he's like, "Man, you could get a hotel,。
"you know, for like a couple hours."。
And I'm like, (audience laughing)。
"John, I like the way you think, bro.。
"That's a good idea."。
And so I didn't really, you know, so I did.。
(audience laughing)。
And so we go to dinner, you know,。
and I just went on the app, the iPhone app,。
and I just, here's what I was thinking,。
you know, we'll go up there,。
and we like to watch movies in bed,。
and so we'll do that, and we'll see where that goes.。
And, just being real.。
And so, we have dinner, and she's like,。
"Okay, where are we going now?。
"You know, movie, what time's the movie starting?"。
And I'm like, "Well,"。
and I didn't think this transition was the hard part.。
(audience laughing)。
I'm like, "Well, I got a hotel room."。
(audience laughing)。
She's like, "Where are we really going?"。
I was like, "A hotel room."。
And so we did, right?。
We go up there, and we watch our movie,。
and have our fun, you know?。
And we're on our way home, and we're just talking.。
And she's just, you know,。
her parents are watching the kids,。
and she's just like, "Yeah, you know,。
"I know that we're supposed to be free in that,。
"but it just feels wrong because of the things。
"that we did before we were married.。
"Like, I can't fully enjoy that with you in that way."。
And just like, to walk up into that hotel room,。
it just causes me to reminisce from those times。
before we were married,。
and so I just don't feel the freedom in that.。
And to be totally transparent with you,。
I feel that same bondage, some of that same baggage。
that I think God is working on, you know,。
and we have an amazing relationship,。
an amazing sex life,。
but there's still bondage there and baggage.。
And we've been married almost nine years.。
My other friend that I talked to,。
he has a great marriage as well,。
and he just said, "You know, there's positions。
"that we can't enjoy because of pornography。
"that I looked at before we were married."。
And it just doesn't feel safe.。
If we were to do the deed like that,。
it opens up this kind of Pandora's box in me。
to sin, where I'm open to sin,。
and it's just not safe.。
And so his words, you know,。
"Our sex life is kind of vanilla。
"because my sex life outside of my marriage。
"was so not vanilla."。
And so you don't ever think about that.。
You don't ever think about that.。
If I enjoy these things outside of that context,。
then inside that context, it's no longer safe.。
But that's what happens.。
I see it every day.。
And so at the risk of you thinking,。
"Well, that's just your story, JP,"。
keep in mind, I meet with hundreds of couples。
that share those same very things to me.。
Some of them are like, "Hey, we can't even have sex.。
"Like, sex is off limits for us because of the things.。
"Like, we're just not there yet.。
"God's working in our lives."。
And you think, "Marriage?。
"You can't have sex?。
"That's crazy."。
I meet with them.。
But I want you to know。
that that's not even the best reason not to have sex.。
He says, "Food for the stomach, and the stomach for food."。
You know, if it feels good, do it.。
But I want to ask you right now,。
I want to ask you right now,。
is pleasure the ultimate goal for you?。
Because I heard a pastor friend,。
and I've said this before,。
and people hate when I say it,。
but I'll say it again.。
I had a pastor friend say this,。
and it resonated with me.。
He just said, "A good reason not to have sex is。
"if, you know, on a one to 10 scale,。
"sex before marriage is a 12."。
Let me say it again, in case you missed it.。
He said, "A good reason not to have sex before you're married。
"because it's on a one to 10 scale,。
"sex before marriage is a 12."。
All right?。
Now let me explain.。
Okay, is pleasure the ultimate?。
And he's talking about pleasure.。
I believe that God's best sex occurs。
in the context of marriage between a man and a woman.。
Okay, I absolutely believe that.。
But we're talking sheer pleasure.。
He said, "On a pleasure scale, it is a 12."。
Why?。
Here's the deal.。
Is pleasure the ultimate goal?。
Because if it is, and I just want to be real truthful with you,。
and this is not safe, me saying this,。
is you can leave here,。
and you can have any kind of sex you want.。
Okay?。
Even in Dallas, you can get prostitution,。
you can get one or two, a couple hundred dollars,。
and every kind of sex that you could possibly desire。
is available to you right now.。
If it's just about pleasure.。
And this is why affairs happen, because people chase pleasure,。
because, hey, sex with your wife is pretty good,。
but then sex with your neighbor's wife,。
you know, there's a fear element to it,。
and when you're fearful, your senses increase.。
Okay?。
Your pupils dilate.。
Your sensitive of touch is much more heightened.。
And so people do that stuff.。
They chase the pleasure.。
Is pleasure ultimate?。
You need to decide right now.。
Is it about me experiencing the most pleasure I possibly can?。
Because if it is, I hear cocaine's pretty good,。
heroin's pretty good, ecstasy, all of, you know,。
a drug that releases all of your serotonin at one time,。
that must be pretty amazing.。
Hey, crystal meth must be ridiculous,。
because people give their lives to it.。
They chase that pleasure.。
Have you ever seen someone that gets addicted to the pleasure of crystal meth,。
and they chase it, and they chase it,。
and they chase it until their entire life is wrung out?。
I'll show you a picture.。
And it's just as sloppy.。
When you chase the pleasure of sex,。
and you try to keep it from its purpose,。
it causes similar consequences in your life.。
Right?。
And we've got to get that.。
We've got to decide right now, hey, it's not about me trying to experience。
the most sloppy pleasure I possibly can.。
It's about me believing there's a God who created the heavens and the earth。
and has a plan for me,。
and that there's a pleasure with him that is greater than any other pleasure known to man,。
and that I'm going to get to enjoy that pleasure forever and ever and ever in eternity with him.。
You've got to believe that right here.。
If not, you'll leave here and you'll chase pleasure.。
You'll chase feelings.。
You'll chase your heart.。
See, the pleasure serves a purpose.。
And so you say, man, crystal meth, yeah, that's one thing,。
but sex, like really, it is rewiring our culture.。
You've got to know that.。
I just want you to think about this logically.。
Okay, just use your brain.。
It is rewiring our culture.。
I'll read something to you.。
This is from Philip Zimbardo.。
He's the former president of the American Psychological Association.。
He says this.。
Men, this is to you.。
"We are seeking a steady increase among males in social awkwardness."。
"We are seeing a steady increase among males in social awkwardness."。
"The old kind of social awkwardness was a fear of rejection."。
"However, this is a new kind of social awkwardness, like you're a stranger in a foreign land."。
"They don't know what to say and what to do, especially in one-on-one with the opposite sex."。
"They don't know the language of face-to-face interaction, the nonverbal and verbal set of rules"。
"that enable you to comfortably talk to somebody else and listen to somebody else."。
"The problem is men now prefer a synchronistic Internet world"。
"to spontaneous interaction in social relationships."。
"What are the causes? Excessive Internet use and video gaming, porning as arousal addictions."。
"They are becoming more addictive with more variety, competition, and video quality."。
"Men no longer know the difference between making love and doing porn."。
"The average boy watches 50 porn clips a week."。
"Boys' brains are being digitally rewired for change, novelty, excitement, and constant arousal."。
"Well, guys aren't asking girls out anymore."。
That's why.。
Man, I was with him and it was just weird. He didn't even know how to talk to me.。
There's your explanation.。
It's not just a male problem, we know that.。
One in three porn viewers are women, we know that.。
And so you've got to decide, are you chasing some fleeting worldly pleasure?。
And you're making that the ultimate goal, or is God the ultimate goal?。
The Scripture says, "Being one with Him in spirit."。
See, sexual immorality is a barricade to you being one with Him in spirit.。
Let me say it like this, you cannot have any sort of sexual pleasure outside of marriage and grow closer to God.。
You can't do it. It is impossible.。
No one has ever pursued sexual pleasure outside of the context of marriage and grown closer to God.。
Sex is an act of worship in marriage.。
That's why the enemy comes after it so badly.。
It is an act of worship. The enemy hates you worshipping.。
And so he comes after it. That's why he distracts you when we're singing songs.。
And he says, "Hey, I want you to abuse this thing that God created that's good.。
And I want to twist it in your life so that you will never enjoy it as it should be.。
You may experience some fleeting pleasure, but you'll also experience some incredible heartbreak, loss, and hurts.。
The greatest reason for you not to have sex is not to avoid STDs.。
It's not even for you to avoid consequences in your marriage.。
It is for you to understand you will never be or experience the intimacy with God as He's intended if you are pursuing that."。
He says, verse 18, "Flee." That's why he says it.。
"Flee from sexual immorality. All of the sins a man commits are outside his body, but he who sins sexually sins against his body."。
My second point is this. This is crazy, okay?。
Purity is possible. You tracking with me?。
Purity is possible. It is possible.。
If you're here and you're a virgin, okay, maybe you feel weird or strange.。
And I'm just saying, hey, you are the fortunate one, okay?。
You can't sit there and be like, man, I'm crazy because I watched, you know, 40-year-old virgin and feel stupid.。
No, you are the blessed one.。
The scripture says, I trade you places.。
Okay, no regrets? That's foolish.。
I've got regrets.。
Man, purity is possible.。
Paul is saying that all sin is outside the body, but this one specific sin is not only outside the body, but it is also against your own body.。
So your command is to flee it.。
Flee the pursuit of any sexual pleasure outside of marriage.。
Don't tap it. Don't look at it and kick it a little bit.。
You know, don't go up and get a close view. You run.。
He says, flee from it.。
And what he's saying that to the church in Corinth is he's telling you it's possible.。
It is possible for you to avoid it.。
It is possible for you to be having indulged in it and then stop indulging in it.。
That's what was going on in Corinth.。
He's saying, hey, no longer should you indulge in this thing.。
Stop it completely. Completely cut it out.。
I'll tell you, it is possible.。
I've done several marriages where they waited.。
And it's always interesting, like the criticism they received.。
I've done a few marriages where the couple waited to kiss until the altar.。
And the world always says that's stupid.。
They're like, that's so stupid.。
I'm like, you've been divorced three times.。
Like, they're happily married. Like, how stupid is it?。
You know, that's so--they waited to kiss until the altar. That's so dumb.。
I'm like, they got the happy marriage, you know.。
It seems like they might have something figured out.。
I'm not even prescribing that. I'm just telling you, couples have done it.。
I say that to give you hope. You can do it.。
You can avoid sexual immorality.。
1 Corinthians 10:13 says, "No temptation has seized you except what is common to man.。
And God is faithful. God is faithful.。
He will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you can bear.。
And when you are, He will provide a way out so that you can stand under it."。
He's a good God.。
The temptation that you experience, that you face, it's common to humanity.。
It was common to the church in Corinth. It's common to the church in Dallas.。
It's been common throughout the beginning of the world, starting in the Garden of Eden.。
It is common temptation. And you can win with the strength of the Spirit.。
And so the lie is that everybody's having sex.。
I don't know, maybe everybody is having sex.。
But they're not winning.。
They're not getting ahead.。
And it is hurting them.。
So, if you don't do it, you're going to be okay.。
Did you guys hear about that lady that actually died from not having sex?。
Of course you didn't, because it never happened, okay?。
It's never happened. No one has ever died.。
It's not like food, you know, like, "Oh no, man.。
What's the remedy?" No, listen.。
It's never happened, okay?。
If you don't eat, you might die, right?。
You don't drink, you might die.。
But if you don't have sex, you're going to be just fine.。
Did you know that Jesus didn't have sex?。
Did you know that?。
He seemed to make it.。
Jesus lived the most fulfilled life anyone has ever lived.。
No one in the history of humanity has lived a more full life than Jesus Christ.。
He was a virgin.。
Okay? It's going to be okay.。
Like, no one gets up there and is like, "Man, I wish I had more sex."。
You know, it's not going to happen.。
You've been brainwashed.。
Like, society has told you it's ultimate.。
And it's not ultimate.。
God's ultimate.。
Your relationship with God is ultimate.。
And so we play this silly game of like, "Hey, can I, you know, what can I do this?。
What can I do that?。
What about that?。
What about this kind of sex?。
Is this okay?"。
You know?。
I had this -- there was a group of us pastors talking about masturbation one time.。
And we were just like, "Hey, is there any -- you know, is it okay?"。
You know, this and that.。
And one guy just gave this really wise advice that stayed with me.。
He just said, "Yeah, man, do it.。
Do it and be right before the Lord.。
Stand free from conviction.。
Feel good about it.。
Be free.。
Unless you can't, then don't."。
That simple advice.。
You get it?。
Like, he says, "Hey, you be free in your pursuit of sexual pleasure outside of marriage.。
And you feel good about it and be confident about it.。
Unless you can't, then don't."。
He's a wise man.。
He knew you couldn't if you had the Holy Spirit in you, right?。
He knows that the Holy Spirit is going to convict your heart.。
He knows you feel dirty afterwards.。
And God doesn't want you to feel dirty.。
God doesn't want you to feel bad.。
God wants you to walk in the freedom that he's created you to walk in.。
There's discipline there.。
You know, there's strength that you have to draw from him there.。
There's difficulties there.。
But God desires freedom for you because he loves you.。
He's crazy about you.。
My friend was a wise man.。
You have the Spirit of God in you.。
That's the crazy thing about this that I just want to make sure you know.。
Like, God's not trying to rip you off, man.。
He's not trying to keep you from pleasure.。
He's not trying to keep you from something that's ultimately going to lead to life.。
He's trying to give you life to the fullest.。
Can I just show you that statistically?。
I told you I really want to attack these issues, not just scripturally.。
But I know there's a lot of you here that don't submit to the Bible as truth or don't have a relationship with Christ.。
So let me just throw some secular data at you.。
The divorce rate in the United States of America is 52%.。
So 52% of all couples who get married today, we talked about the decreasing marriage rate.。
52%, so most couples who get married today will not make it.。
And that's the truth in the church.。
So most of you, and a lot of you, divorce is a part of your story.。
And we're going to talk about that at some point.。
And so I'm glad you're here.。
Like, welcome.。
We're stoked you're here.。
So 52% of marriages that start end.。
We know that.。
That's secular data.。
Matter of fact.。
Did you know that 9% of virgins who marry get divorced?。
It goes from 52% to 9%.。
Do you think God knew what he was talking about when he created this bonding agent?。
Did you know that you personally, like not even your spouse, but if you personally wait until you're married,。
the probability of you getting a divorce decreases by 70%.。
So 52% decreases by 70%.。
How incredible is that?。
Do you think God knew what he was talking about?。
This is secular data as a matter of fact.。
And the world is like, that's so stupid.。
It's like, no, man, that's always what the world says.。
That's so dumb.。
No, I don't know if you've read this thing, but God kind of knows what he's talking about.。
He made everything, including sex.。
It's crazy.。
And so why is purity even important?。
Let's go, 19.。
Do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit?。
See, also God who is in you, whom you have received from God.。
You are not your own.。
You were bought at a price.。
Therefore, honor God with your body.。
Paul writes the church at Corinth and says, hey, you think that body, that thing that you're controlling,。
that thing that you're giving to other people, that thing that you're yoking to other folks,。
you think it belongs to you?。
It doesn't belong to you.。
You better ask the person that it belongs to before you use it in those ways, right?。
Like the other day, I got this sprayer, this paint sprayer at my house that I borrowed from a friend.。
So I borrowed a paint sprayer.。
Another friend comes over, sees it at my house, and says, hey, can I borrow that or can I have that?。
And I'm like, well, it's not mine.。
You've got to ask who it belongs to.。
So the next time he propositions you for sex, you stop right there and say,。
I just need to ask God's permission real quick.。
It will kill the mood right there, okay?。
Next time she says, hey, let's go back there, let's go to my apartment,。
you say, well, hold on, let's pray about it real quick.。
Let's seek God's approval.。
Your body belongs to him, man.。
He bought it.。
This is the hope, man.。
You might have tattoos all over your face, all over your body.。
And God says, you're mine.。
He said, I'll purchase you.。
I'll do so with my life.。
I'll give my only begotten son.。
See, there's forgiveness.。
You might have scars.。
God will take them, man.。
God will take your scars.。
I don't care if you have hundreds of partners.。
God will make a pastor out of you.。
He'll make a missionary out of you.。
I'm not here to tell you you can be a virgin again, like that's silly.。
I'm not even here to tell you that you can avoid earthly consequences, also silly.。
You cannot sin and avoid the consequence, okay.。
You just can't do it.。
It's impossible.。
But you can avoid the eternal consequences.。
You can.。
Like God will take you in like you are his son and daughter and he will not see the sex on you.。
He will see you as Christ.。
Romans 8, 1, there's now no condemnation for those who are in Christ.。
I will tell you today that God will take you like he will claim you as his own.。
It's interesting to me that our culture, the society that we live in are so unbelievably forgiving.。
Like they are very, very forgiving, okay.。
You just, you can watch the Grammys and see Chris Brown and Rihanna and just like the way that we just embrace, like hey, like nothing happened, you know.。
Like we're really forgiving.。
Tiger Woods, okay.。
Bill Clinton, a president who had an affair in office is now saying the prayer, you know, for our current president.。
So, really, really forgiving culture.。
Charlie Sheen, you know, we'll put him back on a hit TV sitcom.。
We'll take Michael Vick and put him back in the NFL.。
We're very forgiving as a couple.。
Just wait for it with Lance Armstrong.。
He'll have another commercial I bet.。
I'm just guessing.。
That's not a prophecy or anything.。
I'm just guessing.。
Society is incredibly forgiving.。
Why are they so forgiving?。
Because they don't want to tell anybody that they're wrong.。
Because then it gives permission for others to say that they're wrong.。
So, the more they can say, hey, it's all okay.。
Like, hey, it's okay.。
I know you did that, but you slept with all those women.。
It's okay.。
You know, we'll forgive you.。
We'll put you back.。
We'll worship you again.。
I know you beat her up, Chris, but we'll worship you again.。
You know, really forgiving.。
Because society says do what feels good.。
Like that's the kind of banner cry.。
You do whatever feels good.。
You should chase pleasure.。
And they don't realize that pleasure, the pursuit of pleasure can leave you completely wrung out.。
There's consequences to it.。
This is what I want you to hear me.。
There is no one more forgiving than Jesus Christ.。
There is no one more forgiving than Jesus.。
Jesus takes you in and he makes you new.。
It's okay.。
Like he takes you and he cleans you up.。
You know, he cleans you up and he makes you his.。
He claims you as his own.。
And you don't have to walk around with guilt.。
Like you can use your story then as a testimony to set others free.。
I see that all the time.。
Like girls who had an abortion and all of a sudden they walk away with this guilt.。
All of a sudden they understand that they're forgiven by the grace of Jesus.。
And then they walk around and say, "Hey, I had an abortion. Did you have one?"。
"I want to help you."。
"No, Christ has forgiven me. I don't wear it anymore. There's freedom. I can talk freely about it."。
People are like, "Hey, how do you stand up there in front of thousands of people and talk about your porn addiction?"。
"It doesn't own me! I'm free!"。
"Wait, what?"。
"Yeah, there's some consequences. Like I got all these pictures in my head every now and then."。
"But Jesus is bigger!"。
"Amen! He's bigger!"。
He can do it for you.。
I'm not crazy. I haven't lost my mind.。
He can take you, clean you up, and make you his.。
He'll claim you as his own.。
He'll say, "She's mine."。
"She's not that prostitute. She's mine."。
"She's not that girl."。
"She's mine."。
"And don't you dare call her anything but mine."。
That's the message of Jesus.。
That's why, if you walk around as a follower of Jesus Christ, guilty, you're saying that the gospel is not enough.。
Do you understand?。
Can I show you what he paid for?。
I saw a lot of pictures tonight.。
Can I show you one more?。
Show you the tattoos that Jesus wore to pay for your sins.。
I think we have a picture of him paying the price for your sins.。
Everything.。
The stuff you looked at on your computer.。
The things you've seen.。
The things you did.。
That time in college, you did the walk of shame.。
They even call it the walk of shame.。
They know it's no good.。
I'll carry it.。
I'll carry it.。
I'll wear it. You put it on me.。
I don't care if you've got a tattoo right across your forehead.。
I'm enough.。
And so Paul writes, "Honor God with your body."。
You see that fleeing from sexual immorality can be difficult until you're running towards God.。
If you're chasing God, it's easy to run from sin.。
In fact, it's the easiest way to run from sin is to run with all of your might and all of your strength。
toward the one who gave you life and made you new and gave you purpose.。
You're going to die soon, and you're going to be with him forever and ever and ever。
if you've trusted in his provision through Jesus Christ.。
See, what happened with that picture is Jesus was taking all of your sin, all himself.。
It crushed him. It killed God.。
Crazy.。
Put in a grave, and three days later, just a flex on the enemy.。
He said, "Hey, I'm alive again."。
But Jesus wore scars.。
Jesus has tattoos, right?。
He's got scars in his hands.。
He's saying, "Hey, this is evidence of what I've done for you."。
"Thomas, come here. Put your finger in this hole in my hand."。
"It's evidence of what I paid for you to walk in the freedom and the grace that I've extended to you."。
"Sex is powerful. Purity is possible. And your body is priceless."。
"You've been bought with Jesus."。
And so if a guy wanted to give you a tattoo across your face,。
you met him, and you love him head over heels, and he's like, "Hey, here's what I want to do, okay?"。
"I'm going to take it, and we're going to put my name all across your face."。
You're going to run. You're going to be like, "That's crazy. I'm not going to do that."。
But if someone was willing to ask you to betray God's call on your life,。
why would we be willing to do that?。
It's interesting because I've just kind of been in this funk all week。
because I read this article about sex in high school.。
I talked to a bunch of high school kids this weekend, and I was reading this article.。
It was about sexting and just the crazy problems.。
I don't know if you all heard about that girl that died, but there was a guy that recorded her giving him oral sex,。
and he passed it around to the school, and she threatened to kill herself.。
And when she did, she slipped and fell to her death.。
And so it made big news and just really sad stuff in this article.。
And so I've just kind of been carrying that around this week.。
And one thing that the article said is it said that what girls are doing now in high school is the guy will say,。
"Hey, I want you to write my name on your body and take a picture."。
And then these guys are collecting these pictures of girls with their names on their body and passing them around,。
trading them like trading cards.。
I'm just like, "Man, culture is so corrupt. They don't get it."。
You know, I didn't get it.。
And so these guys are saying, "Hey, write your name so they can see your mind."。
This guy, you know, to this girl, Alessia, he says, "Hey, let's write my name across your face so that the world can see that you're mine."。
You're his.。
You get that?。
It's not your scars.。
It's not your tattoos.。
It's not what you've done.。
It's what he did.。
You're his.。
You belong to him.。
And I know, like, there's some ladies here, and you're like, "Man, JP, you don't get it.。
Like, these guys, like, they won't -- unless I'm showing off my body or giving it away, like, these guys won't give me the time of day."。
And I get it.。
Like, we did that experiment the first night.。
Like, "Hey, guys, find the godliest girl you know and ask her out."。
And I know that that builds insecurities.。
Like, I am no idiot.。
Like, I understand.。
I'm like, "Well, you know, if no one asks me out, does that mean I'm not godly?。
What's wrong with me?。
And how do they know I'm godly?"。
You know, I get it, girls.。
I get it.。
Okay?。
And so you're there.。
You're like, "Hey, I don't -- but there's no good guys."。
Let me ask you a question.。
What if that's true?。
What if there are no good guys?。
What if there's not one?。
Let's just say for a second, what if that's true?。
What are you going to do?。
You've got to choose now.。
You okay with that?。
Because girls tell you all the time, "I know God has someone for me."。
Maybe.。
I hope so.。
I'll pray that for you.。
Guys say, too, "I know God has someone for me."。
Maybe he does.。
What if you don't meet him?。
Are you okay?。
Is God ultimate in your life?。
Is he big enough?。
You're going to be -- no one's up there like, "Man, I can't believe I didn't get to experience that one thing."。
No one has ever said that up there.。
No one.。
And so for some of you, the sexual immorality that you've got to flee from -- and this is some of you, not all of you -- is your relationship.。
You know it.。
You're here, and you're like, "You might be right here.。
You might be here together.。
It's super awkward right now."。
But the sexual immorality that you've got to run from is letting him go, letting her go.。
I'm going to ask my friend Jenny Simmons to come up, and she's going to sing a song that she wrote.。
And it's just -- here is what I want to tell you is you can trust God.。
Like if you heard me say one thing, okay, like there's a God.。
He's real.。
He's purchased you with the blood of Jesus.。
It happened 2013 years ago in the greatest event the world has ever seen or ever known.。
They don't even know what to do with it.。
It changed time.。
His birth did anyways.。
And you're going to be with him forever if you've trusted in him for the forgiveness of sins.。
Not walking around guilty, but you've trusted in Christ.。
I believe in Jesus.。
He died for me, and I'm free.。
I've been set free.。
Okay.。
He's enough, and you can trust him.。
Let me pray.。
Father, help us to let go what we need to.。
Whatever that is in our lives, what we're pursuing instead of you, Father, I pray you。
take it, rip it apart from us if you need to.。
Thank you for your mercy and your grace and the forgiveness of sins and the new life that。
you extend to us.。
Father, comfort the afflicted, those ridden with guilt right now.。
I pray that you and your mercy by the power of your spirit would love them and hug them。
and restore them and renew them.。
Father, thank you for the promise of 1 Corinthians 10:13, just that no temptation has seized us。
except what is common, and that you're faithful and that you give us freedom.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
