How are we doing?。
Slow start.。
How about my friend, Micah Tyler, man?。
Micah.。
Thank you for, for leading us.。
Thank you for using your gifts to lead us to God.。
Welcome Dallas.。
Welcome Fort Worth.。
We have friends joining us tonight from all over the country as we are hosting a young。
adult conference here.。
And so if you're a guest with us, we're so glad you're here.。
So glad you can join us.。
Fort Worth.。
Thanks for tuning in.。
You guys pay your taxes.。
Oh man.。
I saw a couple.。
Oh no.。
Is that?。
Yeah, it's tomorrow.。
Yes.。
Wow.。
I'm glad you're here and glad that that announcement was for you.。
The way that we go to the IRS or the way we feel about paying our taxes has so much to。
do with the way we view the IRS.。
And there's people, even those of you that know you're getting money back, it's like。
you still are afraid you kind of go in, you're in turbo tax, but I hope I got everything。
right.。
If you view the IRS as kind of this, this institution that desires to take from you.。
And if you view the IRS as you know, Hey, they're, they're, you know, they're civilized。
government.。
They exist for a reason.。
I just want to do my civil duty.。
Uh, then you, you know, you kind of go at it and you, you understand the routine there,。
but I want to tell you the worst thing that's ever happened to me.。
I think that's true.。
I'm, I'm weighing those words carefully.。
Uh, certainly.。
Yeah.。
The most scary thing that's ever happened to me is I'm driving down the road.。
I'm in my truck.。
I've got my two year old Westin.。
He's in the car seat in the back.。
It's just me and him and my phone rings and on the, on the caller ID on my radio, because。
a Bluetooth working, uh, it's just a five digit number, which I thought was weird.。
It just says like, you know, five, four, three dash two seven.。
And I was like, what is that?。
And so I, you know, hit on the Bluetooth answer on speakerphone.。
Hello.。
And they say, um, is this Jonathan Pucluta to which I say, yes, it is.。
And they say, uh, great, Mr. Pucluta.。
Um, this is officer McMillan badge number five zero three seven, some number.。
And I'm calling you from the internal revenue service.。
I said, okay.。
And he said, uh, sir, I need to ask you a few questions.。
I said, okay.。
He said, sir, are you driving?。
I said, yes, I am.。
He said, can you pull over?。
I said, yes, I can.。
All right.。
This is got serious.。
I'm like, kind of feel short of breath, you know, sweating a little bit and a pull over.。
And he said, sir, where, where's your, where can you tell me your whereabouts?。
And I'm like, what is whereabouts to me?。
I'm like, what does that mean?。
And he's like, he goes, uh, sir, where, where are you?。
What, what are the, what's the largest cross street?。
And I tell him, and he said, sir, I need to know, uh, if your efforts to defraud the IRS。
were intentional.。
That was the question he asked me to which I said, is this a joke?。
I'm like, man, this is Dave and Marvin messing with me, man.。
That's what's going on.。
Got a Google number or something.。
And he goes, he goes, sir, I'm going to tell you again.。
This is officer McMillan.。
You need to write this badge number down.。
Do you have a pen and paper?。
Write this down.。
He said, nothing I am about to tell you in this conversation will be a laughing matter.。
I assure you.。
Let me ask you again, Mr. Percluta, were your efforts to defraud the IRS intentional to。
which I said, no, they were not intentional.。
And he starts saying these things.。
He said, well, listen, you know, we need to talk with you.。
You're going to have to explain why you've done what you've done for the past three years.。
And he begins to say some fairly specific data from 2012 and 2013.。
And it was 2011, 2012, 2013.。
You, you, you, whether intentional or unintentional did not pay all the taxes that you owed.。
He goes, sir, we have already, we have already dispatched the local authorities.。
He tells me you, you're going to have to plead your case before a judge, sir.。
Is there anyone do you, would you like to make a phone call to let someone know where。
you will be?。
And I'm, I'm like picturing myself talking to Monica through the glass.。
I'm like, call Todd and tell him, you know, I don't, I'm supposed to teach tomorrow at。
the port.。
I don't listen.。
I just tell him I was arrested.。
It was, I don't know.。
We're going to figure this out.。
Take up an offering, you know, and about I'm on the phone with this Joker for an hour and。
20 minutes, an hour and 20 minutes.。
And so finally I get to this place about an hour into the phone call.。
I'm like, well, how much do I owe?。
He tells me $3,700 to which I'm is a little bit of a relief.。
Cause I'm like, listen, I will beg, borrow and steal $3,700 if I need to.。
I listen, I don't want to go to jail.。
And I go, can I make arrangements to pay?。
He says no.。
So I'm like, okay, now I'm confused.。
He's like, you need to go before the judge.。
There will be an opportunity.。
And he's telling me all of this and through kind of this frustration back and forth eventually.。
And I mean, he is being extremely rude.。
And eventually I get off the phone with him as he tells me that the sheriff is on the。
way that I will soon be in the back of a police car with my hands handcuffed behind my back,。
but I will have an opportunity in the next couple of weeks to plead my case before a。
judge and so I get off the phone with him.。
I call my CPA.。
I begin to tell him in a panic, I'm shaking.。
I literally am shaking.。
He cuts me off and says, it's a scam.。
He goes, everybody knows it's a scam.。
All right, first of all, buddy, everybody does not know it's a scam.。
And the fact that it's a scam would have been really good information an hour and 20 minutes。
ago.。
And he's like, yeah, the IRS won't call you.。
I'm like, what?。
It sounds like some of you might've known that, you know, thanks for telling me.。
Thanks for letting me know, you know?。
And so here's the deal.。
When someone comes at you and says you owe something, they have a power over you.。
Like you're sitting there and you're like, okay, how am I going to work this out?。
And they get to define the terms of how you're going to work that out.。
And so some of you, you grew up in church and you have this view of God and you know。
that your sins are debts against him.。
And that's true.。
That's good theology.。
Your sins are indeed debts against the creator of the heavens and the earth.。
But the problem, and this is where it breaks down is how he views those debts will certainly。
approach how you go to him.。
Do you view him as someone scary like the IRS ready to throw you in prison or worse,。
throw you in hell?。
Are you here?。
And do you think, Hey, hell is a possibility for me.。
There's a chance, you know, I may get up there.。
I may go down.。
I do every single week.。
People appear that are like, yeah, I'm, I think I'm going to go to heaven.。
I'm like, you think, you think, so there's a chance that you're walking around and there's。
a chance you're going to die and you're going to go to hell forever and ever and ever and。
ever.。
You tell me that's a possible reality.。
How we view God and more specifically how we believe God views our sins certainly affects。
how we approach God.。
And this is why this message is so unbelievably important because you cannot view, you cannot。
approach God appropriately if you do not understand how he views your sins.。
So that's what we're talking about this evening.。
How does God view your sins?。
And specifically we're going to talk about what Jesus does, not just to our debt, but。
to our death, what Jesus does to our debt.。
And before we leave here, what Jesus does to the demons who accuse us because it's in。
the text.。
And so we're traveling through Colossians.。
If you're just joining us, we're in a series in Colossians.。
We're in Colossians chapter two.。
If you have your Bibles turned to the new Testament and you're going to go a little。
ways into the new Testament and past the gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, Acts, Romans,。
first and second Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians.。
The church in Colossae has picked up a heresy.。
What they've done is they've added to the gospel.。
They said, what must be done to pay this debt against God?。
Well, certainly it's Jesus plus something else.。
They began to add to it.。
And so last week we awkwardly ended talking about circumcision, not just of the flesh,。
but more specifically circumcision of the heart, that Christ, that in Christ, rather。
your sin nature has been removed.。
And so some of us were like, you're in like, wait a minute.。
It doesn't feel like my sin nature is removed.。
I still sin sometimes.。
And so this is the difficult already, not yet reality that we live in that, that God。
stands outside of time.。
And that's something that happened 2000 years ago has tremendous implications for our presence。
at our present time and even bigger implications for our future.。
When we stand before God that in Christ, we're being moved toward being sinless, but in Christ。
with God in the future, we will stand sinless.。
It's this idea that God stands outside of time.。
It's past, present, and future all working together.。
That though, while you might sin right now, God is no longer counting those sins against。
you.。
This is second Corinthians five 19.。
What would happen if we believe that God was no longer counting our sins against us?。
Would we send more?。
What do we send less?。
How would we view sin?。
This is directly from the scripture.。
Second Corinthians five 19.。
God to the believer, the person in Christ is no longer counting your sins against you.。
And so God who stands outside of time sees us already as though we are sinless before。
him, pure and perfect.。
Even though you will leave here and live, you will sin.。
How does that mind blown?。
Like, how does that work?。
How does that happen?。
That's why this text is so rich in Colossians.。
So last week we said in him, you were also circumcised with the circumcision not performed。
by human hands.。
Your whole self ruled by the flesh was put off when you were circumcised by Christ.。
That this sin nature in your heart, there was a circumcision that occurred in your heart.。
It has been removed that.。
And what that means is that in Christ you now no longer have to sin before Christ.。
You had to sin.。
You didn't have any choice but to sin, but now you don't have to sin.。
The Holy Spirit strengthens you in the presence of sin so that there is a way out from sin.。
So no one say, I can't stop.。
I have to keep doing this.。
No, you don't.。
Not for the believer.。
You absolutely can stop the spirit of God in you can give you the power to stop.。
Verse 12, having been buried with him in baptism in which you were also raised with him through。
your faith in the working of God who raised him, that's Jesus from the dead.。
When you were raised, when you were dead rather in your sins and in the uncircumcision of。
your flesh, God, God made you alive with Christ.。
Now those are a lot of churchy words.。
What do they mean?。
My first point this evening is that Jesus raises you from the dead.。
Jesus raises you from the dead.。
This is so important for Christians to understand.。
Whenever I baptize someone, I say this, you have been buried with Christ in his death。
and raised with him to new life.。
Just as you go down, you've been buried with Christ in his death and you raised to him。
in new life.。
That's what I say whenever I baptize someone.。
Water baptism is just a symbol.。
Okay.。
It is a metaphor.。
The scriptures give us.。
It's much like a wedding ring.。
I'm married.。
I'm still married.。
Okay.。
The ring is a symbol of a covenant commitment that I've made.。
Likewise, baptism is a declaration, a proclamation of a covenant commitment you've made to follow。
Christ.。
Now you are being identified with Jesus in his death and raised him being buried in the。
tomb and raised to new life.。
But that's not the baptism we're talking about here.。
We're talking about a baptism of the spirit that happens at the point of conversion.。
Now this is important.。
This is theology.。
So stay with me and let me read this to you.。
A new convert is baptized by God.。
God's doing the baptism into Christ's death and resurrection by faith in Jesus resulting。
in a new life where sin is not necessary and without eternal consequence.。
So who's doing the baptism?。
That's God.。
What are you baptized into?。
Not water, but Christ's death and resurrection.。
How by faith in Jesus and what does it result in a new life, a brand new life, a life different。
from your old life, a new life where sin is not necessary and without eternal consequence.。
So let me ask you a question.。
Don't answer it.。
Some of you would answer differently.。
Does the Christian have to be baptized?。
The answer is yes.。
By the spirit or into the spirit you already have been if you are indeed a Christian.。
That happened at conversion.。
And does a Christian have to be baptized in the water?。
The answer is yes.。
To be obedient, not to be saved.。
The scripture commands us to be baptized.。
So if you're here and you're a follower of Jesus Christ, you haven't been baptized, you。
should get baptized.。
That is to be obedient.。
Do I have to be baptized in order to get to heaven?。
No.。
No, you have to trust in Jesus, his death and resurrection for the forgiveness of your。
sins to get to heaven.。
But to walk in obedience as a Christian, you will get baptized.。
You've been identified with Jesus and as Jesus was raised to new life, so are you.。
This is very difficult to understand that something that happened 2000 years ago, you。
you benefited from the day you were there with Jesus, your sin, your materialism, your。
pride, your self-righteousness, your pornography.。
It was nailed to the cross with Christ.。
It was crucified with Christ.。
Jesus goes in the grave and he comes out without your sin.。
Even though that happened in the past, it's like you benefit from it now as you live now。
in Christ, as you trust in Christ, you benefit from it.。
Then it's very difficult.。
It feels philosophical.。
But last week we talked about how the circumcision was a shadow of something to come, that for。
thousands of years, guys were removing their flesh as a symbol of Jesus coming to circumcise。
our heart.。
Guys, for thousands of years, Jews would practice this cleansing of baptism.。
That was a foreshadowing.。
They had no idea that Jesus, their savior would be buried in a tomb and raised to new。
life.。
It was pointing to something in the future that Christ is, will be buried and raised。
to new life.。
It's another symbol.。
And we're not just talking about washing away your sins, but being raised to new life.。
And so it's the past, present and future working together.。
In the past, Christ's burial and resurrection.。
The present, buried with Jesus and alive without needing to sin.。
And in the future, one day you will literally raise from the dead.。
One day, if you've trusted in that, you will absolutely, positively, for sure, literally。
raise from the grave as God defeats death in your life.。
But that new life starts right now.。
Okay, summarize, I lost some of you.。
Let me just hit you with this.。
Jesus did not come to make bad people good, but dead people alive.。
Jesus did not come to make bad people good, but dead people alive.。
Your sins did not just identify you as bad.。
When you were a sinner, you were dead in your sins.。
You had no hope for the future.。
You were hell bound.。
You were going to go to hell.。
There's no, I might go to hell.。
I might go to heaven.。
One minute you're going to hell.。
One second later, the Holy Spirit has come upon your life and you are going to heaven,。
for sure, absolutely.。
You were dead and Christ made you alive.。
Well, what if I'm here and I've trusted in Christ, but I don't feel alive?。
The same thing, one of two things.。
You either did not trust in him or you're not trusting in him right now.。
You're not abiding in him.。
You're not walking with him.。
Jesus did not come to make bad people good, but dead people alive.。
This is where we get this idea from the scripture of being born again.。
That there's new birth, that there was a past life behind you and a new life in front of。
you, that you live a new life in Christ.。
You're born again Christian.。
Every single believer in the room has two lives.。
You had a life when you were dead and you've been made alive in Christ.。
I remember when I couldn't do anything but sin and now I'm made alive.。
I've been born again.。
It's a second birth.。
I've got three kids, so I've been in that room for the birth three times.。
Some people say it's beautiful.。
It's horrible.。
That's the truth.。
Lots of screaming, lots of blood.。
It's awful.。
It's an awful thing.。
I mean, the result is beautiful.。
Baby's there.。
It's amazing.。
Weston, Presley, Finley, my kids, I'm there in the room.。
I'm with their mom.。
They're not in the room.。
Then all of a sudden, nobody comes in or out of the room and then they're in the room.。
It's amazing.。
That kid was born.。
Wow.。
I'm there for moral support, honestly.。
I can't do anything.。
I'm like, "You want to hold my hand?"。
"No!"。
"Okay.。
What can I do?"。
She is working really, really hard and they, the one who are being born, they're not doing。
anything.。
They didn't do anything to be born.。
That's the reality of it.。
You didn't do anything to be born.。
Not a single thing.。
You didn't crawl out of the womb.。
No, nothing.。
You didn't decide, "Hey, now's the time."。
You didn't start to push.。
No, she pushed.。
You didn't push.。
Right?。
Likewise, you didn't do anything to be born again.。
Not a thing.。
God did the work.。
Christ did the work on the cross 2,000 years ago.。
That's it.。
You didn't do anything.。
"Wait a minute.。
What?。
I didn't...。
Nothing?"。
Nothing.。
God saved you in spite of you.。
Verse 13, "God made you alive with Christ.。
He forgave us all our sins, having canceled the charge of our legal indebtedness, which。
stood against us and condemned us.。
He has taken it away, nailing it to the cross."。
In this culture, which Paul is writing to in the church of Colossae, if you had a debt。
over you, it would hang over you.。
You would carry that debt around.。
No one would lend you money.。
In fact, if you borrowed money to eat, you couldn't eat anymore because no one would。
give you money so that you could eat.。
Like this was life or death situation.。
There was no credit score here.。
So this...。
And not in a dissimilar way, the way that your credit score will determine whether someone's。
going to lend you money or not.。
If you don't pay back your debts or you have too much debt and they say, "Hey, no, we cannot。
lend you anymore."。
Likewise then, if somebody had lent you money, no one else would lend you money until that。
debt was paid.。
And so this language that your debt has been canceled, that it's been crossed out, this。
is huge language because when you would sit with the person of whom you owed money to,。
they would sit you there, they'd have your name on a general ledger and they would have。
how much you owed or what you owed them and they would cross it out or they would smear。
it.。
And this was a joyful day to you.。
This meant you could eat again.。
This meant you could borrow money or do business again, that you were no longer the person。
known in the community as the one in debt.。
This meant new life for you.。
And so my second point this evening is Jesus crossed out our debts.。
In the same way that that was a day of freedom, the debts that we have against God are sin.。
Jesus crossed out our debts.。
Some of us here this evening, we have the wrong view of sin and some of us have the。
wrong view of payment.。
So let's start with your sin.。
Your sin is against an eternal God.。
The terms of your debt that your sin has accrued is eternal.。
Like the terms of my mortgage might be 30 years, like maybe I'm speaking hypothetically,。
my mortgage might be for $200,000 that I have to pay out over 30 years.。
Okay.。
The debt that your sin has accrued against the eternal God is infinite, paid out over。
eternity.。
There is only one place that you can pay for your debt and that's eternity.。
That's it.。
It takes an eternal payment because it's an eternal debt.。
Anytime you sin against an eternal being, the debt that you've accrued is eternal.。
So let's talk about the payment.。
I can't just tell the IRS, "I'll pay my taxes this year."。
No, I've got to go pay them this year and I've got to pay the back taxes of any years。
that I missed it.。
Well, your sin, the debt you owe against God, because it's eternal, it requires an eternal。
payment.。
Here's what that means.。
So if I go to God and I say, "Hey, my friend Greg has sinned against you, God.。
I want to give you my life for his life so that he can go to heaven."。
God's going to say, "But who's going to pay for your life?。
Your life is marked by sin.。
Your life has debt.。
So you don't have the ability to pay for Greg's sin."。
It would take a perfect person.。
And the perfect person could only cover Greg for a lifetime.。
It would take an eternal perfect person to cover Greg for all eternity.。
Now, do you see the brilliance of the payment on the cross?。
That it took an eternal God who was also sinless, without debt himself, to pay the debt for。
your sin.。
And so Christ offers an eternal payment as an eternal perfect God.。
And so in salvation, you are now identified with Christ.。
That was the baptism part.。
Apart from Christ, you are identified by your sin.。
Apart from Christ, you're the one who had an abortion.。
Apart from Christ, you're the pornographer.。
Apart from Christ, you're the materialist.。
Apart from Christ, you're the sinner.。
In Christ, you're the one who's been forgiven for those things.。
No longer identified by them, but for the forgiveness of them.。
That's the beauty of the cross.。
An eternal God paid, an eternal sinless God paid for your sins.。
Your debt is bigger than you can pay.。
So God paid it.。
I had these two friends.。
One of them owned a business.。
He was a builder.。
And they were in community together.。
And he wanted my other friend, I'll call him John, he wanted John to partner with him.。
And so he comes to John and he says, "Hey, I would like you to go in business with me."。
And John looks at him and says, "I can't.。
I have too many student loans.。
I can't go into business with you.。
I can't take a risk right now like owning a business.。
I have too much debt in my life.。
I need to go work hard and pay off that debt."。
And so they continued to live in community.。
And my friend saw the kind of character that John had and understood who he was and really。
wanted to partner with him.。
And so he goes to him again and says, "Hey, I would like to partner with you."。
John says, "Hey, I told you I can't.。
I have too much debt."。
To which my friend said, "What debt?"。
"It's been taken care of.。
Let's do business together.。
Like I want a relationship with you that bad.。
I'll pay whatever debt is against you.。
Even though it's not my debt, even though I did nothing for you to accrue that debt,。
I will pay that debt on your behalf so that we can partner together.。
This is what God is telling you.。
I know about the pornography.。
I know about the pride.。
I know about the self-righteousness.。
I know about the abortion.。
I know about the drunkenness.。
I know about the parties.。
I know about the sex.。
I know about the lust.。
I know about it all.。
And I want a relationship with you so bad that I paid the debt that it's accrued.。
It's been crossed out.。
Can we partner?。
Not in the future, but right now.。
Can we partner together?。
God paid it for you.。
And this is bigger than you think.。
It is past, present, and future.。
Because he paid for future debts.。
He loves you right now, even though he knows tomorrow you're going to run from him.。
That seems irresponsible.。
Like we would never do that.。
You wouldn't take that boyfriend back.。
You knew he was going to cheat on you tomorrow.。
Maybe you would.。
You shouldn't.。
But God does this to you.。
He says, "I've paid for your debts, past, present, and future.。
They've been crossed out through an eternal payment of a sinless, perfect sacrifice in。
my one and only son, Jesus Christ."。
So let me ask you a question.。
How can you pay a debt that's already been paid?。
You can't.。
You can't.。
I was getting my hair cut the other day and was sharing the gospel with a guy.。
He got to the part.。
He had just finished up and I paid him for my haircut.。
And he said, "No, man.。
I know about Jesus, man.。
I've just done too much, man.。
You just don't know.。
Like, I've done a lot."。
So I believe in Jesus, but man, when I get up there, I'm really going to have to answer。
for some of the things I've done down here.。
And I said, "Let me ask you a question, bro."。
I said, "What if somebody comes in right after me and they say, 'Hey, I'd like to pay for。
his haircut'?"。
And he goes, "Well, you just paid me."。
I go, "I know, I know.。
Let me ask you again.。
If someone comes in here right after me and they say, 'Hey, I'd like to pay for his haircut,'。
what are you going to tell them?"。
He goes, "I'm going to tell them that you already paid.。
It's already paid for."。
And I go, "Cool.。
What if they say, 'Well, I'd like to pay for just a little bit of it'?"。
And he goes, "You paid for all of it."。
I go, "No, I know."。
So if they say, "Hey, I'd like to pay for a little bit of his haircut," what are you。
going to tell them?。
They say, "He covered it.。
It's all paid for."。
I said, "Exactly.。
That's what God is telling you right now.。
It's all paid for.。
100% of it has been paid for.。
Does that make sense?。
Like, are you guys tracking with that?"。
All of it.。
It's all paid for.。
Every one of them.。
They're not like you didn't pay for 90% of them.。
He didn't pay for every one.。
That's a really, really bad one.。
He paid for all of them.。
Yours and anyone who would trust in his provision of payment through his son, Jesus Christ.。
They've been paid for.。
All of them.。
100% of them.。
I was speaking in Austin two weeks ago for this deal called Resurrection Week on the。
campus of UT.。
I stepped down, literally come down off the stage, and I'm walking around to the back,。
and this girl cuts me off in the bushes.。
It was awkward and dark, and I was scared.。
She was angry.。
I mean, angry women are scary.。
I'm like ... She goes, "Hey, something you said really bothered me."。
I said, "Okay.。
Well, what did I say?"。
She goes, "You said that God was no longer counting our sins against us."。
I was like, "Okay.。
Help me understand what happened."。
She said, "You said drug use, sex, and eating disorders.。
You said that God was no longer counting my eating disorder against me."。
I said, "That's good news, right?。
What's the problem?"。
She goes, "You put it with drugs and sex."。
She goes, "I don't choose an eating disorder."。
I said, "Okay.。
Well, help me understand.。
Let's talk about your eating disorder.。
I want to understand better."。
I said, "Forgive me for what I said.。
It sounds like it could have easily been misunderstood, and I don't want to do that."。
We talked through that.。
I mean, she was angry.。
Irate, red in the face.。
Tears started streaming down her face.。
"I don't want to do it.。
I don't want to do that anymore."。
I said, "Okay.。
Well, let me ask you two questions.。
Between one and ten, ten being certain, one being not so sure, if you died right now,。
how certain are you that you'd go to heaven?"。
She goes, "I'm pretty sure."。
She goes, "I'm like 80 percent."。
I said, "Okay."。
I said, "Okay.。
Well, you stand up there.。
You get up there."。
God says, "Why should I let you in?。
What would you say?"。
"Because I've tried so hard to stop."。
She tells me, tears running down her face.。
"I've tried so hard to stop."。
I said, "I know why you're upset.。
I know why God has us talking right now."。
I said, "When you get up there, if you try to point to your efforts, you've missed the。
gospel.。
The only reason anyone gets into heaven is because God paid their way to him through。
Jesus.。
He's not holding that eating disorder against you.。
Would you agree that in a perfect world, there would be no eating disorder?"。
She said, "Yes."。
I said, "In a perfect world, you wouldn't binge eat and then throw up.。
You wouldn't binge eat and then binge work out.。
That wouldn't exist in a perfect world.。
True?"。
She said, "Yes."。
Tears running down her face.。
I said, "It's been paid for on the cross."。
I said, "So how sure are you that you would get to heaven?"。
She says, "80%."。
I said, "Why?"。
She said, "Because Jesus paid for my sins."。
I looked at her and I said, "80% of your sins?。
How many of your sins did he pay for?。
He paid for 80% of them?"。
She said, "No, all of them.。
Every one of them."。
I write these things to you.。
Believe in the name of the Son of God so that you may know that you have eternal life.。
First John 5 says, "And having disarmed the powers and authorities, he made a public spectacle。
of them, triumphing over them by the cross."。
How amazing is this picture?。
"And having disarmed the powers and authorities, he, Jesus Christ, made a public spectacle。
of them, triumphing over them by the cross."。
My third point is that Jesus disarmed the demons.。
Jesus disarmed the demons.。
This picture is so perfect.。
It's so beautiful.。
To the Roman Empire, this would have been really familiar.。
So what would happen when you would conquer a territory, when you would conquer an empire,。
you would take all of their possessions as your own.。
You would shackle them.。
You would do a triumphal march.。
You would parade them, chained and shackled.。
All of their stuff.。
You would be stripped of all of their stuff, them being humiliated and disarmed.。
The very sword that they carried to kill you with was now your sword.。
Do you see that?。
Jesus disarmed the demons.。
He disarmed the enemy.。
He took away the power.。
Jesus removes the power from the enemy in the cross.。
Jesus removes the power from the enemy in the cross.。
Have you ever seen someone triumphal in victory?。
Of course you have.。
Any athletic event, right?。
The World Series, Super Bowl, National Championship.。
Whenever they win, there's lots of fist pumps, lots of shouting, lots of hooray, lots of。
hugs, lots of tears.。
You win a big game, yeah, yeah, yeah.。
You've seen all of that.。
You've seen people triumph.。
This is Jesus' end zone dance.。
You guys know end zone dance?。
Familiar with that term?。
I'm in downtown.。
Monica and I are on a date.。
It's Texas OU weekend a couple years ago.。
There's this stage downtown by the W. I'm walking and this guy on the stage says, "Hey,。
we're going to have an end zone celebration competition."。
End zone celebration competition.。
I'm an innocent bystander.。
I'm walking by, but it was the one day, true confession, it was the one day I wore skinny。
jeans.。
Okay?。
Community was not involved in that decision.。
So I've got these pencil stick legs walking around and this guy on the stage decided he。
wanted to pick on the tall guy with the skinny jeans.。
He says, "Hey, you, come on up here.。
End zone celebration."。
I'm like, "No, not me."。
He goes, "Hey man, listen."。
He gets my wife involved.。
"Bring him up here.。
Bring him."。
She's like, "Go up there."。
So then he tells me, so I'm up there.。
Yeah, betrayal like Judas.。
I'm up there.。
I'm up there.。
And then he tells me the prize is a night at the W. I'm with my honey.。
You know, I'm like, "Oh, I'm going to dance my heart out."。
Okay?。
Like you're about to get centipede, you know, cabbage patch and booty shake.。
It's all happening right now.。
And so they play, there's two other people.。
They play the music.。
I wobbled.。
Okay?。
It happened.。
It happened.。
Victory was mine.。
$100 to the W. And I tell you all of that to say, that's what Jesus is doing.。
Kind of.。
Not really.。
Now, let me tell you what he's doing.。
In a complicated term that I want to be really clear, lots of metaphors tonight.。
The cross was jujitsu.。
Okay?。
I got your attention.。
Check this out because this is powerful.。
In jujitsu, like the fundamental of jujitsu, the fundamental reality of jujitsu is that。
you use someone's force against them.。
You know, they throw a punch and you use the momentum in that punch to throw them off balance。
and to counter.。
And so what's happening in the cross is since Jesus has showed up on the scene, now you。
track them with this.。
This is an important thing.。
Using someone's momentum against them.。
Okay?。
That's what you need to know.。
So in the cross, since Jesus shows up on the scene, Satan, the enemy, the accuser is trying。
to kill him since the day he shows up in Bethlehem.。
And so this moment, this is the greatest moment of Satan.。
It's the history of history.。
Satan sees Jesus on the cross to tell us last breath.。
And he's just like, yes, I mean, demons are high fiving.。
It's a celebration.。
It's a party.。
It's an empty tomb.。
It's forgiveness for all your sins.。
How did this happen?。
He took the momentum that the enemy, all the things, the work that the enemy was trying。
to do, and he did the greatest twist of all time, offering forgiveness for anyone sins。
who would trust in the cross, canceling their debt, defeating death.。
All the things, those are languages of the enemy, demons, debt, death.。
Those are the enemy's tools.。
He takes their sword and uses it against them.。
He disarmed them.。
It says in the scripture, the very sword that was used to kill you is now your sword.。
The very tool the enemy used to ultimately celebrate became the greatest catastrophe。
toward the enemy.。
The cross becomes an empty tomb.。
The dead God on the cross becomes forgiveness for your sins.。
How beautiful is that?。
So the enemy, what he wanted to use to kill you, God uses to bring life to others.。
Think about that.。
He wanted to use your abortion to kill you, and God takes it and he uses it to set those。
who have had abortions free.。
He wanted to use your sexual addiction to kill you, and when you bring it to the light。
and you say, "This is part of my story," God breathes power into it, and he uses it to。
set others free.。
He wanted to use your pride and self-righteousness and religiosity and churchism to kill you,。
and when you say, "God, these are the things you died for," those things become powerful.。
They become tools that God then uses to set others free, jujitsu, using the enemy's momentum。
against them.。
So while the enemy thinks he's won, God takes the cross and raises you from the dead, crosses。
out your debts, and disarms the demons.。
We just celebrated the cross on Good Friday and the empty tomb on Easter.。
This should be fresh on your minds, but I just want to end by pointing out some beautiful。
realities about the cross, some things that I get really, really excited about, and I。
think you will too.。
There's so much going on on the cross.。
There's so many prophecies being fulfilled in the cross, and so I'll share just a few。
with you.。
Did you know that the sacrificial Passover lamb would not break a bone?。
This is a command given to us in Exodus, that whenever they were going to sacrifice the。
Passover lamb, they could not break a bone in it.。
What is the Passover lamb?。
The Passover lamb is from when the Holy Spirit passed over God's people because they shed。
the lamb's blood on the door.。
So therefore their firstborn son was not killed.。
Does this ring a bell?。
Anybody?。
Oh yeah, I remember that from Sunday school class.。
So God's people are there.。
God has sent the ten plagues against Pharaoh, saying, "Hey, let my people go," and the last。
of the plague is killing the firstborn son, and God says to his people, "Hey, sacrifice。
a spotless lamb.。
Put his blood on the doorpost.。
My spirit will pass over you, and your son will live."。
This is a foreshadowing of what's to come.。
Jesus is the perfect, eternal, sacrificial lamb.。
Did you know that his bones were not broken?。
This was to fulfill the prophecy in Psalm 34, verse 20.。
See what happened?。
It was customary in the crucifixion.。
Every time someone was crucified, the last thing they would do is they'd go and break。
their shins, because what would happen is you'd hang down, and you would die of asphyxiation.。
You couldn't breathe like that, not supported by your legs.。
But when they came to Jesus, so they break the shins of both the thieves right beside。
Jesus, they come to Jesus, and he's already dead.。
So they don't break his legs in fulfillment of this prophecy, and consistent with the。
sacrificial lamb, showing that Jesus was the perfect sacrifice.。
Now instead, what do they do?。
They take a spear, and they stab him in the side.。
Now why would they do that?。
Well, because God had said in Psalm 22, verse 14, that his blood must pour out like water.。
And so what poured out from Jesus' side was not blood, but water.。
Why?。
Because his blood had already poured out, covering all your sins.。
He had no more blood left.。
All of this in fulfillment of the prophecies there on the cross, things that had been written。
thousands of years before the cross, that Jesus would die for your sins, and that his。
blood would cover your sins, canceling out that debt.。
But I want to show you my new favorite one, my favorite observation that comes from studying。
this text in Colossians chapter 2.。
Did you know that when a person was crucified, what was nailed to them on the cross along。
with their body was their sentence?。
So if you had stolen something, it would say, "Thief on the cross with you."。
You would be identified as a thief there, dead on a cross.。
If you had been committed murder, then you would be on the cross, and your sin, or your。
sentence rather, would be nailed to the cross with you.。
So what was Jesus' sentence?。
Did you know there was something nailed to the cross with him?。
There was, let me tell you.。
It's John 19, verse 19.。
Pontius Pilate had a notice prepared and fastened it to the cross.。
It read, "Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews."。
Many of the Jews read the sign, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city,。
and the sign was written in Aramaic, Latin, and Greek.。
The chief priests of the Jews protested to Pilate, "Do not write, 'The King of the Jews,'。
but that this man claimed to be the King of the Jews."。
And Pilate answered, "What I have written, I have written."。
That what was above Jesus, you may have seen it, "Inri," which is just Latin in abbreviation。
for "The King of the Jews."。
His sin, as he's crucified, is that he's king.。
Not claimed to be king, but literally king.。
It's true jujitsu.。
That God, I'm serious, that God would go to him and that they would hang this sign。
above his head.。
That he was a sinless sacrifice, an eternal sacrifice, and enough sacrifice by those who。
scorned him and laughed at him and tortured him and killed him.。
That he's canceling out the debt of your sins.。
Every sin you've committed, fulfilling the prophecy that he was indeed king, that there's。
no question.。
But you know what is nailed to the cross with him?。
Not just that sign, but here in Colossians 2, it says, "Your sin."。
That Jesus is up there paying very specifically for that time you went too far, drank too。
much, watched that thing, said that thing, bought that thing, did that.。
The unmentionables of your life and your past, your present and your future, that God paid。
for.。
And check this out, you're no longer identified by your sin, but that you've been forgiven。
for them.。
As we sing this last song in worship, you're going to see some of my friends who in the。
past when they were dead in their sins were identified by their sins.。
But God has taken those debts and he's canceled them.。
Jesus indeed has paid it all.。
Let's worship him now.。
, "Jesus is up there paying very specifically for that time you went too far, drank too。
much, watched that thing, said that thing, bought that thing, did that."。
And I hear the Savior say, "Thy strength indeed is small, child of weakness, watch。
and pray, and find in me thine all in all.。
Because Jesus paid all, all to him I owe.。
Sin had left a crimson stain, he washed it white as snow.。
For now indeed I find thy power and thine alone can change the leper's spots and melt。
the heart of stone.。
Because Jesus paid all, all to him I owe.。
Sin had left a crimson stain, he washed it white as snow.。
White as snow.。
White as snow.。
White as snow.。
White as snow.。
Don't praise the one who paid my debt and he's canceled them.。
Don't praise the one who paid my debt and he raises life up from the dead.。
Jesus.。
It's only Jesus.。
Jesus paid all, all to him I owe.。
Sin had left a crimson stain, he washed it white as snow.。
White as snow.。
White as snow.。
White as snow.。
Sin had left a crimson stain, he washed it white as snow.。
White as snow.。
Sin had left a crimson stain, he washed it white as snow.。
White as snow.。
Sin had left a crimson stain, he washed it white as snow.。
White as snow.。
Sin had left a crimson stain, he washed it white as snow.。
White as snow.。
Sin had left a crimson stain, he washed it white as snow.。
White as snow.。
Sin had left a crimson stain, he washed it white as snow.。
White as snow.。
Sin had left a crimson stain, he washed it white as snow.。
White as snow.。
Sin had left a crimson stain, he washed it white as snow.。
White as snow.。
He washed it white as snow.。
I love this verse in Colossians 1.。
We covered it the second week we were in this book and it just says, "Once," listen to this,。
"Once you were alienated from God and were enemies in your minds because of your evil。
behavior, but now he has reconciled you by Christ's physical body through death to present。
you wholly in his sight without blemish."。
He doesn't see the guy dead in porn.。
He doesn't see the girl who had the abortion.。
He sees the girl who's been forgiven for the abortion.。
He doesn't see the dude who's just completely dead in his pride.。
He sees the payment, what he paid through his son.。
Having canceled the charge of our legal indebtedness, which stood out against us and condemned us,。
he has taken it away, nailing it to the cross, not just nailing it, but literally covering。
it in the same way that they would take that and smear it, right, all the way across.。
I'm going to make sure I get weed too.。
This is for you, Lance.。
You're lucky I'm tall.。
He made a mess to clean you up.。
He's canceled out your debts.。
You see yours up here?。
You see the one you did?。
It's not up there.。
I promise you it was there at Calvary.。
If you've trusted in him, it was there.。
It was up there with Jesus.。
It was nailed to the cross.。
You've been forgiven.。
Walk forgiven, raised a new life, not to return to those grave clothes, not to return to that。
old life, not to take grace for granted, but to live fully for him.。
He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over all creation, for by him all。
things were created, things in heaven and things on earth.。
He was the sacrificial lamb.。
He was the perfect payment.。
He was the eternal God.。
He was the king, not just of the Jews, but of you, the only one that could take away。
your sins, setting them aside, nailing them to the cross.。
It's Jesus.。
Let me pray to him.。
Father, would you hit our hearts with this reality, God, that we no longer have to live。
dead in our sin, but that you paid for it, and it wasn't a cheap payment.。
It cost you the life, Jesus.。
It cost you your life.。
You triumphed over the enemy, the accuser, the one who seeks to steal, kill, and destroy,。
giving us victory in the cross.。
It's in his name.。
Amen.。
Hey, guys, every now and then we do something worthy of getting the attention of others,。
telling the story.。
And so we've done this before, and we want to try to do this tonight, not in a gimmicky。
way, and not to bring more people here for sure, but to share the glory of our God, our。
Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.。
And so we do this through social media.。
It's just kind of the communication method of our time.。
And so if you know that you have a sin that's been crossed out, we would just encourage。
you to tweet that sin or put it on Instagram or the social media of your choosing using。
the hashtag #CrossedOut.。
C-R-O-S-S-E-D-O-U-T, #CrossedOut.。
And so if we can help you in that, if you're here and you want to talk with someone, there's。
going to be an entire team of folks up here ready to talk with you, pray with you, celebrate。
with you, all that God is doing in your life.。
If there's anything we can do, if there's any way that we can serve you, we would love。
to hear from you.。
We're so glad you're here.。
Go in peace to love and serve the Lord.。
(upbeat music)。
