(upbeat music)。
Good evening, it is great to worship with you.。
Welcome, Dallas, welcome, Fort Worth.。
If you're tuning in on podcast or streaming online,。
welcome, those of you who are tuning in around the world.。
It is great to continue in this series in Colossians.。
And so I thought I'd start this evening。
by talking about something about a month ago.。
Some of you are gonna be like, was that a month ago?。
It was a month ago, our world,。
I was about to say our country,。
our entire world was divided on an issue。
that we must talk about this evening.。
I mean, it separated people.。
Does anybody know what I'm talking about?。
I mean, there was this thing that came out。
that everyone was like, wait a minute,。
and they landed on one side or the other,。
and it divided husband and wife and families。
and congregations and people.。
And so, let me show it to you.。
(congregation laughing)。
There it is.。
There it is, I saw it, I know.。
And so on three, okay,。
we're gonna settle this issue on three, ready?。
Okay, I want you to scream out what color that dress is.。
If you're lost right now,。
you've either been locked in a closet or in some,。
I don't know, and so ask a friend,。
they're gonna share with you.。
But this dress brought down the internet, okay?。
Ellen DeGeneres said appropriately,。
Ellen DeGeneres said appropriately。
that the world will be divided from here on out,。
and I agree with her.。
All right, and so on three,。
we're gonna yell out what color that dress is, ready?。
One, two, three.。
(congregation cheering)。
That is right, it is white and gold.。
(congregation cheering)。
Thank you.。
Just by show of hands,。
how many of you yelled out white and gold?。
Okay, okay, now by show of hands,。
how many yelled out black and blue?。
Okay, I want all of you who yelled out white and gold。
to pray for the eyes of those who yelled out black and blue.。
Would you just lay hands on them,。
and we're gonna pray really for the rest of our time。
that the Lord would open their eyes,。
that they would no longer be blind.。
I'm sad.。
I'm sad.。
I used to be a Taylor Swift fan.。
So she tweeted this.。
This was Taylor Swift's tweet.。
She said, "I don't understand this odd dress debate,。
"and I feel like it's a trick somehow.。
"I'm confused and scared.。
"P.S. it's obviously black, or blue and black."。
(congregation cheering)。
And I was scared too, and honestly, what I thought,。
here's what I thought,。
like I just, just in moment of transparency,。
I'm like, this is a trick that the entire world is on.。
I felt like I was on the Truman Show or something.。
I'm like, okay, it's gotta be white and gold.。
I don't see anything that could remotely。
be interpreted as black and blue,。
and so all of these people saying black and blue,。
they're playing a trick on me, and they're all in on it.。
David Marvin's in on it too, and I'm just,。
I'm frustrated by that.。
I really am wondering, I'm like, I see,。
I'm like, Taylor Swift's in on it somehow.。
David, talk to Taylor.。
How did this happen, you know?。
And it just, it really did divide people,。
and I don't know if you, like, we were talking about it,。
and we were getting fired up.。
It was like, no, no, you know, clearly,。
they did a RGB kind of red, green, blue。
computer experiment in the color,。
and the breakdown, and you don't understand the science,。
and I don't, you know, and people are like,。
oh, well, the lesser smart people said,。
and you know, and everyone's kind of,。
it becomes competitive, and it really did.。
It divided people, and it was fun just, you know,。
the Twitter traffic that was out there and whatnot,。
and so tonight, we're gonna talk about something else。
that divides people.。
We're talking about this idea of who is Jesus.。
You came into the room this evening。
with some idea of who Jesus is,。
and I'm gonna show you tonight from the scripture。
that I think a small of us, maybe a minority of us。
in the room actually understand who Christ is,。
who he desires to be in our life,。
but we all, everyone here has to answer this question,。
who is Jesus?。
It's the same question that the Church of Colossae。
was asking, who is Jesus?。
It's the same reason Paul wrote this letter.。
Hey, I wanna set it straight for you guys.。
I want you to understand who Christ is.。
Stop adding to him, stop changing him,。
stop making him out to be something。
that he was never meant to be,。
but you wanna divide a room.。
I mean, people will talk about God.。
Even atheists will tolerate your conversations about God,。
but when you start talking about Jesus,。
you start talking about the way, the truth, and the lie,。
well, that's exclusivity, that's rude, I can't believe you,。
and all of a sudden, it gets uncomfortable.。
It's divisive.。
It's divisive,。
and so we're asking this question this evening.。
This is the topic, the subject, who is Jesus?。
The Muslim says he's a prophet like Abraham and Moses,。
and a lesser prophet than Muhammad.。
The Jehovah's Witness says he was Michael the archangel。
who came to earth and left his angelic being。
as he was born of a woman,。
and then he was fully man, named Christ.。
The Mormon says that God and Mary had a sexual relationship。
and Jesus was their son, and if you do good things,。
that you too can be like Jesus,。
a child or son or daughter of God,。
and the liberal theologian says that he was a good teacher,。
maybe even that he was a way to God.。
He had some good understandings,。
and I will tell you the reason I start with that,。
that dress picture, because for most of my life,。
before I became adult, as I was going to church,。
that's what I thought.。
I thought, hey, this is this kind of superstitious thing。
that we all come into the room。
and we all kind of pretend like Jesus is God,。
and we're even gonna talk to the air,。
and we're all gonna kind of get emotional。
about this idea of God,。
but we all kind of know he doesn't exist.。
And people were talking about a relationship with Christ,。
and I was like, yeah, I wonder,。
can I have a relationship with Christ?。
But then in my heart, I'm like, hey, we all know。
you can't have a relationship with someone you can't see。
or talk to or touch or hug.。
And I'm here tonight to tell you that I've experienced that.。
Maybe that's where you're at, but you can.。
That in fact, life is found in him alone.。
There is no life apart from him,。
and so if you're here and you don't have him,。
you're experiencing some kind of lesser life.。
And so what we're gonna do this evening。
is we're gonna divide the room, okay?。
I think we'll start with, hey, have you heard of Christ?。
And I think all of our hands would go up.。
We've all, yeah, Jesus, we all heard about Jesus,。
but as we begin to talk about who he is,。
I think more and more,。
you're gonna start disagreeing with me.。
And maybe you won't publicly,。
but in your heart and in your mind,。
you're gonna think, no, I don't know。
that I would be in that group.。
And as we go further, you might say,。
well, no, I was in that last group.。
I don't know that I'd be in that group.。
For when we end tonight from the Scriptures,。
sadly, and I hope I'm wrong,。
there might be a minority of us who actually agrees。
with who Jesus is and who he desires to be in our life.。
This passage in your Scripture。
is called the supremacy of Christ.。
It's a word we don't use often.。
Supremacy is defined as the state of being highest。
in rank or authority, paramount, sovereign, chief.。
This is who Jesus wants to be in your life.。
Let me say it to you again.。
Highest rank or authority, paramount, sovereign,。
chief over your life.。
Because here's what I'm certain of, guys.。
100 years from now, I mean 100 years from today,。
we're all, every single person in this room。
is going to realize that the single most important question。
you were asked as you walked on this planet was,。
"Who is Jesus?"。
And that's why this passage in the Scripture。
is so important because it answers it with great clarity.。
I don't know that there's any other passage in Scripture。
that more heresies have come from.。
As people read this and misunderstand what it actually is,。
it's a song that the Apostle Paul wrote down in Colossians.。
Most commentaries would agree that this is actually a song.。
And he wrote for the purpose of explaining who Jesus was。
so that the Colossians would know,。
the church in Colossae would know and understand.。
And so just to show you where Colossae is,。
here's a picture that it's an actual place on the planet.。
It is the southwest corner of what is modern day Turkey.。
And they have been told, the people there。
that Paul is writing to have been told。
that Jesus isn't enough, that his grace isn't enough.。
And so David very appropriately talked about last week。
how it's not just grace that saves us,。
but it's grace that actually changes us.。
And this week we're going to talk about who this man,。
Jesus, is as they were attempting to redefine him then.。
And your peers, friends, coworkers, family members,。
and people you know are attempting to redefine him today.。
So let's dive in, Colossians chapter one still.。
If you're just joining with us,。
this is a series we started last week.。
You came at a great time.。
If you're looking for it in your Bible,。
it's Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, the Gospels,。
Acts, Romans, first and second Corinthians,。
Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians.。
So you don't need to be nervous if you pass it up。
or wondering if anybody's watching you。
and you don't know the Bible.。
It's okay, we're glad you're here.。
You can take time to find that.。
Verse 15.。
The son is the image of the invisible God,。
the firstborn over all creation.。
He begins to talk about Christ.。
And he's not saying that he looks like God physically,。
he is saying that he is the exact representation。
of God's character as he walked on this earth.。
If you want to know what God is like, look at Jesus.。
If you want to know how God would handle the sick,。
look at how Jesus handled the sick.。
If you want to look at how God handles sinners,。
look at how Jesus handles sinners.。
This Jesus is the exact representation。
of the character of God,。
the visible image of the invisible God.。
And when it says firstborn over creation,。
that doesn't mean that Jesus was born first,。
as Jehovah's Witness might tell you.。
That means that that term firstborn。
is a term of inheritance to the Jewish culture。
that this was written to.。
It means that all of creation belongs to Jesus.。
The next line is actually going to give us that context.。
For in him all things were created,。
things in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible,。
whether thrones or powers or rulers or authorities,。
all things have been created through him and for him.。
Everything you know was made by Jesus for Jesus.。
John 1 tells us that he was there in the beginning.。
He was not created.。
John 3:16 says that for he was God's only begotten,。
not born, not made son.。
That he is God.。
That he was there with God in the beginning,。
the beginning of the beginning,。
as we understand the beginning, he was there.。
And so anyone or anything that you're tempted to worship。
was made by Jesus for Jesus.。
Just imagine with me for a second,。
I don't know who you would get,。
it would be a big deal to me, you know, for you.。
You know, if you're out at dinner with someone。
and a celebrity walks up,。
I don't know who's a big deal to you.。
I don't know if it's Tony Romo。
or Prince William or something.。
I don't know, right?。
Who is a big deal?。
You're sitting there and maybe you would call your friends。
or post on Facebook,。
you won't believe what just happened to me.。
You won't believe who just paid my bill.。
Prince William walked up and he just paid the bill.。
It was a big, I was nervous.。
I couldn't even speak.。
I tried to speak and words didn't come out.。
I was sweating.。
I was like, are you serious?。
I can't believe you're here in Dallas.。
(congregation laughing)。
Check this out.。
The most powerful being in the entire universe。
paid your eternity, paid your bill for eternity.。
He desires to know you, he loves you.。
He's seeking you, he's pursuing you,。
and he's created you, he's invented you for a purpose.。
It's a bigger deal than anyone that you could imagine.。
Anyone you would meet was actually created by him.。
He knew Prince William in his mother's womb.。
He know how many hairs are on his head.。
A billion years ago, he knew Prince William.。
He is before all things and in him all things hold together.。
This is really relevant to the people of Colossae。
because there were a lot of earthquakes there。
and they were tempted to worship mother earth。
or mother nature, if you will.。
And so I remember when I went to Haiti。
just after the earthquake in Port-au-Prince,。
they said the entire nation began to turn to God。
because they said only God can shake the earth like this.。
It was just a layup to share the gospel.。
Hey, this is, you know, God is not shaken.。
In fact, God holds all things together.。
Can I tell you about who he is?。
And that's what he's writing here.。
And he is the head of the body, the church.。
This is why we write about membership。
or talk about membership so much here。
because we want you to belong to the church.。
In fact, the only way to be under Christ's authority。
is to be in his church and belong to his church.。
So you're here and you're wondering,。
hey, I wonder if I'm under Christ's authority.。
Well, do you belong to his church?。
Okay, that's step one of being under his authority。
after you've trusted him for the forgiveness of your sins.。
He is the beginning and the firstborn from among the dead。
so that in everything he might have the supremacy.。
We don't use that word much, supremacy,。
but it's a huge word.。
In fact, this passage is often titled with it.。
And so do you guys remember born identity?。
Jason born and he kind of identifies himself as bad.。
And then born supremacy comes out and he is amazing.。
Like he's just showing off how bad he actually is.。
This is what's going on.。
God is bigger and better and badder and faster。
and more amazing than anything.。
For God was pleased to have all his fullness dwell in him.。
Paul is answering a question, a very important question。
that you're gonna have to answer tonight.。
Who is this man?。
This is a question that shows up all throughout scripture.。
Who is this man?。
Where everywhere Jesus would go, people were,。
it says in Matthew that when he came into a town,。
everyone was asking, who is this man?。
Remember in Mark four, when Jesus is with his boys。
and they're on a boat and he's sleeping。
and the storm comes and all of a sudden,。
all of these grown fishermen who have spent most。
of their life on the sea are terrified.。
These grown men are like afraid.。
They think they're gonna die,。
get thrown overboard and drown.。
And they go to Jesus and they wake him up。
and they say, how can you sleep at a time like this?。
Do you not care?。
And he gets up, he's like tired, hush.。
I would've told them to hush.。
You know, I would've been like, what are you talking about?。
But he just goes, hush.。
And the storm calms and you know what they ask?。
They say, who is this man that even the wind。
and waves obey him?。
This man is God.。
That's my first point, Jesus is God.。
Jesus is God.。
Jesus is the second person of the Trinity.。
And so I assume that, now I just lost some of you,。
but most of you are still with me.。
Most of you would agree, yeah, Jesus is God.。
And so we may have just lost a few people。
on that first point, but I think most of you。
are still with me right now.。
You're like, yeah, I think Jesus is God.。
It's a really basic concept of the Christian faith.。
This is something that we would break fellowship with.。
If somebody said, hey, I don't think Jesus is God,。
we'd say, hey, we can be friends, we can hang out,。
but we can't worship together。
because we're not worshiping the same God.。
You would say, hey, we can't get married.。
Like, I can't spend the rest of my life with you。
because 2 Corinthians 6, 14 says,。
do not be unequally yoked.。
And if I believe Jesus is God。
and you don't believe Jesus is God,。
we are certainly unequally yoked at this point.。
And so this is a really big idea.。
It is a huge idea that Jesus, we just identified God,。
the creator of the heavens and the earth, as Jesus.。
Now, some of you, you're like, duh, okay, Pastor Man,。
thank you for that huge, big, lofty idea,。
Jesus is God, great point there.。
Okay, but here's the deal.。
It's a big idea that we've become accustomed to。
that no longer has impact on our lives.。
Let me explain like this.。
There's a town near where I'm from called Luling,。
Luling, Texas, and anybody from Luling?。
Good, 'cause I'm about to offend you if you were.。
And so Luling smells awful.。
When you drive through it。
because of the oil and gas that's there,。
like, you can smell it from miles away。
and you pull in, and we used to play basketball there,。
and you're like, oh, how am I ever gonna be able。
to play basketball here?。
Like, that was our excuse for losing.。
We're like, oh, 'cause it stinks, right?。
And you're like, I could never ever live in this town,。
it smells so awful.。
But here's the deal.。
Within 30 minutes, you would get used to it。
and you would no longer think about it.。
And at one point in your life, Jesus is God was a huge idea.。
I just met God.。
God wants a relationship with me.。
And now it's like, duh, what does that even mean?。
Jesus is God, who cares?。
And so I don't know if you've been to Luling.。
Maybe you've been to Lubbock, I hear it's similar.。
But. (congregation laughing)。
I had family members that this was a big deal for.。
I mean, people who were really close to me said,。
man, I believe Jesus was God's son.。
I believe he was a way-shower.。
I believe he was an example.。
I don't think he was God.。
And so after I became a Christian,。
we'd have to sit and we'd have to talk through that.。
And by the grace of God, he's since changed their mind。
through years of conversation。
and a movement of his Holy Spirit.。
But this can be a big deal.。
I mean, this can really separate things.。
The world belongs to Jesus as God.。
Abraham Kuyper says this, one of my favorite quotes,。
says, "There is not a square inch in the whole domain。
"of our human existence over which Christ,。
"who is sovereign over all, does not cry out, mine."。
Every square inch of creation is his.。
Now this is like my son, Weston, my two and a half year old,。
everything is his, right?。
He's like, "Mine, mine, mine,"。
except for what Jesus actually is.。
When he says, "Mine," it's his.。
It was created by him and for him.。
And so he's not, doesn't just bear the image of God,。
he has the power of God, the fullness of his deity。
and dwells in Christ.。
So the other day we were praying at night。
with my little girls, Presley and Finley,。
and I said, "Presley, do you wanna pray?"。
And she said, "Yeah."。
And she started kinda playing, rolling her eyes,。
like, ♪ Dear God, dear God ♪。
And she's kinda singing, ♪ Dear God ♪。
And I said, "Hey, time out real quick, sweetie.。
"Hey, do you understand that you're talking。
"to the creator of the heavens and the earth?。
"Like, do you know that he could suck all the air。
"out of the room right now?。
"That in a moment, like just with a blink,"。
stay with me, stay with me.。
I said, "Just with the blink of his eyes,。
"he could kill you right now."。
(congregation laughing)。
I feel a lot of judgment going on.。
(congregation laughing)。
Most of you aren't parents, you don't know, it's hard, man.。
Sometimes stuff just comes out and you're like,。
"Okay, yeah, she didn't sleep that night, that's okay.。
"She has a better understanding of who God is."。
She literally, she was like.。
(congregation laughing)。
I said, "But he probably won't, it's okay.。
"He probably won't, he probably, you know,。
"he'll probably let you live."。
It's a humbling thing to realize that someone is powerful.。
Because when you realize the power of someone else,。
you understand your place.。
I mean, have you ever come across someone powerful?。
In my high school, there was this dude, he was 6'2".。
He was an incredible athlete.。
I mean, he could just monster dunk the ball.。
He played football, basketball, track, baseball, everything.。
He was that guy, and like his arm, he was 6'2",。
his arms were like my legs, like huge,。
just big arms, walk around.。
He was a nice guy, his name was Kiki.。
He had a gold grill.。
It said K-I-K-I right there.。
And it was known, I'm serious, it was known,。
Kiki was a friend, it was known you don't mess with Kiki.。
Like, Kiki would whoop anybody.。
It was just known throughout school.。
Like, he was king of the school, right?。
I remember one particular day, this guy had talked。
to his girlfriend or something,。
and he was a nice guy, by the way.。
He'd be like, "What's up, JP, how you doing, man?"。
He was just kind of, everybody loved Kiki.。
And so he, this guy had talked to his girlfriend,。
he came up to him, he said, "Hey, what's up?。
"We walked in the locker room, I remember."。
He said, "What's up?。
"Hey, what's up, man?。
"Hey, I saw you, you know, I heard you talking to my girl."。
And the guy was like, "Yeah?"。
And he goes, "Cool, man."。
Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom.。
Hey, anybody else wanna talk to my girl?。
(congregation laughing)。
Everybody was like, "Oh, man, what girl?"。
And so it was known that Kiki was a good wrestler.。
And so one time he was at my house,。
and I like to wrestle, and I said,。
I said, "Hey, man, I mean, you know,。
"I hear you're a good wrestler."。
I was like, "Let's wrestle."。
And he said, "Nah, bro, you don't wanna do that."。
(congregation laughing)。
And I said, "No, I think I do, let's wrestle."。
And I don't really know what happened, okay?。
(congregation laughing)。
But I remember somebody else being there,。
and they said, "Okay, go."。
And all of a sudden, he had me like this above his head,。
and then on the ground, and that's where I woke up.。
(congregation laughing)。
And it's a humble thing being there,。
and like, oh, oh, you're that powerful.。
Oh, like everything they said about you is true, all right?。
Now, I'm not, you know, God made Kiki in his mother's womb.。
Like, that's who we're talking about here.。
And there needs to be a moment。
where we understand his power in our place.。
He's God, we're not.。
He controls everything, we control nothing.。
All power and honor and glory is his.。
You can imagine if he wasn't a good God,。
that wouldn't be good for any of us.。
But the scripture says he's a great God,。
and he displayed his greatness in the gospel。
that while you were yet sinners, he gave his life for you.。
That's a beautiful, beautiful reality.。
In the same way that I wanted to be on Kiki's good side。
at that moment, we wanna be on God's good side,。
not out of threat or fear, but because he's a good God,。
but he's also a powerful God.。
And through him to reconcile to himself all things,。
whether things on earth or things in heaven,。
by making peace through his blood shed on the cross.。
Once you were alienated from God。
and were enemies in your minds。
because of your evil behavior,。
but now he has reconciled you by Christ's physical body。
through death to present you holy in his sight。
without blemish and free from accusation.。
That's good news.。
And so Paul is answering the question, who is this man?。
Jesus, who is this man?。
And you may remember this story of these guys。
who had this friend who was paralyzed,。
and Jesus is healing people on the earth.。
And so they carry this man on a mat who can't walk,。
and they try to carry him up to Jesus,。
but the crowd is too dense, it's too thick.。
And so they climb up on top of the roof,。
and they lower him down in faith in front of Jesus.。
And do you know what Jesus says?。
He says, "Your sins are forgiven."。
And do you know what the Pharisees said?。
They said, "Who is this man?"。
That's the question.。
Who is this man that he thinks that he can forgive sins。
because only God can forgive sins?。
Now, we've already established Jesus is God,。
but not only is he God,。
he's the one who can forgive your sins, Jesus.。
My second point, Jesus is the Savior.。
Jesus is the Savior.。
Now, the group just got a little smaller,。
because by being the Savior, it means he's the way to God,。
and by being the way to God,。
it means he's the only way to God.。
Now we've become exclusive in nature,。
and this makes people uncomfortable.。
And so now I just lost some of the room.。
The room just got smaller.。
Like maybe we're just right about here,。
and everyone over there is like,。
"Yeah, I believe in Jesus, he's a good idea,。
"but don't say he's the only way 'cause that's offensive."。
Problem with that is that's what the Scripture says.。
That's what the Bible says.。
To reject that truth is to reject the entire book,。
and really to deny the gospel in and of itself.。
Because if God did, if there was another way,。
then God wasted his death.。
Like that was a foolish plan.。
If there's any other way to God,。
then I think the part where he goes and is tortured。
and crucified for my sins was really foolish.。
Should've went some other way, right?。
Like that seems really costly.。
But a loving God says, "No, that while you are yet sinners,。
"I did that for you because I love you。
"as an act of love for you."。
And so we've already established that God is powerful.。
So who is an enemy to a God that is that powerful?。
You were.。
Says you were his enemies.。
That you were alienated from him。
because of your evil behavior.。
And a lot of people read that and they're like,。
"Wait a minute, that's not talking about me.。
"Like come on, evil behavior.。
"I mean, I stole that pack of gum one time,。
"but really evil behavior."。
And the problem with that is if we don't understand。
our need for a savior, then we don't get a savior.。
Because only people who need a savior receive a savior,。
and Jesus is a savior, that's his job description.。
Really, we're just going down his resume right here, right?。
Creator of the heavens and the earth,。
visible image of the invisible God.。
I save people, that's what I do, I'm a savior.。
If we don't need a savior, then why would you need Jesus?。
It's talking about you and me here。
when it says by your evil, right?。
Let's see, once you were alienated from God。
and were enemies in your minds。
because of your evil behavior.。
Alienated from God literally means under another authority.。
Did you guys have ISS in high school, in school suspension?。
Yeah, me too, I spent some time there.。
And so it was like this other room, right?。
You would walk by, there was an outside corridor,。
and you would walk by and in that room,。
those were the guys who were alienated。
from the rest of the good people.。
They were the people who said,。
"Hey, we will not be under the authority of the school."。
And they made decisions that got them in another room.。
In fact, it was like, "Hey, you won't be here long.。
"We know it's only a matter of time。
"before you're shipped off somewhere else。
"and you won't graduate with us.。
"You've been alienated, you've been separated."。
Once you were separated from God。
and Jesus had to purchase you back.。
See, God can make peace.。
It says he's made peace by bloodshed on his cross.。
God can make peace in two ways.。
There's two ways to make peace with your enemies.。
One, you can abolish them, right?。
You can just wipe them out.。
They no longer exist, they're not your enemies anymore.。
They don't exist.。
In other words, you can make them your friends.。
God prefers that method.。
It says in the scriptures really clearly,。
God loves you so much that while you were an enemy,。
he attempted to make you a friend。
by giving his own life on behalf of you.。
That happened in an event that really。
the whole world acknowledges that it happened,。
that Jesus died.。
That something really significant happened on the cross.。
And God says, "Hey, I wanna bring peace to this earth。
"and reconcile all things by one of two ways,。
"by making my enemies friends or by wiping them out,。
"but I'd certainly prefer the first way.。
"But I will make peace.。
"Peace will be made."。
And so Jesus' skills and capabilities are simply。
he makes God not angry.。
I mean, the gospel, it's another one of those big ideas。
we just kinda get accustomed to.。
I mean, do you guys realize what the gospel says?。
Can you imagine just the weight of this,。
that God's son died on your behalf,。
that he endured the punishment that you deserve?。
Like, let's just imagine this with me for a second.。
Like, I'm driving down the road in my truck。
with my son Weston.。
Weston loves my truck.。
He's always like, "Daddy's truck, let's go for a ride."。
He's two and a half years old, he's in the back.。
I'm driving down the road and let's just say,。
"You run a red light, you hit my truck."。
Now, let's just say, because I love my truck。
and let's just say I'm really materialistic。
and I'm not in the spirit in this moment.。
And so I'm like burning with anger towards you.。
Like, I'm about to go kiki on you, right?。
And so I get out of the car and I grab my son Weston。
and I look at you and my anger towards you。
and I just start beating him.。
Graphic, huh?。
It ain't nearly as graphic as what happened on your behalf.。
That Jesus absorbed the wrath of the Father on the cross.。
Every sin you've ever committed was against God.。
Every time, you slept with his daughter, right?。
You looked at his daughter, right?。
You purchased idols in front of him.。
That time you abused your body in that way,。
that wasn't a sin against yourself,。
it was a sin against God Almighty,。
creator of the heavens and the earth.。
And he hates your sin, but he loves you so much.。
He says, "Jesus will die in your place."。
Now, the illustration breaks down because it's not just that,。
it's that it says, "Jesus,"。
this is the complication of the Trinity,。
"that Jesus himself is God."。
And so it's like he runs in between the vehicles,。
absorbs the wrath of this car。
so that I'm no longer angry, right?。
(congregation laughing)。
But it says that he does that。
for every sin you've ever committed,。
that he absorbed the wrath of the Father,。
God's anger at your sin on your behalf,。
past, present, and future,。
so that you might be a child of God,。
so that you might be reconciled to the Father,。
with him forever in peace,。
that his anger is not at you,。
that his anger was satisfied fully。
by Christ's blood shed on the cross.。
It says, "For the joy set before him, Jesus did this."。
God is in love with you,。
that while you were an enemy, he died for you.。
"If you continue in your faith, established and firm,。
"and do not move from the hope held out in the gospel,"。
we hate that if, it feels conditional,。
it's like, okay, here we go, now I gotta do something.。
I wanna show you what that if is pointing to.。
It's the last word in that sentence,。
"If you continue in your faith, established and firm,。
"and do not move from the hope held out in the gospel."。
This is not a if you do if,。
this is an if you believe if.。
But if you believe, you do.。
Do you track it with me?。
This if here, it's not an if you do,。
like, here's what I want you to do。
so that you can be reconciled to God.。
This is a, here's what you believe,。
you hold out to the hope that is held out for you。
in the gospel.。
What is the gospel?。
The gospel is that God saved you in spite of you,。
that against your will, God took you in,。
that while you were yet enemies of God, he died for you.。
Christ, Jesus, died for you in spite of you.。
For it is by grace you have been saved through faith,。
and this is not of yourselves, it is the gift of God,。
not by works so that no one can boast.。
This is the gospel that you heard。
and that has been proclaimed to every creature under heaven。
and of which I, Paul, have become a servant.。
What I want you to do there。
is I want you to write your name in that blank.。
Of which I, blank, have become a servant.。
Go Taylor Swift on 'em.。
Of which I, JP, have become a servant.。
My third and final point is Jesus is Lord。
and we are his servants.。
Jesus is Lord and we are his servants.。
He is our master.。
Man, I just lost a lot of you.。
You tracking with me?。
Jesus is God, sure, okay.。
Jesus is Savior, sure, fire insurance,。
I don't wanna go to hell, he's my Savior.。
Jesus is master.。
You don't go where he doesn't send you.。
He's driving, you're not driving.。
He's your master, he's your Lord.。
Now I'm not talking about Lordship salvation,。
if you're familiar with that term.。
I'm not saying that you're saved if Jesus is Lord.。
You're saved by what Jesus did, that's a fact.。
But you will not experience life on this earth。
as it was intended to be experienced。
if Jesus is not Lord of your life.。
If you are not his servant, if he's not in control,。
if you're fighting an almighty, powerful God for control,。
then you're really gonna struggle in this life.。
Life is going to be very, very difficult for you。
and you will not experience Christianity。
as it was intended to be experienced.。
And I can tell you that from experience.。
I mean, that's my story.。
When I came to a place where I knew Christ,。
there were things I was holding onto.。
There was the language and the pornography。
and the sex and the drinking that I didn't wanna give up.。
The getting drunk, the partying。
that I didn't wanna give up.。
The materialism that I didn't wanna give up.。
And have a foot in both worlds, which is miserable.。
You lose out on both worlds.。
One foot in the church, one foot in the world.。
Not getting the best from either.。
And so Jesus is Lord and we are his servants.。
He is our master.。
This is Paul's DTR, right?。
He's defining the relationship.。
Are you familiar with that term, DTR?。
Define the relationship.。
You ever done that?。
Is it not a game changer?。
Like in the midst of spending time with someone.。
Like you have this conversation.。
I mean, do you remember, has that ever happened to you?。
Like you're sitting there and it's like,。
hey, I wanna talk to you about something.。
I remember Ann Marie back in the day,。
like her hands right here, my hands here.。
You're kind of like slowly inching over that pinky.。
You know, I'm sweaty.。
I'm like, oh man, I'm nervous.。
Like, hey girl, thought I had game.。
You know, I'm like, so everybody's asking what we are.。
(congregation laughing)。
Man, I think we need to figure that out.。
Let's give the people what they want, you know.。
(congregation laughing)。
Before that it was like check yes or no.。
Now I remember Kelly crawled over the console in my car.。
She's like, hey, I love you.。
I was like, thank you.。
(congregation laughing)。
Those conversations, they go,。
they take you separate ways, right?。
That like, that takes you one way or another way.。
Like, okay, one minute, like it's like,。
hey, we may be close and in relationship。
and it may go really well or it may be over.。
Or it's like, hey, can we just be friends?。
Just wanna be friends.。
I had a DTR once with a woman who I love very, very much.。
Was down on one knee.。
Will you spend the rest of your life with me?。
Remember I asked her.。
She said yes, I remember I was so happy.。
And it honestly, it got closer.。
I thought about this passage because I wrote her a song。
and I'm gonna sing it now.。
No, I'm not gonna sing it.。
(congregation laughing)。
I'm just kidding, I'm not.。
Felt heavy, Andy's playing in the back.。
Anyway.。
I wrote her a song and in the song,。
I listened to it today.。
In the song, it just said all these crazy things.。
Like, I wanna spend the rest of my life with you.。
I wanna make you happy.。
I thank Jesus for you.。
You're a gift from God into my life.。
I'm so thrilled that all that's gonna happen on this day。
and we danced to it at our wedding, that song.。
A friend, we went to a recording studio and re-recorded it。
and that song in and of itself was a DTR.。
And I remember the joy that I had in writing that song。
and all the meaning that it had.。
You know, this week, I mean, we've been married。
over 10 years and we've got three kids and life happens.。
And it was a hard week.。
My little girl Finley, she's got strep throat.。
And so we went basically two nights without sleep.。
And that really big idea。
that I wanna spend the rest of my life with you.。
It became very practical.。
Like survival mode, like, yeah, of course,。
I'm gonna get home and you're gonna be there。
'cause you're always there.。
And of course, like, you know, we just agree.。
And you know what, yesterday I was just an idiot.。
I was just an idiot to her.。
I was mean, I was rude.。
I totally took her for granted and took advantage of her。
because I know she'll always be there.。
She promised me she would.。
She defined the relationship that she would always be there.。
And so I no longer poured into it.。
I no longer cherished her.。
I no longer invested in her.。
And it's interesting because when I do those things,。
when I invest in her and I pour into her and I cherish her,。
man, it is a ton of fun.。
And we love each other and we laugh.。
We laugh until we cry and talk for a long time.。
But when I take her for granted,。
there's this sense that, you know, that she's not my wife,。
that she's just kind of a housekeeper。
or childcare for our children or a prostitute。
that I would take from her pleasure.。
But she's none of those things.。
She's my wife.。
She's my wife.。
And I'm telling you, Jesus doesn't wanna be anything to you。
other than God, Savior, and Lord, master of your life.。
And you won't experience life。
as it was meant to be experienced。
until he's master of your life.。
Until you're not going anywhere, he's not sending you.。
Until you're not pursuing and investing in that relationship。
and pouring into him and enjoying him,。
not out of obligation, not like,。
oh, I gotta read this book that doesn't make sense.。
But no, I wanna know you, God.。
Jesus, I want you to be king.。
I've had this amazing front row seat。
of watching God change lives。
as people have made that decision.。
And tonight is time for you to define the relationship.。
This is what Jesus is asking you to do.。
Through this text, the apostle Paul is saying,。
hey, I want you to define the relationship.。
Who is Jesus to you?。
Is he God and Savior, but not Lord?。
Is he God, but not Savior?。
He said, hey, bro.。
Hey, friend, hey, daughter of mine.。
I want to be to you God, Savior, and Lord.。
All right, let me pray and we'll move to worship.。
Jesus, you have supremacy.。
You have authority over your people.。
You have authority over your nation.。
Jesus, take supremacy in our lives.。
Remove the idols that we've brought before you,。
the things that we've pursued supremacy for,。
and let us be worthy of your love.。
Jesus, you are worthy of our affection.。
You are worthy of anything that we could give you.。
You are God and we are not.。
We worship you now.。
This past weekend, Monica and I got away with some friends。
and he is a dear friend of mine, honestly,。
and I weigh these words carefully.。
He's the most gifted pastor I know,。
and by pastor, I mean lover of people.。
He cares for people.。
He always is interruptible.。
He stops and he'll go and visit folks in the hospital,。
and he's just really one of the kindest people I know,。
so much so, and I really know him.。
That's not just like something I read in a magazine.。
I mean, if Monica and I die,。
this guy and his wife actually get our children.。
He's in our will.。
And he was sharing his story, and it's a crazy story.。
I mean, and the story is a failed marriage, adultery affair,。
alcoholism, cocaine use.。
Literally, he paid homeless people。
to sit and drink with him.。
There's a suicide attempt in there.。
There was one day where he just went in his house。
and just tore everything up and threw paint on it。
and took a knife and ripped the cushions,。
and just like, it talks about rage。
and all of this crazy stuff,。
and the contrast couldn't be any bigger.。
For anyone who knows him, it's like,。
man, you are the kindest person I've ever met。
in my entire life, and I know you,。
and you sound like one of the most wicked, evil people。
I've ever even heard of, you know?。
And I'm just like, what changed?。
And he said this, and I wrote it down。
so I could share it with you.。
He said, "I came to a place where I realized。
"I don't have to be in charge.。
"Jesus is in charge.。
"He has a plan for my life, and it's a good plan."。
And within six months of saying that,。
he was in vocational ministry.。
Six months after, six months earlier。
from being in vocational ministry,。
he literally was on Sixth Street。
paying homeless people to drink with him。
with $600 bar tabs, completely given to alcohol and drugs.。
And now he's been a minister of the gospel。
for so many years, and I just,。
he came to the realization that I don't have to be in charge.。
Jesus is in charge.。
He has a plan for my life, and it is a good plan.。
That's what I'm saying.。
When I talk about Jesus being Lord of your life,。
I'm not talking about you getting to heaven.。
I'm talking about you experiencing life on this earth。
as it was intended to experience,。
because when you start saying, hey, I'll follow Jesus,。
but I just, right now, I just love sex too much,。
or right now, I like to spend my money in these ways,。
or right now, I just love to listen to this music,。
or whatever that is for you, like silly things, right?。
Those are, that's supremacy talk.。
Like, hey, I'll follow Jesus one day.。
I just want this to happen first.。
After I get married, you know, then I'll follow Christ.。
That's supremacy talk.。
All that means is you're not gonna experience life。
until then, as it was intended to experience.。
That's it.。
Here's the reality.。
As much as I hate to admit it,。
the people who made that dress have come back。
and said it is blue and black indeed, right?。
[congregation applauding]。
There's an absolute truth behind that opinion.。
I mean, there's a reality, there's a hard,。
Jesus can be whoever you invent him to be.。
You can say he's a good prophet, or a good teacher,。
or an idea, or your friend, or someone that you're gonna call。
if you ever need, you're gonna shoot up a flare,。
and hopefully, Jesus will come to your rescue,。
but Jesus is Lord, and one day,。
every single person who has ever lived。
will know that Jesus is Lord.。
Every knee will bow, and every tongue will confess,。
either in submission or by force.。
We'll all know one day.。
That's why I say that with the assurance, the authority,。
that everyone here will know one day Jesus is Lord.。
He wants you to define the relationship tonight.。
