(soft music)。
Well, in my line of work,。
I often find myself giving the same advice。
to people all the time.。
It's not because their situations aren't unique。
or their circumstances aren't challenging。
or their problems are particularly difficult.。
Really what it is, is I give advice to young adults a lot。
and young adults are often going。
through the same set of circumstances as one another.。
We find that you're going through。
many of the same life events,。
facing many of the same challenges as one another.。
And so I'm constantly repeating the same things to people.。
So I thought I would just stand up here。
and I would just tell you what I might tell you。
if you ever came up to me.。
So you can identify for yourself。
if you fall into one of these categories,。
but maybe you're here and you're anxious about the future.。
What I would tell you is you can't predict。
what will happen tomorrow,。
but you can prepare what's happening today.。
Maybe you're frustrated with God.。
I would tell you just because God is silent。
doesn't mean that God is absent.。
Maybe you're here and you're reconciling with someone.。
I would tell you forgiveness is given in a moment.。
But trust, trust is earned over time.。
Maybe you're unfulfilled at work.。
Show of hands, anybody?。
Just kidding, don't do that.。
I would tell you money is a useful tool,。
but it makes a terrible master.。
Maybe you're struggling with sin.。
I would tell you nothing likes to die,。
but certainly some things should.。
Maybe you feel misunderstood.。
And I would tell you, hey, you can have the best。
of intentions and still be wrong.。
Some of you need to learn discipline.。
I would tell you small habits,。
they matter more than big decisions.。
Some of you, you're here tonight。
and you feel spiritually stuck.。
And I would tell you growth rarely happens。
in your comfort zone.。
So you should try getting out of it.。
Some of you, you can't find community.。
And so I would tell you, you should be the kind of friend。
that you want to find.。
Others of you, you're on the verge of burnout.。
And I would say, rest isn't laziness, it's obedience.。
And I heard from all the people, amen,。
'cause everybody wants some of that.。
But of all the advice that I give,。
there is one piece of advice that I give。
more than any other piece of advice.。
And it is always to those that are lost in love.。
And it's this piece of advice.。
Just because they're into you。
does not mean they're good for you.。
And it doesn't matter how many times I say it.。
And it doesn't matter how many kinds of reactions。
I get like that.。
People inevitably fall for someone。
because they have all the charisma in the world,。
but they don't have any of the character to match.。
You know what I'm talking about?。
Like you know the guy that he looks as good in person。
as he does online.。
He actually has good hygiene.。
He actually has gone through his scent journey.。
He is actually driven in life。
and he gives you good reason to go home。
and talk to all the roommates。
until the wee hours of the morning.。
That is until he starts lacking effort。
and he starts leaving you wondering,。
what the heck was I ever thinking to begin with?。
You know this.。
You know that you often might find yourself。
valuing charisma over character.。
Gentlemen, the number of times I have visited with you。
and you have projected on some young lady。
that she is so godly.。
She has a high spirituality and devotion to Jesus.。
When in reality, she doesn't.。
You just can't believe the fact。
that someone that attractive is actually into you.。
The truth of the matter is,。
we often find ourselves listening to good advice,。
but not heeding really good advice.。
This happens all the time.。
Like no matter how good the advice is that's offered,。
some lessons, you just gotta learn the hard way.。
Now, why do I tell you that?。
Because the same is true in every area of life.。
Like despite good advice and reliable insights。
and available truth,。
every one of us has chosen to learn something the hard way.。
Like for some of you, you didn't believe your parents。
when they told you to stop applying for credit cards.。
And so you had to ruin your credit。
to realize my parents were actually right.。
Others of you,。
you refuse to get your vehicle registration updated.。
That is until you get pulled over。
and that officer actually fines you for it.。
Some of you, you have waited to get your taxes done。
and it's gonna take someone like me。
standing on a stage like this,。
looking at you and telling you they're due tomorrow.。
And you're gonna feel the ensuing panic。
that pushes you into the wee hours of this morning,。
trying to make sure that you get those taxes done.。
Like against all judgment, we do this.。
Why?。
Why do we do this to ourself?。
Like there's not an exception in the room.。
Every one of us is liable to this kind of thing.。
So why?。
Like, why do we do this?。
Why do we choose to learn things the hard way?。
Here's what I would say.。
I would tell you the reason you choose。
to learn things the hard way。
is because people do not change by way of an explanation.。
They change by way of an experience.。
People change by way of an experience.。
Like even though someone else's experience。
is often the best teacher,。
which is why you should listen to someone else's advice.。
You don't want to trust their experience.。
You would rather learn it for yourself。
and live it on your own。
and reap the pain that may come through the process.。
And God knows that we're hardwired this way.。
And I love him for it。
because God doesn't come to a single one of us.。
He doesn't come to anyone。
and expect them to believe in him。
by way of explanation alone.。
He expects people to believe in him。
by way of a personal experience.。
He wants people to encounter him.。
And that's what we're gonna see happens to the story。
in the man that we're looking at tonight.。
So if you've got a Bible,。
turn with me to Genesis chapter 28.。
While you're turning there,。
tonight we're catching up with a character。
that some of you may be familiar with。
in the book of Genesis named Jacob.。
If you're not familiar,。
Jacob is one of the patriarchs in the Bible.。
He's one of the most important characters。
in the book of Genesis.。
He is the son of Isaac.。
He is the grandson of Abraham.。
He is the father of 12 different sons,。
all of whom ultimately represent the 12 tribes of Israel.。
And to top it off,。
he's the namesake of the people of Israel himself.。
If you read through the life of Jacob,。
you'll get to chapter 22 in Genesis,。
and you'll see that he wrestles things out with God,。
which was a story I really wanted to teach to you,。
but I've already taught it to you several years ago.。
So if you're interested in that story, you can go,。
you can find it on our website.。
But the point being there is he wrestles with God。
and God ultimately bestows upon him a new name.。
He tells him, no longer will you be called Jacob.。
Your name will now be Yisrael.。
You will be Israel.。
He literally becomes the namesake of the people of God.。
Like he's kind of a big deal.。
And he's kind of a scoundrel.。
Like you see, whenever we're introduced to Jacob。
in Genesis 25,。
what we learn is that his name is Jacob or Yaakov in Hebrew.。
And that name means heel grabber or a usurper, supplanter.。
And what we realize is he really lives up to that name.。
Like he is a con artist of a human being.。
He's not an honest working kind of man.。
And yet it is that kind of man。
that God comes to interact with tonight.。
He comes to lead Jacob into a relationship with him.。
Not on the basis of explanation,。
but on the basis of experience.。
So here's what we see.。
We read it.。
As we jump into verse 10,。
we see it says this.。
Jacob, a man that had never been enough in life.。
A man that he never measured up to his brother.。
He never impressed his father.。
He never lived up to his family name.。
That man, he left Beersheba, he went toward Haran.。
We gotta stop and we gotta talk about why he's doing that.。
Why is he leaving Beersheba and going to Haran?。
He's going there。
because he is literally running for his life.。
Like so devious, so deceitful is Jacob。
that between chapter 25 and chapter 28,。
we learn that he has swindled his brother Esau。
out of his birthright.。
He has deceived his father out of his blessing。
and he has brought shame upon his name.。
And so he literally, he runs for the hills。
because Esau is trying to track him down and take his life.。
So he is running to Haran and he came to a certain place。
and he stayed there that night because the sun had set.。
Taking one of the stones of the place,。
he put it under his head as people do。
and he laid down in that place to sleep.。
You see it?。
For all intents and purposes, Jacob is in a moment。
many of us can relate to ourselves.。
Not necessarily the stone as a pillow sort of thing,。
but he has left his hometown.。
He has come to a new city.。
He's running from his past。
and all the guilt that haunts him back there.。
He has arrived into the present。
and yet he's confused about how he has ended up。
as he is and who he is.。
And he's anxious about the future.。
He's uncertain about the days ahead.。
Like despite all the scheming and the angling。
and the finessing and the deceiving。
to get where he's always wanted to be,。
what we learn is that Jacob's self-reliance。
has only gotten him here, rock bottom, straight out of luck.。
And it's then that God comes to him.。
We see it in verse 12.。
"And he dreamed, and behold,。
there was a ladder set upon the earth.。
And the top of it reached to heaven.。
And behold, the angels of God,。
they were ascending and descending on it.。
And behold, the Lord stood above it."。
Now stop right there because this is very important.。
God comes to us when we least expect it.。
He comes to us when we least expect it.。
Like God doesn't come to Jacob。
in the middle of some spiritual pilgrimage.。
He doesn't come to Jacob after fasting。
and praying for weeks on end to arrive in this moment.。
He does not come to Jacob after he has offered。
some sort of grand sacrifice and surrender.。
He comes to Jacob when?。
He comes to Jacob when he's asleep,。
which he might do for some of you every week.。
I see a couple of you guys that are dozing off.。
And I'm like, man, this might be the night。
that God encounters them very powerfully。
because he did it then, he could do it again.。
He comes to him when he's asleep.。
He comes to him when he is least expecting it.。
So when I was a junior in college,。
I had a couple of friends that really wanted to apply。
for this business organization.。
And yet I thought it was a really dumb idea.。
They were leaning on me,。
pressuring me to be a part of it.。
And yet I was like, guys, I'm not trying to get involved.。
I'm trying to get graduated.。
I'm an upperclassman.。
I'm on the way out of here.。
I don't know why you're wanting to do this.。
And yet they really wanted to go for it。
and wanted to be a good team player.。
I said, sure.。
And so I dropped an application in haphazardly.。
And I thought, you know what, what could it hurt?。
Knowing what I know now, it could have hurt a lot。
because it was actually through that organization。
that I met my wife, that I met my best friends,。
like the guys that stood next to me in my wedding.。
It was in that organization。
that I led my very first Bible study.。
Like where I started doing this, I started doing there.。
Like that was the very first place.。
And it was there that I learned what it looked like。
to be on mission for God.。
And thinking back on it today, it blows me away.。
Like I had such low expectations。
for what God was gonna do through my life。
in that organization.。
And yet God, he had great expectations。
for what he was going to do in my life.。
Like he moves when we least expect it.。
Like Jacob, he is somewhere in between who he once was。
and also who he wants to be.。
Like physically, he is in a barren wasteland,。
the middle of nowhere.。
Socially, he is literally running for his life.。
He's not won a popularity contest.。
He is the target of his brother's own accusation and murder.。
If you think about who he is financially,。
he didn't have a dollar to his name.。
Spiritually, he does not know God at all.。
So you think he went to bed that night。
planning for everything to change this evening?。
No, he went to bed thinking that he was gonna get。
a rough night's sleep on that rock.。
And yet God said, I've got different plans in mind.。
God came to him in the unexpected place。
because God always moves in the unexpected way.。
You see, he comes to Jacob when he falls asleep。
because he wants Jacob to always know,。
you weren't looking for me.。
I was looking for you.。
You didn't come seeking after me.。
I came seeking after you.。
You didn't initiate with me.。
I initiated with you.。
And the truth is, God is looking for some of you。
here tonight.。
And you're not expecting it at all.。
Tonight is gonna be the night that some of you。
in this room, you cross from death to life。
because you place your faith in Christ Jesus。
for the first time, and you've ridden the fence.。
You've been on the verge.。
You've been on the cusp.。
And yet for whatever reason,。
you continue to talk yourself off the ledge.。
And yet tonight is the night that God is coming to you。
because he is looking for you when you least expect it.。
He is coming for you because some of you,。
you are like Jacob.。
You're in the in-between.。
You're in between this job and that job.。
Like you don't know if you should stay。
or if you should leave.。
You're in between dating and committing.。
Do I wanna keep things casual。
or do I wanna get serious with that person?。
You're in between callings.。
Like do I stick to the path that I've chosen for myself。
and all the hard work that I've put in,。
or do I choose to pivot completely?。
You're in between roommates.。
I love 'em, but do I wanna renew the lease?。
I don't know, man, they got some weird habits.。
Maybe I wanna live on my own, it's gonna be more expensive,。
but I think I might wanna do that.。
Others of you, you're in between on your mental health.。
Like you're wondering, are things actually going。
to get better because they have gotten better。
for other people in the past,。
or do I really need to actually seek some help?。
And yet here's the thing.。
God is not waiting for you to get to one side or the other.。
He's not waiting for you to figure things out.。
He's not waiting for you to make sense of your reality.。
He's not waiting for you to clean yourself up.。
He comes to you when you least expect it.。
Catch me on this.。
Because he comes to you when you most need it.。
God always comes to you when you most need it.。
Always, always, always, always, always, always.。
God will come to you when you most need it.。
Some of you are sitting here and you're like,。
I feel like I really need it.。
Why don't you trust in him more than you trust in yourself?。
Has he not proven himself through your life?。
When you look back on your story and you consider his ways,。
when you read this good book,。
do you not see how faithful he is even when we're faithless?。
Why don't you count on him and trust his goodness。
over your worthiness?。
He will come to you when you need it。
because that's where this story goes.。
As we keep going, Haka, can I get a timer, please?。
As we keep going, we see in verse 13.。
And behold, the Lord stood above it and he said,。
I am the Lord, the God of Abraham, your father,。
and the God of Isaac.。
The land on which you lie,。
I will give to you and to your offspring.。
Your offspring shall be like the dust of the earth。
and you shall spread abroad to the west and to the east。
and to the north and to the south.。
And in you and your offspring。
shall all the families of the earth be blessed.。
Behold, I'm with you.。
I will keep you wherever you go.。
I'll bring you back to this land。
for I will not leave you until I have done。
what I've promised you.。
Now it's important.。
We've talked about it already,。
but it is important that I remind you。
what's Jacob's current state of being in this moment.。
He's asleep.。
He's asleep, which is important.。
It feels like a really strange little detail,。
and yet it's included here for a really important reason。
because it's a callback to something that happened earlier。
in the book of Genesis.。
If you go to Genesis chapter 15,。
you're reminded that God comes to a man。
by the name of Abraham when Abraham himself was what?。
Sleeping.。
He comes to Abraham who's in a bit of a bind.。
Abe doesn't have a son.。
And so he comes to him, not while he's awake,。
but once he's asleep,。
knowing full well that Abraham's fear。
is that he has no future.。
He has no descendant.。
He has no heir.。
And yet God knows you fear that you have no future,。
but your future is secure with me.。
You think all hope is lost,。
but hope is never lost with me.。
God comes to Abraham after he had fallen asleep.。
He comes to Jacob after he had fallen asleep,。
and he comes to many of us after we have fallen asleep。
because he wants to stress to us。
just how passive we are in the process。
of fulfilling his promises.。
That's a fancy way of saying you can't mess it up.。
Whatever he has declared will be true by way of his word,。
it will become true in your life。
because he is faithful to what he has said.。
God wants us to know you can't earn what only he can give.。
It's all grace, which was sort of my experience。
as a young boy going on vacation with my family.。
We didn't fly places.。
We road tripped everywhere.。
And when I was at my youngest, earliest days of my youth,。
I would pass that time not by playing video games。
or watching movies because we did not have those things.。
It dawned on me today, I'm actually that old.。
I would pass the time the old-fashioned way.。
I would sleep.。
I would spend my hours in the car resting。
because it was the quickest way to pass the time.。
And so I would fall asleep in my hometown。
and I would awaken to the mountains of Colorado,。
the beaches of Florida.。
How did that happen?。
How did I arrive at my destination?。
Was it because I willed it into existence?。
Was it because I laid my hand upon the wheel of our vehicle。
and I drove us towards our destiny?。
No, I didn't have any contribution to offer.。
The only reason I arrived wherever it was we were going。
was because my father so graciously delivered me safely.。
Some of you, God is wanting to deliver safely。
to his appointed destination.。
What you need to do is you need trust him.。
You see, you can trust that God will take you。
where he is leading you。
and you'll be able to take no credit for it.。
In fact, for Jacob in this moment,。
the only thing he can take credit for。
is the mess that he has made of his life.。
That's the only thing he has to offer to this situation.。
And yet, here's what's amazing about it。
because therein lies the promise.。
Though he has only offered mistakes and messes,。
we see God nonetheless offers a future。
despite our failures.。
God offers us a future despite our failures.。
That's what's amazing about the promise。
that God is making right here.。
Like this is the same promise that God made to Abraham。
and he made to Isaac and now he is extending it to Jacob.。
And yet, he offers it to Jacob.。
Not before he screws up his life.。
That would have been reasonable.。
He offers it to him after he has screwed up his life.。
Like after he has deceived his brother。
and he's colluded with his mother。
and he has stolen from his father。
and he has embarrassed his family.。
It's then that God makes the promise.。
And yet, here's what's even more remarkable。
about this moment.。
It is not only remarkable。
that God offers him this promise after he has made a mess.。
It is more so remarkable。
that God doesn't mention even one of his failures。
when he makes the promise.。
He doesn't say a single word,。
which none of us would blame him if he chose to.。
Like Jacob could use a good stern talking to.。
God probably could do well to sit him down。
and be like, "Hey man, you know that thing you did。
"with your brother Esau?。
"You traded him a bowl of stew for his birthright?。
"It's kind of shady, you know?"。
Like it probably would help Jacob out a little bit。
to get some of that feedback.。
And yet, God does not say a thing about any of it.。
Instead, you know what he does say?。
He says a lot about his future.。
And the beauty of this is the future he presents to Jacob,。
it correlates perfectly.。
It reflects perfectly with all of his failures.。
We see it.。
In verse 13, we're reminded,。
this is a guy that's lost his home.。
And yet what does God do?。
He promises to give him a new land.。
In verse 14, we see this is a guy。
that betrayed his family.。
And yet God, he promises to multiply his offspring.。
We see again, this is a guy that's never been blessed.。
And yet God promises to make him a blessing to the world.。
If we keep going, we see this is a guy。
that's isolated himself.。
We see it.。
And yet God, in verse 15, tells him, "But I'm with you."。
And then we see that he's a guy that fears the future.。
And yet God promises he will deliver him safely。
to this place upon which this land,。
upon which the two of them speak.。
God does not focus on Jacob's failures at all.。
Instead, he focuses on his future.。
He talks to Jacob, like my brother-in-law talks。
to either one of his sons whenever they're on the way。
back home after a tough loss.。
I remember it was really interesting for me the first time.。
They just lost the game, devastating defeat,。
a really bad beat.。
And as we're walking through the parking lot,。
the whole family's going to one car.。
But my brother-in-law and whichever son he was with。
would take that son and they would ride home together,。
just father and son in a different car.。
And so I had to ask him like, "Hey man, what's up with that?。
"What are you guys talking about in there?。
"Y'all just debriefing all the highs and lows of the game?。
"Are you trying to help them learn how they could be better,。
"what they need to improve?"。
And I'll never forget what he said.。
He looked at me and he said, "Not on that car ride.。
"Don't get me wrong, we'll debrief the game。
"and we'll process how to get better before next time.。
"But that always happens later.。
"In that moment, on that car ride,。
"when all they can remember are the mistakes behind,。
"I remind them of all the opportunities still ahead."。
That's what God's doing here.。
Because like Jacob, we have all done so much wrong,。
haven't we?。
And you need to hear me on this.。
God's not in denial about that.。
Like God in no way is diminishing。
the failures of your past.。
He's not sweeping your sin under the rug.。
He's not turning a blind eye or a deaf ear。
to the things of your past.。
He's not doing any of that.。
He's not in denial about it.。
He's not diminishing in it.。
He died for it.。
That's how serious God is about your failure.。
And yet, we see how serious He is about your future.。
When we realize that Jesus did not just die。
to save you from your sin,。
He died to save you to a new life.。
You see, this is what life in Christ means.。
It means that you're not only freed from the past,。
but you're freed to the future.。
And yet, here's the thing.。
The sad truth of it is, is that so many of you,。
because I've talked to you,。
you're so consumed by the failures。
that sent Christ to His cross,。
than the future that He bought for you there.。
And the reason I know。
that so many Christians struggle with this。
is because they claim, "I'm wanted, I'm loved, I'm forgiven."。
And yet, they live like they are unwanted,。
they are unloved, and they are unforgiven.。
They live different than they speak.。
They walk in so much shame.。
Some of you, you walk in so much shame.。
It's why some of you, you pull away from friends。
for fear of being found out,。
for fear of being judged,。
because it's easier to disappear。
than answer for your actions.。
It's why others of you,。
you'll admit to struggling with some kind of sin,。
but you never actually feel the freedom。
to just say out loud what the real issue is.。
Others of you, you try to curate。
these picture-perfect images on the outside,。
when deep down, you feel like an imposter on the inside.。
But if that's you, I need you to hear me on this.。
Jesus did not just die to forgive you of your sins.。
He died to free you from your shame.。
Have you accepted His forgiveness for sin?。
But are you still shackled in shame?。
Oh, God, He does not want that for you.。
He did not die for that.。
He died that you might run free and forgiven.。
That is what's available at Calvary's tree.。
Won't you take it up?。
That's what we see when Paul writes in Romans 10,。
"For with the heart, one believes and justified,。
"and with the mouth, one confesses and is saved.。
"For the scripture says,。
"everyone who believes in Him will not be put to shame."。
So, brother, sister, why are you putting yourself to shame?。
I pray some of you feel some nagging conscience about that,。
that you feel maybe some shame for your shame,。
because that might be the last shame you ever feel.。
I'm hoping, I'm praying, I'm pleading with God。
on this floor every single Tuesday。
that you would realize, yeah, shame may be part of your past,。
but shame is not part of your future.。
Freedom is your future, peace is your future,。
hope is your future, joy is your future,。
forgiveness is your future.。
This is the future that's available to you。
because your future is found in Christ.。
And when you realize that, it changes things,。
it changes everything.。
Look at verse 16.。
"Then Jacob awoke from his sleep, and he said,。
"Surely the Lord is in this place, and I didn't know it.。
"And he was afraid, and he said,。
"How awesome is this place!。
"This is none other than the house of God.。
"This is the gate of heaven."。
So early in the morning, Jacob took the stone。
that he had put under his head, his pillow,。
and he set it up as a pillar and poured oil on top of it.。
He called the name of that place Bethel,。
but the name of the city which he had arrived to,。
it was called Luz at first.。
This is interesting.。
Jacob wakes up and everything has changed for him.。
And yet nothing has changed around him.。
Like, think about it, when you wake up in the morning,。
you didn't magically transport to some new place.。
You don't wake up and see with 4K.。
You don't wake up and realize。
that you've been given a new prescription on life。
and it changes everything about the way you take。
in the world.。
So what's happening to Jacob right here?。
Well, I love that it says, Jacob awoke from his sleep,。
because the biblical author, he is trying to let us in。
on a wordplay.。
He's trying to help us understand。
that Jacob didn't just wake up because his alarm went off.。
He woke up because he encountered God.。
He encountered God.。
It wasn't just a physical awakening.。
It was a spiritual awakening.。
Like he didn't need to connect。
to some universal consciousness.。
He didn't need to raise his vibrations.。
He didn't need to release some limiting beliefs。
or go on a silent retreat to work on his energy.。
Jacob didn't need to do any of that.。
You wanna know why?。
Because Christianity isn't about escaping reality.。
It is about awakening to it.。
Christianity is not about escaping reality.。
It is about awakening to it.。
That's what he realizes from verse 12.。
It tells us that he sees this ladder,。
which interestingly is more like a staircase.。
If you would look at Mesopotamian temples,。
it's like a ramp that has stairs along the way.。
That's really likely what he envisions.。
And he sees on that staircase,。
that ramp angels descending and ascending,。
which would have been a pretty trippy thing to see,。
but it communicates something important to us。
about the Bible's portrait of reality.。
You wanna know how the Bible pictures。
the way the world actually operates?。
Here it is.。
The Bible wants us to understand that heaven and earth,。
they are distinct realms, but they're not separate.。
In fact, heaven and earth, they were made for one another.。
That's why when you study the metanarrative of scripture,。
which is a fancy way of talking about。
how you kind of categorize the Bible,。
you got creation, you got fall, redemption,。
and then you've got restoration or new creation。
in the very end.。
When you think about the biblical metanarrative,。
what you see is that God is constantly。
wanting to dwell with us.。
I had a friend, literally, we were reading through this,。
and he's like, man, yeah, you kind of summarize the Bible。
in three words, God with us.。
Yeah, that's the story of the Bible.。
If you wanna know it,。
that's what the scriptures are trying to teach,。
and that's why we know heaven and earth,。
they're not distinct places.。
Like, we see it in Eden, in Genesis 1 and 2,。
as God and humanity, they walk side by side.。
You eventually turn into that section of the fall,。
and you read through the Old Testament,。
and what you realize is that God so badly wanted。
to dwell with his people that his presence descended。
in the tabernacle and the temple.。
You move on into redemption,。
and you meet the person of Jesus in the New Testament,。
and he is the son of God,。
Jesus, the same as the Father and the Spirit.。
He is God, not a good teacher, not a religious leader,。
not a moral influence, he is God,。
and John tells us that he dwelt among us.。
You finally turn into restoration,。
which is in the book of Revelation,。
and you read this in chapter 21,。
"And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem,。
"coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride,。
"adorned for her husband.。
"And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying,。
"Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man.。
"He will dwell with them, and they will be his people,。
"and God himself will be with them as their God.。
"He'll wipe away every tear from their eyes,。
"and death shall be no more.。
"Neither shall there be mourning, nor crying,。
"nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away."。
Don't you see, this is telling us something important.。
Heaven is not just a place where we're going.。
Heaven is a place that is coming.。
We learn from Jesus。
that he's not just trying to get people to heaven,。
he's trying to get heaven to earth.。
And the reason we know that。
is because God has come to dwell with his people.。
That's what's in his heart.。
God does not need you.。
He doesn't need you.。
Nothing about you satisfies something that God lacks,。
because God lacks nothing.。
So why then does he dwell with us?。
Because though he does not need anything from you,。
God wants you nonetheless.。
Don't you see what an honor it is。
that the God of heaven and earth,。
he looks at you in its desire that draws him in.。
It's the very reason that he wants to dwell。
amongst his people.。
We believe that God's presence wants to be。
wherever his presence is in fact wanted.。
That's why for Jacob in this moment,。
he's in the middle of nowhere.。
Like it is literally nowhere.。
And yet at the same time, he's in the house of God.。
What's the house of God?。
The house of God is the place of his dwelling.。
And the beauty of it for us。
is we know when God's presence is in the room,。
everything changes for people.。
It changes for Jacob, it changes for you.。
That's why we are so serious。
about experiencing the presence of God here.。
Not just explaining things。
because you don't just need more explanation,。
you need to experience God.。
He's real and he's near.。
It's the reason why we're hosting a national gathering。
for young adults all across the country。
because we want to consecrate,。
commit an entire week and three days。
to giving ourselves over to experiencing。
as much of God as we can.。
Is that emotional, Kylan?。
Yes, it's emotional.。
Is that intellectual, Kylan?。
Yes, it's intellectual.。
It's heart, soul, mind, strength.。
That's the entirety of who you are,。
experiencing the entirety of who God is.。
Like we don't wanna just sleepwalk through life.。
So many Christians, they're content to do it.。
Woke up for a moment and they fell back asleep again。
and they sleepwalk their way through life.。
We don't want that because we know。
God has not just saved us into eternity one day,。
he has saved us into eternity right now.。
Life, abundant life is available,。
which is why we're willing to give up everything,。
give up as much as required so that we might get everything,。
so that we might get more of God.。
That's the heart.。
That's what Isaiah 55 is talking about in verse six.。
He says, "Seek the Lord while he may be found.。
"Call upon him while he's near.。
"Let the wicked forsake his way,。
"the unrighteous man his thoughts.。
"Let him return to the Lord。
"so that he might have compassion on him.。
"To our God, for he will abundantly pardon."。
Do you hear it?。
Who is God pardoning?。
Wicked people, unrighteous people.。
And yet if they return, compassion, forgiveness,。
abundant pardon, that's what's available。
if we would only return, if we would only remember,。
if we would only repent.。
But here's my fear.。
Because I am you, I've sat in these seats.。
Here's my fear.。
You will know God is the source of all satisfaction.。
And yet you will choose to forsake the God。
of all satisfaction for some false God of gratification.。
You will choose instead to worship something counterfeit.。
You'll allow the lull of Satan's lullaby。
to be too strong in your life。
that you will not snap out of the sinful slumber you're in.。
And the reason I know it is because I've seen it.。
People, they'll worship whatever guy or girl or website。
gives them that sexual quick hit.。
They'll worship their calendar or their productivity。
because that gives them the illusion of control.。
Worship social acceptance from people that,。
man, they only like you because you're willing。
to agree with their disobedience。
by way of your own disobedience.。
See how stupid this is?。
We worship things that promise life, but never deliver.。
And yet God, he is offering life and we need only receive it.。
The reason I fear for this is it's interesting.。
It's a little known fact about this story,。
but this is the founding of the temple of Bethel.。
Like what began as something so pure,。
house of God, Jacob experiencing。
an undistracted interaction with God,。
eventually becomes under Jeroboam's reign in first Kings,。
the center of idolatrous worship for the people of Israel.。
They start with God, but they end without God.。
And what it does is it leads them to destruction and exile.。
And I love you enough to tell you,。
if you worship another God, it'll destroy you too.。
But though we have an important choice here,。
we can see from Jacob, the choice is relatively clear.。
Like we can be awakened to the actual reality。
of seeking the one true God,。
or we can escape reality by sleepwalking in sin.。
And though the choice is ours, when we see Jacob,。
we see what we really should do.。
Because as we keep going here in the very end,。
20 through 22, it says, Jacob made a vow,。
saying, if God will be with me。
and will keep me in this way that I go。
and will give me bread to eat and clothing to wear。
so that I come again to my father's house in peace.。
And then the Lord shall be my God.。
And this stone, which I've set up for a pillar,。
that shall be God's house.。
And of all that you've given me,。
I will give a full 10th to you.。
Now, admittedly, this section of scripture。
doesn't inspire a ton of confidence in Jacob,。
because he says that word, if.。
He says, if, if God, you will be with me,。
which has sent scholars and students。
in all sorts of directions, because they wonder,。
like, is he legitimate in his faith?。
Does he actually believe in God?。
Or is he ever the trickster up to the same old things。
that he has always done?。
Here's what I think.。
I believe that this is a genuine declaration of faith。
by Jacob, but it's about as distrusting。
as Jacob has always been.。
Like it's true to form and yet it's progress nonetheless,。
which I think is really helpful, because here's。
what you gotta know, real relationships with God,。
they start messy, not mature.。
Real relationships with God, they start messy, not mature.。
It's kind of like the way that Brooke told me。
she was first pregnant with Cash.。
Some husbands, they get heartfelt notes,。
expressing the good news from their wives.。
Other husbands, they'll get little boxes。
with baby Nikes on them, and it'll break the news。
and tell you of all the excitement that is to come.。
Others, they'll do it the old-fashioned way.。
You'll get the pregnancy test and you'll be able。
to see for yourself what's actually happening.。
Some, some wives will look at their husbands。
and they'll take a photo to memorialize the occasion.。
And right when you should say, "Cheese,"。
they say, "I'm pregnant."。
And they catch whatever his reaction is in the moment.。
I have no preference on how you tell me the good news。
that we're having a child.。
But I certainly was not expecting what Brooke decided to do.。
Because I came home after a long day,。
and sitting from the couch, she looked at me and said,。
"Hey, I'm not sure, but I think I'm pregnant."。
Like it was a question.。
I'm like, this is not something to be asking questions about.。
This is the kind of thing that we need a lot of clarity。
and a lot of confidence in.。
And yet, as I look back on it, what I love about that。
is it actually matches so well to what it looks like。
to walk by faith.。
So full of hope, and yet still facing some uncertainty.。
Just like Jacob in this moment.。
It's kind of a lot like your relationship to Jesus.。
Like you hear about the forgiveness he's offering,。
you think about the purpose that's available,。
and all of the satisfaction that's to come.。
And yet, for many of us, we can't help but wonder,。
is it too good to be true?。
Like, I know what you're saying, but I don't know.。
It doesn't feel like that's actually realistic.。
You see, I think Jacob's distrust in this moment,。
follow me on this, when he says, if God will do that thing,。
his distrust in this moment。
is actually not so much a distrust in God's faithfulness,。
but a distrust in his faithfulness.。
I think Jacob knows,。
God spends too much time with me.。
If he gets too close to me,。
if he actually sees the kind of person I am,。
I think he's gonna want out.。
I think he's gonna second-guess the whole thing.。
I think he's gonna change his mind.。
And the truth of the matter is, so many of us,。
we're in that same place, we fall prey。
to the same thing Jacob struggles with his entire life.。
We try to earn the blessing that God is freely giving.。
That's the tragedy of his story.。
His whole life, he's working, and he's earning,。
and he's maneuvering, he's manipulating,。
he's scheming and deceiving.。
He's trying to do everything he can。
to get this blessing.。
And yet from his very own birthday until this day,。
and into all of his days,。
God is constantly declaring to him,。
I've got a blessing that I wanna give to you.。
You just gotta receive it.。
You just gotta receive the blessing, Jacob.。
Oh, young adult, Dallas, Texas,。
you just have to receive it.。
And the reason I know this, real talk,。
is because I relate to Jacob。
more than any person in the Bible,。
and it is embarrassing to say so.。
He's a scoundrel, he's a crook,。
he's a schemer, a deceiver, and yet I get that.。
Because I know there are things that I want in life。
that are always out of my reach,。
I can never lay hold of them.。
I look at myself in the mirror,。
and I don't necessarily like what I see when I look there.。
I know there's always goals that I want to achieve,。
and yet I don't have whatever it takes,。
the resources, the talent, the skills。
to arrive in those places.。
And no matter how hard I try,。
I find that I often always come in second place,。
I'm least preferred.。
Jacob's story is my story, is it your story?。
I get this guy, I think Dallas gets this guy.。
'Cause I look around, and I see a bunch of people。
that are hoofing it, that are working it,。
that are trying their best to get the things that they want,。
that want to measure up, that want to be enough,。
that want to achieve blessing,。
and yet here's what I've learned,。
take it from a fellow Jacob,。
you cannot earn a blessing, you can only receive it.。
You can only receive it.。
And the reason we know。
is because that's what Jesus has come to prove.。
We see in Jesus that God does come to us。
in our worst moment, not our best,。
because Jesus arrived and he died。
when you were at your worst.。
We see that God, he offers a future。
despite all of our failures,。
because Jesus died to make that possible.。
He wanted to secure for you a future,。
not just in this life, but for eternal life.。
We see in Christ that Christianity。
isn't about escaping reality, it's about awakening to it,。
which is why I'm standing here。
in front of a room full of people。
that I'm the subject of everyone's opinion for,。
and I'm asking you, do you believe in him?。
Have you woken up to him?。
Have you had your eyes cast wide and beheld his beauty。
and realized I don't need anything else in this world,。
I want you and you alone, oh God.。
Listen, I will stand here subject to the opinions。
of the watching world.。
I would much rather be subject to yours。
than subject to his judgment one day.。
I will stand before him and I will say,。
God, I declared the good news。
and I invited people to believe,。
but you gotta receive it.。
You've got to receive it,。
because real relationships with God,。
they start messy, not mature.。
You don't gotta get yourself right,。
you don't have to clean yourself up,。
you don't have to fix yourself today,。
you can just say yes.。
But I've got questions that say yes and get 'em answered,。
'cause I promise there's answers.。
I've gotta get off, but I need to tell you this.。
The end of this story, what you see,。
is you see Jacob, he looks at God and he tells you.。
If you'll do these things,。
he presents a conditional type of relationship with Jesus,。
to God, and yet God,。
before he ever presents a conditional response,。
offers an unconditional promise.。
We just have to take him up on it.。
You hear you shackled in shame?。
Why don't you walk out free of that shame today?。
Trapped in sin, he's come to release you from it,。
so be released tonight.。
Things can change for you when you least expect it.。
Well, let me pray that things would change right now.。
God, I pray for these friends.。
I ask God, please,。
do in them what only you can do.。
I know, God, the temptation.。
Oh, I know, oh, I know the temptation, God.。
It's to sit here and to learn,。
and then, God, to look at the calendar,。
to consider what's next, and to be like,。
yep, I gotta get up and I gotta go,。
but oh, God, won't we learn from this text?。
Explanation does not change us.。
Experience changes us.。
And yet, God, like Jacob, we have to be willing。
to take a step ourself.。
We need to be willing to sit longer.。
We need to be willing to sing louder.。
We need to be willing to confess bolder.。
We need to be able to walk forward.。
Need to be willing to, God, raise our hands.。
We need to be willing to say, I'm not leaving, God,。
because you're here, and where you are, oh, God,。
that's where I wanna be.。
Change us, change us, change us, change us, God.。
I cannot change them, but you can.。
And so, God, we surrender to your work now.。
Please, we pray in Christ's name, amen.。
