[MUSIC PLAYING]。
Well, welcome to The Porch.。
Wherever you are tuning in tonight from around the country。
or even the world, welcome.。
And if you find yourself in Houston tuning in,。
then I want to encourage you to check out The Porch Live。
Houston.。
Friends down there are starting tonight for the first time。
live since the quarantine.。
And if you're in this room, welcome, friends.。
Appreciate y'all being here.。
My name is Josiah, and I have the privilege of serving here。
on staff at The Porch.。
Well, I thought I'd start out with just sharing a quick story.。
I want to take you back to sixth grade.。
Yes, we're going back to sixth grade.。
So go back there with me for just a minute.。
If you're anything like me, it was baggy Tommy Hilfiger。
shirts, it was baggy jeans, and it was the ball chain necklace.。
Like, I get it.。
I know I just dated myself.。
I did it.。
All good, though.。
But here's what I know.。
Here's what I know about sixth grade.。
I remember walking into science class for the first time,。
and the science teacher gave me one of these.。
He gave me a Styrofoam cup, and he gave me some soil,。
and he gave me a bean.。
Y'all remember this?。
I know, Ramsey, you remember this, don't you?。
Yeah, so we get this Styrofoam cup, we get some soil,。
and then we get a bean.。
And before too long, we see a little green shoot sprout up.。
And I remember the science teacher specifically saying,。
you're going to need three things in order for this bean。
to grow.。
You're going to need sun, you're going to need water,。
and you're going to need soil.。
And some of you are like, man, you've。
been growing that in your garage?。
No, no, no, that's not what this is about, I promise you.。
Maybe BC, before Christ's days, but listen, stay with me.。
Listen, this is why I start there tonight.。
Because just like science class, they told us,。
hey, you're going to need these things to grow, sun, water,。
and soil to grow this bean.。
There are things in our faith that we need to grow.。
There are things that God is asking us to have,。
and really saying, hey, if you don't have these things,。
then you will not grow.。
And so stay with me for a second.。
Imagine your prayer life.。
Imagine your prayer life is the sun, okay?。
So the sun equals your prayer life.。
Let's say the Bible, the Bible equals,。
man, that equals the water, okay?。
Let's say the Bible equals the water.。
That's your intake of God's word.。
And then let's say the soil represents your community.。
And when I say community,。
I'm talking about your friend groups.。
I'm talking about those people that you hang out with.。
And this is what I know.。
You can have an amazing prayer life.。
You can get into God's word every single day.。
You can memorize scripture.。
But if your soil, which is your community,。
your friend group, if your soil is toxic,。
then you will not grow.。
Like bottom line, it will not happen.。
We've never, we will never be the best version of ourself.。
So if we wanna grow,。
then we will have to have the right community.。
And if you don't wanna grow, said no one ever,。
like you, then you won't pursue these things.。
Tonight, I wanna talk to you about community.。
Where are you planted?。
Psalm 92, 13 says,。
"Planted in the house of God, you will flourish."。
You will flourish.。
And for some of us, man,。
it's been a long hard season of this coronavirus。
because like we've been quarantined.。
But my fear tonight is that some of you。
are gonna hear a message like this,。
and you're gonna sorta connect with God,。
and you're gonna sorta connect with God's people,。
but you're gonna walk away。
and you're just not gonna go all in.。
And here's what's at stake.。
The Bible says that when you don't go all in with community,。
then in other words, like you're hushing the voice of God,。
because one of God's primary means of communicating。
and provisions in our life as Christians is community.。
It's getting with other trusted friends who follow Jesus.。
We call that community here at the porch in Watermark.。
It's a core value that we embody here.。
It's this idea that we were made for relationships.。
If you're taking notes, and I hope you are,。
point number one, we were made for relationships.。
Like we were created for relationships.。
Like you see this rhythm in Genesis 1。
where God is creating and he says it's good,。
and he creates and he says it's good,。
and he creates and he says it's good.。
And he does this six times.。
And then on the seventh time, he rests.。
And so you have this paradise, a place of perfection.。
Sin hasn't even entered the world yet.。
It's just Adam and God, and God is giving Adam authority。
among all the animals and in the entire creation.。
And so there should be this amazing connection。
and a perfect situation with Adam and God,。
but then something happens.。
There's an interruption that breaks into the creation story.。
God says there is something there that is not good.。
Like what could be wrong with perfection after God created?。
That's a question.。
Can there be something not good in a perfect place?。
Let's check out Genesis 2.18.。
This is what it says.。
The Lord God said it is not good for the man to be alone.。
Being alone was the very first thing that God said。
that hey, it wasn't good.。
And I know this is kind of fascinating to me。
because nothing is fallen yet.。
Everything is still in perfection.。
And so God is saying in this moment that,。
hey, it's not good for you to be alone, Adam.。
And he's telling us tonight, years later,。
that it's not good for us to be alone.。
Humans are created to live in relationship with each other.。
Think of it like solitary confinement.。
Solitary confinement is what they do in prison.。
I mean, I looked it up and it's people in prison.。
They dread this punishment of solitary confinement.。
Like one person said,。
keeping prisoners totally isolated from a living world。
comes dangerously close to the penal tomb.。
Being locked up is a place。
where you have zero human interaction.。
And we know that one of the worst things that can happen。
is you cut humans off from the rest of the world.。
Psychologically, it literally destroys them.。
This is what this person is saying.。
In other words, it's a slow death for prisoners.。
And listen, you might not be in a prison。
of solitary confinement,。
but you could be in a prison to anxiety.。
Like you could be in a prison tonight to depression.。
You could be in a prison tonight of loneliness。
because you're disconnected from God's people.。
And so there's an amazing truth。
for us to latch onto tonight.。
And this truth is even if it was just us and God alone。
in perfection, he would say that's not good.。
Because you know, I hear people tell me all the time,。
man, I'm good Josiah.。
I don't need the church.。
I don't need other brothers or sisters in my life。
to run with.。
I'm good, man.。
It's just me and God.。
Like he knows me, I know him and we're tight.。
And I'm sorry to break it to you,。
but the Bible contradicts that type of thinking.。
I mean, I thought that way for so long in my own life,。
but in Proverbs 18, one, it says this,。
"Whoever isolates himself."。
In other words, cuts himself off, seeks his own desire.。
He breaks out against all sound judgment.。
I mean, he will not have the wisdom。
that God wants him to have.。
In case you missed it earlier, Psalm 92, 13,。
"Those who are planted in the house of the Lord。
self-growth, self-flourish."。
Planted in the house of God, you will flourish.。
Doing life together, getting connected with people。
that don't look like you, maybe even act like you,。
smell like you, dress like you,。
have the same desires as you.。
God is saying that's a good thing.。
Listen, my wife and I, Kathy, like we could be,。
I mean, we couldn't be any different.。
I mean, she's creative, she's a designer.。
She's just kind of has this, you know,。
I call them piles of goodness all over the house.。
She's messy, but she's creative.。
I'm type A to the max, right?。
I mean, seriously, that's it.。
We're totally different,。
but God has used that to compliment us。
and to grow us and to make really us。
into the people that he wants us to be.。
Like it's easy for us to believe this lie。
that my faith is just between me and God。
and I don't really need anyone else.。
God and I are cool.。
I don't need to worry about the rest of you guys.。
I'm just gonna do my thing.。
And although that sounds really good,。
it's just not truthful.。
It's just not healthy, as God would say.。
You know why Corona has been so hard for some of us?。
It's because it's put us in a quarantine state。
where we really haven't been able to interact with people.。
And so God is saying,。
"Hey, you were never meant to be isolated.。
You were made for relationships."。
And eventually, no matter where you live,。
they're gonna open everything up.。
And they're gonna say,。
"Hey, you don't need to quarantine yourself anymore."。
And tonight the God of the universe is saying,。
"Hey, you don't need to quarantine.。
You can come out of hiding.。
You can interact with people.。
Still be safe.。
Jump on Zoom.。
We'll talk about that here in a minute,。
but you can do things that causes you to lean。
into other trusted men and women who love Jesus。
and are following Him."。
And so some of you are like,。
"Man, I got relationships, Josiah.。
I got it.。
I mean, seriously, you don't need to tell me that.。
I know that I was created, I was made for relationships,。
but this is what I wanna ask you.。
Are they the right people?。
Are they the people following Jesus?"。
So when I say stop quarantining from people,。
this should also, for some of us, it should say,。
"Hey, some of us need to start quarantining。
from the wrong people."。
Why?。
Because this is what I know,。
because you catch the symptoms of those you run with.。
Like the people that you run with,。
the people that I run with,。
like I'm gonna catch the symptoms.。
I'm gonna catch their sicknesses.。
Like we know this to be true, like corona season.。
I don't know how many times I've done this.。
Like, "You've been traveling?。
Oh man, you probably got corona.。
I'm out.。
Hey, we need to separate ourselves from each other."。
And so we do this,。
even in the season that we find ourself in.。
And some of us, quite frankly,。
we need to do this with some of the people in our life。
that are dragging us down,。
because you're gonna catch the symptoms。
and the sicknesses of the people that you run with.。
This is true physically.。
And what God's saying tonight, this is true spiritually.。
The Bible says it like this.。
2 Corinthians 6, 14.。
"Do not be yoked together with unbelievers.。
For what does righteousness and wickedness have in common?。
They contradict each other.。
They're on totally opposite ends of the spectrum.。
And so don't be yoked.。
Don't put yourself in a position where, man,。
your best friends are people that aren't like-minded.。
It's not saying, "Hey, you can't have friends。
that don't think like you and believe like you."。
But they're saying,。
"Hey, when it comes to your closest boys。
or your closest ladies, women,。
like those should be people。
that are running hard after Jesus."。
I mean, it shouldn't be this idea where,。
"Hey, we're just gonna separate ourself。
and we're just gonna have our little holy huddles。
and Christian cliques.。
We're never gonna try to affect the rest of the world."。
No, that would be crazy.。
No, we've been called to be the light of the world.。
But when those people start affecting us。
and bringing us down, that's when it's like,。
"Hey, man, we gotta draw the line。
and we gotta have people around us that we can trust。
that are gonna point us back to Him."。
Goes on and says,。
"Or what fellowship can light have with darkness?"。
Point number two, if you're taking notes,。
we were made to be fully known.。
We were made to be fully known.。
Most people who fight anxiety, shame, and guilt。
do so on their own when we were never supposed to do so.。
Like God meant for us never to hide.。
You were made to be fully known.。
God is saying tonight, "Hey, I've made you to be known."。
Our generation who is literally。
one of the most connected generations ever in human history。
because of the smartphone and social media,。
social scientists are saying that,。
"Man, even though we're connected, we're the most lonely.。
We're the loneliest。
and the most depressed generation statistically."。
And this is even truer right now during the Corona season.。
Like these, I mean, these stats are just skyrocketing.。
And this is why we also tend to make really poor decisions。
when we make these decisions in isolation.。
If nobody truly knows you,。
knows how you're feeling, what you're facing,。
what's going on in your life,。
then God's saying, "Hey, that's truly not good."。
God's also saying,。
"Hey, it's not good to be alone in the crowd."。
Like some of you tonight, you're like, "Man, I'm not alone.。
Man, I do the CrossFit thing.。
I do SoulCycle.。
I do bar classes.。
Man, after work, I go to the restaurant.。
I have a few drinks at the bar with some of my friends."。
But come on, if we were honest with ourselves,。
like they don't know much else than, you know,。
you're a Cowboys fan,。
what you bought on Amazon the night before。
and what you think about the Bachelor.。
Like God is saying,。
"Hey, it's not good to be alone in the crowd."。
Some of you are like, "I get a hundred likes on Instagram。
or retweets on Twitter," or whatever the case may be.。
That's not being known.。
And here's why it's not good.。
This is so important.。
I believe that you'll never be fully loved。
until you're fully known.。
Like you will never be fully loved until you're fully known。
because they're just loving some false version of yourself。
and of myself.。
And so I kind of liken it to this quarantine mask.。
Everywhere you go lately,。
it seems like someone is wearing one of these。
and when you're not wearing one,。
you just kind of feel out of place.。
That's me 'cause I can't stand these things.。
But I was in Costco the other day。
and it was my duty to get groceries this week.。
And so I went into Costco and my wife couldn't even go in。
because we only had one of these in the car.。
And so I made my way in Costco and I can't,。
I'm having a hard time breathing in this thing.。
It's just, they're just awkward.。
They're uncomfortable, right?。
And it's bizarre because, man,。
now you really have to wear one.。
And so listen, this isn't really a new concept.。
Like if you were to be honest with yourself。
and if I were to be honest with myself tonight,。
like physically, like this is a new concept.。
But we've been wearing masks for a long time.。
Like some of us, like we wear masks,。
because this mask represents hiding.。
Like we wear a mask when we sin。
and we try to hide ourself from letting people see that.。
Or, I mean, we just wanna put our best foot forward。
or hey, we try to act like we have it all together.。
So we wear this mask, we hide from people out of fear。
of, hey, what are they gonna think of us if I share this。
or if they know this part about me?。
And so you see, I got pretty good.。
I mean, from my life, I got pretty good at wearing a mask.。
You know, it was invisible of course,。
but it was a mask nonetheless.。
I was, remember the first time I looked at porn,。
this idea, man, I love this.。
It was amazing.。
It sparked all this emotion。
I never felt before in these feelings.。
But I knew deep down something was wrong,。
something was broken.。
And so I just put on this mask of like,。
man, I'm just gonna keep that thing suppressed.。
I'm not really gonna let anyone know。
that I'm becoming an addict.。
Or the cross necklace.。
I remember wearing a cross necklace。
when I played baseball games and it was good luck charm.。
I wanted people to think that I was spiritual。
or going out to the parties and getting drunk,。
doing that lifestyle.。
I wanted, I mean, I had my cross necklace outs。
for everyone to see 'cause I wanted them to see。
that I was a pretty good person.。
And so that was just a form of a mask。
or being single 'til I was 31 years old.。
I wanted to wear the mask, say, hey man, I don't need that.。
I don't need a woman.。
But deep down inside, I'm like, man, I wanna be married.。
So I just kind of put the mask on of, man, I'm good.。
See, we wear masks to mask the pain。
and the hardship that we're facing.。
But you know who I'm not wearing a mask around?。
My community.。
These are men that I've grown to love。
because I know them and they know me.。
No matter where I've been in thought, word, and action,。
like I can come to them and I can share where I've been。
in those areas of my life.。
And here's what I know,。
they're gonna love me unconditionally.。
They're not just gonna affirm。
or condone the things that I'm doing,。
but they're gonna point me to Christ。
and they're gonna point me to his truth。
and they're gonna hold me accountable.。
Just last night, I had a disagreement with my wife, Kathy,。
and it was getting late and I knew I needed to study.。
And we just kind of shelved it and said,。
hey, let's talk about it in the morning.。
And I went downstairs and started studying。
and the attack came.。
The attack to get on Instagram。
and start looking at things,。
the temptation came for me to look at things。
that I knew I shouldn't have looked at.。
And in that moment, I was, man, I was getting,。
I mean, I was getting worked up over the fact that,。
hey, this is a part of my past,。
this is a part of my story, I want it,。
there's still a part of my heart that loves porn,。
I'm just trying to be honest tonight.。
But in that moment, I reached out.。
I reached out because I knew Satan wanted nothing more。
than to get me to fall before I taught this message.。
And by God's grace, I didn't look at anything,。
but I was tempted, so I reached out to four men in my life。
that God has placed in my life since I moved here。
about 10 months ago.。
And I just said, hey, look, I'm in the middle of studying。
and I'm tempted, my wife and I just had a disagreement。
and listen, I am tempted to look at things。
I know I shouldn't.。
And they were probably sleeping,。
but you know what that did in that moment?。
It lessened, it weakened that temptation。
because I knew the very next day,。
they were gonna ask me and they did,。
hey, did you win the battle?。
Did you look at porn?。
Did you reconcile with your wife?。
And they did, they asked me and by God's grace, I did, I won.。
But don't be fooled, I wanna wear a mask all the time.。
Like I wanna cover up the brokenness in my life.。
Like, do you think I wanted to reach out to them。
and let them know that I was struggling last night?。
Absolutely not.。
Like I want them to see my best foot forward.。
Like I want them to see that Josiah is strong.。
I want them to see that, hey, there's no struggles,。
but when I'm feeling tempted to look at something。
I know I shouldn't look at,。
like I need to confess that on a thought level,。
not wait till I get to the action.。
And I remember thinking last night,。
God, thank you for providing a way out.。
Thank you for weakening this part of me.。
Thank you that, hey, even though I wanna be seen。
and I wanna be in the best light,。
thank you that like I can by faith remove the mask。
and trust that when they see the real me,。
I won't get infected with rejection.。
I won't get infected with shame and guilt and condemnation.。
Why?。
Because you nailed Jesus to the cross for those things.。
And Romans 8, one says,。
"There is therefore now no condemnation。
"for those that are in Christ Jesus."。
And so listen, even if they wanted to shame me,。
I know that there's no shame in that。
because you went to the cross。
and all of my sin was poured out on him at the cross.。
And so this is why I can be real.。
This is why I can be,。
I can stand boldly before you and even share this.。
Like there's a part of my heart, it's like,。
man, what are people gonna think of me?。
I don't care.。
It's because Christ paid for that.。
And he set me free from that rejection。
and that condemnation and that shame.。
And he wants to do that in your life too.。
It's time to take off the mask tonight.。
What mask are you wearing?。
What mask are you wearing。
that you're tempted even to put on?。
Tonight it's time to take off the mask.。
Psalm 32, three.。
The Psalmist says, "When I kept silent,。
"my bones wasted away.。
"Through my groanings all day long."。
The Psalmist is saying, "Hey, when you suppress sin,。
"your bones are gonna waste away.。
"Like you're gonna get sick.。
"Like when you don't bring that to the light,。
"when you don't share that,。
"share that thing that you thought you'd never tell anyone."。
Like some of you right now, you're listening to this like,。
"Oh no, I couldn't do that.。
"Like I promised myself。
"that I'm taking that thing to the grave。
"and I'm not doing, I'm not going there, Josiah.。
"Absolutely not."。
And God is saying, "Hey, if you go there,。
"there's healing, there's forgiveness.。
"I want to make you whole."。
I believe this with all my heart。
that the power of sin is in secrecy.。
In other words, like when we decide to suppress sin。
and we decide, "Hey, we're not gonna tell anybody。
"those things that we thought we were gonna take。
"to the grave."。
But when we bring those things to light,。
it loosens its power and it weakens.。
This is why in James 5:16, he says,。
"Therefore confess your sins to each other。
"and pray for each other so that you may be healed."。
And then it goes on and says,。
"The prayer of a righteous person is powerful and effective."。
It's not saying just confess that to anybody.。
It's saying to confess that to a righteous person,。
someone that loves Jesus,。
someone that's in right standing with God,。
someone that's pursuing Him.。
See, I believe with all my heart that the secret to life。
is to live a life without secrets.。
Where we begin to see that our whole life is exposed。
before God and someone that we can trust.。
Am I saying, "Hey, go share this with 10 people?"。
No.。
Real practical, let's just bring it down a level.。
Do you know someone that you could trust。
that follows Jesus?。
That I encourage you tonight to pick up the phone。
before you go to bed and just say,。
"Hey, how are you doing?"。
And then tell them about how you're doing。
and say, "Hey, listen, I don't know why I called you,。
"but I know God is telling me to call you.。
"And I just got to share with you, I'm struggling.。
"Can you pray for me?"。
And maybe you can't be giving explicit details,。
but maybe you just said, "Hey, I'm struggling.。
"I looked at something that I shouldn't have."。
Or, "Hey, I've been overeating or I've been under eating。
"because life seems out of control.。
"And this is one area of my life that I can control."。
Maybe you would pick up the phone。
and you would just say something like,。
"Hey, I've been trading naked pictures with people。
"because I've been just craving for affirmation."。
There, I said it.。
Will you help me?。
Listen, if you're waiting for someone to come to you。
and ask you how you're doing。
or ask you what you've been struggling with,。
listen, you're probably gonna be waiting。
longer than you want.。
Like confession isn't gonna find you.。
You have to find it.。
You have to run to confession.。
You have to find someone that you can trust。
that will not mismanage information.。
And some of you, that's your story.。
But I would say, don't stop.。
Hang on to Romans 8.1.。
I don't care if they miss,。
I mean, I do care that they mismanage information,。
but listen, at the end of the day,。
you don't have to let that mismanaging of information。
define you because God says you're forgiven。
and you do not have shame anymore。
because I put that on my son, Jesus.。
Listen, the best version of you and I。
stands on the other side of community.。
Do you know that?。
Do you believe that tonight?。
The most healed and whole person。
that you wanna be and that I wanna be,。
I believe stands on the other side of community。
where you can go to them and you can confess.。
And I'm wondering tonight, do you have that?。
Do you have that?。
Have you prayed and maybe asked God to forgive you。
and he's forgiving you,。
but you're still walking around wounded。
and kind of beat up?。
And I believe it's because some of us,。
and we walk out 1 John 1, 9,。
where we confess our sin and he's faithful。
and just to forgive us of our sin。
and cleanse us from all unrighteousness,。
the scripture says.。
And so we're forgiven, but we're not healed。
because healing comes when we confess that one to another.。
Where you have trusted friends who come alongside of you。
and help you fight against your sin.。
They begin to help you come up with a game plan。
to defeat that sin that continues to beat you down.。
Let me ask you, what's your plan for defeating sin?。
What is your plan for defeating sin in your life?。
Like some of us, man, we're losing the battle。
before we ever go to war。
because we walk into the battle without a plan.。
And the God of the universe is saying,。
"Hey, listen, it's okay to be vulnerable.。
It's okay to be transparent."。
2 Corinthians 12, eight, God responds to Paul and says,。
"Paul, my power is made perfect in your weakness."。
And look what Paul's response is.。
"Therefore, I'm gonna boast about my weakness。
because when I'm weak, who is strong?。
He's strong."。
That's when you begin to experience the power of God。
in your life and my life.。
This quarantine, it's been a completely different experience。
for those who have been in community。
versus those who have not.。
But tonight, that can change.。
Tonight, like right after this message,。
you can go to watermark.org/community。
and you can sign up.。
If you live in the Dallas-Fort Worth area,。
you can sign up to get in community.。
Maybe you're just like, "Hey, I don't have that.。
I don't know what this guy's...。
I mean, I'm starting to understand。
what this guy's talking about,。
and I'm starting to believe that I need it."。
Do it.。
Some of you tonight, you're like,。
"Man, I don't live in the Dallas-Fort Worth area."。
Then hey, find a church that loves Jesus。
and preaches Jesus and wants to be about Jesus.。
And if you need help, reach out.。
We'd love to help you.。
I can't challenge you enough to take this step,。
not just because we see this rooted in God's word,。
but because I've experienced this with my own life。
and continue to experience this to this day.。
Jesus got ahold of me in college and I was narcissistic.。
I was selfish.。
It was all about Josiah.。
But then the breaking moment happened。
where I finally saw my sin for what it is。
in light of a holy God.。
And I saw in that moment that all of my sin。
was poured out on Him, and I got what He deserved,。
and He got what I deserved.。
And I remember experiencing this incredible conversion。
where I'm like, "Hey, man, I'm empty.。
I'm unsatisfied and unfulfilled."。
And it's because the proverb says,。
"There's a way that seems right to man,。
but that way ends in death."。
And tonight, God is saying, "Hey, if you want life,。
then you'll pursue this thing called community."。
And what I quickly learned is that God never calls you。
from something until He calls,。
He will never call you from something。
without calling you to something.。
And one of the very first things He called me to。
was to change my playground and my playmates.。
In other words, those places that I would hang out,。
those people that I would hang out with,。
He said, "Hey, if you're gonna be my man, Josiah,。
then you gotta start changing where you hang out,。
where you go on the weekends, and who you hang out with."。
And sometimes people come up to me and like,。
"Dude, pornography, sex addiction, lying,。
partying, stealing, like those things,。
like how did you do it?"。
And I look at them and say, "Hey, I got with some men。
that wanted to be about it.。
I got with some men that really loved Jesus.。
They didn't just talk about it,。
but they really wanted to live out who He is."。
And so I know everyone here for a fact,。
if you're saying you wanna have a relationship with Jesus,。
or you say you have one, you're saying you wanna grow,。
and if you're not saying you wanna grow,。
then it might be because you don't have。
a relationship with Jesus.。
Because at that time at church camp。
where you committed your life to Him,。
it was never for you just to go home。
and wait for Jesus to return.。
It was for you to grow your faith so it becomes beautiful。
and it becomes attractive to a watching world.。
And I always wonder what would my life look like。
if I never plugged into community?。
I might be an addict.。
I mean, I could be lying and cheating and stealing.。
Man, I could be this person that takes advantage of others.。
I mean, I could be the all-star tailgater。
at the Cowboys game talking about how I never made it,。
getting drunk before the game.。
I could be playing video games。
at a really unhealthy level in my parents' house.。
And I just think back, it's like,。
God, man, if I never made that decision,。
if you never caused me to have a desire。
to step out in faith and say, yes, I trust you,。
even though this is hard,。
I wonder what my life would look like.。
'Cause I get people come up to me all the time。
and they say, hey, what's God's will for my life?。
And the answer that I,。
or the question that I respond to is this,。
do you have community?。
Well, there was this time where,。
man, I got into community and there was this conflict。
and it just kind of broke off.。
Man, there was this time where I got in community。
and there was some people。
that just began to talk bad about me.。
And man, I just kind of walked away.。
There was this time where there was some people。
that really weren't committed。
and I just decided not to be committed either.。
There was this time when I walked in。
and man, these people are weird.。
They're just weird, man.。
And so I just say, all right,。
well then, man, with all the love that I can share with you,。
don't complain that you can't hear from God。
because one of God's greatest provisions in our life。
is he gives us trusted men and women who love him。
and are a voice for him in our life.。
Listen, I'm not trying to beat you up.。
Like I get it, community is hard.。
I've made the same excuses before.。
I mean, just recently, I'll close with this.。
About 10 months ago, I moved to Dallas from Kansas City.。
And man, things were going well in Kansas City.。
Ministry was growing and things were comfortable。
and I had my community.。
I had men in my life that I cherished and I loved。
and man, God began to continue to move.。
But then all of a sudden out of nowhere,。
which God does this sometimes,。
he began to lay this move to Dallas。
and be a part of Watermark Church and the porch。
on my wife and I's heart.。
And so we couldn't shake it anymore。
and we decided to make a decision to move to Dallas.。
And so we got in the car and packed up all of our stuff。
and drove down with my two little girls.。
And let me just be honest,。
man, this has been one of the hardest seasons of my life.。
And I actually started to pursue community and it got hard.。
And there was a little bit of conflict.。
And I caught myself saying the same excuses。
that I hear other people make.。
Oh man, it's hard and then there's this conflict。
and people just don't understand me.。
Man, people just, they don't understand a move.。
Like they don't understand what we've gone through.。
And I started making excuses after excuses。
until I had a couple of men in my life。
sharpen me like Proverbs 27, six says,。
"Faithful are the wounds of a friend,。
but an enemy multiplies kiss."。
And they said, "Hey, you gotta keep pursuing it.。
You can't just check out Josiah.。
This is the worst time for you to check out."。
And they began to love me and push me into community。
where now I'm seeing God move like never before.。
And listen, I want that for you tonight.。
More importantly, God wants that for you tonight。
where you can experience what we've been talking about。
even though I know it's hard。
and I don't wanna be insensitive.。
But in the same way I had brothers come into my life。
and tell me what I didn't wanna hear,。
in the same way I'm sharing this tonight。
because some of you who are listening need to hear this.。
And so tonight, let me pray that you would.。
God in heaven, Lord, we need you.。
I need you.。
This has been an incredible reminder for me。
that when I don't want to read your word。
and do what it says, you put people in my life。
to challenge my thinking, to encourage me,。
to push me to places where I don't wanna go.。
And I've said this over and over tonight,。
but I thank you, God,。
because that is one of your greatest provisions.。
And I pray for my friends who are listening to this tonight。
that they would understand your will for their life。
when it comes to community,。
when it comes to people in their life。
that you want to introduce them to。
and you want them to lock arms with.。
And I pray that they would stop at nothing until they do.。
I don't care what barriers come into their life。
to try to keep them from community.。
God, would you push through those barriers。
and would you give them the power。
and would you give them the strength。
to do what only you can do.。
In Christ's name we pray, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
