[MUSIC PLAYING]。
Love it.。
Well, I don't know what caused conflict in your family。
with your siblings when you were a kid,。
but when I was really young, younger than 10,。
my brothers and I would always fight over something。
called Sega Genesis.。
And if you're younger than--。
or if you weren't born after like 1985,。
you probably don't know what I'm talking about.。
We'd always fight over NBA Jam and Sonic the Hedgehog,。
and this would lead to all kinds of conflicts in our house.。
And on one of these occasions, my younger brother,。
who was seven and I was nine at the time,。
got into a fight playing NBA Jam.。
Someone cheated, and all of a sudden, there's。
a fist fight going on.。
And my mom walks into the room.。
She says, that's it.。
I'm taking away Sega, and you're both getting spankings.。
This was like before the spanking ban that's。
taking place.。
And so I immediately and my brother。
walk to the edge of her bedroom, and she。
says, Michael, who's my little brother, you're up first.。
So he takes her in there.。
And my mom was the kind of mom that。
would sit you down and walk you through.。
Do you understand what you did?。
Do you know that this hurts me more than it hurts you?。
When you're nine, you're like, but I always leave crying.。
How does it hurt you?。
And so she would walk through that whole experience.。
So that's going on, and she told me, stay outside the door.。
Stand right here, and I'll get to you next.。
So the door shuts, and it hits me.。
I've got like a minute and a half, maybe two minutes.。
And so immediately, I take off up the stairs,。
and I go and begin to put on every pair of underwear。
and shorts that I own to create an insulation where。
the paddle, which we had like a spanking paddle, would strike.。
And so my little brother comes out, quack, quack, ah,。
and he comes out of the room.。
And now it's my turn.。
So I'm going in more confident than normal, and I sit down.。
Yes, I understand I've done something really wrong.。
Yes, I'm repentant.。
She bends me over, and she realizes what's going on.。
To which she looks and says, great, OK, well,。
we'll just wait for your father to get home.。
And I immediately knew, because then you。
longed for the paddle, because then the belt came out,。
and it got really, really bad, and no amount of padding。
could help you.。
And so that was my first experience of a principle。
that really all of us can relate to, and all of us。
have experienced in life, of rebellion.。
When you rebel against a command,。
whether it be from God or from your parents。
or whatever authority you're underneath,。
there always is pain brought into your life.。
And in that scenario, I was further。
introduced that the more you rebel,。
the more pain will oftentimes be brought。
into your life and to my life.。
And so as you and I go throughout life,。
if you and I in any arena of life。
begin to rebel against God's authority or God's commands,。
we will introduce pain into our life.。
And tonight, we're going to study the last three。
kings of Judah as we continue this series Game of Thrones.。
And more than any other of the kings that I know of,。
they illustrate this principle that rebellion always。
brings pain.。
And when you go against what God has said,。
you go against life, and you will bring pain.。
Their names are King Jehoiakim, King Jehoiachin,。
and King Zedekiah, which I know everyone's really excited。
to write those down, which you can't spell.。
So this will be the best sermon you've ever。
heard on King Zedekiah, because it'll probably。
be the only one you've ever heard on King Zedekiah.。
But these men-- and you may go, why are we talking about them?。
What's interesting about these three kings。
is that 84 chapters--。
think about this--。
84 chapters in your Bible and in my Bible。
talk about these three kings.。
The whole book of Jeremiah, the whole--。
or the first half of Ezekiel, Lamentations,。
2 Chronicles 36, 2 Kings all speak of these men.。
It was something about their story。
that God wanted to make sure you and I know.。
I mean, Noah gets four chapters.。
Abraham gets 12.。
Yet these three kings, which we're going to observe tonight,。
get 84 different chapters.。
So we're going to be in the book of 2 Kings.。
And here's further what's going to be unique about tonight。
is we're going to jump around between 2 Kings 24 and 25,。
if you want to write that down and you're the kind of person。
who likes to go read it later, or 2 Chronicles 36,。
and then different parts of Jeremiah,。
because the entire book of Jeremiah。
is written as it related to these two kings.。
So let me give you a little bit of recap about what's。
even in the Bible and where we are as it relates。
to these books.。
So Game of Thrones is the study of the kings of Israel.。
There was this few hundred years。
where Israel had these kings.。
And the Old Testament is all about the history。
of the nation of Israel.。
So inside of the Old Testament,。
there's this little section that tells us。
about the kings of Israel.。
It's called the historical books.。
If you've ever read 1 Chronicles or 2 Chronicles,。
1 Samuel, 2 Samuel, 1 Kings, 2 Kings,。
you can read about the kings of Israel.。
And here's what's further interesting.。
During that same time period of the kings,。
there were these men called the prophets.。
And the prophets are those pages in the middle。
of your Bible that it just seems like the guys。
are really angry, and I will bring calamity on you,。
and disaster, and I will do this and this.。
And that was the prophets.。
And those prophets lived, many of them,。
during the same time period of the kings.。
And they speak about the same events。
that are going on with the kings.。
And so during this three-king reign,。
Jehoiakim, Jehoiachin, and Zedekiah,。
there's a man named Jeremiah who writes his entire book。
about these three men.。
And so that's what's going on as we jump in right here.。
So last week, in the last couple weeks,。
we discovered the nation of Israel,。
they got a king, and God said, "You don't want a king.。
"It's gonna be really, really bad if you get a king."。
They said, "No, no, no, we want a king.。
"Give us a king."。
He said, "Fine, you can have a king."。
And that began a long series of one bad king。
after the next bad king after the next bad king.。
The nation split up, and it just got really bad.。
So much so that where our story picks up,。
the nation has split into two,。
and the southern kingdom, Judah,。
has just totally fallen apart.。
There's child sacrifice going on。
in the streets of Jerusalem and all throughout Judah.。
The temple where God was to be worshipped。
was filled with all these idols.。
They'd totally fallen apart because of one bad king。
after the next, and the nation refused to repent.。
And so these three kings now have their chance。
to turn and repent, return the nation,。
to turn back to God.。
And so we're gonna see what happens.。
But because of so many bad decisions。
made by all the kings in the last couple hundred years,。
God basically said, "Hey, nation of Israel,。
"you're grounded, no more Sega Genesis for you."。
Maybe you had parents that would say,。
"You're grounded," or "You're spanked," or whatever it is.。
When God would punish or discipline the nation of Israel,。
here's what he would do.。
He would bring in a foreign country。
to conquer his people and say,。
"Hey, I want you to turn back and worship me,。
"and if you do, then I'll get rid of this foreign army。
"that's coming and conquering.。
"But if you don't, then I will let you have foreign gods。
"and a foreign ruler."。
So at this time, Babylon has come in,。
and it's conquered Judah.。
And this is around 600 BC.。
You guys with me?。
And so around 600 BC, Judah has just so rebelled。
that God says, "Fine, I'm gonna give you over to Babylon."。
So Babylon comes in, they've conquered the known world,。
and they're led by a guy named Nebuchadnezzar.。
And he sets up Jehoiakim,。
who would be the third to last king in Judah's history.。
The second king's 24, which is where we'll be.。
I would say if you are the kind of person。
who likes to follow along, tonight may frustrate you,。
'cause we're gonna move and jump back.。
So write these down, and you can read it later.。
And for the next 20 minutes,。
it's gonna be a really unusual message,。
because we're just gonna go and see a movie.。
I'm gonna take you through the story and see what happens,。
and then at the end, we'll get a takeaway。
where we can all learn from the mistakes。
of these three kings.。
So here we go.。
This is 2 Kings 21.。
It's about Jehoiakim, who's our first king,。
and he's underneath Nebuchadnezzar.。
This is what it says.。
"During Jehoiakim's reign,。
"Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, invaded the land,。
"and Jehoiakim became his vassal,。
"or his puppet king, for three years."。
So Nebuchadnezzar comes in, he says,。
"Jehoiakim, look, I'm gonna let you stay in power,。
"but you're really my errand boy.。
"Just pay me my taxes.。
"Don't do anything stupid,。
"and you can still have whatever crown you want around here,。
"but you're not really the king, I'm the king."。
And so here's what happens.。
But then, he turned against Nebuchadnezzar and rebelled.。
So three years go by, and he goes,。
"Look, I'm sick of being the errand boy.。
"You know what, I'm the king.。
"I'm done with this.。
"I'm gonna rebel against Nebuchadnezzar."。
And here's, I've tried to think all week。
about how to communicate how insane this was.。
The nation of Judah, rebelling against King Nebuchadnezzar,。
who had conquered the known world,。
would be a little bit like this.。
It would be like Fort Worth,。
for you guys out there in Fort Worth,。
or Tarrant County within Fort Worth,。
rebelling against the state of Texas.。
That would be what it was like.。
And you may be thinking over in Fort Worth,。
"Yeah, yeah, remember, come and take it.。
"We got a lot of guns over in Fort Worth.。
"This isn't Dallas.。
"We got guns, we bringing guns to the ports."。
And you may put the fort back in Fort Worth.。
And so any attempt that you would make,。
like that, didn't you?。
But regardless, no matter how many guns you have,。
it wouldn't stand against Fort Hood, or Fort Sam Houston,。
that it would just be insane, and eventually it would fall.。
And so God raises up the prophet Jeremiah,。
because he spoke to the nation,。
and spoke to the king through the prophet.。
He goes to Jehoiakim, and he says,。
"Hey, this is a bad idea.。
"We're not gonna win this fight,。
"not only because we are Fort Worth, and it's Texas,。
"but because God is judging the nation.。
"He wants us to worry not about going to war,。
"but about who we're gonna worship, and turn back to him.。
"And so what are we gonna do?"。
And so Jeremiah gets this message from God.。
And God says, "Hey, I want you to write this down,。
"and the king will read it, and hopefully,。
"he won't go to war against Nebuchadnezzar."。
And God gives him the message, and here's what it says.。
"Jehoiakim, if you go to war, you will die.。
"It will go bad for you.。
"You need to tell the nation to get rid of the idols.。
"If you go to war, everything will be destroyed,。
"and you will suffer.。
"If you rebel, you will suffer for it."。
And so eventually, this scroll,。
King Jehoiakim knows that Jeremiah wrote it,。
so he goes, "Hey, somebody go get me that scroll.。
"I wanna see what it says.。
"I know that God speaks through him sometimes."。
So he goes, and he gets it, and he's sitting,。
the scripture tells us this, Jeremiah 36,。
if you wanna read it later.。
He's sitting inside of his winter part of the palace,。
and he's sitting in front of a fire,。
and he asks, "Hey, somebody read me the scroll."。
And so one of his servants begins to read the scroll,。
and it's like, "If you rebel,。
"I'm gonna bring calamity on you and disaster,。
"and if you do this, your children and your throne。
"will be disintegrated."。
And at every page that's read,。
Jehoiakim looks, he takes the page,。
rips it out, and throws it in the fire.。
Read another one.。
And it says he showed no fear or any sign of repentance.。
That he refused, I'm just not gonna listen to that.。
Prophet.。
And so this, I mean, we really can all relate to this.。
When someone comes into our life。
and they tell us something we don't wanna hear,。
"Hey, I don't think you should do that, that's illegal,"。
or "I don't think you should date her,"。
or "I don't think you guys should hang out together,"。
or "Y'all shouldn't move in together,"。
there's something inside of all of us that can go,。
"You know what, well, I'm just not gonna listen。
"to you anymore.。
"Every party needs a pooper,。
"and so I'm not gonna invite you to my parties anymore."。
Right?。
Like we've all at least seen this play out,。
and so that's what Jehoiakim's doing.。
He's going, "Look, I'm just not gonna listen, Jeremiah.。
"I'm the king.。
"We're gonna rebel against King Nebuchadnezzar."。
So here's what happens.。
This is 2 Chronicles 36.。
King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon attacked him,。
and he bound, speaking about Jehoiakim,。
so Nebuchadnezzar shows up,。
and he bound him with bronze shackles。
to take him to Babylon,。
and he also took Babylon articles。
from the temple of the Lord。
and put them in his temple there.。
So one day, there's a knock at the door,。
and it's Nebuchadnezzar,。
and the scripture says there was no war.。
He just walked in, he got off of his horse,。
he said, "Jehoiakim, you're coming with me,"。
and he led him back in bronze shackles to Babylon。
as the city watched their king tied up and led away,。
and Jeremiah's sitting there thinking,。
"What were you thinking?。
"I told you, you can't go against God's word.。
"If you go against God's word, you're going to lose,"。
and that's what happened,。
and then something happens.。
Nebuchadnezzar, on his way out,。
he says to Jehoiachin, who was Jehoiakim's son,。
"Hey, look, you're the king now,。
"but you're not really the king,。
"so just pay me my taxes。
"unless you wanna come with dad here.。
"Just send me the money,。
"and just don't do anything stupid,。
"and everything will be fine,"。
and so the story continues.。
This is back in 2 Kings,。
and Jehoiachin is not the sharpest crown in the box,。
as we're gonna see.。
Here we go, verse eight.。
Jehoiachin was 18 years old when he became king.。
That's probably some of the problem right there.。
This is like a high school senior who's ruling a nation,。
and he reigned, check this out,。
in Jerusalem three months.。
The scripture tells us that three months went by,。
and Jehoiachin went, "You know what?。
"I think we can take him.。
"I think we can take on Nebuchadnezzar.。
"We're gonna be free.。
"Who's with me?。
"Who wants to be free?。
"Let's do this,"。
and so he began to raise up an army,。
and began to refuse to pay taxes,。
and said, "What, what are you gonna do, Neb?。
"Come and get it,"。
and so the story continues with Jeremiah coming。
to this guy going, "Excuse me.。
"Hey, remember me?。
"I was friends with your dad.。
"Do you think this is a good idea?。
"Oh, you're gonna rebel?。
"Anybody else rebelled recently that you know of?。
"Oh, your father.。
"How'd that go for him?。
"Oh, it's gonna be different for you this time.。
"This is a bad, bad idea, Jehoiachin.。
"If you do this, God has spoken.。
"You will pay for it for the rest of your life,。
"and the nation will pay for it.。
"It's not about how do we win this war.。
"It's about who are we gonna worship.。
"Turn back to God.。
"Get rid of the idols throughout the country.。
"God is punishing you until that takes place,。
"or he's allowing these foreign rulers to rule over you."。
And Jehoiachin says, "No, I'm the king,"。
and so here's what happened.。
Verse 15, Nebuchadnezzar took Jehoiachin captive。
to Babylon.。
He also took from Jerusalem the king's mother,。
his wives, his officials,。
and the prominent people of the land, verse 16.。
So Nebuchadnezzar shows up, says, "All right, great.。
"We have to do this again.。
"You're coming with me.。
"Your whole family's coming with me,。
"and not only that, check this out.。
"The king of Babylon also deported to Babylon。
"the entire force of 7,000 fighting men,。
"strong and fit for war,。
"1,000 skilled workers and artisans."。
So the scripture tells us,。
Nebuchadnezzar does something really, really smart.。
He shows up, "All right, I don't wanna do this again,。
"so here's what we're gonna do.。
"Jehoiachin, you're coming with me again,。
"and all of the army, you're coming with me as well,。
"and all the upper class."。
He takes everyone who makes over $100,000.。
"All of you guys, you're coming with me.。
"We're all going back to Babylon."。
And Jeremiah's sitting there going,。
"Why would you not listen to me?。
"I'm telling you, you can't go against God's word。
"and win," and they watch as they lead out Jehoiachin,。
the whole royal family,。
led out through the streets of Jerusalem,。
and they take him out, and they take all the upper class,。
and so now the city is having to say goodbye。
to their neighbors, some of their family members,。
who are all being taken away thousands of miles.。
Imagine if that happened here, if Canada,。
I don't know how that could be possible,。
but came in and conquered,。
and they led all of us back to Canada,。
or large chunks of our country back to Canada.。
How sad that would be, and you're sitting there,。
Jeremiah, you're going, "It doesn't have to be like this.。
"It doesn't have to be, obey.。
"Obey, you can't go against the word of the Lord and win.。
"Rebellion always brings pain."。
So surrender to God and submit to Nebuchadnezzar.。
And so on his way out,。
Nebuchadnezzar sets up Zedekiah,。
who would be the last king that Judah would ever have.。
And he sets up Zedekiah, and he goes,。
"Okay, Zedekiah, here you go, three rules.。
"Ready for this?。
"The first two guys didn't get it,。
"so here's three rules, Zedekiah.。
"You're not the king, I'm the king.。
"You pay me my taxes, okay, rule number one.。
"Rule number two, you get no army.。
"I'm taking the army, don't raise an army.。
"Rule number three, do not rebuild these walls。
"around this city.。
"I want you to be weak and vulnerable.。
"You do not do those three things.。
"If I hear you do those three things,。
"I am coming back here to get you, Zedekiah."。
And so Zedekiah's just on the throne going,。
"Oh my gosh, I'm the king of Judah?。
"This hat, I have the whole palace?"。
And he's just, I don't know if he can't pay attention。
to what it is, but he does not listen again.。
And we would think,。
"Oh, he just saw those two bad examples, uh-uh."。
And Zedekiah unfolds the rest of the story.。
Verse 11, here's what happens.。
Zedekiah was 21 years old when he became king,。
and he reigned in Jerusalem 11 years.。
He did what was evil in the eyes of the Lord his God,。
and he did not humble himself before Jeremiah the prophet,。
who spoke the word of the Lord to him.。
That Jeremiah goes again to the king and says,。
"You just saw what happened.。
"God is giving Israel or Judah its last chance.。
"Obey the Lord, obey him.。
"Submit to Zedekiah, or submit to Nebuchadnezzar,。
"and obey the word of the Lord."。
And it says, "He refused to listen."。
I'm gonna do what I wanna do.。
I don't care what God says.。
I don't care what anyone says.。
I can control the outcome,。
and I can control the consequences.。
We're gonna move in together.。
We're gonna sleep together.。
I don't really care what anyone else thinks.。
No, I'm not gonna do that.。
Community is for somebody else.。
Reading their Bible is for somebody else.。
I know, but I'm only 24.。
This can't really hurt me.。
Maybe someday I'll get cleaned up.。
And Zedekiah invited through rebellion。
the consequences that would take place.。
Here we go.。
Verse 13, "And he," does something very, very stupid,。
"he also rebelled against King Nebuchadnezzar,。
"who made him take an oath in his God's name.。
"He became stiff-necked and hardened his heart。
"and would not turn back to the Lord."。
And Jeremiah's going again.。
Look, this is like Groundhog Day.。
Are you kidding me?。
We just saw this happen.。
Just the characters are changing.。
God is not going to honor your rebellion.。
If you rebel, Zedekiah, you die.。
And he goes back to the king.。
And if you read the book of Jeremiah,。
you feel for Jeremiah because he's like。
the only person in this story who's willing。
to listen to the word of the Lord.。
Zedekiah begins to raise up an army.。
He begins to build up the walls,。
and he's going, "I'm the king.。
"I mean, it's not gonna happen to me.。
"It happened to those guys,。
"but those two kings were losers.。
"I'm different.。
"It's gonna be different."。
And so all the people are going,。
"Yes, we're gonna be free again."。
The nation of Judah's going,。
"We don't have to be under Nebuchadnezzar."。
And the people are behind Zedekiah,。
and they're all excited.。
We're gonna be free.。
And so one day, they're having like a pep rally。
where everyone's together going,。
"Yes, freedom, freedom."。
And they're all hanging out together.。
That's not really in there if you read it,。
but it is like a gathering.。
And they all come together,。
and the people are stoked.。
We're gonna be free again.。
And Jeremiah, poor Jeremiah, he shows up,。
and he's going, "Okay, nobody seems to get the message,。
"so I'm gonna get a little creative."。
So he does an arts and crafts project,。
and he makes a yoke that an ox would wear,。
and he puts it on his back.。
And he shows up at the pep rally and goes,。
"Can I get one word here?。
"You see this yoke I'm wearing?。
"God wants the nation of Judah to wear the yoke。
"of Nebuchadnezzar just like I'm wearing this yoke.。
"And so if you don't, everybody's gonna die."。
And literally, in the midst of his speech,。
one of the king's right-hand men。
goes up and goes, "God gave me a word, too.。
"We're gonna break the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar!"。
And everyone goes nuts.。
And Jeremiah's going, "First off,。
"that took some time to make.。
"Second off, you're idiots,。
"and you will not win this fight.。
"You're not only fighting the Babylonian empire,。
"you're fighting against God, who has promised,。
"and through his word told you, you cannot win this fight."。
And so a couple years go by,。
and Zedekiah's thinking, "Hey, everything's going well."。
Scripture tells us that people begin to write their family,。
who'd been in exile, like they're writing letters.。
"Hey, can't wait to have you back home, Sally.。
"We're gonna rebel."。
And Jeremiah starts writing follow-up letters, saying,。
"Hey, get comfortable.。
"You're not coming home anytime soon."。
And that's where he introduces,。
"Seek the welfare of the city you live in,。
"for I know the plans I have for you,"。
declares the Lord, "plans to prosper you。
"and not bring you harm, Israel,。
"but you've gotta obey me."。
And so Jeremiah says, "Stay there,。
"and we're just all gonna buckle up back here,。
"'cause it's not going to be good."。
And so eventually, word gets back to Nebuchadnezzar。
that Zedekiah is not paying taxes,。
he's rebuilding the wall, and it's about to go bad.。
Here's what happens.。
This is in 2 Kings 25, if you wanna read it later.。
On January 15th, January 15th,。
the walls have been built back up, we've got an army.。
Zedekiah is woken up, and they say,。
"Zedekiah, you gotta come see this."。
And he walks outside of his palace room,。
and this is in 587, on January 15th.。
We have so much documentation around this, it's amazing.。
And he walks up to the city wall, and he looks out,。
and there is a vast, vast, vast army。
totally surrounding the city.。
The scripture tells us that Nebuchadnezzar。
brought everybody, he was mad.。
He brought the whole army, he brought the cooks,。
he brought all the slaves, he brought the camels,。
because they came to basically camp out for two years.。
Here's what they did, Nebuchadnezzar was really,。
really smart, and so Zedekiah is looking out,。
and he's never seen an army like this.。
They have more people in the army。
than in this city of just poor people.。
And he's looking out, and he's thinking,。
"Uh-oh, this is not gonna be good."。
And what happens is Nebuchadnezzar begins to build a wall。
around the outside of the Jerusalem walls,。
and they put archers on their wall,。
and they say, "If anyone comes out, we kill 'em."。
And for 18 months, the city sat under siege,。
and they starved.。
And so Zedekiah is now backed into a wall,。
so he sends for Jeremiah.。
And he had Jeremiah thrown in prison,。
'cause he kept on being a buzzkill for everybody.。
Hey, quit saying that.。
And so he gets Jeremiah out of prison,。
and he says, "Jeremiah, will you pray to the Lord。
"that maybe he'll do something special here,。
"and he'll take those people down?"。
And Jeremiah's going, "I'm not gonna pray.。
"God said you can't win this fight.。
"You have one good option here.。
"Go out and surrender, and put yourself underneath。
"the power of Nebuchadnezzar."。
And Zedekiah thinks about it, and he goes,。
"I don't like that idea."。
And he asks him, "Is there anything else I can do?"。
And here's what Jeremiah says to him.。
This is Jeremiah 38.。
"Then Jeremiah said," starting in verse 17,。
"to Zedekiah, 'This is what the Lord God Almighty,。
"'the God of Israel, says.'"。
You got one option.。
"If you surrender to the officers of the king of Babylon,。
"your life will be spared, and the city。
"will not be burned down.。
"You and your family will live."。
In other words, I'm inviting you to surrender to life.。
Surrender, and not just surrender in hopes。
that you'll make it.。
Jeremiah says, "I promise if you surrender,。
"you will be guaranteed life.。
"But if you don't," verse 18, "if you will not surrender。
"the officers of the king of Babylon,。
"the city will be given into the hands of the Babylonians.。
"They will burn it down, and you yourself。
"will not escape from them."。
And then Jeremiah said this, "Obey the word of the Lord。
"by doing what I tell you.。
"You got one last chance.。
"Your only hope is to surrender,。
"and throw yourself on the mercy of Nebuchadnezzar,。
"the mercy of God.。
"Obey the word of the Lord."。
Well, Zedekiah says, "I don't like that option."。
This is like when you're backed into a corner,。
and there really isn't any good options at this point。
that you're going to like.。
And he says, "No, I'm not gonna do it.。
"We're just gonna stay in this city.。
"And if he wants to come and fight, we'll fight,。
"but I'm not gonna do it.。
"I won't surrender."。
And so the famine continued, and eventually things。
got so bad that the Jerusalem wall,。
somebody started chipping away at it。
to get out of the city.。
And they left at night, like Shawshank Redemption,。
where you're like going against the wall, building up.。
And they left at night, and the king went with them.。
He abandoned his city, and he snuck out with this group.。
And here's what happened.。
But the Babylonian army pursued the king,。
and overtook him in the plains of Jericho.。
All the soldiers were separated from him,。
and scattered, and he was captured.。
So Zedekiah runs away, and they grab him,。
and they bring him back.。
He was taken to the king of Babylon at Riblah,。
which is just a city where sentence was pronounced.。
So he's taken to Nebuchadnezzar,。
and he's standing before this emperor.。
And here's what they do.。
They killed the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes.。
And then they put out his own eyes,。
and bound him with bronze shackles,。
and took him to Babylon.。
That they slaughtered, and the last thing he would ever see。
was his children being slaughtered.。
And then they poked out his eyes,。
and they led him back to Babylon,。
because he refused to obey, to surrender,。
to accept that rebellion, you rebel against God's word,。
it always brings pain.。
And he sent messenger after messenger,。
listen to me, please, don't do this.。
And Zedekiah, and Jehoiakim, and Jehoiachin。
did the same thing.。
I don't care what God says, I'm gonna do it my way.。
And God says to all of us who step outside。
of his commands, or who rebel against him,。
please, you will suffer for this.。
Surrender, submit to my word and to my ways.。
I want you to surrender, and in doing so,。
you'll surrender to life.。
But if you don't, you will suffer for it,。
you may even die for it, will you surrender?。
And then they did this, they went back,。
so they killed the sons and the family,。
and then they went back, verse nine,。
King Nebuchadnezzar set fire to the temple of the Lord.。
Set fire to the royal palace,。
and all of the houses of Jerusalem,。
every important building, they burned down.。
The whole Babylonian army broke down the walls。
around Jerusalem, they tore down everything.。
The temple would be no more.。
All of Solomon's wonders that he had built were gone.。
And there would be no more kings in Judah.。
And Jeremiah was set free from that prison,。
and he's thinking, why?。
Why would you refuse to obey?。
We got sent these messages, I want life for you,。
I love you Israel, I love you Judah,。
I love you king, will you repent,。
will you turn back to me and obey my words?。
Because they will come true.。
And yet they refused to listen.。
I think it's like, crazy as that story is,。
here's kind of the takeaway I think for us.。
When you look at why that could be in scripture,。
like why, God doesn't just record this story,。
he records it thoroughly.。
I mean, the whole book of Jeremiah, Lamentations,。
Ezekiel's first half, in 2 Chronicles and 2 Kings,。
all of them, they talk about this story,。
that's all Jeremiah's even about, and Lamentations.。
Why is God going, I want you to make sure。
that you know about this?。
And here's why I think it is,。
because all of us have a little bit of the king,。
Zedekiah and those three kings in us.。
Well, I don't think rebellion's gonna bring that much pain.。
I wanna do things my way.。
And God says, I love you Israel, I love you David,。
I love you porch, will you surrender to my ways?。
And he goes to great lengths to make sure that you know,。
don't miss this story, it's not that I'm angry。
or trying to pay them back,。
I'm trying to bring them back to me,。
because I love them.。
And he loves you, and he wants you to surrender to life.。
And if you're in the room and you're running,。
and you know you've been running,。
God stands outside the city like Nebuchadnezzar。
around those walls and he says,。
surrender, you can't win this fight, will you surrender?。
I'm not angry at you trying to surrender to death。
and rip you off, I want you to surrender to life.。
I love you.。
And you know how I know that's true?。
Not just because you've repeatedly sent messengers,。
please, tell them to surrender.。
But because a few hundred yards。
from where all of this took place,。
a few hundred yards from where all of this took place,。
outside of those walls that were broken down,。
a few hundred years later, Jesus, God and human flesh。
would show up and die on a cross to show that God says,。
I will pay any price to bring my children back,。
including the life of my son.。
Will they surrender to me?。
Will you surrender?。
Because all of us just have things that eventually we go,。
I'm just gonna try it my way.。
And God stands outside the gate saying,。
disaster will come apart from me.。
We surrender to life.。
And so I don't know what that looks like,。
I think the application for all of us。
is just surrendering and submitting to God's word。
is always the best option.。
And you may be going, yeah, duh.。
But here's where I think that hits a lot of us in the room.。
Some of you guys need to break up with your boyfriend,。
or break up with your girlfriend.。
And you're going, no, it's not that bad,。
or I mean, he's a really good guy.。
And God says, look, I am ringing the bell.。
I'm trying to get you to surrender to life.。
Some of you guys need to move out.。
You're living together and you know it's wrong.。
And you're going, yeah, but it's financially,。
you know, it's going well.。
We will help you get finances worked out。
if you are a part of this body.。
And if you're not, whatever body you're a part of。
will help you, I hope.。
And if not, you may look at find another one,。
or at least find a church body.。
If you are addicted to Percocet,。
and you're going, look, but my doctor says everything's fine。
or whatever the prescription medicine.。
And you know, God sits outside the walls。
and he says, we surrender.。
And in doing so, you surrender to life.。
Some of you may need to give up alcohol.。
Not 'cause alcohol is inherently wrong,。
but when alcohol gets a hold of you, it's wrong.。
And you just make decisions.。
And God who loves you says, will you surrender?。
Some of you need to delete phone numbers。
of friends tonight who are pulling you down.。
And you need to wave the white flag and say,。
God, I'm coming in with my hands up, I surrender.。
And you need to go to community group.。
I don't know where it hits all of us,。
but there's parts of us where the rebellion in our hearts,。
and you know if you're running.。
And God says, you cannot outrun me.。
You can run from me, but you will not outrun me。
because I love you.。
Will you surrender to life?。
Some of you need to get rid of a computer。
or an iPad or internet that's pulling you。
in a direction and a porn addiction.。
And you may not say, it's not really an addiction,。
but it has a hold on your life.。
And so I don't know what it is for all of us in the room.。
I, in college, one of the more exciting days。
that I had was coming home from a class.。
And it was, I rode my bike to class。
and then I rode it home.。
And I lived in a house that was near campus。
in College Station.。
And there was seven,。
and there was seven other roommates that I have.。
So all these guys in this one house.。
So I ride home and I get to my,。
and I'm parking my bike in the backyard.。
And all of a sudden I see there's police officers。
in my backyard and in my neighbors.。
And I'm like, oh my gosh, those parking tickets。
really came back to bite me.。
And it wasn't that.。
And so he comes up and says,。
hey, you gotta go in your house.。
And so I'm going, what's going on out here?。
And so I go up in my house with my roommates。
and we're looking out the back window。
of the back of our house into our neighbor's yard.。
We don't have a fence.。
And we're looking out there and come to find out。
a guy had broken in to the house behind us.。
And he had tried to steal a TV。
and a neighbor saw him, so they called the cops.。
And so we're like sitting there watching this.。
Like this is entertaining and exciting.。
There's police everywhere surrounding the building.。
They're Kevlar vests.。
I mean, we're watching it.。
And here's what hits us.。
We know this is ending one of two ways.。
I mean, none of the options end with this guy。
just kind of strolling out of there scotch free.。
It ends in one of two ways.。
Either he will choose to surrender。
or he will be forced to surrender.。
'Cause whatever little revolver he has in there,。
he had a gun, won't stand much of a chance。
to the SWAT team that showed up。
and is totally surrounding the building.。
And so we wait a little bit and then all of a sudden。
the police break down the door。
and he went with option number two, forced.。
And he fired at 'em.。
And nobody was hit or he wasn't injured.。
But they fired back and he got shot in the leg.。
And now he left with charges,。
not just for trying to steal a TV,。
but for shooting at a police officer.。
And was forced into surrender.。
And for all of us, like the messages of scriptures,。
and this may come across scary。
and I don't want it to come across any more scary。
than it maybe should be, as God tells us.。
Turn and surrender to life.。
Or will one day either be forced to surrender。
or will choose today.。
And so will you choose to surrender,。
whatever that is for you.。
And I know you're sitting there and you're going,。
ah, yeah, that's not really me, I'm not gonna.。
There will come a day。
and you'll either carry more scars and baggage。
if it's down the road or if you surrender today.。
And so will you choose today.。
God who loves you says, choose him, surrender to life.。
I'm gonna pray.。
Oh, Father, thank you for the stories of these three men.。
Thank you for just your grace in the midst of our rebellion.。
That you send us your messengers,。
you send us your word and you offer us life.。
I pray that we would respond to that.。
I pray for my friends in the room。
who know they need to surrender.。
Would they choose and surrender to you?。
Pray that even now as just the chaos that rebellion。
and sin bring into our life and consequences。
that it just brings.。
As those feel overwhelming,。
that your hand would be heavy,。
not to make them feel like they owe you anything,。
but so that they would surrender to you。
who they do owe everything.。
Through Jesus, thank you that you showed us。
how much you love us.。
We love you, amen.。
(silence)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
