How are we doing?。
It's great to be back with you.。
What's up Fort Worth?。
Shout out Houston.。
Everybody driving down the road, listening to the message, live streaming at home.。
We're glad you're tuned in.。
The preface of tonight is that we find identity throughout our lives in different things.。
And so in college, I was identified as a partier.。
Okay.。
I didn't know Christ.。
I didn't walk with Jesus.。
I loved to party, love to go out.。
And so there was a part of that is it's who I was, or at least who I thought I was.。
And so I went to school at this small college in Waco.。
And if we really wanted to party in Waco, we would come to Dallas.。
And so my boys and I, we drove up to Dallas and we were going to go to this club in Deep。
Ellum.。
And the problem was, is they were all over 21 and I was not.。
Okay.。
But that's okay because we had a plan.。
So what was going to happen is my roommate was going to get in and then pass back his。
ID.。
Okay.。
Don't try this at home.。
I know you wouldn't, again, not walking with Jesus, not a Christian at this time.。
And so we're waiting in this line, in this club here in Dallas and Deep Ellum.。
And he gets through and I'm watching the bouncer.。
Like he's not even looking at IDs.。
I'm like, this is going to be easy.。
And I'm kind of banking on the fact that he's not going to look at the ID.。
And so he gets in, works like a charm.。
There's six people between us.。
We did that strategically, pass back the ID.。
I get up there, I hand it to him and he starts looking at it real close.。
And he says, this isn't you.。
And I'm just kind of like, I'm trying to intimidate him a little bit.。
And he says, "Babak Ali Hadid."。
To which I say, "It is me."。
Like I'm thinking, I'm playing the race card a little bit.。
I'm like, no, don't, you can't hold me down, bro.。
Don't, you know?。
I'm like, I'm going to get in this.。
And then I had accounted for that.。
I had had that conversation in my head, but then he said something I didn't think about。
very well.。
He says, "It says you're five nine."。
So just in case we don't know each other, like this is five nine.。
So I'm thinking fast.。
I said, it's a typo.。
I'm five 19.。
I didn't say that.。
I didn't really say that.。
Long story short, I didn't get in there.。
And if you think about what I was trying to do is I was trying to use a fake ID to get。
in.。
But what I think is a greater tragedy is most of us, right?。
We will go through lives embracing fake IDs.。
We will think we are someone who we're not.。
That's what I was trying to do.。
I was pretending to be someone who I wasn't.。
And right now, some of you came in this evening and you are finding identity in someone or。
some things that you're not.。
And I hope this evening, as we wrap up this series called Amnesia, about forgetting who。
you are, forgetting your identity, I hope we have a greater understanding of who God。
truly made us to be and what really matters and who we really are.。
Because if you go through this life and you begin to find identity in the wrong things,。
you get to the end of this life and you realize that you embraced all the things that don't。
matter.。
And there's this wake up call that you potentially wasted every second the Lord entrusted to。
you, believing that you are someone who you aren't.。
And so let me explain with a thoughtful question for you, maybe the most important question.。
Some would say the most important question.。
Who are you?。
How do you answer that?。
Who are you?。
What goes through your mind?。
You know, first you say a name.。
Well, the name's not who you are.。
It's a sound.。
It's something your parents came up with so that you would know you were talking to them.。
It's certainly not who you are.。
You say, well, my hometown is where I'm from.。
Well, that's where you're from.。
It's not who you are.。
That's a geographic location.。
Okay, well, my family name.。
Okay, you're telling me about other people now who are related to you, still not who。
you are.。
Okay, my job.。
Well, that's interesting trivia question, but that's not who you are.。
My hobby is still not who you are.。
Good to know.。
Who are you?。
And maybe right now you're like, oh, JP, I know that I'm a child of God.。
Don't Jesus juke me.。
That's not what you go through life thinking, hey, this is who I really am.。
All the decisions that we make in life, we're essentially accessorizing a character based。
on who we think they are.。
The car we drive, the bag we carry, the clothes we wear, where we work, where we live, our。
apartment, whatever, our neighborhood, our friends.。
We're accessorizing a character of who we think we are, but it's not who you are.。
The apostle Paul is going to tell us this evening who you are and to do so he's going。
to look at fake identities, fake IDs for your consideration.。
We're going to be in Philippians chapter three.。
So if you turn to the New Testament there towards the second half of the Bible and you。
move through the gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and then you move through Acts and Romans,。
Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, chapter three is where we'll be.。
Really the whole chapter.。
I'm going to fly by not teaching so much verse by verse, more thematically through this chapter。
as we look at fake IDs that the apostle Paul identifies who we are.。
And really kind of the points up front is the reality that you're not your accomplishments,。
you're not your mistakes, and you're not your desires.。
You're so much more than those things.。
To set this up, Philippi is a part of the Roman Empire, an important part of the Roman。
Empire because there was a civil war that took place there, a battle that took place。
in this city in 42 BC.。
And because of that battle, what happened as a result of the battle is the Roman Emperor。
granted the Philippians the opportunity to be Roman citizens.。
Now you think, what's the big part about that?。
Well, as you think about the Roman Empire, the 70 million people that encompassed the。
Roman Empire, only 9% of them were Roman citizens.。
And so this town, the people of this town, the Philippians, they found identity in their。
citizenship of Rome.。
Not just that, but then you take this religious group, the Way, known as Christians, Christ。
followers, and there's these Judaizers coming in.。
What that means is there's these people, this religious group that is saying, "Hey, you。
need to be identified by the good works that you do.。
Not just the good works, but the way you treat your body, the way you dress, and things that。
you do to yourself.。
That's really how you get good with God."。
That is also a fake ID.。
So citizenship and what you do, these are two fake IDs that Paul is addressing as he。
writes this chapter 3, verse 4.。
If someone else thinks they have reasons to put confidence in the flesh, I have more.。
Almost sounds arrogant.。
But then he goes through his resume.。
He says, "Circumcised on the eighth day of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin,。
a Hebrew of Hebrews, in regard to the law of Pharisee, as for zeal, persecuting the。
church, as for righteousness based on the law, faultless."。
Let me put that in modern language for you because we read that and we're like, "What。
does that mean?"。
He's saying, "Hey, you want to talk about my family?。
I was born to the right parents.。
They got connections everywhere.。
You want to talk about my education?。
Ivy League with honors.。
You want to talk about power?。
I have authority over my enemies.。
I can persecute them.。
You want to talk about religion?。
I never missed a day of church.。
I've memorized more Bible than you've forgotten.。
You want to talk about respect?。
Other guys, older guys, call me for advice.。
You want to talk about money, stuff, status?。
I win.。
What do you want to measure success on?。
I'm better than you."。
That's what he's saying.。
But then he says this, "But whatever were gains to me, I now consider loss for the sake。
of Christ.。
What is more, I consider everything a loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing。
Christ Jesus, my Lord, for whose sake I have lost all things.。
I consider them garbage."。
In the Greek scruple of the word there, it's almost a curse word like crap.。
He's saying, "I consider it trash."。
It's slang.。
"I consider it excrement in comparison to knowing Christ."。
The first fake ID that we're looking at is your accomplishments.。
The apostle Paul is not identified by his accomplishments or his resume.。
He's saying, "Hey, I know that I'm better than you by any measuring tool that you can。
come up with, but I no longer point to what I've accomplished.。
I point to what Christ accomplished for me."。
He makes this really big effort to explain this so that you would find identity not in。
what he's done, but in what was done on his behalf.。
This is so important.。
I think it's the hardest lesson for us to learn outside of the incomprehensible grace。
that God gives us.。
He's saying, "Let me lay out some fake IDs for you guys.。
What you make, it's not who you are.。
Where you work, it's not who you are.。
Who you date, that's not who you are.。
Who your family is.。
Do you find pride or bow up or say, 'Hey, this is my ...' Your ethnicity, that's not。
who you are.。
How many followers you have.。
Are these things that you think about more than you think about your identity in Jesus?。
That's not who you are.。
Where you live, the neighborhood, what apartment you live in, where you bought a house, the。
fact that you were able to buy a house, this is not who you are," he's saying.。
He's telling us this.。
"This is not what is ultimately important.。
It's not bad things.。
It's just not who you are."。
He says, "All the things that you think are worth working for, they're crap to me."。
I use that word because he did.。
They won't matter in 100 years.。
He says ... Actually, let me explain it like this.。
It's very philosophical and difficult, and I don't want you to get stuck early in the。
message thinking about this in a loop, but I will say this up front.。
I think the most honest answer to who you are is who you will be permanently.。
If you think about that, because nobody came in here saying, "Hey, this is who I am," pointing。
to who you were, pointing to old accomplishments.。
We just don't do that.。
We feel sorry for people who do that.。
Some of you were the prom queen, but none of you came in wearing a tiara, saying, "That's。
right, guys.。
That's who I am."。
You wouldn't do that, even though one day in the past it was really, really important。
to you.。
Probably, and I'm so sorry if you did, nobody came in wearing a letter jacket.。
It's cold outside, so I'm going to bundle up in this guy, and plus, the patches attract。
the ladies.。
Nobody did that.。
But once upon a time, you would have been like, "Yeah, this is who I am.。
See that?。
That's what I'm talking about.。
That's what I'm talking about."。
Power lifting.。
What?。
That's what you would have done.。
Right now, Paul's saying, "Hey, we don't find identity in our past accomplishments."。
He's saying, "Indeed, you don't even need to find identity in your present accomplishments.。
Consider where you will be.。
Consider what is going to be forever and ever and ever."。
Like at the sum of your life, at the end of it, people aren't going to talk about things。
that you did when you were little or things they didn't see or once upon a time what happened.。
They're going to talk about the sum of your life.。
They're going to talk about what they knew of you for the longest part of your life and。
the last part of your life.。
But he's saying, "Hey, there's something past this life."。
He's going to begin to tell us this.。
This is the context of this, right?。
We're not living in the past.。
And so I want you to consider what accomplishment is most important to you right now.。
And can you have the maturity to say right now, "Outside of knowing Jesus, it really。
doesn't matter.。
I have that perspective.。
It really doesn't matter."。
He says, "I consider them garbage that I may gain Christ and be found in him, not having。
a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which is through faith in。
Christ, the righteousness that comes from God on the basis of faith."。
So now he's saying, "Hey, it's not my righteousness.。
It's Christ's righteousness, and I want to know Christ."。
"Yes," he says, "to know the power of his resurrection and participation in his sufferings,。
becoming like him in his death, and so somehow attaining the resurrection from the dead."。
Paul is saying something really key that is true for you too.。
He's saying, "The greatest thing about me is not something I've done, but something someone。
I know did."。
He says, "Let me point to one really amazing accomplishment."。
Like, what is the most amazing thing that anybody could accomplish?。
Like this thing that if you could do, we would just be like, "Well, you win.。
It's better than any promotion, any trophy, any jacket, any crown."。
Like if you can do that, that's the greatest accomplishment bar none.。
Let's go with A, living forever.。
Eternal life.。
Like you're dead, you come back to life, and you live forever.。
He says, "Hey, you stack my accomplishments next to that.。
I got nothing.。
Why am I going to point to what I've done when I can point to what he's done?"。
My first point this evening is this.。
You are identified by Christ's accomplishment, not your accomplishments.。
Paul's not going to stack his accomplishments next to Christ's.。
He's going to say, "Hey, I haven't missed Sunday school at all," when he has over here。
perfection.。
You are identified by Christ's accomplishment, not your accomplishments.。
There's something else key that's happening in this text.。
This is why he doesn't find identity in the wrongs he's done.。
Because remember, this guy's done some wrongs.。
He's done some terrible things, worse things than you've done, he's done.。
That's why he writes in verse 12, "Not that I have already attained all this, or have。
already arrived at my goal."。
No, the goal's still ahead of me.。
"But I press on to take hold of that for which Christ Jesus took hold of me.。
Brothers and sisters, porch goers, young adults, I do not consider myself yet to have taken。
hold of it.。
But one thing I do, forgetting," listen, "forgetting what is behind and straining toward what is。
ahead.。
I press on toward the goal to win the prize for which God has called me heavenward in。
Christ Jesus."。
He says, "I'm not looking back, I'm looking forward.。
It's not where I've been, but where I'm going that's important."。
And so the fake identity that he addresses here is being identified by your past.。
Things that have happened to you, things that you participated in, sins that mark you.。
He says, "Hey, this is not who I am."。
Some of you cannot see Christ's forgiveness past your wrongdoings.。
When you look at the cross, all you do is see the wrong you've done.。
You don't see God's grace and his forgiveness.。
The grace that he freely extends you in spite of you.。
And Paul is not identified by his past.。
He's not sitting here in this letter like, "Guys, I just got to tell you, remember when。
Stephen died and they stoned him and I was there and I took joy in that and then I locked。
up women and children and it says that I persecuted them in the scriptures.。
It said I persecuted them to death.。
I killed them.。
I'm a murderer.。
Woe is me.。
I can't do ministry.。
I'm disqualified."。
He doesn't do that.。
And he doesn't even talk about abuse that he's endured.。
He doesn't say, "Man, when I went to Antioch, they beat me.。
These people turned on me.。
Guys I thought were my friends stoned me.。
They whipped me.。
You don't know what it was like.。
They whipped me.。
I can't do ministry."。
No, he doesn't do that.。
He said, "Yeah, man, terrible things happened to me.。
I did terrible things.。
I'm looking forward.。
I'm looking ahead to the prize.。
I'm looking where I'm going, not where I've been.。
I'm looking forward."。
When people tell me, this conversation I have all the time, "You going to heaven?"。
"Yeah, I don't know."。
"Why?"。
"I've just done some things."。
They think that's humble.。
It's not humble.。
It's really arrogant.。
If you think that something you've done wrong can keep you from heaven, then you think that。
there's a good you can do to get you in heaven.。
You're only going to get to heaven because of what Christ did for you.。
It has nothing to do with what you've done, only what you believed about Jesus.。
There is no sin, no sin, none whatsoever.。
The scripture says God delights in forgiving your sin.。
There's no sin that can disqualify you from heaven other than you rejecting Christ with。
your life.。
You're not good enough to get to heaven, and you're not bad enough for heaven to be kept。
from you.。
It's not about your good or bad works.。
Christ's radical forgiveness doesn't belittle your sin.。
It magnifies his grace.。
You hear that?。
His radical forgiveness doesn't make less of your sin.。
It just magnifies his amazing grace.。
When I was in college, clearly I liked to drink.。
I've already told you I liked to party.。
I was at this particular party.。
It was on Baylor's campus.。
The police came, and I got arrested for MIP.。
It stands for minor in possession.。
I was cuffed and taken to the back of a car to jail.。
I spent the night in jail.。
As hard as I thought I was, I was honestly scared.。
I stood before the judge the next day.。
There were all these consequences, fines, and things they were putting in front of me,。
but there was this one, these words that I didn't even know why to be afraid of these。
words, but they just seemed so terrifying.。
It's going to be on your record.。
I don't even know what that means.。
I don't even know where this record is kept and what it sounds like, but I don't want。
it to be on my record.。
It just feels like for the rest of my life I'm going to meet with someone, "Hey, I'm。
JP, and I've got to tell you I've got a minor in possession in college."。
Every job interview I go to is like, "Hey, how are you?。
No, I think I'm really competent and proficient in Microsoft Word, and yes, minor in possession."。
That's just going to follow me.。
I remember having a conversation with my parents, and everybody being like, "Hey, we've got。
to make sure this doesn't stay on your record."。
Not that we had a lot of money, but I remember my dad talking to an attorney and just thinking。
through, "Hey, what can we do to make sure this doesn't stay on my record?"。
I remember even bargaining with the judge and me losing my license in exchange so that。
this doesn't stay on my record.。
I remember celebrating the reality that it's not on my record.。
It's not on my record.。
It got off my record.。
It wasn't that I didn't get an MIP.。
It's just that now the MIP doesn't mark me.。
It's not like it never, ever happened.。
Now it just doesn't follow me.。
Is that not the beauty of the gospel, that Jesus comes to you and says, "Hey, it's not。
on your record"?。
Abortion?。
Not on your record.。
Pornography?。
Not on your record.。
Drunk driving?。
Not on your record.。
DWI?。
Not on your record.。
How beautiful is this that he comes to you?。
It's not like you say, "I never drove drunk."。
It's not denial.。
It's like, "Hey, I did, and he forgave me.。
It ain't who I am.。
It's not on my record, man.。
It's not on my record.。
It's not who I am."。
That's what Jesus does.。
He comes, and he says, "Hey, man, that's not on your record."。
Why?。
Why is it not who you are?。
Because it's not who you are in eternity.。
God, you don't get up there and go, "Hey, man, listen.。
Come here.。
Let's talk about this MIP.。
No, let's talk it before we let you in.。
That's cool.。
Christ, cross, all that.。
Preaching.。
Okay, cool.。
Minor in possession."。
It's funny, because it ain't going to happen, because I've been forgiven.。
It's not on my record.。
You're identified by Christ's payment, not your past.。
My second point, you're identified by Christ's payment, not your past.。
It's not that the MIP wasn't a big deal.。
It's that the fact that it wasn't on my record was a bigger deal.。
You're identified by Christ's payment, not your past.。
Paul's talking about looking toward the prize, and he says this, verse 15, "All of us then。
who are mature should take such a view of things."。
What does he mean here?。
He's talking about maturity.。
Could you imagine talking to a high school student?。
He's like, "Hey, did you make the team?"。
He's like, "No, it doesn't matter, though.。
It's not going to matter 10 years from now."。
"Hey, did you get the letter jacket?"。
"Nah, I didn't.。
It's okay.。
It's not going to matter 10 years from now."。
You would say, "Wow, that's a really mature view."。
We are that student right now.。
That's happening right now.。
There's things right now that you're like, "They're so important."。
He's like, "No, no, they're not important.。
A hundred years from now, they won't be important, so they're not important."。
If on some point you think differently, verse 15, that too God will make clear to you.。
Only let us live up to what we have already attained.。
We're not focused on the punishment from the past because Christ has forgiven that, and。
God who stands outside of time sees the finished product in us, the product that he finishes。
himself, our glorified state, our sinless state presented to him white as snow, pure。
as Jesus.。
He sees that standing outside of time, and so why don't we live up to what he has already。
freely given us?。
If I'm running a race and I've already given the prize, they say, "Hey, here's the prize.。
You win, but I just need you to run the race."。
I'm running the race, and I fall.。
I don't stay down.。
I get up, and I finish the race.。
I keep running.。
Why?。
Because I'm a runner, not a faller.。
In Christianity, as we walk this walk, we don't stumble, trip, fall, look at something。
I shouldn't have, did something I shouldn't have, and then just stay down.。
No, man, I did it.。
Dust myself off, get up, and I'm running because I'm a runner.。
That's what I do in a race, and the prize is already promised to me, so why am I going。
to stay down defeated?。
Keep going.。
Live up to the prize you've already won, verse 17.。
Standing together and following my example, he says, "Brothers and sisters, and just as。
you have us as a model, keep your eyes on those who live as we do.。
For as I have often told you before and now tell you again, even with tears in my eyes,"。
think about what's happening right here.。
He's writing this letter in Rome, and he's writing to these people that he loves in Philippi.。
As he thinks about where he's about to go, he just starts weeping, so much so that he。
tells them, "I'm weeping.。
Even with tears in my eyes," you've got to hear this, guys.。
"Many live as enemies of the cross of Christ.。
Their destiny is destruction."。
Simply means they're going to hell.。
Their God is their stomach.。
Here's what that means.。
It means they worship by feeding their appetite.。
They do whatever they want to do.。
Have you ever met someone who does whatever they want to do?。
They're dysfunctional.。
It's not good.。
That is the freedom that many of us came into the room wanting.。
We want to do whatever we want to do.。
We want that level of freedom, yet we know consciously it makes people dysfunctional.。
No one has ever done well with that.。
Their God is their stomach.。
They follow their appetite.。
They feed their desires.。
They feed their preferences.。
Their glory is in their shame.。
They take pride in the locker room, conversate.。
"Man, you won't guess what I did, guess who I did, guess what happened, guess what I want.。
Oh, did you see that?"。
Their glory is in their shame.。
They're not just sinning.。
They're proud of their sin.。
And then it says this, consider where this is to, their mind is set on earthly things.。
So in this list of these people whose destiny is destruction, he punctuates it with their。
mind is set on this world.。
They want to be a really big deal in this world.。
They're not thinking about the next world.。
And so this fake ID is your earthly desires.。
You being identified by your desire, "Man, I love food.。
I love food.。
I love shopping.。
I'm a leg guy."。
You being identified by your desires.。
I kind of picture myself as a gossip girl or a Gilmore girl or a sex in the city girl.。
And we begin to think that our, not me, but maybe one of you, we think our desires define。
us.。
And Paul is urging you not to be identified by your earthly desires.。
So we got to hear this.。
Some of you, some folks you know, and even folks in the church, your glory is in your。
shame.。
You call what is evil good and what is good evil.。
You made this exchange and you don't even realize that your conscience is so seared。
and you begin to find identity in your sexual identity or your number of partners or how。
much weed you smoked or how big of bar tab you've had or how drunk you've been.。
"Man, remember that time we got so wasted that I threw up."。
A fight you got in.。
How you profited on someone's misfortune.。
"Boy, you wouldn't believe how I got the money.。
It was great.。
He was so stupid."。
And your glory is in your shame.。
And you don't even see, you are celebrating the things Christ died for.。
The very things that held him to the cross.。
You're entertained by them.。
You're watching.。
I can't wait to see that movie so that I can be entertained by the things that killed my。
God on a cross.。
You're out there, you're dancing to a song.。
You don't even realize it's about sex trafficking, pimps and hoes and whatever.。
And you're dancing to the beat, it's so great.。
Glory is in your shame.。
You're so lost in the world that your eternal citizenship has been lost in your life and。
you don't even see it.。
You don't even know it.。
You are entertained by the things Christ died for.。
And there's no place for you in eternity.。
Unless you repent.。
And you turn to Christ.。
You say, "Take my life.。
I'm tired of my glory being in my shame, my destiny being in my destruction.。
I'm tired of feeding my preferences and seeking to do whatever I want to do when I want to。
do it.。
I want to learn the discipline of yielding to your Holy Spirit.。
Would you give me your spirit, God?。
And instruct my heart, God, so that at 2am in the morning when I can't sleep, I don't。
return to the only coping mechanism that I've ever known, I stand strong, God.。
I don't just feed my appetite.。
I don't just call him because I miss him when I know he's not good for me.。
I don't just go back like a dog to his vomit to the same bar scene, the same club scene,。
the same dead relationship, the same sin struggles that I've had that I thought would always。
mark me.。
I'm done.。
I'm done.。
I'm done.。
I turn to you, Jesus, and I believe you're enough.。
I believe your death and resurrection is enough.。
I'm not so arrogant to think that my sins will hold me back from you.。
I'm not so arrogant to think that your spirit is not strong enough to heal me from this.。
I'm not so arrogant to think that I can't tell anybody about my struggles.。
I'm going to step into the light and I'm going to turn to you, Lord, and I want you to take。
over my life.。
I know you are playing games tonight.。
I don't want you to go into this Christmas season playing games.。
I want you to stop right now.。
I want you to turn to him and I want you to say, "Christ, I know you died for my sins。
and I know that death was enough.。
I know the resurrection is promised for me.。
It's a hope for eternity for me that I will be with you forever and ever and ever in your。
kingdom."。
All of these things that I've tried to fill my life with and find identity in out of my。
own insecurities, that this world is all that I have.。
I said I believed in heaven, but I lived like this world was all I had.。
I was a functioning atheist.。
I was an atheist.。
I rejected you with my actions and now I turn to you with my life.。
Some of you have got to do that tonight.。
I don't need a notch in my belt.。
I don't get a raise if you do, but I don't want you to go through life playing games。
like I did.。
If you had asked me in college, I would have said, "I'm a Christian.。
Nothing in my life looked like I was following Jesus.。
Nothing.。
Maybe that I would have showed up here on a Tuesday, but nothing else."。
If I could tell you what I did most of my life, I would define it like this.。
I would say I was looking at the wrong score.。
I wanted to be a millionaire before I was 30.。
Moved to this city, began to find identity in the things of this city.。
I landed in this sales job, started making money, flipped a house, had a chunk of money,。
bought a Jaguar, bought a penthouse condo in uptown, lived near a bar called T.A.B.C.。
that I frequented.。
Had the watches, had the suits.。
I had built a fake identity.。
I was looking at the wrong score.。
There was a game the other day that you would never know about except something interesting。
happened.。
It was Brown University Bears.。
They were playing the Bryant University Bulldogs.。
The Bulldogs freshman guard got the ball with 3.8 seconds left.。
Anybody hear about this?。
He got the ball with 3.8 seconds left, and he dribbled out the clock, which means he。
ran the clock down.。
His score was 91-90, and when the buzzer went off, he throws the ball up in victory, but。
the other team begins to celebrate because he was looking at the wrong score.。
He lost the game because he was looking at the wrong score.。
Can you imagine some of us getting to the locker room of heaven and saying, "Yeah!。
Did you see that?。
My resume?。
Did you see how hot she was?。
Did you see how hot I was?。
Did you see how disciplined I was?。
Did you see how often I went to church?。
Did you see this?。
Did you see that?。
Did you see that I was proficient in Microsoft Word?。
Did you see?"。
He's just like, "You were looking at the wrong score, bro.。
It's about Christ and you.。
You living for my kingdom, not that world.。
That's why he says, "But our citizenship is in heaven."。
Remember how they found identity in their citizenship to Rome?。
He says, "But our citizenship is in heaven.。
We don't belong to this world.。
In fact, we are eagerly awaiting.。
We are eagerly anticipating."。
Anybody anticipate Christ's return today?。
Anybody wake up this morning and say, "Jesus, I can't wait until you come back.。
I can't wait till you make this okay, till you do away with cancer, you wipe away the。
tears.。
There's no more heartache, no more breakups, no more hurts, no more diseases.。
Jesus, I can't wait for you to come back."。
We eagerly await a savior from there, the Lord Jesus Christ, who by the power that enables。
him to bring everything under his control will transform our lowly bodies so that they。
will be like his glorious body.。
That's how this ends.。
What are you holding onto in that moment when your body is transformed to his glorious body?。
Who are you then?。
Am I six, seven then?。
I doubt it.。
Do I have blue eyes then?。
I doubt it.。
Brown hair?。
I doubt it.。
They didn't recognize Jesus in his glorified state.。
His friends did not recognize him.。
I bet you everything on my true driver's license today is not who I am in that moment.。
Is my name Jonathan?。
Doubt it.。
What matters then?。
Not just then in that moment, but then for the next billion years to the power of infinity.。
What matters then?。
Who are you then?。
That's who you are.。
Who are you then?。
I'm asking, who are you then?。
You think about that.。
Get your mind around.。
Was it who you dated, the breakup, the job, the promotion?。
Is that who you are then?。
Think about it.。
Who are you then?。
You're Christ.。
Forever and ever and ever.。
Are you that abortion?。
No.。
Pornographer then?。
The hooker in Vegas?。
No, no, that ain't who I am.。
Not then.。
Wiped away.。
Who are you then?。
Man, I'm good at sales.。
Not then.。
Nobody cares.。
I was so pretty.。
I had this many friends on Facebook, this many likes on Instagram.。
Who cares?。
What's Instagram?。
No Instagram up there?。
You see my story.。
Who cares your story?。
Did a sinner of Christ?。
Was it about Jesus?。
Who are you then?。
My final point, you are identified by your eternal destination, not your earthly desires.。
See, he's dealing with identity crisis here.。
My roommate, he was born in Iran.。
That's why his name reflects that.。
Despite my weak accent that sounded more Indian, he was born in Iran.。
I mean no offense by that.。
That's where he was born.。
If I went through life thinking that I was born in Iran, embracing his identity, that'd。
be an identity crisis.。
If you go through this life living for this world that you do not belong to, that's an。
identity crisis.。
What's crazy is the vast majority of us do.。
The vast majority of us have an identity crisis.。
Very few of you would come up here after this message and say, "JP, man, listen.。
I get it.。
I belong to heaven, man.。
There's nothing in this world that holds my heart.。
Nothing.。
Nothing.。
I don't need relationships.。
I don't need a status change.。
I don't need those things.。
I don't need the stuff.。
I don't need the promotion.。
I don't need that boss to like me.。
I don't need that boy to like me.。
I don't need that girl to like me.。
I don't need those friends.。
I need outside of knowing Christ, belonging to his body."。
Paul is not identified by his accomplishments, his past mistakes, or his earthly desires.。
He's not identified.。
You're not identified by what you've done because where Christ lives, it matters more。
than what you've done.。
You're not identified by what has happened in the past because it doesn't exist in eternal。
life.。
You're not identified by your earthly desires because they were an appetite for counterfeit。
gods and in eternity, your appetite will be fully satisfied by the one true, real, everlasting,。
eternal God whom you will be with forever and ever and ever and ever and ever.。
This is who you are.。
You are what you persevered in, what you are the longest, the sum of your existence.。
Who you are is who you are in eternity.。
Some of us tonight, and I mean tonight, we've got an identity crisis we've got to deal with。
tonight.。
You know it.。
Like right now, you know it.。
There's an identity crisis.。
I grew up in a church to a family that loved Jesus.。
Every Christmas after Thanksgiving, we'd set up the tree.。
I would really enjoy as a child getting out this nativity scene.。
It was always wrapped in newspaper.。
Mom would wrap it in newspaper and put it up.。
She would wrap up the figurines.。
I would unwrap them carefully.。
I'd set out the wise men and the shepherd and the sheep and the animals and the Mary。
and the Joseph and the baby Jesus and the barn-like stable thing.。
I'd arrange them and I'd make it look like it was this scene, like the wise men are walking。
up and the shepherd's there.。
I'd always just kind of take delight in that.。
There was something pure about that, something real about that, something Christmas about。
that.。
Then as the weeks would go by, people would come and visit us and they would bring presents.。
Presents would begin to surround the tree and to crowd out the nativity.。
On Christmas morning, I'd wake up and I'd come out of my room and I'd rush to the tree.。
Santa had come and there were presents everywhere.。
There was no sight of the nativity.。
It was drownded out by materialism cloaked in generosity and there was no sight of Jesus.。
This is a metaphor for me.。
It's become a metaphor for me at this time of year of what happens at Christmas.。
I believe that Christmas has an identity crisis.。
What I mean by that is you're going to leave here and something's going to happen in the。
next few days and the next few weeks.。
Your stress level's going to rise.。
The traffic's going to be crazy.。
The temperature's going to drop.。
You're going to begin that your mind's going to get to focus on your to-do list.。
You're going to work longer hours.。
You're going to feel the pressures of this world at this time where we're called to stop。
and to acknowledge God becoming a human being, not taking off his deity but putting on humanity。
for us to rescue us coming into our broken world to show us where our real citizenship。
belongs.。
You're going to forget the reason for the season as some say at this time.。
I share that with you, friends, for this.。
It's a microcosm example of the identity crisis of your life.。
What matters most in you today, tomorrow, and forever is what you've done with Jesus。
Christ.。
It's Christ living in you, the same Christ that embodied this baby in a stable where。
shepherds came to worship, born of a woman.。
This same Jesus lives inside of you if you've trusted him.。
His spirit is influencing your life, carrying you to eternity to be with him forever and。
ever and ever and ever.。
What you're going to leave here and do if you are not extremely careful is you're going。
to begin to fill your life with things that block him from the world.。
You're going to change the identities in front of him, stack presents and things and cars。
and jobs and bosses and relationships and work and promotion and bank accounts and sin。
struggles in front of him so that when people look at you, they don't see him.。
They see those things that you've tried to make yourself to being, the ways that you've。
accessorized your life.。
But in that moment when he comes to transform your earthly body into a glorified body, all。
that stuff's going to hit the floor.。
And what's going to matter then?。
Who are you going to be then?。
Who are you then?。
Because that's who you really are.。
What matters then?。
I pray that you'd renew your mind.。
I pray that as you leave here this message, you'd continue to trip over it every time。
you see a nativity, when you celebrate Christmas, that you'd stop the craziness of the world。
and say, "Not me.。
Man, I'm focusing on the baby in a manger.。
That's my God.。
That's my Savior.。
It's the one who matters most.。
I'm not going to get caught up in peppermint lattes and crazy lists.。
Jesus."。
And I pray that it would stretch beyond the season into your life.。
Father, would you do that?。
Just now as we turn to worship you, would you continue to grab our attention and focus。
our heart and mind on all that you've done for us, Lord?。
We're so grateful for the gift of your grace through Jesus Christ.。
We're so grateful for the incarnation that you came here as a man and lived a sinless。
life and died for our sins, and you rose from the dead.。
One of the craziest narratives, crazier than creativity could write.。
And Father, would you help us to trust in that, to believe that all our sins are paid。
for through that?。
It's not on our record.。
We love you, Lord.。
We praise you now.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Man, it's been a long time.。
Amen.。
Man it's been an incredible year, guys.。
It's been silly what God has done in our midst.。
And I just can't lose this perspective that if he began to capture the hearts of young。
adults all over this city and all over this world, that we would come and we would give。
our lives to him and that he would prepare a place in this world for Christ to return。
back to.。
And I just can't wait for that.。
I'm so excited about that moment because all, every single thing I hate, and I use that。
word strategically, all that I hate is finished through that event.。
And it's incredible that we're going to this place where we're going to be forever.。
And anytime I've been, I'm going to a place that I don't know, like I haven't been to。
before.。
What I tend to do, like for example, over the Christmas break, we're taking the kids。
to Disneyland in California.。
We've never been.。
And so as soon as we decided that we were going to do that, I began to call people who've。
been to Disneyland.。
Like we're probably going to do this one time and I want to get the most out of the opportunity.。
And so I'm asking folks like, Hey, how do we get there?。
And where do we buy tickets?。
And what do we do when we get there?。
And how do I get the most out of that?。
I talked to people who've been there.。
Well, if we're going to go and be in heaven forever and ever and ever and ever and ever。
and ever, and that's what is truly most important, then what should we do?。
Let's, let's look to the only one who's been there and came here to tell us how to get。
there.。
In fact, he's the way, the truth and the life.。
He's the door, the gate, the good shepherd, he's God.。
I'm asking you, I'm pleading with you.。
Give your life to him.。
If we can talk to you tonight about anything that I've said, or you realize, man, I've。
got an identity crisis.。
There's going to be a team of folks, really anyone with the yellow light bulb on their。
shirt shirt that says the porch would love to engage with you and pray with you and talk。
with you and help you in any way that they possibly can.。
If you're here and you're in college, we have a party for you as you go out there.。
Where is it exactly?。
Stage two, which you're going to go up the stairs and walk that way.。
As you keep walking that way, you're going to see some folks.。
And so you can go into stage two, ask anybody where it is.。
There's a party for you if you're here and you're in college.。
If you're looking for community, we do have open community group tonight.。
So don't go through this break alone.。
Don't go through this break without community guys down this hallway in a room right there.。
There's other guys looking for community girls down this hallway in a room right there.。
There's other girls in there looking for community, super easy place to walk into and just say,。
Hey, I'm here and I want to hear more about this, this thing called community and for。
the rest of you.。
And I mean the rest of you and all of your friends and everybody else that you know,。
that's around your age.。
I will see you January 17th, uh, unless you're coming to the Christmas party next week.。
And so January 17th, make sure that's on your phone.。
We have a lot of exciting things in store in January, starting with the new series.。
I can't wait to be with you guys.。
Love you guys.。
Go in peace to love and serve the Lord.。
