I mean, he's practically dating a model.。
She told me they went to Cabo, and he paid for the whole thing.。
Dude, she does his laundry and cooks.。
He proposed at the Eiffel Tower in Paris.。
Bro, she plays in his fantasy football league。
and knows more about the Cowboys than he does.。
She's got the husband, the house.。
She's got it all.。
What more could you ask for?。
How are we this evening?。
Come on.。
Well, we're so glad you're here.。
I grew up on a farm in a small town in South Texas,。
so about 20 acres in the middle of nowhere.。
And we had this big shed.。
We called it the big garage.。
And as I was a child and loved to play outside and be outside。
and whatnot, the big garage was just full of toys.。
And by toys, I mean like shovels and rakes and farming。
equipment, that kind of thing.。
And there was this thing in there。
that I didn't know exactly what it was,。
but it instantly became a toy of mine, if you will,。
because it kind of looked like a gun.。
And so it would make this clicking noise.。
And so I would get it, and I would kind of。
go around the yard and pretend like I was shooting things.。
And if a friend came over, I would give him one,。
and I'd have one.。
And we would play kind of armies.。
I think I've got a picture of it.。
There it is.。
OK, so that's it.。
And so that was this thing in the garage.。
And so I would get it and play with it.。
And so that's your kind of imagination runs.。
And so you ever see something, you're like,。
I wonder what that's for.。
And so for me, I'm like, man, I wonder what that's for.。
And so one day, I'm out with my dad,。
and we're doing cowboy farming kind of stuff,。
and not my kind of stuff, but his kind of stuff.。
And so we're out there.。
We're feeding the cows.。
And we stop by this fence that's broken.。
And he gets out that thing.。
And I'm like, dad, it's a weird time to play army man.。
What are you doing?。
And he hooks it up to the fence.。
And he begins repairing the fence.。
And so this is another picture of what it is.。
And so that's what it's for.。
And I remember having this moment--。
this is why I tell you this weird story.。
I remember having this moment that's like, oh,。
that's what that's for.。
Like, I had no idea.。
I would have never in a million years。
been able to fill in the blank the right way.。
It was like, oh, yeah, does that ever happen to you?。
Oh, that's what that's for.。
Or like, you're doing something with something.。
And you're like, that's not what that's for.。
I'll go one more with you, because you guys。
didn't seem to jump on board with the fence stretcher.。
So let me go here.。
My son Weston comes in--。
about a year ago, he comes in the room.。
And he's wearing Monica's bra on his head.。
And he's like, earmuffs.。
And I'm like, no, that's not what that's for.。
And I can't even show you what that's for, OK?。
So we'll just talk about it.。
So it's like there's something that serves a purpose.。
And you think that it serves a very different purpose.。
And the reason I start there as we wrap up relationship goals。
is because tonight, I hope that happens three times.。
I hope three times tonight you go, oh, that's what that's for.。
I thought that it was just a toy for my amusement.。
I thought that it was just something for me。
to engage my emotions on.。
I thought that it was just a good time.。
Oh, that's what that's for.。
As we talk about singleness, being single,。
dating, and marriage, I hope three times tonight you go,。
oh, that's what that's for.。
We have to return to the purpose of these things--。
being single, dating, and marriage.。
Because God, the creator of the heavens and the earth,。
the one who formed you in your mother's womb,。
the one who created all things as we know it and see it。
and live in it, has a purpose for singleness,。
and dating, and marriage.。
And you would be infinitely better pursuing。
his purpose than your own purpose, or the world's。
purpose, or culture's purpose.。
Because you've got to understand we're not getting better。
at this.。
So the divorce rate right now is about 50%,。
depending on what stat you read.。
Somewhere it's hovering around 50%.。
That means about half of marriages fail miserably.。
Half of people who says, I--。
for richer or poorer in sickness and health。
until death do us part, part before death.。
About 50%.。
And we're not getting better at this.。
In fact, somebody after a couple weeks ago called in.。
They wanted to talk to David.。
They were upset.。
Said they wouldn't be back to the porch。
because we talked about this idea of cohabitating,。
living together before you're married.。
Said I'm committed to it.。
Well, let me share with you why a loving pastor would。
tell you not to.。
I'll give you some stats.。
Greater than 60% of cohabitating couples who live together。
do not get married.。
Greater than 75% of cohabitating couples who get married。
get a divorce.。
What that means is 10 out of 100 couples。
who cohabitated before marriage actually stay married.。
10 out of 100.。
And so a loving pastor and a loving God。
would say you would be crazy to stack the odds against you。
by doing-- and we said, well, no.。
Isn't it going to be a better marriage?。
No, statistically, absolutely not.。
And when we talk about a divorce rate of like 50%,。
for example, that does not account for those。
who are miserably married.。
So a successful marriage rate is much lower than 50%.。
We're not getting better at this.。
We're getting married later.。
On average, seven years later than in the 1960s.。
Just a generation ago.。
We're getting married seven years later.。
What happens 50 years from now?。
Seven years later and 50 years from there?。
Seven years later?。
Pretty soon we're getting married past the age。
that people can have children.。
Did you know that nearly half of girls。
who have children in their 20s are unmarried?。
We're not getting better at this.。
Seems like we've got to return to the purpose.。
But what about if we do it God's way?。
Another stat for you, Protestant Christian couples。
actively involved in their faith are 35% less likely to divorce.。
35% less likely to divorce than the general population.。
93%, that's 93 out of 100 couples who independently。
said that God is at the center of their marriage,。
rated their marriage happy or very happy.。
See, it seems to me that we forgot that we were created。
by God for God to serve a purpose for God.。
And if you had a Bible on a deserted island。
and you began reading it and you said,。
you know, I think this is kind of like God。
has some things for me.。
I want to understand how he wants me to date and pursue。
relationships.。
He's a relational God.。
So I'm just going to read this like I'm。
reading it for the first time.。
I think that you're going to walk away。
from that time on that deserted island。
with a very different worldview of marriage, dating,。
and singleness.。
I think you're going to say, oh, that's what that's for.。
I need to do that really, really different than I'm。
doing that right now.。
And so tonight, as we wind down relationship goals,。
we're going to talk about the purpose of singleness,。
the purpose of marriage, and the purpose of dating。
and how it is very, very different than what you thought。
when you came in this evening.。
And so I want to show you that singleness is not。
what you think, that dating is not what you think.。
And before you leave here this evening,。
that marriage is very different than what you think.。
Monica and I do premarried couples, premarried counseling.。
And so I've been in ministry for a decade now.。
I've done about 40 weddings.。
And by the grace of God, all 40 of those couples。
are still married today.。
And as we talk to them, all 40 of them,。
as they sat in our living room, all 40 of them,。
without exception, have had crazy expectations。
around marriages, marriage that we've had to correct.。
And they've all come back and said, man, you were so right.。
We had these rose-colored glasses.。
We had no idea what this would be like.。
And so I want to help you this evening.。
We're going to be in 1 Corinthians chapter seven,。
if you want to turn there.。
1 Corinthians chapter seven, written by the apostle Paul。
to the church in Corinth about 56 AD.。
The church is under great persecution.。
He's using language like, hey, Jesus is returning soon.。
You don't have long.。
There's a sense of urgency to this letter.。
Nero is about to show up on the scene, the emperor Nero,。
and he is about to persecute Christians for sport.。
He'll stitch animal skin to them, unleash dogs on them。
so they can be ripped apart for the amusement of others.。
And Paul writes to this church saying,。
hey, get ready, troubles are coming,。
and you need to understand,。
you need to have a right perspective about singleness.。
And he's going to talk about the betrothal period,。
which is being engaged, which is the closest we have。
to dating in the scriptures and marriage.。
You need to have a right perspective of these.。
Very applicable for them then,。
very applicable for us tonight,。
because we are moving in a culture facing persecution。
for being a Christian.。
Christian values, a biblical worldview,。
is increasingly unpopular.。
So this is a very applicable chapter for us this evening.。
One of the longest chapters in the letter,。
Paul's first letter to the Corinthians,。
and it's written specifically about marital status.。
Should I keep it, change it, or not worry about it?。
He writes this in verse 28.。
But if you do marry, you have not sinned.。
And if a virgin marries, she has not sinned.。
But those who marry will face many troubles in this life,。
and I want to spare you of this.。
What does he say?。
Wait, those who marry will have lots of sex.。
Wait, what is he?。
He wants to tell us something about,。
those who marry will have troubles.。
In fact, this is the only marital guarantee in the Bible.。
Those who marry will face troubles.。
Okay, Paul, what else?。
Verse 32, I would like you to be free from concern,。
literally translated anxieties.。
I would like you to be free from these worries.。
An unmarried man is concerned about the Lord's affairs,。
how he can please the Lord.。
Speaking to single people.。
Single people are concerned about the Lord's affairs.。
They live to please the Lord,。
but a married man is concerned about the affairs。
of this world, how he can please his wife,。
and his interests are divided.。
An unmarried woman or virgin,。
it's interesting that he just uses that synonymously.。
Virgin would be like fiance or engaged.。
And when he talks about an unmarried woman,。
he just assumes in the scriptures,。
writing to the church, that she's a virgin.。
I don't say that out of condemnation,。
but just to teach the text。
so that you would have an understanding of it.。
A virgin is concerned about the Lord's affairs.。
Her aim is to be devoted to the Lord。
in both body and spirit.。
But a married woman is concerned。
about the affairs of this world,。
how she can please her husband.。
And so a summary of that passage would be,。
with marriage comes new worries.。
So you think you're anxious today,。
imagine when you add someone else into the picture。
and you are suddenly anxious,。
not just about what you're going to do,。
where you're going to work,。
how you're going to eat,。
or anything, what you're going to drive,。
but now you're worried about what they're going to drive,。
where y'all are going to live,。
what you're going to do,。
and your worries double in that situation.。
You're concerned about how you will please your spouse,。
but the concerns, listen closely,。
the concerns of a single person should be。
how to please the Lord.。
And so I want to talk about with you。
that singleness is not what you think.。
Singleness is not what you think.。
In fact, the apostle Paul calls it a gift。
in the same chapter in verse seven.。
He says, "I wish that all of you were as I am,。
"but each of you has your own gift from God.。
"One has this gift, another has that."。
When he says, "I wish all of you were as I am,"。
he's talking about his Facebook status of single.。
And he says, "It's a gift."。
And you think, well, if it's a gift,。
does it come with a receipt?。
Can I return this gift?。
Or it's like a white elephant gift that no one wants.。
You know, you're quickly trying to pass it around.。
He says, "No, you don't understand.。
"It's a gift, it's useful."。
It's not just something that you play with.。
It's not just something that you squander.。
It actually serves a purpose.。
God, in his sovereignty, has you with this status。
this evening so that you would do something incredible,。
that you would use your life to change the world。
for the cause of Jesus Christ.。
Wow.。
He calls it a gift because it's used for something.。
We think, listen, we think that singleness。
is a time to live our lives, to see the world,。
to sow our wild oats, to make mistakes, to party,。
and we've got it all wrong.。
Like, if you're like, "Hey, I'm not ready。
"to get married yet because I still wanna have some fun."。
You have a misunderstanding of marriage.。
Then you have a misunderstanding of singleness.。
He says it's the time to do rich ministry,。
that that's where life is found.。
Have you guys ever heard of, like, single for a season,。
single for a reason?。
You ever heard of that?。
Single for a, how do I know if I'm single for a season。
or single for a reason?。
Need truth tellers, you know?。
How do you know if you have the gift of singleness?。
I'm gonna tell you right now.。
Like, I can tell you without a doubt。
if you have the gift of singleness right now.。
You ready?。
You're about to find out right now.。
What I'm about to say next is going to identify you。
as gift of singleness or not, so get ready.。
You ready?。
If this morning,。
when you woke up, true story, I'm telling you,。
about to be unveiled.。
If when you woke up this morning, you were single,。
you have the gift of singleness.。
So you have a misunderstanding。
that it's this chronic terminal illness, right?。
Like, this is this thing that you can't get rid of.。
No, singleness is a gift for today.。
I don't know about tomorrow or next week。
or two months from now, but if this morning,。
if you entered that room, this room single,。
you today have the gift of singleness.。
That's the gift Paul's talking about.。
It's not this calling on your life。
that you can't get rid of, that you're cursed, okay,。
that God gave you this desire that will never be fulfilled。
and so you're angry at God.。
You don't have to think that way.。
God's a good God.。
He gives you good things.。
And so if what you have doesn't seem good to you,。
you don't understand it.。
He's given you a good gift that you may be misusing,。
that you may be misunderstanding.。
It's not chronic.。
It's not terminal.。
It's not a disease.。
It's a gift.。
And if you don't see it as a gift to be used for God,。
then you don't see it the way God does.。
In fact, the Greek word is charisma.。
It's the gift of God's grace or God's grace to you.。
So how do you know if you're single for a reason?。
You need truth tellers in your life.。
No, I'm just kidding.。
How do you know if you're single for a reason?。
You are single for a reason.。
That reason is to build the kingdom of God.。
It's to serve God with everything.。
You will never, ever, ever be more uninhibited,。
more available, more ready to serve God。
than you are right now.。
That is what the apostle Paul is saying here。
and it is still very, very true in 2016.。
You can wake up this morning。
and you can just get in God's word。
with no one to distract you, no one.。
And you're like, you don't know my roommate.。
No, you don't know my roommates.。
'Cause he's four and he gets up before me.。
If I get up at five, he gets up at four.。
And he's ready and he's ready to fight me for waffles。
or whatever that is.。
And it's a dream.。
If I wanna get in God's word, I've gotta leave the house.。
I don't know about you.。
You can back up that alarm.。
You wanna spend two hours in God's word,。
you just back up that alarm, two hours.。
No one to distract you, no one to say,。
hey, where you going, what are you doing, why are you up?。
(congregation laughing)。
Right?。
Just be like, I mean, it's not personal,。
but I'm just saying, you can get in God's word。
without distraction.。
It's unbelievable.。
You can go to the gym.。
You can put in the porch podcast.。
You can be listening.。
You can be, you know, being moved in a sermon.。
No one's texting you saying, hey, where are you at?。
You gonna be home for dinner?。
Can you run by the store?。
Can you grab this?。
What time are you gonna be home?。
Hey, we're sitting at the table waiting on you.。
And some of you are like, oh, but I just want that so bad.。
That's because you're missing out。
on the season that you're in,。
wanting to be in a future season.。
Like what you have is second best.。
It's a misunderstanding.。
You have a misunderstanding.。
You can go, like you can live,。
like let me just hit this on,。
you can live right now on less than $20,000 a year。
and give away piles and piles of money.。
You can do incredible things and start businesses。
and, you know, change children's lives.。
I mean, if you make 60,000,。
you literally could give away $40,000 a year.。
You're like, no, you can't.。
I know people who do, okay, in Dallas, Fort Worth,。
Houston, wherever you're at.。
You can.。
You may not, but you can.。
You have one mouth to feed.。
I have five mouths to feed.。
I had to pay for 15 meals today.。
Oh, is that just hitting home?。
Some of you are like, oh, just do the math.。
[congregation laughing]。
Just do the math.。
Three meals a day 'cause I'm a loving dad.。
I let him eat three times.。
Pretty incredible, I know, I'm a giver.。
Yeah, 15 meals today and 15 meals tomorrow。
and 15 meals the next day.。
And so if you're like, where does this money go?。
That's where it goes.。
They eat a lot.。
You can go on international discipleship trips.。
If you wanna go to Africa, you can be there next week.。
You wanna go to Brazil, you wanna go to Haiti.。
Man, I remember when I came into the faith,。
like it was so amazing.。
When I was a non-believer, I was like,。
man, I'm gonna travel the world, but I didn't.。
I just kept going back to the bar.。
Sin robs you of creativity.。
But then when I became a Christian,。
I mean, I went, like as soon as I became a Christian,。
I went to Africa, went on a safari,。
a photo safari in Africa, literally had the opportunity。
to teach the government in Africa。
on conflict resolution, it was incredible.。
I went to the Amazon multiple times,。
got on a boat, traveled days down the Amazon River。
to get off in villages to engage people。
for the sake of the gospel, it was incredible.。
Went to the island nation of Haiti.。
I got to do ministry in the mountains of Haiti,。
ministry in the urban ghetto of Haiti,。
ministry in rural areas of Haiti.。
Incredible.。
And since our family has been growing,。
I haven't done any of those things。
'cause I have a divided interest.。
With one exception, I went to Haiti, we went for a week.。
I showed up for three days, that's what I,。
I had to get back for like a soccer game。
or a parent-teacher conference or something, right?。
Divided interest.。
What are you doing with your singleness right now?。
Are you using it according to what。
the apostle Paul is saying?。
Like some of you, you're enjoying your singleness too much,。
like you don't want the responsibility of marriage,。
but candidly, you don't want。
the responsibilities of singleness.。
And it's not like you think like,。
oh, but if I serve the Lord, I can't have fun.。
No, what you're doing is not nearly as fun。
as serving the Lord because serving the Lord is your purpose.。
It's why you have breath in your lungs,。
why your heart beats in your chest.。
You're missing out every single day on your purpose.。
Singleness is for you to concern yourself。
with the things of the Lord.。
And so however hard you pursued God today。
is indicative of how you're going to pursue him。
in a season that's much more difficult.。
It is never going to get easier than it was today.。
And you think, well, this is the apostle Paul,。
and I've read that something crazy's happened。
in 1 Corinthians 7, and I don't know how this,。
no, Jesus said the same thing.。
In Matthew 19, Jesus is talking about marriage,。
and he's like, marriage is permanent,。
and the disciples are like, marriage is permanent.。
Then we should just stay single.。
And Jesus says this in verse 12.。
There are some, there are those who choose。
to live like eunuchs.。
What's a eunuch?。
A eunuch is a unique person.。
No, a eunuch is a person without reproductive organs.。
So there are those who live like those。
who are committed to celibacy。
for the sake of the kingdom of heaven.。
And the one who can accept this should accept it.。
Jesus said, Jesus said, marriage is permanent,。
and singleness is for the sake of the kingdom.。
It's over and over, this idea.。
And so you're here, and you're like,。
but JP, I want to be complete one day.。
You're not incomplete, okay?。
Was the apostle Paul incomplete?。
Was he not a complete person?。
He wasn't married, in case you didn't know.。
Do you know who else wasn't married?。
I'll give you a hint.。
About 33 years of age, single.。
Jesus, God, the most complete person。
that has ever walked the face of the planet,。
stayed, remained, died, single,。
and his life was more complete。
than any of us ours ever will be.。
But I can tell you lots of people.。
There's the Olympian-turned-missionary Eric Liddell.。
There's C.S. Lewis.。
Maybe you've read his books.。
They were written when he was a single person.。
He had time to write。
those incredible, creative masterpieces.。
You can think about whose life here。
is more full than that of Mother Teresa's,。
or Amy Carmichael, who built orphanages.。
She was a missionary to India.。
She founded a mission.。
She wrote books.。
Corrie ten Boom, who helped protect Jews。
from the Nazi army.。
She used her singleness in these ways.。
You can think about Katie Davies.。
When she was a single person,。
she took in 13 girls in Uganda.。
She was a mother to 13 girls as a single woman.。
These are people who used their singleness.。
Dietrich Bonhoeffer, when he wanted to fight。
the Nazi regime, he wanted to build an army of theologians.。
And he had a criteria.。
You must be single.。
An undivided heart.。
'Cause we're about to do work,。
and I'm gonna teach you the word.。
How you doing at using your singleness?。
Listen, singleness is not a disease you caught.。
It's a gift.。
Listen, it's not a waiting room.。
Singleness is not a waiting room for some future season.。
It's not second best.。
It's not JV and you're just waiting for varsity to happen.。
That is bad theology.。
The purpose of being single, here's my point.。
The purpose of being single is serving the Lord.。
Plain and simple.。
And so you gotta ask yourself,。
are you okay if 20 years from now,。
your lot in life is you're a really great aunt。
to your sister's children?。
And you disciple some and you love some,。
and you're gonna live a full life of caring for others,。
and you're gonna die and you're gonna go home。
and be with Jesus forever and ever and ever and ever,。
and never ask yourself, why was I just an aunt?。
'Cause you weren't just an aunt.。
You were God's grace to some children.。
I will tell you, the desire for marriage。
does not guarantee it, you need to know that.。
Having a desire for marriage does not guarantee,。
you may leave here and be hit with a meteor。
before you get to your car, okay?。
I don't know what's gonna happen to you.。
I don't know how this goes.。
You're like, did he say meteor?。
Yes, I did.。
I don't know what's gonna happen to you.。
But the desire does not guarantee it.。
You don't lose if you remain single,。
you lose if you waste your singleness.。
So let's talk about dating, how it's not what you think.。
Verse 35, I am saying this for your own good,。
not to restrict you, but that you may live in a right way。
in undivided devotion to the Lord.。
There's a theme.。
If anyone is worried that he might not be acting。
honorably toward the virgin he is engaged to,。
and if his passions are too strong。
and he feels he ought to marry,。
as he should do as he wants.。
I think what Paul's doing here is actually speaking。
to the father of a bride and giving him his advice.。
Hey, if you're worried that they might not be。
acting honorably, if he may not be acting honorably。
to your daughter, it's okay if they get married.。
He is not sinning, they should get married.。
But the man who has settled the matter in his own mind,。
who is under no compulsion but has control over his own will。
and who has made up his mind not to marry the virgin,。
the reason it says virgin is just a word then for fiance.。
Okay?。
That's why you can just think of that as interchangeable.。
This man also does the right thing.。
So then he who marries the virgin does right,。
he who does not marry her does better.。
Who would say that singleness is better than marriage?。
The apostle Paul.。
The apostle Paul would.。
But we don't believe him.。
And so he's giving advice here and he's saying。
if they wanna get married they can.。
But they're engaged, Paul.。
Like of course they wanna get married.。
He put a ring on it.。
Like they wanna get married, right Paul?。
And he's saying something really key here。
that we have to understand.。
He's saying they're not swept up in emotions.。
That this was not the way that we date today,。
that we give our heart to somebody,。
that we're completely already swept up。
in that current heading somewhere.。
He's just talking about this really pragmatic decision.。
Hey, I know that they're engaged.。
If they wanna get married they can,。
if they don't, they don't have to.。
Why would they be engaged, Paul,。
if they didn't wanna be married?。
Well, because then, you know,。
it was people who would love you,。
would come alongside you and say,。
hey, I think you would be really。
good partner to that person.。
Y'all should be together.。
And you would listen to them.。
If they were surrendered to God and wise,。
you would say, okay, I hear that.。
We can get engaged.。
Isn't that crazy?。
So far from where we are today.。
But I think there are some things。
that we can learn from it.。
First Corinthians chapter seven, verse nine,。
same chapter, he says this.。
But if they cannot control themselves,。
they should marry, for it is better to marry。
than to burn with passion.。
He's saying something really key here.。
I wanna just spell it out for you。
in case you've missed it through this series。
or if you're a first time tonight.。
He's saying one thing.。
He's saying that physical intimacy。
is allowed in one place and one place only in marriage.。
He's not saying, hey, if they burn with passion,。
they should masturbate.。
If they burn with passion, they should fornicate.。
If they burn with passion,。
they should do something else to find sexual release.。
He's saying that if they burn with passion,。
if they desire physical intimacy,。
well then the only place that they're gonna be able。
to find that is marriage.。
That is under God's command, marriage.。
You're like, well, how far is too far?。
When your body begins to prepare itself for sex,。
you've gone too far.。
Do I need to explain that more?。
No, she's like, no.。
Okay, good, good.。
I'm glad we're on the same page.。
Physical intimacy.。
And so if you're dating someone, right,。
you're running from that.。
So that may mean for you no alone time,。
no hanging out in the apartment,。
no going horizontal watching a romantic comedy.。
That's all foolish, man.。
Get married.。
Get married.。
You wanna go horizontal watching a romantic comedy,。
you can do it all the time when you're married.。
Right now, you just,。
well, let's talk about what you're doing.。
The way that we get married,。
the way that we move from singleness to marriage。
is this cultural idea of dating.。
And so I don't think,。
I wanna say that God's not trying to penalize you.。
He gives us these instructions for your protection.。
He's not a big fan of broken hearts.。
He's not a big fan of hurt in relationships.。
And so it is God's design.。
You may be here and you're like, well, okay, man,。
you have not painted marriage in a good picture.。
Like, I'm out on that.。
Why would I wanna get married?。
Well, the first reason is because I told you,。
it's the only place for physical intimacy.。
If you want physical intimacy,。
then you probably want marriage.。
That's God's design.。
The second reason is it's God's design for raising children,。
that they would have both a mother and a father in the home.。
And so if you're here and you're like,。
I really want children, then you probably want marriage.。
Marriage is God's design for children.。
It's not the only way to children.。
There are other ways to children, adoption, fostering.。
You can disciple children, you can be a mentor to children,。
but the family unit is God's design for children.。
And so dating is not what you think.。
It's actually a choice.。
To go on a date is not a commitment,。
but to enter into a dating relationship is a commitment.。
It's a commitment to find out if that person。
would be a good spouse or not.。
So we only date when we're ready for marriage,。
not before that.。
I know that's so culturally crazy.。
It's so different than the way that we do that.。
Because the crazy thing is, is we've actually taken,。
listen, hear me out on this, tell me if I'm wrong,。
test this, try it on.。
We've actually taken advice from Hollywood.。
Hollywood has the highest divorce rate ever,。
anywhere on the planet.。
Anywhere in America, I'll say.。
And they're the ones who are feeding us。
this relationship advice.。
I mean, it's people who've been married six times。
are telling you how to date.。
And I would not do that, okay?。
I would not take that advice.。
And so God gives us instructions on how to do this.。
And I just, I wanna show you something.。
It's not law, but it may be helpful to you.。
And so there's this idea of do I want to,。
can I, or should I?。
And so this is when you're thinking,。
like want to is like,。
man, am I physically attracted?。
Have I given my heart to them?。
That's kind of the want to.。
Has my heart drifted their way?。
The can I is, well, are they married?。
First of all, are they available?。
Are they, you know, are they able?。
Are we, do we like spending time together?。
All that kind of stuff.。
And then the should I is,。
are they running hard after Jesus?。
Are they all the things that the crazy pastor said。
that they should be, you know, should I?。
And then we get married.。
And so what this looks like is you say,。
okay, well, I definitely want to,。
like he's hot, like she's hot.。
I definitely want to check.。
So now we're at the can I,。
and you're like, oh, oh wow, she's married.。
Okay, done, right?。
And so then what happens is the breakup, right?。
And so, oh, oh, and so this is where you start dating。
'cause you're like, I want to, I'm dating.。
And then you ask the question, well, can I?。
Oh no, we need to break up, I can't.。
The breakup comes and then the heartbreak comes.。
Anybody ever experienced heartbreak?。
You don't have to raise your hand.。
I have to.。
It hurts, it's not fun.。
And it's just, I don't think it's God's ideal.。
And so we start over, right?。
And it was like, okay, well, I want to, okay,。
and so we're dating, the can I, I can, yeah,。
they're available, okay?。
Now it's the should I,。
am I in a place where I should get married?。
Are they in a place where they should get married?。
Have I worked through my baggage?。
Am I struggling with porn?。
Am I not, am I free?。
Do I have addictions?。
Should I, are they running hard after Jesus?。
And then you realize that, no, man, I'm, oh my, oh my,。
they're actually have some addictions.。
There's something going on.。
We should not get married right now.。
There's the X and there's the breakup,。
and this one really hurts.。
And it hurts.。
And so I think what I would propose to you this evening。
is to take this and turn it around on its head.。
And so before you start dating,。
you're hanging out with people,。
and they're all people who love God's people.。
And they're all people who are pursuing purity.。
They're all people who are pursuing hell。
through the scriptures, walking according to the spirit.。
And so you're like, should I absolutely,。
any of these people, I am free to marry any of these people.。
I'm in a place where I can marry,。
they're in a place where they can marry.。
And so then it's like, can I?。
Well, of course, they're available,。
and we enjoy spending time serving God together.。
We're always constantly hanging out.。
And so you've got the can I check,。
but here's the deal, you're not dating yet.。
You're not dating.。
And so now you're like, okay, can I?。
You know what, I'm going to start dating then, I think.。
I think we can begin to date.。
And so now we're in that dating place,。
and dating is answering one question.。
Do I want to spend the rest of my life with them?。
How much time do I need to determine。
if I want to spend the rest of my life with them?。
It's good to start with a plan in mind.。
Is that going to take me three months to determine?。
One month to determine?。
Is that going to take me six months to determine?。
I know that they're free to date.。
I know that I can date them.。
Now, do I want to spend the rest of my life with them?。
Is the desire there or is it not?。
And if it's there, then it's like, meet me at the altar.。
Let's go.。
Why not?。
Hey, you may be tempted to think I've lost my mind.。
I've had a front row seat for this model now for 10 years.。
I've seen it work really well.。
How are you doing, by the way?。
And I don't mean that offensively.。
How many relationships you've been in?。
How have they been going?。
You ever experienced heartbreak?。
See, I've got this crazy notion。
that God wants us to give our heart away one time.。
Literally, check this out, wait for this.。
I think God wants you to kiss one person.。
What?。
I think that as the creator of the heavens and the earth,。
that that's actually his ideal.。
That he's not like, no, on spring break,。
see how many you can kiss.。
Like, that'll be fun.。
No, that's not how he rolls.。
That's not what he's going for.。
I think dating should actually be the shortest, easiest part.。
It's the place where you have the final conversations。
that you need to have, and you're just deciding,。
man, are we for sure, are we going?。
Are we doing this?。
Are we, we're gonna go, like, forever and ever and ever.。
'Cause you don't know what marriage holds.。
You don't know what that's gonna look like.。
And some of you have given your heart away。
long before the date.。
Like, there's girls here that have given their heart away。
to guys they don't even know.。
I know you learned that from Hollywood.。
I'd be cautious.。
I'm sorry, I know that hurts, I'm sorry.。
And so instead of doing this way,。
we actually start dating in junior high,。
and then from there we date multiple people in high school,。
and from there we actually go to a university。
that instructs us to divorce.。
Because we jump in a relationship,。
and as soon as we don't like them anymore,。
we jump out of the relationship.。
Or worse, we're jumping into a relationship,。
as soon as they don't like us anymore, they jump out.。
And there's baggage in our hearts from that。
that we are oblivious to.。
We don't even know how bad this process has hurt us.。
We have baggage in our lives that we are blind to。
because of heartbreak that we've caused。
and heartbreak that we've experienced.。
And it's not a loving God who's crazy about you,。
it's not his plan for you.。
He has something better planned for you.。
And I know you didn't know, but I'm so glad you're here.。
I'm so glad you're listening.。
See, I think for us, we look at three things。
that we prioritize, chemistry and shared interest。
and physical attraction.。
Do we have chemistry, do we like the same things,。
am I physically attracted to them?。
If you read this on a deserted island,。
there's gonna be three things.。
If you said, hey God, I wanna see what's important to you,。
there's gonna be three things missing.。
Chemistry, shared interest, and physical attraction.。
Hollywood's gonna tell you that's ultimate.。
God's so much better at this than Hollywood is.。
I know you're learning a new way,。
I know it's crazy, I see some of your wheels turning,。
you're like, man, I think you might be onto something.。
Test it, prove it, see if it's true.。
The purpose of dating is confirming a decision to marry.。
That's my second point, rather.。
The purpose of dating is confirming a decision to marry.。
And so this brings us to this idea。
that marriage is not what you think, verse 39.。
Marriage is not what you think.。
A woman is bound to her husband as long as she lives,。
but if her husband dies,。
she is free to marry anyone she wishes.。
But he must belong to the Lord.。
Very strong language here, she is bound,。
that word means they are stuck together,。
one in flesh, serving each other for a lifetime,。
serving the Lord together for a lifetime.。
But if he dies, then she's to find someone else。
who belongs to the Lord, that criteria that's so important。
that they fully belong to the Lord.。
And if he dies, she can remarry, she can find somebody else.。
And so I've asked several married people,。
several different groups this week,。
hey, what's the one thing that you wish you knew。
before you were married?。
And my response and many of their response would be this.。
I wish I knew how practical marriage is.。
Like how much, it's not so much about the feelings。
and the emotions that are there some days。
and not other days, it's so much more about。
just two people strengthening their ministry together,。
raising children together, pouring into their lives together,。
making disciples together, that you're not looking。
for some trophy wife, you're looking for someone。
to go to war with you.。
You're looking for someone to raise children with you,。
to pour in their lives, someone to study God's word with,。
it's about companionship.。
Proverbs 18, verse 22 says, "He who finds a wife。
"finds what is good and receives favor from the Lord."。
See, marriage is hard but good.。
And marriage is good but hard.。
And there's some of you here tonight that believe。
that marriage is ultimate and what you need to hear tonight。
is you need to hear that it's also hard.。
And there's some of you here tonight that think,。
hey, I'm gonna stay single forever so I can keep having fun。
and what you need to hear is no, marriage is good.。
Marriage is good.。
I went through this workout program here,。
it's like CrossFit here at Watermark, we call it Well.。
And it's like a eating plan and everything。
to produce health in your life.。
And I don't, if we know each other, you know I don't。
really like to work out very much.。
And so as I saw people go through this and they're doing。
10 flights of stairs and all the crazy things。
that they were doing, I'm like, I am so out on that.。
And but people kept coming to me like, no, it's good,。
it's good, I'm like, it just looks hard.。
They're like, no, but it's good.。
And so eventually they talked me into doing this。
and I got into the program and the room was divided.。
There were people there that knew that it was hard。
and didn't think that it was good.。
And there were people there that knew that it was good。
and didn't think that it would be hard.。
And the truth was it was really hard。
and really, really good.。
It produced so much fruit in my life.。
It changed the way that I think about these things.。
I'm so glad that I went through it.。
And every day it was really, really hard.。
But it made me better in every way.。
And that's the way that I think about marriage.。
It's often like you going to the same place。
with the same people, same place with the same people.。
It's a lot like working out。
or being a part of a CrossFit box。
or going to a gym or running a race or climbing a mountain。
or whatever metaphor best resonates with you.。
It's like you're doing this thing that's good。
and challenging all the time with the same people.。
And sooner or later you look around。
and you see her, you know, or him.。
And you're like, man, we've been doing this together.。
We've been serving the Lord together.。
We've been going to church together,。
the same church, the same place,。
running in the same groups of friends,。
serving at the same soup kitchen,。
going on the same international trips.。
Do you want to spend the rest of your life with me?。
(congregation laughing)。
And it's that simple.。
And I'm not even kidding.。
I'm not even playing, man.。
It is that, and try it your way.。
And if your way doesn't work, try it his way.。
I wish you didn't have to try it your way though。
'cause it's gonna be painful.。
He says, "What I mean, brothers and sisters,。
"is that the time is short.。
"From now on, those who have wives。
"should live as if they do not."。
Why does he say that?。
Why does he say that in verse 29 of 1 Corinthians 7?。
Those who have wives should live as if they don't.。
Because remember what he said,。
those who don't have wives should live。
like undevoted service to the Lord.。
And he's saying those who have wives。
now have someone to serve the Lord with.。
I remember when Monica and I were engaged,。
12 years ago, we sat in this man's office,。
this preacher's office, we were brand new Christians,。
and this guy saw us, and we were very passionate people.。
We had given ourselves to each other through sex。
and all sorts of sin, then we became Christians.。
We trusted in Christ and we did our best。
to stop all of that and begin to pursue him,。
but we were still pursuing each other.。
And this guy just looked at us,。
saw these two passionate people。
wildly in love with one another,。
and he just said, "You guys need to stop pursuing each other。
"and start pursuing Christ together."。
And I sat there and I nodded my head and I smiled,。
and what was going on in my head is,。
"You are the stupidest man I've ever heard.。
"That is the dumbest thing."。
I'm like, "Okay, preacher man,。
"would you read that in some preacher handbook?。
"Stop pursuing each other.。
"We're about to get married, don't you know?"。
And he just said this, he goes,。
"When you pursue each other, you miss.。
"It's manic highs and manic lows.。
"You guys are so full of passion towards each other.。
"If you took all of that passion。
"and you directed it to God。
"and you pursued God with your entire life,。
"you're just gonna grow closer and closer。
"and closer and closer and closer,。
"but God has to be ultimate, not each other."。
And guys, it changed everything about me, that advice.。
I look back on that, it was so prophetic in my life.。
God used that in profound ways to save my marriage.。
And then when we started pursuing God together,。
everything changed for us.。
It's the best marriage advice I ever could have had.。
And so marriage is a picture of Christ's commitment to us.。
In fact, the purpose of marriage,。
this is my third and final point,。
the purpose of marriage is to display。
God's covenant with us.。
That word covenant there, it's more than a promise.。
It's more than a commitment.。
A commitment is, I will if you do.。
It has terms.。
A covenant is, I will regardless of what you do.。
This is beautiful because if you've looked at porn,。
God's pursued you.。
If you've had sex, God's pursued you.。
If you've had abortions, God's pursuing you.。
He has a covenant towards you.。
It's a covenant that will be completed。
regardless of what you do,。
if you've trusted his payment for your sins。
through Jesus Christ, his death,。
as a payment for your sins and his resurrection。
of evidence of his power,。
that power that could be at work in your life.。
And so the purpose of marriage。
is to display God's covenant with us.。
A great verse on that is Ephesians 5, verse 31.。
"For this reason, a man will leave his father and mother。
"and be united to his wife,。
"and the two will become one flesh."。
And then he says this.。
"This is a profound mystery,。
"but I'm actually talking about Christ in the church."。
That Jesus is the bridegroom or the groom of the church.。
And we're his bride.。
And he's coming back for us.。
And the narrative in this book, guys,。
listen, you gotta get this.。
If you wanna get marriage right, you gotta get this.。
The narrative in this book,。
it's about another relationship,。
not the one that you would have with your spouse,。
the one that the church, God's chosen people,。
has with him.。
And so I've gone through this,。
and you might pick up on that I'm a fan of young marriage.。
I'm a fan of short engagement.。
I'm not a fan of dating until you're ready for marriage.。
And I'm a fan of changing the world while you're single.。
And so in summary, the purpose of being single。
is serving the Lord.。
The purpose of dating is confirming a decision to marry,。
and the purpose of marriage。
is to display God's covenant with us.。
I didn't understand all this。
until I really saw the beautiful metaphor that marriage is,。
that's in the Scriptures,。
and really in the Hebrew Jewish wedding tradition,。
but I gotta tell it to you,。
and I think that you'll be inspired by it as well.。
And so the way that marriage would work。
at the time that the Scriptures were written here。
is that a young Jewish child, a young Jewish boy,。
would leave his town,。
and he would go in search for a bride.。
He'd go to the church,。
he'd go in search for a bride.。
He'd go to a foreign land in search for a bride.。
And when he would find her,。
his father, his dad, would pay what was called the dowry.。
His dad would purchase his right to marry her.。
And the two would drink from a cup together.。
This is where we get so many of the traditions。
we still celebrate today, the wedding toast, if you will.。
The two would drink from the same cup.。
This is why Jesus says, "Can you drink from this cup?"。
And then he would return to his dad's house.。
Listen, guys.。
And he would begin to build a room on his dad's house。
because that was his inheritance.。
Like, he was gonna get the property, his father's property.。
And so he built what was called a bridal chamber.。
It was a room for him and his wife to live in.。
Now, she doesn't know when he's coming back for her,。
but here's what she knows.。
She knows from that moment forward that she belongs to him,。
that at some point, unbeknownst to her,。
that he's gonna come return for her。
to take him home to himself.。
And she doesn't know the time or the hour.。
And when he's finished with that room,。
he gets his wedding party together.。
His groomsmen, we call 'em today.。
She gets her bridal party together.。
Her bridesmaids, we call 'em today.。
See, then bridesmaids actually did something.。
It wasn't just right over left and smile.。
They were making her wedding dress.。
They were making her wedding dress.。
They would remind her daily that she belongs to him,。
that he's gonna return for her.。
And then check this out.。
What would happen is his groomsmen, his boys,。
they would run out in front of him saying, he's coming.。
Your groom is coming for you.。
And they would blow trumpets and make sounds and instruments。
and that word would travel to towns in front of them。
like people would spread it.。
Tell her he's coming for her.。
He's on his way.。
And it would reach her and her bridesmaids。
would come to her house and they'd grab her dress。
and they would get her all ready and then he would come in。
and he would take her home with him.。
And before she entered the bridal chamber,。
she would be washed, cleansed, cleaned.。
And there was a party waiting for them,。
but they would go into the bridal chamber。
and they would consummate the marriage.。
They would make love.。
They would pursue physical intimacy。
in the place of where it was intended。
with everybody waiting outside, could you imagine?。
Crazy.。
And then she would come out with him。
and he would present to his friends and family。
for the first time his bride, we're married.。
And the party would continue for seven days。
where we get the tradition of the honeymoon.。
For seven days they would party.。
For seven days they would celebrate this new relationship.。
Friends, don't you see when Doubting Thomas said,。
"Where are you going?。
"How will we get there?。
"We do not know the way."。
And Jesus says to him, "You do know the way.。
"In my father's house are many rooms.。
"I go to prepare a place for you.。
"I'm coming back for you.。
"I'm coming to take you back home with me."。
See, this book doesn't say a lot about dating。
because this book is about another relationship,。
a much better relationship, an eternal relationship.。
It's not till death do us part, it's eternity we don't part.。
It's not for a lifetime, it's for an eternal lifetime,。
God's radical, reckless pursuit of you.。
And friends, I gotta tell you something, you're pursued.。
You wanna be pursued right now, you are being pursued.。
Not just pursued, but you've been chosen.。
The God of the universe looks you in the eyes and says,。
"I choose you to spend the rest of the rest with."。
And not just chosen, but you've been loved.。
He said, "I love you so much。
"that I'm going to prepare an eternal home for you。
"where your eternal family will be."。
See, in heaven, no one's married.。
Monica and I won't be married in heaven.。
We'll both be married to Jesus in heaven.。
I know that sounds churchy, man,。
but I want you to pursue it, prove me wrong.。
Grab this book tonight and just go through it。
and say, "I don't know, married to Jesus, are we sure?"。
Spend some time looking at it.。
You're chosen, you're pursued, you're loved,。
he's prepared a home for you.。
Listen to this part, you gotta hear this.。
You're gonna be washed clean.。
If you trusted in Christ, his death and resurrection。
for the forgiveness of your sins,。
you've been washed clean,。
but you still sit in this broken world,。
and so you're not glorified yet,。
you're gonna be carried back to the finish line.。
You'll be washed clean, spotless, no abortion,。
pornography, filth, that thing you did on the prom night,。
it's all gone, washed clean.。
Beautiful, man, so beautiful.。
And then this part, and I know it's weird,。
but you get to share in the eternal pleasures。
with God forever and ever and ever and ever.。
Forever and ever and ever and ever.。
I know you got these desires for pleasure right now,。
I get it, man.。
People are like, "But you're married,。
"you have someone to go home with."。
You don't think I remembered what it was like to be single?。
I was single in Dallas.。
I dated in Dallas.。
I dated in DFW, looking for a spouse.。
I was where you were, I hadn't forgotten what it's like.。
I know it's hard, but it's worth it.。
It's worth it.。
You're loved, friends.。
And Father, we thank you just for this truth.。
For all that you've done for us through Jesus.。
For your reckless pursuit of us through Christ.。
For the way that you woo us, the way that you choose us,。
the way that you pursue us, the way that you love us,。
the way that you've purchased us,。
the way that you've given us,。
purchased us, the way that you cleanse us,。
the way that you wash us.。
Daddy, we love you.。
Father, we love you.。
Jesus, we love you.。
Holy Spirit, we love you.。
Would you help us?。
We know we messed up.。
We know we messed up.。
God, would you help us?。
Would you help us understand the covenant love。
that you have for us?。
Would you help us understand the metaphor。
that marriage is?。
Help us to walk in it, to live it.。
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.。
