[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
Love it.。
There were row machines at the Sermon on the Mount?。
Welcome, friends of Dallas.。
Welcome, friends of Fort Worth.。
Do you guys remember homecoming dances in high school?。
Remember these?。
Yeah?。
Hopefully, good memories associated with these.。
I'm going to tell one of my more memorable homecoming。
experiences that will kind of give us direction for where。
we're going.。
My senior year, I had a girl that。
was a friend named Lauren, total friend.。
She was in the friend zone, which is the zone you get put。
in--。
I don't even really know how you put in there,。
but it's just like a mutual understanding.。
This is platonic for life.。
And she was in that zone.。
Her name was Lauren.。
And we were good friends, longtime friends.。
And we had said that if we didn't ever。
go to a dance that our senior year,。
we would go to homecoming together.。
And so this was like a conversation。
at the beginning in August or September of senior year,。
just casual kind of, oh, yeah, we've never gone.。
We should do that.。
Yeah, that would be fun.。
Move on from there.。
So that was the extent of the conversation.。
So fast forward, life is going on.。
We're still just friends totally.。
And all of a sudden, October rolls around.。
Dance is one month away.。
And I start dating another girl named Amanda, or talking。
was what we called it back then.。
I don't know if you can call it dating。
if you live with your mom.。
Just food for thought.。
So I was living, and I was talking with Amanda.。
And this is going on.。
And I totally forget about this commitment。
that I had already previously made.。
So of course, homecoming's a month away.。
What am I going to do?。
I do what you do for homecoming.。
You make a cake, and you put a homecoming question mark on it.。
And you give it to your date.。
And I did this to Amanda.。
And I was like, hey, do you want to go to homecoming?。
This is so great.。
And she said yes.。
And so we're going to homecoming.。
Little did I know, though I had forgot,。
Lauren had not forgot.。
And all of a sudden, word gets to me through the grapevine。
that, oh man, you need to call Lauren.。
You're an idiot.。
And so I call Lauren.。
She's crying.。
And she's like, I can't believe you would do this.。
Oh my gosh.。
I know.。
This is so terrible.。
Yeah, I know.。
I'm losing all credibility up front.。
So I call Lauren.。
And I'm like, oh no, this is--。
I can't believe you would do that.。
And I'm like, don't worry.。
I'm going to make this right.。
I'm going to call you right back.。
So I call my best friend in the world.。
I can't believe this is so embarrassing.。
I call my best friend.。
His name is Wes.。
And I'm like, Wes, I'm in a little bit of a pickle.。
And I need you to do me a solid.。
So here's the deal, buddy.。
And he's like, yeah, what is it?。
I say, so it turns out I have two dates to homecoming.。
And I believe you have none.。
And so I need you to take Lauren to homecoming for me.。
And he's like, I'm not taking Lauren.。
I barely know her.。
I don't want to go to homecoming.。
Look, and I go into like selling mode.。
Hey, it's going to be great.。
We're going to make memories.。
It's going to be amazing.。
I'm going to buy your ticket.。
I'm going to buy both tickets.。
I'm going to buy tickets for homecoming.。
We're going to go.。
It's going to be awesome.。
He's like, I'm not going.。
I'm going to buy your mom.。
You remember moms?。
I can't believe I actually did this.。
And you're like, what's a mom?。
A mom is like a $70 ribbon for some reason.。
But I'm like, I'm going to buy your mom.。
It's from the both of us.。
I'm going to buy your mom.。
It's going to be awesome.。
I need you to do it.。
I'll pay you back with some favor.。
And he agrees to do it.。
I call Lauren back.。
I'm like, hey, problem solved.。
I got you a date.。
She's like, what am I, a charity case?。
No, I'm not going to homecoming with him, you, or anyone.。
I get a call from Amanda in the middle of this, who now。
has heard about the fiasco.。
Hey, I got to call you back, Lauren.。
Hey, Amanda, how's it going?。
She's now crying and begins to say, you asked me to homecoming。
and you already had a date?。
And I'm like, that feels like a little hard negative。
interpretation of what happened.。
It was something close to that, but I don't know exactly.。
And she's like, I'm not going to homecoming with you.。
You can go with Lauren.。
I'm not going.。
So I went from two dates to no dates.。
Finally, after some great group conflict resolution,。
we all ended up going together, which。
made for a really interesting dinner conversation of like,。
this is really awkward.。
And it was one of those moments where it was like, oh my gosh,。
David, you are an idiot.。
Like still to this day, when I talk--。
because we're all still friends, and I'll talk to them.。
And they'll be like, hey, remember that one time。
that you asked me to homecoming and then you。
asked somebody else?。
Then you paid your best friend to take me to homecoming?。
It's like, wow, someone holds a grudge.。
Ever heard of forgiveness?。
You should try it.。
But it's still like, just to this day, one of those things。
we look back on in life.。
And here's where I start with that,。
fast forward in life, and a few years or 10 years or so later,。
I'm now married.。
And while we look back, and that's kind of funny,。
and how could you do that?。
I know, I'm an idiot.。
But now, 10 years later, I'm married.。
I've been married three years.。
We actually have one on the way.。
I don't know if I've ever said that here.。
Yeah, get excited.。
And-- yeah, thank you.。
It's important.。
And now that I'm married, if I was to do something very。
similar, it wouldn't be funny.。
I would get booed off the stage.。
I would not be allowed to preach it.。
In other words, if I, like, last night, it was date night,。
and I'm like, hey, you know, ever。
since you got pregnant, morning sickness has made you really。
not fun for dates.。
So I'm going to take Jennifer on a date.。
Everyone would go, even if it's kind of funny,。
it's only funny because hopefully it's not true, right?。
Because we'd all go, that's not funny.。
That's adultery.。
Like, that's unfaithfulness.。
You're married.。
And the reason I start there is because tonight,。
when it comes to the topic of adultery,。
and kind of where we would draw the line on what。
would be inappropriate, what would be wrong,。
Jesus begins to open the discussion on the Sermon。
on the Mount, which is what we're diving into all summer。
long, where he begins to say, the line you've drawn,。
all of you--。
me, his audience then, our culture, our room right here--。
all of you have drawn a line as it relates to adultery,。
and it's in the wrong place.。
It's nowhere near as far back as it was always intended to be.。
You think just because you're not married,。
it may not be adultery.。
Just because you don't have sex, it may not be adultery.。
And he begins to say, you don't understand adultery.。
You don't understand the intent of that law.。
And he's going to redefine it for us.。
And not only that, he's going to say, the consequences,。
if you don't understand where that line is--。
and most of us go, I've never committed adultery.。
That probably goes-- and the strict definition of it,。
society-wise, would probably say, no, I've never committed。
adultery.。
And Jesus is going to say, you don't。
understand what adultery is.。
He backs up the line and says, not understanding it。
has consequences for this life and eternal life.。
So we're going to be in Matthew chapter 5.。
If you have a Bible, you can flip open to Matthew.。
It's the very first book in the New Testament.。
If you hit Psalms, just keep going.。
Kind of your right, you'll hit Matthew.。
We're going to be in chapter 5 as we explore the most famous。
sermon in human history, a sermon that。
has been quoted more by politicians, more by people。
than any other message in history, the message actually。
that changed Gandhi.。
Remember Gandhi?。
It was a sermon on the Mount.。
It changed my life.。
And really, we explore the message, the very first。
message Jesus ever gave.。
Last week, JP talked about anger.。
And the whole sermon on the Mount, for large parts of it,。
Jesus comes in and says, you think if you don't murder,。
then you're not a murderer.。
But I tell you, if you have anger in your heart,。
it's the same sin.。
And he begins to raise the standard,。
elevate, Jesus says, the law to where it was always。
intended to be.。
Tonight, he's going to explore the topic of sexual sin。
or adultery and lust.。
So we're going to look at Jesus's redefining of adultery,。
his instructions to remove adultery.。
And you'll begin to see what I'm talking about.。
And then his, really, words as it。
relates to remarriage and adultery,。
redefining, removing, and remarriage and adultery.。
We're going to pick it up in verse 27.。
And we'll get started.。
He's gathering on a hillside.。
There's a crowd in front of him.。
And he begins to teach the very first message he would ever。
give.。
You have heard it said, Jesus speaking,。
you've heard that it was said, you shall not commit adultery.。
So his audience is going, yeah, that's not a good thing.。
Adultery, sleeping with someone else's husband。
or someone else's wife, not a good thing.。
It's a commandment.。
But I tell you that anyone who looks at a woman or a man。
lustfully has already committed adultery。
with her in his heart.。
Jesus's first point, really, in this passage。
is redefining what adultery is.。
He says, and he really said to his entire audience,。
you've heard it said, you shall not commit adultery.。
But I mean, think about this.。
We've kind of heard it.。
It's kind of numb on us.。
The Bible's like, oh, that's so mysterious.。
To his audience, he just said, you've heard it said,。
if you don't commit adultery, that's OK.。
I tell you, if you lust after anyone, you're an adulterer.。
And his audience is going, what?。
Jesus, you are so intense.。
If I have lust in my heart, if I look lustfully after someone,。
I'm an adulterer?。
What do you mean by lust?。
The word he uses is really just the word for strongly desire,。
to look at someone, a guy or a girl, and say, I want you.。
I strongly desire that person, someone。
who's not your spouse.。
Jesus says, when that moment comes,。
you've crossed the line, David, porch of adultery.。
You don't understand what adultery is.。
He says, it's not a matter of the hands.。
It's a matter of the heart.。
And I think what is interesting further。
is that Jesus answers the question for all of us。
and probably most of us have asked it.。
Hey, how far is too far?。
That's what Jesus just gave us the answer to.。
Hey, how far is too far?。
Me and Sally, we're dating, can we kiss?。
Can we use tongue?。
What's the problem?。
How far is too far?。
And Jesus says, hey, look, let me tell you how far it is.。
The moment you lust after someone, it's too far.。
You've committed adultery.。
Jesus, that's so intense.。
You're calling me an adulterer?。
And I think what's hard about adultery。
or hard about lust, which is Jesus would say, same thing,。
is that it masks itself in curiosity.。
Have you noticed this?。
Like it masks itself in like,。
huh, I wonder who this person is.。
Hmm, do I know them?。
It masks itself in curiosity.。
Girls, maybe you're flipping through Instagram。
and you're like, oh, who is this guy with a 12 pack?。
I didn't even know we had that many abs.。
I need to click to make sure I counted correctly here.。
It masks itself in curiosity.。
Or like on Facebook, where you're like,。
oh, look, photo albums.。
Hmm, Cancun 2012.。
Wonder what that is, a little mission trip maybe?。
I don't know what this could be, huh?。
Let me just see what, I'm sure they're serving the Lord.。
It masks itself in curiosity.。
And Jesus says, look, you may fool yourself.。
You're not fooling me.。
That's adultery.。
Anytime that you entertain that bikini picture,。
that picture just in general。
of looking after someone with lust, I want you.。
Married or not married.。
He says you've crossed the line into adultery.。
It's not just having the act of sexual intercourse.。
It starts way, way, way before that.。
So don't think you're off the hook.。
He would say to me and say to you.。
Say to his audience then.。
I think it's so hard for me to reconcile this。
because like a week ago, a really well-known pastor,。
a guy with a huge platform and a successful author,。
a young guy, really lots of influence.。
A guy that we've had speak here at Watermark multiple times.。
Came out and he basically said, I've been having an affair。
and I'm stepping down from ministry.。
And when you're in ministry, like myself,。
or I just remember JP sent me that article。
and it's kind of one of those mixed moments。
where you're like, man, heartbroken,。
another one bites the dust.。
And then this feeling goes through my heart。
of just really honestly judgmental.。
I'm going, how could you do that?。
How could you forfeit this platform that God's given you?。
And what's sad about that, and I'm not saying that。
to throw him under the bus as much as I am to say this,。
just a few hours before that,。
I was in the kitchen and I was washing dishes。
and my wife was in the other room。
and I'm washing dishes in the sink。
and there's a window that faces our front yard.。
It's like six o'clock at night, Sunday night.。
And I'm washing dishes, she's in there watching,。
I don't know what she was watching,。
but I'm washing dishes, she's husband of the year award。
and I am self-awarded.。
And I'm washing dishes and I'm looking out the front window。
and all of a sudden this young woman walks by my window。
and wearing very short shorts, Jenny the jogger,。
shows up with her dog and she's walking by。
and her dog relieves himself and she,。
right straight, and like Satan, I know what,。
right straight in my view, bends over in front of me。
and my first thought was not, oh my gosh, look away.。
It was, who is that?。
She must work out.。
My first thought wasn't, wasn't,。
hey, I know who that is, that's not my wife.。
And Jesus says in that moment when you go, wow,。
lust, adultery.。
And that same part of my heart that was going,。
oh my gosh, how could you do that,。
totally in Jesus goes, how could you do that?。
That's the same sin, you may not make national news,。
it's the same sin and you don't fool me, David.。
That's adultery.。
And really, if this wasn't bad enough,。
Jesus, his audience, I'm telling you,。
if you're hearing this for the first time,。
you're like, man, this guy's intense, go back to carpentry.。
This is not a fun sermon to hear,。
not a feel good for the message in the crowd,。
but it really almost gets worse, he keeps going.。
And if your right eye causes you to stumble,。
gouge it out and throw it away.。
I'm gonna read it like they would have heard it。
'cause Jesus moves through.。
And if your right eye causes you to stumble,。
gouge it out and throw it away.。
It's better for you to lose one part of your body。
than for the whole body to be thrown in hell.。
Wait, gouge it out?。
Take my eye, if I'm tempted to lust,。
you want me to gouge out my eye, throw it away?。
Where do you throw an eyeball away?。
That's what you want me to do?。
I have to become Cyclops to follow Jesus?。
Yeah, and if your right hand causes you to stumble,。
cut it off and throw it away.。
Now you have two limbs,。
you have to figure out where to throw it away.。
And it's better for you to lose one part of your body。
than for the whole body to go into hell.。
Amputation, Jesus, really?。
Is that what we're talking about?。
What does he mean?。
Well, he doesn't mean amputation。
because you still have one other hand.。
What he's saying is not, hey, you need to amputate,。
it's eliminate.。
Here's what Jesus tells us。
about the topic of our second point, removing adultery.。
Sexual sin is serious, Jesus says.。
I want you to take extreme measures.。
I want you to go to extremes,。
which is what the hyperbole of cutting off your arm。
or gouge out in your eye.。
If you think he really means that,。
I wouldn't die on that hill,。
and so better for you。
if you think you should really cut it off.。
I think more scholars would say he's saying extreme,。
take extreme measures, eliminate.。
It's not about amputate, it's about eliminating,。
removing access.。
Sexual sin is serious.。
Kill it before it's killing you.。
Take extreme measures to remove access.。
I think in our culture, everywhere that you look,。
this is so huge for the church。
because everywhere in terms of the sexual morality。
that you and I are exposed to。
or the temptation towards sexuality is everywhere.。
Everywhere you look,。
everything is trying to sell stuff through sex.。
It used to be just like Maxim.。
Now it's like Wheaties boxes are low cut。
and everywhere that you look,。
our society is baiting you to the edge of sexual disaster.。
When Jesus says be extreme,。
the music that you listen to,。
if it's gonna lead you down that road,。
change the station, turn off the music.。
Beyonce, Queen Bee has done more to put forward。
just a tainted wrong view of sexuality。
than any other artist that I know of.。
That's a female, probably be the best way to say it.。
Movies, you can't go to movies anymore。
without being exposed to pornography.。
You don't have to have a computer, you can see it。
in movies that are popular and common.。
In fact, here's a way to remove access,。
guys, especially who are perverts like me,。
write this down, pluggedin.com.。
If you wanna know where you can go to find out,。
is this movie gonna expose me to something。
that Jesus says, cut it off, remove it.。
Pluggedin.com, pluggedin.com.。
Be extreme, he would say.。
Delete the phone number of that late night person you call。
that ends up hooking up with.。
Delete the number.。
Do whatever you have to to remove access.。
Pornography is out of control in our country.。
The porn industry in the United States。
makes more money than professional baseball,。
basketball, and football combined.。
Is it no wonder that rape is out of control?。
It's more common to be raped than to be a smoker.。
And all of us, our society's like, yeah, sex, sex, sex,。
while it wreaks havoc in our lives.。
Pornography, if you struggle with porn,。
he would say, get rid of the computer.。
Get rid of the smartphone, get a flip phone.。
I don't know why that's funny.。
(audience laughing)。
He had a razor, oh my gosh.。
I don't know why that's funny.。
Take extreme measures, Covenantize.。
Guys, I'm just, this message brought to you by Covenantize.。
If you don't have Covenantize, I think you're crazy.。
I've had it for a decade.。
I counted up the amount of money.。
Covenantize is software you put on your computer。
and any mobile device you have.。
It helps monitor so that you aren't led down the road。
towards pornographic material in any sense.。
If you don't have Covenantize, I think you're crazy.。
I counted up.。
I've spent $1,200 in the last 10 years.。
The best investment I've ever made.。
10 bucks a month, message brought to you by Covenantize.。
Moving on.。
Get Covenantize if you're a guy or a lady, across the board.。
But do whatever you have to, Jesus says,。
remove access to sexual sin.。
And he doesn't say this because God is against sex.。
God is the most pro-sex being on the planet.。
God invented it.。
That's like Steve Jobs being against the iPhone.。
God invented sex.。
There wasn't sex and God was like, I got an idea.。
How about this?。
God is the one who made it.。
God is pro-sex and here's further why it's not about him。
being against sex.。
It's because he's pro you.。
He didn't just want you to remove sexuality。
'cause he's like, I hate fun.。
He wants to remove sexuality because he knows the power。
of sex.。
He gave this amazing and incredible gift to man.。
But it was a gift given to be used in a very specific place.。
A marriage between a man and a woman.。
He said, look, I'm gonna give this gift。
and here's what sexuality's gonna do.。
It's gonna unite the man and the woman together.。
And inside of that one context, marriage,。
it has the power to bring them together。
and I'm gonna give them this powerful gift.。
But outside of that context, it can be incredibly。
and will be incredibly destructive。
towards anything that it touches.。
It's like fire.。
Like, honestly, like a fireplace.。
Like if you have a fireplace,。
a fire in the fireplace in the winter is awesome, right?。
You're like, oh man, this is so great.。
But when fire is ravaging through your living room,。
it's not awesome when it's burning down the house.。
And God says, just like fire is great in the fireplace,。
not great in the living room.。
Sex was intended, this powerful thing that touches you。
with the soul for marriage.。
And in that context, and I'm not anti-sex,。
I'm pro-sex and I'm pro you.。
So do whatever you have to to remove access,。
to remove sexual sin from your life.。
And the reason I think he's so passionate about this,。
like be killing it or it will kill you,。
is 'cause here's what I know about sexual sin.。
After so many different conversations down front。
with lots of you guys, just with young adults。
for the past eight years,。
sexual sin, unlike really any other sin that I know of,。
or very few, kills relationships.。
And it specifically kills two types of relationships.。
The first one is your relationship with God.。
If you're in sexual sin right now, you've known this.。
It creates a fog, a darkness in your life.。
And God says, I don't want you to experience that.。
I want you to have a relationship with me at a deep level.。
This is why at the beginning of the Sermon on the Mount,。
here's what Jesus said.。
Here's how we know that purity or lack of purity。
impacts your relationship with God.。
He says, "Blessed are the pure in heart."。
Here's why, they're gonna see God.。
"Blessed are those who are pure on the inside,。
"and their purity on the inside will impact。
"their ability to see God on the outside."。
Not just in heaven, in this life.。
If you're walking through and in the darkness。
of sexual sin, you don't stand condemned here,。
but you do stand called into the light。
because God wants you to experience。
deep relationship with him, and he knows that purity。
your lack of purity or purity of mind and heart。
impacts your ability to see God at work.。
He says, "Blessed are the pure in heart."。
They're gonna see God.。
They're gonna see him in this world.。
They're gonna see him at work in their life.。
They're gonna see him at work around them.。
It impacts your relationship, sexual sin,。
like few things I know of.。
He says, "I have so much more for you."。
The second relationships it kills, this is no mystery.。
It's just your relationship with the person。
you're having sex with.。
Casual sex is just empty.。
One night stands, it's empty.。
It ends up being like, I would never marry you.。
Dating someone, you introduce sex,。
it always gets more complicated.。
And God who loves you says, "I've given this incredible gift。
"for marriage, for this one context,。
"and if you let it just like a fire into the living room,。
"it's gonna destroy everything it touches.。
"But inside of where it was created for,。
"it brings life, unity, and all the things。
"that I want you to experience。
"in your relationship with your spouse.。
"So do whatever you have to to remove access."。
And he really finishes,。
and he goes into the third idea in this passage,。
which is remarriage and adultery.。
It has been said, anyone who divorces his wife。
must give her a certificate of divorce.。
But I tell you, and so they're going, oh no, buckle up,。
that anyone who divorces his wife,。
except for sexual morality,。
makes her the victim of adultery.。
And anyone who marries a divorced woman or man。
commits adultery.。
Jesus says, if someone is married,。
and they divorce, and they get remarried,。
they commit adultery.。
And his audience is going, what, Jesus,。
I don't think you understand what you're saying.。
If someone is married, and they get divorced,。
and then they get remarried to a new spouse,。
that's not adultery, that's just a new marriage.。
And Jesus would say,。
that's 'cause you don't understand marriage.。
Really, he indicates more clearly why。
if you divorce and marry someone else, it's adultery.。
In Matthew 19, a few chapters later,。
where he is asked this exact question。
as it related to, hey, what are the circumstances。
it's okay to divorce and remarry?。
And I want you to listen to his answer.。
I don't even know if this is on the screen,。
but I'm gonna read it.。
Matthew 19, the question,。
when is it permissible and okay to divorce?。
Verse four, haven't you read, he replied, Jesus speaking,。
that at the beginning,。
the creator made them male and female.。
And he said, for this reason,。
a man will leave his father and mother。
and be united to his wife,。
and the two will become one flesh.。
So they are no longer two, but one flesh.。
Therefore, what God has joined together,。
let no one separate.。
In a word, what is Jesus' answer。
to is divorce okay?。
No.。
Is it permissible?。
He says, I don't even know if it's possible,。
because here's what the Bible teaches about marriage.。
Here's why this is such a crazy idea。
and hard for me to understand,。
'cause he was like, 'cause you don't understand。
fully marriage, David.。
It doesn't say that the pursuit,。
and we use this language all the time,。
and I think it's a good, sticky statement.。
The pursuit of marriage is oneness.。
The Bible doesn't teach that,。
although that's a good thing.。
It says the result of marriage is one flesh.。
The result of not just you standing at the altar。
in a tux and a white dress,。
but when you and that other person,。
when you and your spouse-to-be。
commit your lives to one another,。
God is the active agent, God joins together.。
And the two, he says, become one.。
That's why when a person goes。
and tries to marry someone else,。
they commit adultery,。
because God says, you're still one flesh over here.。
You may have a divorce paper.。
The court may have said, yeah, it's over.。
But I didn't recognize it, God says.。
There's a permanence to marriage.。
And so Jesus' audience, of course, is flabbergasted。
that it's not just a ceremony and a honeymoon,。
but a lifelong commitment.。
But did Jesus just give an out, sexual morality?。
Did he create an exception except for sexual morality?。
I'm gonna move really quickly through this.。
There's two camps on this discussion,。
and so I'll try to give real quick layups for both of them.。
There's resources on the Porch blog.。
There's actually messages that have been done。
at Watermark Media, and I'd encourage you。
to go check this out, but there's two camps.。
Did he just give an out?。
So marriage is permanent。
unless they committed sexual morality.。
There's two camps.。
One of them would say, good people on both sides.。
One of them would say, yes, he just gave an out.。
And the other would say, no, that's not an out.。
And you may think, how could they not think?。
It says, accept sexual morality.。
Here's why.。
Because the other two places this passage is mentioned。
in the New Testament, Mark and Luke,。
accept sexual morality is not included.。
It's not in there.。
That little part's left off.。
And which gospel would you prefer to read。
if you're reading Matthew's or Mark and Luke's?。
It's so permanent.。
And so they think, no, no, no,。
it's referring to something in the Jewish culture,。
which Matthew is really heady, written to,。
and it relates to the betrothal period.。
But there's good people on either side,。
but either way, that's something for you to wrestle through.。
Am I saying that if you're divorced in this room,。
or you're dating someone who's divorced,。
that you should not date someone。
other than your original spouse?。
Or if you marry someone other than your spouse,。
former spouse, you commit adultery.。
Maybe.。
What I'm for sure saying is that you need。
to really wrestle with that if that's a part of your story.。
And we'd love to wrestle alongside of you with that.。
And you may be going, what?。
I'm never going to marry that guy again.。
I'm never going back to him.。
He's a jerk, he's crazy, he was abusive, he was violent.。
She walked out, she was crazy,。
she slept with my best friend, all those different things.。
And we would just say, would you be open。
to just praying for God to step in and act there?。
Which I know makes you go, no, she's,。
I know she is off the deep end, or he was off the deep end.。
There's no way, I know him, I lived with him,。
I was married to him, he's not changing.。
And I, like you, my heart often, in cases like that,。
here's what I am tempted to believe.。
I put more belief or faith in sin。
than in Jesus' ability to change.。
I put more faith when I believe that.。
I believe that, I believe my dad, at times,。
will never trust Christ.。
And here's what I'm doing, I'm going,。
I believe, I have more faith in the power of sin。
than the power of Jesus to change.。
And would you be open to just considering。
that maybe Jesus could change that person,。
as bad and crazy as it may seem?。
We see it all the time.。
But bottom line, at least, minimum, wrestle with that issue.。
Three things that are very clear about Jesus' teaching。
on marriage and adultery and remarriage。
is that marriage is a big deal to God.。
And I think it's so important。
for this life stage specifically,。
you guys, man, I want this so bad for you.。
80% of you will get married in the next 10 years, 80%.。
So everyone but this section, too bad,。
will get married.。
And that's not actually true, but everyone,。
I don't know, I did it again, everyone but this section.。
80% of you will get married in the next 10 years.。
And what I think Jesus wants you to know and understand。
is there's something permanent going on with marriage.。
It's not just a ring and a license.。
It's so much deeper than that.。
And as you enter into dating, and here's what dating is,。
dating is a path that leads towards a promise.。
That's you standing, white dress, tux,。
leads towards a promise。
that leads towards a lifelong pursuit.。
That's what dating is.。
Dating is a path that leads towards a promise.。
If you're not moving towards a promise, you're not dating.。
You're just, I don't know what you're doing,。
but if you're not moving towards that promise, break up.。
Dating is a path that moves towards a promise。
that leads towards a lifelong pursuit.。
And as you move towards that pursuit,。
as you move towards that promise,。
Jesus would say, you need to know what you're getting into.。
And if that scares you,。
that's probably, he would say, a good response.。
At the end of the Matthew passage in Matthew 19,。
his disciples were like, if that's the case,。
why would anyone want to get married?。
And Jesus doesn't correct them.。
He's like, all right.。
Walks off.。
Read it, Matthew 19 10.。
But you need to know what you're getting into.。
And the second thing that's very clear,。
and this isn't even in the Bible,。
we just look around and see this,。
is the destructiveness of divorce.。
I mean, it's no mystery why God would hate divorce.。
Look at the ripples of chaos just in our country.。
Time Magazine in 2009 said,。
"There is no single force creating as much measurable。
"hardship and human misery in the United States。
"as divorce."。
And the culture around us welcomes it on,。
puts an emphasis on getting married,。
but not on staying married.。
And it always, the price you pay for divorce is pain.。
And our world is not gonna say anything different.。
They're gonna say, Kanye, we want prenup.。
We want prenup.。
All right?。
(congregation laughing)。
And Jesus says, Kanye, you don't get marriage.。
You don't understand what you're a part of.。
I know the pain of divorce very personally.。
My parents are divorced.。
My wife's parents are divorced.。
My sister's divorced.。
And I feel the scars at every holiday, every graduation.。
I feel the pain of having to do everything twice.。
And God says to all of us, humanity,。
it was never intended to be this way.。
It was never intended to be this way.。
The third reason I think,。
or the reason it's such a big deal, marriage to God,。
is not just 'cause the pain it brings,。
but because marriage ultimately is a metaphor.。
Like, that's what marriage is.。
And I'm like, I get so focused on,。
yeah, it's me and my wife, it's awesome, this is great.。
And God's like, marriage is a picture.。
I'm giving you this picture, and it's a metaphor.。
Here's what it's a metaphor.。
Ephesians 5, you can read this in 30 through 32 later,。
but where Paul basically says,。
hey, for this reason, a man will leave his father and mother。
and be united to his wife,。
and the two will become one flesh.。
And then he says this, I love this,。
say it at every wedding I do.。
This is a profound mystery.。
Yeah, Paul, that is mysterious, two becoming one.。
And then he says, but I'm talking about Christ。
and the church, that's what marriage is about.。
That marriage ultimately is a picture of God's unending,。
unstoppable, unbreakable love and covenant with his people,。
his church, his bride.。
That's what marriage is.。
That's what marriage is ultimately about, God's love.。
And that's why he takes it so seriously,。
because he says, I'll never give up on my bride.。
I'll keep chasing, I'll keep pursuing, I'll never stop.。
And that's what I want marriage,。
human marriage to reflect and be about.。
I think there's two responses to this room,。
or to this message in this room.。
And the first one is shame.。
When you listen to Jesus's words, they're just so harsh.。
Anyone who marries someone whose divorce commits adultery,。
if I look at someone lustfully, I'm an adulterer.。
And the first one is shame.。
And here's what I'm so convinced of.。
And I hope you believe me.。
And I don't know if you will.。
Jesus was here, you wouldn't feel shame.。
You wouldn't feel condemned.。
He said, I didn't come to shame you, I came to save you.。
You don't need my help for shame.。
I came to save.。
There's a woman, the most beautiful picture of this。
that I know you would not, if you've had that。
in your past, feel condemned.。
If Jesus was here, it was in John chapter eight.。
You're gonna read the story later,。
where a woman who was caught having sex。
with a man who was not her husband.。
A woman, she's having sex, she's married,。
she's having sex with another man,。
and she's caught in the act.。
And Jesus is at the temple, it's early one morning,。
he's teaching the people.。
And they drag her in, this group of Pharisees,。
the Bible says, and they throw her in front of Jesus.。
And they say, we just found this woman having sex。
with a man who wasn't her husband.。
And they begin calling for the death penalty.。
So the law says, Jesus, what do you say?。
Jesus, God in flesh, he bends down。
and begins a really bizarre and peculiar action.。
He begins writing in the sand.。
We don't know what he wrote.。
And after a couple moments, he looks up and he says,。
let the one without sin be the first one to throw the stone.。
And then he bends back down and keeps writing.。
And the Bible says, one by one, the men went off。
until it was just the woman and the Son of God bending down.。
And Jesus then looks up and he says this.。
Jesus straightened up and asked her,。
verse 10, chapter eight, woman, where are they?。
Has no one condemned you?。
What is the Son of God going to say。
to the woman caught in adultery,。
caught in the midst of sexual sin,。
caught going against the law,。
to the man caught looking at pornography。
late during the internet or at work?。
What is he gonna say to the person。
who sleeps with that coworker, who's not their spouse,。
who's someone else's spouse on that business trip,。
to the man walking out of the strip club?。
What is the Son of God, perfect righteousness gonna say?。
They don't condemn you, neither do I condemn you.。
And then he says, and not only do I not condemn you,。
but here's what you need to know.。
Go and leave your life of sin.。
I don't condone it.。
Sometimes we swing too far and we're like,。
no, there's no, we don't condemn.。
That's fine, do whatever you want.。
And Jesus says, I don't condemn and I don't condone,。
but I'm perfect righteousness, God in a bod,。
and I'm standing before you looking eyeball to eyeball,。
woman who just had sex with a man who wasn't her husband.。
And I don't condemn you, but I have so much more for you.。
Go, daughter, leave this.。
I have so much more for you.。
And the second flawed response。
is that we won't take sexual sin and marriage serious enough。
that we'll listen and just go,。
ah, it's not that big of a deal.。
And Jesus says, kill it before it kills you。
and brings you to that dark place,。
brings you to that place where your relationship with God。
just feels in this dark place,。
your relationships with others, your future spouse, kill it.。
What does it look like to take sin seriously for the guys?。
I think that looks like you may need。
to get rid of your computer.。
If you're having a porn problem, you come down front,。
this always happens where it's like,。
I'm trying to quit looking at porn.。
Good, where's your computer?。
Well, it's at my house.。
Good, where's your phone?。
Well, here it is, it's an iPhone, iPhone 6 Plus.。
And they pull it out and it's like,。
look, you gotta get rid of those things.。
You gotta get covenantized.。
Taking steps towards removing those things,。
it's playing with fire and will bring destruction.。
It means leading purely in relationships,。
leading out impurity in your dating relationships,。
taking sexual sin seriously, girls,。
I think it looks like you're watching。
your intake on the bachelor and the bachelorette.。
And I'm not going into that here, that's for you.。
But if you allow the bachelor。
to inform what you're looking for,。
inform what you're expecting,。
it's going to lead down the same destructive path。
you can check out at seven o'clock on ABC。
every Monday night.。
It's true.。
You may need to get rid of Cosmo Magazine.。
50 Shades of Grey, watch what you're taking in.。
And second area is you can help the guys in this room。
who are perverts like me by dressing modestly,。
by dressing modestly, because we need your help.。
And you may be going, look, that's their problem.。
If they are lusting after me, that's their problem.。
And yes, it is our problem.。
We're inviting you to help.。
And you may be going, look,。
no matter what I wear, they could lust.。
I could be in an astronaut suit.。
Maybe like, oh, where you at, girl?。
Astronaut, okay.。
It's true, it is true.。
So Jesus said, I want your heart,。
but you can help us right now.。
And here's where I think the church,。
we always get this wrong,。
'cause we're like, yeah, modest is hottest,。
but not really.。
Ha ha, we always get it wrong.。
Here's what I mean by modest.。
It's not dressing frumpy.。
It's not wearing canvas bags.。
It is dressing, the best definition I know of,。
I stole from some other woman on this topic.。
She said this, modesty is not about hiding your body.。
It's about revealing your dignity.。
Modesty is not about a woman hiding her body.。
It's about a woman revealing her dignity.。
And it's not dressing frumpily.。
Be stylish, be crazy stylish.。
But help your brothers in the room.。
And the third area, just of a response。
I think we all have to do,。
especially if you don't know where you land,。
is wrestle with divorce and remarriage.。
It's very clear what Jesus says as it relates to marriage.。
The exception clause, you can wrestle with it yourself,。
but the permanence of it, Jesus says,。
that's because marriage is a big deal to me.。
I created it, God says.。
You can invent divorce, which man did.。
You can change rules, add rules,。
but in the beginning I created it.。
And it's mine, and it's a metaphor.。
And that's why I care so much about it.。
The most well explained maybe example。
of how much God cares about marriage,。
of how marriage is really just this picture, he says,。
of his love for the church is this book called Hosea.。
It's in the Old Testament, and it's named Hosea.。
And it's about this man named Hosea。
who was a prophet for the nation of Israel.。
And prophets during that time would be people。
who God would come and say, hey,。
I'm gonna have you speak to the nation of Israel。
on my behalf.。
And you might be going, oh, that's weird.。
I mean, couldn't he have messed it up?。
What happened, if you were a prophet。
and you prophesied something that was wrong,。
they killed you.。
And so not everyone was like,。
yeah, I wanna be a prophet when I grow up,。
because you would die if you didn't get it right.。
And so Hosea is the prophet.。
God says, I'm gonna have you speak.。
And sometimes God would have the prophets,。
Jeremiah, Ezekiel, this is just in the Old Testament,。
if you ever wonder what those are about,。
those are the prophet books, prophetic books.。
And he'd have them do these like funny things.。
I'm gonna have you say this,。
and then I'm gonna have you live this way.。
And Hosea was asked to do maybe the most peculiar。
of all the prophet actions.。
And here's what happened.。
God comes to him, he says, Hosea,。
I want you to do something for me.。
I want you to get married.。
Hosea's like, awesome, cha-ching.。
And God says, and I've already got her picked out for you.。
She's a prostitute named Gomer.。
And you're gonna have children of prostitution.。
You wanna know if they're yours or not?。
She's gonna cheat on you over and over.。
And from Hosea, I'm going, am I sure this is God?。
This sounds like the devil.。
She didn't have a cool prostitute name, like cinnamon.。
Gomer, really?。
(congregation laughing)。
He says, yeah.。
And over and over.。
I apologize, if your name is cinnamon,。
we honor you tonight.。
No, not like that, but I like that name.。
Kill in a moment.。
And God says this, and she's gonna over and over again,。
cheat on you.。
And I'm gonna put it in your heart, Hosea,。
in case you're going,。
I don't know if I wanna do this.。
I'm gonna put it in your heart, love for.。
That you won't be able to stop.。
Here's why, because you are gonna be a reflection。
of that's how I feel towards my people.。
That they continually go after other lovers,。
and me, I love them, I won't stop pursuing them,。
I won't stop chasing them.。
That's how God feels.。
And he says, Hosea, that's how you're gonna display。
my love towards my people.。
And Hosea marries Gomer, they have a couple kids.。
And she keeps cheating on him.。
She goes away, she sleeps with other people,。
and then she comes back.。
And then one day, she doesn't come home.。
This is in Hosea.。
And what happens is word gets to Hosea, where's my wife?。
And they say, she sold herself into sex slavery.。
She's the property of someone else.。
She's a sex slave.。
I mean, you gotta think how this feels for Hosea.。
Hosea, that's like the pastor.。
That's like me, you know, the head pastor of some,。
the lead minister, a very influential figure,。
and his wife is sleeping around all the time.。
How does that work in society?。
Yeah, buddy, I bet you're a man of God.。
And Hosea hears his wife has been sold into slavery,。
and he goes looking for her.。
And he finds her inside of the city,。
and she's on an auction to be sold.。
And he goes up, and he says, that's my wife.。
The auction continues, and it's like, this is her price.。
And he goes, and he gets all the money that he has,。
and he sells property.。
And he comes back, and he says, how much?。
How much for my wife, who keeps running away, how much?。
And the man says, this is the price.。
And he says, I'll pay it.。
I'll pay it.。
And God says, this picture is just like the love of the Lord.。
It's just like the love of the Lord for his people.。
Read it, Hosea chapter three, one through three in there.。
It says, just like my love for my people.。
It never stops, it never ends.。
It's the point of marriage.。
Just like Hosea would pay that price,。
and in the verses that come after that in the book,。
here's what happens.。
It speaks of a day.。
It speaks of this day where God would look down。
at humanity, look down at the adulterers of humanity,。
me and you, those who had run after other gods,。
those who had turned their back on him,。
those who didn't trust him, who turned to pain pills,。
those who ran away through pornography,。
who slept with men that were not their husband,。
who slept with women who were not their husband,。
cheated, stole, lied, women who turned their back.。
And he looks down at humanity, and he says, how much?。
What's the price, God says?。
My son?。
I'll pay it.。
I'll pay it.。
And it speaks of this day that that's what marriage is.。
That you and I are Gomer, and God is Hosea,。
and he says, I'll pay it for my people,。
the adulterers, like you, David, and like you.。
On Friday, our world burst open。
with the saying that love wins.。
With the saying that love wins.。
The day that love won.。
And I'm not gonna address that right now.。
We've got resources, and we will address it,。
but here's what I want you to know.。
Not only do we not believe that was a day love won,。
that wasn't loving,。
but furthermore, that wasn't the day love won.。
There was a day, it was 2,000 years ago on a hillside。
where God in the flesh became a man,。
and he died on a cross for you and for me,。
and every look at pornography,。
every act that you've ever done,。
every drug you've ever taken,。
every time you've ever lied,。
every time you've ever stolen,。
everything was poured on him, all of it.。
That was the day love won.。
That's when love wins.。
Because Jesus wanted you to know it didn't happen in 2015.。
It happened at Calvary,。
where his love was displayed for his church, his people,。
and for you in the room.。
If you've trusted in that, that's the day love won.。
That's the only day love won.。
And tonight, if you've never accepted the free gift,。
that's what it means to be a Christian.。
You accept the free gift.。
Jesus on the cross, he paid for everything I've done.。
As bad as I think I am, or as good as I think I am,。
I'm trusting in myself, and I'm gonna trust in Jesus.。
He paid for it.。
In that moment, love wins.。
That's why we're passionate about getting the message out。
to a world that needs it.。
There was a day love won.。
There will be a day where all will see。
the gift of the God who through love wins.。
If you don't know that God, I'm gonna pray that you will,。
and we're gonna close as we worship.。
Father, thank you that you love men and women,。
men like me who turn my back on you,。
who don't trust you,。
who chase after other idols who I am Gomer.。
And yet in all of that, you say,。
I won't give up on my people.。
I'll never stop loving and pursuing,。
and my love, if they will accept it, will win.。
I ask now that by your spirit, would you win tonight?。
Would you win over sexual addiction?。
For my friends that believe that they'll never get out of it,。
that they would not have as much faith in their sin。
as they do in your son, Jesus, the power of Jesus.。
We ask that you would win in the hearts。
of those who don't know you,。
and that you would show them the way that love wins,。
because love has a name, Jesus.。
We worship him now, and we love him.。
Would you help us love him more?。
