And here's the thing, we're about to sing one more song and it's, the song talks。
about the reign of Christ. The lyrics of the song are "You reign above it all, over。
the universe in every heart." And we definitely want that for this room here。
in Dallas, Texas at The Porch. We want the rule and reign of Christ in our lives.。
And yet this is just a moment for young adults here in Dallas to gather together。
and to pray that for the Middle East tonight, for what's happening in Israel。
and Gaza. We want to pray for the rule and reign of Christ. I don't know how。
that war has been hitting you over the last few days. I'm actually half。
Palestinian and it has wrecked me, honestly. And so I'd imagine there are。
people here who are Jewish, there are people here who are Palestinian, and。
you're just wrestling with how to respond internally. And we just have a。
moment that we can seek the face of God together. As a generation here in Dallas,。
Texas, we can beg God to do something together. So here's what I want to do.。
There's a lot of freedom right now. If you want to get on your knees, you can。
get on your knees. If you want to stay standing, you can. If you want to sit down,。
you can. If you want to pray out loud, you can pray out loud. If you want to。
pray with the person next to you, you can pray with the person next to you. If you。
just want to sit silently in this moment, you can. But I just want to lead us。
through praying for a few things, and I'm going to ask you to respond. This is a。
chance for the people of God to lean in together and to ask for God's rule and。
reign. So here's the first thing that I want to invite us to pray for. One is I。
want to invite us to pray that God would show himself to be comforter for all of。
the family and friends that have lost loved ones. The death tolls right now,。
it's somewhere around a thousand Israelis. It's somewhere around 900。
Palestinians. So you think about the amount of loved ones that those people。
who have passed away, all that they represent. And let me just say, as half。
Palestinian, please don't view those 900 Palestinians as terrorists who deserved。
it. They're people created in the image of God. And so let me just ask for us to。
beg God to comfort right now. So you can pray out loud, you can pray with someone。
next to you, you can get on your knees, but let's pray. Let's pray together and。
just ask for the Lord's comfort in all the people's lives who have lost。
loved ones.。
[Music]。
And then next I want to invite you to just pray for the gospel to break。
through. I have to believe that a good majority of the people who passed away。
did not have a relationship with Jesus, and so we just want to beg that the。
gospel would break through in this moment in a supernatural way, and that。
there would be many Jews and Palestinians who would know Jesus。
Christ as the true Messiah and as the Savior of the world tonight. So I want to。
invite you to pray out loud and to beg God on behalf of countless people in the。
Middle East right now that they would know Jesus Christ in a personal way, that。
that God would reveal himself to people in miraculous ways in this moment.。
[Music]。
[Music]。
And as you just continue to pray, news reports that there's about at least a。
hundred people who were taken hostage, and so would you pray for those。
hostages, that God would sustain them, that he would preserve them, that he。
would return them to their families safely?。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
And then here's what I want to pray for. Here is the reality. The reality is that。
hurt and hate can lead to all sorts of evil, and we've seen that in Hamas's。
attack on Israel, and yet I honestly I fear that in the extent to which Israel。
will respond that there's a lot of hurt and there's a lot of hate, and that's a。
really dangerous thing. And so I even fear that there would be evil in the extent。
to which Israel would respond. And so here's what I'm asking you to pray.。
I'm asking you to pray that Jesus Christ would rule and reign, and that justice。
would be executed, evil would be restrained, the innocent would be。
preserved, and supernatural peace would come. That's what we're praying. That's。
what it looks like for Jesus to rule and reign above it all. That justice would be。
executed, that evil from either side would be restrained, that the innocent,。
both Jew and Palestinian, would be sustained,。
and that the peace that can only come from the Prince of Peace would come.。
Lord Jesus, we just put all of our hope in you. Our hope is all in you. Our hope。
is not in political figures in this world. Our hope is in you. As the King of。
Kings and the Lord of Lords, you, Jesus, have the name that is above every name.。
And so I just want to ask and pray, King Jesus, that your rule and your reign would。
manifest itself in such a miraculous, just astounding way in the Middle East.。
God, I do pray that you would execute justice and that you would restrain。
future evil, Lord God. And I pray that you would comfort the hurting. I pray that。
you would sustain the innocent. I pray that you would preserve them. I pray that。
you would supernaturally minister to them and give them everything that they need。
in the tonight, tonight, God, and in the coming days, Lord. And Jesus, you are the。
Prince of Peace, and it's only by the reconciling power of the Gospel that。
anything good can come in the midst of the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. And so。
God, I pray that you would have your way and that you would rule and reign, that。
there would be revival in the Middle East, that hearts would be turned towards。
you, both Jew and Palestinian, that people would put their trust in you, that。
people would call upon the name of the Lord and be saved, and that you would do。
what only you can do. Our hope is in you, God. And so we stand and we just declare。
that you, Lord Jesus, do in fact reign above it all.。
(gentle music)。
