[MUSIC]。
[MUSIC]。
>> Ports, how we doing?。
>> [APPLAUSE]。
>> Love it, love it.。
So in my transition and kind of, right, I think this was,。
trying to time stamp this, I think this was just before I became a Christian.。
Probably around 12, 13, 13 years ago.。
A friend in Dallas, so I was not a Christian as a young adult in Dallas.。
I'm kind of living in the bars and the clubs of Lower Greenville at the time and。
the uptown scene, and that's a part of my story.。
And so this friend invites me to this really exclusive kind of。
gathering club thing on Knox Henderson there.。
And so I didn't know, and they're like, hey, you gotta be on the list.。
Your name needs to be on the list, let's go.。
And I'm like, okay, yeah, well, let's go check that out.。
And so we're driving, and I'm kind of looking at the clubs that have all the。
lights and the stuff, come here, this would be fun, that kind of.。
And then we pull up to this, we valet, and then there's just a door.。
It's really unmarked, and there's a line in front of the door, and。
there's a big bouncer there.。
And so we get in that line, like this is the place, like really, it's this?。
And my friend, we were separate, by the way, and so they had told me,。
they had assured me that they had put my name on the list,。
your name has to be on the list.。
And so I'm kind of watching this line whittle down as I walk up there, and。
these insecurities start to set in, right?。
And because this guy, he's up there, and I mean, huge guy, bigger than me.。
I mean, looks like he ate a, well, he looks like Luke, actually,。
the guy that did announcements.。
And so he's up there, and he's just kind of checking this list.。
And there's this guy, a couple people in front of me, and he gets up there, and。
this bouncer looks at the list, and the dude tells his name,。
looks at the list again, flips the page, shakes his head.。
And dude does the walk of shame back to his car.。
And then I'm like, what if I gotta do the walk of shame?。
Like, what if they didn't put my name down on this list?。
I'm gonna get up there, like how embarrassing is that gonna be that I。
think I'm gonna go into this place, my friend told me it was gonna be this。
amazing thing at the time, what mattered to me, open bar, lots of free food,。
you know, great time, I'm excited about it, I'm in this line, I think I'm gonna go in.。
And then I'm thinking, all these insecurities hit, and。
I'm like, what if my name's not on the list?。
And I think for a lot of us, right, like in fact, if we can,。
just before we go further, let's just do this.。
I want the weight of tonight to hit us early,。
honestly, like where we're headed in this sermon on the mount.。
So would you close your eyes, and I just want you to envision something.。
So let's say you die, and you're standing in heaven, bright light.。
And you see in the distance Jesus Christ, the Son of God.。
And you're moving toward him, and it hits you the reality that everything。
that you had heard about Christianity is true.。
And you're just like, this is crazy, it's real, I'm in heaven.。
And then you begin to get excited because you've heard about heaven.。
And you're thinking, this is gonna be incredible.。
Like for the rest of eternity, I get to be with God, and you move closer to Jesus.。
And he says this, and I'm just gonna read to you the words tonight.。
You get closer to Jesus, there you are face to face with him, and he says,。
not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven.。
But only the one who did the will of my Father who lives here.。
And you might say, Lord, Lord, did I not serve in your name and。
do good to others in your name and share with others?。
I went to church, I attended the porch, I read my Bible.。
And then he tells you plainly,。
I never knew you away from me, you evildoer.。
You can come back with me.。
Those are the closing words tonight.。
In this message, as Jesus moves through the Sermon on the Mount,。
he's coming to the end of his sermon, and he ends with a bang.。
He wants you to feel this in Matthew chapter 7.。
Because the reality of it is, friends, there are only two religions.。
In the entire world, there really are only two religions.。
I know that flies in the face of maybe what you came in here thinking.。
But the reality of it is there is the religion of those who have trusted in。
Christ, God's provision through his son Jesus, his death and。
resurrection for the forgiveness of their sins, and then there is everything else.。
There is the worship of the evil one, Satan, and。
then there's the inadvertent worship of the evil one, Satan,。
through any other religion out there.。
Anything that you think will get you to paradise outside of trusting in God's。
provision and God's provision alone in Jesus Christ.。
Now, I understand that to some of you that is unbelievably offensive.。
And would you just hang out with me for 30 minutes?。
Let's teach this text.。
And if at the end of it we still disagree, I'd love a conversation with you.。
I'll stay as late as I need to, to have a conversation with you.。
And so excited about where we are.。
It's truth.。
It's God's sovereign truth.。
I saw one of you tweeted that earlier, and I love that.。
And so tonight we're talking about the two paths to heaven.。
And I think so many of us, we view Jesus like that bouncer that has this list, and。
he's letting some in and keeping others out.。
And I wanna see what part of that vision in our minds is true and。
what part of that vision in our minds is absolutely inconsistent with the word of。
God before we leave here this evening.。
And so we're in this series called Summer on the Mount,。
where on June 10th is where we started, and we started talking about the Beatitudes.。
The next message, we covered the fulfillment of the law in Jesus Christ.。
And then we talked about dealing with anger, as Jesus taught it.。
And then Jesus taught us about lust and adultery.。
As we move further in the Sermon on the Mount, we talked about commitment.。
Then we talked about love for our enemies.。
Then we talked about fake Christianity.。
Then we talked about an eternal perspective.。
And then we talked about what judge not lest you be judged really means.。
And then last week, we talked about praying to a good father who loves us and。
desires to give us good.。
We'll have one more week after tonight, and we'll go to launch.。
And then we'll come back and start a new series.。
And so excited about what God has for us ahead.。
Tonight, we're gonna cover two paths.。
Everyone is on one of two paths.。
Two types of prophets.。
One leads people astray.。
And two types of people.。
Those who will be with God forever, and those who won't.。
See, there's two types of people.。
There's those whose name is on that list right now, and。
there's those whose name is not on that list right now.。
So let's dive in.。
Matthew chapter 7, we'll start in verse 13.。
Jesus says this.。
Enter through the narrow gate, for wide is the gate and。
broad is the road that leads to destruction, and many enter through it.。
But small is the gate and narrow the road that leads to life, and。
only a few find it.。
Jesus commands you to enter.。
And he says, everyone will enter one of the gate.。
He says, most people will enter this gate, the wide gate.。
The one that is attractive to the world.。
Everyone come in this gate, but there's a sub gate.。
Much smaller, difficult to find, he says.。
And he says specifically, Jesus Christ, Lord on the earth,。
goes out of his way to say, only a few will enter here.。
And so he says, he exhorts you, porch, Dallas, Fort Worth, Houston,。
wherever you are, enter through that gate, please.。
My first point this evening is there are two paths, but only one leads to paradise.。
But I want you to know they both present paradise.。
No one says, hey, come here, go to hell.。
It's gonna be awesome.。
Weeping and gnashing of teeth, come in, come once.。
They both present paradise.。
Every false gospel out there, every false ideology out there。
is presenting to you some kind of good.。
It is a bait and switch.。
It says, hey, come in here and find life.。
This is where life is.。
And so many here tonight and so many listening have bought the lie。
that life is in the wrong place when Jesus Christ says, no, life's in here.。
Make sure you enter this door, this narrow gate.。
He says the other one, that's the road that the majority travels.。
That's heavy for us tonight, right?。
I mean, family goes down the road of the majority, the friends, close loved ones.。
That's really heavy.。
Many, he says most, most people, you might hear sometimes people say,。
well, I think most people go to heaven.。
Well, that's just not what Jesus said.。
Jesus said few.。
He says most people don't go to heaven.。
Most people go to hell.。
That's what he's saying right here.。
That's the road that many travel.。
He says, few find the small gate.。
It's not the normal path.。
And so here's what I would tell you here.。
If you spend your money like everyone else does, if you date like everyone else does,。
if you go the way of the crowds, you might want to make sure you enter。
through the right gate.。
But he says the people that enter through this gate, it's the marginal, the minority,。
the few, the weird ones, the odd ones, maybe the outcast, maybe the downtrodden.。
Few have found the truth.。
Just consider that for a minute, like the few have found the truth.。
How many people, if you just left here, and let's say you went somewhere,。
let's say you went to the mall, and you started going up to people and you say,。
"Hey, how do you get to heaven?"。
How many people would you talk to until someone said, "Well, you trust in God's。
provision through Jesus Christ, his death and resurrection."。
That's the only way.。
I mean, you may hear, you know, "Hey, there's not a heaven."。
You may hear, "Well, you do good works.。
You try to have your good works outweigh the bad.。
You try to be a good person."。
I don't know, believe in God.。
I don't know, know God.。
I don't know, read the Bible, go to church.。
You might hear those answers, but how many people would you have to talk...。
All of those are false gospels.。
They're all not true.。
They're all lies, and they lead you straight into this door.。
And then there's one, "Trust in Jesus Christ, his death and resurrection for the。
forgiveness of sins."。
Do you see how wide the road is that outside of trust in Jesus Christ, his death and resurrection。
for the forgiveness of sins?。
For he says in John chapter 10, verse 9 and 10, "I am the gate.。
Whoever enters through me will be saved.。
They will come in and go out and find pasture.。
The thief, that's Satan, comes only to steal, kill, and destroy.。
I have come that they may have life and have it to the full."。
So many of you think Jesus wants to rip you off.。
Jesus wants to set you free.。
Jesus wants to give you life so for the first time you can have life.。
I have partied hard, man.。
I have lived, I have searched the world.。
I have pursued money, drugs, sex, so many things where I thought life was only to come。
to a place where I found life in Jesus Christ.。
And I thought if you found life in Jesus Christ that you were delusional.。
And so some of you here tonight, I imagine, think that those that say, "Hey, we want to。
live radically for Christ," are delusional, we're not.。
We've just found something for true that's true.。
We've just found truth.。
I remember really in my transition when I had trusted in Christ and I had stopped hitting。
the bar scene and the club scene and there was this grand opening of this bar on Lower。
Greenville.。
It was called the Sugar Shack.。
Anybody hear this?。
Lower Greenville, if you're listening, is just kind of the club scene or was especially,。
more so even in my day.。
And that makes me feel old, in my day, back in my day.。
And so it was the grand opening of this place called the Sugar Shack.。
I think it's called, it's like the Bulzerk.。
It's right by the Old Crow, if you're familiar with that area.。
I know all of you are like, "Lower Greenville, where is that?"。
But anyways, and so the Sugar Shack was the grand opening.。
And it was kind of the same deal.。
Like there was a big buzz about it and everybody wanted to go.。
And so there was this long line and you'd wait in the long line of people and then you'd。
eventually make your way into the grand opening and then you'd fight your way to the bar because。
it was so crowded.。
And the DJ was in there.。
They brought in this DJ and everybody was jumping around and bouncing, just dancing。
and having a great time.。
And then lo and behold, the floor fell out on the grand opening.。
The wooden floor, which sat lots of feet above the concrete floor, which was 20 years old,。
fell and the entire club crashed through the floor.。
And I remember, in fact, here's a quote from someone that just says, "Everyone was having。
fun and suddenly the floor opens up and everyone starts screaming and people are being carried。
out on stretchers."。
You see that wide road?。
It has a trap door, man.。
Like that's what I think we're dancing off a cliff, man.。
I think we are living in this world in the pursuit of every indulgence and pleasure and。
comfort that we can find, keeping God out of it, keeping some sort of idea of like,。
"Yeah, I know God.。
Now let me get all the pleasure I can."。
And you don't know God.。
You don't have a real relationship with the creator.。
And I'm trying to tell you, Jesus is trying to tell you, that's the wide road.。
That's the wide road.。
And the wide path has a trap door.。
And we're dancing off that cliff.。
We are partying off that cliff and you don't win.。
And it does not go well in the end.。
And God is begging you, pleading with you to something else.。
And you say, "Well, how do you know He is?"。
Because you're here right now on a Tuesday night.。
You hear this message.。
You're going to leave here and return back to your wicked ways, back to your life, your。
pursuit of money, back to your pursuit of sex, back to your pursuit of pleasures.。
No, the Lord loves you so much.。
On a Tuesday night, He has you hearing this.。
This path is enticing, right?。
I mean, everyone, they want this path.。
It looks like the right path.。
And everyone on this path thinks they've chosen correctly.。
Like the people that have gone through this door, they think they have chosen the right。
gate.。
And they've been deceived.。
And they've been deceived by people, even people with Bibles, using truth to manipulate.。
Let's go back, verse 15.。
Watch out for false prophets.。
They come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ferocious wolves.。
By their fruit you will recognize them.。
Do people pick grapes from thorn bushes or figs from thistles?。
Likewise, every good tree bears good fruit, but a bad tree bears bad fruit.。
A good tree cannot bear bad fruit, and a bad tree cannot bear good fruit.。
Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.。
Thus by their fruit you will recognize them.。
Let me just, let me, it's heavy, I know.。
So let me back up and just remind you.。
Jesus is using prime real estate in the greatest sermon ever told, and He's wrapping it up.。
And before He finishes, He says, "Hey, I've got to tell you something."。
Like you've got to hear this, man.。
Like this is important.。
And so my second point this evening is there are two types of prophets, and many of those。
prophets are posers.。
Many of them are posers.。
They're fakes.。
They're frauds.。
They are not true, and you've got to learn to discern which ones are true of God, teachers,。
disciple-makers, teachers, and which ones are posers, because they both appear to be。
good.。
And He says, "How do you tell the difference between a real prophet and a false prophet?"。
He says, "By their fruit."。
He goes off on this gardening illustration, and He just says, "Hey, what does that mean?"。
Here's how I would translate that.。
By their product, by what they produce.。
So think about this.。
You know a teacher by a student.。
You know a disciple-maker by the disciples that they produce, because whatever they love,。
their people are going to love.。
Their followers.。
Disciple is just a word for follower.。
Christian is just a word for follower of Jesus, follower of Christ.。
He says, "You will know them by their fruit."。
And so in context, He's talking about the Pharisees that are there.。
So He's teaching this sermon outside.。
His disciples are close, and then the Pharisees and the Sadducees and the teachers of the。
law are there.。
Jesus had this ministry to them, opposing them.。
These were the religious people, and He expounds on that.。
There's a commentary on this in Matthew chapter 23.。
You could read the whole chapter.。
There's several woes to the Pharisees, but in verse 15, He just says this, "Woe to you,。
teachers of the law and Pharisees, you hypocrites."。
What is a hypocrite?。
It's somebody that appears to be one thing, but is really something else.。
You hypocrites.。
You travel over land and sea to win a single convert, and when you have succeeded, you。
make them twice as much a child of hell as you are.。
You already said, "Hey, woe to you religious people.。
You go on mission trips to Africa and to Hades and all over the world, and when you get there,。
you don't make them know God.。
You make them worship you.。
You do it so that they would think highly of you, more of you.。
You're making followers of you, not followers of me."。
Then He says this in verse 33, "You snakes, you brood of vipers, how will you escape being。
condemned to hell?。
Therefore I am sending you prophets and sages and teachers."。
See, also Paul, Peter, John.。
"Some of them you will kill and crucify.。
Others you will flog in your synagogues and pursue from town to town."。
What an incredible prophecy Jesus says here.。
He says, "I'm going to send to you my disciples, and you're going to kill them."。
That did not come true.。
They crucified Peter upside down, beheaded Paul, boiled John alive, threw James, his。
brother from the top of the temple, and then beat him with clubs because they wouldn't。
deny the resurrected Jesus.。
Why wouldn't they deny the resurrected Jesus?。
Because they knew it was true.。
They had seen it with their own eyes.。
So who are the false prophets today?。
I tell you, prosperity teachers you see on TV are the first ones that come to mind.。
First Timothy chapter 6, he gives a whole section to this.。
He says, "These are false teachers."。
Anyone who tells you that godliness is a means to financial gain, that's a liar and a false。
teacher.。
If anyone says, "Hey, give me your money, and I'll give you, and God's going to give。
you more money," they are a liar or a blackjack dealer or something.。
It says this in First Timothy 6, "If anyone teaches otherwise and does not agree to the。
sound instruction of our Lord Jesus Christ, other than the gospel, and to godly teaching,。
they are conceited and understand nothing.。
They have an unhealthy interest in controversies and quarrels about words that result in envy,。
strife, malicious talk, evil suspicions, and constant friction between people of corrupt。
mind who have been robbed of the truth and who think that godliness is a means to financial。
gain."。
What is the fruit of their teaching?。
Godliness equals financial gain.。
Some of you have bought into some false teaching.。
Some of you here tonight.。
I think so many of us, we pursue God, hoping just in return to get a better us.。
That's not what God is offering you.。
He's not offering you your best life.。
He's offering you His best life.。
He's not offering you a better you.。
He's offering you Him forever and ever and ever and ever and ever.。
My friend calls that therapeutic moralistic deism.。
He says that's the number one religion today.。
That is that you believe in God, therefore you do good to feel better.。
The center of your theology is you.。
It's self-centeredness.。
It is the greatest opposition to the church today.。
Narcissism.。
Self-centeredness.。
It's why depression levels are at an all-time high.。
Because we think about us too much.。
God says, "Will you stop thinking about you altogether and start to thinking about me。
and loving others?"。
Loving God and loving others.。
It's His will for your life.。
His purpose for your life.。
Anyone who teaches a false doctrine is a false teacher.。
What does that mean?。
That includes, so Jesus is who He's talking about here outside in our context, outside。
the context of the Pharisees.。
He's talking about world religions.。
Outside of Christianity, He's talking about cults that include works plus Jesus or Jesus。
plus works.。
Any ideology, let me break it down for you like this.。
Any ideology that says you are saved by anything other than Christ's works alone is false。
teaching.。
Doesn't that make it so simple for you?。
If they're teaching anything other than salvation by grace through faith alone, faith in Jesus。
Christ, His works alone, it is false teaching.。
It is not true teaching.。
You're being deceived and you're just there saying, "Hey, come in."。
They may not even know it, but they're saying, "Hey, come in.。
Enter the wide road."。
It's paradise, man.。
Paradise is in here.。
Come on.。
Come one and for all.。
Enter this gate.。
Meanwhile, Jesus said, "No, I am the way, the truth, and the life, and no one gets to。
the Father except through me."。
John 14, 6.。
This is the way.。
For it is by grace you have been saved through faith.。
This is not of yourselves.。
This is the gift of God, not by works so that no one can boast.。
Ephesians 2, 8, 9.。
Wide is the road, but narrow is the gate.。
Some of you are like, "But they're really good people.。
Like Gandhi was a good person."。
If he did not know Jesus, he's not with Jesus.。
The Dalai Lama, a good person.。
The problem with that is God says, "No one's good, not even one.。
And I promise you, nobody is good enough to get into heaven."。
Oprah, if she has not trusted in Christ, she will not be in his kingdom.。
He has the guest list, and he's invited all his friends.。
False teachers.。
We went to, I say we, we do this deal called Unashamed.。
I know a lot of you are familiar with it.。
It's where we go, we call it a mission trip in Dallas, and we go to Dallas, and we share。
Christ in the city of Dallas, in uptown, and lower Greenville, and West Dallas, and kind。
of our hometown, and Exotica, the pornography convention was here last week, a couple weeks。
ago.。
And so they had an Unashamed that weekend, and so Ryan and Allie and their friends went。
down there, and they just stood outside of Exotica and shared the love of Christ with。
those that are there, those that are looking for hope and the pleasures of sex and the。
sex industry.。
Sadly, there were some other people who called themselves Christians there.。
They were sat there at the gate, and as people came out, they said, "You deserve to be raped."。
They said, "You deserve AIDS in the name of Jesus.。
That's false teaching."。
He says, "You will know them by their fruit."。
Who are those people?。
They're the disciples of false teachers.。
That's the fruit of false teaching are those people.。
They bought some other gospel.。
But how can I say that?。
Because what is the fruit of God's spirit that indwells us?。
Galatians 5 tells us it's love, joy, peace, forbearance or patience, kindness, goodness,。
gentleness, faithfulness, and self-control.。
Where in that is, "Hey, you deserve to be raped."。
Where is that in the fruit of the spirit, friends?。
False teachers.。
Know them by their fruits.。
False teachers.。
False teaching.。
How do you know a good teacher by their student?。
The other day, my little girl, Finley, she's six years old, and we're driving down the。
road coming back from family camp, and we're listening to the radio.。
She just says, "Daddy, who do you think is trusted in Jesus more, Taylor Swift or Katy。
Perry?"。
I said, "I don't know, babe.。
They both got bad blood."。
I said, "I don't know, Finley, but here's what I know about T. Swift and Katy Perry.。
They're both false teachers.。
Baby girl, that's what you need to know.。
When you want to reflect on last Friday night or when you're feeling 22, you need to know。
that's a false gospel.。
When you're trying to fill a blank space with anything else, I'm not even trying to be funny。
or culturally relevant.。
Maybe I am.。
I'm just saying, hey, that's a false gospel.。
That is false teaching.。
It affects your cultural worldview, too.。
Some of us, that would be it.。
If we could just be like them, if you could just be like a false teacher, what do you。
think Jesus is saying here in Matthew chapter 7?。
He's called us out of the world to be different from the world.。
I think some of us are in goal as the world.。
He's called us out of the world that we would stand in contrast to the world not to set。
our goal on worldliness, that we would be like the world.。
What are you saying?。
That I need to be a radical Christian?。
I don't even know that there's such thing as a radical Christian.。
I think they're just run-of-the-mill normal Christians.。
People who give their money away to the poor, care for widows and orphans.。
People who share the gospel everywhere they go.。
People who feast on the word of God.。
People who sell out for the pleasures of the world for completely and full devotion to。
God.。
That's not radical Christianity.。
It's just Christianity.。
It's just living like you believe in Jesus.。
Said otherwise, it's just believing in Jesus.。
You grew up in a culture where if you claim the label as Christian, you are one.。
That's what so many people I meet with believe.。
I say, "Are you a Christian?"。
They say, "Yes."。
I present the gospel.。
They say, "I don't know if I believe that."。
What makes you a Christian?。
You can't just say, "I'm a Christian," and become one.。
That's like me saying I'm a doctor.。
Where did you go to residency?。
I didn't do residency.。
Where did you get your PhD?。
I don't have a PhD.。
How are you a doctor?。
"Oh, my dad's a doctor.。
His dad was a doctor, so I'm a doctor."。
How did you become a doctor?。
"Oh, you know, I go to the doctor a lot, so I'm a doctor."。
You can't just say you're a doctor and be one.。
You can't just say you're a Christian and be one.。
That doesn't make you a Christian.。
What makes you a Christian?。
You follow Christ.。
First and foremost, you trust in his provision of forgiveness for you through his act, not。
yours.。
That in the greatest event in the history of the world, also the worst event in the。
history of the world, became the greatest event in the history of the world.。
Christ died on a cross.。
God in the flesh on a cross.。
How did we miss it?。
That's so pivotal to Christianity that we would live every single day in light of that。
truth that Christ died for us, tortured and died for us, died as a payment for our sins,。
and went in the grave and defeated death.。
God raised him from the dead.。
And so many of you here tonight, you're not a Christian.。
It's the most loving thing I can tell you.。
If you are a Christian, you don't need to be offended by that.。
Awesome.。
Brothers and sisters, we'll be with you forever and ever and ever.。
Some of you need to hear as boldly as I can say it, you're not a Christian.。
You don't know Christ.。
You have no relationship with him.。
Y'all don't talk.。
Y'all don't communicate.。
You don't feast on his word.。
And when you do, it's for the acceptance of people, not him.。
You don't know him.。
And the reason I tell you that so boldly is that can change right now.。
And I don't need a number.。
I'm not collecting stripes or trying to raise money for anything.。
I'm just saying the way that you become a Christian is you trust in an event that happened。
in history, that every boy you slept with, every terrible thing you've done, every porn。
that you looked at, every materialistic act you've made, every act of righteousness you've。
done because you think you're something special.。
Every time you thought about yourself too much, went on Jesus on a cross.。
You pay for it as a payment.。
God said, I love you and I don't want to punish you for your sin.。
So I'll punish me for your sin so that I can be with you forever and ever and ever.。
And so he got what you deserved and therefore you get what he deserves as a perfect God.。
You can change that right now.。
You can leave here as a Christian.。
I just think that would be a tremendous, by my estimate, about a thousand of you are not。
Christian here tonight.。
And that can change.。
That doesn't even account for those listening in other places.。
And I just think the world, the kingdom would be so much more incredible if that changed.。
He says in verse 21, not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord will enter the kingdom of。
heaven, but only the one who does the will of my father who is in heaven.。
Many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and in your。
name drive out demons and in your name before many miracles.。
Then I will tell them plainly.。
I never knew you away from me.。
You evil doer.。
He's talking about people who thought they knew him.。
That should be terrifying.。
He's talking about people who did religious acts in his name.。
It says that's terrifying.。
And he says, I don't know you.。
It's like, I know he's saying, I don't, you might've known me.。
You might've heard of me, but I don't know you.。
You're not, we're not friends.。
You're not on the list.。
It's like, there's people I know, right?。
That don't know me.。
I can go to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.。
I can walk up to one big, large white house and I can knock on the door and say, yes,。
I'm here to speak with one, Mr. Barack Obama.。
And they're gonna say, what's your name?。
You say, Jonathan, if they hadn't shot me already.。
And I'm gonna say, Jonathan Pakluta.。
And they're gonna say, I'm sorry, Barack doesn't know you.。
And I'm gonna say, well, I know him.。
I mean, I know everything about him.。
I know about his wife.。
I know about, I know about his family.。
I know about his job, his occupation.。
I know some decisions he's made.。
I know a lot.。
I know about his values.。
I know about his faith.。
I know about so much about him.。
But he doesn't know you.。
You're part before we shoot you.。
There are two types of people, my third point.。
There are two types of people and only one has found the path.。
Only one of those types of people has found the path.。
And so let me say this.。
I think that we mistakenly think, and this is where I want to turn that bouncer analogy。
a little bit.。
You ready?。
We mistakenly think that God wants to send people to hell, that God desires to keep people。
out of heaven.。
God does not want to keep you from heaven.。
God is begging and pleading with you into heaven right now.。
God does not want to send you to hell.。
He does not desire that.。
Show me in the scripture.。
Okay.。
Lots of scriptures on that.。
I'll give you one, one of my favorites, second Peter three, verse nine.。
The Lord is not slow in keeping his promises as some understand slowness.。
Instead, he is patient with you, not wanting anyone to perish, but everyone to come to。
repentance.。
And so here in Matthew chapter seven, Jesus contrast the father's will with religious。
deeds.。
He says, the one who gets to me is the one who has done the will of my father.。
What is the will of my father?。
The path that some people find few people find is to God by doing the father's will.。
And so the father's will ready, I'm going to give it to you.。
The father's will is that you would know him by trusting in his son, Jesus Christ.。
Now what does it mean to trust in his son?。
Jesus Christ.。
It means not to trust in yourself, but to trust in Jesus.。
You see this guy is before Jesus and he says, but Jesus, he doesn't say, but Jesus, you。
died on the cross for me.。
But Jesus, you were God's son in the flesh.。
He says, but Jesus, I prophesied in your name.。
I casted out demons in your name.。
Did I not do so many spiritual things?。
Did I not?。
Did I, I, I, but Jesus, I, but I was good.。
I didn't even know you, man.。
Depart from me.。
So you do the father's will.。
You trust in his provision of his son, Jesus Christ.。
The father's will is that you would not trust in yourself, but that you would trust in Jesus.。
Not trusting in your works or abilities, but his work on the cross.。
I was, um, the market man, stock market took a beating Thursday, Friday, Monday, today.。
And so yesterday I called a financial advisor and I had planned to have this small account,。
very small.。
I'm a pastor, small account.。
And, uh, and so I just said, Hey, I want to, I want to shut that down.。
And I was going to do that anyways, but this just reminded me too.。
We had a conversation and, um, a part of our conversation, I'll just tell you real quick。
is, is, you know, he said, he said, Hey, if I knew what tomorrow would hold, then I would。
know how to invest.。
And I just thought, how true is that for Christians?。
Like if we know that there's a heaven, then it seems like we would invest different, right?。
He says like, we're not going to invest here on the earth.。
We're going to invest where we can enjoy those investments forever and ever and ever and。
ever.。
And that's the only reason that we don't love people as we should, because we don't believe。
in God.。
What's the only reason that we don't share our resources as we should, that we don't。
pursue the purity that he calls us to, that we don't pursue the sobriety that he calls。
us to.。
It's because we love ourselves more than him.。
And it's because we've hedged our bets.。
We know of the idea of God, but we don't believe in him to the point where we believe and have。
our hearts fully around eternity, that we're going to be there forever and ever and ever.。
We lose sight of that, so we do what we want.。
And in the midst of closing this account, see, he was my, it was my brother opened this。
account and then he moved on.。
He was a broker there and then he moved on.。
And so it goes to this stranger who I don't know who's had it.。
And so I'm closing this account.。
And so it dawned on me, I'm never going to talk to this guy again, he's an older man.。
And so I just said, well, I've got to share the gospel with him.。
So I said, Hey, can I, before I go, can I ask you two questions?。
And he said, sure, reluctantly.。
And I said, well, between one and 10, 10 being certain and one being not so sure, how certain。
are you that you would go to heaven if you died today?。
And so let me ask you, cause we're here together, you know, a couple thousand of us.。
So if you died today, between one and 10, 10 being certain and one being not so sure,。
how certain are you that you would go to heaven?。
And I want you to think of a number.。
Like I want you to get a number in your head, write it down.。
If that's helpful, put it in your phone between one and 10.。
What's, you know, think of that number, get it squarely.。
Is it a nine?。
Well, I'm pretty sure.。
Is it a five kind of coin toss?。
I don't know.。
It depends on what kind is it.。
Is it?。
I'm absolutely for sure.。
100% certain I'm a 10.。
Is it a one?。
I know I'm not.。
What's your number?。
Everybody have a number.。
Give me a head nod.。
I'm going to call up people, not nodding their heads.。
He said, surprisingly so.。
He said a 10.。
This is the same question someone asked me 13 years ago.。
He said, I'm a 10.。
I'm certain.。
I'm sure.。
And I said, cool.。
You agreed to answer two questions.。
Second question.。
If you stand before God, then today, and he says, why should I let you in?。
What would you say?。
And he said, because I've been good.。
And he said, because my good works have outweighed my bad.。
That's a false gospel.。
That's a false teaching.。
He's the product of false teaching.。
I suspected that.。
He told me where he attended.。
And so I asked these questions.。
And he said, because my good deeds.。
He's this man, this section of Jesus's sermon was about this man.。
I was that man.。
I said a seven because I've tried hard 13 years ago.。
I was this man.。
Some of you are this man.。
You didn't say 10.。
One through nine is all the same.。
I have no assurance of salvation because I think it's somehow by my merit, not Christ's。
alone.。
People tell me all the time, they come up here and they say, you know, I'm a seven.。
And I say, why?。
And they say, because Jesus Christ died for my sins.。
And I say, did he die for 70% of your sins?。
They say no, a hundred percent of my sins.。
Well, then why are you a seven?。
Do you 70% believe that he died for a hundred percent of your sins?。
We have a math problem, right?。
Like some of us tonight, we have a math problem.。
Jesus Christ died for a hundred percent of your sins.。
All of them, everything you've done and will do.。
And you can trust in that right now.。
It's just like receiving a payment.。
It's like receiving a ticket to heaven, a ticket that Christ purchased.。
And you can trust in that right now.。
And then you live here and you do the father's will like you've trusted in that.。
See, we don't, we're not trying to change your behavior.。
We're not trying to change your investment strategy.。
We're trying to tell you what the future holds.。
Here's what the future holds.。
The sky's going to be opened up like a scroll and Christ is going to come back on a white。
horse with a big sword coming out of his mouth and a tattoo that says, king of king, Lord。
of Lords.。
And he's going to be looking for those who are fully his.。
Then he's going to say, come into my kingdom.。
Well done good and faithful servant.。
And depart from me, I never knew you, but I wanted to.。
But I wanted to.。
We know what the future holds.。
Why wouldn't we live like that's true?。
Why wouldn't you leave here tonight, wake up tomorrow and live like there's a heaven。
and a hell.。
And those that know Christ go to heaven and they don't just go to heaven.。
They walk with them here and they follow him here.。
And so in summary, there are two paths, but only one leads to paradise.。
There are two types of prophets, but one is a poser.。
And lastly, there are two types of people, but only one finds the path.。
I think that we think that Jesus is that bouncer that he's posted up here like big Luke trying。
to keep you out, checking the list and no, not today, big boy.。
You're not coming in.。
No, no, ma'am.。
I know what you've done.。
And like, like there's a party in here, but he's not letting you in.。
That's not who Jesus is a better picture, a better description of that reality of what。
Christ has done on the cross for your sins, because he knows how wicked you are and he's。
not waiting for you to get right.。
He makes you right.。
And so a better description is like the world has blown up.。
It is rotting and decaying and there's destruction and death and stench and the fragrance of。
evil all around you.。
And Christ is standing at the bomb shelter saying, come in, come in once and for all,。
come in here.。
Safety's in here.。
I am the way, the truth and the life.。
No one gets to the father except through me, but come here.。
I've gone to great lengths to die for your sins.。
All of them come in.。
Would you please come in?。
Don't go in there.。
Don't go in there.。
There's death in there.。
Destruction in there.。
Evil in there.。
Wickedness in there.。
Hurting morning hangovers.。
Am I pregnant?。
Oh my gosh.。
Don't go in there.。
He loves you.。
Wait, there's regret in there.。
There's sickness and death in there and disease in there.。
Would you please come in here?。
That's a, I want, I desperately want to write your name down.。
Please come in here.。
I want all of you, all of you.。
And as you come in, he's like, no, no, go back and get more.。
Go back and bring more in with you.。
Go back out there.。
Bring others in with you.。
I want to know you.。
I want to walk with you.。
I want to be with you forever and ever and ever, not later, today.。
I want to be with you at work.。
I want to be with you in that relationship.。
I want to be with you when you're all alone and you feel all alone.。
I want to be with you.。
You don't ever have to be all alone again.。
I know what you did.。
I know what you've done.。
I know what you will do.。
And I was whipped for it, tortured for it, stabbed for it.。
I carried a heavy piece of wood for it.。
They drove nails in my hands for it, nails in my feet for it.。
I hung on a cross for it until I couldn't breathe for it because I love you.。
I did that because I love you and I want you to know me and the world is decaying and I。
am inviting you right now into the very narrow, small gate that few find.。
Would you enter with me?。
I'm going to pray now that you would and we're going to move to worshipping.。
Father, I pray we would sing songs with you now as your angels rejoice in heaven, as souls。
transfer from death to life.。
As you have your heads bowed, I've never done this before ever in nine years of preaching,。
but as you have your heads bowed, and I'm not going to call you on stage and you don't。
have to do anything but this one thing.。
If you know you've been running from God, if you know that you think that you know him。
but you don't, and you want to walk with him from this moment on for the rest of your life,。
would you just raise your hand?。
I'm overwhelmed.。
That's amazing.。
Keep them up.。
Keep them up as I pray.。
I'm serious.。
I'm going to pray for you with your hands raised and you don't have to worry about who。
sees you.。
God sees you.。
That's the amazing thing.。
God sees you.。
God sees you.。
He knows.。
He knows your heart.。
Father, thank you for the truth of the gospel that changes hearts and lives.。
Lord, would you call us all into relationship with you?。
You do not delight even in the perishing of the wicked, you tell us.。
You don't want anyone to perish but everyone to come to repentance.。
Father, you've purchased our way to you, not by our works but by the works of your son。
Jesus.。
Father, for all of my brothers and sisters with their hands raised, who raised their。
hand, God, would you just give them the courage to reach out to community, to others, to other。
Christians saying, "Hey, I need help.。
I want to walk with God.。
Like a dog, I keep doing some things I don't want to do."。
Would you let them know it's not about the morality but your perfection?。
Thank you for that provision.。
In Christ's name.。
My young adult friends, I love you guys so much.。
I want God's very best for you.。
Would you trade in the boring, normal, stupid pursuit of pleasures on this earth to find。
real eternal pleasures with God?。
That frankly is pretty dang fun on this earth.。
And if that sounds crazy to you, I'd love to just share my story or 150 volunteers that。
serve with us every week that are here.。
They have red shirts on.。
And so if you were here and you were one of those that raised your hand, and just there。
were hundreds of you, and I'm not making that up, and that was awesome.。
If you're one of them and we can serve you in any way, just find someone with a red shirt。
and just say, "Hey, I need help.。
I can't do this on my own."。
Because you can't, by the way.。
You can't do it on your own.。
You were never meant to.。
And we would love to help you.。
There's going to be red shirts all up here and out there and everywhere.。
And they'd love to serve you in any way they can.。
And if you're here and you know that you don't have community and you're looking for that。
and you're a girl, you can walk down this hallway and there's a room in there or over。
there right outside this hallway, there's a room of girls that are all in search of。
Christian relationships in the area.。
And if you're a guy, you can walk down this hallway right here.。
And right outside this hallway is a room full of guys that are just saying, "Hey, I want。
to hear more about community."。
And our community team will be in there to talk to you about that.。
Community is just meeting together on a consistent basis to know God and to make Him known in。
the context of fellowship with others.。
There's a lot of Christian-ese in there, I feel like, when I say it.。
So I don't say it often, but that's what it is.。
It's going deeper with other Christians, being known, knowing them.。
And so if we can serve you in any way, I know it's a heavy message tonight, but it's the。
gospel.。
Every way I know how to share it with you.。
And so if we can talk about that all, we'd be up here.。
We'd love to do that.。
I love you guys.。
Go in peace, love, and serve the Lord.。
