[MUSIC]。
[MUSIC]。
Man, I'm gonna start by reading the verses that'll give us a little bit。
of direction for what we're gonna talk about tonight.。
This comes from Matthew chapter 14 verses 22 through 36.。
It says this.。
Immediately, Jesus made his disciples get into the boat and。
go ahead of him to the other side while he dismissed the crowd.。
After he had dismissed them, he went up a mountainside to pray by himself.。
Later that night, he was there alone and the boat was already a considerable。
distance from land, buffeted by the waves because the wind was against it.。
Shortly before dawn, Jesus went out to them.。
His disciples walking on the lake.。
When the disciples saw him walking on the lake, they were terrified.。
It's a ghost, they said, and cried out in fear.。
But Jesus immediately said to them, take courage, it is I.。
Don't be afraid.。
Lord, if it's you, Peter said, tell me to come out on the water.。
Come, he said.。
Then Peter got down out of the boat and he walked on water and came towards Jesus.。
But when he saw the wind, he was afraid and he began to sink.。
And he cried out, Lord, save me.。
Immediately, Jesus reached out his hand and he caught him.。
You of little faith, he said.。
Why did you doubt?。
And when they climbed into the boat, the wind died down.。
Then those who were in the boat worshipped him, saying, truly, you are the son of God.。
I'm gonna start by praying.。
But if we could, if friends in the room and friends in Fort Worth and。
friends in Houston would just spend a second first, I'm gonna ask that you。
would just pray right now by yourself alone, that you would pray for our city.。
You would pray for the families of officers.。
You'd pray for all those who have lost loved ones.。
And you'd pray for me in this message.。
Because honestly, I feel like I have a mixture of emotions and。
I'm afraid that's not gonna come out.。
Clear or helpful as we just navigate the storm and。
what we do in the storm as believers in Jesus together.。
No matter our background, the color of our skin, where we're from.。
And so, would you take a moment and pray and。
then I'm gonna close this and we'll pray and we'll dive in.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
Father, would you help us?。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
Would you heal your church, your bride?。
Would you unite us?。
Would we be a portrait to a watching world of love and。
forgiveness, of being considerate of the feelings,。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
Experiences, circumstances that others are going through.。
Would you make us humble, Lord?。
Would you make me humble?。
Would you help this message?。
And pray for Mike Smith, pray for the communities and。
families who right now don't have their father coming home to kiss him.。
Good night.。
For men in other states who won't be able to go home and。
kiss loved ones goodnight or hug them or see them again, Lord.。
We just mourn the loss of life in a hard week.。
And even now, Lord, would you help us to love one another?。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
Whatever our community that we're from, help us to be sensitive,。
help me to be sensitive, heal any racism in my heart.。
Heal the racism that honestly exists in all of our hearts,。
regardless of the color of our skin, would you make us more like Jesus?。
Help this message to come out clearly, Lord.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
And may your body be strong.。
May the things that divide our world not be present in this place.。
Because as one of my pastor friends who was black said this past week,。
when it comes to the church, the most important color is not red, yellow, black,。
or white, or yellow, black, or white, but it is the color red.。
Symbolizing the blood of Jesus that unites us all.。
And so Lord, would you help us?。
In Jesus's name, amen.。
Man, it has just been such a hard week, and for so many reasons, and so many ways.。
And we were gonna start tonight, and I was gonna go another direction with another。
story, and I was like, man, I just, I didn't wanna start with this story of me。
being in a boat and all those, and that we normally would, just 'cause it's like,。
man, there's a storm we're in right now.。
You don't need an illustration.。
And I hope tonight that as the body of Christ, we'll be able to come together and。
look at what we do in the middle of the storm.。
And by storm, I mean the storm that's hit our city, not outside in the weather.。
I mean the fact that there was a shooting on Thursday night.。
I mean that it seems like racial tensions are more amplified than they've ever been。
before.。
And what does the body of Christ do?。
Because the body of Christ is a place where there is no grounds for racism,。
there's no grounds for hatred, but there is grounds to love one another, to listen。
to one another, and to care for one another.。
And so tonight, we're gonna look at that.。
This morning, even today as a staff, it has just been such a growing in my own heart the。
last few days, and even today as we got together as a staff for staff prayers we do on。
Tuesday mornings, and we were sharing in mourning.。
Mike Smith was a police officer who served on Tuesday nights, and he died, and gave his。
life on Thursday night in the middle of the protest.。
And he was a member here, he was amazing.。
And so we mourned that, and we mourned that, and more than that, we just mourned the。
division and the pain that exists in the black community.。
One of the black guys on our staff just shared, "This is what's been going on in my。
heart the past few days."。
And it just grieved my heart, and made me wanna go, "Man, I wanna know how I can love。
you more."。
Another police officer on our staff, we have a police officer on our staff who shared,。
and he just talked about the pain that the police community, which is not believers on。
a massive scale, is walking through.。
And we'll talk about a little bit more even specifically about some of the things they。
said towards the end of the message, but it just felt like this is a time where in the。
midst of the storm, believers need to know who to turn to, what to look at, what to focus。
on, because so many things are pulling for our attention.。
You go online, and you look and watch the news, and there's a million opinions, there's。
a million things and voices that are fighting to speak into your life, and to speak into。
my life, and to grab our attention and get our focus.。
And if it wasn't enough, just the voices, the circumstances in our world, the tragic。
events that took place in Louisiana and Minnesota, and not only just in our own nation, outside。
of this country, and all these different things that are focused, are pulling and fighting。
for our attention.。
And so where are we gonna focus?。
And tonight, I wanna talk about the idea of the church focusing on Jesus, what that actually。
looks like, and why that matters, and how we can actually do that.。
Because I think inside of that, we will find the remedy and the answer to the problems,。
to the solutions.。
We'll begin to find a place where we can begin to move in the direction of healing, as we。
focus on Jesus.。
So that's what we're gonna talk about tonight.。
We're gonna be in Matthew chapter 14.。
If you have a Bible, we just read it, you can flip open to Matthew chapter 14, as we。
continue this series, AD.。
AD is really a series all about encounters with Jesus, people who have these different。
encounters with Christ, and the ways that he steps in and he impacts the world.。
And we're doing it because we know that the most powerful thing for any of us to experience。
is to encounter Jesus.。
In doing so, we're forever changed.。
And the more that we encounter him, and the more fully we encounter him, we're forever。
changed.。
And so that's why we're doing the series tonight.。
We're looking at the encounter that Christ has with his disciple Peter on the water.。
It's a very famous story, if you're familiar with it.。
And I think inside of it, we are given a metaphor, a picture of how we are to face the storms。
of life that are coming for all of us, that exist for all of us, one that we're in right。
now as a city.。
How does the church face the storms of life?。
Where are we to look?。
And so inside of this story, which I believe with all my heart was preserved, to be a metaphor。
for what you and I are to do in the storms of life.。
What happens when we have faith and look towards Jesus, and what happens when we don't.。
And so we're going to look at that.。
We'll start in verse 22.。
If you have a Bible, you can flip open to the very first gospel.。
Matthew, if you hit Mark, Luke, John, or anything ends, Corinthians, Romans, Philippians, flip。
back and you'll hit Matthew, and we'll be in chapter 14.。
What happened, or what context we're in, is Jesus just fed 5,000 people.。
In fact, before that, he had just lost his cousin, John the Baptist.。
John the Baptist was cousins with Jesus.。
They were close.。
John ends up dying.。
And so Jesus is going through the grieving process of losing someone he loved.。
And he goes up to the mountain to pray and to have some time alone with his guys to just。
grieve.。
And all of a sudden, this huge crowd shows up, and they stay there, and they want Jesus。
to minister to them.。
And they stay long enough to where he just says, "Man, we got to feed these guys."。
And he takes this little kid's Lunchable, and he turns it into food for 5,000 men, and。
really 20,000 people.。
Thank you.。
Courtesy laugh.。
I love it.。
And really, after seeing this happen, Jesus says, "Hey, I still want to have some time.。
Allow myself to pray to the Father."。
And so he sends his disciples on a boat ride across the lake.。
And that's really where we're going to pick it up.。
So verse 22, "Immediately, Jesus made the disciples get in a boat."。
So he sends them ahead.。
"While he dismissed the crowd, then he went up the mountainside to pray.。
He was there that night alone."。
So the boat goes off.。
The disciples are like, "Man, I guess Jesus is going to take another boat, but we'll go。
ahead and get a room or reservation for wherever we're headed next."。
So the disciples head off.。
"The boat was already a considerable distance from land, buffeted by the wind and the waves。
because the wind was against it."。
So what just happened is they were traveling along the north coast of the Sea of Galilee.。
The only reason that's relevant is it just told us that they were now further and further。
away from land, as in they were getting further from their destination.。
As they rode, this storm all of a sudden shows up, begins to push the boat, so they're no。
longer making a headway on their journey.。
They're moving in the opposite direction.。
They're rowing and rowing and rowing.。
We're told for hours in the other two places that this story is told, which is in John。
6 and Mark 6.。
If you want to go read those stories later, it's the same story just told from different。
disciples who were there or different points of view of people who had experienced it.。
So anyway, so they're in the boat.。
They've been pushed along, and so they're rowing in the middle of the night, and they're。
like, "Man, what are we doing?。
Jesus sent us alone.。
Did he know this storm was coming?。
We're in the middle of the storm.。
Wind is going everywhere.。
I am so frustrated."。
It's the fourth watch of the night, so that means they are rowing so long that a couple。
of them are like, "Guys, I'm done.。
I'm going to take a nap.。
You guys got it.。
You take the first watch, second watch, third watch."。
This is the fourth watch, which means it's a couple hours before sunrise.。
Here's what it says.。
"Shortly before dawn, Jesus went out to them, walking on the lake."。
I love it.。
No big deal, just walking on the water.。
"When the disciples saw him on the lake," so it's pitch black at night.。
They're rowing in the water.。
They're going, "Man, we're not making any Bartholomew.。
Will you please pick it up a little bit?。
They're not making any headway."。
All of a sudden, here's what happens.。
"When the disciples saw him walking on the lake, they were terrified."。
They see this figure.。
It's pitch black, beginning to be like, "What is that?。
Oh my gosh.。
Is that like a humongous alligator?。
Do they have gators in the Sea of Galilee?。
What is that thing out of the water moving towards us?"。
One of them says, "It's a ghost," they said, and they cried out in fear.。
Now they're really afraid and probably rowing even harder, being like, "Guys, row quickly.。
There's a ghost over there.。
We got to move it."。
As they look and they see this figure out in the distance, so they're terrified.。
I love this next.。
I don't know why this is so funny to me, but it is.。
But immediately, "Jesus said to them, 'Take courage.。
It is I.'"。
The reason that's so funny is that it doesn't tell you who it is.。
It's like the ghost has begun to talk to us.。
"Who is I?。
Keep moving, guys."。
And it says, "Don't be afraid."。
So now the wind is blowing.。
All of a sudden, this apparition just says, "It is I."。
It literally says, "It is I am," as though it's like, that's not even a complete sentence.。
I am who?。
Who is this apparition over here?。
And they keep rowing.。
And then Peter, it clicks.。
It's like, that's Jesus.。
Maybe you recognize this voice.。
I don't know what it was, but they see him walking on water.。
And man, I love this even more.。
"Lord, if it's you," Peter replied, "tell me to come out to you on the water."。
Here's why I love this.。
Because Peter is a little bit like I can be where like any verbal process is in the room。
where you're a little bit like, "Hey, I speak and then I think afterwards."。
It's a little risky, but it makes life more exciting.。
And I can be that way where I'm like, "Dang it.。
Why didn't I just say that?"。
Peter's like, "If it is you, Lord, well, an imposter ghost would not tell me to come out。
of the boat.。
If you tell me to come out of the boat, we will believe it's you."。
And Jesus just looks at him and he's like, "Come on."。
And so Peter begins to get out of the boat and he's looking at Jesus and he's stepping。
on the water and he's like, "Oh my gosh, doing the moonwalk.。
Boy, this is unbelievable.。
I'm walking on water."。
And he's moving and he's looking at Jesus and he begins to walk towards him and he takes。
the step of faith.。
And the first idea that really comes from this text is that faith comes from focusing。
on Jesus.。
Faith comes from focusing on Jesus.。
Like what did Peter do in that moment?。
He looked at Jesus, he responded.。
Here's what faith is.。
If you've ever wondered what faith is in the biblical context and what is grace and what。
is faith?。
Grace is when God comes to mankind.。
Grace is God in the form of Jesus coming to mankind.。
In this story, you could say it's a picture of it where God, Jesus, comes out to the disciples.。
Faith is responding to God already coming to you.。
Faith is the response of mankind.。
If you've ever wondered, as a Christian, when I place my faith, what is that doing?。
It is responding to the God who's already reached out to you, who's already come to。
you.。
And faith comes from focusing on Jesus.。
What do I mean by the idea that it comes from focusing on Jesus?。
The way that you and I grow our faith, if you've ever said, "I want to grow my faith.。
I want to have stronger faith."。
The way that we do that is not by focusing on faith or like, "Hey, I'm just going to。
trust more this time."。
It is by focusing on Jesus.。
The way that you and I grow our faith is not by focusing on faith.。
It is by focusing on Jesus.。
What do I mean by that and how does that make sense?。
In the same way, faith is the same word for trust in the New Testament.。
It's the Greek word pistis.。
It's the same word for trust.。
How do you grow your trust?。
Not by focusing on like, "I'm really going to trust you more."。
By growing to know the thing that you're trusting and it's trustworthiness.。
Like if you're in a dating relationship, like my wife and Callie, when we were dating, I。
was enabled to grow in my ability to trust her the more that I got to know her.。
The more that I spent time with her and I saw, "Man, she's a trustworthy person."。
That enabled me to trust more.。
Not just me being like, "I'm going to choose.。
I'm going to really trust this time."。
But I was able, not only was she trustworthy, I spent time and I got to know her.。
In other words, like if you're in a dating relationship and you're like, you struggle。
with trust, the way that you struggle or get over your trust issues is not by just saying,。
"You know what?。
I'm going to really trust more today.。
I don't want to look at his phone to see who has he been text messaging.。
I'm just going to choose to not, but I really do."。
The way that you get over your trust or the way that you get to trust that person is you。
get to know them.。
You spend time with them.。
And if you're dating someone who's trustworthy, you begin to see that.。
Side note, if you're dating someone who struggles with trust issue, the worst thing you can。
do is to demand trust and be like, "Girl, you are cray.。
You have got to start trusting me right now.。
Stop it.。
I'm going to demand it."。
You need to demonstrate trustworthiness.。
This is just for free in case you're a dating couple in the room, unrelated to the story.。
This has nothing to do with water.。
The way that you can work towards healing in that is for you to demonstrate, not demand。
trust, but demonstrate trustworthiness and allow by patiently helping them grow to trust.。
In the same way, the way that we grow our trust in that context is like, "Hey, I get。
to know that person.。
I can trust them more."。
In the same way with Jesus, the way that we can grow our faith or our trust in him is。
by getting to know him more and more.。
How do you get to know him?。
In other words, if you want to grow your faith, you want to have more faith, you got to know。
more of Jesus.。
And how do you get to know more of Jesus?。
One of the primary ways is by knowing his character, knowing who he is.。
How do you do that?。
You read scripture.。
You inform your mind with what the Bible tells us about who Jesus is, who God is, what he。
has promised.。
And we turn to him, we know him, we look at him.。
Inside of the Bible, we find our ability, our trust grows the more that we know who。
God is.。
How do we know who God is?。
By looking at Jesus.。
In other words, the more that you know the promises that Jesus has given us, in whatever。
circumstances you're going through, you will turn to him and trust him.。
You'll be able to say, "Hey, look, I know how this thing ends up going because I know。
Jesus wins in the end.。
No matter what he promised, there's going to be trouble in this life, but I know who。
he is.。
I know that he has overcome the world.。
I know that at the end of the day, Jesus wins.。
And so I can trust him no matter what's going on right now.。
I know that he's a God who says, 'I'm in control,'" so I don't have to be anxious.。
That's easier said than done, but I know that that's actually, that's true.。
That's what God invites me to.。
He's a God that says, "I am a just God.。
I will give justice to all nations.。
There will be a day where all things are made right."。
And so I can trust him.。
I'm not going to get angry.。
I can trust that God is in control because I know him.。
I'm able to grow my faith by knowing him more and more.。
The way that we grow our faith is by focusing on Jesus.。
But what amazed Jesus was not Peter's willingness to step out of the boat.。
It was what happened next.。
Here's what happens.。
"But when he saw the wind," so Peter is walking on water, "and he looks over at the wind,。
in the midst of this storm, and there's choppy waves, and he was afraid.。
And he began to sink, and he cried out, 'Lord, save me.'。
Immediately Jesus reached out his hand, and he caught him, and he said, 'You of little。
faith, why did you doubt that Peter's walking on water?'"。
He stops focusing on Jesus, and all of a sudden, in the midst of his circumstances, he starts。
focusing on the wave, despite the fact that it's like, "Peter, you are walking on water.。
Why are you afraid of that wind over there?。
Can you even see the wind?。
Can you even see a wave that would scare you?。
You're on H2O right now.。
Why would you be afraid?"。
Because that's just what fear does.。
It's irrational, and it grabs hold of him.。
But the other thing that we see from fear in here is not just it's irrational, we see。
where it comes from.。
We see where faith moves out and fear moves in, is whenever we begin to focus in on circumstances.。
Our second point tonight, so the first point of faith comes from focusing on Jesus.。
If you want to grow your faith, you focus on Jesus.。
The second idea, we see where fear comes from, is fear comes from focusing on circumstances.。
Fear begins to flood in when we lose, and we're no longer occupied with Jesus, what。
he says about what we're going through, who he is.。
We become focused and narrowed in on our circumstances around us.。
And I think he would say to Peter what he would say to us, that you don't conquer fear。
by just saying, "I am not afraid.。
I am not afraid.。
I am not afraid."。
The way that you conquer fear is by focusing on the one who's in control.。
Even the fact that Jesus asks him, "Why did you doubt?"。
Like think about this.。
Like this, for whatever reason, was like really just so bizarre to me.。
It's like, and the storm is still going on.。
So Peter's sinking in the water, he's getting, "Jesus, help me."。
All of a sudden he's going under, Jesus reaches out, he grabs him and pulls him up, and he。
says, "Why did you doubt?"。
Really, he probably said it like this, because there's storm, wind is going, "Peter, why。
did you doubt?"。
Peter's got to be thinking, "There's a freaking storm around us right now.。
What do you mean, why did I doubt?"。
I mean, think about that.。
It's like, Jesus, why are you even asking that story?。
There's a storm, Jesus, and we're walking on water.。
People don't walk on water.。
Why are you asking me, "Why did I doubt?"。
This would be like me, you losing your job, and you being frustrated, and me being like,。
"Why are you frustrated?"。
And you'd be like, "I just lost my job."。
Or your relationship falling apart, and me being like, "Hey, yeah, why are you doubting。
God's goodness?"。
Because I just lost the girl that I thought I was going to marry, why are you asking me。
why I'm doubting God's goodness?。
That's what's going on.。
It's though Jesus sends us the message that he's like, "Look, you are more afraid of that。
wave than you are of me."。
Like no matter what you and I are going through tonight, I think you would say, "Man, I know。
this at such a heart level.。
Why are you doubting?"。
Like whatever that is in your life.。
The answer, not a wave, answer not job.。
I don't know if it's like a parent with cancer loss.。
All these like crazy things I would think he would say to all of us.。
Why would you doubt?。
Do you think I'm not in control?。
Do you think that I don't love you?。
Do you think that I'm not good?。
Just like he's saying to Peter, like, "Why are you doubting?"。
There's a place that I want to lead all of my followers to, Jesus is saying, where they。
can be totally okay on the inside, no matter what is going on on the outside.。
There's a place that I think he wants to lead you and lead me to where I can be totally。
okay on the inside, no matter what's going on on the outside.。
And honestly, like, I just feel hypocritical even talking about that because that feels。
so far from me.。
I know people that have that type of faith and it like inspires me and I'm like, "Man,。
that's amazing.。
I'm not there."。
I'm like, "That guy is not there."。
And like Todd, our senior pastor, we talked about this before, like when Todd got this。
cancer on his foot that was malignant and he was like, "You know, I got cancer and you。
know, the Lord, he's going to do what he's going to do.。
And you know, I trust him.。
He's good and he loves me."。
And I'm like, "What?"。
When my eye hurts, I'm like, "Do I have eye cancer?。
Oh my gosh, this is not good."。
And I'm like, "That is so far, Lord, will you help me?"。
Because I think that wherever you are tonight on that spectrum, he wants to lead all of。
us to a place where we go, "Man, Lord, you're in control.。
And whatever is going on on the outside, I can trust you and have peace on the inside。
because you love me, you're in control, and I'm going to continue to know who you are。
and what you've promised.。
And this world that is broken will soon pass away as you come back and restore and heal。
everything."。
And that's the place I think he wants to lead all of us to.。
No matter what you are going through, what matters most is what you are looking to.。
I'm going to say that again.。
No matter what you're going to go through, no matter what you're going through right。
now, what matters most is what or who you're looking to.。
Like, what are you going to look to in the midst of like, where are you going to turn?。
Where are we going to turn as a city in the midst of our pain right now?。
Are we going to turn to further division?。
Where are you going to turn to in whatever storm you're in in the midst of your life。
right now?。
Are you going to turn to alcohol?。
Are you going to turn to codependency in a relationship?。
Are you going to turn to the only one who can actually give you peace in the midst of。
the storm, which is Jesus?。
The one who never changes.。
The one who was always there, who's in control.。
I went not long ago to Mexico on a guy trip.。
It was JP and myself and a couple other guys and friends.。
We just had this guy trip for an extended weekend where we went and stayed at this like。
super questionable resort in Mexico.。
It was like, yeah, I'm going to be seeing all this food again in a couple hours.。
And we were staying there and it was awesome.。
It was kind of a guy trip.。
And one of the days we were like, we're going to go deep sea fishing.。
I'd never been deep sea fishing.。
I was like, this is awesome.。
We're going to go out there.。
What are we going to catch?。
We're going to get shark, marlin.。
I don't know what we're going to catch.。
It's going to be great.。
And so we get ready, we get up that morning, 6 a.m.。
We go out, we're sitting on the boat.。
It's awesome.。
We're fishing for different types of, I'm not a fisherman, so I don't even know what。
we fish for.。
I'm embarrassed by that.。
I'm going to give you my card.。
Let me just give it out right here.。
And so we're out there fishing and we're hanging out.。
And all of a sudden, all of a sudden this, this like wave of nausea hits me like any,。
unlike anything else I've ever felt.。
Well, I'm like, oh man, I'm, I'm that food that I was talking about, the hotel.。
It is, I'll be right back.。
And I'm in the, in the bathroom on the boat.。
So sick.。
I get seasick.。
The waves, this storm had actually come up and we're in the midst of like super choppy。
stuff and everyone else is fine.。
And I'm like, oh man, I am not fine.。
Something is not okay in here.。
So I'm in the bathroom.。
I'm really sick.。
JP comes and gets me and he goes, Hey, look, look, I can tell you what, what you need to。
do.。
And I'm like, man, I just need to sit here.。
I just need, I just need a moment.。
Just need to think.。
And he's like, no, come with me out to the edge of the boat.。
And I'm like, that does not sound like I'm going to get in the center of the boat, center。
of gravity.。
That makes sense to me.。
And he's like, no.。
One of you is like, you pushed me off the boat.。
We go out to the edge of the boat and while we're out there, he says, look at the horizon.。
I'm like, look at the, what is looking at the horizon going to do?。
He's like, look at that.。
Just look at the horizon.。
If you look at land, if you look at something that does not move, I promise you, you're。
going to feel bad.。
I'm like, that sounds like a great idea.。
Where'd you read that?。
Some blog somewhere, your grandma sent you that?。
Look at the horizon.。
I looked at the horizon and it was like insane how quickly everything began to feel better。
inside of my body.。
Like everything, despite the fact that we're in this choppy storm, despite the fact I looked。
at the one thing that did not move.。
And in the midst of the storm, I was able to be okay on the inside, despite the fact。
that we were in a storm on the outside in the same way.。
That's what we do as believers in Christ.。
Like we look at the one who the Bible says is the same today, yesterday, today, and forever,。
who never changes, who's the first and last, the alpha and the omega, the one who has said,。
I will never leave you nor forsake you.。
We fix our eyes on him.。
We look to the promises of God.。
We look to the character of Jesus revealed in the scripture.。
We're like, we look at that in the midst of the storm.。
I know what's going on, but I'm going to fix my eyes right there.。
I'm going to look towards him.。
I'm going to focus in on him.。
I'm not going to focus on the circumstances, but I'm going to fix my eyes on him.。
And in the same way that that almost immediately began to bring peace, that is the remedy for。
experiencing peace in the midst of the storm in this life.。
It says this as it finishes up where we explore what happens after Peter, man who just had。
to be feeling like, gosh, I cannot believe that that just happened.。
I'm like sinking over here in the water failing, and here's what happens next.。
Verse 32, "And when they climbed into the boat, the wind died down.。
Even those who were in the boat worshiped him, saying, 'Truly you are the son of God.'"。
That what happens next is not what I would think would happen where they would get back。
into the boat and they would begin to like turn their attention somewhat on Peter.。
Like man, Peter, what in the world happened?。
You were walking on water.。
That was super awkward.。
Oh man, you should have just kept looking at Jesus.。
Awkward guys, let's just turn the boat around and go back home.。
Peter needs to sit the next few days out and really recoup some of his self-esteem that。
he just lost.。
It doesn't happen at all.。
They're not like, "Oh Peter, man, now we know why he called you the rock, because you sink。
like a rock, buddy."。
None of that happens.。
What happens in a moment, they all get in the boat and Peter included, we're told from。
the other gospels, all of them turn their attention not on Peter, not on his failure.。
Peter doesn't look, "Hey, look at me.。
I can't believe I failed God in the moment.。
I'm soaking wet because I didn't trust God."。
In that moment, none of them turn, they all turn their attention on Jesus.。
They all begin to focus on Jesus.。
They all look at him and go, "Man, Peter, you are ordinary, but that guy is son of God。
right here.。
We should all worship him."。
They break out into a worship set like Shane and Shane is there on the boat right there。
where they're going, "Man, this Jesus is unbelievable."。
Even the failure of Peter is not something that leads them to say, "Man, I'm going to。
just focus on myself."。
Even in failure, it leads them to go, "Man, I am not that great, but that guy is great."。
They all begin to worship.。
Our third idea from the text is that even in our failure, we focus on Jesus.。
We focus on Jesus in our failure.。
Maybe I can even go as far as to say this.。
I think your failure can fuel your focus on Jesus.。
I think that if you can learn that no matter what the situation is, no matter what shame。
or guilt you feel from your past, it can fuel your worship of Jesus.。
When you're all of a sudden like, "Man, I cannot believe the things that I've done.。
I cannot believe that I made that decision.。
I cannot believe I slept with her.。
I had that abortion.。
I got wasted again."。
Whatever that situation was, or as I look back and the things that I've done and I'm。
so ashamed of them, even in those moments, it can fuel worship of Jesus.。
Because here's what I mean.。
"Oh my gosh, I'm a broken sinner.。
Thank goodness that I have a savior that came to die for me.。
It's not about me.。
It was never about me.。
The fact that I'm messed up and broken only further testifies to how good God is that。
he would save even someone like me.。
So even in my failure, I can worship Jesus.。
Even when I've blown it, I move to worship Jesus.。
We focus on Jesus even in our failure.。
All of life we turn and we focus on him."。
Even this whole story, I think Peter would say, "Man, this was not about two guys walking。
on water.。
It was about Jesus, the whole thing."。
How do I know that?。
Because in Peter's version of these events, he doesn't include his part in the story.。
Have you ever thought about that?。
Like the book of Mark, the different gospels are written by these different authors.。
Mark, we're told from church history, was really co-authored by Peter.。
Peter kind of gave him the script and was like, "Hey, and this happened next and this。
happened next."。
So Mark is kind of like, "Hey, we see it from Peter's point of view."。
That's what the book of Mark tells us.。
And in the book of Mark, this same story is recorded, but you know what is not in there。
when they get to the walking on water?。
I want you to think about this.。
Peter walking on water.。
Why would you not include that, Peter?。
It's your book.。
I mean, it was kind of like, "Whoa, only two people in history have ever walked on water,。
Jesus and you, and you're not going to include that in your own book?"。
Let me just go on record here and say this.。
If I ever walk on water for the rest of my life, every message that I give, every note。
that I write, every book, if I ever wrote a book like Peter's help co-authored this。
book, I would include, "Oh yeah, this is David, the guy who walked on water."。
If I'm writing a birthday card, "Happy birthday again from David, the guy who walked on water."。
I'm including that in everything.。
Why would you not include it, Peter?。
Because Peter knows like, "This isn't a story about me.。
I'm not the focal point of this story.。
I mean, if anything, I'm like the failure in this story.。
I focus on Jesus.。
This story is about Jesus.。
Life is about Jesus.。
Focus on Jesus," Peter would say.。
And what happens next, despite the fact that Peter's wet, and man, I love this, is immediately。
we're told by John, the boat, as soon as they get in the boat, the storm stops.。
And it's like they arrive at the port.。
And they arrive and all of a sudden there's this big crowd there and they go to ministering。
to people.。
In a minute, literally, Peter gets on the boat.。
Jesus, they get on the boat.。
Peter just was sinking inside of the water.。
Peter is still soaking wet.。
And they go to begin to minister to people.。
They go to this crowd.。
And even the fact that Peter is soaking wet reflects, "Man, what happened to that guy?。
Did he fall in the water?"。
No, he didn't trust God.。
And Peter immediately goes into ministering.。
If you think that your failure is the reason or a reason why God is done with you, that。
God can't use you, that God still doesn't want to be a part of your life and have you。
be a part of ministering to other people, even Peter's story here testifies to the fact。
that it is not our perfection that allows God to use us.。
He doesn't use us because he needs us.。
He uses us because he wants us and wants us to be a part of his purpose, his mission.。
And Peter, the boat touches shore.。
Peter's soaking wet.。
It gets out and they begin to minister to people.。
The Bible tells us that even in our failure, we can point others to Jesus and say, "Man,。
look at me.。
I'm the wet guy.。
I'm the guy who's failures.。
And there is one who is the son of God, who does not fall, who does not grow weary, who。
does not abandon, who will not leave you, who loves you so much he will die for you."。
Even in his failure, he's literally standing to a crowd going, "Look at me.。
I'm soaking wet.。
Anybody got a towel?。
But look at Jesus.。
This guy's amazing."。
And even his failure points or allows him to point and focus his life and others' lives。
towards Jesus.。
I think this lesson takes more time to learn than just one incident though.。
Because in Peter's life, we know that at some point he forgot this.。
Peter's life continues and he is a part of maybe the most tragic betrayal in history.。
I mean, Peter is Jesus's best friend and Jesus shortly thereafter is arrested and he begins。
to be put on trial to be crucified.。
And Peter shows up at the trial and he's watching from the back.。
And all of a sudden, these guys come up to Peter and they're like, "Hey, don't you know。
this guy?。
Don't you?"。
And Peter says, "No, I know.。
I've never met him before."。
And then all of a sudden, this little middle school girl shows up and she's dealing with。
acne and she's like, "Hey, don't you know him over there?"。
And he's like, "No," to a little middle school girl.。
"I'm afraid.。
I don't know that guy.。
I don't know."。
And he denies Jesus his best friend not once, twice, but three different times.。
He fails.。
And Peter, after Jesus has died and really resurrected, he thinks, "Man, God's done.。
He's not going to use me anymore.。
I don't know that God could use and would want to use me or needs me anymore."。
And the Bible tells us in John 21, what does Peter do?。
Because of his failure, he didn't believe that, "Man, even in my failure, I can point.。
He's amazing."。
It says he goes fishing.。
He leaves.。
He's the leader of the church at this point.。
He's the leader of the disciples.。
And he says, "Man, I don't know if God's going to want to use me."。
And the Bible tells us that he's fishing on that boat and out of nowhere, Jesus shows。
up and he says, "Peter, feed my sheep.。
Peter, I'm not done with you yet.。
Peter, despite the fact that you failed me, I mean, I don't know what you've done in the。
room.。
I don't know where you are.。
I don't know what to say."。
And you're like, "Man, but can God love me?。
Because I just feel, I don't feel like he would really love me."。
I promise you, whatever you've done is not as bad as Peter.。
God in the flesh is on earth and all of a sudden, his best friend in the world betrays。
him three times in his worst hour of need.。
Like whatever you have done, there's no past that God can't reach out and say, "Even that。
past, even that brokenness, I will use to be a part of ministering to a world that needs。
it."。
And Jesus shows up and says, "Peter, your failure has not ruled you out of being a part。
of my kingdom, of my church, of leading here, of ministering in my name."。
And he invites Peter and accepts him back into the group.。
I think for all of us, we have got to embrace this.。
Like I don't know what your past is.。
If you are a believer in Jesus, I don't know what you got going on right now, but whatever。
that is as the church, as it relates, as we come back to the topic of what's going on。
in our city, what's going on in our country, like whatever you're wrestling with, whatever。
shame you feel, this is the time where you go, "Look, I'm going to bring it out to the。
light.。
I don't care who knows.。
I don't care what I've done.。
I'm going to choose to believe what the scripture says, that God, no matter what I've done,。
can accept me, can forgive me, can use me.。
And I'm not going to hold onto these things anymore.。
I'm not going to drag them and hide them anymore.。
I'm going to bring them to light.。
I'm going to choose to trust that God who is there is inviting me to be a part of ministering。
to a hurting world."。
Man, the church, if there's any group on earth that's got to come together right now, that's。
got to come and say, "Look, we're going to choose to minister in our brokenness, in our。
failures.。
We're not going to be perfect.。
We're going to be open.。
We're going to be free and we're going to love and extend grace, but we've got to come。
together in the world that we're in right now."。
I mean, if not the church, who's going to do that?。
I don't know if you look around at culture, what I see all the time is this message of。
like, "Hey, we're going to choose."。
Hate will not win.。
Love will not win.。
And that's a great message if it comes from the church.。
Here's why.。
Because every other group has no foundation they're standing on.。
Do you know that?。
Every other group that's like, "Hey, and this tragedy, hate will not win the day.。
Love will win the day."。
They do not stand on a foundation like we have in Christ.。
Because we, in the scriptures, through Christian and the Judeo-Christian ethic, we are given。
a lens through which we can see the world.。
We are told that every single person, red, yellow, black, white, all has dignity in his。
sight.。
All are worth dying for.。
That there is no division.。
That all have been created equal in God's eyes.。
The church has been given that.。
Like any other group, like where else are you going to find that?。
You're not going to find that in the teachings of Islam.。
You're not going to find that in this like ethereal kind of, "Oh, everything is God and。
all roads lead to God in America."。
That is a man-made profession.。
The only place where you have the firm foundation that we have in the church is the church.。
And we've got to come together.。
As we sat this morning and we heard from Jason, is his name, one of the black guys on our。
staff, I was like so heartbroken.。
He just said, "Man, I'm going to be honest.。
I've been scared the last couple of days.。
I go out and I'm at the gas station and I'm not scared of police.。
I'm scared of like other white people."。
And I was like, "Oh my gosh, man."。
That like breaks my heart.。
And more than anything, I'm sad that I've never extended an arm to someone.。
I'll ask that or I didn't know that.。
Like that breaks my heart.。
I hate that with everything in me.。
I hate, like it grieves me to think the ways that honestly, I was sharing this in the green。
room that the black community has not felt supported and loved among brothers and sisters。
here.。
Like that grieves me to the heart.。
And even the fact that right now, as I say that, I'm worried about hurting in the black。
community.。
Like I'm so grieved that we haven't done enough to love and care because all are equal.。
There isn't any distinction.。
Jesus and the Bible teaches there's neither Jew nor Greek.。
There's neither male nor female.。
We are all one.。
And hearing it was just so grieving for our staff.。
And finally, man, it was like, that was helpful to me because for whatever reason it was fresh.。
Because I'm like, man, I do not see any racial tension, but knowing that you, because of。
the world around us, because of the fabric of just brokenness in American history, have。
different things where you may be seeing it through a different filter than I'm seeing。
it through.。
And it's a filter that is a painful one.。
And so I'm just thankful that he would even tell us.。
And if you're in the room and that's as black brothers and sisters, man, I'm sorry.。
And I want to know, and I would love for you to help us.。
Because for us, sometimes we're insensitive because we're going, we just don't know.。
We don't have the same fabric and filter that we see it through.。
And I'm like, I was crying during worship thinking about that.。
Because I'm so sad that that pain exists.。
And I hate that.。
And then the police officer shared.。
And he just said, man, it's been hard because psychologically, it's really hard to be a。
police officer.。
And he said, every day we go to work and like so many people that we have sworn to protect。
with even our life.。
They either hate us because they think we hate them.。
Or they like, just don't like us because we gave them a speeding ticket when they were。
17.。
And he said, that's really hard.。
It messes with your psyche.。
And he just began to talk about the police community and how like, they are wrestling.。
He just said like in a lot of the officers, they're just not believers.。
So they cope with it in other ways.。
Alcohol is an epidemic, he said.。
Divorce is rampant.。
As they deal with the pain of saying, man, I'm going to choose to lay my life down so。
that others can safely protest.。
And yet it's going to cost me my life.。
And it was just this moment in our staff that was so powerful of just like sitting there。
all brothers together, where we can just talk about that.。
And I think this, it's got to be something that we've got to embrace more and more.。
I've got to embrace more and more.。
I'm just saying the conversation of inviting and asking people, man, help me.。
I want to know how you feel.。
Because honestly, like I was raised in an environment where I just don't, I trust the。
police.。
And if I was in other circumstances, I don't know that I would.。
I'm sure.。
I mean, once you see things from the other point of view, it all makes sense.。
And so I just want to know, I want to care.。
And I know hundreds and thousands of people in this room do.。
And our silence that is hurt has not all necessarily been a result of apathy.。
And so regardless in this room, we've got to come together because like that black pastor。
friend said, I thought it was so beautiful.。
The most important color for the church is not white or black or any other color than。
red and the color of the blood that Jesus paid for us, that unites all of us in him。
together.。
And then, man, the last thing I would say, and if I'm, I haven't walked in your shoes。
if you're in the black community.。
But man, will you help us by leading in forgiveness of like past sins that I'm so grief that took。
place in the darkness of our nation.。
And I would not ask you to experience and walk through something that I, I wouldn't,。
I wouldn't just be like, man, you just got to choose to forgive.。
I've never, cause I can't relate.。
I haven't had to walk through all of that, but here's who I know can relate is Jesus。
who looked at enemies, who looked at those who mistreated him.。
And he said, I'm going to choose to forgive.。
I'm going to choose despite the fact that they're going to crucify me to forgive.。
And I'm going to move towards them.。
And man, no matter what your skin color is, no matter what, how much money you make, no。
matter what it is, we've got to come together.。
The church, if not us, then what other group will.。
And the only way that we do that is by looking and focusing and turning our eyes on Jesus.。
And in the midst of this hurting time, like, like our close with this, I was reading through。
scripture this past week and man, the verse that came to mind was such a, like, it just。
feels like this is where we are Lord.。
And it was this first, this comes from second Chronicles chapter 20, it's first 12.。
And it just says, well, we do not know what to do, but our eyes are fixed on you.。
We do not know what to do, Lord, but we're going to look at you.。
We're going to listen to one another.。
We're going to love one another.。
We're going to watch how Jesus loves.。
We're going to be patient with one another.。
We're going to care for one another.。
We're going to extend grace to one another.。
And we're going to try to move in the direction of one another as the church, because what。
unites us, the blood of Jesus is much stronger, much more significant, much more eternal than。
anything else that exists.。
And we're either going to come together and be a part of healing a nation that has nowhere。
else to look for it.。
Where else are you going to find that kind of love?。
And just this flowery love that the world communicates.。
We have the perfect love of God displayed on a cross.。
We actually have something to stand on.。
And what are we going to do, man?。
We offer the only, we offer the thing the world needs most.。
And I don't know about you, but my hunch is you don't want to see another generation get。
passed on the pains and the problems of the past.。
You want to be a part of providing a place to process pain, not push politics, to help。
and to heal one another.。
And that's what we want to do.。
That's what we're going to do.。
That's what we're going to do in Houston and in Dallas and in every single place that we。
gather together.。
And we need one another.。
I need you.。
We all need one another.。
We're stronger together.。
And by looking at Jesus, we're brought together.。
And we pray that that be the case.。
Lord would you help us?。
Would you heal your bride?。
Would you help us to be a part of healing the world around us?。
Would you forgive me for my insensitivity to brothers and sisters of all colors?。
Would you humble us?。
Would you make us humble, Lord?。
Would you make us more like your son?。
Father, we know that even in looking at you, we look more like you.。
It is when we look at you, the Bible says that we are changed from one degree of glory。
to the next.。
So would we all turn our attention on you, Lord?。
Would you use us to heal the country?。
Because God, I honestly, I don't know where else it's going to come from.。
I don't know that it can come from anywhere else and actually last and actually bring。
healing and actually bring change, Lord.。
So would you allow us to be a part of that?。
Allow us to be a part of bringing the very thing the world needs, unity, love, forgiveness,。
all things that are found from you or in you and are to be found in your church.。
Help us to trust you, Lord.。
Father, we love you.。
Amen.。
