(soft music)。
♪ No matter what the storm ♪。
♪ Our anchor holds ♪。
♪ No matter what may come ♪。
♪ Your people press on ♪。
♪ No matter what ♪。
- How we doing?。
Hey, if you're listening。
and somebody just led you in worship,。
would you just thank them?。
Jared in Fort Worth,。
maybe Jake or someone in Houston, El Paso, Tulsa,。
wherever you're at,。
if somebody just led you in worship,。
I hope you thanked them.。
We have incredibly gifted musicians here.。
In Dallas, we were just led by Shane and Shane.。
Last week, at the end of the message,。
there's a song after the message, a response song,。
so that we can worship and reflect on what was taught.。
And I sat down or stood there to worship last week,。
and there was just something off with the song.。
I couldn't quite figure out what it was,。
but I was listening.。
I was like, man, somebody sounds off.。
I was trying to figure it out.。
It sounded like an instrument was out of tempo,。
or there was this weird echo, or something was going on.。
And so there was some different folks mixing in the back.。
And I talked to David, he's like,。
"Yeah, I think somebody was mixing off or something."。
And I said, "Okay."。
You know, we're always kind of debriefing,。
talking through what went well, what didn't.。
And it was like, "Hey, that last song, man,。
"there was something off there."。
I felt like I couldn't even worship.。
It was like a distraction.。
And then I was at dinner with Shane B,。
and we were talking, I said,。
"Hey, what happened in that last song?"。
He said, "Oh, that was me."。
He said, "Yeah, I was experimenting with a new pedal."。
And whatever that is.。
And I forgot to turn it off.。
And so when I was strumming my guitar,。
it was echoing and it was throwing the tempo off.。
I was like, "Yeah, I was throwing the tempo off."。
I knew something was just not quite right.。
Because when we sing, like what just happened,。
and I know it happened in your heart too,。
is like we're singing these beautiful music to God,。
and you don't really hear any instruments.。
All of the instruments come together.。
And you don't hear one standing out.。
They all come together, layered on top of each other。
to produce something beautiful.。
And when everyone is playing their role well,。
it produces something beautiful.。
This incredible song that stirs your affections for God.。
It's worshipful, seeing it.。
It's worshipful.。
It moves you towards God.。
But if something's off,。
and we don't get to experience that a lot here,。
but if something is off,。
it's really a distraction from worship.。
And I start there because in 1 Peter chapter three,。
he's going to take us into roles of marriage.。
And I've seen this.。
When two people come together。
and they play their roles well,。
not trying to play the same sound or make the same sound,。
but they understand, they play a different role,。
they come together, it's like a beautiful song.。
You see it, it's beautiful.。
You don't see it often, sadly.。
Not often enough.。
But when you see it, your affections for God are even stirred。
because marriage is a metaphor.。
God invented marriage.。
The first marriage happened in the Garden of Eden.。
He was the efficient.。
You can ask this crazy question, why do we get married?。
You don't need to.。
You don't need to get married to have kids.。
In an unbelieving culture, a secular world,。
why would you get married?。
Tax breaks, that came later.。
God invented marriage to teach us something about Him,。
to show us something about Him.。
And then He kind of tells us what it looks like.。
He made male and female.。
He put them together in the covenant of marriage。
to play roles.。
We're gonna talk through those roles this evening.。
And I've seen marriages personally。
that were like an unbearable noise.。
There was something there that caused me to wince back,。
it's like, oh man, that is just not right.。
And the problem is that we don't think of marriage。
like a beautiful song.。
We think of marriage as two similar instruments。
playing at the same time.。
When a song is beautiful,。
you don't hear any one instrument.。
You hear them melting into each other。
to create something beautiful.。
And so this evening, I wanna talk about choosing a spouse。
based on the role they will play.。
The reason I'm gonna teach from that angle,。
and I'll be true to the text,。
but it's because most of us are predominantly single.。
Most of you listening right now are looking for a spouse.。
You don't currently have one.。
And so when we're looking at the roles。
that a spouse will play,。
this will really help you in your searching.。
And so when Shane is building the band,。
he doesn't just put people into it.。
When Jared is building the band,。
he doesn't just say, hey, you know,。
come and why don't you give your shot on keyboard。
or hey, here's two drumsticks, see what you got.。
No, he goes and finds people and he auditions。
so that they can prove that they can play that role well。
in dating this thing that we've invented。
and that we do in the 21st century。
is we're looking for a spouse.。
It's really the audition.。
You are trying to see if they can play that role well.。
You are showing that you can play your role well,。
but if you don't know what the roles are,。
then you don't know how to appropriately audition。
or have someone audition for them.。
Here's what I'm saying, right?。
Everybody wants happily ever after.。
Everyone, every marriage that I've done,。
every marriage that I've been to,。
every marriage that I've seen or talked about,。
when they got married,。
they assumed it was gonna be happily ever after.。
This is everyone who gets married.。
They assume that it's going to be happily ever after.。
But what happens is that journey down that road,。
half of them just boom, fall off the map.。
Half of them fail miserably.。
Any statistic you look at, it's about 50%.。
Even if you heard, hey, it's not nearly as bad,。
if you read deeper into that, it's like 48%.。
It's around 50% the divorce rate.。
And then what's crazy about that is then I've seen。
people who stay married, but they're miserably married.。
So they're married, but it's like。
they're sleeping in separate rooms,。
living in separate houses.。
They have weird stuff going on, like open marriages.。
They don't love each other, they don't talk.。
I mean, just think about marriages you've known,。
like your friend's marriage, maybe your parent's marriage.。
It's like, man, y'all, what kind of marriage do you have?。
That's weird.。
It seems like y'all don't even like each other.。
But they're not divorced, they're undivorced.。
And so this makes up a whole 'nother section of this pie.。
It's those who are unhappily married.。
And now this sliver up there, that top quarter piece,。
that's a smaller piece, that's still those。
that represent the happily ever after.。
What does that group of people know?。
What have they figured out that we need to learn from?。
That the vast majority of people fail at this,。
and then there's these folks that actually get it right.。
I think they understand the roles。
that they were intended to play in marriage.。
And so as we move through this text。
in 1 Peter chapter three, verses one through seven,。
we're gonna look at three admonishments for single friends.。
As I said, speaking of single friends,。
and it's gonna go, here's the rhythm.。
It's ladies, I'm gonna talk to you,。
and then ladies and gentlemen,。
I'm gonna talk to both of you,。
and then gentlemen, I'm gonna talk to you.。
Really, Peter, the Holy Spirit is going to talk to you.。
And so stay in there with me.。
Some of you, this is really gonna make you angry.。
If you get up and walk out, I'm gonna believe the best。
that you just had to go to the bathroom,。
but hang in there.。
I want you to stay in there with me to the end,。
and then here's the commitment I'll make to you,。
is that I'll be up here as long as I need to。
to talk to one of you.。
So if you wanna stand up and yell,。
or throw things, if you'll do that up here at the end,。
when I'm a little bit more on guard,。
then we can have that conversation,。
and I welcome it.。
Would you just hang in there with me, please?。
The context from last week,。
we're moving right into the next verse,。
was submit to every human authority.。
Governments, he said.。
He talks about slaves and masters.。
We applied it to employers and employees.。
Employees, submit to those in authority over you.。
You're not in charge.。
And then he says this.。
Wives, in the same way, that in the same way,。
it's just a continuation.。
Submit yourself to your own husbands,。
so that if any of them do not believe the word,。
they may be won over without words。
by the behavior of their wives。
when they see the purity and reverence of your lives.。
So the context, he's speaking to women。
who now in the first century church have converted,。
but their husbands haven't.。
They've become Christians,。
but their husbands are not Christians.。
They're not believers, not followers of Jesus.。
And then he speaks to your beauty, verse three.。
Your beauty should not come from outward adornment,。
such as elaborate hairstyles。
and wearing of gold jewelry or fine clothes.。
Rather, it should be that of your inner self,。
the unfading beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit,。
which is of great worth in God's sight.。
Ladies, take a deep breath.。
Whatever you're gonna throw, put it down.。
For this is the way the holy women of the past。
who put their hope in God used to adorn themselves.。
They submitted themselves to their own husbands,。
like Sarah who obeyed Abraham and called him her Lord.。
You are her daughters if you do what is right。
and do not give way to fear.。
And I want you to underline that word, fear, there.。
In summary, if I was to summarize this passage,。
I would say this.。
I'm gonna start from the back and move forward.。
Do not be afraid.。
Rather, put your hope in God, ladies.。
This hope is displayed in the way that you dress。
and the way that you submit to,。
or I'm gonna use the word follow, your husband.。
And if you don't have a husband yet, then, point one,。
my first point this evening, ladies,。
choose your husband carefully because you will follow him.。
I'm taking this word submit and saying。
because you will follow him.。
This comes from verse one and verses five and six。
under this first point.。
Because you are to follow him, verse one says submit,。
and verses five through six says。
submit like Sarah submitted to Abraham.。
Now it says follow or submit to your own husbands, ladies.。
Quick distinction, clarification here.。
Not to your boyfriend.。
You don't have to submit to stupid.。
You submit to God.。
You submit to God who calls you to submit。
to your own husband.。
Wives, in the same way,。
submit yourselves to your own husbands.。
And so what does submission look like in dating?。
It looks like you learning if it is the guy。
that you want to follow, right?。
Learning if there's someone you wanna follow.。
That's what you're doing in the audition.。
You're saying, hey, do I wanna follow them?。
I did a wedding this past weekend.。
I got up there in front of everyone.。
I said, hey, I've met Monica and I've met with this couple。
multiple times now, and she has a choice.。
Up until this point, she has a choice.。
She can say, I do not want to submit to this man.。
I don't like where he's leading.。
But in the moment, she's about to say, I will,。
I do and I will for the rest of my life,。
as long as I'm alive, I'm going to submit to his care.。
So I better make sure that he's following the right one。
so that then I can follow him.。
And this is rooted in the creation order.。
If you're wondering, why would God say this?。
It's because in Genesis, when he created humans,。
he made Adam first.。
See, if he would have made them both at the same time,。
it would have been like he would have had to instruct them。
who follows who.。
But instead, he made Adam first.。
He made Eve from Adam, woman from man,。
and he made them different.。
And everyone would agree that we're different.。
And then the fall happened, Genesis chapter three,。
and it says a result of the fall is that now a woman。
will desire to play the man's role.。
Her desire will be for her husband.。
What that means is she will desire to play the role。
of her husband as a result of sin coming into the world.。
And as they submit mutually, I told you marriage。
is a metaphor, why get married?。
Why did God invent marriage?。
We didn't need marriage.。
What is this idea of marriage?。
It's to teach us about God, and it shows us the trinity。
as Jesus, who is not in any way inferior to God,。
but he is God in person.。
He submits to the Father's will,。
understanding that there's a difference,。
this is what I want you to hear,。
between roles and rank.。
They are equal in rank, but play different roles.。
Same is true for husband and wife.。
Submission is not, now, it's not leaving your mind。
at the altar, okay?。
You have an opinion, you can certainly insert your opinion.。
It does mean that you will follow him。
when you have a different opinion.。
Submission is not following your husband into sin.。
If he wants to look at porn, or have a threesome,。
or go outside the marriage, right?。
You're not following him into sin,。
you're following a higher authority,。
and so you can submit, or you can not follow him。
into sin with integrity, and clarity doesn't mean bowing up,。
it doesn't mean trying to fight him,。
it doesn't mean showing him how sass you are,。
you can say something like this,。
"I have no desire to resist you,。
"but it pains me when you ask me。
"to follow you into a sinful act.。
"I cannot follow you into sin,。
"as much as I want to honor you,。
"and I do want to honor you, Christ is my King."。
Men ask me all the time,。
"What does leading look like in dating?"。
It means leading in purity.。
You wanna show that you're a leader。
submitted to the will of God,。
it means fleeing sexual immorality,。
that you would lead them not into temptation,。
lead them not into sin,。
you wanna prove that you're a leader.。
You lead them in the ways of God's values.。
Submission is not following a husband into sin,。
this includes abuse, which is illegal,。
and submission doesn't mean。
that you don't want to change them,。
or you don't want them to change,。
submission is a means to change.。
Let me say that again.。
Submission doesn't mean that you don't want them to change,。
submission is a means to change.。
Sanctification means change.。
If you desire them to become more like Christ,。
you want them to change, but it says not by words.。
Not that, hey, did you hear the pastor?。
Hey, did you hear that?。
Hey, I want you to read this book.。
It said not by words, it says by your actions.。
Remember the context.。
If any of them do not believe the word,。
they may be won over without words,。
without words, by the behavior of their wives.。
And so the application for us, ladies,。
is for you to choose your husband carefully,。
because that decision is permanent.。
Even if you marry a non-believer,。
this text leaves no option for divorce.。
That if you choose a non-believer,。
you got to choose a non-believer,。
and you stay with that believer.。
So your lot in life is that you would try。
to win him over to Christ by your behavior,。
and that's a really high bar,。
that's a really tough lot,。
and I've seen firsthand the pain a woman goes through。
when she marries an unbeliever.。
Consider how challenging this task。
of trying to win him over with the reverence。
and purity of your life.。
I have seen it happen.。
God is incredibly faithful,。
but you don't want to choose that as a strategy,。
hoping that he, I talk to women all the time,。
hoping that he becomes a believer.。
I'm dating a believer, what should I do?。
That's easy.。
I'm dating an unbeliever, sorry, what should I do?。
That's easy.。
Man, we've been dating for five years, madly in love.。
We're not married, what should I do?。
That's just that simple.。
That's an easy one.。
There's no gray, it's not confusing.。
Hey, there's no room, this is so clear.。
You marry a believer, period, 2 Corinthians 6, 14.。
Do not be yoked together with unbelievers。
for what do righteousness and wickedness have in common。
or what fellowship can light have with darkness.。
And so what is our problem with submission?。
Why do we hate this so much?。
Your problem with submission comes from fear.。
God is so brilliant that he would address that here.。
They submitted themselves to their own husbands。
like Sarah who obeyed Abraham and called him her Lord.。
You are her daughters if you do what is right。
and do not give way to fear.。
What you need to know is Abraham was not a perfect husband.。
Abraham even did some crazy things.。
But he sought the Lord.。
Sarah trusted not Abraham but God.。
She did not trust Abraham, she trusted Abraham's God.。
And so when Abraham said, we're gonna go to faraway land,。
she said, okay, I'll follow you.。
Your God will be my God, your people will be my people.。
May the Lord deal with me, be it ever so severely.。
If anything but death separates us, that's from Ruth.。
And so here's the deal, ladies.。
The reason you hate submission。
is because you had a father that abused authority。
or a boyfriend that abused authority。
or you've seen men take advantage of authority。
and you're gonna respond in one of two ways.。
I'm gonna give them to you, I've seen them.。
It always fits in one of two categories.。
You're gonna lash out.。
I don't need no man, I ain't need no man.。
I don't need some dude to complete me,。
like I'm a woman in dependence, you know?。
I don't need him, I don't need that.。
And do that or you're going to lay down。
to any sinful desire he wants to drag you through.。
It's gonna be one of the two.。
You gotta deal with your baggage.。
You've got to deal with the past and the example.。
I'm begging you not to hold men hostage。
to the experience you walk through.。
When you do that, the devil wins, Satan wins.。
He has victory over your life.。
When you say, hey, this experience has ruined me for all men.。
I refuse to heal from it.。
I'm just going to be sassy.。
I'm just going to have an attitude。
or I'm going to completely lay down。
to the will of any joker.。
And so here's the question.。
How has your experience framed your view of men?。
You need to answer that honestly.。
How do you really feel about men?。
And answering this will help you find one.。
And there's men here who love this part of the message.。
They're like, yes, you know, ladies, you gotta submit to me.。
Run from those kinds of men, okay?。
That's not who you want to spend your life with.。
I've been married 12 years.。
I cannot think of a time, and I'm sure I have,。
but I truly cannot think of a time。
where I've had to play this card,。
where I've had to go to Monica and I've said,。
hey, I know we disagree, but we're going to go this way.。
Now, there's been times where I've said,。
hey, this is what we should do,。
and she kind of looked at me and, are you sure?。
I've been like, hey, I think we should get a minivan.。
She's like, are you sure that's from God?。
[congregation laughing]。
I was like, yeah, yeah, I think so.。
I prayed about it.。
She's like, are you sure you're sure?。
And then she has this card that she can play.。
Hey, would you mind if we process that in community?。
Could we get some guys led by the Spirit around you。
to lead you to a suburban or something?。
[congregation laughing]。
But at the end of the day, if I'm like,。
hey, I've heard from the Lord, it's a minivan.。
We're going Toyota Sienna or something, I don't know.。
Verse three, your beauty should not come。
from outward adornment, so we're talking。
about the way you look now.。
Your beauty should not come from outward adornment。
such as elaborate hairstyles and the wearing。
of gold jewelry or fine clothes.。
Rather, it should be that of your inner self,。
the unfading beauty of gentle and quiet spirit,。
which is of great worth in God's sight,。
for this is the way the holy women of the past。
who put their hope, it shows where their hope is,。
they put their hope in God, used to adorn themselves.。
They did not hope in looks or plastic surgery。
or jewelry or clothes.。
Does it mean that you can't wear designer clothes?。
No, it means that your hope shouldn't come from them.。
That shouldn't be where you place worth.。
Does it mean you shouldn't wear jewelry?。
No, it doesn't say don't wear jewelry, thou shalt not.。
It says this is not where your value should come from.。
This is not where your beauty should come from.。
Ladies, second point, ladies and gentlemen,。
pursue true beauty, emphasis on the word true there.。
True beauty is not what you see in a photo.。
True beauty is what you see beneath the surface,。
its character, and you see it from listening。
and watching and observing.。
And so ladies, pursue being beautiful on the inside.。
It doesn't mean to stop getting highlights。
or to throw away the Nordstrom's gift card。
and no need to cancel the Stella and Dot party,。
unless that's where your sense of beauty comes from.。
Ladies, listen, does it?。
Is that where your sense of beauty comes from?。
You have to answer this, does it?。
How much time do you invest in the mirror?。
How much time do you invest thinking about。
the perfect shade of lipstick and what you're gonna wear。
and how that's gonna go with that and your style。
and jewelry and obsessing and how much time?。
Is that where you spend your time?。
Because if that's where you invest a lot of thinking,。
a lot of thoughts, something's broken.。
And step one to fixing it is say, man, something's broken.。
I find my worth in the way that I look.。
It's deep seated within me.。
You want to begin to heal from that.。
And I know that girls like to feel pretty, right?。
But it's not a pedicure and a manicure or a spa day。
that's going to make you truly feel pretty.。
It's bathing in God's word.。
And too many girls are having spa days。
instead of spiritual days.。
Too many girls are having spa days instead of spiritual days。
and so think about this.。
If you put much more time and energy into thinking about。
how to become beautiful on the outside。
instead of the inside, you have your priorities messed up.。
And what it's really saying is don't use your body。
to cut corners, to expedite marriage,。
to get a guy to ask you out the way。
that you look on the outside.。
Trust God.。
Do you love the gym and hate quiet time?。
Men, pass that one up.。
She's not for you.。
That's not God's best for you.。
And so a tight bodied, beautiful, fit girl。
with highlights and makeup that doesn't know her Bible,。
has her priorities all out of whack。
and she will be a miserable wife.。
It will be a pretty wedding and an ugly marriage.。
That's the truth.。
Public service announcement.。
Some of you are like, did he just say that?。
Did he say tight bodied?。
Yes, I did.。
Public service announcement, pretty wedding,。
ugly marriage.。
That's a fact.。
You will not escape that fun honeymoon,。
miserable anniversaries.。
That's what's coming there.。
And so ladies, don't look at fashion magazines。
to see what the future will look like.。
Look at family photos.。
Okay?。
Don't begin to put your hope in what people。
are going to see on the outside.。
And so men, let me talk to you for a minute,。
pursue women who are truly beautiful.。
Men ask me all the time,。
well, do I need to be attracted to them?。
It's one of the most asked questions, to be honest.。
Let me answer it right now, once and for all,。
and so you can answer it so people can stop asking me。
so you can tell others.。
Do I need to be attracted to them?。
You need to cherish them.。
You need to be able to cherish them.。
You need to be able to make them feel。
like the most beautiful woman in the whole wide world.。
If you can't do that, then you're not up for the task.。
You must be able to cherish them.。
And so what do you cherish, men?。
You cherish things that you work for,。
things that took time to develop.。
You cherish things that you see as valuable.。
And if they're beautiful on the inside,。
but you're not attracted to them,。
it may be a maturity issue.。
Like guys tell me all the time,。
well, she's everything that you thought and described。
in Proverbs 31, check, check, check, check, check, check,。
but I'm just not attracted to them.。
That's a you problem.。
You're not there yet.。
Keep spending time in God's word, man.。
Keep asking him to make you attracted。
to what he's attracted to,。
'cause you and God have different tastes.。
God says this in 1 Samuel 16, verse seven,。
but the Lord said to Samuel,。
"Do not consider his appearance or his height,。
for I have rejected him."。
The Lord does not look at the things people look at.。
People look at outward appearance,。
but the Lord looks at the heart.。
And so are you attracted to what God is attracted to?。
And you've got to answer this question, why not?。
And here's an appropriate answer,。
because I've been looking at porn on and off。
since the fifth grade.。
Oh, oh, Don, man, you're not gonna be attracted。
to what God's attracted to.。
You're gonna be attracted to porn stars.。
You're gonna be attracted。
to two-dimensional images on a screen.。
You're gonna be attracted to photos on your cell phone.。
You're not gonna be attracted to a human being.。
You're gonna be attracted to something counterfeit.。
You're not gonna be attracted to something real.。
You've gone to a university, a slow school,。
slowly to be educated,。
to be attracted to something that's not true。
and not beautiful.。
You are literally shooting yourself in the foot right now,。
if that's your story.。
Just answer this question.。
Hey, when's the last time you've looked at pornography?。
And if it's, you know, April, okay?。
We've got a problem you need to heal from.。
And so what you do, God in his sovereignty loves you so much。
that he'd have you hearing this message。
that before you get up from that seat,。
you make a commitment, I'm done.。
I am done destroying my marriage long before it started.。
I am done being a pitiful husband。
to my children I've never met,。
who haven't been born yet.。
I'm done.。
And you say, I commit to carving time out of my life。
to pursue healing, to prioritize healing over pornography.。
And it's going to be work.。
I'm just going to tell you,。
as someone who has walked this path,。
it's going to be hard work.。
And you got a man up to the task.。
Do you believe God's word is true?。
Says charm is deceptive, beauty is fleeting,。
but a woman who fears the Lord is to be praised.。
Do we believe that beauty is fleeting?。
Do we believe that what is on the outside is diminishing。
and that you will be left with what is on the inside?。
That's what you're going to be left with.。
There's a study that the guy。
who is the vice president of OKCupid did,。
and he just said that women,。
he studied people from between 20 and 50 every single year,。
men and women between 20 and 50.。
So for 30 years, every year,。
studied them the data on dating websites and dating apps。
to see who they were attracted to, specifically what age.。
And so a 20-year-old woman was attracted to,。
most attracted to roughly a 20-year-old man,。
a slightly older, a 23-year-old man.。
A 50-year-old woman was attracted to a 48-year-old man.。
So with women, it kind of moved.。
With men at every single age between 20 and 50,。
20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 35, 37, 42 to 50,。
they were attracted to a 20-year-old woman,。
21, 22, 23.。
You tracking with me?。
The attraction remained the same.。
Here's why I say that.。
A lot of you girls just got incredibly depressed.。
Just hang in there with me.。
It's never too late to become beautiful on the inside.。
[congregation laughing]。
What it's saying, men, this is for you,。
the moment you say, "I do,"。
assuming that she's older than 20,。
the physical attraction is diminishing。
from that moment forward.。
You better have something else.。
There better be character there.。
There better be depth there.。
Because you just invested,。
if you invested in the physical, a depreciating asset.。
So there has to be more.。
Rather, it should be that of your inner self,。
of your inner beauty,。
of the unfading beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit,。
which is of great worth in God's sight.。
And people have spent a lot of time。
to figure out what gentle and quiet spirit means.。
And I'm here to exegete it from the Greek for you.。
It means gentle and quiet spirit.。
So you can think about that all you want,。
hoping that it becomes something else.。
What it means is gentle and quiet spirit.。
And so if you're like,。
well, if I'm loud and a rough kind of girl,。
does it mean I'll stay single?。
Probably.。
(congregation laughing)。
Hey, how come no guy's interested in me?。
(congregation laughing)。
Because we're afraid of you.。
(congregation laughing)。
That's the truth.。
And so it's okay.。
I'm not trying to be a jerk.。
I'm reading the scripture.。
Take some time, figure out what gentle and quiet means.。
We'll figure it out.。
We can work on that together.。
And so I've seen this play out over and over.。
Girls tries to relate to guys by being more like a guy.。
I've seen it.。
I've seen, man, I like to smoke cigars too, you know,。
and go cowboys and wanna wrestle.。
And it's like, listen,。
guys don't want guys.。
They don't.。
That's the truth.。
I'm helping you right now.。
I've seen a lot of marriages.。
I've seen thousands and thousands of young girls,。
thousands of relationships, truly thousands.。
That's not what a guy's going for.。
Okay?。
And so God made you a girl.。
I've got two.。
I have two daughters.。
I think they're awesome.。
I think girls are awesome.。
I want to instill in them a beauty that doesn't fade。
because I want them to be beautiful,。
but I know that's gonna change.。
The outside's gonna change.。
What I want to be left is character.。
Let me tell you a really obscure story, okay?。
A couple disclaimers up front.。
I was not a Christian, not a believer,。
not walking with the Lord.。
What I did, I do not condone.。
I do not condone the actions of the story。
I'm about to tell you.。
And when I graduated from college, I was living in a duplex,。
and my best friend said,。
"Hey, why don't you move in with my family?"。
And I did, moved in with him, short term,。
about three months.。
When I lived there, I saw two things。
that I shouldn't have seen.。
My friend has a 20-year-old,。
had a 20-year-old sister, 21-year-old sister at the time.。
And so as I lived there,。
and we had meals together and hung out and whatnot,。
one day I walked into her room,。
I opened the door, didn't knock, should have,。
and she was there without any clothes on,。
and she didn't see me for a minute,。
and I should have slammed the door,。
but instead I kind of froze like, whoa.。
And then she saw me, she's like, "Get out!"。
And I'm like, "Pervert!"。
And I'm like, "I'm sorry."。
And I was, you know,。
and, but it was too late.。
Like I couldn't unsee what I saw,。
and I'm sorry, you know?。
And so don't judge me, it happened,。
and I know it's weird.。
And so the second thing that I saw。
that I shouldn't have seen。
was I walked into the laundry room, the utility room,。
and there's a desk, her parents had a desk there,。
and on it was a note, and I picked it up and I read it,。
and it was a note she wrote to her father.。
And I just remember being like blown,。
I remember sitting there as though time stood still,。
and it was just me and this note,。
and I'm reading it,。
and it just like dripped with gratitude and encouragement.。
Dad, I love you for these reasons.。
I haven't been a perfect daughter in these ways,。
but I want you to know how proud of you I am,。
and how thankful I am,。
and she listed all these things.。
I'm reading it, I'm like, whoa,。
who writes a letter like this?。
And at 728 tonight, that girl texted me,。
sent me a text message, I said,。
I'll show you what it said.。
She just said, praying for the message,。
I said, love you, thank you for praying,。
you are a gift to me.。
She said, I love you, you are a gift to me.。
Thank you for caring for our children on Tuesdays,。
I said, she said, thank you for faithfully providing for us。
so I can, and for just being faithful.。
I married that girl,。
and 12 years, 15 years later now,。
what I saw when I walked in on her,。
that's all changed, three kids later.。
I mean, you know, a lot of that's changed.。
You're like, oh man, did you just say that?。
Sorry, pray for me.。
No, it's fine, 'cause here's, look, it's changed on me too.。
(congregation laughing)。
It's just all changed.。
Life happens, metabolism starts to pump the brakes,。
but the character that was in that letter。
that she wrote to her dad,。
it's just grown and become exposed.。
And I can tell you, and this isn't like sappy pastor talk,。
like I just wanna be real with you real quick,。
I've never been more attracted to her,。
I've never thought she was more beautiful than I do,。
and I cannot wait to leave this place and get home to her.。
And I'm gonna walk in.。
(congregation applauding)。
I'm gonna walk in and she's gonna ask how it went,。
and I'm gonna tell her not to listen to it.。
(laughing)。
And then we're gonna pray together,。
and then we're gonna go to bed, it's gonna be amazing.。
And I don't mean that in a perverted way, I'm just.。
(congregation laughing)。
Tuesdays are go to bed, like, sleep days, so.。
(congregation laughing)。
We're gonna go long tonight, third point.。
Men, I wanna talk to you.。
Can I keep going?。
Okay.。
Ladies are like, you better talk to the man after all that.。
(congregation laughing)。
Husbands, you're to lead with honor or else.。
And I mean that because there's like a threat in the text.。
There's this ultimatum in the text,。
so I just wanna give it to you.。
This is one of the most culturally shocking verses。
in the entire Bible, and I'll have to unpack。
what I mean by that, but it's true.。
Husbands, in the same way, be considerate。
as you live with your wives and treat them。
with respect as the weaker partner and as heirs with you。
of the gracious gift of life,。
so that nothing will hinder your prayers.。
Lots going on there, let's just take it step by step.。
This is a time when Peter wrote this.。
It's a time that women had no rights,。
they couldn't even own property or speak in public.。
That's the culture that Peter wrote this to.。
And so women were extremely oppressed in this time.。
And Peter is saying where it says,。
with respect, that word is to honor them,。
to be considerate of them, not to treat them as equal,。
but to consider them before yourself,。
that you would show honor to them.。
Consider who you honor, right, like a boss or a president。
or someone you respect deeply,。
that in all that you do, you're to honor them.。
Ben Hogan, a professional golfer,。
when he was leaving a golf tournament with his wife,。
he was driving from Fort Worth to Phoenix, Arizona,。
and there was a Greyhound bus that came into his lane,。
passing another car, coming at him,。
and he hit head-on collision, destroyed the car.。
If I showed it to you, you would wonder how anyone survived.。
And so he shattered his pelvis, his ribs, his wrist,。
his leg, ankle, hurt his eye,。
had internal bleeding, internal wounds to his organs.。
His wife got out without a scratch。
because just before impact, he left the steering wheel。
and dove in front of her and covered her up.。
He was a human airbag.。
And so this was his act of living out this,。
be considerate of her and honor her.。
And so you think, okay, well, I may not have the opportunity。
to dive in front of my wife in front of a Greyhound bus.。
What does that look like?。
Man, it looks like not objectifying them.。
It looks like watching how you talk to them and about them.。
And even what you listen to about them。
because you're feeding your heart in that,。
that you protect them.。
I'm not afraid of this place being a meat market.。
That's something I haven't heard in a long, long time.。
I'm talking years and years and years.。
Because the reason this place is not a meat market。
'cause it's full of sheepdogs.。
The reason there's no wolves here,。
or the wolves don't last here, I should say,。
'cause they're here, ladies.。
The reason they don't last here。
is because there's sheepdogs everywhere, shepherds,。
walking around looking for men who seek to honor women.。
And it's beautiful.。
And I watch it, I love it.。
And so there are men here that really get this。
and understand their part.。
I told you earlier, if you're looking at porn,。
you need to get help.。
I'd encourage you to do that before you leave this place.。
No need to email me tomorrow.。
I know my inbox will be full of hundreds of emails。
if I didn't say that.。
Just show up Monday night, 6.30.。
We got you, okay?。
It says weaker partner.。
What does that mean?。
It's just literal.。
That's all it means.。
It means that if, ladies,。
if you and I had an arm wrestling contest,。
I'm gonna win most of the time, okay?。
And so that's all it means.。
It's literal.。
Like, if you have a problem with that,。
you have a problem with biology.。
That's all that is.。
Peter's just being honest with us.。
Here's the point, though.。
I want you to listen to this.。
Men, don't use your strength to oppress women。
or undress women, but to bless women,。
to be considerate of them.。
Use your strength.。
This is the profound reality in this culture.。
Use your strength to serve the weaker,。
not to take advantage of them.。
That would have been mind-blowing in this culture.。
That, hey, I want you to use your strength。
to help them and to exalt them, to honor them,。
to be considerate of them, not to take advantage of them.。
And then it says that they're heirs。
of the gracious gift of life.。
This would have been radical.。
In a time that women could not be heirs,。
Peter points out that they have an internal inheritance.。
Women could not have an inheritance at this time,。
and so Peter's saying, no,。
they have an internal inheritance.。
This is why women flocked to the church in the first century.。
It's one of the reasons Christianity exploded as it did.。
Women began to come to a place。
where they heard a very different message,。
that men are to treat them with honor,。
and that they could have this eternal inheritance.。
And so they wanted some of that,。
so the church blew up and it grew,。
and a lot of that was women.。
And so this other idea of this inheritance。
is that God is their daddy.。
I was talking to a friend the other day,。
and he just said how he had this,。
he has daughters, father of daughters,。
and he has this really nice car.。
He's a man of resources,。
and so purchased this really nice car, this classic car,。
and when guys, when his daughters turned 18,。
guys started wanting to ask them out,。
and they said, hey, you gotta ask my dad.。
And so these guys would come to the house。
to ask their dad if they could go out with his daughters,。
and what he'd do is he'd take this really nice car,。
and he'd wax it up and polish it up,。
and he'd park it right in front of the house.。
And when they'd come in, inevitably,。
they'd be like, wow, this is a really nice car,。
and he'd sit 'em down and he'd tell 'em all about it.。
Man, let me tell you about it.。
He started to talk about the features,。
and the age, and the engine, and how many horsepower,。
and how much he loved it, how much he cared about it,。
how what it took to restore the car,。
how much effort went into it, how much it cost.。
And he just talked about his deep love and affection。
for this vehicle, and he would say this.。
He said, but don't you get any ideas?。
I don't let anyone borrow my car.。
And the guys would always say, oh, no, man,。
I would never ask.。
I would never ask you to borrow the car.。
And he says, well, then what are you doing。
asking for my daughter?。
'Cause how much more do I love her than that car?。
I mean, how can you come into my house and tell me。
you're not gonna ask if you can borrow my car,。
but you wanna borrow my daughter?。
You better believe I care infinitely more about her。
than I do that pile of metal out there.。
And what this text is saying, men,。
is that God sees every act, where every hand goes,。
and every thought that runs through your mind,。
and that's his daughter.。
And if you don't have to fear that,。
but I would encourage you to go outside。
and just shout up at the sky, God, I don't fear you.。
I'm not afraid of you.。
Because that's what you're saying in the backseat of the car,。
in your apartment, on the couch, in the movie,。
and on the phone late at night.。
God is their daddy.。
And it says, so that nothing will hinder your prayers.。
I think we read that, and we read,。
so that God will not refuse to answer your prayers.。
It's not just about God answering your prayers,。
it's so much worse than that.。
It's saying that if you do not cherish her,。
and honor her, and be considerate of her,。
then your relationship with God is fractured.。
Even you going to talk to him, he's saying,。
hey, don't worship me if you haven't honored the covenant.。
Don't come to me.。
See, marriage is an act of worship.。
It's about worship.。
It teaches us about God, that two become one flesh.。
What God has brought together,。
let man not separate for this reason.。
Man will leave his father and mother。
and be united to his wife,。
and the two will become one flesh.。
It is an act of worship.。
It's a beautiful song that we sing。
when we play the roles correctly,。
that the world watches on in the way。
that a husband lays his life down for his wife,。
and the wife submits to his care.。
And it's a picture of Jesus and the father.。
It's a picture of the Trinity working together.。
It shows the world a picture of God.。
And this verse haunts me.。
I've gone to bed after a fight with Monica。
when I was short with her and disrespectful to her,。
and I turned to say my prayers。
and ask God to help me in a message。
and in the day tomorrow,。
and give me favor with these people,。
and help me preach well.。
And you know what I heard in response?。
Nothing.。
A haunting nothing.。
And it's this verse I think of.。
So I wanna invite the band up.。
And I wanna remind you that ladies,。
you need to choose your husband carefully。
because you will follow them.。
Ladies and gentlemen, pursue true beauty,。
and husbands lead with honor or else。
your relationship with God is at stake.。
And here's the truth, I had no idea what I was doing。
when I began to consider marriage.。
We walked into premarital counseling with this pastor,。
and he said, "You know what your problem is, JP and Monica?"。
He said, "You know, you guys are just pursuing each other.。
"You're madly in love, I see it."。
And he said this, he said,。
"You need to stop pursuing each other。
"and start pursuing Christ together."。
And I just thought that was the dumbest thing。
I'd ever heard.。
And I look at my own marriage,。
and I look at the journey that God has had us on.。
Friends, that was the best marriage advice。
I've ever received.。
In fact, it's changed my marriage, it changed me.。
It became prophetic over my life,。
that we would stop pursuing each other。
and that Christ would become the foundation.。
And so when you have a right marriage。
where people are playing the right roles,。
it's like a beautiful song.。
And so, Shana, would you play something?。
I want them to hear this.。
So you hear one instrument,。
and then if we add drums,。
those instruments come together,。
and we'll add bass guitar, Ross,。
and fill,。
and keys,。
and guitar.。
You hear the things blend together,。
and it's just like, man, everybody's playing their role,。
and it's pretty, and it's beautiful.。
And it's beautiful, it's like Christ is at the center,。
we know what we're here to do,。
we're doing what we came here to do.。
But if someone begins to fight for attention,。
or to fight for a role that's not theirs,。
or they begin to do something else,。
they begin to make it about them,。
they begin to say, hey, look at me,。
or no, I'm not gonna take that,。
or I'm not gonna submit to some man,。
or hey, you need to submit to me, I'm your husband.。
It becomes ugly, it becomes this thing that's like,。
is that in tune, is there something wrong?。
And you're watching, it's not beautiful anymore,。
it's just like, ah, something's not right there.。
But when you put Christ back where he goes,。
you say, hey, how could I ever play these roles?。
You can't.。
Christ has to be where he belongs.。
When you put Christ where he belongs,。
then you cannot treat a woman。
with anything other than respect and honor.。
When you put Christ where he belongs,。
then you know you're following someone。
who is submitting their life to Christ,。
and you don't have to trust them, you trust God.。
Trust God.。
It's an act of trusting God.。
Let me pray for us.。
Father, thank you for teaching us。
about roles in marriage through your servant, Peter.。
God, thank you for just your example。
of submission through Jesus Christ,。
who submitted his life even to the point of death。
on a cross.。
Father, thank you for the ways that we can trust you,。
that you've given these instructions not to rip us off,。
but to give us life, to lead us in your ways everlasting.。
So we thank you for these seven verses.。
Would you help us to apply,。
help us to apply them to our lives。
by the power of your Holy Spirit.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
[MUSIC]。
