[MUSIC PLAYING]。
All right.。
How you guys doing?。
Dallas, Fort Worth, you guys doing well?。
All right.。
Well, it is so fun to be with you guys.。
God has used the porch to change my life in so many ways.。
And so it's a joy to be up here.。
It really is surreal.。
Recently, we were on a porch leadership retreat.。
And so what that means is about twice a year,。
our staff team and our key volunteers,。
we'll just get out of Dallas.。
And there'll be about 20 of us.。
And we just spend time together, really.。
We want to just kind of deepen bonds。
of those who are serving and leading here.。
And the agenda is just to have as much fun as possible,。
honestly, and hopefully know and love each other more。
at the end of our time.。
And we had one a couple of weeks ago.。
And so we were kind of reminiscing,。
like, what's the greatest retreat we've ever done?。
What's the greatest memory?。
And the Dust Bowl came to mind.。
And the retreats are often-- they don't really。
happen like you think they would.。
This particular time, we were headed out to Bonham, Texas.。
You familiar with Bonham?。
Yeah, a couple of you from there.。
And so we had been given a lake house to use for the weekend.。
And so we were headed out that way.。
And I don't know about you, but whenever I kind of。
get out of Dallas, the busyness of just the fast pace,。
like I'm at a lake, I am just content to chill.。
You know what I mean?。
Like, I could just sip coffee, stare at the water,。
and I'm good, you know?。
We had a boat this particular weekend, a Malibu wakesetter.。
There was just perfect glass out there.。
We could ski, wakeboard.。
I'm like, we have arrived.。
We don't need to do anything else.。
We don't need to go anywhere.。
JP, on the other hand, the boss man, as you know,。
he kind of had a different plan this particular weekend.。
He's always after that unique shared experience.。
Have you guys heard this term?。
Like, he's always trying to make memories on our team.。
And so he's like, he had seen a flea market。
coming into the lake house.。
He's like, wake up Saturday morning.。
He's like, guys, we should check out that flea market.。
And I'm like, thinking in my mind, I'm like,。
flea market of everything we could do out here at the lake.。
Like, going to a flea market, not even in my top 10,000.。
I mean, it just like nowhere near there.。
But we do, we wake up, we decide to go there。
on Saturday morning.。
And we're having fun, kinda.。
But we see this guy there and he's standing by a race car.。
And he's kind of promoting a race that was happening。
later on that night in town.。
And again, I'm thinking like small town Texas,。
dirt track, car races, people die there.。
Like, that doesn't sound fun.。
That doesn't even sound safe, you know what I mean?。
I'm like, no, thank you.。
But again, JP's like, guys, we gotta make a memory.。
Let's go, let's go, it's gonna be awesome.。
And so, maybe you're noticing a theme.。
We decide to go to the Dust Bowl that night.。
And the guy that was promoing, he's kinda like,。
it's close, you know, it's like just down the road.。
And so we take off, we're driving,。
and it's been like 35 minutes.。
And we're like, JP, buddy, we are so lost.。
Like, this place is not here.。
I mean, we're driving through like trees。
where there's canopies over us,。
and we're not seeing cars for like 20 minutes.。
We're like, buddy, boss man, this is not the right place.。
Like, this feels more like the Blair Witch Project。
than anything.。
Like, this is, like, we're so lost.。
And, but bless him, man, he's like, no, no, no,。
this is the way.。
Like, I am sure it's gonna be awesome.。
Like, we have to stay the course.。
Keep going, it's gonna be great.。
We're like, okay.。
So, we keep driving, and sure enough, guys,。
we turn this one corner, and we look on the horizon,。
and in the middle of like nowhere,。
I don't even know where we were,。
it looked like Jerry World.。
It was like, what?。
Like, we did not see that coming.。
It is like this huge stadium,。
and you could hear kind of the buzz of the cars。
going around the track, and people are pulling in.。
And here's the deal, like, we had an amazing time。
that night.。
Like, the guy from the flea market,。
he came out and met us, and he was like,。
hey, yeah, come on, guys, come on in, park here.。
He kind of gave us the red carpet tour of the place,。
and he took us into the pit.。
We got to meet the drivers, take pictures,。
and we had an absolute blast.。
Like, the greatest memory that we've probably。
ever had together as a leadership team。
was that night at the porch.。
And at the Dust Bowl, excuse me.。
And, nice, see what I did there?。
And here's why I tell you that story.。
Have you ever felt like, just in life,。
like maybe right now, like, you ever felt。
like you're just going the wrong direction?。
You know, like the path that you're on,。
you're just like, man, I'm not in the right place.。
Like, I'm just, I'm not going,。
I don't like where I'm at, you know?。
And specifically, like, is there a boss over you,。
an authority figure, and he's kind of calling the shots,。
he's kind of driving the car, if you will,。
and you're just like, man,。
I don't know that I trust that guy, you know?。
And if I'm honest, like, I'd like to drive,。
'cause I could drive a lot better than this guy.。
I have felt like that so much of my life,。
specifically as it relates to my job,。
which is what we're gonna talk about tonight.。
Like, guys, I have been a schizophrenic.。
Like, I have jumped around from job to job,。
industry to industry.。
I've worked at big companies,。
I've worked at small companies,。
I've worked for Christians,。
I've worked for non-Christians,。
I've worked at businesses,。
now I'm working at a church.。
I'm like, what am I doing, you know?。
But I have thought so much of my life.。
I'm like, am I going the right direction?。
Like, am I doing this deal right?。
And I have wrestled so much with the question,。
what is God's will for our work?。
And that's what we're gonna talk about tonight.。
What is God's will for our work?。
Specifically, we're gonna answer three questions tonight.。
We're gonna talk about who we are working for,。
number one, who we're working for,。
number two, what we are working for,。
and number three, how we are to work。
as followers of Jesus Christ.。
We are continuing this series.。
Colossians, you guys enjoying this?。
Good, a couple of you guys?。
You're like, bring back a dating series,。
those are more fun.。
No, this is awesome, man.。
Like, I love to learn books of the Bible together.。
And so we're continuing Paul's letter to the Colossians,。
and Paul is doing what he so often does。
in a lot of his letters.。
If you look at him, he will kind of start very high level。
kind of doctrine, theology,。
towards the beginning of the letter,。
and then he'll come back around and go,。
okay, this is what it looks like to apply that.。
Like, this is how we're gonna live that out.。
And so the text that we're gonna cover tonight。
is going to do that, Colossians 3, 17.。
You can turn there, and we're gonna go through,。
actually, the beginning of chapter four.。
So I invite you guys to turn there.。
Read with me in verse 17.。
"And whatever you do, whether in word or deed,。
"do it all in the name of the Lord Jesus,。
"giving thanks to God the Father through him.。
"Wives, submit yourselves to your husbands。
"as is fitting in the Lord.。
"Husbands, love your wives and do not be harsh with them.。
"Children, obey your parents in everything,。
"for this pleases the Lord.。
"Fathers, do not embitter your children,。
"or they will become discouraged.。
"Slaves, obey your earthly masters in everything,。
"and do it not only when their eye is on you。
"to curry their favor, but with sincerity of heart。
"and reverence for the Lord."。
That's a rich text.。
Two observations as I kinda started to study this.。
One is honestly a little bit more personal,。
and the other one applies to the text.。
I see kinda the two big, dirty S words。
of the Bible in there, right?。
You see submission, women submitting to men,。
and you see the whole idea of slavery.。
So I'm like, okay, so JP is out of town this week.。
He's taking his family to Disney World,。
and he's like, "Okay, Greg,。
"I know you've never taught at the porch before,。
"but if you could just cover women submitting to men。
"and slavery, that'd be great."。
And he's gonna come back next week,。
and I think he's talking on like prayer.。
I'm like, all right.。
Well played, touche.。
But here's the deal, Paul is talking to the Colossians。
about authority, and namely the authority。
that has been placed by God,。
like that has been hard woven into the world,。
and he gives us three examples.。
He talks about it in a marriage context.。
My wife, Alicia, is here somewhere.。
I imagine we've been married for about 4 1/2 years.。
And really quickly, you just see。
that God has made us really different, right?。
There's not necessarily roles and ranks,。
but he has made me, he's given me the role。
of kinda headship and leadership of our marriage.。
You can just see how he makes us different in those ways.。
The second context he gives us is parenting.。
We have a 2 1/2-year-old daughter, a little Cora.。
And again, you just quickly see like the safest place。
for Cora to be is under our authority.。
Like it is a very, very good thing。
for there to be authority in Cora's life.。
And sometimes we just have to go,。
baby, you just need to trust me on this one.。
Like I know you don't fully understand,。
but you just need to do it this time because we said so.。
You know what I mean?。
Like it is a very good thing。
that there's authority in her life.。
And the third context, which we're gonna talk about tonight。
is in a slave and master context.。
And before we do that, we have to talk about。
kinda slavery in the Bible.。
Does the Bible condone slavery?。
And here's what you need to know about that。
before we move forward.。
The slavery in the Bible is a very different slavery。
than what we experience kind of in our nation's history.。
It's not a slavery that's based on race.。
Primarily, it's actually much more based。
on kind of financial or economic status.。
And so most of the people would actually voluntarily。
enter into kind of the slave master relationship.。
So it's very, very different.。
And if you think about it, it's very, very similar。
when you think slave master in the Bible。
to employee, employer.。
You know, it's very similar to the jobs that we hold today.。
And so that's what we're gonna spend our time。
talking about tonight is most relevant。
to kind of our life stage here at The Porch。
is this kind of employee, employer context.。
And last thing before we dive in, I just wanna say this.。
God is talking about doing everything for his glory,。
and he starts talking about authority.。
And it seems that one way that Paul is saying。
that we can glorify God is to pay very, very close attentions。
to the authorities that God has put over us,。
because he puts those over us in his sovereignty.。
That is key to understanding this text。
that we're gonna cover tonight, all right?。
So let's keep reading, verse 23.。
Whatever you do, work at it with all your heart。
as working for the Lord, not for human masters.。
Let me say that again.。
Whatever you do, work at it with all your heart。
as working for the Lord and not for human masters.。
My first point really question tonight,。
who are we working for?。
And I have found, you know, in my heart,。
like two very, very different options。
when it comes to who I am working for.。
Like I know the scripture, like I see this,。
work for God, I get this, like God is leading me to life.。
But in my flesh, like I have jumped on that roller coaster,。
maybe you guys have too, of working for the applause of man.。
You know what I mean?。
Just like those approvals, I see people shaking their head,。
like we call them attaboys on staff here.。
And maybe you've experienced that, guys,。
but that is just such a terrible way to live, is it not?。
And it is a roller coaster.。
It's up and down and it's unfulfilling。
and it's unsatisfying.。
And I just think that God has so much more than that.。
Paul, earlier in his letter to the Galatians,。
wrote it this way.。
He said, "Am I now trying to win the approval。
"of human beings or of God?。
"Or am I trying to please people?。
"If I was still trying to please people,。
"I would not be a servant of Christ."。
That's Galatians 1:10.。
And here's the deal, guys, like preparing for this message,。
like I've never been up here.。
I don't do this often, I'm sure you can tell.。
But I was doing pretty great, you know?。
I ran through it actually with JP before he left。
and that kind of felt like a spanking, honestly,。
but that's okay.。
But today, like I was preparing for this。
and I was really praying。
and I just started to get really anxious.。
Like I really wasn't feeling like that,。
but I just started to think, you know, about the people.。
You know, like I don't even know most of you guys,。
but I'm like, I hope you like me, you know?。
I hope it's good.。
And I'm like, you know, Todd and the elders,。
like they're texting me, like,。
I hope you do great, we're gonna listen in.。
I'm like, what do you mean you're gonna listen in?。
Like, what does that mean?。
And you know, I've got friends here and family here tonight。
and there's just, there is a huge part of me。
that longs for your approval, you know?。
And that, again, that's just a rollercoaster。
that God invites us off of, you know?。
And he just says, I can, I have so much more for you。
than that, Greg, you know?。
And he just says, live for an audience of one.。
Like, when we work for God, it's so different, you know?。
And if you think about it, like our bosses,。
they might see, they might not see,。
but like God never misses one act of our love,。
our service, our hard work.。
Like, he doesn't miss a thing.。
He is the one that matters, not the people.。
I have to keep reminding myself of that.。
But here's the deal, like, if we are doing this right,。
like if we are working for God,。
it absolutely means that we submit,。
that we work hard for the authorities。
that God puts over us, why?。
Because he is sovereign.。
There is no authority over us。
that God doesn't intentionally place.。
That's Romans 13, one through two.。
And so if we are serving God, we will serve our boss.。
There was a guy that used to serve here with us.。
We'll call him Carl, Carl.。
Man, that's tough to say, back and forth.。
And so Carl was a really, really sharp guy.。
And he was with an energy company in town,。
and he was kinda young, but he was on the fast track.。
But he was kinda too young for the CFO role,。
and so they brought a new guy in。
to be the CFO of his company.。
And very quickly, like from talking to Carl,。
it was like the new CFO, like he was not gonna cut it.。
Like, he was not connecting well。
with the people that he was managing,。
and they were like, man, this guy's gonna be out.。
And sure enough, he did get fired.。
And before he was leaving, like,。
this is a very smart, educated CFO experience.。
And he sought out my friend Carl, and he just said,。
he said, hey, buddy, I need to ask you a question。
before I leave, like I'm dying to ask you something.。
And my friend Carl's like, sure, yeah, what is it?。
And he's like, okay, what did I do differently with you?。
He's like, what do you mean?。
He's like, well, you see, I had like nine other people。
that I was managing, and those relationships,。
like they were going terrible,。
but you, like we had something good going there.。
And so like, whatever I was doing with you,。
I need to do more of that in my next job.。
And whatever I was doing with these guys,。
I should probably not do more of that.。
And he said, he said, oh, okay.。
He said, well, that would be。
because I don't really work for you.。
And the guy was like, the CFO was like,。
what are you talking about?。
I'm the CFO, have you seen the org chart?。
Like, you absolutely work for me.。
He's like, no, no, no, no, no, no.。
He's like, you don't understand.。
He's like, I'm a Christian, I'm a follower of Jesus Christ.。
And so even though you were doing the same things,。
like you were doing all those things。
you were doing over here,。
like you were doing those here,。
but I wasn't serving you.。
Like I was serving my Father in heaven,。
and he commands me to serve the authorities。
that are over me.。
And so I was serving him.。
And yeah, I was serving you,。
but it was 'cause my eyes were focused on the Lord.。
We work for God.。
Next verse, verse 24.。
Since you know that you will receive an inheritance。
from the Lord as a reward,。
it is the Lord Christ you are serving.。
My second question tonight, what are we working for?。
Again, I feel this pull in my heart.。
If I can be honest, I hope we always can here.。
I feel the desire to have more money.。
If you can imagine people at a church,。
we don't make a ton of money.。
But I just feel the desire for more,。
just a little bit more.。
What if we could have just a nicer car?。
What if we could do some upgrades to our house?。
If we could travel somewhere awesome this summer?。
What if I could just have a little bit more money?。
Or honestly, more than that,。
what I'm more susceptible to。
is just that I would work for a sense of worth.。
A sense of value and identity.。
I'm truly working to be somebody.。
I wanna promote myself.。
I wanna feel like I'm making a name for myself.。
You ever feel that way?。
The American dream, a sense of accomplishment.。
In the same way, I just think God invites us。
into so much more than that.。
Not that that's necessarily wrong,。
but God has more for us.。
This is a crazy idea, and it's so biblical,。
that we are going to receive an inheritance。
from the Lord as a reward.。
What does that mean?。
The ways that we work in our job today, tomorrow,。
we are storing up a reward.。
If we are a follower of Jesus Christ,。
if we are a believer in him,。
we are storing up rewards that are so much bigger。
than even this world, bigger than us,。
bigger than our bosses.。
Jesus said it like this in Matthew 6.。
He said, "Do not store up for yourselves。
"treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy,。
"where thieves break in and steal,。
"but store up for yourselves treasures in heaven。
"where moth and rust do not destroy,。
"where thieves do not break in and steal."。
You see, we are invited to work for so much more,。
things that will matter forever and ever.。
We work for his rewards, we work for God.。
Verse 25, "Anyone who does wrong。
"will be repaid for their wrongs,。
"for there's no favoritism.。
"Masters, provide your slaves with what is right and fair,。
"because you know that you also have a master in heaven."。
My third question tonight, how are we to work?。
What does this look like for us to apply this,。
for us to live this out?。
First and foremost, it means that we work hard.。
Verse 23, "Work with all of your heart."。
We know that work is good, right?。
Like work was in the garden before the fall happened,。
like work was a good thing.。
And then we also know that because of the fall。
in Genesis 3, work is going to be hard.。
Like it is a promise from God。
that our jobs are going to be difficult.。
It's going to be a painful toil, the scripture says.。
And here's the deal, I don't know how to。
kind of sugarcoat this, but if you pay attention。
to like what historians and people that study generations。
are saying about us, millennials,。
those of us in our 20s and 30s, in regards to our work,。
like it's not pretty, here's what they're saying.。
We are known for being uncommitted.。
We're known for being flaky, for not respecting authority.。
We are staying at our jobs for the least amount of time。
as a generation compared to any other that's come before us.。
You see, we wanna change the world,。
but we are unwilling to put in the long,。
hard work that is required.。
That's what they're saying about us.。
Recently, our staff, we got to hear from Gary Haugen.。
You guys know Gary Haugen, IJM?。
Maybe not, let me tell you about him.。
IJM is an unbelievable organization.。
They're based in Washington, DC.。
And what they do is they partner with third world。
governments and kind of local police authorities.。
And they go in and rescue women and children。
who are being held as sex slaves。
in the sex trafficking industry, unbelievable evil.。
And he came and spoke to our staff,。
and they were on the heels of this huge,。
unbelievable rescue, I believe it was in Cambodia,。
where they had freed all these women and children.。
And he just said, "Hey guys, can you imagine。
"like how many millions of people would love to serve。
"on my staff that day?"。
You know, it's like SEAL Team Six type stuff.。
Like they're going in there, they're getting the bad guys,。
they're giving them justice,。
they're getting the women and the children,。
they're pulling them out of this awful evil,。
and they're sharing the gospel with them.。
They're helping them be restored and recover。
from this miserable life that they've been in.。
He just said, "Can you imagine how many millions。
"of people would love to be on our staff that day?"。
But he just said, "Here's what people don't understand."。
Nobody gets this.。
He said, "There were tens of thousands of hours。
"put in on the front end.。
"Like before this day could happen,。
"there were long days, tens of thousands of hours。
"of hard work."。
What does that mean?。
Like we would fly into nowheresville, Africa or Asia.。
We would drive all day, all night to a quote unquote court。
that just didn't really happen to kind of meet that day.。
And we would try again.。
I mean, long, long hours.。
And he just said, "Do you know how many people。
"they wanna be on my staff that day?"。
He said, "Man, it's just a few.。
"It's just a few."。
You see, our generation, we forget the importance。
of just simple faithfulness, like long obedience。
in the same direction, faithfulness.。
Number two, it means we work with excellence, right?。
If we're working for God, it means we work for excellence.。
We've said here before,。
excellence honors God and inspires people, right?。
And if we're not at our jobs working with excellence,。
then we're not gonna really have credibility.。
You know what I mean?。
Like people aren't gonna trust us.。
It's like, "Yeah, hello, I'd like to invite you。
"to the porch.。
"It's this thing that I go to on Tuesday nights."。
And they're like, "Yeah, is it as awesome。
"as you are at our job?。
"No, thank you."。
You know what I mean?。
It's like, I was actually gonna invite you to join our team。
and do some work around here, right?。
I mean, it's like, it's not gonna happen.。
Like we're not gonna have the credibility that we want to.。
We work with excellence.。
Number three, we work for God.。
We work like he will tell you face to face how you did。
because he will.。
It's a crazy idea.。
We work for his rewards.。
We've talked about this.。
And here's the deal.。
Like if God is the one who sees and knows everything,。
like he doesn't miss anything.。
And if he's the one who hands out the rewards,。
then why are we so worried about man, right?。
They can't even give us something。
that it's not even theirs to give.。
You know what I mean?。
God is the one who doles out the rewards.。
There's no favoritism.。
Like the scales, the scales are absolutely equal.。
Number five, it means we do the right thing。
regardless of who's watching, of who it's for.。
Like we do the right thing.。
Lastly, for those of us who are entrusted。
with leadership, verse one,。
"Masters, provide your slaves with what is right and fair,。
"because you know that you also have a master in heaven."。
What does this mean?。
It means that if we're the quote unquote master。
in the story, it means that we will face。
our true master one day, right?。
And so the ways that we are fair and just and kind。
to our employees, like we will be accountable。
before the true master one day.。
The quote unquote masters have a master as well.。
Before I came on staff at Watermark,。
I worked for about nine years or so。
in the business world, kind of finance and private equity.。
And for about five of those years,。
I worked for a very, very godly man.。
And he also happened to be unbelievably wealthy,。
like billionaire with a B, like big time money.。
And when you have that kind of money, I learned,。
you have a lot of people to help take care of that money.。
You know, and you have banks and people help you。
with your investing and all that kind of stuff.。
And so we decided to take all of those people。
that kind of helped with investments。
and all that kind of stuff out of town for a weekend。
to his ranch that he owned.。
And the goal was just like, let's get to know these people.。
We're working closely with them.。
They're serving us.。
Like, let's spend some time together.。
And also we were gonna just kind of update them。
on the business, what was going on,。
and just some of our needs that we might be having。
over the next six months.。
And here's the deal.。
Like, I was over this event。
and we got to just like roll out the red carpet.。
I mean, it was like a five star event.。
We had private planes that we got to fly people。
into the ranch on.。
We served like these unbelievable meals,。
like steaks from deer that had been killed out at the ranch.。
I mean, it was like amazing.。
And these people that were coming out,。
I mean, they're like the CEOs of local banks。
and that kind of stuff,。
kind of the big wigs, if you will.。
And we had an unbelievable time.。
And throughout the weekend,。
people kind of knew that I was over the event.。
And they're like, man, this is so fun.。
Like, you're doing a great job.。
Thank you.。
I see the ways you're working hard.。
And I just wanna thank you, man.。
We're having a blast.。
And so it was awesome.。
And we're like done.。
Like, we're almost there, 11th hour.。
We're outside of the house.。
All the cars are kind of lined up,。
the rental cars to take everybody to the airport.。
And I mean, we are like there.。
And there's one truck that's kind of out of order。
and would have kind of prohibited everybody else。
from driving to the airport.。
And so I saw that.。
I noticed it was also the owner's truck.。
And I was like, but let me, I'll just move it around.。
I'll kind of loop it around the corner.。
And that way everybody can get to the airport.。
So I get in that car, I slam it into drive.。
I look and I see a car and I see the house,。
but I'm like, surely that's plenty of room for me。
to just kind of drive right through there.。
You know what I mean?。
And so I do do that.。
And it was like,。
(imitates siren)。
like all across the house.。
And I was like, oh man, I was so close.。
And I, and so I kept driving and I pulled the car。
around the rest of the cars.。
And I put it in park and then I get to do the walk of shame.。
You know, like everybody's outside and they're like,。
oh my goodness.。
And you could see in their eyes, you know,。
they're like, why did you do that?。
Like he was going so well, you know, like,。
why, oh, why couldn't you just finish it?。
You know?。
And I was feeling the same thing.。
And, and so I'm like walking up and the owner,。
like he comes out of the crowd, you know,。
all these people watching.。
I'm like, oh, I snap into like,。
hey, don't worry about that truck.。
Like I will fix that truck the next time。
you come out to this ranch, that truck will be perfect.。
I will wax it myself, fix it, it's going to be amazing.。
And he just, I'll never forget this for the rest of my life.。
He put his arm around me and he said, Greg,。
he said, you have worked so hard this weekend.。
Like, this has been such a blast.。
This has been amazing.。
Like I've seen your work.。
He said, you're not fixing that truck, man.。
And he said, you know what else?。
He said, I'm not even fixing that truck.。
Why not?。
Because it will serve as a reminder for me。
for the rest of my life, for the hard work。
that you put into this event.。
Like this will be a trophy.。
I will always remember you when I look at this truck.。
And to my knowledge, like the truck hasn't been fixed since.。
And here's the deal, like I will never,。
I will never forget that story, you know,。
of the ways that that master treated me, his slave.。
And even more important, like I'm confident。
that the real master will not forget the ways。
with which that master treated me.。
Unbelievable grace and unbelievable kindness.。
In conclusion, who do we work for?。
Colossians 3 says we work for God.。
He is the boss.。
Colossians 3 says we work for rewards from him,。
things that are so much greater。
than anything this world has to offer.。
Colossians 3 says we work like he's watching。
because he is, he is.。
And he not only hands out the rewards,。
but he repays evil to those who do wrong to us.。
There's no favoritism, the scales are even.。
And here's what I absolutely love about this idea.。
Like if we work this way, like if we work hard,。
if we work for God, if we're working for greater things,。
if we're worshiping God truly through our work,。
like can we really be in the wrong place?。
You know, like we get so paranoid.。
It's like, what is God's will for me?。
Is it job A or is it job B?。
Like, is God gonna speak to me and tell me it's job A?。
Like, I don't know, you know,。
but we get so paranoid about, am I in the right place?。
I've been like this for so much of my life.。
But here's the deal, if we are working this way,。
we're gonna be in the right place, right?。
We are gonna be honoring the Lord in our work,。
and that's what matters.。
You see, it's not what you do that matters,。
but how and why.。
It's not what you do that matters, but how and why.。
Verse 17, whatever you do, verse 23, whatever you do.。
You see, we don't need to necessarily。
do something different tomorrow.。
We probably just need to do。
the very same thing differently.。
We don't need to do, we don't need a new job.。
We need to do the job that we had today。
and that we're gonna have tomorrow.。
We need to do that differently.。
Let me close with a story, a friend of mine。
who just honestly got this right.。
It was one of our volunteers, Jeremy.。
And Jeremy was a sharp guy,。
but he didn't have this unbelievable job,。
you know what I mean?。
It wasn't some sexy industry,。
and he'd be like, whoa, that's awesome.。
But here's the deal, he viewed his job as his ministry.。
He would always talk like that.。
And I was like, oh, that's cool.。
And so he would always talk about the relationships。
that he was building with the people that he worked with.。
And he was good at what he did.。
He would always get invited on these sales incentive trips.。
I remember 'cause he was single and I was single,。
and I was always like, are you gonna invite me。
to go on that Mexico trip with you?。
That'd be awesome.。
He never did.。
But here's the deal, the guy loved people well.。
He was building relationships, he was working hard,。
and he would just go, man, that job,。
it might be a random job, but it is my ministry.。
And there was one particular time,。
we were driving down 75, I still remember it.。
It was the weekend, we were going to lunch in Uptown,。
and his cell phone rang, and it was a random number.。
And he's like, oh, I'll get it.。
And on the other end was a coworker, a middle-aged woman.。
And she just said, hey, Jeremy,。
I didn't know who else to call.。
I just found my husband dead.。
And I have no idea where to turn or what to do,。
but I thought about you.。
Like, you seem different, and so do you have any,。
like, what do I do, what do I do next?。
You see, Jeremy had earned the right。
to speak into this woman's life.。
Like, he barely even knew her,。
but there was something about the ways。
that he worshiped his God, the ways that he worked,。
that the first person that she thought of was Jeremy.。
And she didn't have a faith, she didn't have a church home,。
and we got to minister to this family。
in an unbelievable way.。
We got to do the service here at Watermark,。
and she's been coming here, and her son was a young adult.。
He's been coming here to the porch,。
and we've got to minister to him.。
I think what I want you to know tonight。
is that God has so much more for our jobs.。
Like, if we work this way,。
like, there is so much greater life and purpose.。
It is so much more rewarding.。
Like, the American dream, the Dallas dream,。
the people chase, money and status and success,。
like, it's empty.。
Like, some of you have experienced it,。
and you're like, I know, like, it is empty.。
And God has things that are so much bigger。
and so much better.。
I pray that we would pursue him,。
that we would not worship our work,。
but we would worship God through our work.。
We pray that we would.。
Father, I thank you for your word, Lord,。
and just the ways that you instruct us to life, Lord,。
and not that you're trying to withhold good things。
from us, but that you have so much more for us, Lord.。
And specifically in our work, Lord,。
I don't know where everybody is at,。
but I doubt we're in our dream jobs, Lord.。
I pray that we would find purpose in working for you.。
Lord, I pray that we would work hard.。
I pray that we would not work。
for just the temporary fleeting trinkets of this world,。
that we would work for you.。
We would have the next life on our mind.。
You say there are rewards。
and an inheritance waiting for us on the other side.。
Father, help us not to settle.。
Lord, I just pray that we would leave here tonight。
just on fire for the mission that you've put before us.。
Not that we would worship our work,。
but they would worship you through our work.。
I pray all this in Christ's name, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
