For freedom in the history of our nation。
Dallas and Fort Worth advancing the state of the art in every aspect。
Come on。
Come on. Come on。
Hey, listen, if you are hearing me right now。
If you are hearing me right now either in this room in Fort Worth somewhere around the world。
It is due to an amazing tech team here locally or wherever you're at another campus or gathering。
Let's just give it up for our tech guys, man。
We want to see Jesus change the world through the lives of young adults。
We believe that he's doing that and we are watching a movement continue to grow outside the walls of Dallas Fort Worth。
And so tonight we have a gathering that's kicking off in El Paso, Texas。
We have one in spring, Texas, Tulsa, Oklahoma。
The woodlands our friends in Houston, Texas。
We love you, and I cannot forget our dear dear friends our partners in ministry in Fort Worth, Texas Garrett Rayburn。
Thank you for your leadership there。
We love you guys is so fun to gather in the name of Jesus and worship and sing。
Love songs to a God who created us and to look at his words and say hey, what do you have for me?。
What do you want to do with my life?。
and so。
Man, it was a great break。
I hope you had a great break and I'll just start by telling you a little bit about our family any any dog people here。
All right, all right any cat people here。
Okay, we're just gonna have a moment to pray for the cat people, okay。
No, I'm kidding our family. We're we're bird people。
Okay, if we are friends online or something, you know, we're a bird family。
And so my nine-year-old has a parakeet named turquoise. All right, we haven't graduated to parrot yet。
We got a parakeet named turquoise. She loves turquoise what that looks like is she comes down。
Every morning gets turquoise out of his cage and she has breakfast with turquoise。
Okay, that's our parakeet and her parakeet specifically and and turquoise will fly around the house, but not for long。
It's really interesting when she gets turquoise out of the cage no matter where she takes him。
He will fly back to his cage. Okay, and it's a complicated flight path。
you got to go around the refrigerator down a hallway and turn into the utility room and then kind of。
Swing a tight left and then stop and and he's nailed it like he's got that down. He loves his cage。
He loves his cage. And and so as soon as Presley gets him out。
He will be back to the cage and you know, I can't blame him because we're good cage keepers, right?。
We've got toys in there for him. We change the food and water daily。
We change the bedding weekly and and we've even bought him a friend a white parakeet named icing。
okay, and so we have set turquoise up and and。
Presley Presley took turquoise outside one day。
Big mistake and mama was like Presley. What are you doing? You can't just take him outside。
He's gonna he's gonna fly off and I mean as soon as she said the words fly off turquoise was gone。
I mean, bye-bye birdie like I'm talking straight through to the horizon over the houses。
Just gone like just just off like back to the Amazon or wherever parakeets come from。
I mean this bird was gone and and you laugh but it was really sad because Presley sitting there。
I mean her eyes start welling up with tears and she's like mommy mommy. What do I do? Mommy?。
What do I do then? My wife's like, oh get in the car, you know。
And so they get in the car and they start driving around North Dallas looking for a parakeet。
Okay, and and and so they're gone and and I'm not there Monica calls me。
Will you just pray and she tells me you know, Presley's just torn up over it Presley literally prays his prayers。
Like just tears rolling down her cheeks God。
I just pray that if you don't let me find turquoise that you would give him a friend to protect him because he's not a。
survivor and。
And I'm thinking she's right he's not a survivor we've baby this bird, you know。
And so they drive around for a long time looking for turquoise and then they eventually give up they come back to the house。
And I mean when they come near the house Presley sees this like turquoise blur on the horizon。
I'm talking like four houses over and she says mommy. I saw turquoise and Monica's like, oh, you know, sweetie. It's gonna be okay。
You know。
Turquoise is free now, you know。
And and and press is like no mommy. I saw him。
I saw him just drive this way and they drive down the alley。
Behind our house and right on the other side of our fence there in the grass is turquoise。
He came back。
He came back。
Yeah, yeah。
And I know why he came back. I know why he came back。
Because turquoise would rather be in captivity。
To a person who loves and cares for him and provides for him than what the others might think of freedom。
Where he may be devoured。
And I want you to know here tonight that some people you you have to。
Understand that if you want freedom real freedom comes from full submission to a master who loves you。
It's the only place you're gonna find freedom. You're not gonna find freedom anywhere else。
But to a master to a God who created you and loves you and has a plan and a purpose for your life。
So in your pursuit of freedom you remember about that provider you remember about that protector you remember about that。
God who loves you and that's why I do this. That's why I'm here tonight。
That's why my wife's gonna tuck my kids in this evening alone because I'm just crazy enough to believe that if the Holy Spirit would speak。
Through us up here and inspire you and capture the hearts of some young adults man. We can change the world and we're watching God。
Do it right before our eyes. We're seeing him do it. I。
Will tell you there's nothing revolutionary about birds that fly away。
But birds that come back。
And say hey, I belong to a master who loves me and has a plan and a purpose for my life。
Who's gonna care for me and provide for me and protect me?。
And so I will fully and willingly submit my life to his care. That's a revolutionary act。
That indeed is revolutionary. And so we're starting a new series this evening called New Year。
revolution not New Year。
Resolution because resolutions may change you。
revolutions change the world resolutions might make a better you for a moment, but。
Revolutions that's you stepping into the greatest revolution. The world has ever seen。
revolutions change the world and I will tell you that。
Revolutions have all started with one thing in common. It is indeed the pursuit of freedom。
Okay, whether it's the American Revolution that that sought freedom from Britain。
Whether it's the French Revolution that sought freedom from an absolute monarchy or even cultural。
revolutions like the sexual revolution of the 60s that sought freedom that said I want to be able to have sex with whoever I want。
whenever I。
want it is indeed the pursuit of freedom and。
That may be something that we all。
desire this evening, but that is the great paradox of the Christian faith that victory comes through free through surrender and freedom through。
Submission that real freedom comes into stepping。
Into this revolution and so I will tell you friends。
That when I。
Pursued freedom and anything else。
It has led to a tragic captivity。
Like when I pursued freedom and sex outside of marriage。
It ultimately landed me in a toxic relationship that I couldn't shake loose. I was stuck in。
life full of shame and guilt when I pursued freedom in。
pornography I。
Became a slave to pornography not able to walk away from pornography stuck in pornography when I pursued。
freedom in the party。
And in in getting drunk then all of a sudden I didn't know how to have fun without it. I was a slave to。
Alcohol to the drink to the party see sometimes。
The things that we pursue freedom in make us its slave and it's not pretty。
And no one here is free。
We're all followers。
We're all following。
something。
either culture or Christ。
money or the Messiah a。
Relationship or the righteous one the crowd or the cross right? We're all following。
something。
So the way that you join the greatest revolution the world has ever known。
It's by choosing the right leader following the right leader。
That's what I want to talk to you for for just the next few minutes. Is that freedom comes from following?。
freedom。
Comes from following and if I told you tonight I said hey I can make you free I。
Can set you free? I can I have oh, I have freedom to offer you that may not be that compelling。
You may be like what JP I walked in I drove here on my own. I walked in on my own. I'm free。
I don't know what you really mean, but if I start personalizing and I look you in the eyes and I say say。
Christ offers you freedom from anxiety。
Freedom from the need for approval freedom from the fear of man freedom from the love of money freedom from materialism。
Freedom from the need to be liked freedom from depression freedom from cutting freedom from sadness freedom from loneliness freedom from false hopes。
Then all of a sudden you might lean in and be like, okay, I want this freedom。
Jesus offers you that freedom right now. It is available to you in a life that is following him。
and。
so from John chapter 10。
I'm going to teach where freedom is not found where full life is found and。
Where forgiveness is found?。
Verse 1 very truly I tell you Pharisees Jesus talking to the Pharisees anyone who does not enter the sheep。
Pin by the gate but climbs out。
By some other way is a thief and a robber the one who enters by the gate is the shepherd of the sheep。
And so there's a shepherd there sheep。
There's a pin。
captivity and then there's one that seeks to destroy the sheep the gatekeeper opens the gate for him and the sheep。
Listen to his voice。
He calls his own sheep by name and leads them out when he has brought all when he has brought out all his own。
He goes on ahead of them and his sheep follow him because they know his voice. Do you know Christ's voice?。
But they will never follow a stranger. No, they're not gonna fall for futile temptation。
In fact, they will run away from him because they do not recognize the strangers voice。
Jesus used this as a figure of speech it says but the Pharisees did not understand what he was telling them。
Therefore Jesus said again very truly。
I tell you I am the gate for the sheep all who have come before me of thieves and robbers。
But the sheep have not listened to them. I am the gate whoever enters through me will be saved。
They will come in and go out and find pasture the thief only。
comes to steal and kill and destroy。
This metaphor that Jesus is using came alive for me when I stood at the very place where this revolution started。
I was there in Israel。
specifically at the place where the nativity is。
Traditionally known to have curd and where Jesus was born of Mary and I'm looking out and I see the Shepherd's field and in the Shepherd's。
field。
I see a pin a sheep pin and the in the guide begins to explain it to us。
How how hundreds of sheep would go into that pin and they would belong to several different shepherds and in this Eastern culture。
Shepherds were so loving to the sheep。
They were like a part of their family that they could go up and they could call out their sheep by name。
They could just make a sound their voice was familiar to them and out of the hundreds of sheep。
They're the 15 sheep that belonged to that shepherd would come out。
and。
And the shepherd there in the hills in the distance where the predators looked on they wouldn't come near the sheep if the shepherd was。
There sheep there a defenseless animal that's yours in my role. We cannot survive without a shepherd。
Sheep have no hope without a shepherd。
They are under the care for the shepherd during the day the shepherd would open that gate and let the sheep graze in pasture if it。
wanted to or sit in the protection of the pin if it preferred and。
At night the shepherd would lay his own body down in that gap。
so that anything that wanted to enter that pin would have to crawl over him as。
He protected the sheep and then there was this truth that I thought was really interesting in Western culture。
Shepherds drive the sheep they get behind them and they push them forward。
They throw rocks at them and hit them with a rod but in Eastern culture。
They love the sheep and the sheep follow them. They walk in front of the sheep and the sheep follow the shepherd。
that's the culture that Jesus spoke these words to。
And so my first point this evening as we're talking about who will you follow is that true freedom cannot be found in following?。
Anything else not anyone else not anything else the thief。
This says comes only to still kill and destroy and so there are people who desire。
To lead you out of right relationship with Jesus things stuff status marketing arms。
hurts habits hang-ups that seek to lead you out of right relationship with Jesus and。
The way that they do this is they tempt you with things that you desire。
Things that your flesh desires they do not tempt you with things that you don't want。
They're not dangling Brussels sprouts in front of you saying hey, come here, you know。
They use a lure。
The enemy Satan he's real he hates you。
He hates your unborn children. He hates your spouse. He hates the idea of marriage。
He hates your faith。
Your relationship with Jesus he hates it。
So he uses a lure to lure you away a lure is like a fishing term。
There's hundreds of thousands of different fishing lures。
some have bright colors some move in particular ways some make noises some have a scent and。
They lure the fish away so that the fish wants the lure and when it takes the lure then they they take the fish。
out of where it belongs and。
the best lures。
Look like the real thing. That's why the enemy uses things that look like counterfeit abundant life。
Things that look like what God would want for you temporary counterfeit pleasures。
That's what Satan puts in front of you to pull you out of right relationship with。
Jesus right culture is not going to lead you into the right revolution。
You may need to die to this dream of being the cool Christian。
You may not be able to be a cool Christian may have to be a weird Christian。
You might have to dare I say be a stranger and an alien kind of Christian。
One that doesn't belong to this world kind of Christian。
One that marches in a different direction kind of Christian like don't we see that the enemy uses counterfeit lures like like。
Pornography, can you think of any other kind of greater counterfeit sex? It's sex with a two-dimensional。
Picture a computer screen. It's counterfeit sex outside of marriage. That ain't real sex。
Or maybe it's just sex。
But it's not the love that God created us to have an experience。
In fact, it may rob you of that kind of love it may make that。
Farther in the distance for you out of reach loving things that rust。
Counterfeit。
And so here's why I tell you all of this is because none of you said。
2017 I resolved to be a mediocre Christian。
At the end of this year. I hope I'm really lukewarm me and Jesus that we have some kind of relationship。
Every now and then I'll talk to him。
No, none of you said that but some of you will have that not because you wanted that but because you wanted Jesus and a。
lot of other things。
Because you wanted Jesus in a relationship Jesus and stuff Jesus and status Jesus and pleasure that that in the temporary。
Sense not the real kind but the counterfeit sense and so you finish this year。
Having something。
very。
unrevolutionary very。
Mediocre and he has something better for you。
Like let me just take an example because we talk about porn and sex a lot。
So I'm gonna go with a different one right now. I'm gonna go with alcohol。
I'm gonna go with a party if you will。
Right, and so we say hey, I want Jesus and I want the party. I。
Choose them both。
Proverbs 23 verses 29 through 32 says this who has woe who has sorrow who has strife who has。
Complaints who has needless bruises from the bar fight who has bloodshot eyes from the hangover。
depression。
Sadness, what did we do last night?。
Those who linger over wine who go to sample bowls of mixed wine where it says bowls of mixed wine think。
shots of Jaeger think。
Margarita bowl of wine was like the margarita of the day the mambo taxi or something。
Do not gaze at wine when it's red when it sparkles in the cup when it goes down smoothly in the end。
It bites you. Do you see the lure?。
Do not look at that。
organ of。
liquor behind the bar。
and。
the $60 $120 bar tab。
In the end it bites like a snake and poisons like a viper。
And after all the pain and the hangover you wake up and it says I love it ends written thousands of years ago。
Give me another drink like a dog to his vomit。
Let me return to that which is destroying my life。
And I can't even see it because I'm thinking that's where life is that I would sit at the bar with a friend and say。
Man one day we're gonna backpack through Europe, bro。
One day we're gonna do it。
Man one day I've got all these dreams and hopes and let's just talk about I love you, man。
Sin robs you of creativity. You're not gonna backpack through Europe. You're gonna backpack back to the bar。
Back to the club doing the same thing over and over and over and call it life and it's stupid。
It's not life。
It's cultures revolution。
I。
Saying you can't drink。
I'm saying too many of us have drank under this idea that well Jesus drank and the truth is we love。
The drink more than we love Jesus。
We love the party more than we love Jesus we've been lured away and we don't even know it my buddy was playing volleyball and。
Public courts and。
There it was him and some some of his community group and this band of brothers comes up。
they're all wasted like completely gone and and。
And they say hey you want to play my friends like sure。
I think we can take you guys and they're like swinging and missing the ball and every other words the f-word and and。
At the end of it all after my friend won。
because that's what Christians do and and so。
He gathered him up to share the gospel and said yeah。
I go to this church called watermark and one of the guys goes water the other guys. They would see watermark. I。
Go to the ports. I effin love the ports. I'm there every effin Tuesday, and he's not talking about the restaurant。
And I love that that guy's here man, I。
Love it。
But I don't want him to think that he's following Jesus。
And did I just say he's not following Jesus cuz he's drunk and he's cussing. Yeah, that's what I said。
He's not following Jesus。
Am I saying he's not saving that's between him and God, I don't know God lets him in。
I don't know where he did with salvation。
I'm saying the brothers not following Jesus and if that's you you don't dare think that you're following Jesus。
You're not following Jesus. You've given your life to some other God you're worshipping some other God。
That ain't following Jesus。
You're not saying hey Christ take my life make it thine here. I am I want to follow you。
Back into that cage. No back into the bar back into the club。
Call myself a Christian be cool Christian evangelism in it. Would you not?。
You're wrapped up in another revolution。
That's the wrong revolution, bro。
Nothing revolutionary about that the guy sharing the gospel on the volleyball court. That's revolutionary。
That's countercultural。
That's crazy。
Man you like oh man another pastor just tell me stop having sex stop getting drunk and maybe we don't know each other. I。
Remember thinking there was life there. I remember going home with strangers waking up with hangovers. I。
Remember having such a problem that it landed me behind bars。
Hanging with the wrong people that you you think I don't know how to party I I've partied。
I've just found a better party. I。
Found a better leader man。
Jesus he wants you to know him。
You would hear his voice。
The times I've heard the Lord speak to me。
It's been when I've been spending time with God。
in his word。
listening extended periods of time。
And he speaks and he directs me because it's that familiarity。
If you don't have that don't expect to hear God don't expect his voice to be familiar to him。
You're gonna hear the one that seeks to steal kill and destroy。
He says I've come so that they might have life and。
Have it to the full I've come so that they may have life and have it to the full。
Freedom is life to the fullest my second point this evening is life to the fullest is found in following Jesus。
What does a abundant life mean?。
What does that mean like I asked a group of people that today like could you describe the abundant life that Christ came to give。
You do you understand you have a grip on what it means life to the full. What does that really mean?。
I asked a friend today who was who was has been a Christian since she was little bitty。
Faithfully followed God never a wonder not in high school not in college. And and here's what I asked。
I said, I want you to convince me that your childhood was better than mine。
And without hesitation, I'll give you a couple sound bites。
She said I laughed more and I laughed harder and I don't have the scars you do。
I'm like man, you could have said that a little softer. Okay。
Okay, you know I laughed more and I laughed harder and I don't have the scars you do and she's right。
Abundant life。
Jesus offers life to the full. I wouldn't believe it had I not experienced it. I。
Stumbled into a church hungover. I sat in the back row. It was this church heard the gospel。
Surrendered my life to Christ, but I was still kind of seeking I was a baby believer and。
Some guys here invited me to a lake house。
And I'd been to a lake house. I've been to lake parties, you know, so I'm like man。
I wonder what Christians do with a lake house, you know, I didn't know what to do。
I was like, I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do。
I was like, I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do。
I was like, I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do。
I was like, I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do。
I was like, I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do。
I was like, I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do。
I was like, I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do。
I was like, I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do。
I was like, I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do。
I was like, I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do。
I was like, I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do。
I was like, I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do。
I was like, I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do。
I was like, I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do。
I was like, I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do。
I was like, I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do。
"Hey, let's talk about how we can change the world."。
I'm like, "Really?。
You think you can change the world?"。
"Yeah, I think we can."。
"Okay, let me tell you how we're doing it."。
I'm like, "What, dude?。
Y'all are changing the world?。
How did I change the world?"。
It was like real conversations.。
And I'm like, my heart's racing.。
True story, I got in bed that night at that lake house。
and I couldn't sleep.。
My heart was racing so fast。
from whatever I had just experienced.。
It was just confusing to me.。
And so I got out of bed the next day.。
I had not slept one single wink.。
And I called my best friend back in Dallas.。
And he woke up groggy, hungover from the night before.。
And I'm like, "Bro, we've been missing it.。
These Christians know how to party."。
He's like, "Really?。
What'd you do?。
Were there kegs there?"。
I'm like, "No, dude, you don't understand.。
It's like a whole 'nother level of party.。
It's like I don't feel guilty.。
I'm not worried about anything.。
I don't feel anxious at all.。
Like I just have this deep, deep sense of peace。
inside of me.。
And like whatever I did last night,。
I wanna do again today.。
And it's like readily available to me."。
Come so that they might have life。
and have it to the fullest.。
Man, some of you guys, you get this.。
I see the changes in your life.。
I watch you on Instagram。
and I just see your lives change, your feed change.。
And like one of our leaders got married this past weekend。
and it was so cool to see like who was there.。
'Cause like all the bridesmaids and all the groomsmen。
were people they had met at the porch.。
Their lives had just been radically made over.。
And I'm like, it's just a picture of abundant life.。
One aspect of it.。
That's why we say so often,。
change your playmates in your playground.。
But it starts with changing who's in charge of your life,。
who you're following.。
Jesus says, verse 11, "I am the good shepherd.。
The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep.。
The hired hand is not the shepherd.。
Does not own the sheep.。
So when he sees the wolf coming,。
he abandons the sheep and runs away.。
Then the wolf attacks the flock and scatters it.。
The man runs away because he is a hired hand。
and cares nothing for the sheep.。
I am the good shepherd.。
I know my sheep and my sheep know me.。
Just as the father knows me and I know the father。
and I lay down my life for the sheep."。
He lays his life down for us.。
That's how he forgave us.。
And talking about freedom,。
true freedom starts with forgiveness.。
My third and final point is forgiveness。
is found in following Jesus.。
Some of you need this point really bad.。
You need to know right now,。
everything you've done, the thing you did last night,。
it can be wiped clean.。
Forgiveness is found in following Jesus.。
Jesus is committed to forgiving you.。
It's a commitment that he signed in blood with his life.。
He's saying something really key here.。
He's saying, "Hey, someone employed to watch the sheep,。
they're not gonna die for the sheep.。
They're not his sheep."。
Fair weather friends, your drinking buddy,。
dude, cancer hits, trials hit, layoffs hit,。
those dude are peace out.。
Hey man, good luck with that.。
I'll pray for you.。
But this one man, he's not going anywhere.。
He's like, "I laid my life down for that sheep.。
I'm gonna be right there with that sheep.。
I'm gonna run and find that sheep.。
I love that sheep.。
That's my sheep."。
We belong to Jesus.。
We belong to him.。
We're his.。
We belong to him.。
Take a deep breath and say that to yourself.。
We belong to him.。
So you remember that when you're questioning his love for you。
that you belong to him and he loves you and you are his.。
And Romans tells us that nothing can separate。
neither height nor depth, nor rulers or principalities,。
nor angels or demons, nothing in all the earth。
can separate us from the love of God.。
And so you're asking yourself right now,。
"Well, what if I do JP?。
What if I said, what if I love that boy more than Jesus?。
What if I go back to that relationship?。
What if I tonight go on my computer or back on my phone。
and I look at those things and you talk about drinking。
and this weekend, man, it's the bachelor party,。
you know, and what am I gonna do?。
What if I wander away?"。
You think you're gonna outrun God, huh?。
You think you're faster than him?。
You remember Luke 15, what he does。
when one sheep falls in the pit?。
He leaves the 99 and he goes after him.。
He's gonna find you and he's gonna get you.。
He's gonna take you back.。
That's the truth.。
So you're not gonna outrun his grace.。
It's faster than you.。
And so does that mean that you should go。
to the bachelor party just in case。
you need a prophetic moment?。
No. (laughs)。
No.。
You want me just to not go?。
Yes.。
Yes.。
We were in Disneyland.。
Over the break, I had an opportunity to camp out there。
and opportunity to share the gospel with some friends,。
talk through scriptures with some friends。
and got to take my family with me。
and so took my kids to Disneyland.。
It was really, it was a great time。
and we were there in line,。
kind of walked from a food place to a ride。
and I turned around and my seven-year-old,。
it was on her birthday actually,。
she was turning eight and she wandered off.。
And I didn't, and she's kind of,。
she's the middle, kind of dramatic one。
and I thought, oh no, oh no.。
And here's what I didn't do.。
I didn't be like, hey babe, Finley's gone.。
Let's go ahead and ride this ride。
and then we'll look for her.。
(congregation laughs)。
No, I mean, we got a fast pass and all that.。
We better, let's go ahead and knock this out。
and then we'll find, it's a bit,。
she's got fences and stuff, she's not going anywhere.。
(congregation laughs)。
Man, let's eat this, let's finish this hot dog.。
Let's go get some, I'm kind of hungry,。
let's get some food and then we'll find Finley.。
That's not what I did.。
So babe, Finley's gone, let's find her.。
And I looked everywhere.。
I mean, instantly, like looking around,。
scramble, that kind of, you know, where is Finley?。
And I knew it wasn't gonna be good when I found her。
and there she was, like in a crowd full of people.。
(screams)。
Just screaming like her head off,。
like the hyperventilate, like can't breathe kind of cry。
and I'm like, okay, everybody get back, she's mine.。
(congregation laughs)。
And she bites.。
(congregation laughs)。
And I didn't say, how dare you, Finley?。
What the heck were you thinking?。
You're gonna wander off from me, huh?。
Teach you to wander off.。
(congregation laughs)。
I didn't do that, it's not what a loving dad does.。
I grabbed her and I held her and I rocked her。
and I patted her.。
I whispered in her ear, I love you, baby girl.。
Hey, I'm never going to leave you nor forsake you.。
If you leave me, I will find you.。
If someone takes you, I will find you.。
I will go Liam Neeson on them so fast.。
(congregation laughs)。
It's gonna be crazy, like they better know something.。
I will find you and that's what he's saying.。
He's like, don't you get, I laid my life down for you, man.。
You think I'm gonna die for you and then be like,。
oh, well, they looked at porn again.。
That's it.。
She just threw up her food again, we're done.。
Went back to that joker, no, that's it.。
No, he's pursuing you.。
He's looking for you.。
You're like, man, maybe, how do I know he's pursuing me?。
Can I, man?。
Consider where you're at right now.。
Like look around you for a minute.。
You're in a church listening to a sermon。
or something like it from the Bible.。
(congregation laughs)。
He's after you.。
I'd stop running.。
I mean, I'd say, hey, I'm gonna follow him.。
He's the only one, you think he can't handle you,。
he's the only one who can handle your sin.。
Don't you get that?。
Like that's what Jesus does.。
He's really, really good at handling sin.。
In fact, he's the only person that's ever lived。
that can handle your sin.。
It's his job description.。
He's a savior.。
Like that's what he's really, really, really, really good at。
is saving people from their sin.。
Like on his business card, it says,。
I pay for the sins of others so that they don't have to.。
That's what it says, right?。
It's like Jesus Christ, the Messiah, the living God,。
I pay for people's sins so that they don't have to.。
It's what he does.。
And so in summary, follow Jesus to freedom.。
Follow Jesus to life.。
And follow Jesus to forgiveness.。
You follow the world to a pit, to a trap,。
but you have now something,。
the chance to do something really amazing with your life,。
really revolutionary with your life.。
You can come into his care and say, I'm here, I'm yours.。
Will you lead me?。
I'll follow you.。
There's one that's sought to steal, kill,。
and destroy from me,。
but I know that you offer me the real thing, Jesus.。
There's a famous preacher in London。
by the name of Charles Spurgeon.。
And before an Easter message,。
he was walking the streets of London。
when he walked upon a young man carrying a birdcage,。
just kind of rattling it around like this.。
And inside the birdcage were three field birds,。
three sparrows, and the boy kind of had。
this sinister, snarly grin on his face.。
And Mr. Spurgeon said, son,。
what are you gonna do with those birds?。
And he said, mister, I'm gonna have some fun。
with these birds.。
I'm gonna tie them up and see if they can fly.。
I'm gonna pull their feathers out.。
I'm gonna see how long they can go without food.。
And he said, well, then what are you gonna do?。
He said, well, I got a cat.。
I'm gonna feed him to my cat.。
And Mr. Spurgeon said, son, how much for those birds?。
And he said, sir, you don't want these birds.。
They're field birds.。
I got them right over there, that tree.。
I'll get as many as you want.。
He said, how much for those birds?。
Boy thought he was kidding, kind of smiled,。
said 10 pounds, a lot of money.。
$500 today.。
He said, done.。
He said, deal.。
He said, I'll take them.。
That's what Jesus does.。
Satan, what are you gonna do with those young adults?。
These young adults?。
Oh man, I'm gonna have some fun with these young adults, man.。
I am going to make them jealous of each other,。
envious of each other.。
I'm gonna make them love money.。
I'm gonna make them, give them mannequins。
and then I'm gonna watch them sink to the manna close.。
I'm gonna make them sell their lives to corporate America。
and chain themselves to desk.。
And I'm gonna make them love each other and hate each other。
and love each other and hate each other.。
And I'm gonna have them come together。
and do the single most intimate act。
that anybody could think of outside of the designer's will.。
I'm gonna have them get pregnant。
and then take the life with a child.。
I'm gonna have them give themselves to religious rituals。
that they would show up and read books and sing songs。
and pretend to love the one true God。
when really they love themselves.。
I'm gonna fill them with pride。
and make them think that they're God.。
I'm gonna have fun with these young adults.。
How much for them?。
These young adults, you don't want them.。
They're self-righteous, materialistic, prideful,。
perverted, pornographic, anorexic, bulimic.。
They'll turn on you.。
You don't want these young adults.。
You don't want them.。
How much for them?。
Your whole life, done.。
It is finished.。
I'll take them.。
I'll set them free.。
Jesus is calling you out of the cage.。
He's calling you to a better life.。
He's calling you to life to the fullest.。
You will not have it any other way.。
Guys, because you're here tonight,。
you have the chance to be a part of a revolution.。
El Paso, Tulsa Springs, the Woodlands,。
Fort Worth, Houston, Dallas.。
You have the chance to be a part of this revolution.。
It started in, it started today, 2017 years ago.。
Really at creation when God rolled out the world.。
But today, 2017 years ago,。
God became a man in the form of Jesus Christ,。
lived a perfect life and died for your sins。
and raised from the dead so that you can live forever。
with him starting right now.。
So we gathered in this room not long ago。
with some leaders of churches。
and we showed them a video。
that I wanna show you right now。
to inspire you to be a part of this revolution.。
Would you watch this?。
It started in darkness。
when all hope seemed lost。
and many had deserted their savior。
when everyone had lost faith in his promises.。
Jesus Christ, savior of the world,。
God made man, wakes from the dead.。
50 days later, the Holy Spirit spreads among the disciples.。
Common men and leaders alike unite behind our risen king.。
The church, the hope of the world is awake.。
Believers face threats and persecution on every front。
but Christ's conversion of one man from Saul to Paul,。
from minister missionary emboldens others。
to defy the Roman world, not with sword。
but with their love of Christ and one another.。
Among the greatest threats to the flame of the early church。
is a fire that destroys Rome in 70 AD.。
Nero blames Christians who are tortured。
and put to death in mass.。
The fury of persecution continues for the next 300 years。
yet Christ's bride thrives,。
defending its creed against heresies。
and caring for the sick and dying during plagues。
that ravaged the Roman empire.。
The cloud of persecution lifts from 300 to 451 AD。
and the church's focus shifts from survival to doctrine.。
In 325, the Nicene Creed declares the truths。
that we believe in.。
One God, creator of all things, one Lord, Jesus Christ,。
the son of God, the essence of the father,。
God from God, light from light.。
The gospel moves everywhere from Scotland to China。
and Germany to Russia but the light once in jeopardy。
from external forces is now threatened from within.。
Infighting and theological rifts persist。
for the next 400 years.。
Despite the turmoil, monasteries and religious institutions。
are established.。
Christ's message prevails.。
Believing that all Christians should have access。
to God's word, John Wycliffe begins work。
on the first handwritten Bible in English.。
The manuscripts face bitter opposition。
but the spread of God's word only accelerates.。
In the mid 1400s, the printing press is invented。
by Johannes Gutenberg.。
The very first book ever published is the Bible.。
A century later, Martin Luther nails 95 theses of contention。
to the church door in Wittenberg, Germany.。
Under the threat of excommunication and death,。
Martin Luther refuses to recant.。
The ideas he championed, the priesthood of the saints,。
the Bible as our central religious authority。
and salvation by faith in Christ alone.。
This set the Protestant Reformation in motion.。
The gospel then moves through both Central and South America.。
In North America, the Puritans arrive and churches move。
throughout the 13 colonies.。
But as in Europe, corruption threatens the heart。
of the American church.。
In 1730, the words of George Whitefield and Jonathan Edwards。
confront a complacent church, ushering the great awakening。
in pulpits throughout America.。
Throughout the 17 and 1800s, the modern missions movement。
takes hold and the gospel spreads west。
into American territories.。
As the dawn of the 20th century breaks, D.L. Moody and others。
set the goal of the evangelization of the world。
in this generation.。
Wycliffe Bible translators labor to bring the Bible。
to every language group in the world.。
In 1892, a young evangelist, Billy Graham,。
proclaims the gospel to hundreds of thousands of people。
over an eight week period.。
He goes on to share the hope of Christ。
with 215 million people worldwide.。
In the heart of the American South,。
Dr. Martin Luther King confronts segregation。
and discrimination against African-Americans,。
inspiring God's people to spark change。
in our shameful history of racism.。
Martin Luther's revivals, reforms,。
and resurgences of the faith in the larger context of history。
dots on a timeline leading to this very moment.。
But pause to consider the men behind these moments.。
Did Martin Luther know the reform。
that the '95 thesis would ultimately bring?。
Did Moody, Gutenberg, Wycliffe see the generations。
of these men as a sign of the end of their toil?。
No.。
These men who responded faithfully to God's call,。
they never knew how God would use their legacy.。
They couldn't know that hundreds of years later,。
God would use their obedience to make history。
and to inspire a new generation of leaders.。
So I ask you, what are you making of this moment?。
What are you doing to shape the world around you for Christ?。
What are you doing to change the world in the first place?。
Yet somewhere along the line,。
as the forces of darkness threaten the light,。
we became discouraged.。
As the controversies and clashes with culture。
threaten the health of the church, we've become weary.。
That's why today we must break the chains。
of complacency and compromise,。
stand firm on the word of God, and renew our faith.。
We must remind ourselves that Christ's body,。
it's the hope of the world.。
We are not dead.。
Breathe on us, Lord.。
Now is the time for us to arise.。
Now is the moment where we become awake.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
