(gentle music)。
- Porsche, how we doing?。
(congregation cheering)。
Awesome, it's really fun worshiping with you guys.。
I wanna start here.。
I want you to picture me at 18 years of age,。
and so about 90 pounds lighter, better hair, less stars.。
And so there I am, just a confused high schooler,。
senior year in high school,。
and I've got this 1979 Mercedes Benz.。
I mean, you know, with, says Superfly on the back window.。
It's got hydraulics.。
I mean, that's, you know, I'm in 4H and FFA.。
I'm a confused young man.。
I just quit athletics to try to pass Algebra II,。
and my mom comes to me, and she sits me down,。
and it's this serious talk.。
It has some weight to it, and she's a counselor,。
I should tell you, like a school counselor.。
So she does this for a living,。
and she says, "Where do you wanna go to college?"。
Now, you may have known the answer to this question。
since you were in the third grade,。
but what's crazy is I hadn't thought about it much.。
I don't know.。
And she says, "Well, what do you wanna study?"。
Nothing.。
I don't like studying, you know?。
And she asked this question.。
"Well, what are you passionate about?。
"What are you passionate about?"。
I'm 18 years old with a 1979 Mercedes。
that says Superfly on the back window.。
Like, what are you asking?。
What kind of profound answer to this question?。
'Cause it feels like I'm about to carve a path。
for the rest of my life by the answer to this question.。
And so I'm 18, what am I passionate about?。
I don't know, being liked, Dawson's Creek,。
and, you know,。
spring break, beer,。
skateboarding, art.。
She's like, "We can work with that."。
What did you just say?。
Art?。
Yes.。
I was like, "What, what do you have in mind?"。
She's like, "There's this school in Waco," not Baylor,。
"a little school you've never heard of。
"that you can go and study art."。
I'm like, "Cool, awesome.。
"That sounds great, I'll go and do that."。
So I did, so I moved to Waco.。
I go to this little technical school, I study art,。
and I'm there for two years.。
I graduate with a two-year degree.。
I've got this diploma, but here's what I learned in college。
is I like art when I can kind of do art on my own terms。
and kind of come up and create with whatever I want.。
I don't like art as an assignment.。
I don't like someone telling me what to art, if you will.。
And so I'm like, I don't really wanna do this.。
So then I've got this diploma, this degree, if you will,。
that says, "Hey, now you can do this for a living,"。
but it's pretty much worthless。
'cause what I've determined in the past two years。
is I don't wanna do this for a living.。
And so I'm back to this question,。
"What are you passionate about?"。
And I don't know.。
Like now I'm just a slightly older version of me。
when I was 18.。
I'm passionate a lot about a lot of the same things,。
except for now it's One Tree Hill,。
and so I'm just like, I don't know, you know?。
What am I passionate about?。
And so I remember specifically in Waco,。
waking up early one morning, praying for a job.。
I'm like, "God, I need a job."。
And so what am I passionate?。
I'm passionate about eating and not starving to death.。
So I wake up early in the morning.。
I don't know where to go to look for a job.。
Like you probably have all kinds of great places to go.。
I just go to the mall and it's not open.。
And so I sat in the parking lot, "Lord, give me a job."。
And the mall opens, I walk through it.。
This girl comes up to me and says, "Hey, what do you do?"。
I said, "I'm looking for a job."。
She says, "You wanna manage an Abercrombie & Fitch?"。
I say, "Yes, I do so much."。
She says, "Where?"。
I say, "How about Dallas?"。
She says, "Dunn."。
I'm like, "This is how this prayer thing works.。
"This is amazing."。
And so you know those guys that stand in front of Abercrombie。
with their shirt off?。
I was not one of those guys, okay?。
I took my shirt off once, they said, "Put it back on."。
Anyways, and so I worked there。
and here's what I learned there.。
I was not passionate about that, okay?。
I was not passionate about folding clothes at midnight。
and I was doing a lot of that.。
So I thought, you know, I need to go find a new job.。
What am I passionate about?。
Okay, I'll go work at a gym.。
So then I'm selling gym memberships。
and I learned there that I wasn't passionate about that.。
And so then I go and I work for this design company,。
Graphic Design, I'm like, okay, I can put my degree to use.。
And then I remembered, no, I'm not passionate。
about doing other people's art.。
And then I go work for this consulting firm,。
doing sales for them.。
And I learned I wasn't passionate about that.。
And then I went and worked at telecom.。
And what I found about this time of my life。
is I was passionate about making money.。
And I was passionate about myself.。
And I came to a place where my passion。
was taking me in and out of jobs.。
And I kind of found myself despairing a little bit.。
And I don't know if you've ever been there,。
but you get real philosophical in these times.。
Like you're having really grand philosophical discussions,。
usually on the back of a tailgate with a beer.。
And you're like, what if I'm supposed。
to be a race car driver?。
(congregation laughing)。
Like what if I'm the fastest race car driver in the world?。
And I just don't know, 'cause I've never driven one.。
Like I need to find this out.。
And you're having these kinds of discussions.。
And it usually almost always goes to this,。
I just wanna shack on the beach and surf.。
My buddy's like, have you ever surfed?。
No, but I bet I could.。
And the Christian version of this is,。
I think I need to move to Africa.。
I don't know why, but all the Christians,。
when they kinda hit that wall, wherever they're at,。
they're like, let's go build water wells in Africa。
or do something amazing in Africa, care for the orphans.。
And so somehow all the Christians end up in Africa.。
But this is the problem.。
And I want you to know this, it's not your fault.。
It's not your fault, you've been fed this.。
In fact, I wanna show you something rather profound.。
There's this phrase, follow your passions.。
You ever heard that, follow your passion?。
You know that little phrase was virtually not there.。
It was not here before 1980.。
And I'm gonna show you on this graph behind me,。
if you will, and I'll just read this to you.。
And so the phrase, follow your passion,。
went from being virtually non-existent in 1980。
to one and a half million times in 1990.。
So all of a sudden, it shows up in English literature.。
This is not search engine, so you're like,。
well, that's 'cause the internet.。
No, this is written, this is typed in English literature.。
One day, it's not there.。
A decade later, it's one and a half million times.。
And then if you keep going and you see that in the 2000s,。
it's just skyrocketed to then in 2008,。
over 21 million times in English literature,。
you could find this idea of follow your passion.。
And the reason I tell you that is because。
that's what you've been sold for the past 20 years.。
Follow your passion.。
And I want you to know something right up front.。
That's really, really, really bad advice.。
It's really bad advice.。
It flies in the face of what God's word teaches, okay?。
We are to bring our passion under control of the Spirit.。
We're to find a greater passion.。
We're to pursue God's passions.。
We're to inform our own passions.。
But we are not to just follow our passion.。
So if you've been fed that,。
then I'm so excited that you're here tonight。
because I want you to know something.。
In my great-grandfather's day,。
in your great-grandfather's day,。
he never asked himself, let me sit back,。
man, what am I passionate about?。
What do I wanna do for a living?。
He's like, I'm gonna be a farmer.。
My dad was a farmer, his dad was a farmer.。
We're a family of farmers, so I'm gonna farm.。
Why?。
'Cause I wanna eat.。
And it's that simple.。
It was a pragmatic approach to life.。
I'm gonna grow stuff so I can eat it and not die, okay?。
And then we show up on the scene。
and we got all these profound tools.。
We got Myers-Briggs and DISC and Strength Finder。
and lion, otter, beaver, I'm woo, you know?。
And we're kinda like, we're a really introspective group, us.。
We sure are.。
And so we have all of these tools at our disposal。
and you would think we'd get a lot better at this,。
but we're awful at it.。
We're the worst that any other demographic's ever been at it。
and it's not your fault.。
It's what you've been taught,。
but I want to reteach you tonight from God's word。
so that you can leave here with the right perspective。
on work and passion.。
To show you that we're not getting better at it,。
from Forbes Magazine, 2012, 91% of millennials。
expect to stay in a job for less than three years.。
Tom Rainier in Millennials, his book, said this,。
that we stay only two years at a job。
compared to baby boomers, an average of seven.。
So we're jumping jobs, more jobs, we have more options,。
but less commitment, which translates to less skills。
because we haven't developed them,。
because we're changing them。
with whatever passion shows up that day.。
And so that brings me to my point.。
Don't follow your passion, but develop your passions。
and use them for your purpose.。
If you're here and you're a follower of Christ,。
I'm gonna talk to you tonight, if you're not a guest,。
I know that's about half of you,。
if you're not a follower of Christ, rather,。
I know that's about half of you, listen in。
and hopefully you'll gain insight to a Christian worldview.。
But if you're here and you're a follower of Christ,。
your purpose is to know God and to make him known,。
is to know God and to make him known.。
So don't follow your passions, develop your passions。
and use them for your purpose.。
And so we're asking the question tonight,。
this is the subject of this evening,。
what if I'm not passionate about what I do?。
And so maybe that's you,。
maybe that's a question you've asked,。
what if I'm not passionate about what I do?。
And so from God's word,。
we're gonna come up with these three answers,。
change your perspective, invite God in to help you。
and find a greater passion.。
And so usually if you hang out at the porch much,。
you know that I pick a passage and I camp in it,。
I usually break it up into three sections。
and then I expound on what it's saying.。
Tonight I'm gonna be in Luke chapter five,。
verses one through 11,。
and I'm gonna read all of this up front to you。
and then we're gonna jump around。
and I'm gonna support some ideas。
with several different verses,。
it's gonna be more topical in nature.。
And so Luke chapter five, this is the gospel,。
it's the beginning of the New Testament,。
Matthew, Mark, Luke, if you wanna turn there.。
And so Jesus's ministry is just taking off,。
Jesus is literally on the scene,。
this part of your Bible is just a historical, accurate book,。
it's just telling you about the life。
and account of Jesus Christ.。
And so one day, verse one,。
one day as Jesus was standing by the lake of Gennesaret,。
I knew I'd messed that up,。
also the Sea of Galilee, if you prefer,。
the people were crowding around him。
and listening to the word of God.。
He saw at the water's edge two boats。
left there by the fishermen who were washing their nets.。
He got into one of the boats, the one belonging to Simon.。
Now we know Jesus later changed Simon's name to Peter,。
and so if you know anything about the Bible。
where you see Simon, this is also Peter.。
And he asked him to put out a little from shore,。
then he sat down and he taught the people from the boat.。
Jesus is there, he's on the shore of the Sea of Galilee,。
crowds are coming up, he's teaching,。
and crowds are coming up so much。
that they're kind of pushing him back。
and pushing him back in the water,。
and he's like, "Okay, I'm about to be in the water,。
"okay, there's two boats here."。
He just looked, "I'm in a boat."。
And then Simon's like, "Whoa, whoa, that's my boat.。
"You're in my boat."。
He said, "Yeah, come in with me and let's go out.。
"Let's go out, let's push off from the shore,。
"and I'm gonna preach."。
And so I love that right off the bat,。
you see Simon or Peter's occupation。
as a tool for the gospel.。
Immediately, his livelihood,。
now let me just tell you about this boat for a minute, okay?。
This would have been a lifetime investment.。
Someone in this time could have worked their entire life。
to be able to afford one of these boats,。
and if you had one, it meant you had a job,。
you had an occupation, you had a way to feed your family.。
Why? 'Cause there's a sea there, there's water there,。
there's fish in that water,。
and so you were good to go if you had a boat.。
These boats would be passed on。
from generation to generation,。
but this boat, this particular boat, Peter's boat,。
is the single most famous boat in all of history.。
Why?。
It's most likely that this is the boat。
that Jesus went from shore to shore to shore。
to do ministry in.。
It's most likely that this is the boat。
that Jesus and his disciples were in。
when Jesus was taking a nap and a storm blows in,。
and he calms the storm.。
It's most likely that this is the boat。
that Peter's in when Jesus says,。
"Hey, come out and walk on the water."。
That's this boat, most likely.。
When he had finished, verse four, speaking,。
he said to Simon,。
"Put out into deep water。
"and let down the nets for a catch."。
Simon answered, "Master, we've worked hard all day。
"and haven't caught anything.。
"But because you say so, I will let down the nets."。
He says, "Jesus, I've been up all night working.。
"I don't wanna adult today, okay?。
"Like, don't make me go back to work today.。
"I've already done, you don't understand, Jesus.。
"I'm a fisherman by trade.。
"I'm a fisherman for a living.。
"My daddy was a fisherman.。
"I come from a long lineage of fishermen.。
"I know these seas like the back of my hand,。
"and they're not biting today.。
"Don't make me do it."。
When they had done so, verse six,。
they caught such a large number of fish。
that their nets began to break,。
so they signaled their partners in the other boat。
to come and help them, and they came。
and filled both boats so full that the boats began to sink.。
And so what happens is Peter sees more success。
than he had ever imagined by going out with Jesus,。
much more success than any other time in his career。
of being out there alone.。
They're catching so much fish。
that both boats began to sink.。
And verse eight, when Simon Peter saw this,。
he fell at Jesus' knees and said,。
"Go away from me, Lord, I'm a sinful man."。
His immediate reaction to this success is humility.。
It's a sober awareness that his success。
has come from Christ.。
This had nothing to do with his efforts。
and everything to do with who was with him in the boat.。
It had nothing to do with his skills,。
nothing to do with how hard he had trained,。
nothing to do with his knowledge of the sea,。
and everything to do with who was in the boat with him.。
Verse nine, "For he and his companions were astonished。
"at the catch of fish they had taken,。
"and so were James and John,。
"the sons of Zebedee, Simon's partners."。
Do you see what happened?。
Is this success is now being used。
to bring attention to Jesus.。
Peter had so much success at his work。
that folks are saying, "Hey, who is this man。
"that Peter's with?"。
Better said, "Who is this man with Peter?。
"We must know this man."。
Then Jesus said to Simon, "Don't be afraid.。
"From now on you will fish for people."。
So they pulled their boats up on shore,。
left everything, and followed him.。
Followed him.。
I'm gonna make you fishers of men.。
His work gave him a platform to reach people.。
And it's the same purpose of your work today.。
And so the first thing as we answer this question,。
what if I'm not passionate about what I do?。
The first thing I want you to do is change your perspective.。
You need a new perspective on work.。
You've been fed a lie from our culture,。
and it's really important that you leave here tonight。
with a new perspective.。
This is gonna save you a lot of pain。
and a lot of heartache and a lot of despair.。
And so I know that you graduated from college,。
you thought, "Hey, this is gonna come natural to me,。
"but here's the truth.。
"Here's how you need to change your perspective.。
"Work is hard."。
So I know you're on a search for your dream job.。
Okay, your dream job probably doesn't exist.。
It's probably not real.。
It's out there with the one and the unicorn.。
And so work is really hard.。
It's difficult.。
One thing that makes it hard。
is that your passions are always changing.。
They're constantly changing.。
And so Peter was passionate about fishing,。
but because he was unsuccessful,。
he came to a place where he was despairing.。
Okay, because he had hit some walls,。
because things were hard,。
he came to a place where he's like,。
"I don't wanna do this right now.。
"Okay, I'm not good.。
"I didn't do it well last night.。
"I just don't wanna do this."。
And so he's discouraged because he had been ineffective.。
And so some of you graduate from college,。
you're like, "Look at me, I'm adulting all over the place."。
And then the world kicks you in the teeth.。
And you're like, "Man."。
I mean, life is hard, right?。
Work comes along and it's like,。
"Well, I thought this would be hand in glove easy.。
"I thought this would be a natural fit."。
And you're like, "What, you're questioning everything.。
"Why did I become a teacher again?"。
Okay, that's funny to the teachers.。
(congregation laughing)。
And here's what I want you to know.。
We've said this before, it's worth writing down.。
Your greatest disappointments in life。
come from your expectations.。
Isn't this true?。
Your greatest disappointments in life。
come from your expectations.。
My little girl, Presley, she's eight years old.。
She's playing basketball right now.。
And they're really, really good.。
I didn't say she's really good, but they're really good.。
Her team, she's on a really good team.。
And they're undefeated, man.。
They've been winning every game they show up to play.。
They've won.。
And this past Saturday,。
they played Mark Cuban's daughter's team.。
He owns the Mavericks.。
(congregation laughing)。
And they lost real bad.。
And it was interesting at the end of the game,。
'cause Presley's not real competitive,。
but there's some players on her team。
that are real competitive.。
And at the end of the game,。
they're looking at the scoreboard。
and they're just like, "What is this?。
"Like, how come our number's less than theirs?。
"And what is this wet stuff on my face?。
"And what are these emotions?。
"And I just don't know what happened."。
And we, "We, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we."。
Wait, you lost, sweetie?。
No, no.。
And they're like, their whole world is falling apart.。
Why?。
Because they expected to win.。
And now they're in a place where they're like,。
"I don't know what to do with this."。
And it's cute when you're eight, but when you're 28,。
it's like, wait a minute, life,。
like, I'm kind of terrible at it.。
And I thought I'd be good at it.。
And why is every day so hard?。
And why do I just wanna stay in bed right now。
and not go to work and not do this?。
And here's how I can help you.。
It's hard.。
And it's not broken because it's hard, it's just hard.。
You're not doing it wrong because it's hard,。
it's just difficult.。
In some ways, it's actually supposed to be difficult.。
I'm gonna show you that from the scripture.。
But before I do, let me just say this,。
discouragement can rob you of your passion.。
Right?。
Like you haven't made a sale in a while.。
You went from hero to zero, new month, new quota.。
And all of a sudden, you're like,。
man, I don't know if I'm passionate about this.。
Your students are acting up, and it's not the students,。
it's like the parents are even worse than the students.。
And why aren't the parents, why are they so involved。
in what I'm doing and how I'm teaching?。
And it's like, I don't think I'm all that passionate。
about this, and your boss is a jerk.。
Or maybe it's not that your boss is a jerk,。
maybe your team is a jerk.。
Maybe you work on a floor full of jerks,。
and you're like, I don't like the people that I work with,。
and I'm not passionate about this product,。
or passionate about this service,。
so I just don't wanna do it anymore,。
I'm moving to Africa, you know?。
(congregation laughing)。
And maybe your job is getting in the way。
of what you really want to do.。
And I want you to change your perspective,。
and I want you to understand that work is difficult.。
Let me show you from the scripture, Genesis 2, verse 15.。
The Lord took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden。
to, what's that word?。
Work.。
He said, man, I want you to work.。
I want you to work it.。
Now, he's not talking about dancing.。
I want you to work it and take care of it, okay?。
I want you to work the garden,。
I want you to till the soil,。
I want you to get your shovel,。
and I want you to pile up dirt and plant seeds。
and take care of stuff and trim, you know,。
plants and all of that fun stuff.。
Now, what's interesting about that。
is that's Genesis chapter two.。
That's before what?。
What happens in Genesis chapter three?。
The fall happens in Genesis chapter three,。
so this is Genesis chapter two.。
We're still in perfection.。
We're still in the world is perfect as we know it,。
everything is right and true,。
and God says to man, I want you to work.。
Do you know we'll work in heaven?。
In paradise, with God, we will work.。
It's true.。
You will work the rest of the rest.。
True story, but let me show you something。
in Genesis chapter three.。
To Adam, verse 17, to Adam he said,。
because you listened to your wife。
and ate from the tree about which I commanded you,。
you must not eat of it.。
Listen to this, this is the result of that,。
the result of sin, if you're new to church,。
sin enters the world through this decision。
to not trust God.。
Cursed is the ground because of you.。
Through painful toil, you will eat of it.。
All the days of your life,。
it will produce thorns and thistles for you,。
and you will eat the plants of the field.。
By the sweat of your brow, you will eat your food。
until you return to the ground。
since from it you were taken,。
for dust you are and to dust you will return.。
Now if you don't understand。
what all that theological language is,。
here's what he says.。
Your work's gonna be hard now.。
Before I wanted you to work,。
now because you sinned, you're gonna work。
and it's gonna fight against you.。
When your alarm clock goes off,。
you're not gonna wanna go in anymore,。
and your boss is gonna be mean,。
and your coworkers aren't gonna get along with you,。
and there's gonna be conflict there,。
and you're gonna have to take the TPS reports。
from the client to the customer,。
and it's just gonna be messy.。
This is what God is saying there.。
It's in the Greek, or in the Hebrew, you can't see it,。
but this is what he's saying.。
He's saying, hey, it's going to fight against you.。
Then you're like, oh, that's why my boss is a jerk.。
It's because of Adam and Eve, the fall.。
It's because of sin.。
Yes, it is, and it's a fact.。
For the rest of your life, your work is going to fight.。
So if you're here and you're like,。
but I love my job, give it time.。
(congregation laughing)。
Just wait.。
Just wait, I promise, I don't care how,。
young adults tell me all the time,。
man, I love my job, next month.。
Hey, how's your job going?。
I quit, man.。
Thing is awful, terrible.。
And so work, like marriage and relationships require work.。
It's hard, but it's supposed to be hard, right?。
Post-fall is what I mean by supposed to be.。
And so if you were supposed to enjoy it,。
they wouldn't pay you to be there.。
Like think about this value exchange.。
Like if you loved what you do, they would say,。
hey, would you do it for free, since you love it so much?。
But what they say is, we know you don't like it,。
so in exchange for you being here,。
we're going to give you a paycheck.。
Because if you did like it, that would be a hobby,。
not a job, like those are things you do for fun.。
Job is work, you do that in exchange for money.。
Okay, you see how that works?。
I'm glad we're all on the same page.。
(congregation laughing)。
And so if you desire to have a job you love,。
that's a great thing, it's just a longing for heaven.。
That's a great thing.。
If you don't like your work, I just want you to remind,。
that to be a reminder to you, you're not home yet,。
and one day you're gonna have a job。
that you absolutely love for the rest of the rest。
of the rest.。
But until then, your work's gonna fight against you.。
And so the second thing I want you to do,。
and this is simple, but maybe the most profound,。
I want you to invite God to work with you.。
I want you to, and before you're like,。
oh my goodness, Sunday School 101,。
invite God to work with me, what are you talking about?。
I just wanna ask you if you have.。
Like how much have you complained about your boss。
and your coworkers and what you do,。
and the fact that you can't keep a job or whatever that is,。
and how much, how often, what quantity of your life。
have you spent on your hands and knees saying,。
Lord, would you help me?。
God, would you come to work with me,。
would you direct my steps,。
would you give me favor with my boss,。
would you give me favor with my coworkers,。
would you give me the courage to make you famous there?。
I mean, tell me, if you're here and every day。
that's the cry of your heart,。
every day you're pleading with God that way,。
that's awesome, feel free to sleep。
for the rest of the night.。
If that's not you though,。
just know you're in the right place at the right time,。
and God has a word for you this evening.。
I want you to invite him to work with you.。
Every morning I wake up and I'm taking the girls to school,。
Presley and Finley, and my three-year-old son,。
he's at home, every morning he wakes up。
and he's sitting there, he's eating his cereal。
at the little breakfast bar,。
and he says, Daddy, where you going?。
Every morning.。
Weston, I'm going to work, buddy.。
Daddy, can I go with you?。
No, son, every morning.。
I told you yesterday no, the day before no,。
tomorrow it's gonna be no.。
Oh, Daddy, why?。
Every morning.。
I wanna go to work with you.。
And this is what God is saying to you。
in a less toddler way.。
I wanna go to work with you.。
Would you incorporate me into your profession,。
into your occupation?。
I want to go with you.。
And the reality is God answers prayers,。
and so many of us have not taken advantage of that.。
And so let me just ask you a question.。
Who cares more?。
Who cares more about how you perform at work?。
You, your boss, or God?。
And I promise you the answer of that is God.。
And so Jesus gets in the boat with Peter,。
and Peter listens to him.。
Out of an act of faith, he does what Jesus says,。
even though he doesn't feel like it,。
and the results are better than anyone could have imagined.。
And so what I want you to know。
is sometimes you are given challenges at work。
to show who you really trust.。
Sometimes you face challenges at work。
so that you can display and demonstrate to the world。
who you worship, who you are, who you trust in.。
And so when crisis hits,。
do you turn to your savings, to your bank account?。
Do you turn to monster.com?。
Do you turn to LinkedIn?。
Do you turn to your network of people?。
Do you turn to coping mechanisms of sin,。
and pornography, and spending, and shopping?。
Or do you turn to God and say,。
"God, this is really tough.。
"I need you to strengthen me.。
"I wanna remind myself of your word,。
"that your word is true,。
"and I wanna navigate these waters。
"in a way that makes you famous.。
"Will you help me?"。
And maybe one of the greatest examples of this is scripture.。
I've been hanging out with Peter in Luke chapter five,。
but I want you to know this is not unique to Peter.。
It's a Genesis to Revelation story.。
There are lots of examples in scripture。
of people who were faithful in really trying circumstances.。
I'll give you one out of Genesis chapter 38,。
starting in actually Genesis chapter 37,。
where it's Joseph, shows up on the scene.。
Now, Joseph is the heir to an estate,。
but his brothers are jealous of him,。
and so his own family members sell him into slavery.。
Now, this is a time in life when you're sold as a slave.。
You go from kind of hero to slave.。
You're like, "Okay, God, are you really with me?"。
But what it says that he does is he goes,。
and he ends up working for Potiphar.。
And Potiphar's a wealthy man, reports to Pharaoh,。
and it says that Joseph is so faithful,。
he's not sitting there like, "What?。
"I'm a slave, how did this happen?。
"I just want to sulk in my pity."。
It says he got after it.。
It's the message version.。
He got after it, and God rewarded his faithfulness,。
and Potiphar puts him over his entire estate.。
That's until Potiphar's wicked, witchable wife comes。
and tries to get Joseph to sleep with her.。
Joseph gets arrested, even though he's innocent,。
and he goes to prison.。
Now you would think, "Okay, slavery, now prison."。
All right, God's not with Joseph.。
This is where Joseph falls apart, he despairs.。
This is where he has the job that he really doesn't like.。
But what the Scripture says is he was so faithful in prison。
that the warden, the prison warden,。
put him over the entire prison.。
Joseph is ruler of the entire prison,。
even though he's an inmate.。
His faithfulness and his gifts and his talents。
bring him to a place where he gets to stand before Pharaoh.。
He gets out of prison, he goes to work for Pharaoh,。
and it says that Joseph was so faithful。
that Pharaoh put him over all of Egypt.。
Can I tell you something?。
God wanted Joseph to be over all of Egypt.。
Do you know what he did?。
He had him sold into slavery.。
God wanted Joseph to be ruler over all of Egypt,。
so do you know what he did?。
He had him sent to prison for something he didn't do.。
But Joseph never caved under the test.。
He continued to be faithful.。
And do you know the phrase that is repeated。
in Genesis 37, Genesis 39, Genesis 40, and Genesis 41?。
In four chapters, Joseph goes from slave。
to ruler of Egypt.。
And do you know the phrase that is repeated。
over and over and over in those four chapters?。
It's this right here.。
The Lord was with Joseph,。
but the Lord was with Joseph.。
And tomorrow, when you show up somewhere at 8 a.m.,。
the Lord is with you,。
and he wants to be invited into your occupation.。
He wants to come with you in the boat.。
He wants you to push out into the sea,。
and he wants to do work with you.。
And any success that he gives to you。
is so much more about him than it was ever about you.。
The worst thing that he could do for you。
is make you unbelievably successful,。
not attached to him.。
That is the worst thing that could happen to you,。
that he would fill your life with distractions。
when you have not attached that success to him,。
that you would find yourself in a place isolated。
and with a dying faith, moving away from him.。
But sometimes what he does is he brings attention。
through his servants to himself。
so that he might make his name famous through you.。
Joseph knew that the success that he was given。
had so much more to do with God than him.。
This idea will keep you humble。
because you understand that it is the Lord。
who makes you successful.。
Peter's here saying,。
"Hey, I didn't catch a bunch of fish because I'm good.。
"I caught a bunch of fish because Jesus is with me.。
"My boat right now encompasses the creator。
"of the heavens and the earth.。
"He's in here with me.。
"He commands the fish where to go.。
"He's God and he's with me."。
Peter later wrote in a book in your Bible。
called 1 Peter 5-6, he says this to us.。
"Humble yourselves therefore under God's mighty hand。
"that he may lift you up in due time."。
Humble yourself therefore under God's mighty hand。
that he might lift you up in due time.。
And so if you find yourself in a place。
where you're not passionate about what you do,。
the third thing I want you to consider。
is pursuing a greater passion.。
In fact, my third point,。
my third instruction for you this evening。
is to pursue a greater passion.。
Now what do I mean by that?。
I want you to pursue what God is passionate about.。
You're asking yourself the question,。
what am I passionate about?。
That's the wrong question.。
The right question is what is God passionate about?。
What does God wanna do in and around me?。
And am I being as faithful as I possibly can。
to bring about his will in this environment?。
What is God passionate about?。
See, if you're just thinking about catching fish,。
you're thinking too small.。
Jesus is about catching people.。
If all you think about is a paycheck and a promotion,。
you're missing your real purpose.。
If all you think about is a paycheck and a promotion,。
you're missing your real purpose.。
God has a much bigger purpose for you.。
And so when you're asking, what am I passionate about?。
He's saying, no, would you focus on what I'm passionate about。
and if you're here and you're a follower of Christ,。
I hope number one on the list, really high on the list,。
is I'm passionate about Jesus.。
I'm passionate about a man who lived。
and lived a perfect life, unprecedented,。
and died a perfect death and he did so。
because I'm a pervert, he did so。
because I've done some terrible things,。
he did so because I'm materialistic,。
he did that for me, he came back from the grave。
and if I've trusted in that, he's given me a promise。
of eternal life forever and ever and ever and ever。
and ever and ever and ever and ever and ever with him.。
And I'm really passionate about that.。
I hope that, I mean, I hope that you have a response。
in your heart to that, that you say,。
I'm passionate about that.。
I want the world to know about an amazing God。
who offers eternal life forever and ever and ever。
and our biggest problems pale in comparison.。
One day he's gonna wipe away every tear。
and give us a new kingdom to live in.。
I'm passionate about that.。
Are you passionate about that?。
I'm asking, man, are you passionate about that?。
Colossians 3 verse 22 says,。
and slaves, it's not a racial slavery, okay?。
The most modern translation to this would say employees.。
Employees obey your earthly masters,。
earthly employers in everything and do it。
not only when their eye is on you and to curry their favor,。
but with sincerity of heart and reverence for the Lord.。
Whatever you do, work at it with all your heart。
as working for the Lord, not for humans。
since you know that you will receive an inheritance。
from the Lord as a reward.。
It is the Lord Christ you are serving.。
He says you're not working for your boss that you hate,。
you're working for an amazing boss, a perfect boss,。
an incredible boss who has you there in his sovereignty.。
He placed you there, literally placed you there,。
very strategically put you there.。
Acts 17 verse 26 says that he's determined the place。
and the time that you live.。
You've got to believe this,。
that God determined the place and the time。
that you live and that you work.。
One day I had a job I hated.。
I was doing door-to-door sales to businesses.。
It was in Dallas, I was at Industrial Boulevard.。
It was August, triple digit heat temperature that day.。
I had on a wool suit, which let's just all agree was stupid.。
And I walked in to a business,。
said no soliciting on the door.。
Lady behind the counter,。
"Ma'am, may I speak with whoever makes decisions。
"on your telecommunications?"。
She looks at me, Satan encompassed her.。
And she said, "Get out."。
I said, "Yes, ma'am, I understand, but listen, ma'am."。
"Get out, get out, get out."。
I'm like, "Okay, I'm out."。
And I walked out drenched in sweat.。
I'm angry at a lot of things.。
I'm angry at the job.。
I'm angry at God that has me at the job.。
And I'm really angry at that lady.。
I want to burn her house down.。
And so I'm walking angry.。
I didn't say it was a great moment,。
but I'm walking angry.。
And so I'm walking, I'm working,。
and I'm working the concrete.。
She's walking, I'm so mad.。
And I didn't even see this air conditioning unit。
sticking out of a brick wall about six feet high.。
I didn't see it.。
Walking, just hating life, hating that woman.。
Catches me in my temple right here, okay?。
Spins me around, fall to my knees,。
and I'm staring at the concrete.。
That is until a pool of blood fills the concrete。
and I begin to stare at my own reflection.。
[congregation laughing]。
And I'm taking this as confirmation。
that this is not where God wants me.。
I'm like, God just spoke through an AC unit out of a wall.。
He does not want me in this job.。
And I'm like not in a good place, okay?。
Like I'm not healthy at this moment.。
And I look up and across the street,。
there's a Burger King.。
It's amazing.。
I hadn't eaten at a Burger King my entire life.。
I'm like, there's the answer to all my problems.。
So I walk across to that Burger King。
and I walk inside and at this time,。
in Burger King's marketing campaign,。
they were selling a brownie, a warm brownie.。
I go up to the kind gentleman behind the counter。
and I said, I would like that with some ice cream on it.。
He tried to tell me they didn't put ice cream。
on the brownie.。
That is until that same demon that was in that woman。
possessed me in that moment.。
And I let him know there was gonna be ice cream。
on that brownie.。
I got the brownie.。
I sat down at a table for two。
and I began to eat my brownie.。
And think about how much I hated my job with every bite.。
I look up and there is a man sitting at my table.。
I am dead serious.。
He looks me in the eyes and he said, having a bad day.。
(congregation laughing)。
I said, sir, you don't even wanna get into it.。
Well, I gave it away with a big gash in my forehead。
or the way I'm eating the brownie.。
He said, what's wrong?。
I said, man, I don't know.。
He proceeds to begin to share the gospel with me.。
I wave him off.。
I'm a Christian, Christ follower, believer.。
I mean, you wouldn't believe it。
by the way I just acted, but I am.。
(congregation laughing)。
And he says, so what's wrong?。
What's up?。
I said, man, I just don't know what I'm supposed.。
Now I'm talking to this counselor at my table.。
I'm like, I don't know what I'm supposed to be doing.。
This is completely normal for some reason in this moment.。
I'm like, okay, I'll tell you.。
You wanna know.。
I hate my job.。
I don't know what I'm supposed to be doing right now.。
God has gone silent on me.。
And he goes, do you have any unconfessed sin in your life?。
I'm like, did my mom send you here?。
Like what?。
(congregation laughing)。
No, no, I don't.。
I'm in a small group.。
I'm in community.。
We talk, no, I mean, no unconfessed sin in my life.。
He goes, oh, I know what you're supposed to be doing.。
I go, oh, here we go.。
Charismatic guy over here.。
He's about to say a word for me.。
He's about to prophesy over me。
or tell me something amazing.。
Okay, what is it, sir?。
What is it I'm supposed to be doing?。
And he said this.。
He said exactly what you're doing.。
And didn't like that very much.。
You know, I'm like, you can see what just happened, bro.。
And he just said, you know, I know a little bit about God。
and I know he's in control of where we're at.。
And this morning you woke up in this job.。
And so I'm quite confident。
this is exactly the job God wants you in.。
And I'm confident that he wants you。
to bring glory to him in this job.。
And so I don't know you well enough to know。
if there's some things that you can change。
about the way you're doing this job to do that better.。
But I know that that's his will for your life.。
And then he disappeared.。
No, he didn't disappear.。
[congregation laughing]。
And this is, I mean, I've told this story.。
This is one of those stories that the Lord just gave me.。
I honestly believe in my heart of hearts to pass on to you.。
I believe that moment was more about you。
than it was me even.。
I'll always tell that story,。
probably for the rest of my life。
until the Lord takes me to be with him。
because it's just unexplainable how those events happened。
that he put this follower of Christ in my path。
in just that moment to tell me that message.。
And I believe it's a message for you。
as much as it is for me, is the Lord put you where you are.。
I don't know you well enough to know。
if you're living out his purpose there.。
I don't know if you can do it better.。
You need to be asking those questions.。
You need to be asking God,。
"Lord, is there someone here you want me to share with?。
"Is there a way I can be bolder?。
"God, am I leveraging the gifts and the talents。
"that you've entrusted to me?。
"Father, am I thinking too much about myself。
"that is driving me to a place of despair。
"so that I'm missing your purpose here?"。
Because I believe God is sovereign.。
I believe he placed you where you're at.。
And I just want you to believe that.。
My favorite verse in the scripture is this.。
It's Titus, I'm sorry, favorite verse on the topic.。
Titus 2, verses nine and 10,。
teach slaves, employees, to be subject。
to their masters, employers, in everything,。
to try to please them, not to talk back to them,。
and not to steal from them.。
And you're like, "Not to steal from them?。
"I don't do that."。
That's like, hey, are you looking。
at social media on company time?。
Are you showing up late?。
Are you leaving early?。
Are you taking long lunches?。
Let's put that in the stealing from them category.。
Work hard, don't steal from them.。
But to show that they can be fully trusted, that's you,。
so that in every way they will make the teaching。
about God, our Savior, attractive.。
The reason I have you there is so that you can work hard,。
so that you can make the teaching。
about God, our Savior, attractive.。
You see that?。
This passage does not condone slavery.。
It condones a hard work ethic.。
And so stop following your passions in and out of job.。
To understand why we work, we must have a biblical worldview。
on the reason for work.。
There's four reasons you work.。
Number one, for provision, so that you can provide。
for yourself and for your family.。
Number two, to be generous,。
so that you can be crazy generous.。
The world would look at you and say,。
"Why does she give more than she keeps?。
"Why is she so generous?。
"Why is she always willing to help?。
"How does he give that much away?"。
To be generous, to improve your God-given talents,。
that you would stay in a place and develop the talents。
that God has entrusted to you,。
even when you don't feel like it,。
even when you don't wanna do art anymore,。
that you would continue to develop those God-given talents.。
And then lastly and most importantly,。
to minister to others, to make Jesus famous.。
And so stop following your passions。
and form a greater passion for making Christ famous.。
There's no greater cause.。
You can give someone a drink and save their day,。
or you can share Christ and save their forever.。
Give someone a coat and make them warm,。
or share Christ and help them be an heir to a kingdom。
forever and ever and ever.。
There is no greater cause.。
And so how important is passion?。
I don't know.。
Was Jesus passionate about carpentry?。
I don't know.。
I mean, I don't know if you've thought about this.。
Jesus literally had a job.。
I mean, there were days of his life,。
he'd wake up and he'd hammer nails into wood,。
and he would make things with wood.。
That's what he would do day in and day out.。
That was his occupation.。
He was a carpenter 'cause his dad was a carpenter.。
Was Paul passionate about making tents?。
I don't know if he had a thing for REI or what,。
but I think it was just a means to ministry.。
Like he's just like, "Hey, I'm gonna make tents。
"so that I can do my greater passion,。
"which is making Jesus famous."。
Was Peter passionate about fishing?。
Until he found a greater passion, he was.。
But when he found a greater passion,。
he became the first leader of our church,。
one of the greatest leaders our church has ever known.。
And that's what God is calling you today.。
He wants to get in your boat, man.。
He wants to get in your boat and do work with you.。
And so friends, if your vision for your work is too small,。
if you can't see past promotions and paychecks,。
past 401ks and W2s, God has a bigger vision for your work.。
Your work is a vehicle that the gospel moves forward on.。
It always has been.。
The gospel moves into countries and into new places。
and everywhere through our work.。
Stop asking Jesus where you should go。
and start asking him to go with you.。
Stop asking Jesus where should I go。
and start asking him to go with you.。
See, the thing is, I can't go。
where you're gonna be tomorrow.。
I can't be behind that Starbucks counter.。
I can't be behind the counter of that bank.。
I can't be in that public school.。
I can't be in that engineering firm。
or that oil and gas company.。
I can't be back there in that telecom building.。
But God has you there.。
And so in that moment,。
I can't be there.。
And so in summary, what do I do。
if I'm not passionate about my job?。
One, change your perspective.。
Two, invite God into what you're doing.。
And three, pursue a greater passion in making Christ famous.。
Taught this message a lot.。
And so rather than give you another illustration。
from my own career,。
I thought I would tell you about a friend of mine.。
This was a porch leader.。
We'll call him Adam.。
You know, led a team here at the porch.。
And Adam hated his job.。
And I remember being in his life at this time。
and as he just wrestled with his job.。
And specifically the reason that he hated his job。
is because his boss didn't like him.。
And there were some really specific things。
that his boss had done to show him。
that she was not a fan of his.。
And so he was like, "Hey, I'm out.。
"I want to look for a new job."。
And so he began that search.。
And that brought him to a friend's company.。
A friend had started with this company,。
had hiring responsibilities.。
This company was just kind of taken off。
and he was making a bunch of money.。
And so Adam would make a significant percentage more there.。
He'd get to work with a friend.。
He'd have more freedom.。
He'd work less.。
And so he begins to process this decision.。
And so his buddy offered him a job.。
And so he did what good church goers do.。
He met with his community group。
and he just said, "Hey, what should I do?"。
And they processed the decision.。
It didn't take them long.。
They said, "No brainer, you should leave.。
"It's more money.。
"It's more flexibility.。
"You're more passionate about it.。
"It's getting to work with a buddy.。
"This is a no brainer, done deal.。
"You should go and do this, except one man."。
That one man was the same guy I talked about last week.。
I said he was the wisest man I've ever met.。
He's an elder here.。
And he said this and it blew my mind.。
He said, "Whoa, show me where the Bible says。
"to take a job because you make more money."。
He says, "Hey, can somebody chapter and verse。
"where it says, 'Hey, you should take a job。
"'with more flexibility.'。
"Hey, that you should leave the job。
"where God has you for a new job.。
"Can somebody help me see that in the scripture?"。
Now I'm like, "Whoa, he's gone off the deep end.。
"This is simple.。
"We don't need to make this a big deal.。
"He has the freedom to look for a new job."。
And he goes, "I think he's running from something,。
"not to something.。
"I don't know that the Lord has opened this door to me.。
"It's not clear and I don't know that he's living out。
"his purpose at his current job."。
Now listen, Adam, to his credit,。
in a way that I don't think I would have had。
the spiritual maturity to do,。
Adam listened and Adam stayed there.。
And what's crazy about that。
is one day he saw something in his boss。
that she was kind of struggling and he went up to her。
and he just said, "Would you just please, would you please?。
"I don't know if we, we don't seem to be well,。
"but would you come to church with me?"。
And she said, "I will."。
She came to church with him here to this place.。
She rededicated her life to Jesus.。
The Holy Spirit comes in and softens her heart.。
Now her son begins to struggle with some life decisions.。
She doesn't know where to turn to, so she turns to Adam.。
Says, "Hey, will you help me?。
"We're going through some family challenges."。
Adam begins to minister to her family through her,。
this lady that he was gonna leave。
because she didn't like him.。
And God changed the whole situation,。
gave him favor there and began to use him as work.。
Why?。
Because he changed his perspective.。
He asked God to come to work with him。
and he began to live for a greater passion.。
And that's not all.。
His buddy's job, it didn't do so well.。
It became a chaotic, corrupt environment.。
There were lawsuits.。
His friend was wrongfully terminated.。
It became a very, very toxic environment。
and would have been a complete curse had he gone there.。
And no one saw that, not anybody,。
not a room full of counselors,。
but one man armed with God's word said,。
"Hey, wait a minute, guys.。
"Are we processing this based on passions?。
"Are we processing this based on God's purpose for us?"。
And that pause made all the difference.。
Now, I know you got questions。
running around your mind right now.。
I know everybody in the room's saying,。
"But wait a minute, when can you leave a job?"。
[congregation laughing]。
Like, are you saying I gotta stay here forever?。
You know what?。
I don't think God called me into vocational ministry.。
And God clearly called me into vocational ministry.。
If you know my story, it was very clear.。
I don't think he did until I was already doing ministry.。
I think he waited.。
I think he waited until I began to see。
past my own narcissism, past my own passion,。
past my own desires, until I was a place。
where God, I'm gonna do your will wherever I'm at,。
be it here or be it anywhere.。
And then he said, "You're gonna come work for me."。
But what he's saying to you tonight。
is you're gonna come work for me.。
Maybe not at a church, maybe at Starbucks,。
but you're gonna come work for him.。
Let me pray.。
[pastor sighing]。
Father, as we seek your desire and your word,。
as we wrestle with where we're gonna show up tomorrow,。
as we wrestle with the people that you've placed。
in our life to minister to,。
God, would you give us the confidence that you're with us,。
that you're at the desk with us,。
that you are using us right where we are。
and that you've placed us there.。
That's what I'm asking you for, Father.。
You don't have to give it to us.。
You're God, we're not, but would you please consider。
just giving us a piece as we sing this song。
that we are exactly where you want us,。
just like you told me on that day through your servant.。
Would you just affirm in us that we are right。
where we need to be?。
And Lord, if you would, would you show us why?。
Would you help us know why?。
Father, thank you.。
It's an honor to serve you there, here, and everywhere.。
We worship you now.。
