(upbeat music)。
All right, you guys have a good Thanksgiving?。
How about the Cowboys?。
Let's go, man.。
(audience cheering)。
I'll start out with how our Thanksgiving,。
Wednesday morning, we woke up and I was going out。
to load up my Tahoe and get it all ready。
because we were gonna drive to Houston。
to spend a couple days with my family down there。
for Thanksgiving.。
I load everything up in my car.。
We have an 11-month-old baby。
that only does not sleep in the car.。
And so if you put him in the car during nap time,。
just buckle up because you are about to get some screaming。
for the next few hours.。
And so we planned it all out.。
Nap time's gonna be over.。
Grab the baby, put him in the car.。
Get everything ready.。
I've got the dog in the car.。
I've got the suitcases in the car.。
Got everything ready.。
All I'm doing is waiting on the baby.。
I go get gas, go get Flamin' Hot Cheetos。
'cause that's my wife's thing.。
And yeah, I'll let you girl, okay.。
And so anyways, I'm back in the car waiting.。
Baby wakes up, put the baby in the car.。
Get everything ready, put the key in.。
It won't turn over.。
My battery completely dead.。
Somehow it allowed me to drive to go get gas that morning,。
but the battery acid has come out。
and so the battery's totally toast.。
Take everybody out of the car.。
Get the dog out of the car.。
Get the baby out of the car.。
Get the wife out of the car.。
Get all the suitcases, put 'em in my wife's car.。
Get everything loaded up.。
We take off to Houston.。
We're headed there and we're just bracing ourselves。
for the baby who's about to go ballistic。
as soon as we get close to Houston.。
We get close to Houston.。
We take the exit.。
Baby's doing okay.。
Everything's looking fine.。
We take the exit and I'm using this Waze app,。
which is like a geography.。
Some Waze fans here tonight.。
Thank you for joining us.。
And so anyways, I'm on the feeder on the access road。
and I'm being told by Waze,。
"Hey, take a left right here underneath 45."。
So I'm about to take a left.。
All of a sudden it reroutes.。
I don't know if you've seen this before.。
It'll reroute and tell you,。
"Hey, there's a faster way.。
"Go straight."。
So I go, "Oh, it says go straight."。
So I begin going straight.。
Little did I know I was in a left only lane。
and the car to my right was also planning to turn left。
and I was supposed to turn left.。
So I'm moving straight.。
All of a sudden, huge collision into the side of our car.。
Yeah, happy Thanksgiving.。
So now I'm like out of the car, crying baby.。
Dog's freaking out.。
Everyone's fine.。
The dog's probably the most injured at this point。
'cause he's like, when he gets nervous and scared,。
he starts shedding like crazy.。
So hair's going everywhere.。
(laughing)。
Oh man.。
Anyways, the people in the other car are doing fine.。
Everything's okay, but the car is significantly messed up。
and I'm like, "Can I drive this thing?"。
The police officer comes.。
He's like, "I don't know, man.。
"You can roll the dice."。
And I was like, "I guess we'll roll it,。
"zip tie it up, we'll be okay."。
And so drive the car, alignment is off.。
For the rest of the trip there。
and the rest of the trip back two days later,。
the lights didn't work。
and so I had to hold the brights down the whole time.。
Couldn't flip 'em on, had to hold the brights。
and drive for three and a half hours.。
Now, everything is not going our way。
until we call the insurance company.。
And I had never had a wreck like this before。
so I didn't know exactly what to expect.。
I'd heard nightmares about like, man, insurance.。
I mean, you'd better just wait because it is miserable.。
Just, you better just get a bicycle。
'cause you're not gonna have a car for a while.。
And so I called the insurance,。
especially when it's your fault,。
which it was my fault, awesome.。
And so called the insurance company。
and it was like the greatest experience of all time.。
Within an hour and a half, the lady's like,。
"Hey, I have a car for you.。
"It's a Jeep, brand new, 500 miles on it.。
"You can take this.。
"You're gonna use this for the next couple weeks.。
"I've got it already set up for your car to be fixed.。
"There's gonna be an adjuster come out."。
I mean, it was the best, Safeco was the company.。
If you don't have Safeco, there you go.。
That's free shout out, Safeco.。
I'm open to sponsorships.。
And so anyways, so unbelievable experience of like,。
man, this is incredible.。
I mean, literally within an hour and a half,。
everything taken care of.。
Hey, we're gonna take the car and we will not stop。
until it is totally made new,。
until everything broken on it has been restored and repaired.。
We got you from here.。
And the reason I start with that story。
is because I think a lot of people,。
as it relates to Christianity,。
the way that we think about, hey, if I become a Christian,。
in the same way that the insurance company,。
soon as they got involved, everything was made easier.。
I got it from here.。
This is the best, easiest experience you've ever had.。
That's how a lot of people think,。
'cause it relates to Christianity.。
The moment you become a Christian, all of a sudden,。
hey, God, I reach out to you.。
I trusted in Jesus Christ as my savior.。
He is the one who died for my sins, rose again.。
I'm trusting in that.。
I've been given new life in him.。
A lot of us would think that all of a sudden,。
it's just gonna get easier from there,。
that all my bad problems, all of them,。
I'm just gonna wake up, they're gonna be gone.。
That everything kind of, the character flaws that I had,。
all of them are gonna be dealt with immediately。
and all of them are going away.。
And I'm here to tell you,。
and tonight we're gonna talk about。
how it's just not that easy.。
Now, I'm not talking about salvation.。
Salvation, which is, hey, spend eternity with God,。
that happens in a moment.。
If you put your faith in Jesus Christ as your saver,。
the person, the God who became man,。
who died for your sins on the cross and rose again,。
if you have trusted in that or put your faith。
that Jesus has paid for the debt that you。
and your mistakes and sin have created,。
in a moment, you have salvation internally.。
What I'm talking about is not that.。
I'm talking about what we call sanctification。
or the Christian journey of being made to look like Jesus,。
which is a process and a journey that God takes us on。
and it doesn't just go, hey, man,。
I'm gonna hand this over to you。
and overnight, everything gets changed。
and everything gets better.。
Now, sometimes that happens,。
but the reason I'm highlighting this,。
the reason we're gonna talk about it tonight。
is because a lot of times,。
when you hear somebody on stage,。
you hear these different testimonies in church,。
you're going, man, that dude, all of a sudden,。
I just heard this story about a guy who trusted Christ,。
I was a black tar heroine, it was crazy,。
and all of a sudden, trusted Jesus, never did it again.。
Or stories like, man, I was addicted to pornography,。
alcoholism, trusted Jesus, never, totally changed,。
never even tempted again.。
And those stories exist, but they're honestly the outliers.。
The journey of the Christian faith。
is one of day by day sanctification。
and crucifying the flesh, the Bible calls it,。
or taking up your cross daily.。
It is a process that God brings us on.。
The journey of the Christian life is a process.。
And so as we talk about amnesia,。
which is a series on, hey,。
remembering who you are in Jesus,。
this is specifically, if you're a Christian in the room,。
who you are in Jesus, you're a new creation.。
That's the position that God has given you,。
you've been made new.。
And now, tonight, what I wanna talk about。
is the process by which God not just takes you positionally,。
spiritually speaking, you're made new,。
but the journey that he takes you on。
as soon as you trust Christ for the rest of your life。
of making you into that new creation.。
What does that look like?。
So for the next 30 minutes or 25 minutes,。
we're gonna talk about, start to finish,。
the journey, the things that are required。
to experience change.。
Tonight, if you take notes, you can write out,。
what are we talking about?。
How to change.。
How do Christians change?。
Because the Apostle Paul, over and over and over again,。
gives this recipe of the three steps that are involved。
if you ever wanna experience change.。
True, lasting, and meaningful change.。
It'll involve the three things。
we're gonna talk about tonight.。
And so we're gonna be in Ephesians chapter four.。
If you have a Bible, you can flip open。
to Ephesians chapter four.。
As we dive in to this idea of how Christians change.。
The book of Ephesians was written by the Apostle Paul。
to this church in Ephesus that had recently,。
it was a bunch of pagans before, they became Christians,。
trying to figure out how to live out。
their new Christian faith.。
So Paul writes him this letter.。
The city of Ephesus was this port city,。
kinda like San Diego, only it had this huge temple there,。
the temple of Diana, or of Artemis.。
And it was just an incredibly pagan society.。
There are writings from this time that say。
Ephesus is the most vile place on the planet.。
There was all kinds of prostitution going on,。
all these crazy pagan rituals that were involved in the city.。
All of a sudden, some of these pagans。
become followers of Jesus,。
and now how do we live out this new faith?。
How do we experience the change。
that Christ has brought us to?。
So Paul begins to lay out what that looks like.。
We'll start in verse 17 of chapter four.。
Here's what he says.。
Now I say this, and I testify in the Lord,。
as though I say this and God with me agrees,。
that you, talking in the church in Ephesus,。
must no longer walk or live as the Gentiles do.。
Gentiles is a word for someone who doesn't know God.。
It's just a word for, hey,。
they don't have a relationship with God.。
You should no longer live as people。
who don't have a relationship with God.。
They do so in the futility of their minds.。
They're darkened in their understanding,。
as though the light bulb hadn't clicked on who God is.。
They don't have a relationship with him.。
They're alienated or separated, your Bible may have,。
from the life of God because of the ignorance。
that's in them due to the hardness of their heart.。
They become callous.。
They've given themselves up to all kinds of sensuality,。
greedy to practice every type of impurity.。
So Paul starts off and he says our first idea。
from this text, which is how does change occur?。
The first thing I want you guys to make clear,。
Ephesian people, is that you're not to live。
like people who don't have a relationship with God。
because you have a relationship with God.。
There was a time where you were cut off,。
you were separated, you didn't have a relationship.。
Now you are no longer those people.。
You have a relationship with him.。
The first step, if anyone is on this journey,。
very simply, if you want to experience the change。
that Christ brings, the first step for you。
is to have a relationship or step into。
a relationship with God.。
That's the very first idea from this text。
that Paul points to is that hey,。
because you're in this relationship,。
there should be change that begins to take place。
inside of your life.。
What sets a person, or the first step,。
for anyone who wants to change is to make sure。
that they have a relationship with Jesus.。
What is God most concerned about。
when he looks down at humanity?。
It is not that they do a bunch of religious things.。
It is that they have a relationship with him.。
Your crazy uncle that you were sitting across from。
at Thanksgiving, your sister who's living with a boyfriend,。
whatever the situation, your lesbian coworker,。
what God is most concerned about is not their sin habits,。
not their struggles, not their sexual orientation.。
What he is most and first and foremost concerned with。
is a relationship with him.。
And it is that relationship that is the starting point。
for anyone who wants to experience true change。
in someone's life.。
So Paul just says, look, hey, you have this relationship。
with God, you should be experiencing change,。
or this is the first thing that will begin to move you。
in the direction of change,。
is this new day-by-day relationship.。
It's not dissimilar to any relationship, honestly.。
I mean, we've all seen the impact that a relationship has.。
All of us have had friends that start dating someone,。
and all of a sudden, things begin to change.。
You're like, yeah, I don't think that's just random.。
I don't know why you're shaving so much,。
but you're all of a sudden showering and shaving。
a lot more than normal, and you're into yoga, that's weird.。
Ever since you started dating her, this seems to be,。
or the girl who all of a sudden is like,。
into the Rangers, I love the Rangers.。
You're like, you love the Rangers, you're from Baltimore.。
Yeah, but I'm into the Rangers, I love it.。
And all of a sudden, they just pick up。
these different habits, or they're like,。
man, I'm just really into baking now.。
You're like, baking, really?。
It's because you started dating Barry.。
And all of a sudden, you started baking for Barry.。
That dating relationships we see can begin changing us.。
In the same way, God, a relationship with him changes us.。
I remember when I married my wife.。
I saw very clearly the impact that bringing a woman。
into your life on a full-time basis has on you.。
And buckle up, fellas.。
And all of a sudden, it's like,。
hey, we are not sleeping on a futon anymore.。
In fact, we're not even keeping the futon.。
And we are buying decorations.。
I never would have bought decorations,。
so the things that I spent money on change.。
My membership to things.。
I used to be in a flag football league, it was awesome.。
Now I'm a member at the Arboretum.。
We go see flowers for fun.。
The things that I'm involved in,。
everything changes from the things that you eat.。
We got an amen from the ladies in the crowd, let's go.。
And the things that you eat, guys,。
we don't, when you're a single guy,。
you just, food is utility, utilitarian.。
You're just kinda like, hey, whatever's there.。
And Jack in the Box is fine, or this frozen pizza.。
And then when you get married,。
all of a sudden you sit down, you're eating a meal,。
you're starting to put on married weight,。
and life just changes 'cause this relationship.。
Paul says, hey, why would you think。
that a dating relationship would change you,。
or a marriage relationship would change you,。
and that a relationship with the God of the universe,。
the God who made you, knows everything about you,。
who created everything,。
who knows how everything best works,。
why would you think that wouldn't change you?。
Of course it should change you.。
And he says, Ephesians,。
live in light of this new relationship.。
You are not like those other people in the world。
who do not have a relationship.。
They're cut off from God.。
That's not who you are.。
Live in that new relationship.。
The first way to experience change。
is being a part of that new relationship, the God.。
So that's step one, a very simple one.。
A lot of us have experienced in the room.。
But the second thing he begins to lay out。
is really at the heart of how people change.。
Here's what he says.。
But that is not how you learned Christ.。
Talking about, hey, the people of this world。
and detached from God, assuming you've heard about him。
and were taught in him, as the truth is in Jesus,。
to put off your old self,。
which belongs to your former manner of life。
and is corrupt through your deceitful desires.。
So put off the old self, you were taught this,。
and to be renewed in the spirit of your minds。
that your thinking would change.。
And to put on the new self,。
created after the likeness of God,。
but the new self that God is moving you in the direction of,。
the new character that he wants to conform your character to。
is created after the likeness of God.。
It reflects Jesus, you could say.。
And in the true righteousness and holiness。
that Paul says, hey, you are different,。
and now God wants to take you on the journey。
of becoming, of conforming your behavior。
to who you are spiritually speaking in Jesus.。
That you've been given this righteous position,。
perfectly righteous, now for the rest of your life,。
God is gonna continue to conform and conform your character。
and your life consistent, to be consistent。
with that new character that you have.。
But it requires, in order to change,。
he just laid out something at the heart。
of the way that people begin to change their living。
or their lifestyle, which is their thinking.。
Our second idea from the text is this,。
that change requires new thinking.。
How do people change?。
Man, this is so huge, and I really want you to hear this.。
The way that Christians change is not by going,。
you know what, today is my day,。
I am not going to be codependent in this relationship,。
pull the bootstraps up, I am doing this today.。
The way that they begin to change,。
whether it's an eating disorder,。
whether it is pornography,。
whether it is a sexual addiction, alcohol addiction,。
whatever those different things are,。
one of the most crucial components,。
beyond, hey, a relationship with God,。
is then beginning to change the way that they think.。
The Bible calls it renewing their mind.。
Replacing the lies that they believe。
with the truth of God's word.。
That they've been taken out of sin.。
In other words, that's the theological,。
which is just kind of the academic word for,。
hey, that's the relationship to God。
that they have on a spiritual level.。
And now God has taken them out of sin,。
and for the rest of their life,。
he's gonna begin to take sin out of them.。
That's the journey of the Christian faith.。
And it begins by changing the way that they think.。
How do you put aside your old life?。
How do you just stop doing things?。
You begin to change the way that you think.。
To align it with what God's word teaches。
and what God's word says.。
This past weekend I was with my brother。
who has this golden retriever named Riley.。
Riley, he got like six years ago,。
and I remember when he got Riley,。
and I was like, dude, this dog is,。
there's something wrong with this dog.。
He is not the sharpest tool in the shed,。
the brightest crown in the crown box.。
There is something off on this dog.。
Like he would sleep in a crate。
without bedding or without a towel。
because he would like chew them up and eat them.。
He would eat the towel.。
They'd leave him in the backyard, he ate a hose.。
Like how do you eat a hose?。
Like there was something off with his dog。
where he would just like freak out about different stuff,。
terrified of stairs.。
When storms would come,。
they'd have to put booties on his feet。
because he would just run around in circles。
inside of the room.。
(laughing)。
And it would scratch up the floors.。
And so anyway, so all this like crate man,。
there's something off with this dog.。
And I remember talking to him a few years ago,。
and I was like, hey, what do you think is wrong?。
He was like, oh, he was abused.。
He was like, he had an abusive owner before.。
Like we rescued him from an abusive previous environment.。
And so it's not, there was nothing mentally off.。
He had just been abused, and that had impacted his thinking.。
He would eat things that you shouldn't eat。
'cause he was like, am I gonna get fed?。
And over this weekend, I was with him again,。
and I was like, man, this dog is normal.。
I remember acting like,。
is this the same dog that you've had?。
Like he was totally normal.。
He'd begun to adapt that he wasn't eating his bedding anymore。
that he wasn't terrified of like lights。
and things like that.。
Like all of a sudden his thinking had begun to change.。
Because even though he had at one point early on。
been taken out of the abusive situation,。
the abuse had not been fully taken out of him.。
And so he had all these bad habits。
and it took time and relearning.。
And all of a sudden on that journey。
where he began to realize,。
hey, if my master is my new master now,。
I don't have to eat the towel。
because he's going to feed me every day.。
And his thinking began to change。
and his behavior began to change.。
And he became like totally different dog。
when I was with him this past weekend。
over the process of learning.。
And that's the journey just like。
he had been taken out of the abusive situation,。
but it took time to get the abuse out of him.。
In the same way, that's the Christian faith.。
That's the Christian journey。
is that you've been totally taken out of sin,。
not counted against you.。
And now God is taking the sin out of you。
that's inside of you and inside of me.。
That's the journey of Christianity.。
And the way that he takes it out。
is by changing your thinking,。
changing my thinking.。
Paul says this in Romans chapter 12, verse two,。
where he says,。
"Don't be conformed to the pattern of this world.。
"Don't be like everybody else in the world.。
"Hey, stop being pushed into the same corner。
"that everybody else behaves like,。
"but be transformed."。
How am I transformed, Paul?。
By the renewing of your mind.。
That it's not just try harder,。
it is saturate your minds with what is true.。
Begin to take off the lies that you believe。
about sexuality, about money,。
about dating relationships, about family,。
about your job, about purpose,。
about anxiety, about whatever it is.。
I mean, every sin struggle that's represented in the room,。
all of them are fueled by a lie.。
All of them.。
And the way that you combat that lie。
is not just by being like,。
"Stop it, I'm not gonna do that anymore today."。
Stop being anxious, anxiety.。
The Bible says, "Don't be anxious about anything."。
The way that you combat anxiety。
is not by me saying like,。
"Hey, stop it.。
"Just don't worry about anything."。
That's not gonna work.。
The way that you combat anxiety。
is by saturating your mind in what is true.。
I'm anxious today.。
God, I'm afraid that you're not good,。
you're not in control.。
Everything's spinning out of control.。
And I begin to embrace and start believing。
that God is good.。
He loves me.。
He's in control.。
He knows what I'm going through.。
He does not make mistakes.。
I can trust him.。
I do not know what tomorrow holds,。
but I know that my God who loves me holds tomorrow.。
The way that you combat that,。
the way that you combat pornography。
is not by just saying,。
"Hey, stop wanting to look at porn."。
But by saturating your mind in what is true,。
part of which is the consequences of pornography.。
If you're looking at pornography,。
it is going to cost you in your relationships。
in this season and in the future relationships。
if you continue to learn from 3D or two-dimensional images,。
"Hey, this is what a healthy sexual life。
"is gonna look like."。
There's gonna be more than one woman.。
She's gonna have all kinds of augmentation,。
or there's gonna be more than one guy,。
or he's gonna look in a certain way。
that you're feeding yourself something。
that is going to destroy you now and your future marriage,。
or it's going to hurt you in those future relationships.。
You saturate your mind in what is true.。
Same thing with sexuality.。
The way that you, "Hey, I'm gonna stop wanting to have sex,"。
is not by saying, "Hey, stop it,"。
but by reminding yourself or getting familiar。
with God's design, what is sex for?。
It was created for the context of marriage,。
this incredible gift that God has given。
for man and woman to be united together,。
this powerful thing that he's given。
that can be powerful and powerfully destructive。
outside of the context it was created for.。
That's what the Bible teaches.。
But it can be this incredibly uniting gift inside of it.。
The way that you deal with anger。
is not by just saying, "Hey, stop being angry,"。
or whatever the sense of selfishness.。
It's not by just being like, "No, hey, stop being selfish."。
It's by learning to understand the world's not about you.。
It never has been and never will be,。
and you can either keep fighting。
for your little cameo in this world,。
or you can experience your purpose,。
which comes from living for God,。
who all of life is ultimately about.。
The way that you and I experience new living。
is by new thinking.。
The way that you change is by changing the way。
that you think.。
And Paul lays out, I mean, honestly,。
Jesus said this, when Jesus spoke,。
and you've probably heard this before,。
'cause politicians have quoted where he said,。
"Hey, look, if you want to be set free,。
"it won't come by trying harder,。
"getting into some club, being a part of a group,。
"just buckling up and really giving it your all.。
"It'll come by you knowing the truth,。
"and the truth will set you free."。
That if you wanna step up to the line of freedom。
and cross over it, it comes by embracing,。
by replacing the lies that you believe。
with the truth found in God's Word.。
That's how Christians change.。
That's how you will change, if you ever change.。
And I love where Paul goes next,。
because if you're like me, and you're going,。
"Look, that's great, okay, so the way that I change,。
"I have a relationship with God, okay, check.。
"I have a relationship with God."。
And then I begin to renew my mind,。
I begin to take off the old, the lies that I believe,。
and I begin to put on the new.。
So the way that I combat lust, anxiety, anger,。
all those things, is I replace the lies。
that I'm tempted to believe with God's Word.。
Okay, great, what do I do when I know。
all the Bible verses about lust,。
but, or I know many of them, and I'm still tempted to lust,。
I still want to lust, I still lust.。
What do I do then, Paul?。
And I love where he goes next,。
because that's exactly where he goes.。
He says this in verse 25.。
"Therefore, having put away falsehood, or the lies,。
"let each one of you speak the truth with his neighbor."。
Be honest with his neighbor,。
or his brother you may have there.。
"For we are members of one another,。
"that in this new life, to experience the new change,。
"we do it together, that we speak the truth。
"openly and honestly with one another."。
We live in authentic relationships,。
because we're members of one another.。
In other words, I can be honest about where I'm falling,。
where my struggles are, who I am,。
because I know that in the security of Christ,。
as Christian brothers and sisters,。
inside of community, or just as Christians together,。
that my struggles are not gonna send people away from me,。
that I can be honest.。
The third idea that he goes to is,。
hey, you not only renew your mind,。
but you do all of this within the context of community.。
The third idea, if you wanna experience change,。
is that you do so within the context of community.。
Change requires community.。
You require other people.。
You will not change on your own.。
I will not change on my own.。
And Paul says, hey, it requires, this is a one another.。
Christianity is a team sport.。
Always has been, always will be.。
This ain't golf, this is basketball.。
You play it together.。
And then he goes into, really, what that looks like,。
in verse 26, where he goes into,。
hey, if you're angry, deal with the conflict.。
Don't steal, but provide for people.。
Give to other people.。
Don't use your mouth to tear people down.。
Use your mouth to build your brothers and sisters up.。
Don't be bitter.。
Deal with bitterness in your heart.。
Forgive one another as Christ.。
Be kind to one another, one another, one another,。
that Paul says, hey, you do this, the new life.。
You will not experience change alone.。
The way that people and Christians experience change。
is together, because there's moments,。
like in your life and in my life,。
where, hey, I know the truth.。
This happened a couple weeks ago.。
After I taught a message at the porch,。
I go home, get on social media,。
just checking out how things had gone.。
I got finished preaching that night.。
Get on social media, all of a sudden,。
I see someone who had recently posted,。
looked like a girl who I was not familiar with。
that was either some sort of dancer or cheerleader.。
All I saw was cleavage and shiny.。
And I'm like, huh, I wonder if I know this person.。
Click on it, click on an image,。
and hopes underneath the veil of,。
man, I'm just curious what this could be,。
knowing that really I was going,。
man, I think I just wanna see some cleavage.。
And I know all the verses about sexual immorality.。
Like I know 1 Corinthians 6, it says,。
flee sexual immorality, sexual immorality.。
Every other sin that a person commits outside of the body,。
he commits against himself when he commits sexual immorality.。
You were bought with a price.。
Therefore, glorify God with your body.。
1 Thessalonians 4, 3 and 4,。
that this is the will of God, your sanctification,。
that you not engage in sexual immorality。
as the pagans who do not know God,。
but you control your body。
and have overflowed the relationship you have with him.。
Psalm 119, verse nine,。
that this is how can a young man keep his way pure。
by living according to, like I know all those things.。
But still, there's something inside of me。
that I'm still broken.。
There's a sinful nature.。
There's an old life present。
that despite knowing that,。
despite trying to renew my mind,。
there's times where I'm going, look,。
God, I need others around me.。
Immediately what I did after I clicked on that,。
I shut it down, I emailed my guys,。
I emailed JP, I said, hey, this is what happened.。
This is what I saw.。
These are the two pictures that I saw.。
I want you to know, I want you to pray for me,。
and I wanna drag that into the light。
because I need you to know。
that I am capable of continuing to run down that trail.。
And so I need you to lock arms and hold onto me,。
just like God designed all of us to exist in relationship,。
because I want to continue to change.。
And the way that I change。
is by living in authentic community.。
Will you help me?。
(congregation applauding)。
And yeah, you can clap.。
I don't know where you are in that spectrum.。
If you have community, that's the way that we change.。
And it is through allowing others in our life。
to speak into our life that we begin to change.。
Like, I mean, how crazy.。
And this is the deceptiveness of sin, at least in my life.。
You may not be like this.。
You may be like, no, dude, I don't struggle like that.。
I can get done preaching a sermon。
and all about, hey, living Christian life,。
this is how you're gonna live it,。
and then I can go home and despite knowing the truth,。
I'm still appealed to by my sinful nature.。
I still wanna go after unless,。
I still wanna go, look, I can still leave a sermon。
that I'm done teaching and still go be short with my wife.。
And this is where Paul says, look, hey,。
there's a part of it where it's renewing your mind.。
And then there's times where even though I know the truth,。
I'm still tempted, I'm still alert by what is dead。
and dying and is a part of my past.。
And Paul says in those moments,。
that's why community is so important.。
You have other people that lock arms with you and say,。
look, we're gonna go two steps forward.。
You take one step back, I'm not letting you keep going.。
We're gonna continue to move forward in this.。
We're locking arms together is how Christianity is lived out.。
If you're gonna experience change,。
it's gonna happen in that context.。
If you are not plugged into a church,。
you will not experience change in 2016 or 2017.。
If you're not in deep, authentic, real relationships。
with other believers, you can just pretty much go,。
hey, you know what, I'm gonna check my 20s.。
Nothing's gonna change.。
I'll probably actually go backwards in my faith.。
This is the way that God changes people.。
That you have a relationship with him.。
He begins to renew your mind.。
And through real relationships,。
he begins to change you and change me,。
especially in those sins where, man, I know it,。
but I'm still tempted despite knowing the truth。
to run after and I need your help.。
And there's nothing different.。
I mean, there's no secret sauce of anyone on this stage.。
You think that we're not broken, messed up people。
who need other believers in our life。
who are going, hey, I'm gonna help you here。
because you're not thinking right。
and you're wanting to run after that.。
That all of us are in desperate need of one another.。
Paul says you were designed to live that way.。
Live truthfully, hold one another accountable, be honest,。
live openly in relationship with other Christians.。
This is how it's always been done.。
Andy can come up and I'm gonna lay on the plane。
and close here.。
One, I'm gonna tell you about one of the earliest。
incidences we have recorded of just a guy who says。
this about Christians.。
In other words, back in the first century,。
one of the earliest writings that we have about Christians,。
it says just exactly what we're talking about tonight.。
It points to the idea that, man, this is how Christians。
have always done it, even in 111 AD.。
This guy named Pliny the Younger,。
which is like an amazing rapper name,。
Pliny the Younger writes to the emperor,。
he's the governor of this entire area where Ephesus is.。
Ephesus was like a state, so it'd be like Texas。
and he's writing a letter to the emperor,。
which is like the president of Rome.。
So it'd be like Greg Abbott writing Obama,。
being like, hey, let me tell you about Watermark,。
here's what I found out about these people.。
And he writes this letter and he writes and describes,。
hey, Christians are kind of new on the scene,。
I've done some investigative work,。
not exactly sure what I think about these people,。
but here's what I found out they do.。
Here's what they gather in this little top secret meeting。
and what they do and he lays this out.。
Here's what he says.。
The sum and substance of their fault or their error。
had been that they were accustomed,。
so Pliny's going, I'm not a Christian,。
but here's what I've, he even tortured people and said,。
I wanna know exactly what you're doing in there.。
Is that they come together on a fixed day before dawn.。
So they get together, it's still dark outside.。
They sing a hymn to Christ as God.。
I mean, if you're a Christian,。
these are your brothers and sisters from the first century.。
And then they bind themselves to an oath.。
So they get down, they sing a song,。
they sing to Jesus or Christ as though he's a God.。
And then they take this pledge together.。
They say, I'm in again, I'm in for today.。
Are you in for today?。
And they take this pledge together,。
but it's not some pledge to commit a crime, he says,。
but it's a pledge to not commit fraud,。
to not commit theft, to not steal today.。
I'm not gonna steal today.。
I need you to hold me accountable,。
I'm holding you accountable.。
To not commit adultery or to falsify their trust or to lie.。
Or to refuse to return a trust when called upon so to do so.。
Hey, I'm gonna pay my debts.。
And when this was over, they went about it,。
it was their custom to depart。
and assemble again to partake of food.。
They would go, they'd go work their jobs in the day,。
and then they'd come back together,。
say, hey, how'd you do today?。
Hey, how'd you do today?。
And then they'd gather again on another morning before dawn,。
and they'd say, I need you to not let me go.。
I don't wanna commit adultery today.。
I don't wanna lie today.。
I don't wanna steal today.。
Will you help me?。
I'm gonna help you.。
It's always been done like this.。
This is how the church changed the world.。
This is how the Ephesian church changed the world.。
This is how Christianity's experienced change。
in their world.。
And if you are a Christian, this is how you will change.。
This is how you will experience change.。
And it's always been this way from the very beginning.。
For whatever reason that ministered me so much,。
so man, man, it's, when I look back。
in the explosive growth of the first century,。
I'm like, I guess God was just really behind them there.。
They were doing the exact same thing。
that we're talking about here,。
where you gather together, say, I'm not letting you go.。
And day after day, we're gonna walk through life together。
and help one another live the new life.。
And that's how people change.。
My car, when I got back to Dallas,。
my wife's car got turned in and all that,。
but my car, you know, it wouldn't start.。
So it called AAA.。
We have AAA, it's awesome.。
Just a side note.。
And so they came out and they were gonna replace the battery。
and I was talking with the guy who was putting in the battery。
and I just said, hey, do you have a faith?。
And we began talking about kind of faith。
and where he was from and how he'd grown up.。
And he said, you know, I was raised Christian,。
or yeah, a Christian, but you know,。
I've not been in church in a while。
and I really haven't focused on my relationship with God,。
but I feel like God is really trying to speak to me。
and he's saying something.。
I feel like he keeps sending me signs and messages.。
We talked through a little bit of like,。
hey, what does he mean to be a Christian?。
What is a Christian?。
And then he said, and I came back to,。
hey, what are the signs?。
What does that mean?。
He said, well, this conversation for one, you know,。
and talking about faith.。
And then he said, and then I had this friend that,。
man, her life has like been totally changed.。
Like she like is in church like three times a week.。
Everything has changed.。
We used to smoke weed all the time together.。
And then this tornado hit the apartment complex。
that she lived in and we lived there too.。
And her life like totally changed.。
And she's now all about church.。
She keeps inviting me to come to church with her。
and it's this place and she goes,。
he goes, it's this place called Waterview or,。
I said, Watermark?。
And he said, oh yeah, yeah, yeah, Watermark, Watermark.。
She's always telling me to come。
to this Tuesday night Bible study.。
And I was like, man, that's where I go.。
I go to Watermark and I go to that Tuesday night。
Bible study.。
And as I thought about that, man,。
he reflected on, man, her life has been totally changed.。
How did it get changed?。
Well, she had a relationship with God.。
She began walking in that relationship with God。
and changing her mind by changing her playmates。
in her playground.。
She's in church like three days a week.。
She's always there.。
It's at the center of her life。
and her life has been changed.。
Your life, if it is going to be changed,。
this will be how.。
A relationship, maybe you can go,。
hey, check the box, I'm there.。
Then beginning to renew your mind。
with the truth of God's word。
and then with the real relationships of other believers。
where you're open and honest,。
they can speak into it and they can help you grow。
and you help them grow.。
This is how Christians change.。
And when they do, they change the world.。
Let me pray.。
Father, thank you just for the example。
of our brothers and sisters。
who before there was even a United States,。
before there were any of the things。
that like our common modern world experiences,。
they were gathering together saying,。
I'm gonna hold you accountable.。
I need you to help me.。
I need to help you.。
Let's go one more day together.。
They were coming together,。
they're worshiping Jesus as Christ.。
He was at the center of their life.。
Thank you for examples of just lives that have been changed.。
Thank you for changing my life。
and continuing to change my life,。
for continuing to provide just the protection of community。
that allows me to be open and honest and say,。
hey, I don't wanna look at this.。
I don't want to be angry like this.。
I don't want to be this man.。
Will you help me?。
Thank you that you love us, God.。
You've already declared us righteous。
if we have put our trust in Jesus.。
And now you are not letting us go。
until we are totally conformed to that righteousness。
that is perfectly ours and will be perfectly ours。
for all of eternity.。
Father, we worship you now.。
And we come to the altar of the God。
whose arms are open wide, who loves us and died for us.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
I think the biggest burden that I feel in this message。
is that some of you would walk out of here。
thinking that you should bear a cross and wait for a crown。
and there's no crown coming。
because you don't have a relationship with God.。
You've never accepted what Jesus did on the cross.。
His payment for your sin, you may believe it.。
You may be raised Christian.。
You were culturally a Christian.。
You've never actually put your faith and trust.。
You never accepted that free gift.。
You don't have confidence that if you died tonight,。
you'd go spend eternity with God forever.。
Or you have a false confidence。
because you think you're a good person.。
And if you think you're a good person,。
you're not a Christian.。
A Christian is someone who says,。
"I am an inherently broken person."。
But just like there's an insurance company。
that's gonna come and stick with it。
and come and heal and replace and restore,。
that's what Jesus has done.。
And he offers that new life,。
both forever with God, if you will, in a moment, accept it,。
and to be with you on the journey forever,。
if you accept it, in this life,。
to come and restore and heal.。
And you've never done that.。
And you went to church.。
You may have even said some prayer.。
But I don't want you to leave here tonight.。
I don't, God doesn't want you to leave here tonight.。
There was a guy in our staff prayer this morning。
who just said, "Man, one of the guys that I grew up with,。
"he died of liver failure yesterday.。
"And I was at the funeral and I thought,。
"Man, who have I not shared the hope of Christ with?。
"Man, I wish I would have done more to initiate,。
"more to step out.。
"And is there anyone else in my life。
"who I need to make sure I clarify?"。
But you know that the God who's there。
is not demanding something from you.。
He's done something for you, right?。
You know that.。
Have you accepted that?。
And so for many of you in the room, that's your first step.。
Regardless of what change comes after that,。
that is the single thing that will determine,。
and that will, the biggest decision that you will make。
for all of eternity, for thousands and thousands of years,。
begin then.。
And if you have never had that moment,。
if you're unsure, if you've placed your trust。
in what even that means, we'd love to talk to you.。
We'll have an entire team that every week。
gathers down here to speak, to wrestle with,。
to talk through, pray with, answer questions,。
be a shoulder to cry on, or just to laugh with,。
or talk with, or anything we can do to serve.。
That's the entire reason they gather down here.。
And we will stay, meet with, talk with you.。
As long as you want, or until 10 o'clock.。
We also have something called Port's Late Night,。
which is once a month, we just basically throw a party。
on the lobby, and a chance to connect,。
and provide kind of alternatives。
to facilitate relationships platonically。
with people, to just get to connect,。
and provide alternatives to the bar scene,。
and the club scene, and just the Dallas life.。
And so hang around with us, we'll be out there hanging out,。
and open community group.。
If you're a guy and a girl, man, this,。
oh gosh, I want this so bad for so many of you.。
If you're a guy and you do not have community,。
man, I am begging you, tonight is your night.。
If you'll go right down this hall, there are normal guys.。
They look just like you, they're wearing jeans,。
maybe they're wearing khakis, maybe they're tucking it in.。
They're just like you.。
And they want to grow in their faith.。
They're not gonna make you tell your SAT score,。
they're not gonna ask you to handle a snake,。
they're not gonna do anything weird,。
they're just gonna say, man, hey, this is my name,。
this is what I'm walking through, what's your name?。
And they're gonna gather around.。
We do something called open community。
to give you an immediate step。
to where you don't have to go through life alone.。
If you're a girl, you can do the exact same thing。
right down this hallway, where leaders in our ministry。
will gather with you, sit with you, talk with you,。
very normal girls just like you.。
They like baking occasionally in the Bachelorette。
probably more than they should,。
and they just want to walk through life。
and get to know Jesus better and help one another.。
And so if you go right down this hallway,。
we don't have a college gathering tonight,。
we love you guys so stinking much.。
Next week is our last course of the year,。
you don't want to miss it.。
We are gonna have a fun and special night,。
you don't want to miss it.。
So we will be here next week。
and then the concert after that.。
We love you guys, go in and peace,。
the love and serve the Lord this week.。
