(soft music)。
- What's up guys?。
How we doing?。
(audience cheering)。
Come on.。
(audience cheering)。
It's good to be with you guys here in Dallas, Fort Worth.。
We're glad you're tuning in and those listening around.。
I'm gonna start with a reading from the scriptures,。
if you will, the Jesus Storybook Bible.。
Have you ever needed just to be reminded that God loves you?。
Yeah, good.。
And so, there was this time, there was this week,。
there was a tough week.。
I was teaching on a Sunday.。
I was looking for an illustration, I couldn't find it.。
I was beginning to get angry with God。
that he wouldn't give it to me.。
This is kind of like if you're in sales, you know,。
and you're not getting the deal,。
or if things aren't going your way at work as a preacher,。
you know, it's like, God, I need this illustration.。
And it's Saturday evening and I don't have it yet.。
And so, I'm tucking my girls, Presley and Finley, in bed。
and I'm reading them a story from here, but I'm distracted.。
If I'm honest with you, to be transparent,。
in the moment I was really distracted,。
my mind was just spinning like,。
God, I need this illustration, I need this illustration.。
So, I'm reading this and we're just moving。
through the Jesus Storybook Bible we had just started over.。
And so, I'm in Genesis six through nine.。
It says, "Time passed and many people filled the earth.。
"Everyone everywhere had forgotten about God。
"and were only doing bad things all the time.。
"God's heart was filled with pain。
"when he saw what had happened to the world he loved.。
"Everywhere was disease and death and destruction,。
"all the things God hates most.。
"Now, Noah was God's friend, which was odd in those days。
"because no one else was.。
"Noah listened to God, he talked to God.。
"He just loved being with God。
"like you do with your best friend.。
"Noah, God said, things have gone wrong.。
"People have filled my world with hate instead of love.。
"They are destroying themselves and each other and my world.。
"I must stop them.。
"First, we'll build an ark."。
And I'll tell you the story tonight,。
so I'll jump to the end.。
Here's the punchline.。
It says, "And there in the clouds,。
"just where the storm meets the sun。
"was a beautiful bow made of light.。
"It was a new beginning in God's world.。
"It wasn't long before everything went wrong again,。
"but God wasn't surprised.。
"He knew this would happen.。
"That's why before the beginning of time,。
"he had another plan, a better plan,。
"a plan not to destroy the world, but to rescue it.。
"A plan to one day send his own son, the rescuer."。
I said, "Good night, Presley.。
"Good night, Finley.。
"Daddy loves you."。
I walked out of their room.。
I said, "God, have you forgotten about me?。
"I mean, you know what I gotta do tomorrow, right?"。
And I walked from their room to set something in the kitchen。
and I looked out the window。
and I saw all of my neighbors gathering in the street,。
which is weird.。
Everybody kind of coming out of their houses。
and gathering in the street。
and I set something down in the kitchen.。
I went to the front door and I went outside。
and I went in the street to see what the commotion was.。
Hey guys, what are y'all doing?。
And they pointed and I looked。
and in the sky was this incredible rainbow.。
I mean, a whole rainbow stretching from the east to the west。
and God said, "No, I hadn't forgotten about you, dude.。
"I hadn't forgotten about you, bro."。
And it was more than ironic.。
It was one of those moments in my life.。
In fact, that's what I opened with the next day。
was that story.。
That was the illustration that I needed。
and it's crazy, right?。
This symbol of God's promise that we've forgotten,。
that we've watered down and give other meanings to.。
This incredible rainbow that hangs in the sky。
is God's promise that he will not destroy the world again.。
As we sat in here last week,。
you remember at the end of the message,。
it was pouring down rain.。
I even made mention of that.。
Well, in Fort Worth, this is what they saw。
over the Ridgely Theater.。
There's hundreds of young adults。
gathered in Fort Worth right now.。
But last week, this was a picture。
that one of the folks there had taken。
because it had rained there as well。
and there was this promise from God。
that he will not destroy the world again.。
And isn't it ironic。
that we take this old man with a beard and a staff。
standing outside a giant boat。
and animals gathered two by two。
and we paint murals on nursery walls。
and we say things to kids like,。
"Hey, tonight I've got a story for you.。
"It's about when God regretted making humans。
"and killed everyone."。
(congregation laughing)。
And then we're gonna go to bed, sleep tight, you know?。
It's crazy.。
This story is crazy what it means。
and that it happened.。
And the truth that it teaches us,。
see, Noah had neighbors, he had friends,。
he had people he worked with,。
and they all died.。
And they all faced God's judgment.。
And you and I sit in the same reality.。
We have friends and family。
and people we work with.。
And they're all going to die.。
And they will all face the same judgment.。
And God will judge the world again, not by flood,。
says in 2 Peter, but by fire this time.。
That's a sobering reality.。
And so this story tonight,。
we're talking about Noah and the ark。
and a reminder of God's promises.。
This story has this incredible truth。
that we need to learn from this evening.。
We need to be reminded why God preserved this story。
in Scripture and how important it is for us。
because God's judgment is real.。
So as we travel through this story,。
we're just gonna look at the evidence of Noah's story,。
the significance of Noah's story.。
And before you leave here, the application of Noah's story,。
if you're just joining us this evening,。
we're moving through a series called BC,。
which stands for before Christ.。
We now count 2016 years from the birth。
of a man named Jesus.。
Every atheist you know dates their checks.。
2016 years from his birth, he reset the calendar.。
The Bible is divided into two parts,。
the Old Testament and the New Testament.。
So we are traveling through the Old Testament。
in this series called BC.。
Tonight, we're looking at Noah.。
Last week, we looked at the creation of humanity,。
Adam and Eve, the fall, sin entered the world.。
Adam and Eve had two sons, Cain and Abel.。
Because the world was fractured with sin,。
Cain kills Abel out of jealousy.。
He kills his brother.。
We see the wickedness and sin spread.。
Abel is replaced by a son named Seth.。
The name Seth means in place of.。
And we begin to see the substitutionary atonement。
of Jesus Christ from Genesis 3 on into the story。
that Jesus would die in our place.。
And then from Seth, ultimately came Christ。
by way of a man named Noah.。
A man named Noah.。
I'll read to you from Genesis chapter six.。
The story is told, chapters five through chapters nine.。
Of course, we're gonna skip around some.。
God looks down, he sees evil, and he's going to hit reset.。
The Lord saw how great the wickedness of the human race。
had become on the earth, and that every inclination。
of the thoughts of the human heart。
was only evil all the time.。
The Lord regretted that he had made human beings。
on the earth, and his heart was deeply troubled.。
Maybe the saddest verse in all of the 66 books of the Bible.。
That God looked down and the Hebrews said he repented.。
He wanted to turn away from.。
The reason being 'cause he saw that man had turned。
not only on him, but on each other.。
And that the world was a terrible place to live,。
full of wickedness, hate, murder, and disease, and death.。
So the Lord said, I will wipe from the face of the earth。
the human race I have created, and with them the animals,。
the birds, and the creatures that move along the ground.。
For I regret that I have made them.。
But Noah found favor in the eyes of the Lord.。
Where it says he found favor in the eyes of the Lord,。
it's the Hebrew word hein.。
It's the Hebrew word translated into Greek。
and then English, grace.。
But Noah had God's grace rest upon him.。
This is the account of Noah and his family.。
Noah was a righteous man,。
blameless among the people of his time.。
And he walked faithfully with God.。
Noah had three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.。
Now the earth was corrupt in God's sight。
and was full of violence.。
God saw how corrupt the earth had become,。
for all the people on the earth had corrupted their ways.。
So God said to Noah, I am going to put an end to all people,。
for the earth is filled with violence because of them.。
I am surely going to destroy both them and the earth.。
So make yourself an ark of cypress wood.。
Make rooms in it and coat it with pitch inside and out.。
Then he goes into great detail。
of how specifically to make this ark.。
Verse 18, but I will establish my covenant with you。
and you will enter the ark.。
A covenant is a one-sided promise.。
It's not a I promise if you.。
It's a I will, period.。
It's a till death do us part.。
Sickness and in health, rich or poor,。
no matter what you do to me, I will.。
But I will establish my covenant with you。
and you will enter the ark, you and your sons。
and your wife and your sons' wives with you.。
You are to bring into the ark two of all living creatures,。
male and female, to keep them alive with you.。
Two of every kind of bird, of every kind of animal,。
and of every kind of creature that moves along the ground。
will come to you to be kept alive.。
You are to let every kind of food that is to be eaten。
and store it away as food for you and for them.。
And then it says this beautiful verse in verse 22.。
Noah did everything just as God commanded him.。
Who was this man?。
Someone chosen by God out of grace。
who responded faithfully to that call.。
When we were looking for a name of our son,。
who's now three, Weston one, that's his name,。
but I wanted to name him Noah.。
You see how much clout I have in my family.。
I wanted to name him Noah.。
And the reason I wanted to name him Noah。
is because this guy who stood all by himself in creation。
as everyone mocked him and everyone said, you're a weirdo.。
What are you doing?。
Why are you doing that?。
I said, man, I'm just gonna faithfully follow God.。
And he did so alone.。
You ever felt alone on this walk?。
You ever felt like you're the only Christian at work,。
the only Christian at school,。
the only Christian on your street。
in your apartment complex?。
Noah was the only believer, follower of God on the planet.。
On the planet.。
Very, very alone.。
The story is not about Noah though.。
It's really about God's judgment.。
Noah is a character in it.。
The story is about God's faithfulness.。
And yes, I'm going to tell you that God is loving。
from a story where he destroyed everyone.。
I'm going to show you hopefully from the scriptures。
that this was a loving act from him。
because God did what he said he was going to do.。
But Noah would have been crazy, right?。
This man would have been seen as a lunatic.。
Could you imagine being his sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth?。
You go to school, you get beat up because of your names.。
And then you go home and your dad's building。
this big old ark, you know, a big boat in the front yard.。
This would be the equivalent of your dad。
building a time machine on the front lawn.。
You know, your friends are like,。
hey, what's your dad doing?。
You're like, oh, you know, just building a time machine.。
I don't know.。
God told him to, you know.。
This would be crazy, this man, right?。
Everybody would have thought he was absolutely insane.。
And some people would think that you're insane。
for believing it.。
Was it a local flood, a global flood?。
Did it really, you believe, Miley Cyrus said。
you would be effing crazy to believe that fairy tale?。
Well, no offense, Miley, but I'm gonna go with God over you,。
okay, if that's cool.。
So let's look at the evidence of Noah's story, okay?。
ABC recently, not too long ago, did a special。
revealing new discovery and showing evidence of the flood.。
And they always seem to be surprised.。
They always take this approach like, yeah, well,。
it seems like this part of the Bible could actually be true.。
And I'm like, yeah, well, that's because God wrote it.。
And so it was not a local flood, but a worldwide flood.。
I'm gonna give you some evidence of that.。
In fact, chromosomal research, and this is a lot。
of crazy stuff, heady stuff that I can't go too deep in.。
And so at nine o'clock tonight, I'm gonna tweet out。
several articles.。
If you follow on Twitter, you can grab those.。
You wanna go deeper into this, you can read those articles.。
But it has been recently discovered that in recent history,。
within the past 10,000 years, probably about 3,500 years ago。
there was a bottleneck in humanity, okay?。
So much so that they have now discovered,。
they've traced this back down to three women, okay?。
That three women were able to procreate life。
at some point in recent history about 3,500 years ago.。
How about that, okay?。
Maybe Shem, Ham, and Japheth's wife,。
because we know Noah's wife didn't have any more children。
after the flood.。
All around the world, there's evidence。
of a cataclysmic flood.。
You may have thought that the Grand Canyon was formed。
by the Colorado River slowly cutting into it.。
Some people still believe that, but a theory。
that is gaining credibility is that it was actually。
caused by a cataclysmic flood, not just the Grand Canyon,。
but also Devil's Tower in Wyoming, Monument Valley in Utah,。
and Bryce Canyon in Utah, okay?。
This is one of the leading theories out there right now。
that, hey, these canyons were cut by rapid rushing water.。
Biologists have found oceanic fossils on mountaintops.。
Recently, they have found whales on the tops of mountains,。
nowhere near the ocean.。
How did they get there?。
Let me tell you how they didn't get there.。
Somebody wasn't like, well, my pet whale died.。
Let me haul it up this mountain, right,。
and bury it, pet cemetery up here.。
No, that's not what happened, okay?。
Think worldwide flood.。
Many believe that a worldwide flood gives the Earth。
the appearance of age, that it's actually a young Earth,。
but scientists have said, well, if the Earth was。
at one point covered with water,。
that could skew the results of carbon dating.。
Oh, I said that, biologists have found fossils。
on mountaintops.。
There are over 150 global flood stories。
from ancient civilizations.。
That include a man who was favored,。
who built a vessel to protect him and his family.。
What this means is you go into the jungles of Brazil,。
the jungles of Africa, and you meet。
with Indian civilizations, and they tell you,。
or native civilizations, and they tell you,。
hey, we, you know, our ancestors have told us this story。
over and over and over about a man。
when the Earth flooded and he was protected。
because he built a boat.。
The flood would have changed everything.。
The flood would have changed everything,。
the climate, the atmosphere.。
I personally believe it had never rained prior to the flood.。
I believe the Bible supports that.。
The Bible says that there was this umbrella of water。
in the sky, that when God separated the water in the sky。
and the Earth, that there was this kind of ozone layer。
or this atmosphere that protected us。
from the sun's radiation.。
I believe that's why that you see this fault line。
in the Bible that at one moment,。
they lived like 1,000 years,。
and the next moment after the flood,。
after it had rained for the first time,。
people began to die younger and younger and younger。
and younger and younger.。
All right?。
The atmosphere as we know it changed,。
the climate changed, the umbrella of water changed,。
the waters burst forth from above and below,。
the Scripture says.。
And some people say, "Well, what about dinosaurs?。
"What about dinosaurs?。
"Were they on the Ark?"。
I don't know.。
Maybe, maybe little ones, maybe eggs.。
I don't know, but let me ask you a question.。
Did you know, did you know that reptiles。
grow their entire lives?。
Different than mammals.。
Mammals hit a max height and then plateau or even decline.。
Reptiles, they grow their entire existence.。
This is one of the reasons they shed their skin.。
And so if at this time,。
under this protected umbrella of an ozone layer,。
people and things live up to 1,000 years old,。
how big would an iguana be?。
Did you know the first dinosaur they ever discovered,。
this was what was said about it.。
It looked like a 30-foot long iguana.。
You know what they named it?。
Creatively, Iguanodon.。
Here's a picture of it.。
Artist rendering of the first dinosaur they ever discovered.。
Because if things lived thousands of years,。
then snakes and iguanas and lizards and crocodiles。
would continue to grow for thousands of years.。
They would be huge.。
Where are dinosaurs today?。
Look at your pet iguana.。
(congregation laughing)。
Let's talk about facts about the ark,。
if you're still with me.。
The ark would have been roughly 427 feet long.。
That's about a football field and a half.。
95 feet wide and 75 feet high.。
You might be thinking, JP, that's awesome.。
You know what?。
With all of these details,。
I'm gonna become a billionaire and build one.。
You would not be the first person.。
Lots of people have built arks, okay?。
I'll show you a few.。
There's one.。
There's another one.。
There's another one and another one and yet one more.。
This one specifically is traveling from Norway to Brazil.。
These are made life-size.。
You see that?。
That's a life-size giraffe there on top。
and an elephant as well.。
Somebody spent millions and millions of dollars。
building an ark replica.。
Okay, could it fit all of the animals?。
Miley Cyrus would tell you no.。
There would need to be between 16 and 50,000 animals。
on this ark.。
Between 16,000 and 50,000, that's a big discrepancy.。
Let's go with the extremely high number of 50,000.。
There would have been two of every kind, okay?。
Here's what that word means in the Hebrew。
where it says kind.。
This word is very important.。
What does it mean two of every kind?。
It means two kinds of dogs.。
It doesn't mean two dachshunds and two Dobermans.。
It means two dogs, okay?。
Not a dachshund, two dachshunds and two wolves,。
two dingoes, two coyotes.。
No, just two kinds of dogs, not two species of dogs.。
See, here's the way that you would define kind。
as it's defined here.。
Animals that can procreate, okay?。
A horse and a cow cannot breed and make babies, okay?。
It's never happened.。
But different species of cows can breed and have babies.。
Different kinds of horses can breed and have babies, right?。
Different kinds of dogs, even a dachshund and a wolf。
can have babies, so every kind of dog comes from two.。
This is important to understand this, right?。
And so the average size would have been a,。
ready for it, sheep.。
90% of all the animals in the animal kingdom,。
90% are smaller than a sheep.。
So let's do some math real quick, if you're still with me.。
240 sheep fit on a railroad livestock car.。
That's how we transport them today.。
So it would have taken 208 railroad cars。
to get 50,000 animals across the water, if you will, 208.。
Could 208 railroad cars fit on the ark?。
No, 549 could have.。
It would have only taken 36% of the ark,。
according to the size that it was built in the scripture,。
to hold two of every kind of animal.。
And assuming that Noah worked 52 weeks of year,。
six days a week, taking one off for rest,。
experts calculate that he would need。
81 years to complete the ark.。
He had 120 years and three sons,。
whose only chores were to build a giant boat.。
(congregation laughing)。
And so you may ask, hey, how did the animals get there?。
How did Noah get all the animals on the boat?。
Here's how.。
God brought 'em.。
That's it.。
Like if you wanna scrutinize something in the story,。
all of those other things, I can logically get you there.。
How did all the animals get there?。
God had to supernaturally intervene.。
And if you got an issue with that,。
let me tell you another story about a man who died,。
lived in a grave for three days, and then rose from the dead.。
And when I say lived in the grave,。
I don't mean lived in the grave, I mean dead in the grave。
for three days and then rose from the dead.。
And so if you've got a problem with Noah,。
you've got a problem with Jesus.。
And so how did the animals get to the ark?。
This is simple.。
God brought them to him.。
It's the only way anybody gets to God.。
He grabs them and turns them and moves them to himself.。
That's how you got here, man.。
In the same way that you walked through those doors tonight,。
that's how those animals got on the ark.。
God brought them.。
I pray for you every week。
that he would bring everyone here,。
that he wants to be here.。
So let's talk about the significance of Noah's story.。
The significance of Noah's story.。
God tells Noah to build an ark。
because he is going to destroy the world.。
This is heavy.。
It's not like a nursery mural, okay?。
Forget the animated man with a big smile on his face.。
No, all his friends are about to die.。
It's much more like the painting。
of a man named Gustav Dore called "The Deluge."。
I can't show it to you.。
It's much too graphic.。
Let me just describe it to you.。
The floodwaters come up.。
There's arms and legs flailing in the water。
as people drown.。
And there's a man next to a giant boulder。
who hoist his three-year-old up onto a rock。
as his wife sits up there,。
as vultures who are tired from feasting。
on the flesh of humans circle above.。
And on that rock, as this man chooses,。
do I let my child drown or possibly be devoured?。
On that rock is a giant tiger hovering above.。
That's the flood.。
It ain't no nursery rhyme, man.。
It's heavy.。
It's heavy.。
Gotta feel that.。
And Noah obeys as others mock his obedience,。
as he's grieved at the horrible sounds。
of people screaming outside,。
the disgusting smell of rotted flesh floating all about.。
Noah trusted God when no one else did.。
And in Genesis chapter seven, verse four,。
it says he shuts the door to the ark.。
And do you know what happens?。
His family and all the animals get on the ark.。
He shuts the door.。
Do you know what happens?。
Ready?。
Nothing.。
Nothing.。
For seven days.。
Dude.。
He's on there with his wife.。
Do you remember last week when I said。
her desire will be for her husband's job?。
Can you imagine for a moment,。
he's on that ark, shuts the door,。
and seven day, I mean, sun up, sun goes down,。
nothing happens.。
Noah, honey?。
(congregation laughing)。
Are you sure he didn't say build a park?。
Or buy some art?。
I mean, are you sure, baby,。
that you understood him correctly?。
You ever waited on God?。
You ever did everything you were supposed to do。
and it seemed like he didn't show up?。
And you sat there and you waited.。
But on the seventh day, it began to rain.。
And it rained for 40 days and 40 nights.。
But if I can't swim after four, anyways.。
Waters fell from the sky and it says。
they gushed forward from below.。
And it says Noah walked with God.。
He did everything the Lord commanded him.。
Genesis chapter seven, verse five.。
Noah trusted God.。
He was on the ark for one year.。
And he did what God asked,。
and so God made another promise.。
And it's called the Noahic covenant.。
So God made another covenant with Noah,。
and I'll read it to you.。
It's Genesis chapter nine, verses 11 through 15.。
I established my covenant with you.。
Never again will all life be destroyed。
by the waters of a flood.。
Never again will there be a flood to destroy the earth.。
And God said, this is the sign of the covenant。
I am making between me and you。
and every living creature with you.。
A covenant for all generations to come.。
I have set my rainbow in the clouds。
and it will be the sign of the covenant。
between me and the earth.。
Whenever I bring clouds over the earth。
and the rainbow appears in the clouds,。
I will remember my covenant between me and you。
and all living creatures of every kind.。
Never again will the waters become a flood。
to destroy all life.。
And imagine if God hadn't given us this sign.。
Every single time it would rain, we would be terrified.。
Every time it rained, we would be looking for a boat,。
be looking for some sort of refuge.。
But we have this Noahic covenant which says this,。
be fruitful and increase in number.。
It says that a part of, I'm gonna go through。
the parts of the Noahic covenant.。
Be fruitful and increase in number.。
God gives animals the fear of man,。
which is interesting that that's even in there.。
And it's so true, like think about it.。
I mean, I grew up on a farm, okay?。
I did, I know that's crazy.。
Red pants and a straw hat, I did though.。
And so there I am and I remember one night we were camping。
and I would hear like coyotes in the distance。
and I'd be afraid and my parents would tell me,。
hey, they're more afraid of you than you are them.。
It turns out that's biblical.。
That's absolutely true.。
I remember being in 4-H, walking this 1200 pound steer。
around a ring that was afraid of me.。
A 1200 pound animal afraid of me.。
I was like all but 75 pounds.。
You know, wet and this guy is afraid of me。
because God has given animals the fear of man.。
Animals are provided as food.。
So you can be a vegan on principle but not by religion.。
Okay, 'cause God has given us filet mignon.。
It's a gift from him.。
(congregation laughing)。
Anyone who murders a human will be brought to justice。
because humans are made in God's image.。
And God will not destroy the world by flood again.。
He will never use flood or waters。
as a weapon of mass destruction。
and he gives us this sign known as the rainbow.。
And so God provided a way to save his chosen people。
in a what?。
What did Noah build?。
Who knows what an ark is?。
How would you define an ark。
when you came in here this evening?。
A giant boat?。
An ark is not a boat.。
In fact, if you look up ark in Webster's dictionary,。
the only reason we even define ark as a big boat。
is because of this man Noah.。
You know what an ark is?。
An ark is a protective container.。
A protective container, that's what an ark is.。
Think of the Ark of the Covenant。
if you know your Bible, right?。
Though an ark is a protective container.。
God asked Noah to build a protective container.。
What's the difference between that and a boat?。
An ark has no propulsion, no rudder, no steering wheel.。
It just floats.。
It can't go anywhere.。
It is completely and fully at the mercy of God.。
Do you know the ark didn't have any windows。
except for above?。
The only thing that Noah could see was the sky.。
He had to completely trust that God would at some point。
in these hundred years dry up the water.。
And if Noah looked out and he did see land,。
he'd have no way to get to it.。
It's not like he could turn the ark on and drive over there.。
He just had to wait for that land to come to him.。
There's nothing he could do。
but sit in the protective covering of God.。
He had to trust fully.。
Guys, can I tell you something?。
You know what you want in life?。
A lot of you, you want what I wanted for a long time.。
You want control.。
You wanna sit at the steering wheel。
and you wanna control your life。
but you're not in control of your life.。
You'll never be in control of your life.。
You're like, yes, I am, JP.。
I could leave right now if I want to.。
You can leave until God touched your heart。
and gives you cardiac arrest or brain aneurysm。
or swipes your legs out from under you at his will.。
You're not in control.。
I've seen this play out beautifully with my kids.。
When my daughter Presley was Weston's age,。
when she was about three years old,。
just a little toddler, we would go to the store。
and we would get in those grocery carts.。
Have you seen those grocery carts。
with the car on the front,。
kind of truck on the front and the steering wheel?。
Have you seen this?。
I don't know if you have, if you're not a parent。
but it's a big thing in our house, right?。
'Cause she always wants to get that car.。
Like, daddy, let me sit in the front。
and we'll play this game at the grocery store.。
I'm pushing the cart and she's driving.。
She's sitting in the front of that cart。
at the little steering wheel。
and she'll steer right and I'll take us right。
and she'll steer left and I'll take us left.。
I will make her think that she is driving.。
It was awesome.。
And I would go wherever she'd go.。
Like, she'd crash in the apples.。
I mean, apples are coming down.。
Like, I would just convince her, like, you are in control.。
She'd go right, I'd go right.。
She'd go left, I'd go left.。
And she was just in control.。
And sooner or later, she would steer right and I'd go left.。
And I'd watch her, I'd watch her.。
Just like you and me, she'd grip that wheel。
and she'd struggle.。
I'm turning right, right.。
And I'm like, left.。
Because I had stuff I needed to do.。
I had an agenda, right?。
I couldn't play the game forever.。
And it became this, really, listen to me.。
It became this really powerful metaphor in my life。
that my control is an illusion of God's will.。
Sometimes I steer right and he takes me right.。
Sometimes I steer left and he takes me left.。
But sometimes I steer right and he takes me left.。
And he just says, JP, I've got stuff I gotta do, man.。
And I need you to trust me right now.。
We had fun, you playing that little game,。
thinking you were in control.。
But JP, you're not in control.。
I'm in control.。
You're not God.。
He's God.。
Noah's at the mercy of God on this boat。
with no rudder, no propulsion, no propeller,。
no steering wheel.。
So guys, if you hadn't caught on to this powerful picture。
of what this is, Noah made a way of salvation。
out of a wooden structure.。
And anyone who trusted in this wooden structure。
would be saved as God washed away the sins of the world。
as his wrath came down from heaven, okay?。
His wrath, the very thing that came down from heaven,。
it lifted up the ark, this thing that Noah built in faith。
and this protective covering, and it protected him.。
And likewise, Jesus goes to a cross,。
a protective covering for you, making it for you。
that you would stand against the culture of the world,。
the currents of this culture,。
and you would be protected by this container,。
a covering of the blood of Jesus Christ,。
his provision, making atonement for your sins,。
a substitutionary payment for your sins,。
that that happened through Christ.。
Noah's a type of Christ pointing to Jesus,。
that as God's wrath came down, now on the cross,。
now on his son, that you're protected.。
See, God would deal with sin again.。
He would wash away the sins of the world again.。
But this time, it wouldn't be humans who were crushed.。
It would be one human who was crushed,。
and that human was fully God, a fully man,。
in the form of Jesus Christ.。
And can I tell you something?。
If you've trusted in the cross,。
the cross has no steering wheel.。
The cross has no rudder, the cross has no propeller,。
the cross has no propulsion.。
The cross is carrying you safely into the presence of God。
on its timing, on God's schedule.。
And as you move through this world,。
you cling tightly to the cross.。
It's all you've got.。
You think you've got other things.。
You don't, man, it can be washed away.。
You got the cross.。
100 years from now, it's the cross and nothing else.。
That's what you got.。
And so Noah preserved humanity selflessly, right?。
He wanted to save himself.。
Christ preserved humanity selflessly.。
He crushed himself on your behalf.。
In fact, 2 Peter 3, verse three through seven says this.。
Above all, you must understand that in the last days,。
scoffers will come scoffing。
and following their own evil desires.。
They will say, where is this coming he promised?。
Ever since our ancestors died,。
everything goes on as it has。
since the beginning of creation.。
But they deliberately forget that long ago by God's word,。
the heavens came into being。
and the earth was formed out of water and by water.。
And these same waters,。
also the world of that time was deluged and destroyed.。
By the same word, the present heavens and earth。
are reserved for fire now,。
being kept for the day of judgment。
and destruction of the ungodly.。
Guys, judgment's coming again, man.。
And so my last and final point,。
last thing I wanna talk about。
is the application of Noah's story.。
Application of Noah's story.。
Christian, if you're here, follower of Jesus Christ,。
if you're here, you've identified with Jesus。
through his death and resurrection,。
you stand firm in the scoffing.。
Others are gonna make fun of you.。
They're gonna ask you why you do the things。
you do, why you don't spend the money,。
your money the way they do,。
why you don't go and get drunk the way they do。
or go and have sex the way they do,。
why you don't date the way they do,。
why you don't work the way they do.。
You stand firm in the scoffing, friend.。
Stand firm.。
Stand against evil.。
My friend who passed away in the past couple of years,。
he just talked about what we're in。
and called it the spiral of silence.。
That Christians aren't standing up against what is evil.。
We're just going on about our day, silent.。
Secondly, you faithfully do all that God asks of you.。
Do you hear me?。
Faithfully do everything God asks of you.。
Some of you, you're here and you're like, man, JP,。
if God asked me to go to Africa, I'd be there, man.。
I would go.。
I'd be buying my plane ticket one way even, bro.。
And I'm like, that's awesome, man.。
What if he asked you to a life of celibacy?。
Same excitement.。
What if he called you to purity?。
Are you still obeying?。
What if he called you to a life of sobriety?。
Are you still all in?。
Africa?。
Haiti even?。
Celibacy.。
What if he called you to singleness?。
You okay with that?。
You okay?。
You're like, God, I trust you.。
If that's what you want from me, man,。
I'll serve you as a single man or woman。
the rest of my life.。
You good with that?。
God's people respond to God's commands in obedience.。
We don't get drunk on wine like the Scriptures say.。
We don't lust after things that don't belong to us。
like the Scriptures say.。
We care for the poor around us.。
Okay, we're generous.。
What if he calls you to generosity?。
We don't desire riches.。
Let me say that again, okay, in case you fell asleep.。
We don't desire riches, 1 Timothy 6, verse nine.。
We use words to build up, not to tear down.。
Ephesians 4, verse 29.。
We don't worry, Matthew 6, but instead we trust God.。
And we show others the way.。
You show others the way.。
One time when I was younger, I was touring a church.。
We were taking a tour of a church.。
And they pointed to the roof and they said,。
"Hey, we want you to notice something.。
"The roof was like Noah's Ark."。
And they said, in fact, this, they said,。
"Many roofs are made like Noah's Ark."。
Here's a picture of one.。
I just Googled this one, right?。
"Many roofs of churches are made to look like Noah's Ark."。
They said, "We want to be a refuge。
"from the people of our culture to come into。
"and be saved, that they would trust。
"in the finished work of Jesus Christ and be saved.。
"We want to be salt and light.。
"We want to preserve the ideologies of Christianity,。
"of Jesus Christ, of the one true God."。
And so we call people to him.。
You are like Noah.。
Hey, come and be saved.。
Come here, accept God's grace,。
walk with the Lord in obedience to him,。
and call others to the Lord,。
others to the Lord's provision of grace, right?。
Second Peter chapter two, verse five says。
that Noah was a preacher of righteousness.。
I believe that Noah did this, but no one came.。
But you spend your life, Noah spent his entire life,。
every waking day, walking in obedience to God.。
What if that's your epitaph, man?。
What if that's your tombstone?。
What was she like?。
Well, she was righteous and blameless,。
and she walked with God.。
The end, if that's all anything anybody ever says of you,。
praise be to God.。
That is an amazing epitaph.。
That's an incredible testimony.。
And so friend, if you're here tonight,。
and you haven't responded yet,。
I need to tell you about God's judgment.。
It's coming.。
He's going to judge every deed you've done,。
everything you've thought, and every word you've spoken,。
things you did all by yourself that no one will ever know。
but God knows, unless you trust in Jesus Christ。
as a payment for your sins,。
that Jesus died in your place, a substitute.。
He died the death that you deserve。
so that you can live the life that he deserves,。
being a perfect son of God.。
It is your only chance.。
Get on the ark!。
Get on the ark!。
It's the only shot you have.。
Cling to the cross, it's your only hope.。
You wanna live, it's your only hope.。
It's the only chance you have to live.。
You cling to the cross of Jesus Christ.。
You trust in his death and resurrection。
for the forgiveness of all your sins。
that they've been wiped away,。
that they've been paid for.。
It's your only strategy.。
It's your only chance.。
It's your only hope.。
There was judgment in the flood when the waters came down.。
And the only thing that separated the people,。
you say, "But what about the people that died?"。
The only thing that separated those people from hell。
was more days of unrighteousness.。
God only expedited that for them.。
God only saved them from more violence, more condemnation.。
That's what a righteous, just God did.。
And there was judgment on the cross.。
That God's wrath came down on Jesus,。
that Jesus makes a way for people into heaven,。
and that judgment will come after the scoffers.。
Jesus, when he was on the earth, said this,。
and I'll wrap up.。
Matthew 24, verse 36.。
But about that day or hour, no one knows,。
not even the angels in heaven or the Son,。
but only the Father.。
As it was in the days of Noah,。
so it will be at the coming of the Son of Man.。
For in the days before the flood,。
people were eating and drinking,。
marrying and giving in marriage.。
Up to the day Noah entered the ark,。
and they knew nothing about what would happen。
until the flood came and took them all away.。
And that is how it will be,。
at the coming of the Son of Man.。
He says there'll be a bride and a groom,。
and there'll be, you know,。
for richer or poorer till death do us.。
[shushing]。
Didn't see that coming.。
Well, that's because you didn't listen。
to my friends at the porch.。
When they went to work and they pleaded with you.。
When they begged you to repent.。
When they shared these truths with you,。
you didn't see that coming。
because you didn't listen to them,。
or they didn't share faithfully.。
That's why you didn't see it coming.。
In summary, the evidence supports this happened.。
The significant of Noah's story。
is that it points us to Christ.。
And the application for you and me is to do。
as Noah did, and trust God.。
And I told you that God would be good in this.。
This story in here ends,。
I didn't read the last sentence.。
It says this,。
"God's strong anger against hate and sadness and death。
"would come down once more,。
"but not on his people or his world, no.。
"God's war bow, the rainbow,。
"was not pointing down at his people.。
"It was pointing up into the heart of heaven."。
And I read that and I was like, oh, that's cute.。
Sally Lloyd-Jones kind of finished it with that.。
And then I studied the Hebrew,。
and the word here for rainbow is kasheth.。
It's God's weapon of destruction.。
It is a weapon that they would use in battle.。
And God didn't hang it in the sky like a U.。
He hung it in the sky, pointing up at him,。
saying the next time my wrath will come down on sin,。
it will not be on you, friends, it will be on me.。
That's my plan.。
Since the beginning of time,。
that God's kasheth, his war bow,。
is pointed in heaven.。
When you see that thing, Fort Worth,。
when you saw that last week,。
you remember God's promises, that he loves you,。
and he's never gonna judge the world again by water,。
but judgment is coming, this time by fire.。
Call people to the ark.。
Call people to the cross.。
Let me pray.。
Father in heaven, thank you for the faithfulness of Noah.。
Thank you for the example that you've given us。
and a man who spent every day of his life。
really building this thing。
that you would use to protect and preserve humanity,。
this ancestor of ours, of all of ours, Noah.。
Father, out of the room tonight,。
would you make men and women who are like Noah,。
who would faithfully walk with you, stand against scoffing,。
share the truth that others need to get on the ark。
after having trusted in the cross themselves.。
Would you do that in us?。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
