(soft music)。
- My life before Christ was a pursuit of happiness。
that always left me wanting more.。
Growing up and all throughout high school and college,。
culture defined what I thought and believed.。
Music, TV, and movies all told me。
that happiness can be found in having the perfect beach body,。
dating the guy everyone else wanted,。
having lots of money,。
and living the spring break lifestyle all year round,。
which was easy since I grew up in Florida.。
So I chased those things.。
And in college, I found myself drinking nearly every night,。
working at a club in downtown Orlando,。
and finding identity in what people thought about me,。
especially the guys I would date.。
At times, I felt happy.。
I even convinced myself I was living the dream.。
But as morning broke,。
and the high of this world faded as it always did,。
I wondered why none of it was ever enough.。
During college, I went to Las Vegas on a girls' trip。
and met a guy who the world would consider prince charming.。
It made sense to me that the one thing I was missing。
to make my life feel complete was a husband like him.。
I thought to myself, this is it.。
He is the missing link.。
So two days after graduating college,。
I packed my bags and moved to Seattle where he lived。
in hopes of fulfilling my pursuit of happiness.。
After moving to Seattle,。
I soon realized that I had everything I thought。
would make me happy,。
but it still didn't feel like I was enough.。
I still felt so empty.。
Life became dull and repetitive.。
With nothing this world had to offer。
being able to satisfy me,。
I started getting anxiety and panic attacks。
that were mentally and emotionally paralyzing.。
My heart racing, sweaty palms,。
feeling really lightheaded,。
and a fear of impending doom would rush over me.。
I started attending church in hopes to find relief.。
I went to church as a kid and I knew about Jesus。
and how he had died for my sins.。
I even called myself a Christian,。
but I was not following Christ.。
I was following the world.。
One day at church, I heard a story from the Bible。
about how even demons acknowledge that Jesus is Lord.。
Demons believe in Jesus.。
For weeks, that thought raced through my mind.。
I would think about it often。
and eventually came to the conclusion。
that I was not a believer just because I said I was.。
Through many encounters with God's word and his people,。
I ended up surrendering my life to Christ.。
I turned from my sin and my pursuit of happiness。
and trusted in him.。
During that time, a friend sent me a podcast from the porch。
and as I listened, I realized Christianity。
wasn't just a thing you do on Sundays.。
It's something that informs every decision that you make.。
Through listening to the porch messages,。
I began to learn what it looks like to follow Christ。
and it changed everything about my life,。
my playmates, my playgrounds, even where I lived.。
I applied and was accepted to the Watermark Residency Program。
and am now serving in the very ministry。
that Jesus used to capture my heart.。
Before Christ, I followed what the world said。
would make me happy and was left empty-handed.。
Knowing Christ, I gave up everything I had to follow him。
and found more joy than ever before.。
Now, my identity cannot be shaken。
because it is secure in Christ.。
I no longer have to question who I am.。
I am a daughter of God and an heir to his eternal kingdom.。
My past sin does not defy me。
and my future sin cannot separate me from his love.。
Because of Christ, I am set free。
from my pursuit of happiness。
and I have true joy in the Lord.。
It is finished.。
(congregation applauding)。
(congregation cheering)。
Roll up my sleeves for this one.。
You guys ever been stuck?。
Stuck in life, like you just,。
you feel like you can't go forward,。
like kind of spiritually apathetic,。
continuing to beat your head against the same walls,。
like a dog to his vomit, as the Proverbs say,。
you continue to return to the same sins,。
wanting freedom but can't get it.。
I love Elena's story.。
That when she moved over in that driver's seat。
and God came in and God consumed her life,。
everything changed, it's been real,。
it's been a lot of fun for me to have a front row seat。
for the second part of that story。
that she just shared with you guys.。
Growing up, my family, we would vacation。
in a place at the beach called Port Aransas.。
Anybody ever been to Port Aransas?。
It's kind of beach-ish, it's kind of beach.。
And my dad, we grew up on a farm。
and so my dad had this big extended cab,。
long bed Chevrolet pickup truck。
that he would use to pull a trailer.。
And so it had a, it was a standard, it was a stick shift.。
And we would, the cool thing about Port A。
is you could drive on the beach,。
you could drive in the sand,。
a lot of places you can't do that,。
but we would go there,。
this is where we would vacation as a family。
and you could drive on the beach.。
And so one of my favorite things to do。
was take my dad's truck up and down that beach,。
but there was one problem with that,。
there was just something about maneuvering that standard,。
maneuvering that stick shift,。
that and I just didn't get along.。
And so I would always get stuck on the beach.。
This happened multiple times, not just once or twice,。
many, many times I would get stuck。
in his truck on that beach.。
And so I can remember very vividly。
being me in the driver's seat, my buddy with me,。
and just like, oh no, like you kind of,。
the wheels start spinning.。
And so I would, you know, shift into first。
and throw sand everywhere and then shift into reverse,。
throw sand everywhere and like, just wasn't going anywhere.。
And the more I try to get unstuck,。
eventually I just buried the axle.。
Like we weren't going anywhere.。
And so that, this is like in my shame now, you know,。
probably about an hour later,。
my buddy gets out of the truck。
and he goes to get my dad。
at whatever hotel we're staying at there along the beach.。
And then my, and I can remember this。
would happen every time.。
My dad would come, he'd open the driver's side door,。
he'd say, scoot over.。
Big guy, you know, and then he would just shift into reverse,。
give it some gas, shift into first and just pull out.。
And I was like, how did you do that?。
It was like magic.。
And he would always do it.。
And I just like, I don't understand.。
Like, how did you do that?。
I've just spent the last hour trying to get unstuck。
only to get more stuck.。
And then all of a sudden when he comes in the driver's seat,。
he just pulls right out.。
And I share that with you。
because some of you came in tonight feeling stuck.。
There's really three categories。
of people in the room right now.。
There's this category of folks who are experiencing。
the fullness of life that Jesus Christ comes to offer.。
They're not the naive ones.。
They are the blessed ones.。
They are the ones that figured something out。
that a lot of us haven't figured out yet.。
And then there's some others of us。
that continue to beat our head against the wall。
and we're kind of white knuckling this thing.。
And we're trying to get unstuck。
and we're just burying the actual.。
And we realize it, but we don't know what to do.。
And we're just continuing to try to beat,。
you know, try to get unstuck,。
but we're beating our heads against the same wall.。
And then there's those of you,。
there's another category of folks。
who are doing the wrong things and delighting in it.。
You're like, I don't really care.。
Like, give me a little bit of God on Tuesdays,。
maybe on Sundays, and then let me have my freedom。
with the rest of my life.。
I'm going to do what I want to do.。
And so this evening, I wanna speak。
to all three of those categories。
as the Apostle Paul teaches us from this book of Romans.。
We're in a series now, Romans 8, if you want to turn there.。
We're gonna be looking at verses 5 through 13。
in Romans chapter 8.。
And we've entitled this Romans 8, Walk by the Spirit.。
And last week, David just did a great job。
of talking about what it looks like。
to live a life of independence to the Spirit of God.。
And I want to elaborate on this tonight,。
letting the Spirit of God drive your life.。
Who is in the driver's seat of your life?。
Is it you?。
Is it God?。
Is it your flesh?。
Do you do what you wanna do when you wanna do it?。
Or is it God, the creator of the heavens and the earth?。
Who is in the driver's seat of your life?。
And so we're just gonna talk about tonight。
how one, the flesh and the Spirit are fighting for your mind.。
Two, who wins will determine where you go.。
And three, before you leave here this evening,。
I want to admonish you, exhort you to decide now。
who will drive your life.。
And I think the reason this is so important this evening。
is because you cannot have a full life。
without an understanding of this message.。
You cannot experience the full spiritual life。
that God desires for you if you do not understand。
what this message this evening teaches.。
And so I think we need to reevaluate who is driving.。
Let's go.。
Verse five.。
Those who live according to the flesh.。
Now that word, the flesh, that's just not a term。
that we use often outside of church.。
And so what is that?。
That is your sin nature.。
The flesh, this word right here means。
the part of you that loves to sin.。
This is the part of you that hates authority.。
This is the part of you that hates accountability.。
This is the part of you that wants to hide。
those things that you do on the weekend.。
This is the part of you that does not want to talk。
to your community group about those types of things.。
This is the part of you that loves to sin.。
And this part of you has, your mind has their mindset。
on what the flesh desires.。
It only cares about what it wants.。
But those who live in accordance with the spirit。
have their mindset on what the spirit desires.。
Spirit there is God's spirit.。
It's the Holy Spirit, the Holy Ghost,。
a person of the Trinity.。
The mind governed by the flesh is death.。
But the mind governed by the spirit is life and peace.。
The mind governed by the flesh is hostile to God.。
The mind governed by the flesh hates God.。
The part of you that loves to sin does not like the one。
who has the rules that lead to life.。
The part of you that loves to sin wants to be free from God.。
It's hostile to God.。
It wants to do what it wants to do,。
whatever it wants to do it.。
It does not submit to God's law, nor can it do so.。
Those who are in the realm of the flesh cannot please God.。
When you live according to the flesh, you cannot please God.。
And you say, well, maybe I can do good。
when I live according to the flesh.。
You doing good with the wrong motive is not good, it's bad.。
First Corinthians 13 says, if I do all of these things,。
but I don't do them for the right motive, it's for nothing.。
And so you doing good with the wrong heart,。
you doing good not to please God,。
even you doing good to please man is sin.。
And so my first point this evening is,。
there is a fight for the driver's seat of your mind.。
Paul is writing to us, talking about the mind。
and where it goes.。
And there's this kind of dichotomy going on.。
The flesh wants to drive, but the spirit wants to drive.。
There's a battle over your mind.。
You can picture this.。
And I want you to listen.。
If the enemy can win the mind of a man,。
he can keep him from the pleasures of God.。
Let me say that again.。
If the enemy can win the mind of a man,。
he can keep him from the pleasures of God.。
But if a person's mind belongs to the Lord,。
so does the entire person.。
If God has your mind, then he has your life.。
He has you.。
And so there's these two drivers。
at war with the natural human.。
Two drivers fighting for the will.。
One is the flesh.。
That's the one that desires to kill you,。
to take you off a cliff, to send you to a despair.。
Listen, I don't have to prove this to you.。
Think about people who do whatever they want to do,。
whenever they want to do it.。
They are some of the most dysfunctional people。
you'll ever meet and the least godly.。
Do you hear me?。
I mean, these are the types of people。
reality shows are made out of,。
because we are entertained by how comedic。
and sad their life is.。
People who do whatever they want to do。
are some of the most desperate, despairing people。
you will ever meet and the least godly。
and the most dysfunctional.。
See, the flesh, your flesh right now,。
the sinful nature of you, the sinful part of you,。
the part of you that loves to sin,。
desires to feed itself.。
It is excited at the opportunity to do wrong.。
Let me explain.。
Do you remember, my parents would travel sometimes.。
You know, when I was in high school,。
they would go on vacation together。
and they'd leave me at home by myself, which was crazy,。
but they would leave me at home by myself。
and I can remember just when that door would shut。
with them on the other side of it。
and them driving down the road,。
knowing they were gonna be gone for a weekend。
and just like, it's on.。
I can now do whatever I want to do,。
which is really to say I can feed my flesh party.。
It's on and so maybe that wasn't you,。
but maybe it was when you went to college.。
You get to college, parents drop you off, right?。
You've got all of your belongings in a suitcase。
and a twin size mattress and there you are。
in your dorm room or some apartment。
with your ficus tree and nothing else。
and you're like, oh my goodness, freedom at last.。
Like I can do whatever I want to do.。
That is the excitement of your flesh。
at the opportunity to do wrong.。
Or maybe you've gone to Vegas like Elena。
and you get off that plane and you're like,。
what happens in Vegas stays in Vegas。
and in a moment at your fingertips is money,。
is gambling, is prostitution, is alcohol, is party。
and it's just that like, we're here, baby.。
That's your flesh.。
That's the part of you that desires to kill you.。
Maybe you don't need Vegas.。
Maybe you're just out in Dallas。
or maybe you're out in Fort Worth.。
You're there at Sundance Square or maybe you're in Uptown。
and you're thinking, okay man, Friday night it's on。
or maybe it's Monday and all you can think about is Friday.。
That's the part of your flesh that desires to kill you.。
It's a little bit unsettling。
if you think about it for too long.。
Or maybe you travel for work。
and you get off that plane in some other city。
and you're like, no one really even knows。
where I am right now.。
I can do whatever I wanna do and you call it freedom.。
But what Paul is saying is, no,。
it's not just freedom from the rules.。
It's freedom from integrity.。
And what it really is, it's freedom to forget about God.。
And if you keep pursuing the freedom to forget about God,。
you're not gonna remember God any longer。
until you meet him in the afterlife.。
This is the hostility toward God that our flesh pursues.。
But the spirit, God's Holy Spirit,。
verse six, gives life and peace.。
See, allowing the spirit to drive is not optional。
for this full spiritual life.。
It is absolutely mandatory.。
Without the spirit driving, your spiritual life is dying.。
It's like trying to go on a road trip。
with an empty tank of gas.。
Like you may be able to run on fumes for just a few miles,。
but pretty soon you're gonna be dead。
on the side of the road.。
This is what it's like trying to pursue God。
without allowing the spirit, God's Holy Spirit,。
to drive your life.。
And so God, he's not trying to keep something from you.。
God's not trying to rip you off.。
God wants to set you free.。
God's not trying to keep that guy from you in Seattle.。
He's not trying to keep that job from you.。
He's not trying to keep you from going out。
with all of those friends.。
He's trying to show you a path of freedom.。
He doesn't want you to die.。
He doesn't want your flesh to take you off a cliff.。
See, some of you, you're here tonight,。
you've got one foot in the church。
and one foot in the world,。
and you've got the worst of both worlds.。
Like you're going like this.。
Your life's a train wreck.。
You're swerving all over the road.。
You're like, "Oh, give me a little bit of church。
"and a little bit of the party."。
And it hasn't worked out for anyone。
in the history of history.。
I've tried it, believe me.。
I've talked to a lot of you who've tried it.。
I've never talked to the person like,。
"No, man, I got one foot in the church,。
"one foot in the world.。
"It's working like a champ, man.。
"It's working great, it's going great for me."。
No, it never works.。
You're swerving all over the road.。
You look in the rear view mirror。
and there's just a pileup of cars,。
and the only bad driver on the road is you.。
'Cause there's a fight for the steering wheel.。
See, letting your flesh drive is not just a bad idea,。
it's suicidal.。
It's suicidal to your spiritual life.。
It's suicidal to everything that God desires for you.。
The other night, I've got a three-year-old at home right now,。
Weston, my son, and he was sick.。
So he was just crying hysterically all night,。
really out of character for him.。
He's a pretty happy dude, but this particular night,。
he's just screaming his head off,。
like that hyperventilating crying.。
So we eventually go up there.。
I don't think he's going back to sleep, babe.。
And so I go up there and I pull him out,。
and I'm like, "Buddy, it's gonna be okay."。
He will not calm down.。
And I'm like, I'm desperate 'cause I'm tired.。
I'm like, I don't even, I just feel completely out of it.。
I'm holding him, I'm like, "Buddy, you just need to stop."。
And he won't stop.。
And so, and don't judge me for this, okay?。
It was like parenting low moment, but I go to bribery.。
I'm like, "Hey, buddy, I will buy you a remote-control car。
"if you stop."。
And the truth is I wanted a remote-control car,。
and this was just like an excuse to get it,。
but I'm like, okay.。
And it worked, like clockwork, again, don't judge me,。
but it worked.。
I mean, he stopped.。
He's like, "What color?"。
(congregation laughing)。
I'm like, "All right."。
He's like, "I want a red and gray one, Daddy."。
I'm like, "Okay."。
And so he goes back to sleep,。
sleeps all through the night.。
I wake up the next day, I'm like, I tell Monica,。
I'm like, "Hey, I gotta buy Weston a remote-control car."。
She's like, "Like the one you wanted?"。
I'm like, "Exactly, the one I..."。
And so I go to the hobby shop.。
I'm like, "Okay, you know, I'm new to the game."。
He's like, "Well, what are you looking for?"。
I'm like, "Red and gray."。
And so they have one red and gray when I leave with it.。
And so we go home and I'm driving.。
I mean, he's just ecstatic, you know?。
And so we're driving it, and I mean,。
these things have evolved.。
Like, I don't know when the last time you played。
with a remote-control car is, but the game has changed, man.。
I mean, it goes 30 miles an hour。
and just does all this crazy stuff.。
I'm like, "This is awesome."。
And so I'm driving, and the whole time he's like,。
"Daddy, let me drive, Daddy, let me drive,。
"Daddy, let me drive, Daddy."。
I'm like, "What do you think, it's yours?"。
You know?。
And so anyways, and so he just keeps saying that.。
And so eventually, you know, I get weak。
and I hand him the remote-control car.。
When he takes it, it takes about three seconds。
for him to hammer the gas and drive it 30 miles an hour。
directly into the curb.。
You know, cars in pieces, okay?。
And so I go and I get it,。
and I kind of piece it back together,。
and I make it drivable again.。
And then I'm driving it, and I'm, you know,。
showing him everything that it can do.。
And he's like, "Let me drive, let me drive,。
"let me drive, let me drive, let me drive."。
And so I'm like, "Okay, but listen,。
"you can't take it straight to the curb."。
And he's like, "Okay, I won't, Daddy, I won't."。
I give it back to him.。
He hammers the gas, boom, straight into the curb,。
cars in pieces again.。
I go, I put the car back together, I'm driving it.。
He's just, "Let me drive, let me drive,。
"let me drive, let me drive."。
We do this about four or five times。
until it's broken, like, to the point。
that it can't be repaired by me anyways.。
I've gotta take it back to the hobby shop。
and say, "Hey, can you guys fix this?"。
No, he's a three-year-old, I know.。
And so what's funny about that。
is, like, he never came to the conclusion, like,。
"I'm not good at this."。
(congregation laughing)。
Like, even though he was really bad at it,。
he was like, "Let me drive, let me drive,。
"let me drive, let me drive."。
That's your flesh.。
Your flesh doesn't care if it's running into walls。
at 30 miles an hour.。
It just wants the steering wheel.。
It doesn't care if your life's a train wreck.。
It doesn't care if you're sad, if you're desperate,。
if you're despairing, if you're depressed.。
It doesn't care if you're drunk or hungover.。
It doesn't care how you feel.。
It just wants the steering wheel.。
And it continues to do the same thing。
over and over and over.。
And so you're like, "Maybe this time we will get married."。
No, you probably won't.。
It's probably gonna end in flames。
'cause you're not letting the Spirit drive.。
"This time I won't feel so bad."。
Yes, you will.。
Because you have the Holy Spirit。
and you grieve the Spirit when you sin.。
I've heard it said, "When you become a Christian,。
"you're not sinless, you just sin less and you feel worse."。
When you become a Christian, you're not sinless,。
you just sin less and you feel worse.。
So Paul writes, verse nine, "You, however, you,"。
there's this like new category, like, okay,。
there's the one who lives by the flesh。
and runs cars into walls at 30 miles an hour。
and their life's in flames, but you're different.。
You're different.。
You're not in the realm of the flesh,。
but you're in the realm of the Spirit, the Spirit of God.。
You live for eternal things.。
You don't live for the merely stupid,。
temporary, natural things,。
the things of this world that won't be here.。
You live in the realm of the Spirit,。
if indeed the Spirit of God lives in you.。
And if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ,。
then they don't belong to Christ.。
But if Christ is in you,。
then even though your body is subject to death。
because of sin, the Spirit gives life。
because of righteousness.。
Whose righteousness?。
Your righteousness?。
Now, this is the gospel right here.。
This is what we just celebrated at Easter,。
that he gets the death that you deserve。
and you get the life that he deserves.。
His righteousness is imputed to you,。
accredited to your account,。
that God sees you as righteous。
because his Son died in your place.。
And if the Spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead。
is living in you,。
he who raised Christ from the dead,。
okay, I'm just reading this,。
but just in case, like you tuned out,。
tuned out, like lean in.。
He who raised Christ from the dead。
will also give life to your mortal bodies。
because of his Spirit who lives in you.。
Grasp now with me this profound reality。
that the same Spirit who brought Christ,。
who was dead, bloody, okay,。
puncture wound in his side,。
he bled out, he's been whipped to death,。
he hung crucified on a cross,。
he's now wrapped in all these burial clothes。
and put in a cave with a big stone in front of it.。
And then all of a sudden,。
this Spirit that's so powerful。
that it's like, (whooshing)。
and he's back.。
That Spirit lives in you.。
(congregation laughing)。
Just me?。
I'm like, serious?。
That Spirit lives in you.。
See, when the non-believer sins,。
that's just their job description.。
That's what verse nine and 10 are saying.。
They're just doing what they're supposed to do.。
But when a believer lives in sin,。
that's confusing because the Spirit of God。
does not live in sin.。
So my second point this evening is。
your driver determines your destination.。
Whosoever at the steering wheel,。
that determines where you go.。
You don't have to go the way of death.。
See, if you're a Christian,。
you have a ready, willing, and able driver in Christ.。
Jesus Christ, his Spirit lives with you.。
But if you have no desire to do the things of God,。
if you have no desire to go where God is leading,。
then you are most likely not a Christian.。
Like, if there's no desire in you to satisfy God,。
to go his way, to go where he's leading,。
to let him drive, then you are most likely。
do not have the Holy Spirit in you.。
You are not a Christian.。
But if when you sin, you're grieved, you're saddened,。
you want to jump back on the path of righteousness,。
you want to pursue God, you've believed upon the gospel,。
that's a different story.。
Your driver determines your destination.。
A part of being gone these five weeks,。
Monica and I had the incredible opportunity to go to Israel.。
And so we did this tour in Israel,。
which was, I mean, just amazing, trip of a lifetime, truly.。
And we had this incredible driver,。
we're on this tour bus, you know, with friends,。
and the first thing that he would do。
when we'd get on the bus is he would punch。
in the destination in the GPS.。
That's what a good driver does.。
The driver starts with the destination in mind.。
He's like, okay, where do you guys want to go?。
Let me make sure that I take you there.。
Even if he knows the destination, he's putting it in,。
saying, hey, what are the right traffic routes to take?。
What are the rights to, how do I make sure。
that I get there in the right amount of time?。
You begin to punch in that destination.。
Well, the mind kind of works this way,。
kind of like a GPS system, right?。
When you've continued to go to the bars of Uptown,。
the bars of Sunday Square, the bars in Houston,。
wherever you're at, if you're listening somewhere else,。
when you continue to live the lifestyle of the world,。
the lifestyle that cannot please God, right,。
you're punching in those addresses,。
and what does a GPS system do?。
It begins to auto-populate.。
It's like, oh, you want me to go there?。
Oh, I know that place, like, let's go.。
Like, you put in the first two numbers of the address,。
it's like, oh, you want to go home?。
I know home.。
First two numbers of the address, it's like,。
oh, you want to go to work?。
I know work, I know that way.。
I'm ready to take you there.。
Put in the first two numbers of the strip club,。
like, oh, yeah, we've been there, let's go.。
Bar, let's go.。
Party, let's go, right?。
But what happens when you stop going to those places?。
It forgets those addresses.。
The spiritual life, you begin to put in new addresses.。
Elena said, I changed my Playmates in my playground,。
even where I live, she said.。
I begin to punch in new addresses,。
and the old addresses fell out,。
and the new addresses begin to populate the GPS,。
and that's where I wanted to go.。
Oh, you want to go to church?。
I know church, let's go to church.。
You want a fellowship with those friends?。
Okay, I know those friends, let's go with those friends.。
You want community?。
Let's go, let's go, let's go, I'm ready.。
And all of a sudden, you have a new life.。
Why, because you changed drivers.。
Now the Spirit's driving,。
it's taking you to different places, different destinations.。
The flesh desires to kill you.。
That's a weird statement, like, how is the flesh,。
I just keep saying, if you pursue the flesh,。
if you let the flesh drive, you're going to die.。
Why is this?。
Because everything the flesh wants。
hurts your relationship with God, which gives life.。
And so what is this death that comes from feeding the flesh?。
It's anxiety, it's exhaustion, anybody tired,。
it's hangovers, it's pregnancy scares, it's heartbreak.。
Oh, I can't go on, I feel like I can't go on.。
Like my whole life was wrapped up in Him,。
I just feel like I can't move on.。
It's guilt, it's shame, I feel bad,。
it's depression, it's despair.。
And maybe worse than all of those things is apathy.。
It's a life without meaning.。
You know what, I haven't done anything with my life。
that has eternal implications.。
No, I mean, I'm the king of the city.。
But in eternity, my life won't matter。
because I've lived my life for me.。
And I'm kind of like those dysfunctional people。
that he talked about.。
That's some of us, not all of us, but that's some of us.。
Some of us need to hear that.。
But we have a God, you have a driver that you can trust。
who's leading you to life.。
This is the good news, right?。
You have a driver that is ready, willing, and able in Christ。
and he's leading you to life.。
Some of you, if we've hung out together for a while,。
you know that I had a terrifying fear of flying,。
like a debilitating fear of flying.。
And that was really unfortunate。
because I had a job that required me to fly.。
And every time I'd get on that plane,。
you know, it was like my palms were sweaty, knees weak,。
arms were heavy, vomit on my sweater.。
No, and so every time I'd get on that plane,。
it was just like anxiety overwhelmed me, you know,。
and I'm sitting there.。
And until the moment, there was this really defining moment。
that changed everything.。
And it was a conversation with a pilot.。
And I was just like, man, when we hit turbulence,。
it feels like the wings are gonna fall off.。
He's like, the wings are gonna fall.。
I'm like, are you guys scared?。
He's like, turbulence?。
He's like, man, we're having fun.。
You know, most of us, like the airlines,。
they hire like ex-fighter pilots.。
Like, have you noticed the guys?。
Like, they're old guys.。
They're coming out of the army.。
They've been dog fighting and flying planes at like,。
who knows how faster than the, you know, sound barrier。
and breaking the sound barrier and all this.。
And he's like telling me this.。
He's like, when we hit turbulence,。
like that's the only part that we actually enjoy。
because like, we're like sleeping at the wheel.。
I'm like, well, that doesn't make me feel better.。
But he's like, man, we're up there like flying,。
you know, from this town, this city to this city.。
Like, that's boring.。
Like the turbulence, that's kind of fun.。
You know, I'm like, you're having fun.。
He's like, we're having fun.。
He's like, you think that plane's gonna fall out of the sky。
'cause of some bumps?。
And I was like, no, I wouldn't think that, you know.。
(congregation laughing)。
And it was just like that conversation.。
And so what happened is I began to look at the pilots.。
And I'm like, man, they had some gray hair.。
They had these like official shirts。
with these stripes on their sleeves.。
And I'm like, dude, these guys are pros.。
Like, they're really experienced.。
The God that you can trust is experienced.。
Like, you think that you're gonna bump up。
against something that he hasn't dealt with。
countless number of times?。
Like he's thrown for a loop?。
Like, you're like, God, I don't know what,。
I just got laid off and I know you don't know what to do.。
He's like, dude, you know how many people。
got laid off today and I'm taking care of them?。
Look at the birds of the air.。
It's like, God, he broke my heart.。
I know this has really thrown you for a loop.。
He's like, come on, man, I got you.。
I love you, I got a plan for you.。
You think I haven't been here a billion times?。
Do you trust me?。
Hand me the keys.。
Hand me the keys, let me drive, stop driving.。
God's spirit has a perfect track record, right?。
He can bring the dead, what's the worst。
that can happen to me?。
I can die?。
He's like, dude, I got that, I've been there.。
You know, see, also Easter, right?。
A life of trusting God's spirit,。
this comes straight from Galatians 5, 22 through 23,。
if you wanna write that down.。
A life of trusting God's spirit is a life。
full of love, joy, peace, patience,。
kindness, goodness, gentleness,。
faithfulness, and self-control.。
That's what God's spirit gives.。
That's where he leads.。
That's where he's driving you to.。
That's the one that you can trust.。
And so Paul is teaching us this incredibly valuable lesson。
that is simply this, your thoughts take you places.。
What you think about is taking you somewhere.。
And it's different destinations.。
Destinations in this world, right?。
You have never, ever found yourself in sin。
without first thinking about it.。
No one in the history of existence has sinned, right,。
without thinking about it,。
have some thought start in their mind。
and it carries them there.。
James says this in chapter one, verse 14,。
that it begins, every sin begins with our own desire,。
a desire within us that takes us there.。
And so different destinations in this world,。
but also different destinations in the afterlife.。
Here's what I mean by that.。
Your thoughts point to ultimately who you've trusted in,。
whether that's yourself or Christ,。
his death and resurrection for the forgiveness of your sins.。
And so you might say, well, I can't control my thoughts, JP.。
I can't stop sinning.。
I'm a Christian and I can't stop committing the same sin.。
And I'm just like, what?。
You're telling me that the spirit who gave life to Christ,。
the one who busted open the tomb, who defeated death,。
that same spirit can't help you stop looking at porn?。
What is he broken?。
He's not working for you?。
That same spirit can't help you stop obsessing。
about a relationship?。
Like he can bring Jesus back to life,。
but he's just stumped at the fact。
that you're obsessed with your body.。
Oh man, it's the spirit who brought Christ to life。
that lives with you.。
Have you tried surrendering to him?。
God, I can't, but you can.。
God, I've tried everything.。
Covenant Eyes, XXX Church, accountability, community.。
I've tried community membership.。
I've tried membership.。
I've tried everything.。
Cool, have you tried trusting me?。
Have you tried surrendering?。
Sometimes, just to say this,。
kind of doesn't even address here,。
but I met with some of you recently。
who are like obsessed with conjuring up the spirit of God。
for the gifts of the spirit.。
You know, I'm speaking tongues.。
I'm like, cool, but man, you know that,。
like you're stuck in pornography,。
and that doesn't honor God.。
And so, man, maybe you could switch out tongues。
for putting to death the deeds of the flesh.。
Like we get so excited about conjuring up。
the gifts of the spirit.。
He's like, hey man, how about long obedience。
in the same direction?。
How about trusting me for a change?。
How about handing me the keys to your life。
and letting me drive?。
How about submitting to authority?。
How about coming into a church and belonging。
like I clearly asked you to in my word?。
How about trusting my spirit in that way。
and stop treating me like a genie or a party trick?。
Verse 12.。
Therefore, brothers and sisters, we have an obligation.。
We have an obligation, but this obligation,。
it's not to the flesh to live according to the flesh.。
That's not what we're obligated to do.。
For if you live according to the flesh, you will die.。
But if by the spirit you put to death。
the misdeeds of the body, you will live.。
Jesus says you will have life and have it to the foolish.。
You will have life and have it abundantly.。
Following God is not a cop-out.。
It's where the real party is.。
And I'm not naive.。
Like just in case we don't know each other,。
like I partied.。
Like I probably partied as hard as any one of you。
in this room right now, okay?。
And so I'm not crazy.。
I'm not brainwashed by the church.。
I'm telling you life is found in Jesus。
and Jesus alone, nowhere else.。
That's what Elena told you too.。
Like she's not up here.。
We didn't brainwash her.。
We didn't have her drink some Kool-Aid or something.。
Like she's just like, hey, I found something good.。
I wanna tell you guys about it.。
And so my third and final point is designate a driver.。
Designate a driver, your flesh or God's spirit.。
You choose.。
Tonight, you get to say, hey, who's gonna drive。
the rest of my life?。
Designate a driver because you are obligated to your driver.。
And if you're choosing the spirit,。
you're obligated then to put to death。
the deeds of the flesh.。
So you have the help of the same spirit。
who raised Christ from the dead.。
Now listen, your flesh is gonna wanna continue to drive.。
It's just like Weston, crazy in a good way.。
No, but the flesh isn't.。
I was just saying my son, I felt bad for calling him crazy.。
So my son's not crazy.。
Your flesh is crazy.。
Now we're clear.。
Your flesh wants to kill you.。
It wants the steering wheel,。
but it wants to drive you off a cliff。
if that has not been crystal clear.。
I hope that you leave with that.。
And so you must make it a practice。
to surrender your thoughts to the spirit,。
not to dwell on what the flesh desires,。
not to watch movies that feed your flesh,。
not to watch shows that feed your flesh,。
not to listen to music that feeds your flesh.。
I know that sounds legalistic and kind of,。
man, you just kind of went where the church I grew up in.。
I'm not trying to, I'm just telling you,。
there is some truth to that.。
You are feeding your mind and it's feeding your desires.。
And you listen to a song and it's all of a sudden,。
it's like, man, I want everything that song said.。
You watch a show and it's like,。
man, I want everything that show just showed.。
I want 24 guys chasing me, right?。
It's like, what?。
It's crazy.。
But as you walk by the spirit,。
as you walk by the spirit,。
you're closer to heaven with every step.。
That's a beautiful reality.。
As you walk by the spirit,。
he is leading you to a destination,。
which is eternity with God,。
and you're closer to it with every step.。
The other day, a couple of weeks ago,。
we went to Six Flags, took the kids to Six Flags.。
They had never been and it's a big deal.。
They're excited.。
And as we got close to Six Flags,。
if you've been there, you know, like from far off,。
you can see the tops of the roller coaster.。
And it's so interesting.。
The second they saw the tops of the roller coaster,。
all of the joy and all of the excitement。
of being in the amusement park was now in the car.。
It's like, we see it.。
We're gonna get to ride that.。
We're going.。
And with every turn,。
we were closer to those roller coasters.。
They became bigger and more real and closer to us.。
With every rotation of the tire,。
we were closer to our destination.。
And the excitement of the destination filled the car。
until like one moment,。
we're at the kind of toll booth where you pay to park.。
And the next moment we're in the park.。
It was just a natural progression.。
When you walk the spiritual life by the spirit,。
when you die and you pass from this world to eternity。
in the presence of God, also known as heaven,。
it's just the next natural progression.。
You've been looking at it with every step。
and the excitement and anticipation of eternity with God。
at glorification is filling your life.。
And the joy that comes from that is now in your world.。
And every step you take with the spirit。
in the driver's seat is taking you there.。
And the excitement builds as you move closer。
to eternity with God.。
So much so that when your heart stops beating,。
it's just the next natural step to eternity life with God,。
to eternity with God, to eternal life with God.。
It's just the next thing.。
It's just where the spirit has been taking you。
since you were 21, since you were 32,。
since you were 40, 56, 77, 83,。
hello Jesus.。
It's just where you are.。
That's allowing the spirit to drive.。
And so we're experiencing more and more of him。
where real life is found.。
And the flesh simply desires to take you off course.。
And so what's the application, real quick?。
The application is simply letting the spirit drive.。
And you say, well, how do I do that?。
It's verse five, live in accordance with the spirit.。
It's filling your mind with God's instruction.。
Here's a thing, it's meditation.。
And you say, well, meditation, really?。
See, I think we've been confused on what meditation is.。
Eastern meditation is emptying your mind.。
It's not thinking about anything.。
Biblical meditation is filling your mind。
with the things of God, the truths of God,。
learning the scriptures of God,。
yielding to the spirit of God.。
Biblical meditation is not at all emptying your mind。
but filling it so that when you fill your mind。
with the things of God,。
you filled your life with the things of God.。
You are the things of God.。
And it begins with you filling your mind。
with the things of God.。
This is what it looks like to let the spirit drive.。
And so in summary, there's a fight。
for the driver's seat of your mind。
between the flesh and the spirit.。
And your driver determines your destination。
both in this world and the world to come.。
And so tonight, I'm admonishing you,。
I'm exhorting you to designate a driver,。
your flesh or God's spirit.。
I wanna end in a way that it's really。
how I wanted to start.。
I didn't wanna distract you.。
But the other day I was on Twitter。
and a friend of mine had,。
I was reading a tweet from a friend。
and it had a hashtag and it was a curious hashtag.。
It wasn't an immoral hashtag in any way.。
It was just a curious hashtag。
and my flesh began to wonder。
what's on the other side of that hashtag。
and so I clicked on it.。
I scrolled with my, on my phone,。
my iPhone, I scrolled down。
and I felt that kind of excitement。
wondering if I was gonna see something,。
maybe a girl in a bathing suit,。
something like that and I didn't.。
But I saw another hashtag。
and my flesh wondered what's behind this hashtag,。
maybe something more promising。
and so I clicked on it and I scrolled。
and I saw nudity.。
I saw a topless woman。
and I kind of woke up, if you will,。
I kind of came to, I was like startled。
and I knew it wasn't like I had done that accidentally.。
I knew that there was a huge part of me。
that was seeking that out and I was so grieved。
because it's been years since I had pursued pornography。
and there I was in that moment,。
I found myself back in that place.。
How did I get here?。
And the shame and the guilt。
and everything came back in that moment.。
And by the grace of God, I put my phone down,。
I go to my computer, I didn't act out on it。
any further than that but I go and I email my guys。
and I say, hey, I want you to know what I just did.。
I sought this out。
and I walked them through the same process。
that I just walked you through.。
I clicked here, I didn't see something,。
I went further in and I found something.。
I said, will you pray for me。
that I would forget it, that I'd be free?。
Monica got home, my wife got home。
and said, baby, sit down, I need to talk to you.。
She said, what's wrong?。
I said, I want you to know what I just did.。
I told her.。
All the while, my flesh is like, you can't tell her.。
Like, she's gonna, you can't do that.。
I put to death the teeth of the flesh.。
Monica, this is what I did, will you please forgive me?。
And then shortly thereafter, I was with a group of pastors.。
We were meeting to pray and to dream about the church.。
I said, guys, before we go further, we were at a meal.。
I said, I want you to know what I've done.。
I told them.。
I want to tell you.。
I don't want to be a hypocrite over here,。
like, hey, don't give in to the ways of the flesh.。
I gave in to the ways of the flesh.。
Would you guys please forgive me?。
As your pastor, I don't want to be a fraud.。
I don't want to preach one thing and do another.。
Would you please forgive me?。
Would you please forgive me?。
I'm asking.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
I want you to know how I got there.。
It wasn't a long strategic plan.。
It wasn't something premeditated the day before.。
It was in a moment my flesh opened the driver's side door。
and said, hey, scoot over.。
Let me drive for a few minutes, a few seconds.。
Let me drive.。
I found myself off a cliff.。
Not trying to avoid being culpable, it was me.。
It was the part of me that loves to sin.。
It was the part of me that grieved the Spirit.。
It was this part of me that wanted the steering wheel.。
It was the part of me that can't honor God.。
It was the part of me that Christ died for.。
It was the part of me that has found freedom in Him.。
And so,。
tonight, with you, I designate the Holy Spirit。
as driver of my life.。
And I want you to do the same.。
And I want you to meet a friend of mine。
who also has done that.。
- My name's Phillip Ward,。
and my life before Christ was a lie.。
I grew up in a Christian home, went to church on Sundays,。
but I thought Jesus was just a complete fairy tale.。
And so, because I thought Jesus was a fairy tale,。
I lived my life like there were no consequences.。
I started DJing when I was in eighth grade,。
and I had dreams of just becoming the next big music mogul.。
I wanted to be just like Diddy.。
That was my goal.。
And so, I was introduced into the music industry。
after college.。
A friend that I was managing, an artist,。
signed a record deal,。
and the song went big on the Billboard charts.。
And so, we were everywhere.。
We were touring across the country.。
So, sex, alcohol, and drugs,。
they were all readily available at my fingertips。
whenever I wanted.。
And I did not deny myself.。
I lived it, and I was there.。
The clubs, the lights, the fast money,。
the fame, the vainglory,。
I drank from that cup deeply,。
but still I thirsted for more.。
For years, I chased for more.。
Why?。
Because I knew.。
I knew it deep down, it would never be enough.。
Never enough money, never enough fame,。
never enough sex, never enough drugs.。
It's never enough.。
And in 2013, I got brought to this place, to the porch.。
And I was the guy who would come to church。
just to take a picture for social media,。
to share so people would think that I was a good guy.。
And so, I wasn't.。
But I kept coming back because never in my life。
had I heard someone passionately speak。
about how broken they were before Christ。
and drive home the point。
that there was no life outside of Christ.。
I thought, this guy, JP, he's been where I've been.。
He really believes this.。
He really believes this Jesus thing.。
And so, one Tuesday night broke me.。
I was sitting about right there.。
And JP from the stage, he screamed out,。
"You're not a Christian, you're not a Christian,。
"you're not a Christian."。
And I sank into my seat.。
And that was the first time I realized I'm not a Christian.。
And so, I began a mission to get to the truth.。
Did Jesus really die for my sins?。
Did he even exist?。
And did he rise?。
And what I found, yes, he did.。
And I gave up everything.。
I completely left the world I was living in。
because what else can you do。
when you meet a guy who can defeat death but follow him?。
And so, now, my life with Christ。
has been a radical transformation.。
Saturday actually marked two years。
since I've trusted in Christ.。
And I finally found the one thing that is enough, Jesus.。
Because of the cross, I've been set free。
from chasing after sex, alcohol, drugs, fame.。
My mission now is to make him famous for who he is。
and what he's done.。
Let's pray.。
God, thank you for being the good driver in our lives.。
Lord, I pray for the souls in here who don't know who he is.。
I pray that tonight someone will realize。
that they are not a Christian and they will come forward。
and trust in the one and only hope that we have, Jesus.。
Lord, I pray for all my friends。
who have the spirit and joy in them,。
that they would run after you.。
That we would put to death the deeds of the flesh,。
that we would trust in you more.。
Lord, I pray that you would continue to work in hearts。
and broken men and women to change lives。
and to tell stories of grace.。
Would you continue to work through us?。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
The Holy Spirit, I don't wanna belittle。
the Holy Spirit at all with this metaphor,。
but I was thinking about it as we were singing.。
And he's like a driver.。
I mean, that's been the metaphor throughout this evening.。
And when I was thinking about drivers,。
like professional drivers,。
they love people who can't drive.。
Like their whole job security depends on it, right?。
And so if you're here and you look at your life。
and you're like, man, you don't understand.。
Like I'm a terrible driver.。
I mean, I've done things。
that I can't even get out of my mouth.。
I can't even say the words.。
Like God delights in forgiving you.。
Like it brings him great joy to restore you,。
to take an incredible sinner。
and make him or her an amazing saint for eternity.。
And it's his work, not yours.。
You don't need to leave here with any guilt,。
with any shame.。
In a moment, all your sins can be forgiven.。
Forgiven by trusting in what Christ has done on the cross,。
his finished work.。
Like my friend said so eloquently tonight,。
it is finished, paid for, done.。
That's what we just celebrated.。
And so I would clap if I were you.。
(congregation applauding)。
Philip said a lot of JP.。
JP's a fool.。
JP will chase some hashtags, man.。
I just know a great God.。
And I want you to know a great God。
who will set you free,。
who will course correct your life in a moment.。
Talked a lot about the Holy Spirit tonight.。
The Holy Spirit speaks to you in three ways.。
The most sure, most confident way, his word.。
The written word of God.。
His people in prayer.。
That quiet voice within you.。
But all three of those ways he speaks to us,。
the word says.。
And so if you're not surrounded by his people,。
you have hushed the Holy Spirit.。
You have quieted God in your life.。
You've asked him to be silent in this avenue.。
And so every Tuesday we give you a way to do that。
in open community groups.。
And so if you wanna hear more about what it looks like。
to belong to a community group,。
guys, you can walk down this hallway。
and there's a room full of men。
who would love to talk with you about that.。
Ladies, you walk down this hallway。
and there's a room out there full of women。
who would love to talk with you about that.。
It's a joy to travel with you through Romans 8.。
Go in peace to love and serve the Lord.。
