Here lies the old me.。
The kid my parents wanted me to be.。
All the ways the world hurt me.。
Goodbye to my fears and anxieties.。
The reason why my ex left me.。
Rest in peace to the old me.。
[Music]。
All right, welcome everybody in the room, everyone up front.。
All the Forge Live locations, Indianapolis, North Houston,。
Tulsa, Scottsdale, Cedar Rapids, Boise, wherever you are at, welcome.。
We are wrapping up this series, RIP, rest in peace to the old me.。
Where we have been looking at what it looks like for Christians,。
those of us who have put our faith in Jesus, to live out the new life.。
The Bible says in 2 Corinthians 5, verse 17,。
"If anyone is in Christ, they are a new creation."。
The moment you trusted in Jesus, you were not made better, you were made new.。
You were born again.。
And now the Christian life is living out who God calls us。
and who God says that we are.。
So we have been marching through that.。
Tonight we are going to wrap up the series and talk about an issue that I think,。
candidly, if anything, the weight I carry is how to convince a room like this。
of the enormous importance of what we are about to talk about.。
Before I dive in there, let me invite you into my world.。
I have got a 3-year-old daughter named Monroe.。
Here is a picture of her.。
She is a princess for days.。
When you have girls like my son, and I have got another newborn son,。
but with her the contrast is so stark in that he wants to wrestle,。
wants to play sports, wants to punch things,。
and she wants to dress up like a princess and have tea parties.。
So we have tea parties.。
We sit down and we walk through and she will make--。
if you have a 3-year-old--this is going somewhere--。
the tea party does not look quite like this one,。
but it does involve a little miniature set.。
She will sit there and she is like, "Daddy, would you like some tea?。
I will make you some tea."。
She puts in the fake sugar.。
She is like, "Would you like some cream?"。
Because she does not say cream.。
She says cream.。
Then her older brother comes in and is like, "It is cream, Monroe."。
I am like, "I will spank you so hard."。
She can say cream until she is 23 if she wants to.。
It is the greatest thing ever that she cannot do her R's.。
We will sit there and she wants to just do tea parties.。
Now what does it have to do with what we are talking about tonight?。
Well, we are talking about RIP to the subject of gossip.。
There is an expression that we use as it relates to gossip。
that is directly related to tea parties.。
It is spill the tea.。
The reason it is kind of a genius analogy that people understand。
is that just like with tea, you have this thing where you sit down。
and historically tea time, tracing all the way back to Europe and England and London。
where people would sit down and over a cup of tea,。
people would get together and discuss the royals and discuss the latest gossip。
and discuss the latest drama and they would sit there.。
Even today we embrace some of the language of like,。
"Oh, that is some boiling hot tea.。
Woo, this is so hot."。
Or, "Man, the tea, it is brewed, it is fresh and let me spill it to you."。
What do they mean by that?。
They mean, "Have you heard about what she did?。
Did you know?"。
Man, you can't--don't tell anybody else I told you this.。
But I found out and we spill the tea and we gossip。
and we take that and we pass on gossip.。
Now, what could be the problem with that?。
Well, just like in that situation,。
if I was to pass on a cup of tea to somebody out here,。
it inherently depends on what you're consuming.。
And if it's poisonous, which the Bible says that gossip is,。
it's going to have some significant consequences for those who take it in.。
And the Bible also says that it doesn't just have consequences for those who take it in,。
it has consequences for those who pour it out.。
And I want to talk about why God says this is such a big deal for the next few minutes.。
But before we go there, let me define gossip.。
And in order to do so, I want to go to the fountain of all human wisdom, Urban Dictionary.。
Urban Dictionary says this, "What is gossip?。
It is something nasty people do when they are bored, have no life, or are really stupid.。
It's nasty because a lot of the time you never hear about it。
and people are way too PC to admit and are nice to you to your face,。
but spread nasty gossip behind your back.。
And you never know what happened when someone suddenly hates you and for no reason,。
or some people start threatening you for no reason,。
or become some losers with no life or brain decided gossip。
because they're too stupid to have any hobbies or real social life。
or any shred of conscience whatsoever."。
Gossip is what happens when you get a knife in your back.。
Man, I don't know who you are, Clueless Furball,。
but someone clearly hurt you back in November.。
Now gossip, even that definition, and how great is Urban Dictionary。
that just anybody can write it up, everybody gets to play,。
but that is a reflection of clearly someone who's been hurt by gossip.。
Now let me give a more narrow and accurate, concise definition.。
Gossip is talking negatively or spreading negative information about someone not there.。
Gossip is spreading negative information or talking negatively about someone。
behind their back or not there.。
In other words, a lot of times people think gossip is not gossip if it's true.。
Yes, it is.。
Gossip is talking negatively about someone behind their back。
who is not a part of the problem or the solution.。
And I'm going to unpack exactly what I mean by that.。
And this is an issue that as I started, I feel a burden that, honestly,。
there are some of you that no matter how hard I plea with how deadly and destructive。
and if you participate and allow gossip to be a part of your regular life,。
it's going to be for the rest of your life.。
God says in Proverbs 6, he lists out six things that he hates,。
and one of them is directly related to gossip.。
In other words, God says, "Let me give you the six things that I hate."。
One of them is somebody who murders. One of them is somebody who lies.。
And then he says this in Proverbs 6, 16 and 19,。
"There are six things the Lord hates, seven that are detestable to him."。
Verse 19, someone who pours out lies and a person who stirs up conflict in the community.。
In Romans 1, the apostle Paul writes out and he lists behavioral characteristics。
of people living in direct rebellion to God.。
And he includes some very fascinating things and the things we would assume,。
like murderer, and he includes gossip.。
He says this, Romans 1, 29 and 30,。
"Those living in rebellion to God are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, and malice.。
They are gossips, slanderers, God-haters, insolent, arrogant, boastful.。
They invent ways of doing evil," and he continues the list.。
Why would God say it's such a big deal?。
It's just spilling the tea, it's just catching up,。
it's just me venting a little bit of what's going on.。
Why would that be such a bad idea?。
Because as we're going to see, like few other things,。
gossip has the ability to destroy relationships,。
to destroy some of the closest of friendships,。
to destroy and create toxic work environments, toxic families.。
And so God writes over and over and over about when it comes to believers in Jesus,。
gossiping and talking negatively about someone who is not present。
is not to be a part of our lives.。
So I want to walk through quickly in the next 30 minutes the reasons why we gossip,。
the results of that gossip,。
and then what Scripture says is the remedy or the way that we remove gossip inside of our life.。
And some of you guys, you're tuning me out right now,。
and this makes up 70% of what you talk about.。
Like if you were to remove all gossip from your conversations in life today,。
you would have said like seven words.。
You'd have been like, "It's cold," or "It's hot."。
It's how you bond at work.。
It's how you catch up in community.。
And it is an offense to God.。
And it's something that, candidly, as a bigger brother,。
I am pleading with you to listen to the instructions that God gives us。
so that you can experience the type of relationships, unity, peace,。
that in your heart of hearts you want and so few people experience.。
So we're going to look at the reasons, the results, and the removal.。
So number one, the reasons why we gossip.。
Let me read this proverb from Proverbs 18, verse 8.。
Proverbs written 3,000 years ago by the wisest man who ever lived.。
And he's talking about gossip.。
"The words of a gossip are like choice morsels or delicious desserts.。
They go down into the inmost parts."。
So Solomon says, "Hey, gossip, it tastes good."。
The reason why we gossip is it feels good.。
There's all kind of different connecting things to why it feels good.。
Oftentimes, it's directly related to an insecurity that I have,。
that I feel better about myself.。
And when I talk negatively about someone who I'm a little bit jealous of。
or someone who makes me insecure,。
or the fact that just I am insecure in general,。
and it's a self-esteem boost for me to put that other person down。
and I can't believe it.。
Did you see the car that he drives?。
Did you see the picture that she posted on Instagram?。
I mean, she's a great girl, but unbelievable.。
And I feel better.。
And Solomon says, "That's because gossip, man, it tastes good on the lips,。
but it's doing something to your soul.。
And it goes down deep and buries into the person who listens to it。
and who pours it out."。
That gossip, all the reasons why are not good reasons.。
Other times, we do it because we've just been hurt.。
Like, candidly, some of you guys gossip about people。
who aren't even the ones who hurt you,。
but they remind you of somebody who hurts you.。
And so it just feels good to, "Man, I know their type,"。
or, "I know what they're always like."。
And you don't even know them.。
And yet we gossip.。
Other times, it's just pride that I feel more self-righteous。
if I can identify things in your life that are off。
because it makes me feel better about myself.。
And all the reasons and all the ways that it makes us feel good。
have one thing in common.。
None of them are good or godly.。
Other times, we just gossip because I kind of want to be the person。
with the insider information, have you known?。
And that really just reflects, I need the approval of another person.。
I need affirmation.。
And Solomon says, "Man, the reason why people gossip is that,。
man, it tastes good, it feels good to spill the tea,。
but it does something deep into your soul."。
That's what the inner parts he's reflecting are.。
And it's a really brilliant analogy because he says,。
"Man, they're like desserts that you eat."。
And what happens with desserts that you eat?。
All of these different chocolates, cakes, cookies have one thing in common.。
They taste amazing.。
And they have another thing in common, I guess, as well,。
that they last a moment on the lips and a lifetime on the hips.。
[laughter]。
Because they stick with you.。
And if you eat them and you consume them, they may taste good for a moment,。
but they are going to be sticking around, if you will.。
And if you were to eat all of them, it's going to make you sick.。
And this is Solomon's point.。
"Man, you think you're just consuming the tea, and you heard about her,。
and did you know that they did this, and they slept together.。
Can you believe that?"。
And it goes down in a moment, but it goes deep into your soul.。
And it impacts the way that you see them.。
It impacts a deep soul level to you that it's just a moment on the lips,。
but it's going to stick.。
And Solomon said it goes deep into the heart of a person.。
The second reason the Bible says that you and I gossip。
is not just because it feels good,。
but because it leads to toxic stuff being poured into our heart,。
is Jesus says it's ultimately an issue of the heart.。
That a person, when they gossip, just like with anything that they say,。
it's not an issue of the mouth, it's an issue of the heart.。
He says in Matthew 15, starting in verse 18,。
"What comes out of the mouth proceeds from the heart."。
If you've got a word problem, you've got a heart problem.。
And this is what defiles a person.。
"For out of the heart come evil thoughts, murder, adultery,。
sexual immorality, false witness, slander, or gossip."。
And he says ultimately, if somebody's a gossip, they think,。
"Oh man, I just need to make sure I don't say that about her,。
or I need to not say that again."。
Jesus would say, "No, you've got a heart problem."。
When a friend of ours bought their first house, a married couple,。
they moved in and they decided they wanted to put French doors。
in the back of their house.。
And so they knocked down part of the wall and began to open it up。
to put these French doors that were in, or these double doors.。
And they realized when they opened up the walls and they knocked that down,。
they could see in the walls, and it was infested with termites everywhere.。
Thousands and thousands of dollars would have to be spent。
in order to remove the termites,。
because it was literally rotting on the inside.。
And the picture Jesus gives of somebody who gossips。
is there's a part inside of their heart that is rotting on the inside.。
And he's going to tell us how to remove that,。
and how he can be a part of removing that.。
But that's ultimately what it is.。
I mean, you think that you just don't like her because of the thing。
that she posted, or because of the way that you interacted with her.。
And ultimately, the reason why you don't like her is because。
she's in a dating relationship, and you've been single for a little bit,。
and you hold that against her.。
And you have jealousy that's in your heart.。
Or you think that you just don't like him because he was rude,。
or he just puts off a vibe that you don't like.。
And ultimately, he reminds you of somebody who hurt you。
or bullied you in your past.。
He reminds you of maybe some affirmation that you didn't get。
from parents or something there.。
And I'm not trying to pick on you.。
I'm saying Jesus says whenever something's coming out of the mouth,。
it's coming from the heart.。
And a person who needs to find affirmation or who lives a life。
and puts people down, talks negatively about them with them not there,。
has something rotten in their heart.。
And there's a way he prescribes for us to remove that.。
But it comes because it feels good or tastes good, Solomon would say,。
and because of an issue in the heart.。
Then the results of gossip,。
which I think reflects why God is so passionate about this.。
In point two, the results of gossip.。
Proverbs 16, verse 28 says this.。
"A troublemaker plants seeds of strife, of conflict."。
I want you to listen to these next five words, six words.。
"Gossip separates the best of friends.。
That Solomon says gossip is such a powerful force。
that you and that person that's your bestie,。
I mean, we are closer, thick as thieves, ride or die.。
Gossip has the potential to get into that relationship。
and completely erode it to where your best friend and you。
are no longer even on talking terms.。
And it all happens through just seeds of distrust.。
And did you hear, and I can't believe,。
that it has the ability to divide like few other things the Scripture say.。
I don't know if there's another example in Scripture where it says,。
"Hey, you know what can divide the best friends out in the world?。
This, other than gossip."。
And God, who's for you and loves you and loves man,。
wants to know, the results of gossip is broken relationships.。
And you think that you're just talking or you're just speaking off the cuff,。
and you're kind of just flippantly, and it's not that big of a deal,。
but it has the potential to destroy relationships in your life.。
Because gossip can bring about and separate and divide.。
There was a saying in World War II that loose lips sink ships.。
Basically, that saying originated from U.S. and U.K. or British naval fleets。
who were trying to prevent German intelligence from listening to Morse code。
or listening to radio signals and getting a hold of information。
of different naval carriers or different warships that were out there.。
And so they would say, "Hey, loose lips sink ships.。
Be very careful how you communicate because British intelligence could identify, locate,。
and because you said it out loud, now a torpedo is taking out the boat."。
And the same thing is true today.。
Loose lips sink ships.。
It'll sink friendships and relationships that you have the ability with your words。
to erode and destroy--maybe it's not even your friends.。
It's the friendships and the relationships with other people.。
And the Bible says in so many places we don't even have time。
that it is gossip that leads to conflict, that leads to arguments,。
that leads to dysfunction, that leads to disunity.。
Some of you guys see this every single day at your workplace,。
that are some incredibly toxic environments where people just gossip,。
and, "Did you hear?" and, "I cannot believe." and, "Man, what are they doing at that happy hour?"。
And that's an okay thing when it comes to people who don't know God.。
But for Christians, God says it's not to be tolerated.。
There was a girl that joined our team about six years ago,。
and she was coming on to basically be a part of an internship program.。
And we were told by somebody, "Hey, this girl is going to join your team for the next year,。
and she lives in Florida, and so will you guys reach out?"。
And so my entire team got in a conference room, and we called her, and she didn't answer.。
So we left a voicemail, and it was, "Hey, Elena was her name. We're so excited.。
You're going to be on our team. It's going to be awesome.。
Can't wait for you to be here and move here next month and meet you in person."。
Done.。
And we began to talk and began to joke in a way that, candidly, was not great,。
in that we began to go, "Man, I wonder what she's doing.。
Well, she's in Florida. She's probably on a beach somewhere.。
She's wearing a bikini, and now we're going to work at a church."。
And she's like, "Oh, I've got a margarita and a bikini and can't answer this phone call."。
And we just began to totally throw this girl under the bus in a joking, playful way,。
which often is the case.。
And then out of nowhere, I hear, "To send your message, press 1.。
To erase and re-record, press 2."。
And all of us went, "Oh!"。
And I walked, and it slowly--like, those moments where you're like,。
"I've got to make sure I hit 2, not 1, at the last minute," and pressed 2.。
"Hey, Elena. Can't wait to meet you. See you soon. Boop!"。
And I think back on that, despite the fact that even the intentions were lighthearted.。
Imagine if you had heard that and you were her,。
how you would feel walking into this new environment where you know no one,。
how you would think people think about you,。
even though those thoughts and those words weren't even really accurate,。
and they certainly weren't fair.。
And yet this is what happens all the time with people--gossip.。
It begins to make sense why God is so passionate about,。
"My people are not to be marked by gossip, by talking negative about someone who is not there."。
I mean, the second thing it leads to--so broken relationships--is a poisoned perspective.。
Think about the power of a perspective change that you can have through someone's words to you.。
If somebody was to find you after the service and say,。
"You know what? I heard David. He's a real jerk. He's having an affair on his wife."。
Whether that was true or not true,。
even though it wasn't true, you would leave here and go,。
"I don't know if I can trust this place, and that's messed up that he would be doing that."。
And it would be based off of a lie--gossip.。
And now you're going, "I don't even know if I can trust people who are talking about the Bible."。
Watermark is a good example of this.。
Watermark gets shade thrown at it all the time and just crazy stuff that is said。
that, tragically, if people listen to are going to say,。
"Man, I'm going to walk away with this."。
If you were to go on Yelp, you type in "Number 1 Colton Dallas,"。
you know what pops up? Watermark.。
[laughter]。
Let me just say, thank you all for your support in getting us to number one.。
[laughter]。
It wasn't easy, and we kept fighting.。
But think about that. Think about if somebody actually believed that,。
and they were like, "Oh, man, they're crazy. They're doing snakes. They're drinking Kool-Aid.。
It's just nuts." And they were like, "Man, I'm not going to that church."。
And it's gossip, and it's toxic.。
And you know what's crazy?。
Those words were not written by somebody who's not a Christian.。
There aren't atheists out there going like, "Oh, yeah, you know, it's a cult."。
Those are written by Christians who are hurt for whatever reason,。
and hurt people hurt people.。
And hurt people, God says, are called to move towards people,。
and to love people, and to listen to people, and to care for people,。
and to be united with people.。
And so it leads to a poison perspective, and then finally,。
it leads to a corruption of your character.。
Proverbs 11, verse 12 and 13, "A gossip goes telling secrets,。
but those who are trustworthy can keep a confidence."。
In other words, a gossip is someone who is not worthy of trust.。
If somebody is gossiping to you, you need to know they will gossip about you.。
And you may feel like, "No, they wouldn't. We're so close."。
Yes, they would.。
They've revealed, according to the Scripture, they're not someone who's trustworthy.。
And it corrupts your character.。
The Scripture says that the first example of gossip was Satan.。
Why do I say that? Well, a couple reasons.。
One, the first example of somebody talking bad about someone behind their back。
was Satan in the garden with Adam and Eve, to Eve,。
when they're sitting by a tree, and he says,。
"You know, did God really say, 'Don't eat the fruit'?。
Are we sure that He doesn't have some other motive going on。
and doesn't want to keep good from you?。
I bet it's because He's holding out.。
He can't be trusted."。
Furthermore, do you know what the Greek word for the devil is。
in the New Testament, written in Greek?。
Diabolos.。
Diabolos.。
It's a word that literally means "to cut through."。
Its Greek translation is "slanderer."。
In other words, you read literature of Aristotle or different people。
that you read the cliff notes for in high school,。
you read their work, and the word that they use for slander is diabolos,。
which literally means "dia," "to cut through," "bolos," "to separate."。
He's the one who comes to separate, to divide, to create division.。
And any time we gossip, that is exactly what Satan wants you to do.。
Not talk to people, talk about them, create division,。
and destroy relationships, which is the result of gossip.。
Finally, I'm going to move quick.。
We've got to do the removal of gossip.。
How do we remove gossip?。
Well, first, I think an important aspect of this is you've got to be able to recognize it,。
because a lot of Christians, it's hard to know, like, what's in bounds?。
What's gossip? When am I gossiping?。
How do I, you know, vent, seek counsel?。
What am I supposed to do?。
Can I not talk to anybody about anything?。
How do I do that?。
And I want to unpack as best I can some of the aspects of what the Bible says is in bounds,。
out of bounds, what are the instructions as it relates to gossip.。
And to do so, I'll explain it like this.。
This past Sunday, I went to a Stars game with my son.。
First Stars game, all-time.。
There he is, hanging out with a puck, cloud nine,。
slept with the puck that night, true story.。
And we're there at the game.。
He's so pumped.。
And I'd never been to a hockey game before.。
I don't know, just being from Houston, it's not something we did.。
And so I'm at the game, and they have all these rules.。
And I knew things existed in hockey that I didn't quite understand,。
but they begin to call these fouls, like, man, that's off sides.。
And somebody's yelling, like, icing, icing.。
And I'm like, what is--I know it's not on the cake, icing.。
There's something else going on here.。
And I asked somebody for an explanation of what are the different rules.。
What's inbounds? What's off sides?。
What's all that mean? And they begin to explain.。
So maybe this is for the person in the room who, like me,。
doesn't understand hockey, doesn't understand the rules.。
Here's what it means to ice. Here's off sides.。
Off sides, you enter into the offensive zone before they're icing.。
You hit it all the way down when there's no one there.。
Who made these rules? I don't know.。
But what's my point?。
My point is that in order to play the game,。
in order to not be in the penalty zone,。
you've got to understand the rules.。
You've got to understand the instructions.。
And many Christians don't understand the instructions.。
And so from the Scripture, I want to walk through four principles。
as it relates to recognizing gossip and removing it.。
So let me give you a few questions before I give you those four。
that may help identify, man, I think I'm in gossip.。
Is your conversation with friends about another person。
intended to prepare you for a productive conversation with that person?。
If not, it's probably gossip.。
If you're seeking counsel from others on how to deal wisely,。
because that's the challenge.。
We're like, man, am I venting? I'm getting counsel?。
What would you do?。
If you're seeking counsel from other people on how to do wisely,。
do you attempt as best you can to keep the person's name a secret?。
If not, it's probably gossip.。
Is the tone of your voice and the posture of your heart。
humble, brokenhearted over sharing another person's sin?。
Or do you feel frustration and need to vent。
and even a little bit justified in how could they?。
If so, it's probably gossip.。
Finally, are you talking to God about this person。
more than you're talking to anyone else?。
If not, it may be gossip.。
So let me give four steps as it relates to identifying and removing gossip.。
Number one, Christians talk to people, not about people.。
That we talk to people.。
If you have an offense against someone in your life,。
in your friendship, in their believer,。
you go to them.。
You talk to people, not about people.。
Ephesians chapter four says,。
"Do not let anything unwholesome come out of your mouth,。
"but only what is helpful,。
"for building others up according to their needs,。
"that it may benefit those who listen."。
That I talk to them directly for the purpose。
of communicating what was done, how I felt, what was hurt,。
for the purpose of building one another up。
and strengthening, building that relationship.。
If I'm talking to somebody else about a hurt that I have towards Josiah,。
I am sinning if I'm not willing to go to my brother。
and communicate that.。
Christians talk to people, not about people.。
Number two, we talk only to people who are part of the problem。
or the solution.。
You talk only to those who are part of the problem or the solution.。
That if they're not a part of resolving that conflict。
or resolving and addressing that hurt,。
then they shouldn't be a part of the conversation.。
Maybe they're speaking into your life and they're providing wise counsel,。
which would mean they're a part of the solution.。
But I've got to make sure that when I'm going。
and I'm seeking counsel on how to handle things,。
I'm looking for people who will give me a bigger perspective,。
not validate what I'm saying.。
I'm looking for people who go,。
"I know that he didn't call you when he said he was going to call you,。
"but perhaps there's something else going on,。
"and maybe you should seek more understanding on what happened there."。
Not the guy who goes, "Yeah, what a jerk, man.。
"Unbelievable. He didn't call you?。
"You should delete his number right now."。
And that's not helpful, that I need people and you need people.。
And I can know if it's venting or I'm getting wise counsel.。
If everything that they say is valid, yes, and it's feeding the fire.。
We talk people who are part of the problem and the solution.。
Jesus says in Matthew 18, verse 15,。
"You should be very calculated on how you handle dealing with offenses against you,。
"and you should be very narrow in the path that you take in terms of approaching it."。
He says this, "If your brother or sister sins,。
"go point out their fault just between the two of you.。
"If they listen, you've won them over.。
"If they will not listen, take one or two others along。
"so that every matter may be established by the testimony of two or three witnesses.。
"If they still refuse, then widen the circle more to the church,"。
or in that context would have been akin to a small group.。
"If they refuse to listen, then treat them as you would a pagan or tax collector."。
How did Jesus treat pagans and tax collectors? He loved them.。
And so then you treat them like, "Man, I'm going to still love you,。
"but I'm calling you and I'm identifying something that,"。
collectively we're going, "This was wrong and this was in sin,。
"and we're not going to hold you accountable if you don't want to be held accountable anymore,。
"but I'm going to go to you and I'm going to talk with people who are part of the problem or the solution."。
Jesus says, "Do it privately, repeatedly, and widen the circle only as necessary."。
People will say this, and I have said it before, and it's wrong.。
They'll say, "Look, I'm saying this," and look, I would say this to their face if they were here.。
It's still gossip, even if you would say it to their face if they were there.。
And so you should not say it when they're not there,。
and you should go say it to their face when they are.。
And Jesus says, "We talk to people, not about people.。
"We talk to people who are part of the problem or the solution."。
And if somebody comes to you and shares gossip, you should ask them this question,。
"Why are you telling me this?"。
In fact, let me save that for a second and go to the third one.。
The third one is, "We ask forgiveness when we fail."。
Because there's going to be times where I accidentally brought something up,。
and I said, you know, "Sam, JD," or, you know.。
I mentioned a comment, and when that happens, I need to pick up the phone,。
or I need to go find them and say, "Hey, I just need you to know.。
"I said this behind your back, and I should have said it to you.。
"Will you please forgive me?"。
That when we fail, we ask for forgiveness, and we will.。
That's why we need a Savior. That's why Jesus came.。
And number four, "We don't tolerate"--perhaps the most broadly important,。
widely applicable in the entire room is we do not tolerate gossip from other people.。
You know what gossip always has in common? Two people.。
And if you're listening to gossip, you're gossiping.。
You don't have to be the dispenser of the tea.。
If you're consuming it, you're gossiping.。
And as Christians, we can go, "I'm not going to be safe for your gossip."。
You can bring that up, and I'm going to ask a question, "What do you want me to do with that?。
"Do you want to go together and talk to them?。
"Are you asking me to give you some counsel right now?。
"Because I'm not going to sit here and allow this to poison the perspective that I have on that person."。
Because we don't tolerate gossip.。
Titus 3--I don't have time to go into it, but Paul basically says,。
"A divisive person in church has three strikes."。
Correct him once, 3 verses 10 and 11.。
Correct him twice. If he doesn't listen, then he should not be a part of the body.。
In Proverbs 26, it says, "A fire goes out without wood,。
"and gossip, without it, a conflict dies down."。
He's basically saying, "Hey, Christians have a responsibility。
"to not start the fire and be like a lighter.。
"We have a responsibility to be like a fire extinguisher."。
And a lot of us in the room, like, "You're not just a lighter.。
"You are like a lighter fluid. You are a flamethrower on stuff.。
"And you're just stirring it up, and I can't believe."。
And those of us who want to do what Jesus says have a responsibility.。
When somebody comes to gossip and they say,。
"Hey, I can't believe this happened," or, "Man, you're not going to believe what I heard,"。
then we go, "Whoosh, whoosh, and I'm not going to tolerate it."。
When I came to Watermark, I saw something modeled for the very first time。
that I honestly had never seen before over a decade ago.。
I came on staff, and I said a comment one day.。
It's the first year of work, first maybe month of work,。
and I made a comment about the way somebody was or the way that they had hurt me.。
And the person I was with said, "Hey, let me stop you. Have you told them that?"。
And I said, "No, you know, no."。
And he said, "Okay, you've got 24 hours,。
"and if in 24 hours you haven't told them that, then I'm going to tell them that,。
"and we're going to go together, and I'm going to make sure that he knows,。
"that now I know, that he thinks that you've hurt him。
"or you don't care about him in that regard."。
And it did something really interesting on our staff.。
It made gossip not safe, because people began to go,。
"Oh, my gosh, can you believe that? Oh, no, oh, no, I don't want to go, I don't want to go."。
And people began to go, "I don't want to go do that."。
In a beautiful, healthy way, people began to recognize,。
"Oh, man, gossip is toxic, it's poison,。
"and we have a loving responsibility to one another that I'm going to call you。
"and remind you to do that."。
So much of your life, sadly, and my life,。
has been lived through the lens of a poisoned perspective,。
that you listen to the words that somebody else said about someone else,。
and you believe that, and now you see them that way.。
And they may not even still see them that way.。
God says that followers of Christ have been adopted in the family of Jesus.。
When people, or if people were to talk bad about my children,。
I would have an emotional response of indignation or anger,。
because, "How dare you talk about my princess daughter like that?"。
It makes sense when you think God says that you are the sons and daughters of God.。
Every time that you gossip as Christians,。
you are talking about one of the children of God.。
What response do you think a good, loving, heavenly Father would have?。
In conclusion, the reasons we gossip flow from the heart.。
The result is broken relationships, a poisoned perspective,。
and the removal happens one step at a time.。
There was one occasion, and I'll land the plane here,。
where Jesus prays something really unique,。
and he does so when he brings up you.。
And by that, I don't mean he brings up Carl or Kyle.。
He brings up future believers in the church,。
and he talks about you behind your back.。
And I want to look at what he says.。
It's in the context of John 17, and he prays,。
and he brings up praying for his disciples,。
and then he says, "I want to pray for anyone down the road who will ever believe."。
And look at what he prays.。
"I'm not only praying for these disciples,"。
verse 20 of chapter 17, John,。
"but also for all who will ever believe in me through their message, through the gospel."。
That's the death and resurrection of Christ.。
That's anyone who is trusted.。
Jesus died on the cross for their sin, paid for all of it, past, present, future.。
He came back alive, showing the check cleared.。
Anyone who accepts that message, I want to pray for.。
That's what he just said.。
And look at what he prays next.。
"I pray that they will all be one.。
They will be united just as you, God, and I are," Jesus speaking.。
"As you are in me and I am in you,。
I pray that they would be in us so the world will believe you sent me.。
I've given them the glory you gave me so that they may be one as we are.。
I'm in them and you're in me.。
May they experience such," look at this, "such perfect unity."。
Why? "That the world will know you sent me," Jesus,。
"and that you love them as much as you love me."。
God, would you allow them to be so united together。
that relationships wouldn't be divided like the enemy wants to happen?。
They'd be so united, so for each other, so pursuing each other,。
so believing the best about each other, so connected together,。
that the world would look on and go,。
"You guys are so different from everybody else.。
Everyone else is in conflict. Everyone else is fighting.。
Everyone else negatively interprets.。
Everyone else assumes the worst.。
Everyone else gossips behind their back, and yet you guys stand out."。
The only rational explanation is the thing that you have in common,。
which is Jesus, and the world will see the Savior of the world.。
Gossip, ironically, it's the opposite of Christ-like love.。
Gossip is saying, "And I hold their sins against them."。
Do you believe that? Do you believe what they did?。
Jesus says, "I don't hold your sins against you."。
The gossip says, "Man, I am strong because they're weak."。
And Jesus, in Christianity, says that as believers in Christ,。
we get to declare, "I am weak, but my God is strong."。
And because of that, I'm not defined by what people think.。
I'm not defined by my past mistakes,。
and I'm not going to define you by yours.。
And I'm going to run towards you in love and truth and not gossip,。
because we rest in peace to gossip.。
Let me pray.。
Father, I thank you that you modeled perfectly.。
If anyone could have come up and shown, pointed out all the sins。
and the wrongs and errors of people, it's the perfect Son of God.。
And yet, on this earth, you modeled patience, love, kindness.。
And I pray for anyone in the room who has not had a moment。
where they stepped into that relationship with you,。
that first and foremost, above any instructions on gossip,。
they would receive the gift that you offered.。
I pray that you would allow friends here who need to go ask for forgiveness from people。
because they have gossips, to take that step.。
I pray for relationships that maybe haven't talked in months or years。
would be restored and reconciled through the power of your Spirit,。
just working and softening hearts and moving people together.。
I pray that your church would be united。
and that we would do everything as far as it depends on us。
to be people who run towards each other in love and speak the truth and not gossip.。
We worship you now in song. Amen.。
Amen.。
