[ Music ]。
>> How are we doing, Dallas?。
[ Cheering ]。
Love it. Fort Worth, Houston, anywhere you are around the world, tuning in.。
We're so glad you're with us as we move through this series, Romans 8.。
This is a book.。
It's called Princess -- this is a book, guys.。
It's called Princess with a Purpose.。
And it's a book I read to my little girls.。
The other day, Finley got to choose a book to take to school。
that the teacher would read to the class.。
And she chose this one.。
I'm glad she did.。
I have a love/hate relationship with this book because I love it.。
I love the message in it.。
Every time I read it, it messes me up.。
I can't make it through without breaking down.。
So I know Big Man with the little pink book.。
But I thought I would start -- I thought I'd start just reading to you.。
So essentially, let me just give you kind of the layout of the characters.。
We're going to start really theologically deep here.。
There is Caroline, Princess Caroline, if you will.。
And then there's Prissy Chrissy.。
She's the antagonist.。
And then there's the kind of princess trainer, if you will, named Lily.。
And so those are the characters.。
Caroline, Prissy Chrissy, Lily, the princess trainer.。
And so essentially, Caroline was born -- or we don't know, you know, how this happened.。
But she doesn't have a mom and a dad.。
She lives with her grandmother.。
And she's going to go to princess prep school.。
And at princess prep school, she continues to bump against this idea that in order。
to be a princess, you have to have a king as a father.。
And because she doesn't, you know, it's pretty heartbreaking.。
And so then the drama ensues.。
But -- and so Prissy -- so it goes -- I'll just read some to you.。
"What are you doing here?"。
asked Prissy Chrissy.。
"Don't you know that you need a king as your father and a queen。
as your mother to be a real princess?"。
And then I'm going to skip ahead.。
[ Laughter ]。
And so this is Lily talking to Prissy Chrissy.。
"You are beautiful, Princess," Lily replied.。
"But the way you look and the dresses you wear don't make you a real princess.。
Look at the pretty pink flowers on the table.。
In a few days, they won't be beautiful anymore.。
Outside beauty fades away, but real beauty comes from inside your heart.。
A real princess has a heart full of love for her king and others.。
That's what makes her truly beautiful."。
"I don't believe it," shouted Prissy Chrissy.。
"Loving others can't be more important than the pretty dresses I wear."。
"It's true," said Princess Lily.。
"A real princess has a heart filled with love.。
Doesn't a real princess have to be a king's daughter?"。
asked Caroline, hoping she was wrong.。
"Yes," cried Princess Lily.。
"But not just a king.。
He has to be" -- this word gets weird.。
"He has to be the king of kings."。
"Prissy Chrissy was right," cried Caroline.。
"I don't have a father, so I can't become a real princess."。
"Caroline, is that why you've been sad?"。
Princess Lily asked.。
"You've been thinking about your earthly father instead of your heavenly father."。
"My heavenly father?" Caroline asked.。
"Remember when you first believed that Jesus died on the cross for all the bad。
things you've done?" Caroline nodded.。
"You became a real princess the moment you believed Jesus died on the cross for。
your sins and was raised to life again.。
And since he is the king of kings and you are his daughter, that makes you his."。
"Princess, I'm a real princess?" Caroline cried.。
She'd been a real princess all along with Jesus in her heart.。
She was the daughter of the king of kings.。
"I don't know how to be a real princess," Caroline said.。
"I want to know everything about who I am to Jesus and be the princess he wants me。
to be."。
I know it's a children's story.。
I know it's a silly book.。
Amazing truth in that silly book.。
The reason I love it for my little girls, I love them to read it because there's a。
story in that book that is all of our stories.。
It's your story.。
It's the story of the scripture, Genesis to Revelation.。
It's the story of God pursuing a people, not just any people, but his children,。
gathering them throughout the scriptures that I want desperately that Presley and。
Finley, my two little girls would know that they're not just my daughters.。
That means nothing.。
They are daughters to the most high God, the king of kings, Jesus Christ, that they。
can have his spirit and move through this world, navigating all things with his。
power.。
And this is what I want you to know this evening.。
This may be the most profound, most important truth in the entire scriptures.。
And so tonight we're talking about the reality that we are children of God.。
This is the doctrine, the heavy theological term called the doctrine of。
adoption that you've been adopted.。
And I wrote this down because it's really important.。
I just said, if we misunderstand how God views us, then we will not view God。
correctly.。
If we do not view God correctly, then we cannot worship him appropriately, nor can。
we navigate this life correctly.。
Maybe the most important theological idea in the entire scriptures is who you are to。
God, how he views you.。
You must leave tonight with an understanding of how he views you.。
And if you do, this changes everything.。
It changes your quiet time, your community group, how you attend church, how you。
follow the rules, how you work, how you engage in relationships, how you treat。
others, how you live in an apartment or in a neighborhood.。
It changes everything.。
If you understand who you are to God.。
And so when Romans chapter eight, as we move through a series affectionately。
called Romans eight, walk by the spirit.。
And to recap, we talked about what does it look like last week to let the spirit。
drive the flesh wants to drive, but the spirit and the flesh are at war for the。
driver's seat of your life, which is your mind.。
Romans eight said they want the power, the real estate, the car, the vehicle of。
your mind, because whoever controls the mind of a man controls the whole man.。
And so the flesh and the spirit are at war.。
And, uh, and so we're in Romans eight, Paul wrote this book, Romans two, the。
church in Rome, a people he had never met around 57 AD.。
There's a lot of cultural turmoil going on in Rome at this time.。
Uh, persecution is beginning and it's about to ramp up.。
And so Paul writes to them about what it means to follow Jesus, what it means to。
live by the spirit, what it means to know God and, and in today, tonight to be his。
children.。
And so I'll just read, we're going to be in verses 14 through 17.。
For those who are led by the spirit of God or children of God, the spirit you。
received does not make you slaves so that you live in fear again.。
Rather, the spirit you received brought about your adoption to sonship.。
And by him, we cry ABBA father, the spirit himself testifies with our spirit that we。
are God's children.。
Now, if we are children, then we are heirs, heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ.。
If indeed we share in his sufferings in order that we may also share in his glory.。
And so we're going to, how we're going to break this out this evening is going to be。
first.。
We're going to look at how our behavior points to whom we belong.。
That's verse 14.。
And then verses 15 and 16, how God's spirit makes us his children, not his slaves.。
And then verse 17, the benefit of being God's children.。
What does it mean for us?。
And so we'll start with verse 14, which says this for those who are led by the spirit of。
God are the children of God.。
And when I read that verse, I asked myself, OK, what is the verb there and what does it。
mean when it says led by the spirit of God?。
So led right there, there's the verb that we're actually following God's spirit, that。
that this is not just this idea that there's the spirit of God, that he's out there, but。
we're actually following him.。
And therefore we are his children, not will be OK, not one day, not sometime in the。
future, but as we are led by his spirit, we are the children of God.。
And so when sometimes my family and I, we go to this little park in the neighborhood。
and it's called Twin Lakes and there's always ducks there and there's a big duck and。
it followed by a bunch of ducklings really cute, right?。
Crossing the street or swimming in the pond.。
There's always a big duck and a bunch of ducklings behind them.。
And I never look at that group of ducks and wonder, you know, who do they belong to?。
Whose whose kids are those?。
I know they belong to the one that they follow.。
And in the same way, some of us are here tonight and we're like, we're Christ followers,。
but we're not following Christ.。
You're not following Christ, you're not a Christ follower.。
Like it's not it's not that really profound reality.。
You can't just say I'm a Christ follower.。
And I follow him.。
Being led by his spirit.。
Knowing his will, walking in his will.。
And so my first point this evening is our behavior points to whom we belong.。
Our behavior points to whom we belong.。
This this word lead it's it's in the scripture over and over and it's said different。
ways, it's said governed by controlled by in indwelled by submissive to his spirit.。
But here in this verse, it says lead.。
I will tell you that one of the strange forces of nature is that kids become like their parents.。
It's a force of nature that you exist in.。
Even those of you that I will never be like him.。
Yeah, yeah, you will probably.。
I mean, at least in some ways.。
At least in some ways, it's a really powerful force.。
You can think of you see this in Hollywood.。
You think about a boy that was raised by wolves, you know, he's howling at the moon.。
Why? He was raised by wolves.。
Raised by wolves or you think a Tarzan swinging from trees, you know, he's raised by monkeys。
or raised by gorillas or whatever, raised by apes.。
Right. So therefore he is like them in the same way.。
I see this in my own home.。
OK, my wife speaks with this really cute kind of Southern draw.。
And she's she when she's excited, she draws out the last word that she says.。
She'll go, oh, hi.。
How are you today?。
That's just kind of how she talks.。
Right. And I noticed this in my son Weston, my three and a half year old.。
He's like, Daddy, can we drive in your truck?。
Daddy, I want to go to the store.。
And I was like, why does he do that?。
And then my brother in law told me, you know why he does that, right?。
He got that from Monica because she does that.。
And I was like, that's right.。
She does do that.。
And it's not just that, like she's Monica's really clean, like she's very organized, very。
neat. She straightens everything.。
And I noticed that that my little girl Finley, before she'd go to bed, she'd have to。
straighten out all the little my little ponies on her dresser.。
They'd all have to be facing the same way.。
Everything squared. I know your OCD radar is going off right now.。
And so and every and I'm like, where does she go?。
I know where she gets that from Monica.。
And I won't just pick on her because then I see my other daughter, Presley.。
Right. She just has this crazy desire for adventure, like sometimes to her detriment,。
like she can make foolish decisions, pursuing adventure and just kind of not。
understanding limits and boundaries.。
And she gets that for me.。
And and I see it like it, our children are like us, they carry our DNA and God's。
children are like him, they carry his spirit.。
They are led by his spirit.。
They look like him.。
And so one of the clearest marks that we belong to God is that we obey his spirit.。
And so many Christians have attempted to fake this.。
Like so many Christians have attempted to follow the rules so that it may appear when I。
say Christians, I mean in quotes like like supposed Christians, that it may appear that。
they are following God's spirit.。
But in reality, they're following the rules and they're wearing themselves out.。
Right. It's not following God's spirit.。
This is a following, a watching, a knowing, a walking in relationship with.。
It cannot be faked for long.。
If you fake it for a little bit, you will eventually wear yourself out completely.。
It's the difference between like if I want you to get somewhere and I can hand you some。
directions and I can say, hey, just follow these directions.。
That's that's impersonal.。
Right. You don't need a relationship with me to follow these directions.。
And you sit there, if you don't know where you're going, you're going to be like, OK,。
turn here. OK, five miles.。
OK, look for a yellow sign.。
OK, look for a, you know, a water tower.。
Take a right. Go three miles.。
Like you're going to really you're not going to want to get lost.。
But it's so much easier if I said, oh, follow me.。
Oh, you want to go there, follow me, just watch me turn where I turn, go where I go,。
drive where I drive.。
This is what God's spirit says.。
He was here, he lived, he breathed in Christ.。
And he says, follow me, it's a it's a personal relationship.。
Don't follow the rules.。
Follow me. Follow me, follow my life, my example, Christ says, God says through his。
spirit, because if you continue to try to pursue God simply by following the rule,。
following the rules, you will get lost.。
You will get lost.。
And so this is why we don't manage behaviors here at the porch, we teach belief.。
Right. I mean, like just because someone's here, like there are people here who carry。
Bibles, who've memorized scriptures, and they are not God's children.。
They are not God's children, at least not yet.。
They have not been adopted to him by the blood of Jesus Christ.。
They are God's creation not to be confused with God's children.。
And they may come up to you and they may run game and they may fake it and they may even。
follow the rules for a little while.。
And I know people who marry those folks only to find out they are not God's children.。
And so watch carefully who someone follows.。
Is it just the rules or is it God's spirit so that they might be his children?。
This happens, by the way, upon trusting in Jesus, when you believe in Jesus Christ, his。
death and resurrection as a final payment once and for all for the for your sins, for。
the wrong you've done.。
You believe that he raised from the grave in that moment you are given God's spirit.。
OK, not later, not a second baptism, not a second filling, not the doctrine of。
subsequent blessing is a theological term.。
If that means anything to you, it happens all at one time.。
Sometimes people say, well, yeah, well, that's weird because because, you know, I。
trusted Christ when I was six years old and I was in the church and this and that.。
But then I was rebellious this whole time.。
And then when I was 21, I began to follow God's spirit.。
And I just would say, hey, maybe when you were 21, you actually trusted Christ.。
Right. And don't be afraid of that story, that narrative.。
I think some people are like, well, I can't say that because that would mean I wasn't a。
Christian when I lived at my parents' house or that would.。
I don't know. Listen, I'm not bothered if you say you are a Christian when you were。
six or 21.。
I don't know when you received God's spirit, but I know that it was the moment that you。
trusted in Jesus Christ, his death and resurrection for the payment of your sins.。
That that happened at one time.。
And so the benefit of of this reality is that we access God as his child.。
Guys. Can you imagine this?。
You have access to the creator of the heavens, the earth as his child, because I love。
being here with you. Like there is nowhere I would rather be.。
You are a priority priority to me.。
I love being here. I love this place.。
I love teaching. I love what God is doing.。
I love having a front row seat of watching him work in your lives, watching him change。
this city and Fort Worth and Houston and other places through the lives of young adults.。
And there is very few things in the world that could pull me off this stage.。
But make no mistake about it.。
Emily comes up and says, hey, your kids need you.。
I'm in my truck down the road before you can say what happened.。
OK, that's my first ministry.。
If my wife called right now or came in and said, hey, we need you, the kids need you,。
Presley need you, hey, something happened.。
I'm gone before you even realize it.。
Because they're my priority.。
You have God's attention in that way.。
Like I'm a really imperfect dad, I love him perfectly, he loves you perfectly.。
And you have access to him.。
I've heard it said before, it's like God's the the president of the universe.。
Like you can't just I can't even access the president of the United States.。
Like he's in important meetings.。
I don't have access to him.。
You better believe his daughters do.。
You better believe that his daughters can kick in that door and say, daddy, I need you.。
And he's attentive.。
At least if he's a good father, that's true.。
You have access to God, he's your daddy, you are led by his spirit, you are his。
child.。
Verse 15.。
The spirit you receive does not make you slaves so that you live in fear again.。
And when I read that the spirit you receive does not make you slaves so that you live。
in fear again.。
And I just like what the curious word to me there is fear.。
Like who is afraid?。
Like who's like, oh, is this spirit of God give me?。
Is it going to make me afraid?。
And I really wrestled with what does this mean?。
And what it's saying is, hey, it's reference to the law.。
You used to have to follow the law, and if you didn't follow the law, you were at risk。
of of betraying God.。
And you may not be able to get to God because out of obedience, you didn't follow the。
law and they would live in fear.。
And he's saying, hey, this spirit that you now have, you don't have to live in fear.。
You can follow God's spirit.。
Let me just hit this.。
I got done preaching last Tuesday.。
Girl walks up and we engage in a conversation.。
I say between one and ten, how certain are you that if you died tonight, you go to。
heaven? She said eight.。
I said, OK, you stand before God.。
He says, why should I let you in?。
What would you say?。
And she said, because Christ has died for my sins and God raised him from the dead.。
And I said, 80 percent of your sins.。
And she said, well, this is where I get confused.。
This is where I struggle, she said, because what if I leave here and I sin, but I don't。
know it? And I got to tell her this beautiful reality that Christ had died for all of。
her sins, past, present, future, all of them paid for on the cross.。
And if she sinned unknowingly, God's spirit would come in this beautiful thing, a job。
that the spirit, a what am I trying to say?。
A responsibility of God's spirit is that he convicts us of sin, that he shows it to us,。
that we grieve the spirit of God.。
It's evidence that you have the spirit of God is he doesn't let you continue in those。
ways. He doesn't let you continue sleeping together.。
He doesn't let you continue to get drunk.。
He doesn't let you to continue to look at pornography.。
He grieves you.。
He you're saddened by it.。
You feel it deeply inside.。
He doesn't let you continue in fake religiosity.。
He doesn't let you continue in self-righteousness.。
He convicts you.。
It's a job description of the Holy Spirit.。
It says it goes on to say, verse 15, rather the spirit you received brought about your。
adoption to sonship and by him that is by this spirit, we cry Abba, father, the spirit。
himself testifies with our spirit.。
That's our human spirit, our human nature.。
The spirit, God's spirit testifies with our personal spirit that we are God's children.。
And this word Abba here, this is the one that strikes me as curious here because it。
essentially means father.。
It's like, and by him we cry father, father.。
It's like, why would Paul use Abba?。
Abba is not a Greek word.。
He wrote this in Greek.。
This is an Aramaic word.。
It's a very personal, intimate word for daddy, for Papa.。
It's a very intimate word for father, and it's like Paul saying by him we cry out,。
there's not a word, there's not a word.。
Oh, there's this Aramaic word Abba.。
I'll use that Abba father.。
That it's that personal relationship.。
Not long ago, I was doing a friend's wedding in the Dominican Republic, and we have a。
mutual friend who's a missionary in Haiti, Haiti and the Dominican share the island。
together.。
And so she came over our missionary friend in Haiti and, and we were there, there with。
the friends, the Shane's were there.。
You remember this B we were playing volleyball and, uh, you just wake up and。
you're like, Oh, he's talking.。
I'm just kidding.。
And, uh, and so we were playing volleyball and, and we walk up on her.。
And so she's in this kind of weird, like, you know, sitting legs crossed, uh, hands。
on her knees, kind of like this, like deep meditation.。
And so my buddy walks up to her and goes, Hey, are you okay?。
And she kind of looks up.。
She goes, Oh yeah, just talking to Papa.。
And I thought three things.。
The first I thought that's weird.。
And then I thought, man, I bet she views God very different than I do.。
And then I thought, I bet she's more right.。
Like, you'll never hear me say just talking to Papa.。
It's just, it's just not how I view God.。
I like you, God, you're God.。
Like not Papa.。
Hey daddy, come here.。
You know, but that's what this verse is saying.。
His spirit testifies with our spirit that we come in him.。
This really vulnerable state.。
Daddy, God, you're my dad.。
God's my dad.。
The creator of the heavens and the earth is my, my dad.。
It's really vulnerable.。
I mean, it just, it just kills all the pride in you.。
God's my daddy.。
My Papa, father in heaven.。
Second point is God's spirit makes us his sons and daughters, not his slaves.。
Embrace this incredible reality that God's spirit makes us his sons and daughters, not his slaves.。
So what is this distinction?。
You must understand this.。
One is like slavery is doing something out of only obedience, just because you're told being afraid.。
The other is doing something out of trust.。
I know it's best for me.。
I trust you.。
I know you have my best interest in mind.。
Like anyone can force someone or I'll just say like people can be forced to submit.。
But love and trust allows people to willfully follow someone, and this should mark our relationship with God, love and trust.。
This weekend, I, um, I didn't have much going on, honestly, which is, which is great.。
Like there were no weddings.。
There was no ministry up here, no formal work ministry.。
I wasn't teaching anywhere.。
And so when I have weekends like that, it's, it's, I go home and I just kind of view my job responsibility is to say yes.。
Like as much as I possibly can.。
Yes.。
And so the kids, I mean, they, they know that.。
And so they came strong and they just asked all the, they're like, they're like, daddy, can we go to the park?。
Yes.。
Can we eat here?。
Yes.。
Can we go ride the golf cart?。
Yes.。
Can we go ride our bikes?。
Yes.。
Yes.。
Can we go drive Weston's remote control car?。
Yes.。
Sure.。
Can we go to the school and play?。
Yes.。
Can we go camping?。
Uh, and so I was like, nah, I don't know.。
Camping.。
I was like, it's going to be cold and no, but what if, and so what I do is I go in the living room and I clear out this space and I get the tent and all by myself, I construct this tent, which is a pretty incredible task.。
If I do say so myself and, uh, and, and they have this like flashlight that puts stars on the ceilings, ceiling rather.。
And so I hang it at just the right height.。
There's stars all over the ceiling.。
I build this huge kind of six person, 10.。
I lay out a pallet.。
I put their sleeping bags and I'm like, Hey, what if we camp inside the house?。
Like anything and everything.。
If they're not asking me something for crazy, I'm like, yeah, let's do it.。
I want to be a good, good father.。
I want to be a good dad to you.。
Let's go.。
And so it was a great weekend.。
And then Sunday night rolled around and I was setting out clothes for my little girl, Finley.。
She's seven to where to school.。
And, and so I checked the weather, you know, Hey, what's she going to.。
And so, um, I saw it was 50 degrees in the morning and 85 degrees in the afternoon.。
Right?。
No, no, this is something I can handle.。
You know, I'm thinking, okay, we're going to go short sleeve shirt, cute gap hoodie, the zipper layers.。
Like you wear layers.。
You can shed the external layer.。
You're going to be good to go.。
Picked out some jeggings, some shoes, like we were going to rock it, you know, and I lay it all out for her.。
And she grabs this like long sleeve, thick shirt with birds on it.。
And she's like, daddy, I want to wear this one.。
I was like, girl, you can't, you're going to be so hot.。
Cause 85 degrees.。
You don't even know this Texas weather's bipolar.。
You just, you just got to understand me.。
Right.。
And she starts throwing a fit.。
She starts throwing a flat out fit.。
I mean, crying, you know, why, why did I?。
Why can't you?。
Why don't you pick up my shirt?。
And I'm like, Finley, calm down.。
Why are you doing this?。
Finley, listen, you're going to be hot in that.。
I'm telling you this for your own good.。
You don't want to wear that shirt.。
Trust me.。
So like daddy, daddy, I don't want to Finley.。
Why don't you want to wear this cute gap shirt?。
I mean, it's going to be amazing.。
Hoodie zipper, take it off, you know, matches and everything.。
Come on.。
Like, why don't you want to wear this?。
And, uh, and she kept saying this, she kept saying, because I'm wearing it.。
You don't have to wear it, daddy.。
I'm wearing it.。
I want to wear what I want to wear.。
Here's what she's saying.。
She said, because I'm not your slave, daddy.。
I'm not your slave.。
I want to do what I want to do when I want to do it.。
I don't want to, I don't want to do something just because you're telling me to do it.。
I want to do what I want to do.。
And I'm just like, I know you're not my slave.。
You're my daughter, my little girl.。
I love you.。
And if you wear that shirt, you're going to catch on fire.。
Literally, you know, and I'm like, trust me.。
She has soccer practice afterwards.。
I'm like, you are going to burn up.。
Right.。
Everything I'm telling you is for your own benefit.。
And here's the profound reality.。
Every single thing that God asks of you is for your own benefit.。
It's crazy.。
Everything that God asks of you, he's not trying to withhold good from you.。
He's not trying to rip you off.。
I'm not trying to rip Finley off.。
All she sees is daddy won't let me do what I want to do.。
And I'm like, no, it's for your own good.。
It's cute.。
Gap shirt.。
Come on.。
You know?。
And she just thinks I want to rip her off.。
I don't want to rip you off.。
Everything God asks of you is for your own benefit is for your own good.。
See, this is a slave relationship.。
Do what I say for my benefit.。
Do what I say for my benefit.。
That's slave.。
That's slave relationship.。
You do what I say for my benefit.。
Slave.。
Do what I say for your benefit.。
That's son.。
Do what I say, but I'm saying it for your own benefit.。
That's son.。
One slave, one son.。
This is God.。
This is the relationship we have with God right here.。
And so why don't we trust God?。
Because we want freedom.。
We want the freedom to date how we want to date.。
We want the freedom to date whoever we want to date.。
We want the freedom to have sex with whoever we want to have sex with.。
We want the freedom to watch whatever show or whatever movie we want to watch.。
The freedom to work wherever we want to work.。
The freedom to smoke whatever we want to smoke.。
The freedom to drink whatever we want to drink, to wear whatever clothes we want to wear, to spend money however we want to spend money.。
We want the freedom to spend money however we want to spend money.。
Freedom to go wherever we want to go.。
Freedom to spend time with whoever we want to spend time with.。
Freedom to be friends with whomever we want to be friends with.。
And God says, I have something better for you.。
Will you trust me?。
Because everything he asks is for your own benefit.。
And seeing this and understanding this is spiritual maturity.。
If you do not do what I say, you will be harmed.。
Slavery.。
If you do what I say, you will be blessed.。
Sonship.。
If you work the estate out of obligation.。
Slavery.。
If you work the estate because it's your estate, it's your inheritance, it's the place that you're going to own forever and ever and ever.。
Sonship.。
And so here's the profound reality that if we got this, it would be a game changer in our world and in our life.。
Spiritual maturity is not just knowledge of and obedience to God, but also the enjoyment of him.。
Let me say that again.。
Spiritual maturity is not just knowledge of and obedience to God, but also the enjoyment of him.。
Like we pursue God out of an enjoyment of him in the same way.。
That not everyone obeyed my dad.。
But I obeyed my dad.。
So I knew my dad loved me.。
Some of you didn't know your dad loved you.。
Some of you didn't have a dad.。
Some of your dad, some of your dads didn't love you.。
It's a reality of this broken world and it will mess your view of God up.。
Especially when we call him Heavenly Father, Daddy, Abba, Papa.。
I get it.。
I hate that for you.。
I really, really do.。
But you need to know you are perfectly loved.。
Not like your daddy loved you, but forever and ever and ever and ever.。
And 200 years from now, it's not going to matter how your daddy loved you because you。
are going to see the perfect love of a perfect father.。
And it's going to be redemptive.。
It's going to be really, really redemptive.。
So we go to God, the father, by his spirit, out of love and trust.。
We call him Daddy.。
Verse 17.。
Now, if we are children, then we are also heirs, heirs of God.。
We get to inherit what is God's and co-heirs with Christ.。
We inherit what belongs to Jesus.。
If indeed we share in his sufferings in。
order that we may also share in his glory.。
Now, at first reading, it sounds like, OK,。
you get to inherit what is coming to Christ if you suffer for him.。
But this if indeed is not translated, if indeed it is actually better translated。
since because in reality we so let me read it that way.。
Then we are heirs, heirs of God and co-heirs。
with Christ since we share in his sufferings in order that we may also share。
in his glory, see suffering for Christ is not optional to the believer.。
You live in a world that you do not belong to.。
And so when you point others to Christ,。
you will absolutely suffer for and suffer with Christ.。
It's it's not a conditional, it's not if you do it's since you will.。
You get to inherit the kingdom.。
And so my third and final point is the benefit of being God's children.。
I want to talk with you about the benefit of being God's children,。
the first benefit of being God's children.。
And this is kind of crazy, but it's that you can suffer。
or that you can trust him in suffering.。
Friends, you're going to suffer.。
In this world, you will have trouble,。
Jesus says, but take heart of overcome the world.。
You're going to suffer.。
This world is not the world we belong to.。
We don't belong to this world.。
We're strangers and aliens here.。
And we always think of suffering as bad.。
And some of you are like, how is suffering not bad?。
Well, just think about it. Right.。
You suffer in the gym, right?。
Get under 225, push it up 16 times.。
If you're David Marvin and you're right, you're sweating, you're working out.。
You're here.。
OK, I'm sorry.。
That wasn't honest.。
And so you're you're willingly suffering, right?。
If you train for a marathon, you're willingly suffering.。
Why? Because it produces perseverance.。
It helps you be healthy.。
It helps you endure.。
You train in such a way that you can persevere more and more and more.。
And likewise, suffering for Christ is a suffering that produces spiritual。
perseverance. Romans five tells us this.。
They say, but we also Romans five, verses three and four.。
But we also glory in our sufferings because we know that suffering produces。
perseverance, perseverance, character and character hope.。
And so you become godly through the suffering.。
You become a holy through the suffering.。
You become sanctified through this suffering.。
And in your life, it produces hope.。
It serves as a reminder that you're not home yet.。
Like this is not your home.。
So every day you wake up, you experience suffering.。
I'm not home yet.。
No, no, I'm going to I'm going to be home, I'm just not there yet.。
Do you know one of the reasons that I don't look forward to heaven?。
One of the reasons that I don't look。
forward to heaven is because I'm looking forward to Belize.。
Let me explain.。
We're going in May.。
We're going on vacation to Belize, planned a family vacation.。
We're going with a couple other families and we're going to stay there.。
And I'm really excited about I've got a long kind of run through April.。
I love what I do. Don't confuse that.。
I really enjoy what I get to do.。
But we have this church leaders conference here, April 19 through the 21st.。
And so there's going to be, you know,。
750 church leaders from around the world in this place.。
And I'm kind of helping with that.。
And there's a lot going on here.。
And so I'm looking forward to this vacation in May.。
And when I think about what I'm looking forward to most right now, if I'm。
completely transparent with you and in my own sin, it's Belize in my flesh,。
when my flesh is driving, it's Belize, which is stupid, which is silly,。
which is wrong, which is ignorant.。
But I mean, just today I was on VRBO looking at where we're staying.。
I'm like, oh, this would be amazing.。
You know, I mean, don't you realize that。
exceptional or it's not like where you guys stay.。
But I'm like, for me, I'm like, this is awesome.。
I can't wait.。
But what I'm not doing in that moment, I'm not like, and I can't wait for heaven.。
Also, that's going to be amazing, too.。
Now, I'm just like, please, right, because I pursue my own comforts.。
I'm like an out of shape athlete.。
I'm not persevering to the eternal reward.。
I'm taking these little pit stops of comfort along the way.。
And I'm looking forward to them.。
And some of you are doing the same weekend to weekend, party to party,。
club to club, bar to bar, relationship to relationship, vacation to vacation.。
You're not thinking you're going through this like that.。
I cannot wait to be with you because this is so hard.。
I long to be with you.。
I'm looking forward to it forever and ever and ever.。
A place with no weeping, no crying, no tears, no suffering, no cancer,。
no breakups, no heartbreak, no job loss, no insecurities.。
Now, I just can't wait for a vacation, man.。
Can't wait for Friday.。
Can't wait to just endure this week so that I can make it to the end.。
We don't look forward to heaven.。
Not like this talks about we're in here, we're in the air,。
we're in the air, we can inherit a kingdom in Christ's kingdom.。
Belize.。
The second。
benefit is not just suffering for Christ, but。
you share in his glory as heirs with Christ.。
Now this my friends and I looked at this。
today and like, I don't even know how to explain that.。
You know, you share in his glories as heirs with Christ.。
I've said it before, like I've had friends who are trust fund babies,。
like just meaning that when they turn 30, they're going to inherit a lot of money.。
And I'm just like, what are you ever sad about?。
You know, like, why are you ever sad?。
Like you're going to be wealthy.。
Like, what are you worried about your job for?。
You don't need a job. You know, like what is going on?。
And the reality for all of us is we are trust fund babies。
because we've been adopted by the one who owns the cattle on a thousand hills.。
It says eternal riches, glorious riches.。
Christ is going to share his glory with us.。
I don't even know how to explain that to you.。
And I'm out of time. Praise God.。
So we are adopted as heirs to the kingdom.。
Consider this for a moment, like。
think about the royal family, like think about Prince William.。
David showed me an article today that that I mean, I didn't even know this.。
Like those cats have jobs.。
Like he flies a helicopter for some ambulance company.。
Like that's his profession.。
I thought he just sat up in the castle and like played golf and stuff.。
And like they've got jobs,。
they've got titles like CEO and director and COO and, you know,。
director of operations, whatever it is, right.。
For him, it's pilot of some helicopter。
for people who need an ambulance and and.。
But that's Prince William, man.。
Like there is no title he's ever going to have higher than Prince William.。
Like whoever he does, like if he's flipping。
burgers at McDonald's, whatever he's whatever he's doing for the rest of his life.。
That's Prince William.。
That's who he is.。
He will never have a title greater than that unless.。
Unless he's son of the king of kings.。
In which case he is the son of God, his child.。
And that's a bigger title and that's a title he carries forever and ever and ever。
because make no mistake about it, 200 years from now, it doesn't matter that he's。
Prince William, all that's matter is who was he to God,。
the creator of the heavens and the earth and what's crazy about that, guys.。
It's true for you.。
You will never have a title bigger than daughter of God, son of God.。
And so somebody one day or maybe today they might call you the CEO.。
Don't matter.。
The son of God, the daughter of God, and maybe they've called you other things.。
Maybe they called you player.。
Maybe they called you Pim.。
Son of God.。
Maybe they called you slut.。
Maybe that was a title you wore behind your back.。
You're the daughter to the king of kings.。
That's who you are.。
If you embrace that, it changes everything.。
You are not the girl who's been divorced.。
You are not the girl who had an abortion.。
You are not the girl who did those terrible things.。
Your daughter to the king.。
Those things don't mark you.。
Nothing marks you more than that reality who you belong to.。
And it will be the greatest name, the greatest title.。
That's a humbling thing because you thought you were really important.。
Young man, you thought you really made something of yourself.。
You built a palace.。
No, man, the greatest thing about you。
is not the trinkets and the treasures that you built in this temporary place,。
but who you're going to be in paradise, who you can be right now.。
Right now.。
That's an amazing reality.。
As God's children, we don't just get Christ's inheritance in the future, though we do.。
We are privileged to suffer for him now.。
And so in summary, our behavior points to whom we belong.。
God's spirit makes us sons and daughters, not slaves.。
And the benefit of being God's children is that we get to trust him in suffering。
and share in his glorious heirs with Christ.。
Close with this, there's a there's a part of me。
that just felt ill equipped for this message because I have so many friends。
that have adopted and I haven't and I just I wanted to reach out to them.。
And one just brought home a little girl from China.。
And I got to pray with her through the process and be involved and watch this。
beautiful thing take place as mother and daughter are connected.。
And.。
And I reached out to her yesterday and I just said, hey, what did you learn about?。
God, through that process and friends,。
she wrote me one of the most profound emails I've ever read in my life.。
It will preach louder, I think this is true than any sermon I've ever heard.。
And I can't read you the entire email,。
but I want to share with you just some highlights when I asked her, hey,。
what did you learn?。
And she brought home this three and a half year old little girl from China.。
And she said, I learned about my own brokenness.。
The most painful part of the process is。
that you have to understand or choose rather what disabilities you're willing。
to live with, she said, the list, it's horrific.。
She says there are kids born without eyes,。
deaf, mute, chronic disease, viruses, missing limbs,。
deformed hearts or missing eternal organs.。
And these kids are so hard to place.。
There's millions of them and they will go through life without parents,。
without anyone to take care of them.。
And I know by choosing not one of them,。
I'm choosing to let them sit there in the orphanage.。
And she says to look at their disabilities.。
I know it's costly.。
It will be more expensive to take care of them than someone else.。
But what I learned.。
Is that God looks at my own disabilities, my own insecurities,。
the areas of my life where I fall short,。
the things I find identity in that I shouldn't.。
And he says, you're mine.。
I would joyfully pay the price for you.。
I would joyfully care for you.。
You're mine.。
She talked about the pain she felt knowing that her daughter sat in an orphanage,。
she says she had learned how God must feels as he waits for us.。
I'll read this to you, she said, for three plus years,。
I know that made cried out in the orphanage and no one came.。
Her daughter's name is May.。
No one comforter comforted her.。
Or she stayed hungry or dirty in her crib。
because there was not enough care in the orphanage.。
I grieve the years she didn't have someone telling her how precious she is,。
what a gift she is, that she was that she wasn't held close by someone.。
I hate that I missed that time with her, and she says, but yet,。
isn't that how God must feel when he's freely offered us to be his son。
and daughter and we continue to run in the world like this world has something。
to offer us, we continue to run from him.。
We continue to reject him.。
We sit in our filth and glory in it.。
She says she learned about God as our provider.。
She talked about this profound reality of of the spirit of an orphan,。
how May was deprived of a lot, and when she brought her home,。
what she would do is she would hoard everything at the beginning.。
She would take bags of toys to bed with her.。
She was afraid that there wouldn't be any in the morning.。
At first, she would overeat.。
Whenever she sat down for a meal, she would gorge herself with food.。
Not sure yet that the next meal would be coming or enough.。
And she says she watches on as she slowly。
learns that she is loved, cared for and provided for by someone who loves her.。
She said, do we not live in survival mode?。
Wondering where the next paycheck is going to be or how we're going to make。
it or what we're going to do or if we'll ever have a relationship?。
Do we not constantly worry about the things in this world?。
And reject the promises of God that he's going to provide our every need.。
She says she's learned so much about how we were, and this is beautiful to me,。
designed to be delighted in.。
She talked about this thing, I had never heard of it, but.。
It's called indiscriminate affection.。
And it's when a child feels abandoned that they will seek affection from anyone,。
she says she was so scared when she sat in that hotel in China and her little girl。
may would go up to any stranger with her arms up.。
Will you hold me? Will you hold me?。
Will you hold me?。
She says she watched as she would perform。
for strangers as they came over and she would introduce them,。
that she she thought she had to perform for their acceptance,。
almost like a puppy dog in a pound, hoping someone's going to take them home.。
She doesn't she know she's mine.。
Doesn't she knows that that I love her, that I'm going to provide for her.。
That she doesn't need to pursue that affection from anyone else right now,。
that I'm her mommy.。
She says, I think about my own life, I've。
pursued affection from men, how I pursued affection from others,。
how I've needed attention from this world.。
That my father gives me freely, readily, even now.。
And she talked about the price.。
She says she learned about the payment.。
She didn't have a ton of money, but she paid a lot of money to bring this little。
child home, she took vacation time, she went with unpaid leave,。
she bought very expensive plane tickets and paid tens and tens and tens of。
thousands of dollars to bring this child home and to care for her.。
She went without sleep.。
She went in.。
Seasons of discomfort.。
She cried, longing to see this person.。
And yet, God, for the joy set before him.。
Endured the cross.。
And said to you.。
Very specifically, you.。
You're worth it.。
That's what you need to hear tonight.。
Christ paid everything for you, God paid。
everything to adopt you as his own, to love you.。
And he says you're worth it.。
I'll end with this quote from Philippians, it couldn't be more appropriate,。
he said this, if I could sum up the whole Bible in one statement, it would be this.。
God gets his family back.。
The whole Bible is about God going after his children.。
That's what he's doing right now, two kinds of people in the room.。
Those that are children of God,。
you just need to be reminded that you have a spirit so that you might be led by him.。
You belong to the king of kings.。
And there's those of you that have not been adopted.。
You continue to perform for this world, continuing to pretend to be good.。
And God is ready to receive you as his son and daughter right now.。
Let me pray that we would not return to him as slaves, but be led by his spirit.。
Father, thank you for this chapter in this amazing book.。
Would you help us to be princesses and princes with a purpose?。
Father, would you help us to live our lives for you, with intentionality for you,。
not performing for you, but because of what you've done for us,。
not seeking acceptance from you, but living, knowing that we have been accepted.。
Father, thank you for the way that you love us so much that you've seen your only。
son, Jesus Christ, giving us a spirit, not one that makes us slaves,。
that one that performs for you under the law, but one that has fulfilled the law.。
One that leads us to righteousness, one that sanctifies us,。
one that conforms us to the image and the character of your son.。
Would you do that now as we sing to you?。
And I just got to tell you something.。
It's really important.。
And I need you to listen.。
And more than listen, I need you to believe me.。
I've kind of bet the life I've kind of bet everything I've kind of I kind of have。
gone all in on what I'm about to say and.。
From a whole life on the line, and。
I think I'm asking you to do the same and.。
It's a really simple thing.。
And yet I think we'll spend the rest of our。
lives on this Earth trying to understand the depth.。
Of these three words.。
Without further delay, it's this.。
God loves you.。
He's crazy about you, man.。
He loves you so stinking much.。
And since the beginning of time, he since the beginning of creation of humans,。
he's been trying to show you been trying to get your attention.。
And so now my question, this is me talking now.。
I'm just wondering how long you're not going to believe that.。
How long you're going to continue to pursue worth in stupid things.。
How long you're going to continue to chase trinkets and treasures?。
How long you're going to worry like, is it 10 years?。
Is it 20 years? Is it 30 years?。
Is it 50 years? Is it the rest of your existence?。
You're going to live in bondage to fear in bondage to seeking significance.。
And I just urge you right now by the power of God's Holy Spirit, who is enough。
to stop and to trust him because he loves you.。
And he's gone to great lengths to show you.。
