(dramatic music)。
(soft music)。
About a year and a half ago,。
I was walking through my house。
and there's a hallway that leads to the master bedroom.。
And as I was walking down this hallway,。
as I do several times a day,。
there's a little closet where we keep some suitcases in.。
I passed that closet and I kind of backed up。
and I just, I smelled something that was off.。
And so I kind of start sniffing around,。
trying to figure out what it is.。
And I opened the closet and I'm, oh, what is going on。
in there, okay?。
I'm thinking, man, maybe we left something in a suitcase。
and I'm kind of moving the suitcases around。
and I pull everything out of the closet。
so there's just this small square of carpet。
and I'm kind of sniffing around and I still smell it。
and I kind of sniff the carpet and it's stronger。
as I get closer to the ground.。
And I'm assuming, okay, at this point,。
that it's a dead animal under the house,。
specifically a dead rat because that was a problem。
we were having around this time where there were some rats。
having a party in our attic and so I thought。
maybe that's what had happened.。
And so I start bringing some friends in.。
This is what you do when something's confusing.。
You bring community into this and I'm like,。
hey, come over and smell this.。
And he's like, what?。
No, man, I'm serious, come on.。
So community starts coming through there。
and taking, oh yeah, yeah, oh yeah, I know what that is.。
And next guy, yeah, I know what that is.。
I'm like, what is it?。
He's like, it's gas.。
You've got a gas leak.。
And so I learn lots about gas.。
If you don't know, they put a scent in there.。
Gas has no scent but so that you can smell it。
when you have a leak, they add a scent to it.。
And I'm like, well, what do I need to do?。
They're like, you need to call a plumber.。
And so I call a plumber.。
Plumber comes out there, sure enough,。
yeah, you've got a gas leak.。
And so this plumber, he goes under the house。
where this closet is and he's like,。
I think I've fixed it there.。
And then they test the pipes and they fill it with air。
and kind of pressurize it.。
He's like, no, you have several more leaks.。
I'm like, well, what do we need to do?。
And he's like, we need to find the source。
of each of these leaks.。
And I'm like, are you sure?。
And he's like, yes.。
And I'm like, well, what does that mean for me?。
And he's like, it means you're going to pay a lot of money.。
I'm like, is there any other options?。
And so I start talking about it with community。
and I'm in community with some smart guys。
and sit down, I'm like, hey, does anybody know。
anything about gas leaks?。
You know, what's the rate, like,。
what if I don't fix this?。
How about I just like, you know,。
we've been living with a gas leak, evidently, okay?。
And so is this really so bad?。
And so one of the guys, he's an engineer, okay?。
He's real smart and he's like, yeah,。
I know a little bit about gas leaks.。
I'm like, well, tell me about it.。
And he goes, well, here's what's going to happen.。
He goes, most likely, this leak is contained。
in some small space.。
Usually a wall or under your house.。
And what's happening is that's filling up。
with natural gas, which is explosive.。
And so essentially, your wall is becoming a bomb, okay?。
But that's not the worst of it.。
What's going to happen is as that gas fills up。
in that wall, it's going to seep over。
and then it's going to fill the room up.。
And you won't know it or see it because it's clear.。
And then one day you're going to walk in there。
and you're going to turn on the light switch。
and the filament in the light, as it heats up,。
is going to be the igniter and your entire house。
is going to blow up.。
And so I say, does anybody else here know about gas?。
(audience laughing)。
I don't like that answer.。
And so I go back to the plumber.。
I'm like, you got to find the source, right?。
The smell, the smell that I, the scent that I smelled,。
that was just a symptom, okay?。
That wasn't the problem.。
The awful smell wasn't the problem.。
There was a source to this problem.。
And so the plumber's like, hey, to resolve it,。
I've got to find all of the sources of these leaks.。
I've got to find out where the leaks are。
because if not, something, your whole house might come down.。
And so that's what we spent the next few days doing.。
And I tell you that because as we wrap up this series,。
Quarter Life Crisis, tonight we're talking。
about the crisis of anxiety.。
Now, anxiety is never the problem in and of itself.。
Anxiety is the smell.。
Anxiety is the scent.。
The problem is a source that to cure your anxiety,。
you've got to find where the leak is.。
There is a slow leak in your life.。
There is something, there is a source。
that you have to identify and repair。
in order to solve the anxiety,。
in order to solve the worries,。
in order to solve the stress.。
You must find the source.。
And so that's what I hope to do this evening。
as we move through this series.。
We're wrapping it up.。
We've covered several things.。
We've covered work, the crisis of work.。
We've covered the crisis of money.。
We've covered the crisis of selfie or narcissism.。
We've covered the crisis of singleness,。
the crisis of authority, the crisis of conflict.。
And what all of these things create in our life。
is a crisis of anxiety,。
a crisis of worries,。
which we've done messages on worry before,。
and we have learned that this is a huge epidemic。
in the audience this evening,。
that so many of you, your lives,。
you are given to anxiety in many sleepless nights.。
And just like this gas leak,。
I can cover it up, okay?。
I can cover up the smell.。
I can spray Febreze all over the house。
and try to pretend like everything's okay.。
I can ignore it.。
I can just kind of learn to live with the smell.。
I can get used to it and pretend like it's not there.。
But eventually, there's going to be。
a catastrophe, an explosion, if you will,。
if I do not identify the source and repair the leak.。
And so tonight, I hope to help you。
as we move through the scriptures,。
identify the source of your anxiety,。
the source of your worries.。
And I'll start with just some statistics for our generation.。
These come from USA Today。
and the American Psychological Association,。
which says that America is by far。
the most anxious nation in the world.。
We have an epidemic of anxiety going on around us.。
And it says this,。
one third of Americans will have an anxiety disorder。
within their lifetime.。
That's over 40 million people in America right now。
have an anxiety disorder,。
over 50% of which occur between, listen,。
the ages of 17 and 34.。
Well, that's exactly the demographic。
that is hanging out right here.。
Most of us, or its effects,。
mostly our generation, our demographic.。
The highest levels of anxiety are in the generation。
born between 1980 and 2000.。
The American Psychological Association says,。
millennials' rate of anxiety。
are significantly above the national average.。
52% of us admit to having lain awake。
in the past months due to stress and anxiety.。
Here's what this means is,。
I could draw a line right here,。
you guys didn't sleep last night.。
Okay, like all of you in the past month。
have lied awake in bed with some stress keeping you up.。
76% admit to experiencing significant anxieties。
due to job, future, and economy.。
Okay, so what is anxiety?。
Let's define it before we dive into the scripture。
so you clearly know what you're talking about.。
Rollo May, who is an existential psychologist,。
I would tell you what that means if I knew it,。
but it's just a big word, adjective, before psychologist,。
and so some kind of special psychologist, this guy.。
He died in 1994, and he's kind of known。
as a guy who has separated fear into two categories.。
Okay, the first one is a good kind of fear,。
the second one is a bad kind of fear.。
The good kind of fear is a reactionary fear.。
It is a very specific fear.。
What it does is it kind of stirs up in us some adrenaline。
so that we react and respond appropriately。
to a situation when we are threatened, okay?。
It kicks in our, another big word, autonomic nervous system。
so that we can respond, and it mobilizes us to safety.。
Let me explain.。
I'm in the backyard this week, or this weekend, actually,。
and I'm working back there, and Weston is back there with me。
and I'm kind of sanding something, sanding a wooden ladder,。
and I'm not paying much attention to him,。
and all of a sudden, I look around and I don't see him.。
I'm in the backyard, and so then I run around the corner。
and I see the gate to the front yard,。
which leads to the street, is wide open,。
swinging open on its hinges, okay?。
This stirs up in me this first kind of fear,。
this reactionary fear.。
Somehow, I morph from the backyard to the front yard,。
like Raiden, okay, on Mortal Kombat.。
I'm just in the front yard, scanning the streets,。
yelling, "Weston!。
"Weston, Weston, I'm ready!"。
You know, I'm just, and the neighbors are outside.。
They're looking at me like I'm crazy,。
and then I turn around and he's on the swing set。
in the backyard.。
He was fine.。
I just looked crazy.。
But that is the first kind of fear, believe it or not.。
That is a good kind of fear.。
Now let's talk about the second kind of fear,。
otherwise known as anxiety.。
Rolomé labels this kind of fear worry, stress, or anxiety.。
This is not the good kind.。
This is the kind we're talking about tonight.。
This kind of fear, it is difficult to find the source.。
It's very difficult to know what actually causes this.。
Often, it's multi-layered, and what you think causes it。
is not actually the cause.。
It's something underneath that,。
and then something underneath that,。
and then something underneath that.。
This kind of fear distracts from productivity,。
while the other one actually makes us productive.。
This one holds us in kind of this apathetic,。
don't know what to do, worried state。
where we actually do nothing but worry,。
and it is very difficult to transition from.。
The other one, when I react to it。
and I see that the problem is solved,。
Weston's fine, I'm fine.。
I calm down quickly and I move on,。
and now it's a story we can laugh about.。
This second kind of fear, the bad kind of fear,。
holds you hostage.。
He doesn't let you go, and he just says,。
"Worry about me, worry about me, worry about me,。
"worry about me, okay, you wanna try to move on。
"to something else, hey, come back.。
"Come back and worry about me."。
Like some of you, you're getting anxious just hearing that.。
The second kind of fear, this anxious kind of fear,。
and it keeps our autonomic nervous system in gear.。
You can't calm down, and so your body。
is just running on this high adrenaline,。
and it causes fatigue, high blood pressure, stomach ulcers,。
and if you do not find the source, it can even cause death.。
Stressed yet?。
Let's move on.。
Tonight, we're gonna talk about two reasons not to worry,。
and then from the Scriptures, Matthew 6.。
First book in the New Testament, chapter six.。
We're gonna talk about how Jesus helps us wage war。
on our worries, and I hope to give you some solutions。
from the Scriptures.。
Matthew 6, it's a sermon outside.。
Jesus is in a natural amphitheater.。
The Pharisees are there, the sinners,。
the tax collectors are there, people are gathering.。
Jesus gives the most famous sermon of all time.。
People are listening, he's outside,。
he's probably sitting down, his disciples。
are probably near him, he's speaking。
in a natural speaking voice, and because of the shape。
of the earth in this place, which we've identified today,。
sound travels, okay, so you could hear him。
about a football field away, and people are listening。
as he talks about and instructs on the kingdom of heaven,。
who the kingdom is for, reserved for,。
what happens in the kingdom of heaven,。
who God is, talks about God's character,。
and what it looks like to live as a part。
of the kingdom of heaven, and Jesus says this。
in Matthew chapter six, verse 25.。
"Therefore I tell you, do not worry about your life,。
"what you will eat or drink, or about your body,。
"what you will wear.。
"It is not life more than food,。
"and the body more than clothes."。
Okay, what Jesus is doing is he's attacking their idols.。
See, in the first century church,。
the source of so many of their worries。
was actually food and clothing,。
the very basic necessities, and Jesus is going after these.。
"Look at the birds of the air, they do not sow or reap。
"or store away in barns, and yet your heavenly Father。
"feeds them, are you not much more valuable than they?"。
He asks, he's outside, some birds fly by,。
he's literally, this is a metaphor, teaching,。
"Look, look, you see the birds?。
"Does God not provide for them?。
"Does your heavenly Father not give them what they need?"。
They have a daily faith, they don't plan,。
they don't have like some provision of food stored up,。
or money in banks, they wake up today,。
they live for the day, they go to sleep,。
they wake up the next day, and they find food for that day.。
They don't put it anywhere, they have what they need。
in the day, it's a daily faith.。
Can you, can any one of you, by worrying。
at a single hour to your life,。
a question I want to spend some time on,。
and why do you worry about clothes,。
see how the flowers of the field grow,。
look at them, look at them, they do not labor or spin,。
yet I tell you, not even Solomon,。
if they came, they would have known King Solomon,。
the wealthiest man who has ever lived,。
and all of his splendor was,。
he wasn't even dressed like one of these,。
and if that is how God clothes the grass of the field。
which is here today and tomorrow is thrown into the fire,。
will he not much more clothe you,。
and in this attack, this seems like,。
from Jesus, you, of little faith.。
So my first point from the scripture is simply this,。
that worrying is a waste of life.。
Worrying is a waste of life, not just a waste of time,。
it's not just that time passes by,。
it's that time passes by。
in the most negative type of experience.。
You're not doing anything productive,。
your time is passed by, your life is moving forward,。
and you are stuck doing something unproductive and negative。
that has a negative effect on you,。
it literally costs you life.。
You ever seen someone given to worry?。
Right, you ever seen their hair begins to turn gray。
or fall out and their eyes droop。
and they age, it ages you prematurely,。
it costs you life.。
And Jesus who came in John 10, 10 says,。
so that you might have life and have it to the fullest,。
who loves you says, I don't want that for you,。
I want something better for you,。
I have something better for you,。
and so he commands us not to do it.。
That's what I want you to realize from this text。
that do not worry is a command from the scriptures.。
Verse 25, I tell you do not worry about your life.。
Verse 31, so do not worry,。
and then verse 34, therefore do not worry.。
This is like do not get drunk, okay,。
do not have sex until you're married,。
don't kill, don't steal, don't worry.。
It is a command potentially clearer than some of those are.。
In the scripture, do not worry.。
And what that means, it being a command form,。
is that to do so is a sin.。
And I don't say that to rid you with guilt,。
okay, we know that Jesus died for our sins,。
what is necessary to get into heaven。
is that you have to be a sinner,。
you have to need a savior,。
you have to have a savior in Christ.。
So it's, I know that you are sinners,。
I know that that's what we all have in common here today。
is that we're sinners and some of us have in common Christ,。
that we've been saved by him.。
But this idea of worry is a sin,。
and it's important for us to understand that。
so that we can treat it like a sin.。
Not so that you can feel condemned,。
but so that you can confess it consistently.。
You gather in community, this guy says,。
well I looked at porn this week,。
and then you go and you pray for him。
and you talk about a plan and then you go。
and you say, you know what, this week I was given to worry.。
I was overwhelmed by anxiety,。
would you guys please pray for me。
and can we talk about a plan so that I can move forward.。
Can you guys help me find the source of this anxiety。
so that I can trust God there.。
You would treat it like a sin, you would confess it,。
you would pray for it regular,。
this is what we should do with this command, do not worry.。
And so some judgmental Christians。
can so easily see the sins of the world,。
the sins like drunkenness or premarital sex。
or pornography or whatever that is,。
and we overlook our own worry.。
We don't trust the God that we say we believe in.。
Right?。
Paul says it like this.。
Do not be anxious, do not worry,。
do not be anxious about anything,。
be anxious for nothing, do not worry about anything,。
but in every situation by prayer and petition。
with thanksgiving, present your request to God.。
He goes on to say in the peace of God,。
which transcends all understanding,。
will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus.。
Paul says do not worry about,。
Paul what can I worry about God,。
what can I worry about, not anything.。
Don't worry about anything.。
But I worry about school right?。
No, not anything.。
I can worry about my relationship right,。
no not anything.。
About my status?。
No, not even.。
About my job, I can worry about that, no.。
What about my bank account, rent?。
No, nothing.。
Don't worry about anything he says.。
It is impractical, but very, very clear.。
And so as we talk so much here about changing the world,。
I believe God through you wants to change the world。
and redeem this place.。
I don't want you to worry,。
I don't want you to waste your life。
worrying, spinning in unproductive activity.。
I want you to be mobilized for the sake of the gospel,。
giving your life to it,。
so that God through you would redeem this broken world。
that we live in, so that as he comes here to restore it,。
you would have began his work.。
You would begin his work,。
not focused on the worries of tomorrow,。
the stresses of this life,。
the anxieties of this place.。
Last week I typed an email,。
there was an email to the elders here,。
who are essentially my boss's boss,。
and I don't know if you've ever sent an email。
to people who you view as important,。
like I view these guys as important.。
Now let me disclaim this a little bit,。
the elders here are great men.。
They are gracious men, compassionate men,。
incredible leaders, they love Jesus.。
But I have a problem,。
and that problem is I tend to put men like that。
on a pedestal, and I tend to need their approval,。
and whenever I type an email to a boss or a boss's boss,。
it's like I go back to the sixth grade,。
and I'm getting picked for dodgeball,。
or not getting picked in my case, right?。
And so it's just like all of these insecurities.。
So I typed this email last week, I sit on it for a week,。
I read it like 16 times, I forwarded it to others,。
hey will you read this for just approval,。
will you proofread this,。
we'll make sure there's no mistakes in here.。
It's important.。
And then I sit there, and I have my finger。
over the send button, and a lot of you are wondering。
what did the email say?。
It was like nothing of importance.。
Absolutely nothing of importance.。
Completely underwhelming content.。
And I hit send, and I try to go on about my day,。
and I think back about that email.。
And then you won't believe it, I go back in the sent items,。
I open it up, I read it again.。
And then I see a left out word in the first paragraph,。
I'm just like oh, I can't believe it.。
They're gonna fire me, I left out a word.。
Right, which is ridiculous.。
And I'm sitting there, and I'm had this anxiety,。
and then Todd, senior pastor here, responds,。
and just says hey great email,。
thank you so much for sending that.。
And then what happens, all those worries just dissipate.。
Why?。
What's the source of my anxiety?。
Need for approval, man.。
I need you to like me.。
I need you to like me.。
You can become a God to me.。
It's gross.。
And I'm so, I just, I need your approval.。
Fear of man.。
I'd say I know none of you have probably ever done that,。
you probably just hit send and don't think twice,。
but for me that was a source of anxiety in my life.。
Was it productive?。
Absolutely not.。
It was unbelievably unproductive.。
The worry, the anxiety, that was the smell.。
What was the source of that smell?。
A fear of man, a need for approval.。
There was a leak in my life.。
And it was a complete waste of time.。
What else, let's dive in the scriptures.。
Verse 30.。
If that is how God clothes the grass of the field。
which is here today and tomorrow is thrown into the fire,。
will he not much more clothe you, you of little faith?。
So do not worry, saying, what shall we eat。
or what shall we drink or what shall we wear?。
For the pagans run after all these things。
and your heavenly Father knows that you need them.。
Pagans is a word for unbelievers, that's what that means.。
Those who don't know God, those who don't trust God.。
And so it says in there, in the scripture,。
it says for the pagans run after these things.。
Pagans are concerned with what they're gonna eat。
and what they're going to wear.。
Very difficult to understand this passage in the Greek.。
It's really important that we translate this。
so that we can bring it down because certainly。
it's not saying what it looks like it's saying.。
And so what it means, what it's actually saying,。
be ready for this, you write it down, it's profound.。
It means pagans run after these things.。
That these things are for pagans.。
Pagans are the ones who are concerned。
about what they're going to eat.。
Nonbelievers, those who don't know God,。
they're the ones that are constantly thinking。
about what am I gonna wear?。
Will I have enough money?。
Where am I gonna live?。
What about this, what about that?。
Let me think about tomorrow.。
Where am I gonna eat, what am I gonna eat?。
What if I don't have enough money to eat?。
He says nonbelievers are concerned with these things.。
Those that don't have a God to trust in.。
And so my second point this evening。
is that worrying is worldly worship.。
Worrying is worldly worship.。
See food and clothing, as I said earlier,。
we're their idols.。
And who worship idols?。
Pagans worship idols.。
Those who do not know the one true God,。
they're the ones that worship idols.。
You show me your worries and I'll show you your idols.。
You show me what you're worried about。
and I will show you your idols.。
So often the source of our smell,。
the source of our leak,。
is that something in our lives has become too important.。
Something, in my case, the elders, my boss, Todd,。
something has become too important.。
So what is the source of your worries?。
Food and clothing were theirs, what are ours?。
Is it career advancement or fear of being overlooked。
or fear of staying single or fear of missing out。
or fear of not advancing in your career。
or fear of losing your job?。
See so often the source of our worries are just worldliness.。
It's just like we're stuck in this temporary world。
and we begin to worship the things in this world.。
They become ultimate in our lives.。
They replace God as ultimate.。
And then all of a sudden if one of those is compromised。
or if we even think about the idea。
of one of those being compromised,。
our world comes crumbling down.。
Tim Keller says that worry is being fearful。
that God will get it wrong。
and bitterness is believing he did.。
And I just think he nailed it.。
Worrying is being fearful that God will get it wrong.。
Has God ever gotten it wrong?。
He's never gotten it wrong, the God that we worship.。
And we worry because we think that God。
will not give us what we need。
or we fear that his desires are different than ours,。
that what we desire and what he desires,。
those won't be the same thing.。
But I wanna ask you a question.。
Have you ever chased your worries down?。
As you try to find where that leak is,。
you just kinda keep in your mind chasing what is it?。
You keep peeling that onion.。
You keep peeling back the layers.。
What is it behind that?。
Well, what is it behind that?。
There's a really powerful question a friend asked me once。
and it was the question what if?。
What if, it was such a powerful question.。
I came to him, this was before I worked for the church,。
I was in sales, I was really discouraged.。
I was a Christian, I was being discipled at this time。
and the gentleman who was discipling me,。
who was teaching me the Bible sat down。
and he just saw the look of stress and anxiety on my face.。
Is everything all right?。
No, it's not.。
What's wrong?。
I was like, man, I just, I'm not, you know,。
I gotta get in front of more customers.。
I was in sales.。
I gotta get in front of more customers.。
He says, well, what if you don't?。
Well, if I don't, duh, I'm not gonna make quota.。
I said, okay, what if you don't make quota?。
Well, if I don't make quota, I'm gonna be put on a plan.。
Okay, what if you put on a plan?。
Well, if I don't make quota again, if I put on a plan,。
I may not make quota the next month.。
Well, what if you don't make quota the next month?。
If I don't make quota two months in a row,。
I'm gonna get fired.。
I said, what if you get fired?。
Well, if I get fired, I'm not gonna have any money.。
Well, what if you don't have any money?。
Well, if I don't have any money,。
I'm not gonna get a date.。
What if you don't get a date?。
If I don't get a date, I'm not gonna get married.。
And if I don't get married, I'm gonna have lots of cats,。
and I don't even like cats.。
Okay, why are we playing this what if game?。
And we kept chasing and chasing and chasing,。
trying to figure out what it was,。
which in my situation was security,。
was a need for comfort and security.。
I didn't wanna worry, I didn't wanna have to rely on God.。
Like he says in here, a daily faith.。
I don't want a daily, God, don't make me trust you.。
Can you give me so much so that I don't have to trust you?。
How about we do that?。
How about that's how this works.。
I'll worship you, I'll learn this book,。
and you give me so much that I never need to trust you.。
How about that deal?。
Can we do that?。
I don't want a daily faith like the birds.。
Man, what if I starve in America?。
(audience laughing)。
Get up there and see Jesus, and like,。
hey Jesus, I starved.。
That's right.。
You said I wouldn't, and I did.。
I said, welcome to my kingdom.。
Okay, non-issue.。
No problem.。
Starved.。
Does anyone read this and think, yeah, yeah, yeah,。
but birds starve.。
I mean, birds die, like wait a minute.。
Somewhere, someplace, some birds gotta starve to death.。
He says if he cares for the birds,。
will he not care for you?。
And I'm like, wait a minute,。
does he always care for the birds?。
Let's talk about that for a second.。
Jesus goes to great lengths to show you in Matthew 10,。
same book, different chapter.。
He says this, Matthew 10, verse 29.。
Are not two sparrows sold for a penny,。
yet not one of them will fall to the ground。
outside your father's care?。
Wow.。
That a sparrow is worth half a cent,。
you're worth much more than them,。
the scripture says, twice.。
And he says not even a sparrow falls to the ground。
outside of the Lord's will, outside of his care.。
That's what it says.。
And even the very hairs of your head are all numbered,。
so don't be afraid, you're worth more than many sparrows.。
He goes to great lengths to show you。
that God is in control.。
And so our right response to his control。
is to look to what he's doing and trust him.。
Let me show you from the scriptures, verse 33.。
But seek first his kingdom and his righteousness。
and all these things will be given to you as well.。
Therefore do not worry about tomorrow,。
for tomorrow will worry about itself.。
Each day has enough trouble of its own.。
And so now let's talk about waging war with worries.。
How do we now wage war with worries?。
From this text, it says that we seek first his kingdom.。
What does this mean?。
It means, number one, remember what God is doing.。
God, it's a very powerful question。
and if your first knee-jerking worry is this question,。
ready, God, what are you up to?。
God, what are you doing?。
God, I know you're doing something,。
you're always doing something.。
For the eyes of the Lord go to and fro。
throughout the earth, looking for hearts。
that are fully his, the scripture says.。
God, what is it that you're doing?。
And what is he doing?。
I mean, I've read the script, I read how it ends, right?。
It ends, you know, Satan zero, Jesus infinity,。
a new heaven, new earth,。
we get to be in God's kingdom forever。
if you've trusted in Jesus for the forgiveness of your sins.。
You get to live forever with God.。
That's what he's doing and so you're just somewhere。
in this kind of middle, weird process of that。
and he is bringing that forward。
and so in the midst of your worries, right,。
you know, you're like, well, what if?。
Well, I might be single forever.。
Well, until I die and then I get up to heaven。
and I'm married to Jesus, which is weird if you're a dude,。
but true, but true, but true,。
you get to be the bride of God.。
Well, nobody gets up to heaven and is like,。
man, God, I can't believe you made me single。
for those 80 years.。
I mean, I don't even think anyone even comprehends。
that up there, you get up there and you're like,。
hey, all this is yours, you're the heir to the kingdom.。
Okay, where do I start?。
Start with worshiping you for a couple hundred thousand。
years, I mean, this is the reality that we live in, right?。
What, God, what are you doing?。
Remember that God is doing something.。
Seek first his kingdom and then seek first his righteousness.。
What does that mean?。
Remember that God is good.。
Secondly, we remember that God is good.。
Your worries are not bad if you respond。
to them appropriately.。
How do you respond to them appropriately?。
They are your greatest opportunity to trust God.。
The things that cause you anxiety are your greatest。
opportunities to trust the God that you say you believe in.。
God, I want to respond appropriately, I want to trust you.。
And every worry that comes to your mind is just a whisper.。
You know what the whisper says?。
It's this, you can't trust God.。
Hey, you can't trust God, he's not good.。
God's not good.。
He doesn't care about you.。
He's not good.。
There's a worry he's not good.。
There's a worry he's not good.。
There's a worry you can't trust him.。
There's a worry he's not good.。
There's a worry he's forgotten you.。
He's forgotten you.。
He doesn't care about you.。
Are any of these things true?。
These are the things your worries whisper.。
God is not good, you cannot trust him.。
He has forgotten you.。
And so we battle worry with worship。
and we battle fear with faith.。
We battle worry with worship and we battle fear with faith.。
It says this in 2 Corinthians 10 five,。
it's a very powerful, very powerful verse.。
It says this, we demolish arguments。
in every pretension that set itself up。
against the knowledge of God.。
And we take captive, take captive.。
It says, it goes on to say, we take captive。
every thought to make it obedient to Christ.。
Take captive sounds so violent.。
It sounds like UFC, like rear naked choke,。
like come here, I'll take you captive.。
It sounds, I mean, doesn't it sound like being escorted out,。
like some battle, like take you captive, you know.。
Get in there.。
Lock it up, throw away the key, I took it captive.。
He says you take captive every argument。
that tries to tell you that God is not good.。
That God is not trustworthy, that God does not love you,。
that God does not have a plan.。
You take that thought captive and you make it obedient.。
You make it your slave, you make it obedient to Jesus.。
Oh no, he's good.。
He sent his son Jesus to die for me in my place.。
He paid for my sins, he set me free from it.。
He's good, he's good, you make it obedient.。
And I met with people who struggle with anxiety。
and I think so often what they do。
is they take those thoughts captive。
until they keep coming back relentlessly。
and then they eventually give up.。
Hey, you gotta take those thoughts captive.。
I'm trying, I'm trying.。
Don't try, take 'em captive.。
Hey, you may have to take 'em captive for 10 years,。
two decades maybe, but you keep taking 'em captive.。
You don't stop taking 'em captive.。
Let me illustrate.。
I told you we had a rat problem.。
Very, very frustrating, this rat problem, okay.。
I hired a professional, a rat buster if you will.。
He came over and I paid him a lot of money。
to get rid of these rats.。
And he tried and he failed.。
So I took matters into my own hands。
and I went to Home Depot and I spent $1.50。
on a little rat trap and I set it, set it,。
and I put peanut butter and bacon bits,。
that's free, in there and I got a rat.。
And I set it again and I got a rat.。
And I set it again and I got a rat.。
Now we're waging war, okay.。
I'm killing these rats, but they're like。
having a party up there.。
The guy told me there were hundreds of 'em, okay.。
I don't know if he was serious, but that's what he said.。
And so I'm up there, I'm like, hey, I will do this。
the rest of my life if it takes it.。
I will kill all these rats.。
And I set the trap again, got one,。
it was a celebration, we're here, go get 'em,。
dump it, set it again, let's go rats, okay.。
They got signs in my attic, says free rent, right there.。
They're having a party up there,。
a rat party is occurring right above my master bedroom.。
But I'm waging war with these rats.。
And eventually I set that trap and it sat there.。
And victory was mine.。
I killed every rat in Richardson, Texas.。
You're welcome, you're welcome, you're welcome.。
They are now extinct in Richardson.。
And it took a lot of work and a lot of effort。
and being consistent, but eventually they were dead.。
And that's what it means, you take those thoughts captive.。
You do not give up taking those thoughts.。
They're gonna come back, it's gonna come back.。
I'm telling you, it's gonna come back, you take it captive.。
It's come back, you take it captive.。
I want you to replace those thoughts。
that you can't trust God with the good things,。
with the good things that he's done.。
Has God done some good things?。
Is God trustworthy?。
Man, God has done some amazing things, guys.。
The God that you worship created the heavens and the earth。
and everything in it.。
He told the land where to stop, the sky where to stop.。
He gave the earth its boundaries.。
He created humans, put them in the garden。
so that they might worship him and know him。
and walk in relationship with him.。
And then when evil had taken over,。
he creates this ark, this boat,。
and he puts the people that are his people on that boat,。
and in the midst of destruction, he preserves life.。
And after that, he unlocks wombs.。
And then his people are in slavery,。
he provides them a way out, a sea for them to move through。
so that their enemies, those that are running after them,。
are captured, and then he provided manna from heaven。
so that they might eat.。
He brought down the walls of Jericho.。
He killed giants with tiny stones.。
He brought water from a rock.。
He brought down fire from heaven.。
He shut the mouths of lions.。
He brought life through the fiery furnace.。
He controls the wind and the rain.。
He's fed thousands with little.。
He's healed the sick.。
He's made the blind see, the deaf hear, the mute speak.。
And he's brought the dead back to life,。
and he's made provision for you and me through the cross。
as Jesus died for your sins and rose from the grave.。
Can you not trust him?。
You're gonna trust him with your salvation,。
but not trust him in your day to day?。
You're gonna say, "God, you saved me。
"and reconciled me to yourself forever?"。
But man, I'm single.。
(audience laughing)。
And I don't know if I'm gonna have any money.。
Can you not trust him?。
He's a very, very trustworthy God.。
And this is why thirdly,。
we take it day by day, one day at a time.。
Thirdly, you take it one day at a time.。
He says this in the scripture.。
He says, "Who," I'll find it in just one second.。
He says, "Therefore do not worry about tomorrow,。
"for tomorrow will worry about itself.。
"Each day has enough trouble of its own."。
And so you trust him.。
You take it one day at a time,。
and I want you to give your worries a 12 hour boundary.。
You do not let your worries venture。
past that 12 hour boundary.。
You say, "You know what?。
"God has me in today.。
"I don't even know if tomorrow will happen."。
You're worried about losing your job tomorrow?。
There may not be a company tomorrow.。
There might not be life tomorrow.。
Jesus might come back tonight while you sleep, man.。
You give your worries 12 hour.。
You say, "Hey, this is the 12 hours I'm gonna live in.。
"I'm not going to let my mind venture past these 12 hours。
"because so often our worries are future-based.。
"It's something out there that we're living in,。
"some unreality, okay?。
"Something that's not true,。
"something that's some future conversation。
"that we begin to have in our head,。
"and all of a sudden there you are,。
"and your boss is there, and you're all worked up."。
And it never even happened.。
It just happened up here.。
Take those thoughts captive。
and make them obedient to Christ.。
Don't entertain those thoughts.。
You make them obedient to Jesus.。
You be nearsighted with your worries,。
not farsighted with your worries.。
So I don't know what tomorrow holds.。
I've heard it said, "I don't know what tomorrow holds,。
"but I know who holds tomorrow."。
And I'm telling you, you can trust the one who holds tomorrow.。
This is what you have to worry about.。
What is right before you?。
What's at your feet?。
That's it.。
So in summary, worrying is a waste of life.。
Worrying is worldly worship.。
And we wage war on worries by。
remembering what God is doing,。
remembering that he is good,。
and taking it one day at a time.。
Do you know what the source of that smell is?。
The source of that anxiety?。
It's a slow leak of faith.。
That's all it is.。
It's just a slow leak of faith.。
It's coming out.。
Can't trust him.。
He's not good.。
He doesn't love you.。
He's forgotten you.。
Slow leak of faith.。
And it spun up this smell of anxiety in your life.。
I remember a very specific day.。
I had become a Christian.。
It was about six months to a year into Christianity.。
And when I became a Christian,。
I did so with much zeal as I do many things in my life.。
And so I found Jesus, or Jesus found me.。
I fell in love with him.。
I began to study him.。
I began to tell everyone I could about him.。
I just was really in love with the Savior.。
Okay, you're just like a new Christian.。
I would've talked to anybody about the gospel.。
I was fearless for the gospel.。
And then that began to wear off,。
and the real world kinda started kicking back in。
and began to kick me around.。
And then all of a sudden I realized。
I had to go back to this job that I didn't really like.。
And so that's where I was at.。
I was anxious.。
I mean, you could go down the very things。
that we've talked about here,。
and those were the things.。
I mean, it was work.。
I was anxious about work.。
I was anxious about money.。
Anxiety about work usually is anxiety about money.。
I thought about myself way too much.。
I had become an idol in myself.。
I was worried about my single status.。
I didn't know if I should be single。
or if I should get married or what that looked like。
or what the right age was and when do you know.。
And they keep telling me, hey, you just know when you know.。
And I wanted to hit 'em in the mouth.。
And I was worried about authority。
because I didn't really trust the authority。
that was over me.。
And then my life, as I looked at the relationships。
that I had, were marked by much conflict.。
So so many of the things we covered。
had caused such anxiety in my life now。
and this God that I said that I believed in。
and trusted in for salvation,。
I no longer trusted in for the day to day.。
And I knew I needed to get right。
and I knew I needed to renew my mind.。
And so I show up to church about 45 minutes early。
on a Sunday and we met in this high school at the time.。
And so I get there 45 minutes.。
I remember that the doors were locked.。
This guy let me in.。
And the only people who were there。
were the ones that were kind of bringing in the equipment,。
the sound equipment,。
'cause we met in this high school auditorium.。
And so they were bringing in stuff.。
It was just the volunteers.。
And instead of helping them,。
I went and I sat down in the auditorium。
and I just sat down there and I began to pray。
and wrestle with God and just like,。
oh, I was so anxious.。
And I was thinking about all of these things。
I just told you about.。
And I opened my Bible.。
And I didn't even know like the books of the Bible.。
I didn't know the Bible at the time.。
I was a new believer and new Christian.。
And so I just kind of opened it。
and it turned to this page with a bunch of red words on it.。
Words of Jesus.。
Jesus was preaching a sermon in Matthew chapter six.。
And I was right here.。
And I read, do not worry.。
Who by worrying can add a single hour to his life?。
Seek first his kingdom and his righteousness。
and all these things will be added to you.。
Do not worry about tomorrow。
for tomorrow has enough worries of its own.。
I kept reading the do not worry.。
Do not worry, do not worry.。
And in this moment, it was like my peripheral was blurred.。
And as I read the words of Jesus on the page,。
it was like the Holy Spirit just whispered to me。
in a merciful, compassionate way.。
As my head translated that to my heart,。
what I heard was, I got you.。
I got you.。
Which has really become like a mantra in my life。
when I've carried into this ministry。
as we say, he's got you, he's got you.。
I just heard, I mean, that was it.。
In that moment, I sat there and in one of those rare times,。
I just heard the voice of the Lord so clearly。
and he just says, I got you.。
What are you worried about?。
I got you.。
I got you.。
That's what I want you to hear tonight.。
Through this text, as we read it together,。
and he says, hey guys, God provides for the birds。
and for the flowers.。
You fix your eyes on Jesus.。
You turn your eyes on him.。
You seek first his kingdom and his righteousness。
and then you trust him for everything else。
'cause he's got you.。
He's got you.。
He's got you.。
Let me pray.。
(pages rustling)。
Father, as we sing this closing love song to you,。
would you remove the distractions of the person next to us,。
the person raising their hand in front of us?。
Would you remove the distractions of that conversation。
we had with the boss or a coworker?。
Would you remove the distractions。
of our dwindling banking count,。
the distractions of our single status,。
the distractions of our bad relationship,。
the distractions of our sin yesterday,。
this morning, an hour ago?。
And Father, would you fix our eyes on Christ?。
Give us only Christ as we sing this song to you.。
Would you just help us to know you more through your son?。
And would you just remind us in your subtle。
or not so subtle ways that you love us,。
that you're good, that we can trust you?。
Father, I thank you for those promises.。
Would you please remind my friends of that,。
that we might be unleashed for your kingdom,。
not distracted by our worries?。
You got us.。
You got us.。
Said this before and I,。
it's something that's ministered to me,。
but just this powerful equation.。
Just that there's a God who controls everything。
and he loves you.。
He controls everything and he loves you.。
He's good.。
And so if you turn that into a math equation,。
it's like God controls everything,。
plus God loves you, plus God is good, equals your peace.。
What do you have to worry about?。
There's a God who controls everything,。
who's good and loves you.。
What can you worry about?。
So just return to that truth.。
Move back to that truth.。
If you don't know that truth,。
if you're here and you've never trusted in Christ,。
when I say trust in Christ,。
I'm not talking about a magic prayer you did。
when you were six or anything like that,。
that you've never kind of went back to.。
I'm talking about a literal belief。
that God became a man in the form of Jesus Christ,。
lived a perfect life as an example for us。
and then died a perfect death,。
a torturous death on a cross for our sins,。
that he literally paid the price for our sins,。
the wage for our sins,。
the cost of our sins was satisfied on him.。
He goes in the grave like every dead person would,。
except for he came out defeating sin,。
defeating death and offering you life eternally with God。
should you trust in that.。
(silence)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
