[phone ringing]。
- Hey, girl, what you doing?。
- Oh, I actually just downloaded another dating app.。
- Oh, my gosh, show me.。
- More apps, more chances, though, right?。
- Absolutely. - This one's called Instadate,。
and I think it's the one. Let's check it out.。
That was fast.。
- Hi, there. You want to work out?。
- Hi-oh, the name's Bob, zoology major from Northwest--。
- Absolutely.。
- Winter Smith, you'd like to slackline?。
- Oh, swipe left.。
- Name's Clarence, 47 years old.。
I really dig kittens. - Oh, yeah, you do.。
- Ciao, Bella. My name is Giuseppe.。
You love me?。
Oh, she don't love me.。
- What is up, girl? My name is Will.。
God's Will.。
- Okay, swipe left.。
- This dude's back again.。
- Just trying to be persistent.。
- All right, go Bears.。
- Hi, I'm looking for the small group study rooms.。
Can y'all tell me where that is?。
- Oh, swipe right. Swipe right.。
- What are you doing?。
- Oh, you're not on Instadate.。
- Nope, just looking for the small group rooms.。
Do y'all know where those are?。
- Yeah, I know where those are at.。
- Do you mind showing me?。
- Sylvia, whip left.。
- Okay, sure, right over here.。
- I'm Cody.。
- Oh, Sylvia.。
- It's good to meet you.。
- Nice to meet you.。
[rock music]。
♪ ♪。
- All right, well, hello, Porsche.。
I am not JP. I heard it right here.。
I love it. I ain't JP.。
[laughter]。
That's what he said right here.。
[laughter]。
Sister, stand up and swipe left.。
That's what I say right there to that side.。
[laughter]。
All right. There we go.。
I love that. That's good.。
I am not JP, all right?。
I am Todd, but what you need to know。
is long before there were apps and smartphones,。
I swiped right almost 25 years ago,。
and it has been the greatest blessing of my life.。
Her name is Alex.。
[cheers and applause]。
And I'm gonna tell you how I knew to swipe right on that gal.。
There was a lot about Alex。
that was exceedingly attractive to me.。
Namely, it was obvious to me。
that Alex Wagner did not need me to be complete.。
This was a gal that I saw a lot of guys pursue.。
She was not getting her identity from men.。
She wasn't getting her identity from me.。
This was a woman that was secure.。
So here's the deal.。
I was a guy that was in leadership at that time。
and had opportunities to stand before a lot of individuals。
just like this when I was single,。
and so because of my position a little bit,。
there were times that it was a way。
to maybe get just a little bit of personal encouragement,。
if you will, from some people if they were nearer to me。
just 'cause that's the way our crazy world works.。
Sometimes if you're in a position, if you have power,。
if you have beauty, if you're well-funded,。
you know, folks wanna be around you。
and tell people that they're around you a little bit,。
and I noticed that Alex didn't really need。
any of that affirmation that would come。
from some guy that was in some fleeting position.。
Now this was really encouraging to me。
because the position that I was in。
was one not unlike, you know, D. Marv or Luke or JP。
would be in in this setting right here,。
but the truth is is I knew that I was not,。
no matter who I thought I was,。
a guy that if a girl really got to know me。
would forever be satisfied.。
I was committed to doing everything I could。
to care for a girl, love a girl, and encourage a girl,。
but I knew if she married me and I was her God,。
it wasn't gonna be long before she left this idol。
and tried to find someplace else to have her needs met.。
And so it was an incredibly encouraging thing to me。
when there was a girl who knew she didn't need me,。
but saw where I was running,。
and I saw where she was running,。
and we were running the same direction。
about the same pace, which was with all we had,。
and we thought, you know what?。
Why don't we run together?。
And thus began the story that's 25 years old。
of Todd and Alex Wagner,。
and it has been a ride.。
Now listen, we're doing a little series here at the porch。
called Save the Date,。
and last week JP talked about reasons。
why it might be okay to go ahead and get married.。
There's good reasons to get married.。
The Bible says one thing about marriage。
that is a guaranteed promise,。
and that is that such will have trouble in this life.。
Now it also says that there is a purpose to marriage,。
and the purpose of marriage is not to give you trouble,。
but when Paul's talking about that in 1 Corinthians 7,。
he's just saying, listen, if you marry,。
and the Holy Spirit, Paul was single,。
made Paul, put in there Paul, as you're writing,。
and you tell them that you wish they would remain single。
so they'd be fully focused on the mission at hand,。
and we've done a great job in this series。
of talking about whether you marry one day or not,。
you are not married today,。
and so you ought to be doing today。
things that you won't be able to do when you are married.。
For me, one of those things was to serve Christ。
in a very focused way,。
to have lots of time to study the Bible,。
memorize the Bible, read the Bible,。
pour into younger men,。
raise a golden retriever to be an amazing specimen。
of what a dog should be.。
You need to know this.。
I had an amazing dog.。
He was in my wedding.。
He was the ring bearer in my wedding.。
I knew I married a good woman when the mother-in-law said,。
and I asked for her hand in marriage,。
yes, if Caleb is in the wedding,。
and I go, well, we're not sure how we're gonna do that.。
She goes, you'll figure it out.。
That dog can do anything, and so he was.。
We cuff-linked him up, shampooed that brother,。
and we had him come in,。
and he gave the ring away to me。
as he came down the aisle, you know,。
and then he came up and sat right here.。
I leaned down, whispered in his ear.。
You know, he knew to raise his paw when I did that.。
He slapped it in my hand, and then I just pointed,。
and he kind of ran out,。
didn't pee on the flowers on the way out, thank God,。
and just left.。
I have since bought another golden retriever.。
Let me tell you what you cannot do。
when you're married and have six kids.。
Raise another awesome dog, all right?。
So while you're single, get a dog,。
train it to do amazing things, right?。
Caleb could do that.。
I'd use him to speak.。
I'd use him lots of places for illustrations.。
I could be in my house with a bunch of friends,。
and I'd seen a Stroh's Beer commercial。
where the guy taught a dog to go in there。
and get stuff for him,。
and so I taught Crockett to go fetch me a cold one.。
I tied a sock around the little handle of the fridge,。
and when I was sitting there with him,。
I said, "Hey, Crockett,"。
or actually, that's my new dog that can't do anything,。
all right, "Caleb, go fetch me a cold one,"。
and so he would go in, he'd pull that sock,。
he'd open the door to the fridge,。
he'd grab a Mountain Dew or a Pepsi,。
whatever it was I was drinking at that time,。
he'd bring, he'd nose that thing shut,。
he'd bring it in there and drop it to me,。
and it was a great party trick, a lot of fun.。
So something you can do when you're single。
is raise a good dog.。
I don't recommend you make that your focus, all right?。
(audience laughing)。
But if you ever want a good dog,。
don't wait 'til you're married with children.。
Okay, side note, file that, move on, I'm okay.。
All right.。
(audience laughing)。
What I did do, though,。
is I was committed in a way that was appropriate.。
I was not focused on serving a woman while I was single.。
I was focused, as a servant of Christ,。
in being a steward of his mysteries。
and advancing his kingdom,。
of growing in Christlikeness in every way that I could.。
Now I am focused on advancing his kingdom,。
growing in Christlikeness in every way that I can,。
being a good servant of his,。
and loving this woman in the way that he loves me.。
And can I tell you something?。
That is really difficult for me.。
It is a all-consuming job for me,。
and it's a source of glory to God when you do it right.。
It's a source of blessing to you,。
but there is trouble in covenanting with another person。
to say, "I'm gonna move towards you the rest of my life,。
"and together we're going to do。
"what both of us wanted to do alone."。
JP talked about good reasons that you should date,。
and let me tell you why you should date.。
You should date because you have an intention。
to yoke with another person。
for the purpose of bringing glory to God。
and multiplying a godly heritage.。
By the way, if you are single,。
you should live for the purpose of bringing glory to God。
and multiplying a godly heritage,。
not through children that you introduce。
to your discipleship program through biological reproduction,。
but by multiplying yourself out in other individuals.。
I've got spiritual children all over this city.。
I've got six biological children。
that have been through a discipleship program in my house。
that I have set free into the world.。
I was stewards of those lives,。
and my wife and I together have sought to love each other。
in a way that they would see the mystery of the Godhead,。
which I'm gonna explain to you,。
that together we could rule the world。
better than either one of us could ourself,。
that we could multiply a godly heritage。
as we brought to bear all that God built into me as a father。
and all that God built into her as a mother,。
that we could mutually sharpen and complete each other。
in a way that only two people that are around each other。
all the time could,。
and we could model what unconditional, unforsaking love was。
and what right response was to it.。
When I got married, Alex and I both understood。
that was the mission.。
In other words, when you go to get married,。
the way that you can know, if you will,。
to marry right or to swipe right in today's Tinder phraseology。
is you better marry somebody that has a picture of marriage。
that is consistent with yours.。
There is nothing more destructive to the architecture of a house。
or the assembly of a building。
than if there are two people that are building。
on different blueprints.。
Proverbs 23 says this,。
"By wisdom a house is built,。
"and by understanding it is established,。
"and by knowledge its rooms are filled。
"with precious and good things."。
And so if Alex and I have got a different blueprint,。
a different design for what the family should look like,。
it will not go well with us.。
This is not about where you put the furniture。
or what color you paint the wall.。
I'm talking about the foundation you pour。
and where you put the beams。
and where the bedroom is and where the fireplace is.。
And if there's a disagreement about where you build fires,。
your house is destroyed.。
And so what I want to do tonight in the Save the Date series。
is to talk to you about the blueprint for marriage.。
If it is true, and it is,。
that the purpose of dating is that you would see。
if this is a person that is going to build the way that I build。
and invest the way that I invest,。
and that I might get to know if we are together committed。
to what God wants us to be committed to,。
then you ought to know what you're committed to.。
And so that's what we're going to talk about tonight.。
You've got to figure out who your master is.。
Once you figure out who your master is,。
that will determine your mission.。
And once you determine your mission,。
then you can say, "Okay, if I do hook up,。
"if I do have a mate,。
"it better be somebody who's got the same master。
"so they'll have the same mission,。
"and I'll lock arms with them."。
So the very first question you've got to ask yourself is,。
"Who's your master?。
"Who is the Lord in your life?"。
If it's you, and by the way,。
this is the reason most people date,。
because they're their own master,。
and they want to enslave you so they can serve their master.。
Those are dangerous people.。
And they want to use you for their pleasure.。
You are their play toy, their play thing,。
and they are a playboy,。
and when you play with boys, they hurt you.。
And what I'm going to recommend to you tonight。
is that you find a man,。
and you find a woman who fears the Lord,。
and not whose beauty is charming,。
deceitful, and vain.。
I told my son as I just unleashed him。
onto a college campus,。
and we were walking there at the University of Arkansas,。
I was getting ready to drop him off,。
and I'm walking around,。
and I am seeing one pretty little Arkansas cutie after another。
as I'm walking across this campus.。
All right?。
And I'm just kind of watching him,。
and Dad's there, so he's not kind of doing this action,。
but he's noticing what I'm noticing.。
We are visual people.。
We have eyes.。
We can see.。
And so there's cute girls that are everywhere.。
And so I'm walking with his younger brother and his mom,。
and I finally put my arm on his shoulder,。
and I say, "Hey, slow down.。
"Slow down.。
"Come on back here with me for a second."。
[laughter]。
You know, "What, did you see her too?。
"Let's check her out."。
No, that's not why I'm slowing down.。
[laughter]。
Not why I'm slowing down.。
What I said to him, I go, "Hey, Coop, man,。
"do you see--what I said,。
"do you see all the beautiful women。
"that you're going to go to this college with?"。
And he gives me this 18-year-old look.。
"What? No. What?"。
[laughter]。
I go, "What?。
"Do we need to eyes check before you go to college?。
"Do we have to read things?。
"They're everywhere."。
He goes, "Well, I don't know."。
I go, "Bro, they're everywhere.。
"There's pretty girls everywhere, okay?"。
I said, "Let me ask you a question.。
"What do you think when you see these pretty girls?。
"'Cause you should see 'em."。
[laughter]。
And so he gives me--。
I don't know.。
Nothing.。
I go, "No, bro, you--。
"You want me to tell you what you should think?。
"I'm going to tell you what you should think。
"when you see those pretty women.。
"You better think charm is deceitful。
"and beauty is vain,。
"but that a woman who fears the Lord is to be praised.。
"'Cause, bro, if you go and you chase that little hook。
"and you bite on that and you fall in love。
"with something that looks a certain way。
"but doesn't love a certain man,。
"it is going to be the greatest source of pain in your life.。
"Now, you see that good-looking 50-year-old。
"just a few steps ahead of you?。
"Go find you one of those that looks just fine。
"but is faithful."。
And so what I'm going to tell you。
is when you find somebody that wants to date you。
because you please them and stimulate them in some way。
and they want you to please them and stimulate them。
for a moment, that is a user.。
I told my son, "This is a fact, all right?。
"You don't choose your friends,。
"you don't choose your future career,。
"and you don't choose your future mate。
"by beauty, by money, by position.。
"That's what fools do."。
You need to know something,。
is that small men use or love things and use people,。
but great men love people。
and are usefully, wisely using things.。
Don't you dare love things and use people.。
You don't find your affirmation from a date,。
you don't find your affirmation from a husband,。
you find your affirmation from the one who says,。
"I am the bread of life and I can satisfy you."。
Hey girls, can I just tell you something?。
There is nothing more attractive to a man。
than a woman who is secure.。
There is nothing more attractive to a man。
than a woman who is secure in who God made her.。
And I'm going to tell you what,。
man, that shows up for a long time。
in ways in a marriage that you can't even imagine.。
But when we're going to dive in tonight,。
what we're going to do is we're going to study。
what it is that your master,。
as you're on the mission of life,。
says you should, with your mate, pursue.。
Seneca, who oddly was born 4 BC,。
about the exact same time as Christ,。
who went on to be an advisor to the emperor in Rome。
who killed disciples of Jesus, Peter and Paul.。
Seneca said that unless you know。
what port you are sailing to,。
you will not know which wind to catch。
to get you there.。
You won't know which way to swipe.。
You won't know which way to go.。
You won't know how to trim your sails。
and what to look for as you navigate your way.。
And so what I hope to do tonight。
is to tell you the port that you should sail to.。
Are you ready?。
Here we go.。
What is the purpose of marriage?。
And if you know the purpose of marriage,。
then you will find somebody who's about these things.。
In Genesis chapter 1,。
there's this little passage where God said,。
"Let us make man in our image,。
"according to our likeness."。
This is verse 26.。
He says, "Let them rule over the fish of the sea。
"and over the birds of the sky。
"and over the cattle and over all the earth。
"and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth."。
And it says, "God created man in his own image.。
"In the image of God, he created him.。
"Male and female, he created them."。
And when God had done this, he said,。
"We want to make man in our image.。
"What we're going to do is we're going to put men in position。
"where they can be stewards of the earth,。
"they can be vice regents,。
"they can rule over the earth。
"the way we rule over everything."。
And what God was doing in Genesis。
is he was unveiling his person,。
he was unveiling his glory,。
he was demonstrating to the angels。
something that there was no way。
that the angels could ever know。
without God introducing something。
called humanity into existence.。
So I'm going to give you a little insight, okay?。
Genesis chapter one is not the beginning of history.。
It is the beginning of God's engaging humankind in eternity.。
John chapter one, verse one,。
which sounds a lot like Genesis 1-1。
is the beginning of your Bible.。
It goes back to before Genesis 1-1.。
It says, "In the beginning was the word,。
"and the word was with God, and the word was God."。
That's where you get the word.。
And it says, "In the beginning was the word,。
"and the word was with God, and the word was God."。
That's where you get the "us" from in Genesis chapter one.。
There's at least, we know, a couple of them there。
that are God, that the word was with God。
and the word was God,。
but the word was not the same God that he was with,。
even though they were one.。
There was diversity,。
but there was still unity,。
and there was distinction.。
And what God said is--here's the deal,。
and I'll just give you a little insight.。
If you go to Ezekiel 28 or Isaiah 14,。
you'll catch a little more of this story。
when you have what's called some typology,。
which is just a picture of something unfolding。
in human history, which is a picture。
of something far greater.。
David is a type of Christ. Joseph is a type of Christ.。
The king of Babylon and the king of Tyre。
are types of Satan.。
And they are individuals that exalt themselves.。
The story goes basically like this.。
God had created the angelic realm already,。
and in the angelic realm,。
he had created them to enjoy him。
and had given them means to be in his presence.。
But there was one angel in particular。
that based on different, I guess,。
interpretations of the Scripture by scholars,。
many people believe the chief job of Lucifer。
was to reflect the image and the glory of God.。
In other words, that other angels would look。
at this emerald-gilded angel。
that had been covered with all the beautiful stones。
of creation, that the reflection, the beauty,。
and the glory of God would reflect off of him,。
and other angels could almost approach God。
through this angel. And this angel said,。
"They're not approaching God through me.。
"I am better than God. I will exalt myself over God.。
"They won't use me as a way to not be consumed。
"by the glory of God, which if God didn't make。
"provision for them, they would be consumed by him.。
"But they will love and worship me."。
And it says he exalted himself,。
and that exalting of himself cost him。
the ability to be in the presence of God.。
That sin cast him out of God's midst.。
He said, "I will be God."。
And God cast him out of his presence.。
So a third of the angels believed that Lucifer。
was in fact maybe somebody to be followed more than God.。
And so what happened the second that that went down。
is people went, "Well, I'll tell you what.。
"It's clear now that Jehovah, Yahweh,。
"carries the biggest stick. You can't jack with him.。
"Satan, in all of his glory and all of his power,。
"he wasn't as powerful as God. But I wonder this.。
"I wonder if Satan had been given a shot.。
"I wonder if he could rule better than God."。
Enter into that scenario。
that now has God in the heavens。
and Satan in judgment in what would be a place。
that is filled with chaos, darkness,。
void of life and purpose,。
which is what you always find when you leave God.。
A God who steps in and creates beauty and order.。
And he places into that place of perfect beauty and order。
people in his image.。
And he says, "I want you to know me and walk with me.。
"I want you to enjoy me.。
"I've made this place gorgeous and beautiful,。
"but you need to know something.。
"There's an enemy there, and he wants you to follow him.。
"He wants you to believe that his way is a better way.。
"He's going to tell you what he believes,。
"which is that if you're your own God,。
"it will go better for you."。
And that didn't go well for him, and it won't go well for you.。
So all you need to know is that I'm good, and trust me.。
As an eternal sign of your faith in me,。
I will put over here a tree of good and evil.。
And on that tree, you at any time you want can go eat.。
And if you do go eat, you will die,。
because what you're going to say is,。
"I don't need a relationship with God,。
"and I will be my own God."。
But when you leave the God who is life and light,。
you will get darkness and death.。
That's basically the story that you're entered into。
there in Genesis 1.。
Now, who are these people that are introduced?。
Because there's a lot of people that speculate about,。
"Well, what is God really like?"。
What we're about to find out is that God is this amazing lover,。
because we already know he's sovereign.。
He's more powerful than the enemy of darkness.。
The New Testament says that.。
In John chapter 4, verse 4, it says,。
"Greater is he," if you have a relationship with God,。
"who is in you than he," meaning the prince of darkness,。
the prince who is in this world, the spirit of deceit.。
"Greater is he who is in you," Christian,。
"than he who is in the world."。
We know that because God threw Satan out of heaven.。
We know that because he has conquered sin and death.。
We know that because he's defeated the enemy。
and stomped on his head,。
and there will be a day when he will fulfill。
the completion of that defeat.。
But watch this.。
"Meanwhile, I want you to enjoy me."。
And it's going to torment him to see you enjoy me.。
He's going to always tell you there's a better way.。
We're going to read that story in just a little bit.。
But what about God?。
Who is he?。
Men try still to figure this out.。
And you know, the word "Trinity" never appears in your Bible,。
but the word that is "Trinity" is described in your Bible.。
It is a label that we have assigned。
to how God has revealed himself.。
And there's all kinds of bad analogies。
that people throw out to try and explain what God is like.。
So they might use this.。
They might use, "Well, God's like water.。
"He's always two parts hydrogen and one part oxygen,。
"but water morphs from a liquid to a solid to a gas。
"depending on the temperature.。
"So it's either liquid water or it's frozen ice or it's steam.。
"It's all water, and God's like that.。
"Sometimes he needs to be fluid,。
"and we need to be able to see him, and that's Jesus.。
"And sometimes we can't see him,。
"and God's at work through his spirit, and that's the gas.。
"And sometimes he's just a solid rock,。
"and that's God the Father, but that is called modalism.。
"It is inconsistent with what the Scriptures teach.。
"It's error."。
Other people have used numerous other analogies,。
and there is no analogy that really describes。
who God is except one.。
And it's the analogy that God gave us。
right here in Genesis 1.。
It's an analogy that's ultimately fulfilled in marriage.。
And we know that the first two people he created,。
male and female, he created them, he brought together,。
and he said, "Let them be a picture,。
"as they walk with me, of who we are."。
Now, in the Trinity, you have three things。
that have to be there if you have a biblical view of God.。
You have to have unity, that there is only one God.。
The Lord our God is one.。
You have to have diversity, in other words,。
that there is distinct persons,。
because that's what the Bible says.。
And you have to have equality,。
which means that they are the same in essence.。
But there is subordination within that relationship.。
It's interesting.。
The Son says, "I don't do anything。
"except it's the Father's will."。
The Spirit says, "I exist to exalt Christ."。
The Father says, "Don't worship me.。
"At the name of Jesus, every knee will bow。
"and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord."。
There's this mutual admiration society.。
Okay, and by the way, it's not a contradiction.。
When you say there is one God who is three persons,。
a contradiction would be if you said。
there is one person who is three persons.。
There's something in the way the Bible reveals。
the character and nature of God that is a mystery.。
And the way that we have described it,。
if you have a biblical view of the person of God,。
it is a Trinitarian view.。
Now, why do I do all that?。
I do all that because the very first thing,。
the only thing that marriage can be。
in a very unique way, that God said,。
"This is the clearest picture I can give you."。
It is when there are two persons who watch this,。
not three in one, but two.。
God said, "When you two come together,。
"you're still gonna be unique individual persons,。
"but there's going to be a unity.。
"There's still diversity, but there's equality.。
"Male's not greater than female.。
"Female's not less than male.。
"There is equal dignity and beauty."。
They're the same in essence.。
Same in value, but they have different roles.。
And any organization that exists that is doing well。
and is prospering always has people in the organization。
where the members compliment one another。
rather than imitate each other.。
It's what makes organizations work.。
And so we're gonna compliment each other。
in the way that we work and have along.。
And so God made us same in dignity and value,。
just like the Spirit and the Son and the Father。
are same in dignity and value,。
but unique in their purpose and their roles.。
The best analogy I have of this,。
I found when I was walking out of a Kroger in 1996.。
It was a Life magazine, and I came across this picture。
of Abigail and Brittany Hensel.。
Abigail and Brittany Hensel are the rarest of children.。
They were born co-joined twins.。
The slang term is Siamese twins.。
It's when a single egg, that usually when it separates,。
it becomes identical twins,。
but for some reason their eggs did not completely separate。
in the way that most identical twins' eggs separate.。
But here's the story in Life magazine。
about these two sweet little girls.。
And I wanna read it to you。
because it's the best picture I've ever seen。
of exactly what I'm talking about.。
Abigail and Brittany, they're co-joined.。
The doctors don't know why they divided.。
It says that each one has their own heart and stomach,。
but together they rely on three lungs.。
Their spines join at the pelvis.。
Below the waist, they have the organs of a single person.。
Each controls the limbs and trunk。
and feels sensations on her own side exclusively.。
Abby's on the right hand, and Brittany's on the left.。
When they pledge of allegiance here,。
Abby will put her hand on Brittany's heart.。
It's interesting, so if you tickle over here,。
it's just Abby that laughs.。
You tickle over here, it's just Brittany that laughs.。
They're very distinct individual persons.。
Abby likes animals, Brittany likes to draw.。
One likes crackers in their soup, the other one doesn't.。
Their teacher says that they often,。
whenever there's conflict in the class,。
she has Abigail and Brittany give the class。
a lesson on getting along.。
(audience laughing)。
It's really interesting, this article in 1996,。
they quote a neurosurgeon from Johns Hopkins。
who was the first person ever to separate co-joined twins.。
His name was Ben Carson.。
And he said, "We've looked at the Hensel girls.。
"We can't separate them because it would be devastating。
"because of the way their organs are put together."。
But I love this.。
Their different temperaments have been apparent since infancy.。
Abby has a voracious appetite, Brittany finds food boring.。
Abby tends to be the leader.。
Brittany is more reflective and academically quicker.。
Sometimes they argue.。
Once, Brittany hit Abby in the head with a rock.。
(audience laughing)。
But they have obvious incentives to arrive at a consensus.。
When they can't agree on where to go, a rare occurrence,。
they literally cannot move.。
When one misbehaves, they're both sent to the room.。
(audience laughing)。
I love what Ben Carson said.。
He said, "Listen, neither girl has sufficient body mass。
"to support life apart from the other.。
"If we did something to separate them," watch this,。
"it would make them invalids.。
"There would be major emotional and psychological trauma."。
What's that sound like to you?。
You children are divorced.。
You know, one of the oldest illustrations in marriage classes。
that we do sometimes is we take two paper plates。
and we glue them together.。
And we let those things really seal together。
the way that they're intended to be to make them stronger.。
And then at the end of the class,。
if we're talking about the purpose of marriage。
and what God has joined together, man should separate,。
we say, "Hey, why don't you guys,。
"we're gonna serve you something, I don't know,。
"like baked beans, you know, something you need support."。
And say, "But before you do that,。
"why don't you tear your plate apart。
"so you each have a plate?"。
And you can imagine what happens to that plate.。
It becomes, both of them are destroyed.。
There is major emotional and physical trauma.。
It's not what God intended.。
I love this last thing in this article,。
and I'll just read it to you.。
But you know what's amazing?。
They can ride a bike, they can swim.。
I love this one picture, in fact,。
where they're by the pool.。
Let's just put that picture back up there。
because you can see, look at, they're cold。
and they're keeping each other warm.。
You can watch that little boy looking at them.。
Almost saying, "I wish this guy would, you know,。
"warm me up, maybe," right?。
But it is, I mean, you can't help but look。
at that kind of love.。
I mean, it's freaky, isn't it?。
I mean, it's otherworldly when you look at that.。
But listen to this paragraph in Life Magazine.。
"Bound together to each other,。
"but defiantly independent."。
These little girls are a living textbook。
on camaraderie and compromise,。
on dignity and flexibility,。
on the subtler varieties of freedom,。
and together, they have volumes to teach us about love.。
Can I tell you what should be said。
to Todd Wagner at the 50th wedding anniversary?。
To Alex Wagner?。
Todd and Alex Wagner are defiantly independent.。
They've both kept all of their personality,。
all the distinction of what God created them to be,。
but they're a living textbook。
on camaraderie and compromise。
because they don't live。
according to the spirit of Todd。
and the spirit of Alex.。
They live to the spirit of God,。
where companionship and completion。
and mutual subjection。
and love for one another and exaltation。
is eternally a part of God.。
These are not the highest metaphysical ideas of men.。
These have eternally existed。
in the very nature and character of God.。
And God said, "I want you to dwell together."。
And what should be said is that Todd and Alex。
have volumes to teach the world about love.。
And guess what Todd and Alex should do?。
Say, "Hey, listen, we are just a poor shadow。
"of what real love looks like.。
"It's revealed in the Trinity."。
And let me tell you about the Trinity.。
The Trinity isn't just a place where you can be alone.。
It's a place where you can be with God.。
The Trinity isn't just love itself,。
because God is love.。
The one thing that love has to do is share itself.。
And so God even created, first, the angelic realm。
to share with him his glory and his goodness.。
And then he created us to share with us his love.。
But guess what we did?。
We go, "We don't need your love.。
"We think we can get along better without you."。
We see what happens。
when people try and get along without God.。
One of them just walked into a community college。
up in Oregon,。
happily telling you he has no relationship with God。
and that he has listened to the lies of demons。
and now he has become one with them.。
Let me tell you,。
that's a rather extravagant example up there.。
But if you date a guy that doesn't have the master。
whose name is Yahweh, Jesus,。
you're gonna be dating a little boy。
that's gonna storm into your classroom。
and there's gonna be a devastation in your life.。
And God loves you enough to say, "You don't need that."。
The very first thing that marriage is supposed to do。
is to mirror the image of God。
in a way that only marriage can.。
And so the way we love each other。
in mutual subjection,。
in completeness and care and love,。
is mirrored.。
The second thing marriage does。
is to multiply godly heritage.。
It says in Genesis 1, verse 28,。
"God blessed them and God said to them,。
"'Be fruitful and multiply.'"。
Now what's that mean?。
He says, "Listen, I want you to bring forth,"。
in Genesis chapter one,。
a significant event haven't happened yet,。
but a significant event was。
that men had rebelled against God.。
And so in Genesis chapter one, verse 28,。
when God blessed them and said, "Multiply,"。
the law of creation is that creatures。
would bring forth things after their kind.。
And so hippos would bring forth hippos,。
giraffes would bring forth giraffes,。
and humans who knew God and walked with God。
would bring forth humans who knew God and walked with God.。
That was God's intention.。
He said, "Fill the earth with people。
"who know me and delight in me."。
In Genesis chapter one, verse 24,。
this is where the law of creation shows up.。
God said, "Let the earth bring forth living creatures。
"after their kind, cattle and creeping things。
"and the beasts of the earth after their kind."。
And it was so.。
God makes the beasts of the earth after their kind。
and the cattle after their kind。
and everything that creeps on the ground after its kind.。
And God saw that it was good.。
And guess what?。
If you've got people who know that God is good,。
who love his mission and who live his way,。
and we multiply those people, it will be good.。
One of the reasons you love coming to the porch。
is even people that live insane lives,。
when they come here, there's a spirit of kindness。
and hospitality and other-centeredness in this place.。
Isn't there?。
There's a spirit of excellence and creativity in this place.。
There's a spirit of peace in this place,。
and it's incredibly attractive.。
And you do everything you can to tell your friends to come.。
And guess what you're doing?。
You're trying to invite people into a small sampling。
of what the kingdom should be like.。
That's God's view of the church.。
Okay?。
That's God's view of a Christian marriage.。
That people will say, "You know what?。
"I've had friends of my kids say,。
"'Hey, we want to go hang out at your house.。
"'We'd love being with your family.。
"'Our family's not like that.'"。
You know what's really interesting?。
Just to give you a little example of what happens。
when the family breaks down。
and the emotional and physical instability。
that can invade into a home.。
It's really interesting.。
I've seen it in Fox News,。
and even the father of that murderer up there in Oregon.。
They all count how many guns that kid had in his home,。
but they didn't count how many parents he had.。
That kid's problem wasn't that he had guns in his home.。
That kid's problem is he didn't have parents in his home。
that multiplied the kindness and goodness and love of God.。
(congregation laughing)。
And so he's saying, "Hey, listen, man.。
"You multiply a godly heritage.。
"You be about making disciples."。
Thirdly, in Genesis chapter one, verse 28,。
the second part of that verse says,。
"Fill the earth, subdue it.。
"Rule over the fish of the sea。
"and over the birds of the sky。
"and over every living thing that moves on the earth.。
"I want you to manage your world."。
There it is.。
So mirror a love relationship。
where you've got distinct individuals who are unified,。
who are equal, and yet who operate with very clear roles.。
Multiply that love of goodness and excellence。
and godliness and self-discipline and perseverance.。
Multiply that out in them.。
Multiply other-centeredness and selflessness.。
Do all you can to multiply in them an affection。
for the God that allows you to walk that way.。
And then make sure that this world that you're in。
doesn't tell you how to roll.。
You manage your world.。
Don't let your world manage you.。
Now watch this.。
I'm gonna show you something very interesting here。
because Satan, in John chapter eight, verse 44,。
says he's a liar.。
That's all he does.。
He's not creative.。
He's just a liar.。
If God said that marriage is a gift。
and that sex in marriage。
is where sex should be celebrated and enjoyed,。
all the enemy does, he goes,。
"Why wait for marriage to have sex?。
"Marital sex is nothing like premarital sex."。
And in that sense, he's right。
because marriage sex isn't defined by guilt and shame。
and horror if it produces children.。
It's not riddled with disease。
because of what happens。
when humans pass themselves around to one another.。
But he doesn't sell it that way, does he?。
He's just a liar.。
So watch what happens.。
This is Genesis chapter one, okay?。
And so in Genesis chapter one,。
you've got God.。
And God is basically creating and telling humans,。
which he creates, if we get to chapter two,。
in the form of male and female。
that are both made in his image,。
that they should relate to each other this way。
and serve him and honor him.。
And they're to rule over the world.。
And specifically, he gives Adam the right。
to name the animals。
and to have dominion over them.。
Now, when you get to Genesis three,。
you guys know the story.。
Let's just read it together.。
Genesis chapter three, it says,。
"Now the serpent was more crafty than any beast of the field。
"which the Lord God had made.。
"He said to the woman,。
"'Hey, has God said you shall not eat。
"'from the tree of the garden?'。
"The woman said to the serpent,。
"'From the fruit of the trees of the garden we can eat.'。
"But, excuse me, yeah.。
"'From the fruit of the trees of the garden we may eat,。
"'but from the fruit of the tree。
"'which is in the middle of the garden,。
"'God said you shall not eat from it。
"'or touch it or you will die.'"。
Now listen, that's not what God said.。
Adam apparently was a lazy teacher.。
God didn't say you can't touch it or you will die.。
He just probably went in his lack of care.。
In Genesis two, we know that God told the man,。
"Hey, you can do whatever you want,。
"just don't eat of that tree."。
Okay, and so I can imagine when he's discipling Eve,。
he adds to the word of God,。
and so whenever you add to the word of God,。
it sets people up for confusion.。
He said, "Look, just don't even go near that tree.。
"Don't even touch that tree.。
"If you touch it, you're gonna die."。
That's me reading into the text,。
but the reason I think that I can do that。
with some confidence is Eve apparently was told,。
"We can't touch it or die.。
"Here's an opportunity.。
"There's a high reverence for the word of God,。
"but a misunderstanding of the word of God。
"and not an ability to divide it rightly."。
And so he goes, "That's not true.。
"Look, I'm touching it.。
"I'm not dead."。
Let me just tell you something.。
It's a very dangerous thing when you venerate。
and honor the word of God and you are ignorant of it.。
You are set up to really, really be deceived.。
But anyway, we got the serpent talking to the woman。
and she sees that the tree is pleasing to the eyes.。
It's a delight to her flesh and it's desirous。
because of what it promises her,。
the ability to be able to be independent and free,。
even though God said you can't be independent。
of your life support.。
And by the way, when you know knowledge like I know knowledge,。
I'm not afraid that you're gonna beat me at Jeopardy.。
That's not why I don't want you to eat at that tree.。
The problem is is you're not intrinsically good like me.。
And isn't this the case?。
Listen, gang, don't most of you know。
the kind of guy you should date?。
Don't most of you know the things。
that lead to guilt and shame in your life?。
Don't we all know that?。
And yet how many of us continue to do things。
that are destructive to our hearts。
and it's not a knowledge problem.。
We just keep going back.。
And so listen, God said I don't want you to go there.。
Just keep looking to me.。
Because if you look to yourself,。
you're gonna rationalize and compromise and twist。
and you're gonna do what you know you shouldn't do。
and convince yourself somehow it's gonna be okay.。
And it's not okay, it's killing you.。
This is Genesis three.。
We've got the serpent.。
The serpent talking to humanity。
telling the woman who took the apple that she ate。
and gave it to the man who was with her。
so that now they would know good and evil。
and they could tell God what to do.。
Anybody notice anything here?。
That's just a complete inversion。
of what's supposed to happen.。
Now for the sake of time,。
I'll just tell you what happens here。
is God comes right back in in Genesis three。
and says hey that ain't the way we're gonna roll.。
And so God says here's the deal.。
I am God and I'm still gonna be over you humans。
and you humans are gonna still be together。
and you're still gonna be in the world。
but guess what?。
Now there is enmity between us。
and there's gonna be because we don't know each other,。
there's enmity between you two。
and there's gonna be a curse on the world。
and that my friends is the world that we're in.。
It's not the world that God created,。
it's the world that we chose.。
But stay tuned。
because I told you the reason that God created us。
is because he was gonna show you something about himself。
and the story gets beautiful in just a moment.。
So here's what happens in this little section right here。
is that God says I want you to manage the world.。
Don't let your world manage you.。
When you get out of whack with the way the world should go,。
it's not gonna go well with you.。
You are supposed to be in the world but not of it.。
Let the word show you how to live in the world.。
We're to mirror his image in marriage.。
We're to multiply a godly heritage。
and together with all the beauty that is womanhood。
and with all the beauty that is maleness,。
we are to manage the world。
and there's very specific ways that we're to do that together。
and we'll get to that in just a moment.。
But now the fourth thing that we are is。
we're people that should mutually complete one another.。
This is interesting because JP last week said。
you gotta lose that lie.。
I even talked about it at the beginning。
that there's this person out there that can complete you。
like will you complete me?。
And it is true.。
There's nobody out there that's gonna complete you。
in the sense that they make you whole。
but let me just tell you。
it is a biblical fact that women are to help men。
be everything that a man should be。
in the context of marriage。
in the same way that Shane and I as we do life together。
are to spur each other on to love and good deeds。
that JP and I complete each other.。
Let me just give it to you this way.。
We are to be vessels through which God could minister and work.。
In Philippians chapter one verse six it says。
that he who began this good work in you。
will bring it about to completion。
in the day of Christ Jesus.。
Colossians chapter one verse 28 says。
we proclaim him admonishing every man。
and teaching every man。
in order that we might present every man。
complete in Christ.。
And so I wanna show you what God intended。
us to do with one another.。
It's God's intention.。
Actually I don't need to do that。
because I think we've got it for you up here.。
God intended for men to dwell with women。
to care for her, to love her.。
It's our job to stay there。
and to say I'm going to bring forth all your beauty.。
I'm gonna show you all your worth。
that I can as a vessel of God.。
You've already got that worth in Jesus.。
I'm going to be a visible, physical gift to you。
as a constant expression of God's love for you.。
I'm gonna care for you and protect you。
and provide for you and encourage you.。
I'm gonna cherish you and honor you.。
I'm gonna cultivate the relationship.。
I'm gonna spur you on in every way。
that a person who's close to you should.。
What most men do however is they get there。
and the woman is not easy ground.。
It's not low hanging fruit.。
Instead of cherishing and nourishing and honoring her,。
they start to intimidate her and say。
if you don't start producing,。
if you don't start growing what I want grown,。
if you don't start giving me what I want,。
I'm gonna have a scorched earth policy here.。
They become abusive and they become domineering.。
That's a sin expression.。
Or what they do is they become very passive。
and they just withdraw from the house.。
They leave.。
Or they're present and they're just not there.。
They may not divorce,。
but they're really just undivorced。
more than they are married.。
They don't pursue oneness.。
Likewise, women are called to complete.。
In Genesis 2.18, it's where I get this idea from.。
It says the Lord God said it's not good for man to be alone.。
I will make him a helper suitable for him.。
And so God gives us one another。
in relationships in general,。
and specifically there might be a day。
where somebody covenants with you。
and if you marry you have not sinned。
and a woman's role is to complete.。
And what that means is not the Jerry Maguire,。
you complete me,。
but notice this,。
it's the woman that's completing the man.。
Meaning, Alex, I'm not home yet.。
I'm not all that God wants me to be.。
Speak into my life.。
Admonish me when I'm unruly.。
Encourage me when I'm faint hearted.。
Help me when I'm weak.。
Be patient with me.。
My wife knows that I wanna be God's man.。
My wife and I spent a good two hours yesterday。
dealing with an area of my life。
that she believed I could improve in.。
Yesterday I was speaking to our residents。
here at Watermark and they said,。
"Hey Todd, what's the best thing that your wife does。
"to help you lead this church?"。
And I said, "That's easy.。
"She speaks faithfully to me.。
"She knows who I want to be。
"and when she sees me deviate from that,。
"she gently, first looking to herself,。
"let she too be tempted,。
"in a spirit of gentleness,。
"she comes to me and says,。
"Hey, this is something that I know you care about.。
"It might be the way I'm making her feel.。
"It might be the way that I'm filling up my days.。
"It might be the way that I'm not self-aware with tone.。
"It might be that she sees that my habits。
"or practices are not excellent。
"and she says, 'I wanna help you be the man。
"'that I believe you are.'"。
But what some women do is they don't sit there。
and complete a guy.。
What they'll do is they'll compete for headship.。
They'll go, "I don't like the way you're leading,。
"so I will just take you on.。
"And this will be a matriarchal at home。
"and I'm gonna run this ship。
"the way I wanna run this ship."。
Or they will just back off。
and they'll have a false view。
of what it means to be a submissive wife。
and so they'll just condone sinless behavior,。
usually for about 20 years until the kids are gone。
and then they have an affair with their trainer.。
And I'm just telling you,。
that is not what God had in mind.。
When he calls us to mutually complete one another.。
Fifthly, this is a picture that JP alluded to。
a little bit last week,。
so I won't spend much time on it,。
but I'll give you one particular little bit of truth in this。
and that is that God wants us。
to model something for the world。
that makes the world marvel。
in the same way that Brittany and Abby did that.。
He wants us to model something for the world.。
What is it?。
It's an incredible picture of love.。
I'm gonna give you guys a little bit of encouragement.。
This is the role of a man.。
The Bible says that a man should love the woman。
as Christ loved the church.。
You might ask yourself,。
"Well, Todd, how's Christ love the church?"。
Well, let me just give you a list.。
It looks something like this.。
The way that men are supposed to love women,。
the way that Christ loves the church,。
is unconditionally, constantly,。
completely, sacrificially, selflessly,。
even to the point of death,。
endlessly, eternally, always initiating,。
not waiting to be initiated with.。
Do it with great patience and tenderness,。
unshakably, and do all that perfectly.。
How's that for a job description?。
That's what men are called to do,。
is to model what a love looks like。
that loves like that in marriage.。
Now, by the way, here we go.。
We come back and say, "Okay, well, what's a woman to do?"。
A woman to a man that is to love this way。
is to be somebody that is to respond to that leadership。
and to be subject to that man.。
This is so important.。
Girls, please listen to me on this.。
Women are not to be subject to men.。
Nowhere in the Bible does it say。
that women are to be subject to men.。
It says, "Wives,。
"be subject to your husbands."。
What kind of husbands?。
Husbands that are subject to Christ.。
Women, if you choose to yoke yourself to a guy。
who's gonna physically be stronger than you,。
emotionally fight differently than you,。
and he is not subject to a sovereign God。
who does nothing from self-mission of empty conceit。
and who has in himself the same attitude。
which was in Christ Jesus,。
you are walking into hell.。
And so Jesus tells you this.。
He says, "Make sure you marry this kind of guy."。
Wives, be subject to this kind of man,。
a spirit-filled man.。
Don't even date a guy that's not spirit-filled.。
Your master who loves you,。
who wants it to go well with you,。
say, "Don't yoke with that guy.。
"Just don't date that guy.。
"Don't even go there.。
"Don't be confused by his charm or his abs。
"or his car or his career.。
"Only be attracted to a man that's in love with me。
"or it will cost you。
"because you are walking into a dictatorship。
"that you will regret the rest of your life.。
"And don't blame me.。
"All I did was warn you."。
Look, here's what a woman does.。
A woman is to respond to the man,。
to be respectful towards the man,。
to be obedient to his godly, selfless leadership,。
to submit to that,。
to be humble, adoring, and full of devotion.。
Now let me ask you a question.。
Girls, have a little empathy for us.。
Look at those two job descriptions.。
Which one of those two is the hardest?。
Can I tell you which one it is, men?。
It's the gals.。
And let me just tell you, men,。
this is why the Bible says,。
"Hey, man, you don't love your wife。
"the way I want to love your wife,。
"then you're gonna find out what it's like。
"to be led by a god like that."。
Men, it says,。
"If you feel like you're not getting through to me,。
"then the first place you oughta look。
"is how you're treating your wife."。
This is 1 Peter chapter three.。
"Your prayers are hindered."。
They're hitting the ceiling.。
They're not going anywhere。
because why would a god who is sovereign。
and loving towards you answer your prayers。
while you're being abusive and cruel to others?。
You better repent of that and deal with that,。
and then you and I can do business together again.。
Here's how I know, by the way,。
that this is much harder to be the woman than the man。
because I am the woman in this analogy,。
meaning I'm a part of the church.。
Jesus is my bridegroom.。
Let me ask you guys a question.。
Has Jesus loved me unconditionally?。
Say yes.。
Does he love me constantly?。
Does he never leave me and forsake me?。
Is it complete?。
Is it sacrificial?。
Is it selfless?。
Is it the point of death?。
Is it endless, initiating with great patience,。
tender, unshakable, and perfectly?。
Say yes.。
So let me ask you a question.。
How do you think I do?。
I've got a perfect husband.。
How do you think I do in responding to him?。
Am I always respectful?。
Am I perfectly obedient?。
Do I always submit to Jesus Christ?。
Am I humble, enduring, am I fully devoted?。
Not all the time.。
Guys, can you imagine how hard it would be。
to serve a God who was moody and self-serving。
and abusive and who sometimes was domineering。
or just deserted you 'cause he was wanting。
to get his something somewhere else,。
and that was still your job?。
There's never been a guy that's fulfilled。
that job description perfectly,。
and yet, women, that's what you're called to do.。
That's why you need to complete him and spur him on.。
And by the way, that's why you need to make sure。
that you marry a guy who's radically in love with Jesus.。
Because when my wife comes to me and says,。
"Todd, I see some things that are out of sync。
"with your life with Jesus," I am all ears.。
I'm like, "That's all I wanna be is in love with Jesus.。
"That's all I wanna do is respond。
"to the God who cares for me."。
And by the way, as we,。
as we show you this beautiful thing,。
do you notice what God did right here?。
This is Genesis 3.。
This is the second part of Genesis 3,。
but there's something amazing that happens here.。
We're gonna draw this back up one more time.。
There's an event that happens right here,。
and it's called the cross.。
And at this event that's called the cross,。
in Ephesians chapters one,。
two, and three, the cross is introduced.。
It's what Jesus has done.。
And what Jesus has done is he's taken away。
the enmity between God and humanity.。
And now there is peace between the church。
and God's people, and so man is renewed.。
And God uses Genesis 2 language in Ephesians 5.。
Genesis 2 is before Genesis 3.。
He says, "You men can now love your wife this way.。
"You can leave and cleave and become one flesh."。
Why, because you're no longer sinners.。
We're gonna hurt each other.。
And so male and female who both love me。
because they have a relationship with me,。
there can be peace in the home again.。
That's why in Ephesians 4, it says,。
"I urge you, therefore, in light of these things,。
"to walk worthy of the calling with which you've been called,。
"with all humility and gentleness and sure forbearance,。
"and show patience to one another in love.。
"Be diligent to preserve the unity of the Spirit。
"that's been accomplished."。
But guess what?。
Ephesians 5 talks about how there's a renewed peace。
in Christian marriage,。
but there's still a war in there。
between you and the world.。
That's why Ephesians 6 talks about spiritual warfare.。
And it says, "If you want this thing to work,。
"you need to know that same enemy that tried to screw you up。
"in Genesis 3 is trying to screw you up right now.。
"And if you don't stay close to God,。
"he's gonna take you out.。
"And so your fight is not against flesh and blood.。
"Your problem is never your spouse.。
"Your spouse is not your enemy. Satan is."。
I was showing this to a couple that I was gonna marry,。
and the bride goes, "Well, what am I doing。
"getting dressed in white?"。
And she looked at her husband, and she said,。
"We're getting married in camo, 'cause we're going to war."。
(audience laughing)。
And I said, "That would be the most theologically correct。
"thing a bride had ever done.。
"And I'd love to do the wedding. It'd be awesome.。
"That would be amazing, right?。
"Unless you're in Alabama, and then it's amazing。
"if you wear white, okay?。
"They all wear camo at weddings in Alabama.。
"All right, no, now listen."。
I close with this.。
Let me ask you guys a question.。
If marriage is God's way to mirror his person,。
to multiply kindness and goodness and love in the world,。
to manage the world so that grace may increase,。
to mutually complete his most cherished creation,。
and to model a picture of God's love for the world,。
how much do you think the enemy hates it?。
Oh, I think he hates it a lot.。
And that's why if you purpose to have a godly Christian marriage,。
you need to know you're at war.。
And let me just tell you this.。
Not only are you at war, but what he's trying to do。
is disqualify you before you ever get in the battle.。
Let me tell you what singleness is.。
Are you ready?。
This is the best picture I can give you of singleness.。
It's seal training.。
And what you need to be doing right now,。
this is a big deal, okay?。
The seals have a model, and that is that one is none。
and two is one.。
What's that sound like?。
It sounds very Genesis 2 to me,。
that the two shall become one.。
The seals say, "We can't go at this thing alone.。
"We need each other.。
"We're not gonna do well."。
Guess what they try and do during seal training?。
They try and wash people out.。
They don't make any excuses, because if you're not a warrior,。
it's one thing if you go to war and you're just not responsible。
and you get picked off by the enemy and you die,。
but when you're on a seal mission,。
when you're out there trying to do this special ops,。
this thing that you better be ready,。
if one of the guys on the team can't do his job,。
then they both die.。
And so you gotta quit nursing somebody along。
in the seal training that is singleness and in dating。
that you're gonna yoke with and you're gonna go to war。
and it's gonna clean your clock,。
because any relationship is only as healthy。
as the least healthy person in it.。
And so what you wanna do is what the military does,。
and before you even get to seal training,。
you watch them in other branches of the service.。
You watch how they do in their basic in-doc,。
and then they eventually apply and qualify,。
and then they date them in absolute focused merging.。
And then, with experienced commanders around them。
who have counseled them and told them what war is like。
and what war is about, others say,。
"We think you guys are ready to be a team."。
Now you can form your own little seal team,。
your own little way, but you're not gonna be seals.。
And if you wanna be effective in marriage,。
you better go to war right now and show yourself。
to be a warrior so that other people are going,。
"You know what you are? You're fit to go to training.。
"You're fit right now to enter into a relationship。
"with somebody else, 'cause I see in you。
"a love for the image of God.。
"I see in you a commitment to multiply。
"everybody that God brings into relationship with you.。
"I see you making disciples."。
So if someday God gave you one from the womb,。
you might be a good partner.。
"I see you managing your world and not letting your world--。
"I see you in friendships with others,。
"in biblical community, where you don't run away。
"when it gets hard, but you dwell.。
"You complete other women.。
"You are a godly sharpener of people made in God's image.。
"And I see you modeling a right response to love.。
"I see you loving people unconditionally.。
"That's who you ought to date.。
"That's who you enter into."。
You guys have heard that there is。
a rampant epidemic of divorce.。
It's true that 50% of people, Christian and non-Christian,。
by profession, are divorcing.。
This stat is true.。
But let me just show you something.。
If you're a non-Christian and you don't go to church,。
you are less likely to divorce。
than if you're just a porchie or a watermarker,。
where you just go to church,。
but you don't let Jesus run through you.。
It is a fact that you are 20% more likely to divorce。
if you marry somebody just 'cause they dress up。
and play army, because they go to the porch,。
'cause they carry a Bible, but they are not。
in love with the person of God.。
They are not making disciples.。
They are not managing their world.。
They're drifting along with the current of Dallas,。
and they just happen to go to the porch on Tuesday nights.。
They're not living in biblical community.。
They don't let anybody dwell in their life.。
They don't let anybody complete them,。
and they're not completing anybody else.。
And they don't respond to their bridegroom, Jesus Christ.。
They're not somebody who's already well married。
to an unconditional, sacrificial, perfect lover.。
But they say they know him.。
You marry that person, you are 20% more likely。
to be a statistic.。
But here's the great news.。
You find somebody who's committed to Jesus,。
who really loves him, who's in biblical community,。
who dwells with others, who makes disciples,。
and is a disciple himself, who responds fully。
to Jesus Christ, this is a fact.。
This is a sociological fact.。
You are 35% more likely to have a successful marriage.。
In other words, find people that are warriors,。
and that other shepherds are around them。
saying this guy's ready to go.。
This person's ready to take on the enemy,。
camouflaged as a normal person when they are supernatural。
because of the reuniting of their life with Jesus。
through the miracle of the cross.。
Father, I pray for my friends。
that understanding tonight what marriage is about,。
understanding how the decisions that they make。
are gonna influence their ability to find joy。
or pain in marriage, that they would be individuals。
that would say, okay, first of all, I gotta go to war.。
I gotta become your man or your woman.。
I've gotta be an individual that takes some serious stock。
and says, do I know you as master,。
and am I already on mission for you?。
So am I trying to represent you to a world。
and be the godly man or woman that you want me to be。
where I am making disciples and being discipled。
and ruling my world and being in the world。
but not of it, being in community,。
being well married to Jesus,。
where I've left every relationship or activity。
in order that I might become closer to him。
and that I evaluate every new opportunity。
by asking myself, will it draw me closer to Jesus。
or pull me apart so that I might be one with Christ,。
well married to him?。
Lord, I pray that people who are doing those things。
would find each other if they desired to get married,。
and they would not fall in love with beauty.。
They wouldn't use people and love things,。
but Lord, that you would make us like Christ,。
that we would love people,。
and we would use dating to evaluate。
whether we should go to war together,。
knowing already what our mission is,。
and we'd use marriage to glorify you.。
Would you protect your people by laying out your map。
for life as you intended it, in Jesus' name, amen.。
