Hi, Port.。
Please take a seat as we read God's word together。
from the Gospel of Matthew, Chapter 11, verses 28 through 30.。
"Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden,。
and I will give you rest.。
Take my yoke upon you and learn from me,。
for I am gentle and lowly in heart.。
And you will find rest for your souls, for my yoke is easy。
and my burden is light."。
Now our second message in our series, Disciple.。
What's up, Port?。
How are we doing tonight?。
Hey, it's so good to get to be here with you.。
We've never met before.。
My name's Timothy Atik.。
People call me TA.。
I'm one of the pastors here at the church.。
And if you don't have a church home,。
I want to invite you to join us on a Sunday sometime.。
Before we jump in, just a couple of things.。
One, I want to say hello to everyone watching online.。
So Portslive Des Moines, Portslive Boise,。
Portslive Fresno, and everyone else watching,。
thanks for joining us tonight.。
Number two, I'm so thankful for Kylan Perry.。
Would you guys give it up for your leader?。
[APPLAUSE]。
I love-- I love what God is doing through him.。
And it's such a joy to partner with him in ministry.。
Third, we're about to jump into the word of God together.。
And I don't-- I don't know what your view of the Bible is.。
But my view is that when we open it,。
it's like we're opening up God's mouth.。
We have an opportunity to hear from God.。
So I don't know if you came here tonight expecting。
for God to speak to you.。
But I believe he wants to.。
And so I just want to give you a space real quick to pray。
and ask God to speak straight to your heart.。
So this might be new for some of you.。
Maybe you haven't talked to God in a long time or ever.。
But I want to invite everyone here to just say,。
God, would you speak to me clearly tonight?。
Pray that real quick.。
And then I want to invite you to pray for the people around you,。
for the other people in the room.。
Would you just say, God, speak clearly to them as well?。
[SILENCE]。
And then I want to ask you to pray for me.。
Would you pray that God would speak clearly through me。
to you?。
Lord God, my prayer is that we would。
have eyes to see you tonight.。
I pray that we would have ears to hear from you.。
And I pray that our hearts would be receptive to everything。
that you want to say to us tonight.。
We give this time to you in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
Well, I want to start tonight by just sharing with you。
how I proposed to my wife on June 2, 2006, which。
was a long time ago.。
But Kat was living in Dallas, and I。
was living in Austin, Texas.。
And I convinced Kat that I was going。
to have her fly from Dallas to Austin to see me.。
The way I convinced her of this was。
I bought her a fully refundable flight on southwest.com.。
I sent her the e-confirmation, and then I called Southwest。
and got my money back.。
And without Kat knowing, I made my way from Austin to Dallas.。
And I went up to her work without her knowing.。
I was in cahoots with her boss and her co-workers.。
They lured her away from her desk, got into her purse,。
came outside, unlocked her car, put her keys back.。
All the while, Kat had no clue she was about to be punked.。
So I got in her car.。
I put two dozen roses.。
I sprinkled rose petals all over the car.。
And then I put a note that just said,。
tonight's a very important night in the history。
of our relationship.。
Change of plans, go home, and get changed.。
So Kat came out to her car expecting。
to drive to the airport.。
And instead, she found that Blissful Love had vomited。
all over the inside of her car.。
She then made her way back to her apartment.。
And when she opened the door, there was a trail of rose。
petals from the front door all the way into the bedroom.。
And there on the bed was me.。
Not really.。
No.。
I'm just making sure you're paying attention.。
No.。
Scrap that from the recording.。
There-- I'm so sorry.。
But there on the bed was another note that said,。
see you at 6, two dozen more roses,。
and then a dress I had bought for Kat.。
And ladies, I know what you're thinking.。
You're like, you bought her a dress?。
That is so dangerous.。
And you're right, except the good news。
is that Kat has a twin sister.。
So it's like, would Kat look good in this dress?。
Yes, great, good.。
We're good to go.。
6 PM, Kat comes out of her apartment.。
I'm standing there in front of a limousine, two dozen more roses.。
We get in the limo.。
We make our way to downtown Dallas.。
There's that building that has the hole in the middle of it.。
And the floor right below that, there's a restaurant.。
We sat and watched the sun go down.。
And right there in the middle of dinner, I took her by the hand.。
And I said, Kat, will you please pass the sweet and low?。
And she did.。
And so we finished up dinner.。
We got back in the limousine.。
And we drove to my cousin's house.。
Now, I know what you're thinking.。
Like, you went to your cousin's house on the night you proposed.。
Yes, I did.。
Because my cousin shares a backyard with former Dallas Cowboy football。
player Darryl Johnston, a.k.a.。
The Moose.。
And The Moose had a private lake in his backyard。
with fountains and waterfalls.。
It was really beautiful.。
So I walked Kat up the driveway.。
And I'd set up a projection screen.。
And I sat her down.。
And I pushed play on a slideshow that showed her--。
a slideshow of her and me from birth to present.。
She teared up.。
I said, bam.。
So after the slideshow, I walked her down to the lake.。
It was dark.。
But the path was lit with candles.。
The water was dark.。
But we had put floating candles in the water.。
And there in the water was a rowboat with two dozen more roses.。
And I had Kat get in the rowboat.。
And then I rowed the two of us out to the middle of The Moose's lake.。
And there in the middle of the lake, I got down on one knee.。
And I asked Kat if she would marry me.。
And she said yes.。
And that was an incredible thing.。
And after she said yes, we hugged it out.。
And then I said, hey, let me row the two of us back to shore.。
So let's knock on my cousin's door to get your ring in the light.。
So we went up to the door.。
We knocked.。
They opened the door.。
And her family was standing right there, which was amazing.。
But then 10 seconds later, 20 of her closest friends。
came running around the corner.。
And estrogen just exploded into the night sky.。
And then we spent the rest of the evening celebrating the fact。
that a girl like that would say yes to a dude like this.。
That's it.。
That's all I wanted to share with you tonight.。
I'm going to pray.。
And then we can get out of here.。
All right.。
Hopefully your life was changed in the name of Jesus.。
Hey, here's the reason I share that with you.。
I share that with you because I'm really。
proud of the way I proposed.。
Some of you have probably heard it before.。
And you're like, dude, you're like mouthing it along。
because you've heard me share it so many times.。
I share it a lot because I'm really proud of how I proposed.。
I'm proud of it because of the lengths that I。
went to to invite Kat into a lifelong relationship together.。
And yet what I want to share with you tonight。
is a far greater proposal.。
It's a proposal that puts my proposal to shame.。
It's a proposal from Jesus Christ to you and to me.。
And the lengths that Jesus Christ went to for us。
are far greater.。
And the invitation to us is so much sweeter.。
It's not just an invitation to life now with Jesus.。
It's an invitation to life with the eternal Son of God,。
not just now, but for all of eternity.。
It's an invitation into the relationship。
that you have actually been made for.。
So tonight, as we continue this series that is called Disciple,。
we're taking a step closer to Jesus。
because we don't want to just be people who know about Jesus.。
We want to be people who draw near and know Jesus intimately,。
who know who He is, who know His character, who。
draw near to His heart, and have our lives changed by Him.。
Now, when you think about my proposal with Kat,。
there was kind of two components to it.。
There was the invitation from me,。
and then there was the response from Kat.。
And we're going to see the same proposal from Jesus.。
We're going to see His invitation to us,。
and then we're going to see our response to Him.。
And the greatest proposal in the history of mankind。
is found in the passage that Kendall just read.。
It's Matthew chapter 11.。
So if you have a Bible, you're welcome to turn there。
if you haven't already.。
But in verse 28, we find the proposal.。
We find Jesus' invitation to us.。
Listen to what He says.。
He says, "Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden,。
and I will give you rest."。
There it is.。
That's the proposal.。
That's actually the greatest proposal。
in the history of the world.。
It's honestly found in those first three words,。
"Come to me."。
So let's just clarify real quick.。
I need to make sure that everyone's on the same page.。
When Jesus says, "Come to me," it。
is nothing short of an invitation。
to be with Jesus now and for all of eternity.。
It's not first and foremost an invitation。
to up your church attendance.。
It's not first and foremost an invitation。
to open up the Bible and try your hardest。
to follow all of its rules.。
It's not first and foremost an invitation。
to just be better to yourself, kinder to yourself,。
and kinder to other people.。
No, it is nothing short of an invitation from Jesus。
to be with Jesus now and for all of eternity.。
And if you're exploring Jesus, you're。
not sure what you think about Him,。
I want to be clear that I believe--。
and this isn't just my opinion-- if the Bible is true,。
then what the Bible would tell you。
is you have been made for Jesus.。
Like your soul has been made to be satisfied by and in Jesus.。
So the craving of your soul for satisfaction,。
it will not find fulfillment until it。
is fulfilled by the one for whom it's been made,。
who is Jesus Christ.。
And so I just want to be clear, this is His invitation to you.。
It is an invitation from Jesus to be with Jesus.。
Don't let anyone sell you for anything less.。
Don't let them sell you on anything less.。
Don't settle for anything less.。
I'll explain it this way.。
Several years ago, my wife and I,。
we had some friends staying with us,。
and we could hear them in the other room on the phone。
ordering Mexican food.。
And it was right around dinner time, and Cat and I,。
we were both really hungry, and we。
were listening to them order.。
That sounds creepy when it comes out of my mouth,。
but that's just reality.。
We were listening to them in a different room。
order Mexican food, and we were like, man, I want that.。
Like, I want what they're ordering.。
That actually sounds really good.。
The only problem is we were on a budget.。
So we wanted like a restaurant quality Mexican food,。
but we didn't want to spend the money to get it.。
So we were like, let's do the next best thing.。
And so we went and spent over $20 on food from Taco Bell.。
[APPLAUSE]。
And look, sounds like we've got some Taco Bell fans。
in the room.。
So I want to be clear with you.。
I'm not trying to disparage Taco Bell.。
But the reality is that when you're。
looking for restaurant quality Mexican food。
and you go to Taco Bell, there's times of the day。
when Taco Bell will taste better than others.。
And the time we were looking to eat was not one of those times.。
So the food that we bought-- so just imagine spending。
over $20 on food at Taco Bell.。
That's a significant amount of food for two people.。
It resembled what we were desiring,。
but it did not taste like what we were wanting.。
And in the end, it resembled-- it。
looked similar to what we wanted,。
but in the end, it did not satisfy.。
My fear is that many people in this room。
are having the same experience with your version of Jesus。
or your version of Christianity.。
And so I just want to be clear.。
Maybe Christianity for you is doing things for Jesus,。
but you have little experience being with Jesus.。
If that's your experience, it will not satisfy,。
and you have settled.。
You've settled for the wrong understanding of Christianity。
and the wrong version of Jesus.。
Maybe Christianity for you is just。
about becoming a better person.。
You want to be more loving to yourself,。
more loving towards others, and Jesus helps you with that.。
And at the same time, you don't necessarily。
need Jesus for that.。
If that's your version of Jesus and Christianity, in the end,。
it's not going to satisfy, and you've settled.。
Maybe Christianity for you is about going to heaven。
when you die, but for now, Jesus is more of a roadblock。
to satisfaction than a remedy for it.。
The Jesus you know is boring, unsatisfying, and exhausting.。
If that's the Jesus of the Christianity you know,。
I want you to know you have settled.。
If Christianity for you, if your understanding of Christianity。
is that it's a solution for the weak,。
it's a quick remedy for people who are in tough times.。
If that's your understanding of Jesus or Christianity,。
I'm just telling you, you've got the wrong Jesus。
and the wrong Christianity.。
Christianity is nothing short of a proposal。
from the God of the universe to be with him。
now and for all of eternity.。
It is life with Jesus, the King of kings。
and the Lord of all lords, the one for whom。
your soul has been made, and you will not。
be satisfied apart from him.。
And you might hear me say that, and you're like,。
TA, I don't know you, and you don't know me.。
So for you to state something emphatically。
that I won't be satisfied apart from Jesus,。
you might hear that and be like, look, I'm not buying it.。
And I just say, that's OK.。
Go on the search.。
Go look for satisfaction.。
There's people in the Bible that did just that.。
But in the end, the life you're looking for,。
it's only found in Jesus.。
Jesus has come to me.。
Now, as he continues, we're going。
to see who he's actually proposing to.。
Now, I want you to think about this.。
Before I talk about Jesus's proposal to us,。
I want you to think about this.。
If you're here and you desire to be married one day, which。
means there's a desire in you to hopefully either propose。
to someone or be proposed to, what I want you to think about。
is I want you to envision the person opposite you.。
When I say opposite you, I mean the person standing with you,。
the person either you're proposing to。
or the person proposing to you.。
My guess is whoever you picture, you only。
think about their positives, right?。
It's someone who's incredibly good looking,。
they're really godly, and they're really funny.。
No one thinks about their negatives, right?。
Like, I guarantee you, on June 2, 2006,。
on the day I proposed to Kat, I assure you Kat。
wasn't sitting there like, praise God,。
I get to be married to a man who's going to be moody.。
[LAUGHTER]。
He's not going to be able to fall asleep at night。
unless he's wearing socks.。
[LAUGHTER]。
And I'm going to have the joy of watching。
him go through a box of Kleenex every few days。
due to severe allergies.。
No.。
You don't-- I just shared way too-- you。
didn't need to know any of that.。
But look, to be married to Timothy Attick,。
that's what you get.。
You don't think about the negatives.。
You only think about the positives.。
OK, well now, I want you to see who Jesus wants.。
I want you to see who Jesus wants to be with now。
and for all of eternity.。
What does the text say?。
Jesus says, "Come to me," who?。
"All who labor and are heavy laden."。
Come to me all who labor.。
So that word in the Greek, it carries。
the idea of being worn out from struggling or grinding。
through life.。
That idea of being heavy laden, it。
means to be burdened or overloaded or weighed down.。
So just wake up, and here's what's happening.。
Jesus is saying, look, the people that I long for,。
the reason I left heaven and came to Earth,。
is for those who are worn out in life.。
It's for the people who are worn out。
in fighting, losing battles against various sins in life.。
Like the people that he wants are the people who。
are tired of giving into porn and tired of giving。
into drinking too much and tired of giving into hookups。
and tired of spending money that they don't have.。
The people that he wants are the people who are worn out,。
exhausted from trying to be someone who。
crushes everything in life, which。
means that they're well acquainted with what it feels。
like to be a failure, because no one can crush all of life.。
The people that he wants are the people who are exhausted。
from trying to please everyone, and the people。
who are so tired of the season of life that they're in.。
So maybe that's you right now.。
Maybe you're sitting there saying, look,。
I'm so over this season of life.。
Like you're so tired of being single,。
and you're so tired of your wedding。
not being on the wedding circuit that you find yourself。
stuck on.。
He wants people who are worn out from the heart in life.。
Maybe you're battling chronic pain,。
or maybe you're in a situation where you're actually。
having to parent your parents.。
OK.。
Yeah.。
I would imagine that there are people here。
who are in a place where you just say,。
I don't know I can take another day of it,。
whatever it is for you.。
Jesus says, you're the type of people that I'm looking for.。
He's worn out from people trying to be good enough for him.。
Like people who are exhausted from trying。
to be a good Christian.。
What's interesting is when Jesus says,。
come to me all who labor and are heavy laden, what's going on。
in the day and time that he was speaking in。
was that the religious professionals of the day,。
known as the Pharisees, these were people。
who took the laws of the Old Testament.。
There was about 613 of those.。
And what they did is they created pages and pages。
and pages and pages and pages of more laws.。
And they just began dumping all of these laws。
and requirements on the people.。
And they saddled them and weighed them down。
with all of these expectations that they said were from God.。
So if people were going to be God fearing people,。
they had to live under the crushing weight of these rules。
and regulations.。
And Jesus is like, man, these are the people that I want.。
The people that I long to spend now and all of eternity with。
are the people who are absolutely worn out on life.。
As I was preparing for this message,。
I was reminded of the scene in this Will Smith movie,。
The Pursuit of Happiness.。
I don't know if you've ever seen it.。
If you haven't seen it, that's OK.。
But Will Smith is in this moment where。
he's on the brink of homelessness.。
And he has this job interview coming up.。
And the day before his job interview,。
he's painting his apartment at home.。
The cops come to the door and they arrest him。
because he's failed to pay some parking tickets because he。
doesn't have money to pay it.。
And so he spends the night in jail.。
And he gets out of jail just in time for his job interview.。
So he shows up to this company.。
And he's wearing jeans he painted in,。
this tank top undershirt that's got paint on it.。
And you see him trying to tuck it in with paint on his shirt.。
And his hair's all messed up.。
And he's walking into this meeting。
with the C-suite executives of this company.。
And he's just trying to put himself together,。
even though he looks awful.。
And he sits down in front of these guys。
in very, very expensive suits.。
And he begins to try and explain to them why they。
should take a chance on him.。
And the main guy, who looks like the CEO of the company,。
looks at him and he's like, hey, look,。
what would you say to someone who walked in。
wearing what you're wearing?。
And the implication is, we don't give job offers。
to people who show up and present themselves like this.。
And yet Jesus would bust into that C-suite meeting。
and say, that's exactly the type of people I want.。
In fact, I only give offers and proposals to people like that.。
The people who don't have it together,。
the people whose lives are barely holding together,。
the people who are so worn out, exhausted,。
those who have been shackled in prison spiritually,。
bound up in sin, those are the people I came for.。
Those are the people that I want to do life now。
and all of eternity with.。
So he says, come to me.。
All who labor and are heavy laden.。
And then he clarifies exactly what he's offering.。
What does he say?。
And I will give you rest.。
He says the exact same thing in the next line.。
He promises rest two times in two verses.。
My high school Bible study leader,。
if we were studying this passage together,。
he would have instructed me to write the two letters BP。
next to those verses, standing for Bible promise.。
Because what he wanted us to do。
was to identify the times in the Bible。
where God gives something that we can count on and bank on.。
There's no maybe or possibly to this.。
There's no uncertainty.。
You can count on this.。
You come to Jesus and he gives you rest.。
That's what he wants to offer you tonight.。
He wants to offer you rest.。
Anyone here just need a break in life right now?。
Anyone honest enough to just say,。
yeah, rest sounds pretty great.。
So what's Jesus gonna do?。
Is he gonna somehow like give my boss a nightmare。
that calls him to move my PTO from 10 days to 15 days?。
Is that how Jesus works?。
'Cause if so, I'm in, like count me in.。
That's how this Jesus thing works, I'll take it.。
It's not what we're talking about.。
When Jesus promises rest, there's two facets to it.。
He's talking about rest one day。
and then he's talking about rest today.。
When he talks about giving rest,。
he's talking about giving rest one day,。
which when I talk about that,。
I'm talking about life for all of eternity。
in heaven with Jesus.。
It's kind of a Revelation 21 type thing.。
If you've never read Revelation 21,。
I would encourage you to go read it。
because a day is coming for those who know Jesus。
where all of the struggle of life。
will come to a complete conclusion.。
There will be no more pain, no more death,。
no more battle against sin, no more tears。
because Jesus Christ is gonna make everything new.。
He's gonna make things exactly how they should be,。
including you.。
There'll be complete rest.。
But when he offers rest in his proposal,。
he's not just talking about rest one day,。
he's talking about rest today.。
But Jesus isn't telling us。
that we need to stop working altogether。
and just take a long nap.。
What he's not talking about is ceasing from our work。
in order to rest.。
What he's talking about when he offers rest。
is he's talking about bringing refreshment。
in the midst of the struggle.。
So I'll explain it this way.。
Just a few months ago, I started going to CrossFit.。
And I know what you're thinking.。
Really?。
You, you sure?。
'Cause I'm seeing you in high definition right now.。
And I don't see much fit to that cross.。
But anyway, started going to CrossFit.。
In the last three months, I have been pushed harder。
than I've ever been pushed before,。
which means I have experienced despair。
more than I've ever experienced before.。
There have been some workouts that I'm in。
that I just five minutes in, I'm like, I am done.。
Like I am literally, I'm done with this.。
And so I'm just trying to make it.。
But then something will happen in the midst of the workout。
where I'm exhausted, I am worn out,。
I have given up, I'm ready to be done with this thing.。
And then I will remember the breakfast。
that I'm earning from this workout.。
And I begin to picture that banana granola crunch pancake。
from first watch that I just might get to experience.。
And something happens in that moment,。
it unlocks these reserve tanks of energy.。
And I began to work out with purpose again.。
And I'm like, oh my gosh, I'm actually crushing this WOD。
right now, workout of the day, by the way.。
So, and I think that's like a hint。
of what Jesus is talking about.。
He's like, look, I'm not telling you,。
you just get to like take a indefinite vacation。
from your job.。
What I'm talking about is I'm talking about refreshing you。
in the midst of the struggle.。
So think about it this way,。
in regard to your losing battle against sin.。
And I would imagine that's hundreds,。
if not over a thousand people in this room。
who might feel like you are losing the battle。
against some sin in your life.。
What if Jesus brought you here tonight。
just so that he could remind you。
that he hasn't given up on you, that he wants you,。
that your sin isn't the truest thing about you,。
that he isn't mad at you.。
And his goal is to keep forgiving you.。
And he wants to continue to give you a new start。
every morning.。
And he's committed to resourcing you。
with everything you need for victory.。
Like every day he's giving you the assurance。
that the victory over your sin has already been secured。
through his death, burial and resurrection.。
And not just that, he actually,。
when you put your faith in Jesus,。
he puts his Holy Spirit in you,。
which you might not realize this,。
but if God lives in you by the presence of the Holy Spirit,。
then you actually have the same power living in you。
that raised Christ from the dead.。
But not just that, he's given you his word。
so that you can know his ways and walk in his will.。
But not just that, he's gonna surround you。
with his people who will fight for you.。
And so maybe he brought you here tonight。
just to remind you, you aren't fighting alone.。
If you find yourself in a place where you feel hopeless,。
I think Jesus brought you here tonight to just say,。
"Hey, hope isn't lost."。
Like I'm still with you, I'm still for you,。
I still love you, I haven't given up on you,。
I'm not mad at you, but I hate your sin.。
And I'm so committed to you。
that I'm not leaving until we deal with this.。
My hope is that for some of you,。
that just unlocks some refreshment.。
Like you just for a moment believed,。
maybe all hope isn't lost.。
Or maybe in regard to that feeling that you're a failure。
because you're not doing enough or crushing life enough,。
or you haven't achieved enough,。
and it's all on you to make it happen.。
Maybe Jesus brought you here tonight to just say,。
"You don't have to crush all of life.。
"In fact, you never will because you're not me.。
"You're not God, and that's okay.。
"You don't have to crush life because Jesus already has."。
What do I mean by that?。
I mean, Jesus crushed life.。
He lived a perfect life.。
In fact, he's the only one who ever lived a perfect life.。
But he didn't just crush life, he crushed death.。
For you and for me.。
And he walked out of the grave。
to give you hope that you can as well.。
And so I tell you that just to say,。
maybe for some of you that refreshment。
comes in the form of you believing。
that your insufficiencies are actually a gift。
because they remind you of your need for Jesus,。
and God's power is actually perfected in your weakness.。
Maybe in your exhaustion from trying to please others,。
maybe Jesus brought you here tonight to just say,。
"I'm already pleased with you."。
Not because of what you're doing for me,。
but because of what I get to do in you.。
So some of you are here tonight,。
and you don't feel like anyone is choosing you.。
Like you are spinning your wheels,。
just longing and insecurity for someone to look at you。
and to want you and to choose you.。
And Jesus is like, "I already chose you.。
"Come to me.。
"I choose you, I want you.。
"I wanna be with you now and for all of eternity.。
"And so I don't need you to be somebody。
"that everyone wants you to be.。
"I want you to be who I am making you to be."。
And so maybe you can just lean into that and enjoy that。
and live with this appreciation。
that Jesus Christ has chose you,。
he's with you, he's working in you.。
I promise you the life you're longing for。
is only found in Jesus.。
This is how great his proposal is.。
Like if you wanna talk about the lengths Jesus has gone to。
to invite you into relationship with him,。
the eternal son of God left heaven,。
was born to a virgin, grew up perfectly,。
lived the life that not one of us could live,。
went to the cross to do what?。
To take our punishment.。
The wrath of God was poured out on him。
so that it wouldn't be poured out on us.。
And then he rose from the grave victoriously demonstrating。
that you and I don't have to live in slavery。
to our sin for all of eternity.。
We can live as free children of God。
because of the blood of Jesus Christ, amen?。
So that's his invitation to us.。
Come to me all who labor and are heavy laden。
and I'll give you rest.。
That's the first aspect of the proposal.。
It's his invitation.。
But there's two aspects.。
Just like I proposed to Kat, Kat had to respond.。
When we were sitting in that rowboat。
in the middle of the Mooses Lake, Kat had two options,。
yes or no.。
And one would be a joyful row back to shore。
and the other one would be super awkward.。
But she had to respond and she responded with the word yes.。
And then all of her actions followed that response.。
She began planning a wedding.。
I say she because the best thing for me to do。
was to stay out of the way.。
She began to prepare to move to Austin.。
She didn't say yes to any date with any other guy.。
And I tell you that just to say like Jesus' proposal to us。
deserves a certain response.。
And Jesus spells out what that response is in verse 29.。
This is our response.。
Look at what he says.。
He says, "Take my yoke upon you and learn from me。
"for I am gentle and lowly in heart。
"and you will find rest for your souls."。
So he starts out and he says, "Take my yoke upon you."。
That's weird language.。
What's a yoke?。
Yoke is that piece of farming equipment.。
It's that bar that's put over an oxen's neck。
to lead and guide and direct the oxen。
when working the field.。
Jesus is saying, "Yeah, yeah, like that."。
"Take my yoke upon you."。
What I wanna do in your life,。
I don't wanna just be your ticket into heaven.。
I wanna be your leader.。
I wanna be your guide.。
I wanna be the one that helps you move through。
every moment of every day.。
But not just that.。
In the Bible, the word yoke is used in different ways.。
Yoke is also a reference to a servant。
to someone who enters servitude from being conquered.。
So it is somebody who has been conquered。
that then lives in submission to a king as a servant.。
And Jesus is like, "Look, an aspect of discipleship。
"requires waving the white flag of surrender and submission.。
"An aspect of your relationship with Jesus。
"has to be Jesus conquering you in the sweetest of ways.。
"It is you coming to a place where you're like,。
"I'm done living for myself.。
"I'm done living under the rule and reign of sin,。
"which is leading me towards death.。
"Jesus, I surrender to you.。
"I wave the white flag because you, Jesus,。
"are the King of kings and the Lord of lords.。
"You are the one and only one。
"who has conquered sin and death."。
And so I tell you that just to say,。
is that your understanding of Christianity?。
Is that the relationship with Jesus that you have?。
Because I think our tendency is to believe。
that there's different subscription levels to Christianity.。
It's kind of like this, a while back,。
without telling anyone in my family,。
I just straight up canceled Netflix.。
And the response from my family was a mutiny.。
Like they rose up in rebellion.。
Like they shook their fists at me.。
It was crazy.。
And so what did I do?。
I was like, I guess we're getting Netflix back.。
I canceled it to save money, but I was like,。
I won't be staying in this house much longer。
if I don't get Netflix back.。
And so I got online and I began to research,。
like, well, are there options?。
And I found out you can get Netflix for cheap.。
Now the video quality,。
you're not gonna be able to discern the faces。
and the ads are gonna be just as long as the show itself,。
but you can get it on the cheap.。
But if you want better quality and no ads,。
it's a different subscription level.。
And sometimes I think that's how we treat Jesus。
in Christianity.。
Some of us, we just want the base subscription.。
We just want the base subscription.。
Look, Jesus, all I'm looking for is heaven.。
Okay, well, that's just gonna cost you a prayer.。
Okay, you just pray the prayer and you'll get into heaven.。
That's fine.。
It's like, great, that's all I need.。
Thank you so much.。
I want the cheap version, that'll work.。
But some of you are like, no, I'll take the silver package。
because I don't want just heaven, I want some of the feels.。
You know, like I wanna be able to show up to church.。
I wanna leave feeling better about myself.。
There's gonna be times in my life。
where I just need some grounding in life.。
So I'll take the silver package.。
Okay, well, that's gonna cost you a little bit more.。
It's gonna cost you more than a prayer.。
You are gonna need to show up to church some more.。
And you're like, okay, that's fine.。
I can do that.。
But then there's the platinum package.。
Okay, and that one's gonna cost you the most.。
But you know what?。
You subscribe to the platinum package,。
you're not just gonna get heaven.。
You're not gonna just get the feels,。
but you're gonna get these amazing God stories in life.。
But it's gonna cost you full surrender.。
Full surrender to Jesus.。
The platinum package is the package.。
The platinum package is the package.。
Jesus invites you to full surrender,。
not to take something from you,。
but so that he can give you all of himself.。
And you will not be fully satisfied。
until you receive as much of him。
that he's willing to give you.。
So I just wanna encourage you to evaluate。
what's keeping you from surrendering to Jesus?。
What's keeping you in a place where you're believing。
that the base package or the silver package。
is still a real option?。
When Jesus is explicitly saying,。
"Take my yoke upon you, wave the white flag."。
But not just that, he says,。
"Take my yoke upon you," and watch the next words.。
He says, "And learn from me."。
Okay, well, that's important.。
Because you have to decide,。
is Jesus gonna be a source of wisdom or the source of life?。
You know what's interesting is the first person。
to tell you something becomes the authority on that thing.。
You realize that?。
I see this in my kids.。
Like most recently, one of my kids has come home。
and been like, "Did you know that Chuck E. Cheese。
"recycles their pizza?"。
Yeah, this kid at school told me that.。
I was like, "Well, he must be the authority。
"on pizza from Chuck E. Cheese."。
And like you can Google it and Chuck E. Cheese。
has clarified that they don't in fact recycle their pizza.。
But like we've gotta unlearn some stuff.。
Because if we're not careful,。
like we're gonna listen to a bunch of different voices。
in our life and our tendency is going to be,。
"Well, they said it, so it must be true."。
But what Jesus is saying is,。
"Look, when you come under my yoke, you know what?。
"I become your final authority.。
"Learn from me."。
So the question you need to answer is,。
are you willing to be instructed by Jesus?。
Like are you willing to learn all of life from him?。
Because I need to warn you, what is wise to Jesus。
will seem foolish to the world.。
Are you willing to learn from him?。
From his word?。
And I would imagine that some of you are sitting there。
like, "Why should I?"。
Like what gives him more right to speak into my life。
than anyone or anything else?。
Well, I hope the case I'm building for you。
is that the eternal son of God became a human,。
that God himself took on flesh.。
And Jesus tells us exactly what he is like.。
So don't miss this because here's the thing,。
you're not gonna want life with Jesus。
unless you're responding to the right Jesus.。
You have to realize that your view of Jesus。
is gonna determine how you respond to Jesus.。
Jesus says, "Take my yoke upon you and learn from me."。
Why?。
"For I am gentle and lowly in heart,。
"and you will find rest for your souls."。
He says, "I'm gentle and lowly in heart."。
So what you have to understand is in the Bible,。
when the Bible talks about the heart,。
it's talking about the control center of someone's being.。
It's what makes you you, it's what drives you。
and directs you, it's what gets you out of bed。
in the morning.。
And Jesus is just saying,。
"Look, you need to know I'm gentle."。
A guy named Dane Ortlund,。
he wrote an entire book on these two words.。
It's called "Gentle and Lowly."。
And he does an incredible job of helping us understand。
what Jesus is saying when he says he's gentle and lowly.。
In regards to Jesus being gentle,。
Dane Ortlund says, "Jesus is not trigger happy.。
"He's not harsh or reactionary or easily exasperated.。
"He's the most understanding person in the universe.。
"The posture most natural to him.。
"It's not a pointed finger, but open arms."。
Is that your understanding of Jesus?。
But he's not just gentle, he's lonely.。
He's not lonely, he's lowly.。
Dane Ortlund explains it this way.。
He says, "The point in saying that Jesus is lowly。
"is that he's accessible.。
"For all his resplendent glory and dazzling holiness,。
"his supreme uniqueness and otherness,。
"no one in human history has ever been more approachable。
"than Jesus."。
And then he goes on and says, "This is who he is.。
"He's tender, he's open, he's welcoming,。
"he's accommodating.。
"He's understanding, he's willing."。
If we are asked to say only one thing about who Jesus is,。
we would be honoring Jesus's own teaching。
if our answer is he's gentle and lowly.。
As I was journaling through this passage yesterday,。
just to make sure that it had invaded my own heart,。
here's the things that I wrote to Jesus.。
I said, "You're gentle with the worst parts of me.。
"You have the most patience in the areas。
"where it would be easy to be impatient.。
"You make a holy, all-knowing, all-powerful God accessible.。
"You stoop low enough to be near to me."。
And Jesus finishes that section by just saying,。
"For my yoke is easy and my burden is light."。
That word easy in the Greek, it means kind.。
He's saying, "My yoke that I place on you,。
"it's actually kind."。
Dane Orlin described it as like telling a drowning man。
that he must put on the burden of a life preserver.。
So here's what you need to understand.。
You're gonna be yoked to something.。
Don't you wanna be yoked to something kind?。
You just have to make sure that you've got the right Jesus.。
Several years ago, I knew this guy。
who's a worship leader, which meant he was giving。
the majority of his time to leading people to Jesus.。
And unfortunate for him, he had the same first。
and last name, same spelling as a political figure。
who was considered by many people to be racist。
and oppressive and extreme.。
So anytime this political figure would do something。
that would catch fire in the news that seemed racist。
or oppressive or extreme, this worship leader。
would get blown up on social media.。
So people at the time, it was tweeting at him.。
They would tweet like horrific things at him.。
And so he would have to post something that was like,。
"You've got the wrong guy."。
Two people can have the same name, you know.。
Like, "You got the wrong guy, that's not me."。
And I just wonder if there are times Jesus is looking。
at us like, "You got the wrong guy."。
Some of us are like, "You know what?。
"Jesus is irrelevant and incompetent。
"and boring and unsatisfying."。
And I wonder if Jesus is like, "Dude, you got the wrong guy.。
"That's not me."。
Being a Christian is exhausting.。
It's impossible to have a job and do everything。
for Jesus that he wants me doing for him.。
I wonder if Jesus is like, "That's not me.。
"You've got the wrong Jesus.。
"Man, Jesus is disappointed in me.。
"He's close to giving up on me.。
"I think he just tolerates me.。
"You've got the wrong Jesus.。
"You've got the wrong guy."。
Jesus Christ is responsible for the greatest proposal。
in all of history.。
"Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden,。
"and I will give you rest.。
"Take my yoke upon you and learn from me,。
"for I am gentle and lowly in heart,。
"and you will find rest for your souls,。
"for my yoke is easy and my burden is light."。
So how do you respond to a message like this?。
Some of you, let me just invite you to repent。
of a low view of Jesus tonight.。
Maybe for you, it's not racing out of here,。
and when we go to sing a song,。
you just get on your knees or you get before the Lord。
and you just say, "I've had the wrong Jesus.。
"Would you forgive me, Jesus?。
"I repent of a low view of you."。
Maybe for some of you,。
you just need to declare your love for him.。
Like, that's gonna be a great moment to just be like,。
"Thank you for your proposal to me.。
"The answer is yes, and I love you back.。
"Thank you, Jesus, for all that you are.。
"Thank you for my salvation.。
"Thank you that you are gentle with me.。
"Thank you that you are accessible to me.。
"You're holy, holy, holy,。
"and yet you want to be with me now and for all of eternity."。
Maybe for some of you,。
your response is to just start learning from him.。
It's to start reading his word, to learn from him.。
And yet some of you, you're gonna say yes。
to Jesus's proposal for the first time.。
You know what's interesting。
is when I was telling my proposal story,。
I guarantee there was at least one person in this room。
who was like, "There's no way that's true."。
Like, some of you are like, "I bet he's embellishing.。
"Yeah, that's what I'm doing.。
"I'm lying to you to get you to like me on a church stage."。
Everything I said is 100% true.。
And yet something in you hears the links。
that I went to for a cat,。
and you're like, "There's no way that happened.。
"There's no way."。
And my hope is that some of you。
might be having that type of realization,。
which is there's no way.。
There's no way that the God of the universe would want me.。
If he knew where I've been, if he knew what I've done,。
you're telling me that God put on flesh。
and gave his life, he died to have me.。
It's 100% true.。
And the invitation to you tonight is to come.。
Let's pray together.。
If that's you,。
if you're realizing for the first time。
that Jesus Christ is inviting you to come to him,。
if he's inviting you to be forgiven by him,。
to be satisfied in him, to find your hope in him,。
to find your strength and your peace and life in him,。
he's inviting you to surrender to him,。
to be led by him,。
and spend all of eternity with him.。
If that's you and you just wanna say yes to Jesus,。
I invite you right now in the quietness of your own heart。
to just say that, say, "Jesus, yes.。
"Yes, would you come into my life tonight?。
"Would you save me from my sins tonight?。
"I surrender my life to you tonight."。
And then for everyone else,。
would you respond to the Lord,。
whether it's repenting from a low view。
or just declaring your love for him。
or just beginning to learn from him?。
Do business with the Lord right now, Jesus, we thank you.。
That you invite us to come, that you want us.。
God, would you,。
would you draw us close to you?。
Would you give us eyes to see just how sweet you really are?。
Thank you, Jesus, that you are gentle and lovely.。
Amen.。
