[MUSIC]。
[APPLAUSE]。
[MUSIC]。
>> That was amazing, amazing.。
That was excellent.。
I feel like we needed a wrecking ball swinging back and forth.。
What are you on it?。
>> I forgot my- >> Are you all not done?。
>> I'm not done.。
>> What'd you say?。
>> I said I forgot my outfit or- >> I don't think that outfit would be。
appropriate.。
Are you all- >> I haven't even seen that video.。
>> I don't wanna end it.。
I feel like we could all go for a little bit more.。
What a perfect way to start.。
Tonight we are in a dating series.。
So we're discussing just topics as it relates to dating.。
That song is a popular breakup song right now.。
And aren't breakup songs like the worst?。
Whether it's like Usher or Adele or Boyz II Men or。
everything Taylor Swift has ever written.。
>> [LAUGH] >> They're just like,。
especially if you're going through a breakup, they're just the worst.。
So tonight, if you haven't guessed it, we are discussing this topic.。
My first experience with love and relationships happened when I was in。
the second grade.。
I was in Miss Ennihosa's class.。
It was a little brunette girl that sat right in front of me.。
And shortly after meeting this young lady,。
she came up one day on the playground wearing umbro shorts.。
And she asked, she told me, I think we should be boyfriend and girlfriend.。
Which was a little like, whoa, girl, initiating.。
But I was okay with it then, so I'm in.。
And so shortly after that, Valentine's Day came.。
Never had a Valentine before.。
And she gave me a beaded ring that she had made with her mom.。
It was like, I was smitten.。
And I'm watching A Lot of Saved by the Bell at this point, for some reason.。
So this is my Kelly Kapowski.。
And shortly after that, all of my hopes and。
dreams for this relationship and blossoming one would be totally smashed to pieces.。
Because a few weeks later, she showed up and said, I think we should break up.。
Yeah, I know, and as a seven year old, you're like, I thought we were going to。
the altar, what?。
Don't tell me that ring didn't mean something to you, that was a symbol, what?。
And not only that, she asked for the ring back.。
Yeah, like I pawned that thing.。
I don't even have any, it's not worth anything to them or me, what?。
But it was a first experience that I can remember just being, I don't even care.。
And it was really the first of a long number,。
a chain of just breakups that are painful.。
Regardless of how often, how well you date,。
they can still be hard to walk through.。
And often it's like, yeah, we're just friends.。
She hates me, but we're still just, we're like friends that hate each other, and。
they're just hard.。
And so tonight, we're going to discuss the topic of breakups and how to break up,。
when to break up, and when not to break up.。
Because in the reality of life, in a dating world, which we live in,。
breakups are a part of that and a necessary one as we explore and。
search and find the right person.。
So we're going to go through, really, a list of when to break up.。
Because in this dating series, here's what we know.。
Dating is meant to lead to marriage.。
And so before you have a broken marriage,。
it is better to have a broken relationship.。
So we're going to cover some big ones.。
We've covered some of them before, but these are just ones of when to break up.。
Here's the first one.。
When they are not a follower of Christ.。
Not when they are not a Christian, or not when they say that they go to church.。
When they are not following Christ with their life, when the active pursuit and。
the path and direction of their life is not towards following Jesus,。
it is worth breaking up now before the destruction that lays in front of you.。
Here's what Paul says in 2 Corinthians 6.。
Do not be yoked or partnered together with unbelievers,。
for what do righteousness and wickedness have in common?。
Missionary dating, and this is so important, is a bad idea.。
It's a terrible idea.。
And here's why.。
You need to know this.。
Because you can fall in love with someone who does not believe the same things。
that you believe.。
Do you know that?。
You can fall in love, you can give your heart to someone who is not a follower。
of Jesus, and it happens.。
Maybe it's happened to some of you in this room.。
And when a person, and the path of their life is not headed in the direction。
of Christ, it is going to be costly.。
And so you need to hit the ejection seat now.。
Because here's what dating is.。
Dating is a path that leads to a promise, that's marriage,。
that leads to a lifelong pursuit.。
That's what dating is.。
And so if you are dating or casually dating, and you're dating someone who's not。
of the same belief about Jesus is my Lord and Savior, and I'm committed。
to following Him, not just, "Hey, I'm a Christian, but I'm a follower。
of Christ," you need to break up.。
Here's the second one.。
When community around you has counseled towards this.。
So I'm going to pause before we do this one.。
This assumes that you're in community.。
If you are not in community or you are dating someone and you or they are not。
in community, you are going to be in trouble.。
You are missing out on God's provision for your life.。
One of the chief ways that He says He speaks to us is through the counsel。
of His people around us.。
And so if you are dating without community or the person you are dating does not。
have community, what's community?。
Community is a group of believers who gather with them regularly or with you。
regularly and speak into your life.。
You are playing with fire, and it's going to end badly.。
Okay, so back to community.。
When community has counseled towards this, here's what I mean.。
I got a call this past week, and it was from a friend of mine who said,。
"Hey, look, I just have a question.。
I think I'm going to break up with my girlfriend, and she is a woman。
of incredible character.。
She is a godly woman, and she's wonderful.。
But there's something just where I don't see us moving towards marriage.。
Am I crazy to break up with her?。
I've spoken to my community, and they think the wise thing to do because I'm not。
moving towards marriage would be to break up.。
Is this crazy?。
Am I wrong?。
I hear the dating messages that you all do at the porch, and it just seems like I'm。
crazy for wanting to do this."。
And I told him, "No, not at all.。
If you're in a relationship and you're not moving towards marriage,。
then you're in a relationship that's pointless because dating is meant to lead。
to a promise that leads to a lifelong pursuit.。
And so if that is not the path that you are on, then hit the ejection seat now."。
This kind of repeats the same idea.。
When you are not moving towards marriage, here's a fourth one.。
When you are not on the same page about sexual purity, if you are dating someone。
and they are pulling you or pressuring you towards having sex, you need to get。
out now because breaking up at a later time would statistically,。
your chances increase dramatically.。
But even if stats are on the side, it is going to be significantly more。
painful if that day comes, if you are having sex with that person.。
And part of Paul's instructions to young men and women was, "Hey,。
flee sexual immorality."。
And so what you and I do in relationships where we're being pulled in that direction。
or pressured in that direction, that's one way we flee, is we break up.。
Here's what Paul says in 1 Corinthians 6, 18, "Flee from sexual immorality.。
All other sins a person commits are outside the body, but whoever sins sexually,。
sins against their own body.。
Do you not know that your bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit who is in you,。
whom you have received from God?。
You are not your own."。
Think about that.。
Paul says, "Look, hey, flee sexual immorality."。
And here's what you need to remember.。
And as you're doing that, you're not your own.。
Your body right now is on loan from God who loves you and wants you to use that。
body in a way that's not going to lead to pain.。
And he says, "You were bought with a price."。
And so flee sexual immorality and break up.。
And as hard as it's going to be, and it's going to be hard,。
so I'll just take a tangent.。
Breakups are just, they're hard.。
They really are.。
Even when you do it really, really well, they're still, we're emotional beings,。
so it just can be really painful or painful.。
So some of these things will really guard you against the catastrophic outcome that。
could be there and will be there if you do not do them, but they're just hard.。
That's why guarding your heart and taking things slow is so important.。
And seeing your dating as an opportunity where you will either honor or dishonor。
your heavenly father.。
My first conversation with our senior pastor, whose name is Todd,。
he was here a few weeks ago, was about this topic of dating where I literally。
had just met him.。
I sat down with him and he said, "Are you dating someone?"。
And this was like five years ago, I wasn't.。
And I said, "No."。
He said, "Why not?"。
Which is always like a funny question.。
I feel like, "You're not dating."。
"I don't know.。
I have lip fungus or something.。
I'm just not."。
And he said, "Okay, that's great.。
Well, here's the deal.。
There's a lot of young ladies on our staff.。
You get one shot.。
If you break her heart, if you don't lead her well, if you do anything that causes。
her at the end of that relationship to say, 'I'm totally great with him dating any。
other girl on our staff,' then you don't ever date anyone on our staff again."。
And that's why I didn't date anyone on our staff again.。
But his point was, "Look, if you do not leave her better than you found her,。
which is your responsibility as a Christian man, then you won't date again,。
and you will dishonor God, and there will be other consequences to go along with that."。
And so this is just the last thing about breaking up.。
I think, believers, as you break up and walk through this, that we are called to do。
this gently and honorably to the other person.。
As much pain is involved or as low as you think that that other person is or doesn't。
really matter and this is how I feel, here's what we do know, that whoever he or。
she is, if you're breaking up, this is really important.。
It's really important to Jesus.。
They are someone that Jesus died on the cross for and says, "He's mine."。
And so as you walk through that, and it's going to happen, it may need to happen。
after tonight, do it gently, speaking honestly, not blaming it on God,。
but speaking honestly.。
And here's the last one.。
Here's when to break up, before we get married, which I wish went without saying,。
but it clearly hasn't in our country.。
And so we're going to discuss when not to in marriage and that when to not break up,。
i.e., marriage, and really Jesus' words on marriage and on divorce.。
But here's what we know about divorce.。
This is what Time Magazine said a couple of years ago.。
"There is no single force causing as much measurable hardship and human misery in。
this country as the collapse of marriage."。
Five out of 10, between four and five out of 10 people are having divorces.。
The amount of pain and misery in our land is almost incalculable.。
Psychology and sociology has done studies and they've discovered that when a person。
walks through a divorce, I promise this is going somewhere.。
If you're going, "Why are we talking about this?。
I'm not married.。
I'm not even dating right now."。
I promise it's going somewhere because remember, dating is a path and most。
likely you will get married.。
In fact, 80% of you will get married before you leave the decade you're in.。
And dating is a path that leads to a promise, that leads to a lifelong pursuit.。
And there is nothing destroying our nation like the collapse of marriage.。
And the war against marriage is not coming from the homosexual agenda,。
it's coming from within the church and the collapse of the sanctity of marriage。
between man and woman, divorce.。
And this message is so important for you and for me and for our nation to hear。
because we live in a culture that says nothing close to what God's standard。
of marriage and divorce is.。
Kanye West in the club going, "We want prenup, we want prenup."。
It comes not close in any way.。
That's right.。
And any time, as we said last week, a nation or a people devalues something,。
as we're going to see tonight with marriage, God says is of incredible value,。
the result is catastrophic.。
And so we're just going to explore what Jesus says about this because there is a。
tidal wave of destruction pouring through our land.。
Some of it's been poured into this room, it's been poured into my life.。
Divorce in every way that I look, is there my grandparents, my parents,。
sibling, my wife's parents.。
And Jesus has something to say about it.。
And I promise you this, you're probably going to learn something。
about what his view on marriage, which is very distinct from the culture。
around us, but his words in the midst of a culture that so devalues marriage。
are breathtaking.。
And we're going to see it.。
We're going to be in Matthew 19 as we explore what Jesus has to say about this。
topic about when to not divorce and why this is so important because all of you。
are heading towards that direction.。
And maybe the generation before us, nobody told them.。
And oftentimes, the problem is people like this that do what I do or do what JP。
does, they stand up here and they do not teach what Jesus said because it's just。
not practical as it relates to marriage and divorce.。
And so we're going to discover what he says.。
And I'll say this, I don't like what Jesus says or I'm not comfortable with it.。
It makes me uncomfortable.。
And I know that the people who heard what Jesus had to say about marriage felt the。
same way.。
In fact, this is the response that they had.。
The disciples who said to him, this is Matthew 19, verse 10, "If this is the。
situation," as Jesus discusses marriage, "between a husband and a wife, it's better。
to not marry."。
And you would expect Jesus, if we're going to see what he says, you'd expect him to go,。
"Oh, no, no, no, marriage is awesome.。
You got to do it.。
It's great."。
He goes, "Yeah, some people can handle it, some people can't."。
And he walks off.。
And so if that's not the response or if that is the response you feel as we leave。
tonight, I feel it with you and we probably understand it appropriately.。
But here's what he says.。
So Matthew 19, verse 3, we're going to pick it up right there.。
"Some Pharisees came to test him."。
Pharisees were these legal experts or experts in the Old Testament and they were。
always trying to test Jesus because Jesus was really popular with the people and they。
didn't like that.。
So they come up and they're going to test him about this subject.。
And they asked him, "Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for any and every reason?"。
So here's what they're asking.。
What are the circumstances under which it's possible to get a divorce?。
When would it be possible for a husband and wife to split up?。
And in Jesus's day, there were two schools of thought.。
There was one school that said you can get a divorce anytime you want.。
If you find someone who's prettier, if you find...if she burns the toast,。
that's literally written in the literature from the first century.。
You can walk away, talk about security there.。
If you find anything wrong with her, you can marry someone else.。
And then there was another school of thought that said only if there's been。
sexual immorality or adultery can you divorce your wife.。
And so they asked Jesus, "Hey, we want to know where you stand.。
What are the circumstances under which a man can divorce his wife?"。
And here's what he says.。
"Haven't you read," he replied, "that in the beginning, the Creator made them male。
and female?"。
And the Pharisees are going, "Okay, Jesus.。
Okay, that's great.。
That's fascinating.。
Male and female in the beginning.。
What are the circumstances under which a man can get a divorce?"。
Don't go off topic or give me a parable.。
What are the circumstances under which...and here's what he says.。
And said, "For this reason, a man will leave his father and mother and be united."。
That's the word "glued."。
It's the same word that appears at this time in other literature for glue.。
If you glued something together.。
"A man will leave his father and mother and he will be united or glued to his wife。
and the two will become one flesh."。
Jesus says, maybe you didn't realize this, but when marriage takes place,。
when a man and a woman come together, it's not just a ceremony and a honeymoon.。
It's not just a certificate and then there's some exciting stuff afterwards.。
He says, "No, no, no, no.。
There's something so much bigger and there's another party involved."。
And he's going to tell us who it is.。
"So the two are no longer...so they are no longer two," verse 6, "but one flesh.。
Therefore, what God has joined together, let no one separate."。
That Jesus says, when a person, a man and a woman get married, that they no longer are。
just Jack and Jill, but the two have been two entities who have now become one.。
And they cannot be separated.。
That they're no longer these two different things.。
He says, "Look, when the two came together, you didn't realize it.。
You may not have thought it, but when you marry that person or when a person marries。
a spouse, they become united in a way that they cannot be separated," is what he says.。
He essentially says this, "The goal of marriage is not oneness.。
The result of marriage is oneness.。
And you may not have realized it."。
But this is Jesus who's saying, "When that took place, they are no longer two, they are。
one person.。
And you cannot separate a person.。
They may not feel like it and may not look like it, but," he says, "God has done something。
and He is the active agent in every wedding and in every marriage.。
And He is uniting and has united someone in a way that it cannot be separated."。
You can't now try to take some of the water and you pour some in here and you pour some。
in there and it's not the same.。
And he says, "What God has joined together, man cannot separate."。
In effect, they're saying, "Hey, when is it permissible?"。
And he says, "It's not even possible.。
You're asking the wrong question."。
And that right there is where Jesus stops his answer.。
And in fact, he just says, "Don't do it.。
You can't."。
And we want to run to circumstances.。
My mind, my heart runs, "Wait a second.。
What about she walked out and he did this and there was abuse and what about..."。
And Jesus just says, "It's not possible that there was something deeper going on and maybe。
no one even told you or your parents.。
But God has joined them together and you can't separate them."。
And at this point, Pharisees are going high-fiving each other because they're going, "Wait a。
second.。
He contradicted Moses.。
Moses wrote about divorce.。
Okay, now we got him.。
Okay.。
Okay.。
So Jesus, verse seven.。
"Why then," they asked, "did Moses command that a man give his wife a certificate of。
divorce and send her away?"。
Jesus replies.。
So they're referring to Moses in the Old Testament wrote a law where, "Hey, if a husband divorces。
his wife, he has to give her a certificate."。
Here's what Jesus says.。
"I tell you," whoops, "Moses," verse eight, "Moses permitted," whoops, that was powerful,。
"Moses permitted you to divorce your wives.。
Moses didn't command you.。
Moses permitted you because your hearts were hard."。
Here's what he says.。
"You know the history of your nation.。
You know what was taking place.。
In Moses' day, women could not divorce their husband.。
In Jesus' day, it was the same way.。
Moses instituted divorce because the husbands were hard-hearted," he says.。
"They were kicking their wives out saying, 'I'm going to do what I want to do.。
I'm not going to care for you anymore, so good luck out there.'"。
And because they would not yield, their hearts were hard, Moses said, "I'm going to have。
every husband who does that write a certificate of divorce."。
So they have to sign their name so that when the wife is kicked out, she's not just going,。
"I'm just sleeping around," and she can say, "No, he divorced me.。
I've got no place to go.。
Can I sleep here tonight or go back to her family with proof that I'm not just running。
away?。
I have been divorced."。
And Jesus says, "You know why, because of sin, because to protect the women, in order。
to protect women."。
But he says this, "But it was not so from the beginning."。
Because here's what we know about marriage.。
We can add rules, we can change rules, but in the beginning, God created it, and marriage。
belongs to him.。
And he says, "Divorce belongs to man, but in the beginning, it was not so."。
This next sentence is the most debated sentence as it relates to this topic that there really。
is in this passage and maybe in the New Testament.。
So buckle up.。
"I tell you that anyone who divorces his wife except for sexual immorality," we're going。
to come back to that phrase, "and marries another," I tell you that anyone who divorces。
his wife except for sexual immorality and marries another woman commits adultery.。
Jesus says, "If you think because a court gave you a certificate that you are no longer。
one, but now you're two, you've been divorced," he said, "you may have recognized that.。
Your mom may have recognized it, your grandma, the court may have, but in God's eyes, he。
hasn't, that you cannot separate what God has made one."。
And they're thinking, "Wait, Jesus, I'm not sure you understand.。
When a person who's divorced marries another person, that's not adultery, that's a divorced。
person getting married.。
I mean, you're not understanding the terms.。
A divorced person cannot commit adultery against this person.。
They're divorced, they're not married anymore."。
And Jesus says, "No, you cannot separate it."。
The phrase, "except for sexual immorality."。
There's two ways, really, that we understand this verse to work.。
The first just says, "Hey, that is the exception clause that Jesus gives, that, hey, you can't。
get a divorce except for if there's been sexual immorality in a relationship."。
It's a general word, not meaning adultery, it just means sexual immorality.。
I mean, of course, lust, anything.。
That's the only case.。
So that's one way that people understand it.。
The second is that this is not a reference to adultery, because it's just the word "porneia."。
So if it was just porneia, it means just lust of any kind.。
The second is that, hey, this is not for the case of adultery.。
In other words, Jesus isn't saying, "Hey, when you get, if someone commits adultery,。
you have an out."。
And that argument is based on a few things.。
Here, I'm just gonna give you kind of the reasons why that camp believes what it does,。
and you can decide for yourself.。
Because this phrase, the exception clause, does not appear in the other places where。
this is taught, in Mark and in Luke.。
That "except for sexual immorality," it just says, "I tell you, anyone who divorces his。
wife and marries another commits adultery."。
That's all it says.。
That's Mark 10 and Luke 16.。
You can go read it later.。
And so that's one reason, and the reason they think it's in Matthew is because Matthew was。
written to a Jewish audience.。
The other ones are written to Greeks and to Romans.。
And so to the Jews, this word, "porneia," represented something that happened in Jewish。
culture.。
Here's what happened.。
In the betrothal period, which is like engagement, when a person, when there was sexual immorality。
during the betrothal or the engagement, you had to have a divorce.。
Some of you guys may have a broken engagement.。
You couldn't just break an engagement in this culture.。
You had to legally get a divorce.。
And the grounds for which it was okay to divorce were sexual immorality, porneia.。
And so when Jesus says this, they think that he's referencing during the betrothal period,。
which is very confusing.。
But this is why Joseph had to divorce Mary quietly once he found out she was pregnant.。
Ever wonder that?。
Why does he have to divorce her?。
The betrothed.。
Because in this culture, which is also in Matthew 1, 18, betrothal had to be divorced.。
And so that's the camp of how this is not, this is referring to that.。
The second reason is because the church fathers did not see remarriage as even possible for。
the first 500 years.。
That they thought, okay, they can get a divorce in man's eyes, but not in God's eyes.。
And so they can't marry again.。
So anyone who divorced in the first 500 years of the church, they could not ever marry again.。
Because their one flesh they were no longer with, or their one flesh was still alive and。
still around.。
The second reason would be just the porneia.。
This is again why people think that this does not allow, Jesus is not giving an out for。
marriage.。
It is permanent.。
Even if you don't recognize it as such.。
The next reason is just the word porneia.。
Jesus would not be making it a smaller scope that you can get a divorce.。
He'd be widening it.。
He'd say, look, any husband who's ever looked at a woman lustfully, women you can divorce。
your husband.。
Which would include every husband that's out there at the part of his body.。
And so clearly that's not what Jesus is saying.。
And I think one of the stronger reasons for this case against the permanence of marriage。
is the picture that marriage presents us.。
Ephesians 5 says this, that it is a portrait of God's love for the church.。
That's what marriage is.。
It's so much bigger than a honeymoon and flowers.。
That it is a picture of God's unending love.。
Here's what Paul says in Ephesians 5.。
Look at this.。
This is like crazy.。
For this reason, a man will leave his father and mother and be united to his wife.。
We just saw that.。
And the two will become one flesh.。
Oh, that's great, Paul.。
You're talking about marriage.。
This is a profound mystery.。
But I am talking about Christ and the church.。
Wait a second, Paul.。
No, no, no, no.。
You're talking about marriage.。
You said a man and a woman come together.。
And he says, no, no, no, no.。
Marriage is a picture of God's unending love for the church and his pursuit of you and。
me even when we commit adultery with the idols in our life.。
And it's so much bigger.。
And I think the last reason for why this permanence or the strongest argument for this permanence。
is the disciples' response.。
Verse 10 again.。
"The disciples said to him, 'If this is the situation between a husband and a wife, it's。
better to not get married.'。
To which Jesus responds, 'Jesus replied, 'Not everyone can accept this word, but only those。
to whom it has been given.。
For there are those who are eunuchs.'"。
Which is not really a term that we use today.。
But a eunuch, we don't really do this surgery anymore.。
We do it to our dogs.。
But in these days, eunuchs were just a person who had that sexual anatomy removed.。
He said, "Some people have been eunuchs."。
They were born that way.。
Others have been made eunuchs when they would serve in a place where the king didn't want。
them.。
We'll just keep going.。
"And there are others who choose to live like eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom.。
There are some people who have been born that way, and there are some who choose to stay。
single."。
He's talking about singleness for their life.。
"And whoever can accept this should."。
Wait a second.。
Jesus, you didn't even respond.。
You just said, "If this is the case, it's better to not marry."。
And he goes, "If that's what you think, then don't get married.。
Stay single for the kingdom."。
But there is something deeper, and God is the one and the active agent at work.。
And what he has joined together, you cannot separate.。
So here's the application of why I think this is so important.。
We were gonna talk about sex tonight.。
I feel like that would have been so much more exciting of a talk.。
This is so depressing.。
And you guys look depressed.。
So here's the application.。
You would know what you're walking into.。
If you are dating someone, this is what you're heading towards.。
And our culture doesn't come close to what God says about marriage.。
And it is an abomination to him.。
And as you date, you are stepping on a path that leads to a promise, that leads to a lifelong。
pursuit that is a reflection of God's lifelong, unending pursuit of his bride, the church.。
And so now, you need to choose and date wisely.。
As to choosing who will be your master, choosing who will be your mate is the most important。
important decision that you'll make.。
And so choose wisely.。
Marriage is a wonderful thing.。
But according to Jesus, it's something that is far more significant than often we understand。
or realize.。
God holds an incredibly high value.。
That either it's not possible, or it would be like amputation with one flash.。
What if I had been divorced?。
If this is a part of your story, you need to go to divorce care.。
Divorce care meets on Tuesday nights.。
It's an amazing ministry where they will help lead and walk through all the pain that's。
involved with walking through something like that.。
And I think you need to pursue reconciliation with your spouse.。
What if they're not a believer?。
It doesn't say it matters.。
First Corinthians 7, it says if they abandon, then just let them go, but not to remarry.。
But God's heart is always for reconciliation.。
And we as ministers of reconciliation, which is what Paul says we are in 2 Corinthians。
5, are called to be reconcilers of the world around us, including the marriage.。
And so if that's a part of your story, and I think at the least you've got to wrestle。
with this stuff.。
You've got to wrestle with it.。
Because here's a question.。
Let's say it doesn't matter if you pursue reconciliation.。
Divorce is great.。
The world around us, knock on most church doors and they'll say, "That's totally great."。
The world around us won't give you that.。
But let's say, let's say for a second that it's actually true.。
That Jesus, if we're understanding it right, he says don't separate what he has made one.。
If it's true, I just want to ask, would you be willing to stay single for the rest of。
your life?。
Not, hey, do it.。
I'm just saying, hey, if it was true.。
If you were 100% certain, would you be willing to stay single?。
Or if it was 100% certain that God's will for you was to pursue reconciliation, regardless。
of what they did or how many times they left, whatever the circumstances was, would you。
be willing?。
Just would you be willing?。
If it's 100% true, would you be willing then to pursue reconciliation?。
I'm not even saying it is.。
I'm just saying if we were able to drop our emotions, would you then?。
And this is so huge because the generations that have gone before us have done such a。
poor job about modeling this.。
And here's what we know.。
There's a lot of debate, but it is a big deal to God because he says it is a picture of。
my unending love for the church.。
And so if I ever abandon my church, then you can abandon your wife.。
But I never will.。
And I'll never give up on her.。
And he won't ever give up on you if you're a part of that.。
And so that is to be displayed in the marriages.。
And God says it is a big, big deal to him.。
I feel like this message, I read it, and it just like raises more questions for me than。
answers.。
I'm like, Jesus, what about, let's say Bob and Mary, and I feel like it just feels so。
condemning.。
It's like, wait, Jesus, picking on divorced people.。
And here's what I would say.。
If that is, or if that's been a part of your parents' story, whatever story, when you read。
the gospels, it may seem like that here, but that's not the Jesus you interact with.。
Like he didn't just go around condemning people like, oh, you got divorced and you slept with。
her and you're just a liar.。
And going around telling people all the things they did bad.。
He walks up to a woman, we said this last week, who just committed adultery.。
And here's what he says, I don't condemn you.。
And if that's a part of your story, any shame that you're feeling, I don't think if Jesus。
was here, you would have felt.。
But this is the incredible truth about what marriage is and the high standard it has.。
And regardless of where you are in the room on that scale, there's an incredible grace。
that's coupled with that every time we encounter Jesus.。
And he offers it to us tonight.。
But what is clear is it is a very big deal to God.。
And so you need to wrestle with it, because if you're not walking through it or haven't。
ever walked through it or won't ever walk through it, the person sitting next to you。
will, statistically.。
And so you need to figure out where that is before you get there.。
That we're gonna fight.。
There's pictures of this idea of what marriage is.。
Marriage is not just a man and a woman, that it is God's picture of how he loves us and。
how he loves his people all throughout the Bible.。
One of the clearest ones of them is a book called Hosea, where an entire book of the。
Bible is devoted to this.。
And here's what happens.。
This is like such a crazy story.。
Hosea was a prophet who lived 700 years before Christ.。
And he was a prophet to the people of Israel.。
So God would show up and he'd say, I'm gonna have a prophet who's gonna speak to the people。
on my behalf.。
And he showed up to Hosea and said, you're gonna speak to the people on my behalf, but。
I want you to do something.。
So God shows up and he tells him this, this is the second verse in the chapter.。
I want you to go and marry a prostitute.。
And I want you to have children of prostitution.。
It's so shocking, because if you're Hosea, you're like, am I sure this is God right now?。
I feel like that sounds more like the devil or something.。
And her name was Gomer.。
It's like, she didn't have a cool prostitute name, Gomer.。
So he says, I want you to go marry this prostitute.。
And in the same sentence, he says, and you're gonna have children of prostitution that you're。
gonna raise, that she's going to have sex with other men and you will raise her children.。
And it will be a picture of how my people have committed and forsaken adultery, committed。
adultery and forsaken me.。
And you are going to love her.。
It says God put in Hosea's heart that he would love her over and over and over again in the。
face of terrible, gut-wrenching circumstances.。
There's one point where she, after they had just had their kid, they just had a baby,。
she goes out and she begins sleeping with other men around the town.。
And she eventually gets sold by one of these lovers into slavery.。
And Hosea brings her food and he brings her water and he cares for her even when she refuses。
to come back home.。
And he goes and he sells some of his property and he raises up enough money and he buys。
her back and he brings her home.。
And then she does it again.。
And God says, you love her like I have loved you.。
And I'll never stop and I'll never give up.。
And that we, when we are unfaithful, he is faithful.。
And that is what marriage is a picture of.。
I think we know this at some level.。
That's not supposed to end in divorce.。
I mean, even the vows that we take.。
When I got married to my wife, we took these vows and we stood before this pastor and we。
said these vows.。
And here's what they were.。
They were just that I promise I take you to be my wife, she said husband, to have and。
hold from this day forward for better or for worse, for richer or poorer, in sickness and。
health, to love and to cherish from this day forward until death do we part.。
And most of us don't, we don't think like that.。
We would say really the vow should be until you sleep with my sister or until you run。
out and get a lot of credit card debt or until you get ugly.。
And then I think I'm out of here.。
It's true.。
In fact, I only know one pastor, it's actually Todd, who in the wedding says, he includes,。
including addiction, including adultery, you are not leaving.。
There's nothing that can separate you.。
And that's what it is for me and Callie.。
That not only if she gets in a car wreck and is paralyzed, but if she sleeps with my best。
friend and oh my gosh, how much pain would that be?。
But I'm called to pursue and to love because it is a portrait and a picture of what God。
has done for you and God has done for me.。
And it's so much bigger than I think most of us realize or maybe we even can because。
two have become one and what God has united, let no man separate.。
And that's what you're headed towards.。
I'm going to pray.。
Father, I just, man, this is such a hard, hard topic.。
And I have so many questions about what you do in all these different circumstances.。
I know in the room, there's a hundred of us who have experienced and walk through something。
like this.。
And maybe, maybe it was right.。
Maybe it's what you wanted.。
Maybe it wasn't.。
And we have experienced pain and hurt and someone who didn't love us.。
Like you tell us you love us and you tell us a husband and wife are to love each other.。
So will you help us tonight?。
Will you heal our wounds?。
You are the God who heals and will you help us to pursue your design and your goal and。
the beauty that is marriage?。
Beautiful because it reflects how you never give up on us and you're faithful even when。
we are not.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
