Hey, Porch, join me as we read God's word together from the book of 2 Timothy, chapter。
2, verses 1-13.。
You then, my child, be strengthened by the grace that is in Christ Jesus, in what you。
have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses, entrust to faithful men, who will。
be able to teach others also.。
Consider in suffering as a good soldier of Christ Jesus.。
No soldier gets entangled in civilian pursuits, since his aim is to please the one who enlisted。
him.。
An athlete is not crowned unless he competes according to the rules.。
It is the hard-working farmer who ought to have the first share of the crops.。
Think over what I say, for the Lord will give you understanding in everything.。
Consider Jesus Christ, risen from the dead, the offspring of David, as preached in my。
gospel, for which I am suffering, bound with chains as a criminal, but the word of God。
is not bound.。
Therefore I endure everything for the sake of the elect, that they also may obtain the。
salvation that is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory.。
The saying is trustworthy, for if we have died with him, we will also live with him.。
If we endure, we will also reign with him.。
If we deny him, he also will deny us.。
If we are faithless, he remains faithful, for he cannot deny himself.。
Now for our second message in our series on 2 Timothy.。
Come on porch, how we doing tonight?。
Man, I'm so glad that you gave your Tuesday night to be here with us.。
And whether you're here in the room or whether you're watching, tuning in from online, man,。
we're just so, so glad that you're here.。
And we want to give a special shout out to our live locations that are tuning in, specifically。
from Wheaton, from Scottsdale, and from our neighbors over in Fort Worth.。
Let's give it up for our live locations for jumping in.。
Man.。
Hey, we just read it, but if you have a Bible, go ahead and open your Bible to 2 Timothy。
2.。
If you don't have your Bible, it'll be on the screen, but we're just going to walk through。
what we just read.。
And last week we kicked off a new series on the book of 2 Timothy.。
We're just walking through this book together.。
And so last week we looked at chapter one, this week we're going to look at chapter two.。
And it's interesting.。
We planned this months ago and we just thought, Oh, 2 Timothy, that'd be a good book to study.。
It's written to a young adult in a secular city, but we had no idea what was coming this。
week and yet God and His sovereignty knew.。
And so 2 Timothy 2, I mean, you just read it.。
We're going to look at it together.。
I do not think there's a better chapter in the whole Bible we could be in this week.。
See, because I don't know if you felt it like I have, but this has just been a uniquely。
dark season, not only the past six days, I'm talking the past like month.。
It's interesting.。
A few weeks ago, we went to launch as a ministry.。
Many of you were there.。
It was amazing.。
And one of the things that we did at launch is we had those of you who were there, you。
know, that first night we talked about light invading the darkness and, and we just gave。
little note cards out to everyone.。
We said, Hey, don't put your name on these, but just write on that note card.。
What's the darkest thing that you've walked through over the past year?。
And then the other side, what's just something you need to confess.。
We just want to start this weekend off, just getting it out there.。
And we turned them all in.。
And over the past couple of weeks, our team has just been praying through those cards.。
And I'm telling you, I mean, no names on it.。
So we don't know your story, but we're just hearing story after story.。
And it's just breaking our heart.。
I think of one where one of the cards said, uh, I'm counting down to the deadline of the。
day when I'm going to take my own life.。
Another card said, I am right now in an affair with a married man.。
Another card said, I'm right now sleeping with two different women who don't know the。
other one exists.。
Another card that just says, I hate the way that my body looks.。
I wake up in the morning and I just hate what I look like.。
There's countless others.。
I'm drowning in sexual immorality.。
I feel like I'm stuck.。
And then card after card after card talking about abuse that they've gone through.。
I could go on and on.。
I mean, I'm just, I just get sick to my stomach going, wow, this is the reality.。
We walk in here, we sing the songs, we look the part.。
And yet these cards are telling on ourselves.。
This is where we are.。
It's dark.。
It's heavy.。
And then you fast forward to the past week that each of us have endured of a shooting。
in Colorado, of a stabbing on a subway.。
And then in a gathering much like this, Charlie Kirk assassinated and the world just blew。
up it feels like.。
And we look at this and what's so sad to me is that not only do we grieve these things,。
but what grieves me the most is sometimes I look at how Christians are responding.。
So if you're not a believer, just bear with me.。
I'm talking to Christians for a second.。
I watch how Christians react to what we just witnessed.。
And it's no different than the world.。
Scared, running to our political posts, you know, to yell at the other side or even apathetic.。
And it's just, if I'm honest, I've just been grieving the past week.。
And I found solace in the scriptures that says, hey, rejoice with those who rejoice。
and weep with those who weep.。
This has been a week of weeping.。
And yet this has also been a week where I've been asking this question.。
And this is the question we're asking that Paul is asking in the text we just read.。
Where are the strong people today?。
Where are the strong people today?。
I'm not talking about physical strength.。
I'm not even talking about mental strength.。
I'm talking about this deep, settled, spiritual confidence, strength in who God is and what。
he's done on our behalf and what he's doing even in the midst of the darkness.。
And I just look out and go, where are the strong people today?。
Where are they?。
God, would you raise up those who, like Timothy, like Paul's talking to Timothy, that are strong.。
Because we live in a time where there's so many weak, passive victims, people that just。
run to the sideline when anything happens rather than rising up and going, God, this。
is the moment.。
You have created me for moments like this.。
And I believe that's what Paul's talking about.。
In fact, if you look at it again, again, we just read it, but look at 2 Timothy 2, verse。
1, you see this in the first verse.。
Paul says, "You then, my child, be strengthened, be strong by the grace that is in Christ Jesus."。
So Paul, the end of chapter 1, he talks about people who've deserted him after he went to。
prison.。
Remember, Paul's in a prison cell writing to Timothy who's in a secular city, dangerous。
city.。
And he's writing to him to be strong, but he says in the end of chapter 1, all these。
people deserted me.。
And then he says in chapter 2, "You though, Timothy is different for you.。
You be strong, be strengthened by the grace."。
Grace is an undeserved gift, power from God that's given to you.。
He says, "Be strengthened by the grace of God."。
It's different.。
It's a different standard for you than everybody else.。
Be strong.。
25 times in the books of 1 Timothy and 2 Timothy, Paul will tell Timothy to be strong.。
And I believe he's saying the same thing to us in the midst of what we're walking through.。
Be strong.。
And the question is, how?。
I mean, how in the world do you be strong, Paul, in light of what we've gone through。
the past week, in light of the mental illness epidemic that's going on, in light of the。
sexual sin that I'm stuck in?。
How in the world am I supposed to be strong?。
You better be glad I just made it here today.。
And now you're telling me, "Beef up, get out there, be strong, endure the world."。
How?。
And that's what the rest of this chapter is about.。
There's four things he's going to tell us.。
How do you be strong in the Lord?。
There's four things.。
Let's keep reading.。
Look at verse 2.。
He says, "So be strong," verse 2, "and what you have heard from me in the presence of。
many witnesses, entrust to faithful men who will be able to teach others also."。
The first thing that Paul says is he says, "You need to go out.。
You want to be strong?。
You need to go find the faithful."。
He says, "Entrust.。
What you've heard from me, entrust to faithful men."。
That's the idea of faithful people.。
This is Discipleship 101, 2 Timothy 2, verse 2.。
There's a verse in the Bible about discipleship.。
This is it.。
And Paul says, "Hey, Timothy, I want you to be strong, and here's how.。
First, don't be just a participant.。
Don't be just someone who consumes the gospel that I've given you.。
I want you to be a channel through which this truth flows right through you to other people."。
He says, "That's how you become strong, is you receive this and you don't just go, 'Oh,。
this is so good.。
I'm just going to keep watching this YouTube video.。
I'm just going to keep sitting in this sermon.。
I'm just going to critique.'"。
He goes, "I'm going to be an active participant learner, and then I'm going to share it with。
others."。
And then he begs two questions.。
Number one, first, before you can share to other faithful people, are you faithful?。
Are you faithful?。
Paul says, "Entrust to faithful people."。
He doesn't say smart people.。
He doesn't say good-looking people.。
He doesn't say popular people.。
He doesn't even say perfect good people.。
He says faithful people, people who are steadfast, who are hungry, who are full of faith, who。
believe God is who he says he is, and I'm going to trust him for crazy things.。
And I just wonder, are you one of these people?。
Proverbs chapter 20, verse 6 says, "Many a man proclaims his own steadfast love, but。
a faithful man who can find."。
He goes, "There's a lot of people at a place like this who go, 'I'm faithful.。
I'm faithful.'"。
And yet Solomon writing goes, "It's hard."。
Jonathan Edwards was a pastor in the 1700s, and when he was in his 20s, he wrote 70 different。
resolution statements about his life.。
These things are crazy.。
Just Google it later, but Jonathan Edwards' resolutions, they start the same.。
"Resolved, I will.。
Resolved that I will be.。
Resolved."。
And number 32 says this.。
His 32nd resolution says, "Resolved that I will be strictly and firmly faithful, and。
that Proverbs 20, verse 6, a faithful man who can find may not be partly fulfilled in。
me."。
Do you have this resolution in your life?。
Man, despite what's going on, I will be faithful.。
I will be hungry.。
I will not lose that drive, that desire, that hunger for you, God.。
I will be faithful.。
That's the first question.。
And then the second one is this.。
Where are the faithful people around you?。
Some of you would say, "I am the only one at my workplace who loves God.。
I'm the only one."。
Tyler, you don't know.。
You haven't been where I've been, where I work.。
I mean, I'm the only one.。
The fact that I'm not just saying the F word all the time is just proof, right?。
Maybe you'd say, "I'm the only one in my family.。
Like I go home for Thanksgiving and I'm like, 'Lord, please just take me home right now.。
I'm the only one.'"。
Some of you, your friend group, your group chat right now is blowing up.。
You're like, "Oh, Lord, just please no one here at the Port City.。
You know what my friends talk about.。
I'm the only one."。
And I felt that.。
I remember when I was a freshman in high school, down in Houston, freshman in high school,。
big 6A school.。
I remember walking the halls of my high school and I was in football, I was in band, I was。
running in just not a great crowd at the time.。
I remember thinking, "There is no other Christians at my school.。
There's nobody who loves God here."。
And I'm trying, but there's nobody.。
And I remember just moaning and complaining.。
And finally a mentor talked to me.。
He's like, "Tyler," he said, "turn to 1 Kings 19."。
He told me the story of Elijah.。
Elijah is, he had just seen God do a mighty miracle.。
Then the queen Jezebel is after him, wants to take his life.。
And he goes into the desert and he cries out to God and he goes, "God, I'm the only one。
who's left.。
Everyone else has deserted you.。
I'm the last one."。
And God goes, "Get up, go over to this mountain and look out.。
There's 7,000 people who haven't bowed their knee to Baal.。
You didn't know they existed, but they're out there.。
So stop your whining."。
And my mentor said to me, "Tyler, start praying for the 7,000."。
I'm like, "There's only 3,000 people at our school."。
They're like, "You get it.。
Start praying for the 7,000."。
And so, you know what?。
I just, I don't even know if it was the right heart.。
I'm like, "Lord, show me the 7,000."。
You know, where are they?。
And a few months later, I'm in biology class, ninth grade biology.。
Class finishes and my buddy, Jacob McCandless, leans over and he goes, "Hey, man, you ever。
thought about starting a Bible study?"。
And I was like, "Oh, what?。
You know what?。
No way.。
You want to start a Bible study?"。
He's like, "Yeah, man.。
I kind of have been thinking about it."。
I'm like, "All right, let's do it."。
So we plan it for the next Friday night, okay?。
And four people showed up, three guys and one girl.。
And we all had a crush on the one girl, okay?。
So we opened the Bible and we studied the Bible.。
And you know what's crazy?。
The next week, six people showed up.。
And the next week, 10 people showed up.。
Then 15.。
Then before long, 30 freshmen, no adults, 30 freshmen, little high schoolers are meeting。
in a home.。
And who knows what terrible theology was being taught, but we were just diving into the word。
and we're just studying it.。
And you know what's crazy?。
To this day, my closest friends, when I got married, my groomsmen were part of those 30.。
At my school, who I thought, "There are no believers here.。
It's just me, God."。
And God goes, "Shut up.。
Just wait.。
Just open your eyes.。
Start praying.。
There's faithful people here."。
You know, I've heard here at the porch, I've heard statements like this.。
There are no godly guys in Dallas.。
I've heard that statement.。
I've heard guys, "There are no faithful girls at the porch.。
None."。
I'm like, "None?。
Really?。
None?。
That's pretty bold.。
It's a little critical."。
But you know, I always think, and sometimes when I'm one-on-one, I try to turn it on the。
person and go, "All right, let's just say there's none.。
You're the only one."。
Then what if, shouldn't you walking in here defy that statement?。
Shouldn't you, the fact that you're in here as a godly guy, no girl can say, "Well, there。
are no godly guys in Dallas," because you're here.。
No guys can say, "There are no faithful girls," because you're here.。
And all of a sudden, just even if you feel alone, you're just going, "I don't care if。
I'm alone.。
I'm going to walk this path."。
And maybe a few of you start seeing each other.。
You start meeting, going, "Wow, you love God too.。
You love God too."。
And Paul says, "You know what discipleship is?。
It's finding the hungry people, the faithful people and going, 'Do you want to walk together?。
Can I entrust my life to you?'"。
And Paul says, "When you do that and you train one another up, watch, this thing's about。
to explode."。
When you navel gaze and you think, "Oh, I'm the only one," then your world is so small.。
But when you start opening your eyes and going, "God, show them," the hungry people are out。
there.。
And start it with you.。
I mean, last week on this stage, we announced our disciple class, which we said, "Disciple,。
for those of you who are hungry, we have limited spots."。
110 people signed up on the spot.。
Class is full.。
Don't try to sign up because it's full.。
And I'm just telling you, those of you who go, "Oh, there's nobody."。
I got 110 starting next week who are hungry for, "I want more.。
I want more."。
And so believe again.。
You want to be strong.。
You need to find the faithful people.。
Find the faithful around you.。
That's the first one.。
All right, let's keep moving.。
Number two.。
Look at verse three.。
Paul continues.。
He says, "Share in suffering as a good soldier of Christ Jesus.。
No soldier gets entangled in civilian pursuits since his aim is to please the one who enlisted。
him.。
An athlete is not crowned unless he competes according to the rules.。
And it is the hardworking farmer who ought to have the first share of the crops."。
The second thing, you want to be strong.。
The second thing is you need to realize you're not a civilian.。
You need to realize you are not a civilian.。
Paul starts off this section and he tells Timothy, "Hey, you better expect hardship,。
bro.。
This thing is not easy."。
He says, "Share in suffering."。
"I'm in prison," Paul says.。
"I'm riding you."。
"Don't think you're getting out of this easy.。
That's just for the super Christians.。
No way, man.。
Get in the game."。
How do you do it?。
Focus on your identity.。
He says in verses four through six, he says, "Timothy, you're not a civilian.。
You're a soldier.。
You are not a spectator.。
You're the athlete that's playing on the field.。
You're not an HEB shopper.。
You're a farmer out in the field.。
That's where you are.。
Don't you realize who you are?。
And I'm curious for you.。
What does your Christian life resemble more, a civilian or a soldier?"。
Few years ago, my brother, my younger brother got accepted into the Naval Academy out in。
Annapolis.。
We were so excited for him.。
I remember the summer before he went for his freshman year, they call freshmen plebes.。
Just a real endearing name.。
He went out for his freshman year.。
The summer before, they have this ceremony called I-Day, Induction Day.。
Part of I-Day is it kicks off this plebe summer where they're just getting yelled at and all。
this.。
But they have this ceremony where parents come and drop off their little baby and take。
pictures and give them a kiss.。
Then they send them into this room.。
In the room, they shave their hair off.。
They yell at them.。
They teach them how to march.。
Then there's this moment where literally they split parents on both sides of this walkway.。
They put all of the midshipmen, the plebes, in between their parents.。
They got these goofy uniforms on.。
They march in between their parents, unable to smile.。
Then they go into this room, this dorm, with a huge mahogany door.。
Then they slam it shut in front of all the parents.。
My brother said, "Behind that door, this is what they tell you.。
They say to all these freshmen, 'You are no longer a civilian.。
Your civilian life is done.。
You are now a member of the United States military.。
You need to know and your mamas need to know out there, you belong to us.'"。
My brother said, "They're big old guys shaking."。
It's like, "What did I sign up for?"。
I remember hearing that and thinking, "That is the picture that we get in the Bible of。
Christian baptism."。
Hang with me for a minute.。
Think about it.。
My brother got accepted into the Naval Academy long before this ceremony.。
This moment is important.。
If you're going to be a part of the United States Navy in the Naval Academy, because。
it seals, it severs in your mind and in the mind of your family, you're different now.。
Everything is different.。
Your identity is different.。
The way you think about yourself is different.。
You are no longer the same.。
Think what baptism is supposed to represent.。
It's a goofy thing.。
We dunk ourselves in water, not going everywhere, but think what it's supposed to be.。
I have died with Christ and I am risen to new life.。
Whoever was down there in the water is gone.。
I'm raised to new life in Christ.。
That doesn't happen because of that act.。
That happens when you place your faith in Jesus, but there's something about that symbol。
that changes your identity.。
Paul will write in Galatians 2, verse 20, "I have been crucified with Christ.。
It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me.。
The life I live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and who gave。
himself for me."。
Here's the question.。
What is your identity in this season?。
Are you in the game or are you just a spectator right now?。
Paul tells Timothy, "Come on, let's go.。
Let's get in the game."。
It's interesting.。
Over this week, it's been a really interesting week to be in ministry.。
I'm just going to be honest with you.。
One of the questions I've gotten over and over and over from people this week is, "Hey,。
what are you guys going to do as a church in the midst of everything that's going on。
this week?"。
I understand the sentiment of the question.。
I understand what people are trying to say.。
They're trying to go, "Hey, are you going to speak on things?。
Are you going to be bold?。
Are you going to talk about it?"。
I understand as leaders, as shepherds, we need to own the moments that we're in.。
We do.。
We don't shy away from hard things.。
Are you kidding me?。
Yet I wish the question was asked differently.。
I wish the question was, "Hey, what is God calling us to do?"。
Because we are a body.。
If you're a believer in here, you're part of this thing too.。
You don't just sit on your cushy chair, cross your leg, take your notes and go, "Well, what。
is it?。
What is watermark?。
What's the porch going to do?"。
You are in this thing.。
You're a part of this army.。
You're not a civilian.。
You're a soldier.。
The way to get in the game is to start by seeing yourself that way.。
Some of you are not believers in here, and that's okay.。
We're glad you're here.。
It's not by earning.。
It's not by baptism that you become a Christian.。
It's by dying to your ways and putting your faith fully in Jesus.。
But for those of you who name Christ, you're on the team.。
And the civilian ways need to go.。
You have a role, and weeks like this should not take you out.。
They should wake you up.。
And you should be saying, "God, what is it?。
Not just that the church is doing.。
What are you calling me to do?"。
And so analyze.。
Use this week as a litmus test for you.。
Were you more of a civilian this week, scrolling on Instagram, watching the news, criticizing。
everyone, judging the other side?。
Were you in the game?。
Were you calling people you know have a different perspective and going, "Help me understand"?。
Were you weeping with those who weep?。
Were you in the trenches with those who are feeling it?。
Were you going to community going, "Can I be honest with where I'm at?。
Help me"?。
Or were you sitting on the sideline watching everybody else and criticizing?。
You want to be strong?。
And Paul says you need to find the faithful.。
And you need to understand you're not a civilian.。
You're in this thing.。
It's the second one.。
Then he goes to the next thing.。
Let's look at verse 7.。
Paul says, "Think over what I say, for the Lord will give you understanding in everything."。
Well, stop there.。
This is a little verse, but it's just arrested me this week.。
Verse 7, "Think over what I say, for the Lord will give you understanding in everything."。
What's the third thing Paul says?。
Paul says, "You want to be strong?。
You need to think hard.。
You need to think hard."。
Paul tells Timothy to think.。
He says, "Think about what I'm saying.。
Stop and think."。
And then he says, "And if you do, God will give you understanding in everything."。
I've been thinking about that.。
That is a crazy promise.。
I mean, almost laughable.。
"Hey, if you think about it, you'll understand everything."。
I'm like, "Really?。
You'll understand everything?。
Like everything will just make sense?"。
But I started to think, and I started to think.。
There is something right now that exists that's only a few years old that promises you to。
give you understanding in everything.。
Anybody know what it is?。
Yeah, chat GBT, right?。
I mean, we laugh, but think about it.。
Chat GBT, you can put anything into it, and it will think for you.。
It will literally...。
Some of you don't know how to write emails anymore.。
You just put in your gibberish, and then chat GBT spits out, like a Harvard grad did it.。
You're like, "Yeah, that's me."。
I'm like, "No, that's not you.。
That's chat GBT."。
And we've totally bought in, and I'm not anti...。
I have fallen into that because here's the truth.。
It works.。
It works.。
I list out something I wrote, and I go, "What?。
I don't even understand."。
And I put it in chat GBT, and it makes sense.。
Like, "Oh, thank you.。
God of chat GBT," right?。
I mean, we just think this way.。
And yet, here's the crazy thing.。
The more you rely, the more you turn off your thinking, and you go to a machine that will。
give you all understanding, the less you learn how to think.。
Literally your brain begins to turn off.。
And there have been studies that have actually been conducted about this.。
MIT did a study last summer where they divided up 54 subjects in Boston, ages 18 to 39, 20s。
and 30s, our age, into three groups, and they asked them all to write several SAT essays.。
The first group, they gave chat GBT, "Here, write an essay.。
Here's AI."。
The next group, they gave just a simple Google search engine.。
And then the third group, they gave them nothing, just their own brain.。
They hooked up an EEG scanner to their brain to try to see the brain activity.。
And which one do you think had the lowest?。
Come on.。
Yeah, chat GBT.。
And they said this.。
They said, "Chat GBT users had the lowest brain engagement and consistently underperformed。
at neural, linguistic, and behavior levels."。
They said, "Over the course of several months, chat GBT users got lazier with each subsequent。
essay, often resorting to just copy and pasting by the end of the study."。
Some of you, that's all you needed to hear tonight.。
You're like, "I feel known.。
Holy Spirit conviction.。
I get it."。
But Paul says, "Timothy, I want you to reject the easy way out, and I want you to think.。
I want you to force your mind to think."。
And I just have this question.。
When was the last time you were wrestling with something, a decision that needed to。
be made, a crisis in your life, a conflict that you're having to lean into?。
When was the last time you were wrestling and you turned off all the noise and you just。
processed it with God and you said, "Lord, I need to hear from you"?。
It's interesting.。
A couple months ago, I was driving back from a trip that I had taken by myself.。
I had gotten there, I was driving back, and I'm just processing with God.。
And I'm just being honest with you.。
I was complaining to God.。
I was like, "God, why is it that you have just felt, your voice has felt so distant。
in this season?"。
And I just, I feel like in the past I used to hear you, not necessarily audible voice,。
but I'd just read the Bible and it was clear, or I'd study scripture and light bulbs would。
go off, or I would be in prayer and it's like prayers were getting answered.。
And I just feel like I'm missing that, like, "What's going on?"。
And I'm just crying out to God.。
And I kind of felt in my spirit, like a wrestling match, a tug of war began with God, literally.。
I'm just driving.。
And I felt like God said back, "Tyler, what are you willing to give up?"。
And I'm like, "Okay."。
And I start my, "Well, all right, social media.。
Like I'll log out of social media for three weeks.。
You want me to do that?。
Fine."。
And it was just this very convicting, but very gracious kind of feeling of like, "No,。
Tyler, I want you to deactivate it."。
And I was like, "Ah," you know, just processing, like, "Really?。
I don't know.。
You know, I'm not a big social media guy.。
I'm just, that's how I get to know y'all's lives.。
That's how I get the tea, you know, of what's going on.。
How will I know?"。
And I'm like, "All right, fine.。
Like I'll deactivate."。
And guys, I just want to tell you for the past month and a half, I've been off social。
media.。
So that means this past week I was not on social media.。
I didn't see any videos.。
I didn't hear any rhetoric other than what was on the news, which was plenty.。
But I didn't.。
But I heard so many of you and what you were talking about this week.。
And you know, instead, there was just so many battles that were being fought.。
And you know what I did instead?。
I'm not saying this, these couple of weeks have been perfect, but as all this chaos went。
out, you know what I did?。
Wednesday night driving home, I just thought.。
I used my brain to think.。
And rather than scrolling, I processed with God.。
And here's how it went.。
God, what do you think about all this?。
I didn't run to AI.。
I didn't run to social media.。
I ran to Him.。
And you know what came to mind right away?。
John 16, 33.。
"Tyler, in this world, you will have trouble."。
Aren't you shocked?。
But take heart.。
I've overcome the world.。
I've overcome it.。
And all of a sudden, scripture is beginning to come to mind.。
And I began to think.。
And I'm telling you as somebody who has struggled in this, but I believe some of you, what you。
need to hear, you're here today because you are so encumbered with other people's thinking,。
with AI's thinking, with pundit's thinking, with your friends thinking.。
You don't even know how to think for yourself anymore.。
You really don't.。
If I took your technology, your phone away, I said, "What do you think about this?"。
You go, "I don't know."。
And I'm telling you, it's in the wrestle.。
God meets you and your brain starts activating and you become strong because you're not relying。
on what the crowd thinks.。
You have conviction.。
You actually know what you think about something.。
I don't believe God's saying, "I want to raise up young adults who know what they believe."。
Not because they've run to something.。
Not that those things are evil.。
They've just processed it with me.。
Some of you don't even know what you think about God because everything you believe about。
God is, "Well, Matt Chandler says this.。
Well, Kylan Perry says this.。
Well, Emma Dotter on the Join the Jirty podcast says this.。
Well, my parents say this.。
Well, my girlfriend says this."。
And I just wonder, what do you think?。
Have you gotten alone with this book and thought for yourself, "What do I think?"。
And not on an island.。
You process it with community.。
You allow the Holy Spirit to do work in your life.。
But the irony is in hitting the easy button, you often optimize your way out of discomfort,。
which is the very place where God often wants to meet you most.。
All right, last thing, number four.。
Let's keep reading.。
How do you grow?。
Let's look at verse eight.。
Paul says, "Remember Jesus Christ, risen from the dead, the offspring of David, as。
preached in my gospel, for which I am suffering, bound with chains as a criminal.。
But," I love this, "the word of God is not bound," verse 10.。
"Therefore, I endure everything for the sake of the elect, that they may also obtain the。
salvation that is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory.。
The saying is trustworthy, for if we died with him, we will also live with him.。
If we endure, we will also reign with him.。
If we deny him, he will also deny us.。
If we are faithless, he remains faithful, for he cannot deny himself."。
The last thing, number four, how to be strong, is remember Jesus Christ.。
Just come straight from the text.。
Remember Jesus Christ.。
I've just been thinking this week, that sounds so Bible, but what does it mean?。
What does it mean to remember Jesus Christ?。
Is it like you just go, "Oh yeah, he existed.。
I remember he existed."。
Is it that you remember what he did for you, like you watch Passion of the Christ, and。
you go, "Wow, look at that.。
He did that.。
I remember."。
Is it that you remember Jesus is watching, so you dirty sinner, you better not do that。
thing because Jesus is watching you.。
Is that what that means?。
I think it's this.。
I think what Paul is saying is, remember who Jesus actually is, because it's so easy to。
fall into a caricature of him.。
Reminds me of a couple of years ago, I was officiating a wedding up here in Dallas, and。
the night before it was the rehearsal dinner, and I got seated by this guy named Amir.。
Amir came from India.。
He has a Hindu background, but he was agnostic.。
I'm just chopping it up with Amir, and we're having a good conversation, honestly.。
He was getting his graduate degree.。
He was a smart guy.。
I'm asking him about his background, and finally I go, "Hey, man, I'm just curious.。
What do you think about Jesus?"。
It was so funny.。
He responded how many of you would maybe respond.。
He goes, "Jesus?。
I'm good with Jesus.。
Good teacher.。
Nice guy.。
Hung out with sheep, I think.。
He's great."。
I'm like, "All right."。
We keep talking.。
We're talking about religion a little bit, and then we talk about all kinds of things.。
Then he circles back.。
He goes, "The one thing I don't like about religion is how exclusive it is."。
He said, "You know what I especially hate about Christianity is that teaching on hell.。
I hate it."。
I just paused for a second.。
I'm like, "Amir, you know Jesus talked about hell?"。
He's like, "What?"。
"Yeah, he put down his sheep, and he talked about hell."。
I said, "In Matthew chapter 10, Jesus said, 'Don't fear men who can only kill you.'"。
This is Jesus.。
Jesus said, "Fear God who can not only kill you, but send you to hell."。
I said, "Not only that, Jesus was pretty exclusive."。
John chapter 14, verse 6, Jesus says, "I am the way, truth, life.。
No one comes to the Father except through me."。
You know what he said back to me?。
He said, "Well, I don't like that, Jesus."。
I'm like, "Well, if you don't like that, Jesus, don't read Luke 14, because in Luke 14, Jesus。
says, 'Unless you hate your father and mother and wife and brother and sister and mother-in-law'"。
That one's easy.。
"'But unless you hate all them, you can't be my disciple.'"。
And then later he says, "Unless you renounce all that you have, you can't follow me."。
And you know what Amir said back to me?。
It was awesome.。
He said, "I don't believe that Jesus ever existed."。
And I said back, "It was awesome.。
I just love it."。
I go, "Bro, now we can have a real conversation about Jesus."。
See, the problem is your version of Jesus was not what we see in Scripture.。
Jesus is not the Christian version of Gandhi.。
He's not a Confucius-style sayer of good sayings.。
He's not a good teacher.。
Jesus is the king.。
And one day it says every knee is going to bow down to him.。
That's who Jesus is.。
And then right after the meal ends, yeah, the meal ends and Amir goes and I go, I'm。
like, "Blew it."。
You know, it's gone.。
Next day, the wedding comes.。
After the wedding, Amir comes up to me.。
He goes, "Hey, man, can I get your number?"。
And I'm like, "Okay."。
You know, he's like, "Man, I want to hear more about that Jesus."。
And I thought, Christians, we've done such a terrible job at portraying who Jesus really。
is.。
He's this just emasculated, just sheepholding, whatever version that's not true to this book.。
And even though this Jesus is offensive, this Jesus is intriguing.。
And I think Paul is saying, "Remember who Jesus actually is."。
Look at how he describes him.。
He says in verse eight, "Remember Jesus Christ, risen from the dead, like he defeated death."。
Death has no hold because of this Jesus.。
He says he's the offspring of David, meaning he's in the line of the king.。
Like Jesus is a king as preached in my gospel for which I'm suffering.。
He goes on to say, "The word that Jesus preaches is not bound.。
Nothing can stop it."。
And then he says, "Even when we are faithless, this Jesus is faithful."。
When we believe this, it changes everything.。
Guys, everything.。
It changes how you see life.。
It changes how you see this past week.。
And it infuses you with courage and strength to endure even the most difficult aspects。
of life because you know who your commanding officer is.。
And he's undefeated.。
He's undefeated.。
And so I just want to end with this.。
We started with the question of where are the strong people today?。
And I kind of said it in such a way, I hope it's a little jarring.。
What do you mean, who are the strong people?。
And yeah, I've meant it.。
Where are the strong people today?。
Where are the people who follow Jesus wholeheartedly and go, "I'm with him.。
And if he's alive, then I will live.。
Because he lives, I can face tomorrow.。
I believe it."。
The interesting thing about Jesus is not only is he king, not only did he say hard things。
and did the Bible say, "One day, every knee will bow to him," but Jesus actually won in。
the craziest way.。
Jesus was strong in a way that ticked people off because Jesus was strong not in kicking。
the butt of the Romans that he was born into, like the Jews hoped he would do.。
"Oh, this Messiah is going to rise up and we're going to follow him and he's going to。
kick their tail and we'll be victorious again."。
No, he dies at the hands of the Romans.。
They go, "Some Messiah is this."。
And yet Jesus goes, "No, no, no, you don't understand.。
By dying, I win.。
By my suffering, I have victory in this world.。
By my scars, you're healed."。
And it's in suffering Jesus wins.。
It's through the cross, not despite it.。
And Jesus says, "I'm now raising up people who follow me."。
I think what was so frustrating about this week is to see so many Christians on every。
side of the aisle just complaining and moaning and whining and how could it versus those。
with a deep settled conviction and confidence and strength going, "If my savior was mistreated。
and suffered and did not despise the cross, but endured it with joy, then I will too.。
If this life gets hard, then so be it.。
I'm not a civilian.。
I'm on that team.。
Jesus is my guy.。
And so if it happened to him, it's going to happen to me."。
And what's crazy is in the book of Revelation, it talks about how Jesus is the serpent crusher.。
He crushes the head of all evil.。
And it says, "This King will conquer and those who follow him by the blood of the lamb and。
by the word of our testimony."。
Guys, it's in the midst of the hard things that you're going through.。
The hard things that if I were to do the whole card thing today and go, "What's the darkest。
thing that you're walking through?。
Is it something you need to confess?"。
It's not like Jesus looks at that and goes, "I wanted to use you, but I can't because。
all this mess."。
He goes, "Okay, okay.。
You're towing on yourself and I'm going to use you in the midst of this.。
What the enemy meant for evil, I don't just use for good.。
I mean it for good."。
That thing that's your trial is going to become your testimony in your life.。
Just keep trusting me, man.。
Just keep trusting me.。
Don't give up.。
Even when it seems like you're being faithless, I'm faithful.。
Keep going.。
Keep going.。
When we look at our country, I believe there are young adults all throughout our country。
and in this room who rather than moan and complain and whine and sit on our couch, we。
go, "Okay, God, it's moments like this that you've called a generation to rise up and。
not go defeat our enemies, die at their hands if need be and say, 'God, it's all for。
you.。
It's all for you.'"。
We're going to go into a time now where we're just going to pray.。
I just invite you, if you'd close your eyes, and this is going to be just a couple minutes,。
where I'm just going to lead us in just a time of prayer.。
I don't know who's in here right now, and yet God knows and He knew you were going to。
be here tonight.。
Some of you, you're not even sure why you're here, and yet God knew.。
We're just going to pray together, and I'll guide you here in a minute.。
God, man, we need the real Jesus, not some caricature.。
Lord, we need the Jesus that defeated death, that conquered the grave, that did not despise。
the cross but went.。
He said He set His face like flint towards Jerusalem, towards the cross, knowing it's。
through that I win.。
And yet it's going to cause pain, and it's going to be difficult, and yet in the end,。
it's going to…。
I'm going to inspire a movement that's going to conquer Rome and much more than that.。
Not by raising up a bunch of Christians who defeat the world through crusade, no, but。
in the midst of their dying, in the midst of their suffering, in the midst of their。
persecution, I will be with them.。
So God, I'm praying for that kind of heart for us tonight.。
And just as we're there in this moment, some of you are here, and you're going, "Man,。
I don't know.。
I don't know anything that's going on here."。
Man, I need that Jesus.。
You're like a mirror going, "I hadn't heard that before, but I want that.。
That's a high call, but I want it."。
So I just want to lead you here in a moment.。
Nothing weird about this, and there's no magical prayer, but I don't want you walking。
out of this room going, "I don't know.。
Man, get this.。
Let's do this.。
Come on, cross over the line.。
Make the decision.。
Let's go."。
And so if you go, "That's me," would you just pray this?。
You go, "God, I'm broken.。
I've strayed from you.。
I've sinned against you, and I need Jesus, that Jesus.。
I need the Jesus that conquered the grave, and I need the Jesus that defeated death,。
and I surrender tonight to him.。
Come into my life.。
I die with you, and I'm raised in new life in Christ.。
Fill me with your spirit.。
In Jesus' name."。
And then I think there are those of you who, you need to be strong.。
Some of us need to come and surrender, and some of us need to be strong.。
In the Holy Spirit, it says in 2 Peter 1, verse 3, God has given us everything we need。
by his divine power to walk in godliness and to have full life.。
And so your prayer can be something like this.。
"Father, make me strong by your spirit.。
Give me courage to resent the civilian life and live as a good soldier for you.。
Fill me with hope.。
Fill me with peace.。
Fill me with power, and magnify Jesus in my life.。
I'm yours, and I love you."。
God, we just ask that you would hear these prayers wherever we're at.。
We don't want to leave this place without doing business with you.。
So God, we love you, we need you, we trust you.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
