[MUSIC PLAYING]。
Good evening.。
Oh, man, it's going to be a long night.。
We have any dog lovers here?。
[CHEERING]。
Come on, man.。
Big representative.。
Any cat lovers?。
[CHEERING]。
All right, we'll pray for you.。
[LAUGHTER]。
It felt like y'all sat together.。
Did y'all meet here, like all the cat lovers have a big sign?。
You probably saw a blue and black dress, too.。
I get it, man.。
Glad you're here.。
I had two dogs growing up, not at the same time,。
but as I reflect back on my childhood,。
I think about these two dogs that we。
had at different seasons growing up, one and then the other.。
Their names were Zach and Max.。
And Zach was a black lab.。
I bought him from my uncle for a nickel.。
And it's true what they say, man's best friend, right?。
And so just as a kid, this black lab was so good.。
And we would like taught him tricks.。
He could sit, and he could actually--。
we had this tree in our backyard he could climb.。
True story for you cat lovers.。
My dog could climb a tree.。
And so he was a good dog, except one thing.。
There was one command that he didn't learn,。
and that was stay here.。
I grew up on 20 acres on the Guadalupe River,。
on the farm, in the country.。
It was puppy paradise, right?。
And all he needed to do-- we fed him, and we were good to him.。
All he needed to do was stay on the farm,。
except for he would constantly wander.。
Like he would go on the neighbor's property,。
and he would just wander all throughout this kind of area。
that we lived in.。
And there was a highway near there.。
I was always afraid he was going to get hit by a semi truck.。
And so he would just-- he would constantly wander off.。
And I'd be like, Zach, you've got to come home.。
Come home.。
Stay home.。
Stay here.。
I would walk him around the perimeter of the house.。
I'm like, don't cross the barbed wire fence.。
You've got to stay on our property.。
And we would call him, and he would eventually come back.。
When he would hear, we'd honk the horn.。
And he would eventually come back.。
But he would always wander off.。
It was like he wasn't satisfied with us being his master.。
Even though we gave him good things,。
he was always looking for something else.。
And one day, we couldn't find him.。
One day, we honked the horn, and he didn't come home.。
And so we went out looking for him.。
And we found him.。
He had been shot.。
Yeah.。
It's gangster inquiry, man.。
You've got to-- it's just the way they do.。
Somebody shot my dog.。
OK?。
And if you're here, I want-- no.。
And so it was just this crazy thing.。
And I think about that, and it's like, man,。
if he would have just stayed on the farm like I told him to.。
I wanted to give him good things,。
but he constantly wandered off.。
And we found him, and he was dead.。
And then we got this other dog, Max, to replace him.。
Max was a lab Rottweiler cross, and also a great dog.。
Taught him incredible tricks, and he obeyed.。
And Max was completely content on the farm.。
In fact, he never would cross the property line.。
It was like God knew what we needed.。
And he was a great dog.。
And one day, we took him hunting to this other property。
that we had, where we had some cows, some cattle.。
And it was about seven miles away。
on the other side of the river.。
And my dad pulled out a rifle and shot the rifle.。
He was sighting it in.。
If you're a hunter, you know what that means.。
And he shot the rifle.。
Well, Max, our dog, had never heard a rifle.。
And he hears that gun, and he just takes off and keeps going.。
Like Forrest Gump style, keeps going and going.。
And I'm like, come back, Max.。
Hey, come-- OK, funny joke.。
Come-- and he just disappears in the tree line.。
And I'm like, what?。
And so we looked for him for hours。
until the sun set, went home, went to school the next day,。
went back out there, drove back seven miles away。
to that little farmland where we had cattle, looked for him,。
started knocking on neighbors' doors,。
like just going up and showing them, have you seen my dog?。
They're like, yeah, I saw him walking around.。
And I was like putting the story together.。
Well, what date, when did you see him, what time?。
Have you seen him?。
Yeah, we saw him.。
We were wondering who's dog it was.。
Thought it was a stray.。
It's not a stray.。
It's my dog.。
Where is he?。
Oh, I don't know.。
He wandered off.。
And so we did that for six days.。
We looked for him.。
Six days, we drove out there seven miles away,。
the other side of the river.。
And on the sixth day of doing this,。
every single day after school, we come back home.。
We get back to my house.。
And there he is sitting in the driveway.。
He had traveled-- homeward bound, man.。
He had traveled seven miles and swam the river.。
He was all wet.。
He had swam the river to get back on the property.。
He did whatever it took to come back to his master.。
And I tell you that tonight because the church in Colossae,。
the church that Paul is writing to, the Colossians,。
they have strayed away from home.。
They have been distracted.。
They've been looking for another master.。
They've been looking for Jesus plus something else.。
There's got to be another way.。
Is there any other philosophy out there?。
Is there anything else that we can achieve this higher。
learning?。
Is there some other idea?。
And they've wandered off.。
And Paul, in this letter, is calling them home.。
He's saying, come home.。
Come back to your one true master, Jesus Christ.。
And I say that to you tonight because every one of us。
is like one of those dogs, a Zachary Max.。
We're wandering through Dallas or Fort Worth.。
And we're looking in bars and in clubs.。
We're looking in stores and in malls.。
We're looking at jobs and in schools.。
And we're trying to find some master that's going to satisfy.。
We're dating guys.。
We're looking on Tinder.。
We're looking different places, hoping。
to find some master whom we can come under.。
And they're going to take care of us.。
They're going to feed us.。
They're going to fill this void in our lives and satisfy us.。
And God, through this letter, is saying, come home.。
Will you return back to the one true master, the one whom。
I'm sent into your world to call you home?。
The one who died for you.。
The one who defeated death.。
We celebrated this past Sunday on Easter for you.。
That's a perfect master.。
Perfect master.。
That's an incredible master.。
And so he's saying, hey, let's go back to the basics.。
In Colossians chapter 2, if you have your Bibles,。
you can turn there, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, Romans,。
1 and 2 Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians,。
and the book of Colossians.。
Colossians chapter 2.。
In verse 6, he says, David said last week,。
I caught on this, so then just as you receive Christ Jesus。
as Lord, continue to live your lives in him.。
He says, grow in Christ the same way you came to him.。
Through dependence, we say at the porch often,。
all you need is need.。
If you're here, you're a visitor with us,。
and you're wondering, hey, what do I need to be a Christian?。
You need need.。
You need to be in a place where you know you're a sinner。
and you need a savior.。
You need someone other than you, a perfect God,。
to save you from your sins.。
All you need is need.。
You grow in Christ the same way you came to him.。
If you're here and you're a mature believer,。
you know the scriptures, you've been in church。
for a long time, you love Jesus, what do you need?。
You need need as well.。
You need to wake up and realize that you're desperate。
for the gospel because you're a sinner.。
And though while God made you a saint through Christ,。
prone to wonder, Lord, I feel it,。
prone to leave the God I love.。
Call me home through the gospel.。
And so tonight we're gonna talk about what it looks like。
to be rooted in Jesus, to be tied up.。
Like sometimes we'd have to tie Zach up。
so that he wouldn't wonder, to be tied to Jesus,。
rooted deeply in Jesus with Christ as the foundation.。
We're gonna look at what it looks like,。
how Jesus, in Jesus, our stance is strengthened,。
how in Jesus our searching is satisfied,。
and how in Jesus our sin nature is severed.。
Colossians chapter two, starting in verse seven.。
At the end of six he says,。
"Continue to live your lives in him, Jesus,。
"rooted and built up in him, Jesus,。
"strengthened in the faith you were taught。
"and overflowing with thankfulness."。
Rooted in Jesus, rooted in Christ.。
"See to it that no one takes you captive。
"through hollow and deceptive philosophies,。
"which depends on human tradition。
"and elemental spiritual forces of this world。
"rather than on Christ."。
See to it that no one takes you captive with worldly ideas.。
I just got back last week, I was on,。
it was in Austin, Greg and I went down to UT。
and we were doing evangelism on the campus。
and then we'd preach a message that night。
and there'd be worship, it was like a porch gathering.。
They're on the campus outside.。
And as we would engage with people who would walk by,。
if you know anything about UT, very liberal campus.。
And as we would engage with people,。
they were fine with Jesus.。
Yeah, Jesus, that's neat.。
But then they would come。
with some superior worldly knowledge.。
It was interesting to me how confident they were.。
Like there I am, like hey, I'd love to talk to you。
about God.。
It's like, well, you can't possibly know God.。
It's like, well, you can't possibly know who I know.。
You know, it's like, hey, let's talk about that, right?。
And he's like, you know, no, I'm great with Jesus,。
but I mean, you can't tell me he's the only way.。
He said he was the only way.。
The Jesus that you're fine with, you know,。
said I am the way, the truth, and the life.。
No one gets to the Father except through me.。
I am the gate.。
Wide is the road that leads to destruction,。
narrow is the gate that leads to life,。
and few will find.。
You know, he said these words, right?。
The one whom you're fine with, you know,。
it's written and read in a historical book。
that talks about his life.。
A biography of him says that he said that.。
Are you okay with that?。
And they would come with these worldly concepts.。
You know, they had been taught by some professor。
some superior worldly wisdom.。
That's what's going on in Colossae here.。
We don't know exactly what, but it is apparent。
that they have been led astray by some heresy.。
Somebody has added something to Jesus.。
Okay, probably some form of work,。
and we believe some sort of angelic worship。
or worship of angels is going on.。
And so Paul is calling them home.。
You know what he's saying?。
He's like, hey, let's go back to the basics.。
That's what everyone tonight needs to hear.。
By calling you home, I'm saying, hey,。
can we just return to the fundamental gospel, the basics?。
I was raised Catholic, Catholic school for nine years.。
My wife, who I met in college。
when I was not walking with the Lord,。
was raised in the Church of Christian Science.。
And so we both had Jesus and some other ideas。
that we had been taught along the way.。
And we would argue, you know, our relationship as we dated,。
as pagans, would look like, you know,。
hey, our kids are gonna be Catholic.。
No, they're gonna be Church of Christian Science.。
No, that's crazy.。
You're not gonna be that, you know,。
wacko, be Catholic.。
And so that's what, it was healthy, you know?。
And so we would have those arguments.。
And one day, if you've been here long,。
you've heard my story, I stumbled into this place,。
to Watermark, hung over, sat in the back row,。
I heard the gospel, and began to search for God。
and kept coming to Christ.。
And that led to a conversation in my car with Monica,。
who I was dating at the time,。
and I just said, hey, what do you believe?。
And in a moment of God's grace,。
we kind of put down our swords and just said,。
you know what?。
She goes, I remember it, and we talk about this often.。
She said, I believe in Jesus.。
I believe that God sent him to die for my sins。
and that God raised him from the dead.。
And I looked at her and I said, that's what I believe.。
And I said, right now, that's all I'm sure about.。
Let's build on that.。
And we just began, we started going to church together,。
and we trusted in Christ together.。
It's interesting.。
And we grew in that reality.。
We said, let's just go back to the basics,。
the fundamental gospel.。
If I get distracted by a bunch of theology。
or a bunch of competing views,。
or what does it look like, you know, this or that,。
or soteriology or end times。
or whatever is distracting me at the time,。
sometimes I just gotta go back to the gospel.。
For God so loved the world。
that he gave his only begotten son。
that whoever believes in him shall not perish,。
but have eternal life.。
So my first point this evening from this text。
is Jesus strengthens our stance.。
Jesus strengthens our stance.。
Jesus is the foundation of your faith.。
Now, if you've done any kind of athletic sports,。
like in football, okay, they would say, widen your stance.。
You get a three-point stance, widen your base.。
Cheerleading, same thing.。
Basketball, you come down with a rebound,。
widen your stance.。
Karate, I can remember in martial arts,。
they say, hey, widen your stance。
so that you're not easily knocked over.。
Widen your base.。
Jesus strengthens your stance。
so that the forces of this world don't take you captive.。
You go back to Christ。
so that you're not distracted by the bar,。
by that girl on Tinder,。
by your job, by your desire for money,。
your desire for clothes, your desire for style, whatever.。
He strengthens your stance, widen your base,。
focus on the foundation.。
Jesus strengthens your stance.。
In Matthew 7, he says, you wanna be like a house。
built on a solid foundation。
of which Jesus is that foundation.。
Verse 25, he says, the rain came down。
and the streams rose and the winds blew。
and beat against that house,。
yet it did not fall because it was built on the rock.。
This scripture says rooted。
is the word it uses, like Psalm 1.。
It says, blessed is the man who delights。
in the law of the Lord.。
He or she is like a tree。
planted by streams of water。
with deep roots that go deep into the ground to hold it.。
The hurricane comes and the tree's not going anywhere.。
The storms of this life blow,。
but the tree stands firm。
because its roots are deep into the ground。
reaching for the source of life.。
Yields fruit in and out of season。
that you would be rooted in Christ.。
And then he says built up.。
Monica and I, our family just built a home.。
We moved into it on Thanksgiving.。
It was about a 13, 14 month process.。
And so many of those months were spent。
before anything ever went up.。
In fact, I took our team over there。
and we prayed just over the foundation of the house。
because it took months and months and months。
just to build the foundation.。
They took so much care into digging these deep holes。
and grooves in the ground。
and drilling deep into the bedrock。
and then putting these things in there called piers.。
And then on top of those piers。
being this building this concrete slab。
and in this slab was rebar and these steel beams。
to hold it together.。
There's the foundation, why?。
Because before this builder put anything up。
they wanted to make sure that it would stay,。
that it would hold true.。
And so before you go grabbing for theology。
and memory verses and learning the Bible。
you make sure you have the gospel,。
Christ at your foundation.。
He says or else when the winds blow it will crumble.。
It will fall down.。
He says strengthened in the faith,。
I'm sorry, strengthened in the faith as you were taught.。
Strengthened in the faith as you were taught.。
Back to the basics.。
I hear this question a lot, every so often.。
Does the porch exist to reach non-believers,。
non-Christians to evangelize, to seek?。
Or does the porch exist to equip Christians, believers,。
to build in important to Christians?。
And the answer is, I wanna answer it for you。
so that you can answer it for others.。
The answer is yes.。
Okay?。
The porch exists to reach sinners.。
So the only people that should be in this room。
right now are sinners.。
If you're here and you're not a sinner, feel free to leave.。
You know, we may follow you frankly.。
All right, the only people here are sinners.。
We exist to reach sinners.。
Now who are sinners, right?。
If you're here and you have trusted in Christ。
and you've grown in the knowledge of the scriptures。
and you're seeking him, you desperately need the gospel。
to be reminded of the basics。
so that you don't turn to some religious acts。
or whatever you do for your own salvation,。
thinking that God loves you more。
because of the things you do.。
That flies in the face of the gospel.。
And so that you don't become self-righteous and legalistic,。
you on a regular basis, on a daily basis,。
must be reminded that God saved you。
in spite of you through Christ and the return to him.。
Now, if we brought you in off the corner。
where you were selling crack or selling yourself。
or anything else for that matter,。
and you don't know Christ and you're an atheist。
and you've rejected that or whatever,。
and I'm coming up with sins that for some reason。
we think are greater than our own。
because our theology's whack at times,。
but if you're here and you don't know God,。
you desperately need the gospel.。
So believing people who sin, saints who sin,。
and sinners both desperately need the gospel。
of which I hope we hold in front of you on a weekly basis。
so that you will be strengthened in the faith。
as you were taught.。
Ephesians 4, verse 13 and 14,。
it's almost a commentary on this passage。
or I'll say a summary of this passage, says this.。
Until we reach unity in the faith。
and in the knowledge of the Son of God。
and become mature, attaining to the whole measure。
of the fullness of Christ,。
then we will no longer be infants tossed back and forth。
by the waves and blown here and there。
by every wind of teaching and by the cunning。
and craftiness of people in their deceitful schemings.。
Once we are mature in the fullness of Christ,。
we will no longer be taken captive。
by the schemings of this world.。
Some of you, you're here, you've been taken captive.。
You're sitting there as a slave.。
You've been taken captive by Dallas or Fort Worth。
or whatever is going on in your world.。
This scripture calls us to be overflowing。
with thankfulness.。
Listen, you can't leave here and try to be thankful.。
That will not work.。
But you reflect on the fact that God saved you。
in spite of you and he promises you eternal life himself,。
that he literally died for all the terrible things。
that you've done, that he said,。
"Hey, you don't have to pay for them.。
"I paid for them."。
And so now there's no condemnation。
for those who are in Jesus。
and you will not help but be thankful.。
When you reflect and renew your mind around the gospel。
that God saved you through Christ,。
his death and resurrection as a payment for your sins,。
you will be thankful.。
But we're not thankful because at some point, I think,。
we've began to think that Jesus。
and the paradise he offers is not enough.。
And you came in here and it's just like old news,。
like, "Oh yeah, yeah, Jesus, and I get to be with God。
"forever and ever and ever and ever and ever and ever,。
"and that's all good, but I want that。
"and a husband who's a doctor."。
And it's just like Jesus is not enough.。
Or you came in here and you don't see yourself as a sinner.。
And when I say sinner, I don't mean murderer。
or something that you've put in a special category.。
I mean you.。
I mean the things you did today.。
I mean the thoughts you've had in the past 30 seconds.。
How you lust, how you get angry, how you covet,。
how you're envious and jealous.。
You need a savior.。
Grateful, God gave you one, Jesus.。
Verse nine, "For in Christ, all the fullness of the deity。
"lives in bodily form, and in Christ,。
"you have been brought to fullness.。
"He is the head over every power and authority."。
My second point is that Jesus satisfies our searching.。
In this passage right here, you see this word fullness。
over and over and over.。
So Jesus satisfies our searching.。
Jesus makes us full.。
Why?。
Because Jesus is, starting with this idea in this passage,。
fully God.。
That's Colossians 2, verse nine.。
Do you remember that convo I had with you。
a couple weeks ago about a convo I had。
with someone who was near and dear to me。
who denied that Jesus was God.。
They said, "Hey, I'm great with Jesus being the son of God.。
"I just don't think he was God."。
I took them to this passage.。
Look at Colossians 2, nine.。
Now I could've went John one, in the beginning was the word,。
and the word was with God, and the word was God.。
I could've went anyone who's seen me has seen the Father,。
I and the Father are one.。
A lot of different places in the scriptures,。
but I went right here 'cause I think it's the clearest.。
Colossians 2, nine.。
That, "For in Christ, all the fullness of the deity。
"lives in bodily form."。
When I stumbled into this place,。
I began looking for God with a bias against Christianity.。
Does that make sense?。
When I came to a place where I knew there was a God,。
and I realized that I needed to change my life,。
I began looking for God.。
I was agnostic.。
I didn't know who he was, but I knew that there was a creator.。
And as I began to look for him, I thought,。
"What are the odds that he be the Christian God?"。
'Cause I was born in America,。
and if I was born in India, I'd be Hindu.。
If I was born in China, I'd be Buddhist.。
If I was born in Iran, I'd be Muslim.。
If I was born in Israel, I'd be Jewish.。
And not to even mention the cults of the world.。
And so what are the odds I'd be born into the right place,。
worshiping the right God?。
So I began to look for him in the Quran.。
I began to look for him through the teachings。
of Eastern philosophy.。
I began to look for him in the other places,。
and I kept tripping over Jesus.。
I kept tripping over this man。
who reset the calendar 2015 years ago.。
I kept tripping over this man。
whose book is the bestseller year after year after year,。
and in the history of the world,。
by a margin of about a billion copies.。
There's something significant。
with this single most undisputed, undeniable,。
single most polarizing, most notorious character。
in the history of history, Jesus Christ.。
I said, I gotta deal with Jesus.。
The only reason you know about Jesus。
is because he is God.。
Because he is God.。
That's the only reason you know about Christ.。
There was a lot of people,。
Jesus was born in the armpit of the Roman Empire, okay?。
You should not know him.。
He was a carpenter.。
He was a nobody, except he was God.。
He was born in a time when a lot of people raised up。
and said that, hey, I'm a Messiah.。
No, I'm a Messiah.。
No, I'm the Messiah.。
No, I'm the Messiah.。
And Jesus showed up and said, no, I am.。
Chumps, no, he didn't say that.。
He should have.。
He should have.。
He shows up, he says, I am,。
and he becomes the single most polarizing,。
most famous, most notorious, most infamous character。
in the history of history.。
Why?。
Because he was God.。
And why is this relevant?。
Because this text says that Jesus has full access to God,。
and therefore you have full access to Christ,。
and therefore you have full access to God.。
I wrote it down like this.。
Jesus has all of God, and you have all of Jesus,。
and so in Jesus, you have all of God.。
Jesus has all of God, and you have all of Jesus,。
and so in Jesus, you have all of God.。
In Christ, it says you have been brought to fullness.。
Some people are like, man, I'm cool with Jesus.。
You can't be cool with Jesus.。
If Jesus was here, you would be brought。
to one of two conclusions.。
He is crazy.。
He's walking around saying he's God,。
or he's God, I'll worship him.。
But you ain't cool with Jesus.。
No one would be cool with Jesus.。
You would be moved to worship,。
or you would call the sand asylum.。
But you wouldn't be cool with him.。
And so it says in him, you have been brought to fullness.。
What does this mean?。
Why does this matter?。
Anybody seen "Interstellar"?。
It's a great movie.。
My friend Garrett's favorite movie, shout out Fort Worth.。
And you don't have to see it for this to make sense,。
but it just talks about a black hole,。
and so maybe you remember in science class, black holes,。
like this huge vacuum that just sucks up mass。
and matter, it just swallows anything。
that tries to go into it.。
Well, the scriptures says essentially。
that you have a black hole in your heart,。
that he set eternity in your heart,。
and that it is like this vacuum searching for significance。
as you go through your life,。
as you travel through your city,。
you're looking for something to fill this black hole,。
but the problem is it just swallows it.。
It's just a vacuum.。
Nothing can fill it except for Christ.。
And so you're moving and you're searching for money。
and a job and an education and a boyfriend。
and a girlfriend or whatever, a new car,。
hoping that something's gonna fill it, and it won't.。
You buy a brand new car, and the next day it's an old car.。
It's just like, man, I thought it was gonna complete me,。
Jerry Maguire style, and it didn't,。
and I'm left wanting.。
And so here's why this matters, because who are you?。
Like you came in here tonight, what is your identity in?。
Like you think about all the things that make you you,。
your style, right?。
All the things that make you you,。
what you drive, yellow Xterra, sorority girl.。
Only you, bro.。
Where you live, your friend group.。
What makes you you, what you make, your education?。
What makes you you, where it's from, your education's from,。
where you went to school, is that a big part of your life?。
Is there identity in that?。
Whoop.。
(congregation laughing)。
(congregation applauding)。
What you like, what you do for fun,。
is that what makes you you?。
All those things, that's what makes you you?。
Uh-uh.。
You're God's.。
You belong to him, that's what makes you you.。
It's not who you are, but whose you are.。
You're his son or his daughter, just like my dog, Zach,。
walking around looking for another master.。
He needed to look no further past his collar.。
It said not only his name, but his owner's name.。
That's whose he was, that's who he belonged to.。
That's the farm that he lived on.。
Even when he wandered off of it, that's where he belonged.。
And likewise, you belong to God.。
You can wander in and out of bars, you can run up bar tabs,。
you can keep pursuing your sin。
or trying to find self-righteousness。
or the search for significance in a significant other,。
but he's who you belong to.。
You're his.。
You're God's.。
And so who you are, your identity is you're forgiven.。
You're free.。
You're redeemed, you're new, you're blameless,。
you're righteous, you're faultless,。
you're clean, you're complete, you're his child,。
the creator of the heavens and the earth says you're mine.。
Let me tell you why this is relevant,。
because personally, I'm just gonna tell you。
about two people, I told you about two dogs,。
now let's talk about two people.。
Person one, they have everything, okay?。
They've got the nicest car.。
They live in the neighborhood that everyone wants to live in.。
They make a lot of money, it comes in faster。
than they can spend it, right?。
They have style, right?。
They have, they're pretty, they're cute, they're handsome.。
They've got it going on, they walk into the place。
and everybody looks at them and it just seems。
like they have life all figured out.。
They are who so many of you want to be.。
And then there's person number two,。
who doesn't have any of that,。
but he has the one thing that fully satisfies,。
he walks in an abiding relationship with Christ。
and he's good.。
And I'm telling you, person number two。
is infinitely better off than person number one.。
There are a ton of depressed billionaires in the world,。
people who have what you think that you want,。
but they're not satisfied.。
But have you ever seen someone who just walks blameless。
before the Lord, he says, hey, that is my God。
and I am his son, I am his daughter, and they're just fine.。
People ridicule them, people mock them,。
they don't get the promotion and they're just fine.。
Have you ever met this person?。
They are infinitely wealthy.。
They have glorious riches, the scripture says.。
I know people like this.。
I was with my buddy yesterday, day before yesterday,。
bought a car, he bought a $2,300 car。
to replace his 1995 automobile。
with hundreds of thousands of miles。
because it was unsafe for his family to ride in.。
So he saved up $2,300 and he went and he paid cash。
for a car and he was so excited on the way home.。
He's just complete and Christ is just happy。
and he calls me today and he goes, how's the car?。
He's like, I love it.。
He said the radio went out.。
He goes, but I'm so thankful 'cause I think God。
just wants me to pray as I'm driving.。
I'm like, he celebrated that his radio didn't work.。
Like some of us would be throwing the radio。
through the window, you know, like what, this lemon.。
(congregation laughing)。
If you see it, it's a beautiful thing.。
But some of us were held captive to the world right now,。
wanting the things of the world desperate for them。
and we'll never experience that fullness,。
we'll never experience that joy, that completeness,。
that contentment that Christ offers。
because while we have some version of him,。
we don't have his fullness.。
We haven't surrendered to him fully.。
My friend, Ephesians 4:13 says, he has become mature,。
attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ.。
Don't you want that?。
Verse 11, in him you were also circumcised。
with a circumcision not performed by human hands.。
Your whole self ruled by the flesh was put off。
when you were circumcised by Christ.。
What?。
Just got weird.。
My third and final point is Jesus severs our sin nature.。
I'm nervous up here, I'm like circumcision.。
Jesus severs our sin nature.。
There's only two places in the world。
where it's normal to talk about circumcision, okay?。
One is the church and two is the nursery and the hospital。
when you just had a son and that's it.。
Like you can't just bring that up at your work lunch,。
you know, hey guys, what do you guys think。
about circumcision, you know?。
[congregation laughing]。
And here's why, and it's about to get graphic。
and I'm doing this strategically,。
not to just try to distract you,。
but I mean, we're talking about removing。
the foreskin from a penis, okay?。
It's silly, I know, it's okay.。
But listen, listen, here's why I say it like that.。
Because that's what he's talking about.。
Like it's crazy.。
Like all of a sudden he's writing,。
he's like, yeah, the fullness of Christ。
and you know, Christ has the fullness of God。
and circumcision.。
[congregation laughing]。
What?。
So why is it relevant?。
There's an incredible theological profound reality in this.。
That as a shadow of the one who would come,。
who would remove our flesh, which is just another word。
for our sinful nature, our sinful desire,。
for thousands of years, God's people were set apart,。
specifically males, were set apart by the removal。
of that skin from that very sensitive area,。
which in males, frankly, is the organ that drives them。
to a lot of their sin nature, right?。
It's a metaphor, but it's a shadow of what was to come.。
It's incredible, think about it.。
I mean, it's still a common practice today.。
And it started with God, the creator of the heavens。
and the earth said, hey, I want you to do this.。
And then Jesus comes and Paul writes, he says,。
hey, Jesus, I'll read it to you again.。
In him, you also were circumcised with a circumcision。
not performed by human hands, not by doctor's hands,。
but your whole self ruled by the flesh was put off。
when you were circumcised by Christ.。
Okay, Jesus comes in your life and removes your sin nature.。
What does that mean?。
He removes your desire to sin.。
And you say, wait, no, he didn't.。
Oh, yes, he did.。
When you are yielding to your master, you are not sinning.。
When you are sinning, you've left the form.。
You said, hey, I no longer wanna be ruled by you。
and I'm gonna go look for another master.。
Today, it's Patron, tomorrow, it's this, that, the other,。
whatever that is for you.。
Pornography, cocaine, materialism, whatever,。
the list goes on and on.。
Shame, guilt, religiosity, self-righteousness,。
whatever that is for you, legalism.。
I've left the reservation, I'm now ruled by another master.。
But when I'm ruled by the one who gave me。
the circumcision of my heart, removing my flesh,。
I am not in sin, I'm finding life to its fullness.。
I have his fullness.。
This is so important for us to grasp.。
It's why I start so vulgar, because Paul does it.。
There's like, he's like, he's grabbing your attention。
with a huge word, a grotesque concept.。
To make a point, this is what Jesus does to your heart.。
When you were born again in Christ,。
there was a change in your heart that occurred.。
The things you enjoyed in sin become difficult,。
more difficult to enjoy.。
Let me say it a different way.。
That which was irresistible becomes resistible in Jesus.。
Where one day, you were like, I can't not do that.。
And now, it's like, I don't want to do that.。
While there's still something inside of me。
that wants to do that, as I yield to you, Christ,。
I don't want to do that.。
In fact, your spirit in me convicts me when I do do that.。
Not so that I feel shame, you've removed the shame,。
you nailed it to the cross, we'll talk about next week.。
But you've given me a spirit to follow.。
Before conversion, I could sin and delight in it.。
I would not have pause, I wouldn't care about the girl.。
If I pretended to care about her,。
that was just me running game.。
I mean, that was me trying to be sensitive.。
I didn't care about her.。
But then after conversion, I couldn't continue。
to do those things without caring.。
Do you see what the spirit of God did there?。
I began to feel convicted.。
My heart was circumcised.。
Jesus curbs your appetite so that you could come。
to a place where you say, God, what would you have me do?。
I no longer want to do what I want to do,。
what my appetite says I should do,。
what my lustful flesh says I should do.。
God, what would you have me do?。
Philippians 3, verse 19 talks about non-Christians。
in this way.。
Their destiny is destruction.。
Their God is their stomach, and their glory。
is in their shame.。
Their mind is set on earthly things.。
What does it mean that their God is their stomach?。
They follow the urges of their flesh.。
They follow their appetite.。
They follow their cravings.。
They follow their cravings.。
We follow Christ.。
Non-Christians follow cravings.。
Christians follow Christ.。
The regenerate Christian, the born again Christian。
is given new cravings.。
And so you say, you hear and you say,。
well, man, what if this isn't true, JP?。
What if I still crave all the old things?。
One of two things is true about you.。
So let me just break it down in a real way.。
One, possibly, one of two possibilities.。
One of two possible outcomes.。
One, you have not trusted in Christ.。
Trusted in Christ, his death and resurrection。
for the forgiveness of your sins.。
Because when you do that, his spirit is deposited in you。
as a seal, a promise of eternal life with God.。
And so if you can sin right now and not feel convicted。
and continue like a dog to his vomit to return。
to that thing and it not be a thing,。
then you may not have trusted in Christ.。
Or, second possible outcome, maybe you have.。
Maybe you're here, maybe you're a Christian,。
maybe we're gonna be together in heaven,。
but you're not abiding with Jesus.。
You're not walking with him, you're not rooted in him,。
you're not building up on the foundation of the gospel,。
the thing that you trusted in.。
You just, somehow you got saved,。
you got your ticket into heaven,。
and then you've run off the farm.。
You have the collar around your neck,。
it says whose you are, you just don't believe it.。
And you're looking for another master.。
I get an email like this nearly every week.。
So this is representative of hundreds of emails.。
So if you feel nervous that I'm reading your email,。
no need to, it's hundreds of emails, truly.。
It starts out like this, it was one line.。
I need some advice on how to end a porn addiction.。
That's all it said.。
I wrote back.。
I was there, bro.。
I assume you mean it when you say you want advice.。
I assume you are ready to do whatever it takes, make war.。
First, regeneration every Monday night。
until you complete the program.。
If you are in Dallas, if you are not in Dallas,。
join a faith-based recovery program.。
Number two, join membership in the church, ASAP.。
Number three, meet with a community group weekly。
for confession and prayer.。
Number four, stop being alone with your girlfriend,。
get rid of your computer or smartphone.。
Number five, this is a question for you to answer.。
How can you learn your Bible?。
And this is the important part。
if your kind of works radar is going off right now.。
All of this instruction is simply to help you pursue Jesus。
with your whole life.。
And you will find life like you never have,。
Matthew 10, verse 39 I wrote.。
Whoever loses his life will find it.。
Whoever finds his life,。
whoever loses his life for my sake will find it.。
You can do this.。
Here are some additional resources that might help.。
It's a blog, it's our porch blog.。
We wrote on pornography, a video,。
a marriage porn apart on YouTube from our conference here.。
And essentially, and that's a JP.。
Essentially, these are just resources to be rooted,。
built up and strengthened.。
He or she wrote back, thanks.。
I do all of that, but I just can't seem to stop.。
Is there any new approach to holding on better to Christ?。
To which I wrote back, I'll read it to you.。
Anybody here want a new approach to pursuing Christ?。
Let me read this to you.。
New approach to holding on better to Christ?。
That's like asking,。
is there a new approach to holding onto a cliff。
suspended hundreds of feet above the ground,。
fighting gravity with your fingertips。
as death beckons for you from below?。
You hold on for dear life because you must in order to live.。
You shed weight, Hebrews 12, one and two.。
You throw off anything that is helping gravity。
in its effort to kill you.。
Is there a new approach to holding on better to Christ?。
Let me make sure I understand.。
You have completed region.。
If so, let's meet together with your sponsor this Tuesday,。
if not, be there Monday.。
I don't show that you are a member,。
but that might be an error on my end.。
Forgive me if that's the case.。
Can you confirm that you're a member?。
Who are others in your community group?。
Can you add them to this email?。
I'd like them to be there when we meet。
and better understand their counsel to you.。
Congrats on getting rid of your smartphone or PC.。
This is so hard for people in your situation.。
It definitely separates those who are playing games。
from those who are serious about getting well.。
Lastly, I didn't see your response.。
How can you learn your Bible better?。
New approach to holding onto Christ?。
Help me understand your old approach.。
I assure you, the Jesus who interrupted God's fury。
at your sin has not let you down.。
Does he have your all?。
He gave his.。
Please respond in detail to the questions above.。
Praying for you now, JP.。
And so if you want a new approach to pursuing Christ,。
would you try his approach?。
Coming to him with your need?。
Saying, God, I've been playing games.。
I've said I know you.。
I wanna be king of Dallas or Fort Worth or Plano。
or wherever I'm at.。
I wanna be queen of my work and my area,。
my apartment, my neighborhood.。
I want everyone to love me.。
I wanna be God, not worship you as God.。
Lord, I need a savior.。
And I know you sent Jesus to die for my sins.。
You put him on the cross because I had that abortion,。
because I got drunk one too many times,。
'cause I slept with my significant other multiple times,。
because I did that that night。
and I swore I'd never tell anyone.。
Because of the things that I've done.。
I put that stuff up my nose.。
I put it in my veins.。
I smoked that.。
I drank that.。
I did that.。
And when I didn't, I thought I was good enough。
that I didn't need to walk with you.。
I didn't need to turn to you.。
New approach to holding on to Christ?。
You, like Max, do everything you can。
to get back to the farm.。
You swim the river, you walk miles,。
you do whatever you need to do to cling tightly to Jesus,。
who gave everything for you.。
Not to be saved, but because you are.。
And if you're not, then start there.。
I'm a sinner and I need a savior.。
I need you, Jesus.。
There's no new way to experience God.。
It's being rooted in Jesus.。
You return to the basics that you were taught at first,。
the gospel, that he died for your sins。
and raised from the dead.。
You build on that foundation.。
Jesus knows the will of God.。
Man's wisdom will never, ever surpass his.。
There's no one on the planet who knows better than Christ.。
There's no one smarter than the Bible.。
And you reflect on the gospel and give an outpouring。
of thanks that he gave his life for you.。
And so in summary, Jesus strengthens your stance.。
Jesus satisfies your searching.。
And Jesus severs your sin nature.。
A full life will not be found apart from Jesus.。
And some of you, like Zach, you've left the farm,。
you're searching, you're opening doors,。
you're looking behind them.。
You're going places you know you shouldn't,。
but you're in search of a better master。
than the one who came to be master of you.。
And you think there's something else out there。
that's gonna fill you, some other wisdom,。
some superior knowledge than God's wisdom.。
Do the things you did at first.。
Grow in him the same way you came to him.。
Through the gospel, start there.。
He is a good master, scratch that.。
He is the only best, superior, absolute master.。
In him there is freedom.。
There's a story that's been told about Abraham Lincoln.。
I read it a few weeks ago and I thought。
I'd share it with you here.。
I'll just read it to you.。
There's an old story that Abraham Lincoln。
went down to the slave block to buy back a slave girl.。
As she looked at the white man bidding on her,。
she figured he was just another white man。
going to buy her and then abuse her.。
He won the bid and bid until he won.。
And as he was walking away with his now new property。
at that time, he said,。
young lady, you are free.。
She said, what does that mean?。
Am I free to say whatever I want to say?。
And Lincoln said, yes, my dear, you are free.。
You can say whatever you wanna say.。
And she says, does that mean that I can be。
whatever I want to be?。
He said, yes, my dear, you're free.。
You can be whatever you wanna be.。
And she says, does that mean I'm free。
to go wherever I wanna go?。
And he looked at her and he said, yes, dear.。
I've purchased you and I've set you free.。
You're free to go wherever you wanna go.。
And she said with tears streaming down her face,。
then I will go with you.。
Whenever you see that kind of master,。
you wanna follow it.。
Don't you see this message is not try harder.。
It's not go out there, grip the will.。
Hey, you know, you get in that bar and you feel bad.。
You should feel ashamed.。
No, but you follow Jesus right out of that bar.。
If that's your thing, if drinking is a problem for you,。
you follow Jesus right out of that sin.。
He's not leading you there.。
Like the only way you got there。
is because you weren't surrendered to him as your master.。
Whatever that sin is,。
the only way you got in that dude's apartment,。
it wasn't because you were following Jesus.。
It was because you were following some dude。
with a messianic complex, claiming to be Jesus in your life.。
He's going to be a God awful Jesus, a miserable Jesus.。
But I know a great one who came to set you free,。
that you would follow him, that he would give you life.。
You will not experience life。
as it was intended to experience apart from him.。
You will be left empty.。
I say that from experience.。
I'm someone who has been left empty。
and I found life in Christ.。
I found life in him.。
It's amazing.。
I wanna invite you into it.。
As we move to worship, I pray that you would reflect on this.。
Let me pray now.。
Father, we're pleading for you.。
We want the fullness that is found in Christ alone.。
We thank you that you came not to put a leash on us, God,。
or to tie us to a tree,。
or to put shackles of religion on us, God.。
But you unshackled us.。
You untied the leash.。
You untied the rope and the chain.。
And you said we're free.。
Now follow you to life.。
Thank you for Christ's example.。
Thank you for all that you've done for us in him.。
Thank you for the life that you've given us.。
Thank you for freedom that can be found in him alone.。
And so, Father, as we worship you,。
would you help us to reflect on that freedom?。
I pray we would worship with reckless abandonment,。
that we would, that literally as we sing to you,。
shackles would hit the floor,。
that as we sing to you, the chains would hit the floor,。
and that we would follow you to freedom.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
