(upbeat music)。
- What's up, Porch, how we doing?。
(audience cheering)。
So good to be with you, great to worship with you guys.。
Welcome, Dallas, Fort Worth, Houston,。
people around the world tuning in via podcast or stream.。
We're so glad you are with us,。
gathering with us in your communities。
and with your friends and neighbors and whatnot.。
So great to be here.。
It's going to be a fun night。
of just diving into the scriptures.。
Recently, I told you the last few weeks。
that my family and I just got back from vacation.。
We went with a couple families with kids and whatnot.。
And one of them was Shaney who leads worships。
here most nights.。
And he had these walkie talkies.。
So we went to the beach。
and he brought these walkie talkies with him.。
And I just thought that was a great idea。
because when you're like, our kids were in run room。
and we were in another one.。
And so you kind of got just like, hey, what do you do。
if somebody wakes up in the middle of night or something?。
And I just thought the walkie talkies were a great idea.。
And so I went home, got on Amazon Prime, made it happen,。
got some walkie talkies.。
And so there's these, I saw specifically these kind。
that had a 24 mile range, 24 mile range.。
I'm like, this is gonna be amazing.。
'Cause I've got a three year old son, Weston,。
and we can just like have fun.。
Like I'll be at work, Weston, you know, 10-4, are you there?。
Anybody got their ears on?。
Kind of thing, it's gonna be amazing.。
And so, I'm thinking about all of the possibilities。
with these walkie talkies.。
My other buddy, he lives a couple miles away.。
He has a three year old son too.。
I'm like, hey, they're gonna be buddies.。
You know, like the old school,。
remember like the tin can with the string?。
Well, now in 2016, it's walkie talkies.。
And so, they're gonna be able to talk and you know,。
just have fun, it's gonna be great.。
And so these walkie talkies come in,。
and I'm thinking like, I'm gonna be at work,。
like sitting at my desk.。
Hey, Weston, you there?。
And so I did that, it didn't work.。
And so I go home, I get the box, I'm looking at it,。
and I see there's three pictures.。
The first picture are two boats on the ocean, open ocean.。
And it says 24 mile range, like two boats, unobstructed.。
The next picture are two people in a forest.。
There's trees, and it says one mile range.。
And then the next picture are people in the city,。
and like buildings and walls and whatnot,。
and it's like one block range.。
And I'm like, oh, burn, man, false advertising.。
What's up with that?。
And as I think about that,。
and where we're headed this evening,。
I think about just like all of the noise。
and the distractions and all the things。
that want to come between us and Christ in 2016.。
The emails and the text messages and the social media。
and the relationships and the news and the killings。
and the craziness and the chaos,。
and yet we're supposed to sit still with Christ,。
but there's all of these things, all of this noise,。
all of these structures that wanna come between us.。
And so the closer, the closer we must be,。
the closer we must be to him。
so that we can commune with him and talk with him。
and have a relationship with him,。
because in those three pictures, we're all the third one.。
We are all in the city, if you will.。
We are all the people separated by lots of noise。
and structure and chaos.。
And so we're moving through a series called AD.。
AD stands for Anno Domini,。
which is Latin for the year of the Lord.。
It started as the year of the Lord Jesus Christ,。
shortened to the year of the Lord,。
you have BC before Christ, AD,。
that 2016 years ago, God became a man。
in the form of Jesus Christ,。
and the calendar started counting from zero,。
that every atheist you know acknowledges Jesus。
by the date they put on their checks.。
How crazy is this?。
And so we gather tonight here at the porch in his name,。
and this evening, we're talking about。
distractions from Jesus,。
what pulls you away from time with Jesus.。
And for me, I'll just tell you, it's technology.。
Like, it's my iPhone, it's the noise of emails,。
it's the clutter of the chaos that continues to creep in。
and fight for my attention.。
There always seems like there is so much other things。
that I can be doing that studying the scriptures。
and sitting with Christ just seems impractical.。
It rarely seems like the smartest option, the best option.。
We need this text this evening, porch.。
I'd love for you to do something right now, if you would.。
I'd love for every single person in the room。
to pull out their phone and hold it up high.。
Like, grab your phone, your device, your smartphone,。
your walkie-talkie if you brought one,。
and hold it up in the air.。
I see you, I see you.。
Hold it up high, hold it up.。
Here's what I, I didn't bring it, I put it away.。
What I'd love for you to do,。
here's what, what am I gonna ask you to do?。
I'm gonna ask you to turn it off.。
I want you to turn it, now here's what just happened,。
here's what just happened.。
You began to think about all the reasons you can't,。
I gotta take notes on it.。
What about my Bible?。
What about my mom, she's gonna text me when she's here。
to pick me up.。
All of these reasons that you,。
what, my friends aren't here,。
they're gonna tell 'em where I'm sitting.。
What about the picture?。
What about the, what about social media?。
You want me tweetin', right, JP?。
What about this hashtag?。
Turn it off.。
Turn it off.。
The world is gonna go on without you.。
Hold that button, slide that finger across that screen,。
and your excuse is not good enough.。
Turn it off.。
And here's why.。
Houston, Fort Worth, I hope you held up your phone,。
I hope you're turning it off right now.。
We gotta hear this message.。
I don't want anything to distract you。
from consuming the word of God this evening.。
And so as we move through this text in Luke chapter 10,。
I'm going to look at three questions.。
Two are about distractions, and the last question。
is about what marks our lives.。
Is it distractions or devotion?。
And so I'll tell you the story on the front。
and picture this.。
Jesus approaches a town called Bethany.。
It's one and a half miles east of Jerusalem。
as he moves towards the holy city, if you will,。
and he's invited into Martha's home.。
And so Martha is busy getting everything ready for dinner.。
She's making preparations, the scripture says,。
and her sister Mary is sitting at Jesus' feet,。
which is a controversial move。
because this is a place of disciples,。
not something women would have done in this time,。
but Jesus receives her and he's teaching her,。
and Martha comes to Mary and to Jesus and says,。
whines to Jesus, "Jesus, Lord, she's not helping.。
"Will you ask her to help me?"。
She implores Jesus to come to her side,。
and Jesus speaks up and gently rebukes her,。
saying that your sister Mary has done the better thing.。
Now, I don't know if you have siblings。
or have ever seen sibling rivalry,。
but this is crazy if a child comes and says,。
"Hey, Mommy, don't you understand?。
"Finley is," Presley, Finley's doing what is right.。
Oh, it feels, ah.。
There's a heaviness to that.。
There's a difficulty there.。
And so I know this family。
because this is similar to my family.。
There's three siblings.。
There's Lazarus, Mary, and Martha.。
This is classic birth order, if you will.。
Martha, the oldest, is getting after it.。
She's the rule follower,。
and Mary likes to color outside the lines, if you will.。
She's sitting at Christ's feet.。
And so these are Jesus's friends.。
They show up in the scripture three times.。
They show up here at this mealtime,。
another time when Lazarus dies。
and Jesus brings him back to life,。
and then another time when they're dining yet again,。
and Mary anoints Jesus's feet。
with the famous perfume, the alabaster jar.。
And so we'll dive into that,。
but let me start here in Luke chapter 10, verse 38.。
As Jesus and his disciples were on their way,。
he came to a village。
where a woman named Martha opened her home to him.。
She had a sister called Mary,。
who sat at the Lord's feet listening to what he said.。
And then it says this,。
"But Martha was distracted by all the preparations。
"that had to be made."。
And so while Mary's learning at Jesus's feet,。
it says that Martha is distracted by her to-do list,。
all the things that she has to do.。
There's this dichotomy in the room.。
There's Mary's and there's Martha's, okay?。
And you already know which one you are.。
I don't need to heap further judgment on you.。
You've already probably self-identified at this point,。
or at least you've identified your roommate。
or what your mother is.。
And so my first question tonight is,。
what are the distractions that pull you away from Jesus?。
You need to know this.。
What are the distractions today。
that pull you away from Jesus?。
We don't know exactly what Martha was distracted by,。
but it wasn't sinful things.。
Like she's not in the other room looking at porn.。
She's not in the other room taking shots at Patron.。
She's not getting wasted,。
getting thrown in the other room,。
hitting the bong, if you will.。
Like she's doing something good.。
She's doing something, what she perceives as righteous.。
She's getting things ready。
for whoever's going to come over.。
She's making standard preparations.。
She's not on Instagram, #JesusIsInMyLivingRoom.。
No, she's not doing any of that.。
Like she's getting after it.。
She's doing good things.。
Good things can distract you from Christ.。
And Jesus would prefer her to be with him。
rather than work for him.。
Are you more inclined to do things for Jesus, F-O-R,。
or with Jesus?。
And here we see his preference for followers of Christ.。
Those who profess to be Christians.。
Christ shows his cards here in this text.。
He says, "I'd rather you do things with me.。
"I'd rather you sit with me."。
This text has been beating me up。
for the last week and a half,。
just thinking that we are not contemplative enough,。
that we are not still enough.。
I am confident that Christ followers in 2016。
have not embraced enough the discipline。
of being still and listening to God.。
Now, I don't know if you did that today.。
I don't know if that was a part of your life,。
but I'm confident that it needs to be.。
My hunch is that what Martha's doing here,。
like what she's motivated by,。
is kind of the approval of others.。
It looks like service.。
Hear me out, if you will.。
It looks like she's doing good things.。
It looks like she just wants to care for those around her。
that her motive is caring,。
but in reality, I think,。
as I studied this text for over a week now,。
I think it's actually more a concern。
of what others will think.。
I want them to think that my house is clean,。
that I have it in order,。
and that I'm a good cook.。
She's driven by, I believe,。
the approval of others,。
and that has led her to be stressed out and anxious.。
I'll tell you that no one is busier。
than someone trying to manage the perception of others.。
No one is busier than someone。
trying to manage the perception of others.。
If you want people to think you are important,。
you're going to wear yourself out。
trying to manage that perception.。
And so here is what I want to give you。
to help you overcome that.。
A death grip on this reality, this truth right now.。
God is in charge of what others think of you.。
That right in the other room,。
as Martha is getting after it,。
the one who is sovereign over the opinions of everyone。
is sitting right there with her sister.。
God is in charge of what your boss thinks of you,。
what she thinks of you,。
what he thinks of you,。
what your friends think of you.。
God is in charge.。
He's sovereign over the opinions of others.。
This should set us free from this.。
But Martha is distracted.。
The etymology, the root of that,。
or the origin of that word, distracted here,。
it means to be pulled away from.。
So it's like you're headed towards something。
and you're pulled off track.。
You're pulled away from it.。
At the lake this weekend,。
went to the lake with my family,。
did the whole stand up paddle board thing,。
which is quite humorous。
because I'm a lot of weight in just like one central area。
and I just don't do well with these stand up paddle boards.。
Like wakeboard, skateboards, all good.。
Stand up paddle boards, my just nemesis, if you will.。
And so there I am trying to balance on this thing,。
not doing well, keep falling off, I hate them.。
And so there's this leash though。
that kind of keeps it close to you, which is helpful.。
But I noticed something that as I put the leash on,。
this strap, if you will, there's Velcro there.。
And so I put it on。
and it doesn't really hold together well。
because it's soggy and muddy。
and there's leaf particles in there。
and fuzzies and all this stuff.。
And so like that the Velcro sticks together。
is kind of just a suggestion.。
It's kind of like only the moisture of the water。
that's holding these two straps together.。
And as I thought about that and I looked at that,。
it's all the things in between the Velcro。
that's preventing it to stick together。
or to stay together as it should be.。
And therefore it's easy to pull it away.。
And I thought about our relationship with Christ。
that as we should stay clinging to him,。
that we should stay stuck to him,。
maintaining a relationship with him,。
maintaining communication with him,。
that there's all these things that have come between us。
making it easy for us to be pulled away。
like Martha is here in this text.。
And so I don't know what it is,。
what are the preparations for you, for me,。
I'll just show you, like here's a picture。
of this is my literal phone.。
And so for me it's social media,。
it's where I'm going,。
it's entertainment,。
it's even the porch can pull me away。
like the things that I have to do,。
good things that are my responsibilities,。
my work if you will.。
Emails, that's right, 23,965 unread ones.。
So if you're wondering why I haven't emailed you back,。
there you go, you're not alone.。
Messages, text messages,。
Twitter, and that's right, Craigslist.。
Like as I think about, this is crazy,。
true confessions, as I think about。
what has pulled me away from Christ most this past week,。
this is just me being vulnerable with you right now.。
It's the fact that I want a golf cart.。
And I catch myself, true story,。
I catch myself reading the Bible。
and finishing and going on Craigslist。
and looking at golf carts.。
And there's like this excitement,。
this materialistic hole in my heart。
that is more excited about the thought or idea。
of buying a golf cart, I don't even golf.。
True story, play golf I think I should say,。
I don't even play golf.。
I'm more excited about that idea。
than sitting with God the creator of the heavens and the earth。
the one who literally died for my sins。
and rose from the dead。
and the one who I'm gonna spend eternity with.。
What's wrong with me?。
Wretched man am I.。
And so I don't know if you ever feel。
like you don't have enough time.。
I've been saying something for years now,。
I don't intend to stop but it always makes people angry.。
And you gotta hear me,。
you will never have more time than you do right now.。
And I'll tell you I've married people off,。
there are folks that have been in the porch。
that have four kids now.。
And every single one of them have come back to me。
and said, JP man that was so true.。
When you said I didn't believe it when you said it.。
But man that was true.。
Like quiet time just feels like a thing of the past.。
Once when I could just go in my closet,。
just get away from my roommate。
and I could spend time with Christ.。
Now I have to geographically move locations.。
I have to find a forest,。
some place where my children can't find me。
so that I can sit quietly with Jesus.。
That quiet thing, it is like this elusive unicorn。
that I've gotta find, okay.。
It is very difficult to get that.。
You will never in your life have more time。
than you do right now.。
Period, done, fact.。
Absolute truth.。
And here's what that means.。
You will probably at no time in the future。
spend more time with Jesus than you did today.。
So I don't know what it looked like for you today.。
But if you have some grand hope,。
some grand scheme or plan that one day。
I'm gonna have four children, a German shepherd,。
a white picket fence and a spouse in the suburbs。
and an hour quiet time every day.。
But today I'm busy.。
You are sadly mistaken.。
You are fooling yourself.。
You have believed a lie.。
The enemy is at work.。
And I just wanna set you straight.。
And so Martha is distracted from spending time with Jesus.。
And the reality of it is that she has the luxury of him,。
the physical incarnate God, being right in the other room.。
But so do you.。
And Jesus is right in the other room waiting on you。
in a quiet space saying, hey, come spend time with me.。
Come sit at my feet.。
How do you spend time with him?。
That's the question.。
How do you spend time with Jesus?。
How do you connect with him?。
And all followers of Christ have to have a death grip。
on the answer to this question.。
This should be a question that you can answer like,。
what color is the sky?。
How tall am I?。
What's my name?。
What's my address?。
Speaking for yourself.。
You should be able to answer this question,。
how do you spend time with Christ?。
How do you connect with him?。
As easy as those questions.。
And you've gotta find out what it is for you.。
For me, it's things like walking in nature,。
walking, getting so lost in nature。
that it's gonna take me time to get back to my truck。
or technology of any kinds that I find myself。
in a place surrounded by leaves and streams。
and birds, if you will.。
And I have to sit still and be with God.。
For me, this is funny, don't picture it,。
but taking baths, okay?。
I know, I know.。
Taking baths are a time where I can connect with God.。
And lastly, something else that's kind of silly。
is faith-based films.。
I don't know why.。
I mean, it's not for the acting,。
but there's something about faith-based films。
that stir my affections for Christ.。
I think what it is with all three of those things,。
as I'm just honest with you,。
I think that I'm putting myself in situations。
that are difficult to get out of.。
All three of those situations。
are situations away from technology, if you will.。
You can't be in a movie just texting and checking email.。
You can sit there.。
I can be in nature, connecting with God,。
away from technology, and in a bathtub.。
I don't wanna be electrocuted.。
So therefore, all of those things。
are just places where I'm forced to be still.。
What is it for you?。
You need to know what it is for you.。
'Cause if I told you, I'm like,。
"Here's what I want you to do today, all right?。
"I want you to take a walk through a forest,。
"take a bath, and watch Fireproof,"。
you're gonna be like, "No.。
"No, I should've went War Room, I guess."。
She came to him, this Martha, comes to Jesus and asks,。
"Lord, don't you care that my sister。
"has left me to do the work by myself?。
"Tell her to help me!"。
Martha, Martha.。
Whenever you see that, two names repeated,。
it happens throughout the scripture.。
It's a term of endearment.。
It's a term of deep, deep compassion.。
It's not satirical here.。
It's not satire or sarcasm.。
He's moving toward her, and he shows deep compassion for her.。
Martha, Martha, the Lord answered.。
You're worried and upset about many things.。
And so the second question that I see here in this text。
is what are the dangers of those distractions?。
Here in this little section, we see the outcome。
of the result of Martha's distractions.。
What are the dangers of those distractions?。
Martha begins to blame others for her troubles.。
This is what we do when we've been distracted from Christ,。
we're not abiding with Christ.。
We begin to look for excuses.。
Well, of course he got the job, okay?。
The boss likes him, it's favoritism.。
She's prettier than I am.。
Of course that happened.。
Another thing is if we're sitting there。
and we're having a quiet time, if you will,。
but we don't really wanna be, and other people are playing,。
there can be like jealousy that raises up in our heart.。
Why aren't they doing the work that I'm doing?。
And you begin to blame others.。
The next thing that Martha does。
is she questions God's love for her.。
Such a temptation when we neglect Jesus.。
God, don't you care?。
I talk to people all the time that are frustrated。
by the outcome of their lives when they're angry at God.。
And the reality of it is is they haven't,。
God hasn't been a part of any of those decisions.。
It wasn't like God told her to date the guy。
that was gonna break her heart.。
Like God wasn't a part of that decision.。
As I think about in my own life this week,。
I know there's a lot of materialistic illustrations here。
just to give you a picture of the dark corners of my heart.。
This week we had been contemplating or thinking about,。
considering a new car for my wife,。
and there was one particular one that I was interested in,。
and I was thinking about it.。
I met with community about it.。
I even talked to pastors about it,。
asking others is this a good idea.。
I asked others to pray about it.。
Would you just pray for me?。
And this decision was just sitting heavy on me.。
And I almost had this like,。
God, why don't you give me clarity?。
Like tell me what to do.。
And then I woke up at like three in the morning one night,。
and I just heard you hadn't asked me.。
And I realized it was just like this moment,。
like I hadn't even consulted with God about this decision.。
I had asked others to,。
but I had been so distracted by the decision,。
so distracted with processing all the data。
and the information that I hadn't even gone to God myself.。
And so I'm like, Jesus, I'm sorry that I haven't asked you.。
Should we get this car?。
And immediately my heart, my mind goes to all。
of the materialistic reasons that I wanted to buy this car,。
the comforts and the perception and just the nice features.。
And I'm like, I'm not gonna do that.。
I'm not gonna do that.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
So others get frustrated by how work is going,。
relationships are going, how family is going,。
but they never really spend any amount of extended time。
with Christ asking him to change the circumstance.。
I'm not talking about fly-by prayers while you're driving.。
I'm talking about sitting still for extended time。
at the feet of Christ.。
Another thing that Martha does here in her distractions,。
and this is a big one, she tells God what to do.。
Such a different posturing than Mary sitting。
at the feet of Christ, that she's so distracted。
that she gets caught up in the self-centeredness.。
Again, I believe wanting the approval of others。
that in a moment she thinks that she can tell God,。
the one who formed her in her mother's womb, what to do.。
She doesn't realize who Christ is.。
She's ordering him around in this moment.。
Tell her to stop.。
God, give me the job.。
You're gonna keep me single forever?。
What do you do?。
You sleeping up there?。
Do you not see me down here?。
And maybe you don't say that out loud,。
but maybe that's the cry of your heart.。
And it's time to sit still.。
In the servant's position at the feet of the Lord Almighty.。
Saying, I can't, but you can.。
I can't, but you can.。
See, there's this epidemic in our culture。
that's self-centeredness, some call it narcissism,。
that is leading to the greatest levels of depression。
the world has ever seen.。
The highest levels of anxiety。
the world as we know it have ever seen.。
And it starts with this idea。
that we think we control things.。
We don't control things.。
God controls things.。
So you'd be better off spending time。
with the one who controls everything.。
Martha's anxious, it says.。
She's worried and anxious about many things.。
This comes from thinking that she's in control.。
It comes to a place of realizing,。
I don't have what it takes.。
And if you realize that you don't have what it takes。
and it drives you to a place of humility,。
drives you to a place of a humble and contrite spirit.。
God, I don't have what it takes, but you do.。
That's a good thing.。
But if it's like, I don't have what it takes。
and I'm still trying to manage it all, that's a bad thing.。
That's why we've said here,。
if dependence is the goal, weakness is the advantage.。
My friend Cheryl shared that with me years ago。
and it's just become a mantra of my life.。
If dependence is the goal, weakness is the advantage.。
Tweet that out.。
Oh wait, nevermind.。
If dependence is the goal.。
It's good.。
It's good for my self-esteem, that guy.。
If dependence is the goal, weakness is the advantage.。
There's this picture that has ministered to me this week。
of clinging to the Father,。
clinging to someone.。
At the lake this weekend, we did some wake surfing.。
Have you done this?。
It's fun.。
And my son, my three-year-old, he like desperately,。
I'm behind the boat, we're wake surfing,。
and my three-year-old like desperately wants to do it.。
Daddy, let me on, Daddy.。
He's just on the back of the boat, just chatting.。
Let me do it, I wanna do it, I wanna do it.。
He's three, you know.。
And so finally, I'm like, all right,。
come in the water with me.。
And I hold him and I'm like, hey, I want you to hug my neck.。
And then I'm in the water, I'm like drowning.。
I'm like, okay, not that tight, not that tight.。
(audience laughing)。
And so he's just holding my neck and they pull me up。
and I set him down on the surfboard.。
And he is just, I mean, he's looking around。
and just clinging to my leg.。
I have a picture.。
This is Weston just clinging to his Daddy。
as tight as he can, smiling ear to ear,。
not gonna let you go.。
There's nothing that's gonna separate me from you.。
And this is a picture of what I believe Christ wants from us.。
Just this cling, this holding on to,。
nothing's going to rip me, nothing's gonna come between us.。
Nothing's gonna pull me away, distract me from you.。
I'm gonna hold on right here.。
If dependence is the goal, weakness is my advantage.。
I don't have what it takes, you have what it takes.。
I'm just gonna hold on to you.。
We feel so counterintuitive when we're busy。
to sit still with Jesus.。
I acknowledge that.。
But it is completely necessary.。
We've never been busier as a culture,。
but I don't know that God's gonna receive that excuse.。
Get up there and you're like,。
how come we never spend time together?。
Well, God, don't you know I was born,。
you know, I lived in 2016.。
It was the busiest culture we've ever had.。
You knew that, right?。
I don't think that's gonna fly.。
I've heard that busy is an acronym.。
Being under Satan's yoke.。
Being under Satan's yoke。
is what it means to be busy,。
that he uses that to distract us.。
Martin Luther said, "I have so much to do today,。
"I must spend the first four hours in prayer,"。
which is a picture of that, of how counterintuitive it is.。
It's like, I have so much to do today。
that I must start by focusing my heart and my mind。
on the only one who can get it all done.。
So blaming others and doubting God。
and narcissism and anxiety,。
they're all outcomes of being distracted。
from the main thing, verse 42.。
But few things are needed, Jesus responds.。
Actually, it's only one.。
And Mary has chosen that.。
She's chosen what is better.。
And then he says this strange phrase,。
"And it will not be taken away from her."。
I've wrestled with for a week, what does that mean?。
And it will not be taken away from her.。
I'm pretty excited about some of what I've found.。
And so my third question this evening is,。
is your life marked by distraction or devotion?。
It's a dichotomy.。
Mary was known to this day for devotion.。
Martha often memorialized to this day。
for her distraction.。
What marks you, your life today?。
Do people, coworkers, friends, family, roommates,。
those that know you best say,。
"Oh man, that is one devoted brother.。
"She is very devoted to her faith, devoted to Christ."。
Or, no, she's kind of always stressed out,。
distracted, pulled away, lots of different directions.。
Mary is sitting at Jesus's feet.。
This literally means she's being taught by him.。
It's the same word that we see in Acts 22, verse three,。
the same phrase where it says,。
Paul's talking about himself.。
I studied under Gamaliel, okay, the rabbi.。
He's saying, it says in the Greek, the same phrase,。
I sat at Gamaliel's feet.。
Mary is sitting at Jesus's feet.。
That is, she's studying under Jesus.。
There has to be a part of our relationship with Christ。
that is spent studying him, knowing about him.。
It's like when you're in love with someone。
and you want to know their favorite things,。
what they like, what they like to do,。
where they like to eat, her favorite flowers,。
those sorts of things.。
My girls are nine and seven,。
and they have just started in the past year。
reading the Bible, and so prestly,。
my nine-year-old will wake up,。
and before she does anything, she reads a chapter.。
She wanted to get baptized, and I just said,。
hey, before you get baptized,。
I'd like you to read through the book of John.。
So she's reading a chapter a day right now.。
And so Finley, my seven-year-old,。
has picked this up as well.。
And so I'll just ask them afterwards,。
you know, what did you learn?。
And my seven-year-old, who's probably a little young。
for the assignment, has just come back to me,。
and I said, Finley, what did you learn?。
She said, I don't know.。
Well, what did you read?。
I don't know.。
Well, who were the characters?。
I don't know.。
Baby girl, how do you not know?。
And she just breaks down sobbing.。
She says, Daddy, the Bible is so confusing.。
The words are so big,。
and I just don't understand what it's saying.。
And my hunch is that some of us are 27,。
and we feel the same way.。
That we open it up, and it's not like,。
like we're almost envious of our friends that are like,。
oh man, I just sat with Jesus today.。
I got so much from him.。
Man, it was amazing.。
I was just like, me and Jesus, like having breakfast.。
It was incredible.。
He just told me all this stuff.。
It's awesome.。
And you're just like, really?。
From Leviticus?。
Like, I mean.。
And so my little girl's like, Daddy, I don't read well,。
to which I say, what a gift.。
I don't read well either, Finley.。
Not very good at reading.。
So you know what it means?。
I have to read slow.。
I have to take it in.。
I have to read it multiple times.。
What a gift not to read well.。
I have to spend extended time with Jesus.。
I have to let the Spirit of God make known to me。
the things of God through the word of God,。
so that I might be the man of God.。
What a gift not to read well.。
And if you don't read well, consider that the gift it is。
to live in 2016, that we have podcasts and preachers.。
We have books on tape.。
We can have someone read the Bible to us.。
We can watch it.。
We can have it illustrated.。
If you're an audible learner or a visual learner,。
you can talk about it in community.。
You can go line by line, what does this mean?。
You can be discipled, have others teach it to you.。
You can enroll in a place where they literally。
will sit there and tell you what every single word。
means, and you have to know what makes you love Jesus more.。
You have to.。
A part of your time with him has to be learning about him。
like any great relationship.。
And I love, not to go on a tangent here,。
but I love that Jesus was not sexist.。
That he believed that women were an extremely important。
part of the church, that he was a revolutionary.。
He did what no one else would do, and he said,。
"Come here, let me instruct you,。
"'cause you, ma'am, have a role to play。
"in the work that I'm doing."。
But it's also, it's not just learning,。
it's also a posturing of submission。
that Mary would sit at his feet.。
She's acknowledging that he was Lord.。
And this blew my mind, like get ready for this,。
'cause this is really fun about this text。
and about this person.。
Mary shows up in the scripture three times,。
and you see two words over and over all three times.。
You ready?。
Mary and feet.。
Mary and feet.。
And I don't think she had a foot fetish, okay?。
I'm not trying to be disrespectful.。
I just wanna paint the picture。
that there's something else going on here,。
that every time Mary shows up on the scene,。
she is at all three times Jesus' feet in John 11, 32,。
when Lazarus has died.。
It says, "When Mary reached the place where Jesus was。
"and saw him, she fell at his feet."。
And then, in another meal in John 12, verse three,。
it says, "Then Mary, same Mary,。
"took a pint of pure nard," weird word,。
"and expensive perfume, an expensive perfume,。
"and she poured it on Jesus' feet。
"and wiped his feet with her hair,。
"acknowledging him as God."。
And what Jesus says is, "She's preparing me for burial."。
Trivia question, who was the first person。
in Jesus' lifetime on earth。
who knew that he was going to die?。
It was Mary.。
He says, "She's preparing me for burial."。
And everybody's like, "What are you talking?。
"That's not figurative.。
"Oh, you're literally, what?。
"You're gonna die."。
Mary knew, why?。
She spent time with him, listening to him,。
talking with him.。
When you spend time with Jesus, you learn about him.。
The Spirit of God makes known to you the things of God。
through the word of God so that you might be the man。
or woman of God.。
I'll tell you, the only reason that a man or woman。
would read their Bible is because they believe。
they don't have it all figured out.。
And that God, who's sovereign creator,。
he knows better than they do.。
And so it's a posturing of submission.。
And the only reason that a man or a woman。
does not read the Bible is because they don't believe。
it's a worthwhile activity.。
They believe that they have something better to do.。
It's the only reason someone doesn't read the Scriptures.。
And so what Mary learned from him,。
it says, will not be taken from her.。
That Mary somehow in that moment invested in something。
that would last forever, which let's all agree。
that's a great investment.。
Diamonds are not forever, contrary to the popular ad.。
But whatever you might do with Christ lasts forever here.。
It will not be taken away from her.。
And I just wanna show you something。
that is exciting to me, because when the disciples。
come to her and rebuke her because she breaks。
this expensive perfume on Jesus' feet,。
it says this, when the disciples saw this,。
they were indignant.。
Why this waste, they asked.。
This perfume could have been sold at a high price。
and the money given to the poor.。
Aware of this, Jesus said to them,。
why are you bothering this woman, Mary?。
She has done a beautiful thing to me.。
The poor you will always have with you,。
but you will not always have me。
when she poured this perfume on my body.。
She did it to prepare me for burial.。
Truly I tell you, wherever this gospel is preached。
throughout the world, what she has done。
will also be told in memory of her.。
And 2,000 years later, that prophecy is fulfilled tonight。
as we declare the gospel that Jesus Christ。
has died for your sins, that God has raised him。
from the dead, and before he did,。
there was a woman named Mary who anointed him for burial,。
and Christ said just before that at a meal,。
what she has done will not be taken away from her.。
That there is some profound reality。
that you can make an investment in eternity。
by the things that you've done in the name of Jesus Christ,。
that is with Christ, and the things that you've learned。
from Christ by being with Christ。
will last forever and ever and ever.。
First Timothy four, verse eight says this.。
For physical training, can the gym be a distraction?。
Not for me.。
For physical training,。
for physical training is of some value,。
but godliness has value for all things,。
holding promise for both the present life。
and the life to come, and the life to come,。
and the life to come.。
I've gotta leave you with this as we wrap up.。
Life's a journey of learning what is important.。
Now I'm gonna say this, you're gonna agree with me,。
I just, just hang in there with me,。
'cause I see this is so true in my children.。
So true in my kids, that Weston, my three-year-old,。
he has a night-night, it's a blankie.。
And my girls had one too, but now that Finley's seven,。
she looks back and like, oh, Weston loves his blankie,。
it's so cute, you know, it's silly.。
I'm like, you did too.。
She's like, no, I know what's important now,。
I've got Kitty, she's got a stuffed animal named Kitty.。
This is the stuff that's important, you know?。
And Presley, my nine-year-old's like, ah, she's so silly,。
she's got her stuffed animal Kitty.。
I'm like, Presley, you did too.。
I've got these coloring books over here,。
this is where it's at, you know?。
Arts and crafts, she's into, that's where she's at.。
She finds life, and it just continues, right?。
You get to high school and it's like,。
oh, now I know what's important.。
I gotta make the team, get the letter jacket,。
I gotta get asked to prom,。
I gotta have these right relationships,。
this is what's important.。
Kitties and coloring books and night-night, so silly,。
this is what's important.。
And you get to college and you like, look back,。
you're like, letter jacket, what was I thinking?。
Now I know what's important, right?。
Now I know, it's fraternities and sororities。
and getting the right professor and making the grade。
and getting a diploma from the right school.。
Now I know what's important, silly me, letter jacket.。
And then you get out of college and you're like,。
what was I thinking, sorority, fraternity?。
What a waste, I've gotta get a good job.。
I've gotta make good money.。
I gotta somehow convince some human being。
to spend the rest of their life with me.。
(congregation laughing)。
Now I know what is important, right?。
And then you get there and I'm just gonna telegraph。
for you a little bit what's coming。
'cause you're gonna get there and be like,。
what was I thinking, now I know what's important,。
I gotta have kids.。
And then your kids grow up and you're like,。
now I gotta make sure my kids go to good schools。
and get good grades and get the right professors.。
And it just goes on and on and on.。
And here's what I'm telling you is one day,。
you're gonna look back and I'm serious,。
you gotta believe this, okay?。
You gotta hear me 'cause this book doesn't lie.。
One day you're gonna look back like,。
oh, the only things that were important。
were the things that last forever.。
That's what was really important,。
the times that lasted forever,。
the investments in eternity, the times with Jesus.。
I wasted so much time worried about letter jackets and jobs。
and so many other good things that are good things.。
They're just not ultimate things.。
And so there are many distractions。
that pull us away from Jesus,。
like to-do lists and wanting the approval of others.。
And these distractions have detrimental outcomes。
like blaming others and doubting God。
and narcissism and anxiety.。
And Christ, through his servant, Mary,。
and his servant, Martha, is calling you to live a life。
in devotion to Jesus that's sitting with him,。
fighting anything that is distracting you from him.。
Last night, I had to go write this message,。
but before I did, I was talking to my girls.。
I was laying in Presley's bed。
and she comes up and crawls on top of me。
and puts her head on my chest and looks up at me.。
And she's like, "Daddy,。
"I feel like we don't go on dates anymore."。
I'm like, "Baby girl, we go on dates,。
"we just went on a date last week."。
She's like, "I know, but before that,。
"I just feel like it's been a long time."。
And I begin to defend myself.。
I start telling them, I'm like,。
"Well, sweetie, there's three of you now.。
"We had more kids and they have to share time with Daddy.。
"And plus, your mom is a priority to me.。
"And so if I'm gonna have one date,。
"it's gonna be with her."。
And I begin to talk, and then it dawns on me,。
I'm like, "Wait a minute, just the week before last,。
"I invited you on a date too.。
"Remember, it was Awakened down in Clyde Warm Park。
"and I went to you and I said,。
"Hey, I want you to come with me.。
"I think it's gonna be a good time."。
And she was like, "Yeah, but Daddy, we were watching a movie.。
"Finley and I were watching a movie。
"and we were gonna have fun."。
And Daddy, that just didn't sound very fun.。
More church, you know?。
(congregation laughing)。
And I said, "Oh."。
I said, "Baby girl, I don't know。
"that you want time with me.。
"I think you're chasing experiences.。
"Like you're just looking for outlets to have fun.。
"You don't really want time with me."。
And as I think about us and I think about this generation,。
I really resonate with Presley.。
Like I'm all about, like let's go on an international trip,。
launch retreat, man.。
Like anything that's gonna be fun.。
Like Robbie C leading worship, the porch.。
I'm in on that.。
You want me to sit still with Jesus?。
Don't sound like I'm having fun.。
I've got 23,000 emails.。
(congregation laughing)。
I just want him to be still and just talk to him.。
I want you to love him.。
He, he wants you to love him.。
Know him, learn about him, spend time with him.。
Is this not the gospel?。
We can't work our way to Jesus that he did the work,。
that he paid it all.。
We sit still and trust.。
And to model that we've believed upon the gospel,。
we would say like Martin Luther,。
I have so much to do in this life.。
It better start by sitting still。
and letting my God work for me.。
'Cause what am I gonna do without him?。
There's nothing that I can do for him without him.。
I can't even save myself.。
I need him to pay it all.。
Let me pray for us.。
Father, that is the truth.。
We can't do anything without you.。
We need your help.。
Lord, we thank you for the work that you did on our behalf.。
Work we couldn't do,。
work we literally were not good enough to do.。
'Cause none of us are perfect.。
And so as you required a perfect payment,。
none of us would do.。
It took your son.。
God, thank you for the example of Mary。
that we might follow it.。
And thank you also for the example of Martha,。
who is with you now, seen as blameless,。
her sins not held against her.。
Serving you in your presence。
forever and ever and ever,。
sitting with you forever and ever and ever,。
worshiping you forever and ever and ever.。
May we do the same.。
It is this reality that Jesus did the work for you.。
Nobody who has ever lived is going to get to heaven。
because of what they've done,。
good or bad.。
There is no single deed。
that is going to keep anyone from heaven.。
No particular sin, no act that you've committed。
that is gonna be the one thing that keeps you out.。
It's going to come down to one reality.。
Do you believe that roughly 2,000 years ago。
that God paid a price, paid is the word,。
paid a price, paid it all,。
all of your sin, past, present, and future,。
on the cross, he paid for it?。
That he died, he paid for it with his own blood,。
his whole life?。
He goes in the grave.。
And to show you that he's God,。
that he's bigger than death,。
and to give you hope for eternity,。
and to help you today by the power of his spirit。
living with you, he raises from the dead.。
Yes, it's good news.。
It's good news that you don't get to heaven。
because of what you do,。
but because of what Christ did,。
that he paid it all, if you trust in that.。
(congregation applauding)。
Martha is in heaven.。
We're gonna meet her one day.。
It's gonna be awesome.。
Not because of what she did,。
but because of the one that she was with, what he did.。
And so if we could talk with you more about that,。
there's a bunch of people here in gray port shirts。
that serve here, they're co-pastors, co-labors with me.。
They'd love to pray with you and for you.。
If you're in search of community,。
you're thinking, hey, I need to buy a car,。
and I don't have anyone to process that with.。
We can change that tonight, okay?。
Guys, you can walk down this hallway.。
There's a room full of guys there。
that would love to meet you.。
Girls, you walk down this hallway,。
there's a room full of girls there。
that would love to meet you.。
And you could just say,。
what is community that he's talking about?。
And they would love to tell you.。
There's a party out there,。
porch late nights happening tonight.。
So you guys stay, hang out, have fun,。
go in peace to love and serve the Lord.。
(upbeat music)。
