(crowd cheering)。
- Testing, one, two, three, can you hear me?。
Well, hey everyone, and welcome to The Porch.。
We're going to be diving into the question。
that's been on everyone's mind.。
Why in the world are women so hard to understand?。
- I think what you meant to say was,。
why in the world are men so confusing?。
- Okay, so it seems like both genders。
may have some difficulty understanding each other.。
- Which is why each week,。
we're spotlighting a different side of the room。
to dig into issues we face within our own gender。
while growing an understanding for the opposite sex.。
- One night, we're putting the guys under the microscope.。
- The next night is for the girls.。
But don't worry, everybody's invited every night.。
- Because here's the thing we figured out.。
- We're not actually sure on opinions about men and women.。
- He's saying this.。
- She's saying that.。
- But what does God have to say about all of it?。
- Welcome to the debate that culture can't settle.。
- Welcome to what's actually true.。
About him.。
- And about her.。
- Welcome to your favorite Tuesday night series.。
- She Said.。
- She Said.。
- Come on, Porch, how are we doing?。
We're doing good?。
Great to see you.。
Welcome back.。
It is good to be here with you.。
Love Tuesday's favorite day of the week.。
I don't know about you.。
I always look forward to these nights.。
I particularly love this series.。
Maybe you've noticed because our sermons。
have just run a little bit longer every single week.。
This one's gonna be long too。
because we have got the ladies at bat tonight.。
Let me hear you.。
Come on, ladies.。
I'm also sure that there are women。
all over the country yelling into the computer right now,。
whether they're streaming this in the moment。
or somewhere along the way.。
We love that the Porch is not just a Dallas thing.。
It's a national thing.。
It's happening.。
It's a generational thing。
because God is moving the lives of young adults here。
and everywhere.。
Shout out, Porch Live, Wheaton, Greater Lafayette,。
Fort Worth, as well as everybody else.。
We love you guys.。
We love what God is doing。
and we're grateful to be a part of it.。
Well, when Brooke and I found out。
that we were having a boy just a couple of years ago,。
I felt nothing but pure joy.。
And the reason why。
is because I did not have a nervous bone in my body at all.。
Like I came with a training manual built into me.。
I knew all the lessons。
that I would need to teach that little man.。
I knew that I would need to show him。
what it meant to look a man in the eye。
whenever you shake his hand,。
how to play with passion or don't play at all,。
to never enter the pool by the stairs,。
that he shouldn't grow a wishbone where he needs a backbone,。
that he should lead by example and not by explanation,。
that he should always return a borrowed car。
with a full tank of gas,。
and he should never, never turn down a breath mint.。
Neither should you, gentlemen, by the way.。
It will serve us all.。
I know what a young man needs.。
I knew whenever we had a little boy。
exactly what I could give him.。
But then we found out we were having a little girl。
and the entire script changed for me.。
I realized in that moment。
what most normal fathers realize.。
I have really good reason to panic。
and I have really good reason to research,。
which is exactly what I've done over the last several months。
in anticipation of her arrival.。
I have read books on the unique challenges that women face.。
And let me just say,。
I am terrified at the thought of being a woman.。
Like it seems so much harder。
than what is happening for us fellas.。
I have entered into the femisphere.。
God forbid, I have listened to snippets。
of "Call Her Daddy," "The Toast,"。
and "We Can Do Hard Things" all in the name of research.。
I have read the "Summer I Turned Pretty" subreddit。
trying to understand what grown women。
have such a fascination with a teenage love triangle for.。
It makes no sense to me in the slightest.。
And I have even dared try to help my wife。
pick out her wardrobe for work。
as she is going in to the office during the week.。
I have sat there and I have tried。
to kind of pick it out with her.。
And what I've realized is I do not have an eye。
for the boss girl life.。
I don't know anything about fashion,。
if you can't tell already.。
I don't know that where most clothes。
apparently seem the same to me,。
they're so very different in her mind instead.。
After all of my research,。
I have come to the humbling conclusion。
that I have still no idea what it takes to make a woman.。
But here's also a conclusion adjacent to that one.。
I don't think the world does either.。
Because as you look across the landscape of society,。
as you study what's happening on the internet,。
you realize that there is a smattering。
of different suggestions for you.。
Everyone's selling you the same idea。
just wrapped in a different kind of packaging.。
Some are telling you that you gotta have。
a full-time content strategy.。
You gotta have a "That Girl" morning routine,。
a hot take about something.。
You gotta have an opinion about matcha.。
To others, it's saying you need to have a hinge profile。
that's funny, but it's not trying too hard.。
You need to have a LinkedIn that screams thriving.。
And you have to have a Pinterest board for a wedding。
that you're not currently planning。
for a man that you haven't even met.。
And to others, and this is especially。
for those that have grown up in the church,。
you have a purity checklist.。
Because apparently that's a prerequisite。
in order for you to find Mr. Right.。
Somewhere along the way,。
so many of you picked up this quiet belief。
that womanhood is something you need to achieve.。
That there's a version of you who has finally arrived,。
that's finally made it, that's finally here.。
And yet the truth of the matter is she's never here.。
She's always just a little further down the line。
than where you are right now.。
Maybe it's a body that you need to change.。
It's a degree that's finally on the wall.。
It's an apartment that's finally furnished.。
Maybe it's not that.。
Maybe it's someone that finally chooses you,。
a guy that swipes right, that texts you back,。
that gets down on one knee.。
Maybe that girl that you know you need to be。
is the one where you have a side hustle no longer,。
but it's actually your sustainable source of income.。
I don't know what it is for you.。
I don't know if it's professional.。
I don't know if it's relational.。
I don't know if it's societal.。
I don't know what the pressure it is that you face,。
but all of these pressures are trying to communicate to you。
that you're a failure,。
that you're not yet a real woman。
because this is what real women look like.。
And yet I'm here to tell you。
that you are not a failure.。
Instead, you've been sold a lie。
because womanhood is not a life goal to achieve.。
It's a gift from God to receive.。
And I need you to know that, ladies,。
that womanhood, it's not a life goal you achieve.。
It's a gift from God that you receive。
because that's what we see。
whenever we darken the door of Proverbs 31.。
And we get introduced to a woman that has received。
the gift of God.。
And as she has walked with him,。
not by way of exercising her own strength,。
but by way of depending on his,。
she becomes everything that he always intended。
for her to be.。
That's why we're gonna look。
at that passage of scripture tonight.。
We're in Proverbs 31, if you have a Bible.。
While you're doing that, here's the thing.。
I know so many of you,。
you may have a less than positive relationship。
with this passage because the Proverbs 31。
has made you feel more behind than inspired in times past.。
I get it.。
I've been studying this thing intensively,。
and we're gonna look at it together intensively.。
And as we do so, it's gonna feel like。
there are 27 different principles。
that you need to apply to your life。
in order to be everything that God has made you to be.。
That's not the truth, though.。
Even though you may feel like you need to wake up。
at 5 a.m. and you gotta make your own clothes,。
you gotta start baking your own bread,。
you gotta plant a vineyard, buy some real estate,。
feed the poor, become a successful entrepreneur,。
and somehow still have time for a husband and kids,。
that's not what it's saying.。
It's gonna feel that way,。
but that's not actually what it's communicating.。
Which is funny, even as I say that,。
bake your own bread, make your own clothes,。
plant your own vineyard.。
Some of you are in your grandma era,。
and that's like kind of the thing that you're into.。
You're like, man, I'm working on this right now, you know?。
I do actually wanna be that kind of woman.。
I do wanna be a sourdough baddie.。
I do want to knit something together.。
I absolutely want to be a plant girly.。
You can do that on your own time.。
That's not what this passage of scripture。
is actually trying to teach you to do.。
It's trying to teach you something different.。
What this passage is trying to tell you。
is that the point is not。
that you should imitate her every action.。
Instead, you should imitate the wisdom。
that undergirds her every action,。
because here's what happens over the course of Proverbs.。
Whenever you open up its pages,。
you learn that it is a father speaking to a son。
about what should be true of him.。
And as the father teaches to his son from Proverbs 1。
all the way here to the very end,。
he is unpacking the wisdom of lady wisdom,。
that she is personified as this guide。
that is teaching him how to walk and how to go.。
And yet, as you get to the very end of Proverbs,。
you arrive at chapter 31,。
where lady wisdom is no longer just a concept.。
She has actually been embodied,。
personified as a woman herself,。
because it's written by King Limwell's mother.。
And what we know is that King Limwell's mother。
is looking at him and is saying,。
"Hey, you don't yet have a wife,。
"but here's the type of woman you should seek.。
"This is what it looks like.。
"If you find an excellent wife,。
"you must find an excellent woman."。
And so we're gonna look at it.。
It's amazing.。
The entire Proverb, it's written as a 22-verse acrostic.。
What that means is every single verse。
starts with a letter of the Hebrew alphabet,。
and it goes from A to Z.。
It moves sequentially across the way.。
We won't look at it like that for the sake of our time,。
but the reason why it does it is it wants you to know。
from A to Z what wisdom looks like。
in the life of a godly woman.。
And it's also written like this,。
so that way someone like King Limwell。
and all of us could memorize it, we could remember it,。
so that way we could take it with us。
and not just recognize it whenever we read it here,。
but we could go out and we could realize it out there.。
That's the hope in the way in which it's put together.。
You see, it was meant to help him find a partner。
that would make an excellent wife,。
and it's meant to help you become an excellent woman.。
So what does it say?。
I'll say it again because I can't caveat this thing enough.。
It is not saying a checklist for you to possess.。
What it's trying to do is it's trying to give you a portrait.。
It's trying to give you a portrait to pursue,。
and that's relevant to guys and girls in the room.。
Ladies, it is a portrait for you to look into。
and see yourself in time.。
And gentlemen, it's giving you a portrait。
of what you should be pursuing likewise,。
maybe something even that you should compare。
your standards against and identify where you've gone wrong.。
So what does it say?。
It says this, starting in verse 10.。
It says, "An excellent wife, who can find?。
"She is far more precious than jewels."。
That word excellent in Hebrew is the word hayil,。
and it's important for this meaning.。
It's important because what this is saying。
is that she is excellent,。
not just in that she is of the highest quality。
or she's first rate.。
That word in Scripture is overwhelmingly associated。
with warfare, which feels like a really weird term.。
And yet what it's trying to communicate。
is that this woman is an ode to a champion.。
She's an ode to a warrior,。
that that's what should be true of the Proverbs 31 woman.。
She is a warrior and not a victim.。
She's not seen a second rate.。
She's not subjugated to performing some sort of service。
for a man in her life.。
And it's not saying that her value。
is only dependent upon her appearance.。
What it's saying is that she should actually be valued。
for what is underneath it all.。
She should be valued by way of the strength。
of her character, which is important。
because that disagrees with what society would say.。
It's crazy what girls are facing.。
Whether it's filters or Facetune or beauty influencers。
or cosmetic procedures or algorithmic feeds,。
all changing worlds think a normal face。
or body should look like,。
or it's a dating app, which is crazy。
because they tell us what people should be displayed as。
and browsed through and evaluated for。
and selected by and rejected on the basis of their appearance。
or it's Instagram and TikTok,。
measuring your social status to the likes of follows。
and clicks and shares and comments.。
Everything the world is trying to tell us。
is that womanhood is synonymous。
with how impressive you look on the outside.。
But what this passage is gonna tell us。
is not about the beauty of your appearance,。
but the strength of your character.。
Now, let me be very clear.。
The Bible talks about appearance in other places.。
I don't want to belittle or diminish that.。
I just want to rightly prioritize that your character。
has an unfading, ever-increasing quality to it,。
whereas your appearance does not.。
I don't know if you noticed,。
your nose and your ears don't stop growing, you know?。
We're only all getting uglier.。
That's the path forward。
for every single man and woman in this room.。
It's just nature, it's gonna happen.。
Over the course of time, your appearance is going to fail,。
which is why we shouldn't bank all of our hope,。
all of our esteem, all of our confidence。
on that which is on the outside.。
We should do so with that which is on the inside.。
That's what this is trying to get across.。
It's interesting, on this topic,。
I was listening, literally this week,。
listening to a Navy SEAL talk about predictive,。
like the predictive nature of SEAL selection.。
And what he was doing。
is he was just simply asking the question,。
is it possible to identify by way of mere observation,。
looking at a guy's appearance,。
whether he has what it takes to be a Navy SEAL or not?。
And his conclusion was very simply, no, it's not possible.。
It doesn't matter how like muscled up that guy is,。
it doesn't look like,。
if he looks like he's built out of a textbook。
or he's brought out of a comic book, none of that matters.。
He can look so impressive on the outside,。
but he can fold like a chair on the inside。
if adversity strikes。
and he doesn't have what it takes on the inside。
to deal with it all.。
What we need to know is that the quality of a person。
does not depend on what's external,。
it depends on what's internal,。
which is why a real woman is praised for her virtues。
and not her features.。
She's praised for her virtues and not her features.。
Because it's not about how she looks,。
it's about how she acts that matters most.。
This is why she's more precious than jewels.。
I don't know if you've ever gone treasure hunting.。
I've only done it once in my life.。
And it wasn't by choice, it was by necessity.。
We had a friend who lost her Aggie ring。
in a sand volleyball court.。
And so knowing that it was that item,。
which is of great preciousness,。
we decided to go and buy a metal detector.。
And so there I am, like in the volleyball court,。
doing the thing, like I'm swinging it back and forth,。
I'm looking for this thing.。
And everyone's on their hands and knees,。
like searching through the sand, why?。
Because this item was of incredible worth.。
We knew what was required in order to achieve it.。
And because of how much it took,。
we knew how much we were willing to give.。
We recognized its value.。
Ladies, a real woman knows that she's worth searching for.。
A godly woman knows that she's worth waiting for.。
A true woman knows that she's worth working towards.。
In my experience, there are two reasons。
that women aren't treated the way they deserve.。
The first is because they find some man。
that doesn't know how they should be treated.。
But hear me on this, and I actually think。
this one could be equally prevalent.。
The second reason is they themselves。
do not know how they deserve to be treated.。
Godly women know their worth.。
They know that they're worth far more than jewels.。
And so here is my ask of you before we get into the virtues.。
My ask is very simply, do not settle。
for less than you actually deserve.。
Christ, he came to exemplify what you're worth.。
And we've talked over the course of this series。
what a godly man looks like.。
And my ask is that you would wait for one.。
Some of you, you're here, and you're like,。
Kylan, I have been waiting.。
I have been praying.。
I have been hoping, you know,。
like you have done everything right,。
and I'm not here to diminish that.。
In fact, I think this is very serious for some of you.。
It says in this verse,。
an excellent wife who can find?。
There's something difficult about finding。
a woman of true excellence.。
If you have not been found yet,。
perhaps that says something about your worthiness.。
Perhaps your man is still out there,。
and he is still hunting.。
You be patient.。
You be willing to put yourself out there.。
You don't lose hope, and maybe let your friend。
set you up from time to time.。
(congregation laughing)。
All right, let's get into it.。
That was for free.。
(congregation laughing)。
What are these virtues that we're talking about?。
Well, this chapter is gonna give us six.。
The first one is this.。
A godly woman is trustworthy.。
A godly woman is trustworthy.。
We're gonna take this verse by verse by verse,。
because I do not want to unpack for you。
what I think it takes to make a woman.。
I don't know.。
I want to tell you what God says, because he does.。
So the next verses, 11 through 12, says,。
"The heart of her husband trusts in her.。
"He will have no lack of gain.。
"She does him good, not harm, all the days of her life."。
Do you hear that?。
A godly woman is reliable.。
That's what you wanna be.。
You wanna be someone that can be counted on.。
You wanna be someone that is helpful。
to the world around you.。
Your man, yes, but the world around you,。
someone that's helpful and not hurtful.。
I love the way Ben Stewart says,。
"You wanna be someone that has their back,。
"does not stab them in the back."。
That's what you're looking for.。
I've shared this before, but I remember years ago。
talking to a dear friend of mine, a mentor,。
about my relationship with Brooke,。
and we were on the phone just visiting,。
and he was like, "Hey, man, how are things going。
"with the two of you?"。
And I was like, "Man, there's nothing really new to report.。
"Things are great.。
"She's amazing.。
"We're doing well."。
And he was like, "Gosh, isn't that the best?"。
And I was like, "What are you talking about?"。
He was like, "Steadiness might be the most incredible。
"quality in a relationship."。
He went on to say, "Steadiness doesn't make the list。
"for sexiest qualities in a spouse,。
"but dadgum, it definitely makes the list。
"for best qualities in a spouse."。
And God agrees according to this.。
You see, the world is crazy enough already.。
Why would you want to link up with someone。
that's going to make it crazier?。
I talk to people down here all the time,。
and they're trying to talk me into why he's so great.。
I'm like, "Listen, the world is hard.。
"Do not make it harder than it needs to be.。
"Things are difficult out there.。
"Don't make it difficult in here.。
"You find someone that you can link up with。
"and you can run into forever alongside。
"that has your back the way you have theirs.。
"That's what you're looking for.。
"You wanna find someone that's trustworthy.。
"And ladies, you need to be someone that's trustworthy.。
"That means you want to be faithful and not fickle.。
"What does that mean?。
"It means you don't want to be someone。
"who changes their mind a lot.。
"You don't wanna be someone who lacks loyalty.。
"You don't wanna give a guy all the signs。
"that he's doing amazing and then just ghost him。
"because you don't know how to get out of the relationship.。
"You don't wanna say one thing to their face。
"and then say something else behind their back.。
"That's fickle, it's not loyal.。
"You do not want to tell someone everything's fine。
"and then act like nothing is actually fine.。
"Do you know how maddening that is?。
"We're great, you're clearly not great.。
"That doesn't make sense.。
"It doesn't feel trustworthy.。
"That does not inspire confidence.。
"That inspires concern.。
"You wanna be trustworthy."。
Now listen, obviously trustworthiness,。
it pertains to all people.。
Like there's not a single person in this room。
that is exempt from this principle.。
And the truth of the matter is,。
everything we're gonna talk about tonight。
and everything we talked about last week。
and the week before and the week before that,。
it all actually generally applies to humanity.。
We're just trying to show who has,。
where it's more oriented towards。
according to the specific gender.。
But this pertains to everyone.。
Everyone is called to be trustworthy.。
So why then is Proverbs 31 making it a big deal。
in this moment?。
Why is this applied to women within this context,。
within the context of becoming a wife?。
I'll tell you.。
Because no one can make a man。
feel more vulnerable than a woman.。
No one.。
No one can do it.。
His boss can't do it, his friends can't do it,。
his parents can't do it, his heroes can't do it,。
his team can't do it.。
Doesn't matter how bad they're playing,。
they cannot make him feel more vulnerable than you can.。
And the reason why is because you get access。
to parts of who he is that no one else gets access to.。
Like you get to see the secrets of his soul.。
You get to listen to the pain of his experience.。
You get to actually process with those dormant emotions。
he very seldomly lets out。
and doesn't actually know how to process through.。
You get access to parts of him。
that the world does not get access to。
because that's what love does.。
Love begets vulnerability.。
And as love is instigated between the two of you,。
he will open himself up。
and you will have the opportunity to see more of who he is,。
that he's not all rough and tumble,。
that he's not strong and stern and stalwart.。
You're gonna see he's actually a little bit softer。
than you think on the inside.。
And because you see that,。
it's going to make him so very vulnerable.。
And in that moment,。
you will have the power。
to make him feel like a hero or a zero.。
That power lies in your hands.。
That is why it is imperative。
that you, a godly woman,。
know how to present yourself as trustworthy.。
I get critiques and comments all the time。
from people about what I do up here.。
And I listen to 'em and I learn from 'em,。
but I don't linger with 'em.。
Because at the end of the day,。
they're helpful to a certain degree,。
but they do not deserve to rob me of my sleep.。
But my wife, my wife made one comment。
about something I said that wasn't helpful。
or felt a little inaccurate or maybe insensitive,。
and that will eat me alive.。
Like, it will chew me up.。
I remember conversations with her from years ago,。
like decades in the past from when we first met,。
because I cared about the things she was saying。
and she was speaking into my very identity.。
She knew the heart of who I was.。
Praise God she's trustworthy,。
because I feel safe with her.。
I feel known by her.。
I feel loved by her.。
You be trustworthy so a man can say the same about you.。
You need to know how you do with what he offers。
determines just how trustworthy you really are.。
That's the first thing.。
And I guess, nah, I don't have time.。
Let's keep going.。
(congregation laughing)。
Second thing you gotta know is a godly woman。
is a difference maker.。
A godly woman is a difference maker.。
Proverbs 31, 13 says, "She seeks wool and flax.。
"She works with willing hands."。
I love this.。
This woman, she sees potential in the world。
and she actualizes it.。
Like, she seeks out wool and flax,。
butter, wool, and flax.。
She sees wool for the winter, flax for the summer,。
and she works hard at developing those raw materials。
into the finished goods that will bless not only her,。
but her family and the surrounding community.。
That's who she is.。
And it's amazing.。
It's both wool and flax.。
It's not just a seasonal sort of hard work.。
It's an all the time kind of hard work.。
That's who she is.。
We see that she is a difference maker,。
and she's this way in four different ways,。
if you're kind of taking notes.。
Main bullet is she's a difference maker,。
but there's four sub-bullets to this.。
The first way that this actually works itself out。
is she's resourceful.。
She's resourceful.。
Like, she knows what needs to get done,。
and she isn't afraid to get it done.。
Like, my wife, as of today, she's eight months pregnant.。
It's gonna be awesome looking back on this years from now。
and realizing that this was the moment we were in,。
but she's eight months pregnant.。
She has been with child for a long time,。
and yet her to-do list has not gotten any shorter.。
Neither has mine.。
Her to-do list has not gotten any shorter.。
If anything, it has gotten longer.。
Why?。
Because she still sees all the untapped potential。
of our home, all of the things。
that can be brought to bear.。
So there's things on there like hanging ceiling fans。
and building flower beds and working out our budget.。
She has all of this stuff kind of still assembled,。
even though no one would blame her for just taking a break.。
Like, you're kind of growing a baby, you know?。
Like, that's sufficient.。
Why don't you just hang out for a little bit?。
But she has all of these eyes。
for the untapped potential of our home.。
She's a godly woman because of it.。
She sees not only what is, she sees what should be.。
That's what a godly woman does.。
She's resourceful.。
So let me ask you ladies, are you like this?。
Like, is your world better because you're a part of it?。
Like, when you enter into a room,。
does the emotional temperature change because you arrive?。
Does it rise for the better, or does it fall。
because you stir about the coldness of a company?。
What happens when you enter into a conversation?。
Does it feel like the gossip just piles up?。
Do you feel like you extend wisdom into that moment。
and you bring peaceful resolution?。
What happens whenever you find yourself around your family?。
Like, there's a lot of division and tension。
in families today.。
Are you a peacemaker?。
Or do you actually sow division further?。
What is your role within the world in which you walk?。
Godly women, they see potential。
and they work to make it a reality.。
Do you do that?。
Or are you just focused on what am I doing in my life?。
Let me just tell you.。
Godly women do not just concern themselves。
with what am I doing in my life.。
They're concerned with what does God want to do。
in their life because I'm a part of it.。
That's what a godly woman does.。
She sees potential and she moves to make it practical,。
to bring it into reality.。
She's resourceful.。
The second thing is that she's inspired.。
I love this one.。
Proverbs 31, 14 says,。
"She is like the ships of the merchant.。
"She brings her food from afar.。
"In the ancient world, imported goods from merchant ships。
"were exciting because they were exotic.。
"It gave people exposure to new sounds and smells。
"and tastes and sights.。
"It was an injection of the extraordinary。
"into the ordinary."。
That's what this woman is like.。
That's what godly women do.。
They don't just do the bare minimum.。
They go above and beyond.。
Why?。
Because it benefits the people around them.。
Let me just lay it out to you like this.。
If you were to go on a date and he took you to Luby's,。
the chances are you're not going on a second date.。
Why?。
Isn't it edible?。
Yes, but it's not enjoyable.。
There's nothing enjoyable about that experience.。
You want him to do what Christ has done,。
to not just give you life,。
but to give you life abundantly, right?。
That's what this means.。
That you ladies, you're called to be inspired.。
When my wife and I, when we travel,。
we care so much about where we stay and what we eat.。
Like we want a good vibe.。
We want the lights to be down low.。
We want to have memorable conversations.。
We want a little bit of music in the background.。
Like we want that whole experience to be incredible.。
I want to eat something that I can't make at home, you know?。
That's what I'm looking for.。
I want a taste of the extraordinary in my ordinary.。
That's what a godly woman does.。
Now, let me be very clear.。
It's not saying you got to be a master chef.。
It's not saying you need to be an interior designer.。
It's not saying you got to be a professional homemaker.。
That's not what this is saying.。
I love that it says she brought her food from afar.。
I don't know what that means.。
I don't know if it meant that she like flew lobster in。
from the coast of Maine and she's like breaking out。
the surf and turf for the fam.。
Or if she just door dashed something very cool。
that she saw across town。
that she wanted to bring in for the family.。
I have no idea how she's working this out.。
But what I do know is she's working it out.。
She cares about caring about people.。
That's it in one sentence.。
She cares about caring about people.。
She's inspired.。
The third thing on this is she's self-sacrificing.。
Proverbs 31, 15 says,。
"She rises while it is yet night.。
"She provides food for her household。
"and portions for her maidens."。
Meaning she not only knows what needs to happen。
and what it takes to get it done,。
but she gets it before the sun to make it happen.。
All throughout this passage,。
if you could read it in the Hebrew,。
what you would see over and over and over again。
is you would see warfare imagery,。
which just again feels strange.。
But I love that the proverb is setting women up。
as this warrior, as someone of valor and courage.。
And what you read as you go through this。
is that this warrior woman does so many different things.。
It tells you that she's a warrior.。
She's valiant.。
She's strong.。
She plunders.。
She ascends.。
She stretches out a hand.。
She is extolled.。
She laughs like a victorious king.。
But this verse contains probably my favorite example。
because what it does is it uses the word food.。
And hold on.。
It uses the word food,。
which is actually in the Hebrew interpreted as prey.。
What this is saying is that she brings food to her family。
in the sense that she's a hunter-gatherer.。
Like she doesn't wait for it to come to her.。
She gets up early in the morning。
before the sun is even up and she goes out and she gets it.。
Like she is on the prowl hunting to provide for her family.。
She doesn't just roll out of bed begrudgingly。
with only indifference about the day.。
No, she rises up knowing that she has a day full of purpose。
She's not a victim.。
Again, victims, they're subject to someone else's decision,。
to someone else's decision-making.。
But this woman, she makes her own decisions.。
She calls her own shots.。
She makes her own moves.。
But what I love about that。
is she doesn't do it for herself alone.。
She does it for the sake of her family.。
She is not insecure with something to prove.。
No, she is wildly secure.。
And so she has something to offer.。
You see how that works?。
That's what's true of her.。
We see that she was willing to sacrifice。
so that others might succeed.。
And then the fourth one on this is she's forward-thinking.。
She's forward-thinking.。
Verse 16 says, she considers a field and she buys it.。
With the fruit of her hands, she plants a vineyard.。
I love this.。
According to the proverb,。
this woman, she has a husband, she has a family,。
but she's still making big money moves.。
You know, like she's not just laying back。
and doing the trad wife thing.。
Like she is totally leaning forward。
and she's considering what's my business?。
Where are my investments?。
How can I continue to make decisions in a way。
that supports my family and uplifts the community?。
Now, to be very clear, this is not saying。
that staying at home moms are worse or lesser。
than those moms that are out there working.。
This is not making a commentary about that in the slightest.。
For the record, both are full-time jobs.。
So to be very clear, that's not what this is communicating.。
But what it is communicating is that she is forward-thinking,。
that she considers what she has, how well it's going,。
and how she can leverage that to continue to further。
what God is doing through her life。
for the benefit of other people.。
Here's the reason why we bring it up now,。
because it's important for you,。
if you're hearing you don't have a man yet.。
Some of you ladies, you're waiting on a man。
to begin living your life.。
But godly women do not wait because Christ has already come.。
They don't need him to show up because he's already done so.。
So I'm just encouraging you to live forward-thinking,。
meaning have eyes for the future that God wants you to find.。
I remember when we lived in Houston,。
I had a young lady approach me.。
She was y'all's age, in her 20s and 30s,。
and she came up and she worked in banking,。
and what she really wanted to do。
is she wanted to lead a class for all of her peers,。
the other 20 and 30-something singles,。
specifically women, around budgeting and financial acumen.。
She was like, "I need to teach these girls。
"how to do these things."。
And I was like, "Why?。
"That seems good, but walk me through the passion point,。
"'cause you got a lot of energy for it."。
And what she told me is that so many women。
think that this is just gonna happen。
whenever they get married.。
But the truth of the matter is,。
marriage isn't promised, but your bills are promised.。
They're coming.。
And so you gotta know what to do with those things.。
It's important that you don't wait for a man。
to push forward into your life,。
to figure out your finances, to purchase your own place,。
to advance your career, to lead in your church,。
to invest in other women.。
You push forward because Christ,。
he has a future for you to find, amen?。
All right, let's keep going.。
Next one's in 17 through 19.。
A godly woman is strong.。
A godly woman is strong.。
And this one, it breaks down in two ways。
if you wanna write these.。
How does her strength actually demonstrate itself?。
Number one is it demonstrates itself。
in that she is persevering.。
She's persevering.。
Verse 17 says, "She dresses herself with strength。
"and she makes her arms strong."。
Literally, this is saying that she girds up her loins,。
which feels kind of odd,。
'cause many of us don't know what that means.。
And yet, it's so interesting.。
What this is saying is that she prepares herself。
in her outward adornment for the battle at hand.。
Whenever you would see warriors in the ancient Near East。
wearing robes into battle, they would gird up their loins,。
meaning they would pull up their robe。
and they would tuck it into their belt。
so that way they could move, so that way they could run,。
so that way they could fight.。
She knows difficult days are ahead of me.。
Trouble is on the horizon.。
Temptation will come, I will get beat down,。
so let me get myself ready.。
Let me strengthen myself and adorn myself appropriately。
for the fight that is at hand.。
She's not gullible, that's the assumption.。
She knows the world is dark, evil abounds,。
and temptation will come, so let me be ready for it.。
It says that she makes her arms strong,。
meaning they're not naturally that way.。
Could mean she's on creatine,。
probably means they're not naturally that way,。
and so what she does is she knows everything that is ahead,。
and yet when she does get knocked down,。
when people do take advantage of her,。
when she does find herself at the bottom of her barrel,。
she will gird her loins, she will strengthen her arms,。
and she will move forward.。
I want my daughter to be like this,。
full of humility and tenacity.。
That's what I want for you.。
I want your life to be full of grace。
with a little crazy in there.。
That's what should be true of a godly woman.。
You see, modern society is trying to pit you。
into one of two places.。
It wants you to be a trad wife.。
All humility, no tenacity.。
You don't need a man, or you do need a man,。
you exist to serve, you're gonna have to raise babies。
for the rest of your life, that's your future.。
The other side of the spectrum says。
you should be a boss wife,。
so all tenacity and no humility,。
meaning you don't need anybody,。
you can do everything yourself,。
no one can tell you what to do,。
but the truth of the matter is,。
you cannot be either or, you must have both and.。
You must have tenacity, you must have humility,。
because then you can move through this world。
in the way that God has called you to do so.。
You're not a victim, you're a victor.。
You should have respect for your limitations,。
but you should have enough crazy to push the limits.。
I want you to be confident without being arrogant.。
I want you to be capable without being self-sufficient.。
I want you to be industrious, but not merciless.。
And I want you to be generous without being proud.。
That's what this looks like.。
I want that for you, and I want you to want it for yourself.。
The second way that her strength manifests itself。
is she's peaceable.。
True strength is not just the willingness to fight,。
but the ability to withhold oneself,。
control oneself from the fight,。
and that's what we see is true of her.。
It says in verse 16,。
she perceives that her merchandise is profitable.。
Her lamp does not go out at night.。
I'll be quick on this one, just for the sake of time,。
but I think it's important you understand.。
She's looking at her bank statement,。
and she's realizing, I'm doing all right.。
Like, I got some money in the bank.。
Things are going well for me.。
She actually enjoys the fruit of her labor.。
She embraces the peace that comes from her productivity.。
Here's what's crazy.。
We live in a world where it is either prosperity gospel。
or it is poverty gospel,。
where you should either expect that God will give you。
everything you want, health, wealth, and fame.。
It's yours, but that's not true.。
Or we expect that we must only give, give, give, give,。
give, give, give, give, give, give, give, give,。
and deplete ourselves and never enjoy。
the sort of abundant life that Christ came to give.。
It's neither of those things.。
The truth of the matter is, you're meant to be productive.。
We're gonna see later.。
You're meant to provide, but as you do that,。
you should experience peace,。
the joy that comes with walking with God。
and living the life He has destined you to do.。
So what does this look like for you, ladies?。
It's crazy that I'm actually doing this.。
It looks like maybe you should take a trip.。
Like, maybe, thank you, Trisha.。
Like, maybe you should grab some friends,。
and you should go, and you should check out a place。
that you've wanted to visit.。
Maybe you should book some time on the calendar。
every quarter, and you should just get together,。
and you should enjoy a dinner with one another.。
Maybe it's buying those shoes if you've been to INI.。
I don't know.。
I'm not saying that you gotta make a habit of this,。
but I am saying that you will learn。
greater gratitude from God。
by not just acknowledging His provision,。
but by actually enjoying it.。
Does that make sense?。
It's not a license to get out there。
and just do what you want.。
That's not what I'm saying.。
This is not a self-help gospel.。
This is not license to therapeutize the scriptures.。
That's not what I'm saying.。
But what I am saying is this gives you the opportunity。
to enjoy what God has come to give。
because your merchandise is profitable.。
Let's keep going.。
Verse 20 says, "She opens her hand to the poor,。
"and she reaches out her hand to the needy."。
This is the hinge of the entire section,。
because what this is telling us。
is that she's going from just producing in life。
to now providing for other people.。
We learn that a godly woman is compassionate.。
She's compassionate, meaning she's generous.。
Like the same hands that worked the distaff and the spindle,。
they're now open to the needy.。
I love the turn of that.。
Verses 19 to 20.。
And because she does this, this is important,。
she's able to take care of people that are around her,。
not just her own home,。
but for the sake of the community as well.。
I remember when we lived in Houston,。
there were a group of young single ladies in the ministry。
that they had befriended an exotic dancer,。
a girl that was coming through a worship gathering。
that we had similar to this, and they got to know her,。
and they realized, man, you're genuinely amazing,。
and we'd love to get to know the girls。
that are dancing with you.。
And so they started making weekly trips to the club.。
And what they did is they showed up, not at night,。
in the day, and they would drink Sprite,。
and they would just hang out with the girl,。
and they would get to know them.。
And they just wanted to extend the love of Jesus.。
And as they did this, girls came to know Christ.。
And girls ended up leaving that club.。
One bouncer ended up leaving that club.。
Like, they made haste towards where Christ himself was,。
and it was because these girls were generous。
with their time, they were generous with their money,。
they were generous with their energy.。
You see, there's a difference。
between a woman who's compassionate in theory。
and a woman who is compassionate in practice.。
It is easy to feel bad about the world's problems。
from a safe distance.。
We're prolific at this.。
We repost, and we pray quick prayers,。
and we say, "That's so sad," and then we keep on scrolling.。
But a godly woman does not move on so quickly.。
She moves in very quickly.。
She moves towards the needs that she sees,。
and she seeks to resolve them.。
And then she's thoughtful, she's thoughtful.。
Verses 21 and 22 says,。
"She is not afraid of snow for her household."。
Neither are we, you know,。
triple-digit heat out here in Texas.。
Snow would be nice, would take a little bit of that.。
"For all her household are clothed in scarlet.。
"She makes bed coverings for herself.。
"Her clothing is fine linen and in purple."。
What does it mean when she says she does not fear the snow?。
It's saying that she sees around corners,。
she anticipates needs,。
she is solving problems before problems arise.。
Like, she does so by way of making scarlet,。
which is ultimately thoughtful.。
Like, why is scarlet so significant in this moment?。
Because dark garments,。
you've been learning this by practice in Texas,。
dark garments absorb heat better than light garments.。
But not only do they absorb it, they retain it.。
So she is preparing a suitable kind of clothing。
for her family that will not only keep them warm,。
but will keep them warm.。
She's anticipating the needs.。
She understands her kids are gonna come。
and they're gonna say, "I'm cold."。
And she's gonna go, "I've got clothes for you."。
I don't want it to be ugly.。
Well, here it is, it's in scarlet.。
Like, she knows it could be black, which is functional,。
but I'll make it scarlet because it should be beautiful.。
She understands thoughtfulness matters in the eyes of God.。
Are you thoughtful like that?。
Like, when you enter into a room, ladies,。
are you a stress amplifier?。
Are people like, "Oh my gosh, here she comes."。
Or are you a stress reducer?。
Do people breathe a sigh of relief。
because you've walked into the building?。
I remember at our wedding,。
one of my wife's dear high school friends looked at her,。
a longtime friend looked at her,。
and there were so many kind words said at our wedding.。
I don't know why I remember this,。
but this friend looked at her and she said,。
"Brooke is like home."。
And I remember thinking to myself,。
Brooke has anticipated the needs of this girl for so long.。
She has sought to solve the problems before they ever arise.。
She has provided safety for her.。
She has clothed her in scarlet.。
You can be home for somebody too.。
You can do this likewise.。
You can be thoughtful.。
The fifth thing that you gotta know。
is a godly woman is secure.。
I could keep my time going just so I can see it.。
Why is she secure?。
Two things, number one, she's got good taste in men.。
Verse 23 says, "Her husband is known in the gates。
"when he sits among the elders of the land."。
What is that talking about?。
Well, you gotta know something about the gates.。
The gates were not just the entrance to the city.。
They were sort of like the courthouse。
where the elders of the community would gather together。
and they would adjudicate different issues.。
It's where reputations were made。
and it's where matters were settled.。
And her man has a seat at that table.。
That's who her guy is.。
Now, here's something really important about this text.。
It is not saying that she made him that way.。
It is saying she found him that way.。
He already had a seat at the table.。
He had a good name and she had some good taste.。
How do you know if you have bad taste in men?。
If you always say all men are jerks,。
the chances are just the ones you date are.。
Because this woman found a good man.。
And I know some really good men in this room.。
Like, they're not just out there, they're in here.。
There are good men.。
Oh, the guys are like, yeah, that's my guy right there.。
Like, there are good men.。
She found one, you can find one.。
And here's the amazing thing that she does to him.。
She elevates his reputation further.。
He had a good name, she comes into the picture.。
Now he has a great name.。
That's what's true for him.。
And the reason why is she's not trying to diminish him。
to make herself feel good.。
She's not competing with him.。
She's not for fear of not being equal,。
trying to pull him down and pull herself up.。
She's not trying to keep score.。
She's not calling her mom and venting to him。
about everything he did wrong this weekend.。
Why?。
Because his name is her name.。
And if she diminishes his name, she diminishes her name.。
Why does this matter for you if you're here。
and you're not linked up, married to a man yet?。
Because if you're not, his name is not your name.。
Let that be very clear.。
And yet it matters because if you have found a godly man,。
and that is a massive assumption.。
Some of you, you've found a good man.。
You've not found a godly man.。
Anyone that is not a godly man is not a good man。
because anything good comes from the giver。
of that which is good, which is God.。
He is the giver of every good and perfect gift.。
You must know him, you must know God。
if you are going to be good.。
That is what is true by way of the scripture.。
You must have a godly man.。
And if you do have a godly man, then what you can know。
is that guarding his name will guard your name。
should that name ever actually become yours.。
Ladies, let me ask you here in final.。
Are you attracted to who he is。
or are you attracted to who you think he'll become?。
Because here's the truth.。
You do not date a resume, you date a person.。
You don't confuse potential with character.。
You want a man that has protected his name, not damaged it.。
If he has not protected his name,。
what do you think he'll do with yours?。
Please, for the love.。
(congregation laughing)。
It's my girls down here, they know.。
You need a good man, you need a godly one.。
So she has good taste in men and then she's assured.。
Verse 25 says, "Strength and dignity are her clothing."。
And she laughs at the times to come.。
She's not clothing herself。
in whatever Instagram is targeting you with.。
She is not clothing herself。
in whatever your For You page is recommending.。
She is adorning herself, as we talked about early on,。
with what is internal and not external.。
And ladies, that matters more than you know。
because here's the deal.。
Listen to me very closely.。
You will either be loved for who you are。
or you will be lusted after what people see.。
One of those is gonna last。
and the other one won't.。
(congregation laughing)。
Your identity must be propped up on the son of God.。
It cannot be propped up on your appearance.。
It cannot be propped up on your like count.。
It cannot be propped up on how many followers you have.。
It cannot be propped up on anything but the cross.。
You build your identity on him.。
That's why she can laugh at the future.。
Don't you love that?。
How odd that must sound to so many of us.。
How can she do it?。
Because she knows what's coming.。
No, she knows who has come.。
She isn't anxious about tomorrow。
because she's not performing for tomorrow.。
She's living for today.。
You do the same.。
And then the last one here。
is a godly woman is praiseworthy.。
A godly woman is praiseworthy.。
Verse 27 says she looks well to the ways of her household.。
She does not eat the bread of idleness.。
Her children rise up and they call her blessed.。
Her husband also and he praises her.。
She's admirable.。
I love it.。
Her own kids, like the people who see。
her very most unfiltered self,。
like they catch her before 6 a.m.,。
before she's had a cup of coffee,。
before she's fixed her hair,。
before she's made it into the rest of her day。
while she's in the middle of meltdown.。
They are the ones that rise up and call her blessed.。
They see her not at her best but at her worst。
and they're like the worst of you is better than the rest.。
It's not a stranger's compliment.。
It's not some dude that doesn't know her name.。
It's not the verdict of what people think of her page.。
It is the people that know her that praise her.。
Are you praiseworthy?。
Are you praiseworthy?。
Here's the thing.。
There's a big difference。
in chasing praise and chasing attention.。
And the difference between the two is。
you will only find praise by way of your godliness。
because only God is worthy of praise, amen?。
But you will find as much attention as you want。
because you can work however hard you want。
and find it in all degrees of measure.。
Are you attention seeking?。
Do you say things because they're true。
or do you say things because they'll get a reaction?。
Do you stir up drama because peace is boring?。
Do you indulge gossip because,。
well, that's way more interesting?。
Or do you try to speak wisdom?。
Does everybody always know that you're hurt?。
Or do they actually know that you've been healed?。
Do you subtly post things。
hoping that one specific person sees them?。
I don't know what the case may be,。
but what I do know is that there's a big difference。
in chasing praise and chasing attention.。
And if you'll entrust yourself to Christ。
that you will find the praise that is worthy of him。
and lavished upon you.。
Proverbs 31, 29 says many women have done excellently。
but you, you surpassed them all.。
This is the word of a man that has looked upon her。
and said it's not just that you're fine,。
it's not just that you're okay,。
it's not just that there might be。
a better option along the way,。
it's a man that is looking upon her and saying,。
no, I have surveyed it all。
and I know there's no one quite like you.。
You have surpassed everyone.。
That's the kind of praise that's worthy of chasing,。
not an algorithm, not some guy.。
It's the praise of the people who know you and love you。
because they know God and they love God.。
Let me finish by saying this.。
I have spent a lot of time。
considering my little girl who's on the way.。
She'll be here soon.。
And I cannot wait to introduce her to you all.。
She's gonna be the best.。
I have no idea how to help her become a woman.。
But God does.。
He knows what she needs, He knows what you need.。
And what we know by the end of this text。
is that you need fear the Lord.。
Charm is deceitful, beauty is vain.。
A woman who fears the Lord, she is the one to be praised.。
Give her the fruit of her hands,。
let her works praise her in the gates.。
Because you become God's woman。
by realizing Christ became your king.。
That's how this works.。
He's done all of this and more.。
He was trustworthy when we were faithless.。
He made the difference when we couldn't make it ourselves.。
He was strong when we were weak.。
He is compassionate when we don't deserve it.。
He is secure enough to walk even to the cross.。
And he is praiseworthy enough to know。
that God has given him the name that is above every name.。
Womanhood is not a goal to achieve, sisters.。
It is a gift of God to receive.。
He's extending it to you tonight.。
Will you reach out?。
Will you take it?。
Will you become it?。
Not over the course of a single evening,。
not over the course of this next week,。
but over the course of your life long as you walk with him.。
With eyes fixed on who he is,。
he will set your eyes to show you who you are too.。
And we pray that you would.。
God, I'm so thankful for this night,。
for this text, for these people,。
and for just the sufficiency of who you are.。
I'm grateful that God in a room like this,。
we can laugh together, and God, in this moment,。
we can cry together, and in the next moment,。
we can sing together.。
And God, over the course of an evening,。
we can experience the full range of emotion。
from rejoicing to repentance,。
because God, we know you're worthy of it all.。
And so Lord, now, as we do come into response,。
we want to respond.。
That's what happens in this moment.。
We recognize who you are, and we respond, oh God.。
Won't we respond accordingly?。
Won't you respond accordingly, my friends,。
my brothers, my sisters, gentlemen,。
your response is one where you have heard。
of the Proverbs 31 woman,。
and now you must search after her。
as she is more precious than jewels.。
To you sisters, you must respond by seeing,。
not a checklist of things to do,。
not a measuring stick to hold yourself up against,。
but a portrait of who God wishes you to become,。
and who he can fashion you in tonight.。
But the way that all this happens。
is not by waiting for it to take place in the future,。
but by taking a step right now.。
God, help us to do that in faith.。
Help us, God, to respond to you。
because you're worthy of responding too.。
Not God, because we want to be performative.。
Not God, because we're just trying to produce something.。
Not God, because we want to fit in with the rest,。
but because God, we just want to seek after you,。
for when we seek you, we will, God, be found by you.。
Help us to do that here in this moment.。
Help us, God, to respond.。
We love you, it's in Christ's name we pray, amen.。
Team is down to my right, team is down to my left,。
altar is open, space is yours.。
Don't rush out for the God。
who has waited for this night for you.。
