(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
- All right, well, hey, welcome everybody in the room,。
everybody joining us online in our Porch Live locations.。
I wanna highlight especially Tulsa, Porch Live Austin,。
Porch Live Des Moines, Porch Live North Houston.。
We are starting a brand new series called POV,。
or Point of View, Seeing How They Saw the Savior.。
Let me start by telling you a little bit。
of something that happened to me this past week.。
I went to lunch with a friend on Thursday,。
and he was older than I was,。
and I was asking him where he was from and his wife,。
and it turned out that his wife and he and she。
had gone to Mizzou, and I did some math,。
and I had another friend that was around their age。
and knew a little bit about who was at Mizzou at that time,。
and I said, "Wasn't Brad Pitt at Mizzou?"。
Random trivia that I happen to know.。
"Wasn't he at Mizzou, like, around that time?。
"Like, did your wife ever meet him?"。
And she said, "Oh, she knew Brad well.。
"She dated his roommate."。
And it turned out it was all true,。
and he was like, "Yeah, I mean,。
"she wasn't walking with Jesus,。
"he wasn't walking with Jesus,。
"but he was a super nice guy."。
And he began to tell these stories of, like,。
"Oh, yeah, there was one time that her roommate,。
"they were going to some concert,。
"and the car broke down an hour outside of where Mizzou was,。
"and Brad got in the car and came, picked him up."。
And I was like, "But he wasn't Brad Pitt at that point."。
He was like, "No, he was, like,。
"doing thespian plays at Mizzou.。
"It was nothing like, you know, Fight Club, Brad Pitt,。
"or whatever you think of when you think of Brad."。
But he just began to tell these stories about knowing him.。
It even to the point of, like, the send-off,。
when he stopped doing the plays at Mizzou。
and decided to go try and make it in Hollywood,。
and how they all got together and they sent him off.。
And I was introduced to just another aspect。
of somebody that a lot of us have seen movies of,。
or we know about, and we know something about,。
you know, maybe him and Jennifer, or the other one,。
and just the ways that most of us know about any celebrity.。
And yet to hear from a firsthand account。
of what this actually person was like is totally different.。
It introduces you to a deeper level,。
another level of their humanity, of who they were.。
And our heart in this series。
is to look at these stories from the gospels。
and attempt to do just that, not with some celebrity,。
but with the Son of God.。
To walk through, because all of us in the room,。
I'm confident, or the vast, vast, vast majority came in,。
and you know at least about Jesus.。
You may have been in church a long time,。
and you know some of the stories.。
But our hope is to take a look in depth。
at the stories and the perspectives。
of those who were around Jesus when he walked on the planet.。
'Cause there's some level in which a lot of us,。
when we think about Jesus, aka God,。
there's things that come to mind,。
and they shape how we respond to him, what we pray to him.。
Like maybe you think of God and you think he's distant,。
he's apathetic, he's a judge.。
They're there to catch you when you get out of line.。
You wouldn't put it like that,。
'cause you know the church answers.。
There's some part of your heart that really thinks that way.。
Or maybe you think he, it's just kinda there to be a genie.。
God, will you help me make sure I get a green light,。
'cause I'm running late to work,。
and we hope things go well, and please help that date to go.。
And you see it more as like a genie.。
And our heart is to help you and all of us。
more clearly see Jesus as who he is,。
because the Bible says in 2 Corinthians chapter four,。
it's in seeing Jesus,。
beholding him is the word that's used.。
We're transformed from one degree of glory to the,。
we're made more like him.。
And so that's what we're gonna do in this series。
and walk through each week, a different point of view.。
And tonight, we're gonna do the point of view。
of the disciples early in Jesus's ministry.。
And do so by covering a trio of stories。
from the book of Mark chapter five.。
Now why do I say the disciples early in his ministry?。
Well, in Mark chapter two, Jesus calls the disciples.。
Mark chapter three, he teaches the disciples.。
And in Mark chapter four, they get on a boat ride。
where Jesus says, "Hey, we're gonna get on this boat.。
"We're gonna go across the other side."。
This huge storm pops up, the disciples are terrified.。
Jesus is taking a nap in the back on a pillow,。
and they wake him up, and they're like,。
"Jesus, we're dying."。
And they're fishermen, so they're used to storms.。
So this was a bad storm, and they're going,。
"Water's coming to the boat, we're all gonna die."。
And Jesus wakes up, gets sleep out of his eyes, says,。
"Peace!"。
And he rebukes the wind and wave like it's a child.。
And it goes completely still.。
And the disciples are going, "Wow.。
"Who is this man that controls even nature?"。
And it's at the end of that story。
that our story's gonna begin, chapter five.。
And Jesus is getting off the boat.。
And if all that excitement wasn't enough,。
what happens next is further alarming or exciting,。
depending on how you were,。
and we're just gonna walk through three things。
the disciples would have seen of this new rabbi,。
who they would soon find out is the savior of the world.。
Three characteristics of how he is powerful,。
he's personal, and how he's purposeful.。
And so the first one we're gonna look at is his power.。
And like I said, he's getting off the boat.。
So this is from Mark chapter one,。
or I'm sorry, chapter five, verse one.。
If you don't have a Bible, it'll be up on the screens.。
If you don't have a Bible in general,。
it would be our joy to give you one,。
and you can get one at the Welcome Center。
right outside of these doors.。
So here we go, verse one, chapter five.。
So they arrived at the other side of the lake,。
the boat ride, in the region of the Gerasenes,。
when a man climbed out of the boat.。
A man possessed by an evil spirit, or demon possessed,。
came out from a cemetery to greet them.。
This man lived among the burial caves, the tombs.。
He could no longer be restrained, even with a chain.。
Whenever he was put into chains and shackles,。
as he often was, he snapped the chains from his wrists,。
smashed the shackles.。
No one was strong enough to subdue him.。
Day and night he wandered among the burial caves,。
in the hills, howling, crying out in the night,。
as he cut himself with sharp stones.。
While Jesus was some distance away,。
the man saw him and ran to meet him.。
So they just get out of this storm.。
The disciples are like, man, that was crazy.。
Wow, that is the epitome of excitement in one day.。
I just saw a guy command a storm,。
and they step off the boat, and all of a sudden,。
this demon possessed man begins sprinting。
in their direction at them.。
The other gospels tell us he's naked.。
So they got a naked demon possessed man sprinting at them,。
going, oh, this is about to go down.。
Watch out, bro, we got the storm controller over here.。
This bro better watch himself.。
And the demon possessed man doesn't run up。
to tackle, hurt, attack.。
We're told he bowed low before Jesus,。
and with a cry, he screamed,。
why are you interfering with me,。
Jesus, son of the most high God?。
In the name of God, I beg you, don't torture me.。
This demon possessed man, he runs,。
and he throws himself at the feet of God,。
and says, please, don't harm me.。
But he knows exactly who just stepped on the shore.。
For Jesus has already said to the spirit,。
come out of the man, you evil spirit.。
Then Jesus demanded, what is your name?。
And he replied, my name is Legion,。
which is a word for many,。
because there are many of us inside this man.。
Then the spirits begged him again and again。
not to send them off to some distant place.。
There happened to be a large herd of pigs。
feeding by a hillside nearby.。
Send us into those pigs, they begged, let us into them.。
So Jesus gave them permission.。
Evil spirits came out of this man, entered the pigs.。
The entire herd was about 2,000,。
and they ran that herd all the way down。
the steep hillside into the lake.。
They drowned in the water.。
Verse 15, a crowd soon gathered around Jesus,。
and they saw the man who had been possessed。
by the legion of demons.。
But he wasn't bound, and he wasn't naked.。
He was sitting there fully clothed and perfectly sane,。
and they were all afraid.。
The first thing we see, and the disciples would have seen,。
is Jesus is powerful.。
He's not just powerful over the storm.。
He's powerful over sin, Satan, the spiritual world.。
In other words, the Bible doesn't present。
a Star Wars view of good side versus dark side,。
enjoying the dark side, and it's kind of a coin toss。
on who's gonna win based on the day.。
The Bible presents a view that all of the spiritual world,。
any angelic or demonic force, Satan himself,。
bows at the feet of Jesus all throughout the New Testament。
when Jesus encounters somebody who is demon-possessed。
inside of those lands.。
They don't ask him a question.。
They don't talk back to him.。
They grovel at the Son of God's feet who created them.。
Other places in the Bible, when Jesus is being arrested,。
they come to him, and they arrest him later in the story,。
and they're arresting him and go take him to the cross,。
and Judas is there, and they bring the temple guard。
before him, and they say, "Hey, are you Jesus?"。
And he says the words, "I am," which was a reflection。
and callback to a statement from God in the Old Testament。
that God says, "I am," and the guards fall to their feet。
as power with a word comes out, and the disciples see。
this man is more powerful than any force of evil。
and darkness and any force in general in our world,。
that Jesus is powerful, and this man had done,。
and really is a living example of what sin can do。
to any of our lives.。
The word for unclean spirit is a word for violated,。
defiled, that he had gotten into something,。
and something had gotten into him,。
and it's a real story of a real man,。
but it's a parallel to what sin can happen,。
produce in our lives.。
Make a decision with substance, with sexuality,。
and all of a sudden, it goes from something。
that we thought we can control, and it now is taking over。
and controlling us.。
Let me use an illustration.。
2003, in Harlem, there was a hospital that had a man show up。
and he had bite marks all over his arm,。
all over his leg, all over his hand,。
and he came to get him treated, and he said,。
"My pit bull bit me," and the doctor was treating him,。
and he looked at the bite marks, and he thought,。
"Those are far too severe and far too large。
"to be the bite marks of a pit bull."。
But you're treating him, like who would make that up?。
Maybe it was just kind of bizarre biting,。
but it so startled the doctor that when the gentleman left,。
he told a policeman, "I think you should send someone。
"over to the apartment to check on whatever's going on。
"over there," and so the police went over。
to the apartment later, and they showed up,。
and they knocked on the door, and they basically said,。
"NYPD," nobody answered.。
They knocked again, "NYPD," and they didn't hear a person.。
They heard a loud, deep growling。
to the point where they decided,。
"I don't think it's a good idea for us to go in there,"。
so they got a warrant, and they went to the neighbor,。
and they got permission to drill a hole。
in the apartment side, neighbor's apartment next door,。
and they look in to the camera, and I'll show you。
in a second what they eventually saw,。
but first thing they see is these scratch marks。
all up and down the wall from ceiling to bottom,。
and they're going, "This is like out of the sandlot。
"or something, or whatever is in there,"。
and they turn the camera, and this is what they see,。
a 400-pound tiger that this man had for 2 1/2 years。
been raising named Ming, and this man was just。
an avid lover of animals.。
He brought him home when he was a cub,。
and neighbors always complained of loud noises。
and it smelled like urine and things。
that should have been somewhat alarming.。
In fact, even the neighbors across the street,。
there was a retirement home that called multiple times。
saying, "Hey, we've seen a tiger in the window,"。
(audience laughing)。
and they didn't believe him.。
They were like, "It's the tiger lady again, okay?"。
Eventually, they had to send in a SWAT team。
that on the outside, and those who are streaming it online,。
you won't be able to see this because copyright laws。
and et cetera, but I don't know if we have。
that picture now, JJ.。
All right, I'll just tell it.。
It's even better this way.。
He's hanging out the outside of the building,。
and they get to the window, and he's got a tranquilizer gun,。
and he shoots the dart into the back of the tiger,。
and the tiger turns around, sees him,。
charges towards the window.。
He's hanging from the roof on a rope with his tranquilizer.。
Tiger smashes and breaks the window,。
and then he hits the bars on the outside,。
and eventually, he's taken and he's brought away.。
Now, why did the SWAT team go there?。
Because they knew that just like had happened。
the day before, that man had something。
that he thought he could control.。
The reason he ended up getting bit is he had a kitten,。
stray cat that he brought home as well。
just 'cause he loved animals, and that tiger loved lunch,。
and so the tiger tried to eat the animal.。
He was trying to get him away, and the tiger attacked him,。
and the SWAT team knew you have something。
you think you can control,。
but you cannot control a 450-pound tiger,。
and it may be strong, but a group of a SWAT team trained。
is going to bring that out because it's gonna harm you。
and harm others if it stays in there,。
and the picture that we see of Jesus is he sees this man。
that nobody could, they couldn't shackle.。
He got in a place where it said that they could no longer。
bind him as in they at one point could,。
and they couldn't anymore,。
and yet Jesus is stronger than any force,。
and this is where I think it's a real parallel。
for our own stories and for some of us。
in the room right now because like this man,。
it's not necessarily a demon,。
but at some point along your life and story,。
there's something that felt defiled.。
Maybe you were hurt, abused, violated,。
and it created some hurt and some things。
that you now turn to substances to cope with,。
and you've been turning for a while,。
and it's no longer something that you can control.。
There's an eating disorder that you've been carrying。
with you for years, and you never told anybody,。
and like this man, you find yourself alone in the night。
feeling like I'm gonna carry this to the grave.。
Maybe you were introduced like I was to pornography。
early in age 12, and you like I did carried for years。
or are carrying like I did for years。
an addiction to pornography, and you hide it in shame,。
and the man, it's like he cries out in the night.。
It's where you find yourself.。
Maybe it is a substance or some sort of medication,。
and you have bought the idea。
that you're just gonna carry that,。
that Jesus can't set you free from that,。
and the parallel here is there is nothing。
that Jesus is not stronger than,。
and he wants to use that power to bring freedom。
just like he did with this man,。
and whatever your story is, you don't have to carry that.。
It doesn't have to define you,。
and you don't have to live the rest of your life。
with that marking you, but like this man,。
you've gotta bring that to Jesus,。
and the way we do that today is by bringing it。
to his body, the closest representation,。
which is the church, where we bring it to others。
in the light, we live openly, confess that,。
and when you do, the Bible says we experience healing,。
James 5:17 says, and you discover what this man discovered.。
You don't have to live where there is no life.。
That's what it means to live among the tombs,。
and you can be free because Jesus is more powerful。
than anything anyone inside of this room is facing.。
Now, what's interesting is the man,。
after he's sitting there with Jesus,。
and he's closed in his right mind,。
and the town comes up, and they're like,。
oh my, that's crazy Carl, man.。
Crazy Carl's got clothes on, he's sitting with Jesus,。
and Jesus gets up to leave and go back across the lake,。
and the man says, I wanna come with you,。
I wanna come with you.。
It says this in verse 18.。
Jesus was getting into the boat.。
The man who had been demon-possessed begged him。
to go with him, but Jesus said,。
no, go home to your family,。
and tell them everything the Lord has done for you,。
how he's been merciful to you.。
So the man started off to visit the 10 towns of that region,。
began to proclaim the great things Jesus had done for him,。
and everyone was amazed.。
The same thing that we see in this man's life。
is what Jesus does with all of our stories.。
He wants to take, as we've said, your mess, my mess,。
he wants to make it a message for his glory.。
Whatever shame, whatever decision in your past。
that you go, man, I could never open up about that,。
I was a part of having an abortion,。
or encouraging someone to get an abortion,。
when you bring that to God,。
he begins to write a beautiful story,。
and he begins to use your story to tell of God's goodness.。
That's what he told the man.。
No, no, no, no, no, don't come with me.。
I want you to go and tell your family, your friends,。
your people what God has done for you.。
What's interesting is, often, the past that we have,。
the mess that we have,。
it's what God uses to make a platform.。
Some of the best ministers that I know,。
as it relates to someone who struggled with pornography,。
that's a part of their story.。
Anytime someone comes out in front,。
and they're struggling with same-sex attraction,。
often one of the best ministers to that person。
is someone who goes, man, that's a part of my story,。
can I just share how God has given me freedom,。
is giving me freedom, and is setting me free from that.。
That God wants to use whatever your story is,。
the thing that you're afraid to even acknowledge。
and admit to people around you,。
he wants to use that mess and make it a message.。
And it's bizarre, it's like your story is a key。
that unlocks the chains of other people.。
This is why we train our volunteers.。
There's 200 men and women that lead at the porch。
that are part of our volunteers,。
and all of them go for a training,。
a 10-week training process to serve and be a part。
of leading alongside of us in this ministry,。
and part of that training involves。
learning to share your story, your testimony,。
about what God has done in your life.。
You learn it in 30 seconds, three minutes,。
and 30 minutes if God allows.。
That you learn to share,。
because one of the most powerful things。
that no one can refute,。
and that all of us who know Jesus have,。
is a story, a testimony of what God has done.。
And Jesus looks in the eyes of this man,。
who he just gave his humanity back to,。
and gave him back to humanity.。
He says, go tell your family,。
go tell your friends, go tell them what God has done.。
So we see Jesus, and the disciples saw Jesus,。
this man is powerful.。
And then we're introduced to another story.。
He gets back on the boat, verse 21.。
Jesus got back into the boat again,。
he went back to the other side of the lake,。
where a large crowd gathered around him.。
So he goes across the lake, a big crowd around.。
Then a leader of the local synagogue,。
whose name was Jairus, arrived.。
When he saw Jesus, he fell at his feet,。
pleading fervently with him.。
My little daughter is dying, he said.。
Please come lay your hands on her, heal her,。
so she can live.。
And Jesus went with him, and all the people followed.。
So he shows up, he gets to the other side of the shore,。
huge crowd is waiting there, and a religious leader,。
that's what it means to be a leader of a synagogue,。
he shows up, and he throws himself at the feet of Jesus.。
In order for a religious leader。
to throw themselves at the feet of Jesus,。
they clearly have desperate, and a desperate posture。
and heart, and we're told why.。
His daughter, who we find out is age 12,。
he's got a sixth grader who's dying at the point of death.。
And this is the worst day in this man's life.。
So maybe through tears, he's saying,。
can you help me, can you help me?。
We've gotta move quick, she's about to die.。
And Jesus and the boys get there, and there's a crowd,。
and I'm sure Jairus is like, get out of the way,。
get out of the way, and they're trying to hurry,。
and they're going to go see this little girl。
before she dies, and they're trying to press through。
this crowd that's surrounding him.。
And then Mark takes a really interesting term in the story.。
He says this, a woman in the crowd had suffered。
for 12 years with constant bleeding.。
She had suffered a great deal from many doctors,。
and over the years, she spent everything she had to pay them.。
But she had gotten no better, in fact,。
she had even gotten worse when she heard about Jesus.。
And Mark takes us in this really intense moment。
where the dad is going, can you please save my baby girl?。
We've gotta hurry, we've gotta hurry, move out of the way,。
move out of the way, and Mark brings up another woman。
that's entirely unrelated to this,。
and he begins to talk about her medical history。
and this menstrual problem that she's having,。
and it goes from TMI to this is bizarre,。
and he's like, that's it, they're on their way.。
And there was this woman, and she had this blood problem,。
and man, it had been, and he's going on and on,。
and it had been not just like a year or two,。
I mean, it had been 10, almost 12, more than a decade,。
she'd been struggling, and she'd gone to doctor,。
and doctor, and doctor, nobody could get any,。
in fact, things were getting worse,。
she'd spent everything that she had,。
and you're like, Mark, why?。
There's a girl who's dying, he's gotta get to the house,。
why are we going on and on about this woman。
who's had this thing for 12 years?。
But Mark was written through the lens of Peter,。
and Peter saw this story firsthand,。
and he's about to tell us。
and show us something else about Jesus.。
And so this woman said, if I can just get to Jesus,。
and she had heard about him, and I can touch his robe,。
for she thought to herself, if I can touch his robe,。
I will be healed.。
She did, and immediately, so she sneaks up behind him,。
and she just touches his robe.。
Immediately, verse 29, the bleeding stopped,。
and she could feel in her body,。
that she'd been healed of her terrible condition.。
Jesus, realizing at once。
that the healing power had gone out from him,。
turned around in the crowd and asked, who touched my robe?。
And the disciples said to him, look at the crowd you're in,。
you're in the middle of a huge, crowded group of people,。
everyone touched, probably anybody who's near you。
is the one who touched your robe, what do you ask?。
They said, who touched me?。
But he kept on looking around to see who had done it,。
so Jesus is not gonna let this go,。
and he's continuing on, wait, who was it?。
And the disciples are going, what do you mean,。
there's so many people around here,。
any of these people could have touched,。
does it really matter, there's a girl who's dying,。
let's go, let's go, and Jesus is not gonna let it go,。
he's going, no, no, no, no, who was it?。
And the woman, we're told, who had been bleeding。
for 12 years, and then touching his robe, and it stopped.。
Then the frightened woman, trembling at the realization。
of what had happened, came and fell to her knees。
in front of him, and told him what she had done.。
Jesus' response to this woman。
is one of the more profound teachings,。
maybe in the book of Mark, because it shows us。
how Jesus responds to the outcasts.。
This woman, if you had this blood made her unclean,。
which means she couldn't go to temple,。
she couldn't go to church, she was not to be。
around other people, because if she touched other people,。
then they would become unclean.。
It meant that she could not get married,。
because no one could share a bed with somebody who had this.。
And this woman throws herself down,。
knowing she's broken the law, she's not supposed。
to be in a crowd of people, she's not supposed。
to touch someone, and yet she was so desperate,。
and she throws himself at the feet of Jesus,。
and how does Jesus respond?。
He says, and he said to her, daughter,。
your faith has made you well, you can go in peace,。
your suffering is over.。
Second thing that we see about Jesus。
is he's not just powerful, he's personal.。
And let me explain what I mean.。
The only time in the New Testament Jesus calls a woman。
daughter, it's a very intimate term, is here.。
In all of the Bible, there's no other occasion。
that Jesus looks in the eyes of a person and says daughter.。
This woman just wanted the power of Jesus,。
just wanna touch him.。
Jesus wanted more for this woman.。
He didn't want her to just have the power,。
he wanted her to know the person.。
He wants a face-to-face encounter with her.。
I mean, think about it.。
No one else in the story wants this interaction to happen.。
The disciples don't want it to happen,。
they're going, Jesus, we gotta go, we gotta go.。
There's a guy, Jairus doesn't want it to happen,。
his daughter's at the point of death.。
The woman doesn't want it to happen, she's terrified.。
And Jesus wanted her to have something。
so much more than the power,。
he wanted her to know the person,。
and he wanted a face-to-face interaction。
because Jesus, he's personal.。
He wants a personal relationship with you.。
And he looks in her eyes and he says, daughter.。
Now think about the context.。
This is a woman who's spent 12 years.。
This is a woman who's been so sick.。
Imagine a scenario where someone you know in your life。
has spent everything that they have.。
They sold the house, they sold the car,。
they spent savings, they've done everything that they can.。
And none of it worked.。
They can't get married, they can't worship,。
can't be around God's people.。
And Jesus calls her daughter.。
Jairus was advocating for his daughter.。
Jesus says, man, you may feel like an outcast.。
This woman, there's no father mentioned for her。
in the picture.。
Like when I think about my own kids。
and I think about my own daughter。
and her having to suffer through what this woman did。
for years and years and years,。
if God forbid someday and I'm not around anymore。
and she has no one to advocate,。
and Jesus looks in her eyes and says, you have an advocate.。
I call you daughter, and you're not alone.。
And your faith has made you well.。
And you may feel like an outcast.。
You're adopted into my family。
because I'm personal.。
I don't wanna know you personally.。
And you're healed.。
Your suffering's over.。
And that woman, everything changed.。
But her story is a parallel to our story,。
to your story.。
God wants to be your story.。
How so?。
Jesus calls this woman out of hiding and says,。
I want you to come in all of your brokenness,。
messed up misbehavior to me。
and encounter my love and my grace for you.。
I want you to have a relationship with me that is personal.。
In the same way, this woman had a problem。
that she couldn't find a cure to.。
Nothing in this world, no amount of money,。
no amount of doctors, no amount of anything.。
There was no solution other than Jesus.。
Every person alive in this planet who has ever lived,。
whoever will live, has a problem that nothing in this world。
and nothing in this life can fix other than Jesus.。
That he alone is the solution,。
and that problem is called sin.。
Ultimately, that is why Jesus came,。
not just to heal someone of a disease she carried。
for 12 years, but to heal humanity of a sickness called sin.。
And he would do so by dying on the cross,。
giving his life on her behalf, your behalf, on my behalf,。
dying in the place that anyone who trusts in him。
and his death and his resurrection from the dead。
would have eternal life.。
And he alone is the solution to the sin in your life。
and in my life.。
And here's what you need to know,。
'cause this generation, it's been a long time, man.。
This is the fatherless generation who carries wounds,。
who wonders if God cares, if God is present,。
who projects their earthly father on their heavenly father.。
And Jesus, if he was here, would look into your eyes。
and say, "My son, my daughter, I love you。
"so much I would give my life for you.。
"Trust me, I'm not distant.。
"I'm present and I am personal,。
"and I wanna know you in a personal way."。
The woman is overjoyed 'cause the first time in her life。
what is unclean, which is a Jewish terminology,。
touches something clean.。
And generally speaking, if unclean touches something。
that's clean, the thing that's unclean makes it dirty.。
In other words, if you have clean clothes。
and you're hugging somebody covered in mud,。
they're gonna make your clothes dirty,。
not the other way around.。
It works similarly in terms of the way。
that the Jewish mindset would have worked,。
and really just in general we can understand。
that if something unclean touches that which is clean,。
it makes it unclean too.。
Works like sickness.。
In other words, the stomach bug's been going around。
with everybody, it seems like.。
And in my family, it's no different.。
My son got sick, and then we have kids。
that just pass it from one to the next to the next.。
And I know that despite the fact that I'm healthy,。
I can't go, "Hey, look, you get around me,。
"you're sick, I'm healthy,。
"I'm gonna give you my healthiness."。
I know that if I get around him,。
I'm just gonna get his sickness.。
That's the way that it works.。
And this is the way the Jewish understanding was.。
And Jesus says, "I don't work and operate。
"like the rest of the world does.。
"I'm more powerful than your sin, than your sickness.。
"And I do for you like I did for this woman.。
"I make what is unclean clean."。
That he, 2 Corinthians 5, 21 says,。
"Made him who knew no sin," that's Jesus,。
"to become sin so that you would become。
"the righteousness of God."。
It's a parallel to the gospel.。
And in the middle of the story,。
we're given maybe the most heartbreaking component,。
verse 35, which says,。
"While he was still speaking Jesus to this woman,。
"messengers arrived from the house of Jairus,。
"the leader of the synagogue, and they told him,。
"Your daughter is dead.。
"She died.。
"There's no use troubling the teacher now."。
The worst thing he could hear,。
'cause here's what he just heard,。
"Jairus, she's dead."。
And Luke's gospel told that's the only child that he had.。
You little girl, she didn't make it.。
And Jairus is flooded.。
I mean, what kind of grief goes through in that moment?。
Not only has she died, you weren't there for her, Jairus.。
You weren't there in her last moments of life.。
Hold her hand, pray over her.。
Come alongside her.。
She's gone.。
And Jesus, who had been taking his time,。
I mean, what are you flooded with。
if you're Jairus at that moment?。
You really had to know?。
You really had to know who touched you?。
I told you my daughter was dying.。
You really had to know?。
You couldn't have waited?。
She's had it for 12 years.。
She's been sitting, wait another 30 minutes?。
We're gonna see Jesus wasn't asleep at the wheel.。
And he allowed what happened to take place。
so that Jairus, his wife, and his daughter,。
and the disciples would see something。
that to this point in the ministry, Jesus has not done yet.。
'Cause he's not done showing the disciples,。
"I'm not just powerful, I'm not just personal,。
"I am purposeful."。
And he says this,。
"Jesus overheard them say that to Jairus,。
"and he said, 'Don't be afraid.。
"'Just have faith, trust me.'。
"Then Jesus stopped the crowds,。
"and he wouldn't let anyone go with him。
"to see to the house of the dying or the dead girl,。
"except Peter, James, and John, the brother of James.。
"When they went inside the home and the synagogue leader,。
"Jesus saw the commotion, weeping, wailing.。
"He went inside and said,。
"'Why all the commotion and weeping?。
"'The child isn't dead, she's only asleep.'"。
Now she was most certainly dead,。
but Jesus is describing, "I'm about to wake her back up."。
And the crowd laughed at him, or jeered, or sneered at him.。
"But he made all of them leave the house,。
"set everybody out, except for the father and the mother。
"and the three disciples, and he went into the room。
"where the girl was lying.。
"He took her mom and he took her dad,"。
who have gotta be just bawling,。
that their daughter is, she's gone.。
"And he bends over and he said to her,。
"holding her hand, Talitha kumi,"。
which means little girl, get up.。
"And the girl, who was 12 years old,。
"immediately stood up and walked around,。
"and they were overwhelmed and totally amazed."。
That Jesus is personal, purposeful.。
That Jesus knew all things, he knew exactly the timing.。
He knew that they, Jairus just wanted to see。
his daughter get healed, and Jesus said,。
"Man, I want something even more for you.。
"I want you to see me move in a way that is undeniable,。
"that to date, no one has seen before.。
"And you are gonna see God do what I do,。
"which is bring dead things and make them alive."。
Because Jesus is purposeful, and he has a purpose,。
even in the midst of the pain。
that's represented in this story,。
and the pain that's represented in this room.。
And one day, in a way that I can't fully explain,。
and we don't have time to go fully into,。
you, if you're a follower of Jesus,。
are gonna see that he is gonna put all things in your life,。
good, bad, horrendous, highs, lows, seasons of drought,。
seasons of pain, job loss, cancer, sickness,。
and he's gonna work them together for good,。
that he's gonna put purpose,。
and there's a purpose that he is working together.。
He didn't cause the abuse, he didn't cause the divorce,。
he didn't cause any of that,。
but he is going to bring about good from it.。
The scriptures have promised.。
And one day, you're gonna see it.。
And right now, you may not be able to see it.。
And I don't know that you'll ever,。
in this life, be able to see it.。
But that's the promise that Jesus said,。
that I am purposeful, and I am working together for good.。
I'm gonna read a verse here in a second,。
but it's similar to this.。
There's logos and things that you and I are around。
all the time that you don't actually see.。
Oh, I never noticed that before.。
Yet, the creators of that logo。
very intentionally put it there.。
And you've been looking at it every day, and you missed it.。
Here's an example.。
This is a FedEx label, Tostitos label.。
See that?。
Look at that every day.。
We love chips.。
There's two people eating chips and salsa in that.。
You see it?。
Right in the middle.。
FedEx label.。
Here's a FedEx label.。
You see the arrow between the E and the X。
pointing to X marks the spot.。
We're gonna take your,。
you see Amazon drop-off boxes at your house every day.。
You've never seen that before.。
The creators intentionally put it there.。
Here's Hershey's Kiss.。
Hershey's Kiss, you see it?。
There's a Hershey's Kiss turned sideways。
between the K and the I.。
You've been looking at it.。
Some of you guys got this in your purse right now.。
And they very intentionally placed this thing there。
that the creators on purpose,。
I just lost everybody, didn't I?。
All right, goodnight.。
That the creators very intentionally。
put this thing on purpose.。
And you haven't seen it.。
And it was right in front of you.。
Now here's what is gonna happen。
according to Romans 8, verse 28,。
a verse we're very familiar with.。
Ecclesiastes chapter three, verse 11,。
where it said, "He will make everything beautiful。
"in its time."。
Romans 8, verse 28.。
"We know that in all things,"。
good things, bad things, hard things, light things,。
"He works together, God works together。
"for the good of those who love Him."。
That one day, just like that moment,。
you just went, oh.。
There's things in your life and in my life。
that I just can't see it.。
And I can't understand how He can make good things.。
But you see things in front of you all the time。
that you don't pick up on.。
And one day from a heavenly perspective,。
you and I will see the creator is working together。
and placing and working and bringing about purpose,。
even in the pain.。
Because our God is not just powerful。
and not just personal,。
He is purposeful in what He brings about.。
In conclusion, He is powerful,。
He is personal, as in He wants a relationship with you.。
And He is purposeful in every circumstance.。
He is working for good.。
A few years ago, we had a guy at the porch。
and a guy on Sunday come,。
and he painted a painting.。
And he did it live in front of the audience.。
And I remember, especially on Sunday,。
which is the first time here at Watermark。
that they did it, sitting there watching,。
and the communicator was just speaking,。
and it was kind of just like a random,。
like, I guess we're trying something artsy,。
and they're gonna paint for 30 minutes,。
and they painted this thing.。
And you see him throwing up different things.。
You're like, man, what?。
I hope we didn't pay a lot for this,。
because it feels like you got Casper。
coming out of a T-Rex vomiting milk or something.。
And it just, you looked at it, and you're like confused,。
and it's just so random, and what is that?。
And then he finished,。
and he changed the point of view.。
And all of a sudden, you go,。
oh, it's Jesus.。
And he had been there right in front of you the whole time.。
You just weren't able to see him,。
because you had the wrong point of view.。
And what I hope in this series,。
in a way that candidly, I can't do,。
JD can't do, Josiah can't do, none of us can do,。
is that God will give you a greater clarity on who he is,。
that you will see, like the disciples who watched this man,。
give freedom to a possessed man,。
same freedom he wants to give inside of this room tonight.。
Give healing to a woman who should run out of options,。
no hope,。
and then work in greater ways。
than you could even ask for or imagine,。
like Jairus saw and the disciples saw.。
And you would have a correct understanding。
or a more correct understanding。
through a more correct point of view.。
And he's not far.。
He's in front of you.。
He's around you.。
He's with you.。
And he's the king.。
And he's not some distant, powerful force.。
He's powerful, but he's personal.。
And he is purposefully working in your life.。
Let me pray.。
Father,。
I read stories like this, and like everybody,。
we just find ourselves overwhelmed at who you are,。
your love, your grace, your goodness,。
compassion, your power.。
And I pray that tonight you would allow。
the eyes of anyone here,。
the heart of anyone here。
who's never fully accepted what you did for them,。
fully put their faith or trusted。
that you are the payment for their sin.。
You died on the cross.。
You rose from the dead.。
And because of that, if they receive you as their Lord,。
their Savior, the payment for their sin,。
they have eternal life.。
And you begin to bring about healing and freedom。
in this life that tonight would be the night.。
For anyone listening at a later date。
to this podcast right now,。
they would fall to their knees in their room,。
in their dorm, and wherever you have them.。
And they would put their faith in you.。
And they would find you're a God。
who is personal, powerful, present,。
who calls the fatherless, my daughter, my son.。
They have an advocate in heaven.。
Through you and on this earth, through your church.。
And I pray for the rest of us, God,。
that you would allow more freedom。
in any places in our hearts, God,。
where we may be blind to where you need to just take ground.。
Start with me and make us more like Jesus.。
What you say happens the more we see Jesus.。
Would you allow that to happen tonight。
and for the rest of our life?。
Christ's name, amen.。
