>> Thank you, I appreciate that.。
Who said that?。
Who was that?。
I just want to make sure, I appreciate you bro, I appreciate that.。
Hey, how y'all doing?。
Well, I'm excited to get to be here with you this evening.。
I love being at The Porch.。
One of the reasons is the most enjoyable place for somebody to be when they're preaching。
God's Word is amongst people who want to hear God's Word.。
If you came here tonight and what you, and you know, God's Word is not what you want。
to hear, I am sorry to tell you that is what we're about to do, is we're about to be in。
God's Word.。
And the amazing thing about God's Word, here's what I love about it, is it's really good.。
And my job when I open God's Word is not to be like, "Oh, let me take this boring thing。
that's not that helpful that doesn't really speak to our lives and make it seem like it。
really connects."。
These are the words of a God who knows everything.。
These are the words of a God who knows you, who made you, who knows how everything is。
supposed to work, and so it is my privilege to open up this Bible and talk about what。
the God of the universe has already said.。
And I am expectant that the Lord has something to say to you specifically.。
You know, I'm just a random dude who you, you know, maybe you've never heard before,。
maybe you'll never think about me again, but the God whose Word I have to speak to knows。
everything about you.。
He knows where you are and He knows what you need to hear.。
So I'm going to go to that guy to ask that he'll speak to us, and let's pray.。
Father, we come before you again in the name of your Son, Jesus.。
And Lord, we are so grateful that you hear what we have to say to you, Lord, and we're。
so grateful that you speak to us so that we can hear what you have to say.。
Father, there's so many people in this room in different places in their life.。
There's so many people watching who are in different places in their lives.。
God, there are distractions in their minds, there are things that they've been wrestling。
with, things that have them excited, things that have them discouraged.。
And Father, we pray you would help them to focus in on what you have to say, and we pray。
you would speak to us, God.。
We ask in Jesus' name, amen.。
Amen.。
Somebody reminded me a moment ago that the last time I was here, that as I was introduced,。
he said, "Tripp preaches like Jesus."。
And I thought, I know he thought he was doing me a favor, but why would you set the bar。
that high?。
That's crazy.。
So I just requested, "Please, set the bar lower."。
James chapter 1.。
If you're opening with your Bibles with me to James chapter 1, that's what we're going。
to look at, is James chapter 1.。
If you've never read the book of James, I suggest that you do, and it's really short.。
You can read it very quickly.。
James is the little brother of Jesus.。
James, in this book, super practical book, very practical, a lot about what faith looks。
like in action.。
And in James chapter 1, verses 19 to 25, I think the Lord has a word for us tonight.。
This is, if you got it, say, "I got it."。
If you need a second, say, "Hold on.。
I will.。
Thank you for the courage.。
I will.。
Hold on."。
James chapter 1, if you're in your New Testament and you go past all the names of all the places,。
Ephesians, Philippians, right, and you go past some of those other letters, 1 Timothy,。
2 Timothy, Titus, and you go past Hebrews, you will find the letter of James.。
This is James chapter 1, starting at verse 19, this is what God's word says.。
He says, "My dear brothers and sisters, take note of this.。
Everyone should be quick to listen, slow to speak, and slow to become angry because human。
anger does not produce the righteousness that God desires.。
Therefore, get rid of all moral filth and the evil that is so prevalent and humbly accept。
the word planted in you which can save you.。
Do not merely listen to the word and so deceive yourselves.。
Do what it says.。
Someone who listens to the word but does not do what it says is like someone who looks。
at his face in a mirror and after looking at himself, goes away and immediately forgets。
what he looks like.。
But whoever looks intently into the perfect law that gives freedom and continues in it,。
not forgetting what they have heard but doing it, they will be blessed in what they do."。
That is God's word.。
This is God's word.。
I want to talk to you this evening about being a good listener.。
I want to talk to you about being a good listener.。
I'll start by saying this.。
Sometimes when we do things, we give ourselves credit too early.。
We give ourselves too much credit way too early.。
One example is, a year or two ago, I went to a middle school basketball game.。
In this middle school basketball game, there was a kid who didn't play the whole game.。
He was sitting on the end of the bench looking sad and his teammates were playing and they。
were about to win and then in the fourth quarter, he finally got to go in the game.。
So he goes in the game, he misses a bunch of shots, turns the ball over a bunch of times.。
He was like, "That's why he wasn't in."。
And then he gets fouled.。
So he goes to the free throw line, air balls the first one.。
Now at this point, I don't know this child, but I'm praying like, "Lord, let it go in."。
I don't know if he can take this heartbreak.。
He makes the second free throw.。
Here's what he does.。
He looks, he points into the stands and runs back.。
I'm like, "Bro, I know you're not out here pointing in the stands off your one point."。
I think he gave himself a little bit too much credit too early.。
I'm like, "I'm glad you made that, but you're not good at basketball yet."。
Or have you ever seen like videos, people will post it at Highlights Hooping and they'll。
do all these dribbling like, "Tween, tween, in and out, spin, miss a layup."。
I'm like, "Bro, you was excited for nothing."。
For nothing.。
Sometimes we give ourselves too much credit too early.。
It's like you missed the whole point of the thing that you were doing.。
I'll give one more example from my personal life.。
I am married.。
I have an amazing wife.。
We have a great marriage.。
Hold on before you cheer.。
But now one of the things that me and my wife will get into sometimes is that she never。
remembers her past words to anything ever.。
And so here's where this is where we may say, "Tripp, stay out of her business."。
No, no, it's my business too.。
Because no matter what it is, the bank, Netflix, Hulu, she never remembers.。
And then what'll happen is she got to change the past words.。
And we share these.。
And I'm like, "All right, set a new past word."。
And I'm like, "Okay, so if you set a new past word, but you don't write it down, did you。
really set a new past word?。
Or did you just lock us both out?。
You might as well have put la-di-da-di-da.。
Now we both are locked out forever.。
You need to write it down.。
We'll talk to a counselor about it."。
But I'm saying this, the entire purpose of a past word is so that you have access to。
it and nobody else does.。
Sometimes we give ourselves too much credit too early, but we don't just do it with stuff。
like that.。
We also do that with things that matter.。
Sometimes we do that with hearing God's word.。
Well, we will show up on a Sunday morning or we'll show up to a young adult gathering。
like this, and we will be excited, and we will hear God's word, and we'll enjoy it,。
and we leave, and we feel great, and then absolutely nothing changes.。
Or maybe you read the Bible at home regularly, and you get up in the morning, you have a。
nice little quiet time with your coffee and your highlighters.。
You didn't highlight nothing, but they don't know.。
You take a pig, put it on your story, and you get up feeling good, and absolutely nothing。
changes.。
My question to you is why are we going to God's word if when we walk away from God's。
word nothing changes?。
Why?。
How come we're never concerned by that?。
Wouldn't you be concerned if your doctor prescribed you a medication and told you you have to。
take this every single day, and yet it did absolutely nothing?。
Wouldn't there be follow-up questions that you had?。
And then sometimes we feel like, "Oh, I don't really feel like I'm hearing from God."。
Maybe we're not listening to God correctly.。
Here's why this matters.。
If we're saying we think that this God is the creator of everything, and he really does。
know things, and he's speaking to us, we want to make sure we're listening to him properly.。
If Jesus is the Jesus we were just singing about, who's seated on the throne, who wears。
the crown, who is the only one worthy to open those seals, the only one worthy to pay for。
sins, the only one worthy to be Lord of Lord and King of Kings, and if that God has said,。
put your name in the blank, "Hey, you, I'm going to speak to you," don't you think that。
we should think through how to listen to him properly?。
That's why I want us to talk about what it means to be a good listener, because maybe。
we think we're doing something hearing God's word, but we're actually not.。
There is a right and wrong way to listen to God.。
And the main thing I want you to take away from this text is this.。
If you don't do it, you didn't really hear it.。
If you don't do it, you didn't really hear it, at least not in the way that God intends.。
So I want to talk about three ways that we can make sure we're being good listeners when。
we interact with God's word.。
God's going to tell us a little bit about listening to each other too, all right?。
Y'all with me?。
I would tell you the three points now, but I don't want to ruin the suspense, so we'll。
just start with the first one.。
Number one is receive.。
The first thing we want to do if we want to be a good listener is we want to receive.。
If we're going to have a posture of listening to God, if we're going to hear God, we have。
to be in this posture of receiving.。
Here's one of the problems.。
We do kind of live in an age of constant speaking.。
We are always texting.。
We are always posting.。
We are always sharing.。
I've got to the point sometimes my wife laughs at me, "Well, I can't see anything interesting。
on the internet without hitting save."。
I got a little folder in my TikTok that's just for stuff I'm going to show my wife later.。
And why it sounds cute right now, what it means in the evening is she's like, "Please。
leave me alone.。
Why are you showing me this?。
It's not even funny to me."。
We are in a constant ... I made her sound mean.。
She's wonderful.。
She pretends they're funny.。
We're constantly posting.。
We're constantly sharing.。
We're constantly talking.。
We're constantly speaking.。
Whether or not we have anything good to say.。
Some of us put way more value on talking than listening.。
Sometimes our mindset seems to be every thought I have needs to be heard.。
But James in verse 19 again says, "My dear brothers and sisters, take note of this.。
Everyone should be quick to listen, slow to speak, and slow to become angry."。
To be quick to listen means listening should be our primary posture.。
Our reflex should be listening.。
The same way when you hear your phone vibrate, you pick it up and you look to see what someone。
has to say.。
That should be the way that we interact with the world around us.。
Not just running our mouth.。
And I think James here is going to talk about hearing from God, and he's also thinking about。
the way that we listen to one another.。
Being quick to listen.。
He says we should be slow to speak, means speaking comes second.。
We should count the costs before we say things.。
We don't have to have the first and final say.。
Proverbs 17 says this, "The one who has knowledge uses words with restraint, and whoever has。
understanding is even-tempered.。
Even fools are thought wise if they keep silent and discerning if they hold their tongues."。
We should be slow to speak.。
But it's hard sometimes.。
I don't know if you've ever known anybody who, when they come amongst us, it's like。
they suck all the energy out of the room because they always have something better to say.。
I remember I had a friend who, no matter what you said, he tried to one-up you.。
It's like, "Man, I got in a car accident."。
He was like, "I totaled my car."。
Like, "All right."。
Like, "Man, I love that song.。
I wrote that song."。
"No, you didn't.。
I just could see."。
Sometimes people always have to have something to say, and usually people don't like to be。
around those people, because what it feels like is a complete lack of regard, or considering。
or caring about what other people have to say.。
Because if you think about this, we're usually quickest to the things that we value most.。
So if we're quick to speaking, it means the thing that we value the most is expressing。
whatever is in our minds, and we're slow to the things we value the least.。
When, with other people, we are very slow to listen and quick to speak, we're communicating.。
I don't value what you have to say.。
I value me speaking.。
Being quiet requires humility.。
That means acknowledging that people have interesting or helpful things to say, that。
there are helpful things to say that don't have to come from you, or that you expressing。
yourself is not the most important thing all the time.。
Some of us can think of so many times when we said something, and as soon as we said。
it, we was like, "I wish I could have that back."。
He said, "We should be quick to listen and slow to speak.。
That should be our general posture."。
We wouldn't need to listen to anybody if we had all the answers, but we should understand。
that we don't.。
There is somebody in the universe who knows all things, and it's never been wrong, but。
it's not you, and it's not me.。
So if we know God, we should be those who are quick to listen and slow to speak.。
This is sometimes why people don't like to be around believers who think they know everything.。
They're not the one who knows everything.。
You may say, "But Tripp, you don't know me.。
I actually am kind of quiet.。
I don't talk that much.。
So does that mean that I am quick to listen?"。
I want to say you can be a quiet person and still not be quick to listen.。
One of the ways that we do that is we don't realize that it's hard to listen if you don't。
turn other noise down.。
Some of us have a hard time listening to other people or God because we have given ourselves。
a constant barrage of random voices and input of all times of every day, and it's hard for。
us to even find space to even listen to God or other people because our brain has never。
had a break, or sometimes we hear something someone else says and we're so quickly going。
to other voices, some of us.。
It's so hard not to just kind of reflexively pick this up and to hear more things coming。
at us.。
Some of what it means to be quick to listen is being selective with what we're listening。
to.。
You cannot take seriously the voices of 400 people all at the same time, all day, every。
day.。
Brothers and sisters, part of what it's going to mean for you to be quick to listen is to。
stop listening to some voices so that you can be present to listen to the ones that。
matter.。
Sometimes that's hard to do, but it is good for our souls.。
Sometimes we've heard something, but we don't even have time to process it because we throw。
other voices in so quickly.。
I will say this, one of the best things about listening to other people is that's often。
the way that God helps us to listen to him.。
Some of the most important moments in my life of hearing from God have come through me listening。
to other people, that is people who've discipled me and leaders of mine and friends of mine.。
I want to be quick to listen.。
He also says this in verse 19, "Quick to listen and slow to become angry," because human anger。
does not produce the righteousness that God desires.。
He says we should be slow to anger.。
If our culture is anything in 2026, it is quick to anger.。
We love being angry.。
Right, 30 people get canceled a day, sometimes for good reasons, sometimes for something。
random.。
It's like, "Why would he buy those?"。
We like anger.。
There's something about anger that kind of feels good, that there's a thing that makes。
you feel righteous.。
It's more fun to be angry together with other people than gracious with other people.。
But he's saying it's easy to be quick to anger if you're slow to listen.。
It is harder to be quick to anger all the time if you are listening intently, because。
here's what anger does.。
Now I'll say this.。
All anger isn't bad.。
We know that from the Bible.。
There is righteous anger.。
One of the ways we know anger isn't always bad is because we see in the Bible that God。
gets angry.。
We see Jesus get angry.。
There is such thing as righteous anger, but he's not talking about righteous anger.。
What anger does is it shuts us off.。
We get mad like, "No, I don't want to hear from you."。
But what being quick to listen does is it makes us lean forward with a pen and paper,。
asking questions.。
So much of the conflict we have with other people is we're easily offended and we're。
quick to anger.。
He says we should be slow to anger.。
This is not just with listening to people, of course.。
Mainly, we want to think about what it means to listen to God.。
We want to be quick to listen to God.。
Same thing applies.。
We want to do what we can to make sure we're listening to him well.。
One of the things I've noticed is we listen different depending on who's speaking.。
So if God is speaking, if this God we've been singing about is the one that's speaking to。
us, this should change how we hear it, even when it's things that are hard to hear.。
I'll give you an example.。
If I was sitting in church and it was time for offering and my wife leaned over to me。
and she said, "Hey, babe, can you give me the keys?。
I want to get some money out of your glove compartment," I'd hand them to her.。
If a stranger walked up to me at the same time and was like, "Hey, babe, can you give。
me the keys?。
I want to get some money out of your glove compartment," I'd call in the police.。
But you may say, "Oh, it's true, it's the same exact words."。
Obviously, it's from a different person, there's different context.。
When we go to the Bible, these are not the words of a random person.。
What the Bible is really clear about is though God used human beings to write it down, these。
words are breathed out by God, that men were carried along by the Holy Spirit, that these。
are the words of God breathed out of His mouth.。
And that should impact the way that we interact with Him.。
So here's one of the hard things about listening to God's Word is, you know, I hope that people。
have been honest about this before.。
If not, I want this to be the great moment where you can be inside a church talking about。
how good God is while also acknowledging sometimes it's hard to read God's Word.。
Sometimes we read stuff in God's Word that we don't like.。
Sometimes there's stuff that feels like, "But I don't know, that doesn't make sense to me."。
And sometimes what that can do is we're like, "Well, I don't know that I want to listen。
to this because I don't really know what to make of it."。
Here's what I want to encourage you to, I want to encourage you when something's hard。
in the Scripture, when there's something that you doubt, when there's something that doesn't。
make sense to you, when there's something that seems contradictory, I want to encourage。
you not to withdraw and get away from it, and I want to encourage you to lean in and。
ask questions.。
And here's one of the reasons why.。
If we go to this Bible expecting to meet a God who is bigger than us and wiser than us。
and holier than us, why do we get mad when we realize it's not us that we find there?。
Don't you think if there's a God who knows everything and we don't know everything, don't。
you think He might have some different positions on things than you?。
Don't you think there may be some things that He understands that you have not yet understood?。
What I want to encourage you to is not to be caught off guard, "Is there something you。
don't understand?"。
I want you to lean in, I want you to know.。
So if I see something I'm like, "But God, I don't understand how this makes sense with。
the other thing you said," instead of saying, "Well, it must not make sense," what I want。
to do is I want to say, "God, I want to receive from you, help me understand how this connects。
with this.。
Oh, who's wiser than me and knows more than me?。
Let me ask them to help me think through how this connects with this."。
Part of being quick to listen to God's Word is taking into account what it means that。
you're listening to God's Word.。
Anytime we learn anything, there are things that we're learning that are just new information,。
but also there are things that correct other parts of who we are, things that we haven't。
understood.。
I want to encourage you, part of being quick to listen is wrestling with stuff that doesn't。
make immediate sense to us.。
We want to receive.。
Y'all still with me?。
If you don't do it, you didn't really hear it.。
We're talking about being good listeners.。
Number one is receive.。
Number two is remove, say remove.。
You like how they're both R's, you like that, don't you?。
Will the third point be an R?。
Stay tuned.。
All right, remove.。
Sometimes we try to do something, we have some goal, we have something that we're trying。
to get to, but we don't realize that there's something else standing in the way of that.。
I had some friends who were trying to do renovation in their house that wanted to renovate their。
kitchen and the contractor came in and he was like, "Your floors are leaning."。
I was like, "All right, we can fix the floor."。
So he pulls the floor, and then he's like, "Actually, this subfloor is in horrific shape."。
I'm like, "You already ripped the floors up, okay."。
Subfloor gone, he's like, "Actually, it's still bad up on there and it keeps happening。
until they basically have to rebuild that side of the house."。
So this is a lesson, never watch HGTV because you may have to rebuild your house.。
But the reason he had to do that is he was like, "I'm not going to put pretty things。
on top of stuff that is rotting and it's not going to hold up because those things will。
eventually be in the exact same bad shape."。
And so here's what we need to think about with God's Word.。
We want to receive God's Word, but what James is going to help us understand is there are。
some things that we need to remove in order to hear from this God who loves us very much。
and has kind, gracious things to say to us.。
So listen to verse 21, he says, "Therefore, get rid of all moral filth and the evil that。
is so prevalent and humbly accept the Word planted in you, which can save you."。
So one of the things we need to do to listen well is to remove some stuff.。
That phrase basically means to take some things off, like clothing.。
Scripture talks about how we need to take off old ways and put on new ways, things that。
get in the way of us hearing about God's Word.。
And he says the filth, the moral filth, and that's strong language because we don't always。
think of sin as disgusting as that.。
I want you to imagine that you are just walking around dirty, never showering, that you ain't。
showered for two weeks, three weeks, six months.。
And then you're like, "Oh, I got somewhere to go, I'm going to the porch, I'm going to。
just spray a little cologne on, a little perfume."。
This is what every dude I knew in high school did, said it was Axe Body Spray, which smelled。
bad already, so it was just a bad combination.。
And of course, you would say, "Well, no, you can't do that, you can't just cover up weeks。
of stank just by putting some cologne on."。
Of course, you got to remove the stank and then you got to clean.。
And so what James is saying is you cannot just try to slap God's Word without trying。
to take off the things, and here's how our sin could block us from hearing from God.。
When we give in to sin, it pulls us away from God.。
When we love what God hates, it's harder to hear Him.。
So when God says lust is bad, and we've been drowning in that all week, it is hard to hear。
God clearly.。
When we have been building habits for years that have taught us the exact opposite, when。
we're training ourselves to see lust as good and something that brings something good to。
us, it is hard to hear from God when He speaks to us in that.。
Sin is like a fog on our windows that keep us from seeing God clearly, that block our。
path as we try to go.。
So one of my questions for you is, is there any sin, is there any moral filth in your。
life that keeps you from hearing from God?。
My goal as I ask you that question is not so you can just feel shameful or just so you。
can feel guilt, it's to say God loves us so much that He's saying, "I have incredible。
things I want to say to you, but you have some earplugs in your ears that are keeping。
you from hearing them clearly."。
Whether in your heart it may be keeping you from God, it may be an addiction, it may be。
a sinful relationship, it may be the way you idolize your work, it may be prejudice towards。
your neighbors that you're supposed to love, it may be bitterness towards other people。
that have hurt you, but God is saying to remove it.。
It is hard to obey new commands when you cannot even hear them clearly, and He says this moral。
filth is prevalent.。
He means our sins are abundant.。
One commentator said, "As soon as we knock one down, another one takes its place."。
So if our sins are abundant, if it's a lot of them, that means our repentance needs to。
be abundant.。
One of the things about following Jesus is it's not a one-time repentance, because we。
have a lot of sins, there needs to be a lot of repenting, a constant Jesus very graciously。
redirecting us towards Him.。
One of the things that's been very helpful for me and that God tells us to do in His。
Word is we should not be trying to hear God's Word or remove moral filth solo.。
Following Jesus is not something you do all alone.。
Following Jesus is a team sport, so we need friends to help us.。
We need friends that are almost like noise-canceling headphones that are blocking out the things。
that keep us from hearing from God.。
Have friends that hold you accountable, that can walk with you as you do this.。
So He said we should remove that moral filth and humbly accept the Word planted in you.。
And what does it mean to humbly accept this Word?。
It means every time we hear God's Word, we should be ready to throw everything away from。
Him and do what He says.。
I remember when I was a kid, like when I was in high school or middle school, no matter。
what I was doing, it don't matter if I was playing Madden or playing basketball or talking。
to my girlfriend on the phone, whatever it was, when my mom got home with groceries,。
the expectation was by the time that garage door even hit the full top, I better already。
be in the garage getting those groceries out.。
It was understood.。
No matter what it is that you're doing, no matter how important that seems to you, when。
it's time to get groceries, you drop everything and you do this.。
When we listen to God's Word, we need to come before Him open-handed with the expectation。
God might want to knock some stuff out of my hands.。
But if God is trying to knock some stuff out of my hands, it's because in His grace He。
has something better to put there.。
God is not going to knock treasure out of your hand and put trash in its place.。
Anytime God wants to knock something out of your hand, it's because He has something much。
greater to put there.。
So he says we should humbly receive God's Word with open hands, which can be hard to。
do, which can be very hard to do.。
But sometimes we treat God like He's a random person trying to convince us of something.。
We shouldn't be asking God, "Hey, convince me."。
We should come to God with a posture of yes, like yes, if you are the King, yes, if you。
are Lord, yes, if you is as gracious as you say you are, I receive humbly.。
He said the Word that was planted in us and the seed that God is using to grow us, I want。
to receive it humbly.。
So we should receive if we want to be good listeners.。
Number two, we should remove.。
And finally, number three, we should respond.。
Look at them horse.。
We should...。
That's hilarious.。
What if I did that just so I could get a woo for my horse?。
Number three, respond.。
And this responding is getting to the heart of what we're saying is the main point.。
If you don't do it, you didn't really hear it.。
You ever heard of speed reading?。
I used to hear about speed reading all the time.。
I would hear that, you know, you can read a ton of books in a way shorter time.。
I never tried that hard, but one time I tried to do it and I was like, "All I'm doing is。
moving my finger across the page.。
I'm not doing anything."。
So I had this friend who told me, he was like, "Yeah, I had a friend, he used to read about。
10 books a week."。
I was like, "Man, that's impressive."。
He was like...。
And then when I would ask him like, "Oh, man, tell me about that," when he was like, "Oh,。
I don't remember."。
I'm like, "So when you say read, what exactly do you mean by that?"。
If you just want to make sure you look at a minimum amount of random letters on a page。
for a week, then go for it.。
But if you don't actually take in anything you read, then what is the point of the reading?。
In a similar way, James is helping to see, "Hey, what's the point of hearing God's Word。
if you don't respond to it at all, if you don't actually take it in?"。
The mark of whether you really read a book is if it's stuck.。
The mark of if you've really heard from God is if you respond.。
Listen to verse 22, longest part of the text.。
He says this, "Do not merely listen to the Word and so deceive yourselves.。
Do what it says.。
Anyone who listens to the Word but does not do what it says is like someone who looks。
at his face in a mirror and after looking at himself goes away and immediately forgets。
what he looks like.。
But whoever looks intently into the perfect law that gives freedom and continues in it,。
not forgetting what they have heard but doing it, they will be blessed in what they do."。
He says don't just listen to the Word and not do it and deceive yourselves.。
He's saying don't lie to yourself.。
You know lying is a terrible thing to do.。
It's bad to lie to people because people make decisions based on what they think the truth。
is.。
I remember several months ago, there was some TikTok prophet who was telling people that。
the world was about to end.。
He said, "Hey, I heard the world's going to end, bro.。
You heard it here from me on TikTok."。
And so people are believing him like, "Man, he heard from God the world's going to end."。
Some lady sold her car.。
First of all, I'm like, "Why are you selling your car?。
What are you going to do with that money when you're gone?"。
I don't know.。
So lots of decisions weren't good.。
But people are throwing their lives out off of the word of someone who's lying and how。
tragic that is because they're making big life decisions, they're going to be hard to。
go back on based on those lies.。
It is really bad to lie to somebody because it changes the path of their life.。
You know, what's even more sad though than lying to other people is lying to yourself.。
James is saying listening to God's word and not doing it is a kind of self-deception where。
you've convinced yourself that you've done what God has asked of you when really you've。
only taken the very first step.。
This is not James trying to make us feel bad.。
This is James trying to make sure that we're not deceiving ourselves saying there is blessing。
from God but the blessing is in the responding.。
Listening is a first step, not a last one.。
He's saying being bothered or convicted is not enough.。
It's a good step.。
Outrage alone is not enough.。
It's a good step.。
But we want to hear from God.。
If the word of God that you hear is not applied, he's saying we're deceiving ourselves.。
I'll give you an example, when I was, man I had to be like really early 20s and I was。
going on tour a lot and I was not doing a good job taking care of my money and so what。
would happen was I'd be on the road and I would just have a bunch of money in my savings。
or my checking and I wouldn't pay attention and so I would get killed by overdraft fees.。
I wouldn't pay attention and so every time I bought something, $35.。
So it was zero in my checking account but there's money in my savings and so I'm on。
the road.。
I'm just buying stuff.。
I'm like I need a bottle of water, 99 cents, nope, that water was $35.99.。
I'm buying stuff for other people.。
I'm like hey bro, you want some lemon heads?。
I got you fam, 50 cents, nope, $35.50.。
So it was over and over and over again.。
So I get back from the road and I'm like I'm not even going to tell you how much it is.。
It was a lot.。
So I'm calling the bank.。
I'm like Bank of America, yeah I'll put you on blast, Bank of America.。
I'm like Bank of America, why are you doing that?。
You see that I have money though.。
Can you just be nice?。
And they're like it doesn't matter that you have money.。
It wasn't applied to the account.。
So it's nice that you have it but that money does nothing if it's in a completely separate。
account.。
So it is nice that you hear from God's word.。
It's nice that you understand what God is calling you to.。
It's nice that you look at God's word and you listen but until it's actually applied。
to the situations that God has given it to you for, he's saying only part of the equation。
has begun to happen.。
We don't want to store up knowledge about the word, wisdom about the word and not listen.。
Listen to what he says in verse 23.。
I love this illustration.。
Anyone who listens to the word but doesn't do what he says is like someone who looks。
at his face in the mirror and after looking at himself goes away and immediately forgets。
what he looks like.。
He's saying it's like when I was in the back they had some food, it was like some chicken。
and some salad and say I had some salad with lettuce in my teeth and I went and I looked。
in the mirror.。
I'm like I'm about to go out there and I was like oh shoot I got some lettuce in my teeth。
and then I just walked away and just came out here with a big lettuce in my teeth.。
That would be crazy.。
It's like why are you looking in the mirror if you're not doing anything about it?。
He's saying this is what we're doing.。
We're looking in the mirror.。
This mirror of God's word shows us what we're like.。
It shows us where our flaws are.。
It shows us how we have to grow.。
It shows us the incredible things that God has for us and he's saying when we look and。
we see ourselves and we see what God is calling us to we want to respond by actually doing。
it.。
We want to respond by doing it and then he makes the contrast.。
He says but whoever looks into the perfect law that gives freedom and continues in it,。
not forgetting what they have heard but doing it, they will be blessed in what they do.。
He says looks intently, that's like to bend down and to look in it.。
He's saying those people will be blessed in what they do.。
I want to encourage you, this is something that I'm always thinking about.。
It is very easy to literally forget all the things that we hear from God's word but the。
posture I want us to take is, I don't know, let's say Michael Jordan sent me a text message.。
Let's say he sent me a text message.。
He didn't.。
He's welcome to, MJ, if you're watching.。
Let's say he sent me a text message.。
You know what I would do?。
I would screenshot it.。
I would take pictures of it.。
I would find a way to make sure I always had that message from Michael Jordan because it。
was like no matter what horrible season I was in, I'd be like at least MJ likes me because。
it's from a very important person.。
The God of the universe is speaking to us.。
The God of the universe is speaking to us so clearly so what we want to do is we want。
to say how can I make sure that I take this seriously?。
What does it look like for me to respond to what he has to say?。
Sometimes there will be something where like okay, I know he's calling me this but I don't。
really know what it looks like.。
I want to encourage you when we don't really know what response looks like, not to let。
it stop there.。
The same way when we want to understand other things, what do we do?。
We ask additional questions.。
We talk to friends about it.。
I want you to think what would it take for me to hear God's word and to respond to it.。
I want to encourage you to journal, to write things down, to meditate on things a long。
time.。
Sometimes there's a text you hear in a sermon like this.。
I want to encourage you, hey, read it again.。
Share it with some friends.。
Figure out what it's going to take for you to continue to reflect on it.。
And again, what I was saying about letting so much noise in, I want to encourage y'all,。
we have to find a way to have a healthy balance of silence in our minds that's enough for。
us to actually meditate on truth that we've heard.。
I want some of y'all to like go to TikTok, go to your little settings, go to activity。
center, your little watch activity and think about all this little random stuff that I。
looked at.。
Is it more important for me to hear all these random little voices, little bad recipes,。
these little bad dances, bad covers of people's songs, funny video, not funny video, clips。
of the Olympics, them dudes on the moguls, I don't know how they need to survive it,。
but is it worth me watching all of these if what it means is I don't leave enough space。
in my mind to actually respond when the God of the universe is speaking to me?。
Some of y'all went to Super Bowl parties the other Sunday.。
Why is that?。
Because this is a fun thing for us to do together.。
If the God of the universe is speaking to us, are there any times where we say, you。
know what would help us to listen to him more is if we sat together and listened to him.。
If we talk to each other about it, if we talk to leaders about it, family, I want you to。
think about what lengths can you go to to make sure that you can hear and respond to。
the God of the universe.。
He loves you.。
He's speaking to you, one of the things he says is he calls the Bible the perfect law。
of freedom.。
One of the reasons we don't like to remember it is because we sometimes feel bad.。
It is a mirror.。
It shows us ways that we need to grow, but this is not a law of bondage.。
When God calls us to obedience, he's not calling us into chains and bondage.。
He's calling us away from chains and bondage to freedom.。
God's commands are not a burden.。
God's commands are taking your burdens off.。
God's commands are not handcuffs.。
God's commands are taking the handcuffs off.。
What a blessing from God.。
This is a good reason for us to help each other to obey God's word.。
If you see your friend in bondage, help them get out of bondage, not from a self-righteous。
place, but from a loving place.。
Let's walk in freedom together.。
To give you an example, I'm really bad at directions, navigating.。
I'm very bad.。
I remember one time I was driving with my wife.。
We were going the wrong way.。
I pulled into a parking lot, turned around, and kept going that same way.。
I'm bad with directions.。
So that means when she's in the car with me, she never assumes.。
We could be like going home from the grocery store.。
She's like, "Take a right here."。
Sometimes I'm like, "I just want to do me.。
I don't need somebody sitting over my shoulder telling me when to turn left," but the truth。
is we would never make it anywhere.。
It could feel like bondage, like, "Why are you telling me what to do?"。
But if I keep going the wrong way, you know what's worse than someone telling you, "No,。
actually this way," or saying, "Actually, you need to turn around," that has extra.。
It's hard to turn around and reroute.。
You know what's worse is going to the completely wrong place.。
God gives us his word.。
This is not bondage.。
Sometimes it's harder to turn around.。
Sometimes it's harder to take stuff off, but God, in his wisdom, is guiding us in the wrong。
direction, and that is not bondage.。
It is freedom.。
Part of what it looks like to listen to God's word well is to respond and to do what it。
says.。
There is freedom there.。
He says they will be blessed in what they do.。
There is blessing in the doing.。
God is trying to bless you through his word, and that's good news.。
The last thing that I'll say is this.。
I mean it when I say the goal of the Bible, showing us ourselves, is not for us to be。
overcome with guilt and shame.。
If we're guilty, then it's okay to acknowledge that.。
It's a good thing, but one of the things that we see so clearly in Scripture is that Jesus。
is the only one who has ever kept the law perfectly.。
You know what's incredible about Jesus, Jesus doesn't say, "Oh, usually I do the will of。
the Father, usually I do the right thing."。
Jesus says, "I always do the will of the Father, I always do the will of the Father," and the。
incredible thing about the gospel of Jesus is that God has said, "I know that y'all have。
not kept the law perfectly."。
If you're here today and you say, "Well, look, if what it takes for me to follow Jesus is。
I have to keep the law, I have to keep it perfectly," actually what the Bible says is。
this.。
You haven't kept the law perfectly, so Jesus came and he did it for you.。
The mistake that we make is we think, "I have to do all the good things, I have to obey。
so that I can make it into God's love, so that God will love me, so that I can belong,"。
and this is what happens in every single area of our life.。
This is what happens with college, this is what happens with work, this is what happens。
with friend groups, this is what happens with clubs we want to be in.。
Everybody's like, "Well, just show me you're worthy, show me your resume, show me what。
you like, show me what you've done, impress me."。
We spend so much of our lives trying to impress and now we think, "Now I got to come to God。
and I got to do all the right stuff so that God will love me."。
What the Bible says is that God already loves you.。
What the Bible says is actually Jesus already said you can't do it perfectly, so he did。
it for you.。
This is the difference between my son wanting to obey me and if he was like, "Dad, I want。
to do what you said because I know if I don't you're going to kick me out the house."。
I don't know, my son understands that when I ask him to do something, the only thing。
it would cause in our relationship is for me to call him to something better.。
He's not getting kicked out the house.。
What Jesus is saying is, "I'm not telling you to obey, to earn your way in the house,。
I've already done that for you, come in the house.。
And then once you get in here, let me show you a better way."。
Jesus in his word has shown us a better way.。
If you're here today and you don't know Jesus, I want you to know Jesus is not trying to。
put burdens on you, he's trying to take burdens off.。
Jesus is not trying to put handcuffs on you, he's trying to take handcuffs off and he loves。
us so much that he gave his life to do it.。
What a great love.。
And so as he welcomes us in by faith, putting our faith in Jesus is how we get into the。
family and he says, "Let me guide you in the right direction."。
My prayer is that you would hear God's word, you would receive it, you would remove the。
things that block it, and that by God's grace, we would respond.。
Let's pray.。
Father, we come before you in Jesus' name, Lord, and we thank you for your word.。
We thank you for speaking to us, God, and we thank you for speaking to us tonight.。
And God, we pray that even now you would keep us from anything that would distract us from。
remembering what you've had to say.。
God, I pray the conversations we have after this will be conversations that would help。
us to remember, Lord, and help us to serve and love one another in that.。
And I pray for my brothers and sisters in the room who maybe feel guilt about not obeying。
you perfectly, that they would remember that the same place they ran to to connect with。
you the first time, to have relationship with you, the cross of Jesus is the same place。
you called them to now.。
And you call us to freedom, God, and we pray that you'd help us to walk in it.。
We ask in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
