[Music]。
Well, hello, Fortrans! How are we doing?。
Yeah, it's good to say hello to my friends in Dallas and Fort Worth, Houston, Joplin, Tulsa, wherever you guys are watching from online.。
It is great to be with you. I'm Todd.。
I get to hang out here at Water War from my friends JP and Dmarv and others, so it's awesome to be here.。
We are in a series called "The Afterlife," and we've been talking about what is on the other side.。
There's a lot of speculation. The first week we talked about this horrible thing called "hell,"。
and if when you talk about hell, it doesn't bring you a great deal of just sadness。
and an overwhelming sense of almost a burden, then you really haven't talked about hell.。
There's such a misconception about that topic.。
Like, you know, I hear friends say all the time, "Well, I might be going to hell, but at least I'll be there with my friends."。
First of all, I'd say you ought to rethink who your friends are, rethink that whole thing.。
And secondly, what I would just say is, no, no, no, no, you need to understand,。
hell is a place where there is nothing there that would even remotely remind you of a kind and gracious God,。
and that would include friends.。
And if you think, "Well, man, at least there'll be good music and sex, drugs, and rock and roll,。
we'll just get after it all day long," let me tell you something, sex is a gift from God.。
You can scratch that off your hell list of things to do.。
Music, it's a gift of God. Read your Bible. God's the one who gave it.。
Scratch that off of the things you might do to chill while you're in hell.。
Hell is a place where it can best be defined, as we said two weeks ago, as the ultimate FOMO.。
You're going to not just have a fear of missing out, you're going to miss out eternally,。
because there will be nothing there that will ever remind you of the kindness and goodness of God.。
There's two kinds of people in the world, those that will say to God at this particular moment,。
"God, your will be done," and those that God one day will say to them, "Hey, your will be done.。
You don't want me, even though my prevailing general grace was available to you and over you and around you,。
even though the world that you were in, I told you why it was a mess and what I did to rescue you from it。
and to give you hope in the midst of it, you don't want anything to do with me,。
I will grant you your request. I will put you someplace where nothing will ever remind me of you again."。
That's why it's even eternal, because you would love nothing more than just to eradicate life。
and to go to sleep forever. Hell does not involve sleep, it doesn't involve death.。
It involves nothing but darkness and everything that is antithesis of God.。
And if you can talk about God without just a real...。
If you can talk about hell without a real sobriety, you haven't really understood hell.。
I will tell you this. People ask me all the time, "What do you think, Todd, is the number one thing。
you're going to want to ask God when you get to heaven?"。
And I'm not really sure what the number one thing I'm going to ask Him about。
that I didn't really know when I was here. I know there's a ton.。
Obviously, we'd all love to ask Him, but I can assure you there's one thing I'll have a problem with in heaven。
if God doesn't let me see Him for who He really is, and that's going to be the idea of hell.。
If I don't get my arms around the eternality of God, the love of God, the reality of who He is,。
when I get to heaven, I'm going to have a real problem with hell.。
And I can take it by faith right now why it's there, and I've taught on this before,。
like JP did a couple of weeks ago, but let me just say this.。
Hell is not something we should joke about or delight in.。
It's something that we should, in understanding, be grateful that God has delivered us from,。
because that's all of our destiny apart from grace.。
And we should do everything we can to help people understand the opportunity that God's given us。
to get out of it. Heaven, on the other hand, is just the opposite.。
As we talked last week, the best way for you to understand heaven is when the Bible talks about it,。
having roads paved with gold. We kill for gold here.。
Gold is the one form of currency that has survived almost every civilization that has ever lived.。
The things that men go to war over and fight to attain and have, you'll walk on it in heaven.。
I'm not really sure you're going to get there and the streets will have gold instead of asphalt,。
but that's the best that a writer could do with the words that he had to describe the glory of what awaits us.。
Heaven's not a place that's up there. It's the earth restored in all the ways that God intended.。
It's when God will be with us again, not by faith, but by sight.。
It'll be an amazing thing. We'll love. You and I will be friends without sin.。
And if grace gets us there, grace will sustain us and we'll get to experience the kingdom as God intended it.。
Heaven is everything on earth fully and completely and actually realized.。
And is there sex?。
I did this little thing called Real Truth real quick.。
I actually did one called, "Will there be sex in heaven?" Check it out.。
You might be kind of curious on why there was or what, but let me just say this to you,。
because right now you're kind of like, "Man, there better be." Right?。
Because if you didn't know, Ty, this is largely a single crowd and we're trying to be chased.。
And so if we happen to go home before we get married and we're waiting, it better be there on the other side,。
because word is it's all right. You know?。
So let me just tell you, it's all right. Okay?。
As a guy who's enjoying the beauty of that in the married world, let me just say this.。
It's kind of like, listen, I'll say it to you this.。
It's kind of like when you talk to a five-year-old about what heaven might be like. All right?。
And he goes, "What's it like? Is it like a candy store where there's all the bubble gum?。
Is that what it's like as you get older? Is heaven going to have bubble gum and all the chocolate I could ever eat?"。
Like if you tell a kid, "I don't know, man. I'm not sure there's going to be ice cream or bubble gum in heaven."。
That kid's like, "Well, I'm out. I'm out."。
Because to a five-year-old, the only thing that would make sense to him being eternally worth pursuing is a place with lots of bubble gum and ice cream.。
But as you get older, you're like, "Man, I hope it ain't just bubble gum and ice cream." Right?。
I think there's a little of that. Go check it out. You'll see some more of that.。
But heaven is everything you've ever wanted, and it's amazing.。
And here's the question. What do we do?。
By the kindness of God, we've escaped the judgment. Do us.。
What do we do with the reality of our understanding of the grace of God that helps us avoid the judgment that all of us who are separated from God, that are a downline of sinners, all of us are born into sin.。
We all come from moms and dads, every single one of us, that are rebels against God, and we do a good job of kind of continuing the family business.。
And every single one of us has got to get to a place where we deal with our sin that's innate in us.。
And God, in His grace, makes it known to us.。
And so what do we do? Do we just hang around and wait? Do we get to go to heaven while we kind of endure this less than God's ideal on earth?。
And why are you holding a stick? Okay, so let's talk about these things.。
There's a story I want to share with you that goes with the stick.。
It's told of a guy that was a very wealthy man, a very wise man. He had many servants.。
And he had one servant that couldn't do anything right. He was just a fool.。
He was just the dumbest guy he ever met.。
And he just, one day, out of exasperation with this fool, he said, "Man, you are such a fool. I've never met anybody else like you. I'll tell you what. Here, hold this stick.。
And I want you to hold on to this stick until you meet a bigger fool than you."。
And so this servant got this stick. And, you know, I mean, whether he was just humble or he really was as dumb as the master had, in his exasperation, declared him to be,。
he carried this stick around with him everywhere. He always had this stick his entire life.。
And yet, in kind of a strange way that we often do, this foolish servant who just couldn't seem to get anything right,。
there was a soft spot in his master's heart about him.。
And so as the master aged and eventually was about to die, the master summoned all of his servants and said, "Go and go meet the fool."。
The guy with the stick, does he still have the stick? "Oh, he's still got the stick. Well, bring the stick-carrying fool in here."。
And so he walks in. He sees his master there, and he's just at the end of his life.。
And the master knew he was a fool, so he couldn't really explain even death to him.。
And so he just said, "I just want to let you know I'm leaving."。
And the fool goes, "Well, master, where are you going? What will we do without you here? Just listen to me."。
He said, "I'm going on a journey." He said, "Well, master, where's the journey? Where are you going to go?"。
"Well, I don't know where I'm going."。
"Well, master, you're a wise man. You're educated. What do you mean you don't know where you're going?。
What king will you meet when you get there?" He goes, "I don't know who the king is in the land that I'm going to."。
He goes, "You don't know? What do you need, master, to be successful on your journey?"。
He goes, "I don't know what I need, really, frankly."。
He goes, "Master, how long have you known you were going to go on this journey?"。
"Well, I've known my entire life."。
And the fool said, "Master, do you mean to tell me that you knew that you were going on a journey your entire life,。
that you didn't prepare for that journey, you didn't know what you needed to take with you on that journey to be successful,。
and you didn't know who the king was and the ruler was of the land that you were going to,。
and how you might be at peace with him? Master, you're stick."。
(Laughter)。
Don't take it personally, okay?。
But you think about that, and you're kind of like, "Hey, that is kind of crazy, isn't it?"。
I mean, this is something, I don't know if you guys have noticed, but the statistics for death are rather impressive.。
For every person that's born, that person dies. It's kind of like, you better begin to deal with it.。
I mean, it's tax day, okay, if you're watching this in the future, and what do we say?。
I mean, there's not very many things in life that are certain, but certainly death and taxes are certain,。
and we know they're coming. You may not have done your taxes, and you can delay, ultimately, that thing coming,。
and pay them a little bit later, but you're not going to avoid the day.。
And what do we do in light of that we know the fact that the day is coming?。
Let me tell you, one of my favorite places to go in Scripture, I hardly can talk to this crowd without looking at it,。
is in Ecclesiastes chapter 7, and then also in 12, and we're going to go there rather quickly,。
and we'll bounce to other places in just a moment, but let's take a look at these verses.。
In Ecclesiastes chapter 7, 1 and 2, we kind of have the master of the story that I told at the very beginning,。
the wisest man that ever lived, the wealthiest man that ever lived. Solomon, I love to describe this way.。
He is the guy that ran out of mirages before he ran out of money. What do I mean by that?。
Solomon was the guy that had the resources to chase after everything that looked life-giving,。
and he never ran out of enough resources to chase the next thing, when the thing that he was chasing didn't provide for him what he wanted.。
He is the Old Testament's rich young ruler. Now let me just remind you this, before I even read from Ecclesiastes chapter 7,。
let me tell you what's unique about the rich young ruler.。
The rich young ruler is the guy that shows up in your New Testament that has an interaction with Jesus,。
and this is a rich, powerful, has-it-made guy, and the question that he asks Jesus is telling.。
He says in Matthew 19 to Jesus, he says, "Hey, what good thing shall I do that I might obtain?"。
And he uses the word "eternal life."。
Now that word "eternal" is a couple of different words in the original language that are translated "eternal" or "abundant,"。
but this particular word means basically this.。
What he said is, "Jesus, what must I have that I can have enduring life?"。
Now what he means there is not just so that I can have life after the grave.。
I think what he's saying is, "I've got everything a man could want, and yet, like Solomon is about to show you,。
I don't have what every man wants, which is some sense of satisfaction, some sense of peace.。
I have all that most of these people around you are seeking, and yet I don't perceive I have what they have."。
And so, good teacher, what am I lacking?。
What do I need to do that I can have life indeed, is what he's asking for.。
Not just life at the grave, but life right now.。
In fact, this is what Jesus says in John chapter 10, verse 10.。
It's a very familiar verse.。
It just says this, "The thief, the liar, he comes to steal and to kill and to destroy."。
But Jesus says, "I'm here that you might have life and that you might have it abundantly."。
What Jesus is saying right there is, "I want you to have life to its fullest."。
Life that is exceedingly, abundantly, beyond anything that you will get pursuing anything else but me.。
And when God doesn't offer people life apart from him, it's not because he's mean, it's because he can't.。
Life doesn't exist apart from him.。
And since men have chosen not to follow God, but to go their own way,。
they're not experiencing what it is they ultimately long for.。
And there is this sense of haunting, this sense of emptiness.。
And we cry out what Bono, right, sings.。
"I still haven't found what I'm looking for.。
What must I do that I might have this enduring sense of life?"。
In 1 Timothy, we're told to have nothing to do with worldly fables.。
Fit only for old women, have nothing better to do but just chit-chat about old stories and where life might come from.。
But on the other hand, it says, "Discipline yourself for the purpose of godliness."。
Because bodily discipline is of little profit.。
There's nothing wrong with taking care of the body you have.。
It's the only body you have on this journey until you get home.。
But godliness is profitable for all things since it holds promise for the present life, watch this,。
and also for the life that is to come.。
When you pursue the good way, as Jeremiah wrote about when he was watching the people of Israel。
that had left God and had given themselves away to all kinds of idolatry,。
Jeremiah, speaking for God in chapter 6, verse 16, he just basically says,。
"Hey, listen," it says, "Come back, pay attention to the ancient past。
where the good way is and walk in it and then you will find rest for your souls."。
This old proven way, the way that leads to life indeed.。
You'll never find it by pursuing just riches on this earth or all that this world has.。
But if you want to have extraordinary, more than usual, abundant life,。
you're going to find that in God's way.。
Listen to me, folks. This is so important for you as you walk through.。
You need life, you need to understand God gives you commandments。
so that you can experience blessing.。
The very first words that God spoke to humankind in the history of the world were a commandment.。
It says, "God blessed them and said to them, 'Do this.'"。
Now watch, what he's saying is not, "If you do this, I will bless you."。
He's saying, "I'm going to bless you. I'm going to tell you where life indeed is."。
This is the thing. Heaven is more a person than it is a place.。
And when you are in the presence of God, when you walk with the ancient of days,。
you walk according to the ancient past where the good way is,。
and you walk with him and it gives you rest for your souls.。
God isn't mad at you because you're sleeping with one another。
and swiping left and swiping right and just trying to find life。
in all the ways that the world sells you.。
We understand. I mean, I understand the world is selling me.。
God's not mad at us and judging us because we pursue life in other areas.。
The things that we pursue that are false gods, that aren't enduring life,。
are the judgment.。
We find ourselves having, like the rich young ruler, fleeting moments of satisfaction,。
vacation, and buzzes and highs, but the buzz always ends.。
The intense pleasure isn't enough.。
The fleeting validation from another human being doesn't satisfy our soul.。
And this is what it says in the scripture. It says in Proverbs chapter 19,。
it says, "It's not good for men to be without knowledge."。
It says, "He who makes haste with his feet errs."。
And then it says, "When men suffers of the consequence of that,"。
it says, "their heart rages against God."。
How many times have you in your life said, "God, what is up with you? Why can't I?"。
And he's just like, "Hey, listen, I want to bless you.。
Do this. Fill your earth with these things.。
Walk with me and act like me. You're made in my image.。
And so what I filled your heart with and this Edenic setting that you're in with,。
fill your life with and you'll continue to experience the blessing."。
God said, "Look here, I love you. Look at the world. I made it.。
It's beautiful and it's perfect. This is how you go through this world."。
Because you need to hear this. God understands right now that this world is not our home.。
We are aliens and strangers in it.。
We live our lives in a way that people go, "Who are you people。
that aren't trying to figure out how to find life on your own?"。
You live as if you have a script and an understanding and an insight。
that most men don't have.。
Because even when evil befalls you, you don't freak out。
and get filled with bitterness and vengeance and rage.。
There is forgiveness. There is a perspective in your life。
that I want to know what the source of it is.。
And we go, "Well, here's the source of it.。
My king has told me that the world that we're in is not the world he intended.。
The world that we're in is a world wracked with sin.。
Sometimes I know that part of the trouble I have is because I've made choices。
to not walk in the ancient paths where the good way is.。
And so sometimes the trouble that I'm in is trouble that I brought on myself.。
But often I'm not doing anything except trying to live faithfully。
and there is loneliness because this world is broken.。
There is sickness and disease because this world is broken.。
There is betrayal because this world is broken.。
And Jesus tells me to take heart. This world isn't my home.。
Have courage. Speak hope into others that are in the world.。
And one day it will be all that you long for.。
Meanwhile, have peace.。
And yoke yourself with others who live according to the ancient path,。
who want to fill their relationships and fill their world with the good way.。
I want to bless you. 1 John 5:3.。
This is the commandment of God, that we keep his commandments。
and his commandments are not burdensome.。
Listen, don't miss this. I'm going to show you some Scripture a little bit later。
and a legalist will tell you, do these things and God will bless you.。
That's not your Bible. The Bible is, let me bless you, I love you. Do this.。
Do you understand that?。
The law that God gives us is basically instructions from a loving father。
and he's just saying, look, this is good for you.。
Now listen, none of us do everything a loving father wants us to do.。
That's called sin.。
And it leaves us broken hearted and it leaves us, when we choose to go this way,。
when God says that way, we've offended God, we're turning away from him.。
And that's where God says, listen, I understand why you do that。
because you come from a down line of rebels, but I'm going to make provision for you.。
And when you turn the wrong way and you come to your senses, just acknowledge,。
this isn't the right way. Confess, which means to agree with.。
This isn't the right way. What am I doing? I've left the ancient paths.。
I've turned to the left or to the right.。
I have not trusted in the Lord and leaned not on my own understanding.。
I have not in all my ways acknowledged him.。
And that's why there is now pain.。
That's why there is now regret.。
That's why there is now shame.。
That's why there is now guilt.。
Praise be to God who gave himself for me.。
Praise be to God for my living hope.。
Let me make amends with everybody that I've wronged in my going the wrong way.。
Let me celebrate my risen Lord and let me get back on the straight path.。
Let me confess my sins to God that I might be forgiven.。
And let me confess my sins to others that we might heal our relationship.。
That's the word of God.。
And off we go.。
I love talking with you about how we live in light of eternity.。
In light of the reality of the horror of life without God.。
And in light of the hope that's coming with life with God.。
See, here's the thing. You just need to know this.。
If you're going home, if Jesus is the provision for your sin,。
if you've acknowledged that you have a tendency to leave the ancient past,。
like all of us have and all of us do,。
and you know that that's an offense to a holy God,。
and you say, "God, I know the wages of my leaving you is death,。
"but I praise you that you've shown me that the free gift is eternal life,。
"is full and continual life with Jesus,。
"but not just in a life to come,。
"but right now I can live a life that's different than the rich can live.。
"I can live a life that is extraordinary,。
"almost alien-ish.。
"I'm not a slave to the world's demands.。
"I'm not going to be filled with its despair。
"because I'm going to live with a perspective。
"that's just a little bit unusual。
"because I have more than the usual wisdom.。
"The Scripture says things which eye hasn't seen, ear hasn't heard,。
"things which don't enter into the hearts of common men.。
"All these things God has freely given to those who love him."。
And so we are people of great hope and great perception.。
And why we should discipline ourself, that's fine, you know, to have good bodies.。
It just says make sure you stay attentive。
to not just bodily discipline,。
but especially to godliness for it's profitable.。
You're going to start to experience a little bit more now.。
Here's the thing.。
If you're going home, this is your hell.。
If you're going home to heaven, if Jesus is your king,。
this is as bad as it's ever going to get.。
And if you're a person who rejects the provision and the kindness of God,。
you're living on an earth that is filled with what is called common grace.。
The rain falls on the wicked and the unjust,。
just like it does on the righteous and the godly.。
It waters your ground.。
When you're a sinner and you nick yourself and you start to bleed,。
God has in your body the ability for that blood to thicken,。
to coagulate, and to stop the bleeding.。
There is music on earth for the sinner and the righteous alike.。
There is the ability to experience temporary pleasure。
through human relationship for the sinner and the righteous alike.。
If you are a rebel against God, this is your heaven.。
And it's never going to get better than this.。
And so I don't want to say drink deeply,。
but what Solomon would say is, "Hey, yeah, eat, drink, and be merry,。
for tomorrow you die."。
To the believer, he would say, "Hey, listen, man, this world isn't your home.。
To live is Christ, to die is to gain.。
So eat, drink, and be merry, and all that you do, do it for the glory of God,。
for tomorrow you die and you're going home."。
One leaving hell behind forever,。
the other losing even a whisper of what heaven might be like.。
So what do we do in light of this?。
The answer is, is we start to enjoy what God wants us to enjoy right now,。
because what God has done is he's made provision for us right now。
on how to experience more than usual,。
extraordinary, supernatural life now.。
That's who we are if you're a believer.。
There is a condition upon you when you walk in the ancient past。
where the good way is when you walk in it,。
because God blesses you and you no longer think the commandments of God。
are burdensome or rules that you've got to perform。
or things you have to do so he doesn't backhand you,。
but you realize it's the words of a loving father。
and just trying to encourage you and help you.。
And he knows you're not going to be perfect, child,。
so I make provision for you.。
The righteous falls seven times and gets back up again,。
with God there to encourage you and to bring you back to completion,。
what he's begun.。
And the more you see the goodness of his way,。
the more you walk according to it,。
the more you escape the horror of self-pain.。
You still live in a world that's broken,。
but even then you can sing because you understand why.。
Watch this, Ecclesiastes 7.。
It just says this, "A good name is better than good ointment,"。
is what my Bible says your Bible might say is better than perfume.。
Okay? Which is kind of funny.。
I mean, if I could have perfume or a good name, I mean, give me the good name.。
But the idea here of what perfume represents or oil or good ointment,。
it represents the sense of joy, it represents prosperity.。
But here's the thing, a good name is enduring.。
When you put perfume on, it's not long before just the joy。
and the fleetingness of the moment leaves you,。
and you're left with a rank life.。
No matter how sweet you can make yourself smell for a moment,。
you're not really experiencing the richness and the sweetness of life。
that God intends for you.。
And so what he's just saying is don't look for temporary things to please you.。
And that's why he says in this next little line,。
"The day of one's death is better than the day of one's birth."。
You have to follow Hebrew poetry here.。
What he's saying in verse 1a, if you want to call it that,。
in Ecclesiastes 7, he's just saying, "Listen, if you live a good life,。
and when you die, that's better than the day of one's birth."。
Why? Because the day of one's birth is joyful,。
and there's nothing but the potential for prosperity ahead,。
but there's also drama,。
and there's also the potential to give yourself the fleeting things.。
And what Solomon is going to say is you might have moments with just real sweetness,。
but in the end, you're going to have a rank life。
if you don't be attentive to the ways of God.。
And so Solomon is saying, "Man, it's better that you've lived a long life。
and been faithful than just starting where you may screw up."。
That's kind of his perspective,。
because what he's going to do the rest of chapter 7。
is he's going to kind of walk through, and he's going to tell you,。
"Hey, there's some people that when they prosper, it screws them up,。
and there's some people when they go through suffering, it screws them up。
because they don't understand how to handle prosperity,。
or they don't have any category to explain corruption."。
So what Solomon's going to do to help you is in verse 2, he says this.。
He says, "Listen, it's better to go to a house of mourning。
than it is to go to a house of feasting."。
You ought to hang out at funerals more than parties,。
because when you're at a funeral, you see what ultimately matters.。
As we were singing here, I don't know if your phones dinged,。
if you follow different news channels, but Barbara Bush died.。
Former first lady, the president of the United States.。
It was interesting because I'd seen, we knew that Barbara Bush was sick,。
and all people are going to end up where Barbara Bush does。
in terms of passing through this earth where our earthly bodies。
that are condemned to death until God resurrects our bodies,。
some to judgment and some to life.。
Barbara Bush, there was a famous commencement speech she gave。
at an all-girls school, and one of the things she said at the end of the day,。
"You're not going to, at the end of your life, want to have won one more case,。
gotten one more nice outfit, won one more argument.。
You won't regret one test that you didn't do as well in as you wish you would have.。
What you're going to regret are the times you didn't love and care for people,。
the times you didn't prepare yourself to invest in the only things that matter,。
and everything you gave away to fleeting things are not going to be sweet to you。
on the deathbed."。
One time, there was a guy that walked in, and I have sat in chairs。
next to beds of billionaires feeding them ice chips,。
where I have seen their wealth be useless to them.。
I've been in the homes of people who were in palliative care,。
and their homes, these homes that I will never live in,。
of people who are doing exceedingly well,。
and the one man whose home I was in was surrounded by immense wealth this one time,。
and in a sense, he didn't say this, but another time in a story like this,。
you might say, "What is all this that is around you?"。
And the answer is, "These are the things that make a deathbed terrible."。
Because you feel like you're letting go of everything you've ever invested in.。
Instead of following the counsel of God, who wants you to go,。
"Hey, while you're alive, use the things that I've given you to bless others."。
Not to just continue to mount up comfort for yourself.。
You're not here to make a living. You're here to make a difference.。
"It is more blessed," Jesus says, the Bible says, "to give than receive."。
He doesn't tell you, "If you don't give more than you receive, you're going to hell."。
He says, "You want to experience a little bit of heaven on earth?。
Then be like me."。
"For though I was rich, I became poor, that through my poverty you might become rich."。
Who do we get in this room and sing songs about?。
Who's seated at the right hand of God? Who's been given a name above all names?。
The answer is Jesus.。
I think about William Borden.。
You may never have heard of William Borden before.。
His name is Borden of Yale.。
You know Borden, this is a picture of him, because you drink his family's wealth.。
Elsie the cow comes from the Borden family.。
This is the Borden dairy dynasty.。
At the turn of the 19th century, moving into the 20th century,。
young William Borden graduated from high school.。
As part of his graduation gift, his wealthy family gave him a chance to travel around the world.。
Bill Borden was a man that went around the world.。
When he went around the world, though, he went with a man of faith.。
That man of faith didn't just take him skiing in the Swiss Alps.。
He took him to certain places where there were people groups that did not know about the ancient past.。
There were people that had been part of human history that had rejected God and his ways。
and had given themselves over to superstition and myth.。
Entire generations and cultures were living in the midst of paganism.。
Bill Borden saw this.。
He was a man who had a faith.。
While he was over there, God sparked in his life a desire for the nations to understand what he understood.。
Not to have the wealth that he did, but to have the wealth of understanding that the grace of God had given him.。
So Bill Borden went back home.。
He went and got his education at the time at Yale University.。
While he was there, his freshman year, when he showed up,。
the president of the university spoke up and gave a speech to all the incoming students.。
He told them, "You all must have a fixed purpose in life."。
Borden walked out of that room incredibly agitated.。
His friends that he was just making said, "Why are you so frustrated?"。
He wrote down, "This president neglected to say what our purpose should be."。
Can I have my stick back?。
He just said, "You've got to have a great purpose. You've gone on a journey in this life.。
You're not at the end. You're at the beginning. This is the beginning."。
He said, "You must have a purpose."。
But he says, "He neglected to tell us where we should find our purpose。
and where we should get an ability to persevere in our purpose,。
where we get the strength to resist the temptations。
that will have us only seeking after fleeting joys while we're here.。
This man failed us."。
And so what he started to do is he said, "I'm going to show you guys where purpose comes from."。
He said, "Wait until you go on the mission field to go reach these unreached people."。
He went to his fellow students at Yale, and he turned to one friend and he said,。
"I'd love you to get up with me in the morning and pray that God will allow us to resist temptation,。
that God will allow us to live according to the purposes that he's given us as men on earth。
that are moving through. This world is not our home."。
And every morning, he said, Bill and this one guy would get up, he would read his Bible,。
and he would tell his friend what the Bible meant。
and how God had given them a purpose there that was greater than making fortunes。
or living underneath the fortunes that others have made.。
And then two people joined, and then three people joined, and then four people joined.。
One guy just said this, "When we met Bill,。
it became obvious to us that there was something about him。
that strengthened the rest of us."。
And what it was, it was a man with a conviction. It was a man that understood things。
which Yale students didn't understand, Yale presidents didn't understand.。
The philosophies and elementary instructions of the world weren't giving them that purpose.。
And Bill looked around, he saw the immorality and the hopelessness and the despair of men that were living.。
By the time he graduated four years later, it wasn't one or two men that were with him.。
1,000 of the 1,300 Yale students were in Bible studies。
that Bill had coordinated and led at Yale University.。
Did you hear that?。
1,300 students at Yale University at the time, and Bill gave them a purpose.。
And there was a revival that broke out on the Yale campus.。
After he broke out from the Yale campus, he went on to Princeton。
to get further theological training.。
And while he was there, he became convinced that God wanted him to reach。
about 10 million Muslims that lived in China.。
And so he told his family that he was going to go and give his life。
to reaching these people who did not know Christ and were in bondage to Islam,。
living inside of China.。
His dad said, "If you leave, you'll never have any part in the family business."。
And so he took his Bible and he wrote up front, he said, "No reserves.。
My father has told me there will be no fortune if I don't go back and live in the family。
because my dad was okay with me having a faith.。
He just didn't want my faith to inform everything that I did.。
Don't be too radical.。
Don't be too serious about heaven and hell and the ancient past."。
"No reserves," he wrote in his Bible.。
And then he got over there, and as he got on the ship,。
he actually was going to sail first to Cairo because it was in Cairo。
that he was going to learn Arabic so he could speak to the Muslims inside China.。
And as he got on that boat, he wrote down, "No retreats."。
There's no turning back.。
He arrived there in basically January of 1919,。
and he was there learning Arabic, and three months later,。
he contracted spinal meningitis, and 19 days after that, he died.。
And right before he died, he wrote in his Bible, "No regrets."。
You see, the Bible says that God should--we pray in Psalm 90, verse 12,。
that we should pray that God will teach us to number our days。
that we might present to him a life of wisdom.。
One of the things that is just certainly true of most Yalies, most Porches,。
is that we go, "Well, I'm not really sure when I'm going to die,。
but it certainly isn't soon.。
So I'll just do my thing for a while, and I'll be successful,。
and then I'll move to significance."。
And Borden of Yale said, "No, I am going to live right now。
in light of what I believe is the most important thing to do."。
And he gave his life to it.。
Not just because he went over to Cairo and eventually was making his way to China,。
but while he was at Yale, he distinguished himself and set a generation on fire.。
There was a trust that had been given to him that he heard about before he died,。
and he intended that that entire trust would be given to people。
that would study the Scripture and teach it in all of its fullness。
with all of the solid doctrine that he had learned himself。
as a young theological student in his later training.。
And the legacy of Borden of Yale's life has led to multiple lives。
being transformed for Christ.。
See, he didn't know that he was going to die in his early 20s,。
but he was ready, and he did what he should do on that journey。
to make the most of it.。
No reserves, no retreats, no regrets.。
The Bible says in Proverbs 20, verse 9, "The glory of young men is their strength,。
but the honor of old men is their gray hair."。
In other words, young people never think they're going to get old,。
and they focus on their strength.。
But old men know they're going to get old and know they're going to die.。
And that gray hair, that sign of wisdom, is sweeter than the perfume of youth.。
"Charm is deceitful, beauty is vain.。
But a woman who ages, whose beauty isn't what it was in her 20s,。
who continues to fear the Lord, that's the woman you want to run with."。
And so you find a young man who walks with the wisdom of the ages。
and yoke yourself with him.。
You find a young woman who, she might be charming and beautiful,。
the young man might be strong, but you find one who is wise,。
and you find one who fears the Lord, and you will be blessed.。
See, that's what God wants you to do.。
In light of eternity, begin to enjoy the God that you're trusting your forever to.。
If you can't trust him with your now, what does that suggest。
about whether or not you really trust him with your forever?。
This is what Solomon says at the very end of his book, just very quickly.。
He just says this in Ecclesiastes 12, verses 1-8, he just says this,。
"Remember also your Creator in the days of your youth."。
This is Solomon at the end of his life, when he had spent his youth。
and his strength and his riches in fleeting things,。
and he had lost his good name.。
He's saying, "Oh, don't make the mistake that I did."。
"Remember your Creator while you're young, before the evil days come。
and the years draw near, when you will say, 'I have no delight in them,'。
because as you get old, you can't do the things you used to do,。
and the world changes."。
And so he uses metaphorical language.。
Watch this, "Before the sun and the light and the moon and the stars are darkened。
and clouds return after the rain, there is such a thing called。
seasonal affective disorder."。
Have you ever heard of that?。
I mean, literally, the acronym for it is SAD.。
And it's called SAD, and a lot of folks up in Washington State have it,。
because it's just gloomy and it rains, it's dark and it's cloudy,。
there's never any sun, there's never any break in the weather,。
and literally in fall through winter, they see people,。
there's a spike in depression, a spike in suicide, a spike in despair,。
and they call it SAD, seasonal affective disorder.。
And really what Solomon is doing, long before we had people who put labels。
on such things, he's saying, "That's what the end of life is like.。
There's nothing but clouds and then rain, and the clouds come back again。
after the rain, and it is SAD."。
That's old age.。
In the day when the watchman of the house trembles,。
that's just like the watchman of the house with the arms, right?。
You know, you ever see the guy, get away, right?。
The arms and the hands, you know, they shake, they tremble like Parkinson's.。
And the mighty men, that's the legs, stoop, and the grinding ones,。
that's the teeth, stand idle because they are few.。
Like everybody turns into a Kentuckian late in their life.。
Right?。
You guys do know how we know that the toothbrush was invented in Kentucky.。
If it was invented anywhere else, it would have been called a teethbrush.。
And so--。
[Laughter]。
I'm kidding, sorry.。
Stay with me, stay with me.。
I've got more.。
[Laughter]。
All right.。
But it just basically says this, right?。
It says that--。
Where were we? We're somewhere in here.。
We need teeth. Where are the teeth?。
The grinding ones, they're in verse 3.。
It says, "Those who look through the windows grow dim as eyes."。
Solomon's describing old age.。
"The doors on the street are shut."。
That's what he's talking about.。
"The sound of the grinding mill is low."。
You're not chewing like you were.。
"And one will arise at the sound of the birds."。
You're up at 4 a.m.。
"And all the daughters of song will sing softly."。
Who's singing? That's Adele. I can't hear her.。
Turn her up.。
Okay? And so then it goes on.。
"Furthermore, men are afraid of a high place."。
When I built my house--this is true--I built a house 15 years ago.。
And I walked in, and they had put this railing that goes up my steps.。
And I go, "You've got to get--get rid of that railing.。
I just don't like--I like the smooth wall."。
And it looks like just a railing that just--it's an old person's railing.。
And the guy goes, "Bro, it's code, all right?。
I've got to have the railing on there.。
If you want to get the screwdriver out, they inspect it,。
and they give you a certificate of occupancy, you can do it."。
And I'm like, "Well, I'm going to do it. Let me just tell you something.。
I could never come downstairs now if that railing was not there."。
I'm not kidding. You guys--and I'm 55 years old,。
and I get there to the top of the steps in the morning.。
I'm like, "Oh, crud." Right?。
That's Ecclesiastes chapter 55.。
I mean, my knees, my ankles, my plantar fasciitis.。
I mean, I'm just--my back.。
And I'm just kind of like, "Dang!" Right?。
And so I don't want to sit on my butt and kind of go--。
[imitates a baby crying] like a little kid.。
I'm like, "Thank God I didn't take that railing down."。
It's kind of like, "Okay." Right?。
I warm up. Later in the day, I can run up and down.。
But early in the morning, when I wake up at the sound of the bird,。
I'm glad the railing is there, let me just tell you.。
Because men are afraid of high places.。
The white tree blossoms. That's--an almond tree has--。
as the almond tree blossoms, the almond tree has white flowers.。
It just says, "Your hair gets white."。
The grasshopper drags himself along, you know, no longer bouncing around.。
Being just the caper berry is ineffective.。
[laughter]。
You put capers next to salmon to increase your appetite.。
And make--you know, just kind of offset it.。
It was an accelerant in terms of food.。
It was also believed to be an aphrodisiac.。
It was kind of ancient days, if you will, viagra.。
And it's the--bro, it doesn't matter how many capers you're pounding down,。
it ain't doing it.。
"For man goes to eternal home while mourners go about in the street."。
Remember, and it just basically says life is over.。
In verse 8, "Vanity of vanities, all is vanity,。
and giving your life to fleeting things," Solomon's saying,。
"is just not good."。
And so he ends the entire book there in verse 13,。
the conclusion when all's been heard is fear God.。
This is what you do in light of what you've come to know。
about who Jesus is, fear God.。
And keep his commandments.。
I mean, FOMO!。
You ought to have a FOMO that you're going to miss out。
on the blessed way.。
And Solomon's saying it's for young people.。
What did most people say?。
"Hey, go have a good time. When you get a little bit later,。
you can get serious about God." Well, here's the lie.。
You're not going to have a good time if you're not serious about God.。
That's Solomon's point.。
He's coming up with his gray hair, his stoop back,。
and he's just saying, "Let me just tell you, I've done it all.。
I've looked everywhere. You know where life is?。
It's where I was when I was young,。
and I began my life with a fear of the Lord.。
And then I left the ancient past where the good way is,。
and I didn't walk in it, and I have not had rest for my souls.。
My life has been vain and vanity, and so let me beg of you.。
This is how to have a successful life.。
You want to have life in deed?。
You want to have life that's more than more other people?。
You think there's life down there in lower Greenville?。
You think there's life in Cowtown down there by the stockyards?。
No, life is with your king.。
Borden of Yale knew where life was.。
That doesn't mean you've got to get on a ship and go to Cairo.。
It means while you're at Yale, you're not there in this university。
where there's a world of ideas debating about where life can be found.。
You're not participating because you've already found life in deed.。
You know why you're here and where you're going.。
You know what your purpose is.。
Some of you will have your opportunity to be faithful as bankers and lawyers。
and teachers and mothers and fathers,。
as some of you guys will have careers maybe in more full-time ministry,。
but every single one of us has a chance to walk with God。
and keep his commandments.。
This is what you do in light of a God who rescues you。
from a life of despair without him and promises you more of him.。
He's telling you, "This is me. This is my life.。
Heaven is where you're going to go, and it's going to be all me all the time.。
My will will be done in heaven."。
You want a little bit of heaven now? Walk in my will.。
The world that you're in is not heaven.。
This isn't your home, but walk with me.。
Blessed, says God made man and woman, and he blessed them,。
and he commanded them.。
Do you see that?。
We get it backwards.。
We think God commands them, do this, so I'll bless you.。
No, the commandments are a blessing.。
This is the love of God。
that we keep his commandments,。
and his commandments aren't burdensome.。
That's ecclesiastes.。
It's what you do in light of knowing the truth.。
And then you're like Bourdain and Vieira.。
You're like, "I don't know what else I want to do.。
I just want to make sure wherever I am, whether I stay at Yale。
or get on a ship to go to Cairo so I can go to China,。
I want men to know what I know。
because my kind and gracious and good God has told me where life is."。
I love the statement that meant early conversion。
saves not only a soul from eternal judgment,。
but potentially it points an entire life。
towards the blessing right now that God wants for you.。
It's why I love this generation, love talking to you.。
Listen, I mean, God does promise forgiveness to your repentance.。
He doesn't promise tomorrow to your procrastination.。
Okay, there is one deathbed conversion in your Bible。
so that you might find encouragement that if you dilly-dally through this world。
trying to find life in fleeting things like Solomon,。
that maybe that you can say, "Lord, remember me on this day as I get ready to die."。
There's one deathbed conversion so that you might be comforted,。
but there's only one so that you may not presume.。
And what God's trying to do right now,。
and I want you to understand what I love about speaking to you guys at the porch is。
the 20s is when you want to figure out how to go through the journey.。
It's a fool who says, "I don't know where I'm going.。
I don't know where I'm going to find life.。
I'll just pick around like everybody else.。
I'll get around other fools who are going to manipulate and use and sleep with。
and seek pleasure from one another, and we'll see if it works out。
even though I know it doesn't work out。
because I've got already some foolish guys I've yoked up with.。
I'll kick life out of me.。
I'll keep kicking myself and hating myself,。
and I won't listen to a loving God who just says, "Hey, I'm not mad at you.。
Are you sick and tired of being sick and tired?。
This is the beginning of wisdom, and love it while you're young.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with."。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
Don't go through life carrying a stick that you beat yourself with.。
I don't want people to go to hell, and so I'm going to leave you, my children, behind.。
I'm going to fill you with my spirit, which is a sense that I am holy and good.。
And you're going to walk in the ancient paths, and you're going to declare to people。
where when they don't walk in the ancient paths like you did,。
that they can be forgiven through Jesus Christ.。
And you're going to be the world filled with trouble,。
and you're going to pour yourself out like I did,。
and greater things than I did you will do.。
And you're going to be faithful and live for me.。
And so the acts of the kindness of God have not stopped in Acts 28.。
They will continue.。
And I want to tell you, if you'll live your life with the same intensity and perseverance。
that Solomon exhorts you to, that Borden of Yale wants you to,。
when you're like C.T. Studd who said, "Listen, some want to live within the sound of church bells."。
No, I want to run a rescue shop within a yard of hell.。
I want to be a person who is doing everything he can to help people understand him.。
You'll never regret it.。
So go to your law firms. Go to your sales jobs.。
Be godly mothers and fathers. Be great athletes.。
But in everything you do, do it for the glory of God.。
You live your life with a sense that wisdom beyond your years informs you.。
Not trusting in your strength or your charm, but fearing the Lord。
and walking in the ancient paths。
and telling others where the good way is.。
Nicholas Wertheim was that guy.。
He actually changed his name from Nicholas Wertheim to Nicholas Winton when they moved to England.。
He was a German Jew.。
His parents had left.。
And left Germany.。
And when they left Germany, they moved to England.。
His family educated young Nicholas.。
And he actually became a follower of Jesus Christ.。
Which is the most Jewish thing you can do.。
You do know that.。
Jesus is the Jewish Messiah.。
Jesus says, "I am the Messiah."。
And he gave evidence to back it up.。
Are you the Messiah? Go tell him.。
The lame walk. The blind see.。
Captives being set free.。
I'm the Messiah.。
Nikki understood that Jesus was the way, the truth, and the life.。
And he had a chance to go away and was gonna go skiing himself in the Swiss Alps.。
And he decided to take a detour because he saw what was happening back in Germany to people.。
And he went to Czechoslovakia, which was occupied by Germany at the time.。
And he went in there, and the story's kind of long, but he put his life at risk to start to rescue Jewish children.。
And to use whatever money he could find of his own to bring them out.。
He wasn't there to make a living or to make comfort.。
He was there to make a difference.。
He didn't tell anybody but his mother what he was doing.。
There were over 600 kids that he used his fortune and risked his life to get out of Czechoslovakia。
as parents were being captured and began to be sent off to Auschwitz and other concentration camps.。
For 50 years, he didn't tell anybody what he was doing.。
And then his wife was in their attic in 1987, and she found a book.。
And she starts flipping through the book, and she sees just names of these young Jewish children,。
and pictures, and passport numbers, and documents, and addresses that were in England.。
And she gave it to a person who was a historian about the Holocaust.。
And they went and they researched, and they go, "Oh, my goodness.。
"These are Jewish children that were smuggled out of Czechoslovakia。
"during the time of Hitler's final solution.。
"And your husband must have had something to do with it."。
And so they went and they found a bunch of these children.。
And in 1988, without telling Nicholas why, they got him on a show called "That's Life."。
And this is a guy who had risked his life for others.。
Watch this little clip.。
All the letters. But back here is the list of all the children.。
This is Vera Diermant, now Vera Gissing.。
We did find her name on his list.。
Vera Gissing is with us here tonight. Hello, Vera.。
And I should tell you that you are actually sitting next to Nicholas Winton.。
Hello.。
And it was just so wonderful, so terribly, terribly touching.。
APPLAUSE。
Can I ask, is there anyone in our audience tonight who owes their life to Nicholas Winton?。
If so, could you stand up, please?。
APPLAUSE。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
# #。
