[music]。
Alright, alright. Summer's here. How you guys doing? Anybody been swimming?。
Alright man, three of you have been swimming. That's great.。
My family and I went swimming. First inaugural swim of the summer,。
which was a big deal. It was my niece's birthday party, and so it's at a swimming pool.。
I'm excited. I like to swim. And I'm really excited because my son, he's about one and a half years old.。
This is really going to be his first swimming test.。
Last year, in the summer, he couldn't swim. He could just float around.。
I don't even think he knew he was in water.。
This year is going to be his first, "Hey, this is what water is. This is what we're going to do.。
Daddy likes to swim. You're going to like to swim. That's how it's going to be."。
He's at a strange age, though. He's about one and a half, and a little older than one and a half.。
I can't tell if he's disobedient, or he just doesn't know English yet.。
He'll be running this way, and I'm like, "Weston, stop."。
He'll stop, and he'll look, and he'll go, "Ha ha ha ha ha."。
Then he'll just keep running. I don't know if I can discipline him,。
because there's a part of me that just thinks he has no idea what I'm saying.。
If somebody just told you to stop in another language, and you look at them like,。
"What did you say? Okay, I'm going to keep going this way."。
This is problematic when we're swimming, because when we go to the pool,。
we show up, we walk through the gate, and I set him down, and he just starts running.。
He sees the water. He doesn't know what it is, but it's sparkly.。
It's like a giant bathtub or something, and he's just running for it.。
I run after him. I grab him. I'm like, "Whoa, no, no, no. Hold on.。
We've got to put your swim shirt on or something."。
Poor kid. He's got a swim shirt and floaties.。
It looks like he fell in with his clothes on.。
We put his little floatie, wrap him up in floaties, and I'm taking him in.。
I kind of carefully carry him into the pool, and he is like having a ball.。
He's laughing and splashing, and he just thinks it's the greatest thing ever。
that his feet are not touching the bottom of the bathtub, yet he's submerged in water and whatnot.。
But all of a sudden, he's splashing, and he's kind of pushing away.。
Then he's like, "No, no." He's learned the word "no."。
He's like, "No," and he starts pushing me.。
He wants to kind of go on his own in the swimming pool.。
He wants to swim. Of course, he can't.。
I'm like holding him. I'm like, "No, Weston. You've got to stay right here.。
Let Daddy hold you." He's really fighting me now.。
He's like, "No, no." Then I kind of turn around, and I'm looking at Monica.。
I'm looking at the other girls, and in a moment, he overpowers me,。
my one-and-a-half-year-old, and kicks out of my arms and just kind of bobs in the water,。
like his head go underwater.。
Now, I know most of you are not parents, and so I don't know if you've ever seen a baby。
when they get submerged, but God has given them this incredible reflex。
where kind of everything seals up, I guess, so they don't drown.。
It looks like this. That's what it looks like.。
He comes up out of the water, and he's just kind of frozen like that.。
I'm like, "Weston, are you okay? Hey, Weston, Weston."。
He's just like--and so for 20 seconds, and then all of a sudden, he comes to,。
and he just goes, "Ahh," and just starts screaming the loudest I've ever heard him scream.。
He starts reaching for the side of the pool.。
I carry him over. I'm like, "Hey, it's going to be okay."。
I set him on the side of the pool, and he runs from the water now.。
There's a bunch of ladies there, and they all huddle around.。
"Weston, are you okay? Hey, come here. Are you okay? Are you all right? Did you drown?"。
I'm like, "He didn't drown. He's fine."。
"Okay, let us talk. We need to talk, man-to-man here."。
And so I-- "Hey, let me talk to my son here."。
"Hey, buddy. Hey." And he's screaming.。
And I'm like, "Hey." Remember, he doesn't know English.。
"You've got to trust me, okay?。
I have been placed in authority over your life, and I care about you,。
and I love swimming, and I want to have fun with you,。
but you've got to trust me in this pool."。
And so we slowly, kind of slowly moved back into the water,。
and I'm trying to show him that the authority over him is safe,。
but he is rebellious towards authority.。
My son, Weston, has an authority problem,。
and this is what I know about that problem.。
It's going to be a problem for the rest of his life.。
And I know that because his daddy has the same problem.。
"I just want to be free."。
I'm just saying that because I'm free.。
And freedom to me translates in my mind--freedom from rules,。
freedom from anybody over me telling me what to do.。
I want to be the person telling others what to do.。
I don't want someone over me telling me what to do.。
I want to create a kingdom for myself so that I can rise to the top,。
have enough money and enough power so that no one can tell me what to do.。
In my sinful desire, that is what I want.。
I want to be free, and that's what freedom looks like.。
But the Scriptures tell us that freedom actually looks different,。
that true freedom in the Scriptures looks like a submission to authority,。
that this is a call of the believer, of the Christian, of the one who follows Christ.。
And so what Weston's struggle is, his struggle with authority,。
is essentially, "I want to be in charge.。
I don't understand why I'm not in charge.。
And can I really trust the one who is in charge?"。
Your struggle with authority is you want to be in charge.。
You don't understand why you're not in charge.。
And you're asking, "Can I really trust the one who is in charge?"。
And I'm not just talking about God.。
I'm talking about government.。
I'm talking about your employer.。
I'm talking about your church leaders.。
I'm talking about anyone who is in authority over you,。
which begs the question for you to answer before we go any further,。
who is in authority over you?。
And I've had young adults tell me, people who graduated from seminary tell me,。
"Only God," which sounds very spiritual and extremely unbiblical.。
"Only God, man. Only God."。
Man, that sounds good. It's just wrong.。
It's just not what God says,。
that all of us are to exist under authority.。
So before we go further, you should contemplate who is in authority over you.。
And let me just say before we go any further also that bad authority is a fact.。
It's a symptom of this really fallen world that we live in.。
But how Christians, how those in the room who claim to follow Christ。
or follow Christ maneuver through bad authority。
is one of the greatest tests you will face in this world.。
How you maneuver through bad authority.。
And so I think for so many of us, our quarter-life crisis,。
as we move through this series and we're talking about。
kind of coming to this crisis that we face in our 20s and 30s,。
one of them is, "I want to be in charge. I don't understand why I'm not in charge.。
And I don't trust the one who says they are in charge."。
And so this evening we're talking about submitting to authority.。
Specifically the command of submitting to authority in the Scripture.。
Then we're going to talk about who we submit to.。
And before you leave here, why we can trust the authority over us.。
And I'm going to be in the book of 1 Peter.。
It's towards the ends of your Bible, towards the back of your Bible,。
right after James.。
So as you keep moving towards the back, you will eventually get to 1 Peter.。
Turn to chapter 2 with me.。
Let me set this up. The book is written to the persecuted church.。
So this is the church under persecution under Nero,。
the emperor's reign in about 64 AD.。
So about 64 years after the birth of Jesus, when the calendar reset.。
We're now 2014 years after that date.。
This is about 64 years after that date.。
Under Nero's reign, Peter writes to the church who is being persecuted。
in this chapter about how they should submit to bad authority.。
Or how to maneuver submitting to bad authority.。
And we don't even like that word "submit," but it's a biblical word.。
It's one we'll see over and over.。
And honestly, this text, it almost reads like hyperbole.。
It almost seems like an exaggeration.。
It's going to cover the most extreme circumstances of authority,。
as it says that we should submit to even that.。
And we're going to talk about three forms of authority this evening.。
The government, our government, our employer, and before you leave here,。
the church, and as I said, we're going to talk about why.。
So 1 Peter 2, verse 11.。
And I'll tell you before I say this, that the reason this has landed。
into the quarter-life crisis series is because it is a repeated idea。
in the scripture.。
It's an extremely important idea in the scripture.。
And as I've met with many of you, I think it is something that。
our generation really, really struggles with.。
And I don't know that we fully understand the biblical command。
as it relates to this idea of authority.。
"Dear friends," verse 11, "Dear friends, dear porch, you guys, listen,。
I urge you," this is a strong word, "I urge you," this is really just。
to set up where we're headed, "as foreigners and exiles," or aliens,。
"as people in this world that don't belong to this world,。
what I'm asking you to do is to abstain from sinful desires。
which wage war against your soul."。
Do we have sinful desires which wage war against our soul still?。
Or is this just a 64 AD thing?。
Is it still a 2014 sinful desires wage war against our soul?。
I'm glad I'm not the only one.。
"Live such good lives among the pagans," so live such good lives。
among those who do not believe in the God that you believe in,。
"that though they accuse you of doing wrong or persecute you,。
they may see your good deeds, they may see the good things that you do,。
the good life that you live, and glorify God on the day that He visits us."。
And so here's the premise that Peter sets up.。
He says, "You live in a world that you do not belong to.。
This is not your kingdom. God is the king of your kingdom.。
You are in this temporary world. It's almost just a simple test。
or simply a test, said otherwise, that you're here for just a little while,。
and in this world there's going to be lots of temptations。
that your flesh wants that are dangled in front of you。
that the enemy persuades you towards.。
Stand firm against those temptations which wage war against your soul。
so that when others see you do good and live a godly life,。
they would be attracted to your God."。
It's so simple that you're like, "Hey, what is the purpose of my life?"。
There it is laid out pretty simply.。
"After you've trusted in Christ, so this is not a do good to be saved,。
but because you have been saved, because God has saved you in spite of you,。
you live a good life."。
And then he says this, "Submit yourselves," there's that word,。
"Submit yourselves for the Lord's sake to every human authority,"。
what authority, God? "Every human authority,。
whether the emperor as the supreme authority or the governors。
who are sent by him to punish those who do wrong and to commend those who do right.。
For it is God's will," what is God's will?。
"That by doing good," it is God's will that you would do good,。
"For by doing good you should silence the ignorant talk of foolish people.。
Live as free people, but do not use your freedom as a cover-up for evil.。
Live as God's slaves," okay, so ultimately submitting to God as his slaves,。
"Show proper respect to everyone, love the family of believers,。
fear God, and honor the emperor."。
So my first point this evening is what does it look like to live under authority?。
We're going to talk about living under authority.。
What does it look like, the command for us to live under authority?。
And so the "what" is right there in verse 13.。
What do I need to do? What do I need to do with this text?。
"Submit yourself for the Lord's sake to every human authority."。
Okay, so let me just say this real quick because there's a few words that are real important.。
"For the Lord's sake."。
You can submit to authority and do so in a sinful way.。
Because of the fear of man, because of the fear of consequences.。
But he's saying, "No, you should submit to authority for the Lord's sake."。
For the Lord's sake, this is why you do this.。
Not because of the fear of man.。
So the "what" is submit yourself to every human authority for the Lord's sake.。
Why? Why would we do that? Why would the Scripture ask us to?。
Really clearly right here in the Scripture.。
"For it is God's will that by doing good you should silence the ignorant talk of foolish people."。
"Said otherwise," or it will go on to explain,。
"that others would see the good that you do and be attracted to your God."。
That you're like a giant billboard pointing to Him.。
Like, "Hey, this is the way to live."。
He's made life, He knows how to live it better than any of you do.。
Better than Dr. Phil does. Better than Cosmopolitan Magazine does.。
Better than any book you could read does.。
God knows how to live this life.。
And so how should we do that?。
The "what" is submit yourself.。
Why? It's because by doing good we bring people to God.。
How? How do we do that?。
By showing, straight from the Scripture,。
showing proper respect to everyone,。
loving the family of believers,。
fearing God,。
and honoring the Emperor.。
And so remember the premise, we do not belong in this world,。
but by the way that we live in a world that we do not belong to,。
others would be drawn to the king of the world that we belong to,。
and they would want to belong to that world.。
You guys get it?。
An illustration.。
Jackie Robinson was one of the first African Americans in Major League Baseball.。
Branch Rickey, manager of the Dodgers, recruited him,。
not because, maybe you've seen the movie 42,。
it was a great movie,。
one of the things that it left out, I read an article this week in USA Today,。
one of the things that the movie 42 left out。
was actually all about Jackie Robinson's faith.。
He had an incredible faith in Christ.。
And the reason Branch Rickey recruited him。
was not solely because of his athletic ability.。
There were other African Americans who could really play the game of baseball.。
But the article said that Branch Rickey recruited him。
because of his faith and honorable character.。
Now why? Why would Branch Rickey hold dearly to faith and honorable character?。
Here's why.。
Because he knew that he was going to move Jackie Robinson。
into an incredibly corrupt and turmoil organization。
where people were going to persecute him,。
say awful things about him, bring death threats to him,。
bring death threats to his loved ones,。
and the only way that this African American。
was going to be able to persevere through this。
was if he had a faith in something bigger than himself.。
Was if he could trust or be under an authority。
greater than the authority of this world.。
And as we know, so Jackie Robinson moves to the team,。
the team actually creates a petition to get him off the team,。
his own teammates, out of their own ignorance and closed-mindedness,。
they want him off the team.。
And he wins them over how? By his conduct,。
by the way he responded to people,。
and by the way he played the game with excellence.。
And in the same way, this is why you work,。
this is how you are a citizen,。
this is how you are a contributor in your church,。
that others would see your conduct and glorify your Father in Heaven.。
Man, I want to know what team they play for.。
I want to play for their manager.。
I don't like them, I don't agree with them,。
but they've got my attention.。
Because of the way that they live,。
because of how they do good,。
and because of how they do things with excellence.。
And so we live as free people,。
not free from authority,。
but freed to honor authority。
because of what Christ has done for us,。
free from rebelling against authority。
in a way that doesn't honor God.。
Everyone is rebellious in nature,。
we see that in Weston at one and a half years old,。
that he didn't have to learn to be a rebel, right?。
It comes natural to him,。
and it comes natural to you,。
but the way that you're different than the world。
is you are free not to rebel.。
And so, for the purpose of winning others to ultimate authority,。
and so what authorities are over us?。
My second point this evening, or second question,。
what authorities are over us?。
Let's understand that it says every human authority,。
in fact in 1 Peter 5, verse 5, same book, different chapter,。
it says that we're actually to submit to those who are older than us,。
not even talking about elders of a church,。
but just simply older people,。
that there's this kind of hierarchy even in society.。
And so it says to every human authority,。
but I think of the three that this Scripture covers,。
and three very relevant to young adults,。
is the first one is the government.。
We're to submit to the government.。
What does that look like?。
We obey the laws, okay?。
The other day I got pulled over for speeding, okay?。
Long story, it's not really a long story,。
I was speeding, I got pulled over, that's the story.。
You know what the first thing that went through my mind was?。
This is the first, I'm sure I'm alone on this,。
I'm sure you guys don't think this way,。
but because I'm so rebellious,。
the first thing that goes through my mind is,。
"How do I get out of this ticket?"。
Okay?。
In spite of my efforts, I got the ticket,。
and do you know what the second thing on my mind was?。
After I received the piece of paper that was a ticket?。
"How do I get out of paying this ticket?"。
Right?。
Why?。
Because I'm rebellious.。
Because I do not like an authority over me.。
Let me say it like this,。
I do not like to submit to authority.。
I don't even want the consequences from my action.。
I want to be free from the consequences for my action.。
I want to feel like I am above authority.。
I do not want to submit.。
But this scripture has incredible implications for us.。
It's not only that we obey the laws,。
but that we would honor, it says, the president,。
it says the emperor, but in our implications, the president.。
That we do not slander our president.。
Wow.。
That you can express your opinion,。
but make sure your conduct is louder than your speech.。
What this means is that maybe you have an opinion。
about marriage or abortion or about health care。
or about POW exchanges.。
Maybe you have opinions about these things,。
but you make sure your conduct is louder。
than the way that you speak about those in authority over you。
so that others would see your conduct and say,。
"Man, I want to listen to what they have to say.。
"I don't just, the way she lives her life above her approach,。
"the way he lives his life, I'm listening.。
"And if he tells me abortion's wrong, I'm curious at least.。
"I want to understand why."。
And so, maybe right now you're thinking,。
"Well, what if he's, what if the authority over me,。
"what if the government that is placed over me at some point,。
"what if they're wicked, what if they're corrupt?"。
Cool. Let's talk about Nero for a second, okay?。
Nero was not just a government raising your taxes。
or passing bad health care.。
Nero was a cross-dresser who was burning Christians alive.。
He killed his mother and his first wife.。
He married a boy child, had him castrated,。
and had him dress up like a woman and pretend to be his wife.。
And God, through Peter, is saying, "Honor that man."。
Okay, so whatever government you have over you。
at any time in the future, you go back and you look at Nero,。
this guy seems to have, and I want to say something slanderous about him,。
but I was encouraged not to, so I wouldn't even break the rule here.。
It's interesting that the Scripture never does.。
History tells us some crazy things about him,。
but the Scripture never slanders him.。
In fact, the Scripture tells us to honor him.。
By the way, the very man who penned this letter,。
Nero crucified him upside down.。
The very man asking you to honor him was crucified upside down.。
Here's what this means.。
Whether you wear your seatbelt or stay under the speed limit。
or slander the president has implications to God.。
In fact, his glory is at stake.。
Why? God cares.。
That is what this Scripture is pointing out to us.。
And so I would just encourage you to pray for President Obama。
more than you slander him.。
Consider what would happen if all of your prayers for him were answered。
and live in such a way that others would be drawn to your opinion。
because of how you live and conduct,。
how you live and act around these issues.。
Fear God and honor the president, the Scripture says.。
The second thing that we submit to from the Scripture。
is we submit to our employer, the one who is over us.。
It says this in verse 18,。
"Slaves, in reverent fear of God, submit yourselves to your masters."。
Now, slaves and masters in this culture, it's not a racial slavery.。
That's important to know.。
All we know in this world is a racial slavery,。
or at least in our culture is a racial slavery in recent history.。
But here it's not a racial slavery.。
It's actually an agreement that, hey, you would work here。
and I would give you provision for life.。
That's the slave and master relationship.。
It's the closest thing that we have to an employee-employer relationship.。
And so read here, "Employees, in reverent fear of God,。
"submit yourself to your employers,。
"not only to those who are good and considerate,。
"but also to those who are harsh."。
The Scripture says that bad employers are a reality。
and that we're to submit ourselves to those who are even harsh.。
It says, "In reverent fear of God."。
That's, again, important.。
Not because you fear man, not because you fear consequences,。
but only because you fear God Almighty.。
And, of course, you can sin in how you submit。
if your perspective is off.。
And so this slave-master relationship, though it was not a racial slavery,。
it was also not always a pleasant relationship.。
And so anybody here have a bad boss?。
Don't raise your hand because they may be behind you.。
And you don't know it.。
And so certainly some folks here have had or currently have。
or will have a bad supervisor, a bad boss.。
Let me tell you that the Scripture's going to paint a picture of a bad supervisor.。
"For it is commendable," God commends you,。
"if someone bears up under the pain," and it means pain there,。
"of unjust suffering because they are conscious of God.。
"But how is it to your credit if you receive a beating,"。
and it means beating, "for doing wrong and endure it?。
"But if you suffer for doing good and you endure it,。
"this is commendable before God."。
And so I don't know what your boss has done,。
but my hunch is he hasn't beaten you.。
Right?。
And so the Scripture is painting a picture。
that the reason that you work,。
that that employer-employee relationship。
goes far beyond if you like your job.。
It goes far beyond if you like what you're doing.。
It goes far beyond if you're passionate about it.。
And it says the reason that you are there。
is because of some other relationship,。
so that others would see you being the most excellent person there。
and honoring your God,。
and in fact the persecution that you endure there,。
it says it is commendable to God.。
And this is why we talk about work so much,。
because what we do in our generation,。
and I've done it too, I'm completely guilty of this,。
is I jump into a job until it's difficult,。
and then I jump out.。
Like, "It's not God's will that I be there."。
And then I jump into another job until it's difficult,。
and then I'm like, "Well, it's not God's will that I be there either."。
And so I jump into another job,。
and so we know statistically our generation。
is only at an employer for about two years,。
which is a historical low by years,。
because we're looking for contentment at work。
when the Scriptures tell us that we're not entitled to it.。
In fact, it says work is hard and work is toilsome,。
as we covered a few weeks ago.。
But it says that if you suffer for doing good,。
it is commendable before God.。
Colossians 3, verse 22, says it like this.。
Slaves, read employees,。
obey your earthly employers in everything and do it,。
not only when their eye is on you to curry their favor,。
which is what we often do, like, "Hey, if he's looking,。
"like, I'm going to do everything I'm supposed to do."。
But with sincerity of heart and reverence for the Lord.。
Whatever you do, work at it with all your heart。
as working for the Lord, not for human masters.。
Since you know that you will receive an inheritance。
from the Lord as a reward,。
it is the Lord Christ you are serving.。
Here's my quick summary of the second part of that passage.。
God distributes the promotions.。
God's in charge of the promotions.。
God chooses who gets promoted and who doesn't.。
The rewards are up to God.。
Do you believe that?。
Do you believe that you're actually working for Him?。
It's the Lord Jesus Christ you are serving.。
That's who you're serving.。
You are working for God at Starbucks.。
You're working for God in retail.。
You're working for God at Richardson ISD, at Dallas ISD,。
at Plano ISD, at McKinney ISD, at whatever ISD.。
You're working for God at Raytheon, at AT&T, at ABC Company.。
And that God that you're actually working through。
often works through bad bosses to bring about His will.。
He works through corrupt employers to bring about His will.。
I had a boss who was really difficult.。
I won't even say he was a bad boss.。
He was a very difficult boss.。
He asked a lot of me, and I didn't like doing it.。
Why? Because I do not like to submit to authority.。
I like to be authority.。
I don't like to submit to authority.。
And so he would ask me to fill out these daily activity reports。
to show what I did.。
He would ask me to--we'd have to review my sales funnel.。
This was when I was in sales.。
He would ask me--he'd want to look at every customer。
that I was calling on in detail.。
He would ask me questions I didn't know the answers to,。
and so I would squirm in my chair.。
And he would always say this.。
He would always say this, like, "Hey, JP,。
"you only grow when you're uncomfortable.。
"You only grow when you're uncomfortable."。
And so I'm like, "Well, I'm growing here。
"'cause you're making me uncomfortable."。
And so I think about that, and it's interesting。
'cause today, as I get to shepherd others and manage,。
it's interesting that I manage more like him。
than any other boss that I've ever had.。
In fact, I learned a lot of leadership from him.。
And he's right.。
You do only grow, or growth, I'll say.。
Growth happens most often when you're uncomfortable.。
And so you don't know how God is going to use。
the relationship that is over you today.。
In fact, I had another boss tell me shortly thereafter,。
"Jonathan, I think you have a problem trusting。
"the wisdom that has gone, that comes from people。
"who have gone before you."。
And he's right.。
Usually, and just to be transparent。
and to show you grossness that's in here,。
usually I'm sitting there thinking I know better。
than everyone else in the room, and I know that's stupid.。
But it happens a lot.。
Like, I'm sitting there, and I'm like,。
"No, I know how to solve that problem.。
"You guys don't know how to, I mean, keep talking。
"and wasting your time if you want,。
"but if you want me to speak and tell you。
"how to fix this, I will."。
And it's gross.。
And I'm usually wrong, right?。
And he just said, "I think you have a problem。
"trusting the wisdom that comes from those。
"who have gone before you.。
"You don't appreciate it."。
But the scripture says that we actually should.。
And so are you the best employee there?。
Are you the one that they can't afford to lose?。
It says in verse 21, "To this you were called。
"because Christ suffered for you,。
"leaving you an example that you should follow。
"in his steps."。
And so who did Christ suffer for?。
I know that John 3:16 says, "For God so loved。
"the whole world that he gave his only begotten Son."。
But actually, Christ suffered for his bride, the church.。
And so this letter is written to the church.。
And so this letter isn't even to you.。
If you're on the outside looking in,。
if you're not a part of the local church,。
I'm not talking about big C church right now,。
'cause here's the church are people,。
church are those who follow Jesus.。
But the way that we're to follow Jesus,。
as it's outlined in the scripture,。
is we're actually to, ready for it,。
be under authority in the church.。
So if you're wondering, "Well, am I at a church or not?"。
It would be like this, who at a church,。
okay, someone that God has put in a position。
at a church is in authority over you.。
And if you think it's just me on Tuesday nights,。
I'm sad to tell you, you're wrong.。
That if you're just here on Tuesday nights,。
I am in no authority over you.。
I teach from the scriptures, okay?。
I can give you advice, so can Dr. Phil, okay?。
So can your mom, right?。
But let's be honest, you're not under my authority。
or anyone else's if you're just here on Tuesday night.。
But the scripture calls you to belong at a church,。
and actually to submit to church leadership.。
In verse 17 it says, it's written,。
this is to the family of believers.。
Hebrews 13 verse 17 says it like this.。
"Have confidence in your leaders,。
"and submit to their authority,"。
the word leaders there is actually pastors,。
"and submit to their authority,。
"because they keep watch over you。
"as those who must give an account.。
"Do this so that their work will be a joy, not a burden,。
"for that would be of no benefit to you."。
And this is a clear idea, really repeated。
throughout scripture that God's idea。
or God's desires for the believer。
is that you would be at a church.。
And so if you're here and you're saying,。
okay, how do I begin to be submissive to authority?。
I wanna do this, I'm not a speeder,。
I'm not wearing my seatbelt, I'm honoring my boss,。
or I'm not, maybe you are, maybe you're not,。
I don't know, where do I start?。
Church is a great place to start.。
If you don't belong to a church,。
in case somebody told me, hey,。
the reason people don't belong to church。
is they don't know they're supposed to.。
Can I just say it really clearly?。
So that the 3,000 of you will know that you're supposed to.。
You are supposed to belong to a church.。
That is God's will for you, I say that.。
Not even with fear and trepidation,。
'cause I see it in the scripture.。
That you would belong to a church.。
And that you would be under the protection of a church.。
And that protecting you would be a part。
of what your pastors are actually compensated to do,。
to help you in relationships,。
to help you understand the scriptures,。
to help you live in community,。
that they would help you in this,。
that you would not be some rogue sheep on your own.。
God's sheep, the sheep that belong to God,。
are always under an appointed shepherd.。
You can look at any time in church history,。
and that has been the case.。
That God's sheep are always protected。
by an appointed shepherd.。
It's certainly the case here in Peter's letter。
to the persecuted church.。
And so this might be the solution。
to your quarter-life crisis.。
Like, possibly, the reason you're experiencing,。
or have experienced, or will experience,。
a quarter-life crisis is because you are。
a rogue sheep without a shepherd.。
And I'm not saying that you're not a Christian,。
or not a believer, or not even, you know,。
you don't believe in God,。
or you don't have a trust in Christ.。
I'm saying that you are not under the authority。
of the church, quite possibly.。
You have to answer that.。
An application from this message for you.。
And I'm not trying to grow Watermark, either.。
Like, maybe you live far away,。
maybe it's some other church.。
Okay, we're not holding a membership class after this.。
That's not what's going on here.。
I'm admonishing you, I'm encouraging you。
to join a church, to be at a church,。
to be under authority of a church for your sake,。
as submission to God and His scriptures。
and His Holy Spirit,。
that you would belong to a local body, the church.。
And so, some of you must be here,。
and you have to be asking right about now,。
well, when do we rebel?。
There has to be a time when we rebel against authority.。
Here's what I would say to you,。
never apart from church.。
That's a part of those who have been entrusted。
to shepherd you, to help you understand when to rebel.。
So you could come to them and say,。
hey, I've got this bad boss,。
and I don't want to slander him,。
but here's factually what he's asking me to do.。
He's telling me I've got to go to strip clubs。
if I want to stay employed there.。
He's telling me that I've got to, you know,。
fudge the numbers.。
He's telling me that I've got to lie here.。
I don't know what to do.。
And the church can help you maneuver。
and navigate those waters.。
And so, we're all so rebellious。
that at times we're asking, wait a minute,。
like when does scripture give me permission。
to be rebellious?。
'Cause that would be awesome.。
God tells me I can rebel.。
It's got to say, right, like, you know,。
and we're there, and we're like, man, I hope,。
I hope Obama asks me to do something crazy。
so I can show him, I'm not gonna do it, I'll picket.。
The White House, that's what I'll do.。
And we all, like, have that inside of us.。
We all secretly want to be Batman, you know,。
some vigilante, like, hey, I want to take matters。
into my own hands, you know, I can't wait.。
Man, I hope, hey, I hope my boss,。
I hope my boss asks me to do,。
he might have asked me to go to strip club,。
I'm gonna blow up, I'm gonna tell him,。
no, I ain't going to strip club.。
(congregation laughing)。
Right, and that's how we want to do it.。
And people will come to me like,。
yeah, you wouldn't believe what that guy,。
he would say, strip club.。
(congregation laughing)。
And I'm like, hey, hey,。
have you told him why you can't go to a strip club?。
Yeah, I told him.。
Did you tell him like that?。
'Cause I would fire you on the spot.。
(congregation laughing)。
Did you just sit there and say,。
hey, I want to be the best employee that you have?。
Man, I want to do everything that you ask of me and more.。
I've got a moral issue with this thing right here。
because I serve a God who's asked me to do something else,。
and I can't do that.。
But can I suggest another way?。
Like, what if instead of the strip club,。
I took the customer to coffee?。
Okay, no naked women,。
but great baristas.。
(congregation laughing)。
I'm sorry.。
(congregation laughing)。
I'm sorry.。
And what if there we had a conversation?。
Like, that's what you can do when,。
see, we all want to bow up.。
We all want to take matters into our own hands.。
We're all rebels, and that rebel bleeds into。
even rebelling against that which we think is wicked,。
and there's a right way to do it.。
My daughter, Presley, she's such a rule follower.。
And in fact, she's been in school two years.。
She just graduated from first grade, or just passed first grade, I guess.。
Don't graduate, just pass.。
(congregation laughing)。
And she's only gotten in trouble one time,。
and by in trouble, I mean she had to change her color.。
Like, that's the kind of,。
you may have got your name on the board or something,。
but they have to change their color.。
And she's only had to do that one time,。
and I was actually in Haiti when it happened,。
and Monica called me, or we were FaceTiming.。
I was in Haiti, and Monica said,。
"Hey, Presley had to change her color today.。
"It was pretty devastating for her."。
And I said, "Well, what happened?"。
And so Presley's best friend in school is autistic.。
It's really sweet, and just, for whatever reason,。
God has put the two of them together,。
and her best friend is autistic.。
And Presley was at lunch,。
and these boys were making fun of her best friend.。
And Presley said, "Hey, will you stop it?"。
And they kept making fun of her best friend.。
And so my little sweet girl, little rule follower,。
got up and started kicking him as hard as she could,。
saying, "Stop it, stop it, stop it!"。
And Monica's telling me this.。
And I'm secretly, like, shouting for joy, you know?。
I'm like, "Was it the roundhouse?"。
'Cause I taught her the roundhouse, you know?。
(audience laughing)。
And I realized, though, that she broke the rules.。
And so we have to have a conversation.。
And I sit Presley down, and I say,。
"Hey, Presley, I want you to know something."。
And maybe you're like,。
"Well, this is Presley's version of the story."。
No, this is the teacher who told me this version of the story.。
And so I said, "Presley, listen.。
"I completely understand why you did what you did.。
"You saw an injustice, and you stood against it.。
"But I want you to know that God has put people there。
"to protect you.。
"And so, you know, you need to go through。
"those right layers in order to protect your friend."。
And so the right thing to do next time,。
rather than stand up and begin to kick--。
I go, "Did you kick him hard? How'd you kick him?"。
No.。
And so rather than kick them,。
you would go and you would get the teacher in the lunchroom,。
and you would say, "Hey, this is what's happening.。
"Can you help?"。
And that raised off lots of questions.。
"Well, Daddy, what if she doesn't do anything?"。
Or, "What if, you know, they start kicking me?"。
Or, "What if this? What if that?"。
That's when you get your daddy.。
All right?。
That's when you get your daddy.。
And I said, "Otherwise, here's what I would say to you.。
"That's when you trust your daddy."。
Okay?。
And in the same way that Presley has a daddy。
that's kind of over that to protect her,。
each of you should have a church that you belong to--。
God's expression of the local church that you belong to--。
that is there to protect you in these circumstances。
so that you can go to them and say,。
"Hey, will you help me here?"。
Every now and then, people will come to us,。
and they want help or financial help or whatever,。
and I just get to ask them these hard questions。
that are simple like, "Are you a member somewhere?"。
So I should say, "No, you don't understand.。
"I've been podcasting so-and-so and going here and whatever,。
"and I just need to pay rent, man."。
Man, I would love to help you pay rent, okay?。
Can you come here and come under our authority?。
It would be irresponsible for us just to give you a handout.。
We don't know you.。
We don't know how you're going to spend that money,。
but we would love to help you.。
Hear my heart.。
We would love to help you,。
but that would mean that you're a part of the flock。
that we shepherd, and so can we shepherd you?。
And far too often, that person says,。
in some way, form, or fashion,。
"No, I'm unshepherdable."。
And I say, "Oh, I understand how you got in your situation."。
And I'm not saying that that's always the case,。
but I have seen that case many, many times.。
Far too often, I would tell you.。
"He committed," Christ, "no sin,。
"and no deceit was found in his mouth.。
"When they hurled insults at him, he did not retaliate.。
"When he suffered, he made no threats.。
"Instead, he," that's Christ,。
"entrusted himself to him," that's God,。
"who judges justly," his daddy.。
"He himself bore our sins," the gospel,。
"in his body on the cross, so that we might die to sins。
"and live for righteousness," the gospel.。
"By his wounds you have been healed," the gospel.。
"For you were like sheep going astray,。
"but now you have returned to the shepherd。
"and overseer of your souls."。
You have come back to the ultimate authority。
who is the one who judges justly.。
He trusted himself to him who judges justly.。
My third and final point is simply,。
all authority is God's.。
This is why you can submit to bad authority,。
because all authority is under God's authority.。
It's not the what do I do, it's the who do I serve.。
I'm not actually serving the government。
when I buckle my seatbelt, I'm actually serving God.。
I'm not serving the government when I go to the speed limit,。
I'm actually serving God.。
I'm not serving my employer when I do this with excellence,。
I'm serving God.。
I'm not serving my employer, okay,。
when I sell, when I teach, when I do these things,。
when I take the TPS reports, whatever that is for you,。
you're serving God.。
That is what the scripture's saying.。
And so this means it matters to God what you do,。
whether you wear your seatbelt or not.。
It matters to God if you gossip about your boss or not,。
that really matters to God.。
It matters to God if you are under the authority。
of a church or not, that matters to God.。
And if you're not, you don't have a government problem。
or a boss problem or a church problem,。
you have a God problem.。
It is for Weston's good that he is under my authority,。
that he actually has a daddy who loves him.。
But all authority that you could possibly be under。
is actually under the authority of a daddy who loves you,。
and you need to know that.。
And he's asked you to submit to their authority。
in a way that honors him until they ask you to do something。
that goes outside of his ultimate authority,。
until you are asked to sin.。
But even when you are asked to sin,。
you respond in a way that honors him.。
It's really important, because I think we're all waiting。
for that time, "Well, I hope they ask me to sin。
"so I can show them what's up."。
No, no, you would honor God, even in that circumstance.。
And so this text shows you this amazing truth of the gospel,。
that you've been set free, that Christ has died。
on your behalf for your sins,。
that you don't have to pay for your sins,。
that Christ paid for your sins, and if you trusted。
that Christ paid for your sins through his death。
and resurrection, then you will be with God forever.。
Remember where we started, you belong to another kingdom, man.。
You're gonna be with God forever, man.。
For just a little while, it's a test,。
and then you're gonna die, and you're gonna go be with God。
forever and ever and ever and ever and ever and ever。
and ever and ever and ever and ever and ever。
and a billion, billion years, you're still gonna be with God。
in his kingdom.。
And this was just a momentary and light affliction,。
a little test that you had to endure there at Starbucks。
or ABC Company or whatever it is, right?。
And so this test, or this text rather,。
shows Jesus' amazing example,。
the one who created all things, right?。
He spoke them into existence, that's King Jesus.。
And it shows how he submitted to authority.。
King Jesus submitted to authority.。
Remember when they came to him in the Garden of Gethsemane。
and they say, "Are you the one called the Christ?"。
And he says, "I am he," and they fall over.。
The army falls over, I wish I could've seen that.。
They just fell over like dominoes.。
Like, do you think he's authoritative?。
Do you think he has authority?。
And it says he submitted himself to authority.。
He didn't need to cuss back, he didn't need to spit back,。
he didn't need to fight back.。
He just trusted himself to the one who judges justly.。
In fact, in John 19, Jesus is before Pilate,。
and Pilate's asking him questions, and Jesus doesn't say anything.。
And Pilate says in verse 10,。
"Do you refuse to speak to me?"。
Pilate said, "Don't you realize that I have power。
either to free you or to crucify you?"。
And Jesus now speaks, he answers,。
"You would have no power over me。
if it were not given to you from above.。
Therefore, the one who handed me over to you。
is guilty of a greater sin."。
This idea is repeated in Romans 13,。
and here in 1 Peter 2, but Romans 13 says this,。
"For there is no authority except that which God has established.。
The authorities that exist have been established by God.。
Consequently, whoever rebels against the authority。
is rebelling against what God has instituted."。
And so Jesus is here, and he knows his daddy is in charge,。
and that his daddy can bring about good。
even through his persecution, even through his torture,。
even through his death.。
Did good come through Jesus' death?。
You've been set free, man.。
It is through Christ's death about 2,000 years ago。
that you have been set free.。
You are trusting in that for the forgiveness of sins.。
And so God hasn't lost control。
when you don't agree with your government.。
God hasn't lost control when you don't agree with your boss.。
God is still very much at work。
through the authorities he has in place,。
especially his church.。
And so remind yourself where we started,。
that you're not of this world.。
About 12 years ago,。
I wanted one thing in life,。
and it was to be free.。
I was just a kid born on a farm in a small town.。
Went to a small technical college you've never heard of.。
I moved to Dallas,。
and man, it was my ticket.。
Dallas was my ticket.。
It was my ticket to freedom.。
And here was my plan, and I had a good one.。
Work hard, make money,。
stack up a 401(k), flip some houses, okay?。
Work in corporate America, have my health insurance be covered。
and protected and be free from everything.。
Build my kingdom so that I could do--。
I wanted to work hard so my boss would stay off me,。
so that I could do whatever it was that I wanted to do.。
I wanted to be free.。
I was upstairs at a bar on Lower Greenville, a club.。
Someone invited me to a church.。
And even then, I thought I would strike this deal with God,。
like, "Hey, God, you give me some good tips and tricks。
"on how to live this life, okay?。
"I believe you're there, you're God.。
"You probably got some good information for me.。
"Can you kind of feed me some truth。
"that will get me through the week,。
"and let me just kind of go out and party。
"and do whatever it is I want to do?。
"I'll come back to you, I'll tell you I'm sorry,。
"you'll forgive me, like, I've heard that part of the gospel.。
"It's all good."。
And I stumbled in, I sat in the back of the church,。
I was hungover, smelled like smoke from the night before.。
And a guy told this story,。
and it changed my life, and it was a stupid story.。
It was the reason God used it to change my life,。
or it's a silly story, I'll say.。
It's actually a children's story.。
It comes from this book I later found out.。
The book I read to my little girls now,。
Adventures of Thunder Hoof.。
(congregation laughing)。
Here's the story.。
There was a wild stallion that just wanted to be free.。
Man, I can relate to that.。
I'm listening.。
He wanted to be free, man.。
He rode a horse, and he roamed the mountainside。
in search of freedom.。
And in his freedom, he had to hunt for food。
and hunt for water and find protection。
from the elements, from the storms and the rains。
that would come.。
And people would try to capture this horse,。
but they would fail.。
And one day, this farmer, this cowboy,。
successfully captured this horse, this wild stallion,。
and he took him home, and he loved him,。
and he cared for him, and he provided for him.。
And through that love, care, and provision,。
eventually he was able to break this horse.。
And in breaking this horse, he was able to mount this horse。
and ride this horse.。
And in riding this horse, he would lead him to food,。
and he would lead him to water,。
and he would lead him to protection from the elements.。
And it was this line that changed my life.。
It wasn't until he was fully submissive to his master。
that he truly experienced freedom.。
And I realized that I had been wearing myself out。
in pursuit of freedom, all while taking this for granted,。
telling you that I believed this, but doing nothing。
that would tell you that I actually believed this.。
Telling you that I was a part of the church,。
but not belonging anywhere, podcasting this guy,。
podcasting that guy, whatever, but not belonging anywhere.。
Telling you that I loved God, but doing whatever I wanted.。
And I sat there, and I said this prayer.。
I said, "Lord, if you're God, if you created everything,。
"then you know how to do life so much better than I do.。
"I've heard you sent your son to die for my sins.。
"This is good, 'cause I need someone to pay for my sins.。
"There's a lot of them.。
"Lord, would you drive?。
"Lord, would you show me where to go?。
"Lord, I submit my life to your care now,。
"through the death and the resurrection of your son Jesus,。
"believing that he died for my sins.。
"Father, would you give me new life?"。
And he did.。
And what he killed in that moment was my rebellious spirit.。
Every now and then it flares up,。
but he's gracious to remind me who he is。
in charge, and that he works through bosses,。
and that he works through governments,。
and that he works through churches to bring about his will.。
And my job is to do as they've asked,。
as long as it does not dishonor him.。
I pray that you would do the same.。
Let me do that now.。
Father, help us.。
There is something inside of us。
that wants to run when we hear the word stop,。
that wants to stop when we hear the word run,。
that wants to flee when we hear the word submit,。
that wants to fight.。
And Lord, we realize now,。
through the reading of your scriptures。
and the understanding of the things that you have told us to,。
the eternal truths,。
that victory actually comes through surrender,。
that freedom actually comes through submission.。
So Lord, would you help us to find freedom。
through submission,。
first and foremost to you,。
and then to every human authority that you have put in place,。
that you are actually the authority over.。
Lord, we love you, and we trust you.。
Help us be free.。
Amen.。
It's strange, you know, the Christian faith,。
the God who created the whole world,。
that there's these strange, like, contradictions,。
these weird paradoxes that victory,。
like winning victory,。
would come through surrender.。
That it's like when you come to this place where you're like,。
"I can't. I'm not good enough.。
I'm not fast enough or strong enough or smart enough."。
But God, I'm your servant,。
that you find victory then.。
And that freedom, like we have this desire in us。
to be free, but we look for that,。
we look to fulfill that desire in all the wrong things。
through our own accomplishments.。
We find self-worth through the things that we do,。
but that real freedom actually comes。
through tapping out, through surrender.。
Through surrender, like, "I can't.。
God, I need your help.。
Lord, I'm listening. You speak.。
Lord, I'll go. You send.。
Father, help me."。
[silence]。
