(upbeat music)。
- Well, welcome to the porch.。
My name is Josiah Jones and I came on staff about a year ago。
and I wanna welcome you wherever you are tuning in。
around the country and even the world.。
Welcome and for our porch live locations,。
El Paso, Texas, Houston, Texas, Boise, Idaho,。
Tulsa, Oklahoma, and many, many more.。
Welcome, we are glad that you're hanging out。
with us tonight.。
Well, I don't know if you saw this past Sunday,。
our government came out and had an emergency。
press conference where the FDA,。
the Food and Drug Administration,。
basically called any American who had the coronavirus。
and defeated it.。
They basically asked, hey, we want your blood plasma。
because if you had the coronavirus and you've defeated it,。
you have these antibodies within your blood。
that can help those who have the coronavirus。
and are sick and are in the hospital。
and really essentially are on their deathbed,。
we can help them.。
And honestly, we can hopefully keep them from dying.。
And so this is what they came out with this past Sunday.。
And so they're asking Americans who have contracted。
the coronavirus and defeated to share what they have。
to help those in need.。
And so I start there tonight because that's what we。
as believers, Christians, are called to do.。
We are called to share what we have to help those。
who are in need.。
Only our virus isn't corona.。
Our virus is sin.。
And listen, we have the antibodies,。
AKA the gospel, the good news, Jesus Christ,。
to defeat the sin that lies within every single one of us.。
The good news is that Jesus died for your sins。
and rose again.。
See, why is this good news?。
Because we don't have to die for our sins because Jesus did。
or we can choose to die for our sins.。
We can suffer for our sins or you can choose to believe。
that Jesus did.。
It's what theologians calls the great exchange,。
that we get what Jesus deserved and he got what we deserved.。
We get life and we get an heir in his kingdom.。
See, we get a reward from a person who has lived。
their life perfectly.。
And listen, I know anytime we talk about this idea。
of sharing this good news, the gospel,。
Jesus, it causes a lot of fear inside of us all,。
inside of us all, including myself.。
This idea that, hey, man, it's just uncomfortable.。
This idea of, man, how do I do it?。
And if I do it, man, what are they gonna say about me?。
It's just kind of awkward.。
I don't wanna be seen as the guy that,。
kind of the Bible beater or the guy that's shoving Jesus。
down someone's throat.。
Honestly, I don't know what I would say。
if I was asked a question that I don't know the answer to.。
I don't wanna come across as judgmental,。
you know, one of those people.。
And so tonight I wanna walk us through the ABCs。
of what it looks like to share what we have as believers。
to those who are in need.。
I wanna walk us through, I wanna bring it down。
to just a really elementary level。
for people who maybe have been following Jesus。
for the longest time or are new to the faith。
or they find themselves in this pandemic,。
they're new, they're older, younger.。
I wanna bring us to a place where everybody,。
as we walk out of this place and we tune off。
from hearing this message and jumping on。
to cheer the Dallas Mavericks to another victory,。
we know at the end of this message。
how to share our faith with those who are in need.。
So let's start with the A.。
The A stands for ask, ask, ask God for boldness.。
So we're gonna look at a guy named Paul.。
And man, he's in the scriptures and Paul is,。
man, basically he's a guy that before Christ was marked。
by persecuting the church and actually killing Christians.。
The story of Paul is a story of redemption of Jesus Christ。
and proof that, man, you are never too far。
from the grace of God.。
Some of you tuning in tonight,。
you think that God doesn't want anything to do with you。
because of your sin and because of the struggles。
that you continually find yourself in.。
Or there's no way that he could use you.。
And I just encourage you tonight。
to open your Bibles to Acts 9。
and read the story of this guy named Paul.。
A guy who, by so many historians,。
they said he was a persecutor of epic proportions.。
But then it led him to be in a hope dealer,。
bent on spreading the gospel throughout the world.。
And look at what he says in Acts 4.。
We're gonna be in Acts chapter 4, starting in verse 29.。
This is Paul and this is a prayer, a famous prayer,。
that him and the early church prayed。
as the church was getting off the ground。
and it was spreading like wildfire。
out to the unknown parts where the gospel,。
the good news of Jesus, had never gone before.。
And look at what they pray here.。
Now Lord, consider their threats。
and enable your servants to speak your word。
with great boldness, verse 30.。
Stretch out your hand and heal and perform signs and wonders。
through the name of your holy servant Jesus.。
After they prayed, the place where they were meeting。
was shaken and they were filled with the Holy Spirit。
and they began to speak the word of God boldly.。
All because they said, did you catch that?。
Hey, we're gonna pray for boldness.。
Did they pray for comfort?。
Did they pray for convenience?。
No, they prayed for boldness.。
See, I believe the two greatest idols in my life。
and those of us here tonight and those tuning in online。
is comfort and convenience.。
Like if I had to look at my sin track over the last week,。
I would be able to categorize them。
under comfort and convenience.。
The times where I was short-tempered。
with my wife and my children,。
it's because I was inconvenienced.。
The times that maybe you looked at an image,。
a two-dimensional image on your computer or your phone。
is maybe because of comfort and convenience.。
It's a lot easier just to look at that image。
and get your feel, right, than to actually pursue a lady.。
See, I believe the two greatest idols in our life。
fall under comfort or convenience.。
And look right here, they didn't pray for either.。
They prayed for boldness, to share the word of Christ.。
And so here's how it looks for some of you.。
Like let me just bring this down。
to a very ground-level view.。
You're sitting in your car,。
you're getting ready to hang out with some friends。
for happy hour after work one day.。
And you know this, they don't know。
that you really have a faith。
because you haven't talked about it。
and they know you for sure aren't gonna be sharing the faith。
but this is my encouragement to you,。
that you would just pray a simple prayer.。
God, would you give me boldness。
to open my mouth and share my faith?。
You're sitting in the airport。
and you're getting ready to board a plane。
and you know that awkward, just really close to people.。
And I just encourage you in that moment。
before you board the plane that you would just say,。
God, would you please help me to be bold with this person。
that I'm about to sit next to?。
And listen, you might not even do it.。
Like you might not even open your mouth。
and you might not even say anything。
but let me tell you, this is the start。
that you would ask God for boldness。
to open your mouth and share the hope that lies within you.。
You don't have to share everything.。
No one's gonna hold you,。
God's not holding you accountable,。
no, everything in this book.。
He's saying, hey, share what you know.。
But you're building the muscle of boldness。
in the same way, how do you build muscles physically?。
You work them out, you step out and do different exercises。
to confuse the muscles, right?。
In the same way, God's looking at you and me。
and saying, hey, step out.。
And do something that's gonna build。
that spiritual muscle of boldness.。
You wanna know a prayer that God will answer every time?。
It's this one.。
It's this prayer right here.。
It's the prayer for boldness to share the good news。
of Jesus Christ with those around us.。
Watch out, like listen, if you decide to pray this prayer,。
watch out because God is gonna put people in your path。
to share this with.。
Like what would it look like right now。
if the thousands of young adults that are tuning in,。
that are watching and listening to this message,。
that you guys would get a glimpse of this idea。
of asking God for boldness,。
praying and begging him that God,。
you would fill me with courage.。
Because I know he wants to use you.。
But the question is, do you believe。
that he wants to use you?。
Do you believe that he can use you?。
It's this Acts 4 prayer, it goes something like this,。
and it's gonna be up on the screen,。
and it says this, it says,。
"Lord, empower your servants to walk in love。
"and speak your word with great boldness.。
"Stretch out your hand and save every young adult。
"in Dallas and Austin and El Paso and Houston and Boise。
"and Northwest Arkansas and Tulsa and Cincinnati。
"and Indianapolis and the entire country."。
And this isn't just some pie in the sky,。
pithy prayer that we pray.。
Like we believe he can.。
We believe that he wants to.。
If his people, you and me, would step out。
and open our mouth,。
if you're not gonna remember this prayer, then no worries.。
Like take your phone out now,。
because we've created an Instagram story for this prayer,。
for you to be able to save。
and for you to be able to put on。
as a wallpaper on your phone,。
just as a reminder as you wake up。
and you look at your phone, because don't lie,。
you know that's the first thing you look at。
when you wake up, it ain't opening that Bible, come on.。
Just keeping it real up here.。
But the Lord would use that, right?。
The Lord would use that to remind you.。
Lord, would you empower Josiah to walk in love。
and to speak your word with great boldness?。
And would you stretch out and save the young adults。
that you're gonna place in my path today?。
Listen, we can never be too timid。
where we won't interrupt others.。
Several weeks ago when we actually got to kick off the porch。
and it was the first porch back from quarantine,。
the porch had ended and I was up here at the front。
and just waiting for people to come forward。
and nobody really did, so I bolted up to the loft。
and that's where we have First Steps.。
It's an opportunity for people to get connected。
to the church and also connect to Christ.。
And there was a guy that got up in the middle of it。
and he was on his way out and I just said,。
man, I think this is what God's calling me。
to go talk to this guy.。
And so I went up to him, I just said,。
hey man, what's your name?。
He's like, oh, it's Hunter.。
And I'm like, oh man, great to meet you, man.。
My name's Josiah and hey, I'm glad you're here.。
Is this your first time?。
He's like, matter of fact, it is.。
Like, man, you're in the right place.。
Hey, do you have time?。
I'd love just to hear your story.。
What's your story?。
He began to share his story and I'm like,。
hey man, this isn't a question that's unique to you.。
Man, I ask this question a lot when I'm out in the city。
and I come across young adults or I'm here at the porch。
and I just asked him, I just said, hey.。
I said, hey, Hunter.。
Do you have a faith?。
I said, if I was to ask you what is the gospel,。
what would you say?。
He's like, man, I honestly, Josiah, I don't know.。
I said, hey man, do you have a few minutes?。
I'd love to share that with you.。
And so we just stepped over to a quiet place。
and I began to share the gospel with him。
and I couldn't even get to finish the full gospel.。
I got to the part where we started talking about sin。
and he just began to weep.。
And I said, hey man, what are you crying about?。
Not like, what are you crying about?。
No, I'm like, what are you crying about?。
Walk me through, what's going on?。
He's like, man, I just don't get it.。
I'm like, what do you not get?。
And he said, I don't understand。
how God could ever forgive me, man.。
Man, I'm a drug addict trying to get clean.。
Man, I got the sexual past that'll make you blush.。
Man, I've stolen, cheated, I'm trying to climb。
the next ladder of success, the next ladder, man,。
just at the expense of running over people.。
And I just said, hey man, Hunter,。
what part of the cross is enough to forgive you, man?。
The part where Jesus had nails that were pierced。
in his hands for every time your hands have gone。
to places that they should never have gone.。
How about the nail on his feet, man?。
The nail that was pierced in his feet。
for every time your feet have gone to places。
that they should never have gone.。
The crown of thorns placed right above his eyes。
for every time you've looked at things。
and I've looked at things and thought of things。
I shouldn't have looked at or thought of.。
The sword that was pierced in his side。
for every time your heart hardened itself towards God.。
I said, what part of the cross, man,。
is it enough to forgive you?。
And he just started weeping more.。
I said, there isn't.。
The cross is enough.。
It's sufficient for forgiveness.。
And right then and there, by God's grace,。
nothing I did, man, he calls out to God。
and he says, God, I need you.。
Will you save me from my sin and from myself?。
I'm like, what?。
When did we forget that the gospel's enough?。
When did we forget that the gospel's enough to save people?。
Listen, I've missed so many opportunities to share。
because of busyness and fear of rejection。
of what will happen, discomfort.。
And I just need to build a better relationship.。
Here's what I know.。
The longer that I go without sharing my faith with someone,。
the greater the odds that I won't share with them.。
Did you catch that?。
The longer that I go or the longer that you go。
and you just share what you know,。
you don't have to have everything together,。
but the longer you go, the greater the odds。
that you won't share with that person.。
About a year ago, before I moved here to Dallas,。
I lived in Kansas City.。
And I had some neighbors and they happened to be gay.。
And I just remember, like, God was beating on my chest,。
like, just prompting me day in and day out,。
week in and week out.。
Hey, you need to go talk to them.。
You need to go share.。
Hey, you need to have them over for dinner.。
You need to just build a bridge, talk to them.。
And I just remember saying, no, God,。
like, they're not gonna listen.。
They don't want it, no.。
Like, no.。
And I just rejected it week in and week out,。
day in and day out, year in and year out.。
You know this book that we read。
every time we have the porch?。
You know what it says to pray for?。
Boldness.。
Boldness to share.。
See, it's our job to share, but it's God's job to save.。
We share, God saves.。
We share, God saves.。
We don't have to worry about what happens after we share.。
Like, some of you think, man, I'm just gonna screw it up.。
You're not gonna screw it up.。
I promise you.。
People are not gonna go to hell。
because you didn't say the right thing.。
Like, God can use you in spite of you,。
in spite of you not being eloquent enough。
or you not having enough information.。
God can use you.。
You just share.。
You just open your mouth.。
It's God's job to save.。
It's our job to share.。
Listen, I see friends getting discouraged。
when they step out in faith and do share。
and the person doesn't come to Christ.。
Listen, the scoreboard for evangelism。
is sharing, not saving.。
That's God's job.。
Rest easy knowing you're faithful.。
D.L. Moody, a great evangelist,。
in other words, he was just a guy。
that would be out preaching the gospel in the 19th century。
and thousands and thousands of people。
would flock to hear him teach.。
A woman came up with him and she had some beef。
with D.L. Moody and she's like,。
hey, I just need to tell you something.。
I don't like how you share the gospel.。
I don't like how you share the message of Jesus.。
And D.L. Moody, in response, says,。
I kinda don't like how I share it either.。
So maybe you can help me.。
Hey, how do you share it?。
And she says, I don't.。
To which he said, well, hey, I like how I share it more。
than I like how you don't share it.。
And I just think that's brilliant.。
Like he just said, hey, well, I like my way。
of doing it better than your way of not doing it, right?。
And so this is what God is saying to us tonight。
that as we ask for boldness, hey, the goal is sharing.。
The goal isn't saving.。
The goal is just, hey, open your mouth.。
This is Paul's plea in Romans, or Romans Acts 20, 24,。
where he says, but my life is worth nothing to me。
unless I use it for finishing the work assigned to me。
by my Lord Jesus, the work of telling others。
the good news about his wonderful grace.。
He says, hey, my life is worth nothing.。
I don't account my life of any value.。
It's not precious to myself.。
If only I may finish the course and the ministry。
that I received from the Lord Jesus.。
What is that ministry?。
The grace that you and I received。
when Jesus hung on that cross and paid for our sin.。
So the A stands for ask.。
Ask God for boldness.。
The B stands for build.。
Build bridges to share.。
Build bridges to share.。
The same guy, Paul, in 1 Corinthians 9, 22 through 23。
says this, to the weak I became weak, to win the weak.。
I have become all things to all people。
so that by all possible means I might save some.。
I do all this for the sake of the gospel.。
Paul's saying, hey, it's the gospel, it's the good news。
that motivates me to meet people right where they are,。
to give up my preferences, to put my needs to the side.。
And take up their desires and their needs。
and to meet the people wherever they are in life.。
The three bridges that we can build with people。
that I've seen to be effective in my life.。
One of the bridges that we can give people is our time.。
It's to have margin in our day。
where we can walk slowly through the crowds.。
That we can never be too busy。
to not allow others to interrupt us.。
Number two is ask questions.。
I love this, questions disarm people.。
They're not ready to box you.。
Like, hey, when you make statements, statements arm people.。
Like, they're ready, like, ooh,。
I'm about to see where you're going with that.。
And they're gonna jab and they're gonna fight back。
and they're gonna press.。
But you know what questions do?。
They just disarm the conversation.。
They build relationships.。
You know how Jesus answered people?。
He answered them with questions.。
23 times people asked Jesus questions about the kingdom。
and then he answered them back with questions.。
Listen, I find this to be a really powerful tactic。
when I'm talking with people.。
Hey, what's your story?。
Hey, I'm just curious.。
Hey, do you have a faith?。
Do you know that one question can change the world。
and it has?。
Now we're talking.。
Now we've just changed the conversation。
from the natural to the spiritual.。
Do you have a faith?。
Hey, I'm just curious.。
If you were to stand before God and he says,。
why shall I let you into heaven?。
What would you say?。
I get this a lot.。
Well, Josiah, what happens if someone asks me。
about homosexuality?。
I don't know, what do you think?。
What do you think about homosexuality?。
What do you think the Bible says?。
Gay marriage, what do you think?。
I put the question back in their court.。
Hey, what do you think?。
Most people wanna talk about themselves.。
What do you think about evolution?。
Man, I don't know, what do you think?。
Now we're just talking.。
Now we're just conversing.。
I don't have to have all the answers.。
I don't have to be the know-it-all.。
There's too many of those.。
I just have to care.。
Many of you probably heard this before,。
but it's called the Columbo tactics.。
It's, hey, what did you mean by that?。
You're in conversation with someone。
and they kinda catch you off guard。
or maybe they say something that just seems wrong.。
It's like, hey, what do you mean by that?。
How did you come to that conclusion?。
Hey, have you ever considered,。
have you ever considered studying the claims of Christ?。
Have you ever considered why Jesus reset the calendar。
on your iPhone right now?。
Have you ever considered?。
Number three, meet needs of those around you.。
You know, right now, if you live in Dallas,。
you can go to www.watermark.org/servethecity.。
You can go there right now。
and you can find all the different needs。
during this crazy pandemic that we find ourselves in。
and you can serve the people around you.。
Or, man, you heard JD earlier in the announcement,。
we're coming back, the porch is back.。
You can go to the porch.live/connect。
and you can jump in with us next week。
and you can start serving with us.。
You can start that process.。
Listen, when I first came to Christ,。
I didn't just wanna show up and sing a few songs,。
listen to a message and leave.。
Man, if nobody ever called me to engage in the mission,。
the battle that was at hand,。
the battle of good and evil,。
sin and darkness,。
good,。
heaven and hell.。
Like, if nobody ever called me to do that,。
man, I think I would've found something else。
to give my life to.。
So let me just share with you how these bridges played out。
over the last week.。
It was Friday, this past Friday.。
And, man, I was tired.。
The week was just coming to a close。
and I was ready to get home early。
and see my wife and hang out with my little girls.。
I have a three and a two-year-old right now.。
And I came across a gentleman.。
And, man, I knew God was calling me。
to step into this conversation.。
And this guy happened to be transgender.。
A guy who is claiming to be a girl.。
He literally dresses like this.。
He went through the whole surgery.。
And we began to talk and I just said,。
"Hey, can I get you a cup of coffee?"。
So I bought him a cup of coffee。
and we just sat down with a couple other friends。
and I just said, "Hey, man, what's your story?"。
"Hey, where'd you grow up?。
"How did you get here?。
"How'd you hear about Watermark?"。
And he began to engage and he began to share。
and he just said, "Hey, before I go into anything,。
"I just need you to know that I'm a registered sex offender。
"who spent 20 years in prison for abusing my daughter."。
And I just said, "Hey," without batting an eye,。
I looked at the other two, they didn't bat an eye,。
and we just said, "Hey, thank you for your honesty.。
"We're broken, we're jacked up, we're sinners too,。
"but we know the person who can save us from any sin,。
"and his name is Jesus."。
And we just began to engage in a conversation.。
And shortly after sharing the gospel with him,。
I just looked at him, I just said,。
"Hey, do you think you could ever。
"find worth and value in being a man again?"。
He said, "I don't know, man."。
He said, "Man, I was abused sexually by my mom。
"over and over and over, raped by her.。
"Another family member did the same thing to me,。
"and so I don't want anything to do with being a man.。
"I'm so much more comfortable in being a woman."。
And I just said, "Hey, I get it, I understand that.。
"You're not crazy for feeling that and thinking that,。
"but I just want you to consider,。
"would you consider the God of the universe。
"who has done so much,。
"who's putting breath in your lungs,。
"giving you a heart that beats right now,。
"could you consider him placing value。
"and giving you worth again as a man?"。
And he said, "I don't know, but I'll consider it."。
I said, "How about I host you on Sunday at church?"。
And he came on Sunday, and he sat right up here。
in the second tier seating,。
and we got to continue the conversation.。
Listen, when did we stop believing。
that the gospel could change lives?。
When did we stop believing that this message of Jesus。
is outdated and antiquated and can't intersect people。
of all different races and backgrounds。
and ethnicities and economic status?。
The gospel's enough.。
The good news of Jesus can intersect any situation.。
So the A stands for ask, ask God for boldness to share.。
The B stands for build, build bridges to share.。
And the C, this stands for carry,。
carry a burden to share, carry a burden to share.。
This word burden just means a difficult situation,。
a weight, a duty to something,。
a call on your life that you can't shake.。
The same guy we've been talking about all night is Paul,。
and in Romans 9, verse one, this is what he says.。
I speak the truth in Christ.。
I'm not lying.。
My conscience confirms through the Holy Spirit。
that I have a great sorrow,。
and I have this unceasing anguish in my heart.。
What kind of anguish do you have, Paul?。
Why do you have this anguish?。
Where's this sorrow coming from?。
He says this in verse three.。
For I wish I myself were cursed and cut off from Christ。
for the sake of my people, those of my own race.。
He says, hey, this is what I'm burdened by.。
I'm anguished, I'm in sorrow.。
Did you catch that?。
He had such a burden for his brothers and sisters。
that he would go to hell in order for them。
to be able to go to heaven.。
Paul is saying he has distress,。
and he has pain in his heart for the lost,。
those who are far from Jesus,。
that he wishes he himself could take their hell.。
Listen, I don't know how you get there.。
I'm just being honest.。
I wanna just shoot you straight.。
I'm not there.。
I'm not taking anyone's hell.。
But Paul came to a place in his life。
where, man, he began to be so burdened for his people。
that didn't know Christ.。
Let me ask you, have you ever carried a burden。
with you because life started to get lifey?。
Have you ever carried a burden。
or you just became so anguished。
and you had this sorrow in your body。
that you couldn't shake。
because life just started to get lifey?。
About two and a half years ago,。
my wife and I, Kathy, received a phone call。
from her sister, Jenny,。
and it's one of those phone calls you never wanna get.。
It was one of those phone calls。
where we knew that she was going in for some tests。
and we didn't know everything that was going on in her body。
and neither did she, but she called us。
and I remember like it's yesterday.。
And she said, "Hey, I have some news。
"that I wanna share with you."。
And on the other side of the phone,。
we began to listen in and she says,。
"I just found out that I have cancer, in colon cancer."。
She's 33 years old at the time。
and she found out that she had colon cancer。
and I remember in that moment。
just feeling this unbelievable weight come over。
my life personally, my marriage, my family,。
because of what my sister-in-law, Jenny, was going through.。
And I remember jumping on the phone。
with her husband, Alex, shortly after。
and I remember just sitting there。
trying to listen and help him process all the emotions。
and the flood of feelings that come with the word cancer.。
Some of you get it, some of you maybe have had cancer,。
your loved one has gone through cancer.。
And I remember just listening to Alex。
on the other side of the phone。
and I just remember him saying,。
"Josiah," as he was weeping, he just said,。
"Josiah, I know where this is headed.。
"I know what's going on, I understand where this is going.。
"Like she's gonna have to go under the knife。
"and they're gonna have to remove the tumor。
"and I want so badly, I want so badly。
"for me to be that guy, I wanna take her place。
"and I want that tumor to be in me。
"so that I can be the one to go under the knife。
"and have the surgery."。
And then he said, "I just want to be able to be the one。
"to go through the chemo.。
"I wanna be the one to take on this weight。
"that my wife is having to carry."。
He was so burdened by it that he would do anything。
to stop it if it was in his ability to take it on himself.。
And in the same way, Paul is saying,。
"Hey, I see where this is headed。
"for every person who lives their life。
"without following Jesus and then dies。
"and ends up in hell for all of eternity."。
And listen, I know hell isn't a popular subject。
to talk about.。
But my plea tonight is that if God allowed sin。
into heaven, what would heaven look like?。
It would look a lot like this world broken。
and shattered and jacked up so he can't,。
because he's holy, he's perfect.。
And so he must assess the penalty for your sin and my sin.。
I remember understanding this weight。
as I read Romans 9, one through three,。
and this burden that Paul carried。
because of the eternity that his brothers and sisters。
would face if they lived their entire life。
apart from Christ.。
And it moved Paul to a place of love。
and compassion for people.。
It shouldn't move us to a place where we hang out。
on the corner of the street and hold up signs,。
turn or burn, you've seen those people on megaphones。
and they're just unhelpful at best.。
It does more harm than good,。
but it should move us to a place of love and compassion.。
In the same way, Paul says, I'm willing to give up。
my place in heaven if that meant for someone else。
to take my place in heaven.。
I'm willing to give up my place in heaven。
and I'll take their place in hell.。
Wow, I read that, I'm just like, Lord,。
you got ground to take in my heart.。
You got work to do in this body.。
Listen, when was the last time you were burdened。
to share Jesus with your lost friends,。
your coworkers, your neighbors, complete strangers?。
And not just burden, but it led you to action.。
Listen, I know it's hard.。
Listen, I'm not standing up here thinking。
that it's just easy and just go do it.。
Pull your bootstraps up and white knuckle this.。
No, it's a supernatural work of the Holy Spirit.。
(soft music)。
I'm proposing tonight that you would start with praying,。
'cause this is what I know, man.。
We'll never be burdened for what we're not praying for.。
That you would pray that prayer, God make me bold.。
Before you step into an environment,。
whether it's the restaurant that you're gonna eat at tonight。
or the office that you're gonna walk into。
tomorrow, that you would just say a simple prayer.。
God make me bold.。
God, I'm available.。
As I close, you know what else is crazy。
about my sister-in-law, Jenny?。
She was also pregnant at the time.。
Pregnant with her first child.。
And the doctors and the medical team, some of them,。
came up to her after she was diagnosed and they said,。
"Hey, we believe it's in your best interest。
"to abort this child.。
"Because that would save your life.。
"Because you're gonna have to go through radiation。
"if you're gonna defeat this cancer."。
Like you're not gonna defeat this cancer。
apart from going through this radiation.。
And I don't know if you know much about the medical field,。
but you can't go through radiation when you're pregnant.。
You can go through chemo, but you can't go through radiation.。
And she just looked at him and she just said,。
"Hey, I understand.。
"That's kind of logical, I get that.。
"But I'm a Christian and I believe the life in my womb。
"is just as important as my life.。
"And I'm gonna trust God in this.。
"And listen, I'm not gonna abort the baby.。
"And we're gonna trust God.。
"Even if it costs my life.。
"Even if it's uncomfortable."。
See, I'm willing to put my risk in order to save。
the child that's in me.。
That's what she was saying in a sense.。
Even if there's all sort of complication and risk later on,。
she had a mission.。
And that mission was to save her child's life.。
In the same way, Jesus had another mission.。
And that mission was to seek and save the lost.。
He gave up the comforts of heaven,。
the conveniences that he had in heaven.。
And he took up a cross here on earth。
because he was on a rescue mission for you and for me.。
Because the cross is the only sufficient payment。
for your sin and my sin.。
Somebody had to die and an imperfect person couldn't die。
for imperfect people.。
It had to be a perfect substitute.。
And the only one that's walked this earth。
and has been perfect and thoughtward in action is Jesus.。
And if you're not a Christian,。
listen, there's a reason why you go to bed every night.。
And you ask that question, is that it?。
Is that all life is?。
That if you're not a Christian,。
you know that enough is never really enough.。
There's this hole inside of your heart。
that you're looking to fulfill。
and you think you're gonna satisfy it。
with climbing the corporate。
and making a million dollars by the time you're 30.。
You're gonna find Mr. Right。
and you guys are gonna find that house。
with the white picket fence.。
And you're gonna have that perfect family,。
which there isn't one, newsflash.。
And you're gonna chase one thing after another,。
after another, only to find that it's never enough.。
You can have everything in this world。
and still miss out on what life's all about.。
And for others of you, man, you know the hope of Christ,。
but what are you doing with it?。
Wake up, get on mission.。
You have been placed here in Dallas, Texas。
or somewhere else that you're tuning in tonight。
and God has given you everything you need,。
your time, your talents, your treasures,。
your relationship, your job, your good looks,。
your smarts, your days off, your breakups,。
your pain, your wins, your joys in life,。
everything he has given you。
so that you would leverage and that you would use it。
to know him and to make him known.。
And that's my prayer for you tonight.。
You pray that you would.。
God in heaven, we need you.。
As I pray this prayer, I think about my own inadequacies.。
God, I think about the times where。
I've got it right and I think about the times。
I've got it wrong.。
And in no way do I ever wanna stand up here。
and think that I have it all together.。
I'm broken, I'm a sinner in need of you every day.。
The gospel, the good news of Jesus。
was just as important to me today.。
It's just as relevant for me today as it was。
15 years ago when I gave my life to you.。
So God, I pray that we would be men and women。
who ask you for boldness,。
who build bridges to share,。
and who carry a burden to share.。
And God, you would use us in spite of us for your glory,。
for our joy, and for the world's good.。
It's in Christ's name we pray, amen.。
