[MUSIC PLAYING]。
Love it.。
We are wrapping up the series AD tonight.。
Yes, tonight.。
Welcome, friends in the room.。
Welcome, friends downtown, friends。
in Fort Worth and Houston.。
How y'all doing?。
Very good.。
Love it.。
The Olympics are here.。
Let's go.。
Team USA, man.。
I think girls soccer team won tonight, too.。
Who doesn't love America?。
Is baseball an Olympic sport still?。
Man, it's like on again, off again, on again, off again.。
I'm going to start with a story related to baseball.。
And not related to the Olympics, but here we go.。
So a couple of years ago, I was going。
to see my nephew, who had just become old enough。
to begin playing baseball.。
So he's like five or six years old.。
This is his first baseball game.。
I'm pumped.。
First of me and my siblings' kids。
that are at age to be able to play in competitive sports.。
So as a guy, you're like, yes, finally somebody is there.。
We can go root them on.。
This is going to be awesome.。
We can live through this kid.。
And so we're at--。
I go to the game.。
I'm wondering, how do they throw?。
Is it underhand?。
How fast do they throw the ball to a five or six-year-old?。
Show up at the game.。
They don't throw the ball.。
They use a tee.。
It's like golf, essentially.。
They set it on this tee, and this baseball is set on there.。
And so these five or six-year-olds will come through,。
and they'll attempt to hit.。
So I'm waiting, see my nephew, come up to the plate.。
I'm all in.。
I'm watching.。
I'm rooting him on.。
His name is Pierce.。
Comes up to the plate, takes his first hack,。
and it wasn't pretty.。
Hits the tee, ball falls right on the ground.。
It's all right, slugger.。
Pick the ball back up.。
Everything's going to be OK.。
Coach puts the ball back on the tee, one strike.。
OK, I'm thinking, you got two more.。
This is going to be great.。
Don't embarrass me.。
That's not what I was thinking.。
But I was thinking, this is going to be awesome.。
You got two strikes.。
Takes his second cut, totally misses the tee and the ball。
in general.。
I'm like, dude, it's 20 inches away from you.。
How did you miss?。
It's all right, though.。
That's only two strikes.。
We got one strike left.。
This is going to be great.。
Rears back, takes his third cut, hits the tee,。
ball goes right down, strike three.。
I'm like, man, buddy, you struck out.。
It's all right.。
I struck out once, too.。
And I'm expecting to see him-- that's so not true.。
I'm expecting to see him, hey, you've。
got to head back to the dugout.。
It's OK, three strikes.。
It's all right.。
Maybe next time you struck out.。
And all of a sudden, the coach picks up the ball。
and he puts it back on the tee.。
And I'm going, did I miscount?。
What happened here?。
OK, watch it again.。
Takes a swing, misses it again.。
Coach takes the ball, puts it back on the tee.。
I'm like, that's four strikes.。
What is he doing out there?。
Misses again.。
It's like six, seven, eight strikes.。
I'm like, what type of game is this?。
First off, everyone gets a trophy,。
and then everybody gets a guaranteed hit.。
The coach continues to put the ball on there saying,。
hey, look, you have not struck out.。
Everyone continues the hit.。
You have not blown it.。
You have not missed your chances.。
And he continues to put the ball on there。
so that he waits for each kid until they get a hit.。
Then they run to first base.。
Now, the reason why I start there。
is because I think a lot of us, when it comes to God,。
we feel like his perspective of us。
is not dissimilar to mine on my nephew at that point.。
I'm like, hey, buddy, you only got this many chances。
and you struck out.。
It's over.。
That when we think of how Jesus sees us,。
we're in the room tonight and we are interested in God.。
Maybe we wouldn't say we're a Christ follower.。
Maybe we're not a believer or not there yet.。
You're interested.。
You wanna go to heaven.。
But when you look at your life,。
you think that you have struck out when it comes to Jesus.。
When it comes to God, you've just made mistakes.。
You can look in the rear view mirror and you're like,。
look, if there is a God out there,。
I'm pretty sure that when he looks down at me,。
he's a little disappointed going like,。
hey, take a seat on the bench.。
Maybe I'll let you back in, maybe not.。
And the perspective that you have,。
if that is your belief, is off.。
And there's either something about God。
that you don't realize or you don't know him at all.。
Because as we're gonna discover,。
and I'm gonna attempt to convince you tonight,。
and I believe that this will revolutionize your life,。
that just like in that scenario where Jesus,。
or where that coach continues to put the ball on the tee。
and says, hey, you don't get just two chances, one chances.。
I'm a God of unending chances.。
I will continue to pursue, continue to encourage,。
continue to be here to see you hit the ball off the tee.。
Just like that, in the same way,。
Jesus comes to all humanity and says, I will not give up.。
You have not blown your chance with me.。
And if you're ever gonna know me,。
it's gonna come by you understanding and embracing,。
that's the type of God that I am.。
And so tonight, we're gonna see that。
as we wrap up the series and we continue to explore AD.。
AD is a series that's been based on encounters。
that people have with Jesus.。
Encounters with really God in the flesh.。
The Bible teaches that if you ever wanna know。
what God looks like, you see that in Jesus.。
Jesus is, as we've said, God in a body.。
He's God on the planet with skin on.。
That's who Jesus is.。
So if you wanna know what does God look like,。
when God looks down at me, what type of face。
is looking at me or what type of person,。
what character is looking at me, what is God like?。
You see it in the face of Jesus.。
And so tonight, we'll see it an additional time。
in the story of Jesus and maybe the most notorious person。
of all the encounters that we've looked at in this series.。
We're gonna be in Luke chapter 19.。
Luke chapter 19, if you have a Bible,。
you can flip open there.。
If you don't have a Bible, it'll be up on the screens.。
On that note, we have free Bibles if you're in Dallas。
in the Welcome Center for you.。
If you don't have a Bible, we'd love to give that to you。
as your gift in Fort Worth.。
I'm not sure where they are over there,。
but Garrett, get 'em some Bibles.。
(congregation laughing)。
And so flip open to Luke 19.。
Here's what's going on in the chat, Book of Luke.。
Luke was a doctor.。
Dr. Luke wrote down and recorded the gospel.。
He went around interviewing all these different people.。
He records one of these stories with a guy named Zacchaeus.。
If you grew up like me in Sunday school,。
you know that Zacchaeus was a wee little,。
a wee little man was he.。
That's right, he climbed up in a--。
- [Congregation] A forest tree.。
- Man, I love it.。
Let's go, VBS, represent.。
Let's go.。
(congregation laughing)。
And we're gonna explore his story。
because Zacchaeus was not just a wee little cute story。
from VBS, but was one of the most notorious sinners。
and traitors in all of the Bible, if not the most.。
And so we're gonna explore what that looks like。
as we see Jesus's encounter with him.。
Like Luke said, next week we will kick off。
the dating series that you do not want to miss.。
So Jesus is on his way to Jerusalem.。
This is towards the end of Jesus's last week,。
or right before he's about to start his last week on earth.。
And he chooses to spend time,。
and he interacts with this man.。
So here we go, starting in verse one.。
Jesus entered Jericho and was passing through.。
Now, Jericho is like Beverly Hills at this time,。
like for real.。
Jericho, there's writings from this time that said,。
"Look, you can wear," it's so funny,。
"You can wear linens all year round.。
"You can wear that," that's literally in the literature。
from a historian of this time,。
where it was like Beverly Hills.。
It had this really warm 70 degrees year round.。
Everyone wanted to live there.。
And on top of that, it's the richest city。
in the whole country.。
There was lots of money coming in and out of here.。
Jesus is walking through the city on his way to Jerusalem.。
Here's what happens.。
And a man there, and a man was there by the name of Zacchaeus.。
Now, Zacchaeus was a tax collector, and he was wealthy.。
So the narrative just changed。
for the original audience who read this.。
All of a sudden, they're told not only is his name,。
there's a guy whose name's Zacchaeus,。
they're told something about them。
that would have triggered all kinds。
of emotional responses in them.。
He was a tax collector.。
Now, we think tax collector, we think like IRS,。
and they're still not like,。
"Yeah, that's just what I wanna be when I grow up."。
But we don't have the perception of hatred。
that people would have had。
in the first century for tax collectors.。
Tax collectors, here's what Rome did.。
They'd go to a place, and they'd conquer it,。
and they were ruthless.。
And they basically go, "Hey,。
"we're gonna take you guys' money.。
"And the way we're gonna do it is,。
"whoever has the highest bid for having the position。
"of collecting money gets to be the tax collector."。
So Jews especially hated Romans,。
and they hated tax collectors。
'cause they had betrayed their countrymen.。
And the way that Romans got 'em to do it was they said,。
"Hey, look, if you become a tax collector for us,。
"you can tax as much as you want.。
"You can take money from anybody。
"for any amount at any time."。
They were known of being corrupt.。
They were hated by their people.。
It was a job, a position in society.。
It would be like being the drug cartel in Mexico。
or a mob boss in Italy.。
It was a position that even by being。
in that position or profession,。
you're like, "That dude is not, he has no faith.。
"He has no morals.。
"He is just, he is nothing."。
And so Zacchaeus was a hated man, hated and feared。
because he'd show up on the street,。
and he could take anything he wanted to from you.。
And so we're introduced to who he is.。
Not only that, we're told something else.。
It says he was a chief tax collector.。
So he's not just been in this game。
for a short amount of time.。
He's been in it, he's been ruining people's lives for years。
and years, had totally abandoned any faith.。
And it says this.。
But he wanted to see Jesus.。
But because he was short, he could not see over the crowd,。
so he ran ahead and he climbed a sycamore tree。
since Jesus was coming that way.。
So Zacchaeus runs ahead.。
Jesus at this point in his ministry,。
like this is towards the end, he's like a rock star.。
Everywhere they go, people are like,。
"Dude, that guy raised somebody from the dead.。
"My cousin was dead, he's alive."。
Words getting around, Jesus, everywhere he goes,。
like, "I've seen him."。
He literally, he touched somebody's eyes。
and they could see again.。
So Jesus, people are passing word.。
I think the Messiah's in town.。
I think the Messiah's coming through.。
The Messiah's coming through Jericho.。
A parade begins to form around.。
Zacchaeus shows up at the parade.。
He can't see Jesus because he's too small.。
Now, to be called the word that is used for small。
in this time period would have been roughly around this,。
it would be under five foot, essentially.。
So think like he's Simone Biles height,。
if you know who that is.。
And if you don't, you are not an American.。
And, (laughs)。
she's a gymnast.。
He's like Danny DeVito.。
He's like Danny DeVito being like,。
"Hey, guys, let me in here."。
So he can't see and he runs over and he's like,。
"I wanna see Jesus."。
So he begins to climb up this tree。
and he climbs in this tree, he's watching the parade,。
he sees Jesus, he's walking by,。
he's trying to see this man they think is the Messiah.。
All of a sudden, Jesus stops right in front of the tree.。
Here's what happens.。
When he reached the spot, Jesus looked up and said to him,。
so he's now looking up into this tree。
and he sees a man and he says,。
"Zacchaeus, come down immediately.。
"I must stay at your house today."。
So he came down at once and he welcomed,。
Zacchaeus comes down and he welcomes him.。
Glad that you wanna stay at my house.。
Nobody wants to stay at my house.。
Nobody likes me.。
You wanna stay, Jesus, the Messiah wants to stay at my house?。
And all the people saw this and they began to mutter。
and he said, "He, Jesus, has gone to be the guest。
"of a sinner."。
In this society, to say, "Hey, I'm gonna come have a meal。
"or I'm gonna stay at your house."。
It's not that dissimilar to really in our own society,。
but it's saying, "Hey, I wanna associate with you.。
"I wanna identify with you.。
"I want us to have a relationship.。
"I wanna be friends with you."。
It'd be like if you go into town。
and you stay in whatever town you're from。
or you have friends and relationships with,。
who are you gonna stay with?。
People that you identify, people who you're friends with.。
And they say, "You're staying with Zacchaeus?"。
And you may be thinking like, "Man, this is why I love Jesus。
"because he's always going after the marginalized,。
"you know, the prostitutes, the beggars,。
"all the people that."。
Zacchaeus is not the marginalized.。
He's not a victim of the system.。
He's the dude running the system.。
He's the guy who's ruined other people's lives.。
He is the pimp behind the sex trafficking thing.。
Does that make sense?。
He's the guy that's not like, "Oh, man, I feel so."。
Zacchaeus doesn't feel bad for Zacchaeus.。
Feel bad for what, man?。
All the money that I got?。
The house that I got?。
You feel bad for me?。
Zacchaeus doesn't.。
And the crowd, that's why they respond and say,。
"What is Jesus?。
"Surely this man's not the Messiah.。
"Does he know who he's associating with?"。
And Jesus goes into the home to be with this man.。
It brings us to our first idea from the text。
that when it comes to God's acceptance,。
there are no exceptions.。
Said otherwise, there are no exceptions。
to God's acceptance.。
In other words, there is no person in this room,。
in history, in our world, in any time。
throughout the human race that has ever been outside。
of the boundaries of God's acceptance.。
There's no person who God has looked at and he said,。
"Look, your behavior has placed you outside of the boundary。
"of someone that I would associate with,。
"someone that I wanna be friends with,。
"someone that I accept, someone that I love,。
"someone that I would pursue,。
"someone that I will be around.。
"Before you ever do anything right, Zacchaeus,。
"I'm coming to your house.。
"There are no boundaries on my acceptance."。
Said otherwise, there are no exceptions。
to God's acceptance.。
Like this is what God is like.。
When Jesus, who shows us what God is like, shows up,。
he says, "I'm gonna spend time not just with the prostitute,。
"with the thugs.。
"With the gang leader.。
"Because there's no one who's outrun my love.。
"There's no one outside of the boundaries。
"of my acceptance of them.。
"There are people who may not accept my acceptance。
"and have placed themselves outside of the boundaries。
"of those who I would accept, but it's not coming from God."。
I think a lot of us feel like the crowd would feel,。
I mean, that's why the crowd gasps, right?。
'Cause the crowd is going like, "Dude, are you serious?。
"Do you know who this, this is a bad dude, Jesus.。
"This is not a good person,。
"and you're going to spend time with him?"。
Because they think, like many of us think。
or have thought in seasons past,。
that God's opinion of us or God's love for us。
is based on what we do or based on what we have not done.。
Like we feel like if God's gonna have a relationship,。
if God's gonna like us, honestly,。
one of the biggest lies that is all over our world,。
that God's opinion, God's love for us。
is based on what we do or have done.。
God's love for you is not determined。
by what you've done or what you do.。
He doesn't need you to get your house。
and get your life in order,。
in order for him to pursue, to approach,。
for him to be a part of your life.。
Said otherwise, I think a lot of us think like,。
in order for God to want to be with me,。
I've gotta like make some changes.。
Like I gotta get it together.。
I need to start going back to church,。
that's why I'm here tonight.。
'Cause I'm like, man, if God's gonna like me,。
I'm sure I've just done too many things.。
I've messed up too many times.。
I've made too many mistakes.。
When God looks at me, I just think he's disappointed.。
And the story of Zacchaeus,。
really the message of the gospel。
is that there is no person,。
there's no exception to God's acceptance.。
And you don't have to get it all together。
before he will approach and wants to be a part of your life.。
It's not dissimilar from this.。
My community group meets,。
so I'm a part of this small group.。
We meet once a week, Thursday nights.。
We meet at someone's different house.。
We've been in this season where we've been meeting。
at my house, me and my wife's house on Thursday nights.。
So on Thursday nights, we gather at the Marvin's house,。
we're getting together, it's all great.。
Here's what that means for me.。
And this is just gonna be a free tip。
for all the guys in the room who someday may get married.。
It means that after work on Thursdays,。
we have one objective in our home.。
It is for me to rush home from work, come home,。
and all of a sudden, it's cleaning time.。
We gotta get everything vacuumed,。
we gotta get the dog get off the couch,。
we gotta get things cleaned up, we gotta fold this,。
we gotta put this stuff in this closet,。
we'll deal with this later, we gotta clean things up,。
we gotta light a candle, playing some music.。
Here's some cookies I baked.。
We gotta get everything out, right?。
We gotta get everything in order, and I'm like, why?。
And she's like, because they're coming over.。
I'm like, they're our community.。
This feels inauthentic.。
We don't have cookies every night, I need you to know.。
(laughing)。
Oh man, I'm gonna get in trouble for that.。
And, (laughing)。
oh man, I'm so off track.。
So anyways, I'm going, hey, we do not need。
to get all these things in order.。
In the same way, right or wrong in that situation,。
it's not wrong to wanna get things in order。
for your community group to come over, I guess.。
But, in the same way, I think for many of us,。
as it relates to God, that's how we think about him.。
Like, hey, I think God is here,。
I need to make sure I'm in church,。
and I haven't looked at porn in two weeks,。
and hey, I'm getting out of this relationship,。
and God, I'm trying to tithe a little bit more,。
and I'm trying to do this better,。
and we try to hold everything,。
we try to make ourselves look presentable,。
as though that is going to be the thing。
that allows God to be welcomed in our home,。
or will make God want to be a part of our life.。
And it's just ridiculous.。
And so many of us have bought into that idea,。
where you're sitting in the room,。
and if that's a part of your story,。
if you're going, does God, when he looks at me,。
is his opinion of me, one of like,。
man, I would not wanna be a part of your life.。
The story of Zacchaeus is for you.。
Because the story of someone who did way worse things。
than I promise you you will ever do,。
he financed the murder of his family.。
He financed the murder of Jewish people around him.。
That's what tax collectors did.。
We're gonna pay for the Romans,。
who are the guys killing us all around here.。
We're gonna pay for them.。
And even that person, Jesus says,。
no person is beyond my acceptance.。
The other group in the room that's fallen for a lie,。
that God's opinion of them is related to the behavior,。
is those who think, man, God does love me,。
'cause I'm a good person.。
Like, you know, I followed the DARE program。
when I was growing up, and I saved myself for marriage,。
and I pay my taxes on time, and I try to be nice,。
and I'm a good person, and I read my Bible,。
and I'm not like those crazy people who smoke that,。
and do that, and drink that.。
I'm one of those good people.。
And so God probably is a little bit more pleased with me.。
God is pleased.。
And both of those, whether you think God can't love you,。
or God does love you, because of your behavior,。
you're thinking like the crowd,。
you're not thinking like Jesus,。
and you're not thinking in line。
with how God sees humanity.。
That there is no exceptions to those that God will accept.。
Your performance does not determine his love.。
God's love for you is not determined。
on what you've done or what you do.。
I mean, even, and this, we'll move on.。
Even the fact, I mean, think about this,。
and I know this is so common, so I'm hitting this hard,。
'cause I believe that, like, as much as we're like,。
yeah, it's not, there's part of us that still believes that.。
Even think about the idea of, like, if it was based。
on your behavior, God doesn't see humanity。
like we see humanity.。
Here's what I mean by that.。
Like, you're like, yeah, Thursday and Friday,。
it's been a great week.。
I think God's probably like, hey, that a boy.。
Champ, go get him.。
That that's how God's looking down, and it's like,。
hey, it's been a great week, and I just feel close to God.。
God doesn't see Thursday.。
He sees six years from now all the things。
that you're gonna do between now and then,。
for all eternity.。
And he sees everything in your past,。
and everything you're gonna do next week,。
things you haven't even thought about,。
people you haven't even met yet,。
and the ways that you've treated them.。
And despite knowing all of that, he says,。
I'm gonna die on a cross for you.。
That's how much I love you.。
That's how much my love for you is not determined。
by what you've done or by what you do.。
I sit outside of time.。
I see all of it.。
Don't buy the lie that your behavior puts you。
outside of the boundaries of my acceptance.。
You may put yourself outside if you do not accept。
the free gift that I offer.。
But I'm not the one placing you outside of there.。
And Zacchaeus' message is a testimony.。
There's no exceptions to God acceptance.。
It also tells us something else.。
Here's what happens.。
They go in and they have this meal.。
He's sitting down with Jesus.。
Well, did it last four hours?。
Did it last an hour?。
Did it last a night?。
He said, I'm gonna stay with you.。
Maybe it took all night.。
But Jesus and Zacchaeus have this meal,。
and at some point, everything changes.。
In other words, at some time between verse seven。
and verse eight, which we're about to look at,。
everything changes.。
Zacchaeus changes.。
Here's what happens.。
He sits down at this meal, and all of a sudden,。
at some point in the meal, maybe he goes through the steps。
that happen when you become a Christian.。
There's conviction and then a conversion.。
And it leads to this repentance.。
And here's what he says.。
And the meal stands up.。
Maybe he takes his glass, ding, ding.。
And he says this, Lord,。
here now I give half of my possessions to the poor.。
If I've cheated anybody out of anything,。
I will pay it back four times the amount.。
At some point between verse seven and verse eight,。
he goes and he has this meal, and everything changes.。
That Zacchaeus bumps into Jesus,。
and everything begins to change.。
And how powerful is this testimony?。
I mean, how powerful, this that takes place,。
how crazy is this gonna be for everyone inside of the town。
as they begin to bump up into Zacchaeus,。
who has now met Jesus, his life has been turned around.。
He says, this is Bill Gates saying,。
I'm gonna sell half of everything that I own,。
and I'm giving it to the poor.。
And anybody, this is the cartel leader,。
and anybody that I've wronged,。
I'm not just gonna make up for it by saying,。
hey, look, I stole this from you,。
I'm gonna give it back to you,。
I'm gonna give four times the amount of what I've stolen.。
You ever had something stolen from you?。
Like if your car, like my car's been broken into,。
and they steal your radio.。
This would be like somebody showing up six months later。
on your front porch going, hey, I met Jesus,。
and I brought your radio back, and four other radios.。
That's what Zacchaeus just did.。
He says, look, anybody that I've defrauded,。
whatever I've done, I mean, think about it.。
How powerful is that?。
Hey, honey, Zacchaeus is at the door.。
Act like we're not home.。
I think he knows we're home.。
Yes, open the door, Zacchaeus is there.。
Look, I've stolen from you, I have a tax refund for you.。
The amount that I took, and four times that amount,。
I met Jesus, my life has changed.。
I gave half of everything that I owned to the poor.。
I mean, how crazy and amazing is that story?。
How powerful is that to showcase。
that Jesus can change anybody?。
Which brings us to our second idea from the text.。
There is no mess that he cannot use to be a ministry.。
There's no part of your life, no mess in your life.。
By mess, I mean mistakes, ways that you have just said,。
man, I look around, and everywhere that I look,。
I've blown it.。
There's no part of your story in your past,。
no addiction, no abortion, no anything,。
no relationship, no sexual promiscuity,。
where you're just like, man, I had one partner。
after the next.。
There's no part of your story that God cannot say,。
I'm gonna take that mess, and I am going to make。
a ministry out of it.。
I'm going to use it to be a part of ministering。
to the world around you.。
And Zacchaeus, who, if there was any person。
who had made a mess in his life,。
who had made mistake after mistake,。
who had run from God, all of a sudden encounters Jesus,。
and everything changes, and his mess becomes his ministry.。
I met Jesus.。
I'm giving this away to the poor.。
Even the fact that how much he gives back,。
how much he restores, is four times the amount。
of what was legally required.。
Like, he goes way above and beyond.。
He radically encountered Jesus, and he radically changed.。
Here's what I mean.。
The law said, if you steal, you give exactly back,。
like, if you steal 100 bucks, you give $100 back,。
and 1/5 of what you stole.。
So if you steal $100, you give back 100, plus $20.。
Zacchaeus says, I'm giving back $500.。
I'm going way above the law.。
This isn't about law, this is about love.。
I've met a person who changed me.。
He changed me from a greedy person to a generous person,。
and everything changed.。
There's no part of your story。
that if you and I will allow God to step in,。
he will not use and change to be a ministry for him.。
I mean, honestly, this is how he works all the time.。
So many of the ministries at Watermark。
are people who blew it,。
or people who were sinned against,。
and all kinds of pain was a part of their life,。
and in the midst of that, they turned to God,。
and they said, God, this is where I'm a broken person,。
but I trust in you.。
You're the God who comes into broken people's lives,。
and you change them, you take a mess,。
and you make it a ministry.。
I mean, MEND.。
MEND is a ministry for men。
who've been experienced sexual abuse.。
They've come in, and they just said, look, God,。
this is all the brokenness here, will you use it?。
And a guy who had experienced sexual abuse。
started that ministry.。
Someone Cares was started by a girl who said,。
hey, I had an abortion, it was part of my past.。
I want you to take God, if you will, my mess,。
and will you turn it and use it for ministry?。
All over the place, region, region.。
The people who run region were suicidal,。
alcoholics, had a shotgun in my mouth.。
I met Jesus, and everything changed.。
Every single direction you look,。
all over this place, there's stories。
of people who said, God, I'm bringing you my mess,。
and you're the God who takes messes,。
and you make it a ministry.。
Will you do that here?。
And whatever your story is,。
that's exactly what he wants to do with you.。
Whatever that part of you that you're like,。
man, I just can't, I've never told anybody this.。
Whatever that part of you that you're like, I hate.。
I don't know if it's like this thing,。
that it's alcoholism, maybe it's cutting,。
maybe it's an eating disorder,。
maybe it's same-sex attraction, whatever it is,。
there's no part of your past that God can't take。
and make a platform for his power.。
If we just surrender and hand it over to him,。
and just like in Zacchaeus' case,。
he takes messes and makes a ministry out of it.。
Personally, I've experienced firsthand。
the pain of outside circumstances,。
which maybe that's part of your story in the room.。
You're like, I was, maybe you experienced sexual abuse,。
or maybe you experienced divorce of a parent,。
and maybe you experienced just something in a job。
where you were robbed by somebody around you.。
In my own story, personally, I felt the pains。
and feel the scars of having a father that wasn't around.。
And you know what's weird?。
It's like that over and over again,。
God uses me to have a voice or a microphone。
into the lives of people who, just like me,。
did not have a father around.。
That he takes this father wound。
and through the body of Christ, works in it, heals in it,。
and brings about an opportunity to just say,。
hey, this is what I'm walking through.。
'Cause honestly, all over the room, I mean, 50%,。
we are the fatherless generation.。
And in my story, that's what he's done.。
He's used that.。
There's girls on our staff,。
one of the best ministers of the gospel I know,。
abortion was part of her story.。
She didn't hide it, she didn't hold it back.。
She brought it to the Lord, and everything changed.。
She ministers to women week in and week out。
who have that a part of their story.。
And you may be in the room thinking,。
man, well, I did not have a rebellious stage in life.。
I mean, what is my ministry?。
What is my testimony that I can just say,。
hey, this is how God worked?。
That is the best testimony in the room.。
Like that is, if you're the person who says,。
hey, I was raised in church,。
I never really had that season。
where I ran away from Christ,。
like God in his grace protected me.。
That is the testimony that all across this country,。
really our world, people are praying that people would have.。
If that's your story, you have nothing to be ashamed of,。
you have everything to be proud of。
because God, he didn't need to show you how bitter sin was。
for you to know how sweet it is to know Jesus.。
You just believed it and you trusted。
and experienced the sweetness of God.。
I pray that my son has that testimony.。
Everyone on our staff prays that their children。
would have that.。
Every person in the world's like,。
they're like, man, I wish that I had a crazy testimony。
that was like strippers and drugs and sex and rock and roll.。
But if my children, I definitely don't.。
And the person that I marry,。
I'd like them to be a little more straight laced too.。
And so everyone, nobody's like, oh, that's a,。
if that's your story, you have an amazing testimony,。
the best testimony of God's grace.。
And that's your opportunity to use that microphone。
and say, man, God protected me.。
I've walked with him.。
I've seen and tasted that the Lord is good.。
I don't need to eat vomit or dog poop to know it's not good.。
I believe that it wasn't good。
when everybody else was eating the,。
what a weird illustration, dog poop.。
(congregation laughing)。
And that is your ministry.。
And Zacchaeus ate the dog poop.。
(congregation laughing)。
That's not true at all.。
But whatever your story is in this room and in Fort Worth。
and in Houston and downtown, God wants to take it。
and use it to minister all the parts,。
all the dark parts, all the light parts,。
to minister for him.。
And that's exactly what happened.。
And here's Jesus' response as we close up.。
And Jesus said to him,。
all right, Zacchaeus, we're gonna wait a few weeks。
and see if this really sticks,。
'cause I'm not really sure that this is a genuine conversion。
Senator always said.。
Here's what he says.。
Today, salvation has come to this house。
because this man too is a son of Abraham.。
In other words, this man too。
is a child of God's covenant family.。
This man too is a child of God, you could say.。
For the son of man,。
which is Jesus' favorite title for himself,。
came to seek and to save the lost.。
That in response to Zac, Jesus says salvation has come,。
personifies salvation.。
And it's like it showed up at this house。
and he's a child of Abraham.。
But it didn't come through him trying harder.。
It came through him encountering a person.。
Like the third idea from this text,。
if you take notes, you run it on third point here,。
is that we don't need a second chance.。
We need a savior.。
The message to all humanity,。
the message that Zacchaeus responded to。
and everything changed was not,。
hey, if you try a little harder, Zacchaeus,。
here's a new law, here's a new principle,。
here's a new thing to adopt, then God will accept you.。
He didn't need a second chance or a third chance.。
He needed a savior.。
And when he encountered that savior, which was a person,。
everything changed.。
Another way of saying this is Jesus personifies,。
man, I love this.。
He says salvation came to this house.。
Wait a second, Jesus, you came to the house.。
Salvation came to the house.。
Salvation has a name, Jesus.。
In other words, salvation does not come through a process.。
And listen to me very closely。
because a lot of you in the room。
were raised in denominations or church beliefs。
or maybe religious expressions。
where you were not taught this.。
You were taught that salvation comes through a process,。
that it comes through keeping some sacraments。
or doing this prayer a certain amount of times。
or doing a certain amount of actions that God will love you。
if you do over 50%.。
The Bible teaches salvation does not come through a process.。
It comes through a person.。
That person has a name, Jesus.。
And if you're ever gonna encounter the living God,。
if you're ever going to spend,。
if you're ever gonna spend eternity with God,。
it will not happen through you adopting a process,。
through you keeping a certain number of sacraments,。
through you doing a certain number of good deeds.。
It will happen the day that you encounter a person。
named Jesus, a Savior,。
who didn't come to give a second chance。
so that you could try harder.。
He came to save you and to save me.。
And just like Zacchaeus, who was undeserving,。
who was broken,。
who was anyone that did not deserve God's love,。
it would be him.。
Jesus shows up。
and he says, "I'm coming to your house.。
"I'm coming to change you."。
If you ever have a relationship with God,。
it will happen in encountering the God。
who has come to you in the form of Jesus,。
not going through a process, but meeting a person,。
encountering a person.。
If you wanna have the righteousness that God requires,。
in other words, the Bible teaches that,。
and really all religions teach,。
in order to have a relationship with God,。
you gotta have righteousness.。
What makes Christianity different。
from every other religion is they all teach。
what other religions teach.。
Righteousness is something that we pile on。
and we bring to God.。
And God, I'm gonna do this,。
I'm gonna do a little bit more of this,。
and I'm gonna do a little,。
and here I'm bringing you my righteousness.。
Christianity teaches righteousness。
is something God brings to you,。
that God brings to Christians,。
that it's not something you earn,。
it is something that a person named Jesus。
shows up and delivers.。
Salvation is not in a process,。
but it's found in a person,。
and in encountering that person, everything changes.。
That's when change begins to happen.。
Just like in,。
when I got married,。
all of a sudden, I like encountered this person。
and everything began to change.。
Like I was 25, I got married,。
her name was Callie, still is,。
and it hadn't changed.。
And all of a sudden, like we got married。
and everything changed.。
We went from like, oh, I'm living in this,。
you know, kind of corner of this house。
with like eight other guys,。
to oh, no, we have to have our own place.。
And all of a sudden, not only where I live changed,。
but like the things inside of my home,。
we got these things called decorations.。
And then we got things like called like a candle,。
like what's a candle, you light it.。
And then everything that we,。
the way that I ate changed.。
The way that it's like,。
hey, you can't eat that every night.。
The way that the TV shows that we watched,。
it was like, we're not watching ESPN at all.。
Things around us, and the futon is not coming in our home.。
All these different things on like how I slept,。
where I lived, everything began to change。
because I encountered a person.。
And in the same way, that's what Christianity is.。
It's not a principle.。
It's not you encountering a new law.。
It's encountering a person named Jesus.。
And the day you encounter him,。
the day you begin to walk with him。
is the day that everything changes.。
For some of us in the room,。
and I'll close here and give kind of application,。
and we'll close with a story.。
I think some of you here tonight is your night,。
and you need to accept the acceptance。
that God is offering to you.。
Like some of you in the room, just like Zacchaeus,。
you think that if God's looking down at you,。
either he's pleased with you, like, hey, God does love me。
'cause I've been a pretty good person,。
and I'm trying to do good,。
and I'm trying to keep things together.。
And the message for you tonight is your night。
to accept that you are not a good person.。
The Bible doesn't even teach that good people go to heaven。
and bad people go to hell.。
It teaches forgiven people go to heaven.。
And the only way to get forgiven。
is by putting your faith in Jesus,。
trusting that Jesus on the cross paid for your sin.。
And he offers a free gift to anyone who will accept it.。
That, hey, I will cover, I've covered your sin.。
The check cleared, I rose from the dead,。
showing the payment was more than enough.。
And anyone who will just accept that message。
will have eternal life.。
And the message for you tonight is will you accept it?。
That is the question that remains for all mankind,。
is not has God and would God accept them?。
It is he already has,。
but have they accepted his free gift on the cross,。
dying in their place?。
And tonight is your night.。
Regardless of where you're sitting,。
regardless of where you are, if you're listening online,。
if you're listening in Houston, tonight is your night。
where you don't have to wonder anymore。
how God feels about you.。
You don't have to wonder anymore。
where you're gonna spend eternity with.。
You don't have to wonder anymore。
if you die on your way home tonight,。
which God forbid happen.。
But you can have peace, rest,。
in the fact that Jesus on the cross paid for it.。
If you'll just accept it, what does that look like?。
It means trusting that Jesus paid for your sin.。
That when it comes to everything that you've ever done,。
God, you paid for it.。
You did away with it.。
You paid for it.。
I didn't deserve it.。
I'm not deserving.。
But I need a savior because I'm a sinner.。
And in light of that, despite everything that I've done,。
you loved me enough to pay for it.。
And tonight, if in a moment of faith,。
if you say, I believe that, not just say the words,。
but you believe it in your heart, everything will change.。
Your eternity will change.。
Your life like Zacchaeus will begin to change.。
Many of us in the room have experienced it firsthand.。
And it all begins in that moment of accepting the God。
who's already accepted you,。
who's already reaching out to you.。
A lot of times people will pray a prayer in their seat,。
wherever you are.。
It's not a prayer that saves you.。
It is believing and trusting your savior that saves you.。
And if you're in the room tonight, tonight is your night.。
And we wanna talk to you afterwards,。
if we can lead you through what that looks like.。
Do not leave this room.。
There's no decision that will matter more。
for all of eternity than that one.。
And for those of us in the room who have accepted it,。
we have this amazing opportunity and responsibility。
to now go extend it,。
to extend it to a world that's full of Zacchaeuses。
like you and I, who never deserved it,。
who don't still deserve it.。
And yet God, despite all of that,。
is the God who says, "I'm gonna put the ball back on the tee。
"out of my love for you,。
"despite everything you've done or do."。
That's the God who is there.。
And that's why we take, that's why we do ministry.。
That's why we do everything that we do.。
It's why we're downtown right now.。
We're trying to reach the city of Dallas,。
reach the city of Houston,。
reach a world who is bought into this lie。
that I'm convinced is the best lie。
that Satan's ever told.。
That if you're a good person,。
then God's gonna like you more than if you're a bad person.。
And so just be a good person.。
And it's a lie.。
It's a lie, and to use extreme language, from hell.。
And anyone who buys into it。
will not spend eternity with their Savior.。
And we have a responsibility and opportunity now。
to go extend this amazing free gift,。
this message that God has accepted。
all those who will accept his free gift.。
I'll close here because I think for many of us。
in the room, we have, and what Jesus says to Zacchaeus。
is that you're a child of God.。
And yet all throughout the portraits。
that we've looked at the past few weeks,。
when it comes to the story of Zacchaeus,。
when it comes to the story of really Jesus。
and the narrative we see inside of the Bible,。
I think there's a lot of us that struggle to believe。
that God could be as good as he is.。
That he looks at me and he sees me like a child,。
that God really does look at you right now。
and look at you just like a child, like his child.。
And all the emotions and all the care。
and all the ways that that plays itself out on earth。
only to a times 10 degree。
is the way that God feels about you and me.。
Like here's one example.。
This past week, my son, who's eight months old,。
his name's Crew, he started crawling.。
He's crawling around the house.。
It's awesome because it's a race to see。
versus all your other kids or all your friends。
who have kids the same age who crawls first.。
And so we're winning and that's not true.。
He's crawling around the house.。
He's beginning to do this next phase where he stands up。
and he picks up, he'll pull up.。
It's awesome.。
And he'll begin to like try to move。
and he'll take a step and he'll take a step.。
And all of a sudden he'll like hands off。
and he'll take one step and it's like,。
oh my gosh, look at him, he's walking.。
And we're of course like first time parents, we're freaked.。
Are you getting this on camera?。
Is this on camera right now?。
Are you serious?。
It's not working, pull it up.。
Oh, he fell, oh my gosh.。
So we're trying to document all this.。
It's amazing, we're going crazy.。
Like our son, he's taking a step.。
And then all of a sudden like he'll fall.。
Like it happens over and over and it's like he's fall.。
And you know how to don't go, I'm not like,。
oh man, I can't, unbelievable, man.。
(audience laughing)。
This is, delete the video, this is ridiculous.。
Are you serious?。
It's not that hard, buddy.。
Look at me, I've been doing it for years.。
(audience laughing)。
No, it's not what you do.。
You go, hey, it's okay, it's okay.。
Here we go, are we gonna try again?。
And he takes a step and you're like,。
that's my boy, he just took a step, this is unbelievable.。
When he does like nothing, when he falls on the ground,。
you're like, it was a leaning step, this is amazing.。
(audience laughing)。
The portrait that the Bible tells us about Jesus,。
the portrait the Bible gives us about God。
is that God is not a father who goes,。
unbelievable, really, you fell again?。
You tripped and fell?。
Oh my gosh, it's not that hard.。
Look at me, I'm amazing, I'm perfect Jesus.。
You can't do this.。
But he looks down at his children。
and in the same way that a father just goes crazy,。
like I don't want you to fall,。
I don't want you to get hurt, my son, me,。
I don't want him to fall and hit his head.。
I don't want him to get hurt, all those things.。
But at the same time, my love for him。
doesn't go up and down.。
When he does, I rush and I pick him up。
and I celebrate like crazy.。
He took steps, he's walking.。
He took a step and Jesus, God in a bod,。
God himself, when he looks down at you and me。
at the same way that he doesn't rejoice when you stumble,。
he doesn't get caught up there and he celebrates。
when his children are taking steps and walking with him.。
Some of you in the room, you need to know that。
because you're so caught up and you may think like,。
Zacchaeus thought individually that,。
God, I'm just such a failure.。
I'm so, I fall all the time, God.。
Could you really love me?。
And he looks at you like a father with their child.。
That's the picture we're given.。
In fact, at one point, Jesus even says,。
hey, God's relationship is like a father with a child,。
even though you guys are evil fathers, is what he says.。
He says, God, who is a perfect loving father,。
is like that with his children and he looks at you。
and he celebrates when you take those steps,。
he celebrates when you move in his direction。
and he goes, that's my girl.。
That's my girl who's walking with me.。
That's my girl who's dating the way that I want her to.。
Man, she fell down today, but she's gonna get back up.。
We're gonna pick her back up.。
That's my boy.。
And he looks at you with eyes of a loving father。
and the same hands that reached out to Zacchaeus。
and changed his life,。
the same heart that desires to seek out。
those who are far from God is the same heart。
that is crazy about you。
and wants you to know him if you don't。
and wants you to know how much he loves you if you do。
and really regardless。
and wants you to know how much he celebrates when you walk,。
when you just take a step.。
I'm gonna pray that that would mark our lives.。
The perspective that Jesus gives us。
all throughout this series,。
that we would encounter Jesus。
because everything changes then。
for Zacchaeus, for me, and for you.。
Let me pray.。
God, I can't even get my mind around the idea。
that you love us like a father with their child.。
That you love us enough not just in the ways。
that you don't just love us because we behave, Father.。
You love us despite knowing every way that we haven't,。
every way that we don't,。
so much that you'll say, "I'll die in their place."。
I'm crazy about 'em.。
And I know in this room, there are men and women。
who don't know and don't believe that.。
And so, Lord, would you do what only you can do,。
which is would you grab their heart?。
Would you win in their heart?。
Would you win in their heart?。
For those who don't believe that they need a Savior,。
don't believe that they're as messed up as Zacchaeus,。
would you win in their heart, Father?。
For those who right now see themselves as that Zacchaeus。
and they're going, "God, could you love me?"。
And I know they're gonna come up after this message。
and they're still buying into that lie。
that God's love for them is based on what they do。
or what they haven't done.。
Would you pierce through with the truth, Father,。
of who you are, of your love for us?。
And would you win tonight?。
Would you win more of our hearts,。
win more of those souls that are in this room?。
Father, we love you, we thank you for Jesus,。
our ultimate victory, amen.。
