(Music)。
You guys know what Friday is?。
Yeah, the Olympics, man.。
It's like one person knows and the whole crowd.。
Wow.。
So Friday, just so you guys know, the Olympics, the Winter Olympics starts.。
So a buddy of mine, a close friend of mine,。
was actually in the Torino Games, the Vancouver Games.。
He won a gold, two silver, and two bronze.。
And so what you're going to see on Friday, he and I were talking.。
He was in town this weekend, and we actually talked today.。
And what you're going to see, and you guys know this,。
but it's like the greatest athletes in the world.。
But no one's just kind of going out there for the first time, right?。
No one's just kind of stepping on the skating rink。
or going out there on the halfpipe for the first time, just strapped to snow.。
Could you imagine if Louis Vitto couldn't go,。
and he said, "Hey, JP, would you step in for me this round?"。
Like that would be embarrassing.。
Why would that be so bad?。
Like why would I be so bad?。
Because I can't snowboard, I'll have you know.。
But I can't snowboard like Louis Vitto can snowboard.。
Because Louis Vitto, as you just saw, he's been training his whole life for that moment.。
He's been training his whole life for that moment.。
Like everything has come to that place, the culmination of that halfpipe.。
It started on sidewalks with skateboards, man.。
It started when he was five years old, and he got that first snowboard for Christmas.。
It started when his driveway froze over, and so he goes out there.。
Now, I don't know if he knew when his driveway froze over when he was five,。
and he strapped the snowboard to his feet, and he slid down it.。
I don't know if he knew that that would lead to the Olympics.。
But that's exactly what it did.。
And every single moment of your life is training for some future moment.。
Every single moment of your life is training for some future moment.。
Like I was talking to my buddy, and my buddy's from Houston, Texas,。
and he was in the Winter Games in speed skating, ice skating.。
Like how does a boy from Houston compete in the Olympic Games and win a gold medal for speed skating?。
Well, here's how. I'll tell you how.。
His dad owned a skating rink. Not ice, but roller.。
And so he grew up roller skating all the time, all the time.。
And then when inline skates came out, he bought a pair.。
And he started inline skating all the time, and then he started inline racing,。
and that led to ice skating, and that led to the Olympics.。
Do you see how these moments in his life had led to this reality, this destiny, if you will?。
Hey, guys, your life is no different.。
Like what I see is I spend so much time with hundreds, thousands even, of 20 and 30-somethings.。
We lack this long vision for our lives.。
We focus so much in the moment, and we don't realize that what we are becoming。
is what we now are practicing, what we are now training for.。
And I tell you all the time, like, great husbands and wives don't just happen.。
Great dads and moms don't just happen.。
Great elders in the church.。
It's not like somebody woke up one day, trusted Christ, and was like, "You know, I think I'll be an elder today."。
The Scripture actually warns us against that.。
Don't be quick to lay hands on someone.。
What you are practicing for right now, what you are training for, is what you are becoming.。
And we're moving through this series called "Resolutions."。
And as I think and reflect on resolutions, what's interesting is no one resolves to ruin their lives.。
Like, that would be crazy.。
Like, no one goes at life and is like, "You know what? I really want to be divorced by the time--。
I resolve to be divorced by the time I'm 33.。
I resolve to have a child out of wedlock.。
I resolve to get this STD.。
I resolve to get laid off next week.。
That would be fun."。
No one does that.。
Like, we all resolve towards these great things, but the reality of it is,。
the Scriptures tell us that if we do not gain wisdom, that if we do not gain knowledge,。
we will resolve to ruin.。
That's the crazy thing.。
Ruin just happens.。
It actually happens from not doing the other things, not pursuing wisdom.。
Ruin happens.。
In fact, I'll read to you from Hosea 4, 6.。
It says, "My people are destroyed by their lack of knowledge."。
It says in the Scriptures.。
"My people are destroyed by their lack of knowledge."。
See, no one has to resolve to ruin.。
Ruin is what happens when you don't seek a greater wisdom to live your life from.。
Like, when you just go through life and you just follow your own desires,。
you just kind of go with your feelings and your emotions,。
and you follow your heart into traps.。
Ruin is what happens.。
It's what ensues.。
And so how do we guard our life against it?。
Tonight we're going to talk about resolutions that ruin lives and our need for God's wisdom.。
Resolutions that ruin lives and our need for God's wisdom.。
It is always my preference to take you to a passage of Scripture and exegete that passage。
or teach line by line through that passage.。
It is always my preference to present to you clearly the gospel of Jesus Christ.。
But that is not what I'm going to do tonight.。
Tonight will be like drinking from a fire hose or fire hydrant, if you will.。
So how many points do I usually teach with?。
Anybody?。
Three points, usually.。
Tonight we have ten.。
So buckle up, grab a pen and a paper.。
We're going to go fast.。
Grab what is relevant to you.。
Forget what isn't.。
Feel free to daydream.。
No, I'm just saying don't do that.。
I'll just bring you up here and then we can talk to you about that.。
So week one was resolved to be used through surrender.。
That was week one.。
And then week two, last week, with the cage up here, with the jail cell,。
it was resolved to be free from sin through dependence.。
And so week three tonight is resolved to seek wisdom over ruining our lives.。
We're going to look specifically at what God's Word said.。
We're going to be in the book of wisdom, the Proverbs.。
So you can just write these down.。
We're going to look at why a loving God would give us this instruction.。
And before you leave here this evening,。
we're going to talk about the very things that we should resolve to that won't ruin our lives.。
Kind of the antithesis of the resolutions towards ruin.。
And so we wrapped up last year in Ecclesiastes.。
In fact, we finished the year in Ecclesiastes 12,。
where Solomon just says, "Remember your Creator in the days of your youth."。
He did not say, "Remember God in the days of your youth."。
He did not say, "Remember the Lord Jesus Christ."。
He did not say, "Remember Jehovah in the days of your youth."。
He said very specifically, "Remember that you were created intentionally."。
Like, do you know who best knows how to use an invention?。
Do you know who best knows how to use some creation?。
The one who created it.。
The one who formed it.。
The one who purposed it.。
The one who invented it.。
You were invented very specifically by God the Creator.。
And He says, "Hey, you remember Me when you are young."。
"Remember the reality that I made you and that My instruction is better than yours when you're young."。
When you're young.。
Solomon, who wrote Ecclesiastes, is the wisest man ever to live other than Jesus Christ.。
He also wrote much of what is known as the Book of Wisdoms, the Proverbs.。
They were wrote in majority by King Solomon.。
This is the Book of Wisdom in the Bible.。
A book that is given to us by God, entrusted to us by God.。
It has this collection of writings called the Book of Wisdom or the Proverbs.。
This is what we turn to for practical life application.。
Most of the Proverbs is just direct application.。
Tonight we're going to look at just about a dozen of them.。
What are the resolutions that will ruin your life?。
What are the resolutions that will ruin your life?。
You can ruin your life by, number one, believing that ideas do not have consequences.。
Number one, believing that ideas do not have consequences.。
This is the Proverbs. It's in chapter 1, verse 29.。
It says, "Since they hated knowledge and did not choose to fear the Lord,。
since they would not accept my advice and spurned my rebuke,。
they will eat the fruit of their ways and be filled with the fruit of their schemes.。
For the waywardness of the simple will kill them,。
and the complacency of fools will destroy them.。
That which the complacent fools sow, it will destroy them."。
These ideas that they have, these actions that they sow through those ideas,。
they have consequences.。
Proverbs 15, verse 18 says it like this,。
"The simple believe anything, but the prudent give thought to their steps."。
This is, in the book of Wisdom, the idea of the law of the harvest.。
We see this expounded on in Galatians 6,。
where Paul just writes to the church in Galatia,。
"You will reap what you sow. You sow an action.。
You're going to reap a re-action,。
and it's going to be more than you sowed, usually later than you sowed it,。
but it will be exactly what you sowed."。
This is the law of the harvest that God has wired into creation.。
This is the reality that today affects your tomorrow.。
Who you are today, the way that you pursue God today,。
will define the way that you love God tomorrow.。
We all think we're going to wake up one day。
and just have this deep desire and hunger and thirst。
to open the Bible and just rip through it and memorize it.。
But the reality of it is that will be defined。
by the way that you pursue God today.。
The relationships you have tomorrow。
will be defined by the way you pursue relationships today.。
Yesterday I was asked--I got to speak with a company over lunch,。
and they just asked me, "What was the biggest lie that you believed in your 20s?"。
And I simply said this, number one today,。
the lie that ideas do not have consequences.。
Today I've been married nearly 10 years.。
This week my wife and I were in a discussion--we have an amazing marriage--。
but this week we were in a discussion talking about how。
the things that I did in my 20s had caused problems in our marriage today,。
10 years later, specifically in my marriage expectations.。
In fact, as I meet with and do lots--Monica and I together--。
do lots of premarital counseling and marital counseling,。
I've never met anyone with marriage problems, ever.。
It's all single people problems brought into marriage.。
You see, it's all the problems that were created in their 20s and their 30s。
that they bring into their marriage.。
And so every moment of your life is preparing you for another moment,。
a future moment.。
And so what do we do?。
This year, 2014, this is your year.。
I want you to resolve to walk with God.。
This year, you resolve to walk with God。
and stop pursuing that which is going to bring death to your life.。
The number two way to ruin your life in your 20s,。
if you want to ruin your life in your 20s, is you can live outside your means.。
How do you ruin your life in your 20s?。
You live outside your means.。
Proverbs 22, verse 7 says, "The rich rule over the poor,。
and the borrower is slave to the lender."。
See, I meet with people all the time who are still paying for experiences。
that they had 5 years ago, a decade ago.。
They're paying for buying decisions that they made a long time ago,。
and they can't take their excess and be generous with it,。
as the Scriptures call them to,。
because all of their excess goes to debt service.。
Another thing that happens is, Monica and I do premarital counseling.。
This happens all the time.。
I'm going to do someone's wedding, or officiate the wedding.。
They come into our living room,。
and usually we get to talk with one or both of them。
about the debt they are going to bring into the marriage,。
sometimes six figures of debt.。
And there's usually guilt and shame, like, "Hey, this was mine,。
and now it's going to be ours."。
And those are things that they didn't think about.。
And I'm not trying to guilt you, or shame you, or make you feel bad for that,。
but I am trying to tell you that you need a plan.。
You need to think through, "Hey, how am I going to live below my means?"。
Here at Watermark, we offer a class called Money Wise.。
Strongly, strongly, if you have a lot of student debt,。
or even consumer debt, I strongly encourage you to attend Money Wise.。
And let us help you put together a plan,。
so that you can vigorously try to pay that down,。
so that with your excess you can be generous.。
That you can live below your means.。
That's the resolution, right?。
Resolve to live below your means,。
and vigorously pay off debt,。
so that you might be generous with your excess.。
Another way to ruin your life in your 20s,。
number three, feed an addiction.。
Feed an addiction.。
This is what we talked about yesterday,。
when the sin was in the cage, and you went in the cage,。
and then you're trapped in the sin.。
The proverb says it like this, Proverbs 11, verse 6,。
"The righteousness of the upright delivers them,。
but the unfaithful are trapped by evil desires."。
They are trapped by the desires that they pursue,。
and they get stuck in them.。
1 Peter, chapter 2, says it like this,。
"Dear friends, I urge you, as people who do not belong to this world,。
to abstain from sinful," and listen to this,。
"desires which wage war against your soul."。
There is a war going inside of you.。
You have to make war with that which wages war with your soul,。
these desires that you have.。
Can I just hit you with a simple truth?。
When you feed something, it grows.。
That's the simple truth.。
When you feed something, it grows.。
When you feed an addiction, the addiction gets bigger.。
So when you think, "Hey, one last time,"。
that thing that you're trying to kill,。
it actually gets bigger by that one last time.。
That one last time actually makes it more difficult to kill that addiction.。
And so I think so many people in their 20s and 30s think,。
"Well, when I get married, I'll get right,"。
or "Later in life, I'll stop that."。
I had a friend tell me once,。
"I'll struggle with masturbation my entire life until I'm married."。
And like some of you, that might just make sense.。
You might just be freaked out that I said the N-word.。
[laughter]。
But it's funny because I'm like, "Bro, I've got to break some news to you."。
That which you do when you're single only grows in marriage.。
Those problems that you have, those addictions that you have,。
when you bring someone else into that, those addictions only grow.。
They only get worse.。
Now's the time to fight those addictions.。
Now's the time.。
Now is the time to seek healing.。
So I don't know for you if it's money.。
Money can be an addiction, right?。
Maybe it's sex or pornography, as I mentioned,。
or maybe it's shopping, right?。
You just kind of cope through shopping.。
These are all things that when you feed them, they get bigger, they grow.。
Like none of you, if I said tonight,。
"Hey, how many of you, when you're 42 years old, do you want to be an alcoholic?"。
Like how many of you just would love to be a raging alcoholic by the time you're 42?。
Like my guess is none of you would be like, "Well, I kind of want to."。
The reality of it is that some of you will,。
and I can probably, just through a range of questions, figure out which ones will.。
It's the ones who are giving to drink in their 20s.。
That doesn't go away.。
Like you ever wonder, "Man, how did somebody just become an alcoholic?"。
Well, it's because they loved the bar in their 20s.。
They loved to live there.。
That weekend warrior, "Man, I love to get--。
"Man, let's go get smashed, dude.。
"Oh, it's a long day. You ready to go?。
"Let's go get messed up, man.。
"Man, I just need to forget about this," right?。
Man, those are the folks--you feed that.。
It grows to an addiction.。
All of a sudden, you don't feel normal unless you have your medicine.。
I see it all the time.。
It's just logic. Like I'm not hitting you with anything crazy.。
That's just logic.。
That's how alcoholics happen.。
And I'm not trying to scare you either.。
I'm just hitting you with some very simple, very basic truth.。
This is how this works.。
That is the law of the harvest.。
That what you are doing today is defining who you are tomorrow.。
And so we need to resolve to starve our addictions.。
You want to see something die, you starve it.。
Resolve to starve your addictions.。
This Monday night is regeneration at 630.。
You're invited, whether you struggle from an addiction to shopping,。
an addiction to pornography, sex, an addiction to smoking or alcohol,。
addiction to drugs, whatever it is, addiction to money,。
you can show up this Monday night.。
We would love to chat with you at 630 here at Watermark.。
Another way to ruin your life in your 20s--this is a huge one--。
is to run with fools.。
Number four, how do you ruin your life in your 20s?。
You run with fools. You hang out with idiots.。
Proverbs 13, verse 20 says,。
"Walk with the wise and become wise,。
for a companion of fools suffers harms."。
This truth, this reality is really repeated throughout the Scriptures.。
Bad company corrupts good character.。
This is said throughout the Scriptures, this idea.。
It goes over and over and over.。
And so here's the reality.。
You are becoming who you are hanging around with.。
Fact.。
You are becoming who you are hanging around with.。
All of a sudden they're always sarcastic,。
and then you find yourself always sarcastic.。
They always use this word, it's a weird word to you at first,。
and then all of a sudden you catch yourself using that word.。
They go to these places, you think that's weird,。
you hang out with them,。
all of a sudden you start going out to those places.。
You are becoming who you are hanging out with.。
And it is a force stronger than you.。
You think, "No, I'm going to do ministry to them,。
I won't conform, I'm stronger than that."。
No, you will conform.。
You were wired to.。
It's the way that we were created.。
We were meant to live in this idea of community,。
to be a part of a church.。
It's called Christ's body.。
You were literally designed and developed and invented。
and created for it,。
that you would plug into the church。
so that you would be hands and feet and eyes。
and serve with the gifts that God has entrusted to you for Him.。
That you're using to watch Sex and the City。
with a bunch of crazies.。
Come on.。
Kelly, I'm not looking at you, I was looking past you.。
Just kidding.。
My friend, Kelly.。
And so I know some of you are like, "Wait a minute,。
Jesus hung out with sinners.。
Jesus hung out with sinners.。
Let's think about that for a second, right?"。
Jesus shows up to sinners and He gives them a message.。
And then He takes the ones that believe on that message。
and He begins to pour His life into them.。
The other ones, the ones that are stuck,。
He just keeps going.。
He shows up, He preaches the gospel.。
So you're like, "I've got a ministry to Lower Greenville, man.。
You don't understand.。
I've got this ministry to Uptown."。
Cool, show up in the bar.。
"Hey guys, let me show you.。
Hey, everybody listen.。
Put down the shot of Patron.。
Hey, did you know Jesus Christ died for your sins?。
And He raised the..."。
"Hey, I'm going to go.。
If you want to follow me, you come with me.。
If not, you stay here, right?"。
This is what Jesus did over and over and over again.。
So you want a ministry to Lower Greenville,。
a ministry to Uptown?。
Try that.。
But the reality of it is more times than not,。
they're influencing you, not being influenced by you.。
See, they have a ministry to you too.。
The enemy has a ministry to you too.。
It's to bring you down, man.。
It is to disable your ministry。
so that you would lose your voice.。
And you better believe you're stepping onto a battleground.。
And so you want to ruin your life in your 20s,。
you run with fools.。
And so what do we do?。
We resolve to change our playmates and our playground.。
We say that all the time here.。
People are like, "Wait a minute, JP, man.。
Are you telling me that if I want to follow this Jesus,。
I need to get all new friends。
and I need to hang out in other places?"。
In one word, yes.。
That's what I'm saying.。
That's exactly what I'm saying.。
Okay?。
That is...。
But it's really hard.。
Hey, I did it.。
Trust me.。
I know it's really hard.。
And you know who those friends called。
when they went through that first and second divorce?。
You know who those friends called when troubles hit?。
Who those friends called when they were let off?。
They remembered their old buddy。
who left them for Jesus.。
And I said, "Hey, man, come back.。
Let's talk, 'cause now I have influence.。
I won't be influenced by you.。
I can influence you。
and show you my God."。
Right?。
That's ministry.。
That is what's ministry.。
And so resolve to change your playmates。
and your playground.。
This next one's a big one.。
We're going to elaborate on this。
over the next several weeks。
through a new series called "Battle of the Sexes."。
But number five, if you want to ruin your life,。
carelessly give your heart away.。
If you want to ruin your life,。
be careless with your heart.。
Proverbs 4:23 says, "Above all else, guard your heart,。
for everything you do flows from it."。
The reality of it is, is what you feed your heart。
will determine who and how you love.。
What you put into your heart,。
what you give your heart,。
what you feed your heart。
will determine who and how you love.。
And so feed your heart what is good.。
Feed your heart the things of God.。
People seem so confused to me.。
When I sit with them, and they're like,。
"JP, man, I just don't get it.。
Oh, I'm just attracted to terrible guys.。
Man, I don't get it.。
Like, the Lord just keeps putting me。
in these awful relationships."。
And I'm like, "No, he doesn't.。
You're feeding your heart trash."。
And so, of course, you're going to go after those things.。
From what you watch on TV,。
what you look at on Pinterest,。
what you look at on the internet,。
or whatever that is for you,。
you're feeding your heart corruption.。
Of course, it's going to chase those things.。
You're entertained by the very things Christ died for.。
That's what brings you entertainment,。
the very evil that Jesus gave his life for.。
Of course, you're in dead-end relationship。
after dead-end relationship。
after dead-end relationship.。
Try feeding your heart the Scriptures,。
living in the context of community,。
asking others, surrender to the Spirit for wisdom.。
Don't cheapen your heart, which is very valuable,。
given and entrusted to you by God,。
indwelt by Christ.。
Don't cheapen your heart by giving it away freely.。
I really believe, as I spend more time in the Scriptures,。
I really believe that God created you。
to give your heart away once, one time,。
and that that would happen at the altar,。
that that would happen in a covenant before God.。
I know that's crazy today,。
but I just want you, if you don't believe me,。
just study the history of dating.。
Study when these ideas are popularized.。
Study the increase of divorce,。
the highest rate it's ever been.。
Just study these things.。
I'm just coming at you with logic.。
I really believe the Lord God Almighty created you。
to give your heart away one time to one person,。
and that he would already have their hearts,。
he would already have your heart,。
and so when you enter into that covenant with him,。
he meets you there,。
and there's what the Scripture calls a mingling of souls,。
something that can't be undone,。
something that's permanent,。
and so ladies, don't believe a guy。
if he tells you he loves you,。
but his hand is moving towards anything。
other than a ring box, all right?。
And ladies, some of you,。
let me talk to you one more time,。
like some of you are here,。
and you're mourning a relationship。
that never even happened, okay?。
Like you've given your heart away,。
little close to home,。
you've given your heart away,。
you've given your heart away to a guy。
that doesn't even really know your name, right?。
Via Facebook or Pinterest or something else,。
and it's like you're mourning the breakup。
of a relationship that never existed,。
and I'm challenging you on that.。
Would you guard your heart, please?。
Would you stop letting your heart。
chase after things that don't belong to you?。
And gentlemen, gentlemen,。
would you have more depth and character。
than to simply chase that which is simply pretty?。
Okay?。
What is pretty today won't necessarily。
be pretty tomorrow,。
and there are few things in life。
worse than a contentious wife.。
Okay?。
I'm just telling you,。
there are a lot of beautiful people。
in miserable marriages.。
Miserable, miserable marriages.。
And so would you just have some depth。
and character and consider。
how is this woman going to disciple my children?。
Like will she be a great disciple maker in the home?。
Would you consider some of these things。
and look past just the charm and the beauty。
which the scripture says is deceitful and fleeting?。
And so resolve to be careful with your heart.。
Proverbs 11, 22 says, I love this,。
"Like a gold ring in a pig's snout。
"is a beautiful woman who shows no discretion."。
Yeah, ooh.。
Resolve to be careful with your heart.。
Resolve to be careful with your heart.。
I said too often we're entertained。
by the very evil that Christ died for.。
That's number six.。
You want to ruin your life in your 20s,。
tolerate evil.。
Tolerate evil.。
It's like a frog in water.。
Like the temperature just gets hotter。
and hotter and hotter around us.。
And before we know it,。
we're boiling in the very evil climate。
that we were called to resist,。
but we didn't realize it because we tolerated it.。
Let me show you from the scriptures.。
Proverbs 8, verse 13 says,。
"To fear the Lord is to hate evil.。
"I hate pride and arrogance,。
"evil behavior and perverse speech."。
Proverbs 3, verse 7 says,。
"Do not be wise in your own eyes.。
"Fear the Lord and shun evil."。
Let me tell you like this.。
The only thing necessary for evil to prevail。
is for good people to do nothing.。
The only thing necessary for evil to prevail。
is for good people to do nothing.。
I don't know if you've watched the news lately,。
but it's getting crazy out there.。
And you were given gifts and talents to do good things.。
Like tomorrow night, Luke was telling you,。
like we're gonna talk about pushing back the darkness。
on this idea of pornography, sex trafficking,。
the drug climate in our very own city,。
the prostitution that happens here in Dallas, Texas.。
What are you gonna do about it?。
What are you gonna do about it?。
Right?。
It's getting mad out there.。
The other day I was reading the news.。
I couldn't believe what I was reading.。
It was this article about this fifth grade boy。
who went to the women's restroom,。
wanted the freedom to go in the girls' bathroom。
because he felt like it.。
And a girl that stood up to him and said,。
"Hey, I don't wanna go to the bathroom with you,"。
was accused of hate speech.。
I want you to hear,。
and I'm thinking about my own girls, you know?。
I want you to hear me.。
I am all about doing everything in love.。
Everything in love, consistently in love.。
And I know there's this huge message out there for tolerance,。
but you make sure that you don't buy into tolerating evil。
and wicked things, okay?。
Because all of the sudden, you're going to raise your children。
in a world that is consumed with evil.。
And God's solution is you.。
And God's solution is you.。
So resolve to stand against evil around you.。
Resolve to stand against evil around you.。
Number seven, you want to ruin your lives in your 20s,。
make secondary things ultimate and ultimate things secondary.。
Proverbs 30, verse 8 and 9 says this,。
"Keep falsehood and lies far from me."。
Now listen closely.。
"Give me neither poverty nor riches,。
"but give me only my daily bread, only what I need right now.。
"Otherwise I may have too much and disown you and say,。
"'Who is the Lord?'。
"Or I may become poor and still and so dishonor the name of my God."。
Let me read it to you again.。
Make secondary things ultimate and ultimate things secondary.。
This is a way to ruin your life.。
What the writer of that proverb is saying is,。
"May nothing in this whole entire world,。
"not even my appetite, not even my food intake,。
"not even my wealth or my poverty,。
"may nothing distract me from God Almighty."。
And so if you want to leave here and you want to pray a prayer over your life,。
pray this one,。
"Lord, remove anything in my life that would distract me from you."。
It's a really scary prayer.。
In fact, it causes you to audit those relationships。
and that job and those things and that status and that stuff.。
"Lord, remove anything in my life that would distract me from you."。
Anything.。
"Search me, O God, and reveal in me my anxious ways.。
"For you know when I sit and when I stand."。
You know everything.。
So let me say this.。
I don't know what you're involved in.。
Probably lots of good things like working out, getting fit.。
That's a great thing. Resolve to be fit. Resolve to work out. It's good.。
Your work.。
I hope Christians have a really strong work ethic.。
I hope Christians are some of the best employees out there.。
So your work, that's a good thing.。
Your relationships, your boyfriend/girlfriend, great thing.。
I'm glad you have a boyfriend or a girlfriend。
as long as you're honoring God in that relationship.。
I hope it leads to marriage. I hope I get to do it.。
Celebrate that with you.。
Those are all good things.。
Your hobbies.。
Your sports.。
But here's the problem.。
If you know more about Russell Williams。
than you do about Jeremiah, there's a problem.。
Some of you are like, "Who's Jeremiah?"。
He wrote a book. You should read it.。
If you know more about Pinterest。
than you do about Ruth,。
we've got an issue.。
Let's be honest. Your priorities are jacked up.。
God's not first. Let's just be honest.。
Just say, "Hey God, I love you. I love you like second, third, or fourth."。
Just under Pinterest. Just like Pinterest and you, God.。
That's how I love you.。
Just be honest about it.。
Just shoot God straight. He deserves you to shoot Him straight.。
You want to ruin your life.。
You prioritize other things above God.。
Matthew 6:33 says, "Seek first His kingdom and His righteousness。
and all these things will be added to you."。
The first commandment, Jesus says,。
"Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength.。
And the other is like it. Love your neighbor as yourself."。
We prioritize God and the things of God.。
Christianity and the Bible is not just a good idea.。
You were raised in Dallas, the Bible Belt,。
so the culture says, "Be a cultural Christian."。
It's just a good idea. Do what you want and go to the porch.。
Live how you want and show up at church every now and then.。
That was never the intention. This was your life.。
The gospel was the road that you traveled on, the car that you traveled in,。
the force that pushed you down that road.。
It was everything in your life.。
It changed you from the inside out.。
The gospel has always meant change.。
It has always meant new creation.。
That your sins went on Jesus Christ and He resurrected from the dead.。
And because you've trusted in that, you have new life, new desires.。
You want new things.。
You live for something greater than you.。
And so God is ultimate.。
And so resolve to keep God and the things of God above everything else.。
Above all other things.。
2014 is your year.。
This is the time. I don't care if you tell me you've been a Christian your whole life.。
You haven't been, first of all.。
It happened at some point. I've read that.。
But I don't care if you've been a Christian for a long time.。
This is your year.。
To put God first and ultimate above all other things.。
You want to ruin your life. This one is a popular one.。
Believe that this life is all about you.。
You want to ruin your life, number eight.。
Believe that this life is all about you.。
Proverbs 16, 18, just as this famous verse that says,。
"Pride goes before destruction, a haughty spirit before the fall."。
See what happens when you believe that this life is about you.。
You begin to use people. People become strategies that you can use for your own personal advancement.。
Let me tell you something. God was not created for you.。
You were created for God.。
And you will not experience life to the fullest until you live your life fully for Him.。
I get to see it all the time. I get to see that incredible.。
I have a front row seat for this life change of these young adults that come in and they're just lost in uptown.。
And they're living for the world. And they're living for Dallas and stuff and status.。
And they come in and the Holy Spirit just grabs their heart.。
And then all of a sudden they start to live for God.。
And they start to use all of their gifts and their talents.。
There's just this makeover that happens in their life.。
And their friends are like, "What has happened to you?"。
"Man, I'm interested in that thing that changed you."。
And this ministry is just born around them. It's incredible to see.。
It is incredible to see.。
This is not a movie all about you.。
This is not a movie and you're the star.。
This is a movie that started at the beginning of the beginning and will end at the end of the end.。
And it's all about God. And you have this tiny little cameo.。
And you're forgotten before the screen changes.。
There's been a lot that have gone before you and a lot that have gone after you.。
It's not about you.。
In fact, the only part of your life that matters is what you did with an eternal God.。
That's the truth.。
The other day we went to dinner.。
And Finley, my little now five-year-old, we walk into this Mexican restaurant.。
And there's these, oh man, what do you call them, pinatas.。
There's these pinatas all over, like hanging from the ceiling.。
And I watched her and she kind of walked in curiously and she kind of looked around.。
And she's like, just her eyes get real big.。
And I don't know what she's thinking. I never know what she's thinking. She's crazy.。
But her eyes get real big.。
And she's like, Daddy.。
And I'm like, what baby girl?。
And she goes, Daddy, how did they know my birthday was coming?。
You know?。
She thought that they had decorated for her, you know, for her birthday that was coming in a week.。
She's like, how did they know?。
And it's cute when you're five.。
But like some of us, we move into situations where we're like, oh man.。
Everything exists for me.。
Everybody is at my disposal.。
Everyone exists for my own personal advancement, my own personal pleasure, my own personal satisfaction.。
If I walk into a room, everyone's talking about me.。
And when you become ultimate in your life, you become dysfunctional.。
That's the truth.。
You become relationally dysfunctional.。
And so stop and start taking captive those thoughts, those conversations you're having in the car.。
You're replaying the tape and you're wondering what they're thinking about you and why did they say that。
and why did he comment that way on my Facebook and I just keep thinking about it.。
And why can't I stop thinking about it?。
Just stop.。
It's not about you.。
God's doing something bigger than you.。
You're here for just a little while.。
And so with your everything, worship him.。
It's really all about him.。
And so resolve to give your life away.。
If you want to pray a prayer like John the Baptist where he says, "I pray that I would decrease and that you would increase,"。
resolve to give your life away.。
How do you ruin your life in your 20s?。
Number nine, live for immediate gratification.。
Live for immediate gratification.。
Reject this idea of delayed gratification.。
Proverbs 21 verse 20 says this, "The wise store up choice food and olive oil.。
The wise are able to wait, but fools gulp theirs down.。
Fools follow their appetite to destruction.。
Fools take whatever they want in the moment."。
And so the problem with that is most great things in life are worth waiting for.。
Very few great things in life come to us quickly.。
And so you've got to ask yourself, "Do you want an amazing marriage or do you want an amazing night?"。
Because if you're constantly chasing amazing nights, amazing marriages probably is not available to you.。
That might not be an option for you.。
Why? Because you are becoming what you are training for right now.。
Esau gave up his birthright for a cup of soup because he was hungry.。
He followed his appetite and it cost him.。
Would you learn to suppress your appetite for destruction?。
Would you learn to stand strong and lean in God and depend on Him and withhold that which you want in a moment for something greater?。
Resolve to hold out for God's best.。
Resolve to hold out for God's best.。
And number 10, a great way to ruin your life.。
A fantastic way if you want to ruin your life in your 20s or 30s is to avoid accountability.。
Avoid accountability.。
I love this Proverbs. It's so straightforward. It says this,。
"Whoever loves discipline loves knowledge, but whoever hates correction is stupid."。
You've got to love God, right? I'll just break it down for you.。
And so the only reason that we avoid accountability is because we don't want to be corrected.。
We don't want to shine a light on our sins and have someone tell us that we should stop doing that which we want to do,。
that which we feel like doing, that which our appetite has taken us toward.。
We just want to go through life and continue to do.。
And we think that one day we're going to wake up and it's just going to be fixed.。
We think that one day that all of these actions that we have given ourselves to, they won't have consequences, these ideas.。
And the reality of it is you can't do any of this.。
This was a big do message. Do this, do this, don't do this, do this, don't do this.。
But do you remember the other two messages? If you don't, please catch up.。
If you don't remember those other two messages, you can't do anything.。
You strenuously contend with the power that Christ so powerfully works out in us.。
And so what is the right response? It's dependence.。
But as you depend on God, you need accountability. You need to plug into a church.。
If you are here and you think in 2014 that's going to be the year that I really follow Jesus, but I'm not going to join a church,。
you're joking yourself. You are kidding yourself.。
That is a joke, man. And you think, "Wow, who needs to really be a part of the church?"。
You know, it's me and God. It's a personal thing.。
Study church history.。
That was never, ever, ever God the Creator's intentions.。
It was always that you would plug into a body and be a hand or a foot or an eye。
and serve within that body and then be surrounded by other Christ followers.。
And you say, "Hey, follow Christ together." And you would confess sin to them in a James 5, 16 kind of way.。
And if they would restore you, then they would help you.。
Let's just look back over real quick what we just have committed to doing.。
You think that you want to resolve to walk with God this year, to live below your means this year.。
You think that you want to starve addictions this year, to change your playmates and your playground this year,。
to be careful with your heart. This is the year, God. I'm going to stop giving my heart away.。
To stand against the evil around you this year, to prioritize the things of God above all other things。
and to give your life away and to hold out, to wait for God's best.。
But you're going to do it alone? No, you won't do it alone.。
You won't do it alone. You can't do it alone. You will not succeed.。
We went out on the street and just asked a bunch of people their resolutions.。
And two things stood out to me. One, no one resolved to ruin their life.。
No one resolved towards anything that was negative.。
Everyone says, "Man, I want great things for me."。
But they all also had the wherewithal to know that they could not do it alone.。
Would you just watch this with me right now? Just watch this short video.。
Hey, PORCH, it's Annetta. This is week three of resolutions.。
So I thought we should get a little man on the street perspective.。
My New Year's resolution is to get back into running.。
I really don't have one because people don't really go through with it.。
To quit smoking this year.。
I don't actually.。
No, I don't have one.。
To start painting more.。
To read the Bible daily.。
A road trip per month.。
I do not have one.。
It's really original, but probably to work out more.。
Get healthy, lose weight, work out a little bit more.。
Or did you have one last year?。
My New Year's resolution last year was to learn a new type of dance.。
And I didn't do it.。
For the past three years I haven't had one, so I don't think I need one.。
To go to the gym and it didn't work.。
I don't think so. Just forget to make them.。
No.。
I did, working out, and it didn't last very long.。
It was to eat healthier, and no I did not.。
I did not.。
No, I shy away from New Year's resolutions.。
No, I tend to be more realistic and not set resolutions, so I don't disappoint myself.。
Not so much. I didn't keep it.。
What do you think helps people succeed in their resolutions?。
Definitely community.。
Having accountability.。
People around you that are going to help you stay on track and keep you focused.。
Definitely community.。
Telling it to somebody else so they can keep you accountable.。
Someone to hold you accountable.。
I probably did best when I had others right there next to me.。
So the two things to say, hey, I can't do it alone, right? I need help, right?。
There's one more. There's a bonus in 11.。
If you want to ruin your life in your 20s, believe that this message is for someone else.。
Believe that God made a mistake by having you here instead of them here.。
It's not for someone else. It's for you.。
I was talking to my friend a while ago, Chad, gold medalist.。
He was kind of walking me through the journey, and he said everything in his life had prepared him for those moments,。
those platforms, if you will, the walking onto the rink, sitting there as the guy says, "On your mark, get set."。
He had been training his whole life for that moment.。
And in Torino in 2006, he got to come home.。
I mean, he was America's golden child.。
He got the gold, the silver, and the bronze, and all attention was on him.。
And so he trained for four more years for Vancouver 2010.。
And he went back to Vancouver 2010.。
All he wanted was another gold.。
Like there was all of this talk.。
He was picked the favorite, I believe, for two races.。
He was supposed to come back with two gold medals.。
And he didn't.。
He got one more silver and one more bronze.。
And we were chatting just before I walked down.。
And he said, "Man, but it didn't matter.。
Like everybody kept -- every news reporter shoved a microphone in my face and said, 'Are you disappointed?'"。
"Are you disappointed?"。
I'm like, "Disappointed? I mean, yeah, I guess I'm let down.。
But listen, I've got something greater."。
Because two months before Vancouver, my friend Chad had placed his faith in Jesus Christ.。
And he began to live his life for something greater than a gold medal.。
And every moment in his life prior to that has brought him to a place where he was on his knees before an almighty creator God saying,。
"You are God and I am not.。
And one day, much sooner than I think I'm going to be with you forever and ever and ever,。
would you please stretch my imagination beyond my own little world so that I can live my life for you."。
So that today, the compilation of all of Chad's moments are training him for one moment where he would meet Jesus Christ face to face.。
He would say, "God, I'm not God, but you are.。
You are God."。
And that's going to happen for each of you.。
For each of you.。
And all these little moments that we get to share together,。
the only thing that really matters in them is what we do with that moment.。
What we do with Jesus.。
What we do with our belief about God.。
The fact that we're here learning from the scriptures right now.。
God, I pray that we would become less.。
That you would become more.。
Father, would you help us to resolve to live our lives fully and radically for you.。
God, would you help us to know you and to make you known.。
Lord, we just sing of your praises.。
We sing of who you are.。
Would you stir our souls and remind us.。
Would your spirit work inside of us.。
And for those of my friends that are here that don't know you,。
would your spirit pursue and crack open their hearts and would you introduce yourself to them.。
I sat down and David goes, JP, it's Russell Wilson.。
I said, hey, bro, I know Jeremiah, man.。
What do I need to know about Russell Wilson, you know.。
What do I know about Russell Wilson.。
I know he knows my Jesus.。
I read that.。
I read that.。
Some of you here don't.。
I know you wake me up at night.。
I know God is sovereign.。
I do, but I know that he's no accident that you're here.。
And let's not talk about ruining your life.。
Let's talk about ruining your afterlife.。
Your life after life.。
He's provided a way.。
You don't have to do anything.。
Nothing.。
But trust in him.。
Let his spirit do the rest.。
What do I mean by that?。
I mean you came into this place.。
You've done some terrible things.。
I understand that's the terrible things you've done.。
It's just the fact that you think that you're good enough.。
You're not.。
He sent his son, Jesus Christ.。
Truly he walked this earth.。
The most polarizing character in the history of the world.。
His book is bestseller year after year.。
And also in the history of the world.。
He split time in half.。
2014 years ago by showing up on the scene.。
A baby in a manger.。
Came to die.。
So that everything that you've done.。
Every bad relationship that you've pursued.。
Every stupid thing you've said.。
All the idols that you've worshipped.。
He was like I love her too much.。
I love him too much.。
Put that on me God.。
Father you put those things on me.。
I will die in their place so that they can be with you forever.。
You want to ruin your life after life?。
You reject that.。
Reject that.。
Pray that you wouldn't.。
I pray you trust in it.。
That you give your life to it and that you'd live for it.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
