We honor Americans like Jim Downing, a gutter's mate, first class of the West Virginia.。
Before he raced to the harbor, his new bride pressed into his hand a verse of scripture.。
"The eternal God is thy refuge, and underneath are the everlasting arms."。
As Jim fought to save his ship, he simultaneously gathered the names of the fallen so that he could give closure to their families.。
He said, "It was just something you do."。
Well, the reason that we start with that clip is because tonight we have a really unique opportunity where we're going to get to hear from Lieutenant Jim Downing,。
who is a 103-year-old, the second oldest surviving member of those who are at Pearl Harbor.。
And he is a guy that, and you guys can welcome him in a second, served 24 years in the United States Navy,。
served an additional 30 years in a ministry called Navigators.。
If you've gone through a quip disciple, you've experienced just the downline of the faithfulness of this man.。
He was born in 1913, which means he was five years old when World War I ended,。
which means he was a teenager when Babe Ruth called his shot and Murderers Row and the 1927 Yankees performed the best offense in baseball they've ever seen.。
It means he was 17 when the Great Depression was in full swing.。
It means he was 28 years old as a lieutenant in the Navy as he went out when Pearl Harbor was struck.。
He was at Pearl Harbor, and like Obama just spoke of a month and a half ago, that he was there collecting the names of those bodies of men who were dying all around him,。
memorizing their names so that their families could go back and tell them about it.。
It means we're going to hear from a guy who, when he was 55 years old, saw a young reverend from the state of Alabama named Martin Luther King say, "Have a dream."。
It means a man who was 50-some years old when he saw JFK assassinated, a guy who saw the Cold War,。
he saw the Berlin Wall fall when he was in his 70s, a guy who saw the creation of the iPhone when he was almost 100 years old,。
a guy who saw the first African-American president elected when he was around 100 years old,。
a guy who saw a 97-year-old Justin Bieber enter the scene.。
And all those believers in the house.。
But Lieutenant Jim Downing is not just a man.。
The reason why we're getting a chance to interview him is not because he's just spent a lot of time on earth breathing.。
It's because he spent a lot of time on earth following Jesus.。
In 1935, he was led to faith by Dawson Trotman. If you know who Dawson Trotman is, he is a giant in the faith.。
He was one of the founders of Navigators, and Lieutenant Downing was one of those founders with him who was discipled by Dawson and really carries that legacy.。
We all have benefited in many ways, stand on the shoulders of giants like Lieutenant Downing.。
He's one of very few men on the planet and in history who have gotten to walk with God for this many decades.。
So will you guys welcome a guy who has served our country and has really served the body of Christ for decades and decades to this age, Lieutenant Jim Downing.。
[Applause]。
[Applause]。
Man, I love it.。
Well, Lieutenant Downing is going to share some of his story, and we'll dive in, but thank you for being here.。
It is my great privilege. Thank you so much.。
I'm here as a veteran, and any tribute you pay to me, I accept on behalf of the 21 million of us that are living today, that many veterans.。
But as a senior citizen, I think I have the right to ask for some special privileges.。
I want to be real comfortable. I'm not quite comfortable in this angle.。
So, David, if you would take my hand, this hand like this.。
If you live to 103, you get whatever you want.。
And then have somebody else come up to help me on the other side.。
Sam, you get.。
Now, if you'll face the audience, take your left hand, take my right hand here, and then both of you, pull me forward about six inches.。
Okay.。
[Laughter]。
I just want to apologize on behalf of all of us.。
[Laughter]。
Oh, man, I love it. You just got pranked.。
Where is Ashton Kutcher at?。
We're punked.。
Man, I love it.。
Hey, on behalf of all of us, we're so thrilled that you're here and so excited.。
JP, as you guys know, JP, if you've been with us for any time, he was so sad to get to miss tonight because he's caring for a family that just has the flu running through it.。
But our whole team has been so excited about just the gift of having you be with us.。
And so we're going to have him share some of his story and then have a time for just a little bit of Q&A in his life.。
So with that said, take it away.。
Thank you.。
I should have warned you that I'm very fragile at my age to face handling of fear.。
And regenerative.。
You just grow those things back.。
[Laughter]。
I mentioned that I'm here on behalf of all the veterans.。
There are 21 million of us that have become veterans in the last 75 years.。
Of that number, 1.4 million are disabled.。
250,000 of that number suffer from post-traumatic distress disorder.。
39,000 are unemployed, living on the streets, homeless.。
And 22 per day commit suicide.。
That's the picture of our veteran community.。
But I can already mention the living veterans without shedding a tear for the number of missing in action.。
The number is shocking.。
83,000 are missing in action as a result of our conflicts in the last 75 years.。
I would like to kind of recreate the 75th anniversary, which occurred December 7, 1941.。
I want to show you some pictures.。
Then I want to tell you the lessons that I learned from Pearl Harbor, both personally and nationally.。
And then David and I are going to have a little discussion here about it.。
As I talk to students, I like to ask the question, why did the Japanese bomb Pearl Harbor December 7, 1941?。
If we could have the next slide here.。
I don't know how to point this to get the next one up.。
As a sophomore in high school, I had a good relationship with my principal.。
And he asked me one day, do you know what causes war?。
I didn't have an answer.。
But he gave me a one-word answer and said greed.。
In every generation there has been somebody with a greed for power and for additional territory.。
Next one.。
Hitler believed in German racial purity, an Aryan master race destined to rule the world.。
In 1914, a geopolitical scientist by the name of MacAndre divided up the world like this.。
He said the world is in two parts.。
One he called the world island, which was the three continents of Asia, Europe, and Africa.。
He called this the world island.。
And the hemisphere we live in was an outlying island.。
Now, MacAndre, I think I'm going to pronounce his name wrong the first time.。
Put forth the theory that the person who controls the heartland of Germany dominates this immediate sphere of influence.。
And that the power that dominates the world island dominates the world, including the outlying islands.。
So his mission was to take over the world using his industrial power in Germany as a base.。
The next one we have here.。
You can see what they thought of us.。
I'm not going to read every part of this.。
Just jump ahead to it.。
Next one, please.。
You can see what Japanese children were taught.。
That it was their own divinely mandated destiny to rule the rest of the world, inferior and impure races.。
So pride, greed, two leaders determined to rule the world.。
The Japanese war colleges taught that in order to rule the world, you had to rule China.。
They controlled a great part of China.。
So they said that's our destiny, take over the world.。
That was the 1920s and '30s in which I grew up.。
I'm going to jump ahead to Pearl Harbor.。
Next one, please.。
The Japanese had a hundred-year plan for ruling the world.。
First phase was to exploit Manchuria for manpower and needed resources.。
They did this in 1939.。
The real aim in World War II was to secure the southern resources area of Indonesia, Malaysia, and so forth for much needed resources.。
The European nations and the U.S. had cut off their supply of oil.。
They had to have Indonesia to get oil because they only had a 15-month supply on hand.。
Phase three then was to build a military machine capable of conquering the entire world.。
So they came to Pearl Harbor on December 7th to accomplish this purpose.。
Now on the map here you can see that --。
get it to penetrate the beam there.。
Where have I got it, David?。
I think it's down at the bottom.。
There it goes.。
Here, I can put it on.。
Do you see it?。
To the left.。
Up.。
Man, this thing.。
They just -- they don't make good laser pointers anymore, I'm telling you.。
Here, you want to see if I can hit it if I'm closer?。
Yeah.。
Well, sometimes I find it --。
It's there.。
They just for whatever reason can't see it.。
I can see it.。
I'm totally kidding.。
I don't think it's close enough.。
But if they look right over here to the right underneath Pacific Ocean, that's Pearl Harbor, right?。
Yes, well, sometimes it can't penetrate the beam up here.。
So apparently this is what I'm doing.。
Oh, I bet that's it.。
Can that one?。
This one?。
That's the one Shane was talking about.。
But looking to the right about the center, you'll see the Hawaiian Islands.。
Down in the lower left, just above Australia, Indonesia.。
The Japanese wanted to take resources from Indonesia back up to Japan.。
But to get resources there, they had to pass the Philippines.。
They had armed services in the Philippines.。
The Japanese knew that our plan to defend the Philippines was to move our battleships out in certain places.。
Hey, you got it.。
So the reason they came to Pearl Harbor was to neutralize the battleships so they could get on with their conquest of the Philippines.。
On December 7, 1941, starting at 8.30 in the morning, they made eight attacks, not just one.。
And the attack on Pearl Harbor was not the largest airwise.。
They used 360 airplanes in Hawaii.。
They used 500 airplanes and destroyed every airbase we had.。
That was their goal in World War II.。
Now for some pictures.。
This is what Pearl Harbor looks like.。
Can that beam penetrate?。
Pearl Harbor, you can see, has a narrow inlet.。
But on the morning of December 7, there were 164 ships in port, including a small craft and Coast Guard.。
Next one.。
That's the way Pearl Harbor looked as you can see there, October 30, 1941.。
Let's move ahead kind of rapidly with these.。
That's what the battleships looked like.。
The Bergman in row was my home for nine years.。
I often boasted that I had a rich uncle, and he gave me a $45 million home.。
And I occupied that for nine years before Pearl Harbor was a time.。
That's what the West Virginia looked like, my ship sailing under the Brooklyn Bridge.。
After it was sunk, hit by nine Japanese torpedoes on December 7, it looked different.。
Next picture.。
Well, these, I won't take time to enumerate these.。
These are the planes that came in, the first wave.。
Let's move ahead to the next slide and see what happened then.。
Well, I mentioned there were eight attacks.。
You can see quickly that's where the others were that day.。
Within three or four months, the Japanese had occupied every one of these places.。
They attacked on December 7.。
Okay, next one.。
There's the attack they made on the Philippines, practically destroying every airbase that we had.。
Next one.。
That's the destroyer show that was in a floating dry dock and got a direct hit.。
One less destroyer we had after that.。
Next one.。
That's the way my proud ship looked.。
Another picture of it.。
A battleship this size is the length of two football fields.。
Next one.。
That's what she looked like after taking nine aerial torpedoes.。
Pearl Harbor is a shallow harbor.。
Where we were moored was only 40 feet deep.。
The battleship draws about 35 feet.。
So my ship sunk in the mud pretty quick after taking those nine torpedoes.。
Next one.。
Of the aircraft on Oahu, you can see that only 71 were left operational after the attack out of nearly 400 we had.。
Next one.。
Very seldom you see the bottom of a battleship.。
That's the battleship Oklahoma, which was directly in front of us.。
Next one.。
The ships were tied up to a Ford Island in the middle of Pearl Harbor.。
They destroyed all the aircraft at that air base that morning.。
Next one.。
Battleships are fireproof by nature.。
But we had thick coats of paint.。
Ships looked wonderful.。
Had about three quarter inch of paint.。
So the paint caught fire.。
Each battleship carries about 1 million gallons of crude oil to fire the boilers.。
And the oil on the fire caught -- went aflame.。
That's the reason for all the smoke.。
Next one.。
The battleship Pennsylvania was in dry dock.。
You can see that she wasn't set on fire, but she was damaged in dry dock.。
Next one.。
You can see the Arizona on the right-hand side is burning from a bomb that went into the inner part and set her ammunition on fire.。
Next one.。
There's the Arizona.。
It burned like a volcano for three days after.。
Next one.。
You can see the oil on the water.。
Oil is lighter than water, so it came to surface, caught on fire.。
Pretty soon we who were there were soaked in oil.。
It took me three weeks to get the oil out of my hair.。
Every day I thought I had it all, but I would find a big spot on my pillow that night.。
Next one.。
Now, I find out that the folks I talk to your age are more interested in my emotions than the facts of history.。
So I'm asked, well, how did I feel?。
What did I think about?。
I can boil it down to five words.。
The first emotion was surprise.。
In that day there was no radar that was acceptable, no satellites.。
All we knew in those days is what we saw with the eye.。
We had airplanes for observation, but they were very limited in what they could do.。
So what a surprise to see these 360 planes coming in waves and attacking us.。
Actually, the president and the Japanese peace ambassador were scheduled to have talks on Monday.。
We thought we could rest for another weekend and nothing could happen until the peace talks broke out.。
Next thing that I felt was fear.。
The first Japanese plane I saw come flying low and slow.。
When he got it to the right angle, he banked over.。
The machine gunner cut loose.。
He didn't bang far enough, so it went over my head and dug a trench behind.。
I was afraid the next pilot would be more accurate in shooting at me.。
Then the next thing I experienced was anger.。
I felt there was no excuse for our military and political leaders allowing us to be caught unprepared like that.。
It took a while to get over that anger.。
I can tell you I'm not over it yet that this was allowed to happen.。
Next thing was resolve.。
If I ever got in a position of authority, this would never happen.。
I had the opportunity to practice that in the Cold War a few decades later.。
Finally, the last thing was pride.。
We had over 2,200 military killed in about the first 11 minutes that morning.。
But the survivors were real heroes.。
Without leadership, without training, everybody instinctively did the right thing.。
Without any plan to protect themselves, whatever needed to be done, that needed to be done.。
In my estimation, all of our veterans are heroes.。
If the Department of Defense ever decides to give out the recognition that is earned,。
they'll have to buy a copper mine in Utah to mold the metals,。
a cotton field in Texas to weave the ribbons,。
and a dye factory in Hong Kong to color the ribbons.。
Everybody deserves it.。
Everybody is a hero.。
Everybody did the right thing.。
So I felt great pride.。
Now, what did we learn from Pearl Harbor?。
The first lesson, I think, was expressed by President Ronald Reagan in 1983.。
His philosophy was peace through strength.。
He coined a phrase that everybody should memorize,。
and that is that weakness invites aggression.。
The Pearl Harbor Survivors Association has a motto, "Remember Pearl Harbor.。
Keep America strong.。
Keep America alert."。
I saw a "No Parking" sign the other day.。
It said, "Don't even think about parking here."。
I want to see America so strong that no ambitious dictator or government will even think about attacking us.。
So to this generation, I say to you, who are the leaders, the taxpayers, the voters, the legislators,。
keep America so strong in cyberspace, in space, in the sky, on the ground, on the sea, and under the sea,。
so strong that no dictator will even think about attacking us.。
We veterans don't want another war.。
We lay on you the charge to keep us from it by keeping us so strong that nobody will dare risk attacking us。
because of the fearful retaliation that will happen if they do.。
Now there's a little bit about Pearl Harbor.。
How about me personally that morning?。
Well, the attack lasted almost three hours.。
The Japanese planes came in waves.。
Between the first and second wave, there was a gasoline tanker in the harbor。
that had a capacity of six million gallons of aviation gas.。
The Japanese sent in 75 fighters.。
And when they saw this ship out there, they were like swarms of bees coming to machine gun it.。
They only had machine guns and light bombs.。
I was sure in one of these attacks that their bullets were going to penetrate a vulnerable spot and I'd go up.。
My conversation during that time was, "Lord, I'll be with you in a minute."。
I fully expected that I'd never round out 60 seconds more.。
That went on for almost 30 minutes.。
But you know, I had the deepest peace I've ever had in my life after that happened, as that was happening.。
I think it was anticipation, "Lord, I'll be with you in a minute."。
Now out of that, I've kind of created a new doctrine.。
I don't know whether it's going to stand or not.。
You know, the Bible, Psalm 50, Psalm 46 says, "God is a very present help in trouble."。
Now I know that he's around, he's available, but he specializes for this trouble.。
Do you realize that 92% of the things you worry about never happen?。
That can be substantiated factually.。
Now my question, my doctrine is, "Does God respond to false alarms?"。
I don't think that he does right now.。
So if you feel that God has forsaken you, he doesn't hear, he doesn't answer, he doesn't do what you want him to do,。
you know what?。
Probably no danger.。
If there's real danger, his presence is very real.。
This understanding affected my life and may be a reason for my longevity.。
I don't worry much.。
If there's any danger, I know that his presence will be very real.。
Think that over, will you?。
Give it a try.。
If you feel he's deserted, he's not answering false alarms, probably just your imagination in this.。
I'm often asked, "What advice out of my 103 years do I have for the generations living right now that I'm in touch with?"。
When I was in the fourth grade, we had in those days a baccalaureate speaker at graduations who was a preacher.。
Not only educators, but the preacher.。
So one day he said to me, to the class, graduating class,。
"The best advice I can give you is to get acquainted with Jesus Christ.。
He'll prove to be the best friend you'll ever have."。
I did not take that advice immediately, but 82 years ago, I took that advice and got acquainted with Jesus Christ.。
He's proved to be the greatest friend I've had these 82 years.。
As I study the Bible, I find passages which say that he's closer than a brother.。
Also, he's closer than a mother.。
And he's also closer than a lover.。
How could you get a better friend than that?。
Somebody closer than a brother, closer than a mother, closer than a lover.。
Now, Dave and I are going to have some discussions.。
I learned long ago in speaking that a Chinese proverb which says,。
"It is written, 'Who rides a tiger is afraid to dismount.'"。
And so I try to know when and where I'm going to get off.。
[Laughter]。
I love it.。
So I'm going to get off and we're going to discuss now.。
Yeah, absolutely. Thank you so much for sharing.。
Billy, put his picture up there. I'm looking at it right now. No one else can see it.。
But your picture of the Navy. Handsome, man.。
That is like Bachelor before the Bachelor.。
[Applause]。
You know, Lieutenant Downing, one thing that we spoke a little bit about backstage。
was just your journey to faith.。
And you mentioned it just now, but would you mind sharing a little bit about。
how you trusted in Christ or how you came to faith 82 years ago?。
Yes.。
My life was controlled by circumstances.。
By the time I was out of high school, I had my philosophy of life already developed.。
And that was that I wanted to be able to come to the end of the day and say,。
"I've lived today. If tomorrow is as good as today, no complaints."。
But that's not the way it happened.。
The Navy was a traveling Navy.。
Traveled up and down the coast and the oceans.。
Tried to pretend that I was a happy person.。
But there's a verse in the book of Proverbs that described what was really going on.。
That passage in Proverbs 14, 12 through 14 says,。
"There's a way which seems right to a man, but the ends thereof are the ways of death."。
And then it says, "Even in laughter, the heart is sorrowful,。
and the end of that mirth is heaviness."。
I had connections in Hollywood.。
And when I was out there on weekends, I was happy because of the circumstances.。
If I were in a spot where the circumstances were unfavorable, I was unhappy.。
One morning, I was on a work detail with a Christian sailor on my ship.。
He was a Christian.。
We got up in the morning, had beans and cornbread for breakfast,。
and then spent the rest of the morning heaving around 600 hunks of frozen beef.。
I was very unhappy.。
But Virgil sang a tune, face was shining, looked like he was having the time of his life.。
So I made an observation.。
Here's a man that has resources that the circumstances can't touch.。
I knew that's what I wanted.。
I knew that the secret of his life was that he was a Christian.。
I wanted the quality of life that he had.。
I knew it was because that Christ lived in him.。
So because of his testimony, I received Christ into my life。
because I wanted that quality of life that he had.。
I mentioned earlier that was 82 years ago.。
That quality of life is still there.。
I'm asked sometimes, "What keeps you going?"。
I say, "I became a Christian because I wanted that quality of life."。
I still want that quality of life.。
That's the reason I continue in my Christian life。
because I'm kind of selfish.。
I want the best there is, and that's the way to get it.。
The abundant life.。
Jesus said he came to give us, that he came to give you life, life to the full.。
You were married 68 years.。
Right.。
A lot of us in the room are not married.。
We hope to be someday.。
As we just think and approach marriage,。
what advice would you give to someone after being married for 68 years?。
Yes.。
That's kind of a tough one for just a short time here.。
My wife and I were in a conference once,。
and the emcee found out we'd been married for a long time.。
He asked my wife, "What's the secret of a happy married life?"。
She said, "Obey your husband."。
Let's close in prayer.。
The emcee grabbed his cell phone, called his wife,。
and told her what had just happened there.。
Now, we did not have that kind of relationship.。
The best definition I know of love is,。
love is the voluntary giving up of oneself to another.。
We allowed each other room to develop our own gifts,。
develop our own strengths.。
I feel that was probably the key in our relationship over the years.。
Each one of us had the time and the availability to develop.。
and exercise our own gifts.。
So try to meet that definition.。
Love is the voluntary giving up of oneself to another.。
There's a story I know involving the Japanese aviator,。
or the mastermind behind the Japanese attack,。
and a chance to you add, not just to either get to know him,。
or know who he was, but really forgive him.。
Is that a story that you could share with us?。
Yes, the leader of the raid on Pearl Harbor was a 39-year-old Japanese officer。
named Matsuo Fushida.。
He thought he was the only person who attacked Pearl Harbor that survived the war,。
and felt a special sense of destiny.。
He had great remorse over the attack.。
He was writing a book called "No More Pearl Harbor."。
But he didn't know where the power had come from。
for men to resist their primitive instincts to kill each other.。
So he read about an American POW named Jake Deschazer。
that was a POW during the war, went back to the U.S.,。
went to Bible school, returned to Japan as a missionary.。
He said, "What in the world could motivate this person that we mistreated so much。
to come back to my country as a missionary?"。
He found out that Jake became a Christian through reading the Bible.。
So he asked for a Bible.。
He got a Bible.。
As a result of reading it, he saw the message.。
He became a Christian and actually became an international evangelist.。
Twelve years after the attack, he came back to Honolulu.。
I was invited, among others, to meet with him.。
As my wife preceded me in the reception line, she was very enthusiastic.。
"Isn't it wonderful that we, your enemies, can now be brothers and sisters in Christ?"。
I was not that quite enthusiastic.。
I said, "So I'm approaching."。
I just imagined what I'd seen twelve years before.。
Up there, she was dropping bombs on the harbor.。
But as I thought, I said, "Now, I've done a lot of wrong things in my life.。
God forgave me.。
I think he probably did more wrong things than I did, but God forgave him.。
If God forgave him, welcomed him to his family as a family member,。
I need to do the same."。
So I'm glad to say that I was able to accept his remorse and his change of life。
and accepted him as a brother.。
In our world right now, it seems like there's a lot of change and a lot of chaos,。
and you've lived a lot of life.。
You've seen a lot of generations and a lot of changes in our own country.。
What would you say to someone who looks around at our country。
and seems like things are out of control or more chaotic than they've ever been?。
You know, I do not share that opinion, and I'll tell you why.。
Almost every generation has thought civilization was coming to an end during their lifetime.。
Let me just quote some clippings I have, short clippings.。
One is, it said, "There's a sign civilization is coming to an end.。
Violence is everywhere. Corruption and bribery are everywhere.。
Children no longer respect the way their parents."。
That was chiseled in a Syrian tablet 3000 BC.。
One of Plato's complaints was, "Children should listen only to good music.。
They should get their hair cut properly."。
Socrates' complaint was, "Athletics have become professionalized."。
One of Caesar's complaints was, "First of June and nothing done to the sun."。
So, I consider that this is the golden age of Christianity.。
In the world today, 120,000 people are coming to Christ every day.。
They're currently missionaries.。
The most of any time in history.。
So, I can give other stories about how bad it was.。
In the early days of the US and the riots in the 1800s.。
But, if I could just give worthy I would say, "These are the good old days."。
Alright, so you're 103.。
Is there a diet tip that you would give us?。
Vegetables, bacon, no bacon, whole milk?。
I just have one bit of advice about which I'm sensitive.。
And that is people advising me on diet and exercise.。
And when they do, I say, "Come around 103 and let's compare."。
That's what I'm talking about right there.。
Bring back the Twinkies.。
I think I apply what the president of the University of Chicago said once.。
He was asked if he ever felt the need for exercise.。
He said, "Yes, and when I do, I lie down and rain real quiet until the feeling passes."。
Bad.。
So, I feel the nearest scientific answer we have is, it's a matter of choosing good grandparents.。
That's the secret of longevity.。
Good genetics.。
Man, so we can close right here.。
We could talk all night and it's such an encouraging thing to just hear sincerely from a giant of the faith。
who's walked in front of us and who has gone before us and fought battles in the church and in Christianity。
and fought for people to know Jesus.。
And all in the circle who are a part of the family of faith have benefited from just your legacy.。
Is there one thing that you would say to this generation or even those here tonight?。
5,000 people are hearing this right now and then another 10,000 or 15,000 hear it on the podcast.。
What would you say, and most of them are millennials or 20-somethings, what would you say to them?。
Or, and maybe both of these, what would you say to challenge them?。
And is there something about this generation that encourages you?。
Yes, I feel this generation is smarter.。
Every generation is smarter than the last.。
They get things done quicker.。
They get things done better.。
But before you get too boastful, it's because of the tools we gave you.。
Yes, you know there's a doctor named Pascal who lived a few centuries ago.。
He said that God is placed in every heart a God-shaped vacuum that cannot be filled with anything except God.。
One of the Bible writers says that God has set eternity in our hearts.。
So life can never be complete until you not only make room for God, but make him preeminent in your life.。
As the promise goes with that, Psalm 37, 4, "Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart."。
Nothing else, no one else can give you the desires of your heart except him.。
So as I said earlier, my advice is get acquainted with Jesus Christ.。
If you're not already acquainted with him, he'll prove to be the best friend you'll ever have.。
A lesson that you will either learn in this life or regret for all of eternity.。
And if you learn it in this life, like many of us have, we will spend eternity with Lieutenant Downing,。
with many of the family of faith that he's been a part of with his beautiful bride, who has gone to be with the Lord.。
Would you pray for us and pray for the next generation of the church?。
Would you mind closing us out by that? The band's going to come back up and close us in a song.。
But would you pray just for this generation of the church to be all that God wants it to be and for us?。
Thank you.。
Our heavenly Father, we thank you that our prayers ascend up in your holy place and are heard as we talk to you in the name and on the mercy of Christ.。
You are a prayer answering God.。
You love every individual and you want every one of us to have your best as individuals and part of a group.。
So I pray for the generation represented here and throughout the world.。
They'll just have the wisdom and will to seek you and find in you the resource that they need so that they will not only be citizens of heaven,。
but citizens of this world in good standing and who are productive and who are happy.。
So we commit to you everyone in this room, everyone listening, and everyone who can be affected by us,。
asking that as you offer them your best, they will receive it and experience it and practice all their lives.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
[APPLAUSE]。
(audience applauding)。
