(upbeat music)。
- Well guys, good evening.。
My name's Harrison Ross.。
I am on staff here at Watermark.。
And recently I have started eating differently.。
Anybody else kind of on this trend of changing what you eat?。
(audience laughing)。
Yeah, so recently I have cut out gluten and dairy。
from my entire diet.。
Okay, so some people are celebrating me.。
Other people are judging me and going,。
"You hippie, what is your problem?。
"Eat a burger."。
Okay, before, hey, I'm all in on the burger。
now without a bun and cheese.。
It's terrible.。
But hear me out, okay?。
Few years ago, I did Whole30.。
I did it kicking and screaming.。
Anybody else on the Whole30 trend?。
Anybody out there?。
Anybody on Whole30 right now?。
No, we've all just said, "Screw Whole30, it's terrible."。
So I tried Whole30.。
I hated it.。
And then I kind of loved it.。
It really started to change the way I was thinking.。
My wife was already not eating gluten and dairy。
because of some health stuff.。
And so it was something that I kind of enjoyed。
and I quickly bailed from.。
I got to 30, I ran away from it,。
and was like, "This is not for me."。
But recently, now I'm back because of some other things,。
of how it's affecting clarity of thought,。
other things like that,。
and partially because I have been haunted my entire life。
from this picture in high school.。
So this is me.。
I know.。
There's not even judgment.。
There's just shame and sorrow.。
This is me on Easter.。
I'm a ninth grader in high school.。
I have frosted tips that I did unintentionally.。
I'm wearing a rope choker necklace。
that I think I have a scar indented from。
because I was so chubby in the neck.。
And I definitely suffered from what's called moobs,。
man boobs.。
They are real.。
Yes, you shout because you understand.。
This is my life in junior high and high school.。
I was the kid that was deathly afraid。
to go to the end of the year school party。
at the masses house 'cause it was a pool party.。
I was that guy.。
I was deathly afraid because of how I looked,。
because I was overweight, because I felt chubby,。
because I had puffy nipples, and I just didn't,。
I did not, I'm serious, I did not want to go。
and submit myself to this.。
And so here I am years later now trying to change。
what I eat, but I think our society as a whole。
is obsessed, interested, but really obsessed。
with losing weight, whether that's changing how we eat。
through Whole30 or keto, which doesn't work.。
I'll fight you on it.。
It works for a little bit, but so anyways.。
Paleo or getting on the CrossFit trend。
or going back to your Insanity DVDs。
that you had to dig out of your closet.。
He's gonna shred you.。
We are obsessed with trying to lose weight.。
Couple of pounds here and there, a complete life overhaul.。
Because we all know what it's like to have one or two。
or 50 too many chips when you go to Chewy's.。
And then to down the rest of the queso bowl。
before the rest of your table can.。
I mean, no one else is going to, so I had to.。
We all have this little extra that we kind of grab。
here and there and we don't think about。
and late night Sour Patch Watermelon, man, those get me.。
We kind of grab all these things and hold on。
and there's the phrase, I have it on a coffee mug。
that says, a moment on the lips, forever on the hips.。
And I have love handles to prove it.。
And so we all can relate to that.。
We all have weight that we want to get rid of。
and all of us walked in here tonight。
with something we're holding on to。
and a weight that we want to get rid of.。
You're looking at me going, bro, speak for yourself.。
I look amazing.。
I looked at myself today.。
I posted it on Instagram.。
I'm incredible.。
I'm in summer shape.。
But I want you to hear me again.。
Each of us walked in here tonight。
holding on to something, carrying weight。
that we want to get rid of.。
And tonight we're gonna talk about how to lose the weight.。
We're not gonna talk about how to lose physical weight.。
We're gonna talk about how to lose soul weight.。
Because most of you, if not all of you,。
walked in here carrying something really heavy,。
a burden, something that's overwhelming you,。
something that's wearing you out, making you tired,。
maybe even hurting you, depleting you.。
What's soul weight?。
Soul weight are things from your past, struggles,。
maybe things that are happening currently.。
For most of us, that's sin.。
For most of us, it's the choices that we make,。
the things that we grab at,。
whether we're thinking about it intentionally。
or we just kind of aren't thinking about it,。
and it adds to our soul weight.。
But the soul weight that we carry。
is not just sin and struggles,。
but it's emotional weight,。
emotions that well up inside us because of us。
or because of others, could be disappointments。
or could be hurts that others have done to us,。
and we hold on to it, we carry it.。
And it then begins to affect all of us,。
all of our body, not just sticking to our love handles,。
but sticking to our heart and our soul。
and affecting the rest of the way that we live our life.。
And it's heavy.。
Why do I need to get rid of soul weight?。
Why do I need to lose the weight?。
Because the weight that you carry causes guilt and shame,。
and it affects the way that you look at everything.。
The soul weight that you carry affects the way。
that you look at yourself in the mirror in the morning.。
It affects the way that you look at others around you,。
and it even affects the way that you look at God.。
What if, just imagine for a second,。
if you didn't have to carry around the guilt and shame。
of your sexual sin,。
replaying over and over and over that one night stand。
or the end of that relationship,。
laying in bed late at night,。
replaying that tape or that mistake.。
What would it be like to not have to deal。
with anxiety anymore?。
Could you imagine?。
To not have to deal with that crippling pain in your chest。
or that nagging, ah!。
If it could go away, would you wanna get rid of that weight?。
Or what would your relationships be like。
if you could fully trust people again。
and not assume that everyone was always gonna hurt you?。
What burden did you walk in here carrying?。
What weight are you holding onto that you need to lose?。
Not just so that you can feel better about yourself,。
and I want you to hear this clearly,。
and you're gonna hear it throughout.。
Not so that God can love you more,。
'cause that's not the point,。
but so you can be free.。
So you can live the life that God intended you。
so that you could be healthy,。
so that you could be fully who God created you to be.。
God wants to free you of your burdens.。
Jesus said, "Come to me, all who are weary and heavy laden,。
"and take my yoke upon me,。
"for my yoke is easy and my burden is light."。
Do you want that?。
'Cause most of us walk around。
and we don't feel easy and light.。
We feel burdened from the soul weight that we carry.。
So how do we get rid of the weight?。
Hebrews 12, one says, "Therefore, since we are surrounded。
"by so great a cloud of witnesses,。
"let us also lay aside every weight,。
"every sin which clings so closely right here."。
(laughs)。
Right here.。
(laughs)。
Let us lay aside every weight,。
every sin that clings so closely,。
and let us run with endurance the race set before us.。
Let us be free.。
That's a command.。
Get rid of it.。
Run in freedom.。
So how do we get rid of the weight?。
Tonight, we're gonna look at how to get rid of the soul weight,。
the ABCs of shedding the weight.。
And the first one is you've gotta admit you have a problem.。
You just gotta first be honest with yourself.。
'Cause here's the problem you have.。
It's sin.。
It is coursing through your veins,。
and it will wreck your life.。
It will destroy you.。
And it may not be sin that you're carrying,。
but because of your sin, we wanna hide these things。
from others, but even from ourselves,。
we wanna just pretend it's not there,。
or mask it, or control it, or manage it in some way,。
and just think that maybe if we move on, it will go away.。
Because every person in this room struggles with sin.。
Romans 3:23 says, "For all have sinned。
"and fall short of the glory of God."。
Everybody's on the same playing field.。
First John 1, verse eight, it says,。
"If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves,。
"and the truth is not in us."。
We all have problems.。
For me, the stuff that I'm walking in here,。
just from today, is I wanna stare。
at every woman that walks by.。
I sat at a coffee shop today,。
just trying to spend time with the Lord,。
and a girl would walk by, and I would see myself。
wanting to go that way.。
When I say stare, I don't mean just like,。
oh, oh wow, okay, there's a woman.。
I mean I wanna gawk at, feast on,。
I want to linger long on a woman who's not my wife.。
I wanna run to porn, most days,。
especially on days where I'm feeling overwhelmed,。
or tired, or stressed, or insignificant and insecure.。
I wanna run back to this safety blanket。
that I ran to for so long.。
Those are like today, and recently in my life.。
Those are the burdens that I carry every single day.。
So we have to admit to ourselves that we have a problem.。
It's as simple as this.。
I like porn.。
Stop trying to make excuses.。
Stop trying to call it something else.。
Be honest and admit it to yourself.。
I like porn.。
I drink a lot, and I hate myself.。
And then I hate myself more,。
so it drives me to drinking continually.。
I hate the way that my body looks.。
I don't like who I am.。
I need to lose that extra 10 pounds。
that my mom always reminded me to lose all growing up.。
Whatever it is for you, admit that you have a problem.。
And some of you who are in here right now,。
some of you are listening to me,。
and you're responding the strongest.。
Not in writing notes, but kind of welling up an emotion。
and just like, oh, come on, man, no.。
No, I don't have a problem.。
You're getting kind of like maybe pissed off at me。
of calling you out.。
You're like, no, dude, get off me.。
Well, you're who I'm most concerned about.。
'Cause if this was a lose weight message,。
it's the guys like me who have a high metabolism。
and think that they can eat whatever they want。
that are the ones that get diabetes。
and heart failure later down the road.。
If you think that you don't have something。
that you're struggling with or you're carrying,。
then you're gonna exhaust yourself.。
I want you to live in freedom.。
You don't have to carry that anymore.。
God wants to take that from you.。
Because when we carry these things,。
most of the weight that we carry,。
a lot of you know, if you have real weight like I did,。
you wanna conceal it.。
You wanna wear the stripes and the plaids.。
We don't wanna show people.。
I didn't wanna go to pool parties.。
And so what we do with our struggles。
is we just carry it around.。
It's like we're carrying a giant thing of weight。
all the time.。
And if you can't tell from how hard it is to put it on,。
it's heavy.。
We measured it.。
There are 62.5 pounds on this vest.。
And on here are the burdens that we carry.。
Some of them are things that I personally carry.。
Some of them represent the things。
that you may struggle with.。
And again, I want you to hear, this isn't just sin.。
But the weight that we carry, the weight we need to lose,。
the burdens we have could be sin, could be emotions,。
could be disappointments, or it may be hurt。
from recent or in the past,。
that you're just holding onto and carrying for far too long.。
But you don't have to carry it.。
You can see these right now.。
But if I walked out of here the rest of the night,。
the rest of the week, you'd be like,。
dude, get that freaking vest off of you.。
That looks exhausting.。
That's the point of tonight's message.。
You gotta admit that you have a problem.。
And then second is bring it into the light.。
Staying in 1 John, 1 John 1, verse nine,。
it says, "If we confess our sins,。
"he is faithful and just to forgive our sins。
"and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness."。
You don't have to hide it.。
You don't have to conceal it.。
You don't have to manage it.。
You can confess it and be free.。
And God's not gonna look at you and go,。
ah, why'd you do that?。
He's not gonna spank you.。
He's not looking to rip you off or to punish you.。
He wants to set you free.。
We have to bring it into the light.。
We've gotta come to him and say,。
Lord, will you help me with this?。
But guys, that's not enough to just go,。
God, take this from me.。
We've gotta take it a step further。
and bring others into our lives.。
James 5, 16 says, "Therefore, if you confess your sins。
"to one another and pray for one another,。
"that you may be healed."。
God loves you and he wants to set you free,。
but a part of his provision and healing for you。
is all around you,。
is his people who will love you and walk with you。
and bear your burdens together.。
So guys, to bring it into the light,。
you just have to confess it。
and watch that weight disappear.。
One of the things that I struggled with for a long time,。
and you heard I still am tempted towards it, is porn.。
I was addicted to porn for 12 years.。
In high school, there were nights that I could not。
go to sleep without looking at porn and masturbating,。
sometimes several times.。
And it wrecked my life all the way into college.。
And I have to confess it.。
And when I do, when I bring that into the light,。
and for a long time I hid it.。
For a long time, I didn't want anybody to know.。
I thought, I'm this Christian kid。
that's struggling with this.。
Why do I have to do this?。
And I bought that lie of, well, God knows.。
I can come to him and he'll set me free.。
And yes, I've got eternity with him。
because of my belief in Jesus.。
But healing comes when I confess to others.。
And so in college, I finally let these guys in。
and I got over the fear of what they would think of me.。
I got over the fear of how then I would look or feel。
if now that they know this about me and I confessed it,。
I brought it into a light and that weight disappears.。
Another one I struggle with is pride.。
I'm full of myself.。
I love people and I'm nice to people,。
but deep down, I am consumed with me.。
And when I confess that, that weight goes away.。
The struggle doesn't go away,。
but I don't have to hide that and hold onto it anymore.。
I can be free.。
The other thing that I want is I want to be famous.。
I wanna be known.。
I wanna be celebrated and applauded.。
I want people to like me.。
And I've gotta confess that to a room of people。
who I want to like me.。
And when I do, that burden disappears and it goes away.。
And then I'm crippled with fear, fear of failure,。
fear of the future, fear of what if I'm not good enough?。
What if I can't produce?。
What if I can't perform?。
And I can confess that and that weight drops to the ground.。
And then because of those things,。
I'm riddled with insecurity,。
constantly thinking I'm not good enough.。
I can't match up.。
My gifts aren't good enough.。
I feel small in a room full of people.。
But I can confess and be free.。
Those are some of mine.。
What are some of yours?。
Maybe, maybe you really struggle with anger.。
Maybe you have these like fits of rage in your house。
and you try to hide it and you try to make sure。
that your roommates don't see,。
but you're just punching the pillow。
or screaming in your pillow.。
Don't hide it anymore.。
Let some people into your life and be free.。
Maybe you struggle with anxiety.。
Anxiety is not sin.。
And before you think, oh, he's just gonna cut it。
and it disappears, I want you to hear,。
anxiety and all of these things don't just disappear,。
but you can bring others in so that the burden。
that you carry alone is no longer on your shoulders。
and you can walk in freedom as you walk towards healing。
with Jesus.。
If you struggle with anxiety in any sort of way,。
and when I mean struggle,。
that that's just constantly in your head,。
man, find somebody and tell them.。
And let that weight be lifted.。
Maybe you're just really into the party scene.。
Whatever drug you can find,。
whatever party you can go to on the weekend。
to just smash yourself Friday and Saturday night。
to forget whatever happened throughout the week,。
and you live in this constant cycle.。
You live this double life.。
Let people in and be free.。
Maybe you're a liar.。
Maybe you just are constantly telling mistruths。
or close truths, and you're just a chronic liar。
continually building a story and a fantasy,。
and it's this game that you play.。
Live in the light.。
Bring it to the light and lose the weight。
and walk in freedom.。
Maybe you have an eating disorder.。
You try to control your life and control your emotions。
and control the way you look by what you do.。
You control the way you look by what you eat or don't eat。
or gagging yourself,。
and it is literally wasting away your body.。
You don't have to anymore.。
You don't have to hide.。
Be free.。
Walk in the light.。
Maybe you struggle with homosexuality。
and same-sex attraction.。
Maybe nobody knows.。
Maybe you're just deathly afraid to tell somebody.。
I would love for you to see people love you,。
whether it's this or any of the things。
that are on this vest.。
You can be honest with where you are,。
with where you're tempted, with where you struggle,。
with where you've been,。
and watch that burden disappear.。
Maybe it's sexual sin.。
Maybe it was that one-night stand。
that you were in the bathroom with your boyfriend。
and you're like, "I'm not gonna do it again."。
Maybe it's the fact that you're here.。
Maybe it's you're living with your boyfriend。
or your girlfriend.。
Maybe you're confused about your sexuality。
and you're contemplating making a change.。
Whatever that is, bring it in to the light。
and walk in freedom.。
Maybe you've had an abortion,。
and the weight of that haunts you every day.。
Let people in to love you。
so that we can just help carry that pain with you.。
Maybe you're materialistic.。
You're consumed with what you buy, what you wear.。
I struggle with that.。
I stand in the closet for way too long。
picking out what it's like.。
Ridiculous.。
But maybe you're just obsessed with buying stuff。
and continuing this addiction to stuff.。
Maybe you're depressed.。
Maybe it's beyond just anxiety that creeps in here or there.。
Maybe you are consumed.。
You are not just heavy.。
You are depleted.。
You are exhausted.。
And again, this is not something that disappears,。
but bring people into your life。
so that we can help you shed the soul weight。
and bring it in to the light.。
Maybe you're suicidal.。
Maybe the burden that you came in here with。
tonight is going,。
is tonight the night?。
Maybe it was last night.。
Maybe it was one time in the past.。
Maybe it's a recurring thought.。
Jesus died so that you don't have to.。
Bring that into the light.。
Confess it.。
Let us walk with you and walk in freedom.。
Then there are other things.。
Maybe you've got an addiction, drugs,。
alcohol, yourself, whatever it is.。
Be honest and be free.。
But there are other things that we carry。
that can't just be cut off.。
Things that have happened to us。
could be disappointments, could be hurts.。
Things like divorce.。
Maybe you were divorced.。
Maybe your parents were divorced early on。
and that really affected your life。
and the way that you live.。
The way that you have relationships with people.。
The way that you date or don't.。
Maybe somebody in your family got a diagnosis of cancer.。
Or some other terminal illness, or maybe you did.。
And it's heavy and it's hard.。
Maybe there was a death in your family recently.。
Death of a friend.。
Death, loss of some kind of someone close to you.。
Maybe you're a single parent.。
My wife and I, a few years ago, we had a miscarriage.。
That was hard for us.。
We didn't know how to carry that.。
It was a weight that I didn't know how to handle.。
The death of my own child.。
Those are things that you can't just be like,。
okay, they're gone.。
But we can still confess them and bring them into light.。
And then maybe there are things。
that you've tried to just put behind you.。
Maybe there are things that you've tried。
to just ignore from yourself.。
Hurt that was done to you,。
that you have just tried to push away.。
Not only from the world, but even from yourself.。
It's not on the front of your chest.。
It's way behind you and buried in your life.。
So maybe, maybe you were abandoned。
early on as a little boy or as a little girl。
by one of your parents.。
Or by a close friend.。
Or by a boyfriend or girlfriend or fiance.。
Maybe you were abused.。
Physically abused, emotionally abused,。
sexually abused by a family member,。
a friend, or someone close to you.。
Those are weights that are heavy.。
Those are weights that we tend to bury。
deep down inside of us.。
And guys, you don't have to carry that alone.。
(congregation laughing)。
Galatians 6.2 says that we are called。
to bear one another's burdens.。
When we bring these things into the light,。
then others come around us,。
just as you are coming around me now.。
And through community, we can take those things。
and we can throw off these weights that hinder us。
and cast them aside.。
And the weight that we carry that was so heavy。
and was so burdensome and was so hard,。
you can be free.。
You can be free tonight.。
You can shed that weight, the soul weight,。
that clings so closely as you confess。
and walk in the light.。
But here's what happens.。
I hope you do that tonight.。
But then we tend to walk away,。
and I do the same thing.。
We have these things that we've confessed,。
but we wanna then pick the weight up again.。
We wanna pick up that struggle that was,。
and we wanna grab onto it,。
because it just kinda felt comfortable.。
We know it's bad, but it just feels safe.。
It feels known, even if it hurts us.。
So guys, this isn't a message of just,。
it's not a get it off your chest message.。
It's not just tell somebody once and move on.。
This is something that we have to practice。
all the time, continually,。
so that we can run, as we're called and commanded to do,。
to get rid of the weight.。
So you've gotta admit that you have a problem.。
You've gotta bring it into the light,。
and as you bring it into the light,。
then third, you've gotta continue in community.。
Not just do it once.。
It's not just a one and done,。
but then gather people around you。
who will love you and walk with you。
and help you walk in health and freedom in Jesus.。
This is not a message of, hey, you've gotta sin less.。
You've gotta do less bad things.。
We just gotta cut out the crap from your life.。
We want you to walk and run with Jesus,。
and to do that, we've gotta continue in community.。
Hebrews 3:13 says, "But exhort one another every day."。
Another translation says, "Encourage one another every day,。
"as long as it is called to that,。
"that none of you may be hardened。
"by the deceitfulness of sin."。
Not only are these weights heavy that we carry with us,。
we are deceived because we're sinful people,。
and we quickly forget, and we quickly run。
to these things again and hold onto 'em and run with them,。
instead of running in freedom and health.。
And so we need God's people around us, like Galatians 6:2,。
to bear one another's burdens, to carry them with us,。
to walk with us, to help us shed that weight,。
because we're gonna want to run back to it.。
For me, recently, I had to come to my community,。
and I had to confess that I was hashtag chasing on Instagram。
to try and find something sexy.。
It wasn't just like a, no, no, whoa, that's nice,。
and then keep going.。
I was intentionally clicking to hope。
that I'd maybe find something lucky.。
You know what I wanted to do?。
Hide it, control it, manage it.。
It's not that bad, it's not porn, it's nothing.。
It was one time, I'll move on.。
But then that turns into, well,。
maybe another time down the road.。
Maybe another time, how about a little longer,。
and then I'm back on the road to addiction.。
'Cause a lot of people in here did Whole30.。
You guys have gone through these 30 days,。
and you cut everything out of your life,。
but for most people, when Whole30 ends,。
so does the dieting process.。
You then just jump back into life.。
That first night you celebrate, and you're at Brahms,。
and you're like, oh, I love this stuff!。
And you're just taking it all back in,。
and within a couple weeks, you're close to。
or right back into fitting in the fat genes that you had.。
Because we think, we kinda get in these fad diets.。
Confessing sin is not a fad diet.。
This isn't something that we're just calling you。
to do once or do a little bit.。
But we've gotta do this continually.。
I got to sit with my community,。
and I got to sit with my wife and just say,。
hey, I need to be honest, here's where I went.。
Because I don't wanna continue down that road.。
I don't wanna carry this burden anymore.。
I wanna choose to walk with Jesus,。
even when I stray from Him and wanna run from Him.。
I want to run with Jesus,。
to run the race that is set before me.。
And in our society, most of us lose the physical weight。
so that people will love and accept us,。
so that we'll look better, we'll look thinner,。
look cooler, whatever it is,。
or maybe so that we can just stand in the mirror。
and love and accept ourselves.。
But God doesn't call us to lose the spiritual weight。
or lose this soul weight so that He'll love us more.。
We can lose the weight because of God's love for us.。
We don't have to earn His approval,。
we don't have to look good for Him,。
we don't have to look more spiritual,。
we don't have to look like we have it all together.。
He wants us to be free.。
We read Hebrews 12 together at the beginning.。
I'm gonna reread verse one,。
and then I wanna give the key to that.。
And then I wanna give the key verse of verse two.。
If you've never heard this verse,。
or if you're looking for a verse to memorize,。
this is one to put in your head。
or to put in the dashboard of your car,。
to write on your mirror,。
or to make the home screen of your phone。
so that you don't forget.。
Here's what it says.。
"Therefore, since we are surrounded。
"by so great a cloud of witnesses,。
"let us also lay aside every weight and sin。
"which clings so closely right here."。
Lay it aside, get rid of it,。
and run with endurance the race。
that is set before us looking to Jesus.。
Not looking to your own perfection,。
not looking to what you can do,。
not looking to your own goodness,。
to your own spirituality,。
to your own, wow, look how great I am at confessing sin.。
This is nothing that you do,。
it is all what God's gonna do in and through you。
by the power of Jesus Christ.。
As you lay this aside, looking to Jesus,。
the founder and the perfecter of our faith。
who for the joy that was set before him,。
endured the cross, despising the shame,。
and he is seated at the right hand of the throne of God.。
God came down to this earth。
to bear the burdens that we all carry,。
to live a life that we live,。
to walk as a man, Jesus came,。
and he lived it perfectly.。
And then what it says that he did。
is he went to the cross for us。
to carry all of this junk that we've carried for so long.。
And he took it upon himself。
knowing that we would choose this,。
knowing that we'd run to our addiction,。
knowing that we'd run to our pride,。
knowing that we'd run to our self-righteousness。
or self-loathing, and he said,。
"I will carry it for you."。
The shame that we feel,。
the shame that we're holding onto,。
the weight that clings so closely,。
he said, "I despise that shame.。
"I will put it on myself so that you can be free."。
All you have to do is look to me.。
Come to me, all who are weary and heavy laden,。
and I will give you rest.。
Rest for your souls.。
Rest for eternity as we live forever with him。
for those who believe in him,。
but today you can be free.。
If you're in here and you don't know Jesus,。
you need to know that God is crazy about you.。
All this junk that I carry and we carry,。
God doesn't look down on you and look at you with pity。
or sorrow or shame or disappointment.。
He looks at you and he loves you.。
So he calls us to throw these things aside,。
to not try to fix our own weight,。
to not try to get all this stuff。
and try to carry it on our own,。
but to throw it aside and to look to Jesus.。
Who endured the cross for us,。
who rose again from the grave to give us life。
so that you could have life.。
Get rid of the weight.。
Get rid of the soul weight that you're holding onto.。
There's no easier time than tonight.。
Don't make the excuse of, "Well, I'm not ready,"。
or maybe two weeks from now.。
Find somebody tonight.。
And if you're not in community, then come find one of us.。
We'd love to help you find people。
that can come around you and love you。
so that you can be free because Jesus loves you.。
And he died for you to set you free.。
Heavenly Father, thank you.。
Thank you that you love me in spite of my crap.。
That 2,000 years ago, while I was still a sinner,。
before I had committed any sin,。
before I thought of any sin, before I was even born,。
you loved me, you chose me, you died for me.。
Thank you, Lord, that I don't have to come。
and get cleaned up and fixed up and look prettier。
and look more spiritual to come to you.。
I can come in my brokenness.。
We can come in our brokenness and fall before you。
and find life in you.。
Jesus, will you help search our hearts,。
know our anxious thoughts,。
see if there is any grievous way in me。
and lead us in the way everlasting.。
Expose our junk, Lord, and give us courage。
to bring it into the light so that we can be free.。
in Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
