(upbeat music)。
- Well, here we go, the last week of Datable.。
We are doing it, here we go, Dallas.。
Welcome all of you that are online watching us live,。
all of our PortsLive locations,。
Northwest Arkansas, North Houston, Scottsdale,。
Indianapolis, the greater Lafayette of Indiana.。
We see you, welcome.。
We're glad that you're tuning in with us.。
And of course, I can't forget my friends。
right here in Dallas, Texas.。
Welcome, yeah.。
Got a great cheering section right here, I can't wait.。
It's gonna be a great night.。
Well, hey, before we get going,。
by the way, my name is Josiah.。
I have the privilege of serving on staff here at The Porch,。
but before we get going, I would love just to update you。
with another friend of ours on staff,。
and that is JD Rogers.。
Many of you know JD, yeah.。
Many of you know JD, he's our creative director。
here at The Porch, and he also teaches a lot here.。
And today, he underwent a kidney transplant surgery.。
I think we have a picture of him, it'll be up on the screen.。
This is JD, and JD gave his kidney away。
to a man that was in need of another friend of ours。
named Ryan, and so as far as we know,。
everything went well, no complications.。
JD and Ryan are recovering, amen.。
(audience cheering)。
Yeah.。
And so I just wanna stop, and I wanna pause,。
and I wanna pray for those two。
as they're recovering in the hospital this evening.。
Father God, thank you for JD and Ryan.。
Thank you, God, for the incredible news。
that we received as a team, and now here as a Porch family,。
that the kidney transplant went without any hiccups,。
without any complications, God,。
that you were right there in the midst of it all.。
Thank you for the incredible picture of the gospel。
that JD self-sacrificed one of his kidney,。
gave that away for the betterment of Ryan。
who needed it to live.。
That's a picture of Christ sacrificing his life。
for us on the cross.。
God, thank you for the incredible opportunity。
we have to gather in this space to lift up these two.。
I pray that you would heal 'em, in Jesus' name,。
God, that they would recover fully in the hospital,。
and their story would be told for years to come,。
and many would come to know you in a personal way,。
and you would receive much, much glory.。
It's in Christ's name we pray, amen.。
- Amen.。
- Well, let me start out by taking you back。
to our childhood, okay?。
Everyone loves to reminisce maybe of your childhood,。
maybe good memories or bad memories,。
but one of the memories for me specifically。
that I would do in my childhood was play musical chairs.。
Anyone, any musical chairs?。
Man, we got some musical chairs fans in the house.。
Yeah, so this idea of musical chairs。
is you have a circle of chairs, and the music's playing,。
and you have one less chair than the contestants playing。
in the actual game, and they're walking around the chairs,。
right, and the music's playing in the background,。
and then all of a sudden, the music stops,。
and they gotta find a seat as quick as possible.。
And so I thought, maybe we should just play。
musical chairs tonight, would that be fun?。
Yeah, so hey, I got a few contestants.。
Why don't y'all come on out here tonight?。
Come on out here, contestants.。
These are some of the contestants tonight.。
Y'all give it up for them.。
(audience cheering)。
Also known as our porch leaders。
in the porch black shirt that we know。
to be a leadership shirt, so we are thankful for y'all.。
Are y'all ready to play musical chairs, yeah?。
Y'all ready, okay.。
Y'all ready?。
(audience cheering)。
All right, let's have some fun.。
Hit the music.。
(upbeat music)。
Gotta keep walking.。
Maybe a little dancing.。
(upbeat music)。
Okay.。
(upbeat music)。
Whoa, whoa.。
(audience laughing)。
What, we like breaking ankle up here?。
Oh, come here, come here, come here, come here.。
- What happened there?。
- I think he was just trying to be respectful,。
wouldn't you say?。
Yeah, y'all give it up for my man.。
What's your name?。
- David.。
- David, y'all give it up for David right here.。
He's just trying to be respectful of the ladies.。
So what's going on, man?。
You're left here all alone without a chair.。
- I knew I didn't like musical chairs as a kid.。
- Yeah, obviously, obviously, right?。
How do you feel right now?。
- Kind of alone, you know.。
Some would say I'm single up here.。
- He says alone and single up here.。
All right, y'all give it up for the contestants。
that found the chair.。
Y'all can head off stage and take your chair back。
'cause you have a chair to take,。
but you on the other hand,。
you don't have a chair to take, bro.。
You're all alone.。
So here's the deal, David, David, David.。
Here's why I start there tonight.。
Because how you feel in this moment playing musical chairs。
is how I felt for 29 years of my life.。
That I feared, one of my greatest fears,。
that I was gonna be all alone, the music was gonna stop,。
and I was gonna be single without a chair,。
in this case, without a girlfriend, a boyfriend,。
or a future spouse to marry.。
All right, y'all give it up for my man, David.。
(audience applauding)。
How he felt in that moment,。
how he got left out,。
or he lovingly gave his chair to the woman, right?。
To the lady, is a picture in some way。
of my singleness for 29 years of my life.。
That I come into this place。
and I'm reminiscing about my childhood,。
and in those moments of your childhood,。
you're like, man, I'm all alone, I'm without a chair,。
and everyone's looking at me, and everyone's sitting,。
and everyone's comfortable,。
but then fast forward 20 years of my life,。
my greatest fear is that I would be without a seat。
in my late 20s, that I would be the token single person,。
that life would go on, and I'd miss my moment。
to find my chair, and I would be 45 and all alone。
with no one to date or marry,。
and the worst part about that is like,。
man, you get left out, right, and you're watching,。
everyone found their chair, and you're seeing them。
sit there, and they're having a good time,。
they're hanging out, and the music,。
we all know the music begins to play again,。
and I was thinking about myself at 29,。
watching the people around me go on dates。
and have fun and dancing to the music。
and about to get married,。
and it left me in a position where,。
did you miss out, God, like, did you forget about me?。
Did I miss out on my moment?。
See, that was my story,。
it might be some of your stories tonight.。
Everyone around me was getting married,。
except for me, every roommate I had ever had got married。
or was on the verge of getting married,。
they were engaged, except for me.。
I found myself at 29, almost 30 years old,。
laying in bed one night and just kind of doing。
that ugly cry, like, God, like, where would you,。
I'm so fed up with this singleness,。
I don't want anything to do with it anymore,。
God, would you just take it away?。
And this might be some of you tonight,。
this might be some of your story.。
Like, right now, your friends,。
maybe your roommates are dating。
and maybe they're engaged or maybe they're even married.。
And you're asking, God, what about me?。
Have I missed my moment?。
And you're starting to believe lies from the enemy,。
like, you're single because you're just not fit enough,。
you're too fat or you're too skinny,。
or you're single because you got them daddy wounds, right,。
and you can't trust anybody,。
or you're single because you're full of anxiety。
and you're the anxious person who has a hard time。
being around other people and people don't even。
really like being around you.。
You're single because you're not rich enough or cool enough,。
or maybe you're believing the lie of,。
man, I'm single because all the good guys。
and all the good girls, I mean, they're already taken.。
Whispers from the enemy, lies from the enemy.。
And tonight, my hope is that over the next few minutes。
that you would see three truths from God's word。
about our singleness, that I would want you to see。
that your singleness is a gift,。
that we're single for a reason,。
and many of you will be relieved to know。
that you'll only be single for a season.。
And my hope tonight is that you wouldn't believe。
that God is trying to hold out on you。
or God's trying to rip you off。
or God's trying to give you something that's second best,。
but that you would see that you are a gift to the kingdom。
and you are a gift to the church。
right where you are in your singleness.。
You're not any less than a person if you're single。
or dating or even married.。
We're gonna be in 1 Corinthians 7 tonight.。
If you have your Bibles,。
you can open it up to 1 Corinthians 7.。
If I could sum up this book in one statement,。
it'd be like the church gone wild.。
I mean, they're doing some crazy stuff, y'all.。
Y'all should read 1 Corinthians at some point.。
Like one dude is like sleeping with his mom.。
Like, I mean it, like it's crazy.。
Like they're full of prostitution, sex,。
drunkenness, idols, division.。
Like men are going out with prostitutes.。
Like people are going to the church。
and getting drunk at communion.。
Like they're even trying to find the party in the church.。
Like it's some crazy stuff going on there.。
And Paul, this guy who's been radically changed by God。
who used to persecute Christians,。
this guy named Paul has a heavy task。
that God has given him in writing to this church in Corinth,。
the believers in Corinth, pertaining to these issues,。
not only to the church in Corinth,。
but 2,000 years later, right here at the porch,。
Dallas and all across the nation.。
So tonight we're gonna address the question.。
It's the question that Paul addressed back then。
in 1 Corinthians 7, why are you single?。
Why are you single?。
Starting in verse six, this is what Paul says.。
He says, I say this as a concession, not as a command.。
So this isn't like a command from God,。
but this is just like something that maybe you would yield。
to because it's good wisdom, okay?。
What is he about to say that it's not a command,。
but it's maybe just good advice.。
He says in verse seven,。
but I wish everyone were single just as I am.。
Paul, that's not what I wanted to hear, okay?。
Like that's the last thing I wanted to hear, bro.。
He goes on and says, and yet each person。
has a special gift from God of one kind or another.。
In other words, you're single, that's a gift.。
You're married, that's a gift.。
So I say to those who aren't married and to widows,。
it is better to stay unmarried just as I am.。
So again, whether you're married or you're single,。
God's got a gift.。
He sees this as a gift.。
First point, if you're taking notes tonight,。
is singleness is a gift.。
Singleness is a gift.。
And you're probably like rolling your eyes right now。
and saying like, I don't wanna hear。
that singleness is a gift, Josiah.。
But here, if I'm gonna accurately teach the text,。
I got to share this, okay?。
So stay with me.。
Those of you that are rolling。
and don't wanna hear anymore,。
right out of the gate, Paul hits us with this simple,。
but profound truth that he has a gift。
and that gift is singleness.。
Now the word in Greek for gift is charisma.。
It's where we get the English word charity.。
It literally is translated grace from God.。
And so he's like, man, Josiah, have you not heard?。
Like, I don't want you to talk to me。
about my singleness being grace from God.。
It feels nothing like grace.。
It feels like a curse, bro.。
Like, come on.。
But as Paul continues, he's trying to point out。
that there's a gift here.。
And he's gonna elaborate on it in the rest of the verses。
why he would say that this is a gift.。
But before we get there, I know this is hard.。
Like, let me just empathize with you for a second.。
I know this is hard for you to hear。
because many of us, if statistics are right,。
Barna would say, Barna Research Group would say。
96% of singles long to be married at some point.。
So there's only about 4% that just say,。
hey, I don't want a significant other.。
Let me ask you, have you ever received a gift。
that you didn't want?。
In just a few short weeks, I couldn't believe it.。
Like, I think it's like, I mean, Christmas。
is right around the corner.。
I mean, I know I don't wanna skip Thanksgiving, right?。
But Christmas is right around the corner。
in just a few short weeks.。
We're gonna be celebrating Christmas.。
Last week, our porch staff, last week, last year,。
our porch staff got together and we had a party。
with some of our team leads that serve here at the porch.。
And we had a white elephant gift exchange.。
Ever done one of those, yeah?。
So we go around and we draw numbers。
and I kinda had the tail end.。
I was like nine or 10.。
And man, my time finally came where I was gonna。
find my gift and I was gonna unpack it。
and lo and behold, I grabbed my gift and I unpack it.。
And it's a mouse, y'all.。
Like, it's a mouse.。
Like, I don't do rodents, much less a mouse, a pet mouse.。
And I'm looking at the person that gave it.。
I'm like, you gave this?。
Like, I'm starting to question your integrity.。
I'm starting to question your, you know,。
I'm starting to question whether I can trust you。
and you're a leader at the porch.。
And the whole time, I was just like,。
man, this is gross, y'all, man, this is,。
I'm not taking this home, man.。
Like, I will pay you to take it back.。
Like, I will give you money.。
Like, I'm bargaining, I'm like,。
hey, this is a pet mouse, kinda cool.。
I mean, there's something I think you could do with it.。
Maybe you can feed it to your pet snake, right?。
'Cause that's about all it's good for.。
Right, amen?。
Yeah, I don't know any people that like pet mouse.。
Like, I can't even say it.。
It's like, get that out of my language.。
But the reason why I share that with you。
is because that's a picture of some of you。
in what you do with your singleness.。
You're like, man, it's gross.。
Like, I don't wanna talk about it.。
That's like the dirty word in the church。
that we talk about sometimes when there's dating series.。
Like, I don't want nothing to do with that.。
Like, I'm trying to give it away.。
Like, I'm trying to lose it, not use it.。
Like, I will pay some people to take my singleness.。
Some of you conniving right now.。
It's like, what can I do?。
Like, get rid of my singleness, right?。
And I think this is just a picture。
of sometimes what we do with our singleness.。
And the entire time, God is saying,。
hey, singleness is a gift,。
and you're called the steward to get this gift.。
But now there's another group of people。
that came into the room tonight.。
Let me talk to this group for a second.。
There's people, mainly men,。
that came into this group, this room tonight.。
And you're like, man, I don't know what you're talking about.。
I just said I love my singleness.。
Like, it's awesome.。
And you don't love it because you can serve God more.。
You don't love it so that you can, you know,。
make much of his name.。
You love it because you can make, you know,。
much of your name.。
And you're abusing your singleness at the expense of women.。
- Say that.。
- Amen.。
(congregation laughing)。
Like, you're dragging their hearts through the mud.。
You're going from one woman to the next,。
and you're preying on the women that come here to the porch.。
Like, you know some Bible verses,。
but you use those Bible verses to manipulate women。
to get what you want, you know what I'm saying?。
Oh, now I'm meddling.。
Or you got a Bible, you even got a Bible,。
and you carry that Bible with you.。
You got that cross necklace that you wear around your neck.。
And you know what the Bible would say about you。
is that you're a wolf in sheep's clothing.。
I'm not done.。
I'm not done.。
And let me tell you something.。
We see you, and we train up our leaders to see you,。
and we will find you, and we will expose you.。
And let me tell you something, ladies.。
Let me hit you for a second.。
Let me hit you for a second.。
Listen, ladies, ladies, ladies.。
Just because he calls himself a Christian。
doesn't mean he's a Christian.。
Just because he knows a few verses or carries a Bible。
or got a cross tattoo of John 3:16 even,。
(congregation laughing)。
I'm just trying to keep it real.。
Is that okay tonight?。
Doesn't mean that he's authentic, man.。
He's a wolf.。
And so what do you do?。
You observe him over a period of time,。
because here's what I know.。
The greatest test is time,。
that you would observe someone.。
You would watch them in circles of friends or people,。
and you would see what they do, because, hey, listen,。
they might be able to front you for a season,。
but they can't front forever.。
And you ask, you check the resources,。
you check the people around, and you ask about the person.。
The greatest test is time.。
Sorry, I digressed.。
(laughing)。
Some of you are asking, "Josiah,。
"how do I know if I have the gift of singleness?"。
This is how you know if you have the gift of singleness.。
Did you walk in here single?。
You got the gift of singleness.。
Congratulations.。
(congregation laughing)。
And-- - I love it!。
- And I-- (laughing)。
I can always count on this guy every week。
to just keep it light and keep it fun.。
But here's the deal.。
Listen, listen.。
I know that sounds harsh, but what do we do with any gift?。
You have athleticism, you have good looks,。
you have success in corporate.。
You steward that gift for the glory of God.。
You take that gift and you tell that gift the passion.。
The passion is that you are created in the image of God。
to bear his image, that you would make much of his name,。
and anything you do or anything he's entrusted you with,。
and you're like, "Man, I don't wanna be entrusted。
"with singleness."。
Do you think I wanna be entrusted with singleness。
at 29 years old?。
No, I didn't.。
But I couldn't shake this passage.。
I couldn't shake 1 Corinthians 7。
when Paul is sitting here trying the best he can。
through the spirit of God and saying,。
"Hey, your singleness is a gift."。
Now, that's from God.。
The whole, "Hey, I wish you were single,"。
is not, that's not a command.。
That's just Paul just saying,。
"Hey, I think it'd be good for you to be single,"。
and he's about to tell us why.。
But what do you do when you've been given a gift?。
You steward it for the glory of God, for the good of others,。
and when you do that, you will find much, much joy.。
I hope you'll see that tonight.。
Just this past week, I was talking to some new friends。
on staff that we just hired, Becca and Alexia.。
And yeah, they're awesome, awesome women of God.。
But what's so cool, I was getting to know their story,。
and they went on to say Becca was from Florida,。
and she had family, and she had friends there,。
and she was about to take a job in corporate,。
making six figures, and she came here。
to be a content coordinator, a content person。
that really knows how to organize what you see。
on social media, and plan things,。
and just, she's got incredible gifts,。
but she was gonna make six figures。
doing something along those lines.。
And God arrested her heart and said,。
"Hey, I think I'm calling you to pick up your comfort。
"and your convenience, and what you would have in Florida,。
"and I'm calling you to leave all of that,。
"to come to Dallas, a place," she said,。
she's never, I'm like, "Bro, you ain't been to Dallas before?。
"We gotta get you out, right?"。
But no, she's like, "Florida's the best."。
Cool, I trust that.。
But she left, and I was thinking to myself,。
is she any less complete?。
She happened to be single, too.。
Alexia, she came from Seattle, Washington.。
I looked it up, 30 plus hours, over 2,000 miles.。
To come on staff and be a graphic designer,。
a videographer, content creator,。
what you see, you're gonna be seeing some incredible work。
on social media for the glory of God.。
And I'm like, man, I look at these women,。
I'm like, goodness gracious,。
are they any less complete because they're single?。
No, if anything, they might even be more complete.。
They're doing things like maybe I could never have done。
as now a married man, and just pick up and leave.。
They're not distracted by a husband。
or in desperate need of one.。
If the Lord entrusts them with, this is what they say,。
if the Lord entrusts them with one,。
then they would steward that gift.。
But I was just so impressed, like, listening to their story。
and watching how they were hearing from God。
and pursuing Him, and they made the decision。
to come on staff and to leverage their gifts。
for the glory of God.。
What are they doing, man?。
They're choosing to use their singleness as a gift,。
not trying to lose it, but to use it.。
Tonight, let me ask you something.。
Do you see your singleness as a gift to use。
or a gift to lose?。
Do you see that God, in all of His sovereignty,。
has put you in Dallas, Texas, that the job you have。
and the apartment complex you live in,。
the neighborhood that you're in,。
the cubicle that you office at,。
so that you would make much of Him in these years。
that you might never get back, called your singleness.。
Singleness is a gift.。
Point number two, if you're taking notes,。
singleness for a reason.。
Singleness for a reason.。
He says this, Paul says,。
"I want you to be free from anxieties.。
"The unmarried man is anxious about the things of the Lord,。
"how to please the Lord.。
"But the married man is anxious about worldly things,。
"how to please his wife, and his interests are divided.。
"An unmarried man or betrothed woman is anxious。
"about the things of the Lord, how to be holy。
"in body and spirit, but the married woman。
"is anxious about worldly things,。
"how to please her husband."。
Verse 35, "I say this for your own benefit,。
"not to put restraint on you."。
I'm not trying to restrict you from getting married,。
but I'm just trying to let you know ahead of time,。
I'm trying to give you a greater vision of your singleness,。
a greater vision of a future。
that would affect your present reality.。
Like many of you, did you hear me?。
You're gonna probably get married,。
we're gonna get there here in a second,。
but you have this moment in your life,。
you have this period of time that you can use。
where you're gonna be less distracted.。
And so, he goes on and says, "I say this for your benefit,。
"not to put restrictions on you,。
"but to promote what is appropriate,"。
and I love this last part,。
"and to secure undistracted devotion to the Lord.。
"I want you to do whatever will help you。
"serve the Lord the best。
"with as few distractions as possible."。
See, God is purposeful, and all that he does,。
don't miss this, you're single for a reason.。
You know what that reason is?。
So you can focus on Jesus。
with minimal distractions as possible.。
Like, here's where this old,。
this married thing comes into play.。
You're like, "Oh, here's a married guy."。
Let me just tell you about his last 24 hours.。
Speaking of myself, okay.。
Yesterday I woke up, yesterday morning I woke up,。
and it was my wife's birthday, her name's Kathy.。
And we just had an incredible morning,。
woke up early 'cause I went off to write this message,。
but here we are on the 'Gram,。
celebrating 37 years of life, right?。
And this is my family, Camille, the oldest,。
and then Isabella, she's three, Camille's four,。
and I have little Caleb right there, seven months,。
and then our babysitter, she came by to give a coffee,。
so I was like, "Jump into the picture, let's go."。
But, you know, that was probably。
the one shining spot light of the whole day.。
I went off to write my message,。
and shortly into my message I get a text。
from my sister saying, "Hey, Mom's gotten in a car accident。
"on Highway 30, she got rear-ended,。
"and the guy doesn't have insurance."。
So I'm like, "All right, here we go.。
"What do we do for you, let me help Mom out."。
My mom's single, parents divorced when I was young,。
so it makes things complicated.。
Go back to writing, make sure Mom is okay,。
go back to writing.。
Then I get a text from my wife, she's like,。
"Oh, Josiah, I don't know what to do.。
"Kids are acting crazy, they're hitting each other,。
"they're screaming, you know, one of 'em scratched,。
"we got blood pouring out."。
I mean, just like, "What's going on?。
"You're gonna have to give spankings when they come home."。
I'm like, "All right, go back to writing."。
Wrap up the writing.。
No joke, y'all, I walk into my house.。
My little girl, three years old,。
is literally crying all over the floor,。
flailing her arms, can't stop.。
My wife's got the seven-month-old Caleb,。
and she's like, "Hey, just to remind you,。
"we're leading a Bible study tonight for newly-marrieds.。
"Who plans a Bible study for newly-marrieds。
"on their wife's birthday?"。
Now I feel like I'm the best husband in the world.。
Right now I'm being, I mean, like,。
I didn't even see that coming,。
and she's like, "Why would you do that?"。
I'm like, "I don't know, I should've said something,。
"I should've raised my hand."。
And then she's like, "Hey, we don't even have dinner made,。
"so I'm gonna go get dinner, I'm gonna get takeout."。
I'm like, "All right, go."。
She gives me my seven-month-old Caleb.。
At that time, he projectile vomits all over the floor.。
And I'm just like, "Man, I can't even be mad,。
"that's impressive, I didn't know that much bodily fluid."。
Bodily fluid could come out of a seven-month-old.。
About that time, I get a call from one of our porch leaders,。
and I'm like, "I'm just gonna FaceTime this。
"so he can just see all the chaos,"。
you know what I'm saying?。
Like, I gotta give spankings, I gotta clean up vomit,。
I got scratches, I gotta break up fights,。
so we FaceTime, I'm like, "Hey, what's up, Kyle?。
"This is what's going on, bro."。
I'm like, "Hey, man, what are you doing?"。
He's like, "Oh, bro, man, I'm hanging out with my roommate,。
"we're getting some food,。
"we're about to watch the Cowboys game."。
I said, "Great, man, have a nice night,。
"enjoy your singleness."。
(audience laughs)。
Hung up the phone.。
You kidding me, bro?。
Listen, man, I don't...。
I'm done.。
But listen, I don't say that for sympathy, I really don't.。
I say that because of what the Texas,。
what Paul is trying to communicate。
through the Spirit of God in this text.。
I share this because what Paul is saying is true.。
Like, you don't have less problems in marriage,。
you have more problems, more stressors, more anxieties,。
more things to worry about.。
And I think what he's trying to communicate。
is when you get married, you just double your problems.。
Like, there's single problems,。
and I don't wanna minimize,。
that's what's hard in this room.。
I know there's hard things that y'all are going through.。
I'm not trying to minimize your problems.。
You have incredibly difficult stressors。
in your life right now, and we wanna minister to those.。
But what I wanna communicate。
in the most loving, careful way possible。
is notice how I didn't post any of those stressors。
on my 'gram.。
Oh, here's throw up.。
(audience laughs)。
Here's blood.。
I'm trying to communicate in the same way that Paul is,。
that Paul is saying, "Hey, marriage doesn't fix your problems。
"it only adds to your problems."。
God is trying to convince you of something。
that I know is really hard to believe。
because it was for me when I heard this.。
My mid-20s, nearing the end of my 20s.。
There are problems in singleness。
and there's problems in marriage.。
It's a good thing, but you're choosing to double them.。
I'm not trying to talk you out of marriage,。
but I am trying to exposit the text.。
I'm trying to be faithful to what God's word has to say。
in 1 Corinthians 7.。
And he's saying, "Hey, you have a season of life。
"that I'm placing you in。
"where you're gonna have minimal distractions,。
"or you're gonna have less distractions,。
"you're gonna have less problems,。
"you're gonna have less stressors。
"than you'll ever have before in your life."。
And hearing all of this, some of you are like,。
"Man, I get that you have more problems,。
"but I'd rather trade my problems for your problems,。
"Jessi, at least you got a companion and all.。
"At least you get to have sex, you know what I'm saying?。
"Look at them kids."。
(congregation laughing)。
But here's the reality, we just got real.。
And they're all under five.。
Yeah.。
But here's the reality.。
You might say, "Hey, I'd rather have your problems,。
"I'd rather trade your problems for my problems."。
But here's the reality, you can't.。
So why wouldn't you use this season of singleness。
that God's got you in。
for an incredible。
way of saying, "God, I wanna make much of you,。
"I wanna use the extra time,。
"I wanna use the extra income,。
"I wanna use the gifts that you've given me,。
"and I wanna leverage those for your glory."。
Why would you not try to do that。
during this time of singleness?。
Like you see, before Christ,。
I wasted so many years of my singleness.。
Like I wish I could stand up here and authentically say,。
"Man, I leveraged it all, man, I went all in."。
But the truth is, I wasted all of my college years,。
pretty much,。
chasing the party, chasing one relationship after another.。
I was the man praying on women.。
I was that guy.。
I was the porn addict.。
I was thinking I was gonna find fulfillment and rest。
in my sport that I played,。
in the fame that I got, in the affirmation that I received.。
And it came to a screeching halt one night.。
My sin was ruling my life.。
It finally caught up with me.。
I chased all these things, even pornography,。
for a decade of my life for a cheap thrill and a fill。
that only led to greater levels of anxiety and depression.。
Alcohol was my escape,。
and I began to become so unsatisfied。
and unfulfilled with those things.。
And I always tell people,。
"Hey, you won't really see your need for Christ。
"until you see how wicked your sin is。
"in light of a holy God, a perfect God."。
Like, some of you come into this place。
and you just justify your sin,。
and you're like, "Oh, I'm good, man.。
"Like, I got God here on Tuesdays,。
"but then every other day, man,。
"I'm just doing what I wanna do.。
"But I'll give 'em a little bit on Tuesday night."。
And you're miserable, man.。
Deep down inside, you're miserable,。
because you can't have the world and Christ at the same time.。
They're two competing.。
They're oppositions.。
You can have Jesus or the world, but you can't have both.。
And I realized for the first time,。
my eyes were opened to the fact。
that Jesus got what I deserved on the cross,。
and I got what he deserved, death.。
(silence)。
Thankfully, the Lord captured my heart at the end of college。
and I began to give my life away,。
and that's really when I began to find life.。
I almost left the game that I loved。
for so many years, baseball,。
and God said, "No, no, no, you take that game。
"and you tell that game your passion.。
"Your passion is me."。
(silence)。
See, God loves passions.。
He's not against your passions.。
He's not against your desires,。
but you need to start telling your passions its purpose.。
Your purpose is Christ.。
Your purpose is to make him known。
in any and everything you do.。
So, can I charge you for a second?。
Like, in this season,。
that God's got you, like you're single for a reason,。
because he says, "Hey, you can go.。
"You can move halfway across the country。
"if God's calling you to take a job.。
"You can go on a mission trip。
"and go share the gospel with people。
"that have never heard the name of Jesus.。
"Like, tomorrow morning, when you get into that office,。
"like, you should try to lose your job。
"for sharing the gospel of Jesus Christ。
"with people that don't know him.。
"Like, you should get plugged in.。
"I mean, plugged into the local church.。
"Like, you should submit yourself。
"under the authority of the elders。
"and say, 'Hey, I'm going all in.。
"'I'm changing my playground and my playmates.。
"'Enough of this.。
"'I'm tired of going and hanging out。
"'on the same playgrounds.。
"'Like, I am going to find men that love Jesus.。
"'I'm gonna go find women.。
"'Like, I'm telling you, these women,。
"'I'm gonna find them,。
"'and they're gonna be women that go all in,。
"'and they're not just gonna have one foot in the world。
"'and one foot in the church.'"。
God's got that for you tonight, you know that?。
God's speaking to you tonight and he's saying,。
"Hey, don't waste these years that I'm gonna give you.。
"That you would bring glory to my kingdom,。
"that you would live for another kingdom,。
"that you wouldn't treat God as something。
"that you just add onto your life,。
"but you would treat him as the biggest thing in your life."。
Man, could I tell you about。
a guy named Kyle, I'm close to him.。
He serves here at the porch.。
He went to SMU, played football,。
chasing everything underneath the sun.。
God radically changed his heart.。
God flipped it upside down.。
He was chasing corporate, wanted to be a millionaire.。
By the time he was 30, and God just said,。
"Hey, no, no, you're gonna,。
"I know that's a passion of yours.。
"Nothing wrong with that in and of itself,。
"but hey, you can't even be a Christian right now。
"because you're allowing that to consume you."。
And he began to change Kyle's heart.。
And now he's leading a team here at the porch。
every single week, right down here.。
It's called the Sidewalk Team.。
They share the gospel with people.。
They pray with people right after service.。
Can I tell you about a woman named Melissa。
who had an abortion?。
That's part of her story.。
And she's leading a team out in the town center,。
the lobby, every week here at the porch.。
Like, your past doesn't have to define you。
because Jesus says, "Hey, I can define you now."。
Melissa is an incredible example of a girl。
that went all in with everything underneath the sun。
only to find greater levels of anxiety and depression.。
And listen, it's like some of you tonight,。
like, you're gonna get creative.。
Like, you're gonna go out of here。
and you're gonna be like, "Yeah, man, I'm gonna go all in.。
"Like, I'm gonna sign up for a community group.。
"I'm gonna be a member of a church.。
"I'm gonna go equip disciple.。
"I'm gonna leverage these years.。
"I'm going all in.。
"I'm gonna figure out how to share the message of Christ。
"in the most tactful way possible,。
"and I am going in, all in."。
And you're gonna get creative。
in how you can bring God's name to your office.。
Others of you, man, you're gonna leave this room tonight.。
Tomorrow's gonna come, and you're gonna waste。
your singleness by focusing all the attention on you.。
You're gonna impulse buy clothes。
or another trinket that you really can't afford.。
You're gonna go out and binge eat。
because you feel like your life is out of control。
and that's the only thing that you can control.。
You're gonna binge watch Netflix,。
or you're gonna binge watch Bravo and Real Housewives,。
nothing against that, right, but it's consuming you。
and you're living in some fantasy world.。
You're gonna do these things。
thinking that they're gonna give you life,。
and they're just leading to emptiness.。
Like, you, man, you're gonna pull up。
a two-dimensional image tonight on your phone.。
Because it's your only escape, you think.。
I thought that, that was a lie I believed.。
It's your only escape of leaving the pain of loneliness.。
And it might feel good in the moment,。
but you're not, it's not doing anything for you.。
It's leading to emptiness, and you know it.。
You lay in bed at night saying,。
"Is this all that there is, is this it?"。
And God's trying to give you a perspective tonight.。
Unless you see a different perspective,。
unless you see that, hey, there's more to this life。
than what you're doing now.。
Listen, you are going to die a miserable person.。
Why do you think LA, Hollywood,。
is the most miserable place on the Earth?。
Come on, you know that.。
It's fake, bro.。
See your singleness as a gift.。
See your singleness for a reason.。
And third and final point tonight is this.。
See your singleness for a season.。
Like if you didn't know, most of you will be relieved。
to know that your singleness has an expiration date,。
so you can exhale now.。
Demographers, is that how you say that, demographer, yeah,。
project that 80% of Americans will be married。
at some point in their lives.。
And I know what you're thinking, I'm going to be the 20%.。
Get that negative feedback out of here, right?。
Just get it out of here.。
Brides.com said according to the 2018 statistic,。
the average age at which women get married is almost 28.。
There's hope.。
For some, the average age is 29.。
In my case, it was 31.。
If most of us see singleness for a season,。
which I hope you do, hope that gives hope,。
then what should you do in this season?。
Can I challenge you with two things and then we'll close?。
The same thing that I was challenged with。
is that you would see this season。
where you would choose two things,。
and there's a lot of other things you can choose,。
but you would choose contentment。
and you would choose purity.。
Here's why I say that.。
Let me talk about contentment first.。
Philippians 4, 11 through 13, same guy, Paul, says this,。
and he says, "I've found the secret to contentment."。
Look what he says.。
"I've learned how to be content with whatever I have.。
"Whether I know how to live on almost nothing。
"or with everything, I've learned the secret。
"of living in every situation,。
"whether it's on a full stomach or empty,。
"with plenty or little."。
Listen, I know this is a coffee cup verse,。
it's a tattoo verse, but here, don't miss it.。
"For I can do everything through Christ。
"who gives me strength."。
You can replace that word strength with satisfaction.。
"I can do everything through Christ who satisfies me,。
"who gives me contentment."。
Paul's saying, "Hey, I've learned the secret to contentment。
"and it's by me learning how to build。
"contentment in Christ."。
And some of us, man, we take this verse。
and we tack it on to selfish gain.。
And in the context of this passage,。
he's talking about contentment.。
He's not talking about your bench press.。
He's not talking about you making a million dollars。
by the time you're 30.。
He's not talking about you getting a spouse。
or getting a girlfriend or going on a date。
or not being single the next Valentine's Day。
that comes along.。
He's talking about, he's like,。
"I've learned the secret of facing little。
"or abounding and having everything."。
You know what the secret is?。
Putting my faith in Jesus.。
Putting my trust in Him.。
Why is being content so important in your singleness?。
Because here's what I know.。
Where there's a lack of contentment,。
there's a lack of conviction.。
And where there's a lack of conviction,。
there's always a willingness to settle。
for less than God's best.。
Some of you tonight, listen,。
some of you tonight,。
you're settling for less than God's best.。
You're dating that person that you know you shouldn't date.。
You're going on these dates with guys。
that man, their profiles are saying that they're Christian,。
but you know they're far from it.。
Like you're settling.。
The conviction is a belief.。
When there's a lack of contentment in our life,。
there's a lack of belief.。
There's a lack of trust in God.。
And where there's a lack of trust in God,。
you're always gonna be willing to settle。
for less than his best.。
And I don't want that for you, Porch.。
I don't want that for you tonight.。
I want you to experience all that God would have for you.。
The lie is Jesus isn't enough,。
and that's such a lie.。
So the question I, it begs tonight,。
is how do we build contentment?。
Listen, we build contentment。
by actually living out our faith.。
Like I just implored you in the last truth,。
like some of us, man, we're not living out our faith.。
You wake up and you don't spend time with God.。
You don't talk to God.。
You don't get in his word.。
You don't allow this to wash over.。
You don't allow this to renew your mind.。
How do you expect to build contentment in your life。
when this isn't true?。
How do you build contentment?。
You read, man, you study the Bible.。
You get with men and women that love Jesus.。
You follow someone who's following Christ.。
Find the most godliest man or godliest woman。
and say, hey, will you mentor me?。
Will you disciple me?。
Can I learn from you?。
That's what I did when I was 20,。
two years old after I came to know Jesus.。
You confess sin.。
You pursue healing from addiction.。
Some of us tonight, man, we have to go to Regen.。
Like it's a recovery ministry.。
I'm thinking about going through it next year。
when I can free up some time.。
When I'm not a man of divided heart,。
I wish I could do it now.。
Monday nights, every Monday night,。
there's about 1,000 people that show up here。
and we all got issues.。
We all got baggage.。
We all got things that we need to work through.。
And the healthiest thing that you could do right now。
in your singleness is to get healthy,。
is to learn what it looks like to confess sin,。
to pursue Christ, to flee sexual immorality,。
drunkenness, drugs, anything that would take your eyes。
off of Jesus.。
Philip Zimbardo, I love this,。
chair of the Western Psychological Foundation.。
He wrote a book called "The Demise of Guys."。
So you listen up, man.。
We reported that the average guy, by the time they're 21,。
has spent 10,000 hours playing video games.。
10,000 hours.。
It takes half that time to earn a bachelor's degree.。
Listen, it's not about video games.。
I don't care if you don't play video,。
go play video games.。
But if it's consuming your life,。
then I wonder if you're missing a bigger purpose.。
The world is on fire, man.。
You understand?。
Like it's burning all around us.。
Crippling levels of poverty.。
Injustice is taking place.。
Addiction all over this country.。
And you're sitting behind a screen,。
twiddling your thumbs,。
thinking that you're gonna find purpose and satisfaction。
in beating some silly game.。
Sex slavery.。
God is looking for men to step up。
and to run to the fire and say, "I got hope.。
"His name is Jesus.。
"Where are the men?。
"Stand up.。
"Let's go.。
"The time is now.。
"Right now in our singleness."。
Could it be that we're discontent。
because the things of Christ are not really。
true in your life?。
Could it be that the reason why you go to bed,。
you're miserable because you're the weakened warrior,。
the porn, you're the Tinder hookups,。
you're the workaholic, you're uncommitted relationship,。
you're playing house with your girlfriend,。
you're half-heartedly doing this church thing,。
could it be that you're not,。
it's because you're not all in?。
Tonight's the night.。
Jesus wants to build contentment。
because he knows if you don't ever learn。
to be content in him,。
then if you were to get married,。
your spouse is gonna let you down, man.。
Spouses make miserable saviors.。
Like I wish I could say I meet。
every one of my wife's expectations.。
I wish she could say that, right?。
But it's not true, man.。
And so what do you do?。
What do others do when spouses。
don't meet their expectations?。
They run to some drug.。
They run to some strip club.。
They run to some illegitimate relationship.。
Why do you think the divorce rate is on all-time high?。
Because men and women haven't learned。
to be content in their creator.。
Amen?。
Lastly, choose purity.。
Why pursue purity?。
Why pursue purity?。
Because here's why I say this,。
you have a sexual desire now,。
you know that the Lord doesn't want you。
to express it right now in a way。
that would go against a committed relationship.。
Where he says, hey, don't go outside。
of a committed relationship with your spouse.。
And so you have this desire,。
and you're basically saying,。
hey, I don't care what God says,。
so that when I have this desire,。
I'm gonna act on this sexual desire at will.。
Let me tell you something.。
You're gonna have sexual desires。
for other men and women after you get married.。
I wish I could say that wasn't true,。
but on this side of marriage,。
it's true.。
And so what is God trying to do?。
He wants you to pursue purity now,。
so that you can have patience and self-control later。
in your marriage, so that when you do have。
a sexual desire for someone else who's not your wife,。
that you have, what have you done?。
You've built patience and self-control,。
so that you can say no to those desires。
after you get married, and so that you can be。
a one-woman man and a one-man woman.。
Amen?。
And so God is not trying to rip you off.。
He's not trying to hold out on you.。
Pursue purity, because it's worth it.。
He's trying to give you,。
he wants to give you more trust in your relationship.。
So many relationships, so many people I meet with,。
they don't have trust.。
They gotta track their spouse.。
They don't even let their spouse hang out with the boys,。
or the girls don't even, can't even go out with the girls,。
because they're thinking, what are you doing?。
Because they're not giving them any reason to believe。
that anything's different.。
God is a God of purpose.。
He loves you, he's created you.。
I'm so thankful for my season of singleness,。
and the contentment and the purity that God grew,。
and I can stand up here tonight saying that,。
man, I've been faithful to my wife in the midst。
of temptation, in the midst of not being content。
in seasons of our marriage, because God did something。
in that season of singleness.。
Tonight is the night where you begin to build that, right?。
Guys, I know, like I told you earlier, man,。
it was a long season of singleness for me.。
And I did things that, man, I wasn't proud of.。
My life wasn't content in Jesus alone,。
and I didn't pursue purity.。
I did the things that I felt were right,。
like porn filled my lonely nights,。
sexual relationships after one another,。
left me empty, like partying, I mean, all those things,。
right, and I kept saying to myself, who would want this?。
Who would want this person full of baggage?。
Who would want me full of sin and self?。
And that's when the gospel came alive in my life,。
and I began to realize that Jesus wants this.。
Jesus wants me.。
That's the whole purpose of the gospel,。
that he became sin, he who knew no sin became sin,。
so that we might become the righteousness of Christ,。
so that we might be granted forgiveness。
and be in a right standing with him。
because of what he's done for us on the cross.。
He wants you, so if you're thinking that tonight,。
if you're like, who would want this,。
who would want this baggage?。
There's hope.。
The good news of Jesus Christ,。
God sent Jesus to do the impossible.。
It's the greatest love story that has ever been written.。
That he died on a criminal's cross for you and me,。
that we wouldn't be punished for our sins,。
but that Jesus would be punished in our place.。
In closing, I celebrated my first Valentine's Day。
with my wife, Kathy, back in 2013.。
She lived in Addison.。
We actually came to the porch.。
We actually sat right back there behind the sound booth.。
Holler at my section back there.。
I had this creative idea,。
this idea that was romantic,。
but had a spiritual twist to it.。
We were doing the long distance thing.。
I live two hours away.。
I'm like, hey, whatever for you, baby.。
I'm all in.。
She was like, let's just celebrate。
Valentine's Day on the weekend.。
I'm like, no, no.。
I'm not doing that.。
I've fallen for that trick before.。
I showed up at her apartment in Addison with one rose.。
I had it behind my back.。
She opened the door.。
I said, here, baby.。
Kathy, I'm giving you this rose。
'cause that's what they do on The Bachelor.。
[audience laughs]。
I didn't say that.。
I said, I'm giving you this rose, baby,。
not because I'm cheap,。
because you're worth a dozen roses.。
But I'm giving you this rose as a symbol。
that every time you look at this rose,。
that God is calling you and I to be the one。
before we ever know if we're the one for each other.。
I want you to have this rose,。
and I want you to look at it every day.。
Because the most tragic thing that we could do。
as we continue to pursue each other in this relationship。
is we get consumed with marriage,。
or we get consumed with engagement,。
or we get consumed with these things。
that really don't matter at the end of the day,。
apart from becoming the one.。
I mean, they do, but if you're not becoming the one,。
it doesn't really matter.。
And what I mean by becoming the one is becoming God's man.。
The things that we talked about tonight,。
becoming God's woman.。
I've tried the other way, babe.。
I don't wanna go back.。
I don't wanna fall into sexual immorality.。
I don't wanna do the things that the world does.。
It's a trap, man.。
It always overpromises, but it underdelivers.。
So I'm giving you this one rose。
as a symbol of every time you look at this,。
I want you to remember that God is calling us。
to be fixated on becoming the one that he wants us to be,。
to become his man, to become his woman.。
Because here's what I know.。
If we take our crosshairs off of becoming the one,。
then nothing else matters.。
Marriage doesn't matter, engagement doesn't matter,。
having kids doesn't matter,。
living life together doesn't matter.。
And here's what I know.。
If we don't get married,。
then we leave each other better than when we found。
each other, which, wow, that'd be a crazy phenomenon。
if we actually dated that way, right?。
But that's how God's men date.。
That's how God's women date.。
And we're gonna know quickly,。
if we focus on becoming the one,。
if we're called to get married or not,。
or we're gonna know quickly because the spirit of God。
is gonna tell us that, hey, this isn't right,。
we need to break up.。
And so tonight, could I charge you with the same?。
Man, we've elevated marriage sometimes so much。
in the church that it's made you singles feel。
like outcasted, like you don't matter.。
That's not the end goal.。
The end goal is to love the Lord your God。
with all your heart, all your mind, all your soul.。
The end goal is to seek first the kingdom of God。
and His righteousness, and He says,。
these things will be given to you.。
Now, I'm not promising you, He's not promising you a spouse,。
but He is promising you a life of fulfillment,。
a life of purpose, a life of satisfaction,。
a life of contentment.。
And so I share that story with you tonight, not to brag,。
not to say, look at me, 'cause God knows。
I've gotten it wrong before, but I share that story。
with you because it's a redemption story.。
And that same redemption is offered to you.。
I share that story because the most tragic thing。
that you could do tonight is walk out of these doors。
and focus on the wrong thing.。
But I promise you that if you focus on becoming the one,。
that if you understand that God is calling you。
to be the one, if you focus on being God's man,。
that you'll never be mad.。
You'll never be mad at God, you'll never be dissatisfied.。
Sure, there might be some lonely moments,。
but God is gonna be there for you.。
You'll never be alone.。
He says He'll never leave you nor forsake you.。
It's the highest call that you could ever have.。
And tonight I'm asking for you to take that call。
and make it real to your life.。
The way you do this in singleness。
is to see your singleness as a gift.。
Understand the reason why you're single,。
and for most of us in the room tonight,。
see your singleness as just for a season.。
Let me pray that you would.。
God in heaven, you gotta do the work that I can't do.。
Lord, this work that I can't do is change hearts.。
Every time I go at this, every time I get up here。
and speak or charge a group of people,。
there's something,。
there's something that supernaturally has to happen。
for you to change lives.。
And so I'm begging you by the Spirit of God。
to supernaturally give my friends a vision。
of a preferred future that affects。
their present reality tonight,。
that when they stand up and they worship,。
that something changes, something shifts in their heart,。
and God, you would be made much of in their singleness,。
that you would get much glory,。
whether they're single for the rest of their life。
or they're single only for a season,。
that God, you would allow my friends。
to experience an unbelievable purpose。
and vision for their life that would trump anything else。
that this world could offer for your glory in Christ's name.。
Amen.。
