>> Hey, PORCH.。
Join me as we read God's word together.。
From the gospel of Matthew chapter 28 verses 16 through 20.。
Now the 11 disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain to which Jesus had directed them,。
and they saw him, they worshipped him, but some doubted.。
And Jesus came and said to them, "All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me.。
Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and。
the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all I have commanded you.。
And behold, I am with you always to the end of the age."。
Now our final message and our series called "Disciple."。
>> PORCH, how we doing?。
We doing okay?。
Hey, it's great to be together.。
Thanks for joining us here.。
I know it is Tuesday of Thanksgiving week, and yet I don't think you could be in a better。
place tonight.。
I think God has something really tremendous in store for us.。
I think that every week.。
And yet tonight, I think that he is going to serve something up that many of us need。
this evening.。
Now, before we get going, I do want to say hey to a couple of special locations that。
are tuning in with us from around the nation.。
Special shout out to Portsligh Fort Worth, special shout out to Portsligh Wheaton, and。
then Portsligh Greater Lafayette.。
We love you guys.。
We're grateful that God is working where you are and we get to be a small part of it.。
While it's not uncommon in ministry circles to show up to a gender specific worship event.。
Some of you have been to one of these before where you show up and it's an all guys or。
an all girls worship night.。
Now I've worked for a ministry where this was an annual, it was an annual regularity。
for us.。
We would always put on one every single year.。
And it was special.。
Like I didn't know what happened to girls nights, but I knew every time the guys got。
together, it was a really meaningful time.。
Like we would find frequent references to Braveheart and there would often be stories。
about hunting and lessons about women.。
Which doesn't feel any different than your regular time with the boys.。
And yet this was characterized by the sound of every man singing in their deepest possible。
voice.。
It was awesome.。
Now, to really put an exclamation point on these evenings, what we would do is we would。
always bring in a big, a big name guest speaker.。
Like we just wanted to really blow the top off and make it a really special time.。
And so we would do it with the girls, we would do it with the guys.。
And because I was on staff, part of my responsibility was just to host the guy, make sure that he。
didn't need for anything.。
And so we have a special guest speaker and I'm kind of his glorified shadow, a bodyguard。
of sorts.。
I know no fighting technique and yet here I am just trying to look as intimidating as。
possible and yet everything looks totally normal.。
There's no difficulty over the course of our entire evening.。
That is until I noticed what appeared to be some suspicious behavior.。
Now part of my job is to be on the lookout for things that are out of the ordinary or。
odd.。
And so when the evening began, things were fine.。
Worship started, the guys were gathering, they were booming with their voice.。
That is until I looked across the room and I saw what appeared to be something uniquely。
different.。
Suspicious, to say the least.。
Because across the room, there were two guys sitting there that looked different than the。
rest of the crowd.。
You see, you may be wondering what looked different about them.。
Well it was what they were wearing in specific.。
Now I never judge people for what they wear and yet these guys were dressed in black from。
head to toe, which is ironic now that I'm thinking about it.。
But it wasn't just that they were wearing black from head to toe, they had sun shades。
on, caps pulled low, hoods thrown up over their heads and their hands in their pocket。
and not trying to bring about any sort of attention to themselves.。
It's odd to say the least, especially when sun shades and sweatshirts don't make sense。
in a dark room where a bunch of burly men are gathered about singing and sweating all。
together.。
It just doesn't make sense.。
And so what I do is I grab a security guard and I make my way over to where these two。
guys are.。
And so we approach them very discreetly and as we get near to them we realize, man, okay,。
they can't see us but we can't see them.。
And so I can't make out what's actually happening in this moment.。
And so we grab them and we pull them out into the hallway, escort them very gently into。
a lit space so that way we can pull their hoods, lift their glasses and identify what。
exactly is going on here.。
And I'm not kidding you when I say the most surprising thing happened in this moment.。
They were girls at the guy's worship night.。
So when I asked them, took them to task and begged them to tell me, "What are you doing。
here?"。
They told me that they just love this guest speaker so much.。
Now why do I tell you that?。
Because the minute we learned who these girls really were, we learned what they really cared。
about so much so that they put on a disguise, hide in plain sight and even endeavor to get。
as close to this guy as humanly possible.。
You see, tonight we're going to see who Jesus really is, that he is the resurrected king.。
And we're going to see as a result what he really cares about, saving the world and bringing。
as many people into his kingdom as possible, so much so that he would put on a disguise.。
He would hide in plain sight because he wants to get as close to you and me as he can.。
So if you have a Bible, turn with me to Matthew chapter 28.。
It's what Franklin read a minute ago.。
We're just going to work our way through it.。
You know this passage famously as the great commission, which as I say that many of you。
just immediately begin to check out.。
You've heard the lessons, you've read the stories, you've memorized the verses, you。
know this thing better than I do.。
You might as well come up here and preach it yourself.。
And yet here's what I would endeavor in this moment to say, I don't know that we know the。
great commission as well as we think.。
And so tonight what I want to do is I just want to walk us through this passage of scripture。
and I want to save us from falling prey to being too Christian for our own good.。
Meaning we know all about Jesus, but we don't really know Jesus himself.。
You see, we've been in a series called Disciple where we've been talking about that idea,。
the idea of walking with Christ in the wonder of who he is, because I have this deep seated。
fear like as I've visited with people over the course of my year now, what I've seen。
in our people that I'm desperately praying God would save us from is spiritual apathy.。
What I'm asking the Lord to do is to give us a sense of holy urgency because I see too。
many of us slipping into the motions of being a Christian, going to the Bible studies, raising。
our hands and singing the songs and praying some prayers and dropping money in the collection。
plate that we don't pass collection plates any longer.。
We are slipping into the motions of becoming, of being good Christians, but we're not, we're。
not moving with the kind of motivation to become like Christ.。
And so tonight, as we work through this chapter, here's what we're going to see.。
Jesus, he wants what you want.。
So many of us, we're not motivated to become like Christ because we're motivated to become。
something else.。
We want to be impactful or we want to make a difference or we want to become someone。
significant.。
We want to be connected to something that matters.。
We want to leave a legacy.。
Like we want to make a difference in the world.。
And Jesus wants the same thing for you.。
And yet what he knows that we need to know tonight that we have worked all series long。
to help you understand is that will not be found anywhere else, but it will be found。
with him.。
All of that that you long for, it is found in this man and not this world.。
You see Jesus, he wants to connect you to something that is so significant, is so important.。
Like it's so climactic.。
It's even dramatic.。
Even he has a purpose for your life.。
And tonight we're going to talk about what that purpose is.。
And he's given us the great commission to clarify it.。
But before we can talk about what that purpose is, we've got to talk about who that purpose。
is for.。
So this is what it says, Matthew 28, starting in verse 16.。
It says, "Now the 11 disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain to which Jesus had directed。
them.。
And when they saw him, they worshiped him.。
But some doubted."。
We'll stop there.。
What we need to know as we come to this passage is that Jesus has risen from the dead.。
He has appeared to not one, but two different Marys.。
And he has given these ladies instructions on where his disciples should meet him.。
He's literally dropped a pin in their ancient near Eastern GPS and said, "Hey, this is where。
I'm going to be.。
Send the boys to find me."。
And what we know about that location is it's in Galilee at the mountain.。
Why does that matter?。
Often when we read these types of things, we catch a location and we just kind of steamroll。
by it.。
We just keep moving, right?。
Because that's not important information.。
There's more going on here.。
Jesus is going to say some things.。
I want to know what he's saying.。
And yet this location is incredibly significant for a couple of reasons.。
Number one, he says he's going to the mountain.。
Now there's a lot of debate about what mountain Jesus is speaking about.。
Some scholars think that he's talking about the Mount of Commission, which is where he。
ascended to a high place and he called his disciples to himself and he commissioned them。
to become his disciples, to follow him.。
Others believe it's where he taught the Sermon on the Mount, where he unpacked what the upside。
down kingdom looked like.。
He gave us kingdom ethics and kingdom economy so that way we knew how we could work through。
this world, living in the kingdom that he has inaugurated and handed over to us.。
But here's what I think.。
I think that what Jesus is speaking about is the Mount of Transfiguration.。
The Mount of Transfiguration.。
If you're not familiar with what the Mount of Transfiguration is, it's a mount that Jesus。
ascended, located in Galilee, where he transfigured.。
Galilee, the Greek there is metamorpho, that he transformed in front of three disciples,。
Peter, James, and John, and he revealed to them exactly who he is.。
It's kind of like what happens at your wedding when you lift the veil on your bride and you。
behold all her beauty.。
Jesus lifted the veil and he revealed to his disciples, "Hey, this is who I am.。
I'm amazing.。
I'm splendorous.。
I'm marvelous.。
I am not just a man.。
I am the son of man.。
I am not just a good teacher.。
I am a God-like figure because I am the son of God himself."。
That's what Jesus did at the Mount of Transfiguration.。
And the reason I think, as well as many other scholars, it's not just me, there's veracity。
to this point, is because Jesus in this chapter, chapter 28, he says, as well as the angel。
who appeared to Mary and the other Mary, that they shall come to Galilee where they shall。
see me.。
See me.。
There's one mountain in Galilee where they truly saw Jesus.。
Now why does that even matter?。
Because Jesus wants to verify for his disciples here in this climactic moment where he's risen。
from the dead and he's going to commission them out that he is who he says he is.。
He wants there to be no mistake.。
Hey, this is who I say I am.。
And to prove it, I'm leading you back to the place where I gave you a teaser one time before,。
and yet now I'm going to cement the idea as reality in your world.。
But then he also says that he needs them to come to Galilee.。
Why does Galilee matter?。
Well, Galilee matters for a couple of different reasons, primarily because it was the place。
where the disciples walked with Jesus over the course of his earthly ministry.。
Like this is the place where they were called to follow him and they saw him do everything。
that he did.。
They heard the lessons and they saw the stories unfold.。
It's why as we've over the course of this series been staring through their perspective。
at Jesus, seeking to learn what it means to walk with him because they saw him themselves。
and walked with him personally.。
So he leads them to Galilee.。
And what's significant, catch this, this is so cool.。
They are in Jerusalem when they get the command, the instruction to rendezvous with him in。
Galilee.。
That means they've got a journey ahead.。
They've got to get up and they've got to move.。
Yet what's so significant about it is they are South and they've got to go North.。
And as they go North, they are literally going to retrace every step, see every site, smell。
the same smells, speak to the same people more than likely that they encountered over。
the course of their ministry with him.。
He wants to take them down memory lane.。
He wants to do with them what I did with my wife on our one year dating anniversary.。
He wants to relive all of the beauty and the glory and the wonder of what happened in our。
first year together.。
That's what I did with Brooke.。
That's what many of you have done yourself.。
That's what many of you probably should do yourself.。
It's a really good date idea so you can take a note and slip it away in your journal.。
Why did I do that with Brooke?。
Choose to relive year one with her.。
Not just to contemplate the past, but to accelerate our future.。
Like I knew as we look back, we're going to catch a vision for what's ahead.。
As we think about how good this has been, we're going to be motivated for how great。
it's going to be.。
And Jesus wants to do the same thing.。
Where I had big plans for Brooke and I, Jesus has big plans for he and the disciples.。
He has a purpose for their life.。
He is inviting them into something so special.。
And so he takes them back where it all began because he wants them to know, hey, as good。
as it was, it's only going to get better.。
The other reason he takes them to Galilee, which I think is really important, is it adds。
veracity to the fact that the great commission did not happen right before Christ's ascension.。
That moment where he looks to heaven and says, "Beam me up, Scotty."。
They didn't happen concurrently.。
Some of us, we don't know that.。
It's a common misconception that Jesus gave these words, he said this command, and then。
he went straight to heaven.。
And yet Acts 1-3 tells us that he presented himself alive to them after his suffering。
by many proofs, appearing to them during 40 days and speaking about the kingdom of God.。
Like Jesus puts on this 40-day masterclass because he wants to prove to them, "Hey, I。
am who I said I am, and I'm going to prepare you for what I've called you to do."。
There were 40 days between his resurrection and his ascension, which I think is amazing,。
given the fact that upon his appearance, some worshipped him, but some doubted him.。
How does that make you feel, knowing that?。
That some of these disciples, they doubted him.。
The resurrected king, I love it.。
I think it's amazing, which may not be necessarily what you were feeling.。
And yet the reason I love it is because, number one, it adds proof, veracity.。
It gives substance to the fact that this isn't fiction.。
Like if the disciples were just going to make up Christianity, you don't put a giant gaping。
hole in the story that other people can pour water through and ultimately puncture unto。
disbelief.。
You don't do that.。
That would be a terrible idea.。
No, you want to present an airtight defense that Jesus is the son of God.。
He rose from the dead and everybody believed, and yet that's not what happens.。
The story doesn't read that way because the story's true.。
They recounted history in this moment.。
But I also love it because it leads us to our first point.。
It tells us who Jesus' purpose is for, that Jesus gives purpose to saints and skeptics。
and screw-ups.。
He gives purpose to saints and skeptics and screw-ups.。
Which one there are you?。
You see, the saints are the ones that worshipped him.。
And yet we know that some doubt it, that there are skeptics in their midst.。
Like these are the 11 disciples, the very men that Jesus handpicked himself, that watched。
him firsthand in his ministry, that beheld all of the incredible things we just wish。
we could see ourselves.。
Like as they walked with him, they saw him calm the storm and walk on the water and multiply。
the loaves and turn water into wine and heal the sick and raise the dead and exercise demons.。
They saw amazing things, and yet even still, some doubted.。
It's kind of like when I went rappelling for the very first time in my life.。
Anybody been rappelling in here?。
Show of hands just around the room.。
Yeah, I mean, you can attest to this.。
I don't care how brave or bold you are.。
The first time you go rappelling, which is walking down the side of a cliff face, traversing。
an overhang, what you feel is some sense of anxiety.。
Like you can't help it.。
Like you start to pit a little bit, your hands get clammy, because the thought of walking。
backwards off of a cliff is stupid.。
Let's just make no mistake about it.。
Like that's a crazy thing to do.。
And yet here in this moment, I understood, like we went through this really extensive。
safety briefing that took far longer than I actually thought necessary.。
They explained to me the fact that the rope I would be rappelling from could hold something。
upwards of 8,000 pounds, which I am nowhere close in proximity to.。
I watched peer after peer after peer after peer do the very thing which I was going to。
do myself.。
I had them check and double check and triple check.。
I didn't have them quadruple check.。
All of my gear to make sure that I was safe and ready to go.。
And yet even still, despite the fact that there was so much evidence that I was going。
to be okay, I still felt some anxiousness, some stress.。
Like I couldn't help the inner voice, my very own conscience telling me, "Hey man, they're。
out to get you.。
This is all one big charade.。
Don't believe what they're saying.。
Don't look at what's happening.。
You're going to be the exception."。
And yet how did I get down that cliff face?。
Well, not wanting to be a coward, I rappelled down it.。
And the way that I did so, despite my doubt, is I wrestled through my doubt.。
I wrestled through it by trusting the fact my guide is who he says he is.。
And so I could take one backward step of faith at a time until I too slipped over the lip。
of that cliff face and found myself walking in an experience the likes of which I had。
not known in this world.。
I experienced wonder.。
Jesus knows you'll doubt.。
He's not disappointed by it.。
He's not concerned when you question.。
He's not annoyed by your anxieties.。
He isn't ignorant to the fact that this life is hard, that trouble abounds, that difficulty。
will come.。
He even says so himself that in this world you're going to have trouble, but take heart.。
I've overcome the world.。
He knows.。
Some of you in this room right here tonight in the realest way possible, you've taken。
some hits because of your allegiance to him.。
Allegiance to him has cost you family.。
It's cost you friends.。
It's cost you relationships.。
Convictions to Christ have led you to break off relationships and set aside friendships.。
You have felt persecution because you choose to follow him.。
He's not naive nor unknown to that reality.。
He knows it's going to be hard.。
You'll have good reason for doubt.。
He's not surprised, and yet he wants to do with you what he did with them.。
He wants to take you to the mount, back to that place, that moment where you were clear。
in knowing he is who he says he is, and he wants to walk you to Galilee, back to the。
place where you remember every step you've taken with him before, and you can be assured。
of the fact that he is as faithful today as he was back then.。
You see, Jesus, he doesn't give up on you.。
So don't give up on him either.。
Lean in.。
Push forward.。
It's never too late with Christ.。
We see he has purpose for saints, those that worship.。
He has purpose for skeptics, those that doubt.。
And we see that he has purpose for screw-ups, which you may not have seen it in the passage。
because it's subtly tucked away in there, and yet what we know is that there are 11。
disciples in this moment.。
Some of you are like, "Well, there were 12.。
One of them, he hit the hay.。
Judas is gone."。
And yet what we know is that 11 still exist.。
That should catch us off guard.。
That should feel surprising.。
Why?。
Because that means Peter's numbered amongst their group.。
He's the last person that should be in this room because he's the first person that abandoned,。
abandoned Jesus.。
And yet Peter, this major screw-up, he's here in this moment receiving Christ's purpose。
and moving towards a life of meaning and significance and importance and magnitude that he's longed。
for and you likewise long for.。
Some of you are here and you don't need me to list all of the different ways we screw。
up because you can look in yourself and find that area which you cringe most painfully。
and know it's likely true of you.。
What I would say to you is what Dane Ortlund has said, "Where you cringe most painfully,。
it is there that Christ hugs most invincibly."。
He has a purpose for you, but the way you return to that purpose is you follow the example。
of Peter.。
You repent of your sins.。
Not some of it, not most of it, all of it.。
The whole 100%, you confess it to God.。
You receive his forgiveness because I promise you, you will not outrace the grace of God。
for your life.。
No one is too far.。
No one can outrun his reach.。
He has forgiveness for you.。
And then what you believe is he has a purpose as well.。
You see, Jesus is in the business of taking really broken stories and making them into。
really beautiful subjects that magnify the glory of God and speak to the love he has。
for you and for me.。
He did it for Peter.。
If you're a screw up here, he wants to do it for you.。
He has a purpose for all of us.。
So what is that purpose?。
We know who that purpose is for, but what is the purpose exactly?。
Well, we read it in verse 18.。
And Jesus came and he said to them, "All authority in heaven and on earth has been。
given to me.。
Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and。
of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I've commanded you.。
And guess what?。
I will be with you always to the end of the age."。
Now I don't know about you, but if you're anything like me, then these verses, they。
can read like marching orders.。
Do you ever get that when you read the Bible?。
Like you're kind of working your way along and it's like, "And another to do, and another。
to do, and another to do.。
Okay, I'm like writing them out because these are the things that I'm supposed to keep.。
These are the commands I'm supposed to follow.。
This is the string of imperatives I'm supposed to guide and order my life according to."。
That's what this feels like for me.。
Like a list of marching orders that I, the good soldier of Christ, am supposed to do。
as I move my way into foreign territory to the glory of God and to save the world.。
And yet what you need to know is that this is not a series of commands, but in fact,。
it's a single command.。
That's what the Greek would say.。
So then what is the command?。
Well, the command that Jesus gives us to follow, the very single and sole command he wants。
us to know is that we're called to make disciples.。
This is it.。
The final command that Jesus ever gave, some of his famous last words.。
So then what does he mean when he says make disciples?。
He means this, put very simply, the goal isn't to make believers.。
It's to make becomers.。
Now I say that, and I know some of your antenna just went up.。
Some of you feel some creep under your skin that that's heretical.。
That doesn't make sense.。
That isn't correct.。
And yet let me just explain to you why I've written it the way it's written.。
You see, these two things, believing and becoming, they go hand in hand.。
And so it doesn't make sense that you can be one who believes in Christ and yet not。
one who becomes like Christ.。
It makes no sense whatsoever.。
There's no scriptural precedent that you could be one who has found Jesus but not following。
after Jesus.。
It doesn't make sense.。
It's not in the word.。
And so I've written this for some shock and some awe to kind of catch our attention that。
Jesus, he desperately, desperately wants to lead you into becoming like Christ.。
Which means that we don't just tell people what they're saved from.。
We tell people what they're saved for.。
That they're saved for a relationship with God, deep connection to other people, a kind。
of diversity in the family that will grow them, stretch them, build them up, that they're。
connected to a life of significant meaning and impact and difference making.。
That's what's true for them now.。
They've been saved for that.。
And yet here's the reality.。
Often when we read the Great Commission, what we think of is evangelism.。
But what Jesus just said is it's about discipleship.。
That's what it's about.。
Like salvation, the purpose of evangelism, we often consider as essential.。
Yet discipleship is just kind of optional.。
Like salvation, that's the main mission.。
Discipleship is just kind of a side quest that some of us go on but you don't necessarily。
have to do.。
Not according to Jesus.。
That's not how he feels about this at all.。
You see, he wants to not only lead us into a life where we tell people what they're saved。
from but ultimately what they're saved for.。
Are you tracking with what I mean by that?。
Just catch it like this.。
No one gets married to save themselves from loneliness.。
If that's you, let me spare you the trouble.。
Buy a dog.。
If that's all you want to get married for, that will accomplish the purpose, ladies.。
Your dog will comfort you in the midst of your loneliness more than some man might.。
Don't fall prey to that idea.。
Why?。
No one goes to the grocery store and picks the food they pick to save themselves from。
starvation.。
No, they pick the food they pick to give them the kind of joy that something really tasty。
has to offer.。
You're not just saved from something.。
You are saved for something.。
That's what Jesus is getting at here in the great commission.。
He wants the emphasis to not solely reside on people finding him but people following。
him.。
Now let me be really clear, really clear because I don't want the email.。
I'm not saying that we don't help people find Jesus.。
If you're hearing that from me, then you're not listening.。
Yes, and amen, we help people find Jesus.。
But you shouldn't be able to find Jesus and not follow him.。
You shouldn't be able to find him and not follow him.。
That doesn't make sense according to the word of God.。
Matthew 7, 1720, Jesus himself says, "So every healthy tree, it bears good fruit, but the。
diseased tree bears bad fruit.。
A healthy tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a diseased tree bear good fruit.。
Every tree that does not bear good fruit, it's cut down, thrown into the fire.。
Thus, you will recognize the trees by their fruits."。
John 13, 34, 35, "A new commandment I give to you that you love one another.。
Just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another.。
Do you catch it?。
Don't just believe, become, just as I've loved you, love one another.。
By this," guess what, "all people will know that you are my," what?。
My converts.。
No, "my disciples, if you love one another."。
James 1, 22-24 says, "Do not merely listen to the word and so deceive yourselves.。
Do what it says.。
Anyone who listens to the word but does not do what it says is like someone who looks。
at his face in a mirror and after looking at himself, goes away and immediately forgets。
what he looks like."。
What are these verses saying?。
If you believe in him, you should become like him.。
Like true faith, it isn't just content in finding Jesus.。
True faith is urgent in following after him.。
Christian, listen to me.。
If that doesn't put fire in your bones, then this message is for you.。
Then this message is for you because here's the reality.。
I think that so many of us, if we did a sincere evaluation, if we took a hard look in the。
mirror, if we just got really gut level honest with ourselves for a moment, what we would。
realize is that we claim to have found Jesus, we're not following Jesus at all.。
We're following something different instead.。
How do you know what it is you're following in life?。
Well take the advice of Instagram.。
You subscribe to the ones that you follow.。
And once you do, their influence fills your feed.。
If you want to know who you follow, then answer the question, whose influence fills the feed。
of your life?。
Whose influence fills the feed of your life?。
Like when it comes to approval, are you influenced by what Jesus has to say about you?。
Are you listening instead to what everyone else, all of your peers have to say in contrast?。
Like when it comes to coping, are you influenced by the promises that Jesus has given you or。
are you persuaded instead to indulge some substance, some shopping, some subscription,。
some sexuality?。
When it comes to your security, like are you influenced by the fact that Jesus controls。
everything?。
What an amazing reality.。
Or are you just trusting like your pocketbook to give you security in life instead?。
When it comes to your reputation, are you influenced by the fact that Jesus wants to。
make you into his image?。
Or are you more concerned with carefully crafting your image yourself?。
You see, Jesus wants you to follow him because you're going to follow something.。
So the question tonight is whose influence are you following?。
Porch, I need you to catch this because I love you enough to say this.。
If you're not following Jesus, then your purpose in life, it's impossible.。
It's impossible because you can't make followers of a Jesus that you are unwilling to follow。
yourself.。
No.。
No, you follow him because whatever it is you want to find, I promise you.。
It's yes and amen in him.。
Now as we talk through this, here's the thing.。
Some of you are really resonating, really jiving with this.。
Like you feel this deep desire, almost this desperation to like finally just like get。
out of what you're in.。
Like to stop riding one foot in, one foot out, but to go both feet of faith all the。
way into what God is wanting for your life.。
And yet you don't know where to start.。
If that's you, if you're desperately wanting to take action on these things tonight to。
actually live into the purpose that Jesus has for you, hear me, we want to help.。
And so I and the team, we have been working for months now to organize a way in which。
we can do it.。
So starting in the new year, for the very first time ever in Porch history, we're doing。
something that we've never done.。
We're launching a discipleship initiative.。
And we want to invite you to come and be a part of it.。
If you're here and you're like, man, I want to make disciples, but I've never been made。
into a disciple.。
No one's ever shown me the ropes or taught me how to go, but I want to be spiritually。
developed.。
I want to be God.。
I want to grow in my godliness.。
I want to take ground and mature in Christ.。
If that's you, then this is for you.。
And we'd love to bring you on board and let you be a part of it.。
And so what you need to do is you just need to text the word discipleship to 40585.。
And what it'll do is it'll just, it'll lead you to an interest form.。
That's all it is.。
There's no hard commitment right now.。
We're not taking any money tonight.。
There's nothing like that happening.。
Okay.。
So you can just calm down.。
This is just an interest form.。
You're just simply saying, Hey man, like I care about it.。
I want to follow.。
I want to go all in.。
I'm ready.。
I'm tired of hanging one foot out.。
I want to be all the way in with Jesus.。
And if that's you, then, then you need to scan this or you need to text this.。
And what'll happen is it'll lead you to a form.。
You'll fill out some info.。
We'll collect that.。
And then we will touch base with you in the new year when we launched this discipleship。
initiative.。
Now, let me say a couple of things.。
When you do so, there is a small barrier to entry because you've got to create a log in。
if you don't have one.。
I'm sorry.。
Wish we could remove that for you, make it easier.。
And yet if that's all it takes to throw you off the trail of following after Jesus and。
getting serious about your discipleship, then you're probably not ready for it.。
In reality, tough news.。
I promise you can do it.。
Others of you, you're here tonight and you're like, man, no, I have been discipled.。
I'm eager to learn the way in which I should go forward.。
We've got stuff for you too.。
So just hang with us because we believe that it's not just the disciple, but the disciple。
maker that we want to invest in as well.。
But here's the thing, and I just want to speak to you really straight about it because I'm。
really serious about this.。
If you're not serious about actually being a part of this, then will you just not, will。
you just not jump in?。
Because we're going to be really serious about the people that do.。
And I want to give them my whole yes, my undivided commitment to helping them grow in Christ。
likeness.。
And I would love for that to be you if you're here and you want to hop in.。
Now, a couple of things you should know.。
Number one, to PortsLive, this program is not built for you specifically, but what I。
guarantee you is your local church context does have something that they would love to。
invite you into.。
And so tonight what you need to do is you need to take action on just approaching a。
church leader and telling them, "Hey, I'm ready.。
I'm serious.。
I want to go all in.。
My chips aren't held back.。
They're pushed full forward.。
Help me grow in my godliness.。
Teach me to walk with Jesus.。
I want to be discipled."。
I promise you they would love to have that conversation and they will have a next step。
for you.。
The second thing that you all need to know is this isn't replacing Tuesday nights, okay?。
We're still going to gather, sit in this room, bring our friends, meet other friends, sing。
to God, study his word.。
Our bread and butter is not changing.。
We just want to help you take a first step and help you take a next step.。
So that's what this all means.。
You tracking?。
Good?。
Okay.。
Now here's the thing.。
Some of you, when I unpack this idea, what happens is we get a really mixed bag of response.。
We fall in a wide variety of places because while we understand the call of Christ and。
what it means to go all in with Jesus and we even grasp the fact that this is a really。
noble cause, we feel some reservation, some hesitation, some trepidation of getting in。
with Christ, going in on this mission.。
We come up with plenty of reasons to find not to embrace this as our purpose.。
Let me just say this as plainly as possible.。
None of the reasons you find are good reasons because there are no good exceptions to the。
great commission.。
There are no good exceptions to the great commission.。
Like this isn't mission impossible.。
This isn't your mission should you choose to accept it.。
This isn't a message that's going to terminate in 10 seconds.。
No, this message is an impervious message because this call stands the test of time。
and goes over the course of all eternity until Christ himself comes back.。
This is your mission.。
He's come to make it clear.。
That's why he says, "Go, baptize and teach."。
Make disciples.。
You should go.。
You should baptize them.。
You should teach them all that I've commanded you.。
What is he unpacking there?。
Well, those three words, go, baptize and teach.。
They are present participles.。
Just to put your grammar hat on for a minute.。
And the reason they're added into this text and we're bringing them up right now is because。
what they do is they accentuate the main command of the passage.。
Like it's the same idea as if you had a picture that was set in black and white, yet you chose。
to add color to it.。
What would happen?。
The picture itself would not change and yet the vibrancy of the photo, it would increase.。
It would get better because you've accentuated it appropriately.。
That's what these present participles are doing to Christ's command.。
But they're not just doing that.。
They're not just qualifying what it means to make disciples.。
What they're doing is they're also in the process building an indestructible defense。
to the fact that there are no good exceptions to following this command if you follow Jesus.。
How do they do that?。
Well, we're going to go through this quick just for the sake of time.。
But when he says go in the Greek, that does not mean get up and go.。
Some of you should absolutely get up and go.。
We are firm believers that God is not just a God of this nation.。
He is a God of all nations and we need to extend the gospel to the utmost ends of the。
earth.。
Tonight, there's an Ethiopia interest meeting and some of you need to go because he is calling。
you to get up and go.。
And yet what we know in this passage is that's not the primary idea.。
The primary idea here is as you are going.。
That's what this word in the Greek means.。
It means that as you go, make disciples.。
Which sucks the error out of the first exception that many of us hide behind.。
That Jesus, I just don't have time to do it.。
Because according to Jesus, you don't find time to disciple.。
You disciple wherever your time is found.。
So if your time is found at the gym, disciple there.。
If your time is found at the grocery store, disciple there.。
If your time is found at the office, disciple there.。
If your time is found at spin, disciple there.。
You disciple wherever it is you are.。
You disciple as you go.。
According to Eugene Peterson, 90%, 90% of Jesus' time was spent ministering to his disciples.。
Not speaking to large crowds, not teaching in synagogue, not speaking with strangers,。
but ministering to his disciples.。
How is that possible?。
90% of his time.。
Because Jesus, he believed that discipleship, the majority of discipleship was meant to。
be informal in nature.。
That it happened as you go.。
Between meals, on the way to a meeting, in the car, going to serve these people, then。
making your way over here, there next.。
He believed that that's what it meant to make disciples.。
You do it as you go along.。
The majority of discipleship happens in the informal moment.。
Here's the problem with us here in the West.。
We believe that all discipleship happens in the formal moment.。
Happens at Bible study, happens at equipping night, happens at community group, happens。
whenever I show up to that coffee once a week.。
We think that that's where discipleship happens, and yet that's not what Jesus is saying.。
Those things are not bad.。
You should absolutely do those things.。
You should come to Sunday service.。
You should be involved in a community group.。
You should join a Bible study, and yet you can't look at those things and say, "That。
scratches my discipleship itch."。
You also can't say that attending services like this and letting the professionals do。
the discipling is your way out, because that's not what Jesus is saying.。
He's saying, "No, you, where you are, as you are, how you are, make disciples, and do it。
as you go."。
That's the first thing we need to know.。
The second thing that he says is we baptize them.。
Now, I'll admit, whenever I heard that we're supposed to baptize all nations, it didn't。
really make sense to be in the Great Commission.。
It didn't feel like it fits.。
All the other things, they make sense.。
This is Jesus' final mission to us as his people, so go and save and teach.。
Baptism just didn't fit in there, because I know, man, baptism, it's an external expression。
of an internal reality, but why the urgency?。
Why is it included in the Great Commission?。
For this reason, don't miss this, because this is massively important, because we need。
to know baptism is not just a symbol of connection to Christ, it is a symbol of connection to。
community.。
That's why it's available to all people everywhere, every tribe, every tongue, every nation.。
We should go and tell them all about the connection they can have to the family of God, which。
is made available through the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit.。
It doesn't matter who you are, where you come from, what you've done, you're now going to。
be a part of God's family, which blows apart the second exception I often hear people hiding。
behind, which is, "But I don't have anything in common with them."。
According to Jesus, you do.。
You don't have to share all the similarities in the world.。
You don't have to like the same music, have the same hobbies, go to the same places, come。
from the same socioeconomic background, you don't have to have an immense amount of similarities,。
because what you have is a singular commonality in Christ, and that is the most significant。
commonality you can have.。
So what's beautiful about the people of God, the family of God, is that we're a people。
in unity, bound by our love for one another, yet not a people of uniformity that look like。
one another.。
We're a people that are diverse, we're a people that are different, yet united in Christ.。
And lastly, Jesus tells us to teach them to observe all that I commanded you.。
This one's pretty easy to understand, and yet it's often the one that we find hardest。
to follow and often find ourselves hiding behind, because when it comes to discipleship,。
so many of us, we don't know what to say.。
Like what if they ask a question, I don't have the answer?。
What if I'm supposed to teach something, but I don't know what to say?。
What if I'm not eloquent enough to communicate that to these people so they will believe?。
Just really simply, what I would say in this moment is that Christ doesn't need you to。
be perfect.。
That's not what he's looking for.。
He doesn't need you to be perfect, he just needs you to be faithful.。
He just needs you to know, man, if you've got a couple of steps in spiritual maturity。
on someone else, you can help them by bringing them up those couple of steps to greater spiritual。
maturity.。
So teach, so speak, so share, and know that, man, he'll work out the difference.。
He'll move because of your faithfulness.。
You see, there's no good exceptions to the Great Commission, none.。
Doesn't matter what you're hiding behind.。
It's an invisible wall, we can see you.。
But there are only good reasons to keep it.。
And yet here's the thing that I know, and it's the fear that I've had, and the very。
reason that we've stepped into this series, is I know we can give you eight weeks of content。
on discipleship, and you can be here and enjoy all of the acquisition of new knowledge, and。
yet walk away and be totally satisfied that you know more about Jesus, but you don't know。
Jesus personally.。
If that's you, how do you avoid that from happening?。
Well, last story, and admittedly, I'm borrowing this from J.D. Greer.。
In the Civil War, President Lincoln couldn't have hoped for a better general than he found。
in the Union's General-in-Chief, George McClellan.。
George was known as the young Napoleon because he was tactically brilliant, unlike anybody。
else.。
At just the age of 15, he was the youngest member actually invited into the U.S. Military。
Academy, and despite being so young, he nevertheless graduated at the top of his class.。
Upon graduating, he went into the service, and he did the unthinkable.。
He began to recruit people like no one had ever known before, so much so that the volunteer。
regiment grew by 300% in just four months' time.。
He was tactically brilliant.。
He was strategically intelligent.。
He was winsome to the masses, and so it was no surprise that President Lincoln made him。
General-in-Chief.。
He had the experience, the expertise, and he had the woo to bring people on board.。
He had everything he needed except one thing.。
He didn't have the willingness to fight because what we know is that for weeks, General McClellan。
readied his position.。
He organized his troops, and he strategized against his enemy, outnumbered two to one.。
His opponent, General Robert E. Lee's army, lay dangerously exposed just a few miles away.。
They were within quick reach of crushing the rebellion, ending the war, and bringing peace。
to the nation again, and yet, despite understanding the strategy, despite knowing all the odds,。
despite having all the men necessary, General McClellan did not have the willingness.。
He went a bold and a very surprising move.。
President Lincoln removed George McClellan from his position, and in place of the most。
tactically brilliant person they had known in their modern military, he put someone else。
instead, one that was half the strategic intelligence of George McClellan, but one that was altogether。
more bold and brazen for battle.。
He instituted Ulysses S. Grant as the Union's new general, and within a year, General Grant。
brought the Civil War to an end.。
The difference in these two men and the legacies they left revolved around their willingness。
to fight.。
It didn't depend on which was smarter.。
It didn't depend on which was more admired.。
It didn't depend on which was more talented.。
It depended on which was more willing.。
How willing are you to fight here tonight?。
How willing are you to not just know the right things, to not just say the right things,。
to pray the right things, to even believe the right things, but to actually become the。
right things, do the right things, and take the right action?。
How willing are you to do it?。
Here's the thing I know.。
We have every reason in the world to be willing because Jesus Christ himself was willing to。
enter into the fight.。
What we know about Jesus is he was willing to die for the sake of sinners and skeptics。
and screw-ups, so much so that he took our cross upon himself and he bore the consequence。
of our sin.。
We know that Jesus was willing to rise, that we might be more than mere believers.。
We might be becomers, people that become like Jesus because he didn't stay dead nor buried。
in the grave, but he rose forth so that we might rise alongside of him.。
And we know that Jesus, he was willing to give us good reason for the great commission,。
a mission that saves the world one person at a time, by one person at a time.。
Jesus has a purpose for you, porch.。
The last regular porch of the year, he has a purpose for you.。
If only you're willing, and here's what I promise, it is a purpose worth living for。
because it's a purpose Christ found worth dying for.。
Let me pray for us.。
God, I know we went long tonight.。
Yeah, God, if we're going to give our time to anyone, let it be given to you, to your。
word and to this mission, which is most important of all.。
God, I pray, Lord, that you would embed this truth into our bones.。
That God, as we step into the holiday season, we would do so without passivity, but filled。
God with great passion, that we have a purpose, one worthy of living for you.。
Jesus found it worthy of dying for.。
So God, I pray, help us to take next steps, to know that God, it doesn't take this room。
to save souls.。
It takes your people to do it instead.。
Make us like yourself.。
Make the world like yourself for your glory and our good, we pray in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
