Good evening, everybody.。
(congregation cheering)。
Hey there, my name is Garrett,。
and I served on the porch staff team here for six years.。
And then two years ago, if you're in the room live,。
you heard David say just a moment ago,。
two years ago that my wife Gabby and I。
left Dallas-Fort Worth,。
which has been our home for quite a while,。
and moved to New York City to begin a new church。
that launches this very month.。
So we're very excited about that.。
But here's the interesting thing about tonight。
is that I haven't been here in two years,。
and research has shown that the porch crowd。
kind of almost does a full turnover about every two years,。
which leaves me tonight starting by saying,。
it's so good to see you guys.。
And it leaves you saying, you too.。
Who is that?。
(congregation laughing)。
And, but in any case, it's so good.。
It's so good to be together。
and just to have a few moments of potential。
for God to move in our lives and hearts together.。
Special shout out tonight, by the way,。
to our friends in Boise。
and our friends in Scottsdale。
who are tuning in around the country.。
Some of them are not around the country.。
Some of my thinkers are sitting right over there,。
I think is what's going on.。
So it's great to be together.。
Listen, I'd love to start,。
I'd love to start with a question tonight.。
Tonight's about mission.。
It's about being united in mission, specifically.。
I'm gonna ask you a question.。
Maybe you've never reflected on this before.。
Maybe you have, but here it comes.。
What causes a person's life mission?。
And when I say mission tonight,。
I don't mean, when I say a person's life mission,。
I don't mean like their mood.。
Like, you know, I'm on a mission to get some tacos today.。
That's not a mission, that's a mood.。
Okay, that's a desire, that's a want.。
That can come and go, okay?。
I'm talking about a deep seated drive.。
When I say your personal life mission,。
I'm talking about a deep seated thing that makes you tick.。
It makes you go, season by season,。
week after week, year after year.。
It is your inner posture。
and set of desires and orientation.。
I'm talking about the depths of you and your wants.。
That's what I'm talking about。
when I say a personal life mission.。
What causes that to change dramatically。
from themselves to God?。
Because that does happen sometimes, right?。
How does a person go, and self can look in any way.。
When I say their life mission being themselves,。
that can look like anything.。
That can look like chasing options, money, power,。
pleasure, freedom, control, family, sex, achievement.。
But underneath all those many diverse options,。
it is an expression of the self as mission.。
Maybe even self improvement, a future version of the self.。
How can it be that a person's inner life mission。
can go from totally self-oriented,。
totally locked into the mirror, if you will,。
the metaphorical mirror, to becoming about God,。
essentially a mission to give the life away,。
voluntarily just to give it away.。
How does that change happen?。
And by way of introduction tonight,。
since I'm aware most of us have not met,。
I wanna tell you this shift of mission。
actually took place to me, in my life, in my heart.。
And I can't show you a picture。
that really captures a life mission。
because we don't usually have our life's mission。
tattooed on our forehead.。
But if I could show a before and after。
of a life mission photo, this would be pretty much it.。
I ask you to be gracious.。
Yeah, here it is.。
So the guy on the, the guy on the left,。
they told me this was a safe place.。
It feels like it's room of judgment right now, okay?。
Listen, the guy on the left is a teenager in 2005.。
You see the shell necklace.。
And so this is not one, but two, as a matter of fact.。
So try to get past the surface for a second.。
And like, I wanna take you inside the mind of this person。
because I lived with him 24 hours a day.。
And I can assure you that this person。
wants to live for himself.。
His life's mission is indeed fully and utterly himself.。
There is no bigger joy than himself.。
There is no, the world's not bigger than himself.。
His biggest joy is sexual adventure on the weekends。
with little regard for the cost.。
He is addicted to the party.。
He is addicted to attention.。
He's addicted to athletics and promiscuity,。
really just more outlets for himself.。
He's a shameless narcissist, by the way.。
And if you're thinking right now,。
man, Garrett, maybe you're being a little hard on yourself.。
Oh, I assure you, I'm being a little easy on myself.。
You just got the edited version, okay?。
I could bring people in here to let you know。
that I just gave you the sanitized version。
of how I was living prior to about the age of 20, okay?。
So that's a person who I know good and well。
was thoroughly engaged in a life mission for the self.。
Now, this person on the right, this is a 30-year-old.。
And this is us with everything we own in a U-Haul.。
And we are on the way to New York City。
to begin, of all things, a church.。
This person, while still oft wrong,。
often mistaken, often misled, and thoroughly imperfect,。
this person's deepest desires have changed.。
This person wants at a base level。
to live for something more.。
This person wants not to live for himself.。
This person wants to make life count.。
The fear is not missing out on the weekend。
or some exploit of the weekend.。
The fear is wasting the life。
and making it not count for something ultimate.。
The entire life mission under the surface。
of these people have changed.。
And I just wanna ask you, how can this be?。
The person on the left is a mission field.。
That means a person that other people pray for and go,。
"God, I just wish you'd get Garrett's attention.。
"Please bring him to his knees。
"and show him that he needs you."。
You know, like that person is a mission field.。
The person on the right is a missionary.。
That means I'm now the person that's like,。
"Oh God, will you get someone's attention?。
"Will you just bring them to their knees。
"and just show them that they need you?"。
I now pray the prayers for other people。
that people used to pray for me。
because I went from being a mission field to a missionary。
because my life mission went from myself to God.。
That's a real change that I underwent in my life.。
And what I wanna ask you to reflect on for a second is,。
how does that happen?。
Because it might happen to you, right?。
How does this actually take place?。
Some people try to explain this。
in all kinds of natural ways.。
You know this, right?。
Some people would say,。
"Well, maybe you just grew up."。
But no, that can't quite cover it。
because guess what?。
There's no magic age you cross。
to where you just decide, "You know what?。
"I've had enough of me and I'm gonna live for God."。
We all, there's such a thing as a selfish 70, 80,。
90 year old, that's a thing, right?。
So there's no magic number that where you just graduate。
from living for yourself.。
So it can't be just age.。
And some people would say,。
"Well, you know what?。
"You're a pastor。
"and we can just give you a category to you.。
"And that's just what pastors do is live for God."。
But wait, you have to start to live for God。
as a mission before you become a pastor.。
You don't hire someone as a pastor。
who doesn't live for God,。
hoping they like change their mind.。
You see what I'm saying?。
So it had to come first.。
The desire to live for God had to come first.。
Someone would say,。
"Ah, I think the answer was right there。
"in that picture to your left."。
You probably married like a super Christian woman。
and just like had to like clean it up.。
Well, she is a committed Christian,。
but that's not the primary influence.。
I started to walk with God before we got married.。
Someone would say,。
"You know what?。
"I can explain this.。
"You know what happened to you?。
"You made like a new year's resolution.。
"You just like woke up one day。
"and you're the one guy for whom it worked."。
But here's the thing, discipline can't do it.。
Discipline can only support the mission you already have.。
It can't change you from the outside in.。
That's not the way it works.。
A change of mission comes from the inside out.。
So it can't just be that I woke up one day。
and wanted to get serious about life.。
Somebody would say,。
"You know what, bro?。
"I don't know.。
"Look, maybe you went bald。
"and God was your only option."。
You know what I'm saying?。
Like, I don't know what happened to you,。
but good for you.。
And you know what?。
Whatever happened, I don't know,。
but whatever happened, it was rare, it was weird.。
So I'm safe.。
And I wanna tell you, that's exactly my point.。
It's not weird and it's not rare.。
It's happening to people on your row.。
People in this room by the hundreds。
and in fact by the thousands。
are experiencing a change of desire to live for them.。
This is happening in real time.。
This is happening weekly.。
This is happening in your city.。
This is happening right now。
that people are actually experiencing。
a major and radical shift in real time。
from living for themselves to living for God.。
It can happen to them.。
It can happen to you.。
And you know this is true.。
I'll just make up a person that I haven't met tonight,。
but I know is in this room。
and you know they are too.。
So here they come.。
He's 31 years old.。
And six months ago, he lived for his career.。
And he was determined to get all his identity。
from his career.。
He's climbing the corporate ladder.。
He was gonna make millionaire by 30,。
didn't quite get there, but you know what?。
There's always early retirement。
and he is going to double down and make it.。
And his journey is in the past is approximately this.。
He went to the ball field as a little boy to get identity。
and he didn't get it.。
And then as an adolescent,。
he went to the bedroom to get identity。
and he didn't get it.。
And now he's gonna try the boardroom.。
And if he can get power from the company,。
that somehow is going to,。
he's gonna worship his resume now.。
And now he hasn't noticed yet。
that the target keeps changing。
and he's chasing a mirage。
and his identity can only come from God.。
And that's where he was living a few months ago.。
But now there's an after.。
It's different.。
And his parents have noticed.。
He can't stop for some reason hanging around church.。
And all of a sudden as he does his work,。
he's calm because his identity isn't attached。
to his performance anymore.。
And all of a sudden,。
he doesn't worship some future version of himself。
in a corner office.。
He worships God and does his work from a state of peace.。
And all of a sudden the person he's dating is like,。
I think I'm dating someone else。
than the person I started dating。
because a change has radically happened。
in such a person's life.。
That's happening all over this room.。
Did you know that?。
I'll make up one more.。
Here's a girl, 26 years old, six months ago,。
is looking back on her previous five years.。
And you know what she sees?。
Guy A in her, guy B in her,。
guy C in her, guy D in her.。
They all have in common a guy in her。
because that was her mission.。
But now all of a sudden,。
all of a sudden, a radical change has happened.。
She seems to operate from confidence.。
She doesn't seem to operate。
as a person who is easily fooled or foolish.。
She has a sense of peace.。
She seems to draw her sense of self,。
not from who's beside her, but who is above her.。
And no one knows, like,。
this transformation has taken place.。
How can this be?。
It's happening on your row.。
And I just wanna preach tonight。
in a way that invites you, invites you,。
not to see what causes that kind of a change, but who.。
Because ultimately,。
behind every one of these changes is a who.。
And the hero of all this is not the change itself.。
It's not the changed people.。
It is the who that does the changing。
and the mission that he directs us to.。
I just wanna invite you.。
I wanna invite you to give your life away tonight.。
So I have a humble goal.。
Just give your life away.。
That's all I'm after.。
I want you to leverage your life for something that counts.。
And I know in a room this big,。
I know some of you are just unavailable.。
You are mid-self mission.。
And I just, I know, I've lived it.。
I've been there.。
If the person whose thought bubble, if I could see it,。
says, "You can't make me," trust me, I already know.。
I know I can.。
But I wanna invite you,。
because some of you in this room are available tonight.。
That's the way it works.。
There's always people who are available。
to be united in mission.。
It doesn't matter if you're united in truth, in worship,。
if you don't, at the end of the day, excuse me,。
if you don't ultimately put it into practice。
to connect people with God and with one another.。
So I'm gonna talk about mission tonight.。
And I wanna introduce you to the one。
who will set you on the mission of a lifetime.。
And that is, of course, the person of Jesus.。
And I want you to see what it looks like。
when he orients his life around mission,。
which is a model for us and what it looks like for us.。
All right, so I'm gonna take us to a story tonight.。
It's really just a moment.。
It's a real moment in real time, in real history,。
2,000 years ago, where the person of Jesus。
interacts with some people.。
And there are some words that have shaped my very life.。
And I hope they will yours.。
Here they come.。
It starts like this.。
"And Jesus went throughout all the cities and villages,。
teaching in their synagogues and doing two things."。
This is very important tonight.。
If you have any interest whatsoever in living on mission,。
this is gonna really matter for you.。
"He was proclaiming the gospel。
and he was healing every disease and affliction."。
So he's doing two things.。
They're paired together.。
You gotta have 'em both or you're not doing the mission.。
Here they are.。
"Proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom Jesus was doing,。
and he was healing every disease and affliction."。
You could summarize this by saying。
he was speaking and he was serving.。
He's speaking a body of content.。
He's got stuff to say.。
The gospel, I'm gonna explain that in just a moment.。
But that's the content of what he has to say.。
He is proclaiming the gospel,。
and he's also helping people。
with their felt needs in real time.。
He's creating relief for people who are hurting.。
And so he is doing both of these, not one or the other.。
And so you can always count on this.。
Mission for God means speaking and serving。
all the time, always, and forever,。
right from the example of Christ.。
Mission for God, if you have any interest whatsoever。
in giving your life to God,。
mission for God means speaking and serving.。
He said it said he was proclaiming the gospel.。
What does that mean?。
What is the gospel?。
What's this thing he was saying?。
I understand the word gospel is interesting。
because it can sound a little bit。
like a religious catch-all word。
that it means everything and somehow means nothing,。
and you have no clear idea.。
You know, like, what does gospel mean?。
Isn't it a type of music after all?。
What does it actually mean when we're saying。
he's proclaiming the gospel?。
Here's what it means.。
It means that we're all mid-mission。
to live for ourselves and not God.。
It means that we've all, to the last human。
who's ever lived, pushed God away and said,。
"I have my own mission, thank you very much.。
"I'll live in this world that you created on my terms。
"for myself and for my own ends and not for yours,。
"thank you, but I'll call you if I need you, bye."。
That's what sin is.。
That's us separating ourself from God,。
not because he wanted us to separate,。
but because we wanted something else.。
And yet God didn't wait for us to turn back to him。
and say, "God, you know, maybe we really messed up,"。
'cause we would never have done it.。
Instead, he sent his son Christ, his son, Jesus Christ,。
to pursue us as an expression of his love。
and care and forgiveness.。
Do you see that?。
So we broke up with God and he pursues us anyway,。
and at the cross and resurrection of Christ,。
wins us back to himself.。
That's a beautiful story.。
And it's not just a story,。
it happens to be the fact of history,。
and that's the gospel, that's the good news.。
This is what Jesus is going around telling people,。
that even though people, all of us,。
I can say down to a person, I know myself,。
and I know this is common with you,。
that each one of us has pursued our own selves。
as our own mission,。
but God has decided to set his love on us。
instead of his judgment,。
and he's come for us in the person of Christ。
to bring us back to himself.。
That is the gospel.。
That's what it is.。
And if you are gonna serve God,。
if you wanna live on mission to any degree,。
it is going to involve that coming out of your mouth.。
It's going to involve that being shared.。
It's going to involve that being spoken,。
and it must be spoken.。
It's got to be transferred in words.。
You must speak.。
That's part of it.。
But you also must serve.。
This is also what Jesus is doing.。
He says he was healing every disease.。
Now, I know some of you are like, you know what?。
Does that mean everybody should be a nurse or a doctor?。
How do I heal every disease?。
No, that's helping anyway.。
That's not fully healing.。
None of us have the full power of God。
in our touch the way that Jesus did and does.。
But what we do have is we have the ability in his name。
and after his example,。
to serve people with their real needs in real time.。
The church for 2,000 years has been known。
for taking care of people.。
Did you know in the early Roman Empire,。
this is so fascinating to me.。
I don't know, I love history.。
Once I didn't have to go to history class.。
It's never fun when somebody's making you learn it.。
But after the fact,。
it turns out there's some pretty interesting things.。
So in our history, if you name yourself a Christian,。
this is part of your heritage, by the way.。
Did you know that in the Roman Empire,。
in the early days of Christianity,。
that someone was once sent to spy on a group of Christians?。
Like the emperor sent someone to spy。
on an early Christian church service。
and kind of like blend in and be like,。
okay, what's going on?。
I don't know, but I'll pretend。
so I can take notes and report back.。
All right, so that took place.。
That's a real thing.。
And in the report, this person wrote,。
they sing a hymn.。
They gather early in the morning on Sunday。
to sing a hymn to Christ as to a God.。
I'm thinking, okay, I hadn't heard a lot yet.。
We do that.。
All right, that's what we do.。
And they not only take care of their own poor,。
but ours as well.。
In other words, when someone came to spy。
on early Christianity, early Christians,。
your forefathers in the faith,。
they found people who were taking care of people.。
They found people who had a humanitarian care。
at the heart of what they were doing.。
In other words, they weren't just speaking the gospel。
and saying, okay, we preach for today.。
Great time, we'll see you next week, everybody,。
'cause we love to preach.。
Yes, we do love to preach.。
No, it was sharing the content。
and it was also serving the needs of the people.。
It's always been this way and it must go together.。
If we wanna serve in the way Jesus served,。
if you wanna give your life to his mission to any degree,。
if you want to make your life count,。
it is going to involve both of those。
or it's missing half of his heart.。
I mean, think about this.。
What happens if you miss the,。
what happens if you miss the serving component?。
And you're like, okay, I won't serve people,。
I'll just talk.。
It will turn you into, as a Christian,。
just the person who kind of finger points。
and has a lot to say, but not a lot of love to give, right?。
That's a problem.。
So we must serve or otherwise people are gonna say,。
well, that's great to hear about,。
sin and forgiveness and everything,。
but I guess that doesn't do anything for me today。
because you certainly don't seem interested。
in doing anything for me today.。
So we must serve, we must put love into action, you see.。
So if we're gonna share the faith,。
we must also pair with it, we must pair with it service.。
But think about this.。
We also, some people make a different kind of error。
and they just want to serve, right?。
And just turn the church into just pure humanitarian relief,。
but not share that controversial gospel,。
that controversial gospel about sin and salvation。
and not open that controversial Bible, right?。
We're just gonna leave that part out.。
And what, you know, this mistake is,。
we'll just leave that part out。
and we'll come over here and we'll just do actions.。
You know, we'll just do actions.。
And that's such a mistake.。
You know, there's a quote from church history。
that is very popular and very wrong.。
If anybody's got this tattooed on you, I'm so sorry.。
But we gotta go here.。
The quote is this, "Preach the gospel.。
"If necessary, use words."。
Some people are like, man, that's deep.。
It's deeply wrong.。
And here's why.。
The gospel always includes words.。
People don't just, it doesn't dawn on people。
when they see your niceness that Jesus has risen again.。
It doesn't just work that way.。
Some of you actually think, like,。
that's your mission strategy.。
Some of you like, you show up and you're like,。
you know what, I'm gonna put my,。
I'm gonna do my work on time.。
And I'm gonna hold that, you know, door for people.。
And then, you know, no one's gonna walk。
through a door you hold and then be like,。
this must mean that God has saved humanity。
in the person of Christ.。
No one is gonna connect those dots.。
You have to make it plain.。
That's why Paul said in the scripture,。
I make it plain, which is how I ought to speak.。
So you've gotta make it plain.。
Words must always be involved every single time.。
So speaking and serving and speaking and serving.。
If you wanna get a tattoo, get one that says,。
"Preach the gospel.。
"If necessary, use a translator."。
All right, so you put that on your body。
if you need to put something on there, all right?。
It always involves words.。
Words and actions, words and actions, words and actions.。
Speak and serve if you wanna be like Christ.。
Let's go back to his example.。
Jesus said, "Now when he saw the crowds,"。
now think about what a crowd would be.。
This is the first century in the Middle East.。
Medicine is not near on the same place。
at this point in time, 2,000 years ago.。
Modern medicine is not even a distant glimmer in the future.。
People have got major, major, major, major, major needs.。
And when you see this crowd,。
the ones that were following Jesus around,。
they weren't just looking for the words of God。
to hear from his mouth.。
They were looking for a miracle in their body, right?。
From a disease that they could,。
today would be an afterthought, you know,。
but then was a death sentence.。
And so this crowd is harassed and helpless.。
And in fact, Jesus, as he saw that,。
he looked at the crowds and there was something in him。
that was sensitive to it.。
There was something in him that could see it.。
He could see the hurting hearts and minds and bodies。
and histories and futures.。
And he could see the weight of what it means。
to live on earth where life is hard and short.。
And to see all of that and perceive。
that these people have needs.。
And it says, when he saw these crowds,。
he had compassion for them。
because they were harassed and helpless。
like sheep without a shepherd.。
That's not arrogance, people.。
Some people are like, you know,。
when we preach these things in church,。
they go, "Do you think I'm harassed and helpless?"。
I'm like, "If you were, would you wanna know?"。
You know, because Jesus has the ability to look at us。
and see our inner state, right?。
He has the ability to see who we really are。
with compassion.。
So mission for God always means seeing needs.。
If you wanna serve God, you're gonna have to see needs.。
You're gonna have to want to see humanity。
for where it really is, your people around you,。
your family, your friends, your coworkers.。
You're gonna have to ask God, if you wanna serve God,。
if you're available for that tonight,。
you're gonna have to learn to ask God,。
can I see these people the way you see these people?。
Can I see the people around me?。
Yes, the ones even who frustrate me the most, them.。
I don't know who your them is, but oh my,。
everybody's got a them these days, okay?。
I don't know who your they are,。
that they're different than you and you don't like them,。
'cause they are the source。
of all of the problems in the world.。
I don't know who your them is,。
but you're gonna have to ask God to see them。
with his eyes and to see what spiritual needs。
are actually going on.。
Listen, we all have an unpaid 24/7 job。
of having it together.。
And I just wanna tell you, I don't buy it.。
Not even close.。
A while back, I was in a coffee shop in New York City,。
and you know you have to take a painfully boring step。
to start a church,。
just like starting any other organization.。
You have to write the bylaws.。
Some of you didn't even make it to laws.。
I said, "By," and you were like, "I'm down."。
You know, it's super boring,。
but it's important because you have to do things legally.。
And it actually is an opportunity.。
I just thought, you know what,。
I'm gonna drink a cup of coffee,。
I'm gonna look on the bright side.。
This is where you get to pour out。
all your nice, neat ideas.。
It's your church on paper.。
It's the laws of how the church is governed.。
And so when you're starting a church from scratch,。
I'm like, "I didn't do this.。
"They did this at Watermark in like 1999.。
"I wasn't around, you know, so I didn't have to do,。
"I didn't have to be a part of this."。
But all of a sudden, I'm like, "You know what?。
"I'm gonna type out all of the things。
"that need to happen at the church."。
And all of a sudden, I'm like,。
"You gotta do all the legalese, you know,。
"pursuant to the laws of the state of New York。
"and these United States of America,。
"the church shall blah-di-blah-di-blah."。
Okay, and so I'm getting something。
that I'm like pretty proud of.。
I copy and pasted most of it, but that's all right.。
But anyway, I'm getting something。
that feels like pretty good, all right?。
And all of a sudden, I look up, I look up,。
I was sitting right at a window.。
I looked up and there's this glass right here,。
and people are walking down the sidewalk.。
And within half a second of me looking up,。
it was a man and a woman,。
and within half a second of me looking up,。
there's a weird turn to this story,。
just brace for impact.。
He just vomits on the street.。
I know, I'm sorry.。
Anyway, that's what I said.。
I was like, "Dag."。
All right, so anyway, he vomited right there。
and as I looked what was going on,。
my heart just broke because they were,。
the man and the woman were,。
their eyes were wide open, like glazed over。
on a total drug high.。
It was so obvious.。
You know, it was just so obvious.。
And he had a towel on his shoulder,。
like he knew, he knew they were gonna shuffle around。
the city and go from high to high.。
That's how they spend their time, you know?。
It was so clear, like that's what they do.。
And as they walked by, I looked back at my computer。
and I heard this little voice say,。
"Do you want a church of neat。
"or do you want a church of needs?。
"Do you want a church of neat。
"or do you want a church of needs, really?"。
Because at the end of the day,。
some of us make it about this far,。
but we don't really wanna do anything。
if it causes us to be around real roughness,。
you know what I mean?。
Somebody who's really does not have it together。
and it's not pretty and it's never gonna be.。
Some of us are like, "You know what?。
"All right, I'm tracking with you.。
"Yeah, speaking and serving, speaking and serving.。
"But what you're really thinking is,。
"as long as I get to do that for pretty reason,。
"I'm gonna do that for pretty people."。
That's not the way it works.。
Jesus didn't do that.。
He didn't pick, he wasn't like,。
"Okay, I'm gonna redeem humanity,。
"but I need a few things to kind of go my way.。
"So I'm gonna pick a time and a place。
"where maybe I could accrue some comforts。
"and be around the desirable of humanity."。
Well, he didn't do that.。
He went to a place, he was born in an animal area, right?。
That's the manger story of Christmas, right?。
He didn't pick what was glorious or glamorous。
in this world to surround himself with.。
And some of you guys I know are like cool with being apart.。
You'll ride his coattails as long as,。
you know, you kind of get to rub off。
on some Christian subculture wave。
that means you're cool somehow or something.。
It's weird, 'cause he just didn't do that.。
He just served people, took care of people.。
Church has gotta be a place for people with real needs.。
If you have real needs, by the way,。
and you've reached a place of humility tonight,。
oh my, you're the healthiest person in the room。
because you know you have needs。
and you know Jesus is there for you.。
And you know, by the way, you are the person。
that he will be able to put to work.。
He'll be the person that he will save by his work。
and then put you into his work.。
Now, listen, just by way of practical application,。
I'm not sure somebody's gonna go by your desk tomorrow。
and just like throw up。
and then you're gonna be able to share the gospel.。
I don't know that it's gonna go exactly that way,。
but you know what?。
They might've thrown up over Labor Day weekend。
and had time to clean up and shower,。
but they still feel guilt from whatever lifestyle。
they're cyclically stuck in, right?。
You gotta be awake to this.。
If you wanna serve God,。
you're gonna have to be able to see needs。
and understand what's going on in this world。
and what people are really up against.。
When people give you the, I got it together vibe,。
I don't know that we can buy that with any integrity。
from a Christian worldview.。
Let's go back to Jesus one more time.。
Then he said to his disciples,。
there's a problem here he's gonna explain.。
The harvest is plentiful.。
Now this is an agrarian society.。
They grew what they ate, they ate what they grew.。
I'm bad at it.。
I don't live in an agrarian society.。
I'm sorry.。
They ate what they grew, okay?。
They grew the food and they ate it, right?。
An agrarian subsistence society.。
So when he says the harvest is plentiful,。
any farmer would have been looking out。
and when the harvest is plentiful,。
you feel this sense of potential.。
It's like, oh, what could be gathered is so good.。
What could be gathered is so good.。
And Jesus is saying, spiritually speaking,。
humanity is like that.。
What could be gathered is so exciting.。
The potential here is great.。
But the laborers are few.。
Not a lot of people wanna do this.。
It's expensive.。
It's hard.。
It's sacrificial.。
People feel like they lose options.。
They can't live for themselves anymore.。
Therefore, here comes the punchline.。
Therefore, pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest,。
because this is God's harvest,。
not yours, not your pastor's, not mine.。
It's not any of ours, it's God's.。
Pray earnestly to the Lord of these people。
to send out laborers into his harvest.。
I want you to do this.。
I want you to pray, God, will you send people out?。
This is fascinating to me for two reasons.。
First off, Jesus is God,。
and if he wanted to heal all the crowds。
with like one wave of the magic wand,。
he could have done that.。
He could have been like, everybody's fine,。
and it's over, right?。
But he decides that his strategy。
is he's going to enlist normal people。
to serve and speak to normal people,。
that he's not gonna do this rescue to people directly.。
He's gonna do it to and through people,。
that he's gonna use normal people like you and I。
to reach normal people like you and I.。
That's what he's gonna do.。
And you gotta know the disciples are super unnerved by this.。
This is weird, all right?。
You're following Jesus around.。
You've seen him do a bunch of miracles,。
and then a crowd comes and you're like,。
he's gonna dominate, watch.。
And then Jesus sees the crowd,。
and it's almost like he goes, wow, that's a lot of need.。
Hey, you guys should really do something.。
You know?。
And what are they all doing?。
They're like, wow, look at all these needs.。
You should really do something.。
And he's like, no, no, you should really do something.。
And so Jesus has decided that he will invite regular people.。
I remember feeling so weird in church,。
like, listen, if I ever decided to clean up my act,。
which I'm not sure I ever will,。
I'm definitely not Jesus's blue chip recruit.。
Let me tell you that.。
I am just not, and I'm not a first-round draft pick.。
You know what I'm saying?。
And it turns out, if you have any needs whatsoever,。
and Jesus captures your heart, yes, you are.。
You can serve him.。
He's reaching people through people.。
That is his strategy.。
You are invited.。
All you need is need and availability to be used by him.。
So don't miss the fact that he doesn't look at everybody。
and go, you know what?。
Well, I'm glad I'm here.。
Nevermind about the crowd in that place or that country。
or 100 years later or 100 years from now.。
I'm glad I'm here now.。
Everybody's fine.。
That's not the way he set it up.。
He set it up so that human beings who are in touch with him。
would contribute to human flourishing,。
through the gospel and through the meeting。
of real human needs.。
That's what it means to be on mission.。
That's the first reason I find this exciting.。
The second is the word for send out.。
This is one of my favorite words in the entire Bible.。
I don't wanna shock anybody,。
but the Bible was not written in English.。
This book, the New Testament, was actually written in Greek.。
It's all Greek to you.。
I know, I've heard all the jokes.。
It's all Greek to you.。
But anyway, the New Testament was written in Greek.。
And this word for send out is important.。
I wouldn't tell you about it unless it was important.。
This word for send out is the word ekballo.。
Ekballo.。
You can try it out if you just feel the need to.。
Ekballo.。
All right, you missed your chance。
if you didn't get it right there.。
All right, we're gonna move on.。
Ekballo is not really just to send out,。
like hopefully, like maybe, like when you get around to it.。
It is to expel or to force out or to drive out.。
Ekballo is the word used a few pages later。
when Jesus cast out a demon, okay?。
So Jesus ekballos the demon.。
It's not like, you know, maybe or possibly,。
or if you could fit it into your calendar.。
It's like right now, okay?。
So sending ekballo is not like,。
I'm gonna send something through the mail。
during the pandemic and maybe it will get there.。
It's not like that.。
This is, it is for sure gonna happen.。
This is like when a spouse offends another spouse。
and you get ekballo'd to the couch.。
Like you're going, you know?。
It's like on a ball game.。
If you're watching a baseball game,。
I'm a baseball fan, got a baseball background.。
It's like when someone gets thrown out of the game。
and the umpire is like, you, ekballo.。
And like, you can resist, but you are going.。
Like for sure, for sure.。
So ekballo is this concept that it is going to happen.。
It's forceful, right?。
He's literally saying, so Jesus sees the crowd.。
He sees all these needs and he says,。
guys, I want you to pray that God will banish people。
into his mission, that he will get them out of their seats。
or their slumber or their spiritual boredom。
and that he will actually move them forward。
because it will take a miracle to move some people。
because some people don't want to do this.。
Some people want to be podcast junkies.。
Some people want to associate。
with never ending conferences and events.。
Some people don't want to actually move。
and do something to represent the name and fame of Christ.。
And this is why too many churches。
look like college football games.。
A few people doing a lot of work。
that desperately need rest.。
And a lot of people watching。
who desperately need exercise.。
(congregation applauding)。
Jesus knows our problems.。
He knows what we're gonna do wrong.。
He knows what we're gonna do wrong.。
So he says, listen, this is a matter of prayer。
because I know you people don't want to get out there。
and serve people.。
So I want you to pray to God that he will ekballo people。
and get them going to do something with their lives。
and stop wasting it week into weekend.。
(congregation applauding)。
So mission for God means living sent every single time.。
This is why it always has to be more than like,。
oh, you know, I don't know, I turned 27。
and sounds more mature than 26.。
So I guess I ought to clean it up.。
That's not living sent.。
You gotta be sent by God.。
This is why it's gotta be more than a new year's resolution.。
That's why it's gotta be more。
than some new self-improvement discipline project.。
Listen, if you want to live for God。
with any longevity whatsoever,。
you have got to be sent by him.。
Listen, if some of you, if you think your mission,。
if you think what God wants from you。
is to come to church 2.5 times a month and curse less,。
you have not been sent on a mighty mission.。
Although I can't advocate for you doing the mission。
while cursing a lot.。
That would be confusing, all right?。
But the point of life is not to tidy up。
in some minutiae related way, right?。
But to give glory to God with everything that you do。
and to be sent in a mission that will echo into eternity.。
And some of us I know think,。
"Oh, that's for somebody else."。
And I assure you, it is for you.。
You are invited.。
If you're available tonight。
and you're not already mid-mission to live for yourself。
and you're available,。
Jesus will send you on the ride of your life.。
I don't know how I became a Christian, a pastor.。
I certainly don't know how I moved everything I own。
in a U-Haul to New York City。
to try to start of all things a church.。
I can tell you with the utmost certainty,。
I don't know how I got here。
other than simply saying, "God, I am available.。
"I just wanna be available to do your bidding.。
"That's all I want.。
"I just wanna do your bidding."。
(congregation applauding)。
I don't know what adventure,。
I don't know where Jesus would send you.。
There's a lot of countries in the world.。
There's a lot of cities in the world.。
There's also a lot of coworkers at your current space.。
May not send you anywhere except to work tomorrow.。
I don't know where he's gonna send you.。
I just don't want you to miss it.。
I don't want you to miss it from the boredom。
of your repetition plan。
that you know is already not giving you life.。
I'll close with this idea.。
You've gotta be resilient.。
If you wanna live on mission for Christ, for God,。
you wanna live for something more,。
you don't wanna waste your life.。
Maybe I made a dent somehow by the Spirit of God tonight。
and you don't want to live for yourself any longer.。
Listen, I wanna warn you up front,。
you need some resilience.。
You need to be able to stick with it。
because you will be resisted.。
I just wanna be honest.。
I don't wanna come in here and throw a pep rally。
and everybody's fired up。
and then I'm not gonna act like the scripture。
also doesn't talk about our suffering in this mission.。
This is a challenge, people.。
This is really tough.。
I was on my way to church.。
We were doing a little preview service about a year ago。
because we officially launched here in a week and a half.。
But about a year ago, I was on my way。
to do a little preview service in downtown Brooklyn。
and they had these rental mopeds。
that are really great to get around.。
So I decided to rent one of those。
and I started to go to church。
and about halfway there, I just stopped at a red light。
and I looked up and all of a sudden,。
a guy's standing in front of the bike,。
really weirdly close and really randomly angry。
and I'm like, "Oh no, I don't know what this is."。
And so I start to just drive around him.。
He shoves me off the bike.。
It clatters to the ground behind me.。
And I turn around.。
Listen, I'm just gonna tell you people,。
I'm a preacher, I'm a talker, I'm not a fighter.。
All right, so I turn around.。
I'm like, "Hey, we're gonna talk about this."。
So I turned around.。
I had my AirPods playing underneath the helmet.。
I don't know if that's safe.。
But anyway, I had music going.。
So anyway, I'm trying to get into the vibe.。
I'm going to church.。
You know what I mean?。
So I like stopped my AirPods。
and by the time I turned around,。
hit a right hook, like hit me right in the chin.。
And just, and here's the thing,。
at the end of the day, that was the only hit.。
So it wasn't that bad.。
But in that moment, you don't know where it's gonna stop.。
You really don't.。
It's just a strange, a really strange moment.。
And all of a sudden, I think he decided the moped。
was more important than the fight.。
He got on the moped, he drove off。
and the police came after him。
and I just walked to church and preached the sermon.。
You know why?。
Because my mouth still worked。
and because it's not the end of the world.。
And listen, I just want to tell you,。
that's the, that's, oh, please don't clap。
because it's so small compared to what people go through.。
I'm sorry, I know some of you are trying to encourage me.。
Thank you.。
But listen, that's so small.。
I know, I know a pastor in New York City。
who almost had his life taken in a scenario like that.。
It's, what, that is so small.。
That's a painfully mundane illustration.。
But I just want to tell you, people go through real things.。
You ask Christians in other parts of the world.。
Christian suffering is not another,。
it's not just another century.。
It's another place at times, right now.。
This is not a game, all right?。
And listen, some of you have a,。
are gonna leave this building with a plan to do good。
and a plan to do well and the world's gonna resist you.。
Listen, in the words of the great theologian, Mike Tyson,。
everybody has a plan until they get hit in the mouth.。
All right, so listen, some of you are gonna,。
some of you are gonna leave here with a plan.。
You're like, I am going to give my life to God.。
No, I'm for real, for real this time.。
And I just want to tell you,。
the whole world might not clap for you,。
but God will and the church will。
and you stay encouraged, all right?。
Nobody ever said this was gonna be easy.。
This is not a game, all right?。
But it is a chance to lift up the fame。
of the only person whose name will outlast all of our names.。
That's the name of Jesus.。
Let's pray.。
Jesus, thank you for showing us how to love people,。
how to care.。
Thank you for snapping us out of our dead routine.。
Thank you for inviting us to something。
that is so much better than the life。
we could create for ourselves.。
Thank you that in you is life and life abundant.。
Thank you that in you is forgiveness。
for a thousand wasted evenings.。
Thank you that in you is peace。
for a thousand fearful thoughts.。
And thank you that in you is the only future。
that is going to satisfy to any degree.。
And thank you, Jesus, that your mission was to rescue us。
so that you don't need us to get out of here。
and do stuff for you to love us.。
But you already love us,。
and our mission comes from an overflow。
of our connection to you.。
Our mission comes from an overflow。
of a connection with you.。
We don't have to try to live on mission。
so that you'll love us.。
We live on mission because you already do.。
Father, I pray for freedom.。
I feel the potential of the people around me.。
And Father, I know, I know that you are able,。
only you, I know I can convince no one,。
but you are able to move people。
from living for themselves to living for you.。
And I pray that you would do that miracle in mass。
for these people in Jesus' name, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
