(birds chirping)。
(phone buzzing)。
- Here are 10 tips and tricks to improve your mental health.。
(phone ringing)。
(indistinct chatter)。
(phone ringing)。
(phone ringing)。
(ominous music)。
- Well, Porsche, how we doing tonight?。
(audience cheering)。
Hey, anybody here in Dallas glad。
that fall decided to show up tonight?。
Come on.。
Porsche Live Locations, we hope fall is there as well,。
but it's been like 90 here in Dallas,。
so the jackets are out, the sweaters, it's time.。
Hey, we're so glad that you're here on a Tuesday night。
hanging out with us.。
Whether you're here in person。
or whether you're watching online,。
we're just so, so, so glad that you're here.。
We wanna give a special shout out。
to our Porsche Live Locations,。
specifically in Greater Lafayette, in Wheaton,。
and in Dayton.。
Can we give it up for them?。
(audience cheering)。
Hey, before we get into the message tonight,。
we're talking about mental health.。
There's a lot that we're gonna process through,。
but I just wanna spend some time and pray.。
I know we've been praying, but I wanna continue to pray。
and not only pray for tonight.。
I definitely wanna pray for that,。
but I know for many of you, you know, maybe you don't,。
that right now in Jamaica, a category five hurricane。
is just overwhelming that country.。
And many of you know people who are there,。
some of you have been there.。
I know there's some anxiety about that,。
but they're saying that this hurricane。
could radically change what Jamaica looks like。
into the future.。
And we just wanna stop before anything else.。
And we wanna pray for them.。
We're gonna pray for Haiti, we wanna pray for Cuba,。
we wanna pray for the other countries。
that are gonna be influenced.。
So would you start, we're just gonna pray together。
for this hurricane that's hitting, bow your head.。
God, we stop right now in the comfort of wherever we are,。
here in Dallas or wherever,。
and we stop and we turn our attention。
to what's happening right now in the Caribbean.。
And God, we just ask for your mercy,。
the one who controls the weather, the storm,。
the sky, the sea, and we ask you, God,。
would you show your mercy here?。
Would you calm the winds and the waves?。
Oh Lord, we pray for our brothers and sisters。
who are shaking, their world is shaking right now.。
We ask God, would you be present with them?。
Oh Lord, would you be near?。
Would you bring quick aid?。
Lord, would the Christians around the world rise up。
and care for our brothers and sisters。
in Jamaica and the Caribbean?。
And would you come, Lord Jesus, come?。
And then God, we pray for us tonight.。
Lord, I know coming into this room。
or wherever we're watching, there are all kinds of emotions.。
Some of us are excited to be here, some of us are nervous,。
but Lord, we are all eager, desperate, hungry。
to hear from you.。
So we say, come Holy Spirit, come Holy Spirit.。
We long to encounter you.。
Would you speak to us tonight through your word?。
We will long to hear from you, in Jesus' name, amen.。
Well, my senior year of high school,。
it was a Saturday morning and I was sleeping in,。
as you do when you're a senior in high school.。
And I'm just, I'm kind of in that half asleep,。
you know that?。
And all of a sudden, this is a true story.。
I'm in my room asleep, three masked men come into my room,。
jump on top of me, put duct tape over my mouth.。
They tie my hands together and they blindfold me.。
Now put yourself in that situation.。
I'm like, I didn't even know how to think.。
Do I fight, do I cry, do I scream?。
You know, and I, in this moment,。
they pick me up out of my bed。
and they start taking me out of my room.。
And as they're taking me out of my room,。
they bump my head against the wall.。
And I hear the voice of my mom say,。
be careful with his head.。
And I'm like, what?。
My mom is colluding with these attackers, you know?。
And they carry me down the stairs。
and they throw me into the back of a pickup truck.。
They close the pickup truck and then they start talking.。
And I hear, it's my friends, okay?。
And as I'm listening, I hear their voices。
and Kevin's there and Jacob's there and Connor's there.。
And then it hits me, uh-oh, Scott's not there.。
Now here's the problem.。
Every friend group has like that person。
who's kind of like the mom of the group, right?。
They like make sure that you guys have fun,。
but nobody dies.。
Okay, that was Scott, okay?。
Scott was a Boy Scout.。
Scott's now an ER doctor.。
And I always knew with Scott,。
we were gonna have fun, but no one was gonna die.。
The problem was I'm tied up in the back of the truck。
and Scott's not there.。
And then they start to pull out on my driveway。
and they go onto the highway.。
Guys, 70 miles an hour, I'm tied in the back,。
rolling around, just going, "Oh, Scott, where are you?"。
You know, and finally they pull into a parking lot.。
They drag me out of the car into this establishment.。
They sit me down, they rip off the blindfold。
and right in front of me is a girl holding a sign。
saying, "Will you go to Sadie Hawkins dance with me?"。
(congregation laughing)。
And I'm like, "What, are you kidding me?"。
She thought it would be cute and fun to recruit my friends。
to kidnap me so she could ask me to the dance.。
Now, why do I tell you all of that?。
Because here's the reality.。
Right now, we're in a series called 20/20。
where we are looking at mental health。
from the perspective of God and from His word as creator.。
And tonight we're talking about fear and anxiety.。
Now, here's what I know.。
Even when I say those kinds of terms,。
so many of us have in our mind different things。
that come up when we think about fear。
and when we think about anxiety.。
But I wanna get to this book.。
What, God, what do you say about fear and anxiety?。
So if you have your Bible,。
go ahead and open your Bible to the book of Psalms.。
We're in Psalm 46 today.。
Psalm 46, as you're turning there,。
I just wanna do a little,。
kinda get all on the same page of what anxiety is.。
'Cause again, we use that term,。
but we don't always know what it means.。
So anxiety is actually an emotion that's similar to fear,。
but it's not the same.。
Fear is the response to an immediate specific threat.。
You walk out into the woods, you see a snake,。
and you go, "There's a snake," and that's fear.。
Anxiety though, is the response。
to a possible or anticipated threat.。
You walk out into the woods and you go,。
"There could be a snake in here," right?。
That's anxiety.。
Anxiety is looking into the future。
and perceiving a possible threat.。
And both of these are actually inherently good things.。
Like they've been hardwired into us。
as a survival method in order to survive, to not die.。
That both fear and anxiety,。
they're almost like a fire alarm.。
Like you think about a fire alarm,。
a fire alarm primarily exists。
as a life saving mechanism, right?。
And yet oftentimes a fire alarm goes off randomly。
when there's nothing there.。
Or the fire alarm will just keep going。
after the fire has been put out.。
And that's what anxiety disorder is.。
So many times when we think about anxiety,。
we originally think it's bad.。
No, anxiety can be good.。
You can be anxious about, "I have a date coming up.。
I'm anxious, I should smell good."。
That's good.。
That's good anxiety, right?。
But anxiety disorder is when the fire alarm keeps going on.。
And that fire alarm wakes you up。
in the middle of the night for no reason.。
There's no smoke, there's no fire,。
but my heart is racing, my stomach is churning,。
and I can not make it go away.。
And here's the reality.。
Our culture is in a moment。
where anxiety as a whole has skyrocketed.。
It's interesting from 1938, it's a long time ago, to 2010,。
there was marginally no statistical change in anxiety。
from 1938 to 2010.。
It was a very slight positive increase, just a little.。
From 2010 to 2015, for the ages of 26 to 34,。
anxiety increased by 103% in five years.。
Marginal increase from 1938 to 2010 in five years, 100%.。
For ages 18 to 25, it increased 139%.。
To the degree where now, a few years ago,。
a study was done of young adults。
that found that 37% of young adults, over a third,。
would say, "I always, or most of the time, feel anxious."。
You just think about a room in here,。
a third of you would go, "Yeah, most of the time,。
or all the time, I'm feeling that heart racing feel."。
Then on top of that, another 31% said。
they feel anxious about half the time.。
So only about a third of young adults, if they were honest,。
would say, "I am anxious at least half the time,。
or less, or none at all."。
Two thirds would say, "The majority of my life, I'm anxious."。
Now, what in the world happened in 2010。
to make it skyrocket?。
I read a book called "The Anxious Generation"。
by Jonathan Haidt, some of you've heard this.。
And Jonathan Haidt is a researcher, he's an author,。
and he labels 2010 to 2015 as the great rewiring,。
because two main things happened in 2010.。
Do you know what they are?。
The first is in 2010, the iPhone 4 came out,。
which had a front-facing camera for the first time.。
That's the first one.。
Before 2010, you had to take a selfie。
not knowing what it was gonna look like, right?。
The second thing is social media turned。
from primarily a networking tool to a platform。
in the creation of Instagram.。
You think about social media before was,。
"Let me connect with all my friends。
and find out where they are."。
Instagram came and it was, "I don't care who's following me.。
I just care that I have a following.。
And I'm checking my likes, and I'm checking my responses,。
and I'm creating content."。
And it's all about a platform。
that's elevating my online virtual life.。
In 2010, only 23% of young adults had a smartphone.。
Five years later in 2015, 79% had a smartphone,。
and now 97% have a smartphone.。
In 15 years, that's quite a change.。
And then when it comes to social media and screen time,。
50% of young adults say that they are online。
almost constantly, almost constantly.。
The average screen time of a young adult。
is six to eight hours.。
So I wanna do something.。
This is risky, and I didn't run it by anybody.。
I'm sorry, team, but we're gonna try it.。
If you have an iPhone,。
I want you to pull out your phone right now, okay?。
Just pull it out.。
And remember, we're talking about anxiety,。
so don't get distracted, okay?。
Pull out your iPhone.。
If you have an Android and you know how to do this,。
go for it.。
Go to your settings, lock in,。
go to your settings,。
then go down to screen time.。
Then at screen time, go to see all app and website activity,。
and then scroll down a little,。
and you're gonna see this week with a blue arrow,。
click back to last week.。
(audience chattering)。
How many hours did you spend on your phone last week?。
The chatter is an indictment against you, okay?。
Scroll down, scroll down.。
How many pickups did you have?。
And then one more, scroll down.。
How many notifications did you have last week?。
All right, this is a safe place.。
How many of you were over six hours。
of screen time last week?。
Come on, safe place, safe place, safe place.。
God knows if you're lying.。
All right, put your hands down.。
Now put your phones away.。
Please put your phones away.。
We're in an anxiety message.。
Put those things away.。
All right, lock in, here's the reality.。
I know, you're judging your friends,。
you're either thinking you're awesome or you're terrible.。
Here's the reality, six to eight hours,。
guys, that is close to a full-time job。
that we are sucked into our phones.。
And this is not a message about phones, a technology.。
Here's what all this is trying to do.。
Jonathan Haidt calls your generation.。
He labels you, three simple words, the anxious generation.。
And some of us hear that and go, no, not me.。
And then you look at what's fueling you and you go, maybe.。
And not only your phones and not only social media,。
but over lunch, we had young adults,。
the thousand people who were there write cards anonymously。
of what's the hardest thing you've gone through。
over the past year and what's something you need to confess.。
Just every week, I've been reading some of those cards。
and in preparation for this sermon,。
I just read a couple and here was some of the cards。
that I read.。
One said, I struggle with anxiety。
and I'm a severe overthinker.。
I struggle with daily thoughts and memories。
and nightmares from trauma in my past.。
I cannot help, but think about it.。
Another one said, I am so scared to be alone.。
Nobody knows how I feel.。
I hate myself, I hate my body, I hate my face,。
I hate my personality.。
I compare myself to everyone else.。
I am so insecure and I don't trust God。
to let him take over my life.。
Another one said, I have deep crippling anxiety。
from college.。
I feel inadequate and I feel like I'm not enough.。
And then one more said, I am so anxious.。
I feel unloved, I feel unlovable, fearful.。
I can't do this anymore.。
This wasn't all the cards that I picked for.。
This was a little stack.。
I'm going, let me look if there's any with anxiety.。
And I think if we were honest, like gut level honest,。
many of you in this room feel a lot like that.。
Put on the face, sing the songs, have the meet and greet,。
but deep down we feel like that.。
I remember a few years ago, I was a pastor down in Houston。
and we were going through a series。
of kind of hot button things.。
And I was given the topic of sexuality。
and gender to preach on.。
It was my first time preaching on this.。
And I was so nervous, not because I was afraid。
of saying the truth, but because I had a lot of friends。
who I knew I'm gonna say the truth,。
this is gonna be really hard.。
And yet God, I wanna be faithful to you,。
but I wanna be loving.。
And I remember weeks, I'm prepping, prepping, prepping.。
And finally, Saturday night, I finished prepping.。
I go to sleep, I lay my head on the pillow。
and I can't fall asleep.。
And just my mind is racing, my heart is going.。
I'm like, ah, and then one hour turned to two hours,。
two hours turned to three hours.。
I mean, I'm about to preach the next morning。
and I cannot get my mind to stop.。
Three hours, four, five, six, seven, zero minutes of sleep.。
Zero, have you had that?。
It's an all nighter that I didn't want, right?。
And I wake up, I wake up, I get up the next morning。
and I go to church and deliver that sermon and praise God.。
Like it went well, it was good.。
I'm like, oh, thank you.。
Take a nap for like 20 years, you know?。
And then the next week I'm giving another sermon。
on something totally different.。
Not a hard topic, an easy one.。
I lay my head on the pillow Saturday night。
and I had the thought, man, I hope I can fall asleep.。
And then one hour turned to two hours,。
turned to three hours.。
I only got two hours of sleep that night.。
I'm like, what is going on?。
Guys, for a year, every Saturday night,。
before I would teach, I could not sleep.。
I was going mad because I wasn't even,。
I wasn't even nervous.。
I was just had the thought of like,。
I hope I can fall asleep and I'm taking melatonin。
and I'm changing rooms and I'm listening。
to Shane and Shane music and I'm doing everything。
to try to put me to sleep.。
Nothing is working and I'm just so frustrated。
until finally after a year, guys, last night,。
last night, so I'm writing this message.。
I lay my head on the pillow and go, man,。
I remember when I couldn't fall asleep before a message.。
Then one hour turned to two hours, turned to three.。
I'm like, no, that was younger me.。
Like I'm free of this.。
And I just like, oh, and all those anxious thoughts.。
I mean, I'm about to preach on anxiety。
as I spent a night last night living in anxious thoughts.。
My God, this is, I'm coming to you fellow struggler.。
Man, we need God's word, not some person to tell us。
how in the world do we make it through this.。
And that's why we're in Psalm 46.。
Psalm 46 is written by this group of worship leaders。
called the sons of Korah.。
And most scholars believe Psalm 46 was written。
in the midst of national crisis in Judah.。
So the Assyrian army was coming against them.。
And as they were, they kind of look up one day。
and 185,000 Assyrian troops are surrounding them.。
And Hezekiah, the king of Israel looks out。
and he just cries out, God help us.。
He literally gets in front of everyone and just says,。
God, we need your help.。
Help us just like you did in the past, help us.。
And God sends one angel。
and overnight kills 185,000 Assyrian troops.。
And they wake up in the morning to see God won the battle。
without a single arrow being shot.。
And so these worship leaders are walking。
through this battle that God fought on their behalf.。
And they write Psalm 46.。
To infuse courage into the heart of the anxious.。
And it's so interesting what they write.。
And as we look at this, we're actually gonna see。
three ways to fight anxiety from Psalm 46.。
I wanna say this, Kylan said this last week.。
I wanna reiterate.。
We're not coming at this from a clinical perspective,。
from a doctor perspective.。
Some of you, there is neurons。
and there's things in your brain that it doesn't matter。
what kind of advice you get from a church or anywhere,。
you need extra help.。
And so this is not coming to heap.。
You better do these things。
and you won't be anxious anymore, no.。
In fact, I promise you that's not the case。
for anybody in this sermon.。
What this is, is an invitation to look at God。
who created your mind and say, God, what do you want?。
And he lovingly begins to teach us。
how to fight things like anxiety.。
So Psalm 46, let's look at starting in verse one.。
It says, "God is our refuge and strength,。
"a very present help in trouble.。
"Therefore we will not fear, though the earth gives way,。
"though the mountains be moved into the heart of the sea,。
"though its waters roar and foam,。
"though the mountains tremble at its swelling."。
So how do you fight?。
Well, stop there.。
How do you fight anxiety from Psalm 46?。
The first thing is be honest about what's shaking you.。
Be honest about what's shaking you.。
Did you catch what he said in verse one?。
He said, "God is our refuge and he's our strength,。
"a very present help in trouble."。
Not to fight trouble, not to cure trouble,。
in the midst of it.。
He says, "Then, therefore I'm not gonna fear."。
And then he gives four, those statements.。
He says, "Though the earth gives way,。
"though the mountains be moved,。
"though the waters roar and foam,。
"though the mountains tremble."。
What are they saying?。
They said, "God, we trust your presence,。
"but if we're honest, our world is pretty shaky right now."。
They are real about what's going on.。
They don't pretend that everything's fine.。
I remember a few years ago, a buddy of mine,。
he was just going through a really rough time.。
Work was, his work was, his job was on the line.。
He thought maybe he was gonna get fired.。
His kids, he had four kids, they're all sick.。
And then a waterline bursts in his house。
and his house is getting flooded.。
And so I text him, I'm like, "Hey man, how are you doing?"。
And he just texted me back this picture.。
You ever seen this?。
And I love it, you know,。
because he's obviously making fun of it.。
But I just think of this picture for a second.。
How many of you, is this your life right now, right?。
And so Monday morning comes,。
we go, "Oh, how was the weekend?。
"How are you doing?"。
"Fine."。
"Right."。
"You have meet and greet time?"。
"Oh, how's life right now?"。
"It's fine."。
"Right."。
"Your boss, your small group?"。
"Fine, fine."。
I used to tell, when I was a youth pastor,。
I used to tell students, you know what fine stands for?。
Feelings I'm not expressing.。
Fine, that's what fine is.。
And what are they saying here?。
Look, we're gonna be honest that our life is not fine.。
And I'm curious for you,。
where is your life shaking right now?。
You know, where are you not fine?。
And sometimes in church, we like that.。
So we just vent, "Oh, here's all the problems."。
But that's not necessarily what's happening here.。
The sons of Korah in the Psalms are trying to identify。
what is fueling my fear.。
When we feel anxious, so often the thing。
that's fueling our anxiety feels so stupid and silly。
and dumb that we never tell anybody。
because it feels like if I tell you this,。
you're gonna look down on me because it's so silly.。
It's so irrational.。
And yet look at what, did you see what they said。
is causing them to tremble, is causing them to be scared?。
They said that mountains would be moved into the sea.。
They're like, "We're not gonna fear,。
even though I don't know if that mountain's。
gonna be moved into the sea."。
They're like speaking in this hyperbole kind of way。
of just this ridiculous scenario,。
but they're going, "In my mind, that's what it feels like.。
It feels like the whole world is falling。
and mountains are falling into the sea."。
And they're honest.。
They're honest about it and they express it to God。
because he can handle it.。
I love what Kylan said last week about prayer.。
"Hey, before you pray the right thing,。
how about you pray the real thing?。
How about you pray the thing that's really going on。
in your life rather than going,。
'God, thank you that it's such a good day。
and that everything's awesome and my life's great.'。
Meanwhile, you're the dog with fire in the back, right?"。
I was just trying to think about you coming into this room.。
What do you need to be honest about tonight?。
I think some of you have,。
you're looking at this season of your life,。
in your job, in your cubicle,。
and you feel like, "I'm so settled。
on all the dreams I had in my life.。
I was gonna do great things.。
I was gonna change the world.。
I was gonna live a life of adventure.。
Now I'm stuck in this six by six cubicle, trying not to die."。
You're just anxious about it.。
Some of you feel like you have the imposter syndrome at work.。
Like you landed that job that you're like,。
"Yeah," and your family's excited.。
Your peers are excited.。
You get the job, you learn, like,。
"I'm not prepared for this.。
This is way outside of what I thought."。
And so I'm just faking it all the time.。
People are like, "So what are we gonna do?"。
And you're like, "Let me come up with it right now."。
And you're just constantly feeling like you're an imposter。
and you can't level with anybody。
or you might lose your job.。
Maybe some of you, you're afraid。
that your sexual sin in the past。
will keep anyone from ever loving you。
despite what you've done.。
Others of you, you feel like you're not living up。
to the expectations people had in your life.。
Or maybe you're afraid of commitment.。
You were vulnerable with someone in the past。
and they burned that bridge.。
They broke up with you.。
They stabbed you in the back.。
And so now you're afraid.。
And you lay awake at night going,。
"I don't know if I can ever fully get there again."。
Maybe you're terrified of being found out。
for the disgusting sin struggle。
that still has a hold on you.。
If anybody knew that that is still a part of your life,。
they wouldn't wanna be a part of you.。
Maybe you don't feel like you're making enough money.。
So you gotta get a side hustle or you gotta work harder,。
but you're afraid you'll burn out.。
Maybe you're afraid of death.。
You lay awake at night thinking the next diagnosis。
that could come your way.。
Or maybe you think God doesn't really love you.。
Or if you're really honest, hard to say in a room like this,。
you don't know if God's even really real.。
Now, how does God handle those kinds of honest thoughts?。
Remember verse one, God says, "I am your refuge.。
I'm your strength.。
And I'm your very present help in trouble."。
God can handle your honesty.。
Where is your world shaking right now?。
And the first way to fight anxiety is get honest about it.。
Get real, look it right in the face,。
bring community in and get real.。
That's the first thing.。
Something interesting happens though。
when you get to verse four.。
In verse four, there's actually a shift in Psalm 46.。
And the shift is stunning because he just said, right?。
He just said, "The world is shaking.。
The mountains are going into the sea."。
And then he says in verse four, look at it.。
He says, "But there's a river,。
there's a river whose streams make glad the city of God,。
the holy habitation of the most high.。
God is in the midst of her.。
She shall not be moved.。
God will help her when the morning dawns.。
The nations rage, the kingdoms totter.。
He, God utters his voice and the earth melts.。
The Lord of hosts is with us.。
The God of Jacob is our fortress."。
Verse eight, "Come behold the works of the Lord.。
He has brought desolations on the earth.。
He makes wars cease to the ends of the earth.。
He breaks the bow, he shatters the spear.。
He burns the chariots with fire."。
Okay, the second thing,。
you want to fight anxiety in your life?。
The second thing is you need to behold the works of the Lord.。
Behold the works of the Lord.。
So interesting in verse four, he says,。
"So everything's shaking."。
He goes, "But there's a river。
whose streams make glad the city of God."。
The city of God was Jerusalem.。
This was the city that was surrounded by Assyrians.。
And he goes, "Oh, but there's a river here."。
Here's what's shocking.。
Look at a map of Jerusalem.。
There's no river in Jerusalem.。
There's not, it's a desert.。
It's literally a desert.。
And so these worship leaders are high on something。
and they're going, "There's the river, bud."。
You know, like, it's amazing.。
They're like, "What river?"。
And what do they say?。
They're going, "Look, I know it feels like a desert.。
And I know it feels like it's dried up,。
but there is a river, a rushing wild river。
that's flowing with life and vitality。
that you can't see that's powerful。
and it's flowing and it's working."。
And he says, "This God who the river is his power。
and his presence, that's what it represents."。
He says, "This God is with us and this God is for us.。
He's on our team."。
I know you can't see the river, but it's flowing.。
And it doesn't matter what kind of desert or wilderness。
you find yourself in.。
There's a river, there's a river.。
I told this story at launch if you were there,。
but it just reminded me as I was reading this。
of when I went to San Francisco a few years ago.。
I went to go visit some church planters there.。
And while in San Francisco, the last day we were there,。
these church planters said,。
"Hey, we wanna take you out to the Tenderloin District。
of San Francisco.。
The Tenderloin District is the most populated area。
of homeless people in the whole country."。
And they gave us a pep talk.。
They said, "Hey, you need to know。
before we go out there,。
you guys are gonna see some really dark things.。
Needles everywhere, people shooting up, getting high."。
I mean, it's just, they said,。
"The demonic presence is thick in the Tenderloin District."。
He's got a bunch of us from the suburbs,。
kind of like, "Oh, you know, like what?"。
And then this guy, Rob, one of the elders,。
he stood up and he goes, "Hey guys, look at me."。
He says, "We walk in with the power。
and the presence of Christ."。
He said, "The darkness shakes。
when the light of Christ walks in."。
You ready?。
We're like, "We're ready."。
We're praying in the vans on the way there,。
we get out, sure enough, darkness.。
And yet I watched it.。
There is a river that the Tenderloin District,。
the desert of the Tenderloin District,。
that river flows right through it.。
And we watched the presence of God。
go in to the darkness there.。
Guys, what Psalm 46 is saying。
is that there's a river,。
no matter what wilderness you feel like you're in,。
no matter what your mind is racing, there's a river.。
There's a river that flows through.。
And the sons of Korah are saying,。
"In the moment when the world is shaking,"。
you need to remind yourself。
and you need to remind those around you of what is true.。
You need to remember what we sang at the beginning。
of fixing our eyes on what's true.。
So I wanna just get practical for a second.。
Fellow struggler,。
fellow person who wrestles with anxious thoughts,。
there's two things that we see the sons of Korah do。
that I've done in my life that have helped me in anxiety.。
I'm not saying they're the cure.。
I'm not saying it solves everything.。
I'm just saying it's helped me.。
The first is in the midst of those anxious thoughts,。
you remember what God has done for you.。
You remember what God has done for you.。
And here's why.。
Did you know that scientists have studied the brain?。
This is data, not Christians.。
They've studied the brain。
and they saw that when the brain is experiencing gratitude,。
that the frontal lobe begins to light up。
where your emotions are。
and your heart rate begins to slow down。
and your amygdala where your fear goes out。
begins to weaken its effect on the rest of your brain.。
That when you're experiencing gratitude,。
anxiety begins to fade.。
And I saw this last night.。
So last night, oh, I hope I can, hope I can fall asleep.。
Hour one, hour two, hour three, I'm sitting there.。
I'm mad guys.。
I'm so mad.。
I need sleep, right?。
I'm processing with God.。
And then all of a sudden I think of this convicted,。
you know, I'm like, oh yeah.。
All right.。
God, what have you done?。
That's good.。
And it was random things.。
I'm looking at the fan spinning above me.。
I'm like, thank you for cool air.。
That was the first thing.。
Lord, thank you for cool air.。
Then I look at my phone, it's two in the morning.。
The world series went 18 innings。
and I got to go through the whole thing.。
Oh, I got something to read, right?。
I thought about this past week,。
my daughter, my five-year-old lost her first tooth.。
And I'm like, oh, how cool.。
That was so fun.。
She turned six on Saturday.。
I'm celebrating that.。
I'm just thinking of my wife,。
how grateful I am for her, thanking God for his grace.。
And you know what didn't happen?。
I didn't fall asleep right away,。
but you know what did happen?。
The heart that was racing began to soften。
and began to just, and gratitude.。
Think of what God has done for me.。
That's the first thing.。
Remember what God has done for you.。
Have a heart of gratitude.。
The second though, is remind others around you of truth,。
is help other people.。
Here's what happens with anxiety.。
So often you get tunnel vision。
and all you can think about is you.。
You literally are so focused on you.。
What's wrong with me?。
What's going on with me?。
How do I fix me?。
Something happens when we look up and we see other people.。
I remember when I was a little guy,。
grew up here for a few years in DFW。
and experienced a few tornadoes pretty close to my house。
and just got this irrational fear of tornadoes.。
And it went through me all through elementary school.。
Every time tornado siren would go off, tornado warning,。
I'm flipping out, like flipping out.。
Something happened in fifth grade for me.。
I remember I'm in class, fifth grade,。
tornado siren goes off, I start flipping out.。
And then I look over and I see my friend Tanner。
flipping out more than me.。
And I had the thought,。
it was like a semi-rational thought for a fifth grader.。
I was like, that's kind of crazy.。
You know, like we're probably not gonna die.。
And I'm having this like kind of rational moment.。
And I go over to my buddy Tanner, I'm like,。
hey man, I think it's gonna be okay.。
Like tornadoes don't kill that many people.。
You know what I'm just like, I'm counseling him.。
And this wave of rationality flooded into my life,。
all these years of irrational fear of tornadoes.。
And it just shifted.。
And the next time, literally from that moment on,。
the next time a tornado siren had,。
one that I didn't feel fear,。
it's just my brain started working again.。
And some of you, the number one thing you need to do。
is start caring about your roommates.。
All right now, you care about yourself。
because my mental health, my problems, my struggle.。
And it's an issue.。
I'm just saying, when you flip,。
you start caring about other people.。
It is amazing what God will do to your health,。
to your anxiety, when you begin to get your eyes。
off yourself and start caring about other people.。
Where is God inviting you in the midst of your anxiety。
to behold the works of God by reminding yourself。
of what he's done for you and reminding others.。
That's the second thing.。
So how do you fight anxiety?。
Be honest, behold, and then let's do the last one quickly.。
Look at verse 10.。
If you've been in church at all, you know this.。
Your mom has it on her fridge.。
Okay, verse 10.。
Be still and know that I am God.。
I will be exalted among the nations.。
I will be exalted in the earth.。
The Lord of hosts is with us.。
The God of Jacob is our fortress.。
The last one, number three, how do you fight anxiety。
is be still and know who is God and who is not God.。
It's interesting, be still in Hebrew is a Hebrew word,。
Rahah, which means cease striving.。
So he says, cease striving and know.。
And I was thinking again, if you've been in church,。
you know this verse and we filled in the blanks,。
but our culture loves the first half。
of this verse right now.。
Hey, cease striving.。
Hey, be still.。
Hey, meditate.。
Hey, mindfulness.。
Hey, unplug.。
Hey, solitude.。
We love this right now.。
The problem is what we choose to know。
in the midst of our stillness.。
What does our culture say?。
Be still and know yourself.。
Just dive deeper into you and know all your upbringing。
and your problems and your first wound。
and what happened to you and your great grandma,。
she had this and so now,。
and I'm not saying those things are wrong.。
It's just, that's what our culture says.。
No, once you know that, be still and know your diagnosis.。
Be on WebMD or whatever's the cool thing,。
TikTok now and just like, oh, what is it?。
Oh, chasing the very minutia of what I, and know it.。
Be still and know the universe, right?。
Plug in with the deeper powers and energy that are at work.。
Be still and know nothing.。
Turn off your brain completely。
and just empty yourself, right?。
But none of those is what this says.。
It says, be still and know what?。
That I am God.。
And what does that mean?。
To be still and know that God is God means there is a God。
and you are not him.。
That's what it means.。
So all of a sudden, the coffee cup, fridge, mama verse。
that's so sweet and nice becomes a bit of an affront。
to all the selfishness in us。
that just wants to think about us.。
And it forces us to go back to the core struggle of humanity。
which is to not seize the fruit from the tree。
and instead trust in God.。
I mean, think about God creating。
at the very beginning of Genesis.。
In the beginning, God created heavens and the earth.。
It says in verse two, the earth was without form and void.。
What does that mean?。
It was chaotic at the beginning.。
It was chaos.。
In verse three, and God said, let there be light.。
God spoke into chaos, beauty and order and life.。
And he did that for six days.。
And then you know what he did on the sixth day?。
He created you and I, human beings, right?。
So Adam and Eve, but he created humanity.。
And he said, I'm gonna make you in my image to do what I do.。
I'm literally gonna put you in a garden full of potential.。
And I'm gonna say, bring order and beauty and life。
into that which is chaotic.。
So key to being a human is to look out at chaos。
and to bring order to it.。
And he says one command, don't be God.。
Don't be God.。
It's signified on the tree, right?。
Of knowledge and good and evil.。
Don't eat the fruit and seize autonomy。
and order right and wrong for yourself.。
Trust my definition of good and evil。
and submit to me, right?。
And what do they do?。
Snake slithers up and they go, I wanna be God.。
And the core of every sin in your life。
starts with that decision.。
I wanna be God.。
Now I wanna be clear, what I'm not saying。
is that anxiety is a sin.。
I'm not, because it's not.。
Anxiety is an emotion, like fear is an emotion,。
like anger is an emotion, like sadness is an emotion.。
Those aren't sins, but they're indicator lights of something.。
And so often the anxiety indicator light。
is that you in your life think you are the one。
who's ultimately in control.。
And anxiety, that indicator light, that check engine,。
that flare is saying something in you thinks,。
if I just, then I will and I can manage my life.。
And so the number one step to start,。
it doesn't cure everything, it's just the start,。
is to say these simple words.。
You are God and I am not God.。
You are God and I am not God.。
And I just wanna end with this story.。
If you've been at the porch for a while,。
I told this actually the first time that I was there,。
I wanna tell an abbreviated version.。
But there was a time in my life。
when I maybe for the first time had to say that.。
And it was actually regarding the birth。
of my second child, my first son, Ty.。
I think we have a picture of he and I.。
And yeah, he's my buddy.。
I call him my best buddy.。
This was at a Rangers game when we went at the porch.。
I just love this guy with all my heart.。
And when Ty was born, he had a healthy pregnancy,。
healthy birth, everything was fine.。
And a few hours after he was born, he started turning blue.。
And we found out he was having apnea spells,。
which means you stop breathing for at least 20 seconds.。
And so they rushed him to the NICU, the neonatal ICU unit.。
And they came back and they said, hey, he's having these.。
We don't know why, but we need to keep him in the NICU。
for five days to monitor him.。
And this was in the midst of COVID.。
So they said, hey, you can come visit him,。
but we're actually kicking you out.。
You have to go home.。
And man, I just remember that.。
I remember being so mad.。
I was mad at everybody.。
I was mad at the hospital.。
I was mad at God.。
I was mad at me.。
I was mad, I'm just seeing my son there.。
And we made it four days.。
And finally, we're right at the cusp。
of being able to take him home.。
And then he has another apnea spell.。
And we go up to the hospital, I'm so mad.。
And I remember the nurse practitioner,。
just look at me in the eyes and gone, Mr. Moffitt,。
you need to know, 'cause I was mad.。
I'm like, we're just taking him home.。
She's like, you need to know your son could be very sick。
and your son could die.。
And she left and I lost it.。
I'd been a pastor, been a Christian for a number of years,。
but I realized deep down in there somewhere,。
I was still God.。
And I remember going home that night, just so frustrated,。
waking up in the morning, my wife went to the hospital。
and I just got on my face before God.。
I did all three of these things.。
I just, I was so mad at God, just angry.。
God, you made me his dad.。
And it feels like he's outside of my control,。
like fading away, like what's going on?。
I'm just angry with God and processing with him and crying.。
And finally, the song plays in the background.。
It's called "Sovereign Over Us."。
And I just remember the one words that were so crazy.。
It says, "You are working in our waiting.。
"You're sanctifying us when beyond all understanding,。
"you're teaching us to trust."。
And I broke.。
For the first time in my life, I looked at God。
and I said, "You are God and I'm not God."。
And God, even if Ty never gets better,。
I will still trust you.。
And even if Ty dies, you are still God and I'm not God.。
Something broke in me in that moment.。
I remember driving to the hospital the next,。
there a few hours later and just worshiping God.。
Nothing had changed in the circumstance.。
I just really believed in God and I wasn't him.。
And then as the days continued, just really trusting God,。
but not even for the outcome,。
just that you're good and I can trust you.。
And it's so cool, like after five days, we got to go home。
and they never gave me the control that I wanted.。
They never said, "Here's what went wrong.。
"Here's how to fix it."。
They went, "We don't know what happened.。
"I hope it works out."。
And four years, Ty's good.。
But the craziest part, I think,。
is for my wife and I realizing we're not God.。
You are, and we trust you with every aspect.。
And since then, there've been a lot of,。
you're God, I'm not God.。
I'm just curious for you,。
where in your life are you still God?。
Where are you still trusting in yourself。
rather than trusting the one。
who angel armies are at his beck and call?。
The one who makes wars to cease,。
even the war in your own mind.。
The one who in an instant could heal you if you wanted,。
but he's doing a plan you can't see.。
Do you trust him?。
The beauty of the gospel, think about it,。
that Jesus, God is not just some distant God,。
he entered in.。
He knows, he knows every aspect。
of what it's like to be human.。
He entered in and on that cross, what did he do?。
He took our infirmities, our sin, our fear,。
our anxiety on himself.。
And he said, "I will bear this for you.。
And I'm gonna be placed into that grave。
and I'm gonna come out in three days。
beating sin, hell, death and the devil。
so you don't have to.。
And if you will trust me, if you will trust me,。
I'm working a plan you can't see,。
but I'm your God, not you."。
And so what is faith?。
You're God, I'm not God.。
There's nothing I can do to earn,。
I just receive by faith life in you.。
Let's pray together.。
Lord, I just know in a room like this,。
there are some anxious thoughts that are beyond tornadoes。
and a night of no sleep.。
There are people in this room who have contemplated,。
I no longer belong on this planet.。
There are some who they literally can't even think。
rationally for a minute because their mind。
is racing so much.。
There are people who, God, they doubt your existence,。
they doubt your love,。
despite all the sermons that they've been in.。
That gnawing thought is wrestling them day and night.。
And yet, as we just read, the God of Jacob,。
the God of the wrestler is on my side.。
Lord, you don't promise that in this life,。
all the healing that we want will happen,。
but you do promise the Lord of hosts is with us.。
The God of Jacob is on my side.。
So God, be near, help us feel you.。
Lord, whatever it takes in our mind,。
fill us with your spirit such that your nearness。
is closer than our anxiety.。
And God, help us to say the hard but true words,。
you are God, I am not God.。
We love you and we trust you in Jesus' name, amen.。
Amen.。
