(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
- All right, well, my name is David.。
If it is your first time, like Shane said, welcome.。
I know JP and several of us have welcomed.。
We're so glad that you're here tonight.。
We're finishing up the Sermon on the Mount.。
So friends of Fort Worth, welcome for joining us。
or welcome joining us as well.。
And tonight we'll finish up the Summer on the Mount。
as we've journeyed through the Sermon on the Mount.。
We'll look at Jesus' last kind of passage in this。
as he wraps it all up.。
Has anyone bought a house recently?。
Like in the last like month, two months?。
Yeah, okay, yeah, so you know what I'm talking about.。
Okay, so if you don't, maybe you don't know this,。
but right now in Dallas, Fort Worth,。
Dallas is like the most insane market of all time,。
literally in the city, right now the hottest.。
In fact, this past month, it tied San Francisco。
for the hottest market in the United States of America.。
Probably the only time we'll ever be tied。
with San Francisco in anything,。
but it tied San Francisco for the hottest market.。
And what I didn't, all of that I didn't know。
when my wife and I decided to sign,。
and we basically signed a lease that ends in September,。
and so we were like, oh, we'll just buy a house in August.。
That'll be great.。
And as rookies who've never bought a house before,。
we didn't realize that we would be buying it。
in the worst time in the history of Dallas, but we did.。
And so we planned to buy a house, and we began to see。
that because the market is so hot right now,。
like all the homes that we could afford。
within our budget, #pastor, were like overinflated,。
or like every home is like,。
and you gotta put $20,000 on top of it.。
So it's like, the homes we could afford。
were just not livable.。
It's like, isn't that a shed?。
Really, that's the best we can do?。
But so we've kind of been planning that.。
We're like, we're just gonna ride this thing out.。
It's gonna cool down eventually.。
We're just gonna ride it out, we'll wait.。
And so a few weeks in, our realtor,。
we have a friend who's a realtor,。
sent us a home that was like,。
hey, this is in your price range.。
It's a little bit, could use some fixer upper stuff,。
but it's in an area you guys have said。
you would like to be in.。
And so we're like, great, let's go check it out.。
This is perfect, awesome.。
So we go, we see the house.。
It's in an area we love.。
It's going great, this is perfect.。
Yeah, we can paint that, change those shutters.。
It'll be awesome, perfect.。
So we get an inspection.。
And our realtor gives us the inspection.。
The inspector goes through, if you've never bought a house,。
they bring in some guy who's an inspector full-time.。
I don't know what else you do if you're an inspector.。
But he's an inspector and he looks at everything。
that you'll need to get replaced.。
And he begins to tell us on his inspection。
that the most significant thing with the house。
is the foundation is off.。
People are shaking their heads with horror stories.。
And I, because we're rookies, I'm like,。
oh, the foundation's off, that's great.。
I mean, what does that mean?。
How much does that cost to fix?。
What is that, like 100 bucks?。
We can take that, that's great, we'll move in.。
We can paint everything, it's gonna be great.。
And they go, no, it's a lot more serious.。
It's really bad.。
And I'm like, okay, how bad could it be?。
And they say 10 grand to 30 grand.。
And I'm like, okay, first, that's a lot of margin.。
Second off, how could it possibly be that bad?。
And then, of course, my wife is like, I'm out.。
And I'm like, no, no, no, it's gonna be great.。
We're gonna fix it.。
And you know when you really want something。
and you go into like problem-solving mode,。
you're like, it's gonna be fine.。
How bad, I mean, how important is the foundation, really?。
And the inspector's like, look,。
that's why the floor is slanted on a decline.。
And I'm like, I mean, that's like preferential, right?。
I mean, some people might like a slanted floor,。
leaning tower, Pisa, ever heard of it?。
We just won't have chairs with wheels on 'em.。
It's gonna be great.。
And he's like, no, that's why the sheetrock has cracks.。
It's only gonna get worse.。
And I'm like, no, we'll just get big paintings。
and hang it over that.。
It's gonna be fine.。
Everything will be great.。
And he begins to lay out.。
And I'm like, worst case scenario,。
what could possibly happen if we don't fix it?。
And he says, the house would fall apart.。
It would literally fall on you.。
And of course, I'm like, oh, I guess we shouldn't do that.。
(audience laughing)。
And we decide to pass it.。
Or as we process it, I probably still actually fought.。
I'm like, look, we could just prop it up.。
But as our community and wisecounter around us was like,。
that's a bad idea.。
You do not wanna get a house that has a bad foundation.。
You do not wanna get a house that has a bad foundation.。
Now, the reason I start with that story。
that recently took place is because tonight,。
as we wrap up the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew chapter 7,。
if you wanna open your Bibles, if you have one,。
you can flip open there.。
If you don't, we've got free Bibles in the Welcome Center。
we'd love to give you.。
The reason I start there is 'cause in the final words。
Jesus gives us after laying out everything。
we've talked about for the past 10, 12 weeks,。
he begins to wrap up what it looks like。
to now apply and live out what he's taught.。
And he uses a illustration saying that just like in a house,。
if you're getting a house, you don't wanna get a house。
that has a bad foundation.。
All of us in life are going to build a house。
that is our life.。
We're building a life, so to speak,。
and you don't wanna build your life on the wrong foundation。
because the cost and the falling apart。
that would take place in a house is not nearly as bad。
as if you build your life on the wrong foundation.。
So you better make sure it's the right one。
Jesus is going to say.。
So what we're gonna do for the next 30 or so minutes,。
we're gonna look at six verses.。
I'm gonna give you three points from that text,。
and then I'll kinda wrap us up with a story for the night。
as we just explore Jesus's final words。
on the foundation you and I are to build our lives on。
and the consequences of building on the wrong foundation.。
So we're in Matthew chapter seven.。
Flip open to Matthew chapter seven, verse 24,。
and we'll pick it up there as we explore this final topic。
of building our life on the right foundation.。
Jesus has just taught all kinds of different subjects,。
and he begins to launch into now what they're to do.。
Here's what he says.。
"Therefore, everyone who hears these words of mine。
"and puts them into practice is like a wise man。
"who built his house on the rock."。
So our first point, a wise foundation。
comes from following Jesus's instructions.。
A wise foundation, living and building out your life,。
the life that you're gonna build,。
it comes, a wise foundation comes from building it。
on following Jesus's instructions.。
What he just said, his audience, he basically says,。
"Look, everyone who hears what I just taught,。
"all the things that I just taught about,。
"love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you.。
"Hey, when it comes to money,"。
and Jesus taught about money,。
if you remember that week a few weeks back,。
and he says, "Look, be as generous as possible.。
"Don't store up treasures here on earth.。
"Store 'em up in heaven."。
He talks about religious hypocrisy and says,。
"Look, don't be fooled by people。
"that act like they're religious,。
"but they actually don't practice what they preach."。
Talks about anxiety and he says,。
"Look, don't be anxious.。
"Trust in God."。
He talks about lust and he says,。
"You think lust is not that big of a deal?。
"It's adultery."。
He says, "Marriage is permanent."。
He says, "Look, when you have relational conflict,"。
he covers all these different topics.。
If you think, we're all over the place.。
And he covers all these different topics。
and then he goes, "Relationships, when you have conflict,。
"be diligent to pursue conflict resolution。
"with different people in your life."。
And then he finished last week, as we talked about,。
and JP talked about,。
"Hey, don't put your faith in religious actions to save you.。
"They will not save you.。
"Only a savior can save you."。
And he takes all of that and he says,。
"Look, everyone who hears everything that I just taught。
"and not just hears it, but lives by it,。
"is like a wise person who builds their home on a rock."。
And Jesus' audience is going,。
"Look, a wise person who builds your house on the rock,。
"that's like saying the same thing twice.。
"Only people are only,。
"everyone builds their house on the rock, Jesus.。
"That's just what you do."。
His audience is going,。
"Of course that's what you do, that's common sense.。
"Even today, we still build on the rock.。
"You don't build on gravel, you don't build on water,。
"you don't build on sand,。
"you don't build on any of these things.。
"That's just what you do."。
And Jesus is saying, "Exactly.。
"When you follow my instructions,。
"you're just using common sense.。
"You are living a wise life.。
"You're living in line with my design for the universe."。
Really, it's kind of an arrogant thing to say。
for anyone other than Jesus to say,。
where he says, "Look, everyone who follows。
"everything that I just taught,。
"if you will do all of that, you're a wise person.。
"But if you don't, you're not.。
"But if you're the son of God, you can get away with that."。
Because Jesus, as the wisest person who ever lived,。
says, "Look, I'm inviting and telling you。
"how I designed the world to work,。
"marriage to work, anxiety to go away,。
"how I designed relationships to happen.。
"Build your life on the rock of my word.。
"And it doesn't happen by just listening," he says,。
"but it happens by obeying or practicing."。
Like, here's what's so crazy about what Jesus says。
in that even first snippet,。
that you can have perfect church attendance.。
You can come every single week and you hear the messages。
and you're like, "Oh my gosh, that's so convicting.。
"Man, that was good.。
"Love the chains.。
"That was so powerful.。
"That closing story, man, that was awesome."。
You can come and you can hear all that stuff.。
You can pray every day.。
You can memorize your Bible and be a fool, Jesus says.。
That it is not hearing, but applying God's word.。
A wise foundation comes from following Jesus' instructions,。
living by them.。
That it is not attendance.。
And maybe you grew up in a church culture。
where like, for some reason it seemed like,。
hey, attendance was the big thing God was after.。
I just need to attend.。
The message of Jesus is, look, God's not out for you。
to attend just a building.。
He's out for you to attend to his instructions。
in your life, to live by those things.。
Practically speaking, that's the thing。
that makes a difference.。
That in your life and in my life,。
the amount of Bible knowledge that you know。
is not the determiner of whether you're a wise person,。
Jesus says, but the amount that you live by。
is the only thing that practically in this life。
is going to make a difference.。
Not talking about heaven or hell,。
but living by his words, Jesus says,。
that person is the wise person.。
They don't just hear, this is how God instructs us to date.。
They don't just hear, this is how God says。
we should view money, this is how God says。
we should view sex, and they go away。
and they're like, yeah, that was good.。
And they can even talk about it in their community。
and they know all that stuff.。
They live by it.。
Jesus says, that man is different.。
That man.。
Practicing what Jesus instructs is the thing。
that makes all the difference.。
James, the brother of Jesus, really gives,。
if you want a summary statement for this,。
James, in his book, James, gives a summary statement。
that's very, very similar.。
And some of you guys may not know this.。
Jesus had a little brother.。
You imagine that?。
James.。
James is one of, honestly, the strongest arguments。
for the resurrection of Jesus that we have.。
Because James, who didn't believe that Jesus。
was the son of God, he didn't believe。
there was anything special about him,。
he didn't believe any of that,。
comes around and believes Jesus is God.。
Wonder why?。
He saw him die and then he saw him living again.。
I mean, think about what it would take for you right now。
to believe that your sibling is the son of God.。
You ever think about that?。
Like, I have a little brother and a big brother,。
and I'd be like, yeah, I'd play t-ball with him,。
and no way, he's not the son of God.。
But James comes around, he believes that Jesus。
is the son of God, and he becomes a believer,。
and he writes this inside of his book,。
and he basically gives a summary statement。
to what his older brother, older half-brother,。
would have taught him.。
And he says this, James 1:22.。
Do not merely listen to the word。
and so deceive yourselves,。
but do what it says.。
Why would you say deceive yourselves, James?。
Because here's what's funny about attending.。
Like, attending and hearing God's word be taught,。
and even agreeing with what is taught from God's word.。
Even if you're like, yeah, I agree,。
and I attend church, and all those things,。
those things don't make the difference.。
James says, look, if you just attend and you listen。
and you don't do, you're deceiving yourself.。
You feel better 'cause you're like,。
yes, I'm back in church, and I'm just trying。
to work on this.。
You feel emotionally better.。
You may feel some guilt relief.。
Says, that doesn't, you're deceiving yourself.。
It's the person who does my instructions。
that will experience a life that's founded。
on a firm foundation, a life founded。
on the only foundation, as we're gonna see,。
that will stand or worth founding on.。
But Jesus continues, and he really gives,。
actually, I included in here an illustration,。
but I feel like the point has been clear.。
We see this in like other arenas of life, don't we?。
Like it is not just having something。
that makes a difference or even hearing it,。
like exercise equipment.。
Has anyone ever bought exercise equipment?。
And it like makes no difference,。
but we feel so healthy when we're buying it。
and taking it out of the store, and you're like,。
I'm gonna work out every day for six hours.。
It's gonna be awesome, or vitamins.。
We know that it is not just having them.。
Advocare, is anyone selling Advocare in here?。
I have bought, oh man, I have bought Advocare,。
and I'm like, I'm gonna get healthy.。
I'm gonna take these vitamins three different times.。
I have bought these, and I haven't taken one.。
I keep wasting money on Advocare,。
because it's not, practically speaking,。
it doesn't matter if you buy the product or if you do it.。
It matters if you apply it,。
and Jesus says truth is the same way.。
Application is everything.。
You can know all the right things,。
but if you don't do them,。
it will make no difference in your life.。
And he gives a promise for what will happen。
if you do do them.。
Verse 25, the rain came down,。
he continues this little parable or story。
to illustrate us building our lives.。
"And the streams rose, and the winds blew。
"and beat against that house.。
"Yet it did not fall,。
"because it had its foundation on the rock."。
Second point is a wise foundation will stand.。
A wise foundation is built。
by following Jesus' instructions.。
Saying I'm going to live, God,。
whatever you're going to ask of me。
before I even read it, before I even listen to it,。
the answer is yes.。
I'm going to do what the author of life said.。
I'm just gonna trust you,。
not just with my eternal life,。
and I can't do much about that anyways,。
but with this life, moment by moment,。
how you say I should date,。
how you say I should view my career,。
I'm gonna trust you,。
and I'm gonna do those things.。
How you say I should live in community,。
I'm gonna follow you and follow your instructions.。
And when you do that, Jesus says,。
you're building a wise foundation。
that will stand when the storms come.。
I think what was so interesting。
or just stood out to me is,。
it's not that the storms,。
when you follow what Jesus says,。
it's not that the storms don't come.。
It's not that you won't face hardship in life.。
There's weird teachers out there,。
even inside of the church movement,。
prosperity teachers, if you will.。
See 'em on TV a lot of times,。
where it's like, yes, if you just will give us $1,。
God will give you $100 in there.。
If you will just pray for blessings,。
we're wishing blessings on all of you,。
and God is going to bless you,。
that cancer will go away.。
I can't believe I keep going here, this is terrible.。
(audience laughing)。
Man, oh wow, okay.。
Gotta work through that.。
Anyways, what that teaches is crazy.。
The Bible doesn't teach that.。
Jesus promises his followers, it is last night together,。
gets 'em all together, last supper, they call it.。
Jesus gets 'em all together and he gives 'em a promise,。
and it's like, duh, I don't even know if we need that.。
In this world, you will have trouble.。
You're gonna face trouble.。
You're gonna face hardship.。
There will be storms.。
Following me and following my teachings。
will not help you avoid the storms,。
but face them and stay standing.。
If you will follow and build your life,。
you're going to face storms,。
and so you're going to face singleness.。
Some of you may feel like you're in a storm right now,。
job loss, and the promise isn't,。
hey, if you just follow me,。
everything's gonna be perfect all the time.。
That's not true.。
But if you follow me in the midst of the storm。
where others will crumble, you'll stand,。
and you'll remain standing.。
And I think what's so hard is the reality is。
storms are coming for all of us,。
and there's part of me that doesn't emotionally feel that.。
I'm in my late 20s and I feel bulletproof.。
I really do.。
I just don't think, today I could die, today it could end,。
or today my wife could die,。
or today we could lose our child.。
I just don't think those things.。
Despite, you know what's weird about ministry。
is you work in such close proximity,。
like working at a church,。
you work and you're exposed all the time。
to just stories of pain.。
Like you're so exposed to the reality。
of how broken our world is,。
because people call, and thank goodness,。
the church is still a place where people call。
when they're hurting,。
when they're walking through miscarriage,。
when they're walking through the death of a spouse,。
whatever it is.。
But you're so exposed to just a front row seat.。
I mean, there's not a lot of people。
when they call the church,。
it's like, "Hey, yeah, everything's going great.。
"Just wanted to say hi。
"and just see how things are going with you guys."。
They call when they're hurting.。
And when you see this front row seat,。
if you work in ministry, you know what I'm talking about.。
You see like these two responses.。
You see the person who in the midst of everything。
that's falling apart around them,。
in the midst of trial they're facing,。
they didn't ask for.。
A tumor that showed up that they didn't ask for.。
Losing a child, they didn't ask for.。
In the midst of all of that, they still go,。
"God, I'm going to choose to trust you.。
"This isn't easy.。
"I'm not gonna smile, but my God is in the heavens。
"and I'm gonna choose to trust you right now。
"because I've built my life on you,。
"on your word and on your teachings."。
And you see that person.。
And then you see this other perspective。
where the same painful circumstances around them,。
where everything's crumbling.。
And their response is not that, but they begin to crumble.。
Never surprised when people turn to whatever medication。
to cope, numbing their pain through alcohol。
or Ashley Madison or whatever it is.。
People are just looking for release.。
And when you're not founded on God's word,。
Jesus says, "You won't stand."。
But the promise is if you and I embrace a life。
where I'm gonna follow Jesus, what you say,。
I'm going all in with you.。
When the storms of life come and they will,。
for all of us, this world is so broken.。
As an American, it can be easy to think it's not.。
And it is, and they're coming.。
"You will stand," Jesus says.。
As you think about how does obedience。
allow you to stand firm in your faith?。
Like as I was thinking about that this week,。
I was like, "I wonder why that is."。
And here's kind of what I began to think about。
and really realize.。
Every time that you and I,。
every time that you are obedient to God's word,。
like you're like, "Yeah, I'm gonna do,。
"God says this is who I should date,。
"or this is how I should date,。
"this is how I should handle sexuality."。
I'm gonna choose to obey what you said.。
Every time that you and I do that,。
what happens is our faith grows.。
You notice that?。
Every time that you and I choose to step out and go out,。
I'm gonna trust you as it relates to money.。
I'm gonna trust you as it relates to this.。
Your faith grows.。
I mean, we see this in relationships.。
Anytime that you have someone who's credible in your life。
and you take 'em up on it and you're like,。
"Yeah, I trust his opinion, I'm gonna do that."。
And it ends up working out,。
you're like, "I trust it even more."。
Like right now, we're buying or looking to buy a home,。
and JP, who's way more knowledgeable。
about home stuff than I am, he's like a realtor,。
and my wife is like, "Look, I trust JP's opinion。
"way more than I trust yours."。
And I'm like, "Ouch, okay, first off,。
"one flesh," I thought, "Hello, I'm your husband."。
And she's like, "But he's been there,。
"he's made those decisions, he's walked through that,。
"and we've seen and trusted his advice and thoughts,。
"and our trust has grown."。
Same thing with God.。
Anytime you choose to trust him, your faith grows.。
You're adding to the foundation,。
and every decision that you choose to trust him,。
you're adding to the foundation of faith.。
Probably the best, which allows you to stand。
and be firmly planted and trust in God no matter what comes.。
Probably the best example that I know of this。
is our senior pastor, Todd, who just has such,。
he has such a, he has a faith, honestly,。
that's foreign to me.。
Like Todd, a year and a half ago,。
found out he had cancer on his foot,。
and I remember his response, and I was like,。
I don't even know how to compute that,。
'cause that is so far from me, I can't even imagine.。
And his response, he found out he had cancer on his foot,。
they were gonna go in and try to remove it and all that,。
and he basically said, "Look, this wasn't what I planned,。
"but I'm gonna choose to trust God.。
"I mean, what else am I gonna do?。
"God isn't surprised, I may be surprised.。
"If he takes me home at 53, then that's what he's gonna do,。
"but I can't thwart that anyways,。
"or if he allows me to live to 80, I'm gonna trust him.。
"I know he's good, and I know he's in control.。
"I'm gonna do everything I can to get rid of it,。
"but then I'm gonna trust him and sleep well."。
And I just remember being like,。
man, what are you, like, Superman, Clark Kent over here?。
How do you have faith like that?。
Like, if I, if cancer, I didn't even have to have cancer,。
and I'm like, my eye hurts.。
Do I have eye cancer right now?。
Oh, no!。
Like, I'm so foreign, but how did Todd get there?。
It's not 'cause he's Superman.。
It's because he's paved through years and years。
of trusting God, his faith, this firm foundation,。
that no matter what comes my way, I'm gonna trust you.。
And when the storms come, his house isn't shaken.。
He may not wanna go through the storm, but he stands firm.。
And Jesus says, "If you and I will build our lives。
"like that, when the storms come,"。
and you're not gonna believe me right now,。
probably emotionally, "they're coming for you.。
"And they're coming for me."。
And he says, "When they come, your only hope,。
"standing firm, is by right now beginning。
"to build your life around my teachings.。
"Not that God's gonna love you less or love you more,。
"but you may experience more life。
"because you're getting it from a God who loves you.。
"Instead, I'm giving you instructions to give you life."。
And he finishes, it really gives us a warning。
for not applying for all of us in the room.。
He says this, verse 26.。
"But everyone who hears these words of mine。
"and does not put them into practice。
"is like a foolish man who built his house on the sand.。
"The rain came down and the streams rose。
"and the winds blew and they beat against that house."。
Same storm, same scenario.。
"And it fell with a great crash."。
A third point from really this text。
is a foolish foundation will fall.。
A foolish foundation, a foundation not built on God's words,。
not built on the teachings of Jesus.。
Jesus says, "If you will apply everything。
"that I just taught you, if you will begin to use that。
"as the practice of your life,。
"that's what I'm going to pursue,。
"being obedient to those teachings."。
He says, "You will have a firm foundation.。
"But if you don't, no matter whose teachings。
"or instructions you follow,。
"you will build a foolish house that will crumble。
"in the midst of the storm."。
I mean, that's so crazy.。
If it wasn't Jesus, it would be so arrogant.。
Think about it.。
It's not like he's saying, "Look,。
"if you follow my instructions,。
"you're gonna have a strong house.。
"But if you follow the devil's instructions,。
"that house is gonna crumble."。
He says, "If you follow anyone else's, your own opinion,。
"if that's how you build your life,。
"if your life is built on the opinion of,。
"this is kind of what I think I should do。
"and this is how I should date。
"and this is how I should live,。
"or if you build it on Cosmo Magazine or Hollywood's。
"or I don't know, whatever, Oprah's advice."。
He says, "If you build it on anyone else's instructions,。
"you are building a house that when the storms。
"that are coming for all of us。
"in a world that's just broken,。
"come, we'll crumble in the midst of it."。
He gives a prediction or a prophecy。
about anyone who builds their life right now,。
not on his teachings and not on his instructions.。
He gives a blueprint.。
It's what I wrote in my notes.。
Jesus gives us a blueprint for how to ruin your life.。
Jesus says, "If you follow anyone else's instructions,。
"other than mine, other than God's word,。
"you are building a blueprint on your home.。
"You're building a life that is designed。
"basically of how to ruin your life。
"and you're following it to a T."。
"Fell with a great crash, you may have great,。
"was the crash of it."。
If you build your life on anything other than Jesus's word,。
when the storms come, that life will crumble。
and God will still love you and there's still grace。
and he's a God of second chances,。
but he's a God who loves you and says,。
"I don't want that to be the case.。
"Will you trust me, not just with eternal life,。
"but with this life?"。
And you're going to build your life。
on someone's instructions.。
That's why in neutral, Jesus says,。
"If you don't attend to my word, it's gonna go bad."。
Because in neutral, you're just bombarded。
with a million messages a day.。
Think about how many messages today。
were sent to you by the culture around us.。
On this is, hey, this is the person。
that you should be looking for when you date.。
If you watched "The Bachelor" last night。
or "The Bachelor in Paradise" last night,。
that's what you heard, that's what you received.。
This is how many are the messages that you receive.。
On this is the home that you need.。
This is the car you need to drive.。
This is the career you need to be at.。
This is the person that you need to be looking for.。
This is the person you need to marry.。
And if you follow the messages that culture every day,。
I live in the same world,。
sins, and you build your life on that.。
Or you just don't build on Jesus's words,。
you're building a life that will crumble, he says.。
It's so harsh.。
And if there was a season of life。
that was like so relevant, if this is true,。
and we believe that it is,。
we believe what Jesus is saying is true,。
what other season of life is more important。
than the one you're in?。
Like what other season, think about it.。
If you're tuned out and you're counting these wood things,。
again, come back in to me.。
If you're in any season of life where it's gonna be,。
hey, look, I need to make sure。
that I am attending to building my life.。
Jesus says everyone's building a life.。
You can't walk out of here and not say,。
no, I'm gonna start tomorrow building a life.。
You're building it, you laid bricks today.。
And you either built them on the sands。
that shift from culture around us,。
you built them on Jesus's words and instructions,。
and if there ever was a season。
where you were laying a lot of bricks,。
it's the young adult season.。
I mean, you're deciding who you're gonna marry,。
where you're gonna work, where you're gonna live.。
80%, we say that all the time,。
80% of you guys are gonna get married in the next decade.。
Think about that.。
Maybe you're like, oh my gosh,。
that is the best news I've heard all night.。
It's not a guarantee, but 80%, statistically speaking.。
Keep moving.。
80% of you are going to,。
as you decide who you're gonna date,。
who you're gonna marry, and there's such a world around you。
telling you who you should be looking for.。
Girls, especially, like the more, man,。
the more in ministry there's something about,。
just as you wade through, the man you're going to marry,。
please, please, because there's something about weird,。
like a lot of times, even people inside of the church。
in the fall of Christ are like, yeah,。
but I kinda like an edgy, edgy Evan。
is the guy that I'm looking for,。
or bad to the bone Barry.。
Don't marry bad Barry.。
Marry grounded Greg.。
Grounded Greg may be boring,。
but he's gonna be the guy you're gonna wanna be with.。
And Greg, but he's married.。
(laughing)。
That wasn't planned.。
Marry, please, and the same thing with the guys.。
I don't know names for women,。
and I'll get in trouble if I try to give like,。
sassy Sarah.。
Don't marry her.。
Seriously, marry the person who's grounded,。
who's rooted in it.。
Marry that person, not just they attend the porch,。
'cause Jesus says, look, all of you got,。
there's tons of people who attended.。
That doesn't mean you're not a fool.。
It's the person who's living by it.。
That's the person, as you wade through the waters of dating,。
and you make this lifelong commitment,。
that's the person to look for.。
As you make career decisions,。
and you decide what career path you're gonna take,。
where you're gonna work,。
what's gonna drive your decisions,。
don't allow the world around you,。
who's gonna be like, look,。
everyone needs to go to med school.。
Everyone needs to be a doctor around here,。
because bad at the moment, Barry's a doctor,。
and that's what ladies want.。
Don't allow the culture around you。
to determine and push you in a direction.。
Career path, there's nothing wrong with being a doctor.。
I hope lots of you guys are doctors,。
but the point is, don't allow the world around you,。
are you gonna be instructed on God's word,。
by God's word, on where to work,。
on how you're going to work,。
on the ethics you maintain at work,。
even when everyone's like,。
this is just part of the industry.。
This is commercial real estate.。
It's just what you do.。
You kind of fib a little bit here,。
you move things around.。
Are you going to listen to the sands of culture,。
or to God's word?。
Don't allow the world around you。
to push you in paving your character.。
We say that so often,。
which is Jesus' essentially point.。
You're paving a foundation.。
You are becoming someone.。
You're becoming the husband you are going to be someday.。
You're becoming the father, the wife, all of those things.。
They don't change when you get married.。
But you're becoming them.。
Today, you laid bricks on the marital house。
you're gonna have.。
Whose advice, whose bricks are you gonna lay?。
God of the universe who loves you, or your own.。
And he's inviting you right now to build,。
and I want your marriage, marital house,。
your relational house, finance, all those different things.。
I want them to be built on my word,。
because when the storms come, and they're coming,。
you will have trouble.。
Jesus promises you'll stand.。
You'll be among those who stand firm.。
Man, I think,。
if there's like any, just as your life,。
even at the house thing, the house thing's been weird,。
'cause like there's engineers that will come in。
as we were looking to buy a home,。
so now back to a normal, actual house.。
And they'll look at all the structure,。
and the structural engineers,。
and they're like, no, this needs to be changed,。
and there's so much money,。
and so much care, and intentionality,。
this needs to be one centimeter over,。
this needs to be just this different.。
Because they're like, look, it's a valuable home,。
there's hundreds of thousands of dollars,。
or $100,000 in it.。
How much more valuable is your life。
that you get one shot at your 20s?。
One chance at your first marriage,。
hopefully your only marriage?。
And Jesus says, will you build it on my blueprint?。
And I'm promising you will not stand before me.。
No one will ever stand before God and go,。
really, I kept myself for marriage, are you serious?。
I wish I could go back and do that over again.。
Really, I was generous?。
Really, I didn't allow my job to consume me?。
I followed your way, and I felt ripped off.。
He says, no, will you follow me,。
and follow me to life, and build your home around that?。
Not obey to make God love you more,。
but obey because they're instructions from a God。
who really loves you, and really loves me.。
And he's not up there going, I cannot believe。
that they're not obeying my instructions again on sexuality,。
that is so frustrating.。
He's going, look, I love you!。
Will you listen to me?。
Does, gives me no joy in ripping you off,。
I'm here to give you life.。
Will you build your life on my instructions?。
Will you build your life around my teachings?。
And when the storms come, you will stand.。
And in your 20s and 30s, I think it's hard。
'cause it doesn't feel like, there's no clouds in the sky.。
Like, some of you guys are living outside。
of God's will right now, and you know it.。
I mean, there's probably, every week,。
there's a girl who comes up, and you know。
you need to break up with that guy.。
And you're not, you may not after tonight,。
you probably won't.。
And you go, look, I know it's wrong, he's not a believer,。
and look, we're sleeping together, and it's okay.。
But look, there's no storms!。
And Jesus says, look, you are paving a foundation。
that's going to crumble.。
Don't deceive yourself.。
I'm not any more angry at you, I love you.。
Will you come, and will you experience the protection。
of following my will, following my way?。
Some of you guys are living outside of the bounds at work.。
You're living with, you just moved in together.。
And you don't win, you don't go against God's design。
and win.。
Last week, 100 or 200 of you guys raised your hand。
and said, hey, look, I want to follow Jesus.。
And the best thing for you, we're so glad you guys are here.。
Like, attending is great, it's a great thing,。
it's not the thing.。
Jesus says, attending to hear my word,。
or even agreeing with my word, that doesn't make。
practical difference in your life.。
Applying it does.。
And if you want to experience the protection。
and the shelter that I want you to have,。
it will come from building your life on the rock。
of Christ and his word.。
And the best thing, if you're in that 200,。
is saying, I'm going all in.。
Whatever you're asking, God, the answer's yes.。
Whatever you would say and have me do, the answer is yes.。
I'm gonna choose to trust you.。
As I look at this application of how do we live out。
God's word, 'cause he says it's not, coming and hearing,。
don't be the person who just shows up,。
you got perfect church attendance, but doesn't apply it.。
The goal is practicing it, putting it in,。
living out God's word.。
How do we apply it?。
Here's what I know about you, 'cause I know it about me,。
is left to ourself, we just don't apply God's word。
to the fullness that we could.。
Maybe you're the type A, super disciplined person,。
and we just all applaud you.。
But for the rest of us mere mortals,。
we all need accountability, we need people around us。
to encourage us.。
That's why we encourage community so much here.。
Like we're crazy about it, 'cause that's where people。
begin to grow, when we gather together.。
Every person on our staff is in a community group。
where you meet together every week, you lock arms。
and you go, I need you, you need me,。
we're gonna help each other, I'm not going to let you。
build your house on sand, I'm gonna help you build it。
on the rock, I'm gonna point you back to Christ.。
When you keep moving that house out of sand,。
I'm gonna come grab you, I'm gonna walk alongside you,。
and we're gonna help each other walk through this life.。
God designed you to live inside of that community.。
If you don't have community, I don't know if you have。
a chance at living out God's word, partly 'cause that's。
one of the instructions in there.。
And the application for so many, 40% of you guys,。
we know at least, don't have a community group。
or a small group at your church or a group of people。
around you to help lift up the house when the storm。
feels like, or when there's a storm coming by。
and shaking it.。
And the best thing that you can do is tonight,。
mark your calendars, September 9th, next Wednesday night,。
there is the first chance to begin to step into。
a community group, get into a small group here,。
or do it at your church.。
If you don't have a home church and you're like,。
no, stick it to the man, I don't wanna be a guard。
of the membership class here, go to open community group。
tonight, or just grab like six guys around you,。
be like, do you know Jesus, can we meet together right now?。
Do that, whatever you have to do to get inside。
a community group, because we all know you won't change.。
You won't build your life on a firm foundation.。
Apart from that, and the step of beginning to apply,。
not be hearers, but doers, maybe that.。
Some of you may need to learn God's word.。
We have a Quip disciple coming up this fall.。
Go to watermark.org, look up a Quip disciple,。
they will teach you the Bible, they'll teach it to you.。
They'll give you that next step towards applying。
and living out God's word.。
I'll close here, I saw this past week,。
last Sunday actually, I saw probably the。
most crazy example of just what it looks like。
to be built on God's word.。
I'd seen it, it was five o'clock on Sunday, last Sunday,。
and I pulled up to Watermark, and I was coming。
for a launch meeting, there's a five o'clock church service,。
so I got here in the full parking lot,。
and I pull around the parking lot, and everyone's inside,。
it's 5.07, and I see this man who's lying on his back。
on the ground, and there's a woman on top of him, screaming.。
And they're young, like early 50s.。
And I pull my car, and I park it, and I run out of the car,。
and she's screaming, "Please, someone do something,。
"he's dying, he's not breathing,。
"please, someone do something, he's dying,。
"he's not breathing."。
And I run over to the guy, and there's one of our。
parking volunteers, who runs up, and we kinda converge。
at the same time, and I've never seen anything。
like it before.。
His eyes are glazing over, and he's not breathing,。
there's no pulse, and we begin to do chest compressions,。
and that's not normal, I'm not like a CPR wizard,。
I'm pulling on lifeguard days, where you're like,。
trying to remember what to do, and begin pumping his chest.。
And he breathes, he breathes like four different times,。
and his eyes, he begins to turn purple,。
and she's screaming, "Please, my dad died two days ago,。
"don't let him die."。
And we keep doing CPR, and finally, the EMTs come,。
and we continue to pump, and 911 shows up,。
or an ambulance shows up, and he didn't make it.。
And it was like, a moment I honestly have never seen,。
I led a meeting after that, and I told them,。
it's like, messing with my heart, 'cause I know。
the sovereignty of God, and all that stuff,。
but it's still like, "Lord, as we're praying,。
"please, Lord, save him, don't let him go."。
And what happened, as his wife, who's now a widow,。
who just showed up for five o'clock service,。
like this wouldn't, like, "Oh, I saw this coming,。
"this is just a normal day, walking through."。
He's a healthy dude, Dallas Marathon Club,。
just did the Hotter Than Hell bike ride.。
Healthy dude, and he shows up, and he's walking,。
normal day, I mean, they don't see this coming,。
they've got plans still on the calendar at their house,。
that they'll never live out.。
Early 50s.。
And that night, what became clear is this couple。
was a couple who'd built their life。
on the rock of God's word.。
Like, they were a part of this church body here,。
they were surrounded immediately, man, it was so amazing,。
by community all over their house,。
their community group came over, they filled the fridge,。
they covered errands the next week,。
they mourned, they prayed, they cried with, they hugged,。
they walked alongside.。
And this couple had built their life。
in the midst of the storm, I mean, for her,。
that woman who's now saying, "I'm a widow,。
"I just lost my dad, and now I'm losing my husband."。
And the storms of life were coming and shaking,。
and a few days later at the funeral,。
this memorial service took place,。
and he was really spoken about by everyone,。
and they began to speak about his life,。
and it became even clearer,。
he was building his life on the rock.。
Because what's weird at funerals is they just don't。
celebrate the things that we celebrate。
all the time with our lives.。
Like, no one gets up at funeral and talks about someone,。
and they're like, "Man, he had the greatest house,。
"you should've seen this thing,。
"Austin Stone everywhere, this supercar."。
They just don't celebrate that.。
They celebrated his love for Christ,。
his relationship, and his love for his wife,。
his love for his kids.。
And then they spoke about his wife,。
who had said the day before,。
when she was asked, "How are you doing?"。
She said, "I'm making it one step at a time, foot by foot."。
As she's surrounded, being held up by community,。
she built her life on the rock of God's word,。
and the storm came,。
and it didn't make it any easier to go through the storms,。
but in the midst of all of it,。
she was able to face that storm knowing,。
my God is in the heavens, he's in control,。
and how are you doing, how are you making it through?。
She said, "I'm putting one foot in front of the other,。
"walking by faith, and trusting him."。
And I listened, and I'm like,。
how do you have a response like that?。
How, God, I wanna be able to respond。
that in the midst of no matter what I face,。
that I'm gonna go, the earth shakes beneath my feet,。
and Lord, I don't want it to shake,。
I don't wanna lose my wife, I really don't.。
But Lord, I wanna have this foundation。
that no matter what comes my way,。
I wanna stand, I wanna follow you,。
that I wanna live on the only rock that'll uphold me,。
that no matter how much the world around me shakes,。
that I can lean on the only rock that never changes,。
Jesus, and Jesus's words, the one who's the same,。
yesterday, today, and forever, he says,。
and I'm the only place in the midst of a world,。
and I hope you hear that tonight, that's so broken.。
In an instant tonight, a phone call could change。
everything for your world, in an instant,。
not fear-mongering, a whole landscape。
of even our country economy could change.。
Where are you gonna put your hope?。
Where are you gonna build your life?。
You're gonna build it on the world around us,。
on maintaining some lifestyle?。
You're gonna build it on the only thing。
that will never change, that will never fail,。
that will never fall?。
Jesus, in his words, and he says,。
I'm inviting you now, will you build your life。
because the storms are coming.。
Some of you in this room are gonna have a child。
that has trisomy 18, you're going to.。
Some of you are gonna lose a spouse,。
some of you may have a brain tumor right now, I may.。
What am I gonna build my life on?。
I mean, what other chance and option do we have?。
Jesus says, look, anywhere else that's gonna crumble,。
I'm not here to rip you off, I love you,。
will you build your life on the only rock that will stand?。
That's what she was doing, that's how in the midst of,。
I can't even imagine pain.。
I'm gonna trust you, God,。
I'm gonna put one foot in front of the other.。
I'm gonna trust you, I'm gonna keep moving forward,。
and as the storms come, and they're coming,。
will you listen and today begin to lay the bricks。
that the earth gives way?。
Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death,。
which we're in right now, I will not fear。
because you are with me, you hold me,。
you're the only thing that holds me,。
and you, by building on your word,。
you'll allow me to stand in the storm of this life,。
and you will protect me from the storm of eternity。
'cause I trust you.。
Who are you gonna trust in?。
Who are you gonna live and build your life on?。
Will you take those steps to apply?。
Community, that's why we harp on that,。
'cause if all of you who weren't in community got in it,。
you would take that step,。
you'd have other pillars holding the house together.。
Will you listen, and will we be hearers and doers?。
Jesus finishes out the Sermon on the Mount,。
and says this about the crowds.。
When Jesus had finished saying these things,。
the crowds were amazed at his teaching。
because he taught as one who had authority。
and not as their teachers of the law,。
that he taught with this new radical, I am the rock.。
My words are the rock.。
Will you build on that?。
And I promise that the world around you shakes,。
I will hold you firm,。
and you will stand through the storm.。
I'm gonna pray that that would be the case for all of us。
who know him, for those of us who don't to come to know him.。
Father, we love you, and we thank you that you will.。
Many of us love you, I should say.。
And I think those of us who don't would if we knew you.。
Father, I pray for just men and women。
who are walking through storms right now,。
that those words, where they can find hope,。
and they can be anchored in the midst of the storm,。
have this anchor of our soul that's holding onto us。
as we hold onto it,。
that you would raise their awareness of you in their life.。
I pray for those right now。
who are not building their life on the storm.。
Would you, by your spirit, pierce through their heart,。
move them in the direction of just the ways。
their dating relationships,。
their decisions as it relates to alcohol,。
or a million other things,。
where we're just prone to live outside of your will for us。
and build a home that's gonna crumble.。
Father, your hand would be heavy.。
Would you protect us from the storms of life。
by allowing in your grace us to receive the protection。
that you've already promised。
for those who will accept, heed, and receive your word?。
I pray for this morning family,。
who though they're standing firm on the rock,。
and never changes, never shifts,。
they're still standing in a storm and pain.。
You're the God of comfort.。
Would you comfort them?。
We love you and we worship you now,。
our cornerstone, our rock, our redeemer.。
Amen.。
