[MUSIC PLAYING]。
, Good evening, Porch. Great to be with you.。
We're going to start a new series tonight.。
And so I'm so glad that you guys are here.。
If you're guests with us, if you're。
listening in for the first time, we're so glad you're here.。
If you frequent West 7th in Fort Worth, or Baker Street,。
or Midtown, or here in Dallas, Uptown, or Lower Greenville,。
and somehow you stumbled into this place,。
you're in a great place, that's actually my story.。
That's how I got here a little over a decade ago.。
And God just came in and began to do work on my heart.。
And so I'm so excited to be in this new series called。
AD with you this evening.。
And so as I share that story with you,。
I'll tell you that on my 21st birthday,。
I was not walking with Jesus.。
I was not a believer.。
I was not a Christian.。
And my boys wanted to celebrate.。
And so on my 21st birthday, I wanted。
to do what a lot of people who turn 21 want to do,。
is I wanted to go gamble, okay?。
And so I wanted to go big too.。
I wanted to go and I wanted to hear the sounds。
of the slot machines and see the lights.。
And I wanted my chance at winning a million dollars.。
And I didn't have very much money.。
And so I'm like, man, this is what I wanna do.。
And so my boys came over and you know where we went, right?。
I mean, we went, that's right, Shreveport, that's right.。
And so, (laughs)。
and so that's how we did.。
And so we went over there and it wasn't kind to me.。
And so I lost all the money that I went in there with.。
And as I walked out with my head hanging low,。
I had a $5 chip sitting in my pocket.。
And so I don't wanna go to the place。
where you do the exchange.。
And maybe you guys don't know what I'm talking about,。
but there's this place where you do this exchange.。
And I get a $5 bill.。
So I'm like, man, I'm gonna let it ride.。
I'm gonna go.。
And so I go to the roulette wheel,。
and that's a game where you can kind of bet。
on a number or red or black, okay?。
And so I put my $5 chip on red, which is easy enough.。
It's $5 and I'd lost everything.。
And so, and winner, awesome, awesome, 10 bucks, okay?。
So I got 10 bucks now.。
And so you double your money.。
And so I let it ride.。
Hey, I'm gonna leave that out,。
push that 10 bucks back across the line.。
You know, try my luck, put it back on red.。
Winner, come on.。
(congregation laughing)。
20 bucks, you know, this is awesome.。
Hey, I'm not gonna stop now.。
I mean, it was 20, maybe I should.。
No, no, man, let it ride.。
Let's see what happens.。
Marble drops, wheel spins, lands on red.。
$40, this is real money now.。
I'm like climbing, I'm climbing back up the ladder.。
You know, I can't stop now.。
Like this, I've gotta, what am I gonna do with it?。
So I'm sitting there and now it's a little more difficult。
to put, I mean, you know, I'm 21 years old.。
I am kind of just moved to Dallas.。
I'm looking at opportunities.。
The bank account is nil and I got 40 bucks。
in front of me now.。
Okay, what do I, let's go.。
Let's play, let's play ball.。
Push it across the line, bet the 40,。
and it lands on red.。
This is the easiest money I've ever made in my life.。
(congregation laughing)。
Like this is the easiest game.。
Like I'm so good at this, right?。
But now, here's the problem ensues。
because now there's $80 in front of me.。
And if $40 felt like real money,。
$80 feels like real, real money.。
And so I'm thinking, okay, I don't know.。
And now all of a sudden I begin to have this mental narrative。
and I can't push, I can't bring myself to come to a place。
where I push that money out there.。
I can't risk it.。
I can't go all in because it feels like the stakes。
are too high.。
And as I think about what Jesus is calling us to,。
and not just us, but when Jesus was on the earth,。
God in the flesh, the incarnate God,。
that means God with flesh put on him,。
is walking around and he's interacting with people。
and this literally happened in a real place。
with real people, real human souls.。
He had one message over and over and over.。
And that message was, go all in with me.。
I want you to go all in with me.。
And as we move through this series AD,。
we're gonna see people who did that.。
Tonight, we're gonna look at someone who didn't,。
who couldn't because it felt like to this individual,。
the stakes were too high.。
Jesus, I can't.。
I can't bring myself to push my life across the line。
and go all in with you.。
I just can't seem to do it.。
And so we're in a series AD that stands for Anno Domini.。
It is medieval Latin for the year of the Lord.。
The year of the Lord.。
Okay, here's what's interesting about that.。
We've been in a series called BC,。
stands for before Christ AD.。
This is how our Gregorian calendar operates.。
And what should encourage you is that is the calendar。
that the vast majority of the world uses.。
We are counting back 2016 years。
from the year of the Lord, BC, before Christ.。
Jesus Christ comes on the scene.。
AD was shortened from the year of the Lord, Jesus Christ.。
They drop off the Jesus Christ, just AD, Anno Domini.。
And here we are, and every atheist you know。
uses this system to date their checks。
on their Microsoft Outlook calendar.。
It is counting forward from the birth。
of a man named Jesus Christ.。
He was that significant, born in Bethlehem,。
lived in Nazareth, and you shouldn't know him。
except for he was God.。
And every Muslim, and every Hindu,。
and every Buddhist, and every Jew you've ever met。
in Dallas, Texas, dates their calendar。
2016 years from this man's birth.。
And so what we're gonna do for the next few weeks。
is we're going to look at real live interactions。
of him coming face to face with human beings。
and challenging them, and we're going to learn。
from those stories.。
And so tonight, we're asking the question。
or looking at what will keep us。
from going all in with Jesus.。
What will keep us from going all in with Jesus?。
Because some of us are here this evening。
and we don't think Jesus is a safe bet.。
And so you've gone all in on the world.。
Others of you, you've hedged the bet.。
You've put $5 on Jesus and $5 on the world,。
and you think you've learned how to win the game。
and you're gonna lose both.。
In fact, you're losing both.。
Because you have too much Jesus to enjoy the world。
and too much of the world to enjoy Jesus,。
and you're losing both games.。
It's not working out for you.。
And so what does it look like to go all in with Jesus?。
We're gonna look at three things.。
I'm gonna be in Luke chapter 18 if you wanna turn there.。
This was written as an eyewitness account。
of Jesus interacting with this young man。
known as the rich young ruler.。
Here it is in Luke 18.。
It also shows up in Mark chapter 10 and Matthew chapter 19.。
The reason that's important。
is 'cause we move through this series AD。
looking at real interactions with Jesus.。
You have four books to choose from.。
The first four books of the New Testament,。
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.。
These were men who ran with Jesus。
and they just documented about their life.。
They just wrote down what they saw.。
And so these three men, it shows up in three gospels,。
says, oh yeah, today we saw Jesus interacting。
with a rich young ruler.。
Let me tell you about it.。
Their stories will be slightly different。
because they're written from individual perspectives.。
And so we can cross-reference those stories.。
But here in Luke 18, there's this rich young ruler.。
That's what we know about him.。
And so he's a young man, he's wealthy, and he's a ruler.。
Not a religious ruler, but some sort of economic ruler.。
He has an empire, some sort of business.。
I like to think about him as Tim Tebow, okay?。
So if you know Tim, think of the rich young ruler as Tim Tebow.。
Here's why I say that, is 'cause this man。
would have been known for his faith.。
He would have been known for his devotion to God.。
And I'm gonna tell you why in just a minute.。
But Jesus walks up on him and he says,。
Jesus, what must I do to get into heaven?。
This is the question that a lot of you。
came here tonight to answer.。
What do I gotta do to get into heaven?。
I wanna get into heaven.。
Jesus responds, be perfect, be good.。
He responds in an outrageous way,。
saying, I am good, Jesus.。
And so Jesus says, well, if you really wanna be good,。
sell everything you have, give it to the poor,。
and follow me, and he leaves sad because he has a lot.。
He can't go all in with Jesus.。
And so we'll pick up Luke 18, verse 18.。
A certain ruler asked him, good teacher,。
what must I do to inherit eternal life?。
That word for good there is agathos.。
It means intrinsically good.。
So he's not saying, hey, you are a person who teaches well.。
He's saying, you are a person who is good。
by nature and a teacher.。
The good there is not referring to his teaching abilities,。
but referring to him as a person.。
And so Jesus responds, why do you call me good?。
No one is good except God alone.。
He's distinguishing that he is not acknowledging。
Jesus as God, he's saying, hey,。
if you're calling me God, you got it right,。
but if you're saying that man can be good,。
you got it wrong because man can't be good.。
There's no one good except God alone.。
Jesus is telegraphing where he is leading him。
in this narrative.。
He's saying, oh, you think people can be good?。
You want eternal life?。
Well, then, you know the commandments.。
You shall not commit adultery.。
You shall not murder.。
You shall not steal.。
You shall not give false testimony。
and honor your father and mother.。
Jesus responds honestly.。
Like you may read this thing,。
oh, Jesus is just jacking with him.。
No, he's saying, hey, you wanna get into heaven?。
Be perfect.。
He's answering his question.。
What must I do?。
Here's what you must do.。
If you came up to me and you said, hey,。
what must I do to get into heaven?。
I would say, you, the only thing you can do。
on your own to get into heaven is be perfect.。
That's it.。
That's all you can do on your own to get into heaven.。
You'd have to be perfect.。
That's the bar.。
And so what should the guy respond?。
He should be like, well, Jesus,。
there's no way I could do that.。
I mean, the 10 commandments,。
I've broken every single one of them.。
I've lusted in my heart.。
I've wanted my neighbor's possessions.。
I'm not honored God.。
My thought life, I'm a broken sinner.。
I can't do those things.。
That's not what he says, though.。
He says, all these I have kept since I was a boy.。
He says, I'm good.。
I've done good things.。
You want heaven?。
Be good.。
I am good.。
That's your problem.。
You think you're good.。
And so Jesus is gonna go on to show him that he's not.。
And so my first point this evening is self-reliance。
will keep you from going all in with Jesus.。
This is so important tonight, so important in 2016,。
so important in an age of dependence,。
so important where you're going out, getting yours,。
where you have a drive, where you think,。
hey, I'm gonna be the king of my empire.。
I'm gonna make it work.。
Self-reliance will keep you from going all in.。
Can you get to heaven by keeping all the commandments?。
Yes.。
Can you keep all the commandments?。
No.。
You sure cannot.。
And so if you're here and you're playing religious games,。
you're gonna go through life managing your life,。
trying to control your life, trying to control God,。
managing your 80 years, you're gonna get to the end of it。
and you're gonna go to hell.。
And you're gonna come to the gross realization。
that I'm not good.。
I thought I was good.。
I thought I could be good enough.。
I had made a wager with God.。
I viewed him, as Shane said earlier here in Dallas,。
I viewed him as an employer,。
not a loving father,。
not someone that wants good for me.。
See, winning in this game starts by going all in。
with the right works.。
I want you to think about that for a moment.。
Winning here starts by going all in with the right works.。
What are the right works?。
His works, not your works.。
See, in this moment, this question that we ask。
so many people after the porch is,。
if you stood before God and he said to you,。
why should I let you in?。
What would you say?。
And so many people, over and over, they tell me,。
they say, because I (imitates buzzer)。
Well, because I'm good, because I believe,。
because I followed, because I was in church,。
because I tried to do good things,。
because I (imitates buzzer)。
Those two words disqualifier.。
Because I, no.。
No, not because of you anything.。
All you did was screw this deal up.。
Because Jesus, why should I let you into heaven?。
I don't think it's a real conversation that happens,。
but a hypothetical one that just gets us to think,。
why should I let you into heaven?。
Well, because I've got nothing, God.。
I don't have anything to bring you.。
I'm just, you know, in my flesh, left to my own devices.。
I'm a wretched sinner.。
But because of what you did, God,。
for me through your son, Jesus Christ,。
because you sent him to die for the sins。
that I've committed, because he got what I deserve,。
you promised that I could have what he deserves。
as a perfect heir to your kingdom.。
I got nothing.。
See, good people go to hell,。
but people who realize their need for God。
receive his grace.。
Said otherwise, the Bible says,。
no one is good except God.。
I'll say that again if it's helpful.。
Good people go to hell,。
but people who realize their need for God's grace。
receive his grace.。
The where this falls in Luke 18 is really important。
because there's two other stories before this。
that are exposing self-righteousness.。
See, a lot of you have thought of the rich young ruler。
as kind of Cash McMogleson or this who's who,。
you know, just living it up in uptown.。
This guy is a rule follower.。
He's a religious guy.。
He grew up in Sunday school.。
And so right before this story, here's what happened.。
Luke 18, verse 15.。
People were also bringing babies to Jesus。
for him to place his hands on them.。
When the disciples saw this, they rebuked them.。
But Jesus called the children to him and said,。
let the little children come to me and do not hinder them。
for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these.。
Truly I tell you, anyone who will not, what?。
Anyone who will not receive the kingdom of God。
like a little child will never enter it.。
What must I do to inherit eternal life, good teacher?。
You must receive God's grace.。
It's a gift to you.。
He's giving it to you.。
You must come to him like a child.。
A child is high maintenance surrounded by noise.。
I mean, that's what a child is.。
They've got nothing to offer God.。
They come, I mean, no, they're coming to Jesus.。
Like what could that kid come to Jesus and say,。
hey, you want what my jacks or, you know, peppermint?。
What does he got to offer Jesus?。
Nothing.。
Nothing.。
High maintenance surrounded by noise.。
And so you receive heaven like a gift.。
Sometimes I'll share this with people and they'll say this,。
they'll say, well, I'm trying JP.。
You're still missing it.。
Like if I'm handing you a gift, if you're here。
and I'm saying here, here's the gift.。
And I say here, try to take it.。
What always happens, I'll do this and people will take it.。
And I'll say, no, no, no, no, no, no, don't take it.。
Try to take it.。
Try to take this gift I'm giving you.。
And they take it again.。
I'm like, no, no, no, no, don't try to take it.。
I mean, don't take it, try to take it.。
And we get in this weird kind of awkward。
where they put their hands on the gift。
and they look at me and they're like,。
what are you trying to show me?。
Just kind of like you're looking at me right now.。
And what I'm trying to show you is you can't try。
to take something that's being given you.。
You can take it or you can reject it.。
Those are your two options.。
You can say, oh, thank you.。
Or you can say, no, thank you.。
But you can't try it.。
It's being given to you right now as you sit there.。
God's grace is freely extended to you to give you a verse.。
For it is by grace, Ephesians 2, 8, 9.。
For it is by grace you have been saved through faith.。
And this is not of yourself.。
It is the gift of God, not by works,。
so that no one can boast in their own works.。
It's the free gift of God.。
So what's the application here?。
Ask yourself, where in your life are you tempted。
to think you're good enough?。
Where are you in life,。
are you looking at others and you say,。
man, what's wrong with them?。
What's wrong with them?。
They don't have the Holy Spirit.。
So they should sin.。
That's their job description.。
They should be wicked.。
It is by God's common grace alone。
they are not more evil than they are.。
But what about you who has the Holy Spirit?。
Where in your life are you tempted。
to think you're good enough?。
Verse 22.。
When Jesus heard this, the man saying, I'm good,。
I've obeyed the commandments.。
When Jesus heard this, he said to them,。
well, you still lack one thing.。
Sell everything you have and give it to the poor。
and you will have treasure in heaven.。
Then come follow me.。
How you hear Jesus' words here really matter.。
'Cause for a long time, here's how I heard him.。
This was the mental narrative in my head.。
Oh, you think you're good, huh?。
Guys, come here, check this out.。
I'm about to punk this dude, man.。
He thinks he's good.。
Oh, so you think, okay.。
Okay, good.。
Oh, awesome, hey, here's what I need you to do, bro.。
I need you to sell everything, give it to the poor。
and then follow me.。
Guys, watch this, watch this.。
You see that look, he's sad.。
(congregation laughing)。
You see that?。
Dude can't sell everything he has.。
Thinks he's rich, chump, Tim Tebow.。
But let me show you something in Mark chapter 10,。
same story.。
Teacher, he declared, all these things I have kept。
since I was a boy.。
Verse 21, Jesus looked at him and loved him.。
He has compassion on him and he says,。
hey, there's one thing that you lack.。
Go sell everything you have and give it to the poor。
and you will have treasure in heaven。
and then come follow me.。
What I have to do is I have to expose the idols。
in your heart that are preventing you from following me,。
from going all in with me.。
When the man heard this, verse 23, he became very sad。
because he was very wealthy, not just wealthy,。
but a whole new category of wealthy.。
He's very wealthy.。
Jesus looked at him and said, how hard it is。
for the rich to enter the kingdom of God.。
Indeed, it is easier for a camel to go。
through the eye of a needle than for someone。
who is rich to enter the kingdom of God.。
Maybe you've heard that that's talking about a camel。
has to get on his knees to enter through a gate。
in Jerusalem called the eye of the needle.。
That is crazy.。
There is no historical context to support。
that view whatsoever.。
Jesus is speaking in hyperbole here.。
He's saying it's impossible.。
He's saying it would be easier to find a parking space。
at the porch than for this rich man to get into heaven.。
It would be easier, right?。
It would be easier and insert something crazy.。
It's not gonna happen.。
Verse 26, those who heard this asked,。
who then can be saved?。
Who then can be saved?。
Why would they ask that?。
Who then can be saved?。
Jesus, why would they ask that?。
It's very difficult to understand this text。
in American Christianity.。
To fully understand this narrative,。
this interaction between Jesus and this man,。
we would have to understand the Jewish culture。
and context of which it is written.。
Because in this context, this is very important,。
in the context of which this is written,。
everyone would have seen this man。
as one of the holiest people,。
most devout followers of God that they knew.。
Because he's wealthy, which would have been seen。
as a blessing by the Jewish people.。
And he's a rule follower.。
He's good, morally good.。
At least he appears to be good, right?。
And so everybody's looking at this man。
and they're like, man, this man is the holiest man I know.。
Jesus just told Tim Tebow he's not good enough。
to get into heaven.。
And so they're asking, well, who then can?。
Let me say it like this so you understand what's going on.。
It's like he says, hey, you wanna get into heaven?。
You gotta be fast.。
And you say, okay, well, how fast do we have to be, Jesus?。
Hey, you know Usain Bolt?。
He ain't fast enough.。
Well, who then can get into heaven, Jesus?。
That's what happened here.。
You see this man?。
It's difficult for a rich man,。
which would have translated,。
it's difficult for a seminary graduate。
who really knows my word and spends lots of time。
doing religious things to get into heaven.。
Who then, Jesus, can get in?。
Who has hope of getting in?。
And he says this incredible thing,。
in case you're here and you're very wealthy.。
He replied, what is impossible with man。
is possible with God.。
No one is good enough to get into heaven.。
Good people go to hell, but God's people go to heaven.。
God's people go to heaven.。
My second point is the fear of losing what you have。
will keep you from going all in.。
That's what happened with this man here.。
The fear of losing what you have。
will keep you from going all in with Jesus.。
There's only one thing you lack.。
Sell everything you have, give it to the poor,。
and follow me.。
Why would Jesus respond this way?。
This seems like a crazy response to him.。
Why didn't he just say, oh, you wanna get into heaven?。
Okay, pray that you're, okay, I'm a sinner.。
Repeat after me, I'm a sinner, I'm a sinner,。
but I acknowledge that you came to forgive me of my sins.。
Okay, why didn't he do that?。
That's what I would have done.。
Because he's Jesus, and it's not uncommon。
for him to go after the idols of the heart.。
He does this all the time.。
You remember the woman at the well?。
If you've been in church at all,。
then you've heard the story of the Samaritan woman。
at the well, Jesus comes up to her and talks to her,。
engages with her, loves her.。
She's thirsty, and so he says, hey, you're thirsty?。
I can give you water that will make you never thirst again.。
She says, where can I get this water?。
He says, well, go and get your husband.。
She says, I have no husband.。
He says, you're right when you say you have no husband,。
'cause you've had five husbands,。
and the man you're living with right now。
is not your husband.。
What's he doing?。
You say, you want eternal life?。
You got an idol of thirst,。
and an idol of men and relationships,。
and you've been selling yourself。
to these five men over here, and they have your heart,。
and so right now, you're not in a position。
to give your heart to me,。
because you've been giving your heart to them,。
and he goes after their idols.。
Tonight, as you sit there, as you listen,。
what idols in your life is Jesus saying,。
hey, you're not experiencing the fullness of life。
that I have for you,。
because you're holding onto this thing over here,。
and you're missing out on the fullness of joy,。
the riches in relationship with me,。
because you're holding onto that.。
What is it for you?。
He says, you want this?。
Let go of that.。
Jesus has something better than what you are holding onto.。
In Mark chapter eight, verse 36, he says it like this.。
He says, what good is it for someone。
to gain the whole world, and yet forfeit their soul?。
And so I have this conversation all the time.。
I'm not calling anyone out.。
If you think I'm talking about you, I'm not.。
I really, I have it every single Tuesday that I'm here.。
Someone will come up,。
and I'll share the gospel with them.。
Did you know that God loves you so much, okay,。
and you've sinned against him?。
He sent his only son, Jesus Christ,。
as a sacrifice for your sins,。
and if you trust in that, his death and resurrection。
for the forgiveness of your sins,。
then you can enter into a relationship with God。
and be with him forever in his kingdom.。
Do you wanna do that?。
Oh, man, I don't know, man.。
Let me think on that.。
What do you need to think on?。
I just not, you know, I just would have to change.。
I mean, who's talking about change, man?。
I'm talking about you believing Jesus died for your sins。
and raised from the dead.。
I just, man, I don't know, man,。
if I'm ready to give, you know, everything up.。
What are you struggling to give up?。
And so you could insert your struggle here,。
whether it's money, whether it's work,。
whether it's, you know, alcohol, whether it's smoking,。
whether it's the party, drinking, whatever it is,。
insert yours.。
I'll go with sex, okay?。
It's probably not relevant to most of you,。
but I'll just go with sex, and,。
(congregation laughing)。
except that guy, no, I'm just teasing.。
I'm just teasing.。
I'm just teasing.。
I'm kidding.。
Sorry.。
Where was I?。
I'm gonna go with sex, and,。
and,。
and I'm just, JP, man, I just, honestly, bro,。
I'm just not ready to walk away from sex.。
Cool, man, let me ask you a ridiculous hypothetical question,。
and I just wanna disclaim it's ridiculous.。
If I said, hey, if you have sex,。
he's male, we'll make him male.。
If I say, if you have sex with your girlfriend one more time,。
you're gonna experience slow torture。
for the rest of your life, would you do it?。
Slow torture?。
I mean, no, I don't think so, man.。
Torture, crazy, what?。
Okay, well, let me go here.。
If I said, hey, if you can abstain。
from having sex with your girlfriend,。
I'd give you a billion dollars,。
and not only that, but riches forever,。
and pleasure greater than any orgasm you've ever had,。
could you abstain?。
Tell me more about this pleasure.。
No. (audience laughing)。
Yeah, yeah, I think I could, yeah, yeah, I could do that.。
Okay, cool, the reason I ask you。
those two ridiculous questions。
is because you have a belief problem,。
not a behavior problem.。
See, you don't see how costly your sin。
is against the holy God,。
and you don't believe how good Christ is,。
the goodness that he is freely offering you right now.。
You are holding onto something.。
Now, let me say this disclaimer。
because you gotta hear this.。
Torture, okay, and a billion dollars。
are terrible examples,。
do not accurately describe the horrors of hell。
or the glories of heaven, okay?。
And sex, in and of itself,。
isn't going to keep anyone out of heaven,。
but the belief that sex is better than Jesus will,。
the belief that you holding onto whatever it is。
that you can't let go of so you can follow Jesus will,。
when he's saying, hey, don't you understand,。
I've died for that,。
and it went in the grave and I came out without it.。
Now, the last thing that I wanna do。
is put some guilt on you right now。
that would drive you to hibernation,。
that would drive you to a place。
where you feel so much shame that you can't talk about it.。
I had sex before I was married a lot.。
I was not a Christian, I was not following Christ.。
I've received his grace and I've been made a new creation,。
and you can too, but it starts with saying,。
God, I repent, I turn from that,。
I want to confess, I wanna bring others in,。
I need help 'cause I'm addicted to her or him。
or them or whatever, I need help.。
And Jesus, I wanna follow you,。
and I'll leave that behind me 'cause I know you're better.。
I know you're so much better.。
(sniffling)。
Following Jesus, write this down if you can,。
following Jesus will cost you something,。
but not following Jesus will cost you everything.。
And so for this man here, it was his wealth.。
He couldn't part from the idol of riches.。
I've heard it said, what you can't give away,。
you don't own, it owns you.。
I think that's so true for this text right here,。
that he's holding onto something and it's holding him back.。
If right now, if tonight as you're listening,。
you're holding onto something that's holding you back。
from going all in with Jesus,。
I have to love you enough to say。
that is unbelievably foolish.。
If you are holding onto something。
that is holding you back from going all in with Jesus,。
that is stupid, it is not wise, it is not smart,。
it is foolish.。
I have seen this YouTube video one too many times,。
way too many times, I'll just say,。
and it's silly and it's about how to capture a baboon.。
And so I don't know if you're ever gonna be in a situation。
where you gotta capture a baboon,。
but tonight you're gonna learn how, okay?。
So anybody wanna learn how to capture a baboon?。
Good, okay.。
Here's how you do it and it just shows this guy in Africa。
who evidently needs to capture this baboon。
and so what he does is he takes this termite mound。
or this ant mound and he drills a little hole in it。
with a stick and he takes some trinket or treasure。
or a seed in this case and he puts it in there。
and the baboon watches them,。
they're evidently very curious animals.。
And when the man walks away, the baboon comes to this。
and the comedy ensues as the baboon sticks his hand。
in the hole, grips whatever is in there。
and doesn't let it go and can't get his hand。
out of the hole and he just goes crazy.。
I mean, the thing just goes crazy.。
He's flipping upside down and with all his might,。
he's just trying to jerk his arm out of this hole。
and if he just let go, he'd be fine.。
But what's about to happen is the dude's about to walk up。
and put a bullet in his head.。
And as I think about the enemy that will put something。
in front of you and it'll tempt you and say,。
this is better than Jesus.。
This is better than, this is, that relationship's better.。
That money, that job, that girl, that guy,。
that sin, that porn, that material, whatever it is,。
it's better than Christ and he's just trying to kill you.。
And I'm pleading with you tonight to let go of it.。
To let go of it.。
(clicking)。
So the application is, what are you holding onto。
that's holding you back right now?。
This is a great question to ask those。
that you're in community with, those that you're doing.。
My prayer is for any Christian in the room。
that you would have other people you're meeting with。
on a weekly basis and asking questions like this.。
I would email them before you leave the parking lot。
and I would just say, hey guys, help me see。
what's holding me back from going all in with Christ.。
I asked my community this week just 'cause I knew。
I was teaching on it and Luke 18's just been messing with me。
and one of the guys just loved me enough to say,。
you know, when I came to your, you did that,。
remember when you had that garage sale?。
I was like, I remember, and they was like, man,。
you just had so much stuff you were getting rid of。
that was the latest and greatest thing of that day.。
And it just seems like sometimes, JP,。
when you're not abiding with Jesus,。
you're trying to fill a void in your heart。
with iPhones and iPads and Apple TVs and Rokus。
and electronics and trinkets and treasures,。
Apple Watches and so forth and so on.。
Wasn't fun to hear, but I'm grateful for it.。
(congregation laughing)。
Verse 28, Peter said to him,。
Jesus, this is right after, who can have eternal life?。
I mean, who gets in?。
Like, if that dude ain't getting in, who gets in?。
Well, with God, it's possible.。
Well, we, you know, we've done what you asked him to do.。
We left everything to follow you.。
Verse 29, truly I tell you, Jesus said to them,。
no one who has left home or wife or brothers or sisters。
or parents or children for the sake of the kingdom of God。
will fail to receive many times as much in this age。
and in the age to come eternal life.。
Anyone who has followed me will inherit eternal life。
and not just eternal life,。
but whatever cost they paid to follow me。
is coming back to them in full in this age。
and/or in the age to come, certainly in the age to come.。
Certainly in the age to come.。
It's like, Peter, you haven't left anything.。
You're slowly walking to more than you could ever imagine.。
That's my third and final point,。
is not realizing what you will gain。
will keep you from going all in.。
Not realizing what you will gain。
will keep you from going all in.。
Peter's like, we left everything.。
Jesus is like, you haven't left anything.。
Everything you've left, you're walking toward,。
and you will be able to enjoy it forever and ever and ever.。
Every single good deed you do in my name。
will store up for you in some way that I can't even fathom,。
riches for you forever and ever and ever。
in the kingdom of heaven.。
And so if you're here and you don't have Jesus,。
this is as good as it will ever get.。
Enjoy your rich, young ruler-ness.。
It's all you got.。
But if you're here and you're a follower of Jesus,。
this is as bad as it will ever be.。
It's only up and to the right from this moment right now.。
You are walking to eternal glory forever and ever and ever.。
And so said otherwise, right?。
Not realizing what you will gain。
will keep you from going all in.。
Not realizing who Jesus is will keep you from going all in,。
because he's the one with all the stuff.。
Jesus is the real rich, young ruler of this text.。
The cattle on a thousand hills belong to him.。
It's his kingdom.。
Every single thing that this guy has in his possession,。
if it's good, it was given to him。
by the father of heavenly lights from above, James tells us.。
There is not a single thing that he owns。
that Jesus is not dominant over,。
does not have dominion over,。
is not king of, is not his.。
He's so foolish in this exchange.。
He's talking to the one with all the stuff.。
Who's saying, "Hey, follow me."。
And he says, "I can't."。
Everybody here, I hope, for the sake of this illustration,。
has experienced like missing out,。
or at least you've seen somebody else。
really miss out on something.。
The story that comes to mind for me is,。
I was going on an international discipleship trip。
early in my faith, and I was going with some guys,。
and one of the guys just said,。
"Hey, I'm going to go on a safari."。
We were going to Africa.。
He goes, "I'm gonna go on a safari。
"on the tail end of this trip.。
"Would anyone like to go with me?"。
And nobody really moved or said anything.。
He goes, he said, "I'll pay for it," to which I said,。
"I'll go."。
And I didn't know anything.。
I'd never been to Africa, and I didn't know,。
and this was before we didn't do things like this.。
And so I was like, "Man, I'm in."。
And so we go, and we taught in Africa,。
and we shared the gospel,。
and we had an amazing trip, discipleship trip,。
and then the time came for everybody else to go home,。
and he and I went on this safari,。
and as we're flying there, rather,。
to another country in Africa, I'm just asking him,。
I'm like, "Hey, where are we gonna stay?"。
And he's like, "You're gonna stay in tents."。
And I'm picturing REI pop-up tents.。
I'm like, "Are the tigers gonna get us?"。
Yeah, I don't, or the lions, rather, in Africa.。
"Are the lions gonna get us?。
"Like, what is this gonna be like?"。
I'm like, "Where are we gonna shower?"。
And he's like, "Ah, you know,。
"you'll see when you get there."。
I just, guys, I just didn't know, man.。
I was, I didn't know.。
I mean, poor boy from Puerto Texas, man, I didn't know.。
It was, blow your mind, unbelievable.。
Okay, we get on this little puddle jumper plane。
that takes us to this area of Kenya,。
the Maasai Mara, the plane lands on this dirt runway.。
This guy comes in a Defender 90 to pick us up.。
That's like a truck that you can drive。
in the African jungle, and he picks us up,。
our luggage, and he drives, and I mean,。
you're just driving through the jungle.。
There's nothing, there's nothing。
but incredible animals everywhere,。
with no fence, just in the wild,。
and he pulls up to this canopy,。
and there's this guard, I mean,。
just like this thick tree bush kind of thing,。
and there's this guard standing there,。
and he drives in through this tunnel,。
and we keep driving down this road,。
and we get to the nicest kind of four seasons,。
Ritz Carlton place I've ever imagined,。
and there's this infinity swimming pool right in the,。
I had no idea, like, I thought we were staying in tents,。
and so, and like, I'm swimming in the swimming pool,。
and this baboon comes up,。
and he's like drinking water right beside me,。
and there's people bringing you hot towels。
and spraying you with water if you're hot,。
and I mean, you're just like, what?。
I've never even seen like this,。
and we're walking down this path,。
and I trip over a warthog, and I go to my tent,。
and true story, and I go into my tent.。
Well, it's not a tent, it's like a tent。
with a slate foundation, and it's as big as this stage,。
and there's this huge walk-in glass shower in the back,。
and this California king-size bed right in the middle,。
and just all of these luxurious amenities,。
and through the day, like, we went,。
and we saw the lions, and the leopards,。
and the big five, and at night,。
we just retired to this unbelievable place。
and ate food better than I've ever had,。
and to this day, and I hate saying this,。
'cause my wife went with me,。
but by far the best vacation I've ever been on.。
(congregation laughing)。
And I'm laying in my bed.。
All I could think of is those guys missed out.。
What were they thinking?。
They didn't know.。
They didn't know.。
I didn't know.。
If they would've known,。
they wouldn't have missed out.。
If you're here and you're not in a relationship with Christ,。
that's what I wanna tell you.。
Man, if you just knew.。
Look, whatever you think you're holding onto,。
in case we don't know each other,。
I lived in the world.。
Drugs, sex, money, penthouse condo in uptown, Jaguar,。
S-type, I mean, cars, watches, suits, the whole deal.。
I pursued the world as hard as I could,。
and God saved me from it.。
And what I have today is so much better than that,。
and I'm not drunk, I'm not high, I'm not naive,。
I'm not foolish.。
I'm just shooting you straight.。
That what Christ has to offer you is better.。
(congregation laughing)。
So, the application here is to give sacrificially.。
Give away more than you're comfortable with.。
That's what Jesus did.。
Like, if you're here and you're like, well, I tithe,。
that's cool, you've got to the Old Testament command.。
The New Testament command is to give until you feel it,。
to give sacrificially.。
Jesus didn't tithe his blood on the cross.。
And I'm not, if you're like,。
oh, you're gonna take up an offering, no, I'm not.。
I'm not taking up an offering.。
I'm telling you to be generous。
with what God has entrusted to you.。
Wherever you're at, whatever church you go to,。
whatever ministries you're involved with,。
whoever God places in your path,。
give more than you're comfortable with.。
Because on the cross, Jesus didn't tithe his blood,。
he didn't give 10% of his blood.。
What he modeled for us is he did。
what he's asking this man to do.。
Jesus was the perfect rich young ruler.。
He obeyed all the commandments。
and then he gave all that he had to the poor, that's us,。
so that we might inherit eternal life.。
And that's the gospel and that's all we got。
and that's the only way that we're getting in.。
And so in summary, go all in by relying fully。
on the finished work of Jesus.。
Go all in by letting go of what is holding you back.。
And go all in by knowing that the benefit。
far outweighs the cost.。
Recently, Shane E and I took our families to the beach。
and it was a great time.。
And we're sitting there on the side,。
watching our kids play and what happens is。
I've got a nine year old and a seven year old。
and he has a couple daughters as well。
and they're playing together。
and this sand castle contest ensues, okay?。
That's just what happens when you're on the beach.。
And so they're like,。
"I can build a better sand castle than you."。
And so they start piling sand on top of sand。
and kind of digging this poor ditch of a moat,。
they're calling a moat and they are having a blast.。
I'm watching, it's fun just to delight in your children。
and just they're having so much fun。
and they're dancing around。
and prancing around these sand castles。
and they're like, "I'm a princess, you're a princess,。
"you're a queen, okay, who's gonna be the king?"。
And they're just having,。
they're all royalty all of a sudden。
and they've got these three sand castles。
and because it's a contest,。
they begin to measure them and they don't have a ruler。
and so one of them learned like this was an inch。
and so they all stack their fingers like this。
next to the sand castle。
trying to figure out whose is the tallest。
and whatever sand castle you're picturing in your mind,。
let me just tell you, this looked like a sad anthill, okay?。
Like not a castle at all, but just a pile of dirt。
and they're having fun as royalty。
and just imagine with me for a moment。
if a king walked up。
and he said, "You wanna be a princess?。
"Do you wanna be a queen?。
"You wanna be royalty?。
"Well, it just turns out that I have a kingdom.。
"I own a couple castles."。
"Come with me and everything I have is yours."。
And imagine with me for a moment。
if they looked at him and they might actually do this。
and they said, "What?。
"Sir, do you not see we have castles?"。
I mean, I don't know if you noticed,。
but we constructed some pretty incredible castles。
right here at our feet.。
We have no need to follow you.。
We have a kingdom.。
And you're right to laugh at a seven-year-old,。
but the problem is that's the narrative。
of some 30-year-olds, some 22-year-olds,。
some 20-year-olds looking at Jesus saying,。
"What, oh, you got a kingdom, huh?。
"So do I."。
And the tide of the return of Christ。
is gonna come and wash your little sandcastle away,。
your white picket fence and house and German shepherd。
and that husband you hope to have。
or wife you or kids or whatever,。
it's gonna, the tide of the return of Jesus。
is gonna wash that away。
and you're gonna be left with holding。
what you thought was of value。
when he's offering you eternal riches.。
When you're the king and queens of sandcastles.。
And you're looking at the king of the universe.。
I say, "No, I'm good.。
"Don't do that.。
"Please don't do that."。
The grace that he offers you is completely free.。
You may give something up following Christ,。
you may face some persecution.。
It may get hard.。
In this world, you might have trouble,。
you will have trouble,。
but take heart, he's overcome the world。
to not follow Christ who cost you everything.。
Some of you, as I said, have too much of the world。
to enjoy Jesus and too much Jesus to enjoy the world.。
And he's asking you to go all in.。
I'm going to pray that you would.。
Father,。
consume our hearts as we sing this song to you.。
Overwhelm us with your love and your grace。
and your mercy so that we look at what we have。
as trinkets and treasures not missing out。
on the trip of a lifetime.。
That we would follow you.。
That we would bring our gifts to the altar。
of an almighty God and that nothing would hold us back.。
That we would tell the world of your treasures.。
And tell the world that their treasures are sandcastles.。
Would you do that in our hearts now?。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
