[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
Hey, brothers and sisters.。
Welcome to the porch in Dallas, Texas.。
So good to be with you all and also joining us live,。
Porch Live locations in greater Lafayette。
and Indianapolis, Indiana.。
I don't know what happened to lesser Lafayette, but no shade.。
Then we've got Tulsa, Oklahoma.。
And with us for the first time this year,。
Porch Live Fort Worth, Texas.。
Welcome.。
So good to be with you all.。
So a couple of weeks ago, I shared。
that I'm a recovered alcoholic.。
And when I drank, I smoked.。
Like, that went hand in hand.。
Show of hands if you love smoking.。
Just kidding.。
We'll get there.。
But I saw-- you're like, yeah, actually.。
Me too.。
Like, whenever I drank, I smoked.。
It was like-- it was something I loved.。
And so I would like--。
I guess it probably started like in the eighth grade.。
If you've never smoked, and you're like,。
why is he hitting them?。
You don't know.。
But you're about to.。
Yeah, in the eighth grade, like, started smoking.。
And then we'd go out in Austin.。
And just after a few drinks, like, smoking just。
sounded nice.。
Stressful day at work, smoking sounded nice.。
It was like-- it's just a thing that I enjoyed.。
And I'm not looking to create a stumbling block for anybody,。
but there was like some satisfaction to it.。
It's like I knew that it would give me。
a little bit of relaxation and rest to, like, decompress some,。
get to be outside.。
It was like-- even though I knew, I mean,。
Surgeon General warning.。
I mean, it's right there.。
What does this one say?。
Quitting smoking now greatly reduces serious risks。
to your health.。
You know, I knew that it caused cancer.。
But it didn't really matter much to me,。
because it was kind of satisfying.。
So here it was.。
See, I got a nice pack on that one.。
I haven't lost it.。
I haven't had a cigarette in 17 years.。
But--。
[LAUGHTER]。
I wish we could show your face to everyone.。
[LAUGHTER]。
She's like--。
[LAUGHTER]。
But frozen.。
Because it was nice.。
It was like--。
[LAUGHTER]。
Oh, if you're-- so I was like, oh my goodness, he really is.。
If you're a smoker, you know that I didn't inhale.。
You know, the smoke looks different when it comes out。
of your mouth when you inhale.。
Just for technicality purposes, I'm not inhaling it。
like I'm Bill Clinton, like, I didn't get high.。
[LAUGHTER]。
Like, sure you didn't, Bill.。
But even just like tasting it, it's like, this is nice.。
Some of you are like, I've seen people pull out their phones,。
take picture or video.。
It's OK.。
Go ahead, man.。
Go ahead.。
[LAUGHTER]。
Here.。
Here, you go.。
You do you, man.。
You do you.。
What's up?。
I'll tag you.。
[LAUGHTER]。
You're pulling out your phones and taking pictures。
because you're like, what is going on?。
Someone's smoking.。
But like, surely-- I mean, you've seen someone smoke。
before, right?。
Mr. Cameraman over there?。
Unofficial camera guy?。
Yeah, you've seen someone smoke before, right?。
So why are you--。
like, why are you taking a picture?。
Why are you filming?。
Because you're like, it's in church.。
That's why.。
Like, we've seen people smoke, but not in church.。
Like, oh, that's new.。
Wow.。
Why you're smoking in church?。
That's crazy.。
What is exponentially crazier is unforgiveness in church.。
Like, you think that's crazy?。
You pull out your phone for that?。
Like, oh, man, I'm going to blast this guy.。
He's about to get fired.。
Like, you can't do that in here.。
Why?。
Seeing people smoke out there, it's。
because I was smoking in church.。
To have unforgiveness here in the church。
is exponentially and eternally crazier than smoking in church.。
But here we are, the forgiven ones.。
Of all the 8 billion people walking this earth,。
we have been forgiven by Jesus Christ, our Lord.。
And here we go, walking in here, singing our songs。
to the Lord who's forgiven us, while we harbor unforgiveness。
in our hearts towards somebody who hurt us.。
That's messed up.。
And we need to like flip the camera around and be like,。
oh, it's me.。
Like, I'm the ridiculous one.。
I'm the one I should be videoing.。
The audacity in church to have unforgiveness,。
it's the most contrary thing to the gospel,。
the good news of Jesus Christ, that we've been forgiven.。
And so like smoking, and the reason why it's like--。
there is a reason why I don't do it anymore.。
Though it was satisfying to me, it was killing me, right?。
Like, it's causing cancer to me.。
I always thought, like, what are the odds?。
Like, I'm going to die of something,。
but I doubt it's going to be smoking.。
And so I'm like, I'll just--。
I'll roll the dice on that one.。
Even though it was causing like cancer--。
well, cancerous smoke to come into my body,。
fill me up, addicted to nicotine for 12 years.。
But not only that, like, I remember, you know,。
at work or at a bar, someone would be like,。
are you a smoker?。
I'd be like, no.。
Be like, no, I can smell it on your breath.。
Because when you're smoking, you're just in it.。
Everyone else can tell, but you think。
because you smoked, you can't smell it on you.。
And then it also affects other people.。
Like, secondhand smoke is a real thing,。
and it can cause cancer to them.。
It can hurt kids.。
Like, if you're just like--。
I mean, I grew up in the '80s, man.。
We'd like hotbox with cigarettes,。
with the kids in the back.。
Cigarettes, not weed.。
Typically in the carpool on the way to soccer.。
But nonetheless, it hurts other people.。
Like, secondhand smoke hurts people.。
And so does unforgiveness.。
Like, unforgiveness, there's some satisfaction to it.。
You're like, oh, you hurt me?。
Well, guess what?。
You're dead to me.。
Like, I'm gonna block you out of my life,。
walls up emotionally, relationally, spiritually.。
Like, I'm like, hate you in my heart,。
even though I may see you,。
still like your thing on Instagram, you know, follow you.。
But I'm gonna flatter you,。
and we're gonna act like we're okay,。
but I actually like, I kinda hate you.。
I don't forgive you.。
Gives me satisfaction to do so.。
But that's actually killing you inside.。
Unforgiveness, it's been said, is like drinking poison。
and wishing that the other person would die.。
Like, you're the one that's suffering。
in your unforgiveness.。
They're going about their life like, I don't know.。
I didn't even know that I hurt them.。
Or maybe I did, but they don't care.。
But you're the one dying inside。
because of your unforgiveness.。
And then in Hebrews 12, it says,。
beware that a root of bitterness。
doesn't grow up and defile many.。
So like secondhand smoke, unforgiveness will spread.。
Your bitterness and resentment and unforgiveness。
will begin to spread to your other relationships。
as you're just like toxic with that unforgiveness.。
And so as we're talking about the return of Jesus Christ,。
and he is returning, we don't know the day or the hour,。
but it is a certain fact.。
He came once, he's coming again.。
Will he find us, the forgiven ones,。
being unforgiven to our fellow brother or sister?。
And so here's the deal, like in every relationship,。
every relationship, there is sin.。
One, 'cause you're in it,。
and two, 'cause another person is.。
And so there's sin in that relationship.。
It doesn't matter if it's your coworker, your roommate,。
your friend you're sitting by tonight, family of origin,。
whoever it is, you have sin in the relationship.。
Some's gonna be by you, some will be caused by you,。
others will be against you, but there's gonna be sin.。
And so we've gotta know how to deal with that sin.。
And how we deal with sin is how God dealt with our sin。
through Jesus, which is by forgiveness.。
And so we've gotta be a people。
that when there's a foul in the relationship,。
that we can forgive or seek forgiveness。
so that that sin doesn't have a place。
just bringing cancer into the relationship.。
My son had a basketball, our oldest son,。
had a basketball game this past weekend,。
and they lost by like three points.。
And he was so frustrated when he come off,。
he's like, "Dad, those were the worst refs ever.。
"There were so many fouls,。
"and they weren't calling any of them."。
Which is how we feel when we're sinned against,。
like, "Oh my goodness, did you not know that was a foul?。
"You can't treat people that way."。
And we want justice for them, but then when we sin,。
man, we want like mercy and grace.。
We want somebody to call a foul.。
And so here it is, this is where we're going tonight.。
If there's been a foul in a relationship,。
somebody did something they shouldn't do,。
maybe you did what you shouldn't do.。
It's F, it stands for follow God, not your feelings.。
O, own your part.。
U, move from unrest in the relationship to unity.。
And then L, love like God.。
So that's where we're gonna be tonight.。
And here's what I would say is that。
when there's a foul in a relationship,。
we need to gospel our relationships.。
When there's a foul, we need to gospel our relationship.。
Grammarians call this denominalization.。
It's when you take a noun and you use it as a verb.。
So when I say, "Hey, we need to gospel our relationship,。
"the gospel is that God is holy, we sin,。
"so he sent his son, Jesus, to live a perfect life,。
"die the death that we deserve。
"so that we could be forgiven,。
"raised again to show that he was God in flesh,。
"that whoever believes in him will not perish,。
"but have eternal life."。
That is the gospel, the good news of Jesus Christ,。
and how you can be forgiven of your sins.。
And so when I say we need to gospel our relationship,。
gospel being noun,。
it's because in the gospel,。
it's that there is sin that is separated.。
Well, that happens in our earthly relationships。
as well as our spiritual relationship with God.。
There's sin that's been committed,。
so it's acknowledged, it's confessed.。
Then there's forgiveness。
in the midst of that sin, relationally.。
There is with God and there should be with us.。
And then there's reconciliation.。
It says that we've been reconciled back to God。
through his son, Jesus Christ, our Lord.。
And so there's an aim at reconciliation。
when there's sin that is separated.。
So we need to gospel our relationships.。
You think about like some of the words that are used,。
like I Googled it.。
Well, Google is not a verb, it's a noun,。
it's a search engine.。
Like you can't, it's a noun,。
but we take it and we make it into a verb.。
Or you say they friended me.。
You know, Facebook brought that one in.。
It's like, well, friend is a noun,。
but now we've used it as a verb.。
I was staring at, I stayed in an Airbnb。
and I laid down on the bed。
and the bed like, came up on both sides of me.。
I was like, nah, no.。
So I emailed the guy, I'm like,。
"Hey man, we're gonna have to work out a discount。
"or something because your bed just tacoed me."。
I didn't have explained to him what he meant.。
And in the same way, we've got to gospel our relationship.。
We have received the gospel.。
Now we give and live the gospel when there is a foul.。
So first, follow God, not feelings.。
You know, your feelings are gonna lead you to think。
and believe and desire like, no, no, I know.。
No, you don't understand.。
Like, that's great that you're gonna talk about forgiveness.。
You don't know what happened to me。
with maybe the sexual abuse you suffered。
or the emotional abuse or the sin that was committed。
maybe by your ex against you or a friend that betrayed you。
or a worker that like, did you wrong。
with your relationship there at work or lied about you.。
Who knows what it's like.。
Hey, I'm gonna forgive some things, but that one, nah, never.。
Not that person, not that time.。
Not as many times as they did it over and over and over.。
They said, sorry, and then they did it on repeat.。
So no, no, I'm not gonna forgive them.。
That's our feelings.。
But God's gonna give us a different way.。
God's gonna show us in his eternal,。
inerrant truth, the way to live.。
Because if we don't,。
if we follow our feelings instead of God,。
you're literally in the jail cell.。
They're free.。
You're the one that has self-imprisoned yourself。
in a prison of unforgiveness.。
And you hold the key.。
Like the key being the cross,。
the gospel will unlock that prison of unforgiveness。
that you can go free.。
And so we follow God, not our feelings.。
And obedience is not determined by the outcome.。
And so like, if you're like,。
man, I know they're not even gonna let,。
they're not even gonna be sorry.。
There'll be no remorse.。
They'll probably do it again.。
It's like, we still, God's asking you to step into it。
for you to be faithful, regardless of how they respond.。
You're not responsible for their response.。
There's a phrase out in the world that says,。
time heals all wounds.。
You've heard that, right?。
Like time heals all wounds.。
It doesn't.。
Time makes wounds worse.。
Because like, I can't believe you've never addressed that.。
Now you, if you sin against someone,。
you might think time heals all wounds。
'cause you've gotten some time, space and distance from it.。
But if you're the one that's been hurt,。
you're like, I can't believe it.。
That happened when we were in high school.。
That happened in college.。
That happened, you know, all my life growing up。
and they've never said a word about it.。
Time doesn't heal all wounds.。
Time will make you be unforgiving and bitter.。
I was backpacking through Europe.。
I was in Hungary.。
I finished a water bottle.。
And I took it as I was walking.。
And I just like threw it in the trash can, kept walking.。
And all of a sudden I hear like in Hungarian,。
which I don't speak, like,。
(imitates gunfire)。
somebody yelling.。
And I was like, dude, somebody just got mugged.。
And I turned around and then I see this Hungarian woman,。
like reaching into the trash can。
and like pulls out the water bottle.。
And now she's walking at me like,。
(imitates gunfire)。
yelling at me.。
And I'm like, I don't know.。
I'm so sorry.。
I don't speak.。
I'm sorry.。
And she goes, she goes, still yelling.。
(water bottle crunching)。
Ha, just walks away.。
I have crushed every water bottle since.。
Never do I ever drink a water bottle and not crush it.。
Hungarian woman, you may be watching online.。
I doubt it.。
Maybe your kids.。
Thank you.。
The reason why she was so offended,。
she's like, that's taking up space in a place that I love.。
Like, maybe you don't care about your country,。
but I love my country.。
And you ugly American,。
that thing has taken up space in this place that I love.。
And I think God's looking at all the sin。
that has been committed against us。
that's taken up space in a place that he loves.。
You, your heart, your soul, your mind.。
He's like, crush it.。
Crush it.。
Crush it at the cross.。
I dealt with it.。
It's why I came.。
It is taking up space in a place that I love.。
And so you've got two options。
to follow God and not feelings.。
One is to overlook it.。
If it's something where you're like, man, grace,。
like I've sinned against people.。
I understand, like grace.。
It says in Proverbs 19, 11,。
it is to a man or woman's glory,。
glory to overlook an offense.。
They'll be like, man, I forgive them.。
They don't, I don't need to go。
and have some sit down reconciliation meeting.。
Like, man, I sinned, they sinned against me.。
Grace, forgiven.。
If you can't, if you're like ruminating on it,。
you're gonna leave here thinking about it.。
You hang up the phone.。
You're like, no, no, no, no.。
I can't believe that.。
Then your next step is this.。
It's Leviticus 19.。
You didn't think we're going Leviticus.。
We are.。
You don't go Old Testament on them that way though.。
You do this.。
It says, you shall not hate your brother in your heart.。
Now we're getting personal.。
But, so in order that you don't hate them in your heart,。
God's like, here's the antidote.。
Like they sinned against you, you're gonna hate them.。
Like they hurt you, rightfully so.。
Like what you're feeling is a sense of justice.。
Like, man, what you did was terrible.。
So God's antidote to not hating them in the heart,。
the way that you're gonna get that hate。
out of your heart is this.。
But you shall reason frankly with your neighbor.。
So you go to them and you talk to them about it.。
And then this next part, he says,。
lest you incur sin on behalf of them.。
It's like, hey, if something is done to you,。
you gotta go talk to them if you can't overlook it.。
Because if you don't, you're gonna hate them in your heart.。
And then you're in sin because of the sin。
that they committed because you're now hating them.。
That's crazy.。
But it's true.。
That's reality.。
That's how God sees this.。
Lest you incur sin because of him.。
You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge。
against the sons of your own people.。
Here it is.。
This is the second great command.。
But you shall love your neighbor as yourself.。
God's like, well, how would you wanna be treated?。
Would you want them to hate you in your heart?。
Would you want them to hold a grudge?。
No, I didn't think so.。
Love them as you would wanna be loved.。
Love your neighbor as yourself.。
And then in case he's like, this is like,。
you know, God's way of putting a period on a sentence.。
He says, I am the Lord.。
Like, it's not a suggestion.。
I'm God.。
Don't tangle with it.。
So I want you to like, you know, if you need to,。
close your eyes, look down, pull out your phone,。
take a note.。
But for a second, you know what?。
Close your eyes.。
Close your eyes.。
I want you to think about the first person。
that comes to your mind when you're like,。
man, I think it's this individual。
that I either need to forgive or seek their forgiveness.。
Who is it?。
Ask the Lord to reveal it to you, who that is.。
You follow God, not your feelings.。
And the O is that you own your part, own your part.。
Own 100% of your 2%, regardless of their percent.。
So maybe like in every conflict,。
like somebody's got something to own.。
And so it's like, well, no matter what my percentage is,。
I'm gonna own 2%, 15%, 20%.。
I'm gonna own 100% of whatever my percent。
in that conflict was, regardless of their percent.。
'Cause you may be like, well, my thing was little,。
but theirs was huge.。
And God's like, well, you deal with yours first.。
Like you go first.。
That's what happens.。
Laura was like, we were driving one time recently,。
and she's like, oh my goodness, something's in my eye.。
I was like, is it a log?。
Yeah, you shouldn't say that to your wife.。
She just like looked at me, she didn't even respond.。
Matthew 7 says, why do you see the speck。
that is in your brother's eye,。
but you do not notice the log that is in your own eye?。
Or how can you say to your brother,。
let me take the speck out of your own eye。
when there's a log in your own eye?。
You hypocrite.。
First take the log out of your own eye,。
then you will be able to see clearly。
to take the speck out of your brother's eye.。
I think a lot of times we're like,。
man, I'm gonna own my part.。
And there's a phrase that's good.。
Like, hey, draw a circle around yourself,。
deal with everything in it.。
That's good, it's just incomplete.。
'Cause he says, take the log out of your eye,。
then you will be able to see clearly。
to take the speck out of your brother's.。
So it's not like, God's not asking you to be a doormat.。
Like, well, I guess I'll just own my sin。
and everybody gets to just like own me with their sin.。
No, like we're in a relationship.。
He's not asking you to stuff it or to withdraw.。
He's like, just own your part first.。
You bring humility to the table first。
and then take the speck out, but own your part first.。
If you want Satan in your life,。
anybody here like, yeah, man, that sounds awesome.。
I would love to have Satan in my life.。
God's answer for that is to go to bed angry.。
He says in Ephesians chapter four,。
that if you let the sun go down。
while you're still angry at someone,。
you have given Satan entrance into your life.。
Like that you've given him a foothold.。
You left the back door unlocked,。
like, man, nobody will probably break in.。
God's like, no, no, someone is checking the locks.。
And if you don't forgive them, that lock's open.。
He's coming in.。
You're gonna give him a foothold.。
And so as you think about owning your part,。
you're like, well, when do I do that?。
How do I do that?。
Here it is in Proverbs chapter six.。
We're gonna bounce around a lot in scripture tonight.。
Proverbs six says this.。
If you're ensnared by the words of your mouth,。
so you said something you shouldn't have said,。
caught in the words of your mouth,。
then do this, my son, and save yourself。
for you've come into the hand of your neighbor.。
Go.。
So there's like a personal movement towards the person.。
In this day of like text and DM and all that,。
God's like, no, in person's best, go.。
Hasten, he says, do it quickly.。
Plead urgently with your neighbor.。
Give your eyes no sleep and your eyelids no slumber.。
He's like, don't even go to bed.。
If you've sinned against someone and you're like,。
well, man, when should I deal with this?。
He's like, today.。
Today you should deal with it.。
Because if you don't, you know what you're doing?。
Their son's gonna go down on their anger.。
And God is wanting us to come back together。
to gospel those relationships,。
as we are daily forgiven,。
to move towards forgiveness every single day.。
In Matthew 5, 23 through 24, it says,。
so if you're offering your gift at the altar,。
and there remember that your brother。
has something against you,。
leave your gift at the altar.。
First, go be reconciled, then come offer your gift.。
In this case, as we just sang like all those songs,。
I wonder if we had greeters at the door being like,。
hey, is there anybody that you've sinned against。
that you need to get things right with?。
'Cause if so, Jesus says, don't come in and sing songs.。
Like I wonder how many of us would even be here.。
Or if it would have been a lot more quiet,。
like, oh man, you know what?。
Yeah, let me, I need to call somebody.。
I need to reach out.。
Like, I've forgotten about that.。
I've never heard that verse.。
But he says to first go do this.。
There's such an importance.。
He's like, hey, we're good.。
Like we have an unbreakable, if you've trusted in Jesus,。
we have an unbreakable covenant,。
the new covenant that is unbreakable。
because of what God has done through Jesus,。
his life, death, and resurrection.。
We're gonna be good.。
Now that one horizontally, that relationship,。
like, I don't know where that's at.。
So he's like, leave your gift.。
I'll still be here.。
Go get that right and come back.。
I was a groomsman at a wedding.。
So much of my drunkenness happened in Austin, Texas.。
And that's funny, people are like laughing.。
It's like, yeah, that shoe fits.。
So we used to have this rent house。
and it was an amazing house, threw great parties at it.。
It was on 250 acres, but it was a 12 minute drive。
to downtown Austin, like best thing in the world.。
360 in Spotswood Springs.。
And we would like throw these parties.。
And then after we moved out, I was like,。
oh man, kind of hate to give up the house.。
Like, it's a great party spot.。
And I knew, 'cause the landlord was also the owner,。
it was her family's house,。
that she wasn't gonna get renters anytime soon。
and she would leave the utilities on.。
'Cause we just, she kept them in her name.。
So I was like, I'm gonna make a way to get back in here。
and we're still gonna throw parties.。
So I left one of the windows kind of,。
well, unhinged on the thing.。
And I would climb up over this, I don't know, like cellar。
to climb into this window, like pull myself up, get in,。
pop open the front door and be like, it's on,。
party's happening.。
Well, there's a word for that.。
There's a term in legal communities,。
it's called breaking and entering.。
And one time when I was in there,。
I like kicked out the chandelier and you're like,。
how did you kick a chandelier?。
I jumped and I got it.。
But like busted stuff, like used up utilities。
and just left a mess, you know, cigarettes,。
like in church, leaving on the floor,。
cans, bottles smashed.。
And then I trusted in Jesus.。
And I was back in Austin, I'd left Austin,。
now I was back in Austin and I was back in Austin。
as a believer, no longer an alcoholic or a drunk,。
now a disciple.。
And I'm there and I'm downtown and she had a store downtown.。
And I'm literally with my buddies who I used to party with。
at the house and I'm like,。
dude, I gotta go see Mrs. Wendland.。
And they're like, what?。
Her old landlord?。
I'm like, yeah, I gotta go see her.。
Like for what?。
I'm like, I smashed up her house,。
like breaking and entering, like I mean, you were there.。
Like, I gotta go see her and make this right.。
And they're like, you know her husband's an attorney, right?。
Like, I've gotta go.。
And so I literally, I mean, I'm broke.。
I'd quit my job, I was going into ministry,。
like just in this study program, ATM, debit card,。
pull out whenever I could.。
I think it was 250 bucks, which was a ton for me.。
It was equivalent of like pulling out $10,000.。
Stick in my pocket, walk into her shop.。
And I'm like, she's not gonna remember me.。
This is gonna be so weird.。
And I walk in and she like looks up from the desk.。
She goes, oh, hey, John.。
Look, oh man, this just got worse.。
Like I wished you didn't remember me.。
I wish you hated me.。
She was like, how have you been?。
I was like, good.。
She's like, why are you here today?。
And I'm like, Mrs. Winland,。
I have something I need to tell you.。
I was owning my part.。
I was like, I used to break into your house after we left.。
I smashed out the chandelier, I threw parties.。
I'm sure you had to have people come clean it up,。
all the bottles and cans and cigarette butts.。
And I am so sorry.。
I was a drunk, alcoholic idiot, but that's no excuse.。
And I wanna start paying you back for cleaning fees。
and whatever you had to do with that light fixture.。
And like, this is what I can give you now。
and I will give you more later.。
And I'm so sorry.。
Will you please forgive me?。
With cash out.。
She literally pushes my hand back and says,。
John, don't worry about that.。
I don't even remember that.。
I don't know what you're talking about.。
You were always so kind.。
But John, I know someone who's also struggling。
with addiction, could you help them?。
I'm like, what?。
God, like the forgiveness in that moment,。
trying to own my part, trying to make an amends。
and how God uses even what I had done to help somebody else.。
I'm like, yeah, give anybody my number that I could help.。
I think what I said that day is one of the hardest phrases。
to say in the American English language.。
It's, will you please forgive me?。
I think it's one of the, I mean, the words,。
like you just like the pain。
and trying to muster them out of your mouth。
because it's just like, it's death to pride,。
death to self, death to ego and so essential.。
And so you say the phrase, will you please forgive me?。
And if it doesn't have a question mark on it,。
you did not ask them for forgiveness.。
Sometimes we're like, hey, please forgive me.。
It's like, what, you said it against me。
and now you're telling me what to do.。
You're telling me to forgive you,。
but you attach please to it.。
Try again.。
So say it with me.。
Will you please forgive me?。
One, two, three.。
Will you please forgive me?。
Like those words will transform your relationships.。
Those words will help gospel your relationship。
and it's never too late.。
It's never too late.。
It should mark us asking for an extending forgiveness.。
And then when somebody asks you,。
it's how you want to be treated.。
Like, yes, nothing but grace.。
Yeah, I've been forgiven by Jesus.。
Of course I forgive you.。
How could I ever hold anything against you?。
That would be as crazy as smoking in church.。
To be a part of the church and not forgive。
even though I have been forgiven in Jesus.。
And I wanna give you another phrase that like,。
if you're talking about like forgiveness and whatnot,。
here's a pro tip, this is free.。
The other night, my daughter, I didn't know,。
I walk into our bedroom,。
we just had our carpets cleaned for like $400,。
which you're like, that's a lot of money.。
Well, we have three kids, they trash our carpets.。
And so a week later, I walk into our master bedroom。
and I'm like, what in the world?。
There's blue spots, blue all over our carpet.。
I'm like, what happened?。
And Laura's like, Penny was in here doing handstands.。
And I'm like, with a blue marker, like what?。
And she's like, well, there was cookie cake。
and yeah, that's what it, I'm like, Penny, get in here.。
And Laura's like, no, no, no, hey, hey,。
that's a little much.。
And I'm like, no, no, it's not too much.。
Penny, get in here.。
Penny walks in, she already knows,。
she's like looking like dejected already.。
I'm like, what did you do?。
Do you see something wrong in this house?。
She's like, yes, she's seven.。
And I go, what happened, Penny?。
She's like, icing.。
I'm like, how, Penny, how did it happen?。
She's like, I was doing handstands.。
I'm like, why would you do handstands。
with icing on your fingers?。
She's just like, looking down.。
I was like, is there anything you wanna say?。
She's like, will you please forgive me?。
I'm like, I'm like top notch jerk.。
This is like last week, PS.。
You're like, smoking's not your only problem.。
And so I'm like, yes, I forgive you, you're dismissed.。
I don't know, something terrible.。
She goes to her bedroom, time passes,。
and Laura's like, hey, that was probably a little harsh.。
I'm like, I don't think it was, look at our carpet.。
I'm down there scrubbing it.。
And then I walk in, I'm like, all right, Penny,。
time for bed.。
And I'm like, Penny, it's time for bed.。
And she's just sitting on the bed,。
like staring holes through my soul.。
And she goes, how come when you have an accident,。
you want us to treat you nice,。
but when I have an accident, you talk to me like that?。
From the mouth of babes, I was like,。
and here's the pro tip, in case you're like,。
those are not parenting pro tips.。
Here's the pro tip.。
I was like, you're right.。
You're right stops the fight.。
I said, you're right, you're so right, Penny.。
I'm so sorry, I treated you horribly.。
Would you please forgive me?。
I'm so sorry, dad should never talk to you that.。
And you're right when I have an accident,。
I don't wanna be treated that way, I'm so sorry.。
And her demeanor went from like, I'm gonna light you up。
to like smiling and like, okay, we can read a book now。
and go to bed.。
Like so good at forgiving,。
but it was all because I'm like, you're right.。
That's what we want, right?。
Like when you've hurt someone,。
what they're wanting is like, do you have any idea。
like the pain that you caused me?。
And if you start making excuses,。
like, well, the reason why I did it,。
and you know that I was late and traffic was hard,。
and do you know the pressure that I'm under at at work?。
And how come you never do your share of the bills。
and all the stuff?。
And what about you?。
I mean, you let us into temptation last week too.。
Like all that stuff, instead of you're like,。
you're right, you're so right, stops the fight.。
Own your part.。
So follow God, not your feelings.。
Own your part.。
You is moved from unrest to unity.。
If you have unrest in a relationship,。
or if there's any relationship where you're like,。
man, I hope I don't see them.。
If there's any relationship that you ghost them,。
or you see their call or ID pop up and you're like,。
whatever, like, no,。
can't believe you would even call me.。
Like, or you've deleted their number,。
it's showing up on Mark.。
If there's unrest in the relationship,。
God's command, not suggestion, not idea,。
not like, what if, or hey, that might be nice.。
His command is that we move from unrest to unity.。
Then we gospel the relationship.。
We were at unrest with God,。
and he pursued us to be unified through Jesus.。
And so he's like, hey, do the same thing.。
And so unification is the reason.。
It's always the reason for confrontation.。
Confrontation is not like to twist their knife,。
rub the nose in it, show them how they're wrong.。
They were, make them feel stupid,。
embarrass them in front of others.。
Unification is always the reason biblically。
for confrontation.。
You're going to them for the purpose。
that the relationship would be restored。
just as yours had been through Jesus Christ, your Lord.。
You're gonna gospel the relationship.。
Unification, moving from unrest to unity.。
In 2 Corinthians 2, verse 6 through 11,。
there was someone who would sin greatly,。
so greatly that there was church discipline.。
Paul's like, hey, with such a one, don't even share a meal.。
Turn them over to Satan for the destruction of their flesh.。
Well, the person repented.。
And so now Paul writes,。
"For such a one, this punishment by the majority is enough.。
So you should rather turn to forgive and comfort him,。
or he may be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow."。
Gospel the relationship.。
"So I beg you to reaffirm your love for him,。
not just like, hey, you're forgiven, but I love you.。
For this is why I wrote that I might test you。
and know whether you're obedient in everything,。
obedient in discipline, obedient in forgiveness.。
Anyone whom you forgive, I forgive also.。
Indeed, what I have forgiven,。
I have forgiven anything that has been for your sake。
in the presence of Christ."。
Listen, "So that," like, what's the purpose of this?。
All this forgiveness stuff.。
What are we after here?。
"So that we would not be outwitted by Satan,。
for we are not ignorant of his designs."。
Satan wants you to be unforgiving.。
It's his aim.。
That whole, like, don't let the sun go down on your anger,。
that whole, 'cause Satan will get a foothold.。
Here's what he's after.。
This person had been isolated from the body of Christ。
because of their sin.。
And sometimes we're like, yeah, good.。
They did what they did.。
And the Holy Spirit, as written through Paul, is like,。
"No, forgive them.。
Reaffirm your love for them,。
because we're not ignorant of Satan's designs,。
that we would be outwitted by him,。
where he wants to divide and separate and shame and shun。
and condemn and accuse."。
Those are his words, and those are his actions.。
But instead, "That we would move from unrest to unity。
and pursue towards that person with forgiveness and love."。
And I think about, like, the most difficult time。
in my life, the hardest thing that's ever been done to me.。
I mentioned it in a message a couple of weeks ago,。
is when I found out that the person I was with。
was sleeping with one of my friends.。
And the, like, the betrayal by both of them,。
the hurt, the pain, like I wanted to kill.。
But what happened was, like, and this didn't take long,。
the hatred in my heart was literally unraveling me.。
Like the black, dark hatred, where I'm like,。
I want my friend dead, and I want revenge on her.。
It was eating me alive all day, every day, ad nauseum.。
To the point, and I wasn't even a believer yet,。
I literally pick up the phone to my friend, I'm like,。
"Hey," he wouldn't take my calls anymore, shocker,。
I told him I wanted to kill him.。
So I got his voicemail, and I was like,。
"Hey, I said some horrible things to you,。
and will you please forgive me?"。
And I think he's probably like, "Me forgive you?"。
He never called back.。
And then I called the girl.。
I'm like, "Hey, it must've been miserable。
being with an alcoholic.。
Like, I don't have a category for that.。
Will you please forgive me for everything。
that I brought into our relationship?"。
Because we were at unrest, and it was killing me,。
it was killing the relationships.。
And so it was my attempt to move towards unity.。
So you don't talk about them, instead you go to them.。
Matthew 18, verses 15 through 17, it says,。
"If your brother or sister sins against you,。
go," there it is again, like the Proverbs,。
"Go and tell him his fault, between you and him alone."。
Now it says, "Tell him his fault,。
and I want to remind you to love your neighbors yourself."。
So when you tell him his fault, you need to be mindful。
of how would I like my fault to be told to me?。
Between you and him alone.。
If he listens to you, you've gained your brother,。
but if he doesn't listen,。
take one or two others along with you.。
This is not to like gang up on someone, to dogpile them,。
to like come at them, but rather like,。
"Hey, these are others from your sphere of influence.。
We're gonna come to you out of love,。
'cause we're concerned, we're at unrest.。
We need to move towards unity."。
And a lot of us, like there's a spectrum of truth and grace.。
It said Jesus was full of truth and grace.。
So there's people who are like, "Man, I am uber truthful.。
Like I call a spade a spade, I call it, I say what is,。
like that's just true, and I'm gonna let you know."。
And then there's others that are like,。
"Man, that's like harsh to me.。
Like you are always gonna know that I love you.。
Like there's just love that flows from you,。
and you get that part."。
So all the truth tellers in the room,。
raise your hands, where are you at?。
Yup, yup, some people just like scooched over,。
like, "That's nice, I didn't know that."。
And where's the love people?。
Yeah, yeah, okay, good.。
So hey, you're both wrong.。
Welcome, I'll be your motivational speaker for the night.。
Jesus was full of truth and grace.。
So in 1 Corinthians 13,。
like quintessential chapter about love,。
he's like, "If you've got truth, but you don't have love,。
you're a nuisance."。
But the reverse is true, that if you've got love,。
but you don't have truth, you're negligent.。
And so the truth is from God is to marry the two,。
that you would have truth and grace.。
So you do, you go to your brother, you show the fault,。
but it's always in love, from unrest to unity.。
So you've got follow God, not your feelings,。
own your part, moving from unrest to unity,。
and the acrostic foul, and then the last one is,。
love like God, love like God.。
Ephesians 4, 32 through 5, it says this,。
"Be kind to one another, tenderhearted,。
forgiving one another."。
Here it is, gospeling your relationships.。
"As God in Christ forgave you,。
therefore," in case you missed it,。
he says it again, "Be imitators of God as beloved children."。
That's where he says to gospel your relationship,。
explicitly, he says, "Forgive one another。
as God in Christ forgave you."。
And as if it wasn't enough, he's like, "Imitate me."。
Like, how did I do that for you?。
Did I make you pay penance?。
Did I tell you like, "I'll forgive you,。
come back in 10 years, clean up your act first,。
quit smoking, quit the weed, quit vaping,。
quit with the alcohol,。
sleeping with your boyfriend and girlfriend,。
the porn addiction, all the unforgiveness in your heart,。
get all that right, then come to me."。
No, no, he's like, "You wanna be forgiven?。
That's why I sent my son today, the day of salvation.。
You believe, you confess Jesus as Lord,。
believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead,。
you're safe, period, end of story, today."。
That's what God does, he's like, "Imitate me,。
imitate me, reflect me to this dying world。
like they are dying and going to hell forever.。
So I need you to imitate me,。
and the way that I want you to imitate me。
is to be kind and tenderhearted and forgiving。
as God the Father in Christ forgave you.。
We love like God.。
On February 3rd, this is recent, what, 25 days ago,。
in Germany, they just found a bomb,。
550 pound bomb on the rail line。
that goes from Switzerland into Germany,。
one of the most traveled routes,。
north-south connecting the two countries.。
And they know, they discovered by identifying it,。
who is responsible for it.。
So any guess who put the bomb there?。
I heard Russia.。
Al-Qaeda, ISIS, Al-Shabaab,。
like there's so many terror groups.。
Who would put that, who wants to blow apart。
civilian train full of people?。
Oops, it's our bomb.。
It's our bomb, it's the United States,。
it's the Allied Forces bomb。
that they just happened to discover just now.。
It's our bomb from World War II.。
Happens all the time in Germany.。
And the reason why it's still there。
is because Germany got decimated.。
Like once the tide turned on World War II,。
we were just dropping ordinance all over Germany。
to bomb them into surrender.。
And what Germany did is they just clamored。
to rebuild Germany after it had been decimated。
in World War II, and they literally built。
their country upon bombs.。
They're finding them all over the place.。
Every time they do construction, they find bombs.。
Water levels go down on rivers in the summertime,。
they find bombs.。
They have rebuilt their country on top of bombs,。
and so have we.。
Because bombs don't go away, bombs go off.。
And we're like, ah, that was a long time ago.。
I probably don't need to go ask their forgiveness.。
They probably forgotten about it anyway.。
Or man, that was a long time ago,。
I just shouldn't even bring it up again.。
That'd be super awkward.。
Well, bombs don't go away, bombs go off.。
And so we've got to unearth those things.。
What they do, they call in an expert,。
a demolition expert who knows how to dismantle the bomb,。
and so must we.。
When we love like God, it's not like, okay, God,。
like I'll just forgive them by my own strength.。
If you would, you wouldn't have need this lesson tonight.。
There are people that have done things in my life。
where I'm like, God, I forgive them.。
And you know what, the very next day, I don't forgive them.。
I'm like, dude, I can't believe it.。
Honestly, like that's unbelievable.。
Root of bitterness starts to grow up.。
I'm like, oh, it's a dash light on my soul.。
Like, okay, God, again, I'm giving this to you.。
Lord, I forgive them.。
I'm taking that bomb to the only one。
who can take care of it before it blows me apart。
and the relationship and be like,。
okay, I'm bringing this to you again.。
Like it came up again, Satan reminded me,。
my flesh, my ego, like whatever it is, it's back again.。
So I've got to bring this back to you。
because the feelings are gonna come back,。
but we're not following feelings.。
We're gonna love like God,。
and we're gonna let God dismantle all that stuff.。
So here's two things.。
One, you're like, well, how can I forgive。
what was done to me?。
If they're a believer, if the person has trusted in Jesus。
for the forgiveness of sins, all of their sin,。
Colossians 2 says has been nailed to the cross.。
Jesus, Jesus, God in flesh forgave their sin.。
So who are you to be like, man, I know you did。
and you forgive mine, but nah, I'm not.。
That's exponentially crazier than smoking in church.。
The audacity that we would not forgive。
what Jesus forgave at the cross.。
But others, you might be like, no,。
the person's not a believer.。
The person that sexually abused me like monster.。
And no, they are not a follower of Christ.。
In Romans chapter 12, it says, do not take revenge.。
You're like, great, doormat, no.。
God says it's mine to avenge.。
He's gonna deal with it.。
He's gonna deal with their sin,。
either at the cross if that person trusts in Jesus。
or forever in eternity in hell.。
But their sin will be dealt with.。
And that should move us as Jesus says,。
pray for your enemies because you don't want,。
I mean, anybody to spend eternity in hell.。
That is the most terrifying thought.。
And so you pray for your enemy,。
knowing that to love like God,。
even as Jesus was on the cross, father, forgive them.。
They were crucifying him.。
And in the moment when he could have said anything,。
it's like, forgive them.。
They know not what they do.。
They have no idea the gravity of what they're doing.。
Praying for his enemies from the cross as they killed him.。
And we're to love like God, love like God.。
So if there's a foul, follow God, not your feelings,。
own your part, unrest to unity and love like God.。
You remember the cigarettes and I'm gonna crush these。
so that nobody picks them up afterwards.。
I was in Switzerland and it gotten high.。
This was, I don't know, 20 years ago.。
Gotten high, I was literally like walking through,。
this is before weed was legal in parts of America.。
I'm walking through a field, like a farm of weed。
and gotten high there with people from,。
I don't know where as I was backpacking,。
same trip as the hungry thing.。
No, a different one actually.。
Anyway, I mean, it's just there for the taking and cheap.。
But I literally was like, I can't take any back with me.。
And it's not because I had some like moral conscience,。
like, I don't know, that'd be, I mean,。
I had no conscience at that point in time, I wanted to.。
The reason why is because there was US customs.。
I knew that I would get to US customs。
with drug sniffing dogs and that land that I was headed to。
is like, no, you don't bring that in here.。
We don't bring that in here into this land.。
And now if you've trusted in Jesus,。
you have stepped into the kingdom of God。
and customs in his word, his custom is like,。
no, you don't bring unforgiveness here.。
It's like, that is so opposite of the gospel.。
You don't bring that here.。
And I'm gonna check you as you go through this scam,。
the Holy Spirit, like we're gonna look at your soul。
and I'm gonna convict you like,。
hey, you've got unforgiveness there.。
It's killing you, destroying your own relationships.。
Like you've got to deal with that.。
We don't bring that into this land.。
So that you can be free, free, free.。
That they would be free.。
That we would love like God and gospel our relationships.。
Let me pray.。
Father, there are literally no words.。
We will sing for all eternity。
of your forgiveness through Jesus.。
(soft music)。
And may we now become the most forgiving people.。
Forgiving others who have sinned against us。
and asking for forgiveness for those。
that we have sinned against.。
I pray there'd be a movement by the people。
who are hearing your word tonight.。
And that we would never be as audacious。
to bring that illegal substance of unforgiveness,。
that cancerous unforgiveness into your kingdom.。
It's got no place.。
Thank you for forgiving us.。
Now move in our life to forgive and seek forgiveness.。
That there would be unity.。
We love you, we now sing to you.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
Y'all, please now stand and sing to the one。
who forgave all of your sins.。
(whooshing)。
