What would I like? I'd like to pursue you with excellence. I want to be intentional.。
Not intense, but intentional. I want to guard your heart, put a cage around that thing,。
lock it up and throw away the key. You ever heard of David's mighty men? Well, you're。
looking at one of them. I'm looking for a Proverbs 31 woman. Boom. Found her. That's。
what I'm looking for.。
That was beautiful. Just looking for your coffee order.。
Oh well, thank you for your authenticity. I'll have the frozen blended java chip caramel。
coffee frozen hot chocolate with some whip.。
Get right on that.。
Oh man, we're doing it. Be intentional, not intense fellas. Intentional, not intense.。
So a couple of weeks ago, not even a couple of weeks ago, what? One weekend ago, two weekends。
ago, I was at this little deal called Launch Retreat and went there, went there Friday。
night and what that looked like is I knew I was going to go out there Friday night.。
Shane E, Shane Everett sings up here usually, um, texted me and said, Hey, do you want to。
take the girls out early? And so he has a daughter, uh, Olive, who's eight. My daughter。
Presley is eight. And so Shane E, his little girl and me and my little girl jump in his。
car and we're driving out to Sky Ranch. Now I've been to Sky Ranch, uh, probably 12 times.。
And so we're heading out there. I mean, I know the way, like the back of my hands, right?。
And so we pull over into some little catfish spot that was fried catfish spot. It was awfully。
wonderful. And, uh, and, uh, then we head to Sky Ranch and we're getting closer. We're,。
we're on the back roads now, uh, out there, you know, towards Van, Texas, past Van, Texas.。
We've driven through the town and we're going and we get to the turn where you turn into。
Sky Ranch and he turns and, and we're driving down that road and we're driving and like。
any minute, like I know there's going to be this big entrance that says Sky Ranch and。
we're dry and I'm looking, it's going to be on the right and we're, we're driving and。
I'm looking, I mean, has this ever happened to you where you're going a direction and。
you're, you're, you're certain kind of that you're going the right way. And so, and we're。
driving that way. We're driving and we're driving and the girls are in the back. I mean,。
they're just like not even paying attention. They're writing a song back there. It's like,。
well, Olive was writing a song. Presley was writing a rap. There was going to be amazing.。
I was already selling it in my mind. And, um, and so, and so we keep going and I'm like,。
uh, may you, you sure we're going the right way? And he's like, where are you though?。
You're the one that's been out here. So I mean like, are you, and I'm like, man, I think。
it's not, I know what you're thinking. It's a pride thing. Like we're two guys and we're。
afraid to ask for direction. There's no one to ask. I mean, it's like pasture and cows。
and that's it. And I'm like, okay, let's just keep going a little further. Like let's just。
go a little further. And uh, and so we go a little further and we get to a stop sign.。
I'm like, bro, we, this ain't, this ain't right. This ain't right. And so we turn around。
and now at this point we're thinking, well, we missed, we missed the, the entrance. Maybe。
we were too caught up in the girls brilliance of the backseat or something. So we missed。
the entrance. And so we turned around and we're going back and we're going back and。
now I'm continuing to look for the entrance on the other side of the road now. And we。
get all the way to where we started. And we realized that that sign that said Sky Ranch。
this way actually said this way. And so we turned around and we, we went the right direction。
and we eventually got to where we're going. And the reason I start there because I think。
that story beautifully captures the idea of how most of us date. Okay. We are headed toward。
a destination. If you're a follower of Jesus Christ, that destination for you is marriage,。
not just marriage, but a healthy marriage. And so we don't waste time dating. We're not。
dating for fun. We're not dating for pleasure. We're not dating to seek thrills. We're not。
dating for attention or to affirm, you know, our insecurities. We are dating with the intention。
of getting married and that's the destination being married. Well, a healthy marriage, not,。
not half of the marriages that fail miserably, but a great marriage. And so we're moving。
towards that destination. But what happens for so often in our lives or in our dating。
lives is we take a wrong turn and we don't even realize it. And then all of a sudden。
we find ourselves in these conversations like, is this going somewhere? We don't even know。
we're moving away from our destination and we don't even realize that we think we hope,。
I hope this is moving towards it. And really it's going the other direction. And now we're。
in this predicament because we're like, well, I've invested so much time though in this。
relationship. And if I start over in another relationship, that's going to be like, this。
was all a waste. And I don't know if we're going the right way. Do you think we're going。
the right way? And you both kind of sense, man, maybe we took a wrong turn. Maybe we。
shouldn't go further this way. Maybe we should turn around. And it's like, no, let's just。
go a little further and let's just go a little bit further and a little bit further. And。
we continue to waste time in this idea. In fact, I've seen two people who could have。
been great together, ruin the possibility of being great together because they took。
wrong turns. I want you to realize that that's actually a possibility. You could be in a。
relationship with someone and you could ruin the future of that relationship because of。
decisions you make in that relationship. Wrong turns. True story. And likewise, the。
illustration breaks down at some point, but I think so many of us, we travel down the。
same familiar paths, hoping to get to a different destination. And yet we do it the same way。
over and over and over. And we actually think we're good at it. A guy told me the other。
day, oh, I don't need dating advice. I'm like, bro, you're on your fifth marriage. You need。
some kind of advice. You need some advice, dog. And so we kind of do this thing the same。
way over and over and over. We're traveling down the same familiar stop signs that we。
blow past and we hope to get to some different destination. And we're not. And so this evening。
I want to talk with you about dating detours. These are wrong turns that you take when you're。
dating and we're kicking off a series tonight called save the date, which really has a double。
meaning or maybe even a triple meaning because save the date is something that you receive。
when someone gets married. Right? And so they say, Hey, save the date. We'd love for you。
to be there. And so there's that idea of, Hey, we hope this is going to that destination。
marriage. Save the day. Also in most of our life stages is this awkward thing where we。
get this and are we going to put the plus one or not? Is this going to be me and somebody。
or am I going to go by myself? You know, and we have that, uh, that predicament, but, but。
then the double meaning really comes into play because we've got to do something different,。
man. We're not getting better at this. Let me, let me say this really quick. Your generation,。
your peers, y'all aren't getting good at this. Any better at this? I mean, every statistic。
that I look at causes me great concern that we are really awful at this. I mean, we have。
more help than ever. We got more apps. We've got okay. Cupid and Tinder and every, all。
kinds of hotlines and, and dating, you know, advice out there and all sorts of articles。
that we can read every kind of tip and trick that you want at your fingertips on your phone.。
And yet statistics just continue to show that we're getting worse and worse at this. Getting。
married much later. Marriages are shorter. Marriages don't last and all sorts of terrible。
things happen in dating. So what I need you to do before we go any further in this series。
is I need you to be open to the possibility that you might be awful at dating. I need。
you just to think for one second, like, man, I might be really, really bad at this. Like。
I, like if God shows up, Jesus shows up and he says, okay, I just want to grade you on。
your dating skills real quick. Like that driver's ed test or something. I don't, let me just。
tell you how good you are. You, you failed miserably. I just want you to consider that。
outcome for a moment and let's dive in with honest, open hearts, thinking that we might。
hear something new and profound from the word of God. That's going to change our lives forever。
and ever and ever deal. All right. Dating detours this evening, because if we can identify。
these wrong turns, they can get us back on the right track and wrong turns in the right。
relationship can make the right person, the wrong person. And that's what I hope to talk。
with you about this evening. And so I'm going to be in my new favorite Bible story. Okay.。
I've been studying this man's life and I love this story. And so I might camp here for two。
weeks, maybe even three weeks. I don't know. It's an awesome story. It's the life of Samson.。
And so if you grew up, it's going to be judges 13, 14, 15, 16. If you grew up in church at。
all, you probably heard this story in Sunday school. I don't even think I'm going to touch。
on what you heard in Sunday school. I'm going to show you his life before what Samson and。
who the Lila. I mean, do you know Samson was with three women. Delilah was just one of。
them. We're going to look at all three of those relationships this evening and try to。
learn from them. Now, let me give you this disclaimer before we go any further. I don't。
think this story is in the Bible with God. God put this here with the sole intention。
of teaching us about dating. I don't think that's why this story is here. I think this。
story is in the scripture to show you how much God loves his people, how he's going。
to redeem his people through a very imperfect person. Because whenever God wants to do something,。
he identifies a person. Whenever he wants to do something great, he identifies a person。
and says, Hey, I'm going to raise up this person to accomplish my task. And I think。
that's why this story is in the scripture. But Samson is so awful at relationships that。
they cost him his life and they cost him his wellbeing and his relationship with God over。
and over and over again. And so I hope to learn from it. So let me just tell you a little。
bit about this man, Samson. Samson was born a Nazirite. Now that term comes from Numbers。
chapter 6 verses 1 through 21. And I'm just going to explain it to you real quick. This。
is a person who is holy and set apart by God, who is not a priest. And there are three descriptions。
of a Nazirite. When you make a Nazirite vow, there are three things that you must do. The。
first one is you cannot consume alcohol. No mambo taxis for Samson. He can't do that.。
He can't go there. No margaritas with enchiladas. That's not how he can roll. He's a Nazirite.。
No consuming of alcohol. The second one would be a little easier for you. You cannot get。
near anything dead. You can't play with dead things. All right. Easy enough. God, I won't。
play with dead things. The third one is the weird one. Honestly, you can't cut your hair.。
So Samson has this ginormous man bun on the top of his head, right? I mean, this is who。
he is, looking all good. I mean, he's swole because the unique thing about Samson is he's。
got superhuman strength. He's O.G. He-Man. That's who he is. He is the strongest man。
in the universe walking the planet Earth. And he's got this giant man bun, and he's。
always sober, and he can't play with dead things. That's who he is. Judges chapter 14.。
"Samson," that's our boy, "went down to Timnah, and there he saw a young Philistine。
woman. When he returned, he said to his father and mother, 'I have seen a Philistine woman。
in Timnah. Now get her for me as my wife.'" Okay. Let me just say this right here. This。
isn't all that weird because in order to pursue someone in this day and time, you would have。
to go through your parents. So he's not just being a mama's boy now. He's like, "I don't。
know what to do. Teach me some game." No, he's like, "I want her. That's who I want。
to marry." Okay. "His father and mother replied, 'Isn't there an acceptable woman。
among your relatives or among all our people? Must you go to the uncircumcised Philistine。
to get a wife?' But Samson said to his father, 'Get her for me. She's the right one for。
me.'" Okay. Now when they say go to your relatives, you're like, "That's weird.。
Arkansas stuff." But no, here's what's going on. No, no. Remember that God has preserved。
his people. They're unique people. You've got to remember too, all of humanity came。
from two people. Then one family was preserved on a boat, and so there wasn't a lot of people.。
So that wasn't weird in this day and time. God says, "Hey, only you have to sleep with。
these people. These are the only people that you can intermarry, and that's how I'm going。
to continue this thing called that's eventually going to be Christianity." So I'm going。
to explain that more in just a second. But I want to say this last phrase to you in the。
Hebrew. It says, "Get her for me. She's the right one for me." It literally translates,。
"She looks good to me." He sees her from afar, and everything that God has commanded。
him goes out the window, and he's like, "Her." It's not unlike David or Solomon. I mean,。
David's like, "The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green。
pastures. He leads me beside quiet waters. He restores my soul. He guides me in paths。
of righteousness for his name's sake. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow。
of death, I will who is that Bathsheba?" Right? This is what's going on. I mean, he's like,。
everything goes out the window, and he's like, "I want her. She looks good to me."。
And so this is his first detour. This is where he goes wrong. It's detour number one this。
evening, pursuing the wrong people. Pursuing the wrong people. This is honestly the first。
and biggest mistake that you can make. And so if you can lean in for this first point。
and get this, if you only get this first point, it will save you lots of grief. Samson was。
only to date Israelites. And I say "date" there because we date for the intention of。
marriage. He was only to marry within God's people. This is the command that comes from。
it. It's really repeated through the scripture. I'll give you one place. Deuteronomy chapter。
7, verse 3. "Do not intermarry with them." That's all of the "ites," if you will, around。
God's people. "Do not intermarry with them. Do not give your daughters to their sons or。
take their daughters for your sons, for they will turn your children away from following。
me to serve other gods, and the Lord's anger will burn against you and will quickly destroy。
you." Now this is exactly what happened to King Solomon. King Solomon had all those wives。
and all that money and all that wisdom, and yet it says at the end of his life, they turned。
his hearts towards other gods. And so Samson is breaking God's command here. Now if you。
know your Bible well, you know there's a parenthetical statement that comes right after this that。
says, "His parents didn't realize that God was going to use this to free them from the。
Philistines." I want you to know I've read lots of commentaries on that statement. And。
they all said, "This is not God commanding Samson to break his law. This is God using。
and redeeming his disobedience of breaking God's law." So Samson was not to marry a Philistine。
woman, but in his rebellion, God is even going to use that. God can use your rebellion. That's。
true. God will bring about his will through your pain if you run from him. That's true.。
Tommy talked about that last week. And so God is purifying his people. He's setting。
them apart, and he's increasing them. This is really important. This is a key strategy。
to God's plan for the world. This is the first Great Commission. And if we can get this,。
this is really important. This is why we get married. This is why God, who could have created。
this plan, any idea. I mean, he could have made it where you were all the same sex, and。
he could have made it where you hold hands and reproduce, and the same kind of thing。
comes forth. He could have done it however you want. He could have made babies come out。
your eyes when you look at elephants. I don't know. He could have done anything he wanted。
to do. He's God. And the way that he did it, and the way that I know you're distracted。
by my craziness. Come back with me. The way that he did it is he said, "You love me, and。
you love me. And when y'all come together and love each other with me at the foundation。
of that, you're going to produce little people, and I want you to raise those little people。
up to love me." And that's my plan. It's the first Great Commission. It shows up in Genesis。
chapter 9, verse 7. "As for you, my people, be fruitful and increase in number. Multiply。
on the earth and increase upon it." And you say, "But this book, it says so little about。
dating and so little about marriage." You're right. So little. Like honestly, if we looked。
at it, I mean, that's about all of it says in marriage, this whole book. Because this。
book is about another relationship. Candidly, this life is about another relationship. This。
life is about you knowing God who put you here to know him and make him known. Samson。
had this incredible calling on his life. God brought him into the world to free his people,。
but he continues to get distracted by these relationships, following his heart, following。
his lust, following his feelings, following his desires, and forsaking the Lord's plan。
for his life. And you and I, we do the exact same thing. You have a purpose, and some of。
the relationships that you enter in will get in the way of that purpose. Specifically,。
relationships with non-believers, relationships with people who do not follow Christ. 2 Corinthians。
6, verse 14 and 15 says, "Do not be yoked together with unbelievers. For what do righteousness。
and wickedness have in common? Or what fellowship can light have with darkness? What harmony。
is there between Christ and Belial or Satan? Or what does a believer have in common with。
an unbeliever?" Some of the most difficult conversations I have happen right up here,。
usually with the young women, with these huge crocodile tears welling up in their eyes,。
saying, "I'm dating a non-Christian, and I just don't know, but I love him, and I just。
was curious." And I'm always surprised by that, because I'm like, "Surely you've heard。
me address this issue. Surely you've written one of the 27 blogs we've written on this。
topic." We don't date non-Christians. We believe this book is true. We believe God。
is real, that he has plans for us. And so we wouldn't do that. It's not an evangelism。
strategy. It's not anything that we do. And so the other day, I'm here, it's a Sunday,。
I was teaching on a Sunday. A guy and girl come up. He's there. She's like, "Hey, I'm。
a Christian. He's not. He's an atheist. What should we do?" And he's about to swing. In。
that conversation, I'm always kind of like this. And I'm like, "Okay, what?" Because。
I'm sensing it. It's right hooks coming. And I'm just like, "I mean, you know what you。
got to do. You got to break up." And he's like, "What? What are you talking about? You。
don't even know. You don't even know our relationship. You don't even know what we do. You don't。
know how I love her. You don't know how good I am to her." "You're right, buddy. I don't,。
but I care about you. Yes, you. And I want you to know that she believes, she's saying。
the biggest thing about my life, the most important thing in the world to me is this。
deity that I'm pursuing with my all." And you don't want her to drag you through life。
with that. Like what's going to happen when you guys have kids and y'all disagree on discipline。
and she comes with Proverbs and says, "Well, the Proverbs say, 'Spare the rod, spoil the。
child.'" You'd be like, "What are you talking about? Proverbs. Why am I going to try to。
live my life by the Proverbs? What difference? Who's the Proverbs? That's the Bible." And。
she, Sunday comes and she's like, "Well, hey, I'm going to go to church and worship." "Why。
are you always doing that? Let's just watch football." And she's, you know, and you think,。
"Oh, it's going to be fine." And then y'all get into a disagreement. She says, "Well,。
the Bible says." And you're like, "Throw the Bible out the window. Who cares? Y'all are。
going two different directions to two different destinations." You're saying, "Hey, I'm driving。
down the road this way." And then all of a sudden you're going to be like, "Hey, it's。
your turn to drive." And then he gets in the car and he's going to U-turn it and say, "No,。
we're going this way." And then all of a sudden it's your turn to drive. He's like, "You turn。
it." "No, we're going this way." And then he, "No, this way." That doesn't work for。
you. It's never worked out for anyone in the history of 10 years of vocational ministry.。
I've never met a single person who says, "Hey, I love God with all my heart. He doesn't believe。
in God. We have a healthy marriage and it's fantastic." It's never happened.。
And so the only reason I tell you that is because I care about you. I'm okay to be the。
bad guy. I'm okay if you hate me. I care about you. It's not going to go well for you. You。
won't be the first person in the history of history that that goes well for. That's all.。
Can you be madly in love with someone who does not love God? Can you be madly in love。
with someone who does not love God? And the answer is yes. Madly. Head over heels. Can't。
sleep at night. Wake up early in the morning thinking about them. Can't eat because you're。
so crazy about them in love. Who doesn't love God? Because that's what people will tell。
me. They'll say, "But you don't know how much I love him." I'm like, "I'm sure he's a handsome。
guy. I'm sure you love him a whole lot, but it doesn't matter how you feel. I'm telling。
you what God says." "Well, God wouldn't have given me these feelings if he didn't want。
me." God didn't give you those feelings. MTV did or something. I don't know. "But I love。
him." Clearly you love him. Clearly you do. You love him more than you love God. You sure。
do because you're willing to compromise God's work to pursue him. I do not question your。
love for him. Clearly you love him. And so should you date someone just because they。
are a Christian? Absolutely not. Because they have a Bible. Because they go to church. No。
way. Because they memorized scripture. Graduated from seminary. No. No, no, no. Do you know。
Samson in this story? I mean, Samson knows God. Samson's a train wreck. Samson would。
ruin your life. You know this guy. You know this guy. We all know this guy. He's big,。
swole. He's CrossFit every week. His Insta feed is full of selfies of him in the mirror。
flexing. He's got the big tap out shirt. He does MMA on the weekends. He's the guy that。
your mama said you don't want to like him, but you just kind of do. You see the sensitive。
side in him. He cries at romantic comedies. You're like, "There's something about him。
though, Mom." And you know you're not supposed to like him, but you kind of do like him.。
And he's just a bad boy. He walks in the room and honestly he can kick anyone's butt. And。
you're like, "Oh man. You know, I just, I don't like that. It's so messy." The heart。
wants what it wants, you know. Thank you, Selena Gomez. He will mess you up, man. He。
will mess. He will take your heart and wring it out. Get you to like and fall in love with。
him for fun. For fun, for his own entertainment. He will mess you up. This guy will. He's a。
train wreck. Train wreck of an individual. Do girls like bad boys? Dumb girls do. Let。
me, okay, can you email me? Before you email me, let me say it differently. Uneducated。
girls do. Girls that don't understand God's desires for them do. Girls that don't realize。
that God wants something better for them, they like bad boys. Their hearts long for。
that. They fed their hearts to that trash drama. They chase the drama, chase the bad。
boy. And you get addicted to it and all you like is bad boys. It's all you know. You've。
tasted something you like and you just keep chasing it. Yeah. So let me ask a question。
the guys asked. So should I, so what if there's this girl who just loves Jesus so much, man.。
She's amazing and she's always in the Word and girls respect her and they follow her。
and she, you know, Christ is her priority but I'm just not attracted to her. Should。
I date her? No. No. Here's why. You're not spiritually mature enough to. You're not spiritually。
mature enough to date her. Let me explain to you what, you haven't learned to be attracted。
to the things that God's attracted to. Remember when he says that when Eliab, David's brother,。
is like handsome and a foot taller than everybody else and big and swole and God says, no, look。
at the heart. That's what I'm drawn to is the heart of an individual. Give me the shepherd。
boy in the field that everyone has overlooked. So no, you shouldn't date her. She's way too。
good for you. That's why you're not attracted to her. You're not spiritually mature enough。
yet to be attracted to her. But what if only like, what if the guys that asked me out are。
the good guys that I just, I just don't like, you know, that like all the good guys asked。
me out, but that's just not really what I'm into. Yeah. You got a spiritual maturity problem.。
You keep praying, keep pursuing God's word. I pray that he would change. Don't look at。
porn. Don't don't chase the things of this world and begin to feed your heart the things。
of God and he'll change your taste to something healthy and beautiful and full of life and。
amazing. So let me just show you how much of a wreck train wreck Samson is who knows。
God he knows God. Okay. So he meets this woman and uh, and so he tells his parents and so。
him and his Papa, you know, they're going to go back and get her. And it says, it says。
in the scriptures, by the way, it's about to get weird. Okay. This lion comes up on。
him and it says that Samson grabs the lion and tears him apart like a small goat, to。
which I'm like, that still sounds hard. Like I, I don't know when the last time you tore。
apart a small goat, but I'm like, I don't even know what's more difficult. I mean, the。
lion, I guess fights back, but I'm like, that's crazy. Okay. And so then he goes and he meets。
her and he, he talks and he runs his game and then he goes back to his house and then。
he's going to like, Hey, I'm going to go back and I'm going to marry this woman. And so。
he's walking that same path and he's walking the path. He sees the lion carcass, the dead。
body, but remember he's not supposed to go near a dead body, but he sees bees all around。
it and there's a beehive in it, honey in the lion carcass. Okay. It's about to get gross.。
And he goes and he gets the honey, he eats some, and then he gets some and he goes and。
gives it to everybody else. He's broken number one of his Nazirite vow. He's played with。
played with dead things. It's gross. He ate honey out of it. That's gross. Okay. And then。
he goes there and he throws this big party, but in the Hebrew it's called a Mishda, which。
literally in the Hebrew translates a drinking party or a party for drinking. Okay. So Samson。
throws a kegger that's Nazirite vow breaking number two, right? He's doing keg stands at。
the party. We don't know. It doesn't say that, but, but he goes, he throws a drinking party.。
He's close to it at least. Right. And then at this party, he's given these 30 command。
companions to accompany him and he tells them a riddle and I'll just read it to you. Verse。
12. Let me tell you a riddle. Samson said to them, if you can give me the answer within。
seven days of the feast, I will give you 30 linen garments and 30 sets of clothes. If。
you can't tell me the answer, you must give me 30 linen garments and 30 sets of clothes.。
And here's the riddle out of the eater, something to eat out of the strong, something sweet.。
Okay. What is he doing? He's talking about the lion and he's making light of his sin.。
He knows what he's done and he's like, let's just have some fun with it. He doesn't want。
to keep his sins secret. Like he kind of wants to reveal it through this riddle and he's。
having fun with it. He's making light of it. And he's a thrill seeker. He's that guy. And。
so he's like, Hey, we're at this party and I'm supposed to be getting married. Let's。
gamble. Anybody want to gamble? And this is a boring, like you have a party drinking that.。
Okay. I got a bet. And he does that. Why? We know this guy. We know this guy. And so,。
okay. So the guys, these 30 companions, they go to his wife and they say, Hey, if you don't。
tell us, if you don't tell us what, um, what the answer to the riddle is, we're going to。
burn you and your father up alive. We're gonna set you on fire. It just got real. And so,。
you know, she tells them he, she nags him, Hey, tell me the answer. Tell me the answer.。
Tell me the answer. He eventually does. Uh, she tells the men, the men tell him, you know,。
what is stronger than a lion? What is sweeter than honey? He's angry. This is what he says.。
Verse 18. If you had not plowed with my heifer, you would not have solved my riddle. Okay.。
So this is great dating advice. Listen, dude calls you a heifer. You run like if we just,。
if we just knew that if anybody looks at you and says, you're a heifer, you say, peace。
out. I'm out. I went to that dating talk and I'm done with you in the Hebrew that literally。
says if you had not plowed with my heifer. Okay. So I'm just like one, don't ever plow。
with another man's heifer and two, don't ever call the women a heifer. And so then he leaves。
there. He kills 30 innocent men, takes their clothes so he can pay his debt because he's。
Samson. He does whatever he wants to do. He's arrogant. He's narcissistic. He goes back。
then to sleep with his wife, but her dad gives, has given her to another man, one of his companions.。
He's upset. So he burns down their crops. This is the Philistines. This is the enemies。
of God. He burned down, he burns down their crops at harvest time, which is a big deal,。
man. Like you don't have any food to eat. And so they take his wife and they set her。
on fire and her dad, they burn her, make her a Alicia Keys song. That's not even right,。
dude. Don't even think about that. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. That's, that's not cool. Um, because。
you did this, he says, because you did this, but isn't that weird that he says that, but。
he did this. He brought all this drama on himself. Like this was his stupidity. This。
is his fault. Like this guy's the, always the victim. Like, man, they just don't understand。
me that they did this. I'm like, dude, you're, you made a bunch of terrible decisions because。
you did this. And then he has to kill a thousand of them, which is crazy with a donkey bone.。
He kills a thousand of them with a, with a jawbone of a donkey. He's a bad dude. I told。
you that. And so let me just recap. Cause that was a lot. We're still in 0.1 by the。
way, disobedient to God's laws. Okay. He's vain. He's made light of a sin. He's rude.。
He's violent. He does what he wants. He's vengeful. He's angry. He's a bad dude. And。
so let me just summarize all of that and say, all of those are qualities you want to avoid。
when dating. Don't go after that person. But then what it says in the text is he then has。
20 years where he leads Israel. And so he leads Israel under the Philistine range, uh,。
rain, he kind of comes up and he says, okay, I'm your leaders. Now I'm going to protect。
you from the Philistines. And so judges 15 verse 20, Samson led Israel for 20 years in。
the days of the Philistines. And that's, that's the end of chapter 15. And then the beginning。
of chapter 16 says this one day, Samson went to Gaza where he saw a prostitute. He went。
in to spend the night with her. The people of Gaza were told Samson is here. So they。
surrounded the place and lay in wait for him all night at the city gate. They made no move。
during the night saying at dawn, we will kill him. Girl. Number two, prostitute dating detour.。
Number two, giving into lust. You've given to lust. It's going to take you the wrong。
direction. So Samson goes from Zora to Gaza, which is 40 miles. Okay. And so I did the。
math of 40 miles. That's 80,000 steps, 80,000. One of these walking into sin, I'm doing it。
consciously. There might be a prostitute there. I might get lucky. I might be able to buy。
sex for myself and experience pleasure. And so he walks in the direction of sin slowly。
for 40 miles. Samson continues to make decisions based on the pursuit of his own personal pleasure.。
And these people make miserable spouses because they do what they want, regardless of what。
God says. And it never goes well for them. They are selfish. He did all of this to use。
a girl for sex. People will go to great lengths when they're controlled by their sexual desires.。
They will say crazy things. They will sing boys to men songs to you. They will, they。
will do crazy things. Okay. They will look you in the eyes. They will say, but I love。
you so much. They'll say that in a heartbeat. They'll write you poetry to get in your pants.。
They will do all kinds of crazy things. I talk to people all the time that are like,。
man, it's just, it's weird. Like every time I go into his apartment, like we just end。
up lying down. Cool, man. Stop going into his apartment. Okay. Well, every time we watch。
that movie, like it just ends, it just, just gets a little touchy feely. Okay. No more。
movies. All right. Whatever is causing the touchy feelyness. Let's not do that. Okay.。
Why not? We can't even be alone then. Awesome. I'm glad we solved that problem together.。
You can't be alone then. That's where you're at. Like y'all can't be alone, you know? And。
so I'm glad we're working together to solve this problem. But as you walk that direction,。
you're going the wrong direction. It's not moving towards healthy marriage. It's moving。
in the direction of unhealthy relationships. And let me just tell you something. If a person。
is willing to sleep with you before marriage, it is very likely they do not believe in God.。
Let me say that again. If a person is willing to sleep with you before marriage, it is very。
likely that they do not believe in God. Okay. At least their relationship with him is not。
healthy. At least they are not yielding to his spirit. His spirit is not alive and active。
in their lives because they are doing, they're following their own spirit, their own sinful。
desires, their own flesh. They are not yielding to the spirit of God. So at very least they。
are not spiritually mature enough to be dating material that we saw in point number one.。
The only reason someone take off your pants or put their hands up your shirt is because。
they do not fear God. They are not afraid of him and they are pursuing one thing. It。
is what they want and they are telling you something really strategic. They are saying,。
Hey, I believe sex is fine outside of marriage. And so should we get married, I will continue。
to look for sex outside of marriage because sex outside of marriage is just different。
than sex inside of marriage. And if you grow an appetite for sex outside of marriage, sex。
inside of marriage does not satisfy that appetite. And I've had too many people come back to。
me and say, Hey, you were right when you said that. And so I just, I beg you to take my。
word for it. They're communicating something to you. Sex will keep you in the wrong relationship。
too long and it will keep you from the right relationship.。
First Corinthians six verse 18 and 20 says this, flee, run from, fast from sexual immorality.。
All other sins a person commits are outside the body, but whoever sins sexually sins against。
their own body. Do you not know that your bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit who。
is in you, whom you have received from God? You are not your own. You were bought at a。
price. Therefore honor God with your body. See, if someone is trying to have sex with。
you, if they're attempting to coerce you towards sex, this gets so easy. You need to thank。
them like they have. They have shortened this road trip really quickly. And you just say,。
Hey, let me out of the car and don't call me. Right? And it's that simple. They just。
got really easy for you. They're not the one. They're not the person that God would desire。
you to be with. They're not the kind of person. Okay. Because I don't believe there's only。
one person that God desires you to be with. I believe there's lots of people. That's God's。
people. Not a huge amount of people, but a certain amount of people who follow God with。
all their heart, soul, mind, and strength, whom you can spend the rest of your life with.。
But it's not that person. And so like, can you imagine, can you imagine if I had a dude。
up here and I just told you ladies, I said, Hey, here he is. And, um, and so he's slept。
with, um, thousands of women. Uh, it usually happened. This is his period. It's a couple。
times a month, but when he does sleep with a woman, it's not just one woman. It's multiple,。
like multiple women, like 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 women all at the same time that happens。
several times a month. So for some, sometimes some seasons about once a month, sometimes。
several times a month, like I think you'd be like, man, I'm like, that's just not who。
I want to spend the rest of my life with. But that's what pornography does. That's exactly。
what it is. It's how many women or men can I consume with clicks? Lady, I know this is。
your problem too. I'm not naive to that at all. One in three viewers are women. I get。
that. How many people can I consume? How many clips, how many steps? So I consume what I。
want for my own pleasure. It's adultery with people. They're real people. I mean the two。
dimensional kind, but they live and breathe somewhere and you are growing an addiction。
for them, which is not a person. It's not a spouse. It's variety. And one person will。
never satisfy someone with an addiction for variety. True story. That's my story. That's。
my story. If you didn't know, I'm not trying to shame you. I'm begging you to make the。
last time that you've looked at porn behind you. Like what if like right now you hear。
this and you know I'm talking to you and you say, I'll never look at it again. I'm going。
to go home. I will throw my computer through the window. Don't do that. I'll buy it from。
you or something, but I will never look at it again. What if, how powerful would that。
be? You never saw it again ever for the rest of your life. You began to heal so that you。
could get married. That'd be a beautiful thing, man. Sexual sin is such a slippery, addictive。
path and it's so hard to stop the car when you're going this direction. Like everything。
in you wants to slam on the brake, pull the parking brake, but you just can't because。
an object in motion stays in motion and you love your sin or you're at least addicted。
to it. And so I saw this in a really real way. This just this week, Susie Faber Hamilton's。
story broke. I don't know if you heard this, but she's a three time Olympian. Okay. And。
so she was, she went to the Olympics three different times. A pretty incredible fast。
runner, a sprinter, if you will. And on her 20th wedding anniversary, after the Olympics,。
20th wedding anniversary, she tells her husband, Hey, let's spice things up a little bit. Let's。
go to Vegas and have a threesome. So they go to Vegas. I mean, he thinks what an amazing。
gift from my wife that she would do this for me. They go to Vegas, they get a high price。
call girl. Okay. And she tastes something that she can't shake. She begins to develop。
an appetite, a sexual addiction. And she says to him, Hey, I think I want to go back to。
Vegas this time, not to get a call girl, but to be a call girl. I think I can produce some。
extra income this way. I would like to. And she talks about her duplicitous life, duplicitous。
life. She's kids. It's a slippery slope. Why would anybody do this? How does that happen?。
Because you feed an appetite and you're feeding an appetite. Just consider who you find attractive.。
Like like just as you watch TV and you're like, Oh man, Channing Tatum. Wow. Here's。
what you're not saying. I love how he knows the word Ryan Reynolds. Oh my. You're not。
saying I love the way he walks with Jesus guys. Megan Fox. Wow. I bet she leaves Sunday。
school. That's not what you're saying, right? You're saying, here's what you're saying.。
You're saying, Hey heart, find me one of those. Hey heart, you watch. Are you listening? Did。
you hear me? Did you hear me say, Oh wow. Did you see those abs? Buy me one of those.。
That's what you're doing. You've got to be careful guys. You're feeding your heart and。
not just what you watch and what you pursue and what you say, what you listen to just。
this today. What I heard, you know, Demi Lovato cool for the summer. Got my mind on your body。
and your body on my mind. Got a taste for the cherry. I just need to take a bite. Don't。
tell your mother, kiss one another, die for each other. We're cool for the summer. That's。
what Samson is telling this lady. We're cool for the summer. Except they're waiting outside。
for me to kill me. Toe low talking body. And I mean, this, this is on repeat in the radio.。
I'm in the car with my little girls and she says, if we're talking bodies, you got to。
have a perfect one. So put it on me. It won't make, take me long. If you love me, right.。
We'll on kiss FM on repeat. Well F for life. My little girl's like, what did she say? I'm。
like, Don, you should change the station. 97, 94.7. What are we doing? She said, well,。
F for life. This, this young sweet girl. So, Hey, that's the destination I'm traveling。
to. That's what I want. You're being brainwashed. You're being brainwashed. Judges 16, verse。
four. Sometime later, Samson, again, he fell in love with the woman in the Valley of Sorek。
whose name was Delilah. So the meat head gets the Valley girl. We've seen this happen. So。
the rulers of the Philistines went to her and said, see if you can lure him into showing。
you the secret of his great strength and how we can overpower him. So he might tie so that。
we might tie him up and subdue him. Each one of us will give you 1100 shekels of silver.。
Let me just remind you, Samson, Israelite Philistines, God's enemies, Delilah. She's。
a Philistine. Okay. Samson falls in love with her. The text says, so her Philistine people。
say, Hey, we'll pay you if you can find the secret to his strength. Now this is the story。
that you might know. So Delilah said to Samson, tell me the secret of your great strength。
and how you can be tied up and subdued because she's a gold digger, right? She wants the。
money. And so Samson answered her. If anyone ties me with seven fresh bow strings that。
have not been dried, I'll become as weak as any other man. Then the rulers of the Philistines。
brought her seven fresh bow strings that had not been dried. And she tied them up with。
them. She tied him up with them with men hidden in the room. She called him Samson. The Philistines。
are upon you, but he snapped the bow strings as easily as pieces as a piece of a string。
snaps when it comes close to a flame. So the secret of his strength was not discovered.。
Okay. Then she keeps doing this. Samson, Samson, you made a fool of me. You've got to tell。
me the secret of your strength. How can I bound you? He says, Hey, if you tie me with。
fresh ropes, so she grabs fresh ropes and she ties them up while he's sleeping. Like。
this is all kinds. This is 50 shades of crazy. You know, I don't know what's going on. And。
so she did. She's like, Samson, the Philistines are coming. He gets up, breaks the ropes.。
He says, Samson, you made a fool of me again. What must I do? She says, well, if you take。
the seven braids of my hair and you weave them up in a weaver's loom and tie it with。
a tight pin, I don't even know what that means. And you know, then I won't be strong. She。
does it while he's sleeping. Hey, Samson, the Philistines, he gets up, breaks loose.。
Samson, what's your problem? You've made a fool of me yet again. Don't you love me? If。
anybody ever tries to use love to get you to do something, let that be a red flag to。
run. Don't you love me? I mean, I would be like, Hey, first of all, why do you keep tying。
me up at night? I mean, this dude is not the wisdom of Solomon here. I mean, something's。
wrong. Then she said to him, how can you say I love you when you won't confide in me? This。
is the third time you have made a fool of me and haven't told me the secret of your。
great strength. With such nagging, she prodded him day after day until he was sick to death。
of it. And he eventually tells her, you cut my hair, which will be the third time he's。
broke his Nazarite vow. And the spirit of God leaves him. The strength of the Lord leaves。
him and it leads to his death. It leads to his destruction. But that's not all in his。
rear view mirror is death and destruction. He's killed a woman. He's seen his wife lit。
on fire, which we made a joke about, but honestly, it's not funny. Like if you can imagine if。
that happened, just the weight of that, I mean, it would be insane. He's used a woman。
for his own pleasure. And then he's had this relationship that is based completely and。
totally on games. And that's my detour number three. And we'll wrap up dating detour number。
three, playing games. He's a thrill seeker, Samson. He likes riddles about sins and secrets。
kept and prostitutes and fights. He's a thrill seeker and thrill seekers attract thrill seekers.。
And so he's met his match in Delilah. See people who take advantage of people eventually。
find people who take advantage of people, people who take advantage of people, eventually。
attract people who take advantage of people, Samson's vein. And let me just tell you this,。
this really profound thought for you. Vain people attract vain people. You, you, you。
track with me. I go to the gym. I'm hot. I'm not me. I'm just figuratively speaking. I'm。
hot. I work out. I do creatine the whole deal. Right? I'm flexing. I'm strong. Right. And。
you're smoking hot and you go to the gym and we got the gym in common and you know what?。
You like me. And I liked that you like me cause I like me and we found each other. We're。
cool for the summer. Right? I mean, that's, that's, that's how that works is, Hey, there。
we are. Right? You're vain. I'm vain. We're vain. We can be vain together. Vain people。
attract vain people because the reason that I'm vain is because I think this is what you。
want. And the reason I'm this way is so I can attract you. So I take care of myself。
like this. Not like health, you know, not like God honoring health, but like, no, no,。
no, no. I want to be something that you would worship because I'm something that I worship.。
And so I want you to worship me and I'll worship you and we can worship each other for a season。
because it only lasts for a season. Vanity is this deep, shallow. And that's the danger.。
When we feed our hearts, pornography, we've conditioned our hearts, what to look for.。
And so when you have climaxed with a porn star over and over and over and over again,。
you eventually, you want to be with a porn star. That's what you want. The problem is。
that that's usually really unhealthy. And by usually really, I mean always and absolutely.。
So it's not real. I mean, even though the text clearly used words like in love with,。
it's not real. He's Samson. He's grown addicted to something counterfeit. Like that. That's。
the problem is he's fed his heart prostitutes. He's fed his heart, this woman that he didn't。
know that he saw from far away. So of course he's going to be attracted to Delilah, who's。
beautiful, but a complete and total con. And so you're here and you're like, man, you don't。
even know. I don't even need this series, man. I got game. You don't even know my game.。
Like I got game, like, like the opposite sex, not even a problem. I know how to talk to。
him. I know how to be with him. I know how to get them to do whatever I want. You're。
right. You do that game. All you got is game. And you have no idea how to do anything real.。
And when you get stuck into a relationship that you think you might want to stay in and。
you walk down an aisle and you stand at an altar and you say crazy things to one another,。
you're going to get into a marriage and you're going to miss that game. And your kids are。
going to hate you because you play games and your spouse is going to hate you because they're。
going to realize your whole life is a game. It's a sham. See also a joke. I'd stop playing。
games if I were you. Romans tells us that love must be sincere. You don't have game.。
You're a joke. You're a boy. You're a little girl that never learned how to love. You don't。
have game. You're playing with dolls. You're playing games. You don't have game. It's going。
to hurt you. And God has something better for you. So the man who could have had anyone。
never had anyone because he was never going the right direction. He will die alone. Not。
having never been married, no, that would be much better than how he dies. He's been。
married. In fact, as he looks in his rearview mirror, all he sees is relationships that。
are shattered. It might be what some of you see when you look in your rearview mirror.。
Like honestly, every relationship you've ever had up until this point didn't go so well。
probably. Okay. And so when you look in your rearview mirror, you're like, wow, I might。
not be very good at this thing. Remember the first thing I asked you to do? Realize, man,。
we may not be very good at this. We may have to learn another way. But there's this incredible。
rhythm in this text I just want to show you and then we'll leave. We'll we'll end. It's。
this rhythm that when Samson is, he only does it a few times, but when he turns to God,。
God is right there and he answers his cry. It's this beautiful thing. In fact, in the。
text it says, you know, we lost his strength. It actually says God's grace. It says his。
hair grew back, which is just God's incredible grace in his life. There's a few times where。
one time where he's thirsty after he slayed a thousand men and it says he turned to God。
in his time of need and God provided water for him. God is so merciful, no longer counting。
your sins against you. He's waiting for you to turn. You're still walking those 70,000。
steps to Gaza. And he says, Hey, will you just turn around? Will you just return to。
me in the form of repentance? Say, I'm going to do this the right way from here on out.。
And so in summary, only date people who are fully surrendered to Christ. In summary, don't。
fall into the lust trap. And in summary, don't play games, but be sincere. Dating someone。
can be the best or worst thing that ever happened to you. One of the best and worst things I。
should say. I mean, if you date someone that is fully yielded to God and, and loves God。
more than you and wants to care for you in the way that God has commanded them to, that。
can be a really beautiful thing. Um, when you date someone like Samson or Delilah or。
this prostitute or the girl from Timna, it doesn't go well. You go in the wrong direction。
and you may not even know it. You don't know if you're like, am I going to marriage? Am。
I not? And you're driving away from a healthy marriage and you don't even realize it. When。
I was in high school, I was graduating, graduating senior. I was dating this girl. She was a。
sophomore or junior rather. And, um, and because we were in a relationship and because we were。
in love, let me just say, first of all, how stupid it is to date in high school because。
nobody in high school wants to get married and we date to get married. And so how dumb。
is that? And I realized that now, but we're in this relationship and we are in love with。
each other. And so she graduates early. I mean, she loses a year of her high school。
life. And she goes three hours away to a community college, which doesn't even make sense so。
that we could be in the same town. And our relationship is extremely physical, not God。
honoring I'm verbally and emotionally abusive to this young woman. And it dawned on me while。
I was reading this text this week, studying the life of Samson. I just, I wanted badly。
to be in front of her in the most appropriate way and beg her forgiveness and her husband's。
forgiveness and her children's forgiveness. I just, I wanted that so badly this week when。
we broke up. Um, cause of course we broke up and she tried to take her life. I mean,。
because our whole world was wrapped up in that relationship. And I thought at a risk。
of sounding prideful, I thought I was the worst thing that ever happened to her. Like。
the worst thing that she ever did in her years of existence was cross my path. And I had。
to carry that. And what's crazy is when I was in that, we were just having fun for the。
summer, man. It was just fine. Laughs. You use me, I'll use you. It's just fine. And。
I never thought about the reality of the future that I'm going to look at her with all of。
this deep regret and hurt and this feeling of remorse and realize that she's going to。
have a family and a husband. Then there's going to be deep, deep emotional wounds that。
she's going to carry with her her entire life, which I'm responsible for.。
Some of you, you realize in there right now that that's happened to you or that you've。
been a part of it. And I'm begging you to turn around to repent, to say, God, I have。
not dated as you've asked me to date. I have not gone about that. I've been informed by。
the world more than I've been informed by anything else out there. And more than I've。
been informed by you, I've done what I wanted to do. But God, I believe in you and I believe。
you love me and I believe you know better than I do. So I repent. I'm going to turn。
around and I'm going to do this your way. Whenever we go somewhere, whenever we travel。
somewhere, we say this, there's this saying that this has become a part of our culture,。
leave it better than you found it. When we go to Sky Ranch for lunch, we say, hey, leave。
it better than you found it, which just means clean up after yourself and make it better.。
Be a blessing to this place. And that's how you should date. Leave the person better than。
you found them. When I look in my rearview mirror, not the case. I'm like Samson. There's。
rubble piled up all over the side of the road. I've been driving the wrong direction down。
the freeway wondering why everybody's a bad driver. And it's awful. So when you date someone,。
leave them better than you found them. And repent. Let me pray. Father, we repent. God,。
forgive me for, please forgive me for where I've made light of this serious story that。
you've preserved in the text, not to teach us solely about dating, but to teach us about。
your character, your grace and your mercy, and how you raise up an individual to do amazing。
things in spite of our wickedness and our sin in spite of us. Father, if only Samson。
had repented, if only Samson had turned from his ways at the woman at Timna or at the prostitute。
or at any places of his life, if he would have just turned and turned back to you. Father,。
would you make right now our moment. We commit to you purity, God. I and some of my friends。
here commit to you to never look at pornography again. That the next breast we see will be。
that of our wives, that the next man we lust after would be our husband. God, we commit。
to you purity in our relationship, that as we date, Father, that we would stop short。
of our body preparing itself for sex as you've designed it to do. That we would honor each。
other like a brother or a sister until we stand before you in the covenant, ready to。
make the covenant of marriage. And Father, for us, this is going to be really difficult。
for some of us because it's like slamming on the brakes of something that we've been。
driving down the freeway 110 miles per hour. And we can't do it without the help of your。
spirit. So would you aid us in that? Would you help us in that, God? Thank you that you're。
a merciful God, that you hear these prayers. We love you in Christ's name. Amen.。
Because I've done this message before, not this exact one, but I've done this long enough。
that I don't know what to know. I mean, people come up and they say, "Man, I just felt so。
condemned. Man, I just felt so guilty." And so listen, lean in, hear me, okay? This is。
my story. I experienced the redemptive work of Jesus Christ in my own life. He has set。
me free from sexual sin. I'm not saying there's not temptation, okay? I'm not saying that。
I don't ever lust after a woman, but when I do, I go through the act of repentance,。
which includes confession to God and to other men in my life, to my wife, sometimes my children.。
Then I turn and I say, "I don't want to do that. God, help me." And things that caused。
me to struggle, I remove from my life. And I have experienced his redemptive work. It's。
real. I'm not deceived. I am not under some spell. I'm not whacked out. I'm a logical。
guy. And so if you're here and you're like, "Man, I've got to make changes." Make changes.。
It starts like this. "God, I need to make changes." If you're in a relationship, I know。
it's unbelievably awkward for you. I'm glad you're here. And so find someone, you find。
someone with a red shirt, and I'm just going to give you the script. Ready? You ready?。
We're having sex. We'll take it from there. We'll take it from there. You find someone。
with a red shirt that says the portion. I say, "Hey, we're having sex. And we'll drive。
from there. We'll pray with you. We're not going to throw stones at you. Okay? We're。
not going to hurt you. We're going to talk to you. We're going to study the scriptures。
together." Okay, you're here. You've been looking at porn. Guys, girls, I know you're。
here. Tons of hundreds of you. Okay? Find a guy, person, red shirt, same sex. They've。
been looking at pornography. We have that conversation every single week, sadly. And。
we are ready and prepared to have it with you tonight. I've been looking at porn. We'll。
pray with you. We'll pray for God's restorative work in your life. He will do incredible things。
through you. I have no, I mean, it'll be awesome because He takes the will. He'll take the。
will and when He tries, I mean, He's just really good at taking you to amazing places.。
Much better than you are. Much better than you are. Yeah, that excites me. Could you。
imagine if 2,500 of us left this place and got dating, right? That would just be incredible.。
I'd do all your weddings. It'd be awesome. It'd be awesome. David would do some. I just。
got some announcements, okay? We do have open community group tonight. So what that means。
is if you're looking for community, you realize I don't have anyone to be accountable with。
or to hold me accountable. I just want to hear more about what fellowship in the church。
looks like. Guys walk down this aisle or this little pathway here and there's a room. Girls。
walk down this pathway and there's a room and it's full of people who are right where。
you're at saying, "Hey, I'm just looking to meet other Christians and go through life。
together." If you're interested in going to Haiti with us, we have an information gathering。
right now in the loft. So when you leave here, just go upstairs to that building. I'm pointing。
at it. It's up and over. That's the loft. You can go in there and say, "I'd love to。
hear more about going to Haiti," particularly if you're a Watermark member.。
And then lastly, I don't know that I've ever given a homework assignment, but I'm going。
to. Did you guys like Samson? Do you like that story? Good. Three of you really like。
that story. So I'm glad it's the four of us. So the rest of you are going to read it. That's。
the homework assignment. I would love for you to read the story of Samson. So judges。
13, 14, 15, and 16. So just leave here and read the story of his life. And I think we'll。
probably talk about it again next week because it's rich. Judges 13, 14, 15, and 16. That's。
your homework. And ready for this? I'd love to hear your biggest takeaway. And so just。
tweet at me after you've read those chapters. Tweet at me and say, "Hey, this was my takeaway,"。
or "This is what stood out to me." And we're going to use hashtag. You guys ready? This。
is either the worst idea or the best idea I've ever had, but we're going to do hashtag。
STD porch. Okay. And so I just figured the world might look at that and be curious. And。
so save the date is what it stands for. Save the date porch. Hashtag. I'm serious right。
now. I feel like I've lost credibility with you people. Hashtag STD porch. And just tell。
me your biggest takeaway from reading judges 13, 14, 15, and 16. Hey guys, let me tell。
you something. I love you guys so much. I look out there when I'm preaching and I see。
the hope of the world. I really do. I see young men and women that God wants to use。
to change the world. And I hope we get to do it together, man. So go in peace to love。
and serve the Lord.。
(audience applauding)。
