Hey, Porch, join us as we read God's word together.。
From the book of 2 Timothy 3, verse 10 through 4, verse 8.。
You however have followed my teaching, my conduct, my aim in。
life, my faith, my patience, my love, my steadfastness, my。
persecutions and suffering that happened to me at Antioch, at。
Iconium and at Lystra.。
Which persecutions I endured, yet from them all the Lord。
rescued me.。
Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus。
will be persecuted.。
While evil people and imposters will go on from bad to worse,。
deceiving and being deceived.。
But as for you, continue in what you have learned and have。
firmly believed, knowing from whom you learned it and how from。
childhood you have been acquainted with the sacred。
writings which are able to make you wise for salvation through。
faith in Christ Jesus.。
All scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for。
teaching, for proof, for correction and for training in。
righteousness.。
That the man of God may be complete, equipped for every。
good work.。
I charge you in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, who is。
to judge the living and the dead and by his appearing and his。
kingdom, preach the word.。
Be ready in season and out of season.。
Reprove, rebuke and exhort with complete patience and teaching.。
For the time is coming when people will not endure sound。
teaching.。
But having itching ears, they will accumulate for themselves。
teachers to suit their own passions and will turn away from。
listening to the truth and wander off into myths.。
But as for you, always be sober minded, endure suffering, do the。
work of an evangelist, fulfill your ministry.。
For I am already being poured out as a drink offering and the。
time of my departure has come.。
I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have。
kept the faith.。
Henceforth, there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness,。
which the Lord, the righteous judge will award me on that day。
and not only to me but also to all who have loved his。
appearing.。
Now for our final message in our series on 2 Timothy.。
Well, porch, how we doing tonight?。
Man, so good to have those words just read over us.。
And so glad that you're here in this room tonight.。
All of you that are watching online, we are so glad that。
you're here.。
We want to give a shout out to some of our porch live。
locations in greater Lafayette, Fresno and Dayton.。
Can we give it up for the porch live locations?。
[Applause]。
Hey, if you have a Bible, go ahead and open your Bible to the。
book of 2 Timothy, what we just read.。
2 Timothy chapter 3, we're going to dive in.。
And I have not been chain smoking in the back, okay?。
I am getting over a little something here.。
But I am on a bunch of painkillers.。
And so who knows what the Lord does with this.。
So come Holy Spirit.。
Hey, I just got back from a trip to London last week.。
London is probably what gave me this, honestly.。
But I got back and it was so cool.。
Another pastor at Watermark and I got to go and see firsthand。
what God is doing in the U.K.。
And we hear about things like the quiet revival and the。
pastor and I got to see it with our own eyes.。
And guys, it's amazing.。
We talked to one guy, a pastor over there named Pete Hughes.。
And he told us that for 20 years the U.K.。
Has been in what he called post-Christian environment.。
Where he said there was literally like an oppression。
against the people who were trying to proclaim the gospel.。
It was like there was an oppressive force against them.。
And he said it was figures like Richard Dawkins who they didn't。
only argue against Christianity.。
They tried to prove that it was evil.。
That it was wrong.。
And he said this is the environment for the past 20 years。
that we've lived in.。
And it espoused secularism which the younger generation bought。
hook, line, and sinker.。
And secularism at its core is you don't need God.。
You can just look deep inside your heart.。
Chase your deepest desire.。
And when you find it, you'll reach utopia.。
You'll reach happiness.。
You'll reach pleasure.。
And he said what's happened over the past 18 months is there's been a shift.。
He said the younger generation has realized that the lie that they。
bought into of secularism actually rather than leading to utopia and。
pleasure and freedom and life led to panic attacks and anxiety and suicide.。
And so you've got a generation of people who are coming back into the。
church and they're saying is there any hope?。
And these pastors are going yes, we know the way to hope.。
We know the way to peace.。
We know the way to fulfillment.。
And he said what's crazy is Richard Dawkins now of all people over the。
past year and a half would even call himself a cultural Christian.。
It's wild.。
He said before we rejoice, he said cultural Christianity is not the goal.。
The goal that we're so praying for in the U.K.。
is that God would raise up consecrated followers of Jesus who in a secular。
age are all in to the end.。
And when I heard him say that, I thought that is what Paul is praying。
for Timothy at the very end of his life in this book in 2 Timothy.。
He's saying, we just heard it.。
He's saying, Timothy, I don't -- everybody else is going a certain way.。
But as for you, I want you to be all in.。
I want you to stand out in a secular age.。
And so that's what we're going to look at today.。
And there's actually four times in this section where Paul will say but as。
for you or you however.。
And we're just going to look at all those.。
So look at 2 Timothy 3 starting in verse 10.。
He says...。
There it is.。
If you underline in your Bible, underline that.。
You however have followed my teaching, my conduct, my aim in life, my faith,。
my patience, my love, my steadfastness, my persecutions and sufferings that。
happened to me at Antioch.。
At Iconium.。
At Lystra.。
Which persecutions I endured yet from them all the Lord rescued me.。
Verse 12.。
Indeed all who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be。
persecuted.。
The first thing, if you want to stand out in a secular age, the first thing。
he says is you need to embrace the promise of persecution.。
You need to embrace the promise of persecution.。
Paul in this section he says, Timothy, you followed me.。
He goes beyond just my teaching, beyond just my work, you actually know me.。
I started to think there are often times in life where someone。
influential, you follow their work, you listen to all their songs, you watch。
all their movies and it creates this kind of relationship, it's kind of this。
codependent one-sided passive relationship with this person that you don't。
know where you feel like you know them.。
A couple years ago my wife got invited to the heiress tour.。
She was not a Swiftie, not a huge Taylor Swift fan but the tickets were。
amazing and free.。
She was like, I'm going.。
I remember watching the kids and she came back, she's got some glitter in。
her hair and stuff.。
I'm like, what is going on?。
All of a sudden she got real fascinated by Taylor Swift.。
Fast forward to a couple months ago, we're laying in bed and she goes, you。
know Taylor was on the new heights podcast.。
I was like, okay.。
She's like, and she mentioned sourdough.。
I'm like, okay.。
She's like, you know, Tyler, like sourdough Sam.。
I'm like, what are you talking about?。
Sourdough Sam, like San Francisco 49ers mascot.。
You don't know that?。
Yeah.。
Sourdough Sam is still being played this year.。
It's in San Francisco.。
So Tyler, San Francisco, sourdough Sam, she's playing at the Super Bowl.。
I'm like, what in the world?。
This was a few months ago.。
Then this week the new Taylor Swift album comes out and she goes, oh, only。
12 songs.。
Only 12.。
I'm like, what?。
Her favorite number is 13.。
Another one is coming.。
We have this tendency, right, we start following someone and we're like, oh, I。
know him.。
Oh, I know Joe Rogan.。
I know him.。
Oh, I know the girls from the toast.。
I followed them.。
I feel like we're besties.。
You're not besties.。
You don't know.。
But what is Paul saying?。
Paul is saying, Timothy, we don't have that kind of relationship.。
You actually know me.。
You know my conduct.。
You know my suffering.。
So while I'm here in this prison, this should not be surprising to you.。
Because this has been my life.。
And Timothy, don't be surprised when it happens to you.。
Look at what he says in verse 12.。
He says...。
It's similar to what we see in what Peter says in 1 Peter 4.12.。
Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you.。
To test you as though something strange were happening to you.。
Do you in your life see persecution and hardship and suffering and。
difficulty as something wrong?。
Like your Christianity went wrong?。
Or does part of you, when that moment happens, you go, wow, I'm in the game.。
I'm a part of it.。
See, many times we're the opposite.。
We live like nothing bad will happen.。
Okay, God, we're good because nothing bad is happening.。
And yet the reality is Jesus says, no, in this life you will have。
tribulation.。
So do you want to live a godly life in Christ?。
Then buckle up.。
Some of you, you are starting a new job.。
You've started a job.。
And in your role, your boss is asking you to lie and cheat.。
I mean, I was just talking to someone two weeks ago and he was。
telling me his first day in his new consulting job, his boss said,。
hey, pull out your LinkedIn and change the number of years you've。
worked here to two years.。
On his first day.。
He's like, it will look better for clients.。
It will look like you've been around.。
He's like, man, that's a lie.。
But if I tell him no, I may lose my job.。
All who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be。
persecuted.。
Some of you in your relationship with your boyfriend or your。
girlfriend, God has put on your heart, maybe we're supposed to set。
up some physical boundaries so we don't cross the line.。
But you're nervous to bring it up around them because what will they。
think?。
What if they break up with me?。
What if our friends think we're weird?。
All who desire to live a godly life in Christ will be persecuted.。
Some of you, you've got a trip coming up with your friends.。
And God is laying it on your heart, don't go on that trip.。
But you know if you don't go on that trip, all the memories are going。
to happen and you're going to miss out and you may feel ostracized from。
this community that you finally feel like you have some friends.。
All who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be。
persecuted.。
Some of you, God wants you to start a Bible study at your work.。
And yet if you do that, then you know you're going to be known as the。
Christian weirdo and everyone is going to start treating you。
different.。
Reverend, do you want to pray?。
Treating you that way.。
And yet, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be。
persecuted.。
Some of you, God has put on your heart, you need to lovingly call out。
one of your friends who is walking towards a cliff of sin.。
But you know if you do that, you may lose the friendship.。
They may talk bad about you behind your back.。
All who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be。
persecuted.。
The reality is, do you want to stand out in a secular age?。
Then you have to embrace the promise of persecution.。
That's what Paul is saying here, the very end of his life.。
All right.。
Let's keep going.。
Let's look at 2 Timothy 3 starting in verse 13.。
Verse 13.。
He says, while evil people and imposters will go from bad to。
worse, deceiving and being deceived.。
He says, verse 14, but as for you, continue in what you have learned。
and have firmly believed, knowing from whom you have learned it.。
And now from childhood you've been acquainted with the sacred。
writings which are able to make you wise for salvation through。
faith in Christ Jesus.。
All scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching,。
for reproof, for correction, for training in righteousness, that。
the man of God may be complete, equipped for every good work.。
The second thing, if you want to stand out in a secular age, the。
second thing is be anchored to the truth.。
Be anchored to the truth.。
Paul starts this section by describing secular culture with。
two kinds of people.。
He says there's evil people who are opposed to God and they don't。
hide it.。
And then there's imposters who appear like they're for God but。
they're fake.。
And he says both of these kind of people live in the secular。
environment and both of them are deceiving and being deceived.。
Both.。
They're following their own truth into darkness.。
But then he says, Timothy, as for you, there's a different。
standard.。
He says as for you, continue in what you've learned.。
It's the Greek word minnow which means to abide, to remain, to。
stay steadfast.。
He says everybody else, whether they're fake or they're just。
opposed, they're following their own truth.。
They're following their heart.。
He says you remain tethered, anchored into this world.。
Anchored into this word.。
Into the truth.。
McKenzie, the consulting firm, did a study a few years ago。
about Gen Z.。
And they were trying to tell corporations and business owners。
here's who Gen Z is.。
We're going to label them in six different categories.。
And the number one thing when they gave this out, this report,。
they said Gen Z should be changed to the truth generation.。
They said in the past, millennials and Gen X, they were。
the whole trophy generation, follow whatever truth you want,。
relative truth.。
They said Gen Z actually wants to know the truth.。
They don't want you to just give them a trophy for showing up.。
They want to know the truth.。
And I go, man, that's awesome.。
The question, though, is what truth do they want to know?。
The real truth or some deceptive truth?。
The reality is if you're not anchored to the Bible, then you're。
going to be deceived by other voices.。
Jackie Hill Perry says it this way.。
She says if you don't know your Bible and if you don't love the。
scriptures, then you're setting yourself up to be deceived.。
Because if you are esteeming the word of a prophet, of a truth。
teller, over the word of God, how will you know when the prophet。
is lying?。
Man.。
Think about that.。
If you are hearing from your favorite podcast, you're hearing。
from even a pastor, a preacher, a friend who's saying, hey, I。
think you should do this, how do you even know if they're telling。
you the truth if you don't know this book?。
I mean, think about what happened in the first sin in the Bible.。
Genesis chapter 3.。
Adam and Eve in the garden, they're naked, everything's。
awesome, right?。
Chapter 3, the snake slithers up.。
What's his first word?。
His first words are, did God really say?。
Every sin starts with those four words.。
Did God really say?。
And when the moment of temptation comes and when the moment of。
struggle and hardship and the snake shows up in your life and。
says, does God really say?。
Do you know how to fight back with the truth of this word?。
Or do you have to run to some anecdote or platitude or, oh, I。
think, or do you go, no, I know the truth.。
And I believe God's calling you as a generation to know the。
truth.。
Sometimes I ask, so there's so many hungry people in this。
generation among young adults, and they're hungry for spiritual。
things.。
On the train, on the way from London to Oxford, meet a young。
guy, he's hungry for spiritual truth.。
I say, do you know the word?。
And he goes, no, I don't know the Bible.。
And I go, man, then how do you know even what spirituality is?。
And I think it's the same with you.。
There's two things.。
How do you anchor your life in the truth of God's word?。
Two ways.。
One, be equipped at a church where the word of God is。
preached.。
Kylan talked about this last week but it's so important, so。
important.。
Don't settle for a weak church.。
Don't settle for a church where every time you go, you leave。
feeling good about yourself.。
If you go to a church where you always feel good, then let me。
tell you, you're being deceived.。
Because this word has a sharp needle that goes straight into。
bone and marrow that pierces and convicts us from God.。
If you're at a church where you're constantly being fed,。
you're amazing.。
Everything is great.。
God loves you.。
And that's all you hear.。
Nothing else, you're being deceived.。
You need to go to a church where they open up God's word and you。
hear the truth.。
That's number one.。
But the second is that you need to have a plan to get in God's。
word regularly.。
I remember reading an article years ago from John Piper,。
pastor in Minnesota.。
And the title of the article was, "If I Could Start Over."。
And he listed six things he would do in his 20s if he could。
go back.。
And the fourth thing he said this, he said, "I would read my。
Bible every day for the rest of my life."。
And then he expounded on that.。
He said, "Read your Bible every day."。
Every day of your life.。
No exceptions.。
Never say, "I'll read it if I have time."。
If you have time for breakfast, you have time for your Bible.。
Skip breakfast.。
Don't get your Bible reading pleasure from the fact that your。
conscience is clear because you checked the Bible box.。
Get your pleasure from reading the Bible because of an。
encounter, a meeting, a fellowship with the living。
supernatural reality that you meet in the scriptures.。
That is so good.。
I went back and forth.。
I don't have to share this.。
But I want to encourage you because some of you are going,。
"Man, I want to know the truth.。
I'm hungry."。
And yet at the same time, I don't know if it's worth it to。
go fully into this ancient book because it's confusing and I。
just don't know.。
Remember when I was growing up, both of my parents, not in。
ministry, but would seek to read the Bible regularly every day.。
And so I have no excuse.。
I know many of you come from backgrounds where that's not the。
case.。
I'm just saying for me as a young kid, I'd come down the。
stairs seeing my parents reading the Bible.。
And yet it wasn't until my freshman year of college that I。
decided I'm going to try to read through this whole book.。
My freshman year of college, I read through the whole thing.。
And guys, it was life-changing not because I understood it but。
because I did it.。
Literally, I got to the end of Revelation and I was like, "Oh,。
praise God."。
Like I made it.。
Like I made it through Leviticus.。
I made it through Ecclesiastes.。
I made it, right?。
And then at the end, I just felt like God said, "All right, read。
it again.。
Read it again."。
I'm like, "Really?。
Again?"。
He's like, "Yeah, sure enough read it again."。
Grind through Leviticus and numbers.。
And every year since my freshman year of college, I've read。
through this book.。
And I tell you that not to brag but because literally there were。
times over the course of these 14, 15 years, Christians, not。
even non-Christians.。
Christians would come up to me and go, "Hey, man, that seems a。
little legalistic."。
"Hey, man, I'm not sure if your heart's really in it, if you're。
just daily reading the Bible, checking the box."。
And I would go to you marathon runners that run five to six。
times a week, "Man, it sounds a little legalistic, okay?。
You people are crazy.。
Your heart better be in it every time."。
And yet why do you do it?。
You do it because you want to be equipped for the race.。
You want to be ready for what is coming.。
And so you know waking up at 5 a.m., cold, wet, got to run 10。
miles, you're like, "Ugh, I'm not necessarily feeling it.。
I'm not necessarily excited."。
And yet I know the mission.。
I know what I'm about.。
And so maybe it feels legalistic.。
But I'm believing, I'm buying into something I can't fully see。
right now.。
I'm not saying you -- I'm just saying you've never even tried.。
And maybe today.。
Maybe you don't have a Bible.。
You can go to the welcome desk.。
We want to help you find one.。
But if you haven't read the Bible, I just -- I dare you,。
start opening this book up.。
You're not going to understand it right away.。
Just start tethering your life, anchoring your life to this.。
Because if you don't, when the snake comes in your life, you。
will be woefully unprepared.。
And you'll rely on sinking sand.。
Paul says in a secular age, Timothy, if you want to stand。
out, if you want to be all in to the end, you've got to anchor。
your life in the truth of God's word.。
It's the second thing.。
All right.。
Let's keep going.。
Number three.。
We're going to go to chapter four.。
Second Timothy 4, verse 1.。
Paul says I charge you.。
Charge means like I command, I urge you, I'm begging you.。
I mean, just hear his heart in this last chapter that he writes.。
He says I charge you in the presence of God and of Christ。
Jesus who is to judge the living and the dead.。
And by his appearing and his kingdom, verse 2, preach the。
word.。
Be ready in season and out of season.。
Reprove, rebuke, exhort with complete patience and teaching.。
For the time is coming when people will not endure sound。
teaching but having itching ears.。
They will accumulate for themselves teachers to suit their。
own passions.。
And will turn away from listening to the truth.。
And wander off into myths.。
Paul says, Timothy, I'm begging you.。
With everything in me, I'm begging you.。
I'm charging you before God.。
Preach the word, man.。
Now I've been dwelling on this thinking about you.。
So if you're a pastor in the room, which I know there are。
some, preach the word.。
Just like Timothy.。
Preach it.。
Don't hold back.。
But most of you are not pastors.。
And so does this apply to you at all?。
And I believe it does.。
What is Paul saying when he says preach the word?。
The word preach in Greek is just the idea of proclaim boldly.。
Loudly.。
Publicly.。
Proclaim publicly.。
It's the idea of preach.。
And I just want you to evaluate your life.。
Where in your life at all do you proclaim something publicly?。
For many of you, it's your social media page.。
And you're like, publicly, it's like 57 people.。
Still public.。
Maybe it's your workplace.。
Maybe it's your friend group.。
But there's some place in your life.。
Where you proclaim publicly.。
If you were to get engaged, where would you proclaim it?。
That's a good litmus test.。
And Paul is saying in that place, proclaim the truth of Jesus.。
I love the passage in Acts chapter 4.。
When -- and we've talked about this before.。
But when Peter and John have just seen the resurrected Jesus.。
I have to take a drink of water.。
Hold on.。
It's coming.。
They have just seen the resurrected Jesus.。
And they're blown away.。
They were just fishing.。
They see Jesus and they just start proclaiming publicly.。
He's alive.。
He's alive.。
And it gets them in trouble.。
And they stand before the Jewish leaders, the religious leaders.。
And the leaders say, you got to stop preaching.。
You got to stop proclaiming about Jesus.。
And I love what they say in verse 19.。
They say, whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you rather。
than to God, you must judge.。
For we cannot but speak of what we've seen and heard.。
I'm just curious, in your life, do you have this angst to proclaim。
about Christ at all?。
If I'm honest, as I was going through this text, I have a tendency, I'm。
talking about me.。
To itch ears here at the porch.。
Now, for four years before I came here, I spoke to adults down in。
Houston.。
And I love them.。
And if they're watching, you're amazing.。
They were not cool.。
Okay.。
And so I come up here and you guys are cool, man.。
And here I am with no voice trying to be cool.。
But, you know, and I'm like, man, how do I fit in?。
How do I itch ears?。
How do I be culturally relevant?。
How do I talk about dating?。
How do I talk about mental health?。
How do I mention community?。
How do I do all the references?。
Right?。
And there's a tendency to want to itch ears.。
And that even happens in the midst of coming up here.。
Until, I'm just being gut level honest, until I get on my face and start。
praying for you.。
And when I start praying for you, it changes.。
I don't care about itching your ears anymore.。
I don't care if you think I'm cool or not.。
There's a savior who's alive who you need to know.。
And it changes.。
And I'm telling you, in your life, there are so many people, if you。
analyze and you are honest, who you want to itch their ears.。
Your social media page, you want to be liked by everybody.。
And you antagonize yourself.。
You analyze back and forth.。
How are people going to feel about this?。
Is this going to be taken the wrong way?。
Because you so badly want that post to go out on everyone's ears.。
I like that.。
At work you want to dress a certain way and be a certain way.。
You want to itch everyone's ears.。
I'm not saying those things are wrong.。
I'm just saying, have you ever gotten on your face in prayer for。
your coworkers, for your family, for your friends, for your social。
media followers?。
And said, God, I am a herald filled with your spirit.。
A herald of your truth.。
And I want to leverage the platform that you've given me to preach。
the word.。
Have you ever had that conviction?。
And some of you when we have prayer time here in a little bit, you。
need to get on your knees up here in front of everybody.。
Because you don't care anymore.。
And go, God, help me leverage my platform to preach the word.。
I don't want to be scared.。
I don't want to itch ears.。
I want to be used.。
Not just let the professional Christians do it.。
It's me.。
Last week in London I had the chance to talk to a guy named Ken。
B.。
Ken is an author, a businessman, highly influential there in。
England.。
But knows about the porch and has been to the states many times.。
And I asked him, what advice would you give me for those in。
their 20s and 30s?。
And what he said shocked me.。
It shocked me.。
He said it so bluntly.。
He was like, tell them to get on TikTok and talk about Jesus.。
And I was like, get on TikTok?。
Really?。
Get on Instagram and talk about Jesus.。
I'm like, I just got off all social media.。
He's like, I don't care about you.。
It's them.。
It's them.。
Because each one, I mean, think about the people in this room and。
watching online.。
How many spheres around you?。
We got 3,000 people in a room, praise God.。
But how many of you, if you go back to your sphere of 50, 100,。
75, 20, whatever, and you have proclaimed this message.。
This is how revival breaks out.。
What happens in here is great.。
But when we ready, break, and you go and preach, that's when。
revival breaks out.。
Some of you are so nervous because you go, man, I don't want to。
sound pretentious.。
I don't want to yell at people.。
I don't want to preach at people.。
But you'll tickle ears all day long with all kinds of other。
things.。
And I would say, what would it look like for us to go not, let。
me tell all the people around me why they're wrong and going to。
hell.。
That's not what this says.。
What did Peter and John do?。
When they told them to stop, they said, look, you judge if it's。
right or wrong.。
We can't help but speak of what we've seen and heard.。
We've seen our eyes are open to the beauty of Jesus and we can't。
help but speak about it.。
Do you have that in your life?。
It's the third thing.。
And then lastly, number four, quickly, look at 2 Timothy 4,。
verse 5.。
He says, as for you, always be sober minded, endure suffering,。
do the work of an evangelist, and here it is, fulfill your。
ministry.。
The last thing, number four, is fulfill your ministry.。
Fulfill your ministry.。
Fulfill your ministry.。
Just been dwelling on this.。
Fulfill your ministry.。
Paul says to Timothy, he says, Timothy, stop comparing yourself。
to everyone else.。
Me included.。
Stop comparing yourself and start fulfilling the ministry。
that God has for you.。
Fulfill your ministry.。
The truth is every single one of you here, if you're a follower。
of Christ, you are filled with God's spirit.。
And God has given you a ministry, a service to the body,。
to the world that he wants you to do.。
Ephesians chapter 4, verse 11, I love this.。
It says, and he, God, gave the leaders of the church, the。
apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds, the。
teachers, to do what?。
To preach, to do all the ministry?。
No.。
To equip the saints for the work of ministry.。
For building up the body of Christ.。
Did you know that?。
Did you know you're a minister?。
Sometimes people go, hey, Tyler, how did you know you were called。
into ministry?。
I'm like, because I read this book.。
And I'm alive.。
And I'm a Christian.。
That's why I'm called to ministry.。
And I'm on stages and preaching, vocational ministry, that's。
different.。
We are all called to ministry.。
I mean, this is a pastor's conference in here, right?。
You're like, what?。
I came to the wrong thing, right?。
It's true.。
All of us, if you have the Holy Spirit of God, God has given。
you a ministry that he wants you to do.。
So how do you figure out what your ministry is?。
I think there's two things we get from this verse.。
If you go, how do I figure out what my ministry is?。
Then there's two things.。
Number one is you need to see from -- you need to analyze your。
life and go, where have I suffered?。
Where have I suffered?。
That's the first one.。
Paul says in verse 5, he says, as for you, be sober-minded,。
endure suffering.。
Do the work of an evangelist, fulfill your ministry.。
Paul says, analyze where have you suffered?。
Because the very thing that for so long has been a problem in。
your life, an issue, a struggle, is the very thing God wants to。
use as a platform.。
Always.。
So a few years ago when my son was in the NICU, the neonatal。
ICU unit, tons of people showed up for us.。
The people that showed up the most were those who had also had。
a baby in the NICU.。
Why?。
What does 2 Corinthians 1 say?。
It says, God comforts us in our affliction so that we may be。
able to comfort those who are in any affliction with the comfort。
with which we ourselves are comforted by God.。
A few years ago my family had someone that we loved that。
committed suicide.。
And detrimental, heartbreaking to our family.。
And yet do you know how many times because of that I have。
been able to minister to someone else.。
My siblings, my parents have been able to minister to other。
people.。
See, so many times we're so navel-gazing, we're so。
narcissistic that we think, oh, this pain, I just got to get。
through it.。
And then everything will be good and you're just -- and God wants。
to get your eyes up and go, don't you realize what I'm。
getting you through right now.。
Take note.。
Because for the rest of your life, you will be a minister to。
others in the same situation.。
Some of you are struggling with pornography and sexual sin.。
And it's just all about you and your sin.。
And God wants to go, hey, part of your sanctification working。
through this is you for the rest of your life will be a minister。
to others who are struggling.。
Some of you have gone through terrible breakups and being。
backstabbed by friends and you think it's so worthless, it's so。
in vain and yet God goes, no, I want to use you in other。
people's life.。
You can say, I understand.。
I understand.。
And here's what God did for me.。
Others of you have gone through parents going through divorce or。
addiction or struggling with alcohol or being unemployed.。
All those things, God says, it's that very place of suffering。
that I want to use as your story.。
Your problem becomes your platform.。
That's the first thing.。
And then the second, how do you know your ministry?。
Ask, where has God called me to be obedient?。
Notice Paul says in verse 5, he says, as for you, be sober。
minded, endure suffering, do the work of an evangelist and。
fulfill your ministry.。
It's interesting he says do the work of an evangelist, not just。
go out and be an evangelist because you're good at it.。
He goes, do the work of an evangelist.。
What is the work of an evangelist?。
It's the work of a Christian.。
It's the work of somebody who's digging into God's word, who's。
listening for him and then rather than just eating a bunch。
of meat, they're running, they're doing things with it.。
And Paul says the life of a Christian, the life of an。
evangelist is to listen, God, what do you want me to do?。
And be silent.。
To take his word and go, what are the commands in this book?。
What do I need to obey?。
And as you begin to work out simple obedience, you reveal,。
he will reveal your calling.。
Last week I met a guy named Wally, W-O-L-E, Wally.。
Awesome name, by the way.。
Wally, he was born in the U.K.。
But his parents were Nigerian, are Nigerian.。
And he's telling us a story, he has a crazy story.。
He said that when he was in his 20s, he had a dream.。
He's a real creative guy, real charismatic guy.。
He had a dream that he was supposed to gather up in the。
middle of the city and put on a showcase, like a drama of the。
story of Jesus.。
And he's like, wow, how do I do this?。
So he found a venue, reached out to some friends, started。
inviting people.。
They're like, what's a showcase of the story of Jesus?。
He's like, I don't know, we'll figure it out.。
And they just gather up.。
And hundreds of people came as they give this kind of drama and。
experience these different creative gifts.。
And tons of people came to know Jesus.。
And he's like, I found my calling, this is great.。
So he starts doing these around London.。
And a few years later, he has another dream.。
This time in his dream, God says, I want you to become a。
vicar, which is a pastor, a pastor in the church of。
England.。
And he's like, the church of England?。
Like I'm an African charismatic creative guy.。
The church of England is white and not creative, you know?。
And he literally, he said this, he said, God, you are ruining。
my life.。
That's what he said.。
He said, but I trust you.。
Okay, stick with me.。
So he goes into the church of England.。
He like shows up, I think I'm supposed to be a pastor.。
They're like, okay.。
So they put him through the thing.。
And he goes to seminary and they assign a church, a parish to。
him.。
And he gets assigned St. Mary Woolnoth church.。
Okay?。
Now St. Mary Woolnoth church, 220 years earlier was pastored。
by a guy named John Newton.。
Now John Newton is the man who wrote amazing grace.。
And if you know his story, he, years before his conversion was。
a slave trader that God rescued and redeemed and he ended up。
spending the rest of his life working to abolish the slave。
trade and became a pastor at St. Mary Woolnoth.。
And while he's telling us this story, he goes, how cool is God。
that 220 years after his life an African man is the pastor of。
the church that he was the shepherd of.。
We're just like, what?。
See, God can do so much more through your simple obedience。
than you could ever ask or imagine or think.。
But it starts with one, analyzing your suffering.。
What have I gone through?。
And God, maybe that's a painful wound to step into, but yet I'll。
do that for the sake of what you want to bring to other people.。
And two is God, I want to do the work of an evangelist.。
I want to do the work of a Christian.。
I want to sit with your word and say, God, what do you want me。
to do?。
And as I hear little things, I want to obey.。
It's the last thing.。
And three is God, I want to be an evangelist.。
And four is God, I want to be a pastor.。
And five is God, I want to be a pastor.。
And six is God, I want to be a pastor.。
And seven is God, I want to be a pastor.。
And eight is God, I want to be a pastor.。
And nine is God, I want to be a pastor.。
And 10 is God, I want to be a pastor.。
And 11 is God, I want to be a pastor.。
And 12 is God, I want to be a pastor.。
And 13 is God, I want to be a pastor.。
And 14 is God, I want to be a pastor.。
And 15 is God, I want to be a pastor.。
And 16 is God, I want to be a pastor.。
And 17 is God, I want to be a pastor.。
And 18 is God, I want to be a pastor.。
And 19 is God, I want to be a pastor.。
And 20 is God, I want to be a pastor.。
And 21 is God, I want to be a pastor.。
And 22 is God, I want to be a pastor.。
And 23 is God, I want to be a pastor.。
And 24 is God, I want to be a pastor.。
And 25 is God, I want to be a pastor.。
And 26 is God, I want to be a pastor.。
And 27 is God, I want to be a pastor.。
And 28 is God, I want to be a pastor.。
And 29 is God, I want to be a pastor.。
Just thinking for some of you tonight,。
and Kylan said it earlier, but life has felt a lot。
like a fight lately for you.。
It hasn't felt easy, it hasn't felt like a walk in the park,。
doesn't feel like you and God are just tight right now.。
It feels like a fight.。
It's a fight to remain faithful.。
It's a fight to say no to addiction.。
It's a fight to be single in the midst of hookup culture.。
And yet go, God, I'm gonna wait.。
It's a fight to keep pressing on in the midst。
of your mental health.。
It's a fight to wake up another day.。
It's a fight.。
But just because your life is a fight。
does not mean you're doing something wrong.。
Does not mean that you're walking far from God.。
It might.。
You need to come up here and pray, maybe.。
And for some of you, I think like Paul, it's a fight.。
And in the midst of the fight, in the midst of the wrestle,。
notice who the reward goes to at the end.。
Did you count it?。
He's like, I fought the good fight,。
and there's a reward waiting for me.。
And he says, it's waiting for me.。
And he says at the end, not only to me,。
he doesn't say, but to all who won at the end,。
but to all who conquered, but to all who beat pornography,。
but who all finally got married, but who all didn't commit。
suicide.。
He says, to all who have loved his appearing.。
Who gets the crown?。
It's the one who sees the day drawing near.。
Because we don't know.。
Many of you, we want to live 80, 90 years.。
But heaven forbid, you could leave today,。
get in a car accident, and die.。
In a room this size, not every one of us。
will be here a year from now.。
It's just the reality.。
Life is fleeting.。
It's like a vapor.。
It's here today and gone.。
And just the thought of standing before your Savior,。
does that freak you out?。
Or do you love his appearing?。
You go, Jesus, you're the one that I want.。
And so if you have me here on this earth, let's work.。
But the day you call me home, I love you.。
I love you.。
Little glimpses of Jesus are enough.。
And Jesus says in Matthew chapter 11, 28,。
to those who are fighting, he says, come to me.。
Come look at me.。
Come take your burden to me.。
He says, come to me, all who are weary and heavy laden,。
and I will give you rest.。
And just believe tonight that some of you need to hear.。
You can receive a God who's looking at you。
in the midst of the fight and loves you.。
We love him because he first loved us.。
Who sees you, who's aware of what he purchased on the cross。
and is telling you with tears in his eyes,。
keep fighting, keep fighting, keep going.。
And so here in a minute, I'm gonna pray。
and we're gonna have some time for you to pray.。
And let's not rush out of this room。
and let's not rush past this moment,。
but let's seek the presence of God together.。
Let's pray.。
(gentle music)。
Oh Lord, we just say, come Holy Spirit, come Holy Spirit.。
More than anything else that we need in life,。
we need you, your presence in our life.。
And Lord, thank you for the beautiful truth of the gospel。
that there's nothing we do to earn the crown in heaven。
except see Jesus as beautiful and love him.。
And some of us, that's all we can do today.。
All we can do is have the eyes of our heart open,。
see Jesus and go, I love what I see.。
I love it.。
Whether we're singing or praying。
or whether it's the time in your word, we love you.。
So Lord help us by your spirit to utter,。
to realize and understand like Paul said,。
how wide and long and high and deep is the love of God.。
To know this love that surpasses knowledge。
that we may be filled to the measure。
of all the fullness of God.。
To not only know your love, be filled with it,。
but to say, I love you back.。
Lord, what is it that you're calling us to do in this season。
to embrace whatever persecution is waiting for us,。
to be tethered and anchored to your word。
or to preach the word with boldness.。
And then God, at the end, to fight the good fight,。
to keep the faith, to run the race well,。
fulfilling the ministry that you've called us to.。
Oh God, we love you.。
We need you.。
We invite you here in this moment.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
