[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
Porch, how are we doing?。
We doing OK tonight?。
Great to see you.。
Welcome back.。
If you've been here before, if it's your very first time,。
let me be one of hopefully very many people to just say,。
welcome.。
We're really glad that you're here at the Porch.。
Thanks for trusting us with your Tuesday.。
Special shout out to everybody that's tuning in online.。
We never want to lose sight of the fact。
that God is doing something great here,。
but he's doing something really great where you are also.。
We're firm believers.。
God can meet with anybody in any place at any time,。
and that includes those of you that。
are tuning in with us tonight.。
So thanks for being a part of this.。
Special shout out to Porch Live, Indy, Fresno, and Midland.。
Well, Porch, our deconstructed series。
is coming to an official end.。
We are rounding the corner--。
I know, that's how I feel.。
We're rounding the corner into what。
I think is going to be a really important topic.。
You see, our goal as we've stepped into this series。
is we've wanted to unpack the primary reasons that。
lead people to deconstruct from their faith.。
And yet a series about deconstruction。
would not be complete if we didn't first。
talk about suffering.。
So let me lead off with a story.。
When I was in college ministry, I。
remember sitting down with one of the leaders who served。
in our weekly ministry because he。
needed to unpack a critical situation that he was facing.。
You see, he was facing a plagiarism case。
in his senior year of college, which was a shock to me.。
Like, this guy was the textbook example,。
the model of what you hope would be true of your kids。
one day when they go to school.。
Like, he was hardworking and smarter than most,。
and he was loving the Lord and serving his people.。
He was doing so many good things,。
which is why it blew me away to hear that he。
was in a situation where his integrity was being questioned,。
where he may have, in fact, cheated on an assignment。
and used somebody else's work and claimed it as his own.。
And so we sat down.。
I looked, and I was like, dude, help me understand,。
like, how are we even in this spot?。
And he goes, well, it's interesting,。
because the person that I'm being accused of plagiarizing。
is myself.。
It's not anybody else's work.。
It's work that I actually completed。
on a former assignment.。
But because it isn't original to this assignment,。
it's a reference to something I already authored,。
I'm being taken to task.。
My professor is threatening me with potential expulsion.。
And so as we process it together, I was like,。
well, dude, you definitely gotta take a stand, right?。
Like, you can't just let this go unchecked.。
Like, you need to make sure to defend your honor.。
If you're not gonna do it, I'm gonna do it for you,。
because this is crazy.。
Like, it's your work.。
It's not someone else's.。
This is not my understanding of plagiarism.。
And yet, as we began to process through it,。
he told me, "Kylin, calm down.。
"I'm in a little bit of a difficult spot。
"between a rock and a hard place,。
"because the situation I'm in is one where my professor。
"does not want me to call his reputation into question。
"by pushing the issue."。
So much so that he's actually threatening。
to call every medical school that I might, in fact,。
apply to and raise character concerns。
with their admission board.。
That is being set between a rock and a hard place.。
That is a difficult situation.。
And so, as we began to process together what he would do,。
he looked at me and he asked me,。
"Kylin, why does stuff like this happen?。
"I've done everything right.。
"Like, I've walked with God and I've worked hard。
"and I've served his people and I've invested in others。
"and I've made sure to utilize my gift and steward my time.。
"Like, why is this happening to me?"。
What do you say to someone in a situation like that?。
When it feels like they've done everything。
and deserve to expect the best thing,。
and yet their experience would say。
something different is happening altogether.。
I remember in that same college ministry,。
I actually met a young lady。
who had no interest in Jesus whatsoever.。
She was raised in a Muslim family,。
and yet she had a friend, not just any friend,。
a best friend that fiercely loved God。
and was super intent on leading this young lady to Jesus.。
And she did it.。
Like, she relentlessly pursued this girl.。
And in time, she came to place her faith in Christ.。
And it wasn't just like, "I believe in Jesus."。
She believed in Jesus.。
Like, she was ferocious in asking questions。
and learning as much as she could.。
Like, it was early on within the first couple of weeks。
of her declaration of faith,。
where she looked at me and goes,。
"Can you explain the Trinity?"。
She was that in.。
She was so into Christ.。
And then her family found out.。
And as her family found out,。
that which gave her so much life。
began to take life from her。
because the cost of her faith was that of her family.。
They pushed her away.。
They abandoned her entirely.。
And I remember looking at her。
as she was grieving the fact。
that this had all gone the way it was,。
where she was expecting the very best of things to happen,。
yet the very worst of things had happened.。
Yet the very worst of things had come.。
And thinking the same question the guy before her。
had asked me, "Why does stuff happen like this?。
"I deserve to expect something,。
"but it feels like something different。
"has happened entirely."。
Or I remember, not in college ministry,。
but when I moved to Houston,。
I started working in young adult ministry.。
I met this guy who actually came to Saving Faith。
in a room just like this.。
Like, it was in a worship gathering。
where we preached on stage and we worshiped all together.。
And he came down front and we were just talking.。
And he decided, "Man, I'm gonna go all in on Jesus.。
"I'm pushing my chips forward.。
"I don't wanna be one foot in and one foot out.。
"I want to be all in on Christ."。
And so we saw him.。
Like, he drove two feet all the way。
into the deep end of the pool。
where he got implugged into the church.。
He started serving on weekly basis.。
He started serving within the outreach portion。
of his community group.。
Like, he was a diehard fanatic in the faith.。
And then the people that he thought were his friends。
actually betrayed him by talking about him。
when he was not in the room。
and using him at the cost of some sort of cheap joke.。
They slandered him, they belittled him,。
they made fun of him when he wasn't around.。
And he looked at me and said,。
"Kylin, I thought that the church was supposed to be a place。
"where God's building a family.。
"And yet this place feels like it's only filled with foes.。
"Why is this happening?。
"This doesn't make sense.。
"Like, I'm selecting into what should be。
"the best thing in life,。
"and yet it feels like the worst thing is happening to me.。
"Help me understand."。
What do you say to someone in a moment like that?。
When something genuinely, truly beautiful。
has happened in their life.。
Like, they have placed their faith in Jesus.。
They are walking with the Lord.。
They are openly confessing their sin.。
They are indulging the gift of community.。
They're seeking God's purposes in the world.。
And yet the very thing that we call beautiful for them。
is the very same thing that has cost them so dearly.。
What do you say to someone like that?。
To someone seemingly lost medical school,。
another that lost her family,。
and the last lost any confidence。
that the people of God would actually be the people of God.。
Why does stuff like that happen?。
And why would anyone follow a God that lets it?。
That's the question we're staring down the barrel of tonight.。
You see, that's a question that a lot of people,。
some of you in this room have asked yourself,。
and it's a question that a lot of people。
have actually answered that have led them to a place。
where they're no longer walking in the faith,。
they're actually walking away from the faith.。
You see, we've heard it before.。
Like, that age-old question, the problem of evil,。
that God is either not good enough。
or he is either not powerful enough。
to solve the suffering in our world.。
And yet, when it comes home。
and it actually roosts within our life,。
we know that question isn't so concerned。
with general suffering, but really personal suffering.。
Like, some of you, you've seen some things,。
you've heard some things, you've lived through some things。
where it's put you in a spot where you're looking at God。
and you can't really defend the guy.。
Like, it doesn't make sense that if he is who he says he is,。
that I would be living through the things。
that I'm actually living through.。
Like, the Christian answers for the existence of evil。
and the tragedies of today。
and all the sufferings that surround,。
they just pale in comparison,。
they fall insufficient of what you actually need。
when suffering strikes.。
If that's you, then tonight is for you.。
And if you have a Bible,。
we're gonna look at a passage in John chapter 16 together.。
John chapter 16.。
Tonight marks the official last talk。
in our series Deconstruction, or Deconstructed,。
where our aim has been to help you rebuild your reality,。
kind of boost your belief。
whenever it feels like crisis strikes,。
whenever you're wrestling with spiritual insecurity.。
Because contrary to popular belief,。
we believe that you can actually question the faith。
without walking away from it,。
since there are better answers than cultural conformity。
or blind belief for following Jesus.。
Paul David Tripp, he said this when he was interviewed。
from the podcast, "The Rise and Fall of Mars Hill."。
He said, "We should all be deconstructing our faith.。
"We better do it, because our faith becomes a culture,。
"a culture so webbed into the impurity of truth。
"that it's hard to separate the two."。
Like, there are some things within Christian culture。
that need to be challenged, that deserve to be reevaluated.。
But here's the thing, a Christ-honoring deconstruction,。
it revels in truth and beauty,。
not cynicism and arrogance.。
So let me illustrate it like this.。
Several years ago, I decided to put together a desk。
that my wife needed for her home office.。
And of course, the desk we ordered came in a million pieces.。
And when I say a million, it actually felt like a million.。
I mean, we unboxed it, I pulled it all out,。
and it covered the living room floor.。
And yet, I knew this is my job as a husband.。
And so I went to work, you know?。
I applied myself to the task at hand,。
and I was proud of the progress I was making.。
Like, this thing was coming along swimmingly,。
until I took the two tabletops,。
and I decided to bring them to an adjoining spot。
where they did not sit flush with one another.。
And it occurred to me in that moment。
that something had grievously gone wrong.。
So what did I do?。
Did I choose to think the instructions。
were misleading me the whole time?。
This is crazy, they clearly don't want me to build this desk.。
No, that would have been a cynical response.。
Did I consider the situation at hand and think,。
you know what, I know better than the manufacturer。
on how to build this desk.。
I don't need these instructions.。
I will assemble it on my own.。
That would have been a proud response.。
Instead, the right response,。
which the response I took,。
is I worked backwards through the instructions,。
disassembling the desk all along the way,。
until I identified this tiny,。
critical little mistake that I made.。
And yet after correcting that miss,。
I began to reconstruct the desk,。
and what I found was something beautiful。
and worthwhile to build in the end.。
You see, the aim of deconstruction。
is to ultimately rebuild a faith that is beautiful,。
which is why deconstruction without reconstruction。
is a tragedy, since every crisis of faith。
carries with it the potential to clarify your vision。
for who God is.。
Do you wanna know who God is?。
Like, this is an opportunity to know who God is,。
to get greater clarity, eyes to see,。
a wider vision to bold who in fact he is,。
but not just that, you get a vision。
of what he's doing in the world.。
Like, I know who God is, I know what he's doing,。
and just the cherry on top, I know how I fit into it all.。
Like, that's the gift that deconstruction。
brings to the table, so long as you're willing。
to do the work of reconstructing your faith in the end.。
So what about those moments, those crises of faith。
that don't seem to clarify your vision of who God is,。
they only seem to confuse it?。
What do you do when one minute,。
following God is the unquestionable part of your life,。
but then the next moment, because of the things you endured,。
the suffering you faced, you're questioning。
why you would even follow him to begin with.。
How do you pick up and put back the pieces。
when you find yourself in a moment of suffering?。
That's what we're gonna talk about。
in our final lesson in the series.。
And coincidentally, it's the final lesson。
that Jesus instructs his disciples on in John chapter 16.。
Like, whenever you come to John 15, 16,。
and then you can include 17 into the mix,。
what you learn is that Jesus is giving an instruction。
to his disciples on what they can expect。
once he goes to the cross, right?。
Like, they know, or excuse me,。
he knows that he's about to be wrongly arrested,。
unjustly tried, and that he's going to be publicly executed.。
And so to prepare them for what's ahead,。
he looks at them and says, "Hey, John 15,。
"you need to make sure you're abiding in God,。
"that you're making your home with him,。
"that you're dwelling with him,。
"that you're depending on him,。
"because persecution is gonna come.。
"But then don't worry, in time,。
"the Holy Spirit's gonna come as well.。
"I'm sending in backup.。
"You're gonna get some reinforcements.。
"It's power from on high that is gonna come to you。
"and help you here in the today."。
But it's not only that.。
You need to know too that though hardship is ahead,。
hope is as well, because though I am dying,。
rising, and returning to the Father, I will come back.。
And it's into that context。
that we catch up to this conversation.。
The disciples, they look at him in John 16, verse 29,。
and they say, in response to these things,。
"Now you are speaking clearly and without figures of speech.。
"Now we can see that you know all things。
"and that you do not even need。
"to have anyone ask you questions.。
"This makes us believe that you came from God.。
"Do you now believe?" Jesus replied.。
"The time is coming, and in fact,。
"it has come when you will be scattered.。
"Each to your own home, and you will leave me all alone."。
We'll stop right there.。
We'll talk about this section first and foremost,。
because it contains our first point.。
You see, we know on this side of history。
that Jesus is about to walk into the teeth of the enemy.。
Like, we know that.。
We've read the book, we've heard the stories,。
we've gone to Easter service.。
We know that that's what Jesus is walking into.。
We're well aware of the fact。
that this is about to go seemingly horribly wrong for him.。
But the disciples do not know that.。
You see, they know, they even believe。
that Jesus is the Son of God,。
and he has come to inaugurate his kingdom,。
to establish it here on the earth.。
And yet, some of the details。
of how that's all gonna work out。
have not necessarily settled for them yet.。
And so what's going to happen。
is they're going to step out of this instruction,。
and they're going to go to the garden,。
and Jesus is going to be arrested,。
and all hell's gonna break loose.。
Like, for these guys, the bottom's gonna fall out,。
their belief is going to break,。
they're gonna worry and panic。
that all of this is not going according to schedule.。
They're going to feel a major crisis of faith.。
They're going to begin to experience suffering。
that comes in the darkness of his death,。
and it leaves them in a spot。
where they're unsure if this guy is who he says he was,。
and if in fact, their life has amounted。
to nothing in the end.。
You see, they respond in a way。
that many of us respond to whenever crisis comes.。
They run, they hide, and they panic.。
Because, and this is our first point,。
suffering reveals what we truly believe about God.。
Suffering reveals what we truly believe about God.。
What we believe about him, not just what we think about him.。
Like, there's a big distinction in those two ideas.。
To help you get clarity on the distinction,。
I asked Google AI.。
It said, "Thinking refers to the mental process。
"of considering information,。
"evaluating possibilities, and forming ideas,。
"while believing signifies a stronger conviction。
"where someone accepts something is true.。
"Often with a level of certainty and commitment."。
So just to put that very simply,。
the differences in thinking versus believing。
is thinking is all about information,。
whereas believing is all about conviction.。
Like the disciples, they don't say,。
"You know what, Jesus, we've evaluated the evidence.。
"We have inspected all of the data,。
"and we have decided that we think you are the son of God."。
That's not what they say.。
They say, "We believe."。
From the text, "We believe you are the son of God."。
Like, we're staking our faith on it.。
Like, we genuinely think in the core of our inner being。
that you are who you say you are,。
which is why it's so disorienting for them。
and for ourselves whenever suffering strikes。
and everything we believe starts to break down.。
Like, we often do what they did.。
Like, we scatter when crisis comes.。
We desert Jesus when difficulty develops.。
We abandon whenever the adversity strikes.。
And the reason we do is。
we have an insufficient belief in God.。
You see, rather than believing。
that God is intrinsically good,。
we instead believe that he's only good。
when things go according to our plan.。
Or rather than believing that God is intrinsically kind,。
we only believe he's kind。
if he looks out for us in the ways that we need.。
Or rather than believing that God is intrinsically loving,。
we question just how loving he is。
if he doesn't intervene into that situation。
and produce this sort of outcome.。
Like, contrary to the typical arguments。
around this problem of evil,。
most people, when it comes to evil and pain and suffering,。
is they don't deconstruct。
because God is some genocidal maniac.。
You better follow his rules or else.。
Like, that's not why most people actually deconstruct.。
Now, that's an issue that there are really good answers for.。
In fact, a few weeks back, TA,。
he spent about 45 minutes here from this stage。
teaching on Sunday service through that problem.。
You should totally go listen to it。
if you actually want the answers。
to why God would do those sorts of things.。
And yet that's not normally。
why people deconstruct from the faith.。
Instead, the answer to that question。
is what people use to substantiate。
their deconstruction from the faith.。
You see, most people deconstruct from the faith。
because their spiritual spiraling。
is not the product of the existence of evil,。
that it's out there, ooh,。
but from the experience of it.。
That's why people deconstruct.。
They experience evil, some suffering,。
that has called God's character into question.。
And so they've called him to the carpet。
and they're wondering, hey, are you even actually true?。
And yet if we want to consider some truth claims,。
the first thing we need to know is that God doesn't cause evil.。
God doesn't cause evil.。
That's the first truth you gotta know。
if you're gonna unpack this problem。
is that 1 John 1:5 would say,。
"This is the message we've heard from him。
"and we proclaim to you, that God is light。
"and in him, there's no darkness, there's no evil at all."。
James 1:13 would say, "Let no one say when he's tempted,。
"I am being tempted by God,。
"for God cannot be tempted with evil。
"and he himself tempts no one."。
Okay, Kylan, I get that.。
Like I understand the fact that God doesn't cause evil,。
but that doesn't omit the fact。
that there's pain and suffering in this life.。
So if it's not coming from God,。
then where in fact is it coming from?。
Well, I'm really glad you asked。
because there are four good sources。
from which we can categorize evil.。
The first would be moral evil, moral evil.。
This is the evil that we perpetuate。
against one another as human beings.。
Like this is what we do when we act in a way。
that is not in accordance with God's will.。
So things like murder and robbery and rape and racism。
and hatred and jealousy and adultery and embezzlement,。
all of those things, those are acts of moral evil.。
And we're typically responsible for those ourselves.。
Next to moral evil, there's natural evil.。
Like these are those calamitous events。
that come into our world,。
yet are separate from any moral decision.。
Tornadoes, floods, fires, congenital diseases,。
like these are the things。
that natural disasters categorize.。
It's a product of the fall in Genesis 3,。
and it proliferates over the course of time。
as things grow worse and worse and worse.。
The third category would be spiritual evil.。
You see, we live in a world。
where spiritual warfare is very real.。
An unseen realm does in fact exist,。
and pain and suffering, they are induced by the demonic.。
Now, let me be abundantly clear.。
Not everything is the devil,。
but some things are the devil.。
Like just because you hit a nail on the road。
and you got a flat tire,。
it's not 'cause the devil's out to get ya, you know?。
Oh, he did it again!。
Calm down, brother, you probably just hit a nail.。
Not everything is, but some things are,。
and so it's good for us to consider,。
man, what in life might actually be the product。
of a deep darkness?。
Because as you look into the halls of history。
and you evaluate some of the circumstances in our day,。
while it's difficult to ascribe what source is at play,。
those atrocities that you see,。
that just have an insidiousness to them,。
that may very well be the cause。
of something spiritually dark.。
And then the fourth one,。
the one that's most important for this room,。
is personal evil.。
Because the shortest answer to the problem of evil is you.。
It's me.。
Like if there was a world。
where there was no spiritual darkness。
and there was no natural disaster and you lived within it,。
evil would still exist,。
because you're there, because I'm there.。
Great case in point is Tom Hanks in the movie "Castaway."。
Tom Hanks is what?。
Deserted on an island all by himself.。
There's no one there for him to hurt.。
There's no one there for him to harm.。
And yet Tom Hanks somehow finds a way。
to sin against Wilson!。
A volleyball.。
Like he, within a vacuum,。
locked away all by himself,。
still acts evil.。
This is a good example of personal evil.。
You see, it could be a combination of any of these things。
that explain the evil pain and suffering。
that you experience in life.。
But the overarching point。
is that there are credible explanations。
for the suffering we experience。
that don't condemn God's character.。
So why doesn't he do something about it?。
Why doesn't God do something about it?。
If he can, why won't he?。
He will.。
God will do something about evil.。
And he might do something about it,。
the suffering that surrounds you within your day.。
But often, God will not do something。
because he has very good reason.。
And that reason is one we see in 2 Peter 3, 9.。
The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promises,。
as some count slowness.。
But he is patient toward you,。
not wishing that any should perish,。
but that all should reach repentance.。
You see, God, he will right every wrong,。
wipe every tear, mend every wound, cure every hurt.。
But he will not do it just not yet.。
And the reason why is because he is beckoning people。
to come to him.。
He wants deeply for people to come to him.。
Like, it's so ironic.。
Like God is willing to suffer our sins a little bit longer。
so that you and I don't have to suffer our sins forever.。
Like, who's the one that's actually suffering here?。
It's God.。
Like, God deserves justice against all godlessness.。
And he could do it right now.。
It could be over and he wouldn't be wrong for it.。
He would be right because evil deserves to be judged.。
And yet it is in his mercy that he slows the clock.。
He provides us time because he's beckoning us to come home.。
That's not bad news.。
That is good news.。
Like, that's not an evil God.。
That is a merciful God.。
Like, that's a God that's playing the long game,。
that's trying to pursue as many people as he can.。
And that should change things for you and I.。
Like, Christian, if you're in the room tonight。
and you're suffering through something,。
that should change your perspective.。
God has not solved your issue。
because he is trying to solve the world's issue.。
He's trying to bring people back home.。
Now, listen, as I say that,。
I know that some of you instinctively feel this.。
So what, you're just telling me to suck it up?。
Like, you just want me to grit it out?。
You want me to just like suck my tear back up。
into its duct?。
No, that's not what I'm saying.。
But I am saying this should shift our perspective。
when we consider suffering,。
which is exactly where Jesus goes next.。
We'll look at 32 again.。
He says, "The time is coming.。
And in fact, it has come when you will be scattered,。
each of you to your own home.。
You will leave me all alone.。
Yet I am not alone, for my father is with me."。
You see, everyone in this story,。
they make a decision about what direction。
they're going to run whenever suffering comes.。
And the decision they make,。
it depends on their purpose in that suffering.。
Because no one chooses what they suffer,。
but everyone chooses how they suffer.。
No one chooses what they suffer,。
but everyone chooses how they suffer.。
And here's the thing,。
how you suffer depends on your purpose in life.。
So listen to me.。
If you think your purpose is your happiness,。
your comfort, your wellbeing,。
it's no surprise you're disappointed.。
Because that is not Jesus's promise here.。
He looks at us and he says,。
"Hey, you're going to have trouble.。
It's going to come."。
Like the world is not yet right in all of its wrong.。
God has not yet come back and fixed all things.。
So for you to expect that you're going to be happy,。
means that you're expecting something。
that will sorely disappoint you.。
If you think that's your purpose,。
Jesus is pleading with you。
the way that he's pleading with the disciples.。
And he's saying, "Hey, no, no, no, listen to me.。
There's a better purpose for you than that."。
Like your purpose isn't comfort, it isn't materialism.。
It isn't the gods of Dallas, Texas in your life。
or wherever it is you're listening from.。
Instead, your purpose is transcendent.。
It is to know God.。
That's crazy.。
It's to know God.。
Like to actually know him,。
not just to ingest a bunch of facts。
and ascend intellectually and then regurgitate that,。
that information for other people to learn.。
It's to learn as much about him as you can,。
that it might develop within your innermost man and woman,。
deep love for him.。
And the natural expression of knowing a God like that。
is you tell everybody.。
You tell everybody.。
Like anybody watching a new show in the room, show of hands.。
You watching a new show, something on HBO or Amazon。
or Paramount or whatever your streaming service is.。
Okay, leave your hand up if you've told someone about it.。
You clearly think that's worthy of worship.。
But there is a purpose greater。
than making your favorite TV show known.。
It is to make God known.。
He is infinitely better.。
That feels weird that I even have to say it.。
He is infinitely better.。
And he's begging you to believe it.。
He's begging you to believe it.。
And he's actually, he's hoping your suffering。
will be helping in moving you to the knowledge。
that maybe you've settled for a purpose too small.。
You see, your purpose has power over suffering.。
For reference, legend has it that famed Italian violinist。
Niccolo Paganini went before an audience to perform。
just like you.。
And yet as he stepped out in front of the crowd,。
what he realized is he did not have。
his famed instrument with him, his trustworthy tool,。
the violin that had led him to such notoriety.。
Instead of waiting him on stage was a secondhand instrument,。
one that was old, decrepit, and not worthy of playing.。
And so as he looked at the audience, he said,。
"Please give me just a moment."。
And he snuck backstage and looked behind the curtain。
and inspected the rest of the auditorium for his violin.。
And yet what he learned is that his violin was stolen.。
And they had left this one instead,。
trying to sabotage his purpose.。
And yet as the report reads,。
Niccolo took that secondhand instrument。
and he looked to the crowd and said,。
"Ladies and gentlemen, I will show you。
"that the music is not in the instrument.。
"It's in the soul."。
And he began to play that violin in such a way。
that enraptured enthusiasm gripped the crowd。
as the music poured off of the platform。
and it descended across the seats。
and it touched every heart and it captivated all attention.。
They actually write that it felt like the ceiling。
of the room would blow off the space。
because of the ruckus, applause, and accord。
that were coming from the people listening in.。
They said Niccolo had never played。
the way he played that day.。
What is Niccolo trying to teach you and I?。
(whispering)。
That a moment of crisis cannot confront someone。
nor conflict them if they're convinced of their purpose.。
You see, crisis is coming for us all.。
For some of us, it's come already.。
And either it will define your purpose。
or your purpose will define it.。
For the disciples, the crisis of Christ's crucifixion。
and the ensuing suffering they experienced。
and the darkness of his death,。
it redefined everything for them.。
You read their stories and what you learn。
is some of them ran for the hills,。
others went back to their old jobs,。
and Peter outright denied the fact that he followed Christ.。
Everything they had spent the last three years of their life,。
the new purpose they had received from God,。
they were willing to abandon the moment crisis struck。
and suffering ensued.。
And yet you see, Jesus has a very different response。
because crisis didn't define his purpose.。
His purpose defined his crisis.。
It defined his suffering.。
When you read through Christ's arrest,。
you don't see him rally the boys together。
and prepare to present a defense.。
What you see is he actually heals a guy.。
He speaks and the soldiers fall backwards。
and he comes with hands together,。
ready to be cuffed and taken away.。
As he stands before the Sanhedrin。
and they can't get two testimonial accounts together。
to actually convict him of a wrongful accusation,。
Jesus steps forward anyways,。
knowing the proceedings must carry forward。
if he is going to go to the cross,。
die for the sins of the world,。
rise forth from the grave。
and lead us in everlasting life,。
he chooses to indict himself.。
And as he hangs on the cross,。
Jesus doesn't asphyxiate。
the way that most men do。
and the way that instrument of execution。
was designed to kill.。
Instead, the way Mark recalls it,。
is he says, "Jesus uttered a loud cry。
"and he breathed his last."。
If you're suffocating to death,。
you don't breathe a loud cry.。
You don't shout in a final breath of declaration。
that it's finished.。
(congregation laughing)。
It says just a couple of verses down,。
"When the centurion who stood facing him。
"saw that in this way he breathed his last,。
"a guy that had seen many, many, many, many,。
"many men breathe their last,。
"he said, 'Truly, that guy is the son of God.'"。
Jesus didn't let his sufferings define his purpose。
and we don't have to let our sufferings define ours either.。
But how do you do that?。
Like how do you actually endure suffering,。
encounter evil, push through it。
in a way that looks like Christ?。
Well, you do what he did.。
You remember what he remembered,。
that his father was with him.。
You must remember the same, that God hasn't left you.。
Like he hasn't abandoned you.。
He hasn't lost sight of you.。
He hasn't run out on you.。
So many of us in a deconstructed phase。
think God is nowhere to be found.。
He's right here.。
He's still close.。
He's with you.。
You've just lost sight.。
Like I know some of you, like you're in chronic pain。
and yet he's right there with you.。
He's telling you, "Hey, even though it feels so hard,。
"I will sustain you."。
Some of you, you feel betrayed。
because of what they said or what they did.。
And yet he's looking and saying,。
"Hey, I'm never gonna betray you.。
"I will never leave you nor forsake you."。
Some of you feel so lonely。
and he is there with you in the loneliness,。
simply saying, "Hey, your soul was not made。
"for anyone else but me."。
Some of you, you look at the loss of a loved one。
and you are gripped with such despair。
and yet he is telling you,。
"Hey, death doesn't get the last word over them."。
Some of you, you've been abused in your story,。
mentally, emotionally, sexually at some point.。
And he's saying, "Hey, I can mend every wound,。
"even the unseen scars.。
"I'm with you."。
He is with us in it,。
whatever it is that you suffer through now,。
he's with you in it.。
And listen, this might be the most important thing I say,。
it is not most loving of God to take our suffering away.。
It is most loving of God to enter our sufferings himself.。
Some of you want him to chop her over,。
pull you out and rescue you to some other spot.。
And yet his heart is one that sees you in the flame of fire。
and parachutes right in.。
And he stands beside you through it all.。
This is his heart.。
And we see it in the person of Jesus.。
Like Jesus, he entered into our suffering.。
Listen, he had a pretty cush existence。
before he showed up, okay?。
He had no good reason to come from heaven down here below.。
And yet he chose to anyways, why?。
Because he wants to be with you.。
And he wants you to be with him,。
not just now, but forever.。
He has stepped into our sufferings,。
but here's the thing, not just to sit in them with us,。
but to lead us through them,。
which is where we'll finish.。
Verse 33, "I have told you these things。
"so that in me you may have peace.。
"In this world, you will have trouble,。
"but take heart, I have overcome the world."。
Like Jesus doesn't promise a pain-free existence。
or an easygoing life.。
He tells us, "Hey, this world is anything but perfect.。
"And yet here's the thing you need to know,。
"peace is possible."。
Wait, what'd you say?。
Peace is actually possible for me?。
Yeah, that's what I said.。
How is it possible?。
It's possible in me,。
which was really convicting for me to read。
because I was reading through that.。
I thought to myself,。
how often do I look for peace in other places than Jesus?。
Like he's often not the one that I'm looking for peace in.。
In fact, I would rewrite that to say,。
"In this world, you will have trouble."。
Oh, excuse me.。
"So that in my circumstances, you may have peace.。
"So that in your future, you may have peace.。
"So that in your job, you may have peace.。
"Or so that in your justice, you may have peace."。
I try to replace the fact that peace is only。
and solely found in him.。
How are you trying to replace the place。
where Jesus' peace is solely and only available?。
You're looking elsewhere?。
Like, do you think it's gonna come from a new job。
after you faced a layoff?。
No peace in that.。
Justice against a person that hurts you,。
cure for yours or someone else's illness,。
relief from your past.。
There's no peace, true God-given peace in those things.。
Now, let me be clear.。
Wanting for an end to suffering。
is a desire worthy of wanting.。
God wants an end to suffering himself.。
He will accomplish that, in fact.。
And yet, the only place that peace is truly found。
is in Christ.。
Because peace isn't found in suffering removed,。
it's found in suffering redeemed.。
Peace isn't found in suffering removed,。
it is found in suffering redeemed.。
Like, so often, God will not change your situation。
because he is trying to use your situation to change you.。
Since it's in the midst of suffering, not outside of it,。
that we are best able to decide。
what we want to be true of our lives。
once we get outside of suffering again.。
So let me ask you so very graciously,。
because I know some of you are hurting here.。
If you're in a season of suffering,。
are you counting down the days。
until God changes your circumstance?。
Or are you making the days count。
that God has given you now?。
Like, if you're in a season of suffering,。
are you complaining against God,。
raging against the heavens,。
or are you actually considering the fact。
that maybe he's trying to do something in you。
and through you today?。
If you're in a season of suffering,。
are you looking at your situation with old eyes,。
tired eyes, or are you looking upon it。
and evaluating carefully with a new God-given perspective。
of what suffering might actually accomplish?。
Like, listen, as hard as it is to believe,。
suffering circumstances are often the perfect condition。
for your growth in God's glory.。
Like, they're the perfect condition。
for your growth in God's glory.。
Like Romans 5, 3, 5 says,。
"Not only so, but we also glory in our sufferings."。
Because we know that suffering, it produces perseverance,。
and perseverance, character, and character, hope,。
and hope does not put us to shame。
because God's love has been poured out into our hearts。
through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us.。
So does anybody in here follow viticulture,。
winemaking, show of hands?。
Don't do that, you're in church.。
(congregation laughing)。
I don't follow it very closely,。
but there is one common knowledge amongst all winemakers,。
and it's this, that the hardest soil。
produces the greatest grapes.。
Why is that?。
Because it's in difficult ground。
that though you may not yield a great quantity of fruit,。
you actually yield the greatest quality of fruit。
because it's in difficult soil。
that those grape clusters receive the most character,。
that the vine itself,。
as it draws nutrients through its roots,。
prioritizes what's most important,。
which is to produce a fruit that is filled with life.。
That's what your suffering offers you the opportunity for,。
to produce something of great character, great flavor,。
a multifaceted experience,。
the likes of which transcend other bland ways of living.。
Hebrews 12, 11, it says,。
"For the moment, all discipline seems painful。
"rather than pleasant,。
"but later that discipline yields the peaceful fruit。
"of righteousness to those who have been trained by it."。
You see, according to Jesus,。
success isn't suffering avoided, it is suffering endured.。
And I'll admit, the world is right.。
So many Christians follow Jesus。
because they've never suffered anything.。
And yet what the world will not admit to you。
is the very strongest of Christians。
are those that have suffered something.。
They have lived through hell,。
and they stand to tell the tale.。
God will produce something worthy, glorious,。
beautiful in you by way of the suffering it is you're under.。
We will all suffer,。
and yet our sufferings, they're not final.。
Like they don't get the last laugh, they're not fatal.。
We have hope beyond the grave,。
and they're not futile because our pain isn't purposeless.。
I started tonight with a story about three friends,。
and yet I didn't finish their stories.。
Because while each of them found themselves。
in a moment of great crises,。
where they questioned their faith, they doubted in God,。
God redeemed all of their suffering.。
For my friend, the one that wanted to go to medical school,。
he actually went to medical school, he's a doctor today.。
And he went under the endorsement of the very professor。
that threatened to withhold the opportunity from him.。
That professor looked at him and said,。
there's something unique about this guy。
that he wouldn't defend himself,。
but he would preserve his witness for the sake of Christ.。
That young lady, though she's lost her family,。
she began a new one, married a Christian guy.。
And now their family is one。
that has produced generational change。
for those that will come after her.。
Her family will be a family unlike the family before,。
her family will be a family of a people that follow God.。
And the last guy, the one who was betrayed。
and slandered and gossiped about by his friends,。
he actually now today in his church leads a Bible study,。
calling people to belong to a family。
that will accept them free of judgment。
and void of any criticism.。
Friends, we will suffer, some of us have already,。
and yet that suffering can be redeemed.。
God is not evil for our hardships,。
he's good because he's made a way through them all.。
Like he redeems those sufferings now,。
and yet what we know is he will remove。
those sufferings forever.。
For this is what he's promised in Christ.。
Like suffering reveals what we truly believe about God,。
that in God we have a long-suffering Savior。
who endured our sin until he could send his son.。
In God we know that while we wouldn't choose to suffer,。
he would choose to suffer, suffer for the sins。
of people like you and me, even to the point of death.。
And we know that that same God in the person of Jesus。
came to bring peace to our suffering,。
not only redeeming what we endure today,。
but promising defeat for that which we suffer。
for all eternity.。
If you're here and you're suffering,。
there's only one way to never suffer again,。
and it's in him.。
Will you place your faith in him。
and come to know him tonight?。
Let me pray for you.。
God, I'm so grateful and thankful, God, for your word.。
Oh God, I thank you for how sufficient it is.。
The fact, God, that from its pages,。
even to this day, right now in a room like this,。
you still speak to us.。
And the words you speak to us。
are not words of condemnation,。
they're not words of judgment,。
they're words of love.。
They're words of relationship, invitation,。
a welcoming reception, God,。
that any person that would place their faith in Jesus。
for the forgiveness of their sins。
and calling him Lord of their life。
might actually be united to you again.。
I pray, God.。
Oh God, I wanna spend a moment here now,。
but Lord, you do not need me。
to do what you, God, alone can do,。
which is work in the hearts of these friends,。
move God amongst these seats,。
stir up our spirits, save our souls,。
and save us from our suffering,。
if not today, one day.。
It's in Christ's name we pray, amen.。
